{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1840__prideaux___strictures_on_the_conduct_of_hewitt_watson.pdf","mytitle":"Strictures On The Conduct Of Hewitt Watson","mylang":"de"}
/ j^y*. /vV
/
r
*
STRICTURES
ON THE CONDUCT OF
HEWETT WATSON, F.L.S.
IN HIS CAPACITY OF
EDITOR OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL;
WITH AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING
A SPECULATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL
FUNCTIONS.
BY T. S. PRIDEAUX.
" NEMO ME IMPUNE LACESSIT.”
RYDE, ISLE OF WIGHT:
PUBLISHED BY P. T. HELLYER, ROYAL MARINE LIBRARY ;
AND BY LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER
ROW, LONDON.
MDCCCXL.
PRICE TWO SHILLINGS.
;SW?
£Y--i H&
1
STRICTURES,
&c. &c.
Mr. Watson having taken the liberty of inserting in the Phreno-
logical Journal an extract from a private letter of mine, not
written for publication, and having not only refrained from stating
this circumstance, but evidently endeavoured to convey a con-
trary impression* to his readers, besides indulging in very gross
misrepresentations as to the cause in which the letter in question
originated, I think it right to make public the correct facts of the
case, in order that his conduct may receive that exposure which
it so richly deserves.
It is with regret that I commence a personal discussion of
this kind. I have always deemed it an indication of great
weakness, if not littleness of mind in an individual, to take offence
at the calm and dispassionate expression of an opinion at variance
with his own ; and consider that there are few spectacles more
humiliating to human nature, than that presented by two professed
followers of science taking umbrage at each other for not thinking
alike, and turning aside from the pursuit of truth, to indulge in
personalities.
Every one will I think assent to the proposition, that in all
scientific discussions, the elucidation of truth should be the
paramount object kept in view, and that all differences of opinion
should be expressed in courteous language, and in the mode least
* He observes that he hopes his readers, after reading the extracts, will “ be
prepared to estimate any complaints made on the score of non-insertion” !!!
Did Mr. Watson ever hear of an individual making complaints of the non-
insertion of a private letter in a public journal ?
4
likely to prove offensive to those from whom we dissent. Few,
however, will deem it incumbent upon themselves to be particularly
ceremonious towards those who respond to the language of courtesy
with impertinence, and most assuredly every one wr
ill agree that
it is not for the party who first infringes the conditions laid
down, and has recourse to rudeness and sarcasm, to grow
* querulous,’ and make complaints, because he receives that
castigation which he has provoked, administered with his own
weapons.
It is not to he expected that individuals will quietly submit to
be visited with the petulances and impertinences of Mr. Watson
without retaliating, neither is it desirable that they should do
so ; indeed, allowing Mr. W. to indulge such a penchant
unchecked, would be a great unkindness to him, as it would have
a tendency to increase his naturally strong bias towards the
belief, that he really is a very redoubtable personage, and thus
prove the means of gravely misleading him as to a question of
fact. I W’ould hint to Mr. Watson that it is very unwise policy
in an individual, whose egregious vanity and conceit render him
so peculiarly sensitive, to commence a mode of attack, from which
he shrinks when retorted upon himself ; and, it is to be hoped’
that now’ he has tasted his own physick, and finds its flavour
so very unpalatable, he will learn to be a little more sparing
in dispensing it to others.
Having nothing to gain by the suppression of the truth ; and,
even if the reverse were the case, being I trust rather above,
acting so unfairly and cow’ardly as to suppress the statements
of an antagonist to give a better effect to my own, I shall
proceed to lay the facts of the case and the whole of the corres-
pondence before the public, in order that they may have the
opportunity of forming their own judgment on Mr. Watson’s
conduct.
Seeing in the 56th No. of the Phrenological Journal (page 276),
an opinion given by the Editor, that *
loudness’ was appreciated
by the Organ of Comparison, and finding it passed over without
comment in the next No., I w7
as induced, deeming the error an
important and fundamental one, to send a short communication
to Mr. Watson expressive of dissent, and being already aware of
his morbid sensitiveness* to any thing approaching to criticism
on his personal opinions, I carefully endeavoured to put it in a
form as little unpalatable to his self-love, as was compatible with
the statement of an opinion opposed to his own. Whoever now
refers to my letter, will not I think be surprised, at my imagining
that I had so worded it, as to save the most sensitive vanity from
a wound ; but, alas ! the measure of this quality in some defies
calculation ; and the animus which directed Mr. Watson’s reply,
at once convinced me how fruitlessly I had laboured. Equally
disgusted with the quibbling character of this reply, and with its
flippant rudeness, I immediately wrote a rejoinder, in which he was
treated with as little ceremony as he deserved, though certainly with
quite as much as he had any right to expect. This rejoinder, it is
to be presumed, Mr. W. found himself incompetent to answer, since
he has taken care not to allow it to meet the public eye. In his
next Journal, the 7th, he thus alludes to it in his notice to
correspondents—“ The notes of Mr. Prideaux certainly cannot be
printed in this Journal. If dissatisfied with this decision, we
fear he must make the usual appeal to ‘
Prince Posterity.’ ” In
the 8th No. the subject is not referred to, but in the last No.
(the 9th), without any further allusion by me to the matter, he
has thought fit to make the style of the letter a subject of formal
complaint to the public, taking especial care, however, to
conceal the cause in which the letter originated
;
(for the honour
of ‘
John Bull’ it is to be hoped that his notions of ‘ fair play’
differ materially from those of Mr. Watson) ; and quoting only
the last sentence (one of three lines) which had not the slightest
connexion with the subject matter of the rest of the letter; a
procedure, which, if I am not greatly mistaken, many will think
more disgraceful than the direct employment of falsehood.
f
* See Appendix, Note (a)
t Since the above was written, Mr. Watson has refused to allow an answer
to his attack to be inserted in the journal as an advertisement : conduct,
the motives of which the public will know how to appreciate, without any
comment of mine.
()
Be it observed then, that Mr. Watson, in reply to remarks of
mine, worded with studied civility, is the first, to adopt a style
devoid of courtesy—that he next, shrinks from fairly encountering
the reply of his opponent—avails himself of his opportunities as
conducter of a journal, to lay a one-sided view of the case before
the public, in which he carefully and most disingenuously sup-
presses all reference to the origin of the correspondence, and
quotes from a private letter, as if written for publication—and
then, makes it a subject of public complaint that the courtesy of
style he denied to another, was dispensed with in addressing
himself. Let me inform him, for his consolation, that the public,
when acquainted with the merits of the case, will laugh at his
complaints, and rejoice to see that he has met with his deserts.
Assuredly it is not for the individual who replies to a calm
expression of difference of opinion with a sneer and a pun, to
appeal to the public for protection, and expect to enlist their
sympathies in his behalf, because he gets rather roughly handled
in return by his antagonist. If the party first assailed with lan-
guage wanting in courtesy is to be visited with reprehension, for
dispensing with this ingredient in his reply, pray what judgment is
to be passed upon the aggressor ? The truth seems to be, that
Mr. Watson finding the shallowness and silliness of his pert
remarks thoroughly exposed, raised this complaint of want of
civility, as an excuse for suppressing my letter, and evading a
reply ;
and, feeling a little mistrust as to the prima facie evidence
afforded by so suspicious a procedure, he is at great pains to
convey an exaggerated impression of the length of my com-
munication to his readers, speaking of it as a sheet of manuscript,
&c. It is certainly rather an amusing expedient for a journalist,
who finds himself nonplused, to back out of a reply, and with-
hold his antagonist’s article from his readers under the plea of
its want of civility, and no doubt a particularly convenient one
;
but how far it is a creditable one, I will leave to the public.
7
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Phrenological Journal.
(vide p. j. no. 59, p. 194.)
Sir,
It was with extreme surprise and much regret, that at the
275th page of No. 56 of the Phrenological Journal, I perused a note by the
Editor referring “ ideas of loudness to the Organ of Comparison.” It is to
me a far more pleasing task to express my accordance with the views of others,
than to differ from them ; but the opinion in question appears to me so
fundamentally erroneous, and so altogether at variance with all analogical
reasoning, from our existing knowledge of the physiology of the brain, that
I feel it my duty to notice it ;
fearing lest, if not protested against, the
high authority from which it emanates, may induce youthful phrenologists
to suppose that the views of the Editor are generally acquiesced in. I will
also take this opportunity of remarking, that the editorial opinion given at
page 293 of the same Journal, that in the case recorded “ pain in the region
of Benevolence, or Cautiousness, might a priori have appeared equally
likely,” seems to me a very singular one.
T. S. PRIDEAUX.
Nov. 1838.
Reply.
We cannot here enter into a full explanation of the grounds upon which
we we did not refer ideas of loudness to Comparison, but expressed a
disposition to do so. This would not be stepping beyond the full scope of
Spurzheim’s definition, and we have seen a few cases quite corroborative
of the suggestion. If Mr. Prideaux will refer to Combe’s System of Phre-
nology, page 598, he will see that the opinion about Cautiousness is not
singular.
—
Editor.
To the Editor of the Phrenological Journal.
Sir,
I wish to give you all the credit you are entitled to, for so
clearly pointing out the great difference, between ‘
referring,’ and 4
expressing
a disposition to refer your scrupulous attention to accuracy on this point,
has reminded me of a slight want of precision I was guilty of in my com-
munication, and being willing to profit by your example, with your leave I
8
will define my meaning with rather more exactness. I am then desirous
to state that in using the expression 1
high authority' with regard to yourself,
I applied it to you solely with reference to your official capacity as Editor of
the Phrenological Journal.
Your second sentence is obscure in meaning, and ungrammatically worded.
If we ask the question, “ What would not be stepping, &c.," the answer
clearly is “ entering into a full explanation, &c.,” yet this cannot be what
you intend to say. Again, if you mean to state, as I suppose you do, that
“ to refer ideas of loudness to Comparison, would not be stepping beyond
the bounds of Spurzheim’s definition and this statement with regard to the
origin of this strange notion is correct ; and there is really nothing new in
it, why speak of it immediately afterwards as a “ suggestion ”?
I believe I should scarcely again have undertaken the unpleasant task
of adverting to an opinion which I take the liberty of saying will prove a very
unfortunate one for your credit and reputation, had you not attempted to
saddle Dr. Spurzheim with the honour of its parentage. Justice to his
memory compels me to meet your assertion on this point, with a direct
negative.—I am tolerably well acquainted with his writings, and their
general character is such, that, although it is possible he may have been the
author of some fugitive papers which may have escaped my notice, I feel
quite safe in affirming that he never made any statement which could give
countenance to the extravagantly absurd opinion in question.
“ If Mr. Prideaux will refer to Combe’s System of Phrenology,* page
598, he will see that the opinion about Cautiousness is not singular.”
The mode in which you, Mr. Editor, attempt to dispose of this subject is
so curious, and so utterly irrelevant to the question at issue, and the naivete
and assurance with which you announce the luminous conclusion to be
arrived at by consulting Mr. Combe, so laughable, as almost to lead one to
suspect, that you are amusing yourself and your readers, by a play upon
words.
It appears necessary for me to remind you, that the word singular, besides
signifying the quality of being single, is also used as synonymous (or nearly
so) with strange—extraordinary ; and that it was used by me in the latter
sense is clearly apparent from the adverb of comparison, very, being prefixed
to it, for when used in the former sense, it is almost needless to say, that
it admits not of comparison. By what logical process you deduce the sapient
inference, that because your opinions are shared by a second party, they
* You do not mention which edition of Combe, and I have referred to
one edition in vain. I think it highly improbable that your opinions on
Cautiousness are shared by Mr. Combe ; but the fact in itself is quite
immaterial to the question at issue.
9
are necessarily not singular, (i. e. not strange, not extraordinary,) remains
to be explained.
Before quitting the subject, I cannot help remarking that the editor of a
journal, devoted to the subject of phrenology, ought to be the last person to
shelter his opinions behind the authority of names, instead of either candidly
retracting them, or manfully defending them on their inherent merits at the
bar of reason.
I take this opportunity of correcting an expression, which is incorrectly
attributed to me in the last number, under the head of “ Adhesiveness of
Greenacre.” I am represented as saying, “ that Greenacre had the ability
of expressing the natural manner of Amativeness and Adhesiveness.”
“ Natural language,” not “ natural manner,” was the term I made use of.
The paragraph is also calculated to convey the impression that I called
attention to the discrepancy in the estimates of Drs. Elliotson and Cargill,
for the purpose of obtaining your opinion for my own satisfaction ; whereas,
the truth is, I not only called attention to the discrepancy, but gave a
decided opinion in favour of Dr. Elliotson’s estimate.
The remarks you have appended to my observations on Dr. Vimont’s
admitting separate organs for Size and Distance, are so evidently written
with a goose quill as to deserve no comment.
T. S. PRIDEAUX.
May, 1839.
By reference to the article to correspondents in the last journal,
it will be seen, that this last sentence of three lines, and having
no reference to the main subject of the letter, was the only part
quoted by Mr. Watson : and it was placed by him in juxta-
position with the two portions (enclosed within brackets) of the
private letter printed below,* without any acknowledgment of the
Private to the Editor.
* Sir,—[I trust you will put in practice those principles on which, at the
commencement of your editorship, you gave your readers to understand
the journal should be conducted, (viz. John Bull’s regard for fair play,) by
inserting the accompanying letter, without any beautifying from your pruning
hook. An assertion more injurious to the character of Spurzheim, as a
profound and acute thinker, than that proceeding from your pen in the last
journal—or remarks more silly and impertinent than those you have appended
to my observations—it would, I conceive, be impossible to make.]
I am sorry to say, I have heard veiy great dissatisfaction expressed with
regard to the recent numbers of the journal by all the phrenologists I have met
with, and I am still more sorry to say that I think they do not complain without
B
10
fact. Had Mr. Watson been desirous of making the public
believe that the length of my letter, or as he terms it “ sheet
of manuscript,” was the true cause of its suppression, and not a
mere subterfuge resorted to in order to wriggle out of the neces-
sity of replying to it, he should have so selected his quotations
as to have made the public acquainted with the subject of the
letter, conversant with the real merits of the case—he should
have put them in possession of facts, enabling them to form their
oxen opinions', and not by artfully suppressing all mention of
the origin of the correspondence, by making partial quotations
and adapting comments accordingly, have endeavoured to convey
a totally erroneous impression of the whole tenor of the trans-
action ;
such conduct must degrade any man, but in the editor
of a magazine of moral science it becomes intolerably disgusting.
To enable the public to estimate for themselves the justice
of my stricture, that Mr. Watson’s remarks were “ written with
a goose quill,” I here beg to quote them together with the
observations to which they were appended, and they are so
evidently written by a mind unable to grasp the consequences
connected with these latter, that if I mistake not the verdict
of the public will be, that, in addition to the words “ with a
goose quill,” I might have safely added, “ and by a goose.”
Vimont’s supposed Organ of Space or Distance.—Dr. Vimont,
cause ;
but that [the numbers of the new series have progressively deteriorated
both in interest and value since the second
number.]**
I endeavoured to fulfil what I imagined to be your desire with regard to
the correspondence between yourself and Mr. Gisborne, by circulating your
statement amongst the phrenologists of my acquaintance ;
and I am not
aware that any report on the subject, through any other channel, has reached
this part of the world.
I am, Sir,
Your most obedient Servant,
Hewett Watson, Esq. T. S. PRIDEAUX.
May, 1839.
* By printing in the 9th No. my observations, written and forwarded in the
interval between the appearance of the 6tli and 7th Nos., without noticing the
fact, Mr. Watson makes me pass an opinion on the relative merits of two
journals I had never seen, and at the same time gives his readers the fruitless
task of hunting in the 8th Journal instead of the 6th for the assertion said to
be injurious to the character of Spurzheim. This may be inadvertence, but I
confess it has very much the appearance of artifice.
11
in his “ Traits de Phrcnologie,” has introduced an Organ of
Distance, speaking of it as a primitive faculty, separate and
distinct from Size. Now, Size appears to be neither more nor
less than the distance between the boundaries of bodies
;
therefore,
I regard it as incorrect to attribute perceptions of Size and of
Distance to distinct organs.—Mr. Prideaux. [Function is
ascertained by observation, but reasoning may be introduced in
corroboration. We are not acquainted with facts sufficiently
numerous to establish organs either for size or distance, or for
both together : but, on theoretical grounds, it may be deemed
probable that there does exist an organ for the appreciation of
size. Dr. Otto’s case, printed in the present number, is a
valuable contribution in reference to the subject alluded to by
Mr. Prideaux.
—
Editor.]*
Mr. Watson is pleased to record it as his opinion ( the opinion
of the writer of the leading article in Journal 59—of the phre-
nologist who could be deluded by the chimerical project for
noting developement proposed by Mr. Nicliol—of the “ philo-
sophical and scientific mind,” which assigns the perceptions
of loudness to Comparison ! !
!
—of the editor scarcely capable of
stringing two sentences together grammatically
—
quantum valeat?)
that my lucubrations are not likely to confer “ much benefit on
the readers of the journal, or on its own credit, in the estimation
of scientific or philosophical minds. ”f In making this announce-
* I beg the reader to observe that it is to these simple remarks, simple truly
in every sense of the term, that Mr. Watson refers, when (taking especial care
that the words loudness and comparison shall not escape his lips) he observes,
“ the charge of making assertions so injurious to the character of Spurzheim
is merely a laughable ebullition of spleen—a very thin veil thrown over the
real ground of offence, namely, the remarks ‘
on my observations,’ ” an
insinuation, which the tenour of the remarks themselves shows to be suffi-
ciently improbable.
f The lucubrations which, in Mr. Watson’s opinion, are likely to
produce this effect are, doubtless, such as his own on the function of Com-
parison, or such as those of Mr. Nichol for estimating developement, inserted
in No. 60. In the example given (the developement of Greenacre) to
illustrate this system, (and a most conclusive illustration it certainly is,)
Amativeness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, and Secretiveness, which are
among the largest organs in the head, are stated to be each three degrees
below average ! ! Acquisitiveness, perhaps the largest, is stated to be four
degrees below average ! ! Tune and Time, decidedly among the smallest
12
ment to the world, I am afraid Mr. Watson has for once given
himself unnecessary trouble, for the public are too well acquainted
with his character to be at any loss to what to attribute his
impotent attack, and even had they no suspicion of his lacking
the qualification of impartiality, the shallowness of his intellect,
and his utter incapacity for the task he has undertaken, are
sufficiently notorious, to render his mere ipse dixit on such
a point, valueless : indeed, from his unaccustomed backwardness
in not producing a single quotation in confirmation of his opinion,
it is possible that it will be concluded, that he could discover
none suitable to his purpose. It will, perhaps, be an act of
kindness in me to inform him, that the ridiculous complacency
and self importance with which he delivers his judgments,
present such a striking contrast to the value set on them by
others, that their oracular tone has at length become a subject
of merriment to the phrenological community, so much so indeed,
that the name of Watson bids fair to acquire a sort of generick
character.
An editor of the Phrenological Journal ought to be an in-
dividual of capacious and comprehensive mind, and one at the
same time sufficiently conversant with every department of the
science over which he presides, to be competent to fix definitely
its boundaries, uninfluenced by that source of erroneous judg-
ment, the involuntary tendency of individuals to overvalue the
suggestions, which, emanating from their own brains, necessarily
harmonise with their own peculiar idiosyncrasy. His duty, in
fact, requires that he should be qualified to act as umpire between
the conflicting opinions of
individuals,** and lay before the public
organs, are stated to be respectively one and two degrees above average !
!
and Ideality is made of the same developement as Acquisitiveness ! ! ! This
is a precious specimen of the mischievous nonsense with which the pages
of the once well conducted Phrenological Journal, are filled by the present
ignorant editor.
* What has been effected by the journal towards determining the correct-
ness of the views of Dr. Vimont, on the existence of an organ of “ Marriage,”
or “ Attachment to the opposite Sex or the value of those of J. K., with
respect to an organ of “ Love of the past” ? Have not these views been
long enough before the public, for the editor to be prepared to furnish some-
thing satisfactory on them ? See Appendix, Note (6).
13
a clear and succinct analysis of their productions, culling’ the
more valuable and rejecting the unprofitable and the crude, with
an ability unquestioned, and an impartiality above suspicion ;
thus
effecting for phrenology, what that ably conducted periodical the
British and Foreign Medical Review effects for the science over
whose progress it presides.
To what extent does the present editor possess these requisite
qualifications ? Mr. Watson is tolerably acute in a “ small
way,” though certainly much less so in inditing his own com-
positions,* than in criticising those of others. On the latter
occasions he can sometimes balance a straw, according to the
most approved methods of logic, and even apply the line and
ride to a definition, but his eye never pierces far below the
surface ; there is a sad want of depth and profundity about
him, and a total absence of that intuitive sagacity (so indispens-
able to a discoverer) which enables its possessor to anticipate
results, and then teaching him how to test the conclusiveness
of the conceptions originated, bestows new principles on science.
Had Mr. Watson never withdrawn the energies of his “ philo-
sophical and scientific mind” from compiling lists of reference for
British plants, what department of phrenology would have suffered
in consequence ? Of the value of these botanical works, I
presume not to give an opinion :
probably, as a mere labourer,
a mere carrier of the hod and mortar for master workmen, he
may have been very useful “ in his sphere and far, very far
* I wish to make an exception in favour of the leading articles in the 1st and
2nd Nos. of the new series, that in the latter especially, containing many valuable
observations. The style is evidently Mr. Watson’s, but, if the ideas are also,
he appears to have entirely emptied himself in giving birth to them, for
certainly nothing at all, comparable to these two productions, has appeared
from his pen since.
Mr. Watson also deserves credit for having clearly stated in the journal
the doctrine of mind being a function,
and not an entity. It seems almost
incredible that so many phrenologists should continue to speak of the mind
as an individual being, using the brain as an instrument, in opposition to
all sound philosophical reasoning, and so many years after Gall has
written “ Your understanding, your volition, your free will, your affection,
your judgment, instinct, &c. will be no longer personified beings : they will
be cerebral functions.” The doctrine of mind being an entity, is one quite
unworthy the present era, and fit only to be ranked with the “ substantial
forms” of the schoolmen.
] 4
be it from me, to undervalue even the lowest class of contributors
to the march of science ; hut I think I may he excused for ques-
tioning the propriety of such persons putting themselves forward
as the philosophic-minded ‘par excellence,’ lest the title should
also he laid claim to by all the almanack manufacturers, census
takers, and directory compilers in the kingdom.
Let us now inquire, whether there is anything in Mr. Watson’s
moral and literary qualifications, to compensate for his other
deficiencies. Can we commend the dignity of his character,
or the equanimity of his temper ? or is he distinguished for a
single-minded love of truth and candour, which disregards in
its pursuits all petty and selfish considerations ? Alas ! the
readers of the Phrenological Journal, are unfortunately hut too
well aware, that the high tune of morality, by which it was once
so honourably distinguished, vanished contemporaneously with
its assumption of the title of “ Moral.” To persons conversant
with the pages of the journal, any comment upon Mr. Watson’s
literary qualifications for the editorial office, would appear super-
fluous, and how admirably an editor, ignorant himself of the
first principles of composition, must he qualified to pronounce
an opinion on the writings of others, must he apparent to every
one. There are individuals however, “ whose ignorance and
self-confidence run in large and harmonious proportions
a
trivial and occasional error is often attributed to inadvertency,
hut when parties criticise the writings of others, their opinions
are known to he the result of deliberation, and to he indicative
of the amount of their own actual knowledge, and perhaps it
is not easy to conceive a more mortifying and humiliating position
than that of an individual who finds that whilst labouring to
magnify a supposed error of another, he has been in reality
labouring to publish and display in their full proportions, his own
ignorance and conceit. Behold the position of Mr. Watson,
who, in his celebrated epistle to correspondents in the last No.,
observes, “ the two words for and hence are printed in italics by
way of giving examples of the defect, rendering* Mr. Levison’s
* It seems »lmost impossible for this bright specimen of editorial ability
15
essays on philosophical subjects unsuitable for this journal
;
namely, the introduction of conclusions not in any wise resulting
from his premises ; in short, a deficiency in Causality.” I beg
leave to inform Mr. Watson that in the case in point, the
word “for,” was used quite correctly ; if, however, he really
considers the inconsequential use of connectives an indication
of deficient Causality, and would like to print a few specimens
of this error for the benefit of his readers, I shall he happy
to furnish him with one to begin with, of his own penning,
and from the first page of the same “ lucubration ” in which
Mr. Levison is so unmercifully and, in one of the two cases
adduced, quite unfoundedly criticised for this fault. Really, I
would advise Mr. Watson to clear his vision, by casting the
beams out of his own eye, before he again essays to remove
motes from the eyes of other people. The very first sentence
of this same article is grossly ungrammatical, and would disgrace
a third class boy in a village school, and I might go through
every page Mr. Watson has ever contributed to the journal,
and select from each, either some grammatical inaccuracy, or
some singularly cumbrous, uncouth, and disjointed sentence,
were not the task of wading through such lumber too insuperably
tedious. Who that has read his leading article in the 6th
Journal but must have exclaimed, “ the force of dulness could
no futher go” ? Had this valuable “ lucubration” appeared in
any other publication, it might have been supposed to have been
written with a view to ridicule the science it ostensibly espoused.
By the aid, however, of “ a gentle fillip to my organs of Benevo-
lence,” I beg to offer my congratulations to Mr. W. on the produc-
tion of a chef d’ oeuvre, which must infallibly immortalise his name,
and for ever maintain a prominent station amongst its compeers.
In this epitome of twaddling, the elegance of the diction and
the vigour of the arguments preserve a happy accordance, and
to write a sentence without blundering. Instead of rendering, read which
renders, and you will have what Mr. Watson intended to say, but did not
know how to express
—
“ Why will our critic, as it were in spite
Of Nature and his stars, presume to write.”
16
the commencing words, " They who,” form a fit prologue to the
succeeding portions. Such modes of speech may be the phrase-
ology of grooms and chambermaids, but the public really do
expect something rather different from “philosophical and scientific
minded” editors, who are supposed to be gentlemen of education,
and capable of writing their native language correctly. Assuredly,
after this, no one can feel surprised at the information Mr.
Watson has perhaps superfluously furnished us with, viz.
—
that he was always considered a dunce at the grammar school.
In reviewing Mr. Watson’s editorial qualifications, or rather
his want of any, it strikes me very forcibly that if confirmatory
evidence of the existence of a feeling of self-esteem were required,
it might be found in the circumstance of an individual of
his intellectual calibre and literary attainments, assuming
the editorship of a scientific journal ;
and if self-esteem be not
a very prominent organ in his head, I shall never more
feel any confidence in estimating a man’s organisation by his
writings and conduct.
Were I to be guided by my own impressions, I should suppose
it next to impossible that there could be a single individual
competent to form an opinion on the subject, who must not
be thoroughly convinced of Mr. Watson’s incapacity for the
office of editor : but, to discard the uncertain test of individual
feeling and belief, facts have fallen within my own personal
knowledge, which I think fully authorise the conclusion, that
three-fourths of the subscribers to the journal are disgusted with
its present management, and have lost all faith in the qualifi-
cations of the present editor ; and, from the circumstance of
his finding it necessary in the 9th No. of the new series
of the Journal, to enter into a somewhat elaborate defence
of the mode in which he conducts it, and to draw public attention
to the many good qualities it possesses, there can be little
doubt but that the dissatisfaction at his management, which
is so generally felt, has been freely expressed ;* but whether he
* To endeavour to strengthen himself in the eyes of the public, he has
brought forward a complimentary opinion, passed on the article colonization
17
will profit by it, or whether he is capable of doing so, appears very
doubtful. As an individual, I have no wish to deprive Mr.
Watson of the pleasure of seeing his name on the cover of the
Journal, provided he will furnish himself with competent
assistance to conduct it, and confine his own labours to preparing
the matter for the printer, with perhaps writing the statistical
articles, which will be quite the utmost his capacities are
equal to.
“ Ne sutor ultra crepidam.”
Should he, however, continue “ to inflict upon us,” I would
most certainly advise him to get a grammar and spelling book to
place beside “ The Polite Letter Writer” on the shelves of his
library, and study them to a little better purpose than he appears
to have done the latter.
Mr. Watson’s remarks relating to Spurzheim, are an amusing
specimen of the round-about manoeuvres had recourse to by
those who have something to conceal. After attributing my
statement (that he had made an assertion injurious to the
character of Spurzheim) to spleen, he observes, “ that the
in No. 3 new series, by “ one of the first phrenologists whether first refers to
period of embracing the science, or ability, he does not inform us, but I
presume the latter is intended. To disprove progressive deterioration, com-
mencing with the 3rd No., this quotation appears rather out of date ;
but
however this may be, in reference to the article to which it relates, I will
observe, that I can readily understand the commendation, if it emanated from
an individual not acquainted with the writings of Mr. Wakefield and others
on this subject, and who supposed the positions laid down by Mr. Watson,
were deductions he had elicited by the application of the principles of
phrenology ;
but, if after being acquainted with the real facts of the case,
viz.—that certain writers, without the aid of phrenology, had spoken of man’s
natural desire to accumulate property and acquire independence, &c., as
being the cause of certain effects, and that Mr. Watson did little more than
translate these ideas into phrenological language, and assign these effects
to Acquisitiveness and Self Esteem ;
if, after being aware of this fact, any
individual can still regard this article, with its serious sober dissertation,
to convince incredulous phrenologists that their science really has something
to do with political economy (a dissertation to prove the connection of light
with the sun, would scarcely approach nearer the burlesque), with its
“ op-hazard” spelling, and its uncouth and contradictory sentences, an
indication of capacity for editorship !! there are many who would think his
judgment to be pitied : however, de gustibus non est disputandum.
c
IS
Journal has been sometimes accused, and perhaps not wholly
without reason, of being too partial to Spurzheim. This
circumstance, he appears to think, is quite decisive of the
question at issue, and evidently flatters himself that he has
disposed of the subject in a most conclusive and satisfactory
manner, for he immediately proceeds to hint that I shall be
left alone in my opinion. Mr. Watson then presumes, that
because the Phrenological Journal, at a certain period of its
existence, has been accused of being too partial to Spurzheim,
no one will think it possible, that at a subsequent period, and
under another editor, the Journal could make any assertion in-
jurious to Spurzheim’s reputation.* What admirable logic !
Why not, instead of resorting to all this irrelevant matter, and
studiously attempting to evade the facts of the case, have plainly
stated the cause on which I grounded my assertion, and at
once enabled the public to judge for themselves, whether it was
well founded or not ? Would not the statement of the simple
truth suit his purpose ? Why not have informed his readers that
my charge originated in his having attributed to Spurzheim the
doctrine that “loudness is appreciated by the organ of Comparison !”
and he might have added, that though incapable of supporting
his assertion by a single quotation, he had not sufficient honesty
and candour to retract it.
Mr. Watson is for once correct, in presuming that I shall be left
in quiet possession of my discovery. I will tell him moreover that
I shall not only be left in quiet possession of my opinion, but
that it will be shared by the whole phrenological public, till he
can advance something rather more pertinent in opposition to
it, than the nonsense with which he insulted the understandings
of his readers in the last Journal. If Mr. Watson does not
like to lie under the imputation of having made an assertion
injurious to the character of Spurzheim, in attributing to him
the doctrine, that Comparison takes cognizance of Loudness, he
* Mr. Watson being much given to close reasoning, I should advise him
to try his hand at throwing this into a syllogism.
19
has only to support his statement by a quotation from Spurz-
heim’s writings, and his character will be cleared : if he cannot do
this, I call upon him to retract his assertion as publicly as it
was made, under the penalty, if he refuse, of having his name
become a bye-word amongst all those who have any feeling of
propriety or sentiment of honour.
In attributing my defence of Spurzheim to spleen, Mr. Watson
may be giving utterance to his own belief on the subject. I
will not dispute but that it may surpass his comprehension, that
an individual should concern himself about anything in which
he is not personally interested ;
and if he takes himself as a
standard by which to measure my motives, I am afraid there is
but too much probability of his being sincere ; but it is possible
that the public will be of opinion, that an individual irritated by
the exposure of his own fallacies, is not likely to prove a very
impartial judge of the motives of the agent ;
and if I mistake
not, there are many who will readily be able to account for my
conduct, without Mr. Watson’s exposition, and who will see
nothing extraordinary in the circumstance of an individual in-
terfering, to prevent the name of the illustrious* dead being
* Illustrious, not by being begotten by titled imbecility, nor through the
gewgaw distinctions of wealth ;
not by reddening the sword with slaughter,
nor elevating himself on a pyramid by trampling on the rights of the slaves
that form its base ;
not *
by courtesy,' but by an exalted, moral and intellectual
organisation, and the deeds to which it gave birth, the only patent of nobility
recognised by nature, the only claim to superiority worthy of respect from
man.
[It is to phrenology that posterity will be indebted for the recognition
of this maxim, which must one day take place, and the blessings which will
flow from it. All false standards of merit, by diverting the impulses of
Love-of-Approbation from their proper channel, must be productive of vast
injury to society, and few have done more to dispel the existing errors on
this point than Spurzheim and Combe : but instead of aiding the efforts
of phrenologists, philosophers in other branches of science, whose knowledge
ought to teach them how absolutely inane and senseless are all distinctions
not founded on merit, and place them above the prejudices of the multitude,
but too frequently lend a countenance to their folly. Men of science are,
unfortunately to be met with, who allow their eyes to be diverted from the
contemplation of the immutable laws traced by an Omnipotent hand for
the government of a universe, by the glitter of a Star and Garter ;
who
voluntarily descend from the pedestals on which their pursuits place them,
to sink themselves to the level of the scrapers of mud by whom they are
20
defaced, by having affixed to it the paternity of the preposterous
speculations of Mr. Watson—a mere man-milliner in phrenology,
whose scientific productions, or rather preparations, (absurdities
excepted,) might all be equalled in originality by an operation
of Babbage’s calculating machine.
Mr. Watson having been kind enough to endeavour to en-
lighten me, as to the phrenological organs which dictated my
last communication to him, I feel that I cannot do less than
return the compliment, ‘
albeit,’ by no means certain that he
will agree with me in opinion. To the best of my judgment,
Mr. Watson’s remarks, are the joint offspring of Self Esteem
and Destructiveness, in a preternatural state of excitement,
seeking their gratification through the medium of Secretive-
ness, and without allowing themselves to be encumbered by
the inconvenient restraint, of attending to the dictates of Con-
scientiousness.
surrounded, and who are ever ready to cover the laurel wreath which decks
the brow of the philosopher, with the cap and bells of the fool. Such men
are grown-up children, who have discarded the rattles of the nursery, only
to amuse themselves with still more empty and valueless baubles. Among
the ‘ penchants ’
of the philosophers of the present day, none perhaps is
likely to afford more astonishment and amusement to posterity, (if accredited)
than the strange infatuation which induces some to believe that they can
obliterate their own insignificancy, by the addition to their names of a few
equally insignificant letters, to be obtained by purchase. By a statement
of Mr. Babbage, in his “ Decline of Science,” it appears that those who are
disposed to pride themselves upon such an acquisition, may have their names
transformed into a species of comets, with a tail of forty letters, at the average
price of 10k 9s. 9)-d.* per letter (who will dare affirm that honour cannot be pur-
chased ?) provided they have the good fortune to be entirely unknown in
the scientific world ;
in this case, they are never known to be refused the
desired privilege : but, if they have already acquired some degree of philo-
sophic reputation, they occasianally become the victims of the jealousy of
their contemporaries, and have their applications rejected. Contrast the
doings of these ephemeral insects, who spend their time in brawling in the
portico, instead of worshipping in the temple of science, with the character
of one whose name they repudiate—the great Gall. He justly regarded
“ the honours and distinctions that belong to merit as huinilations when
lavished on insignificance,” and contented himself with a simple M.D. ;
yet
his name, indissolubly associated with his discoveries, and venerated for
their sake, will be encircled with a halo of immortality, when the institutions
for whose empty titles his contemporaries trafficked shall be forgotten ; or
if remembered, remembered only to be despised.)
* An F.R.S. costs 50/., an F.L.S. 36/.
21
I have a very few more observations to trouble Mr. Watson
with, and I will then leave him to the enjoyment of his “ editorial
cachinations” When are the phrenological public to be favoured
with the “few cases quite corroborative” of his suggestion (that
loudness is appreciated by Comparison !!) which he tells them
lie has seen ? I can assure him that the bulk of the readers of the
journal would deem its pages quite as profitably occupied in
settling the function of Comparison, as in discussing the merits
of his own portrait in the Naturalist—as in abusing Mr. Howitt*
—or as in being made the vehicle of his ill-timed attempts to
be facetious at the expense of his American brethren. The less
Mr. Watson says about his “corroborative cases” the better;
and, if he be wise, he will retrace his steps out of the mire
and confess his errors ; the latter, however, is too much to be
expected from him, for “ there is in little minds a pertinacity
which clings to opinions once expressed, because the credit of
the individual appears to be involved in maintaining them.”
* See new series, No. 7, page 288. Are these remarks on Mr. Howitt’s
portrait intended as a specimen of the “ cautious induction” so much insisted
on by Mr. Watson ? Can it be possible that he has placed himself amongst
those who, he informs us, “ bring a temporary discredit upon the science
by venturing rash conclusions nominally on phrenological data, which they
are unable to support ?” A source of mischief Mr. W. thinks will be
gradually removed, by the diffusion of sound knowledge, “ increasing the
number of competent persons, who will teach the public that a man is not
necessarily acquainted with the subject, because he chooses to call himself
a phrenologist,” (and I will add) nor even because he possesses duplicates
of the casts and drawings used by Mr. Combe. [For the benefit of those
who labour under the erroneous idea that miracles have ceased, I copy from
Journal No. 3, new series, page 340, the following marvellous instance of
the transfer of inspiration :
—“ The editor of this journal is willing to lecture
on phrenology in places where his lectures may be deemed likely to prove
useful in diffusing a correct knowledge of the science. He has much
pleasure in stating that Mr. Combe has enabled him to do this effectively,
by kindly obtaining for him duplicates and copies of the casts and drawings
used by himself in his own lectures.” If this law of inheritance should
ever become general, how inestimable will be the value of the pencil of a
Raphael, the violin of a Paganini, or the pen of a Byron. How will men
strive for the possession of the telescope of a Herschel, or the voltaic battery
of a Davy. How fiercely contest the right of succession to the wig of a
Lord Chancellor, or the slipper of a Taglioni. Nothing parallel to the case
of Mr. Watson has been known to occur since the servant of the Tishbite
acquired a double portion of the spirit of Ins master from the possession
of his mantle.]
22
I have now placed Mr. Watson in his true position ;
and as
I conceive, that by his disingenuous conduct he has forfeited all
claim to consideration, it is not my intention to notice or reply
to any of his future attacks : indeed, convinced as I am, that
he must speedily find his level, and that his petulance and ill
regulated temper will speedily become so notorious, as to render
their manifestations perfectly innocuous except to himself, I
should scarcely have undertaken so unprofitable a task in the
present instance, but for the purpose of punishing his delin-
quincies.
T. S. PRIDEAUX.
Ryde, Isle of Wight,
January, 1840 .
APPENDIX
(a) I acquired this knowledge in the following manner, and
after Mr. Watson’s remarks in the last number, perhaps some
will be surprised to learn that my first communication to the
editor of the Phrenological Journal was made at his own request.
In the 55th No. of the Journal, page 214, appeared the following
article :
“ Blandford.
—
Mr. Prideaux has lately delivered a short course
of four lectures on phrenology, in the Town-hall, Blandford.
The lectures are highly spoken of in the Salisbury and Wiltshire
Herald, for January the 13th. Mr. Prideaux is stated to have
ventured upon the experimental test of inferring the disposition
of an unknown individual, from a skull presented to him by a
gentleman ; a sealed note of the character being also delivered
to a medical gentleman, who read it to the audience immediately
after Mr. Prideaux’s inference had been read to them. Where
the peculiarities of disposition are strongly marked, the successful
result of such a trial is a matter of course with a tolerably good
phrenologist, although it may appear wonderful to an audience
ignorant of phrenology ;
but as, in such a trial, the skull of an
ordinary individual might be brought forward, concerning which,
the phrenologist could only speak in vague or negative terms,
we are averse to the measure. The experiment should not be
made, unless under a special understanding that the individual
had some well marked peculiarities of disposition ;
in this case,
the successful result would be morally certain, and it would
be felt as a much more severe test. If Mr. Prideaux will send
us a note of the developement of this skull, in the same form
24
as that of Greenacre’s is stated in page 137, we will copy the
remarks from the Herald into our next, for the instruction of
students of phrenology.”
The note of the developement was accompanied with the
following remarks in reply to Mr. Watson’s.
“ In alluding to the circumstance of the examination of the
skull, you observe, that ‘
the experiment of passing an opinion
on the character of an individual should not be made, unless
under a special understanding that the person had some well
marked peculiarities of disposition, lest the skull of an ordinary
character should be brought forward, concerning which, phreno-
logists could only speak in vague or negative terms.’ Now every
phrenologist must admit that such information would be very
desirable, (and I may remark, en j)assant, that it was furnished
me on the occasion in question,) but, with great deference to
your authority, I beg to observe, that I cannot subscribe in
general terms to the doctrines you have laid down, because I
think it may be sometimes advisable for a phrenologist to give
an opinion, without being furnished with the information you
have specified.
“ It will I believe very seldom occur, that in these trials the
skull of an ordinary individual will be brought forward, because
it is felt that their object—to procure evidence as conclusive as
possible—will be best accomplished by the selection of the most
decided characters that can be obtained ; and I may also remark,
that I believe there are few heads so evenly developed as not
to offer one or two points on which something determinate may
be predicated. Supposing a phrenologist, publicly challenged to
give an opinion on the disposition of an unknown individual,
and all information relative to the character of the individual,
whether decided or otherwise, refused ; supposing even the skull
or bust presented to him, of such equal developement as to afford
no room for him to predicate anything determinate, the question
is, whether would it conduce more to the interests of phrenology
for him to decline to say anything respecting it, or for him to
state, that in the individual in question, the different classes of
25
organs so nearly balance eacli other, that his character would
most probably be determined by the circumstances in which he
was placed ;
that if he had the benefit of moral training when
young, though he would be never remarkable for the elevation
of his sentiments, the strictness of his sense of justice, or the
philanthropy of his views, he might yet pass through life without
the commission of serious crimes ;
and that if on the other hand,
he had the misfortune early in life to become associated with
the vicious and depraved, he might probably be led into the
commission of actions which would render him amenable to the
criminal laws of his country, though he would never become
so utterly depraved and abandoned as many criminals, and
would be still further distinguished from them by the greater con-
trition and remorse he would evince for his crimes ? It appears
to me that such a description of his character would probably
approximate so nearly to the truth, as to produce an impression
favourable to phrenology ; whereas, the former mode of procedure,
that is declining to give any opinion at all, would not improbably
excite suspicion. I am aware that it ought not to, but we must take
the world as it is, and accommodate ourselves to its failings.”
This presumption of mine, in venturing to offer an opinion
in opposition to that of so august a personage as the editor of
the Phrenological Journal, was not to be tolerated, and accord-
ingly the whole of my communication was suppressed.* Aware
that this conduct must appear rather extraordinary, Mr. W.
accounted for it some little time afterwards in a letter, by saying
that it was caused by numbers being employed instead of the
organs in stating the developement, and his feeling doubtful as
to what organs the respective numbers were intended to designate.
Deeming that the numbering of the organs adopted by Spurzheim
* No one I think acquainted with the equitable spirit in which the
Journal was conducted by the ex-editors, and the high moral tone which
then pervaded it, can for a moment doubt but that after pronouncing an
opinion condemnatory of the practice, or supposed practice of an individual,
they would have deemed themselves bound to have given equal publicity to
his explanation. Candour unfortunately appears to have no place in Mr.
Watson’s code of morality.
D
and Combe was the only one in vogue in this country, I confess
I was rather surprised at this statement : the deficiency com-
plained of was however immediately remedied, and the names
of the organs forwarded to Mr. Watson, but the account never
made its appearance. Mr. Watson having, in this instance,
expressed his desire to print my remarks after reading them in
the Herald, the motive which induced him to suppress them
was, of course, too self-evident to he mistaken ;
and, had I been
possessed with that great desire of figuring in the pages of his
Journal, which Mr. Watson (judging others, it is to be presumed,
from his own sensations) has attributed to me, most probably I
should have addressed some remonstrance to him on the subject,
instead of letting the matter rest : I could not, of course, help
smiling at his weakness ;
but, deeming the subject would be
rather a sore one to him, I have never alluded to it since.
Account of the Examination of the Skull referred to in the
preceding observations, extracted from the Salisbury Herald, of
the 13^/i of January, 1838.
“ A course of four lectures has just been delivered in the Town
Hall, Blandford, on Phrenology, by Mr. Prideaux. All who
have attended have been highly gratified by the able and lucid
manner in which the principles of the science have been explained
by this gentleman. Mr. Prideaux having offered to put the
truth of the principles of phrenology to the test, by giving the
outline of the temper and disposition of any individual, whose
bust or skull should be presented to him ; a gentleman availed
himself of this offer, and transmitted a skull to Mr. P. with a
request to have the character of the individual delineated. At
the conclusion of the last lecture, a paper describing the temper
and disposition of the individual, as inferred by Mr. P. from his
phrenological developement, was laid on the table ; and a medical
gentleman present having produced a sealed letter from the
owner of the skull, containing a brief account of the character
of the individual who once tenanted it : they were both read
27
to the audience, when the coincidence in all the leading features
between the two, was found to be truly astonishing. We regret
that the length of Mr. P.’s observations precludes our inserting
the whole of them, but as we have been favoured with a sight
of the original documents, the correctness of the following
extracts may be relied on.
“ A glance at the lower outline of the skull reveals to the
phrenologist a fearful preponderance of the lower propensities
over the moral sentiments and intellect.
“ The organ of Amativeness is large, and will probably be
indulged in the coarsest manner. If this individual were ever
married, he must have been induced to enter into the married
state from pecuniaiy motives, or motives of convenience ; he
would not be greatly attached to his wife, and she would most
likely frequently experience his brutality, for his utter want of
refinement, and nobleness of character, would render women
peculiarly liable to his outrages.
“ He possessed a great deal of low cunning. There can be no
doubt but he was a great liar, dishonest, and very little accessible
to feelings of pity. He would care for no one but himself,
and be quite indifferent to the sufferings of others. I have very
little doubt but he was a man disliked by his fellows, who passed
through life without making a single friend, and whose exit from
it was regarded as a fortunate riddance by those best acquainted
with him.
“ If in society I were to meet with an individual whose head
presented a similar configuration, I should most certainly refuse
to trust him either with my life or property, because I am well
convinced that neither considerations of justice nor benevolence,
would restrain him from taking either the one or other, if it
suited his purpose. The fear of punishment would be the only
thing which would restrain this individual from the perpetration
of crimes, and therefore, if placed in circumstances in which he
thought himself sure of evading the arm of retributive justice, he
would not hesitate to commit the most bloody.
28
“ Phrenologists of course only speak of dispositions ;
they
cannot speak of definite and positive actions, because these will
ever be more or less under the influence of external circumstances.
I cannot therefore take upon me to say that this individual was
a murderer, though I confess I shall not be surprised to learn
that such is the fact.
“On one point, however, I will speak very decidedly, viz.,
that if he ever committed murder, the influence of his large
Cautiousness will be conspicuous in the manner in which it was
effected. Some murderers recklessly attack persons their equals
in physical strength, regardless of the risk to which they expose
themselves by so doing; but this man, if he ever committed
the crime, would probably select his victim from amongst the
weak, aged, or infirm, or if he murdered a man, his equal in
physical strength, he would take especial care to attack him
under circumstances which precluded his own person from being
seriously endangered by any resistance which his unfortunate
victim might make.”
The following is a copy of the sealed letter referred to.
“John Gollop, the wretched occupant of this skull, was
executed at Dorchester, for the murder of a woman with whom
he cohabited. He was a seafaring man, verging on 40, of middle
stature and apparently cheerful disposition, and much addicted
to female society.
“ He evinced great cunning in the method of destroying his
victim, which was by suffocation, keeping the mouth closed
by the thumb under the chin, and pressing the nostrils between
the fingers, by which means there were scarcely any external
marks of violence perceptible.
“ It was given in evidence on his trial, that he had oftentimes
said, ‘
that he considered it no more harm to kill a person than
an animal,’ and he frequently boasted of having killed many,
when abroad, in the same manner.
29
“ Although convicted on the clearest evidence, he pertinaciously
denied being the perpetrator of the crime, yet admitted that he
was present, and held the victim.
“ This character was given me by an individual who was
personally acquainted with the convict, and may be relied
upon.”
“ December 29, 1837. “ Chas. Warns.”
Note ( b)
Not a single tendency possesses more completely the
attributes of a fundamental faculty, than the “ Tendency to live
in pairs;” and it seems difficult to imagine how any one can
contemplate the diversified and determinate instincts of animals
in this respect, without admitting the innateness and speciality
of the feeling. With regard to its seat, I believe Dr. Vimont
to be correct in the locality which he has assigned to it, having seen
many cases apparently confirmatory. In a bust in my possession,
the organ presents the form of a long narrow oval, extended
horizontally on the cerebellum, with an edge well defined at every
part, except that in contact with Philoprogenitiveness, and the
character of the individual indicated a high endowment of the
feeling.
With reference to “ Love of the Past,” I think it extremely
probable that an attentive study of the heads of the members
of the Antiquarian Society, by a competent phrenologist, would
at once determine its seat. There are few points on which the
characters of men present more marked and decided differences,
than in their tendency to regard the present, past, and future
;
and the cause of these differences of disposition must be sought
for in varieties of organization. I think there is every reason
to believe in the existence of a general disposition to regard
the future, independently of the tendency to anticipate—the
fulfilment of our desires (Hope), and independently of the
tendency to anticipate their frustration, (probably the function
30
of a portion of Cautiousness ;)
and from many cases that have
fallen under my own notice, I should be inclined to think it
probable that some relation existed between this disposition, and
the developement of the brain immediately above Caution, were
not this appropriated (I am told on good grounds) to Con-
scientiousness.
I confess I regard it as very doubtful whether the whole of the
space now assigned to Conscientiousness is occupied by this organ,
and should he glad to see the evidence which is considered to
have established its present bounds, in print. I have repeatedly
met with the external part adjoining Caution, very moderately
developed in individuals, whom, as far as I have had the oppor-
tunity of judging, I believe to be remarkable for the strictness
of their sense of justice.
With respect to a “ Disposition to enjoy the present moment,”
it may be said, that all the faculties desire present enjoyment
;
and that the indulgence of such a tendency is sufficiently
accounted for, by supposing no restraint to be placed on the
immediate desires, by an anxiety to make provision for the future.
Something, however, beyond the mere absence of anxiety for
the future, seems to be concerned in prompting the sentiment
(lum vivimus vivamus, and other similar aspirations. Possibly
they may be referred to a ‘
Love of Pleasure,’ per se, a tendency
which certainly exists, and cannot be referred to any of the
recognised faculties ;
these have a definite appetite for certain
objects, and desire them simply in themselves, not as means to
an end, and without reference to the pleasure which results from
their obtaining them. Man is so constituted that the fulfilment
of the desires of his faculties gives pleasure ;
but it is quite
possible to conceive a being so organised, that the attainment
of the objects sought by his faculties should produce pain,
without his continuing to be the less attracted towards them.
Such is the sort of being we might in fact imagine to be created
by a purely malevolent principle.
I beg phrenologists to make observations on the developement
31
of the brain immediately anterior to Caution, (at the spot appro-
priated by Dr. Spurzheim in his later plates to Acquisitiveness,)
with reference to the general fondness for pleasure, and disposition
to present enjoyment.
With reference to the discussion which has already taken
place on the existence of organs of “ Attachment to opposite
Sex,” or “Instinct to Pair,” and “Love of the Past,” I beg to
observe, that I conceive a number of persons agreeing as to
experiencing a vivid emotion of a peculiar and definite character,
exclusively in connection with the suggestion or presence of
a certain idea, or class of ideas, to be an argument of great force
in favour of the existence of a primitive faculty, and I would
suggest to phrenologists not too hastily to commit themselves
by opposing the existence of a faculty, proposed under these
circumstances, because they may be incapable of recognising such
an emotion, by appealing to their own consciousness ; but
rather to make a personal application of that precept of
phrenology which teaches, that cateris paribus an individual
is best qualified to treat on the existence and nature of his
largest organs, and vice versd
:
a reflection which may perhaps
prevent some from putting themselves in the position of blind
men denying the existence of colour. Individually, I annex
very little importance to the opinion of a bachelor-disposed
personage, on the non-existence of an “ Instinct to Pair ;” or
to that of an individual to whose mind the past appears divested
of the fairy and hallowed mantel, in which she presents herself
to the eyes of others, on the non-existence of an organ of
“ Love of the Past”—a faculty which invests by-gone time with
a certain attribute, which like every other primitive emotion,
it is impossible to define or describe, and which is intelligible
only to those endowed with the requisite organization.
SPECULATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL
FUNCTIONS.
Preliminary Observations.
With regard to the “ rejected addresses,” it is my intention
shortly to give them to the world, in conjunction with various
other phrenological essays, some of which are not yet ready
for publication ;
and I trust I shall he acquitted of presumption
in making this announcement, notwithstanding so great an
authority as Mr. Watson has pronounced them to be “ lucubra-
tions,” not likely to confer “ much benefit on the readers of the
Journal or on its own credit, in the estimation of scientific and
philosophical minds.”
“ A favourite employment of mine is to endeavour to analyse
the various features presented by man’s intellectual and affective
nature, in search of some tendency or capacity, which cannot
be referred to any single faculty or combination of faculties,
at present recognised by phrenologists, and the existence of
which would require, as a consequence, an addition to be made
to the catalogue of primitive powers.” I have long been imbued
with the conviction, that many shades of character exist,
which cannot be formed by any quantitive admixture of the
known primitive powers, and that there necessarily exist
faculties qualitatively different, from any of those yet ad-
mitted as fundamental. In prosecuting these enquiries, I
believe myself so fortunate as to have succeeded in evolving
several elementary faculties, which have hitherto eluded obser-
vation, and even in some cases to have succeeded in locating
their seat. I am not ignorant of the extreme intricacy of such
33
pursuits, and of tlie many sources of fallacy which the analytical
mode of studying mental science presents ;
neither am I unac-
quainted with the difficulty entailed upon all researches on the
special functions of individual organs, by the impossibility of
noting the manifestations of any one organ in an isolated state :
and the amount of evidence I am at present in possession of, in
support of many of my opinions, is very far from being sufficiently
extensive and conclusive to satisfy my own mind. That future
researches will show that many of my present views require
much modification, or even that in some I am altogether mistaken,
I have little doubt ; indeed, from the nature of things, such must
be the case ; but I shall allow no ridiculous apprehension of
being convicted of error to prevent my laying them before the
public, accompanied with a simple detail of the evidence I
possess in their favour, in which I shall cautiously abstain from
giving any undue prominence or colouring to those facts which
may be supposed to he of a confirmatory nature : a species of
folly, not to say bad faith, which I am afraid some have pretty
freely indulged in. To quote my ideas on the subject, from
one of the “ rejected addresses,” (pardon me, gentle reader, for
again obtruding such “ lucubrations” on your notice) “ I conceive
a free interchange of ideas amongst phrenologists to be calculated
materially to accelerate the advance of Phrenology, without being
productive of any attendant disadvantage, provided a wide line of
demarcation be preserved between the probable—and the ascertained,
and provided only the latter be given to the world as the doctrines
of Phrenology
;
in this case, the science will, in a more rapid
elucidation of its principles, reap all the advantages of having a
number of labourers engaged in investigating the inferences of
individuals, when such inferences prove well founded, whilst
when they prove fallacious, the reproach, if any, will attach solely
to their originators.”*
* This extract, together with the preceding one, are from an essay con-
jecturing the function of Concentrativeness to be the Love of Employment,
enabling the mind to employ itself on an object that affords no present
gratification beyond the expectation of the result to be attained, without
irksomeness,
and thus solacing the toils of tillage, and other monotonous
E
34
Gall probably acted wisely in withholding his inferences from
the world till he had assured himself of their correctness by
personal observation. Not to mention, however, that few possess
his capacity for effecting this object, the position of phrenology
is altogether changed since the period of his observations, and
those precautions in promulgating opinions which the general
distrust of the truth of the science then rendered necessary, may
be no longer required ;
indeed, cultivated as the science now is,
by a large number of persons, the expediency of continuing such
a practice may justly be called in question ;
and the interests of
science, and not the feelings of individuals, ought to be made the
sole criterion for determining the plan to be pursued.
I am well aware that it is the fashion amongst many phrenologists
of the present day, to decry and ridicule the a priori method of
studying mental science ;
but are we hastily to conclude, that
reasoning a priori should be altogether discarded because some
individuals reason falsely, and announce very extravagant con-
occupations inseparable from a civilised life, in the same way as Destructive-
ness enlivens the fatigues of the chase, man’s chief employment in a savage
state. I suggested that this propensity probably performed an important
part in leading men from the hunter to the shepherd, and from the shepherd
to the agricultural state, whilst its great deficiency in a nation would in-
capacitate them for civilisation. I do not profess to be in possession of
evidence sufficient to establish such an opnion, and it may very probably
be an unfounded one ; but as a suggestion, it is perhaps quite as worthy
of attention as the greater number of those which appear in the pages of the
Journal. Mr. Hancock’s observations on Concentrativeness are valuable and
deserving much consideration, and I am by no means convinced, that it may
not be possible that the idle, desultory, and unsettled habits I believe myself
to have recognised in many individuals, in whom the organ was deficiently
developed, may be partly attributed to the deficiency of a fundamental faculty,
originating a susceptibility of attachment to impressions in relation to the
frequency with which they have been experienced. This I apprehend to be
essentially the function attributed to this organ by Mr. Hancock, and I
trust I am far from entertaining any indisposition to admit its correctness
on account of having chanced to propose another. May that bigotry which
clings blindly to opinions because originated by the individual, and that
despicable littleness of mind which shrinks from acknowledging an error, and
suffers the petty considerations of self to prevail over the love of truth, ever be
amongst the last vices that can be laid to my charge. "With reference to the
quasi intellectual functions assigned to this organ I will observe, that it should
never be forgotten that the imagination has sometimes a great influence on
the aspect of transmitted—facts : a word constantly in the mouths of those
soi disant philosophers who never collect any.
elusions ? Some there are, I believe, who are disposed to reject it
in toto, for the very sufficient reason of its being unsuited to their
own taste and capacity ;
hut such parties would do well to re-
member the maxim, non omnia possumus omnes, and not persist
in erecting their own perceptions and capabilities, as a standard
ot human capacity—a species of dogmatism which phrenologists
ought to be the last to fall into. If an individual by reasoning
can succeed in developing the necessary existence of a certain
primitive faculty, and then by taking a comprehensive view of
its nature and relations, can conjecture with great probability
the neighbourhood in which it must be sought, and thus by
having a definite direction given to his observations, can succeed
at arriving at a result (viz., the discovery of an organ) which
he would not otherwise have attained, is he not to be at liberty to
do so ? But why should I enlarge on this point ? assuredly, no
one who possesses sufficient vigour of intellect to effect such an
object, will ever be induced to deviate for an instant from the
path he has marked out for himself, by the verdict of these
imbeciles ; and whatever may be the fleeting opinions of the day
on the subject, I am ready to maintain, not only that the a priori
method of studying phrenology is a perfectly legitimate one, but
that he who arrives at a conviction of the necessary existence
of a faculty by reasoning, and then seeks for, and establishes its
position on the brain, performs a much greater achievement, than
he who discovers an organ, in consequence of having his attention
arrested by meeting with an individual, in whom some startling
developement is united with some equally startling manifesta-
tions of a particular mental function.
Gall, who was a philosopher and not a bigot, so far from indis-
criminately condemning the a priori mode of studying the science,
deems it necessary to apologise for not having had more recourse
to it, by stating it to be one for which he had little aptitude ; and
finishes by observing, “ it is possible nevertheless, very possible,
that others have a more favourable organisation than I have to
arrive at knowledge a priori
;
but you will do me the justice not
to insist upon my entering the lists with other arms than my own.”
36
Those who regal'd the employment of this mode of philo-
sophising as incompatible with common sense, and productive
only of visionary ideas, are no doubt profoundly ignorant that it
is one more or less had recouse to by all phrenologists. Obser-
vation, in a great number of cases, reveals only capacities and
dispositions, formed by combinations of simple faculties, and it is
only by the employment of analytical reasoning, that we can
arrive at faculties really simple and uncompounded. We have
cunning, bold, rash, and timid characters presented to us, but can
we at once refer the causes of these differences to single primitive
faculties, or are we not necessitated to resort to analytical rea-
soning, in order to reduce general, to special knowledge, and
acquire precise ideas ? In short, analytic or speculative reasoning
is productive of an injurious effect, only, when it presumptuously
disclaims the necessity, and discards the practice, of verifying its
conclusions by observation. WT
hen employed as a guide to the
latter, it becomes the most powerful of all agents in advancing
the progress of science. Indeed, it is the capacity of being able
to conjecture with great probability what particular path leads to
the discovery of an unknown truth, enabling an individual to
know to what exact point his powers of observation may be most
profitably directed, which constitutes the characteristic difference,
between those to whom sciences are indebted for their laws, and
those who merely perfect their details, or study them only to
gratify their love of knowledge. Had man never done more than
classify and draw general inferences from the facts which presented
themselves to his notice, had he never, from a profound contem-
plation of the qualities and relations of things known, made con-
jectures of the qualities and relations of the unknown, and then
applied his observing powers in a determinate direction, to test
their conclusiveness, what would be the present condition of
science ? Did a casuality show Franklin a kite-string bristling
with electricity, or place before the eyes of Davy potash under
the intense action of this agent ?
As many causes may possibly intervene to delay the intended
publication of my novel views in a finished state, and as in the
37
interim, many of them, if before the public, might possibly be
either confirmed or proved unfounded by the labours of phreno-
logists, who possess greater opportunities, or powers of observation
than myself, I shall proceed as concisely as possible to give a
slight outline of a few of the principal.
In only two cases have my observations to determine the posi-
tions of the conjectured faculties, been yet sufficiently numerous
and conclusive, to nearly satisfy my own mind, and in laying a
brief sketch of these two proposed organs (hastily gathered from
some detached memoranda) before the reader, I wish to premise,
that I am far from flattering myself with having arrived at a
knowledge of their essential nature. Gall observes, “ It is much
easier to discover the organ which determines a certain mode of
action, than the fundamental quality or faculty itself. Actions
that are the result of the extraordinary activity of an organ, are
much more obvious than the primitive destination of that organ,
and its ordinary mode of action. When faculties are once recog-
nised as peculiar and independent, it is possible thence to infer
by degrees, the primitive destination of an organ.” This is a
process which I believe has yet to be effected with by far the
greater number of the organs ;
the actions which they induce being
the extent of our present knowledge respecting them. Considered,
in fact, in relation to our knowledge of precise function, the fore-
head is little other than a terra incognita, and if any phrenologist
should be of a contrary opinion, let him explain the precise func-
tion of either Individuality, Eventuality, Comparison, or Causality.
With regard to Individuality, it is conjectured to originate the
conception of Existence, and it seems tolerably well ascertained
that the organ gives the desire, and the ability, for becoming
acquainted with a large number of individual objects ;
yet how
little do we know of the office it performs, in achieving this
result. It seems improbable that it effects it merely by acting
as a stimulus to other faculties, and yet we find that every
particular perception is furnished with a special organ for its
appreciation ;
we are left then to conjecture that Individuality
serves to supervise and combine in some way, the perceptions of the
38
organs taking cognisance of external qualities, but of the manner
in which this is effected, we are profoundly ignorant. In fact,
phrenologists are not yet even agreed, whether the impressions
of each sense are cognised by a separate organ, or by one in
common. Gall inclined to the former opinion, and Spurzheim
to the latter ;
but it appears to me that a case, quoted by Spurz-
heim from Darwin’s Zoonomia, is almost, if not quite, decisive
of the impressions of each sense, being received by a separate
portion of nervous matter.
The following is the anecdote alluded to.
—“ An old man who
had had a paralytic stroke preserved the senses of hearing and
vision untouched ;
he, however, could only receive ideas by
means of the latter ;
when he was told that it was nine o’clock
and breakfast time, he repeated the words distinctly, yet without
gaining any information from them : but if his servant put a
watch into his hand and shewed the hour gone by, he said,
* Why, William, have I not my breakfast ?’ ” In this case it is
evident, that the impressions of the auditory nerve were recognised
by an internal faculty, and also, that the connection of this
faculty with certain idea-conceiving organs was interrupted
;
whilst it is equally evident, that the connection between these
same organs, and the faculty which recognised the impressions
of the optic nerve, remained unimpaired ;
and hence it follows,
that the impressions of the auditory and optic nerves are recog-
nised by distinct faculties.* This case is rendered the more
interesting from the fact, that notwithstanding the individual
was unable to translate words into ideas, no difficulty seems to
have been experienced in translating ideas into words, and
were Nature so obliging as to furnish us with such cases more
frequently, we might soon hope to unravel much that is at present
obscure in cerebral physiology.
t
* Unless we resort to the improbable supposition, that although one organ
is competent to receive the impressions, one set of fibres is not competent to
transmit them ;
hut if these impressions can reside in the same apartment
without disturbing each other, surely they can travel by the same path.
f Suggestion.—May not this case be explained by supposing a derange-
ment of the afferent fibres between Language and Eventuality, the efferent
continuing to perform their functions unimpaired ? Is not the loss of
39
Assuming that the impressions of each sense are cognised by a
separate internal faculty, of what nature are we to regard the
ideas conceived by these faculties ? It appears to me that the
impressions of each sense are conceived, and reconceived as wholes,
with all their appreciable qualities, and that we have no conscious-
ness of any impressions from the senses, anterior to their analysis
or appreciation by the faculties which discern external qualities
;
and if so, it must be concluded that these have no consciousness,
and that their function is confined to modifying the impressions
of the senses, in such a way as to cause the idea of a particular
quality to be conceived. To illustrate my meaning by analogy, I
would compare the organ of colour to a prism, and the ‘
optic
organ ’
(conceiving a mental picture of the field of view,) to the
screen which receives the image of the colours, which the prism
refracts. The presentation and recognition of a particular object
which has anteriorly occupied a place in a field of view, seem to
have a tendency to recall the whole of the picture ;
thus, on
meeting with an individual whom we recollect to have seen once
before, after a moment’s pause, his image arises, seated on the top
of the coach, or standing on the deck of the steam vessel, where
we first saw him ; and whoever attends to the mental opera-
tions, will discover, that we often recover knowledge, that as
matter of fact—as appreciated by eventuality—had been entirely
lost. For instance, if questioned as to the former existence of a
particular sofa, table, &c., in a certain site, we are often quite
unable to answer, till we have conceived a picture of the apart-
ment, when it probably occurs with many other forgotten objects.
Cceteris paribus those departments of a field of view will be most
distinctly recalled, which received the greatest attention at the
time. A field of view conceived from memory, compared with
one arising from the immediate presentation of external objects,
resembles a picture when contrasted with the landscape of which
the memory of proper names also much more satisfactorily accounted for,
by supposing a derangement of the efferent fibres between Individuality and
Language than by the improbable conjecture, that a particular portion of the
organ of Language is appropriated to their cognisance ?
40
it is a transcript. In Memory, the optic and other organs of the
senses, receive no impressions from the organs which appreciate
individual qualities ; and the ideas they form, by a law7
of cerebral
physiology are referred to internal reconceptions, and not to
external objects. Here we have a most intelligible explanation of
the hitherto inexplicable phenomena of spectral illusions, which
never can be satisfactorily referred to organic actions, differing
from common recollection or reconception, merely in degree. An
artist’s recollection of an individual may be so vivid and accurate,
as to enable him to paint a miniature or portrait from memory,
but he labours under no delusion as to the origin of his sensa-
tions, whilst another, refers an almost formless and colourless
phantom, to an external cause. If this theory then be correct, it
is only in sleep, and in disease, that the faculties which discern
external qualities become active without the presentation of an
external object, and convey impressions to the organs of the
senses with which they are connected. The perceptions arising
from the senses of smell and taste, seated in the median line, must
perhaps be regarded as simple. In the same way as the presenta-
tion of a particular object, which has anteriorly occupied a place
in a field of view, has a tendency to recall the whole of the picture,
so probably the re-reception of an impression by Individuality
from one of the organs of the senses, has a tendency to cause the
recurrence of the impressions closely allied to it (in time), either
as pre-existent or successive.
Organ of Love-of-Liberty, or Independence of Controul.
—
Sense ofpersonal Rights.
Before proceeding to treat of Love-of-Liberty as a primitive
emotion, it becomes necessary to consider the correctness of the
supposition, which attributes its origin to the joint operation of
Firmness and Self-esteem, an opinion the source of which is
probably to be traced to the want of clear and definite ideas as
to the nature of these faculties, more particularly as to that of
Firmness ;
and in order to effect the required object, a brief
examination of these faculties themselves, becomes desirable.
41
A particular obscurity has been supposed to hang over the
precise function of Firmness, with which to me it has never
appeared invested. I regard its function to be the origination
of a simple desire to persist in all resolves—and these as the
only objects, or rather mental affections, with which it has any
relation. When deliberating on an act, unconnected with any
previous determination, Firmness is quite quiescent ; but the
moment the weight of the impulsions, pro or con, contributed by
the faculties, whose desires are interested in the action under
deliberation, are summed up, and the balance struck by the
executive organ, the weight of Firmness is added to the amount
;
and in all future deliberations on the same question. Firmness
is a party interested, and contributes its whole influence in favour
of the original decision. Thus we often hear persons observe,
“ Had I known this before, it would have changed my decision,
but having once decided, I shall not alter.”*
Self-esteem may be defined to be a faculty, which originates
a **
Sense of personal importance or superiority.” When small,
diffidence is the result ; when large, self-confidence and conceit.
To contrast my notions of Firmness and Love-of-liberty
—
Firmness desires to act in a certain way, because it has been pre-
viously resolved to do so—Love-of-liberty, because the resolve
emanates from the unrestrained deliberation of the faculties of the
individual. Firmness desires to adhere to resolves once taken,
uninfluenced by changes which may subsequently take place in
the desires of the other faculties, and which had they occurred
anteriorly to the resolve being formed, would have modified its
character. Love-of-liberty, on the contrary, rather desires to be
always free to follow the impulses of the moment
Self-Esteem I regard as equally as incompetent as Firmness, to
generate a Love- of-liberty per se
;
it may incline an individual to
reject the advice of others, or even feel a sense of mortification at
* I need scarcely advert to the evils which would result, were man so
constituted as to have no tendency to follow a particular line of conduct from
having once determined on it, but to be perpetually ready to redeliberate ; all
persistency of conduct would be lost, and men would waver in their choice of
two evils till they suffered both to overtake them.
F
42
being dictated to by another ;
but this will be either from inferi-
ority being thus implied, or with reference to loss of rank, pre-
cedence, or power, and a great part of the irritation the loss of these
occasions, must also be attributed to another organ. In short, I
consider the tendency to maintain the rights believed to be possessed,
—and the tendency to believe the rights possessed, very extensive to
be essentially distinct faculties ;
and if I mistake not, those who are
conscious of aspirations for pure liberty, will decide that the
emotion has no connection with wounded feelings of Self-Im-
portance.
I have now passed in brief review the functions of the organs
of Firmness and Self-Esteem, and as an individual I profess
myself entirely unable to comprehend how a love of freedom of
action per se, can be compounded out of any quantitive admixture
of two emotions, so qualitatively distinct ; but if an}' one, by
taking a more extended view, and comprehending considerations
which I have omitted, can explain the (to me,) apparent anomaly,
I shall gladly become a pupil.
The next department of the subject which presents itself to be
considered is, how far that relation subsists between the desire of
liberty—and a sense ofpersonal importance and disposition to firm-
ness, which ought to be met with, on the supposition that the
former feeling, is the result of the two latter ; and as far as I am
capable of appreciating character, there appears to be little, if
any, proportion between them. Do we not see the most self-
sufficient, conceited, and presumptuous individuals, become the
most abject, cringing, and servile, when it suits their purpose, and
ready to bow themselves in the dust, before those whom they
regard as immeasurably their inferiors ; whilst the diffident and
the unassuming, those who are distrustful of their own powers, to
a failing, often manifest a noble sense of independence, which
never allows them to debase themselves, or stoop even to those
they regard as immeasurably their superiors in every respect but
as free men ? I have not yet observed united in the same indivi-
dual, such a broad and striking contrast between the activity of
Firmness and Love-of-liberty, as between that of the latter and
43
Self-esteem, though I believe myself to have seen cases which
presented very considerable differences of degree.
I believe the emotion of Love-of-liberty to he originated by the
middle third of the portion of brain now assigned to Self-esteem
and Firmness ; thus separating these organs from each other
;
and have made an extensive number of observations on its develope-
ment, confirmative of this opinion, without meeting with any
opposed to it. As far as can be judged from a cast with the hair
on. Self-esteem appears to have been moderate in Spurzheim, and
Love-of-liberty, and Firmness large.
In this essay I have attempted to show (as clearly as the limits
to which its length is necessarily confined will allow,) that the
emotion of Love-of-liberty is essentially distinct in kind, from either
that of Firmness, or Self-esteem,—and that observation proclaims,
that the feeling is manifested without relation to the activity of
these twr
o faculties ; and I have also recorded my belief, that a
connection exists between the vigour of the manifestation of the
feeling, and the developement of a particular portion of the brain ;
but with reference to this opinion on the seat of the organ, as well
as any other I may express, I have no desire that any weight
should be attached to it, but rather, that it should be regarded as
a mere suggestion, till confirmed by induction from an amply
adequate number of observations. Those who choose to regard
the conjectures of others as undoubted truths upon insufficient
grounds, either from being too indolent to examine the evidence
in their support—from an innate tendency to credulity—or from
a weak and silly disposition to venerate authorities to the neglect
of facts and arguments—have only themselves to blame for the
errors they may fall into.
Internality, or Reflex Intellectual Consciousness.
There is not a single point of view under which we can compare
the mental features of individuals, in which they present more
striking points of contrast, than with reference to their tendencies
and capacities, for occupying themselves with the consideration of
Moral, or Physical, Science. Whilst some possess an active consci-
44
ousncss of all that passes within them—make the operations of
their own minds one of the principle objects of their attention
—
and often recur in conversation to their individual experience of
emotions—the attention of others is wholly occupied with external
things
—
they appear to require to have material objects as a sub-
stratum for their ideas—and to be almost incapable of separating
a quality from the substance in which it inheres, and making the
formerper se, an object of contemplation. One class dwell, in short,
in an external, the other in an internal world.
A distinguishing tendency in those in whom I suppose this
faculty to be powerful, appears to me to be a fondness for analysis,
and great facility in detecting errors of definition. All general,
vague, and indeterminate notions, are a source of annoyance to
them, they habitually take what appears to others, an almost
unnecessarily, elementary view of things, and never loose sight of
the fact, that the greater number of subjects on which men employ
their minds, are complex ideas, made up of a number of simple
ones comprehended under a general term, and by this habit of
constantly regarding general terms, as bundles of simple ideas,
rather than as homogeneous units, and endeavouring to resolve
them into their ultimate elements, their thoughts acquire a pre-
cision, which saves them from entering into those fruitless discus-
sions, which do not go beyond words. A large proportion of the
most violent controversies which have distracted mankind, have
arisen from the two parties of disputants not attaching the same
ideas to the same word ;
for instead of clear ideas, the greater part
of men possess only indefinite notions, concerning which, they
nevertheless, make the most positive affirmations and negations,
with a dogmatism, proportionate to their ignorance of the exact
number, and precise value, of those primitive ideas, they intend to
include, under the general terms they make use of.*
* After having sought in vain for two years to find a distinct acknow-
ledgement of the particular species of capacity I believed myself to have
noted, I was agreeably surprised to find the following satifsactory recognition
of the faculty, by an author whose writings are perfect of their kind, and
evince in every page most unequivocal indications of its activity.
“ Although Mr. Ricardo possessed remarkable logical powers, he seems
Iii individuals who manifest the mental peculiarities referred
to, I have observed a uniformly full developement of that portion
of the forehead on the medial line, which is nowr
regarded as
forming the upper part of Eventuality and lower part of Com-
parison. When very prominently developed, the centre of
convexity appears to he about the level of the foot of Causality,
and the lower edge describes a semicircle, the extremities of
which overlap the inner third of the lower edge of Causality, and
appear to lose themselves in that organ. I have never seen the
upper edge of this organ defined, except negatively, by the angular
outline of Comparison above it, or that portion of it in contact
with Causality, except by this latter organ being singly promi-
nent.
I wish particularly to remark, that the mental characteristics
of which I have been treating, have been observed by me in
individuals who have possessed Causality well developed, con-
jointly with the proposed organ of Internality, and that although
I have seen cases in which this organ has been largely developed,
and Causality but moderately, I have never had an opportunity
of making myself acquainted with the mental peculiarities of the
parties ; but nevertheless, having repeatedly seen Causality
largely developed, without being able to recognise any determinate
desire for metaphysical disquisitions, I conclude such desire to
be specially connected with Internality. I do not impugn the
utility of Causality to a metaphysician, because I regard it as an
organ as indispensable to a philosopher, as Ideality is to a poet.
to have been less gifted with analytical subtilty ;
and hence his writings
furnish an instance of what the observer of the human mind must have
frequently seen exemplified, that the strongest powers of reasoning are an
insufficient security against gross error, if unaccompanied by that incessant
analysis of terms and propositions, and that intense consciousness of in-
tellectual operations, which are the properties of a metaphysical genius.”
—
“ Nature, Measure, and Causes of Value,” by the Author of Essays
on the Formation and Publication of Opinions.
This same author, looking beyond the definition of value with which pre-
ceding political economists have contented themselves, viz., “the power of
purchasing other goods which the possession of an object conveys,” speaks
of it as a mental affection, and not a quality of external objects.
4 (>
It employs itself in drawing general laws, but the particular
subject on which it employs itself, is determined by the develope-
ment of other organs ;
combined with Language, it produces
the philosophic philologist ;
with Individuality, the philosophic
student of natural history ;
with Eventuality, the philosophic
historian ;
with Individuality and Eventuality, the philosophic
physiologist ;
and with Internality, the philosophic metaphysician,
who will either test the conclusiveness of his speculations by an
appeal to observation, or rely solely on his individual conscious-
ness, according as the organ is associated with Individuality and
Eventuality, or singly developed.
If it be said, that the function of the organ I have endeavoured
to describe, may be resolved into the discrimination of differences ;
and that this has been long attributed to the organ of Comparison,
of which my conjectured organ forms only the lower part, I shall
ask whether—the tendency to suggest analogies founded on
general and superficial resemblances, having no pretensions to a
philosophical character—and that tendency which demands the
most rigid precision, in the use of terms, takes an almost ultra-
elementary view, of all propositions submitted to it, and never rests
satisfied till it has acquired the most definite knowledge of the
value of every complex idea, contained in them—can be referred
with probability, to one and the same organ. When differences of
function, so decided, exist, in union with differences in the deve-
lopement of separate portions of the brain, are the two portions to
be confounded in one organ, because they happen to be placed in
juxta-position with each other ?
Having now endeavoured, as fully as the limits to which I am
necessarily confined on this occasion will permit, to describe certain
mental phenomena, which appear to me to belong to a faculty, not
at present recognised, I shall proceed to offer a few conjectures,
though with great distrust, of their correctness, on the special
function of the faculty.
I am disposed to regard it, as a faculty originating the idea of
Perception—having for its object—the operations of the other
powers—and recognising the existence of Emotions and Percep-
47
\
tions, and appreciating their qualities, in the same way as
Individuality perceives the existence, and appreciates the qualities,
of external objects.
The elements of all human knowledge, consist of a limited
number of particular Emotions and Perceptions, each of a definite
character—together with a capacity of considering these, under
a limited number of general points of view, each of a definite
character, viz. as Existing—as Singular or Plural—as Co-existing
or Associated—as Wholes—as related in Time and Space—as
undergoing Motion or Change—as Analogous (figuratively) —as
having certain necessary Dependencies ; and lastly as Perceived
—
Desired—Willed.* The faculties however which regard the
impressions of others, under these definite points of view, (the
three last excepted), appear to be exclusively occupied with their
particular objects, to the exclusion of any attention to their own
functions. They regard external things, as Existing—Co-existing
—Changing, fyc., whilst Intemality regards Existence—Co-exist-
ence—Change, &c., as Existing. To illustrate my idea of the
difference of function, I shall observe, that animals have, doubt-
less, perceptions of external objects, and seek, or reject them in
consequence ;
but it may be questioned, whether they have any
perceptions or conceptions, relative to the act, or mode, of per-
ceiving. It appears to me, that the perceptions of Individuality,
(for example,) with relation to an object, terminate with a know-
ledge of its outward presence, and that the idea of the act of
perceiving, is framed by Intemality, and strictly speaking, I
* The great error of metaphysicians generally, seems to have been in occu-
pying themselves almost exclusively with the consideration of the (jeneral con-
ceptions, to the almost total neglect of the particular Perceptions and Emotions.
Different metaphysicians differ much in their enumeration of the primitive
conceptions. Kant, who on many points, is considered to have taken a step
much in advance of his predecessors ;
besides, many of the above, includes
in his list of categories, Affirmation and Negation—Possibility and Impos-
sibility—Necessity and Contingency, and some others, all of which appear
to me to be capable of decomposition. May not Affirmation, for instance, be
resolved into Existence on the part of the thing asserted, and an Action
(Motion and Volition) on the part of the assertor ;
and does not a clear
perception, that an Effect cannot exist without a Cause, necessarily include
a conception both of Impossibility and Contingency, and consequently of
their opposites.
48
regard the general idea of Existence, not as a conception of
Individuality, but as a conception framed by Intemality, from
contemplating the mode of being affected of this organ ;
—
a
conception applied to that general inseparable attribute of all
causes of affections of Individuality, by virtue of which attribute,
such causes, have the power of producing such affections,—and
extended afterwards by analogy to immaterial things. This
definition is I am aware a very imperfect one, as all definitions
of simple ideas necessarily must be, for definition being, properly
speaking, the explanation of a term by an enumeration of the
simple ideas of which it is composed, terms that stand for
simple ideas, can only be adequately represented by synonymous
words, which of course are insignificant to all those who have
not already a knowledge of the idea.
To act aright, it is no less essential to see moral relations
clearly and correctly, than to feel justly ;
and from the com-
prehensive and distinct view of all moral questions, which this
faculty holds up before the minds of those who possess it large,
I regard it as eminently conducive to the practice of morality.
As a loadstone has a tendency towards iron, but is itself uncon-
scious, so a large portion of mankind seem to resemble the
loadstone, and to be swayed from the cradle to the grave by
impulses of the existence of which they are unconscious. These
are the individuals who suffer themselves to be attracted towards
actions, on the qualities of which they never reflect. Those, on
the contrary, in whom this faculty is powerful, have a more
conscious exercise of the will, and coeteris paribus act less from
instantaneous impulse. From being so constituted, as not to
be able to avoid reflecting on the nature of their actions, when
they do err, they generally err wilfully, and this perhaps explains
why metaphysicians have been above the average of scientific
men generally, in the rectitude of their conduct. The former
class, also, from an insufficient appreciation of the character of
their acts at the time of commission, are constantly subjecting
themselves to remorse, from the condemnation which their actual
organisation passes on their conduct, when its tendencies are
49
fully understood ; whilst in the latter on the contrary, compara-
tively little change taking place, subsequently to commission,
in the aspect under which they view their actions, they are less
subject to feelings of remorse, because their conduct is much
more seldom widely at variance, from that which their organisation
sanctions. The influence of Cautiousness in contributing to pro-
duce these latter varieties of character, is not of course, intended
to be denied.
It may be deserving of serious consideration, whether this
faculty, has not some special connection with the will ;
the pre-
sent assemblage of phrenological organs presenting the aspect of
a republic without an executive. Although animals desire external
objects, and seek them in consequence, may it not he questioned,
whether they have any conception of the existence, of such desires,
or of the act of volition. Query.—Does Eventuality, or a special
faculty, recognise the impressions of the other powers, only
through the volitions they occasion ;
or in other words, solely
with reference to the acts towards which they tend, whilst the
emotions themselves, as existences, are recognised by Internality
—
the faculty of Volition attending to the affections, of the afferent
fibres, which arrive at it from the separate organs—the faculty
of Internality, either to the subsequent and consequent affection
of the faculty of Volition, or to direct impressions from the
individual organs themselves ? It appears extremely improbable
that the summing up, and balancing the impulsions of the separate
faculties, which is the act immediately antecedent to willing, and
which, together with issuing the mandate to act, to the nervous
and muscular systems, appears to be the only active function of
the faculty of Volition, should be performed by more than one
organ. Will may be defined to be, a desire produced in the
“ Faculty of Volition,” by the sum of the impulsions of the
organs, in favour of an act, or volition, preponderating over those
opposed to it. When the sum of the impulses of the contending
parties is equal, there is no Will, but a state of equilibrium and
indifference ; no preference for one act, or volition, beyond the
other, but merely balanced desires existing for both.
50
The strength of the Will, will be exactly proportionate to the
weight by which the sum of the impulsions of one party, exceed
those of the other—whilst the weight of the whole impulsions,
will be determined by the number, size, texture, and state of
excitement, of the organs apprised through the intellect of being
interested in the question under deliberation.
I am aware that it is usual with phrenologists to state, that
“the Intellectual Faculties when acting together, constitute Will,”
but this appears to me, rather a vague notion adopted in default
of a better, and as preferable to an explicit avowal of ignorance,
than a conclusion arrived at, from any philosophical consideration
of the subject. I would wish to inquire, whether it is meant
to be inferred that such organs as Colour and Form, have a more
intimate connection with the Will, than such organs as Amative-
ness and Adhesiveness, Firmness and Destructiveness, Acquisi-
tiveness and Love of Approbation, and if it is not meant to infer
that all the intellectual faculties have a special connection with
the Will, let those which have, and those which have not, be speci-
fied. Let not phrenologists suffer themselves to be lost in vague
generalities, nor seek to blind themselves to their own ignorance ;
but let them require definite and exact ideas. In the absence of
positive knowledge, conjectures are useful, when regarded as
mere proposed explanations which appear probable to the indi-
vidual mind of the originator, and which are laid before the public
to be received or rejected, as new facts may be brought to light
;
but mischievous, when assumed to be true, without anything
approaching to satisfactory evidence, and given out to the world
as the principles of a science.
Query. Does Individuality, (combining the impressions of the
particular perceptives), cognise physical qualities, as external
existences ; Internality, mental qualities, (Sensations) as internal
existences ;
and Eventuality, situated between the two, combine
and register, the successive affections (changes) which take place
in the two organs, with perceptions of Time and Place ; thus
forming by its connective links, an Event—and remembering, not
the affections of Individuality, and Internality, but the fact of
certain affections having been experienced ?
Man being unable to present the patterns of the ideas of his
Sensations, conceived by Internality, to his fellows, in the same
way as he can refer to the external objects, which are the patterns
of the ideas of Individuality, would have had, (with the exception
of Natural Language, and resorting to acts themselves), no
power to convey his emotions to his fellows, without a faculty
which made him feel, according to definite laws, a certain relation
of analogy, between the ideas of physical existences, mental sensa-
tions, together with their respective modes of change or action
—
the office* of the organ of Comparison, which originates all
metaphorical language, and thus bestows wings on the poet, and
imparts clearness to the voice of the teacher.
In the origin of language, comparisons would consist of the
employment of the signs of ideas, derived from physical sources,
to express those derived from mental ones ; but as language
became enlarged, the terms invented to denote internal feelings,
would become applied to the external world, and men would speak
of inanimate objects, mourning, rejoicing, loving, fearing, 8fc. as
well as of the mind soaring, the heart breaking, the soul being
torn and rent with conflicting emotions, &c. ; and the very close
* It is surely scarcely necessary to state, that real resemblance and differ-
ence, or the agreement and disagreement, between individual qualities of the
same species, is appreciated by the faculties cognising such species of qualities.
Comparison, in this sense, is in fact inseparable from, and included in, every
act of perception, performed subsequently to the first presentation of the
quality to the organ. If any one is able to conceive, that an individual may
possess an acute perception of colour, without being able to perceive the
difference between red and brown, or between different shades of the same
colour—or an acute perception of pitch, without being able to perceive the
difference between G sharp and F flat, or the resemblance between two G’s
sharp to each other, it is not to be doubted, but that he has attained that high
range of intellectual vision, which will enable him to comprehend the pro-
bability of loudness being appreciated by the organ of Comparison !!!
“ We are disposed to refer ideas of loudness to Comparison.”—Editor.
Phrenologicat Journal, New Series, No. 3, p. 275.
“ We have seen a few cases quite corroborative of the suggestion.”
—
Editor.
Phrenological Journal, New Series, No. 6, p. 194.
Mr. Watson’s opinion and conduct in this matter of loudness and com-
parison, partake so strongly of the ludicrous, as to be highly amusing, were
it not for the reflection, that the same excessive, and all but incredible obtuse-
ness of intellect, which suggested such a notion, and the same despicable
vanity, which, (preferring self to the interests of science) refused to examine
or retract it, render him in his present position, a serious stumbling block in
the path of phrenological science.
correspondence in the spirit of different languages, and the fact,
that literal translations of the metaphorical language of one
nation, are readily understood by another, more particularly if the
customs, habits, and natural history of the country are known,
shows the innatenesss of the disposition which produces it, and
the invariableness of the general laws by which it is governed
;
whatever slight modifications and idiosyncrasies may exist in
individuals.*
* Individuals with large Comparison sometimes feel very definite analogies
between ideas not generally felt to have any resemblance, as between colours
and sounds, &c. ;
and members of the same family often agree in the most
exact and astonishing manner, in these felt associations. The laws which
guide the faculty of Comparison in its operations form an interesting object of
inquiry, though one which want of space forbids my entering into on the
present occasion. It is certain, that it frequently classes things the most
intrinsically dissimilar together ;
and perhaps the most general principle that
directs it, is, capacity for producing similar mental affections—thus causes of
pleasurable surprise—of astonishment and terror—or of luxurious enjoyment,
may each class be compared inter se, though differing most widely in all other
respects.
Actions are either the movement of physical bodies in Space, (with various
rates of motion) thus assuming different relations—or the succession of mental
sensations in Time. Motion in Space, considered as swift or slow, produces
a greater or less change in the relation of physical existences in a given time ;
and the succession of ideas considered as a longer or shorter period intervenes
between each, produces a greater or less change, in the relations of mental
existences in a given time. Here we see the principle on which is founded
the felt analogy, between motion and distance in Space, and succession and
duration in Time ;
an analogy which furnishes a very numerous class of
comparisons, and words applied in common, to both species of perceptions.
It appears to me, that personification, whether of emotions—inanimate
objects—or actions, if strictly analysed, may be resolved into a species of
Comparison, and that it ought to be attributed to this faculty, and not to
Individuality as it has hitherto been. Personification is in fact generally
resorted to, as a preparatory step to the employment of a metaphor, and
perhaps ought to be viewed as the most essential part of it. Let any one
consider, for example, the following specimens of each of the kinds of per-
sonification alluded to, all three taken from a single page, in the writings of
that most imaginative of poets, Shelly.
“ And Sorrow, with her family of Sighs,
And Pleasure, blind with tears, led by the gleam
Of her own dying smile instead of eyes,
Came in slow pomp
“ Afar, the melancholy thunder moan’d,
Pale Ocean in unquiet slumber lay,
And the wild winds flew around, sobbing in their dismay.”
“ Grief made the young Spring wild, and she threw down
Her kindling buds as if she Autumn were,
Or they dead leaves.”
The organs we have hitherto examined, important as they
necessarily are, from informing us of the exact value of every
single idea, and thus furnishing the materials of all knowledge :
yet still consider objects and sensations, as isolated individuals, or
at most merely as associated in Time and Place, or -allied metaphori-
cally, and man abandoned to their guidance alone, might possess
a perfect knowledge of the events of the past, without drawing
one single inference with regard to the future. Man has not
however, been so abandoned he possesses in Causality, a faculty
which imbues him with a comprehensive conviction—that nothing
can begin to be of itself—that, therefore the character of every being
depends solely upon the character of the cause that called it into
being—that consequently, similar causes produce similar effects
—
and hence springs the conception of general laws, and the idea of
producing effects by artificial causes—the former the parent of
Philosophy—the latter of the Arts.*
* It is perhaps not a little extraordinary, that one of the most celebrated of
recent British metaphysicians, Dr. Thomas Brown, has attempted to resolve
our notions of cause and effect
,
into mere invariable antecedence, and sequence.
Cause, he observes, is “ only another name for the immediate invariable
antecedent of any event and he defines power to be “ immediate invariable
antecedence.” It is not, however, invariableness of antecedence and
sequence, but necessariness which is at the basis of our idea of causation ;
and I presume most will agree, that the words invariableness and neces-*-
sariness, are the representatives in their minds of two essentially distinct ideas ;
if not, and there be persons who differ on this point, discussion between
them becomes a nullity, since those only who attach similar ideas to similar
signs, can mutually interchange them. If we recur to ultimate causes, we
must recur to the Volition of the Deity for the existence of those primary
and probably simple laws, which govern the universe ;
a knowledge of the
least of which, may never be arrived at by a being so short-sighted as man ;
but these primary laws being once instituted by Volition, subordinate ones
flow from them, by virtue of instituted relations, and these subordinate ones
become, to all intents and purposes, causes for us, furnishing the relation—the
adaptation—the point of contact—by means of which, things operate on each
other, and it has been the intuitive conviction of the necessary existence of
such causes, (deriving the existence of their power from invariable laws,)
furnished by Causality, together with the intense curiosity to discover them,
which have given birth to the sciences.
Power may be defined to be, an attribute, or capacity, which certain
bodies possess, of effecting an event, or chanye, in something else, by virtue
of a law of Nature, and so far is immediate invariable antecedence from being
equivalent to our idea of it, that it is possible to conceive, (and this is quite suffi-
cient for the argument) one event immediately and invariably succeeding another
for countless ages, without regarding the two, as having the relation of cause
and effect to each other ;
namely, by supposing the subsequent one, produced
on each occasion, by a direct act of Volition on the part of the Deity ;
whilst
54
From observation, I have come to the conclusion, that a fine
(levelopement of the whole of the middle part of the forehead and
Causalty, (or at any rate the inner portion of it,) may exist,
accompanied with the highest powers of discrimination, and a
decided tendency to attend to the connections of Cause and
Effect, with a great deficiency for comprehending at one general
view the several relations of the different propositions in a long
argumentative sentence.
In the longest train of direct reasoning, from inference to
inference, the result is of course always virtually included in the
first proposition, and many, who, from considering a proposition,
can intuitively perceive a result dependent on it, which the gene-
rality would never discover, unless led to it step by step, are
yet slower than these latter, in connecting the relation of the
separate steps of a train of reasoning with each other, and with
the conclusion.
From these considerations I am induced to conjecture, that
a portion of brain at the upper and outer part of the forehead,
performs an important part in logical operations, probably that
of enabling the mind to contemplate many ideas, and their mutual
relations at one view ; a capacity which certainly, as far as my
observation extends, bears no relation in individuals, to their
ability for accurately discriminating the precise value of the
separate ideas, on the relations of which, an argument is built
up.* In short, a faculty appears to me necessary, the office
of which, in reasoning, may be compared to that of the organ
on the other hand, if we suppose the Deity to have just instituted a new law
of Nature, which has established a necessary relation between two events,
by virtue of which, one, must invariably succeed the other, as long as this law
of Nature remains in force : we should regard the former, as the cause, and
the latter, the effect, the first time of their occurence. There is then in our
idea of power, a notion, that according to the existing constitution of Nature,
something is endowed with an inherent capacity of producing an effect,
without the assistance, or intervention, of any other thing. In labouring to
prove, that no being, or entity, interposes between a cause, and its effect, Dr.
Brown is surely fighting with a shadow.
* In a syllogism three relations have to be suspended before the mind, and
I have seen females, by no means deficient in general intellectual acuteness,
scarcely capable of rapidly comprehending one.
of Number in calculating, and should such a faculty exist, it pro-
bably contributes to give a talent for wit.
I regard the outline of Causality, as very correctly delineated
on the Edinburgh bust. Many heads, however, in which the
organ is not developed in this form, present two little round
prominences about the position occupied by the middle and outer
portion of the organ, when developed as marked on the bust. In
such cases, is it a portion of the convolution of Causality, which is
prominent, or is this convolution narrowed in breadth, and included
between the prominence and Comparison ? In some individuals
with heads so organised, I fancy myself to have detected a pecu-
liar tendency to search for, and discern unity in every thing—to
comprehend individuals in classes—and to reduce particular to
general laws—such a tendency, in short, as might be supposed
to have given so determinate a direction to the labours of
anatomists, of the school of Dumeril, and Geoffroy, Saint-Hilaire.
I should however, be sorry to draw any inference, from the
limited and imperfect observations I have yet made on this point
;
and merely allude to it, for the purpose of inducing other phreno-
logists to direct their attention to the subject. A fact also
worthy of observation is, that in cases of partial imbecility, the
horizontal and perpendicular lines of the forehead are seldom,
if ever, well arched, whilst the upper and outer portions are
often particularly prominent. Probably a long period will elapse,
before we shall know enough of the causes which influence the
developement of the brain, and the intensity of its action, to be
able to account for this phenomenon.
In considering the lamentably little progress which has been
made of late years in phrenology, it naturally becomes a subject
for enquiry, whether this want of progression is to be attributed
to there being little left behind to be discovered, or to some
defect in the ability or industry of the cultivators of the science,
and the methods they have adopted for its extension. I believe
that the former supposition, cannot be for a moment, entertained,
by any one who takes an enlarged and comprehensive view of
the subject ;
and individually, I do not hesitate to express a very
decided opinion, that the chief cause of a stationariness, which
all must regret, is to be traced to the false, and exaggerated
notions entertained and promulgated by phrenologists, with
regard to the present state of perfection of their science, and more
especially, to the absurd, and insane practice, of appropriating
the whole surface of the head to the organs at present discovered,
by stretching one into the other, not only without a shadow of
evidence, but absolutely in defiance of the outline presented by
Nature, in those very cases of extraordinary developement, which
led to the discovery of the functions of the organs. A connection,
for example was discovered, between the tendency to Fight, and
a circular elevation, just behind each ear, and also between the
fondness for children, and two rounded prominences, just above
the occipital spine—a space of about two inches, intervened
between the extreme edges of these separate organs ; and a
maxim often stated by phrenologists is, that an organ, when
prominently developed, occupies a larger extent of surface than
usually belongs to it, yet in delineating these two organs on the
bust, instead of slightly contracting their limits, in conformity
with the above rule, with a consummate folly unparalleled in
the annals of any other science, they were extended till they met,
in order that philosophers might see no unsightly chasms and
vacancies, in the heads of the little images with which they
amused themselves. It is really difficult to treat of a proceeding,
so preposterous, and so inimical to the progress of knowledge,
with common patience ; the aspiration for completeness or per-
fection which has prompted it, may be a very laudable feeling
in itself, but when is so altogether outruns discretion, as to
have recourse to means so absolutely suicidal of its own objects,
it becomes a curse, to the science about which it employs itself.
I regard the present arrangement of the organs, not only as
not warranted by observation, and opposed to the analogy to be
drawn from their respective sizes, but also at variance wT
ith what
/ believe to be the fact, viz., that many more than are now
•>/
recognised, are required to account for the varieties of mental
character exhibited by mankind, and considering the extent to
which the practice of extending them has been carried, I think
there is every reason to believe, that if they were reduced within
proper limits, full one-fourth part of the surface of the head
would be unappropriated, and were this accomplished, phreno-
logists having their attention attracted by the vacant spaces,
would be much more likely to discover the functions connected
with them, than at present ;
the first step to knowledge, is, to
be sensible of the extend of our ignorance.
Phrenology must be perfected by individualising each
CONVOLUTION OF THE BRAIN, AND ATTACHING TO IT ITS AP-
PROPRIATE organ or organs ; a result which never can be
expected to be effected, as long as phrenologists content them-
selves with examining the exterior of the head ;
and still less by
inspecting casts taken with the hair on. Let phrenologists
reflect on the fact, that the extent of the surfaces of the organs
do not bear any invariable proportion to each other—that an
organ, the developement of which, is large, is often very slightly
more prominent than its neighbour, which may be only moderate
—the large size of the one, being principally shown by its surface
being more expanded than usual—and the moderate size of the
other, by its being more than usually contracted ; let them
consider, that in such cases in order correctly to estimate the
developement of the organs, it is necessary narrowly to notice
the degree of convexity of their surfaces, and the situation of
the point at which the greatest concentration of brain takes
place, and vice versd—and they will be convinced, that except
for demonstrating the intellectual faculties, and the relative
developement of the different regions of the head, casts taken
with the hair on, are next to worthless. Notwithstanding the
parade phrenologists make of the number of specimens contained
in their museums, from the unsatisfactory and futile practice
of taking casts with the hair on, together with the meagre
details possessed of the conduct of the individuals, a very large
proportion of the contents of existing phrenological collections,
H
58
are in reality little better than rubbish, and valuable only in
the eyes of individuals of heated imaginations. One hundred
casts of the brains and skulls of such individuals as Bentham,
Napoleon, Shelly, Goethe, Fichte, or Schelling, whose names would
constitute a sufficient description of their characters, would
afford more materials for advancing the progress of phrenology,
than all the present phrenological museums united, the skulls
and casts of skulls they contain excepted.
Mental Organ.
—
A portion of cerebral matter, originating a
sensation in common—a bundle of cerebral fibres, which jointly
manifest a distinct species of mentation.
SPECULATIVE SYNOPSIS OF MENTATION.
AFFECTIVE.
Amativeness
Love of Life
Selfishness
Gustativeness
Impulse to Seize
Destroy
Contend
Hoard
Conceal (
a)
Attachment for Partner
Children
Friends
Residence
Customary Impres-
sions
Love of Approbation
Love of Distinction
Self Esteem
Love of Liberty
Love of Power ( b
)
Firmness
INTELLECTUAL.
Organ and Nerves of Temperature
Tangibility
Resistance
Odour
Taste
—— Hearing
———Sight
Perception of Intensity of Sound
Articulation
Timbre
Pitch
Natural Language, or
Expression of Sounds
Intensity of Light (c)
Colour
Inclination of Right
Lines
Curves of Curved Lines
Natural Language, or
Expression of Forms (d)
Distance
59
Conscientiousness
Disposition to anticipate Misfortune,
to brood on the Melancholy and
Gloomy
Love of Security, Certainty—Delibe-
rativeness
Love of Pleasure, producing tendency
to present enjoyment
Disposition to regard the Past
Future.
Hope
Marvellousness
Veneration
Benevolence
Constructiveness
Love of Completeness, producing with
good Intellect, Love of Knowledge
Ideality
Creativeness
Imitativeness
Sense of the Incongruous
Sense of the Direction taken by th«
Body during Locomotion (e)
Rate of Motion
Conception of Time
Space
Order
Number
Individuality
Eventuality
Comparison
Causality
Internality
NOTES.
(a) I think it may be questioned, whether the impulse to con-
ceal, is the only element requisite to form a cunning, or would-
be-cunning character. Some manifest an intense inquisitiveness,
together with a very determinate disposition and capacity, to pry
into the motives of others ;
and I doubt whether observation does
not show, that this trait of character is not manifested exactly in
proportion to the tendency to conceal ; and also, whether the
addition of intellect to the latter, is sufficient to account for it.
( b)
Is Power, which is so manifestly pursued by mankind,
sought solely as a means of distinction, or for the sake of the
command which it gives over the comforts and luxuries of life ?
I am inclined to answer this question in the negative, and believe
a love of power per se, to be discernible.
(c) All our knowledge of Form which we obtain (through
60
sight) without contemplating objects in profile, is obtained
through the instrumentality of this faculty. A deficiency of it
may very possibly have contributed to Gall’s very weak memory
of persons, though it can scarcely be doubted, but that he also pos-
sessed little power of recognising features seen in profile ;
or so
acute an observer, could not have failed to have noticed, and
drawn inferences from such a distinction. Vimont reproaches
Gall, for employing so exclusively outlines in his delineations,
to the exclusion of shaded plates ;
but it is highly probable that
the latter, were unappreciable by his organisation. I have met
with persons to whom such plates conveyed little or no informa-
tion, and who have been at a loss to imagine how the develope-
ment of organs could be represented in them ;
and who, even after
this has been pointed out to them, have never been able to see
the planes and convexities, but have merely learnt to regard the
light shades as an indication of “prominent,” and the dark, of
“ depressed,” obtaining much the same ideas from a shaded drawing,
as they would from an unshaded outline, with these words
imprinted on different portions of its superficies. Such persons
never regard shaded plates as satisfactory, and if not sufficiently
imbued with a conviction of the allowance which must be made
for the idiosyncrasies of individuals, to be too wise to require from
others, an agreement in mental perceptions with themselves,
would be disposed to retort Vimont’s censure of Gall, upon its
author; and for an opposite cause. I have observed a very full
developement of the portion of the brain at present assigned to
Weight, more particularly the lower part of it, in many living artists,
and in many portraits of painters ; especially those of the Flemish
school ;
and a defective developement of this part, in one or two
cases of defective perception of light and shade. Reasoning from
analogy on its function, I should certainly never have conjectured,
that the sense of Weight occupied its present locality; I fully
however subscribe to the doctrine, ‘
that one fact is more decisive
than one thousand speculative opinions,’ and mine in this case,
may probably be the result of ignorance. A delicate sense of
resistance, seems also essential to artists ; so that perhaps some
6\
will regard my observations on painters, as confirmative of the
correctness of the present locality assigned to Weight.
(d) I omit to speak of Form as a primitive faculty, because a
Form may consist of right lines ; and I have convinced myself, by
repeated observations, that a great talent for portrait painting and
sculpture may exist, with a very deficient perception of the shape
of spaces enclosed by right lines.
There seems no difficulty in conceiving that a most acute
perception of Form may exist, without an equal capacity for
appreciating the expression resulting from certain combinations
of Form ; this appears a higher faculty, a perception of relation.
A bad profile may be infinitely less like an individual than a good
caricature, though having a much closer approximation in actual
form. In short, I believe expression of Forms (constituting the
talent for physiognomy) must be regarded as a perception alto-
gether sui generis, and I am not aware that anything approaching
to satisfactory argument or evidence , has ever been adduced in
support of a contrary opinion. It certainly will be a very extra-
ordinary fact, if it should prove, that the individual who first
observed a relation between particular forms of the head, and par-
ticular mental capacities, was excessively deficient in the power of
discriminating Form ;
and this must be admitted to be the case,
if it be once decided, that the appreciation of the expression of the
countenance, and of Form generally, are identical perceptions.
(e) The perception of the Inclination of right lines, (appreciating
angles and triangles) —Distance — and Sense of the direction
taken by the body during locomotion—with a general tendency
to observe the relations of objects in space—seem to be the
elements which go to form the complex capacity, attributed to the
organ of Locality. Few intellectual tendencies, are more fre-
quently determinately exhibited, than a disposition to observe the
relative position of objects. Ferguson, when a farmer’s boy, lying
on his back in the fields, and taking the position of the stars by
means of sliding glass beads on threads, is a striking and inter-
esting example of its activity. In a case of very unusual
developement of the whole mass of brain in the region of
62
Locality, I heard the individual humourously observe, that if the
stars were blotted out from the sky, and he could reach, he
would undertake to mark out the correct situations of all the
principal ones. Many persons are so defectively endowed with
the ‘
sense of the Direction of the line described by the body,
during locomotion,’ as to be almost totally unconscious of any
change in the direction of their route, without it describes an
angle, or very abrupt curve ; and may be led round a circle of
two or three miles diameter, without discovering but that they are
progressing in the direction in which they first set out, till they
reach their journey’s end. Having seen several cases in which
the lower part of the organ of Locality, was apparently well
developed, whilst the ‘
sense of the direction taken by the body
during locomotion,’ was very defectively possessed ; I regard it as
probable that this capacity, is seated in the upper portion of the
organ.
To have local memory, in the highest state of perfection,
comprehending the power of recollecting bushes, and other
individual objects, when not isolated, a good endowment of the
organ which receives the impressions of the optic nerve, and of
Individuality, are, it may be presumed, also required.
Probably, it is by means of the ‘
sense of direction taken by the
body during locomotion,’ that animals are enabled to perform such
astonishing feats, with regard to returning to their homes, from a
great distance. Men possess this power in very different degrees ;
but all perceive the direction of motion when rapid, and from the
law of motion, that moving bodies have a tendency to continue
moving in right lines, such a capacity is indispensable for their
safety. We have only then to suppose, this capacity possessed
to a much greater extent, by animals, to account for their extraor-
dinary talent just referred to. A sense of the direction of the line
described by the body during locomotion—a sense of the rate of
Motion, and of the elapse of Time, are all that are required, to give
an animal the most exact notion, both of the relative position, and
distance, of any two places, between which he may be conveyed ;
and when we reflect that the organ of Time performs its duty,
63
not only during the most absorbing attention to other ideas, but
even in some individuals during sleep, such a supposition will
perhaps appear less improbable. It seems more consistent with
philosophy, to attempt to explain the phenomenon by analogy, and
to refer it to a faculty possessed in common by man and animals,
though differing greatly in degree, than to account for it by
attributing to animals, a power differing in kind, from any with
which man is endowed—such as a “ sense of the direction of the
poles of the earth, by the passage of currents of the electric fluid,”
or any other conception adequate to solve the enigma. The sup-
position that there can be any gradual variation in quality, in the
air of different districts, sufficiently permanent and appreciable, by
the olfactory organs of animals, to enable them to travel long
distances by its guidance, appears an explanation highly im-
probable.
T. S. PRIDEAUX.
Ryde, March, 1840.
LAST OF THE REJECTED ADDRESSES, Vel
'
LUCUBRATIONS ’
SENT
TO THE JOURNAL, NOV. 1838.
Remarks on “ Facts in contradiction to Mr. Hytch’s* Views on
the Function of the Organ marked ‘ ?’ ”
Mr. Combe observes, “ The reverence for antiquities and the
‘
love of the past,’ have already been referred, on good grounds,
to Veneration, and Mr. Hytch does not mention the state of
that organ in his cases.” Mr. Combe does, however mention
the size of the organ in the examples he cites, and singularly
enough, in his anxiety to attach the feeling of the sublime, to
the portion of the brain marked *?’, he appears to overlook
the fact, that the conclusion to be drawn from two of the three
cases he refers to, is opposed to the opinion given immediately
* Should not this article have been headed, “ Facts in contradiction to
Mr. Hytch’s observations in support of J. K.’s views, on the function of the
organ marked 4
?
’ ”—See Journal, No. IV., New Series, p. 412.
64
before, as to the validity of the gronnds for referring “ love of
the past,” to Veneration. " In Bath,” says Mr. Combe, “ I met
Dr. , who has large Veneration, and the organ '
?
’
large,
with deficient Cautiousness, and moderate Ideality. He told
me that he had little pleasure in the beautiful, but is entranced
by the sublime. He is very strongly religious, but I heard
nothing of any distinguishing love of the past. Yesterday, I
met Dr. P., in whom Ideality is rather small, the organ ‘
?
’
large, and Cautiousness not so large. He said, that he was
deeply affected by the sublime, and not strongly by the beautiful.
Veneration was well developed, and he did not give any indications,
in a long conversation, of a mind that dwelt on the past, hut the
reverse
Considering the great latitude allowed by Mr. Combe, to the
function of an individual faculty, as evinced in his assigning
the “ love of place,” and the “ desire and capacity for concen-
trating intellect, and feeling,” to one organ, I am not surprised
at his supposing the “ love of the past,” to be an appendage
of the organ of Veneration. Such an opinion however, seems
to me quite at variance with the special nature of the individual
powers, a primary principle of phrenology ; and in analysing
mental manifestations metaphysically, there is scarcely a feeling,
the independent existence of which, appears to me more clearly
demonstrated, than that of the “ tendency to dwell on the past.”
As however, the conclusions of individuals are, and ought
to be, regarded as most unsatisfactory evidence for others, let
us examine for a moment the function of the organ of Venera-
tion, supposing Mr. Combe’s views to be correct. Veneration
then, must be defined to be, “ an organ, originating a disposition
to Venerate, without directing this disposition to any particular
object, except in one single instance, and this single instance
of exception, is, that it gives the Venerative tendency, a deter-
minate direction towards the past.” Now I think it will hardly
be necessary to peruse this definition a second time, to perceive
that such a heterogeneous function, is quite inadmissible as the
office of a primitive faculty. Facts, however, must decide the
65
question at issue, and Nature must be appealed to as the umpire,
and I do not hesitate to say, that all except those, who “ trouvent
trop difficile 1’
abnegation de leurs opinions, et de leur savoir
puise dans 1’ instruction anterieure, pour se croire oblige de les
soumettre a une experience, mille, et mille fois repetee,” may
readily convince themselves, that a powerful “ tendency to dwell
on the past,” is often coexistent with a small organ of Veneration,
and vice versd.
With regard to the specific nature of the mental faculty in
question, I was at one time disposed to think, that it partook
decidedly of a poetic character, but from more extensive obser-
vations, particularly on individuals deficient in Ideality, and of
mediocre intellect, I am inclined to believe, that its special
function is limited to producing the “ tendency to recur to, and
dwell upon, the past, accompanied with an emotion of a pecu-
liar character, which of course must be felt, to be understood.
Acting however in combination with the “ sense of the beautiful,”
and the “disposition to the marvellous,” I conceive the “love
of the past” to be, if not a necessary ingredient in the poetic
talent, at least a most ornamental addition to it. If we suppose
a poet indulging his favourite penchant on the site of a ruined
castle by moonlight, after the first bursts of impassioned feeling
called forth, by the beauty of the scene, have been given vent
to, and the good and evil genii, with which his fancy has peopled
the locality, severally apostrophised, we naturally expect to hear
him recur to those by-gone ages, when the now deserted ruin
which silently reposes in the moonlight before him, was the
abode of gentle knights, and courtly dames, and when the deep
stillness which now pervades its precincts, was broken by the
measured tread of the warder, or the midnight revels of the
stalwart baron, and his noisy retainers. Indeed, I believe it
will be found, that many of the most admired passages of our
best poets, have been penned ui\der the joint influence, of this
feeling and Ideality: The pages of Ossian teem with its mani-
festations ; its activity is strikingly displayed in Scott, and Byron
thus distinctly recognises its existence.
i
(5 ()
“Hues which hare words, and speak to ye of heaven,
Float o’er this vast and wondrous monument,*
And shadow forth its glory. There is given
Unto the things of earth, which time hath bent,
A spirit’s feeling, and when he hath leant
His hand, but broke his scythe, there is a power
And magic in the ruined battlement,
For which the palace of the present hour
Must yield its pomp, and wait till ages are Us dower.”
With regard to the seat of the feeling, which “ disposes to
dwell upon the past,” the evidence I have yet been able to obtain,
is far from sufficiently conclusive, to enable me to speak with
decision. I am, however, inclined to refer it to the portion of
brain before, and above, the organ marked ‘
? ’t
* The Coliseum.
f With reference to Mr. Combe’s views on the function of the portion of
the brain marked “ ?,
” I may here observe, that I have now before me a cast
of the head of a gentleman, which I took in consequence of the unusual
developement of this organ, which it presents. Not only is there a decided
protuberance at the part, but the head is considerably wider there, than
at Cautiousness—a rather unusual circumstance. I am intimately acquainted
with this individual, and during a long intimacy with him, have never heard
him drop a single expression, which would induce me to suppose that he
was much affected by the sublime, but quite the reverse. His Veneration
is not by any means large, and I believe him to possess less than an average
endowment of the feeling ; he, however, possesses a more than ordinary
disposition “ to dwell on the past.” I have heard him say, that he never passes
a day, without looking back on the events of his past life ;
and he has
observed to me that he has often noticed, that whilst he was particularly
fond of recurring to, and conversing on, the incidents of his early days, some
amongst his friends scarcely ever adverted to the subject. This gentleman’s
perceptive organs are large, except Eventuality, which with Ideality, Mar-
vellousness, and the reflective organs, are but smally developed. If he has
any predilection for the dreary, and the lonely, I believe it is only when
they are associated with the past, as I never heard him express any partiality
for them, beyond once observing, that it would afford him great pleasure
to explore the subterraneous passages of an old castle, that had not been
opened for ages. His locality is very large. I have shown him the extracts
from Mr. Combe’s letter, and the accompanying remarks, and questioned
him as to his feelings, and in reply he informs me that he takes little or no
delight in the wild, solemn, vast, or dreary, which I fully believe to be the
case. Notwithstanding the love of the past is quite a feature in this gentle-
man’s character, yet I very much^ doubt whether the feeling is manifested
by him, with an energy proportionata. to the unusual developement his head
presents anterior to Cautiousness. [I have recently been led to adopt some
novel views with regard to the function of this portion of the brain, and
am at present endeavouring to collect facts on the subject, and I shall be
much obliged to any phrenologist who will have the courtesy to inform me,
through the medium of the journal, of Sheridan’s developement at this spot.]
Whilst reporting cases, I will take the opportunity of observing, that I
<>7
I will conclude these remarks by observing, that in considering
the evidence in favour of the existence of a primitive faculty in
am acquainted with a gentleman whose head presents a decided hollow at
Veneration, and who manifests a corresponding deprivation of the feeling,
but who nevertheless certainly displays a more than average predilection for
the past, and objects of antiquity. He is a great admirer of Ossian, and
acknowledges that his partiality for this author is much increased, by the
remote period in which the poems are supposed to have been written, and
the frequent allusions to past time they contain. This individual possesses
a good developement of the reflective organs, Eventuality, and Ideality, with
average “ ?,
” and moderate Marvellousness. The part of the head before,
and above “ ?,” is fully developed in both these gentlemen, but does not
present a defined protuberance in either. A work which has lately appeared,
entitled “ Letters from Ireland, by Charlotte Elizabeth,”* affords evident marks
of excessive activity of the “ love of the past,” combined with Veneration,
in its authoress, and should any phrenologist be on terms of intimacy with
this lady, I would invite his attention to her cerebral conformation.
With respect to Mr. Combe’s views on the beautiful and the sublime, I
take this opportunity of remarking, that I have never yet met with a case
in which great emotion was excited by the sublime, when the develope-
ment of Ideality was defective ; neither reasoning a priori, can I see any
good cause for believing that the rapturous emotions, occasioned by the
beautiful, and the rapturous, but more thrilling sensations called forth by
the sublime, are not the offspring of one, and the same faculty. There can
be no doubt but that idiosyncracies of the mental faculties exist, or in other
words, that the constitutions of the primitive organs are modified in in-
dividuals ;
and I conceive that the supposition of congenital differences,
together with the mutual influence of the faculties, is quite sufficient to
account for the Ideality of one individual being more affected by the sublime,
and that of another by the beautiful. A definite relation exists between
external objects and the primitive faculties, and as the faculty of Configura-
tion (or sense of persons) is charmed in one man, by a female figure, of an
outline so softened as to partake of a languid character, and in another by a
form more clearly defined, and an expression at once vivacious, and com-
manding ; so I conceive that the Ideality of one individual may reap delight
from the contemplation of a placid lake, and the grateful curves of the
weeping willows which shade its margin ;
whilst that of another will derive
more gratification, from the contemplation of a mountain torrent, and the
rugged outline of the lightning scathed oak, which overhangs its waters.
* [A few days since meeting, in a bookseller’s shop, with a work entitled
“ Glimpses of the Past,.” I was agreeably surprised to find the name of
Charlotte Elizabeth on the title page, and opening the volume at random,
my eye alighted on the following passage, “ When my rambles bring me
suddenly within view of some time-worn edifice—from which no part of
England is altogether free—the sensations excited are indescribably strong.
A chord is touched, that seems to awake an echo from every little cell of slum-
bering memory ;
and I am carried back to times and scenes, thoughts and feel-
ings, wherein it is hard to say whether the painful or the pleasurable emotion
predominates.” The following sentence occurs in the first page, ‘‘We walk
as along a vista, where the onward prospect is wrapped in impenetrable dark-
ness : but what we have already trod lies open, under a broad beam, inviting
retrospection : and, to me at least, every ensuing stage of the progress
imparts an aspect of more mellowed loveliness to that which lies in the
distance.” T. S. Prideaux, March, 1840.]
68
the human mind, which disposes man to “ dwell on the past,
the fact, that there are several songs and ballads, as “ The Light
of other days,” “ Auld Lang Syne,” &c., addressed almost ex-
clusively to such a feeling, must not be lost sight of. I am
disposed to attach considerable importance to it.
T. S. PRIDEAUX.
November 18, 1838 .
AN EXTRACT FROM AN UNPUBLISHED ESSAY ON THE FUNCTIONS
OF THE EXTERNAL SENSES.
Single Consciousness.—Many philosophers have occupied
themselves in investigating this phenomenon, and various theories
have been offered in its explanation. Some think that single
consciousness is a power acquired by the sense of touch ;
but the
capacity of every sense, for performing its function, depends upon
the perfection of its individual organisation ;
and, in animals,
whose eyes are perfect at birth, vision is also perfect, and requires
no previous rectification, from the sense of touch, to see objects
single. Moreover if single consciousness depended upon know-
ledge acquired by the sense of touch, why, in some positions, do
we see an object double, with which we are previously acquainted,
and which we know to be single ;
whilst in other positions, an
object, seen for the first time, and of which we have no previous
knowledge, is seen single. Sometimes also, in fungoid affections,
of the orbit, objects are seen double, notwithstanding all previous
experience to the contrary, plainly showing that, single con-
sciousness, does not depend upon any acquired knowledge of the
sense of touch.
Mr. Combe explains single consciousness, by observing, that
“ the perceptions of the mind, being always directed to the objects
which make the impressions, and not to the instruments, by
means of which they are experienced ;
the mental affection par-
takes of the unity of the object exciting it, and not of the
duplicity of the organs, through which the impression is trans-
mitted.” The mental affections however, depend solely upon the
69
nature of the impressions transmitted from objects by the organs,
and not at all upon the nature of the objects themselves, and the
question to be decided is, “ what is the cause of double organs
transmitting only a single impression.” Did we possess, pre-
viously to examining an object with our senses, an intuitive
knowledge of its unity, this explanation might deserve to be
taken into consideration, but as no such knowledge exists, it is
evidently inadmissible. It presupposes in fact, the knowledge
resulting from an effect, as an explanation of the cause, of the
nature of the effect produced.
Dr. Gall explained single consciousness, by supposing that only
one organ of a sense is active at the same time. “ He distin-
guishes two states of activity in organs of the senses, calling one
active, the other passive. The functions are passive, if performed
independently of the will ;
the eye for instance, necessarily
perceives the light which falls upon it, and the ear, the vibrations
propogated to it. Now we perceive passively with both organs,
says he ; we see with both eyes, hear with both ears, but the
active state is confined to one organ, and commonly to the strong-
est. We see with both eyes at the same time, but we look with
one only ; we hear with both ears, but we listen only with one :
we feel with both hands, we touch with but one, &c.”
Strictly speaking, however, the external senses are always
passive, and merely transmit the impressions they receive ;
the
difference between what Dr. Gail terms their active and passive
state, is, that in the former, the mind is attending to their im-
pressions, and in the latter, not. When defined with precision,
then. Dr. Gall’s explanation of single consciousness amounts to
this, that the mind only attends to the impression of one of the
organs of a sense at the same time. Admitting, for the sake of
argument, this proposition to be correct, as an explanation of
single consciousness, it is far from satisfactory, since it does not
at all account for the single consciousness of passive impressions.
Besides, it has already* been shown, that single consciousness
is by no means invariably concomitant with attention, and also
* This alludes to a previous portion of the essay, which is omitted from
not being intelligible, without the diagram which accompanies it.
70
that it i3 partly dependent upon physical causes, since, if we look
at an object, we see nearer and more distinct objects double, but
with this remarkable difference, that the right hand image, of the
object beyond the point for which the eyes are adjusted, is seen
with the right eye, and the left, with the left, whilst the right
hand image of the nearer object, is seen with the left eye, and the
left with the right.
Dr. Spurzheim does not consider Dr. Gall’s explanation of
single consciousness satisfactory, yet joins with him in believing
that the mind only attends to the impressions of a single organ of
a sense at the same tihie, an opinion he supports in conjunction
with Dr. Gall, by the following experiment :
—
“ In placing a pencil, or any other thin body, between us and
a light, keeping both eyes open, and throwing the axis of vision,
the stick, and the light, into a right line, did we look with both
eyes, the pencil should occupy the diagonal, and its shadow fall
on the nose. But this always falls on one eye, on that which the
person who makes the experiment ordinarily uses, in looking with
attention. If the pencil be kept in the same position, and the eye
not employed in looking be shut, the relative direction of the
objects will seem to remain the same ; but if he shut the eye with
which he looked, it will be altered, and the pencil will appear
removed far from its former place.”
In this experiment, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim seem to overlook
the fact, that each eye has its separate axis of vision, which is a
right line from it to the object inspected, and since the rays of light
pass only in right lines, whether we look with one eye, or with
both, it is equally impossible, that the shadow of any body, placed
on the axis of either eye, can fall on the nose. When the eyes
are directed to the light, the light is seen single, and the pencil
double ;
and whichever eye is closed, the change which takes
place in the apparent relative position, of the three images, is the
same. If the right eye be closed, the image of the pencil, seen
by the right eye vanishes ;
and the light, and the image of the
pencil seen by the left eye, remain stationary ; and if the left eye be
closed, the image of the pencil seen by the left eye vanishes, and
the light, and the image of the pencil, seen by the right eye, remain
71
stationary. In the experiment before us, did we look with only one
eye, upon the pencil being placed in the axis of the eye employed
in looking, the light ought to appear entirely obscured behind it
;
and if, on the contrary, the pencil be placed in the axis of the eye
not employed in looking, the light ought to appear with undimin-
ished brightness, whereas neither of these conditions ever takes
place, for whichever axis the pencil is placed in, the result is
precisely the same, we are sensible of the interposition of a body,
between us and the light, and sensible at the same time of being
able to see the light behind it ;
indeed if a book be substituted for
the light, we can read the print, behind both images of the pencil
with equal facility, which is, I think, a strong proof that we
look with both eyes.
“ Let any one” continues Dr. Spurzheim, “ look at a point but
a little way distant, both eyes will seem directed towards it ;
let
him then shut his eyes alternately. If he close the one with
which he did not look, the other remains motionless ; but if he
shut that with which he looked, the other turns immediately a
little inwards, in order to fix the point.
I have tried this experiment many times, but not with the same
result. If the eye which is shut, be not closed very gently, the
other is apt to give a slight convulsive start, but if the eye be
closed very carefully, or a bit of card placed between it and the
point looked at, the other remains stationary.
Dr. Spurzheim observes moreover, that “ the eyes of many
animals, are placed laterally, and cannot both be directed at once
to the same object,” and concludes by remarking that, “ the
gestures of man and animals prove, that they look with one eye,
and listen with one ear, for they direct one eye or one ear, towards
the object to be seen or heard.”
Although in many animals, the eyes are undoubtedly placed in
such a position as to preclude their both being at once directed to
the same object, yet, I think, this fact by no means proves, that
those animals whose eyes are differently situated, and who con-
stantly turn both to the same object, look only with one eye. In
man, and almost all large animals, the motions of the eyes are
uniform, and they are both invariably directed towards the same
72
point, a fact which is I think almost conclusive in proving, that
they are both simultaneously employed in looking. Since then,
man directs both eyes to the object to be seen, his gestures must
be admitted to be in favour of his looking with both.
With regard to hearing, it must be observed, that there is an
essential difference between this sense .and sight. To effect
distinct vision, it is absolutely necessary that the eye should be
directed to the object inspected ;
hence, could it be shown, that
only one eye was turned towards this point, such a fact would be
at once decisive, and prove that we only looked with one eye
;
but since, in order to hear di-tinctly, there is no necessity for the
ear to be directed towards the object from which the sound is
emitted, it cannot be inferred, that because both ears are not
turned in the same direction, that we listen only with one. I
admit, that faint sounds could be heard rather more plainly if
both ears were turned towards the direction in which the impres-
sions reached us ;
and if man possessed this power, and never
made use of it, then, there would be some ground for supposing
that he listened with only one ear, but since, he is not able to
turn both ears in the same direction, no such inference can be
drawn.
In opposition to the doctrine, that the mind only attends to the
impressions of a single organ of a sense at the same time, and in
support of the opinion that we look with both eyes, and listen
with both ears, &c., it may be observed, that since we are scarcely
conscious of passive impressions ;
were only one organ of a sense
employed at the same time, we ought to be able to see as well
with one eye, and hear as well with one ear, as with both, whereas,
most undoubtedly, we can see much better with both eyes, and
hear, beyond all comparison, better with both ears than with one,
a fact which appears to me an unanswerable argument in favour
of the opinion that both organs of the senses are simultaneously
employed.
April, 1837. T. S. PRIDEAUX.
E. Hartnall, Printer, 12, Victoria Arcade, Ryde.
