{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__a_barrister___thoughts_on_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Thoughts On Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
THOUGHTS
ON
PHRENOLOGY:
OR,
PHRENOLOGY TESTED BY REASON AND REVELATION.
B Y A B A R R IS T E R
OF TBS MIDDLE TEMPLE.
*
\y
“ He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and
shame unto him/* Proverbs.
•• Know what yon are speaking of, and then contemn it/*
“ The proper stndy of mankind is man/* Pope.
LO N D O N :
JAMES NISBET AND CO. BERNERS STREET.
MDCCCXLI.
C O N T E N T S .
Page
Introduction......................................................................... 7
CHAPTER I.
Phrenology or a Plurality of Cerebral Organs—a legiti­
mate deduction from correctreasoning.................... 9
CHAPTER II.
An endeavour to prove the foregoing doctrine.—The
Brain the seat of the Mind,—embodied in an argu­
ment answering the objection to Phrenology, on the
ground of Materialism............................................. 15
CHAPTER III.
The Subdivision of the Brain into a Plurality of Organs—
the doctrine supported by severalarguments............ 26
CHAPTER IV.
The Subdivision of the Brain into a Plurality of Organs—
the doctrine supported by facts, and the mapping
out of the Brain into Organs practicable.................. 55
17 CONTENTS.
CHAPTER V.
Page
Various objections answered............................................... 61
CHAPTER VI.
Power in manifestation of Mind dependent on the
extent of Cerebral Organs—Objections to Phren­
ology on this groundanswered...................................... 77
CHAPTER VII.
Fatalism—Objections to Phrenology on this ground
answered..................................................................... 84
CHAPTER VIII.
Conclusion.—Consistency between Phrenology and Re­
velation ........................................................................ 100
P R E F A C E .
W hen the following thoughts were committed to
paper, (between two and three years ago,) they were
not designed for the press, and from this circum­
stance, and that of the author’s opinions being de­
duced from observation and reasoning, rather than
from the study of phrenological works, (the only
work into which he has ever looked being an
elementary volume by Mr. Combe,) he trusts every
allowance will be mode for any want of arrange­
ment, or for any phrenological error, from which he
should be far from asserting them to be free.
He would not now have submitted this little
work to public scrutiny, had not some persons
whose opinions he appreciates encouraged him to
do so, and had not continued public opposition to
Phrenology seemed to require it. His reluctance,
however, was far from proceeding from a want of
faith in the truth of the science; it was only the
fruit of that diffidence which all experience more or
less in giving publicity to their thoughts.
B
2 PREFACE.
He sincerely trusts that he has approached the
subject with a temper becoming one whose object is
the vindication and recommendation of Truth.
Is Phrenology true or false? is a question for
the reader to ask himself, and the result of a candid
investigation should be his only satisfactory answer;
the object here contemplated is to prove the science
to be true; that it is false is already the belief of
most persons; the enquiry then, so far as regards
the following observations, ought not to be made
with a view to detect their feeblest points, but for
the purpose of seeing whether they do not carry
some weight; it ought not to be whether the defect
of some arguments do not vitiate the conclusions
drawn from the whole, but whether the effect of the
whole is not a preponderance of evidence in fa­
vour of the science.
If Phrenology be true, it must be admitted by
all to be of great importance, and it therefore be­
comes those, whose opinions would be respected and
appreciated, candidly to consider whether or not the
science be true. If they find it false, let them at
once expose and crush it before the eyes of the
world; but if true, let them candidly say so, and
recommend it to the public. If Phrenology be true,
its utility will be great, as it will be susceptible of
application to a diversity of purposes; as an auxi-
rBEFA C B. 3
liary to art, it would be as valuable to tbe painter in
his portrait department, as anatomy is to the sculp­
tor in the design of his figures; to the parent it
will be found of infinite value, as it will enable him
to direct and train the natural tendencies of his
infant charge ; and it may not be too much to say,
that it would merit a conspicuous place in academic
education, as it would facilitate the acquirement of
what is very important, a knowledge of character.
To say the least of Phrenology, it is an accom­
plishment, a pleasing study, the cultivation of which
brings with it a gratifying reward; it enables us to
discover the extent of our own mental powers, and
to watch and to direct the inclination of them; and
having neglected to do so at an earlier hour, there
is something amply satisfactory, at the more medi­
tative period of one’s life, to trace through lapsed
years the variety of ways in which the same ten­
dency of mind is exerted, adapting itself in each
progressive step to the growth and increasing powers
of the intellect, and to see how we enjoy in philo­
sophical reflection those pleasures which were once
mechanically and instinctively resorted to as childish
sports.
The author does not sanguinely anticipate any
important result from this humble effort of his pen,
for even did the possession of superior abilities en-
b 2
4 PREFACE.
courage him to look for this, still the fact of his
uot being a member of the medical profession must
diminish his expectations, hut then he does cherish
the consolation, that inasmuch as the most gifted
intellect could not rescue Phrenology from oblivion,
if it be false; so, if it be true, it will assuredly add
another luminary to the hemisphere of scientific
research, without the aid of any feeble light, and in
despite of the mightiest effort to quench its im­
portance in the shallow pool of scepticism. The
most successfully urged, but in reality the most un­
substantial objection to Phrenology, is that which
would brand it with the stigma of being the machi­
nation of infidelity; but if it were true that Phre­
nology held out any hostility to true religion, there
could then be no doubt of its futility and danger;
and the author trusts that he should be as ardent
in denouncing it, as he is willing to give it his
support; but he does feel satisfied of the truth and
innocency of the science, nay, of its utility, and the
object at which he direots his aim is to show how
unfounded is this objection that comes under the
sacred sanction of religion,— to show that Phre­
nology does not in any degree militate against the
sacredness of that holy institution, and to aid in
removing that mass of prejudice, which at present
obstructs the candid investigation of the science;
PREFACE. 5
and if this end should be in any degree obtained,
and the author could have the further and more
exalted gratification of convincing any person who
is already a believer in Phrenology, but an infidel
in religion, of the beautiful consistency between his
science and revelation, it would amply satisfy his
humble expectation.
INTRODUCTION.
It is believed by a l l . that man is possessed of
two grand component essentials,— the immaterial
essence, whether this be made up of mind, will, and
soul, or of only one or more of these,— and of the
material part, viz. the body. It is believed that the
former of these may have an independent existence
from the body, but that the suspension of its inter­
course with the external world is contemporaneous
with the beginning of such independent existence,
or, in other words, that the immaterial part of man
requires for its intercourse with the material world,
certain corporeal or material exponents such as we
find it furnished with, in the form of the other part
of man, viz. the body.
To some functions of the man some portions of
the body are so obviously adapted, such as the eye
or ear for instance, that no one doubts the fact
of the latter being the instrument of the former;
there are some functions, however, which may not
themselves be well known to every casual observer,
and which, if even known, may perhaps require the
skilful scrutiny of the anatomist to refer them to
their appropriate bodily organs. Many functions
INTRODUCTION.
have, however, been each observed to have a distinct
organ. Some men of undoubted eminence, through
observation and considerable reflection, have pro*
nounced that every function or quality of man has
a distinct instrument, and that each quality of mind
therefore manifests itself through the assistance of
a distinct organ, which discovery is appropriately
denominated the science of Phrenology.
Opponents to this doctrine, however, have not
been found wanting, and at this moment, although
the advocates of Phrenology are increasing, yet
the number of persons who oppose it, and the zeal
wherewith they do so, are great. The question then
is, whether the facts produced by Phrenologists prove
their observations to be correct, and whether their
doctrine may not be fairly supported both by reason
and argument.
“ A disputable point Is no man’s ground.”
If it were even allowed then by Phrenologists, that
their science admits of some doubt, yet in as much
ns doubt implies some evidence on both sides, the
subject must merit a calm investigation. I purpose,
then, to offer in the following pages Buch arguments
as have occurred to myself in favour of the science,
which will involve the consideration of whether the
objections urged against the science of Phrenology
have any weight, and whether the science itself
merits the support it receives.
8
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
C H A P T E R I.
PHRENOLOGY, OR A PLURALITY OF CEREBRAL
ORGANS,---- A LEG ITIM ATE DEDUCTION FROM
CORRECT REASONING.
MWbat if the foot ordained the dost to tread.
Or hand to toll, aspired to he the head,
Wbat if the bead, the eye, the ear repined
To serve mere engines to the ruling mlndt
Jttst as absurd for aoy part to claim
To be another In this general frame.'1 Fops.
As an object must exist before it can be acted upon,
so a principle or agent must exist before it can act,
and an instrument appropriate to the action must be
present for the agent’s use, e. a man determines
to take hold of an object, and with the hand as an
instrument he actually takes hold of it 5
— the hand
in this instance could not have taken hold of the
object if the object had not existed, nor could it
have taken hold of it, although it existed, had not
the man determined to do so, but then the man
could no more have seized the object without the
instrumental assistance of the hand, than the hand
could have seized it without the determination of
the man. Admitting this postulate to be a funda­
mental intuitive principle of belief, the reasonable­
ness of the doctrine, if not the necessity of a
plurality of corporeal organs for the plurality of
mental functions is apparent, and it would seem
impracticable for any, the most inveterate sceptic, to
maintain his objections to the doctrine of Phre­
nology on the basis of any process of sound rea­
soning ; his arguments, (if he argues at all,) what­
ever they may be in appearance, must in reality be
sophistical; and at least a reasoning intellect would
not fail to see that it would be a gross violation of
the simple dictates of common sense, not to consider
Borne investigation an essential preface to a rejection
of the science.
Before one reasons at all, it is necessary that
there be some fundamental point of belief, or first
truth, some element to rest upon, which all believe
to be true, and which neither admits of, nor requires
any proof; now I think that I may not unfairly
denominate the postulate above set forth as an
article of this nature, and if so, it is in effect to
admit the truth of what we would establish by the
following arguments, viz. that not only must the
immaterial essence of mind have a bodily organ for
the manifestation of itself to the external world,
hut that its numerous and varying qualities must
each have a distinct and varying organ; that is,
that man has one instrument for the manifestation
10 THOUGHTS ON PHHENOLOGY.
of that distinct function, with which he perceives
simple objects, and another for the manifestation of
that equally distinct power, with which he would
reason on these objects when perceived; for the
perceiving a simple object and the reasoning upon
it, when perceived, being acts as different in their
nature, the one from the other, as seeing is from
feeling, man could no more exhibit his reasoning
powers, through the instrument, by means of which
he manifests his comprehension of simple objects, or
through an instrument adapted to the manifestation
of any other faculty, than he could take hold of an
object with the eye, or with the leg, which is equally
inappropriate for the purpose.
Whether it be admitted or not, that a bodily
organ is necessary for the use of the mind, this we
know, that the mind possesses one, viz. the whole
body, or a part of i t ; but we must be satisfied of
this, that if the mind has a bodily organ, that organ
s« necessary, unless we can reverse the design of
creation, and suppose the body the first object of
creation, and the mind but its instrument or tool,
-which no one of sane intellect can suppose, since
the former is the offspring of the earth, and the
latter a direct emanation from the Deity. It must
be admitted, then, that the mind has a bodily organ,
and that that organ is a necessary instrument to the
mind; but it may still be urged, that the mind is
but one living principle, and that but one organ is
therefore necessary. The whole living principle,
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 11
(whether we call it mind or will, &c.) is equally but
one living principle; by parity of reason, therefore,
it must be urged, that this principle requires one
bodily organ, and one only; let us see, then, how
this is.— As a tenement for its constant presence,
there is no doubt that only one body is necessary,
but that body may be, and is composed of many
parts, as one building may have many apartments,
or one piece of machinery several distinct pieces;
and so it is that for the fulfilment of one’s desire to
take corporal possession of any object, which desire
arises in the mind, the hand, as an instrument, is
found essential; and for the gratification of a desire
to walk, the feet prove equally necessary, &c. Now
hero are two material members for one living prin­
ciple, and these are considered necessary, because
they are found to be so; and why are they necessary,
but because the simple essence which desires to
walk or to grasp can do neither without the aid of
one of these bodily organs; the hand or leg has no
more the desire or intention to walk or to grasp
than they would if they were artificial, yet all
regard these members as different instruments for
different feelings emanating from one principle; I
am at a loss to know, then, by what rules of common
sense it can be concluded that the other different
propensities and faculties of the mind, since they
sometimes act independently of each other and
olono, can be expected to act without those bodily
organs which, whether we view the subject philo-
12 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON PHBZKOLOGT. 13
sophically or analogically, seemed clearly to be
required; for if these different feelings have dif­
ferent organs, different organs, a priori, must be
necessary. Now, considered abstractedly, the fa­
culty of reasoning is as different from the capacity
for music, and the sentiment of benevolence is as
different from tunabsorbing self-esteem, as is a desire
to walk from a desire to take hold of an object; and
if the latter require different bodily members, or
organs, the former would seem to do so. Every
desire of the man finds a bodily organ adapted to
it; and we find a certain portion of the body, arms
and legs, &c. adapted to certain tendencies of the
man; we find, for the use of the senses, different
organs situated about the head and face, the nose,
eyes, &c.; and so we find for the mental operations,
the brain is set apart; now, this material is deemed
necessary for the immateriality of mind. Now the
brain may be composed of any number of compart­
ments or organs, and the fact of our not seeing
them vary in form and Bize so much as the other
bodily members, no more rebuts the certainty of
their being organs than the circumstance of the nose
or eyes, being smaller or widely different from a leg
or an arm, can rebut the fact of the former being
equally organs with the latter, for the nearer the re­
semblance in the manifestations of these powers, the
nearer in resemblance we should expect to see the
material organs; the eye, ear, nose, See., for instance,
being simple passive instruments, we find both in
size and texture they differ widely from the leg or
arm, which for actire purposes are flexible and
powerful; but then the mental functions, such aa
reflection, conscientiousness, benevolence, &c. must
be admitted to differ nearly as widely from each
other as they do from the senses, and therefore must
require different organs. That these organs do not
differ so much amongst themselves as those of the
senses, cannot alter the case, for all the mental func­
tions, although they differ in quality, yet manifest
themselves in the same maimer,just as the eye, nose,
ears, &c. differ so widely from the hand, &c. in size
and compactness as altogether to occupy a space in
reality not so large as one of the other organs, viz.
as the leg alone, we can well imagine how these
organs, when multiplied from five to thirty-five, (all
these being in a smaller compass,) may be so minute
and like each other, as to present a surface similar
to the exterior of the head. The intellectual qua­
lities being different, require each a distinct organ;
the action of each being similar, the organs cannot
be expected to differ much in point of form or re-
semblauce. And we can well conceive why these
organs are so well protected, because of the im­
portance of the qualities with which they are in­
hered, and their exercise being rather deliberative
or directory, than active or executive.
14 THODOHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY.
C H A PT E R II.
AN ENDEAVOUR TO PROVE THE FOREGOING DOC-
TRINE.---- THE BRAIN THE 8EA T OF THE MIND,
EMBODIED IN AN ARGUMENT ANSWERING THE
OBJECTION TO PHRENOLOGY ON THE GROUND
OF M ATERIALISM .
MThough without bellows air conId not be blown
Through bellows, say are air and bellows one ?
And tell me are these more identical,
If bellows be many, and air be blowo tbroogb alU"
Anon.
It may not be questioned, and if it is, we would
prove it, that the brain is the medium, through
which the manifestations of mind to the external
world are especially effected; any argument which
furnishes a quietus to the objection, that Phrenology
sanctions the doctrine of materialism, would involve
sufficient proof of this.
Phrenology is alleged to be dangerous, from the
great countenance it holds out to the doctrine of
materialism. Now it must either be an illogical
mind, or one that has not directed its attention with
sufficient intensity to the subject, that volunteers
this opinion; the reverse of it must be acknow­
ledged by all who believe in the immortality of the
soul, (and all must believe in this who would reject
Phrenology, because it would seem to affect this
belief,) after an impartial attention to the influence
of cerebral diseases on the manifestations of mind,
and a comparison of these with the phrenological
view of the same point. These diseases “ show us,
indeed, in a very striking manner, the mind holding
intercourse with the external world through the
medium of the brain and the nervous system; and
by certain diseases of these organs they show this
intercourse impaired or suspended; but they bIio w
nothing more. In particular, they warrant nothing
in any degree analogous to those partial deductions
which form the basis of materialism.”
Now this is believed even by anti-phrenologists,
because it would be against common sense and ex­
perience not to believe i t ; and yet this belief may
be said to sanction quite as much as Phrenology
may be said to do, if not more, the doctrine of
materialism. For assuming that it is admitted by
all who reject Phrenology, that the mind manifests
itself through the brain, if an injury to the brain
interrupts such manifestation, and this points to
materialism at all, it must do so as clearly if the
brain be only one organ, as if it be divided into
several organs. But in reality, neither of them
authorizes the illogical inference deduced from the
latter; viz. that it points to materialism ; for when
16 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
a portion of the brain is injured, and the action of
some mental function is suspended, we have no
more reasou to infer the extinction of that function
than -we have to suppose the annihilation of the soul
when the whole body is destroyed. For although
the mind no longer manifests itself through this
deranged instrument, we have no more reason for
supposing that it is at all injured, and could not
manifest itself at any moment that organ may be
again sound, or that the cerebral mass itself is
mind, than we have any reason to suppose the optic
agent injured when its organ is feeble from age, or
that this organ is the agent itself; for when the
former is injured, the latter perceives, through
an appropriate lens, as well as it did with its own
organ in its unimpaired state; nor, indeed, does
Phrenology think so, for it does not say that the
mind cannot exist without matter, but that it cannot
manifest itself without the presence of such matter,
nor, indeed, does any One think so : well then, when
this portion of the brain is gone, and some mental
quality is impaired, this is nothing more than to say
that that mental quality has lost a material medium,
and, in other words, had a material through which
to act: now this is the language of personal obser­
vation and reasoning, and those who hold it object
to Phrenology; and yet this is nothing more nor
less than the same thing which is decried by popular
indignation and by these personal observers, under
thename of Phrenology, which literally does nothing
c
THOUGHTS OK PHRENOLOGY. 17
18 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
more than declare that the mental functions must
have material mediums; not meaning to say, that
because material instruments exist, immaterial es­
sence cannot be there, but, on the contrary, it infers
an opposite conclusion, and supposes that, because
the essence of mind is apparent, there must be this
material instrument.*
It may be said, that although the brain is injured,
it may not be removed, and the mass or instrument
being still there, why should not the function still
act, if it is not the brain itself, or is not destroyed
by such injury ? But this proves nothing; we
know that the hand may, through disease, be per­
fectly paralysed, and become quite useless, and yet
it may remain in its natural size, and may even have
increased; and to suppose that the quality should
act if the brain remains, whether the brain be in
one form or another, is just to suppose that man
should still exercise his body, when that body has
been ground up in a mill, provided that no part of it
be lost. But no; our All-wise Creator has thought
* After writing this little work, I had the pleasure of
seeing a satisfactory argument on materialism, and also an
argument beautifully answering the objection, on the ground
that the brain may sustain an injury without impeding the
manifestation of any fhnctiou, which, if it be so, is accounted
for by a plurality of organs, and a duality of each; and it is
shown how the objection recoils on the users of It; viz. that
they admit the whole'brain to be the medium of each quality,
and yet suppose the whole brain may bo destroyed without
Meeting the manifestation of any faculty.
proper to nrake an instrument in a particular form,
for a certain work, and we have no right to look for
the performance of that work, wheu the form of
that instrument has been changed. But more than
this we know, that an injury to any portion of the
brain, (involving duplicate organs,) whether that
portion be extracted or not, produces a feebleness
or suspension in some mental quality ; and this,
therefore, shows us, not that if the material organ
exists in substance, the mind must act: but the
conclusion it justifies is this— that not only must
the mental quality have a material organ, but that
its vigorous exercise must depend upon the vigour
and health of that organ; and we are therefore jus*
tilled in coming to the unavoidable conclusion, that
Phrenology is only synonymous with the result of
the personal observation of the phenomena of mind,
and as the latter cannot be supposed to couutenance
materialism, so must the inference be excluded that
Phrenology can do so.
Phrenology does nothing more than represent
man as possessed of certain uniform organs or mate­
rial mediums, through which the immaterial essence
of mind may hold intercourse with the things of
the external world; and to suppose man without
fixed and uniform means of communication, would
be to represent him as a being possessed of no fixed
or uniform principles, “ not to be calculated upon as
to his conduct in any instance, and not capable of
being acted upon by any motive or principle, except
c l
TflOUGHTS OS m itEN O LO O V . l'J
20 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
the blind caprice of the moment.” It is, indeed, to
say that any material body would have done for the
tenement of the mind, as well as that which man
now has, and therefore any shallow-headed animal
is as fit a receptacle for his mind; nay, is as much
an intellectual being as man himself. That the
mind should act through matter, and should have
tho formation of such matter appropriate to its
action, is no more indicative of its materialism than
(bo it spoken with reverence) that our great Creator
is visible, because he condescended to an intercourse
with man through a visible flame of Are, through a
seen angel, or more through the material body of
man himself. We would say that materialism is
the doctrine founded on those substance* which,
when brought into contact, under the same cir­
cumstances, are always the cause of the same phe­
nomena. Now man may come in contact repeatedly
with the same person or thing, and under the
same circumstances each time, yet, on each occasion,
the contact may witness a different result: this
shows that man is not mere matter, subject to fixed
laws. It shows that he has a w ill; he has a mind
which he exercises as he pleases, but still he ex­
ercises it within a restricted compass, and according
to some principle which the occasion may call forth,
although it may be quite discretionary. It is true
it may be said, “ that if each mental quality must
have a distinct organ, we must, of course, admit
that each organ must have one definite kind of
action, and cannot at one moment exhibit one action,
and at another a different one ; the deduction may
seem to be, then, that there is no room for discre­
tion.” But we must remember that a person with an
organ of benevolence and an organ of destructive­
ness, equally developed, would, unless under peculiar
circumstances, refrain from the same kind of brutal
act which a person with small benevolence, and de­
structiveness large, would less scrupulously per­
petrate, yet it is not destructiveness that changes its
nature into the quality assigned to the other organ,
but a wholesome controul is exercised by the other,
which would be greatly violated by an active ex­
ercise of destructiveness; this latter becomes in­
operative as to any wanton cruelty, although it would
be ripe for action on any occasion of legitimate
warfare. But then this subjugation of the one
quality to the other does not take place so certainly,
as these two qualities concur in the same person;
for, in some instances, one may permit a greater ex­
citement of the inferior quality to offend (by some
rash act) the superior or benevolent quality; this
shows us, then, that the circumstance of each
quality having a distinct organ, and, consequently,
one definite tendency, does not interfere with the
free-will of the individual. And it would be as well
to keep this in remembrance when the argument on
fatalism is under consideration.
Whoever believes in the immortality of the soul,
will find that the truth of Phrenology does not tend
THOUGHTS ON VHRENOI.OGY. 21
to affect that belief; it is the ignorance, and not
the knowledge, of the science that is calculated to
produce the impression that it does. It cannot be
doubted, of course, that the mind of man is infused
into the whole or some part of the body; and this
belief is not supposed to sanction materialism; for
it is an undeniable fact that it is, and, therefore, as
no rational intellect doubts the immortality of the
soul, no rational intellect can infer materialism from
this fact of the mind’s being in the whole or some
part of the body. Nor, for the same reason, is it
supposed to sanction materialism by its existing in
one part of the body only, (vis. the bead,) and not
the whole of it, since it is known to exist in only
this part; nor, indeed, could it be supposed to do so;
for although the living principle in man sustains his
whole body, yet its existing in one part of the body
only, and not the whole, rather shows, from the un­
inhabited portion existing, as I may say, inde­
pendently of it, that the material man is a distinct
thing from the immaterial essence, and therefore
rebuts an inference of their being identical, and of
thereby leading to materialism. I say, that we
know that the mind exists in only one part of the
body $ for if it were divided through the whole of
the body, we should expect to see an amputation
of a whole limb involve the destruction of some of
the mental powers, which effect experience tells us is
never the result of such an operation.
It may be said that the mind does not act through
22 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON PURENOUOGT. 23
the leg in any degree, or only in some of its effects,
and that although therefore there is no reason why
the loss of the leg should produce the destruction of
the mind, yet the same reason does not exist why
the destruction of the brain, which is the organ of
the mind, should not destroy the mind. But then,
in the very same manner in which the intelligent
being uses the brain, viz. as an organ for the mani­
festation of mind, so it uses the leg for the manifes­
tation of some other quality, and there is not the
lowest presumption that the loss of the leg involves
the destruction of that agent which uses it, which,
on the contrary, we have positive proof is in no
degree injured, since we see that after the loss of
the natural member, it remains and can use an
artificial limb in the same manner that it used its
natural, the most that we can suppose is, that the
agent is suspended as to the manifestation of some
quality by this loss of the leg, just in the same
manner as it is suspended as to the exhibition of its
mental functions by the loss of the brain. We hare
then analogically every reason for believing, that the
condition of the mind is in no way affected by the
destruction of its instrument, but remains entire.
A ll that we see (whether the mind acts through
the whole or a part of the body) is, that it acts
through the assistance of an instrument, and to sup­
pose that the mind must have an instrument is not
believed to support materialism; just as with respect
to Borne other bodily organs, the eye, for instance, is
essential for the use of the optic agent and the ear
for the auditory sense, and yet no one infers mate*
rialism from this, or is so absurd as to suppose the
eye itself to be percipient, or the ear itself to be
auditory, but only regards each as an essential in­
strument to those agents which respectively require
their presence, nor is it even suggested that both
senses could act through one of these any more than
one would see as well as hear through an acoustic
comet; but, on the contrary, it is believed that these
different organs are necessary for these different
agents, nor more is this belief once supposed to lead
any hearer to this result, viz. materialism. I am at
a loss then to see how Phrenology leads us any
nearer to this result by referring different mental
manifestations to the instrumentality of different
bodily or rather material organs. In physiognomy
we discover the dispositions of men from external
appearances, and no one for a moment supposes that
these appearances are the dispositions themselves:
now Phrenology, it is true, teaches us that the mind
acts differently through the cerebral organs to what
it does through thefacial marks, but it by no means
tells us that it acts in any way that would lead us to
suppose the brain itself to be any more the mind
than these facial marks are, and therefore does
not lead us any nearer to materialism than physiog­
nomy.
Phrenology no more countenances materialism
by supposing the mind to act through different
24 THOUGHTS ON PflREXOLOGT.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 25
portions of the same part, than we infer materialism
by supposing that it acts through one part of the
body, and not the whole. We know that the body
and the mind of man are closely connected, for we
know that the body and the whole body dies the
moment the soul leaves it ; we know that one part of
the body, viz. the brain, is the seat of the mind, for
we know that any other part of the body may be
maimed to any degree, without in any way affecting
the mind, while, on the other hand, we know that a
slight and partial injury to the brain will impair
or suspend the mental functions; if, therefore, its
being in only one part and not the whole does not
favour materialism, it would be absurd to suppose
that its being divided through that part can do so.
As Phrenology then cannot be said to sanction
materialism, as regards this objection, there may be
a plurality of organs. Let us see then if we cannot
positively show that there is.
C H A PT E R III.
THE SUBDIVISION OF THE BRAIN INTO A PLURALITY
OF ORGAN8— THE DOCTRINE SUPPORTED BY
SEVERAL ARGUMENTS.
•• Though reason be not proof *t!s reason still.
And more than proof just where It ooght to fill/* Axon.
P e r h a p s we may be told that to prove that the brain
is the organ of the mind is to prove a self-evident
fact, and that objections are raised against the subdi­
vision of the brain, and it is contended that in the
exercise of any one mental power the whole brain
is brought into operation, and that the individual
power or affection is not manifested through an
individual organ. This, we would first observe, like
all other objections to the validity of the science, is
but a vague assertion or empty opinion, for the
existence of which no other reason can be given
than that they hold it, because they hold it, because
it seems impossible that such a thing should be, and
because a merciful God would not allow one man to
discover the propensities of his fellow creature. At
the same time that this opinion has been formed
without investigating the subject at all, that perhaps
not one page pro has been perused, much less
weighed, while every effort has been studiously and
partially exercised con,— every energy is in motion,
and this too for the avowed purpose of proving the
futility of the science: and, after all, without one
impartial glance at the subject, a conclusion is
formed without a single attempt at proof,— and
wbat is this hut an adoption of the dangerous prac­
tice of erecting individual experience as the infalli­
ble standard of truth and falsehood, and making it
the consequents! creator of his opinions? A habit
of this character is of all others the most dangerous,
for it is the child of ignorance, and therefore the
more liable to error. This was the stubborn mental
pride that seduced Hume to false and infidel con­
clusions, and the same deplorable ignorance that de­
stroyed the reputation of a previously respected
traveller in the estimation of the king of Siam, who
disbelieved the fact that in some parts of the world
a stream of water would change its fluid into a
solid state, because the circumstance had never
occurred to his observation: both proceeded on the
test of very limited experience, and both fell into the
same grievous error. Now when we remember
that the subject under consideration is a science,
and that, like every other science, it is made up of
premises, carried through various deductions, and
established and believed in, not only by satisfactory
conclusions, but by those conclusions being made
satisfactory and legitimate by the reasoning of men
of acknowledged superiority; I say, when this is
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGT. 27
taken into consideration, surely there cannot he a
liberal or dialectical mind, which will not admit
that the science is worthy of some investigation,
before it can be candidly rejected as futile and un­
sound ; surely the opinions of a man must be known
before objections can be raised, much less multiplied
and magnified against them.
I think a comparison of the manifestation of the
will through other parts of the body, with the mani­
festation of the mind through the brain, would
furnish an argument, by way of analogy, in favour
of the science. To hold an intercourse with matter,
the presence of a material organ is of necessity re­
quired hy the mind, aud according to the require­
ments of the man, must be the formation of his
bodily organ: for particular purposes the hand is
brought into exercise; but when it is, it is the vo­
luntary and mysterious intention of the mind that
only the hand should b e; but we do not find that
the leg is also brought into motion by this exercise
of the w ill; and when the ecu* is particularly atten­
tive to a sound, the visual, and much less the olfac­
tory, senses arc not necessarily brought into action;
and this may be applied to the brain; if when the
miud intends only to exercise one of its functions,
its influence and action are felt through the whole
of the brain equally, at one and the same time the
whole of the brain would be as much excited as
would be the whole of the rest of the body, vix.
bauds, feet, eyes, nose, ears, &c. when the motion
*28 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 2'J
was intended only for the arms, or the auditory
sense only was intended to be used; but if this were
the case, whenever the mind would reflect or exer­
cise any of its functions, it would at the same time
exercise all. Pride and humility, pain and delight,
resentment and gratitude, would be at the same
time felt, which woidd be absurd; or it must be
supposed that various and conflicting principles
could be manifested through the same medium, but
this would destroy the fact that an appropriate in­
strument must exist before an agent could a ct; as
the hand, or rather what I will call the will of the
hand, could not communicate with the external
matter through die medium of the leg, so neither
could the member that would exhibit a feeling of
pleasure, or conceive a thought, manifest a different
thing to the material with which it comes in contact,
if die different functions of mind must have each a
material organ with which to manifest itself to die
world.
But it is well known that one function of the
mind is in action at times when the other functions
are not brought into exercise ; nor can it be argued
tliat this, and not the exercise of every function, is
the very result diat must be looked for, if the whole
brain concurs in the manifestation of each function;
for if so, when one function is in motion, what be­
comes of the others, which are quite passive; we
must suppose that they are for the time removed
froui die brain and resident in some other part of
fe
«•? «f i
tkt im f
p v
ik> sai
•f tk i
ci lit*
lix « W a !■
««ole<i kv m
•if tk f
wot.
p>vmre o f tfcJ
*i<kti«(k h u
•»w» fai«ptio|
w m aM U n
iu t i\ l o t n a i
» j »ri a (i
oaK V
m comh
od
k
«t m \W J
I
I
\
' \
L
i
i
i
ti.it m k«
iL mhtlt oM i1
L %
*■ ' rfg^
tkm ttktim Into
MBtod fcr (Mte'i
•# iM p m that
of «h» lmita, ik i
Mfc
pwaur. m
i litt 1
•ttfenagit ii it fm
*»rrj ruurMnn a|
M UOU r*~-|Tll
tl— . Wu jour 4
**.i in p«fl
n i> b* muanitji
«W
‘i w ««71
U U a ' t U i
I i
30 THOUGHTS ON rUBZNOLOGY.
the body, or are removed from the body altogether ;
they cannot be resident in the rest of the body, for
any part of it may be injured at any time without
involving an interruption in the manifestation of
any mental function; nor can the alternative be
supposed, for it is believed that an injury to the
brain would at one moment present the same obstacle
to any mental manifestation that the same injury
would offer at another moment; and, moreover, from
the very close connection which exists between
mind and body, we are justified in supposing that
the latter must be resident in the former so long os
it is in its power to make use of it as an instrument;
the whole mind, then, must be constantly the inmate
of the bead. Yet, since we know that the exercise
of the mind produces an excitement of the brain, if
the whole brain be one organ, the whole must be
excited by each exercise of the mind; but how can
we imagine that the whole mind being in the whole
of the brain, that the latter can be excited through­
out, without in some measure interrupting the com­
posure of tlie whole of the former ? But again,
although it is impossible that the mind can manifest
every function at one and the same time, yot it is by
no means limited to the exercise of only one at the
time, but may exhibit two or three at onoe, which
may act in perfect harmony with each other. It
must be conceded, then, that there is a groat diffi­
culty in the way of supposing that the whole cere­
bral mass is but one organ; and since this difficulty
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 31
may be easily surmounted by attributing to each
function a distinct organ, I submit that there is
great presumptive evidence in favour of a plurality
of organs.
And why, parenthetically, I would ask, if there
are not different organs, does the brute manifest the
existence of some qualities and not others? nor can
it be urged, as a reason for this, that the head of the
brute is smaller, because we know that it possesses
some qualities in vigorous ability, and is altogether
destitute of others; whilst, if the whole brain was
required for the exercise of each quality, the effect
ought to be the general weakness of all, and not the
total absence of any: and still more, the heads of dif­
ferent brutes differ in size, yet we find each equally
excluded from the enjoyment of some particular qua­
lities ; and although the head be smaller, why should
it be different in shape ? why should this smallness
arise, in many eases, not from a general diminution
of the whole, but from a great portion of the brain
being absent from some part, whilst other portions
remain quite as large and in the Bamc form as the
same portions are in man, as exemplified in the
heads of some large dogs ? The part just over the
nose, or the region attributed to locality, we find
prominent and large, yet above that region we find
there is scarcely any head at a ll; or, in other words,
the intellectual region is entirely absent: now it
may be said, that this may be accounted for in this
way,— that as the intellect or instinct has an organ,
anil that organ is the brain, of course we expect to
find that organ changed in form when the imma­
terial essence which uses it is so different, as we find
in the case of a man and a brute; and that this may
be admitted without letting in the theory of a plu­
rality of organs. Why, then, I would ask, should
the head of the brute be deficient in this or that
particular part, aud not in another ? Why should it
have only (what phrenologists set apart as) the
animal and perceptive organization, or should have
only a part of these, and be altogether deficient in
that part which is called the region of the intellect?
This intellectual portion of the brain is in man, and
he has the quulity or qualities assigned to it. Now,
if it be not a distinct part from the rest of the
brain, why is it not in the brute; and the brute’s
instinct being perfect without it, how can it be said
that it is not a distinct material body for a distinct
faculty or distinct faculties, for it is the removal of
one portion of the brain and some portion of the
mental faculties; and how then can it be said that
the brain is but one simple organ, and the mind,
with its various propensities, sentiments, and fa­
culties, is but one simple essence requiring but this
one simple organ ?
Nor is the case altered by supposing that the im­
material quality, which manifests itself through the
brain, is naturally without this or that quality, bo-
cause tills we suppose from the configuration of the
head, which we have no reason to suppose our Maker
32 THOUGHTS ON rilRENOLOGT.
would have made so very different, in some respects,
from that of man, unless the immaterial quality is
also somewhat different in those respects; but then,
to urge this as an objection, would be to suppose
that all animals of one tribe must have this imma­
terial quality of one strength, which we know is
not the case, as we find one dog much more bene­
volent than another; (and as we are now comparing
one animal with another of the same species, we
must remember that the objection, supposing it were
even valid elsewhere, must now cease, viz. that the
immaterial quality of one is naturally of a different
quality to the other.) But one dog may have bene­
volence larger than another which may have some
other quality stronger than the same quality in the
former animal, and each may have some perceptive
capacity, a memory of place, for instance, quite as
strong as the same property in some men; now,
if the whole brain be the medium of each quality,
I say, that each should exhibit equal powers, inas­
much as the general smallness or largeness should
produce a general feebleness or strength, and not
the feebleness of some quality and strength of an­
other. This, therefore, must lead to the conclusion
that the deficiency or greater strength (in the mani­
festation) of this or that quality, must depend upon
the condition of some portion of the brain, and not
the whole; and, if we do not thus refer these dif­
ferences in development of capacity to cerebral
configuration, I am at a loss to know upon what
T
>
THOUGHTS ON PnHENOLOOT. 33
they can be
S* th a t if the ■■■£ will a a ifa e £ & n o t qaa-
j\
t M | m IiIj will manifest
iMcif at a t U M when the a k n m perfectly
k B en birn W * a i a doubt. different
( b a k i of M a M M iia : aerwffi it da to object
to tbit H jn M t a the g r a a i tk t nan ii only
a t h a g , and tot W la* different and conflicting
p im iyli■within; tint, if k p u n a ant tiling, only
ptw w ike validity of the ir ia w ; fcr we do know
tb t t W rouflirting principles n a , aad if it it a
moral imponuhflity flat the a w agent can act dif­
ferently iluoBgh the tame organ, or that different
qualities can manifest thratelsee differently through
one and the came organ, we can only account for
the fact by supposing the existence of several and
different organa.
W e find that if different heads are injured in the
tame parte, and theae parts embrace duplicate organs,
that the tame functions of mind are impaired) if
in different psuts, then different functions are in­
jured | now, how is this to be accounted for, if the
mind hat not different organs through which to act?
If each quality lias a distinct organ, we should ex­
pect to find this result; and if we find this result,
it would teem to establish the fact, that each quality
lias such distinct organ. Whoever is of opinion,
therefore, that the whole brain is the medium of
L
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 35
each mental manifestation, must either disprove this
fact, renounce his doctrine, or account for the
anomaly. »
If there be one organ in common to every mental
quality, then of course any injury to that organ must
not be followed by the total exemption of some qua­
lity from its effects, which is felt by only one, or some,
but impair each function, and each in the same de­
gree ; the injury may be to a greater extent on one
occasion than onanother, but then the only difference
that can result from this is the greater injury to
each quality, and not the extinction of one, or some,
aud the mere partial injury to another or others;
but then, (1 will not say, every man of superior
ability, but,) every man of common sense aud ordi<
nary observation, knows that the result of cerebral
injuries is of a different character; aud not to
account for the fact of one injury operating upon
one, or some, and not every faculty, by the existence
of a plurality of organs, is not to account tor it at
all, and certainly not to account for it on physiolo­
gical grounds.
But it is admitted by all who object to a plurality
of organs, that the brain is one organ, and the whole
of it is exercised by each function of the mind; and
it is further admitted by some of these opponents,
that the form of the head changes by study, only it
is contended that the whole of the head, and not any
particular part of it, thus changes : now, this is
further to admit, either that the exercise of only
one function, or soino functions, increases the size of
the head, and the whole of i t ; and that the exercise
of every function which uses the brain as aninstru*
mant, is not necessarily required, inasmuch as some
of these functions differ go widely from the others,
that it is impossible to suppose the exercise of all
ut the same time; or it must be admitted tliat the
exeroise of every function is necessary for tliu in­
crease of die whole head, only they must be brought
into action at different times. If this latter be ad­
mitted, a plurality of organs must be recognised,
inasmuch as each function should increase the whole
brain, if the whole brain is one organ; which it
cannot be supposed to do, if all of the functions
must aid in this increase, but all cannot act to­
gether, since one function must be supposed, in this
case, to increase one portion of the brain, aud another
function auother portion, which must give to each
function a distinct organ. If the former be admitted,
viz. that the exercise of each function increases the
size of tho whole heud, then the following point
must also unavoidably be recognised, viz. that the
strength of mind depends, irrespective of tempera­
ment, upon the size of the brain, for we see that tho
result of study is the enlargement of the mind, and
a contemporaneous increase of the bead; and in no
one instance do we see the enlargement of the one
without a corresponding iucreuse of the other ; the
presumptiou, then, is, tliut whenever we see the one
wc sluill certainly see tho other, uud this presump-
3ft THOUGHT# ON rilUE.NOUOGr.
T n O D O n T S ON rilR K N O L O o r. 37
tion is increased to positive proof when we see the
manner in which this increase is produced, vie. by
an excitement which is always produced by exercise,
and is proportioned to the intensity of it, and in­
creases the head whenever it is produced. There
can be no instance, then, in which the head has re­
tained one size, and the mind has increased; nor,
on the same ground, can there be an instance in
which the head has increased without a correspond­
ing expansion of mind; we should infer, therefore,
that those who admit that study increases the head,
admit also, that strength of mind depends upon the
size of the head. It must, then, be further ad­
mitted, (since the whole brain is the instrument of
each function,) that each function is increased in the
same degree in which that one is increased by the
exercise of which the head has been thus enlarged;
then, when a benevolent disposition is encouraged
and increased, a selfish disposition increases in tho
same degree; or more, when the intellectual and
moral powers alone are cultivated, and overcome
the inferior nature, this inferior nature necessarily
becomes equally powerful with the other superior
qualities; but, then, this is contrary both to expe­
rience and reason, and its absurdity is so manifest,
that it does not require to be proved; we are, there­
fore, driven unavoidably into an acknowledgment of
a plurality of organs, and of the increase of each
organ by the exercise of that quality alone to which
it belongs. This shows us how vain is every attempt
to disprove the validity of Phrenology, and only in­
creases our conviction, that if all objections to the
science were only duly considered, they would be
found so much to require the assistance of Phren­
ology to explain them, that nothing would tend more
to prove the validity of the science than the inva­
lidity of these objections.
If the same object be presented to two or three
differently constituted minds, nothing is more com­
mon than to observe that a different thought or
feeling instantaneously arises in each mind. If, for
instance, a beautiful tract of country be presented
to two individuals, one of whom is endowed with a
great desire to acquire, and another with a fine
poetical feeling, the former would immediately ima­
gine how productive such fertile property must be,
while the latter, not quite so cold and calculating,
would be enraptured with the loveliness of the
scenery. Now it cannot be said that this arises
merely from accident, and that the same individuals,
under the same circumstances, may at another time
instinctively manifest the reverse of these qualities;
for we well know that there is nothing more com­
mon than for a person with great acquisitiveness
(we are not using the term phrenologically,) to
manifest this propensity in every relation of life,
and the same remark holds good with regard to the
person with the fine poetical feeling; indeed, it is
only from observing each of those persons manifest
his tendency in a great degree, that such tendency is
38 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
determined to be great; nor can it be said, that ono
of these individuals may be a merchant or fanner,
and the other a poet, and that, therefore, from the
force of habit, we should expect such result; for
our remark is well known to apply to persons not
engaged in any corresponding occupation; but,
suppose this to be the case, why did this merchant
or poet incline to his respective avocation, if they
bad not each some particular tendency to this or
that occupation? and to say that some persons
follow their pursuits from necessity, and contrary to
their taste, which inclined to some other pursuit, is
only to make the case stronger, by showing that
some persons have naturally a tendency to one
pursuit and other persons to other pursuits; and if
we take these individuals back into their school,
when they may not only be studying the same
branches of education, but may be in the same
class, we find the same diversity in disposition or
talent; I say, then, that one of these individuals
must possess that quality, which he manifests most
strongly, in a greater degree than he possesses the
other quality, which, on the other hand, must be
the stronger quality in the other individual, and
therefore the whole brain cannot be the medium of
each quality of mind; for if it be, each should be
manifested in the same degree, which 1 say is not
the case, if one quality in each mind appears to be
predominant over another, and it is a proverb not
the less true for being antiquated, that “ poeta
THOOOHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY. 3‘t
natcitur non J it" And we must arrive at this
conclusion, if even we admit that habit has some
influence in this case; for in what way, I would
ask, is habit supposed, in this iustance, to occasion
some difference in the manifestation of mind, but
from the circumstance of its having strengthened
or made more acute some quality of the mind, and
if then the necessity of an organ, vis. the whole
brain, be admitted, and the adaptation of that
organ to the quality be also admitted, this organ
must also have become in some degree enlarged,
and must therefore now be either ill adapted to the
other qualities of mind, which have not been ren­
dered equally vigorous by habit, or those qualities
must also have increased, which we know is not
necessarily the case.
That God would not allow man to develop his
character is an objection that must either be the
creature of prejudice, must arise from an ignorance
of God’s word, or show the absence of a knowledge
of character; the question here is not what con­
stitutes, in our idea, consistency in the dealings of
God— not what in our idea is the course our Cre­
ator should adopt towards us— but what is truth?
What is the will of God, as revealed in the pages
of his own written word, and expressed in the
features of his own lovely work ? The great error
of man, as pointed out in the great sketch of his
character, may be summed up with pregnant brevity
in the word pride, and its substitute that runs
40 TOOOOHTS ON THRENOLOOT.
TUOCOHT8 ON rilBENOLOOT. 41
parallel with it in the same correct delineation, is
humility: the former of these is a grave offence
against the majesty of God, and consequently con­
demned by him; the latter is a condition in which
God requires man to be, and therefore meets his
approbation; but this, viz. humility, is always the
effect of true self-knowledge, and at least is never
known to exist without i t ; the acquirement of self-
knowledge, then, is a duty which God requires of
man. Pride is the first instigator to the breach of
God’s commandments, and has continued to in­
fluence man’s exaggeration in guilt; it springs
from an ignorance of one’s self, from the creature’s
not knowing that there is a sphere beyond the limits
of which it is impossible for him to act. Now this
condition is expressly condemned by God, and the
state into which he is called is to know himself;
and what does this argue but, not only the existence
of the power of knowing the extent of his ability,
but also the innocency, nay, even the necessity, of
his searching to discover it? and indeed, until an
error is known, how is it to be expected that a
remedy would be applied, or that one in ignorance
of Ids disease would seek for a cure? As far as we
kuow, it is permitted, nay enjoined by God, that
man should discover the various dispositions of his
own mind; various authorities of holy writ establish
tills position, “ Examine yourselves”* “ prove your
• Hoil God not even directly revealed to us lus will re­
specting self-knowledge, it would not be difficult to show by
own selves’* "know you not yourselves?"* “ lot a
man examine himself” &c. and when, we would ask,
could a man better guard against an evil temper,
than when he knows of its existence? It will be
urged, and I assent to it, that this ignorance is a
spiritual ignorance of the heart, and the knowledge
is a spiritual knowledge of the depravity of the
heart, instilled by God’s Spirit; but under this
change of heart we know, that man is led to see his
various tendencies, tempers, and qualities; he feels
that his knowledge acquired is a knowledge of his
sinfulness, but then he learns that he sins through
covetou*ne*», through pride, through idolatry of
42 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
Implication what his will mnst have been, by arguing ab­
stractedly on the point, for self-knowledge could be shown to
be of advantage so paramount, as to render the acquirement
of it not only innocent but a duty.
• “ Know thyself" was a maxim held in great veneration
by the ancients. “ Thales, the Milesian, who was the prince
of the philosophers, and flourished about A. M. 3330," and
“ was contemporary with Josiah, king of Judah,” “ Is said to
be the first author.” It was afterwards adopted by Cliylon,
the Lacedemonian, and is one of those three precepts which
Pliny affirms to have been consecrated at Dolphos in golden
letters. It was afterwards greatly admired and frequently
used by others, till at length it acquired the authority of a
divine oracle, and was supposed to have been given originally
by Apolios himself. On which general opinion Cicero gives
ns this reason, “ because It hath such a weight of ecuse and
wisdom in It, as appears too great to bo attributed to any
man."
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 43
himself, of things, of his desiring the approval of
man more than the approbation of God, through an
endeavour to grasp that, (the comprehension of
God, for instance,) for the attainment of which he
now feels his intellect too limited, &c. This, I trust,
would rebut au assertion, that God would not allow
man to develop his own character, and would enable
us to say with Juvenal,
“ ------- & coelo dcscendit yvwOi oiavrov
And with regard to the discovery of another’s cha­
racter, if the same argument were insufficient, there
is yet a stronger argument which may be brought
to bear upon this point; for if, to disprove the truth
of Phrenology, it be asserted that the Creator could
never intend that one man should know the varied
propensities, passions, feelings, dispositions, &c. of
his fellow men, we have at once rising up, in con­
tradiction of such assertion, the undeniable and
indisputable evidence which, by the fairest princi­
ples of analogy, may be drawn from the art of
physiognomy,— an art which, at least, almost as
distinctly, although not equally with Phrenology,
throws open, os it were, the heart of man to his
fellow man, the face being looked upon, in most
cases, as the too faithful index of his vices and his
virtues, and admitted almost universally as an in­
fallible index or criterion of a man’s temper and
disposition. But we know, independently of this,
that man is possessed of various propensities and
intellectual powers. We also know what these pro­
pensities and powers are; and we also see that they
are different, in different individuals, (and therefore
one is able, observationably, to discover the cha­
racter of another,) the only requirement for the
purpose being a protracted association ; this ability
to discern the character of others having, therefore,
been implanted in us by God himself, it is clear that
God not only permitt, but enables us to develop the
character of others; but where minds differ, we sec
heads of different conformations; as the mind is
inferior, so the shape of the head is more removed
towards the formation of that of a brute. It would
seem, then, that all heads so corresponded in forma­
tion with the character of the intelligent principles
which inhabit them, that wc may, in all cases, be
enabled to discover such character through the aid
of Phrenology. All that Phrenology does is, not
to show the existence of what we do not see by
observation, but only to show in what degree the
different mental powers and propensities are in
different heads; we know what powers are there,
and Phrenology only determines the comparative
strength of these powers.
In the greatest argument ever framed in proof of
the immortality of the soul, it is incidentally remark*
ed, that we know not with what latent powers and
capacities brutes may be endued. But I would
observe, that although wo may not know what
powers brutes possess, we know that they stop, in
44 THOUOHT8 ON FHRGNOLOOT.
the manifestations of these powers, at the point at
which rationality begins; but let us suppose that we
do not know, from what they disclose, the extent of
thoir powers, and that the living principle in a brute
is endued with inherent powers of reasoning, there
is evidently an inability, on their part, to manifest
their superior powers ; nor can the contrary to this
be supposed, by arguing that the brute is in a state
of uncivilization, and “ there was once, prior to ex­
perience, as great presumption against human crea­
tures as there is against brute creatures, arriving at
that degree of understanding which they have in
mature a g e w e might not have known prior to
experience, but after experience, we do know, that
whenever man is placed under circumstances cal­
culated to disclose his ability, that it is observed to
be there. Whereas, after experience, we know that
the brute has been placed under every circumstance
calculated to develop the extent of what they could
manifest, as the dog, &c.; nor can it be objected
that, perhaps, they require a different field of cir­
cumstances to attract their powers, which may be of
a character different to those of man, for we know
that the grade of beings in the universe is what we
may call lineal, the devolution going through the
same species, and only diminishing from man.
Suppose, then, that these powers do exist, and that
no condition of life in which their possessor is
placed con call them forth, it must be evident that
there is au inadequacy of the instrument to the use
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 45
of these powers, just as there are degrees in mi­
croscopic power: we know that with some mi­
croscopes, one can see a greater distance, and with
greater distinctness, than he can with another; and
upon what does this difference depend but upon the
instrument ? for the eye or visual agent that uses it
may not only be of equal strength, but it may be
the same. It appears, then, that whether this power
be tliero or not, it cannot hold an intercourse with
the material world, because it requires the ex­
istence of a material organ adapted for that pur­
pose. Since the brute, therefore, does not bIiow
this power in any relation of life, it is quite evident
that there is a want of a medium through which it
may manifest it, and this, of course, naturally affords
the presumption, that whenever this power manifests
itself, there must, of necessity, be the medium also.
Man having, therefore, this power of reasoning,
8ccn and endued with the capacity of showing it,
there must also, of necessity, exist this correspond­
ing material organization in man.
And may we not fairly suppose that the intel­
ligent part of man, as distinguished from his mere
animal part, viz. his body, may be equal in every
individual, for it is equally immortal in every one?
I suy equal in a ll; for if it were greater in some
persons than in others, we should expect to find it
greater in proportion as the material man is larger;
but thon we know that the larger man is, some­
times, not only weaker in bodily strength, but also
46 THOUGHTS ON m BBNOLOG T.
in mental ability, and that the very same being that
was in the circumscribed form of an infant is after*
wards the same unchanged being in the mature
man ; for if it left the body (by death,) while it was
in its infantile state, we have every reason to be­
lieve that it would be as much immortal us if it
leaves the body at the period of old age. And
may we not be justified in supposing that the feeble
manifestation of intellect, in iufancy, results from
the feebleness of the material organs, since we see
that the same mind acts more powerfully through
its matured instrument, and that each mind can in­
crease the manifestation of itself, as the organs are
enlarged? and since, also, we see that a man
uneducated keeps that intelligent principle nar­
rower in the manifestation of itself thau we know it
to be naturally, and permits it to be surpassed by
some other mind, which appears naturally to be less
powerful, may we not conclude, then, that the
intelligent principle may be of the same strength in
each person ? and if we do not believe in this, we
hare no reason to believe the contrary, inasmuch as
the same analogical proof is equally strong in both
cases.
And I think, in favour of this point, a strong
argument is furnished in the cases of maniacs and
idiots. In each of these subjects we know that the
intelligent principle is considerably more enlarged
than we observe it to be, or, in other words, that
each has an intellect, although we cannot observe it ;
THOUGHTS ON FHRENOLOOT. 47
for I assume, and it is not in the power of created
intelligence to prove the contrary, that idiotism and
insanity are the effects of man’s fall, and that, on
the removal of the influence of sin by death, there
will also be a contemporaneous repeal of the effects
of sin, and that consequently, when the soul of on
idiot passes from this world, its idiotism will leave
it, and its disencumbered powers will then be re­
stored to the exercise of their original strength ;
and may we not, therefore conclude that an idiot
possesses all of the intellectual qualities; the cir­
cumstance of his not manifesting these qualities
cannot offer any serious objection to the fact that
he may possess them, for if so, the argument must
be urged with equal force against the maniac, in
which case, however, we know that it caunot be
urged at a ll; for the maniac, although he may now
no longer show any glimmering of reason, and
perhaps may bo more destitute of it, if possible, than
the idiot, yet may, perhaps for the greater portion
of his life previously, have manifested St, and liavo
manifested it in a great degree, and so far, there­
fore, from our supposing that he has no reasoning
powers at all, we have the strongest evidence that
he does possess them, and that therefore they may
be present, although the power of manifesting them
no longer exists, and that consequently there is every
reason for our supposing that the idiot possesses
them. Wc have not any reason to suppose that the
soul (whioli wc see existing when the intellect is
48 THOUGHTS OK rilttENOLO OT.
dormant) is at all deprived of its intellectual ca­
pacities, for in some cases, after an entire halluci­
nation, we find that, on a restitution of the body to
health, there is a re-manifestation of the intellect;
nor do I conceive that the case is altered from the
circumstance of the body’s being deranged at an
earlier period in one person than in another, or that
it should he deranged even at so early a period as at
the birth of the individual, as we see in the case of
an idiot.
And this point may he further supported, if it
were necessary, by an argument drawn from the
fact of the intelligent principle’s being altogether
deprived by the dissolution of the body, of the power
of manifesting those powers which we know that it
not only once possessed and manifested, but even
now has.
Inasmuch as the idiot possesses a greater obstacle
to the exercise of his intellect, than one whose body
is less deformed, one of the effects of the fall may
appear in the case of the one to be more fearful than
in the cose of the other, and the most then we can
conceive is, that there will be a greater obstacle to
be removed in the former than in the latter case,
in order to the apparently different capacities being
manifested in a parallel degree ; yet the removal of
the effects of sin will be entire, and will leave the
soul in the possession of all the original endow­
ments peculiar to man; and consequently we may
expect to find hereafter that that shattered frame­
's.
THOUGHTS ON FKBEN OLOQY. 4 9
50 THOUGHTS ON rHRYNOLOGY.
work, which now seems uninhabited by even one
spark of intelligence, may be found to have en­
circled all of the finest mental attributes which have
not been extinct, but have only been long slumber­
ing under their more than ordinary ruins.
I say, then, that the idiot, ulthough he shows no
intellect, yet possesses it, and I think that this fact
is established so far as it is capable of any proof;
but then, if thero be any reason for supposing that
the idiot possesses mind in any degree greater than
we observe it to be, there can be nothing in the
way of our supposing that his mind is much greater
than we observe it to be, And consequently that it
may be as capacious as the most largely developed
intelligent principle of which we know any thing;
and if this mode of reasoning be at all applicable
in the case of an idiot, which is so low in the scale
of intellectual gradation, it must be applicable where
the differences in the manifestion of the intelligent
being is not so great, that a porson therefore, who
appears less talented than another, has nevertheless
equal ubility with him, and consequently, by parity
of reason, the intelligent principles of all are equal.
Admitting, then, that the intelligent part of man
is equally strong in every man, how do we account
for the infinite variety of ability in man ? It surely
must arise from the difference in the mediums of
communication— upon the difference in the strength
or sine of that material part of man through which
it manifests itself; and such a view, irrespective of
any other argument, is sufficiently borne out by the
fact, that all beads of the rational portion of nature
are differently formed, and show different powers,
and show a greater or inferior mind in proportion to
the resemblance they bear to the animal creation;
the mind appearing the more powerful in the ratio
that the formation of the head is removed in point
of resemblance from that of the brute.
Nor can it be objected that perhaps the intelligent
principle is itself so deformed by the fall as to pro­
duce this diversity of talent; for we well know that
tho body inay have so great au influence in pro­
ducing it, as in the cases of cerebral diseases and
iujuries, when the mental powers are modified in the
proportion in which the disease or injury occurs,
that we may be justified in attributing this diversity
to die variety iu cranial formations which may be
produced from natural as well as artificial causes.
But we find in one mind one particular faculty,
quite as strong as the same faculty in another mind,
which is in every other respect a great deal more
powerful; now it is quite evident that the former
head must be different in some parts and not in
others, aud when we proceed, and find that whenever
we see the same deficiency in the manifestations of
mind, we also see the same resemblance in confor­
mation of the head; this amounts to great pre­
sumptive evidence that the different faculties of
mind must require different portions of the head for
Uieir respective exercise.
•E'i.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 51
It may be argued against the equality of beings
in man, that there are degrees of happiness and
misery hereafter, but in reality this proves nothing,
for although it is true that the different capacities
for enjoyment will be fu lly satisfied, and that there
will be different capacities, yet these differences
depend upon the degrees of religions improvement
at which each arrives here; and in order, there­
fore* to prove any thing, it will be necessary to
show, that one man not so much advanced in re­
ligion as another is incapable of being so much ad­
vanced, or that this man could not he less sinful than
he is, which would be an absurd supposition, since,
in each case, there is an abuse of one’s powers, and
not the proper use, and moreover, some individuals
of superior intellect ore more irreligious than others
inferior to them in that respect, and that therefore
the inferior intellect will be capable hereafter of a
greater exercise of mind than the former, and if
this be not admitted we have no right to believe in
this at all, inasmuch as the proof is the same in
both cases.
It will appear that in the foregoing pages I have
endeavoured to establish the fact, that each distinct
or simple function has a distinct organ, without at­
tempting to prove how many simple functions there
are. The division of the organs by Phrenologists
is at least numerically correspondent with what they
oonceive to be the number of simple qualities of
mind ; even supposing then that this division is too
52 THOUGHTS ON PHEENOLOOT.
multiform, still this cannot alter the fact that the
functions of mind are both plural and different, aud
that each that it simple must require an independent
organ. And again, even supposing that some func­
tions have been referred to organs to which, in
reality, they do not belong, still this does not destroy
the same fact, that there are organs which are re­
spectively appropriate to these functions; and al­
though, therefore, Phrenologists may differ and err
on some of the more detailed parts of the Science of
Phrenology, yet the circumstance of Phrenology’s
not having been yet perfectly discovered, does not
make it the less true that it is a science.
On the whole then it appears (if even Phrenology
has not been proved to be a valid science) that there
are at least vast difficulties in the way of our sup­
posing that the brain is but one organ. We have
seen that these difficulties are met by the recog­
nition of a plurality of organs, and this circum­
stance then must be admitted to be, primd facie,
very strong presumptive evidence in support of the
truth of such doctrine. It is true that, as presump­
tive evidence, it may not be sufficient positively to
establish the truth of the doctrine it upholds, yet it
is at least amply sufficient to answer any one, who
would arbitrarily reject such doctrine without any
adequate evidence in support of the objection to it,
and in the absence of even the suggestion of a sub­
stitution of any theory by means of which these
difficulties may be solved.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 53
54 THOUGHTS OH PHRENOLOGY.
I say that abstract reasoning is opposed to the
idea of a single cerebral organ; should it appear,
then, on further enquiry, that reasoning is strength­
ened by facts, and that all force is removed from
those objections which stand in the way of a recep­
tion of Phrenology, it cannot be too great a result
for me to anticipate that a candid reader will at
least conclude the perusal of these pages with strong
convictions in favour of Phrenology, and approach
the study of the science, should he be disposed to
learn it, with at least abated prejudice and in search
of truth.
C H A PT E R IV.
THE SUBDIVISION OF THE BRAIN INTO A PLU­
RALITY OF ORGANS— THE DOCTRINE SUPPORTED
BY FACTS, AND THE MAPPING OUT OF THE
H EAD INTO ORGANS PRACTICABLE.
“ Y fi, nature's road most ever be preferred.
Reason It here no guide, bat etltl a guard;
*1b herb to rectify, not overthrow.0
Port
I a s s u m e then that it must be admitted that
there are different qualities of mind, and of neces­
sity, therefore, that there are also different material
organs. The only question then is, whether it is
possible to determine to what particular organ, or
what particular part of the head each quality re­
spectively belongs, and whether that organ is dis­
coverable from without ? Observation and experi­
ment prove the existence of this ability.
Whether or not each function is traceable to its
appropriate organ at all, and this relation between
them is discoverable from without, is a point the
truth of which must be disproved or established by
facts alone.
And the objection which is urged against Phren-
ology, on the ground of its not standing the test of
facts, must also stand or fall by the same test.
And again, before any apparent failure of facts
can be considered as decisive against the truth of
Phrenology, we must be satisfied that all of the
facts are before us, which may have any influence in
preventing an accurate development of a character.
I say this ; for if some characters are incorrectly
given, and circumstances may exist which are cal­
culated to produce this error, we must be certain
that these circumstances do not exist, before we can,
in fairness, reject, as fallacious, that system which
affords the counter-balancing circumstance in its
favour of some characters being correctly de­
veloped.
And it should be remembered that this ought to
be conceded, at least, by those who would reject
Phrenology altogether, because of that interference
which they imagine is offered by these circum­
stances to the free and beneficial application of the
science.
If a want of efficient knowledge in the Phreno­
logist, an unnatural thickness of some part of the
scull, a frontal sinus, &c. can prevent an accuracy in
disclosing particular characters, we must be sa­
tisfied that these interruptions are not the cause
of any inaccuracy before we refer such inaccuracy
♦ «the incapacity of Phrenology itself.
'hat some persons possess such deformities as
56 THOUGHTS OK PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 57
those above, which are not observable, and which,
therefore, must baffle a correct phrenological de­
velopment ofany particular character, cannot be con­
sidered as conclusive evidence against the truth of
Phrenology, if it enable us to develop characters cor­
rectly, when these extraordinary circumstances do not
exist; nor can they, indeed, have any weight against
a science which professes to treat not of that which
is deformed, but of that which is natural, and which,
in pronouncing a character, gives it as it imagines it
would be, if the head were both healthy and na­
tural.
If all heads were exactly alike, and one mind did
not differ from another, nor could be made to do so
by study, it would, perhaps, be impossible to ascer­
tain to what particular organs the several functions
belong; we may be enabled to prove the existence
of organs by the arguments above, but this is all that
we could do, but it could only be by observing a de­
ficiency in some quality, (which must, of course,
only be done by observing the same faculty to be
more powerful in some one else,) as this quality then
must have not only a distinct organ, but an organ
proportioned to the degree of power it manifests;
if the power be small, the organ must be small also.
If, then, supposing all minds were alike, except that
of one person, in whom the faculty of comparison
was in a less degree than in the others, we should
expect to find, (as this faculty, dfortiori, must have a
distinct organ,) that one part was less conspicuously
developed than the rest of it, and when, on ob­
serving the head, we actually find this to be the
case, the common intuitive prinoiple, upon which
we infer effect from cause, must determine that por­
tion of the head to be the organ belonging to that
faculty; viz. comparison. But there is a great
want of resemblance both in the formation of heads
and in powers of mind, attention to which, viz.
comparing, distinguishing, and identifying, &c. is
the science of Phrenology.
If, in our investigation, we find some one who has
the organ of benevolence (or any other organ,)
large, also has the quality of mind assigned to this
organ large, it will afford, perhaps, but slight pre­
sumption, yet still it will afford some presumption,
that whenever we see this organ in the same de­
gree of prominency, we shall also see this quality,
and see it in a great degree; and if we go fur­
ther, and find that when this organ is small, the
quality or propensity is small also, the presumption
is increased, that that organ is the seat of that
quality. When, in our further process, we find
that in two persons having this organ large, the
quality is large in both; and in two having it small,
it is feehle in both; the presumption is much in­
creased : and when we find that the cases are mul­
tiplied, by every additional observation being at­
tended with the same effect, that when the cases
are multiplied from two to a hundred, we still have
the same results, this amounts, if any thing can,
58 THOUGHTS ON PH1URNOLOQY.
to positive proof that this organ is the seat of that
particular quality, and that -whenever we meet with
it large, (that is, large in proportion to the size of
the others,) we shall, without the possibility of a
doubt or failure, find the faculty large, and vice
v en a ; I say, that when the cases are multiplied
indefinitely, and with the same satisfactory results,
this is positive proof; for even suppose, (although
we assert it to be impossible,) that we find one case
attended with a different result, this, if it proved
any thing, would probably prove the rule; but, at
all events, it would be a monstrous absurdity, and
against all true principles of reasoning, to argue
from particulars to generals, and to suppose my
argument inverted by it, and hence an equally ex­
travagant absurdity to suppose the exception can
govern the rule.
If then, I say, every time we see what we deno­
minate the organ of benevolence, we find the pre­
sence of that quality attributed to it, and find it
vigorotis or feeble in the ratio that the organ is
compressed or developed, and when we go further,
and find the same result in respect of every organ
and quality, is there not positive and palpable tes­
timony to the truth of the doctrine of Phreno­
logy?
From the mode of discovery just observed, we
see, beyond a question, the ability of determining
the respective organs of the respective qualities.
Thus we find that we can discover it by observation
THOUGHTS ON rilRENOLOGV. 5 9
and comparison, &c. or, in other words, we can
prove the ralidity of the science by facts, the most
invincible of all arguments; but we may go fur*
ther still, and prove it, by trying the particular
individualfaculty ; we can test the faculty of any
organ by the use of that branch of study to which
it is adapted.
The influence that study exerts in the visible de­
velopment of the material organ affords of itself an
amplitude of proof: in intellectual pursuits the
intellectual regiou of the brain is developed, and
each particular study that is adopted increases, to
the neglect of others, that particular organ to
which tho acquirement of that study was especially
assigned; indeed, the capacity of that study was
assigned to that organ, because it was observed to
be capable of it. In the study of mathematics
there is a proportional increase of the mathema­
tical organ: if these studies are neglected, and the
attention is never drawn towards pursuits involving
mathematical principles, then that portion of the
brain is not increased. In sensual pursuits, if any
particular passion is indulged, we find the same
proof to Phrenology ; and to whatever function of
the iniud we attend, the organ answering thereto is
proportionally developed. It is^the observation of
these that has discovered Phrenology. Phrenology
has not subdivided the brain, and then looked for
favourable results, but the observation of sub­
division has given birth to Phrenology.
60 THOtJOJlTB ON PHRENOLOGY.
If it be asked “ how do we know that the form of
the head is changed by study?” the answer is, “ how
do you know that it is not t" We would infer, from
metaphysical reasoning, that the brain would in­
crease by study, if the mind increases by i t ; the
degree of manifestation depends upon the size and
strength of the organ, therefore the increased power
of the mind, if it be manifested, must have a
corresponding increase of the cerebral organ. But
-still we have a more substantial basis for the asser­
tion ; viz. facts. It is one of the unanswerable
proofs of the truth of Phrenology, that the form of
the head changes by study, and this because it is
founded on facts. One of the modes of discovery
is this:— Busts have been cast of men entering
at the university, and on their leaving it, they have
been again cast/and the change in the head has been
found conformable to the nature and extent of the
study. At Mr. Devile's one may receive ocular
proof of this. In Mr. Devile’s valuable museum I
have had the pleasure of seeing no less than one
hundred and forty casts forcibly and beautifully
illustrative of the doctrine of change of form by
study. It may be said that, if our factB are true,
our argument is conclusive ; then we answer, that
we have investigated the facts, and found them satis­
factory, and who would arrive at the same result,
must adopt the same means ; viz. personal observa­
tion. We cannot place casts on paper, or would
THOUGHTS ON PJ1HENOI.OGY. 61
6 2 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
do so: to these facts, however, all are accessible,
and, therefore, until they are reviewed, the truth
of our statements of these facts cannot be ques­
tioned, nor, &priori, the conclusiveness of our ar­
gument.
CHAPTER V.
VARIOUS OBJECTIONS ANSW ERED.
“ On different senses different objects strike,
Hence different passious more or less inflame,
As strong or weak the passions of the frame/*
Pop*.
“ W h a t knew we of mathematics,” it is asked,
“ when man was created ? It is absurd to suppose
that there is an organ of mathematics.” Such ob­
servations as these, for they are not arguments, de­
serve to be silenced, not satisfied; it is of little
moment what we think; the truth is, that there are
mathematics in the world ; and we know, from the
circumstance of the mind having created and placed
them there, and that minds can and do study them
with great success, that there must be a capacity for
them, (whether Phrenology exist or not.) But I
say, that if mathematics are acquired, there must
be a capacity for them, inasmuch as it is not every
one who can acquire them; and also upon the in­
controvertible principle of belief, that before there
can be acquisition, there must be the power to ac­
quire. This is sufficient to silence the caviller; but
it would not be difficult to satisfy him, for mathe-
matics. or, wo will Bay, any abstruse argument, (for
the objection appears to be to the name, not so much
the thing,) is made up of its premises, deductions, or
sequences and conclusions, and to apprehend it,
therefore, it is necessary that the mind be able to
observe the relative positions, to compare the several
relations or sequences, to calculate, &c.; for the
former of these, locality is necessary; for the second,
comparison; for the third, number, &c. And so,
when it is determined by Phrenologists, that one
person is more likely to be guilty of the crime of
infanticide than another, it is not intended to say,
tliat there is an innate propensity to this crime, that
there is a simple faculty for this crime, but that one
who has the love of children in a very feeble or im­
perfect degree, is less able to endure, or be pacific
under the petty provocations and trials imposed by
the parental condition, and therefore is more likely to
be guilty of the crime. Some persons are guilty of it,
and, independently of Phrenology, the circumstance
must be accounted for in this way, and all that
Phrenology docs, is only to anticipate experience,
and say in what persons the love of children is weak,
in what persons it !b excessive. I have been asked
by one opposed to Phrenology, how I account for the
murder of an infant by a mother, when such infant
is born under circumstances the disclosure of which
would involve the parent in future disgrace and
ruin ? Now, I would observe that, from the truth of
this casu of infanticide, it appeurs that the parent
64 THOCOBTS ON FI1RENOLOOT.
was capable of committing the crime, whether
Phrenology accounts for this capacity or not; but it
is obvious great love of approbation, self-love, de­
structiveness,— in short, I would say, that some com­
bination more constraining than love of children,
existed in the parent and prompted to and qualified
for the dreadful deed.
Because a person would say, phrenologieally, one
person would play chess well, and another would
not; it has been asked, as it has of mathematics,
what knew we of chess when we were created ? or,
if our Creator would possibly have placed an organ
of chess in one’s head ? The argument above is an
answer to this as well as to any other objections of
this flippant character.
There are some who reject Phrenology on ac­
count of the terms by which some of the organs
are known, because they are considered as giving to
man an innate evil propensity which he has not, such
as destructiveness, &c., which, in the opinion of op­
ponents, is identical with murder. Now, it should
be remembered, that to speak of an organ of de­
structiveness cannot be more revolting than to speak
of a propensity of destructiveness. If, then, a pro­
pensity of destructiveness be a quality of human
nature, and it has an organ, we must be innocent in
giving that organ the same name; it should be re­
membered, that all of the qualities receive the
names adapted to their primitive nature, and not to
their absurd or modified condition; and as no
Y
THOUGHTS OR PHRENOLOGY. 65
(56 THOUOHT9 ON PJ1BBNOLOOT.
quality is primarily bad, when we denominate a
quality “ destructiveness,” we make use of a term
quite aa innocent as the term “ benevolence.”| With­
out some degree of destructiveness and combative­
ness, a man would find it impossible to combat and
surmount the difficulties with which he meets- If
placed in some magisterial office, he could not carry
out the ends of justice; he would find himself unfit
for the most ordinary occupation in life, aud he
would regard even the acquisition of the very ne­
cessaries of life os a difficulty of an insuperable
nature. The quality of destructiveness, then, is as
useful and as innocent as the sentiment of benevo­
lence. We know that some men are guilty of crime,
and, as an agent must exist before it can act, we
must refer each action to a distinct principle. We
hear that an individual is notorious for all manner
of crime and vice; now, by crime and vice, we mean
only such as human nature is capable of being guilty
of, that is, oidy such as a man is capable of committing
by the abuse of only such propensities as he pos­
sesses. One individual may murder one man in one
way, and another murder another in another way,
but each would be guilty of only one crime, vis.
murder; consequently, each must have that pro­
pensity, one of the abuses of which is that crime;
for if this capacity for the crime did not exist, the
individual could no more commit the crime than a
brute can exhibit the fruits of an intellect, without
being endowed with an intellectual power. 1 can-
not suppose that one propensity, however much
abused, can lead to every kind of evil of which we
have any knowledge; suppose a man with an all-
absorbing self-love, who has not the love of others
in the smallest degree, is it possible to imagine that
that man could so change his nature as to sacrifice
his own interest to the interest of another? I
think not, and say, therefore, that each distinct
crime must be referred to a distinct quality. We
hear of such and such circumstances tempting a
person to the indulgence of some passion ; now,
these circumstances could not have tempted, had
there not existed something capable of being
tempted, viz. this passion ; nor could this particular
passion have received any impressions from any ex­
ternal circumstances, had it not existed, as in the
instance given above; and the brute, although in­
tellectual objects were constantly before its eyes,
would receive no internal impression from them,
simply because no intellectual power exists which
could receive such impressions. A man may have a
disposition, and not exhibit it until circumstances
call it forth ; but no circumstance can call forth that
which a man has not. We say, then, that since
some men are murderers, there must be the capacity
in some men for committing murder. We do not
say that there is a quality whose primitive duty it
is to prompt to murder, and which cannot be con­
trolled, but we simply say, that a man, since he does
murder, can murder; and this must be the language
i t
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 67
of a ll; yet, when wc state that the quality of de­
structiveness gives this capacity to murder, there
are those who object to it, and who ask if it is pos­
sible that God wotdd have given to man a propen­
sity to murder, and at the same time have delivered
to him the sixth commandment ?
Now, this objection arises from the error many
persons make of identifying the abuse of a quality
with the quality itself, and its absurdity, therefore,
is very apparent. Destructiveness is by no means
synonymous with murder, which is only its abuse;
our vocal powers were given to us for speech, and
we cau and ought to say only what is innocent, yet
we can and do with the same voice blaspheme God;
now no one will say that Bpeech and blasphemous
language are synonymous, nor of course could be so
absurd as to say that there is no vocal power, be­
cause of this abuse of i t ; and yet this would not be
more absurd than is the assertion that destructive­
ness leads naturally to murder, or is no quality at
all, because the murderer abuses it. Wo see, then,
how unfounded is the above objection; and this
should teach us thoroughly to sift every objection,
before we attach any importance to it.
“ As fruits ungrateful to the planter’s care,
On savage stocks inserted, learn to bear;
The surest virtues thus from passions shoot,
Wild nature's vigour working at the root.
What crops of wit and honesty appear
From spleen, from obstinacy, bate, or fear;
6 8 THOCOHT8 ON THBENOLOGT.
See anger, sea), and fortitude supply,
E'en avarice, prudence; sloth, philosophy;
Lust, through some certain strainers well refined,
Is gentle love, and charms ail womankind;
Envy, to which the Ignoble mind’s a slave,
Is emulation in the learned and brave;
Nor virtue, male nor female can we name,
But what will grow on pride, or grow on shame.”
“ Fools! who from hence into the notion fall,
That vice and virtue there is none at all;
If white and black blend, soften, and unite
A thousand ways, Is there no black and white?”
But let us imagine that man was created with
only moral sentiments and intellectual powers,
still, inasmuch as he is capable of committing,
(amongst other crimes,) that of murder, it is evident
that he is so constituted as to be enabled to commit
this crime. Now, inasmuch as these high attributes
cannot, upon any principles of reason or common
sense, be supposed to qualify man for the perpetra­
tion of an act, which all must allow would be in
direct violation of them, it is quite clear that either
murder must be benevolence deficient, (inasmuch
as benevolence would prompt him to protect rather
than injure,) or it must be benevolence abused; to
account for it, if it be only the latter, is impossible,
because, since man would only possess those qualities
which would least constitute a murderous mind, he
would be, beyond all doubt, responsible for this
crime, while at the same time we must suppose that
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 6 9
he would, of himself, be so entirely unfit for being
tho active cause of the crime, that he must be so
wholly and altogether a passive instrument in the
hand of some external agent, that he would require
that very freedom in choice and action which would
be essential to constitute his act that of a responsible
being; and more, what we understand by an abused
benevolence, is not so strictly an inadequate exercise
of this quality, but that inordinate exclusive devo­
tion of one’s time to the good of others, which
involves a violation of that priuciple which requires
a man to do some proportionate good to himself,
and which therefore excludes the idea of extreme
injury to others.
And I am equally at a loss to conceive how
murder can be a defect of benevolence, and indeed,
if we try to account for it in this way, we run into
a difficulty much more insurmountable than, or at
least equally great with, that which it is attempted
to remove, for whenever this defect was observed to
be so considerable as that murder was tho conse­
quence, we should be justified in denominating such
dofect the quality of murder.
If a man, who would once have administered
willingly to the temporal necessities of others,
should at any one time withhold his succour from
one who appeared to be an object worthy of lus
bounty, it is reasonable to suppose that he does so
with some degree of pain and reluctance; if he
repeats this act of indifference, this pain aud reluc-
70 THODGHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON FHKENOI.OGV. 71
tance would in some degree, although in the lowest
possible, be lessened; and if his refusal of succour
grows into a habit, this pain and reluctance suffers
an increasing diminution, until this aid is withheld
with perhaps no reluctance at alL Now although
it is true that the being innocent of good is not the
being guilty of actual evil, that is, that although the
inactivity of benevolence may not be a quality of
murder, yet it must be supposed to amount to some
quality which forms one of the many which compose
the character of man; such,forinstance, as selfishness,
I say must be supposed to amount to some other
quality, for other qualities besides moral and intel­
lectual are observed to be in man, and if such quali­
ties are not themselves distinct, or have distinct
sources from the intellectual and moral qualities,
they must be the result of certain conditions of
these; and whether this quality be thus formed
by the individual himself or by nature, does not
alter the fact of its being there ; every time, then,
any lukewarmness in the exercise of benevolence is
apparent, we should be justified in attributing to
the individual exhibiting it, the possession of this
quality. So then, whether Phrenology be a valid
science or not, the rejection of it does not effect the
removal of that difficulty which it is supposed to
create. But it is impossible to conceive that bene­
volence, which is only a simple quality, and only
conversant with prompting to actions which are
beneficial to others, can, under any modification,
qualify for an act diametrically opposed to its very
essence. Now when we Bee benevolence inopera*
tive, it is evident that it is kept in abeyance by the
exercise of some other controlling principle, and as
the exercise of this increases the principle itself,
so from the want of such exercise, benevolence itself
becomes proportionally weak, yet it wonld be ac­
knowledged by all that the quality such an individual
possessed was the quality of benevolence, although
he possessed it in a very feeble degree, and all
would regard it as primarily good, and consider the
excessive activity only an abuse, and the defect of it
the abuse ofsome other quality j so then, if selfishness
be the result of any other quality, it no more implies
that this quality is originally bad, because it happens
not to be called benevolence, than the abuse of be­
nevolence makes benevolence itself a bad quality;
the only reason why, from certain conditions of the
organs, a person is pronounced to be one who is
likely to offend in this or that particular way, is
because, (we see it by observation,) through the
fall of man we are told of his continuous inclina­
tion to evil, and we conclude, therefore, that each
quality has a tendency to abuse or a capacity to be
abused, and that in proportion os these qualities are
strong or weak, so we may look for a corresponding
excess or short-coming in the exercise of them.
I say, since it is known that man is selfish and can
murder, selfishness and murder must either be them­
selves inherent mental qualities, or be the result of
72 THOUGHTS OK PHRENOLOGY.
certain conditions of other functions of the mind;
nor do I conceive but that this conclusion is inevi­
table ; they cannot, however, be the former, and
are admitted by all to be only the latter, that is, that
they are only the abuses of other mental qualities;
but we have seen that it is opposed to every thing
analogous to a legitimate inference, to suppose that
any modification or abuse of benevolence can either
be, or be productive of such inconsistent effects;
since then it appears that there must be qualities
such as self-love and destructiveness, which are
innocont in themselves, but capable of abuse, and
from which, when abused, these effects would seem
to follow as natural consequences, the evidence in
favour of their connection is so strong, that it seems
to beget that degree of proof, which is irresistible,
that such effects are the abuses of these qualities,
that these qualities therefore exist, and that conse­
quently man is not made up exclusively of moral
sentiments and intellectual powers.
It has been urged to me as an objection, and
therefore I state it, although I cannot Bee in what
the objection consists, “ that the characters which
have been given for several persons do not differ
materially.” Now, in the first place, I have known
characters developed, in some instances resembling
each other, in others not bearing so close a resem­
blance, but in neither case was the character incor­
rectly developed on account of this resemblance, or
the want of it, and this shows that, where it is
THOUGHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY. 73
necessary, Phrenologists can and do give different
developments, and having, therefore, in this or that
instance, given one and not another character, we
must, primd Jade, take this to be correct, for he
shows that he deems it so, expretrio imius est
exclurio alleriut. But why should a great dif­
ference be looked for? these characters are all
given of one race of beings; one character is not
of a man, and another of a brute, and therefore the
question is not, whether or not there is a resem­
blance in the development of two or more given
characters, but whether or not each development is
correct; if either be inaccurate, and that inac­
curacy be the result of abuse, we say capacity for
abuse is not unworthiness of existence, nor proof of
invalidity, for if so, the abused word of God must
be brought within the application of the theory,
and be sacrilegiously expunged from the gaze of
the universe, few things being more abused than
this; but if the inaccuracy proceeds from a want of
a perfect acquaintance with the science, we would
ask, why should that perfection bo looked for in
Phrenology, which no one is so scrupulous as to
erect as the test of the truth of other sciences?
Why should Phrenology be supposed to be exempt
from that infirmity which more or less encumbers
every thing human ? And this suggests an answer
to the objection urged as to the impossibility of
rovealing different organs upon one apparently
equal surface; now why, if it is supposed doubtful
74 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOQT,
whether they can be revealed at all ; if the science
be true, must it be supposed that they must be
revealed with unerring exactitude ? Surely if it be
found difficult to believe the science at all, because
of its apparent difficulty, this is just a reason why
we should expect to find a want of perfection in its
application; and this suggests to any one, who
would offer an objection, this self-examination,
“ Whether or not the objection is one that I would
urge against any other science ?” “ Is it not that I
dislike the science, and therefore endeavour, by
objections, to put it down, without really enquiring
whether or not those objections are valid?” “ Have
I given that impartial attention to the subject which
every subject merits before it is decried; and after
such investigation, does my objection really bear
against the science at all ?” “ And if I have not
given the due investigation, are not my objections
useless, and do I not show my ignorance and folly,
and do I not rather draw contempt on myself than
do injury to the science?" “ and do I not thus
prove nothing so much as the weakness of my own
cause ?” Perhaps the objection is only against the
extreme view of the science. “ Is this not because
I have always disbelieved the science, but some
startling facts have urged upon me the belief of
some part of it,*the truth of which there iB now
no gainsaying? but as to the rest, I have not
taken the trouble to see whether it be true or not;
but as I do not know it I am still prejudiced against
THODGIIT8 ON PH RENOLOOT. 75
76 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
it, and of course think it safer to object to that
portion of it.”
And suppose a character to be incorrectly de­
veloped ; before we can fairly consider this as con­
clusive against the science, must we not duly con­
sider the following points: 1st, Whether the indi­
vidual giving the character has a sufficient practical
knowledge of the science to qualify him for doing
so ? 2nd, If he is not qualified, has the head of the
individual whose character has been given been
tested by a correctly marked phrenological bust?
3rd, If the individual is qualified, has the character
still been tested by some correct phrenological bust,
to see whether the Phrenologist has erred in this
instance, or whether the error is attributable to
Phrenology? For we must remember, that the
true question is not whether a Phrenologist has
erred, but whether Phrenology is false; and 4th,
and lastly, Whether the Phrenologist be qualified or
not, have not many characters been correctly de­
veloped, and although, therefore, some have been
incorrectly given, have we not just as strong a
reason for inclining to the science as for rejecting
it?
C H A PT E R VI.
POW ER IN M ANIFESTATION OF MIND DEPENDENT
ON THE EX TEN T OF CEREBRAL ORGANS— OB­
JECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ON THIS GROUND
ANSW ERED.
" All spread their charms, bat charm do! all alike.
Oa different sensei different objects strike;
Hence different passions mure or less inflame.
As atrong or weak the organs of the frame.'* Pure*
T here is a reason assigned for the rejection of
Phrenology, which, had it not its origin in a mind
of great and undoubted superiority, I should have
thought unworthy of particular notioe. It is said
that Phrenology is untrue, because it teaches that
power of mind depends upon extent of brain,
whereas it is known that small insects which have
small heads manifest great instinct. Firstly, Phre­
nology does not say that one head of greater
magnitude than another, is therefore necessarily
marked with greater intellect, on the contrary, we
are told that the degree of intellect depends upon
the formation of the cerebral mass, for instance,
one head may be much larger than another, but
may have the occipital or animal region greatly
preponderating, while the other may have an or­
ganization the reverse, and therefore, although much
smaller, yet much more intellectual. But Phreno­
logy does say, and it is borne out by facts, that if
the organizations be similar but one head be gene­
rally larger, the larger head will exhibit the more
powerful mind, unless the smaller is of a very
active temperament, which is a substitute for size.
But just in the same sense that Phrenology says
that power of mind depends upon the extent of
the brain, so any one would say that the physical
strength of man depends in a great measure on the
size of his bodily orgaus ; and no one denies this fact,
that is, denies that bodily strength depends primarily
on the size of the body, yet it might just as fairly be
said that this cannot be true, for we find the mi­
nutest insects with bodily organs very small, yet
discharging all of the functions in a manner quite as
appropriate to the requirements of the insect in its
sphere of action, as we find them in the case of man ;
and all admit that the superior power exhibited by
a man or a horse, in walking or carrying a load, is
attributed to the size and strength of the leg. Now
it may be urged that this fact cannot be true, for
the small insects walk well and run fast, yet no one
is so absurd as, on this account, to reject this fact,
and yet no one is prepared to say that the insect
possesses the vast power which we know to belong
to the physical ability both of the man and the
horse; now we see that to the habits and necessities
78 T n o n o H T S o n p h r e n o l o o v .
THOUGHTS ON PHHENOLOOT. 79
of the minutest animal there is a beautiful adapta­
tion of each corporeal member, and just so with the
immaterial essence of the same creature, there is
every reason why it may be and is appropriated
to it, and although the cerebral organ may be very
small, yet it may not be, and is not, too minute for
the full guidauce of the particular insect which
possesses it; yet no one can say that the iustinot
of the insect is os powerful and comprehensive as
the instinct of some larger animals, and of course
has not the intellect of man. But Phrenology does
not Bay that the cerebral moss may be so minute as
to be incapable of being, in that minute form,
an efficient instrument to some living principles;
it may say that it may be of such dimensions as to
cease to be an instrument of reasoning ability, but
when it is, the person or idiot who labours under
the deficiency may, although quite devoid of reason,
be an instinctive animal; we know that the activity
of the mind depends greatly on the temperament of
the individual, and we may suppose, inasmuch as the
head of an ant is of necessity small, that its tem­
perament may be of inconceivable activity; but we
have no reason for believing that the instinct of an
ant, or a smaller insect, is not extremely narrow ;
to its physical frame, an orange is considered a
world to the ant, and a drop of water a world to the
animalcule, why then may not the instinct of each
be fairly considered as equally circumscribed ? On
the whole, then, I am at a loss to conceive how the
80 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY*
reason given above, viz. that power of intellect
depends on space of brain, can afford an objection
to the science of Phrenology. But the same emi­
nent individual who urged the objection above,
says, that the head changes its form by study, but
the change is occasioned by an increase of the blood­
vessels, and not by the pressure of any particular
]>art of the brain. In the first place, whilst no one
knows the nature of the brain, and we see that the
head does change by study, we have facts that we
cannot doubt: but I would suppose that the external
increase of the head is occasioned by the internal
pressure of the blood-vessels; why should that in­
crease take place in some parts of the ,head, and not
through the whole; why does it occur in a very
different part of the head of those who pursue in­
tellectual engagements, to what it does in those who
follow very opposite pursuits? Admitting, then,
that the blood-vessels are the active cause of this
change of form, and still their action must be de­
pendent upon the exercise or indulgence of the
mind or animal, and therefore, whether the effect be
produced by one solid body or another, the result is
just the same, viz. that this or that particular de­
velopment is occasioned by the exercise of this or
that quality of the mind or propensities; the exer­
cise of any one function of mind produces an excite­
ment of that portion of the brain assigned to it, aud
as this excitement may necessarily create a tendency
of blood to the part excited, and may be the una-
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 81
voidable cause of the expausion of the blood-vessels
immediately connected with it, the blood-vessels may
aid in the artificial development; but whether they
do or not, I cannot see that the doctrine it is in­
tended to subvert, is in any w~ay affected.
As we hare just above alluded to the fact that
strength of mind depends, irrespective of tempera­
ment, on the extent of brain, we should not perhaps
be wrong, in this place, further to illustrate this
point by analogy. In the physical economy we see
that the extent of physical power depends primarily
on the size of the corporeal members; for instance,
take the arm, we find that the degree of manual
power which any man exhibits depends on the size
of the arm, and if the arm be exercised, the result
is an enlargement of its size and a proportional in­
crease of its strength. Nor can it be objected
“ that the analogy does not hold, inasmuch as
manual strength must be supposed to depend upon
the size of the arm, in a different sense to that in
wbiph we understand the power of the mind to de­
pend upon the size of the brain, for we may suppose
that the intelligent being, when removed from the
body, may think or use any of its mental functions,
whereas we cannot suppose that it would be able to
exhibit any manual power.” Now this is at best
but mere conjecture, for we have no more idea
of the abstract condition of the mind than we have
of any other portion of our intelligent being; nor
do we know how we are connected more with one
G
i
portion of the body than we are with any other.
All that we know is, that the cerebral mass and the
arm are both equally instruments to one intelligent
being, and as we hare no reason for supposing that
one function of this intelligent being is destroyed by
the destruction of its organ, so we have no reason to
suppose that the other is, which may not only hares
posthumous existence, but may act independently of
its instrument, as well as the former function ; for
let it be remembered, that all that we contend for
is, that this intelligent being requires a material
organ for its communications to the material world,
and not for its existence; inasmuch as the living
agent possesses a body, we must suppose that tliat
body is designed and is necessary for its especial
use, and we actually find this to be the case, as this
ageut being immaterial necessarily requires the
interposition of a material orgau in order to its
holding an intercourse with matter. W e hare
neither the result of observation nor of reason to
teach us that we use tho brain in any other way than
lliut in which wo use the arm. And, moreover, the
arm is always quiescent, and is not able to move,
when it is removed altogether from the influence of
the agent; and whilst it is attached to the body we
see it is equally unable to move, until the ngeut is
in motion, and eveD then it is unable to move, unless
tho motiou is intended expressly for it, and this
just as the brain is unable to act when its agent re­
moves from it or does not use it. We see, then,
82 TtJOUOHTB ON nrRKXOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON FHBHNOLOGT. 83
that the arm as well as the brain is but an instru­
ment, and consequently we have no reason to suppose
that the one increases by exercise in any other
sense than the other, particularly too, since we see
that those organs, such as the ear, &c., the efficiency
of which does not so much depend on size as pe­
culiarity of structure, are not enlarged by the in­
creased exercise of their agents; we therefore think
that the conclusion is justifiable, that just as physical
power depends upon the size of the corporeal mem­
bers, so mental power depends upon the size of its
corporeal organs.
C H A PT E R VII.
FATALI8M : OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY ON THI8
GROUND ANSWERED.
“ The action of the stronger to suspend,
Reason still use, to reason still attend,
Attention habit and experience gains,
Each strengthens habit and self-love restrains.**
Pore.
A t the beginning I appropriated a paragraph to
the materialist. In conclusion, I address myself to
the fatalist. Materialism and fatalism are equally
dangerous in their effects ; the former excluding the
doctrine of the immortality of the soul altogether,
the latter admitting the truth of that doctrine, but
denying man to be responsible.
There are some who remark that the science of
Phrenology points to fatalism.
By a fatalist, we mean a person who thinks that
he is either unable to controul his actions, and is,
therefore, not a free agent; or, is able to controul
his actions, only the result will be the same, whether
his actions be of one character or another, and who,
therefore, is a free agent, but not responsible.
Now, that a man is a free agent, is a doctrine
taught by the Bible, seen by observation, supported
by reason, and believed by all to be true; I say,
believed by all, for although there are some who
pretend to believe the contrary, yet such men are
now so few and unreasonable as to be considered of
no weight in public estimation.
If Phrenology, therefore, countenances this doc­
trine of free agency, it countenances nothing more
than what is true, whether or not such doctrine
points to fatalism, although that it does is an in­
ference neither drawn by Phrenology nor warranted
by the doctrine; if, then, there are some rational
creatures who arrive at the monstrous conclusion,
that, notwithstanding they are free agents, they are
not responsible for their actions, this is an inference
drawn by these persons, and not by Phrenology,
which is as silent on the point as the Bible, which
is borne out by Phrenology in teaching that man is
a free agent. Phrenology, therefore, if it teaches
nothing opposed to the fact that man' may act from
choice, and consequently excludes the presumption
that it points to the reverse of this, puts to silence any
one who is disposed to consider that it points to fatal­
ism ; nay, even the fatalist himself, and relieves him
not of his responsibility. The first question, then, is,
whether, for any thing that Phrenology teaches to
the contrary, a man may not act from choice and de­
liberation, whether the result of his actions be of ne-
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 85
cessity or not, or whether he does not act of neces­
sity ?* The Bible teaches us that all men have the
]>ower to act from choice and deliberation, and that
all men have some sense of right and wrong ; that
all men are continually prone to evil, and that no man,
therefore, will ever turn to God until made to do so
by God’s Holy Spirit, and that the salvation of all
rests upon the same foundation, and upon something
altogether independent of themselves. If Phren-
ology, then, teaches us nothing in contravention
of the fact that all have the ability to act from
choice and deliberation, and that they have also
tome power of judging between right and wrong, it
is in perfect harmony with the Bible. Phrenology,
it is true, shows us that in some men the intellectual
powers and moral sentiments preponderate, and that
in other men the propensities prevail; and this we
see by observation, but this does not, as I will
presently show, justify the inference that Phreti-
nlogy points to fatalism; for although the propensi­
tiest may predominate in some men, yet they pos­
sess some measure of the superior faculties, and may
therefore exercise them; but, moreover, a proper-
* The doctrines of free will end of free grace may seem
mysterious to man, but they are nevertheless taaght by
Scripture, uud are therefore true.
t By the term propensities, which, unavoidably, very often
occurs, is meant, not the Inclinations or tendencies of the
tnind, hut distinct qualities; in Phrenology all of the qualities
being illvided Into Intellect, sentiments, and propensities.
80 THonanTS ow i*nnE«toLoaY.
sity, destructiveness, for instance, as before shown,
is a quality primarily good, but so corrupted by siu
as to be liable to the greatest abuse, and will be
more readily abused where it is one of the reigning
qualities, but it by no means follows that it will
be necessarily abused,— that a man possessing it in
a great degree will necessarily commit murder.
And so a man, in whom the superior qualities of
the mind predominate, will not necessarily incline
to what is intellectual and moral, for he possesses
the propensities in some degree, and may, there­
fore, a priori, exercise them, but through sin every
faculty has been corrupted, and all are liable to
abuse; a man may possess veneration large, and
may exercise this quality, but then the object of his
veneration may be an idol, or, perhaps, benevolence
is excessive, but then it may be used with indiscre­
tion, oi', if even its bounty were directed to proper
objects, yet, unless exercised from proper motives,
this will not be acceptable in the sight of God. But
as Phrenology only treats of the constitution of the
mind, and not of its actions, that is, only determines
what man can do, and not what he has already done,
or will hereafter do; if it teaches us that the consti­
tution of the mind is such as to be capable of doing
only such things as we actually find it to do, and
the Bible teaches us that it has done and will do, it
does quite enough to exempt itself from the charge
of being at variance with that sacred volume; hav­
ing shown us, then, that man has the ability to sin,
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 87
88 THOUGHTS OR TH&ENOI.OGT.
it is not necessary for it to show us that he has
sinned or will sin, in order to be in harmony with
the Bible, which teaches us that he has actually put
this ability into practice. And again, although
Phrenology may teach us that man has the capacity
to do what the Bible teaches us that he newer or
only partially does, still, inasmuch as man may have
a capacity without exercising it, it is not necessary
for it to teach us that he has not exercised this ca­
pacity, in order to harmonize with the Bible, which
teaches us that he never exercises it ; for instance,
although it may show us that one man may be
more injurious to society than another, and that
all have a sense of what is right and wrong, (that
is morally, and not spiritually right and wrong,)
and may act from choice and deliberation, it
does not show us that man will not continually in­
cline to evil, or that he will be continually moral
hereafter; or being so, that he can atone for his
past sins, or that one requires a more powerful
Saviour than the other. And again, if Phrenology
teaches ns nothing that disagrees with any other
portion of the Bible, it teaches nothing that is at all
inconsistent with its doctrine of salvation, for the
belief which is essential to salvation is the result of
a miraculous change of the mind by a Power alto­
gether independent of man, viz. by the Spirit of
God.
When, through the aid of Phrenology, a person
by lookiug at the head of a confirmed murderer,
A
TBOCOHTB OK PHRENOLOGY. 89
pronounces his character to be of a very low order,
and speaks of him as a man who is more likely and
able to perpetrate some heinous crime than a man
whose conduct has always been marked by acts of
benevolence, he says nothing' more than what all are
agreed in thinking, the only difference being the
manner in which they arrive at this result; the
latter, from observing the ill effect, infer the exist*
ence of the capacity for it ; the former, from ob­
serving the capacity, infer that such effect could
follow; and those who, after experience, know the
former man to be a murderer, think that he is more
likely than this other man to commit murder again;
and this is all the Phrenologist determines: we
have no more reason, then, for inferring, as regards
this, that Phrenology goes further, and determines
that this man must necessarily be a murderer, or
could only be guilty of heinous offences, than we have
any reason for supposing that the common belief of
mankind does so. Unless, then, Phrenology does
this, and if, on the contrary, it shows us that he
could at any one time exercise the least controul
over his propensities, or that, although he cannot
do this now, yet there was a time when he could
have done so, it no more points to fatalism than this
common belief of mankind. And suppose that
Phrenology went so far as to say that this murderer,
from the excitement of the moment, could not but
have committed murder, yet, in order to show that
this would sanction fatalism, it would be necessary
to prove that Phrenology goes still further, and
shows us that this person could not have kept himself
away from the influence of these circumstances,
which induced him to perpetrate the crime, or that
he could have no choice as to the time when he
would commit it, which it by no means does, since
it shows us that, with the worst combination which
qualifies for murder, there is that which gives the
most heartless murderer a sufficient controul over
his actions to await an opportunity which may shelter
him from the penalty of the law, and even to post­
pone the evil hour repeatedly, if he deem it ad­
visable to do so, and perhaps in some instances to
give up the commission of the crime altogether, a
circumstance which shows that Phrenology considers
him a free agent, and that just as he had the power
to govern himself in one instance, he had the power
to do so altogether, and that, consequently, he does
not commit the crime of necessity, but with a degree
of freedom which obviously shows him to be a free
agent. A man may, however, abstain from the
doing of some things from the fear of being
punished, and would then be a free agent iu the
sense in which we may consider that a brute is one,
which might of its own free will avoid this or that
danger, or act in this manner in preference to an­
other from a fear of being punished, but without
that moral sense of right and wrong which would
constitute either act a sin, and which, therefore,
would not be responsible. Another question arises,
90 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY* 91
then, viz. whether or not, according to Phrenology,
every man has not some sense of what is right and
what wrong ?
I need scarcely beg that it be remembered that
Phrenology, by ascribing to man the ability to act
from choice,* by no means intends to teach that nny
man can, from the finest moral and intellectual com­
bination, perform a spiritual obedience, and be
justified on account of any the most praiseworthy
conduct, or that any unsanctified morality will
be acceptable to God, but that he is only a free
agent in the scriptural sense of the term, that only
as a rational creature in a fallen state, he may
sometimes act more morally than at other times, as
is expressed in the words, “ When the Gentiles
which hare not the law, do by nature the things
contained in the law, these haring not the law are
a law unto themselves.”
All that I hare to establish then is, that Phren­
ology teaches nothing opposed to the fact that man
is a free agent, and may have a sense of right and
wrong; and this is done by showing that Phren­
ology recognizes in man those qualities which are
necessary to constitute a free agent. As man,
then, possesses these qualities, and as Phrenology
recognises all of these qualities in each man, it
acknowledges that he is a free agent.
It is quite unnecessary for me to show that man
* See Observations In conclusion.
■
may act from choice; since this is a fact which
must be acknowledged by all who would reject
Phrenology, on the ground of its being sup*
posed to sanction fatalism; it is sufficient for me
to state, that Phrenology recognises man to be
precisely what he is, and that it consequently holds
that he may act from choice; and this is done by
showing that Phrenology pronounces the mind to
be exactly what wo should discover it to be if
we wero practically acquainted with it, the only
difference being that, in the former case, we observe
it through its organs, which it is absurd to suppose
can make the mind in any way different from what
it is, while, in the latter, our discovery is the fruit of
experience.
It is surprising, then, that there are those who
consider that Phrenology points to fatalism; for not
only does it not lead to such an illogical conclusion,
but it positively rebuts the assertion, and inculcates
the opposite doctrine ; and it is, therefore, either
the ignorance of the whole, or an inference from a
garbled portion of the science, that is thus taken to
feed the prejudice of the sceptic. The Bible states
that every one that sinneth shall be damned; now
we may, from this insulated assertion, infer, that as
evory one has sinned, that every one will be damned;
but we well know that faith and repentance are
spoken of in qualification of such a sentence; and
although Phrenology determines that one person is
more oapable of the commission of some heinous
92 THOUGHTS OH PHRENOLOGY.
crime than another person, jet it unequivocallj shows
a capacity in every individual to overcome in the
degree, and to regulate the tendency of the inferior
portion of his nature by the exercise of his superior,
and declaring, therefore, as distinctly as language
can express it, that man is both a free agent, and a
responsible being, and as clearly tends to exclude
the opposite inference. If we are told that this
qualification has not been seen, we say that it is be­
cause the science has not been studied or is not
comprehended; or if it be said that this prepon­
derance of the inferior functions implies an inca­
pacity for the controlling exercise of the feeble
intellectual development, we still say, that this is a
delusiou rooted in an ignorance of the science, and,
indeed, in ignorance of the philosophy of mind, and
not the result of a candid investigation. But let us
suppose the extinction of Phrenology, and I would
observe, in recapitulation, that wo know metaphy­
sically and observationally, that a preponderance of
vicious and criminal inclinations degrade some men,
and prove their existence by their pernicious opera­
tion ; it must, therefore, be argued, that the poverty
of intellect and morality in these individuals is
unable to counteract the operations of the former,
and must, therefore, render man irresponsible, and,
consequently, must point as rationally to fatalism
as Phrenology; and yet no one disbelieves that,
for the truth of which he has the evidence of his
observation, nor questions the value and soundness of
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGT. 93
metaphysical research; and, indeed, this observer
of human nature, as such, so for from inferring ir­
responsibility in man from his observation, is, per­
haps, the first person to draw an opposite conclu­
sion.
Phrenology, by assigning an organ to each quality,
and by accounting for the strength or feebleness of
a quality, by the size or vigour of its organ, by no
means intends to determine the quality to be stronger
or weaker than we actually find it, whether we give
it an organ or not; to assign an organ is not to
circumscribe the quality $ if the mental operations
be narrow, they are made so by the individual or by
nature, and not by the Phrenologist.
If each quality has a particular office, and will
manifest only one quality, whether it acts through
an organ or independently of one, or, in other
words, if the reasoning faculties will reflect, and
reflect in the same manner and in the same degree,
whether they make use of an organ or not, 1 am at
a loss to see how we can more logically infer fatal­
ism, from the circumstance of an organ being used,
than we can from the circumstance of the faculties
operating without it, or why, in the one case, it
should be supposed that the faculties would act
more certainly, in the same manner, tli&n they
would in the other. If Phrenology did not teach
us that some functions were controllable by others,
and that every function was controllable by educa­
tion, or if it did teach us that in some individuals
9 4 THOOOHT8 ON VH EEXOLOOr.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 95
the inferior nature existed in the fullest vigour, and
the superior was not to be found at a ll; in short,
did Phrenology say that some men were so low in
the scale of rational beings, as to be in reality
irrational, then every true friend to religion would
have abundant reason for rejecting the science.
But so far from Phrenology’s embracing any doc­
trine which can be supposed fairly and logically to
lead to fatalism, it positively, and in its very nature,
excludes every theory that tends to this evil, and
teaches us that moral qualities exist in every one in
some degree, nay, that every quality ascribed to
man by philosophy or religion exists in some mea­
sure, and that no others are to be found. It is,
therefore, manifestly absurd in any one to suppose
that an individual with a preponderance of one
quality cannot exercise another, that an indivi­
dual with a preponderance of the inferior qualities
cannot exercise the superior in any degree, for
in the very idea of the existence of some supe­
rior quality, is implied the power to exercise this
quality, in as much as the idea of an inclination
to evil, so continuous as to render the exercise of
good impossible, must destroy the very notion that
there is any good at all; and since, then, Phrenology
ascribes to every man some measure of each quality,
it unequivocally ascribes to him the capacity of
exercising each. And why should Phrenologists
recommend a sound and religious education, if they
do not recognize, on the one hand, a willingness to
yield to temptations, and on the other, the ability to
be made to withstand them in some measure ?
Phreuology teaches us, therefore, that the mind is
capable of exercising its superior faculties, and as
it also teaches us that these faculties may be in­
creased and strengthened by education, (by edu­
cation, I mean any exercise that would give the
individual intellectual and religious improvement,)
and as it further teaches us, that this education
of the superior faculties (superior in quality, not
in degree) will overcome, in some measure, the
uneducated inferior qualities, it evidently teaches
us that man may exercise some controul over his
actions, and is therefore responsible for them.
But it is argued, that the whole mind acts
through the whole brain as an organ; yet no one
supposes for a moment, from this circumstance,
that the mind must act in only ono way, or in any
way that would lead us to imagine that it would
point to fatalism, or that it could not be susceptible
of education and improvement; the different func­
tions of mind, then, can no more be supposed to act
in only one way, from the circumstance of each
acting through an organ, than the whole mind can
be supposed to act in only one particular way, from
the circumstance of it* acting through an organ.
Phrenology shows that these organs do not differ
in proportion in different men, more than the mental
qualities possessed by different men, and that they
arc equally susceptible of chauge in their confor-
96 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGT.
mation; that they prove no clog to the development
of the high moral attributes, and do not of necessity
guide the mind into a particular course of thought,
and, consequently, the body into a particular course
of action. We cannot imagine, then, on what
ground it is asserted that Phrenology points to
fatalism.
But, as it is known by common sense, so it is
taught by Phrenologists, that there are persons whose
intellect and moral feelings naturally preponderate;
now, it might as well be argued that Phrenologists
say that these persons must iustinctively and unerr­
ingly move towards right, and, more than this, can­
not commit wrong at all, (that is, if it be said
that the preponderance of the propensities can only
lean to evil,) yet propensities exist in the degree,
and we know that they are indulged in to the same
extent, and, in some persons who, through bad com­
pany or otherwise, chose to educate these, will
eventually make them predominant; now, no one,
whether he be a Phrenologist or not, can doubt that
these persons are responsible, insomuch as the infe­
rior strength of the lower qualities ought to be
kept in subjection to the greater power of the su­
perior ; but then it would be absurd to suppose that
one man is responsible and not another; but Phren­
ology particularly advances, as one of the valuable
ends of its science, that just as the naturally superior
portion of man may be laid prostrate to his indulged
inferior nature, so by education may the opposite
u.
THODGHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY. 97
effort be, in some measure, produced when the qua*
lities of the organs are reversed ; but those, of course,
who reject Phrenology on the ground of fatalism,
must be persuaded of the truth of that, on account
of which they thus reject it. Now, one of tho most
prominent and consolatory doctrines of religion is,
that none will eternally be saved but those who are
made to turn to God by God's Holy Spirit; now,
those who would have their salvation depend on the
efficacy of their own works, say, that they recognise
the seeds of fatalism in this truth, viz. that if man
will never incline to God until made to do so by
God’s Spirit, he is not a free agent, and, therefore,
let him do what he will, the result will be the same,
and therefore bo is irresponsible; but there is no
one who believes his Bible, but who justly regards
such language as both fallacious and dangerous;
yet this points, as clearly as Phrenology does, to
fatalism, that is, points to this result in the same
manner as Phrenology does, viz. by being supposed
to do so by the sceptic, who doubts his Bible alto­
gether ; just as he supposes Phrenology to lead to
fatalism, who disbelieves the science, but these ima­
gine this scriptural truth to tend to fatalism simply
because they disbelieve the sacredness of the volume
in which it is revealed, and just so with the phren­
ological fatalist; he does not reject the science be­
cause it leads to fatalism, for he tells you, in the
same breath in which lie condemns it, that he has
never looked into and knows nothing of Phrenology,
98 THOUGHTS Off POREITOLOOT.
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY* 99
but simply because be is prejudiced against it,
he therefore, uponthe most superficial of all grounds,
pis. on no grounds at all, rejects a science which is
supported by the highest ability, and, for all he
knows, may be as true as the Bible, which perhaps
he once equally rejected, and upon grounds equally
unsubstantial*
C H A PT E R V III.
. CONCLUSION.
CONSISTENCY BETW EEN PHRENOLOGY AND
REVELATION.
It will appear that I have endeavoured in the pre­
ceding pages to show the harmony between Phren­
ology and Religion, so far as the former is said to be
naturally at variance with the latter, namely, on the
grounds of materialism and fatalism; and this is all
that it is necessary for me to do, for these are the
only two irreligious points into which Phrenology is
said necessarily to run, Phrenology being supposed
to lead to these, from its very nature and essence,
that is, from its teaching the necessity of material
organs, and recognising a plurality of them: I say
this, for the abuses of Phrenology may be as infinite
as the abuses of the Bible, and as no one would
deem it necessary to remove each abuse from the
latter in order to prove its validity, but would first
prove the truth of this, and leave these abuses to
fall by their own insufficiency, so in the case of
Phrenology a similar mode of procedure would
seem to be amply necessary.
I say, then, that these are the only two points that
necessarily require any consideration; one Phren­
ologist may deny the truth and efficacy of revelation
altogether, another may believe some portion of this
valuable gift, but suppose that the salvation of man
will depend somewhat upon the capacities of the
individual; but these are extravagant and dangerous
views, which are by no means incidental to Phren-
ology, and which would be embraced by these re­
spective individuals, if even Phrenology had never
existed. And it cannot argue a great deal either
for the logic or independence of that mind which,
without searching for itself, readily believes the
word of an infidel who may assert that any parti­
cular science is at variance with revelation; and be
it remembered, that those who reject Phrenology
from its being supposed to be at variance with reve­
lation, do so not because they consider it hostile to
it, but because they are told that some one else
thinks so. And surely, then, if this is avowedly the
strongest argument they bring against Phrenology,
it cannot be too much for me to say, that they bring
too argument at a ll; and, if prejudice is so rampant
as to resort to this extreme, and gives no better
argument, it would seem clear that it can have no
better argument to give. I have been unable,
through my professional avocations, to peruse Mr.
Combe’s work on the constitution of man, (or, in-
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 101
102 THOUGHTS Off PHItXffOLOOT.
deed, any observations on Phrenology, except, as 1
state in the preface, one treatise on the subject,
teaching its elementary principles,) and I am not,
therefore, in a position to condemni t ; but admitting,
for the sake of argument, that it merits the attacks
it has received, why, I ask, are we to go to Mr.
Combe's private views to learn the doctrines of
Phrenology? Several clergymen of known piety,
and many lay Christians, are Phrenologists, and re*
probate Mr. Combe’s views as illogical and dange­
rous deductions; and why do we not, if we impar­
tially desire the establishment of truth, take the
testimony of these persons, who are not only numeri­
cally stronger, but are considered, in other points
of view, more unexceptionable witnesses?
Phrenology may teach us, that mental functions
act each through a distinct organ, and that minds
are infinite in their variety, but by no system of
reasoning is it possible to draw a conclusion from
Phrenology against revelation, for this is something
that operates altogether independently of man him*
self, and whatever, therefore, may be the Phren­
ological condition or spiritual destitution of any
tnind, it is in the power of God’s Holy Spirit, and
in his power alone, to produce its spiritual change.
One Phrenologist, who disbelieves in the fall of
man, may wildly imagiue that one person, whose in­
tellect and morality preponderate, has the ability to
prevent the abuse of any quality; that he has within
himself those elements by means of whioh he may
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 103
work out his own perfection; but I, who believe
in the fall of man, although embracing the truth of
Phrenology, see the danger and fallacy of such a
doctrine, and feel persuaded that, whether Phren­
ology exist or not, this individual would entertain
the same view, from the circumstance of his seeing
one man practically having a greater controul over
himself than another man. Again, another Phren­
ologist, who disbelieves the fact, that the saved
sinner is turned to God, by the unassisted inter­
position of the Holy Spirit, on observing a man
with a preponderance of the lower qualities, may
say that this individual will never be saved, for he
does not possess the power of self-controul and self­
regulation; but I should be very sorry indeed to
suppose that Phrenology leads me to the adoption of
the same view, and it is quite clear that this in­
dividual also would have held this view, whether he
was a Phrenologist or not.
Phrenology, as before observed, merely treats of
the constitution of the mind— that is, only deter­
mines what the mind can do, and not what it has done,
or will do i and having shown, then, that it recog­
nises a capacity in man, and in every man, to be moral
or to be vicious, and os man mayhave a capacity with­
out exercising it, it cannot be said to teach any thing
inconsistent with the Bible, whether this teaches us
that man does, or that he does not, exercise it.
If the Bible had taught us that man would not
sin, inasmuch as Phrenology shows us that he may
104 thoughts on phrenology.
he moral, it would ho consistent with this sacred
volume, as the Bible teaches that man does sin, and
Pkreuolugy teaches that he can sin,— that is, since
it dues not teach us that the nature of his faculties
are such as not to be susceptible of abuse, or capa­
ble of being abused, by that corrupt influence which
has been inherent in man ever since the fall, there
is nothing in Phrenology which can he fairly and
logically said to be inconsistent with this inspired
book.
Every individual who is observed, whether phren-
ologically or practically, to possess a preponderance
of the moral and intellectual qualities, indulges, in
somo measure, while in his natural state, his lower
propensities, and sins equally with those, the pro-
portions of whose mental endowments are reversed,
and althongh his conduct may bo characterized by
the greatest amiability and honesty, yet he xnay be
in an unconverted state, and, therefore, as far from
graco ns the most depravod character: now this is a
fact, the truth of which is established beyond a
doubt; it is a fact harmonizing with and bearing ont
the declaration of God’s own word, that all have
siuned, and come short of the glory of God, and that
the inclination ofthe heart is to evil continually. But
although the Phrenologist and the philosopher can­
not disprove this, he cannot account for it either on
phrenological or philosophical grounds, and without
the aid of revelation cannot account for it at alL
This teaches us that man has fallen, that his heart
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 105
is corrupt, and that he has within him that which
gives every faculty of his soul a tendency to err,
and actually causes it to sin. I say, that every man
under heaven has sinned, and does sin; that reve­
lation furnishes the only real and philosophical
reason for the fact, and that, consequently, notwith­
standing the infidel Phrenologists or the infidel
Philosophers may run into the difficulty of devising
some inefficient solution of the question, so it be
sufficient to prop up or give a bodily form to his in­
fidel dreams, yet the only true solution can be
found in the revelation of God, and that however
much Phrenology may be nbused by the infidel, the
believer will find that it is in his power to make a
much higher and interesting use of it ; the former,
on seeing the fine moral and intellectual develop­
ment, may erroneously say, that the possessor of
it has within himself the power of perfecting his
own condition; the latter will Bay of the same
individual, that he has a beautiful and extensive
soil, but although its produce may be more abun­
dant and finer than the produce of one of a less fertile
character, yet even in this soil are tares to be found.
We observe phrenologically, and know by ex­
perience, that all men possess what ore familiarly
called both good and bad qualities,* and through
* That is, we do Dot see, phrenologically, tlint man has
bad qualities, for every function is primarily good; and as
Phrenology only treats of their primitive state, it could not
call any bad; but knowing that the fall of man has given
the aid also of experience, as well as of Phrenology,
we know that education may improve the good
qualities, and from the want of it the bad will be­
come worse. Now the only question is, whether it
is possible by any earthly system to effect the entire
absorption of the bad qualities into tho good, or, in
other words, whether it is possible to make man
perfect, anil whether, admitting this monstrous ob>
surdity to be feasible, it is either sufficient to dis­
prove the truth of revelation or to dispense with it
if true, that is, to disprove the truth of man's fall,
and the necessity of salvation through Christ ? That
man, then, has the power of arriving at perfection
in this world at all, and this by his own unassisted
ability, is an assertion which an appeal to experience
will prove to be as groundless as it is bold ; and I
mean that kind of experience which iuvolves not
merely the proof of what man has not done, but of
what he is not capable of doing; nor cau it be
objected that experience can have no weight in this
case, for it is only by experience that we know
what the course of nature is, and whether or not
circumstances exist which may interrupt this course {
consequently it is only by experience, or a know­
ledge of what the course of nature is, except where
every faculty a tendency to err, and from Phrenology’s
showing us that the mental combination is such ns to be
capable, under such circumstances, of manifesting both good
and bad qualities, we say, through Phrenology, that be has
Chess.
106 TBODSHT8 OH PHRENOLOGY.
revelation teaches the contrary, that we can discover
what the course of nature will be.
But, in reality, the course of nature shows us to a
demonstration, that whenever man is left to himself,
his inclination seems, without any interruption, to
gravitate, as it were, through irresistible attraction,
towards a state of degeneracy, and this, too, in the
proportion that it is left to itself; nor can the con­
trary be supposed, by arguing analogically from the
gradual growth of man’s bodily and mental powers,
from a state of infancy to maturity, because it is
well known that the evil propensities grow with
man’s growth as well as the good ; and that educa­
tion shows that man t* capable of some continuous
increase in virtue does not alter the case; for edu­
cation, be it remembered, is itself independent of the
course of nature, and implies something opposed to
it, and it is, in fact, so repugnant to the youthful
mind, whose entire bent is to something else, from
which education would draw it away, that unless
man was coerced by some influence independent of
the course of nature, we may imagine that all men
would go without the benefit of an early education ;
and as we may expeot that this would be the case
with every man, there is every reason against our
supposing that any one would arrive at that degree
of improvement to which many now attain; and
to say that it is according to some appointment
of nature that some men do improve themselves,
and force others to learn, can have little effect,
THOT7GHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY. 107
108 TnoconTs on ru m o L o cy.
where we find that man, even where this appoint­
ment seems to be attended to, never manifests a
capacity to approach to any thing like perfection.
The truth is, that the language of experience is as
true as it is familiar; that human nature, left to
itself, becomes worse and worse, and the whole in­
clination of man is to this unrestrained condition,
and, consequently, that from the course of nature,
wo should infer that man has not within himself the
elements of his own rectification. There is no ana­
logy, then, between that course of nature which
indicates a progressive reform, and the course that
seems naturally to belong to the intelligent portion
of man, which seems to go in an opposite direction;
and in the proportion that the presumption in favour
of this analogy diminishes, it increases in favour of
that occurrence, which, alone, accounts for the
want of such analogy; viz. the fall of man ( and
when neither experience nor reason can better ac­
count for this want of analogy, this presumption is
considerably increased, and leads us to act, in this
case, in analogy to what we would do ia parallel cases,
viz. to consider the fall of man as a question of fact,
and to be collected from the best testimony handed
down to us, and therefore to embrace it as recorded in
the sacred Scriptures by the pen of Inspiration. But
admitting that mau may be perfect in this life, and
that he may become so by his own unaided efforts,
the question unavoidably arises, how did man become
imperfect ? To assert that he was made so does not
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 109
at all prove that he was, and if it did, it does not
answer another question, viz. why was he made
so ? But it is impossible to assume that man could
work out his own perfection, in the face of the fact,
that, through the lapse of six thousand years, he
has never been able, under the most favourable cir­
cumstances, to rise beyond a certain point; that his
most perfect accomplishments have been but im­
perfect ill. And what constitutes this perfection ?
the less cannot comprehend the greater, and if no
man has yet discovered this state, his imperfect ability
could not tell him what it is ; and so far from our
being justified in inferring from a progressive in­
crease in goodness that man can attain perfection,
the presumption should be the other way, for if
man is to live eternally, and all that we know of
him is, that he has only been on a progressive in­
crease, from the moment of his birth, until his exit
from the world, and that he has never yet during
that period arrived at any condition approaching
to perfection, nor manifested any probability that
he ever would, the inference is, that he would ever
continue to increase; it is true, that to let in upon
this point the light of revelation, which shows us
that mau will be perfect hereafter, the inference
would be reversed, viz., that this gradual increase
is towards perfection ; not, however, to be attained
in this world, or to be effected by man himself;
but then that revelation does teach us this can­
not alter the case, for this conclusion in favour
of man’s arriving' at perfection is drawn altogether
from the dim light of nature; and upon the assump­
tion that there is no revelation, and also with a re­
ference to this world alone. The truth is, that even
infidels themselves owe to revelation this idea they
have of perfection.
Bat admitting that man may have within him
the elements of his own rectification, still (inasmuch
as he is now imperfect) this cannot affect the ques­
tion of his fall, and admitting, then, that he is under
condemnation, a point no one can disprove, and that
he has attained this perfection, this, be it remem­
bered, can no more atone for his past sins, than a
fraudulent debtor can satisfy his past debts, by pay­
ing punctually those he may hereafter contract.
The most that this imaginary perfection can be con­
ceived to be, is a high species of morality, and this
only for the theatre of this world; it is not that
spiritual, sanctified mind which alone can find a spi­
ritual atmosphere congenial to it, and which could
never enter such atmosphere, but through the im­
puted righteousness of Christ, so that whether or
not it be possible for man to perfect his condition,
is not sufficient to disprove the fact that man has
fallen, and that he cannot be restored to the favour
of God’s offended justice, unless a penalty has been
previously paid, and that therefore it does not affeot
the truth of the cross of Christ, nor consequently does
it vitiate the doctrine of faith in Christ, brought
about by the quickening power of the Spirit.
110 THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY.
Mr. Combe may conceive that revelation is in­
terpreted incorrectly, because it is interpreted by
those who know nothing of Phrenology, but the only
answer that such an assertion requires is, that reve­
lation does not merely propound to us a remedy for
an evil, the nature of which we must discover from
external evidences, but contains within itself both;
it informs us both of the existence and of the nature
of this evil, and furnishes a remedy for it, which it
applies without either foreign instruction or assist­
ance ; it is a complete history of the subject of
which it treats, and consequently may be interpreted
independently of any extraneous assistance.
By the aid of Phrenology we may be enabled to
discover the extent of a man’s mind, and so may we
through the assistance of an intimate acquaintance
with him, but all that we learn is a fact which has ex­
isted before, although only now known to us, viz. that
the mind is of this or that extent, but this is all that
we do learn. It does not teach us that man has not
fallen, it does not show us that this man, with a fine
display of intellect, is not a tinner, or that he is
sure to be a Christian, or that that man, labouring
under the disadvantages of cramped capacities, is
beyond the reach of God’s Spirit. It is as im­
possible, from the condition of the mind to deter­
mine whether it is possible for it to be acted
upon by the enlightening influence of a mi­
racle-working God, as it is impossible for us to
say, by merely studying the dust of the earth,
TBOUGHT8 ON PHRENOLOGY. I l l
112 THOOGUT8 ON PUBENOEOGY.
whether it may be formed into that beautiful m
a­
chinery which encircles the soul.— Revelation maj
teach us what it is capable of doing with the mind;
the mind cannot inform us what rerelation may do
for it. A man may see around him endless proofs
of design, and may not infer the existence of a God;
but it would be a moral impossibility for him (if of
sane intellect) to suppose that they positively prove
that there ia not a God. So by the aid of Phrenology
a man may not be able to suppose the existence of
revolution, but it would be an extravagant act to
reason from it that there is not any revelation at all.
But no; the infidel abuses Phrenology; the believer
therefore considers it invalid. Did illogical deduc­
tions ever enumerate amongst them a more monstrous
non sequiturf Anatomy, that ennobling study, which
a reasoning intellect would have thought could not
have failed to elevate the narrowest comprehensions
to the belief of a God— to lead the wondering mind
from those vast and irresistible evidences of design,
up to the infallible conclusion of the existence of a
Designer, has been marvellously often raised up as
that insurmountable barrier between belief aud a
God. Is anatomy not a beautiful study, is it an
imposition or a mere infidel device, because the
infidel abuses it ? N o; although some may be so
blind as to err on it, anatomy is a direct puthway
between reason and God, aud if design and harmony
constitute it such, Phrenology may be said to run
parallel with it.
^ ____ L
Unless it can be proved, then, that Phrenology
shows mind to be matter, it no more offers an objec­
tion to revelation than anatomy does.
Unless those who have studied Mr. Combe’s
peculiar views have studied Phrenology sufficiently
to be satisfied that these views uecessarily flow from
it, it is obvious that to infer from them that Phren-
ology is invalid, is weak, illogical, and unjust; and
in support of such an assertion, a better argument
cannot be adduced, than that which is furnished by
those very persons who do infer the unsoundness of
Phrenology, from the abuse of it by Mr. Combe, for
their language is, that Mr. Combe professes to
believe in revelation, but evidently does not from his
excessive abuse of it. Now this mode of reasoning
may be quite legitimate, viz. that the Bible is not
false, because Mr. Combe, although professing to
believe in it, endeavours to prove it false; or, in
other words, that the Bible is known to be true,
and therefore any mode of treating it by Mr. Combe,
leading to a contrary conclusion, is false; why then,
if this mode of reasoning is applicable in the case of
the Bible, (and I admit that it is,) is it not appro­
priate in the case of Phrenology ? Why should the
very reverse be thought applicable, when that sub­
ject is under consideration which the Reviewer dis­
likes ? Why, if Phrenology is treated by Mr. Combe
in a manner which may be considered a great abuse
of it, is the invalidity of Phrenology to be inferred ?
I
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY. 113
114 TROCOBT8 ON PHRENOLOGY.
surely, if prejudice cannotanswer the question, roosou
may.
In conclusion, then, the result of the foregoing
observations seem to be, that the mind, since it is
immaterial, and the external world is material,
requires a material organ for its intercourse with
the world; that the brain is that organ, that the
mind has several and distinct functions, which re*
quire each a distinct organ, that the brain is there­
fore composed of several and distinct organs, that
tho principal objections to Phrenology have no
weight whatever; that there is therefore negative
evidence in favour of the truth of it, and that from
all abstract reasoning, we should infer that each
function must liave a distinct organ5 and from ob­
servation, we see the coftclusiveness of our inference,
or, in other words, ull correct reasoning coupled
with observation, most unequivocally establishes the
truth of Phrenology. We say that all reasoning is
on the side of the truth of Phrenology, but let us
suppose that we cannot, by any process of reasoning,
satisfactorily prove that tho science >
b true, no one
can, at least upon any principles of reason, be satisfied
that it is not true. While it must be admitted by
every one who will look rationally into the subject,
that the greater presumption, although it be in the
lowest degree greater, is on the side of the science.
Now 1 believe it is admitted, that in ull questions of
difficulty, if better evidence cannot be had, the
question is determined by the preponderance of
presumption, however small such preponderance
may be* I cannot see, then, why Phrenology should
not be brought within the benefit of the rule, and
be elevated not only above the ridicule it most
unworthily receives, but into a subject of great
consideration. Phrenologists are acquainted with
the science, and are firmly persuaded of its truth
and value; opponents are, in reality in utter ignorance
of the science, and yet are persuaded of its futility
and danger, and unhesitatingly reject it altogether,
and some even go the length of regarding it as an
imposition ; now I ask upon what grounds is Phren­
ology thus regarded: and I leave it to the candid
reader to decide whether, if either party is disposed
to deceive, it is not rather that which, altogether
under the influence of unsupported scepticism, and
without pausing to institute one enquiry into the
soundness of the subject, hurries over the reasoning
and experience of decided talent, and endeavours
to crush in its opening that which, if permitted to
unfold itself in the atmosphere of an enlightened
public, may be productive of incalculable good. To
my humble ability, Phrenology has proved itself a
valid science, and until the truth of the observation,
the value of the facts, and the soundness of the
inferences which have led me to this conclusion,
shall be questioned by a resistance having a more
legitimate foundation than that which disgraced the
Galilean age, I shall be firmly persuaded that, when-
THOUGHTS ON PHRENOLOGY* 115
116 THOUGHTS ON TOKENOLOGY.
ever Phrenology is candidly and soberly studied,
those elements of truth, and that consistency and
harmony will be found in it, which will not fail to
recommend it to the reasoning and moral intellect,
and, further, that there is not a man of sound and
rational views— there is not an intellect capable of
drawing just conclusions, or of reading the provisions
of nature, there is not an imagination capable of
luxuriating in the loveliness of creation, nor a soul
alive to the kindly instincts of nature, that w ill not
testify, through the agency of Phrenology, to the
existence of God, and the responsibility of man.
THE END.
J. Dennett, Printer, 121, Fleet Street.
