{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__bray___philosophy_of_necessity.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Necessity","mylang":"de"}
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF NECESSITY ;
oa,
THE LAW OF CONSEQUENCES;
.l8 A.PPLICA.BLE TO
MENTAL, MORAL, AND SOCIAL SCIENCE.
..
. .
. .
.. .
BT
CHARLES BRAY.
~
..
.
··. ;·...... .
. ~ .. . . ~ :. ·. ..: ·
.
. . ~ .
LONDON:
LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS.
1841.
~
Digitized by Coogle
II +· 5"
~ 3~\
6l3l49
R, IIBBUDBW, tBlNT•a, COVBHTJW,
. .
. ..
..
. .
.;. . ..
.·
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE.
THE object of the present Work is to inquire into
the nature of the constitution of man; to ascertain his
place in creation, the object and aim of his existence,
and the boundaries of his mind :-" to vindicate the
ways of God to man," by tracing the Law of Con-
sequences and pointing to the good of E'Dil: to inquire
whnt sanction Nature affords to Morality, or what
obligation she lays us under t6 regard the happiness of
others :-to analyse the present constitution of Society ;
to trace the cause of its numerous evils; to suggest a
remedy; and to show how we may best avail ourselves
of our present knowledge and power to live together
in the most happy manner possible.
The Author ~ aware how imperfect a work must be
where so wide a range of subject is compressed into so
small a compass, and how unattractive a dry detail of
principles, without ornament and without illustration,
is likely to be with respect to topics which, from their
abstruseness, are ordinarily distasteful to the public,
even when touched by a master hand and reli~red by
Digitized by Coogle
iv. PREFACE.
all the graces of style. Still he would hope that the
searcher after truth, who, like himself, ha.~ felt the want
of fixed principles in Ethical Philosophy, will forgive
the imperfections of the manner, and find something
to interest him in the matter of the following pages.
Physical science has made rapid strides, and know-'
ledge has secured for us, to a vast extent, a dominion
over earth, sea, and air. But the science of man,
which alone can make this power available to the
increase of happiness, has been in a.. corresponding
degree neglected, and held to be of less importance
than the arts and manufactures, which tend only to thEJ
increase of wealth. The kno~ledge that men have
of their own minds, is ordinarily considered to furnish
sufficient insight into human nature, without the aid
of Mental Philosophy ; and in Moral and Social
Science, the opinions to which they are born, or to
which some antiquated Professor of a College was born
a century back, constitute to every individual a standard
of truth. The consequence has been that generally
recognized principles upon which to base measures
to promote the happiness of mankind, have hitherto
been wanting ; the efforts to that end have been
almost uniyersally empirical in their character, or
what the age calls practical ; and we have much
talk of " public morals" and of the " defence of the
Digitized by Coogle
4
I
PREFACE. v.
public morals," against men who have spent their
lives in teaching what shall best conduce to the public
virtue and happiness. Hence there is no subject on
which such various and conflicting opinions exist as
upon that of the present inquiry ; every one feels rather -
than reasons, and all the great questions that have
reference to the well-being of the race, are considered
- - -
so purely controversial, as to be inadmissible into
British Associations, Mechanics' and Philosophical In-
stitutions, and all other societies devoted to the moral
and intellectual culture of the people.
The writer is induced to lay his own reflections
on the subject before _the public, in the hope that the
result of that labour which was necessary to satisfy his
own mind, may be, in some small degree, a saving of
labour to others; and that if the conclusions at which
he has arrived do not carry conviction to other minds,
they may, at least, stimulate to inquiry in the most
interesting and important department of knowledge.
It may not be without its use to make brief mention
of the steps by which these conclusions were forced
upon him ; and this consideration will, perhaps, be an
excuse for the egotism of the following remarks.
Many years ago the writer felt altogether unable to
satisfy his mind with the prevailing systems, either of
Metaphysics or Morality, as based upon the popular
Digitized by Coogle
Vl. PREFACE,
Theology. The more he reflected the more he became
convinced that the nature of man, and the object and
aim of his existence were misunderstood ; that the ways
of Providence were misinterpreted, and that the foun-
dations of morality were laid upon the sand, being
based upon the supposition that man is capable of
acting contrary to the particular constitution with
which his Creator has endowed him, and independently
of the circumstances in which he is placed.
The perusal of Edwards's "Inquiry into Freedom
of Will," and the conviction that the doctrine of
Philosophical Necessity is there demonstrated, and
that, therefore, every system built upon an opposite
principle, by whatever authwity SUPJXlTled, cannot be
true, first led him to the investigation of opinions
which he had been brought up to consider as esta-
blished. The most uncomfortable of all states,-a
state of doubt and unbelief,-followed: for conscious-
ness of error is not the same as the discoyery of truth.
The " Deontology" of Bentham, presented the first'
land-mark to direct his course. It soon became en-
dent to him that the laws of the moral world are,
through the instrumentality of pleasure and pain,
and c1f the definite constitution ghren to man by his
.Maker, as fixed and determinable a.<J the laws of th~
physical world. Holding fast by the doctrine of Phy-
Digitized by Google
PREFACE. Vll.
losophical Necessity, he gradually formed a system
which, at least, satisfied his own mind, and which he
feared was a creed peculiar to himself; and it was not
until after the chief portion of the first and second parts
of this work was written, that he discovered that Philo-
sophical Necessity constituted t.he groundwork of the
ethical creed of a num~rous party in this country.
The writings of this party first turned his thoughts to
the subject of Part the 3d ; that is, to the measures by
which the Greatest Happiness principle, or the Moral
Law, may be best earned into practice; but although
be perceived that many h~d come to similar conclu-
sions on most of these pointS, Tiewed separately, yet
be felt that such truths were isolated and still required
to be thrown into one connected system. This he bas
attempted to do for himself, and so far as he is able,
for other minds experiencing a similar want.
In some cases where great and important principles
may appear to be dismissed in too summary a manner,
it must be attributed to the persuasfon that the works
of those who have amply elucidated these points are
familiar to all interested in the subject.
.
For the confirmation of what have been given as
facts in Mental Science established by Pbrenalogy,
he must refer to the works of Phrenologists, and
experience must decide as to the truth of those opinions
Digitized by Coogle
•
YiU. PREFACE.
in the analysis of the mental faculties in which be bas
ventured to differ from them. With respect to the
frequent use of long quotations, the object of the Author
being, solely, the elucidation of truth, be has thought
it better, whenever his views could be as well or better
expressed in the words of writers more known to the
public than himself, to give them in preference to his
own; as be conceives that the cause of truth will be
better served by that course than by a greater assump-
tion of originality.
The writer has only to add that the views which
he bas attempted to set forth in the following pages,
have brought much consolation and satisfaction to his
own mind, in affording him something definite to
believe on subjects which at first sight seem despair-
ingly mysterious and unfathomable ; in expanding and
clearing his views of Providence ; in making known
God in the character of tbe Universal Father-revealing
Himself in a language that cannot be misunderstood
or misinterpreted, to every sect and every clime ; and
it will be one of his greatest sources of happiness if
they afford grounds of equal hope and trust to any of
his fellow-creatures.
Roeehill, uear CoTentry,
September, 1841.
Digitized by Coogle
CONTENTS.
Introduction
PART I.
MENTAL SCIENCE.
CHAPTER I.
Matter
CHAPTER II.
Plllfl
1
8
M~ H
Analysis of the Mental Faculties •• 34
Animal Feelings or PropensitiMs · 36
Social Feelings •• 47
The Moral Sentiments ~0
Intellectual Faculties • • 68
External Senses a
The Perceptive Faculties 77
The Reflective, or Reason-
ing Faculties 89
CHAPTER III.
On the Origin of our Knowledge, and the Adaptation and
Relation of the Intellectual Faculties to the External World 9~
Belief 101
Truth •• 118
Digitized by Coogle
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IV.
On the connexion of .Mind with Organization •• 131
CHAPTER Y.
.Mate1·ialism, Consciousness, Identity, Association .. • • 143
.. PART II.
MORAL SCIE~CE.
CHAPTER I.
Philosophical Necessity • . 158
The Application of Philosopt.ical Necessity to
Responsibility, Prail!e and Blame, Reward and
Punishment, Yirtue and Vice .•
CHAPTER II.
On the Origin, Objects, and Advantages of Evil
Pain considered as the necessary and most eff,·c-
tual Guardian of that systl·m of Organization
upon which Happiness. dl•pends
176
193
197
Pain necessary as a Motive and Stimulus to Action 213
Ou the Evils consequent upon the Varil'ties of
Condition among Mankind 223
Death •• 210
CHAPTER III.
The Principles of .Morality
Moral Obligation
Pain and Pleasure
.1\lan considered in his Relation to External
252
2.52
255
Objects • • • • 262
Man considered in his Relation to his Fl'llow
Man •• 269
Digitized by Coogle
CONTENTS.
PART III.
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
CHAPTER I.
Oo the Presl'nt Condition of Society •• 300
Division of Socil'ty, Annual Income of the King-
dom, and mode of its Distribution •• •• 301
On the Incomes of the Working Classr.s, and
mode of Expenditure of their Weekly Earnings 304
The Condition of the Working Classes .. 319
CHAPTER II.
On the Measurl's proposed for the Amelioration of the Con-
dition of tbe People 339
Governmental R<'form 343
Free Trade 347
Colonization and Emigration 365
Education 366
Religion •• 371
CHAPTER III.
On the Cause~:~ of the Poverty of the Working Classes •• 386
CHAPTER IV.
Social Reform •• •• 4<H
Conclusion
APPENDIX ••
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
THE PHILOSOPHY OF NECESSITY.
INTRODUCTION.
"MAN, the servant and interpreter of Nature, can
only understand and act in proportion as he observes
or contemplates the order of Nature; more he can
neither know nor do."
Lord Bacon has been justly called the Prophet of
the arts and the Father of experimental Philosophy,
and be bas defined, in the above fundamental principle
of the inductive Philosophy, the extent of the know-
ledge of which man is capable ; what Nature has really
enabled him and what she bas forbidden him to do.
For want of a clear perception of the boundaries of
his mind, which Nature herself has fixed, man has in
all ages dogmatized upon endless subjects, which, from
the ,·ery constitution of his being, are beyond his reach ;
and bas formed, and is continually forming, theories
upon points which lie beyond the range of his powers.
How much speculation would be saved, how much
pernicious error would be prevented, if man would
always keep in \iew that it is the arder of Nature alone,
whether as relating to matter or to mind, that he is
capable of obsening; that independently of a super-
natural Revelation, he can know neither the beginning
B
Digitized by Coogle
2 INTRODUCTIOlf.
nor the end of things, but can only observe what is.
He can know in itself, neither the real nature of matter
nor that of mind, but only the order in which one
event follows another, or in which one sensation follows
another.•
Without reflection it might be difficult to believe
that all Science must be resolved into the knowledge
of antecedence and consequence--of cause and effect-
of the powers of nature; for the power of producing a
given effect, and the cause, or the invariable antecedent
of such effect, are all synonymous terms. Such, if we
strictly analyse our knowledge, will be found to be the
case ; and that nothing is really known to us but this
relation of things to each other and to ourselves. Thus
one billiard ball striking another, communicates motion
to it; yet, simple as this may appear, we know not ~ow
or why' it does so. We say the striking is the cause of
the ·motion ; but we do not know why one body striking
another should communicate motion to it, especially as
it might be proved that it does not touch it. All we
·know is that the motion invariably follows what we call
the striking. Again, heat converts water into steam ;
the expansive force of steam acts upon the piston ; and
the piston, by the intervention of many further antece-
dents, produces many further effects. Here again, all
we know is that such causes, cmteris paribus, will in"fa-
riably produce the same effects ; in other words, we
know the relation of heat to water, of water to steam,
of steam to the piston, and of the piston to what it has
to perform. This kind of knowledge may be called
• For proof of this we would refer to Dr. Thomas Brown's
" Theory of Cause and Effect," and to his 7th Lecture on the
" Philosophy of the Human Mind."
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTIO!f. 3
certain, because by repeated experiments it may be
proved. But it will be said that independently of
the knowledge of the fYI'der of nature, and of the
relation of things to one another, we possess a know-
ledge of things as individuals, and also of their qualities.
This, however, is only a knowle~ge of their reJation to
us. The idea we have of individual existences and
qualities, is the effect such existences have upon the
senses, and the senses upon the brain; it is the first
ljnk in the chain of sequences.
Again, we know that due proportions of oxygen and
hydrogen form water; that sulphur, nitre, and charcoal,
form gunpowder; and that a spark applied to the latter
mixture causes an explosion. But we know not bow or
why all this should take place ; why a spark should have
this relation to gunpowder, i. e. why it should have
this power, or be the cause, or invariable antecedent of
its explosion. We know it as we can only know every-
thing else, by experience, from having observed that
such is the ORDER OF NATURE. Now as regards our
knowledge of the relation that this explosion bears to ·
ourselves, it is exactly of the same character, merely
the knowledge of the sequence of e-vents. The powder
acts upon the air and tbe.air upon the tympanum, the
tympanum upon the nerves and the nerves upon the
brain, and the action of the brain is the only antece-
dent we can trace before the sensation which apprises
us of the explosion. To say that the brain acts upon
the mind is introducing a link in the chain for which,
in the present state of our knowledge, we have no
warrant. Not that I would be understood to affirm that
the brain is the cause of the sensation ; but the action
of the brain is the imariable antecedent of sensation,
Digitized by Coogle
4 INTRODUCTION.
and we have no knowledge at present of anything
between ; to add a link to· the chain of causation is
as unphilosophical as to leave one out. To make
discoveries in science, therefore, is merely to show
what antecedents precede such and such consequents ;
what causes invariably produce such and such effects ;
and by this knowledge we are enabled to adapt our
relation to external things, or their relation to us, so as
to produce the effect we wish. Thus to know, with the
vulgar, that the explosion produces the sound, is only
available knowledge to a certain extent; to learn that
the gunpowder acts upon the air is a discovery in
science, and the various other links between are essen-
tial to certain knowledge ; for, by the discovery of an
additional link, or even by an alteration in the air, the
tympanum, the nerves, or the brain, a different effect
would be produced, i. e. the relation of the gunpowder
to ourselves would be changed; or if a link were left
QUt we might infer that the same cause did not always
produce the same effect. Knowledge becomes certain
in proportion as we discover the inYariable antecedent
to the consequent ; it is therefore less certain where
the principle of Life is concerned than it is in Physics,
and still less so where Sensation is added to Life. In
the action of medicine upon the body it is seldom that
the same remedy will produce precisely the same effect
in cases which appear to us to be similar ; the reason
of which is that so little is at present understood of the
vital· principle that there may be many circumstances
in each case which we are unable to calculate upon,
any one of which tnight be sufficient to produce the
different result. Knowledge is so much more uncertain
when Sensation is added to Life that invariable antece-
Digitized by Coogle
INTRODUCTION. 5
deuce and consequence is here supposed to cease, the
same necessary relation between cause and effect not
being held to exist in mind as in matter. But this is
an error, arising from the circumstance that the causes
that .produce mental phenomena are not always so
perceptible as those that admit of more direct experi-
ment. -There is exactly the same connexion between
every action of the mind and its cause as between
things external to the mind ; and not the slightest
change takes place in the mind, nor the most transient
idea passes through it, but it has its cause ; which
cause is always adequate in the same circumstances,
to produce the same effect; and it is only by such
admission that we can infer the existence of anything
external to ourselves, or even the existence of what we
call ourselves. It is of very great importance that we
should clearly see that the self of the conscious being
is nothing but an object of observation, known only
as every thing else is known, by the chain of necessary
antecedents and consequents. Thus all we can know
of the mind of man is its successive changes.
The object of all Science, therefore, is to show the
relation of things to each other and to ourselves. To
this it is limited. " All that we know is, nothing can
be known," is true in one sense, .for we know nothing
of h()fl) any one cause produces its effect. One thing
invariably precedes another, and we say that it has the
power to produce it ; but what this power is, or -what
make8 the connexion, or whether the relation wiJl
always exist or has only been established by the Deity
for a time, ~e do not know, neither is it necessary, as
far as we can see, that we should know, for the know-
ledge of the order of nature is all that is requisite for
Digitized by Coogle
6 INTRODUCTION.
the proper exercise of reason, and for the perfection
of our happiness. Let us not, then, feel ourselve11
dP.graded by the idea that the most diligent research
has done no more, and can do no more than trace the
relations of things here, and discover but a part of the
, order of nature which the Deity has established ; and
since all our enquiries can but end in the discovery of
the relations of things as discernible by our present
faculties, let us cease from all those fruitless attempts
to attain to knowledge upon subjects beyond the com-
prehension of beings in our scale of intelligence, which
' have hitherto so retarded the Science of Mind, and
prevented the happiness of man from bearing any
proportion to the means of happiness afforded him.
My object in the present treatise .is to pursue this
inductive method of inquiry in investigating the nature
of man ; his place in creation ; the character of his
mind ; and particularly to trace to its legitimate ccnse- .
quences the doctrine of philosophical necessity, which
the connection between cause and effect implies. I
would show that the mind of man is not an exception
to nature's other works; that like everything else it has
received a determinate character; that all our know-
ledge of it is precisely of the same kind as that of
material things, and consists in the observation of its
order of action, or of the relation of cause and effect.
This is a truth which, although acknowledged by
many writers, has never yet been made of sufficient
importance in the science of Mental or Moral Philo-
sophy. It has either been considered as a mere
abstraction of no practical use, or else avoided and
stifled as leading to fatalism, and consequently dan-
gerous in its tendency. But I hope to be able to show,
Digitized by Coogle
INTRODUCTION. 7
on the contrary, that upon this truth alone, however
it may be said to militate against man's free will or
accountability, in some acceptation of the terms, our
Educational and Political systems can be properly
based, in accordance with the nature of the being to be
educated and governed. If in setting a steam engine
to work the engineer were to leave much to itsfree will,
the work would be but badly performed. So as relates
to man, if in our educational systems the causes are
inadequate to the intellectual and moral results we
desire, his free will will not supply the deficiency.
A learned writer obserres that " Mankind, bred to
think as well as speak by rote, furnish their minds as
they furnish their houses or clothe their bodies, with
the fancies of other men, and according to the mode
of the age and country. They pick up their ideas and
notions in common conversation or in the schools.
The first are always superficial, and both are com-
monly false."• Feeling the force of this, in the fol-
lowing pages I shall pay no attention to existing
opinions, however preralent; knowing that if what is
advanced be true, it cannot really be at variance with
any other truth; and also, that as God has given us
our reasoning powers for the discovery of truth, we
ought to feel confident that nothing that He permits us
to disco\7er can be inimical to the real interests and
happiness of man. In this persuasion, and endea'\"our-
ing to bold firmly by the fundamental principle of the
inducti'fe philosophy already stated, I shall proceed to
the consideration of man and his relation to all that
surrounds him.
• Bolingbroke.
Digitized by Coogle
PART I.
CHAPTER I.
MATTER.
SuBsTANcEs appear naturally to divide themselves
into three grand classes : inert or inorganic ; organic,
or those to which has been added an additional prin-
ciple, called the principle of Life ; and those organic
structures which have received another and apparently
totally distinct principle, viz., Sensation.
Inorganic Matter is distinguished by the possession of
properties which we call Attraction, Repulsion, Inertia,
that is to say, without sensatWn, and consequently
without volition, it possesses certain tendencies to act
in a certain way, which tendencies are called the laws
to which it is subjected, and which are always uniform.
It is to these tendencies that all the motions going on
in inorganic matter are owing-all the phenomena of
Physics. In relation to such laws, however, when we
say that it is attractwn that causes all bodies to tend
towards each other, we are not in the least better
instructed with respect to the cause of this tendency,
for attraction is only a name invented to express the
fact. Newton, therefore, when he showed that the
heavenly bodies in revolving round each other obey
the same law as the apple in its descent to the earth,
Digitized by Coogle
MATTER. 9
did not make us better acquainted with the cause of
the motion of either ; although he explained the phe-
nomenon in the only way that it admitted of explana-
tion, by showing that the order in which it takes place
is similar to the observed succession of more familiar
facts. There are also other general laws or tendencies
which are probably only modifications of those above
mentioned. Such are chemical affinities ; which, by
variously combining what are supposed to be the dif-
ferent kinds of matter, form all the endless variety of
bodies on the face of the globe.
By tracing out and registering the tendencies or
laws of matter in the departments of Physics and
Chemistry, and by acting in accordance with them,
man has been able to explore the secrets of nature and
to turn her powers to his own use and comfort. Such
powers now at man's command, in this country alone,
are said to be equal to the joint force of 600 millions
of men.
Organized or living matter possesses the same pro-
perties and is subjected in some measure to the same
laws as inorganic ; but it is also endowed with other
properties altogether different, and which to a certain
extent make it independent of the laws to which inor-
ganic matter is subjected. Thus, though organized
bodies are influenced both by gravity and inertia, yet the
additional principle which they have received, viz., the
vital principle, gives them a power for a time, of acting
in opposition to them. These forces, however, are
always sufficient in the end to overcome any amount
of vital energy and render rest to locomotive frames
necessary, and arc so little suspended with regard to
organic bodies as to determine the size of both plants
c
Digitized by Coogle
10 MATTER.
and animals all ove~ the world. There seems, indeed,
to be a continual contest between the laws of Physics
and Chemistry and those of Life : the .continued ope-
ration of the first causing old age and decay and
ultimately death, or what appears to be the extinction
of the principle of life.
Striking as are the phenomena revealed to us in the
first-named departments of nature, the phenomena of
Life are still more so. Two bodies, almost identical to
the eye, a stone and a seed, are buried in the ground. In
the one there is little or no change; the other expands,
bursts, and, contrary apparently to physical and che-
mica] laws, rises from the ground and makes to itself
organs whereby its various functions are performed ;
the matter of which it is composed is continually
changing, throwing off the old and useless material,
and converting other matter into its own substance to
~upply its place ; giving to other bodies the power of
exercising the same vita] energy, i. e. producing forms
similar to itself; and then it dies-the vital principle
leaves the individual existence and is incapable of
being further traced by us.
Thus the characteristic of vegetative life is to per-
form the functions of nutrition, respiration, circulation,
secretion, excretion, and reproduction ; the object of
these functions being to produce the changes above
mentioned, and thus to preserve the individual exist-
ence and the principle of life which supports it.
Two seeds very much alike, shall in their growth
present altogether opposite appearances, and the same
principle acting upon what appear to us to be similar
structures and upon others in which there is very little
difference, produces all the varied beauties of the vege-
tative kingdom. With reference to the primary laws
Digitized by Coogle
MATTER. l1
which regulate these differences we are at present little
enlightened ; one thing, however, appears certain, that
however complicated the peculiar laws of life may
appear to us to be in the present state of our knowledge,
they are fixed and invariable.
Life proceeds only from ·life ; no instance having
been known of its existence where it has not been
tmnsmitted from one organized body to another; it
also appears to be dependent upon organization.•
Even in its lowest state of energy it requires to be
placed in certain relations to liglit, heat, and moisture;
and though it may be called a different principle it is
not independent of matter. In fact, we know of nothing
independent of what we call matter; for life depends
upon organization, and sensation upon life, and all
...things in inorganic matter, body, and mind, bear a fixed
~ ·· relation to each other, and if this relation be altered in
one part the whole is destroyed.
As there is an essential difference between inert
or dead matter and matter which possesses life, so
there is an important difference between mere organic
life and animal life, or that which has received the
additional principle of Sensation. Thus life and sen-
sation are entirely distinct principles; for although
sensation cannot exist unconnected with life, yet life
may exist altogether independently of sensation.
• John Hunter bl'lieves that the chyle is alive, and others give
life to the blood. It is certain that the fluidll which form the
embryo must be endowed with life; but this vitality is dl'pendent
upon a number of·separatl'ly organized particles, thl' same as in a
number of seeds from one plant. The arguments of the French
Atheists for the spontaneous production of animals in sour pastE',
&c., seem to me inconclusivl', because in all the cases in which
we can tracl' the 'lrigirt of lifl', it is found to proceed only from lifl'.
Digitized by Coogle
....-~
12 MATTER.
The principle of Life seems to be supported in the
same way in animals as in vegetables. In both, the
materials for growth and reproduction of waste par-
ticles are supplied by means of the circulation of a
fluid through innumerable tubes; the root may be said
to be the stomach of the plant, imbibing nutrition from
the soil; a system of tubes rising upwards, called the
common vessels, correspond to the lactea]s and pul-
monary arteries of animals; these are distributed in
minute ramifications over the surface of the leaves,
which may be termed the lungs of the plant, as here
the sap is exposed to the agency of light and air, and
like the blood in animals, undergoes a change which
adapts it to the wants of the vegetable ; this sap then
descends through another system of minute tubes in
the inner layer of the bark, yielding all the juices
peculiar to the plant.
There is, however, a difference and a very striking
one in the nature of the food proper to plants and
animals ; by means of which difference the 'fegetablc
kingdom is made to prepare the way for the animal.
1'he plant subsists upon inorganic matter, whilst or-
ganic is the necessary food of the animal. The prin-
ciple of life in the vegetable converts inorganic into
organic matter. Thus the soil is subsen-ient to the
plant; the plant to the animal ; one animal lower in
the scale of sensation to another that is higher ; and
all to the superior capabilities of enjoyment in man.
Another noticeable difference between plants and
animals, in reference to the organic processes upon
which life depends, is that the former are fixed to the
soil and are therefore always in contact with their
food; whereas in animals which possess a power of
locomotion a different arrangement is necessary for
Digitized by Google
MATTER. '13
the supply of nutriment, and these are, consequently,
provided with a receptacle by which they can carry
their food about with them. To convert this food into
a proper supply for the reproduction of waste particles,
other functions are requisite, more numerous and
complicated in the animal than in the plant.
At the commencement of the scale of organization,
i. e. where life seems least removed from dead matter,
the structure is so simple that a single organ seems
all that is necessary for the existence of the individual.
But the higher the individual in the scale of existence
and the more its vital energy, the greater is the mul-
tiplication of its organs, the more numerous its func-
tions, and the more elaborate and complex its structure.
From the lowest end of the scale to the highest for
every different function performed by either plant or
animal an additional organ is necessary. The animal
performs more functions than the plant, and its struc-
ture is, consequently, much more complex; but the
organs in both are neither more nor less than are
required for their individual wants.
The principle of life, then, is common to both plants
and animals, and is supported in the same way in both ;
the only difference being complexity of structure in
proportion as the functions are more numerous and of
a higher order.
The chief distinction between them is now to be
noticed, \iz., that to animals is given sensation,• or the
* The term sensation throughout this work is not used in the
accepted sense of that term in this country, as denoting the feeling
which we have by the senses, but as the particular characteristio
of the animal life, and as synonymous with feeling, but not the
eense of feeling. Consciousness, which is the term many writers
Digitized by Google
MATTER.
power of feeling, in addition to the principle of life.t
Lhing and feeling are distinct states, although both
existing in one frame. Each state has its own organs
and distinct functions, and though sensation is nowhere
• known to exist without life, yet life continues sometimes
to exist when all sensation has ceased or is even extinct.·
Thus we continue to live when sensation is lost in sleep,
and sleep which is rest to the organs of sensation
is necessary to the healthy exerciSe of their functions
and even to their very existence. The organs which
support life on the contrary work without intermission,
death being the consequence of their ceasing to act.
Could they rest when we are no longer conscious, they
would not in all probability wear out so soon, and we
should live longer. · In cases of apoplexy sensation
frequently becomes extinct, at least to all appearance,
some days before the merely vital functions cease. In
drowning also sensation ceases some considerable time
before death, and may be again restored if the organic
functions have_ not quite stopped ; thus proving the
fact that sensation is distinct from the "\ital principle
though dependent upon it.
Dr. S. Smith observes in reference to the distinction
between organic and animal life, " The action of the
apparatus of the organic life when sound is without
consciousness ; the object of the action of the appa-
ratus of the animal life is the production of conscious-
ness. The final cause of the action of the apparatus
make use of to express this faculty, appeanto to me to result only
from Reflection, which no animal but man posse11ses.
t I would here refer the reader to the three fiu;t chapters of Dr.
8. Smith's "Philosophy of Health," in which, and more especially
in the second, this subject is admirably t>lucidated.
Digitized by Google
MATTER. 15
of the organic life is the maintenance of existence :
the final eause of the .action of the apparatus of the
animal life is the production of conscious existence."
" When, however, consciousness of the organic pro-
cesses would be of service to us ; when they are going
'wrong ; when their too feeble or intense action is in
danger of destroying existence, the animal life is made
sensible of what is passing in the organic, in order
that the former may take beneficial cognizance of the
latter, may do what experience may have taught to be
conducive to the restoration of the diseased organ to a
sound state, or avoid doing what may conduce to the
increase or maintenance of its morbid condition."
Again, "The two lives are hom .at different periods,
and the one is in active operation before the other is
even in existence. The first action observable in the
embryo is a minute pulsating point. It is the young
htlart propelling its infant stream. Before brain or
nerve or muscle can be distinguished the heart is in
existence and in action ; that is, the apparatus of the
organic function of the· circulation is built up and is in
operation before there is any trace of an animal organ.
Arteries and veins circulate blood, capillary vessels
receive the vital fluid, and out of it form brain and
muscle, the organs of the animal, no less than the
various substances that compose the organs of the
organic life. The organic is not only anterior to the
animal life, but it is l:Jy the action of the (Jfganic that
existence is given to the animal life. The organic life
is born at the first moment of existence, the animal
life not until a period comparatively distant ; the epoch
emphatically called the period of birth, namely, the
period when the new being is detached from its
Digitized by Coogle
16 MATTER.
mother ; when it first comes in contact with external
objects ; when it carries on all the functions of its
economy by its own organs, and consequently enjoys
independent existence."•
It is difficult to tell where the animal life is first
added to the ·organic. So feeble is the energy, so
indistinct is the appearance of sensation when it is
first added to matter, that naturalists have mistaken
what are now known to be animals for plants. The
energy of sensation, however, gradually increases as
we trace it upwards in the scale of creation, and always
with it the enlargement and complexity of the nervous
system. The senses and voluntary motion gradually
make their appearance in worms, insects,. &c., the
extra necessary vital functions being at the same time
added. We thus ascend the scale through fishes,
reptiles, birds, and quadrupeds, the complexity of
organs, both nervous and vital, increasing in propor-
tion as sensation and motion become more energetic.
Thus the cerebral functions or the diversified powers
of thinking and feeling gradually increase until they
receive their final development in man, where they
produce all the phenomena of Intellect, so far surpass-
ing anything analogous in animals that it requires
considerable knowledge of comparative anatomy to
refer them to the same source.
Dr. Smith says "The relation is still stricter between
the complexity of apparatus of sensation and the range
of feeling than between the complexity of the inferior
or organic functions. The greater the number of senses
the greater the number of the organs of sense ; the
• Philosophy of Health, Chap. 2.
Digitized by Coogle
MATTER. 17
more accurate and varied the impressions conveyed by
each, the more complex the structure of the instrument
by which they are communicated; the more extended
the range of the intellectual operations, the larger the
bulk of brain, the greater the number of its distinct
parts, and the more exquisite their organization. From
the point of the animal scale, at which the brain first
becomes distinctly visible, up to man, the basis of the
organ is the same; but as the range of its functions
extends, part after part is superadded, and the structure
of each part becomes progressively more and more
complex. The evidence of this, afforded by compara-
tive anatomy, is irresistible, and the interest connected
with the study of it, can scarcely be exceeded."•
Again, observes a writer in. the Edinburgh Rez:iew,
No. 94, "In the nervous system alone we can trace a
gradual progress in the provision for the subordination
of one animal to another, and of all to man ; and are
enabled to associate every faculty which gives superiority
with some additions to the nervous mass, even from the
smallest indication of sensation and "ill, up to the
highest degree of sensibility, judgment, and expression.
The brain is observed to be progressirely improved
infitsstructure ; and, with reference to the spinal mar-
row:and nerves, augmented in volume more and more,
until we reach the human brain, each addition being
marked by some addition to, or amplification of the
power of the animal, until in man we behold it pos-
sessing some parts of which animals are destitute, and
wanting none which they pos.'iess."
All facts seem then to imply that in precisely the
• Philosophy of Health, Chap. 1.
D
Digitized by Google
18 MATTER.
same way that life depends upon organization, so sen-
sation or the animal life depends upon a superstructure
raised upon this organization, viz., the nervous system.
Neither is there a single fact to prove that man is in.
any way an exception to this rule. His mind and
feelings seem to be equally dependent upon his nervous
system, and the difference between him and other
animals, however great, seems owing to the greater
complexity of this system ; from which it -is evident
that, important as this difference may be, there is no
necessity for the introduction of a fourth principle, as
distinct as life from sensation, to account for it. The
function of a part of the brain which man has in
addition to that possessed by the highest order of
brutes, enables him to communicate his ideas and to
register his experience, and this power constitutes his
distinguishing characteristic, without which he would
never have risen above the savage state.
That he is a progressive being is the grand distinc-
tion of man, and the reason of an intelligent individual
of the present age is not so much the reason of one,
as of the whole human race : everything worthy of
being preserved in every mind that has existed having
been handed down to us, first by oral tradition and
then by written records, making ultimately a greater
difference between a cultivated mind of the present
day, and that of one who has only had the experience
of a life to teach him, than between the latter indivi-
dual and one of the higher order of brutes. It is well
said by Dr. Amott that "a well-informed man of the
present day may be said to possess within the bounda-
ries of his mind the universe in miniature, where he
cau contemplate at pleasure, past events and the pre-
sent and the future."
Digitized by Coogle
MATTER. 19
To those who are unaccustomed to trace the origin
and growth of ideas through successive ages, and to
consider the expansion of mind as the result of the
·registered experience of all that have preceded us, it
is difficult to perceive the resemblance between the
wonderful powers of man and those that are developed
in a minor degree in the brutes. The following pas-
sage from the " Philosophy of Health," seems to prove,
nevertheless, incontrovertibly, that the mind of man is
not an exception to the universal law, which makes the
animal life, viz., sensation-thought--consciousness-
dependent upon the brain ; and shows also, in a highly
interesting manner, the progression of the mind from
childhood to manhood, and the retrogression from
manhood to second childhood, a.'i the organs of the
brain gradually attain maturity with age, and again
with age decay :-
" The functions of the organic life are perfect at
once. The heart contracts as well, the arteries secrete
as well, the respiratory organs work as wen; the first
moment they begin to act as at any subsequent period.
They require no teaching from experience, and they
profit nothing from its lessons. On the contrary, the
operations of the brain, and the actions of the voluntary
muscles, feeble and uncertain at first, acquire strength
by slow degrees, and attain their ultimate perfection
only at the adult age."
"In the descending series, the animal life fails before
the organic, and its nobler powers decay sooner and
more speedily than the subordinate. First of all the
impressions which the organs ot' sense convey to the
brain become less numerous and distinct, and comle-
quently the material on which the mind operates is
Digitized by Google
20 MATTER.
less abundant and perfect; but at the same time, the
power of working vigorously with the material it pos-
sesses more than proportionally diminishes. Memory
fails; analogous phenomena are less readily and less
completely recalled by the presence of those which
should suggest the entire train ; the connecting links
are dimJy seen or wholly lost; the brain itself is less
vivid and less coherent ; train succeeds train with
preternatural slowness, and the consequence of these
growing imperfections is that at last, induction becomes
unsound just as it was in early youth ; and for the
same reason, namely, because there is not in the
mental view an adequate range of individual pheno-
mena; and the only difference being that the range
comprehended in the Yiew of the old man is too nar-
row, because that which he had learnt he has forgotten;
while in the youth it is too narrow, because that which
it is necessary to learn has not been acquired.
"And with the diminution of intellectual power the
senses continue progressiYely to fail ; the eye grows
more dim, the ear more dull, the sense of smell less
delicate, the sense of touch less acute, while the sense
of taste, immediately subservient to the organic func-
tion of nutrition, is the last to diminish in intensity
and correctness, and wholJy fails but with the extinction
of the life it serves. ' ·
" But the senses are not the only servants of the
brain ; the Yoluntary muscles are so equa\Jy; but these
ministers to the master power, no longer kept in active
service, the former no longer employed to conyey new,
varied, and Yivid impressions, the latter no longer
employed to execute the commands of new, varied, and
intense desires, hecomc succcssh·ely feebler, slower,
Digitized by Google
MATTER. 21
and more uncertain in their action. The hand trem-
bles, the step totters, and every moYement i<J tardy and
unsteady. And thus, by the loss of one intellectual
faculty after another, by the obliteration of sense after
sense, by the progressive failure of the power of volun-
tary motion, in a word, by the declining energy and
the ultimate extinction of the animal life, man, from
the state of maturity, passes a second time through
the stage of childhood back to that of infancy ; lapses
even into the condition of the embryo ; what the fretus
was, the man of extreme old age is : when he began
to exist he possessed only organic life ; and before he
is ripe for the tomb, he returns to the condition of a
plant.•
" And eYen this merely organic existence cannot
• On the same subject Dr. Elliotson in his Human Physiology,
p. 1028, remarks, " In this miserable state of wreck, the power of
the brain called mind, like the power of all other organs, and every
organ, is reduced to the lowest point compatible with life, and
without Divine assurance to the contrary, must indicate a final
extinction, since a gradual expansion of intellectual and high moral
faculties might be expected the nearPr our entrance into a higher
state of existence, and not a steadily increasing decline into child-
ishness, incapacity, and absolute fatuity--dementia senilis, as it is
technically called, in which no e\·idence can be appn>ciated, no
Yiews conceived; and the longer life is pu!!hed,-the nearPr to
another world the individual arrives, the- more fatuitous does he
grow,-the more and more below the brute cn>ation. Though few
li\'e long enough to die thns fatuitous, it must be reml.'mbercd that
the facult:<•s of the old are always mon> and more impaired and
employed upon old exprrience without the power of advancing, and
that, among those who perish in the vigour of their minds, thl.'y
who are not cut off suddenly, nay even thl.'y who become very
acute before death, genrrally become delirious or unintelligl.'nt
ultimatrly before they expire."
Digitized by Google
22 MATTER.
be long maintained. Slow may be the waste of the
organic organs ; but they do waste, and that waste is
not repaired, and consequently their functions lan-
guish, and no amount of stimulus is capable of
. invigorating their failing action. The arteries are
rigid and cannot nourish ; the veins are relaxed and
cannot carry on the mass of blood that oppresses
th~m ; the lungs, partly choked up by adventitious
matter, and partly incapable of expanding and col-
lapsing by reason of the feeble action of the respira-
tory apparatus, imperfectly aerate the small quantity
of blood that flows through them ; the heart, deprived
of its wonted nutriment and stimulus, is unable to
contract with the energy requisite to propel the vital
current; the various organs, no longer supplied with
the quantity .and quality of material necessary for
carrying on their respective processes, cease to act;
the machinery stops, and this is death.
" And now the processes of life at an end, the body
falls within the dominion of the powers which preside
universa1ly over matter ; the tie that linked all its parts
together, holding them in union and keeping them in
action, in direct opposition to those powers dissolved,
it feels and obeys the new attractions to which it ha.~
become subject; particle after particle that stood in
beautiful order, fall from their place ; the wonderful
stmctures they composed melt away; the very sub-
stances of which those structures were built are re-
!:iolved into their primitive elements; these elements,
set at liberty, enter into new combinations and become
constituent parts of ·new beings ; those new beings, in
their turn, p('rish; from their death springs lif<>, and
so the change goes on in an everlasting circle."
Digitized by Coogle
•
MATTER. 23
As the elements of which the body has been com-
posed " enter into new combinations and become
constituent parts of new beings," so, even with refer-
ence to this world, may it be truly said that the mind
does not perish, but that the essential parts of it
descend to our children, or in the shape of written
documents-~_gistered experience, help to form the
minds of hundreds of the human race•
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
MIND.
IN the previous chapter we have seen how nature,
in the vast variety of her movements, seems systema-
tically to approach towards one object, the production
of Sensation. The laws of inorganic matter prepare
the way for organic, for plants and vegetables possess-
ing life ; the Ycgetable kingdom prepares the way for
the animal, and upon the vital f~nctions of animals is
dependent the nervous system which it seems to be
the object of all the other complicated processes to
produce, and with which Sensation or Feeling is as
intimately connected, as Attraction with inorganic mat-
ter, or Life with organic.
The world appears to ba\'e been created with the
view of containing the largest possible amount of sen-
tient existence. Not only organized structures pos-
sessing life, but beings endowed with sensation teem
on every side of us ; the wide spreading ocean, the
earth, the air, are full of them; tJach possessing a
constitution adapted to the sphere in which its Creator
bas intended it to move. There appears to be no
situation where vegetation or the effects of vegetation
exist that does not support some kind of animal life :
stagnant water and noxious marshes, decaying vege-
table and animal matter, all swarm with sentient
beings, and what is death to the more perfectly or-
ganized beings, is the source of life to others lower in
Digitized by Coogle
l'tiiND. 25
the scale. Distinct worlds of sensation seem to exist,
in the water, in the air, in the earth, as well as on the
earth, all possessing a wonderful adaptation of struc-
ture to their place in creation. How beautiful, for
instance, is the world of insects, fitted as these are, in
their various transformations, to inhabit the different •
elements. How complicated. is their structure, bodily
and mental, enabling them to live in a world of their
own, inaccessible to the obtuser senses of man. They
hear and see and feel and smell and taste what is too
subtle for his perception : they have music and a lan-
guage that he cannot understand : they sport in all the
colours of the rainbow, and delight in their own gay
clothing. The variety of structure in the organs of the
senses, in the wings, legs, stings, ovipositors, mouths,
and internal machinery for the supply of waste, of
these little creatures, is among the great wonders
of comparatil"e anatomy. Not less wonderful is the
perfection with which such internal machinery, in
beings so frail and low in the scale of existence, per-
forms its work ; turning death into life, putrefaction
·into the most beautiful and variegated structure;
eliminating the lamp of the glow-worm, the sting of the
bee, and the venom that maddens the sluggish ox. No
less admirable and appropriate is the structure of every
living creature, from the tribes of infusoria upwards,
each possessing the powers or sensation, and conse-
quently intelligence, in the degree that is requisite for
its happiness and maintenance in the place of creation
allotted to it.
The most highly organized being is .Man, and the
aggregate of all his sensations, whether proceeding
from external or internal impression8, we denominate
E
DigitizedbyGoogle a
26 MIND.
his mind. The mind, therefore, is intimately connected
with the brain and nervous system, and before ana-
lyzing it, which is the object of the present chapter, it
seems desirable briefly to describe the rita} functions,
upon which the brain and nerrous system depend.
It will be unnecessary to explain the structure of the
human frame; suffice it ·to say, that changes of its
constituent particles are always going on, and, like
everything else, it is continually wearing away. It is
bard work that many of its organs are called upon to
perform, and the heart cannot beat 100,000 times in
twenty-four bouts and act with a force of 60 lbs. upon
the blood that is poured into it, "';thout loss of sub-
stance. So also the lungs, the stomach, the liver, and
all the other organs, unceasingly and untiringly execute
their functions, but always at the expense of some of
their component particles; a waste which is greater even
than in inanimate machines, and if the parts worn away
were not replaced by new ones, life would soon become
extinct. To supply this new material and to fit it for
all the purposes of the body, organs for reception,
assimilation, circulation, nutrition, secretion, and ex-
cretion, are provided. Thus Yegetable or animal matter,
after being masticated, and mixed with a peculiar se-
cretion from the salivary glands, is received into the
stomach, where by the aid of certain juices it is digested
and changed into chyme ; from thence it passes into
the bowels or intestines, where it undergoes other
changes. The nutritious portion of it called the chyle
is here taken up by very minute vessels or hair-like
tubes, (the lacteals,) which convey it to a thicker tube,
(the thoracic duct,) by which it is emptied into the
heart and mixed up with the blood. It is necessary,
Digitized by Google
MIND. 27
howe\·er, in order to fit it for all the purposes of life,
that it be exposed to the oxygen of air; and accordingly
it is forced by the heart into the lungs, where every
particle of it is brought into contact with the air, by the
action of breathing. This converts it from the dark blue
venous blood to the fine scarlet-coloured arterial blood
which alone is able to support life ; it is then again
returned to the heart, but to a different chamber from
that which it occupied before. Thence it is again
forced out 0\·er all, even the most remote parts of the
body ; replacing in its course all those portions that
bare decayed or worn away, forming, apparently, from
the very same blood, bone, muscle, fat, brain, ap.d nerve,
with all the diversified secretions from the different
organs used in reducing all the various kinds of exter-
nal aliment to one common fluid. By this circulation
of blood, not only are all the parts of the body kept in
constant repair, but all those particles are carried out
of the system, which, having served their purpose, are
no longer of use, and which if not remo,·ed would
impede the action of the different organs. These
waste particles are emptied into the blood, and organs
are pro·vided whose function it is to extract them
again from it, and to throw them qqite out of the
system. Such, among others, is the office of the skin,
the lungs, the liver, the kidneys, and the bowels.
All the functions of the body by which life is sus-
tained, have, thus, relation to waste and supply ;
every instant some portion of the matter of which the
body is composed is worn away, and \ital actions are
continually going on to supply the expenditure ; every
instant particles that have served their purpose in the
body are carried out of it, and new matter replaces
Digitized by Google
28 MIND.
them. In this manner the whole body is gradually but
entirely changed, so that in the course of time no
particle of it remains that was there before.
The laws that regulate these functions are called the
organic laws, and the great importance that attaches
to them is evident when we know that the brain, " the
organ of mind," is dependent upon them. All other
functions of the body are important only as they pro-
mote the healthy action of the brain, for it is sensation
alone that makes life of any value. It is absolutely
necessary to the health of the brain that it be supplied
with good and pure blood ; if, therefore, the skin be
neglected so that it cannot remove the waste matter
from the blood ; if the blood be not properly oxygen-
ized by a due supply of pure air from the lungs, or
reinvigorated by fresh nourishment from the stomach,
or if the heart do not propel it with sufficient energy,
the brain suffers and with it the Inind. The due regu-
lation of such functions of the body is essential, there-
fore, to the proper action of the mind.
It is represented by some who fear the supposed
results of what is called materialism, that the brain is
merely the instrument that the Inind makes use of in
its connexion with the body. On the other hand, it is
said "Mind is the functional power of the living brain."
" As I cannot conceive Life any more than the power
of attraction," says Dr. Elliotson, "unless possessed
by matter, so I cannot conceive mind unless possessed
by a brain, or by some nervous organ, whatever name
we may choose to give it, endowed with life. I speak
of terrestrial or animal Inind; with angelic and divine
natures we haYe nothing to do, and of them we know,
in the same respects, nothing. Obserration shows that
Digitized by Goog e
MIND. 29
superiority of mind in the animal creation is exactly
commensurate with superiority of brain ;• that activity
•" The same progression which exists in the gradual perfection
of animal organization, as far .as regards ngetable life only, is
observed in the gradual perfection of the nervous system, and of
animal life which depends upon it. Comparative anatomy bas
followed the gradual perfection of animals, from the most simple
absorbent vessels to the most complicated apparatus of mastication,
deglutition, and digestion, to the most perfect circulation. With
every fresh Yiscua, every fresh apparatus for sensation, is discovered
a fresh function, and this function is more complicated in propor-
tion as the organization of the viscus or apparatus of sensation is
more perfect. The stomach, kidneys, lungs, heart, eyes, ears, are
the more complicated as the functions become so.
" The same gradation may be demonstrated in the structure of
the brains of the different species. I have demonstrated in the
preceding chaptt'r, that the existence of each moral quality and
intellectual faculty, depends solely upon the presence of certain
determinate cerebral parts, and not upon the whole mass of brain.
It follows, that the number of the faculties is in direct proportion
to the integrant parts of the brain. In insects, fish, and amphibia,
the nervous mass contained in the cerebral reservoir, is still divided
into several distinct masses. The greater part of these are not
integrant parts of the brain, properly so called; they are ganglia,
from which arise the nerves of smell, hearing, sight, &c. The two
hemispheres, properly so called, are placed behind the two ganglia
of the olfactory nerves, and are the more complicated as the indus-
trial instincts are more numerous ; the cerebellum in these animals
generally forms a hollow pouch, sometimes placed horizontally,
sometimes folded together.
" In birds, the two hemispheres are already more considerabll•,
although distinct convolutions cannot be discerned. The cerebel-
lum still consists merely of its middle or fundamental part; but
already appears composed of many rings placed side by side.
" In the small mammalia, the shrew-mouse, mouse, rat, squirrel,
weasel, &c., convolutions are not yet discoverable. But as they
are already distinctly found in other larger rodentia, the beaver,
kangaroo, &c., we may suppose that they equally exist in them.
Digitized by Coogle
30 MIND.
of brain and of mind are coequal ; and that, as long as
the brain is endowed with life, and remains uninjured,
it, like all other organs, can perform its functions, and
mind continues ; but, as in all other organs, when its
" In the huger mammalia, the cat, polt•cat, marten, fox, dog, ape,
the convolutions are more distinct and numerous, but their form
varies according to the specil•s.
"In the dolphin, elephant, and man, they are more numerous
and derp than in the beaver, kangaroo, cat, &c., and their f01m
and direction vary completrly according to the species.
"In all the mammalia, the cerebellum possesses, brsides the
middle or fundamental part, two lateral pa1 ts, which are more or
lt'ss complicated, according to the species; and as the soi-di'sanl
pons variolii, or the sui-disant cerebral ganglia, i.e. the transverse
layers of nervous bands, arc only the commissure or junction of the
lah•ral parts of the cerebellum, thry are found in all the mammalia,
llntl in none of the ovipara.
"The number of the integral parts, or of the convolutions of the
brain, varies equally in the different specit•s of mammalia; in some
the anterior lobes of the ht'mispheres are largt'r or more elevated ;
in otht'rs, again, the inferior parts of the anterior lobes are nearly
wanting. The middle lobes, and the other convolutions, present
similar varieties.
" In this way, the int<'grant parts of the brain augment in
nmubt'r and de\"elopment, as we pass from a lrss perfect to a more
perfect animal, till we arri\·e at the brain of man, who, in the
anterior-superior, and in the superior region of the frontal bone,
possess(•s several parts of which other animals are deprived, and
by m<'ans of which he is endowed with the most eminent qualities
and faculties, with reason, and the fl•t'ling of religion and the exist-
<'nce of God.
"Some pretend to discover a striking resrmblance between the
brain of an orang-outan and that of man. But, in the first place,
the difference of their volume is as five to one ; their convolwions
differ considerably in numbt>r and structure; the anterior lobes,
espedally, are contracted into a cone, tlath•nt'd abo\"'<', hollow below,
&c.; and tht> difl'ert'nce is still more remarkable in other simi'"·"-
Gall, as quott>d by EUiotson in his "Human Ph~·siology," p. 32.
Digitized by Coogle
HIND. 31
life ceases, its power to perform its function ceases,
and the mind ce.ases ; when disease or mechanical
injury affects it, the mind is affected-inflammation of
the stomach causes vomiting, of the brain delirium ;
a blow upon the head stuns ; if originally constituted
defective, the mind is defective ; if fully developed,
and properly acted on, the mind is \;gorous : accord-
ingly, as it varies with age, in quality and bulk, is the
mind also varied-the mind of the child is weak and
very excitable ; of the adult, ,;gorous and firm, and of
the old man weak and dull, exactly like the body ; and
the character of the mind of an individual agrees with
the character of his body, being equally excitable,
languid, or torpid, evidently because the brain is of the
samecharacter as the rest ofthe body to which it belongs;
-the female mind exceeds the male in excitability a.o;;
much as her body ; the qualities of the mind are also
hereditary, which they could not be, unless they were,
like our other qualities, corporeal conditions ; and the
mind is often disordered upon the disappearance of a
bodily complaint, just as other organs, besides the brain,
are affected under similar circumstances,-the retroces-
sion of an eruption may affect the lungs, causing asthma;
the bowels, causing interitis; or the brain, causing
insanity,-phthisis and insanity sometimes alternate
with each other, just like affections of other organs ;
the laws of the mind are precisely those of the func-
tions of all other organs,-a certain degree of excite-
ment strengthens it, too much exhausts it; physical
agents affect it, and some specifically, as is the case
with other functions, for example, narcotics. The argu-
ment of Bishop Butler that the soul is immortal and
independent ofmatter because in fatal diseases the mind
often remains vigorous to the last, is perfectly ground-
Digitized by Coogle
32 MIND.
less, for any function will remain vigorous to the last, if
the organ which performs it is not the seat of disease, nor
much connected by sympathy, or in other modes with
the organ which is the seat of the disease,-the sto-
mach often calls regularly for food, and digests it
vigorously, while the lungs are almost completely con-
sumed by ulceration. All the cases that are adduced
to pro-re the little dependence of the mind upon the
brain, are adduced in opposition to the myriads of
others that daily occur in the usual course of nature,
and are evidently regarded as extraordinary by those
who bring them forward. An exact parallel to each
may be found in the affections of every other organ,
and each admits of so easy an explanation, that it may
be always truly said, " Exceptio probat regulum."• ·
But whatever may be the way in which Sensation is
connected with the nervous system, it does not at all
affect the reasoning founded upon the fact of that con-
nexion. We do not call attraction a function of. matter,
but we ne,er find matter existing without attraction-
so we ne,er find Life without organization, or Sensation
without a nervous system. Life would appear to be
an inexplicable principle originally added to organiza-
tion, capable of transmission, but not of spontant>ous
production ; the same may be said of Sensation.
This howeYcr may perhaps be considered as certain
knowledge on the subject, viz., that the brain (in either
sense,) is the organ of mind ; that it is not a single
organ but consists of a number of parts, performing
distinct functions, comprising all the different prbpen-
sities, feelings, and faculties which distinguish one
animal from another, and all others from man.
• Human Phy!!iology, p. 32.
Digitized by Coogle
MIND. 33
Comparati¥e anatomy haling pointed out that all
the peculiar habits and propensities of sensitive crea-
tures are consequent upon the different development
of their nervous systeiDS, the observation of these dif-
ferences, in connexion with the propensities and habits
of the individual, has led in Yery many cases to the
discovery of the part of the brain connected with each
mental faculty. Dr. Vimont, in Paris, has observed
and published a great number of facts on this subject,
\\ith reference to the lower animals as well as to man.
The connexion of particular parts of the brain in
man with particular mental faculties, was accidentally
discovered by Dr. Gall, of Vienna, to whom all honour
is due for his patient investigation, during a long life,
of such phenomena. The discovery has proved most
important to the interests of mental science, and the
same mode of investigation has been followed with
equal assiduity by others; through their means a very
complete list of the primitive mental faculties, as com-
pared with any furnished by previous metaphysicians,
has been given to . us, throwing great light upon all
subjects connected with the happiness of man.
Phrenologists have n.ot only demonstrated that each
mental faculty i~ connected with a particular part of the
brain, but also that the power and intensity which each
faculty is capable of manifesting is in proportion to the
health, quality, and sise of the part. Also that such
health, quality, and size, depend upon hereditary ten-
dencies as much as the health and strength of the vital
functions and the general appearance of the person.
The power of manifestation of the mental faculties
is found to increase with exercise, and to decrease with
disuse.
F
Digitized by Googk '
34 MIND.
Phrenologists haYe also shewn that the size of the
organs of the brain is indicated by the shape of the
head; the health and quality are not so obvious, but
may generally be determined.
A faculty is admitted as primitiYe; that is, as the
function of a single organ, and not compounded of
several united by a principle of association ;
" Which exists in one kind of animal and not in another;
" Which Taries in the two sexes of the same species;
" Which is not proportionate to the other faculties of the same
individual.
" Which does not manifest itllt'lf simultaneously lVith the other
faculties ; that is, which appears or disappears earlier or later in
life than other faculties ;
" Which may act or rest singly ;
" Which is propagated in a. distinct manner from part'nts to
children; ·
"Which may singly preserve its proper state of health or
disease."•
.ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES.
Sensation may be said to be the Soul, the something
that is distinct from that to which we give the name of
matter, but of which matter we know nothing but as
the cause or the immediate antecedent of Sensation.
It is distinct, inasmuch as the cause must always be
distinguished from the effect; but how it differs from
matter in essence, man's faculties do not inform him.
The Mind bas pre,;ously been defined as the aggre-
gate of all sensations, from whatever source derived ;
the comfortable or uneasy feelings arising from the
alimentary canal; the sense of feeling common to all
• G. Combe's System of Phrenology, p. 140, 4th Edit.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 35
parts of the body; the action of the intellectual facul-
ties through the medium of the senses ; and the variety
of different feelings which propel to action, or which
·regulate and restrain it, constituting the mind in the
general acceptation of the term.
These sensations are of a much more diversified kind
in man than in other animals ; for he not only pos-
sesses the feelings, or instincts, and intellectual faculties
which belong to the most perfect of the brute creation,
but many additional ones which raise him almost infi-
nitely above them. He may, however, be considered
as, in part, a representative of other animals, and the
same causes that act upon them, put him in motion ;
like them he is influenced by strong desires, the grati-
fication oi which is highly pleasurable, and the non-
gratification, in some cases, insupportably painful.
The most simple division of the mind is into FEELING,
and INTELLECT; or, into Animal, Moral, and Intellectual
faculties; comprising the feelings, or propensities, and
intellectual faculties which man has in common with
other animals, and those which are peculiarly his own.
All sensations derived from other sources influence,
.. directly or indirectly, some of these faculties, and may,
therefore, be said ~o be included in them.
A great mass of evidence has been collected by
Phrenologists with reference to the phenomena which
such faculties exhibit in all their various gradations of
power ; but much has yet to be done in the analysis of
such mental phenomena, so as to enable us to state
what feeling results from the primitive faculty, and
what is the result of it~ association with other organs.
From the want of such analysis the ultimate function
of many faculties would seem to be yet undiscovered.
Digitized by Google
36 MIND.
In giving a list of these faculties, and in stating the
most evident purpose they appear to serve in the human
constitution, I may, perhaps, in some instances, be
able to approach a little nearer than has yet been done
to their ultimate functions, without at all impugning
the facts which other Phrenologists have registered.
The ANIMAL FEELINGS or propensities are instincts
peculiarly selfish in their object; that is, they tend only
to the welfare of the individual, or of those that are so
intimately connected with him that they may be said
to form a part of himself; viz., his wife, children, and
friends.
Man, although his progressive nature and his highest
enjoyments are made to depend upon reason, yet is
kept in existence and preserved by instinct. Mr.
Sidney Smith observes-" It cannot be too often re-
peated that none of those necessaries which an animal
requires are ever left to reason or the mere perception
of utility. The superstructure and basis of humanity
is animalism. Man lives before he thinks ; he eats
before he reasons ; he is social before he is civilized ;
loves even against reason ; and becomes a Nimrod
long before he is a Nestor. Had man not been an
animal before he became rational, he would not have
existed at all. Reason is evidently the last care of
nature. She first secures existence, and then finds
leisure to think. She begins with endowing man with
the faculties necessary to enable him to provide for
himself, before she ventures to animate him with the
sentiments which dictate to him to look abroad for the
help of others ; and she bids him prmide for others
before she allows to him that high ad,·ance in reason
which gives him leit~~ure to indulge in the mere exercise
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 37
of intellect. She has not formed him totally different
from other animals, but rather added to his brain new
organs. She has not, in his case, pulled down the
fabric of sentient being, and reconstructed it upon a
totally different plan. All that she has done, has been
to add to the original edifice Corinthian capitals and
Doric columns, bestowing reason, not to supersede, but
to guide, direct, and perfect his animal nature. We
may rest assured, therefore, that whatever principles in
the shape of instincts are given to animals for their
preservation and protection, are also instincts in man ;
and that what in them is a propensity or desire, is not
in him anything else." •
Contrary to the usually observed order we shall
consider first, the feelings that have for their object
the presen·ation of the individual only.
The LovE OF LIFE. Nature has made two espe-
cial provisions for the protection and support of life,
besides that of pain in general, which she always inflicts
when anything is done calculated to injure those organs
on which the vital functions depend. First, an in-
stinctive propensity or desire to preserve life for its own
sake, independently of the pleasures with which it i~
accompanied. Without such a feeling the temporary
predominance of pain over pleasure, which man is
frequently called upon to endure, would often not be
supported, and suicide would be resorted to as being
the easiest and most obvious mode of escaping from
suffering. Man clings, however, instinctively to life, in
circumstances in which its continuance can scarcely be
thought desirable, and some would wish still to be,
"' Principll's of Phrenology, p. 123.
Digitized by Google
38 MIND.
though everlasting pain should be their portion. It is
this feeling, assisted, perhaps, by Hope and Wonder,
that bas in all countries, unaided by supposed super-
natural revelation, originated the idea of a future state.
It produces an instinctive dread of annihilation; to be
as if we bad not been-if we may use such an expres-
sion-is an idea that few like to entertain. Yet, said
one of the sages of old,-" '\\"here I am, death is not ;
where death is, I am not." This instinctive desire for
the continuation of life, which bas for its object the
preservation of our life here, is frequently brought for-
ward as indicating nature's intention with respect to
our existence in a future state of being. It is said,
because we have this strong desire for a continued ex-
istence, therefore we shall live again ; but when we
know the use for which this feeling is intended, we
shall feel that such an argument has little weight as
evidence of a future state of being. The .principal
abuse of this faculty is the great dread of death that it
so frequently inspires ; superstition, aided by the over-
wrought activity of this impulse, creates the most hor-
rible forebodings~ and draws the most dreadful pictures
of what, in the ordinary state, is no more than a falling
asleep, a gradual and insensible suspension of the men-
tal faculties, and what may be only a change from one
state of being to another. Another abuse is, that,
owing to the tendency it gives to look forward to con-
tinued existence in another state of being, the advan-
tages of the present are too much neglected and too
little appreciated. The numberless bounties that Pro-
vidence has bestowed on us here are ungraciously
receh·ed ; our beautiful world is called a vale of tears,
the mere passage to a better; and we thank God not
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE JaNTA.L FACULTIES. 39
so much for what he has already gi\'en, as for what we
consider we are, and ought, to receive.
Secondly, ALIMENTIVENEss, or the desire of Food, is
a means which nature has taken to preserve the prin-
ciple of life. We have seen the necessity that exists
for food to be taken to supply the waste that is continu-
ally going on in the human frame, and that death must
be the inevitable consequence of the neglect of this
duty. But the mere knowledge of this would not be
sufficient to induce us to attend regularly to this want
of the system. To prevent, therefore, any neglect on
our part, a strong desire or appetite for food is given,
which when too long unsatisfied amounts to the pains
of hunger. The ultimate function of this faculty is
the preservation of tlie vital principle, by obliging man
to supply the necessary aliment ; the object of the
desire is th~ gratification of appetite, or the assuaging
of hunger. It is most important, 'both as a physical
and moral agent. It is the prime mo\er in man and
in all other animals. It is a main source of order ; for
if mankind could do without food, they would soon be
independent of all rule and control, and necessary
subordination would no longer exist. It has been the
chief impulse to man's progression, constituting, princi-
pally, that necessity which is the mother of inrention.
It has been instrumental in taming all animals, and man
no less than others. The abuses of this faculty are
Gluttony and Drunkenness in all their various degrees;
the sacrifice of that nervous energy in digestion which
ought to be used in supplying the organs of our highest
and most ennobling faculties with their necessary
stimulant, and the diminishing the moral and intellec-
tual pleasures.
Digitized by Coogle
40 MIND.
CoNCENTRATIVENEss and INHABITn'ENEss. Both
these faculties have the same object, viz., the formation
of habits. The first gives the desire to retain present
emotions and ideas ; an instinctive pleasqre in dwelling
upon them until an association is formed. The latter
induces the same feeling with respect to localities that
the former does to mental states. It is not single
isolated thoughts and feelings that form the individual;
man is a bundle of habits. " It is not every act of
virtue," says Mackintosh, " but virtuous habits, dispo-
sitions, and feelings, that produce the highest degree
of happiness to the individual." Hence the importance
of these two faculties which assist in the formation of
these habits. They render great aid to the social
affections no less than to other fP-elings : they beget a
fondness for home.• Concentrativeness assists also the
intellectual facultie.~ in continuing their action ; that
is, in producing the state called attention. Mr. Combe
says, " Concentrativeness gh·es the desire for perma-
nence in place and for permanence of emotions and
ideas ·in the mind." Mr. Sidney Smith observes that
" it is extremely probable that the latter faculty is the
propensity of pursuit or the instinct of object, the
desire of doing, or being, exactly what the individual
has done or been before, the love of continuity, of
• " As the appropriation of land was destined to produce such
important effects in the progress of society, and in the habits and
manners of mankind in gE'neral, a provision was made for it in some
of the rno!!t powerful fE'elings of which our nature was susceptible.
The desire of acquiring property in the soil, the attachment to a
lwme, arul the looe o/ the place o/ their naliuit!}, are amQng the
strongest feelings of the human breast, and which, in the progress
of society, are the first to be den•loped."-Alison on Population,
vol. 2, p. 4.
Digitized by Google
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 41
endurance, of sameness, of permanency of occupation,
emotion, feeling, existence." The abuses of these
faculties are, the confining of the mind too exclusiYely
to one object or pursuit, to the neglect of more general
knowledge and utility; the formation of habits and
associations which reason bas taken no part in ; and
the indisposition to move abroad.
CoMBATIVENEss or 0PPOSITIVENEss. In a world in
which difficulties and dangers abound, and where the
path to everything really good and excellent is strewn
with obstacles, ifis not enough that man should only
posses~ the power of overcoming them; there must be
a pleasure attending the contest, and a desire to over-
come; and these are furnished by this faculty. Its
office is
"Firm
Agaiut the torrent and the stubborn hill,
To urge bold Virtue's unremitting nerve
And \\·ake the strong divinity of soul
That conquen chance and fate."
The love of contention and opposition for their own
sakes, constitute the abuses of the faculty.
DESTRUCTIVENESS. This faculty writes with the
finger of nature, in a language perfectly intelligible to
all, nemo me impune lacessit, upon the whole of the
animal creation. The selfish propensities of man are
very strong : many of them necessarily so, even to.
keep him in existence, and in their exercise he is
frequently tempted to encroach upon the happiness
and interests of others. How is this to be prevented
in cases where the selfish feelings predominate, and
where benevolence is consequently partially inoperative
G
Digitized by Coogle
42 MIND.
for that purpose ? Nature, for the protection of man
against the assaults of his fellow-man, has furnished
each with this faculty, which is a strong desire to give
pain to those who give pain to us; who disagreeably
excite our feelings, or otherwise encroach upon our
happiness·or interests. As the pain a child experiences
on approaching too near the fire deters it in future, so
the fear of the unpleasant manifestation of this faculty,
often instinctively, and almost unconsciously, affords a
more effectual check to the exercise of the selfish pro-
pensities than the whole combined action of the moral
feelings. The manifestations of destructiveness have
been considered by some to result only from the de-
pravity of our nature ; but if utility is to be constituted
our standard of excellence, this principle will be allowed
to be one of nature's best gifts, in this age in which the
mere animal feelings so decidedly predominate, when
we consider, that by its expected reaction alone are
we preserved from being continually trampled upon,
and from having our interests interfered with by those
of others in all the daily occurrences of life. Such is
an important use of the organ in the present state of
society, but we may hope that as mankind advance in
civilization and those faculties increase in energy which
distinguish our race from the rest of the animal crea-
tion, its chief and proper office may be to act as a
stimulant to the other faculties, when unduly depressed,
and to supply determination, energy, and force, to
the character. It may well be compared to fire ; if
improperly used, that is, if so as to interfere with the
happiness of others, it gives us pain ; but when con-
fined within due bounds, it answers a thousand useful
purposes. It would be equally sensible to call fire an
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OJ' THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 43
e\;l, because we sometimes suffer from its destroying
and desolating ravages, when allowed to escape from
its natural boundary, as this feeling, because it some-
times acts without the restraining and guiding influence
of the sentiments and intellect. Passion, revenge, and
malice, are the abuses of this faculty.
SECRETIVENEss. The mind, like the body, requireij
a covering. If we cannot always determine what
emotions and thoughts shall pass through the mind,
yet, the happiness of others, as well as true dignity,
requires that expression shall not be given to them
till the intellect shall have decided upon their pro-
priety. This faculty gives a tendency to conceal our
thoughts, feelings, and purposes ; and it is true that
the thoughts and feelings on which most happiness
depends, are not such as will flourish when exposed to
the cold gaze of the world, neither would the best and
most laudable objects always sueceed, were they first
made public. One great abuse of this faculty, in the
present, as it has been in all previous ages, is to conceal
what we believe to be the truth, out of deference to
public opinion.
AcQUISITIVENEss. To increase and multiply is a
law of the human race, and that the population of a
country may be able to live in comfort, it is necessary
that capital should increase as fast as population. The
object of this faculty is to promote that end, by fur-
nishing an instinctive desire to save, to make accumu-
lations; not only to provide against want, but to add
store to store. Generation after generation are thus
provided for, at a period when they must needs con-
sume, but are unahle to produce. It is not this organ
hy itself that gives pleasure in individual acquisitions ;
Digitized by Coogle
HIND.
but when joined with Self-esteem, in excess, it gives the
desire to possess, and the tendency to accumulate, for
the purpose of calling such property " mine." Bene-
volence would require that all property, the produce of
our own industry, as well as that of others, should be
so distributed, as to produce the largest sum of enjoy-
ment to all. This faculty, howeYer, up to the present
time has been allowed to act instinctively, undirected and
unrestrained by enlightened intellect and moral feeling.
Every one has been anxious to accumulate, to possess
as much of the common stock as possible, at whatever
expense of the labour and happiness of others. The
whole world has been appropriated, and those who
came into existence too late to be present at this ap-
propriation, and who, therefore, possess nothing, are
allowed to make use of the world's wealth upon such
terms only, as reduces the great body of them to labour
incessant, to slavery and bondage and starvation. This
division ·of society into capitalist and labourer produces
a manifestation of this faculty which constitutes its
greatest abuse.•
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. The last faculty was regarded
• The tendency of this faculty, it is said, is to make individual
accumulations ; but in those among the lower animals .in which
it is most marked, the beaver, the bee, for instance, this is by no
means the case. So man accumulates, his ultimate aim being the
advantages such accumulations will confer upon himself andfamil!J,
which family may be indefinitely extended. Thus individual fami-
lies may be united into associations until they form much larger
families of one or two thousand, and all that would be requisite for
the gratification of acquisitiveness would be a joint proprietorship
in the capital of the community, and the understanding that it
should yield as many advantages a.s woultl the produre of ea('h
man'" labour, if it belonged entil'ely to himsrlf.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 45
as nature's instinctive mode of teaching that capital is
to keep pace with population ; to this end constructive-
ness seems also intended to lend its aid ; not by teach-
ing man lWUJ to invent or to construct, but by giving
him the desire to do so, and affording a high pleasure
when the intellectual faculties are so employed. "Man
is a tool-using animal. Weak in himself, and of small
stature, he stands on a basis, at most, for the flattest
soled, of some half square foot, insecurely enough has
to straddle out his legs lest the very wind supplant him.
Feeblest of bipeds. Three quintals are a crushing
load for him ; the Steer of the meadow tosses him
aloft, like a waste rag. Nevertheless he can use Tools,
can devise Tools : with these the granite mountain
melts into light dust before him; he kneads glowing
iron as if it were soft paste ; seas are his smooth high-
way ; winds and fire his unwearying steeds. No where
do you find him without Tools ; without Tools ~ is
nothing, with Tools he is aU."• Necessity is said to
be the mother of invention; it never would have been
sufficient in itself to have constituted man so com-
pletely a tOol-using animal : that he is so, is owing
principally to the instinctive impulses of this faculty;
for the intellectual faculties work only for the desires,
aiiQ work-best for the strongest. utility would have
been powerless without the propensity. "Nature was
too wise to trust to the theory of Bentham. She has
made exertion for man's preservation and ordinary
duties, not merely a necessary but a pleasure of his
life ; knowing full well, that by nothing but an innate
passion could she indUce him to do what was necessary
• 8artor Resartu"', p. ·10.
Digitized by Coogle
46 lUND.
for carrying on the machinery of human and social
existence."* This faculty is capable of taking all
directions, according to the feelings or intellectual
faculties with which it is combined. It has been used
to save and to destroy. Its most important use is the
invention of machinery, which ultimately is intended
to act as the sen·ant of man ; to be at work supplying
the wants of his physical nature, while he shall be
employed in the higher objects of his moral and intel-
lectual being. As Society is now constituted, however,
the majority of mankind have nothing to exchange for
everything they require, but labour; and whatever
renders that labour less necessary, depreciates its value
and impairs their interests. Machinery, therefore, at
present, works against, and not for, this large portion
of the human family.
SELF EsTEEM. This is the individualizing faculty;
it is owing to its instinctive promptings that everything
is judged of with reference to self. It mainly conduces
to the preservation and welfare of man, by inspiring
him with that good opinion of his own powers which is
absolutely essential to self-confidence and decision of
character, without which nothing good or great would
be attempted. The opinion entertained of self, by no
means depends upon qualities and attainments, or upon
situation and station in society, but upon this feeling.
The scholar of centuries past bad as high an opinion
of himself and his attainments, as he whose mind is
now stored with the registered experience of all pre-
vious ages ; and the cobbler and the king, each in his
station, thinks equally well of himself. The happiness
• Sidury Smith, Principlrs of Phrrnol(lgy, p. 126.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 47
resulting from this faculty is incalculable, as it·equalizes
all states and conditions, for,
" Whatever nature has in worth denied,
She gives in large recruits of needful pride:·
It is also owing to this faculty that-
" Whate'er the passion, knowledge, fame or pelf,
Not one will change his neighbour with himself."
And also that we-
" See some.strange comfort every atate attend,
And pride, bestowed on all, a common friend."
Its abuses are love of power and dominion, self-
conceit, selfishness.
CAUTIOUSNEss. Delicately organized as man is, in
both body and mind, and understanding in part only
the nature of everything around him, caution is ne-
cessary to teach him to shun that which has a tendency
to injure him. Nature, careful of the frame upon
which his existence and happiness depend, has placed
over him the most vigilant of all monitors in the
shape of pain, which warns him and makes him desist
from actions that have a tendency to injure himself
or others. To aid this monitor, which is not always
attended to until too late, the organ of cautiousness i..'J
added, which gives rise to fear, to the desire to shun
danger and avoid pain. In a mora) point of view,
it produces prudence and circumspection ; and in abuse
gives rise to cowardice, depression of spirits, and
indecision.
The SociAL PRoP~NSITIEs, are those which relate to
a man's own family and friends, thus:-
AMATIVENEss-produces the love between the sexes,
and ha.<J for its object the transmission of the principle
of life to other frames ; the continuation of our species.
Digitized by Coogle
48 MIND.
After a certain time the successive changes upon which
man's feelings and ideas depend, produce in him, as
we have seen in a previous chapter, that state of body
which is capable of entertaining but a very limited
degree of pleasurable sensation ; it is a wise and bene-
volent provision, therefore, that the vital principle,
which in the course of time ceases to be of use to him,
should be transmitted to other frames, possessing all
the capabilities of enjoyment that at any time belonged
to him. As our world is constituted, much more
enjoyment results from the living of ten men, each
seventy years, than from one man's existence being
extended to ten times that period, or to seyen hundred
years ; and happiness seems to be better secured by
the succession of new beings, than from the immorta-
lity of one ; because, resulting as it does from the
strength and ·vh·idness of impressions, it depends prin-
cipally upon novelty.
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. This function is what its
name implies, the love of offspring ; like every other
feeling it must have exercise, and in the absence of
children, which are its proper objects, it is capable of
taking a variety of other directions. The final cause of
all the faculties is the happiness they bestow in their
exercise ; and though, as we have seen, they may serve
also another purpose, such purpose is secondary ; for
the preservation of the individual, and of the race,
would ~ot be desirable if happiness were not the
result. For instance; however necessary it may be,
as human nature is now constit~ted, that a strong
instinctiYe feeling should exist to induce the parent to
undergo the incessant toil and fatigue incumbent on
the rearing of offspring, there is no doubt that children
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF TBB MENTAL FACULTIES. 49
might have been so framed as to render this toil and
fatigue unnecessary, in which case this powerful in-
stinct might have been dispensed with. But would
any one, who has experienced the intense enjoyments
dependent upon the exercise of this faculty, be willing
to forego them on account of the necessary evil ? We
may consider then that the love of offspring has not
been given to us mainly to induce us to take proper
care of children ; but that children have been made to
want that care, in order to bring into activity a faculty,
from the exercise of which so much happiness results.
The same may be said of other feelings ; we might,
perhaps, have been made to do without eating and
drinking ; but instead of this being a blessing, we
should thereby lose the only stimulant strong enough
to call the mental faculties into action ; upon the
action of which happiness alone depends.
ADHESIVENEss. It is this propensity that is the
source of attachment, of an affectionate disposition,
of friendship, and Society is said to result from it.
Society as it is now constituted, split into families and
clans, may certainly be said to result from it, but it
must be founded upon a much broader basis than such
a feeling affords, to furnish all the advantages derivable
from the social state.
The domestic affections must certainly be classed
among the selfish feelings ; for though they desire the
happiness of others, it is only of those others ·that are
necessary to our own happiness. They form a limited
circle, and are directly opposed to those sympathies
that have for their object the whole human family;
they not only are opposed, but they usurp the place in
public opinion, that is due only to a more enlarged
H
Digitized by Coogle
50 MIND.
affection. A man regards the interests of his own
family, or of his friends, and makes this an excuse for
neglecting the far higher duties that belong to uniYersal
brotherhood. The moral law, that he should love his
neighbour, not merely his friend, as himself, is disre-
garded, and public opinion is satisfied, not knowing
how, or caring, to distinguish between selfish attach-
ments, and the higher feelings that induce sympathy
with the happiness of all that is created.
LovE OF APPROBATION. This faculty desires the
applause and esteem of our fellow-creatures, and is,
perhaps, as essential to the formation of society as
Adhesiveness ; for inasmuch as the latter desires the
friendship of others, so this desires their good opinion ;
both making fellowship necessary to us. Its abuses
are vanity and ambition, undirected by the wish to
benefit our fellow-creatures.
THE MORAL SENTIMENTS.
The feelings already considered are those that man
has in common with other animals ; they are strong
desires, highly pleasurable sensations, prompting him
to act so as to preserve his own existence, and attaching
him to his own particular fainily, clan, and country.
They supply the most pressing wants of human nature,
and their exercise is pleasurable in proportion to the
necessity of the actions to which they prompt. Had
man no other feelings, he would have remained a mere
animal, satisfying the wants of his animal nature, and,
like the brute creation, preying upon his weaker fel-
lows ; restrained from aggression only from fear of the
consequences. But he has other feelings, which, in
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 5}
their joint action, constitute peculiarly human nature:
some of these are possessed by other animals, but an
accurate division, distinguishing those that belong to
man alone, has not yet been made.
BENEVOLENCE. If we reason upon man as an indi-
Yidual, we are led directly into_error ; an error the fatal
source of much of the moral evil now in the world.
He is individual, in the same sense only as the
members of his own body are indi\idual; for he is as
intimately connected with his family, his friends, and
mankind at large, as those members are to the body of
which they form parts. Man, though regarding himself
as an identical individual, is only a part of the great
body of mankind, ~nd his happiness is as much de-
pendent upon that body as upon his own. All relation-
ships are created and established in the· mind, and
whether it sympathizes with an injured limb, or with
an injured member of society, it is still in the mind
only that such feeling exists. Thus his mind is com-
posed of feelings that have relation to his own body,
and if they are not gratified he suffers ; of domestic
feelings that join him to his family and friends, and
if these are not gratified he also suffers ; and of moral
feelings which connect him no less intimately with the
whole human family, and if these are not gratified, great
loss of the happiness that he is made capable of enjoy-
ing is the consequence, as well as, frequently, positive
suffering. To disregard, therefore, the strict relation-
ship that exists between individual man and society at
large, in the framing of institutions and the conduct of
life, is as absurd as to attend to the wants of one part
of the bodily system and to neglect the others. It is the
function of benevolence to produce a lively interest in
Digitized by Google
52 KIND.
the enjoyment of all created beings ; it induces us to
" rejoice with them that do rejoice and to weep with
them that weep ;" it is the law of universal brotherhood
written upon the heart, showing that the injunction to
" love our neighbour as ourselves," is to be under-
stood literally and not figuratively, for the object of its
desire is the happiness of others. It is the source of
what are called the disinterested feelings ; although
why the term disinterested should be applied to that
class of feelings which induces us to seek the happiness
of others, whilst those exclusively are called selfish
which have reference to our own personal good, is
not clear; it is clear, however, that such a division
leads, in the estimation of moral conduct, to a very
serious error, by inducing us to expect actions from
insufficient motives. Man has as much interest in
promoting the welfare of others as in promoting his
own. Nature has planted within him two classes of
faculties, the gratification of which is equally plea-
surable ; one has reference to his own welfare, the
other to that of his neighbours : why then is the one
called selfish and the other disinterested ? One induces
him to do something for himself, the other induces
him to do something for another ; if equal pleasure to
himself is made to attend upon both actions, why is
one more selfish than the other? There may be many
actions that have no direct reference to self, but there
never was a strictly disinterested action ; the suppo-
sition is an absurdity; it would be an effect without a
cause ; an action without a sufficient motive ; and it
would be well to keep this always in view ; for if the
feeling of benevolence is not naturally strong, and the
pleasure derivable from its exercise is not powerful
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 53
enough to prompt us to promote the general good, the
deficiency must be made up from other faculties, from
the sense of duty, that is, from the pleasure we have in
doing our duty, or the fear we have in neglecting it, or
from the operation of some other moral feeling, other-
wise the end will not be effected. The knowledge of
this would furnish to the moral and religious instructor
many Yery valuable practical lessons, from the want of
which his teachings are so generally insufficient.
VENERATION produces a feeling of respect andre-
verence for whateYer the intellectual faculties, educa-
tiOnal bias, or public opinion, lead us to consider as
great, good, and worthy of honour. Its directions are
Yery various, and no feeling hitherto has been so much
abused and so widely misdirected. Its great use is
the deference it induces us to pay towards our fellow-
creatures ; this use is not very perceptible until we
observe the striking difference in the conduct and
bearing of those in whom the faculty is small, and
where it is fully manifested ; no other feeling seems
capable of compensating for its deficiency. It is de-
cidedly conservatiYe in its character, inducing us to
look with respect upon whatever time has consecrated,
whether opinions, customs, or institutions. It produces
subservience to authority ; it is supposed also to gene-
rate humility, a sense of our own comparative unwor-
thiness in opposition to the dictates of self-esteem. It
is the source of the sentiment of awe entertained in all
countries for mysterious powers and unknown causes,
and produces the disposition to worship. When we are
enjoined to love and fear God, it is intended to call
into aetion this faculty with bene\·olence, not cautious-
ness and bene,·olence. The fear of God, therefore, is
Digitized by Google
54 KIND.
to be produced not by representing him as terrible, but
a.S great, good, perfect, and worthy of_hom~. But to
tile- religious feelings, which are principally dependent
upon this faculty, we shall allude under the head of
Association.
FIRMNEss. Nature seems to have made great pro-
vision against sudden changes in man's purposes,
pursuits, ways of thinking, and institutions. Time is
required for everything ; no change, to be beneficial,
can be sudden. New opinions and thoughts can no
more suddenly form a part of the mind, than fresh
aliment of the body : a long and tedious digestive
process is necessary. Bad institutions are better than
those that are always changing, that are never fixed
and settled. The seed in the ground must remain un-
disturbed, in order to develop its vital energy : we may
be nourished on poisons by the power of custom. Con-
centrativeness, we have seen, gives pleasure in dwelling
upon the feelings and pursuits that may at present
occupy us : Inhabitiveness gives the same feeling
with respect to places: Veneration respects what utility,
or more often, what only time has consecrated : and
FiriDlless gives strength and efficiency to every virtue
and quality of mind, by giving the disposition or the
power to maintain in action the state of mind for the
. time predominating. It produces perseverance and
steadiness of purpose. It differs considerably from
Concentrativeness, as is evident by our frequently
finding persons who are occupied fully with one idea,
one pursuit, and altogether deficient in determination,
firmness, perseverance. Why it should have been placed
by phrenologis~ among the moral feelings, it is not easy
to say, as it assists the action of the mind, whether the
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 55
faculties are directed to good or etiJ, and at present is
more frequently found aiding the arumal than the moral
feelings.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. Had mankind been furnished
with a faculty that should inform them on all occasions
what is right, what is the path of duty, as some writers
on the moral sense affirm, such a faculty would have
been useless and altogether inoperative, unless accom-
panied by a desire to act in conformity to its dictates,
for to know the right and choose the wrong are by no
means incompatible. But nature leaves it to the office
of the intellectual faculties to discover in what our
duty consists, and then induces us to discharge it by
making the performance of it highly pleasurable,
through means of the feeling of Conscientiousness.
The object of the faculty is to afford security to the
rights of others, by producing the disposition to do
justice. The fact of the existence of this faculty
settles the long-disputed question respecting man's
possession of a moral sense. Some have argued that,
because they traced a faculty that gave a strong dispo-
sition to do what was right, Nature had given to man a
moral sense, or faculty that decided what was right.
Others, seeing that men differed in all countries with
reference to what they considered right and wrong,
according to the amount of civilization and enlighten-
ment possessed by each, denied not only that nature
had bestowed a faculty for deciding what was the path
of duty, but ~ven that she had given any disposition to
act right when the path of duty was decided. Both
were right and both were wrong, and we shall find
such to be the case with reference to many of the
Digitized by Coogle
56 KIND.
leading differences of the metaphysicians ; from partial
·truths have been drawn wrong inferences.
HoPE. Cautiousness gives the tendency to look to
the gloomy or dark side of things, and when properly
balanced by other faculties it leads to circumspection
and prudence: hope, on the contrary, presents every-
thing in gay and brilliant colours, gives to all things a
smiling aspect, and when cautiousness is small, induces
us to form immoderate expectations. It is the elastic
principle of the mind; as cautiousness depresses, so
this expand~ it. The disposition to look forward to the
future may depend upon other faculties ; but when we
do look forwards, hope gives our anticipations a joyous
complexion, producing a feeling of present happiness
in the prospect of that in store for us.
" Hope springs eternal in the human breast.
Man never is, but always to be blest."
Or rather, when hope exists in full strength in the
mind, man always is blest in the anticipation of bliss.
What the sun is to the external world, hope is to the
world of mind.
WoNDER. This faculty had been better called
" Faith," as that name much better expresses what
appears to be its function. Faith or belief is not the
action of the perceptive or reflective faculties, but is a
feeling or sentiment consequent upon such action, in
many cases completely overcoming the dictates of rea-
son. The senses acting upon the intellectual faculties
produce certain sensations, to which we give the names
of substances, or individuals, possessing properties
of form, size, colour, &c.; the instinctive feeling that
we have, that those sensations or ideas represent real
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 57
objects-that there exists something besides the sensa-
tions ofwhich we are conscious-it is the function of this
faculty to produce. This association between mere
mental ideas produced by the senses, and our belief
in an external tJ)(ll'/d, is formed so early that it is
very difficult afterwards to separate them. For in-
stance, we have in our minds the idea of a table, and
it is very difficult for us to belie\·e that that to which
we gi\"e the name table, is only a sensation and not a
real existence out of oursel\"es. The instinctive per-
suasion of its real existence is owing to Wonder. The
action of the mind appears to be as follows :-the
perceptive faculties supply the ideas that it is their
province to furnish, that is, of an indhidual possessing
properties and relations which we call a table ; and the
reflective faculties give the idea that in similar circum-
stances, (the office of comparison to determine) the
same effects upon ourselves and others will ensue, and
that our sensations have a cause, (the office of cau-
sality.) The personification of this eause, the belief in
a real existence-a table, is the feeling furnished by
this faculty. This must not be confounded with the
function of causality, whose office it is to distinguish
between real and fictitious relations, that is between
variable and invariable antecedence. The intellec-
tual faculties give ideas, each after its own peculiar
mode or form of intelligence ; but the practical belief
attending the action of such faculties is altogether a
different thing. Without such a sentiment idea.~ would
pass over the mind like images over the surface of a ·
mirror, reason would be paralysed, and we should act,
like the brutes, only when impelled by instinct, aud not
from faith. The excess of Hope produces immoderate
I
Digitized by Coogle
58 MIND.
expectations of felicity not founded on reason ; and
the excess of Wonder produces credulity. The pleasure
and wonder expressed by children and adults who have
a considerable development of this faculty, at the rela-
tion of marvellous stories, miraculous and improbable
fictions, proceeds from their extra power of belief, from
their giving to such tales a reality in their own minds
which to others they do not assume. " I have met with
persons," says Mr. Combe, " excessh·ely fond of news,
which, if extravagant, were the more acceptable ; prone
to the expression of surprise and astonishment in ordi-
nary discourse, deeply affected by tales of wonder."
May not this effect be ascribed to their being able to
believe more than others, in consequence of the extra
endowment of the faculty of wonder which they were
said to possess ? All the facts that ha'\"'e been observed
of the manifestation of this faculty agree with this
analysis of its function. Gall was led to its discovery
by meeting with persons who saw visions and who
believed in apparitions. He says, " Some individuals
believe themselves to be visited by persons dead or
absent ;" and he asks, " How does it happen that men
of considerable intellect often belie'\"'e in the reality of
ghosts and visions? Are they fools or impostors? or
is there a particular organization which imposes, in this
form, on the human understanding, and how are such
visions to be explained?" Mr. Combe also says,•
" The subject of visions is still attended with consi-
derable difficulty;" and he gives an instance similar to
some observed by Gall and Spurzheim. " In the Lon-
don Bedlam," he says, " I examined the head of a
* Combe'!! System of Phrenology, p. 374.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 59
patient whose insanity consisted in seeing phantoms,
and being led to act as if they were realities ; although,
as he himRelf stated, he was convinced by his under-
standing at the very time, that they were mere illusions,
but could not regulate his conduct by this com;ction.''
Now in what is this case different from that which takes
place in ourselves? In very little, I apprehend; for the
external world consists of nothing else but phantoms.
Certain impressions made upon the senses from with-
out, produce within ·us certain sensations; we form
these sensations into a whole external world, and
believe in its existence as represented by the mind.
'' It is acknowledged on all hands," says Mill, " that
we know nothing of objects, but the sensations we have
from them."• In the case mentioned by Mr. Combe,
the intellectual faculties were active from internal
causes, not external, and. they produced phantoms,
which the man in Bedlam could no more practicalJy
disbelie,·e, than we can disbelieve in an external world.
A strong assodation is early established between the
action of the perceptive faculties and that of wonder,
the perceptive faculties always calling the latter into
activity ; in some cases where it is naturally strong,
or in disease, thi:! action of the faculties is rerersed,
and wonder excites the perceptive faculties, producing
a picture or phantom which appears no less real than
if produced by an external object.
The difference in the cases is, that in the natural
mode of action, the reasoning powers inform us that
in similar circumstances the like effects are produced
upon others as well as upon ourselves, and that they
" Analyl!is of thl' Human :\lind, vol. 1, p. 263.
Digitized by Coogle
60 MIND.
are always uniform; but in the case of the madman,
there was the conviction that the appearance could not
be produced in others besides himself, and, therefore,
that it was unreal ; at least, that the cause was in
himself. In this way reason corrects our belief all
through our lives, causality informing us whether the
connexion of antecedence and consequence, as it exists
in our minds, is invariable and observed by others
as well as ourselves. Considering that all we know is,
that there is a cause for the sensations to which we
give the aame of objects, there is no great difference in
the grounds of belief in the two cases. All the feelings
are capable of carrying away, or overcoming the reason-
ing powers ; and the seeing visions and apparitions is
only an instance of the kind, where, from the naturally
large endowment, or diseased state of the feeling of
wonder, it has the power of calling the intellectual facul-
ties into spontaneous acthity, and a belief in the picture
or phantom they produce is a necessary consequence.
Dr. Spurzheim says, "The preceding facts determined
me formerly to designate this feeling ·by the name of
Supcrnaturality; and it is certain that it is principally
manifested by a BELIEF in miracuwus and supernatural
circumstances, in the foundation of religion by super-
natural means, and in its dogmatical points." This,
howeYer, is the abuse of the faculty, not its use ; and
Marvellousness, which he afterwards caJled it, is no
more expressh-e of its function than is Wonder, the
name given to it by Mr. Combe. " Some individuals,
in whom th~ organ is large," observes the latter,
"have informed me, that when any man·ellous circum-
stance is communicated to them, the tendency of their
mind is to beliere it witllout examination; and that an
Digitiw;byGoogle
AlU.LYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 61
eJJort of philosophy is necessary to resist the belief,
instead of evidence being requisite to produce it. •
Thus the observations of both the above writers of
the mode of manifestation of this faculty, are confirma-
tory of the opinion that its ultimate function is to give
the sense of reality, the instinctive feeling of belief. -
When more than ordinarily developed, its tendency is
to spiritualize all nature ; to delight in creating imagi-
nary beings, to people both this world and the next ;
and a philosophy of realities that would prove the
non-existence of such beings is, of all others, the
most distasteful. Such belief is generally admitted by
persons of such a character of mind, to be founded
upon feeling, and not upon reasoning; and the a."so-
ciation between the creed and the feeling must be
broken, before a practical conviction can be carried to
the mind. Amongst phrenological writers, Mr. Sidney
Smith has given the most correct analysis of the func-
tion of this faculty. He says, "Man is a progressive
being ; and in this power of his nature, he is principally
assisted by being enabled to avail himself of all the
knowledge and thought of others. It is because each
generation is enabled to put a round to the ladder of
human progress, by availing itself of the steps fur..
nished by the preceding ; because, instead of each man
being compelled by himself to commence at the rudi-
ments of every science, and to collect all the facts
which must be discovered preparatory to the formation
of general principles, he is at once put in possession of
everything which has been ascertained before, and is
the heir of all the theories and all the deductions
• System of Phrenology, vol. 1, p. 3S-t..
o;gitizedbyGoogle .~
J
62 MIND.
which have been forined by his predecessors. But, in
order to render these available to him, he must put
them in the place of realities ; he must be impressed
with the conviction that they are as absolutely exist-
ences, as anything that he sees with his eyes and handles
with his hands ; he must be impressed with their pre-
sence, not even simply as a fact, but in all the fenid
conception of the existence of their real substance and
proportions. It is upon this point that progression
turns. If there be not an inherent and vital sense of
the entity of things absent, every generation must at
once throw behind it all the accumulated testimony of
the past. The conviction of the reality of unseen and
unfelt being, is a necessary condition of progression ;
man, in truth, only learning and forming principles, by
making the past present, the unseen apparent, the
mysterious plain. This he cannot do but by the
possession of a faculty of belief, and according as he
possesses it, will be the power of realizing. Hence we
find that mankind, so far from having a tendency to
~cepticism, have to undergo a process of unlearning,
11nd to be rather taught by experience to disbelieve
~han to credit. The state of infancy, in which this
prgan is most prominently developed, is an age of
tredulity. Life, existence, is infused into everything:
the doll is a person, the watch has life, the cat has
conversation. E,·ery fictitious appearance is supposed
to be real ; and life is a splendid pageant, in which the
true and the false are mingled together in one common
jmpression of actual being. Did the child inquire into
the truth of all it was taught, it would spend its life in
rudimental discorery; while we know that much of. its
after time is lost in unlearning the ideas of ,·ital power,
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 63
in which wonder had clothed ail-in sobering down
its impressions to the dry bareness of the facts, and in
discoYering that much which it endowed with reality,
was dead, inert, and spiritless."
" The ordinary operation of this organ in the every-
day occurrences of society, appears in the production
of easy belief or gullible credulity. When weak, the
individual is sceptical of e>erything. He wi11 credit
nothing that he has not seen himself, or that is not
within the probable range of the most common-place
occurrences. Such a man is actually as much hallu-
cinat.ed as he who is OYer-credulous, and is just as
likely to be less or more mistaken than the other,
according as truth or error is more common in the
world. The one belieYes upon ~light evidence ; while
the other is incredulous, e•en when the e\idence is
conclusiYe. Hence, we doubt whether there ever was,
or could be a great and comprehensive mind where
wonder was deficient." •
:Mr. Combe, howeYer, says that wonder furnishes the
desire of novelty, admiration of the new, the unex-
pected, the grand, the wonderful, and extraordinary.
That it.~ abuses are, "Love of the marvellous, aston-
ishment." Also, that" Veneration, Hope, and Wonder
combined, gi\·e the tendency to religion ; their abuses
produce superstition and belief in false miracles, in
prodigies, magic, ghosts and all supernatural absur-
dities."+
We have been thus particular in the analysis of
the functions of this faculty, because this view of it
• Principlrs of PhrE>nology, pp. 164, 166.
t Constitution of Man, p. 60.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
64 MIND.
is not generally admitted by Phrenologists; and be-
cause it serves to explain principles with respect to
belief, especially religious faith, which are highly
important, and to which we shall hereafter have occa-
s:on to allude.
IDEALITY. Dr. Gall called this the poetical faculty,
and it seems to supply that feeling or sense which
particularly distinguishes the true poet from less imagi-
native indh·iduals ; although what its peculiar office is,
it is not easy exactly to describe. Its manifestations
are almost infinitely varied, according to the prevalent
character of other mental functions, either feelings or
intellectual faculties. It seems to man like an addi-
tional sense; for, whereas the other senses acting upon
the intellectual faculties, give to him and other animals
ideas of form, size, colour, and different relations, this
faculty seems to give to all things an additional beauty,
or sublimity, or perfection, or charm, which they would
not otherwise possess. Nature is seen with different
eyes by every individual, according as this faculty is
more or less predominant in the mind ; what are to
some but situations of the most ordinary character,
appear to others in all the garb of poetry. It is sup-
posed to give the desire of perfection ; it would seem
also, as if it were in part instrumental in supplying, by
its own power, that perfection; a perfection, therefore,
not e\ident to those who possess but a small endow-
ment of the faculty. The external world is the same
to man and to the other animals, but to man alone does
it appear invested with all the beauties which this
faculty bestows upon it. As it draws up a veil from
nature, disclosing endless beauties-so also it appears
to impart a delicacy and refinement to the mind, a
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 65
distaste to el"eryt.hing low and gross, and merely
animal. Its abuse consists in its inducing us to live
too much in a world of our own creation, to the neglect
of the common duties of life. It begets a fastidious
refinement which renders everything distasteful that
does not come up to the ideal standard.
WIT. Phrenologists are dirided with reference to
the function of this faculty. It is said to give the
feeling of the ludicrous. It might perhaps be more
correctly said to give the perception of the ludicrous;
which perception may exist without gaiety or mirthful-
ness. Great wit and humour, and a high ~~!'~ of ip.-
congruity, are sometimes found in the most lachrymose
persons, who are never betrayed into the slightest.
disposition to mirthfulness. Those in whom it is but
feebly developed can never see when a joke is intended;
they take everything seriously, and are constantly
offended from translating literally what others perceive
immediately to be but jest. Ought not this rather
to be regarded, as it is by some phrenologists, as an
important intellectual faculty, essential, among other
offices, to the production of that combination of ideas
upon which wit depends ;-whilst the feeling of the
ludicrous, of gaiety, mirthfulness, hilarity, results from
some other faculty or faculties, or from the particular
state or condition of the brain at large ?
IMITATION. Man was intended to live in society,
and the moral feelings were given to him to unite him
as intimately to his fellow-creatures as to his own body.
Benevolence directly desires the happiness of others,
.and induces a sympathy of feeling. The function of
Imitation produces a sympathy of action, and is in-
tended to make the members of the social body move
K
Digitized by Coogle
66 MIND.
harmoniously. Imitation has so powerful an effect in
forming the mind and habits, that a man's characteris-
tics in a great measure depend upon the age or country
in which he was born ; he, imperceptibly to himself,
imitates the manners, and adopts the tone of mind
of the society to whlch he is accustomed. It is chiefly
through the influence of this faculty that each nation
has its peculiar characteristics, so that a European and
a Chinese could scarcely be mistaken for one another.
Powerful, well furnished minds alone, are able to break
the spell which urges them to think, feel, and act, with
all around.
Since then mankind, and children especially, are so
much the creatures of Imitation, the examples to which
they are subjected and the circuffiStances in which they
are placed are most important ; for the direction of
the feelings can scarcely be said to depend more upon
the intellectual faculties, than upon the intuitive influ-
ences of this principle in our nature.
We have thus furnished a list of all the Propensities
and Sentiments yet acknowledged by phrenologists. It
is not assumed that this list is complete, or that the
metaphysical analysis of the several functions is yet
perfect ; but there are few principles in human nature
that may not be referred to one or other of the above
feelings, or to a combination of them.
We have seen that the primary function of each
faculty has reference either to man as an individual, to
his family, or to society.
Those feelings that have reference to the preser¥a-
tion of the individual are the most numerous, and
generally the strongest ; and perhaps, necessarily so,
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THJi: MENTAL FACULTIES. 67
for if every one were unmindful of himself and occu-
pied only in taking care of others, the race must soon
come to an end.
Happiness, howe\·er, consists in the legitimate grati-
fication of all the faculties, and pain or unhappiness
attends the denial of their gratification : to insure his
happiness, therefore, man must not gratify one class
of feelings at the expense of another, but must attend
tQ the interests of society and of his family as well as to
his own. But for the proper direction of the feelings,
in order to insure to man this largest amount of
enjoyment, he depends altogether upon another order
of faculties. The Sentiments as well as the Propen-
sities must be regarded as mere instincts, blind impul-
ses, propcJling him to action, or restraining him from
it, by the strong pleasure there is in their gratification ;
but the Reason of man can alone direct them properly
to perform their \"arious offices.
In the brutes, the feelings or instincts direct them
unerringly and unaided by reason to the accomplish-
ment of their object ; but as in man they aU require to
be directed by the intellect, a much wider field of
operation is open to him ; and his pursuits are infinitely
Yaried, for in the gratification of one feeling many
others are called into action, and his pleasurable sensa-
tions are superior in intensity as in variety. Thus the
instinct of animals prompts them to take but one or
two particular kinds of food, while man may please his
palate in a thom~and ways : the mother of the brute
creation is directed unerringly by instinct in the rearing
of her offspring, while the human parent can perform
the maternal duties properly only by the aid of reason,
and by a certain acquaintance with the physical laws ;
Digitized by Coogle
68 HIND.
but this Yery complexity in her matemal offices iH the
means of calling into action numberless pleasurable
feelings, besides the mere '' loYe of offspring" expe-
rienced by the brute.
Such considerations must impress us forcibly with
the conviction of the necessity of the cultiYation of the
reasoning power, as without it we are worse provided for
than the brutes, our instincts requiring on all occasions
its aid for their proper gratification, and much misery
resulting from their wrong direction. Writers on
Morals describe us as being guided by a "moral sense,"
and we have seen that a loYe of justice and respect for
the rights of others, a desire to do that which is right,
is a strong feeling of our nature ; but it is necessary
that the intellect should first decide what is right, what
is justice, before this "moral sense" can be a fit guide. .
The same may be said of the other moral feelings ;
veneration itself cannot decide what is a fit object of
worship ; hope, what is a reasonable expectation ;
wonder, what is worthy of credit; or benevolence, what
wi11 best promote the happiness of others ; they all
require the direction of the intellectual faculties to
attain the ends they desire. These faculties then will
next come under consideration.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
The faculties given to man to enable him to acquire
a knowledge of himself and of the external world,
and so to direct his feelings to the proper attainment of
their end, are called the Intellectual Faculties. These
are divided into the External Sensel'4, and the Percep-
tive and Reflective Faculties. The following are the
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS Oi' THE HENTAL FACJ7LTIE8. 69
ai.mple functions assigned to each, as dM.ned by phre-
nologists :-
" Genus I.-ExTERNAL SENSES.
"FEELING or Toocs,} U6e6: To bring man into communi-
" T UTE, cation with external objects, and to
" SHELL, enable him to enjoy them. Alnue1 :
"HEARING, Excessive indulgence in the pleasures
"SIOBT. J arising from the senses, to the extent of
impairing the organs and debilitating the mind.
" Genus II.-INTELLECTUAL FACOLTIES, which perceive existences.
" INDIVIDUALITY-Takes cognizance of existence aild simple
facts.
"Foa11-Renders man observant of form.
" SIZE-Renders man observant of dimensions, and aids per-
~pt>Ctive.
"WEI&BT-Communicates the perception of momentum, weight,
resistance, and aids equilibrium.
" CoLOORINo-Gives perception of colours.
"Genus 111.-INTELLECTOAL FACOLTIES, which perceive the rela-
tions of external objects.
" LocnnY-Gives the idea of space and relative position.
" NOIIBER- Gives the talent for calculation.
" ORDER-Communicates the love of physical arrangement.
" EvENTUALITY-Takes cognizance of occurrences and events.
" T111E-Gives rise to the perception of duration.
"Toxz-The sense of melody arises from it.
"LANGUAGE-Gives a facility in acquiring a knowledge of arbi.
trary 1rigns to express thoughts, readiness in the use of them, and
a power of inventing them.''•
PERCEPTION, CONCEPTION, IMAGINATION, MEMORy,
JUDGMENT, are not primitive or special faculties of the
mind, but mere modes of action of the primith·e facul-
ties ; thus " When the knowing or reflecting organs
• Combe'» Constitution of Man.
Digitized by Coogle
70 MIND.
are powerfully active from internal excitement, whether
by the will or from natural activity, ideas are vividly
and rapidly conceived ; and the art of forming them is
styled CoNCEPTION : if the act amounts to a very high
degree of'rivacity, it is called IMAGINATION. This per-
ception is the lowest degree of activity of any of these
faculties excited by an external object; and conception
and imagination are higher degrees of activity depend-
ing on internal causes, and without the interference of
an external object. Each faculty performs the act of
conception in its own sphere. Thus, if one person ba\·e
a powerful organ of Tune, he is able to conceh·e, or
call up in his own mind, the notes of a tune, when no
instrument is sounding in his cars. If his organ of
Form be Yery small~he may not be able to bring shapes
before his mind with equal fhcility. Some persons read
music like a book, the written sign of a note being
sufficient to enable them to call up the impression of
ihe note itself in their minds. This is the result of a
Tery high degree of acti,ity of the faculties of Form
and Tune. Temperament has a great effect on activity ;
the lymphatic temperament needs external objects to
rouse it to Yivid action, while the sanguine and nervous
glow with spontaneous and constitutional vivacity.
Hence imagination, which results from a high degree
of acti\ity, is rarely found with a temperament purely
lymphatic, but becomes exalted in proportion to the
approach of the temperament to the nerYous." •
According to the same authority, Memory, as a
mode of action of the knowing or reflecting faculties,
differs from the above actions of the mind in this
• Combe's System of Phr<'nology, \'ol. 2, p. 607.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYS[S OF TilE MENTAL FACULT[ES. 7)
manner, that whereas Conception and Imagination
form new combinations of ideas, not only without
regard to the time or order in which the elementary
motions had previously existed, but eYen without any
direct reference to their having existed at all ; Memory
implies a new conception of impressions received,
attended with the idea of past time, and consciousness
of their former existence; and generally recalls events
in the order in which they occurred.
" Each organ enables the mind to recall the impres-
sions which it. sen·ed .at first to receive. Thus, the
organ of Tune will recall notes formerly heard, and
giYe the memory of music. Form will recall figures
prenously observed, will gi"re the memory of persons,
pictures, and crystals, and will produce a talent for
becoming learned in matters connected with such
objects. lndinduality and · Eventuality will confer
memory for facts, and render a person skilled in
history, both natural and civil. A person in whom
Causality i-; powerful, will possess a natural memory
for metaphysics. Hence there may be as many kinds
of memory as there are knowing and reflecting facul-
ties; and an individual may have great memory for
one class of ideas and very little for another." •
"JL"DGMENT, in the metaphysical sense, belongs to
the reflecting faculties alone. The knowing faculties,
howerer, may also be said to judge ; the faculty of
Tune, for example, may be agreeably or disagreeably
affected, and in this way may judge of sounds; but
judgment, in the proper acceptation of the word, is a
perception of adaptation, of relation, of fitness, or of
• Combe's System of Phrenology, p.. 627.
Digitized by Coogle
72 MIND.
. . . "\-,
the connex10n between means and an end, and belongs
entirely to the reflecting powers. These, as well as the
· knowing faculties, have Perception, Memory, and Ima-
gination. Causality, for example, perceires the relation
of cause and effect, and also remembers and imagines
that relation, just as Locality perceives, remembers,
and imagines the relative position of objects. Hence,
Judgment is the decision of the reflecting faculties
upon the feelings furnished by the propensities and
sentiments, and upon the ideas furnished by the whole
intellectual faculties."•
Each of the knowing faculties thus possessing Judg-
ment, according to the laws of its constitution, does not
this sufficiently account for most of the apparently
reasonable actions of brutes, without supposing them to
be gifted with any degree of reasoning power ? Would
not Reflection, however limited, unfit them for their
place in creation, by enabling them to look back to the
past !lnd forward to the future, and thus to anticipate
the time and mode of their death ?
ExTERNAL SENSEs. According to the sense in which
the term sensation has been used in this treatise, viz.
as including every kind of feeling of which we are at
any time conscious, ideas resulting from the action of
the intellectual faculties are as much Sensations as any
others. A right understanding of this may help to
throw some light upon several hitherto obscure mental
phenomena.
Sensations are very various in their character, and
there are several that cannot be correctly referred either
to the Senses, Propensities, Sentiments, or Intellectual
• Combe's Systl'm of Phrenology, p. 641.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACtJLTIES. 73
d' ••
Faculties: of this sort principally are those that accom-
pany the action of the several muscles of the body, and
those that are referred to the alimentary canal. But of ·
whatever kind they are, or to whatever part of the body
we are in the habit of referring them, still they depend
entirely on the brain, and are noticed by, and form a
part of the mind.
The kind of Sensations peculiar to the senses are
obvious. They consist of heat and cold, smoothness
and roughness, and the different kinds of smells, tastes,
sounds, and sights : these only have ordinarily been
designated sensations.
The feelings peculiar to the Propensities and Senti-
ments are of a different kind. The feeling resulting
from each is quite distinguishable frorri. that proceeding
from every other. Each produces a particular tendency
to action ; a particular kind of. emotion is also cha-
racteristic of most of them.
The action of the intellectual faculties is accompanied
by what are termed thoughts and ideas : but these
thoughts and ideas are only different kinds of feeling,
of which each faculty produces its characteristic one.
Each faculty is accompanied by a particular power, but
can scarcely be said to have any tendency to act, its
tendency being dependent on the feelings ; neither does
any .emotion attend its exercise, the sensation being
much less intense than that proceeding from the action
of a propensity or sentiment, and is derived, as might
have been expected, from a much less part of the brain :
when, however, the Intellectual faculties arc very pre-
dominant, they have decided tendencies amounting
almost to intellectual passions.
The External Senses are instruments for the purpose
L
Digitized by Coogle
7-t. MIND.
of bringing the brain into contact with the external
world, and for exciting it to that action, which immedi-
ately precedes aU those various sensations upon'which
thoughts and ideas depend ; and to. which sensations,
through the medium oflanguage, we give names, so as
to excite in the minds of others, similar ideas to those
that we have ourselves.
The senses are the medium of our communication
with the world, but their precise mode of action is not
easily determined. Do they act immediately in exciting
that part of the brain, upon which our ideas of objects
depend, or are they connected with a part of the brain
upon which the function of the sense itself is dependent ;
and does this part react upon the organs of the per-
ceptive faculties? The latter supposition would appear
to be the case, although in the ordinary action of the
senses we are by no means conscious of this link
between, the instrumentality of the sense being com-
bined with and undistinguishable from that of the
internal faculties of the mind. Thus the anterior pair
of the C(lf]JOTa quadrigemina are connected with the
sense of sight, and are absolutely essential to the per-
formance.of its function, and yet we are cons~ious of
nothing but the ideas of form, size, colour, &c., as
resulting from the action of that sense ; and it is only
in particular cases that a sensation of light, the function
of the sense itself, distinct from those ideas, is pro-
duced. The same may be said of the sense of hearing ;
sounds ordinarily produce particular ideas, but they
are sometimes confined to the mere function of the
sense. Thus Spurzheim quotes from Darwin the case·
of " an old man who had had a paralytic stroke and
preserved the senses of hearing and seeing untouched:
Digitized by Google
•
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 75
he, however, co11ld only receive ideas by means of the
latter ; when he was told that it was nine o'clock and
breakfast time, he repeated the words distinctly; yet
without gaining any information from them ; .but if a
servant put a watch into his hand, and shewed him
the hour gone by, he said, "Why, Will~m, have I not
breakfasted?" On almost every occasion his servants
could only conYerse with him by means of visible
objects, although his hearing was perfect." ..
It is very desirable to determine tae exact function
of the senses, for much erroi is pro~ated from mis-
conception on the subject. By one class of metaphy-
sicians they are represented as the material organs
which the immaterial mind makes use of in its con-
nexion with this world, and necessaryhere to its action:
another class go so far as to assert that they are useless
appendages, confining·and deceiving tho mind, which
when free from them will be, consequently, much more
perfect in its mode of manifestation. Mr. Combe says,
" The following appears to ~e to bo a correct mode of
ascertaining the limits of the functions of the senses.
Whatever perceptions or impressions received from
external objects can be renewed by an act of recollec-
tion, cannot depend exclusi¥ely upon the senses ;
because the organs of sense are not subject to the will,
and never produce the impressions which depend upon
their constitution except when excited by an external
cause. On the other band, whate,·er impressions we
are unable to recall, must, for the s~mc reason, depend
·on the senses alone.
"These principles will be best elucidated byexamples.
For instance when a bell has been rung in our presence
and the impn.•ssious hare ceased, they <'annot be rc-
Digitized by Google
76 MIND.
called by an effort of the will ; because their exi:dencc
depended on the apparatus of the ear being in a certain
state of excitation, which cannot be reproduced by an
act of volition. Hence these impressions belong to the
ear alone : But if an indh·idual is endowed with the
internal faculty of Tune, and if a piece of music be
played over in his presence, then, after the sound of
the instrument bas ceased, although he cannot recall
that sound, he can with facility reproduce the internal
impressions which the notes made .upon his mind ; in
short, be can enjoy the tune internally anew, by an act
of recollection.
."The power of experiencing the sense of melody,
and of enjoying the impressions which it makes,
appears, therefore, to depend on the internal faculty of
Tune, while the sound alone depends upon the ear.
Hence the perfection of the power of perceiving melody,
in any individual, is not in proportion to the perfection
of the external ear alone, but in joint proportion to the
perfection of that organ, and the internal faculty.
Without the external ear the internal faculty could not
receive the impressions; but the external ear could
never of itself produce the perceptions of melody.
The same principles applied to the other senses wiJl
point out distinctly the precise limit of their functions.
We may take an example from the sense of touch.
If we embrace a square body with the hands, certain
impressions are made on the nerves of touch called
Sensations, in consequence of which the mind forms
an idea of the figure of the body. Now, we can recall
the conception of the figure, but not the sensation
which excited it. The conception, therefore, depends
on an internal faculty ; the sensation on the nen·es of
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 77
touch. The functions of the nerves of touch appear
to produce the sensation ; but the power of conceiving
is in invariable proportion to the perfection of the
internal faculty and the external senses jointly. The
perception, however, depends as entirely on nature as
the sensation; and the power of perceiving the form of
the body is not acquired by experience.
"Dr. Spurzheim observes on this bead, that where
the same ideas are acquired by the instrumentality of
two or more senses, the ideas cannot possibly be formed
by the lenSeS,. because Nature, so far as man bas dis-
covered, never endows different instruments with the
same functions, in the same individual. For example,
we can acquire ideas of form by the instrumentality of
the sense of sight, and likewise by means of touch.
"Now, from this circumstance alone, it is evident
that the conception of figure is formed, not by the eye
or the nerves of feeling, because this would be an
instance of two separate senses performing the same
functions ; but by an internal faculty which perceives
figure, in consequence of impressions made on either
of these two different senses. :rbe impressions made
upon the eye are totally different from those made
upon the nerves of touch, but the internal faculty
hi adapted by nature to both ; and hence the same per-
ceptions are experience"d by mean~ of the same faculty,
although through the instrumentality of different
media ; but the same function is not performed by
different senses." •
The PERCEPTIVE FACULTIEs. Whence comes our
knowledge ·of the external world ? The usual answer
• Combe's System of Phrenoll)gy, p. ·J-!.2.
Digitized by Coogle
78 HIND.
is that we sec things, hear them, taste them, smell them,
touch them ; but this common mode of speaking is
philosphically incorrect ; for in seeing, the light alone
affects the eye ; in hearing, the vibration of the air, the
ear ; in smelling and in tasting it is supposed that par-
ticles alone affect the nerYe ; and as to touch, it can be
demonstrated that no bodies ever are in actual contact,
but are retained in their places by a balance between
attraction and repulsion, and that, therefore, we neYer
do touch anything. Whence then comes our knowledge
of things? All that we know is, that the senses are
mere instruments which have received a certain rela-
tion to external objects ; that they are affected in a
certain way by them, and are the means of acting upon
.the organs of the brain or mental faculties as they
themselves are acted upon, and thus produce the know-
ledge we have of what are called external things.•
Of what character, then, are sensations and ideas thus
produced, and what relation have they to the objects
causing them ? Their character is the produce of the
joint action of the external cause or object, the sense,
and the intellectual faculty; and an alteration in any of
these would produce a different result ; that is, a differ-
ent sensation or idea. Of the relation that the idea
bears to the object, all that we know is, that the sense
has received a particular constitution, in consequence
of which it is affected in a certain way by the object;
• "In the sm£'11 three things are commonly distinguishl'd. There
is the organ, there is th£' senllation, and th('re is the antt•c('dent of
the 11cnsation, the external object, as it is commonly d('nominah·rl,
to which the S('nsation is n•ft•rr('d as an efft•ct to it11 cau:~t•. Tht••w
thrl'l' distinguishable particulars are common to all tht> fi\'c st·Ust•s."
-Mill's Annlysi!! of tht• Human ~Iintl, \'ol. I, r· .J..
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 79
and that the brain or mental faculty again has' receiYed
its own particular constitution, and is affected in a
similar manner by the sense, and the sensation or idea
resulting cannot be said to belong exclusiYely to either
the object, the sense, or the mental faculty, but is the
consequence of the beautiful adaptation of each to the
others. Thus the brain being acted upon through the
medium of sense, by some cause which we intuitiYely
suppose to be external, sensations are produced, which
it is customary to call properties of matter; but it is
doubtful whether, correctly speaking, they ought not
to be called qualities or properties of particular organs
of the brain ; for all that we know is the order in which
things take place ; that which is evident in the -case
being that the brain is so constituted as to give ideas of
extension, solidity, &c., when called into action by the
senses. On this subject ordinary language is incorrect,
inasmuch as it confounds the cause of our ideas with
the ideas themselves, so that in naming mere internal
sensations we might be supposed to be imparting real
knowledge of the causes of such sensations, or of things
external-and yet what possible resemblance can there
be? Similar ideas occur without the instrumentality of
either the sense or the object that acts upon the sense ;
as in certain affections of the faculty of wonder, to which
we ha,·e preriously aUuded; in particular states of mad-
ness, in dreaming, and in sleep-waking; where the
mere action of the brain produces 'ivid scenes which
the patient cannot distinguish from real impressions
from without. We may, in fact, readily conceive of
a being so constituted as that by some internal action,
a circulation of fluids, for instance, the brain should
be excited so as to produce all the Yariety of sensations
Digitized by Coogle
80 MIND.
of which we are conscious, all the feelings and ideas of
which we are the subjects during the course of our
lives. We cannot prooe, therefore, that anything exists
external to ourselves, although we necessarily believe it.
We suppose that we prove the existence of an external
world when we find other beings in similar circum-
stances affected in the same way as ourseh·es ; but
such other beings may exist like all things else, only
in the succession of our thoughts.
But these speculations are somewhat irrelevant to
our present subject, for whether we can prove it or not,
we suppose that the Intellectual Faculties have received
a definite constitution, that they perform certain func-
tions, to the proper exercise of which the action of the
external world upon them, through the medium of the
senses, is necessary. It is their province to give that
appearance to nature that shall best enable man to
direct his r~elings to their proper objects, and thus to
carry out the purposes of his being in the securing of
his happiness, nor is it at all essential that be should
know more of matter than the mode in which it affects
him. The real nature of things can be known to God
only ; to all created intelligences, however high in the
scale of being, they can be known only as God has
made them to act upon the particular kind of organiza-
tion he bas bestowed upon them.
Dr. Thomas Brown says, " Thatwe know matter only
as relative to our own susceptibility of being affected
by it, does not lessen the value of the knowledge of
it which we are able to acquire; and indeed it is only
as it is capable of affecting us that the knowledge of
it can be of any direct and immediate utility. It would
indeed be the very absurdity of contradiction to suppose
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 8}
ourseh·es acquainted with qualities which cannot affect
us. But even though this were possible, how profitless
would the knowledge be, compared with the knowledge
of the qualities which are capable of affecting us ; like
the knowledge of the seasons of the planet Saturn, or
of the planets that revolve round the Dog Star for
their sun, compared with the more important know-
ledge of the seasons of our own globe, by which we
have the comfort of anticipating in the labour of
Spring the abundance of Autumn, and gather in
Autumn the fruits, which, as products of vernal labour,
are truly fruits of the Spring." •
INDIVIDUALITY. The action of the intellectual facul-
ties in imparting knowledge, is much more simple in
its character than the infinite variety of our ideas would
at first induce us to suppose. Thus we perceive qua-
lities of form, size, colour, &c., and we attach these
qualities to individual existences : we perceive the
number, arrangement, and relative position of such ex-
istences, and conceive of them as existing in space; we
have ideas also of motion and of active phenomena,
and thus conceiYe of their existence in time: we trace
also resemblances and differences, and relations of
antecedence and consequence, and distinguish between
inrariable antecedents called causes, and such as are
not permanent. Now some of the faculties that pro-
duce this mental action have direct relation to external
objects, and others have relation only to the ideas
furnished by them; so that part of our ideas only
being furnished by external causes, and part by the
action of the mental facultie·s upon those ideas, we
• Phil. Human Mind, Lecture 9.
.1\1
Digitized by Coogle
82 MIND.
cannot say tbat all our knowledge comes through the
senses. Certain impressions received from without
are by the mind itself worked up into a picture which
we suppose to belong to the external world, but which
is, in fact, manufactured in the mind, and exists only
in minds similarly constituted.
Individuality is one of those faculties that does not
appear to have any external relation. It does not
perceive external things, but it perceives the ideas
which it is the function of other-faculties to form of
external things, their properties or attributes of form,
size, or colour; which ideas it connects into one object,
or individual, when otherwise they would appear to us
as unconnected.
Our idea of matter or substance is furnished by this
faculty, and however necessary or intuitive our belief
in its existence, yet it must be regarded only as an
idea, as a mere abstraction, of the same character as
whiteness, which has no existence except in the mind
Wlien--separated from that which we call white. It is
thus that the idea of matter is distinct from, although
not independent of its qualities. It is said by meta-
physicians that we have ideas only of its properties-of
. solidity, and extension ; but ideas of properties only
\ would never give us the idea of individual existences,
· ·~as we actually conceive of them ; for such properties
·would, without the action of this faculty, be looked upon
not as attributes of another object, but as individuals
themselves.
Our belief in the existence of matter would seem,
then, to be founded upon the action of this faculty ;
and it is the intuitive evidence which it furnishes that is
so strongly insisted on by the Reid and Stewart school
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 83
in opposition to the reasonings of Berkeley and Home.
By omitting to notice the instinctive indications of this
faculty, Berkeley and Home were led to deny the
existence of an external world and of individual mind ;
and there is cause, we think independently of their
well knmvn arguments,. to question the correctnesss
of the evidence, however intuitive the belief, of the
nature of external things furnished by Individuality.
Thus with reference to any substance that we look
upon as an individual ; upon analysing it, we find that
it is only the imperfection of our eyesight, or the
limited character of our other senses, that induces us
to consider it as such : that, in fact, it consists of
what to us are innumerable parts that have no other
relation than that of proximity. Wo have also every
reason to suppose that this aggregate of parts which
we call an individual, is in strict union with everything
else around it, although our senses do not make this
union distinctly perceptible to us : for instance, we
know that there is an influence which w.e call gravita-
tion which connects it with the earth ; that its particles
are in direct communication with the air and electrical
influences which the air contains. Brown says, " The
unity" (or individuality) " of the aggregate is no abso-
lute quality of the mass, but is truly relative to the
observer's power of distinguishing the component parts;
tfle mass being one or many, as his senses are less or
better able to distinguish these. This whole globe of
earth, with its oceans and rivers and mountains and
woods, and with all the separate multitudes of its
animated inhabitants, may seem to some being of
another species, only one rontinuous and uniform mass;
a.<J the mass('S that seem to us uniform and continuous,
Digitized by Google
84 MIND.
may seem a whole world of separate and varied parts
to the insect population that swarms upon its surface."
The faculties of Form, Size, Colour, Weight, furnish
what are called the properties of matter, viz. of soli-
dity, extension, and others. We allude to this merely
to mention a curious distinction that has been made by
metaphysicians of old, viz. that the indications of the
primary organs of form, size, and weight, which prin-
cipally give rise to the ideas of the solidity and exten-
sion of matter, are real properties, existing in objects
themselves, whilst colour, equally dependent upon a
primitiYe faculty, is not a real property of matter, but
exists in the mind alone. That such a distinction into
primary and secondary properties is untenabl~, our
knowledge now of the primitive faculties on which such
ideas depend, puts beyond doubt ; but however unten-
able the supposition that colour exists only in the mind,
and solidity and extension in matter, it tends to illus-
trate what has been previously inculcated respecting
the nature of the mind, for, as that which we call
colour is admitted to be merely an affection of the mind
and cannot reasonably be said to exist in substances,
so what we call solidity and extension, which are ideas
furnished by the organs of Form, Size, Weight, and
which are precisely of the same character as those we
derive from the organ of Colour, are not less affections
of the mind, and can no more reasonably be said to
belong to substances, to which, however, we are in the
habit of attaching them as real properties. Matter or
substance may be regarded as the (•ause of suc·h ideas,
and we know nothing more.
The other intellectual faculties are those which are
said to perceive the relation of external ohjects, and
Digitized by Google
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 85
must, therefore, be dependent for their action upon
those that first perceive ~xistence, for a relation has no
existence in itself. If we had, however, no other
faculties but those that perceived existence, the world
would appear to us as a number of detached beings,
and not as that great whole which we call nature and
in which we at present believe. It is these superadded
faculties that perceive or rather create relations, which
acting upon the ideas they receive from the others,
arrange them in classes, put them in order, and give
them all the symmetry that we ascribe to the world
without. Each faculty adds its part, the peculiar form
it is its province to create, to the picture, and a uni-
l'"erse is created within us which we erroneously sup-
pose bas its type without us.
LocALITY is said to give the idea of space and of
relative position. If solidity, extension, and colour do
not really belong to external object.'J, but are merely the
properties with which our own mental faculties invest
them, the same must be said of space, as it would
appear to be nearly synonymous with extension, and it
cannot therefore be said to exist out of our own minds.
All of which we can speak is of simple feelings or
ideas, and what relation can they have to space, sup-
posing it to have a real existence ? The idea would
seem to be the result of the action of Locality upon
the ideas previously formed by Form, Size, and Indi-
viduality.•
• "Nothing can act hut wAere it t's: with all my heart, only
WHEilE 18 IT? Bt• not the slave of word!! : is not the Dit~ta11t, the
Dead, while I lo,·e it, and long for it, and mourn for it, Herr, in V
the genuine sense, as truly as the floor I staml on ? But that same
WHERE, with its brother WJJ£N1 are from the first the master-
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
86 MIND.
With respect to TIME, " What we do is to take some
well-known case of successions, and to make that a
standard by which to ascertain the rest. We take, for
example, the oscillations of a pendulum. So many of
these we call a minute. So many minutes we call an
hour. These minutes and hours, then, are so many
oscillations, that is successions. We call them mea-
sures of time. But things are measurable only by
parts of themselves; extension by extension, weight
by weight, and so on. What is measured by succes-
sion, there(ore, is itself nothing but succession."• It
is easy to conceive that succession or time can have
no real existence, but like other relations, is the
creation of the mind, a form of thought, a mode of
existence. Had this function been left out of our
mental constitution there would have been to us no
past and future, everything would have been conceived
of as present. We should have been conscious of each
train of thought as it passed through the mind, but as
it really is, so would it have appeared to us, to be ever
colours of our Dream-grotto ; say rather, the Canvas (the warp
und the woof thereof,) whereon all our Dream11 and Life-visions are
painted. Ncverthelesl! has not a deeper meditation taught certain
of every climate and age, that the WHERE aud WHEN, so myt~te­
riously inseparable from all our thoughts, are but t~uperficial ter-
restrial adhesions to thought; that the Seer may discern them
when they mount up out of the celestial EvER\"WHERE and FoR-
EVER: have not all nations conceived their God as Omnipotent
and Eternal ; as existing in a universal HEBE, and everlasting
Now P Think well, thou too wilt find that Space is but a mode of
our human sense, so likewise Time ; there i's no Space and no
Time: We are-we know not what ;-light-~;parkles floating in
tht> ;etht>r of Deity !"-Sartor Resartua, p. 53.
• Mill, p. 106.
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OJ' THB .MBNTAL FACULTIES. 87
present only? There would be no succession, no refe-
rence to past or future ; for the idea, as it offered
itself, whether of anticipation or retrospection, would
belong only to the present, " now." " Time and
Space are not God, but creations of God ; that with
God as it is a universal Here, so is it an Everlasting
Now. • • • Know of a truth that only the time-
shadows have perished or are perishable ; that t9e real
Being of whatever was, and whatever is, and whatever
will be, is even now 'and for ever. This, should it
unhappily seem new, thou mayst ponder, at thy lei-
sure ; for the next twenty years or the next twenty
centuries ; believe it thou must ; understand it thou
canst not."•
TuNE. It is much easier in this faculty than in those
that give rise to the ideas of Time and Space, to trace
the character of its functions, for we can scarcely con-
ceive of Melody, the sense of ·which it originates, as
existing anywhere but in the mind. We regard it at
once as belonging to the mind and not to the vibra-
tions that cause it. There would appear to be no
necessary office in the human constitution that it has
to perform; it seems to tend directly and gratuitously
to the production of happiness. With regard to most
of the other faculties, happiness is the result, hut not
the end or object at which they aim ; that object being
to preserve man in existence, and in the due relation
to his fellows.
LANGUAGE. The mental faculty that enables us to
communicate our thoughts, and to express our ideas, has
relation to our own internal ideas and not to anything
• Sal"tor Resartus, p. 272.
Digitized by Coogle
88 MIND.
external. It seems to give only the power of remem-
bering sounds, or audible signs, merely as such ; the
understanding of them or the connecting of them with
ideas depends upon other faculties. And yet is it most
important, for had man been without this power of com-
paring his invisible thoughts with those of his fellow-
men ; of handing down his experience first by oral and
then by written signs, he would have made but little
progress in all that now particularly distinguishes him
as man. It is wonderful, as observed by Dr. Arnott, that
" an audible sign, that is. a pas.3ing sound, a fugith·e
breath, called by man a word, should hal"e the power of
calling to our remembrance, ideas of oluects almost as
vhidly as the ohjects themseh·es, and that by a succes-
sion of mere sounds so little naturally connected with the
thing signified, that they are totally different in different
countries, and are changing from age to age, any train
of thought may be made to pa."'s through the minds of
an audi£>nce so as to excite and to leave impressions
almost as strong as if from realities." The arbitrary
dil"isions or parts of speech, nouns, verbs, participles,
&c., as they are called, represent only the natural
language of the inteiiPctual faculties. Language is
invented to express their action, and if there were any
acknowledged part of speech, without a corresponding
faculty in the Phrcnclogical system of mental philo-
sophy, it would be e\iden<'e of the incompleteness of
that system. Thus the article, noun, pronoun, repre-
sent principally the functions of Individuality, but
Order, Number, and Time appear to be also included in
the article : the adjective represents the functions of
Form, Size, Weight, and Colour: the verb and ad,·erb,
El"entuality : the pr<>position, Locality : and the con-
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 89
junction bas reference to both Indhiduality and Even-
tuality.
The REFLECTIVE, or REASONING FACULTIEs. What
is reasoning ? What is the exact mental process that
takes place when we reason ? Having observed, by
means of the Perceptive Faculties, substances, their
qualities and relations, and the order in which events
follow one another, we are said to reason when we
anticipate those events, and regulate our conduct by
suiting it to the known order of circumstances : we
regulate our conduct by what we expect will result
from our making use of the same causes to produce
the same effects. In reasoning, then, these two things
are absolutely necessary ; first, that we should obsen·e
the order in which events follow one another, viz. the
order of cause and effect, of autecedence and conse-
quence ; and next, that we should be able to distin-
guish one event, or cause, or antecedence, from
another, so as not to Inistake one that only appears
similar, for the real cause of the effect, for the antece-
dent of the consequent.
Two mental powers are engaged in this service,
CAUSALITY and COMPARISON; some phrenologists sup-
pose that there are three, including the organ called Wit,
to which they ascribe the power of perceiving differ-
ences, and of detecting the intrinsic properties of things,
which power has hitherto been included, by others,
amongst those possessed by Comparison.
The knowing or perceptive faculties, as we have seen,
give the knowledge of things within their own particular
province. Eventuality notices simple events or phe-
nomena: Causality di<:Jcems the order in which such
events follow one another, and whether the connexion
N
Digitized by Coogle
90 lUND.
be variable or invariable ; it is not called into action by
external things, but by the ideas of them that the per-
ceptive faculties haYe furnished.
The world is full of objects having various relations
to each other ; the function of Causality is necessary
to distinguish between such as are related by mere
contiguity of time or place, and those that are con-
nected as cause and effect : in those persons who have
not a considerable endowment of the faculty, the
power of tracing such relations is weak. ·
Comparison, whose office it is to trace resemblances
and differences, aids Causality to discover what ante-
cedents and consequents are the same with, or only
similar to, other obsen·ed sequences, and thus gives
the power of reasoning by analogy. That this mode
of reasoning, which is so· commonly adopted, is often
a very erroneous one, is owing to Comparison not
being always sufficiently accurate in observing resem-
blances and differences, and therefore taking those
relations to be the same, that are only like or similar.
With regard to the mere properties of bodies, the
faculties that perceiYe them are sufficient to judge of
their resemblance without any aid from Comparison:
thus Form compares forms, and Colour compares co-
lours ; but there are a great variety of circumstances
and conditions of which the knowing faculties take no
cognizance, and here Comparison is needed.
The following is a very able analysis of the process
of reasoning, proceeding from the combined action of
Causality and Comparison :-
" Suppose a being who bad neYer beard of gunpow-
der or cannon, to see them applied to their purposes,
be would observe that the powder was put into the
cannon, then colphin, and pushed down with the ram-
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 91
mer; he would remark that a ball then followed, col-
phin again, with a second application of the rammer ;
at last, a lighted match is applied to the touch-hole, fol-
lowed by a flash, a loud noise, a starting of smoke, and
a ball bounding forth and mowing down the enemy. If
the observer's Causality be good, he will remark the
exact order in which these sequences occur, and will
be able to repeat them correctly, with the same result.
If his Causality be bad, he may, when directed to per-
form the same operation, transpose the whole seq1:1ence.
He may put the colphin in first, then the ball, and apply
the match to the touch-hole before loading with the
powder, and wonder that, remembering all the steps of
the process, he should not attain a successful result as
before. If his Comparison be weak, it will be impos-
sible for him to generalise upon these phenomena.
The slightest de,iation from the line of sequences, or
the smallest omission in the steps, will be locked upon
by him as a totally different process, and expected to
terminate in another issue. But Comparison will detect
the points in the series of antecedents in which many
trains of phenomena and their results resemble each
other, and what steps and particulars, by not resembling
each other, are not essential to produce the same ter-
mination. These Yarious particulars of discrepancy in
the antecedents being left out in the process, the real
elements of the effect will, by their resemblance, be
detected, and an abstract principle be evolved; for all
generalization consists of abridgment, the omission of
accidental attributes, and the reduction of a series of
sequences by a comparison of their analogical features,
to other series, or, in short, to the exact number of
resembling steps. Thu~, an unlearned man, with large
Digitized by Coogle
MIND.
Causality and small Comparison, mixes a solution of
carbonate of soda with tartaric acid, and the result is
an effenescence. But mere Causality could never
generalize or proceed farther. The whole proposition
would, after a thousand antecedents and consequents
of the same kind, still be simply, that by adding carbo-
nate of soda to tartaric acid there will result an effer-
vescence. It might see a thousand mixtures of alkalis
and acids with the same result of effervescence ; but
the individual with only Causality, remembering the
series of steps in each particular case and the identical
consequents from the various antecedents, with minute
precision, would only, in each example, say that the
mixture of a specific drug with another, as exactly
named, would produce an effervescence. It would be
carbonate of soda, for example, and tartaric acid. But
add large Comparison, and the effect will be very dif-
ferent. It will, in the first place, perceh·e a resemblance
or identity in all of the consequents. The results will,
therefore, be connected, or classified, in the first place.
Then it will detect a resemblance in the taste or other
qualities of the respective ingredients of the chemical
compound in all the antecedents, until the qualities
which truly resemble each other, in the elements of the
materials forming the mixture, being in all the ex-
amples, obsen·ed, clearly seen, and classified, soda and
tartar will be omitted from the proposition and the
general principle evol\"ed, that the commixture of a
solution of acids and alkalis (the points in which alone
all the antecedents agreed,) will be productive of an
effervescence, or disengagement of the fixed air." •
• Smith'11 Principlri! of Plm•nolo~y, p. 217 .
Digitized by Coogle
ANALYSIS OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 93
The more perfect becomes our analysis of the mental
constitution, and consequently, our knowledge of what
it is capable, the more we become struck with the truth
of Lord Bacon's celebrated aphorism, as the foundation
of all reasoning, that " Man can only understand and
act in proportion as he observes the order of nature."
All reasoning is nothing more than a simple relation of
facts, of the order of nature, of what causes have pre-
ceded, and will, therefore, precede certain effects. Dr.
Thomas Brown has put this beyond doubt, the results
of whose reasoning have been stated in the Introduc-
tion. Drawing inferences is merely stating what will
take place from what has already been observed to
take place. A rule is founded upon the resemblance
we have observed between individual existences in their
adaptation to one common effect. For instance, bodies
had been observed to approach towards the earth and
towards each ~ther ; but it required a Newton to trace
the resemblance between these observed sequences and
those which held the planets in their spheres, and to
give us the rule or law which we call attraction. Since
to reason is merely to state the order of nature, it
might appear to be an easy process ; but such is not
the case, as investigation and analytical power are ne-
cessary for the correct perception of this order. To
be aware of the fact that an explosion from gunpowder
produces sound, is not to understand the order of
nature sufficiently to enable us to reason upon the
phenomena ; for in order to do this, each separate link
in the chain of sequence must be clearly perceived by
the mind. To enable us to reason accurately, therefore,
it is necessary that the knowing faculties should per-
form their offices properly, giYing us corr<'ct intimations
Digitized by Coogle
94 HIND.
of the properties of things: that Eventuality should
inform us truly concerning active phenomena: that
Causality should observe e\·ery link in the chain of
sequences, and Comparison discern what are similar
causes and what are similar effects, in order to esta-
blish a like relation, or sequence in other circum-
stances and under other conditions.
If this view of the reasoning powers of man be a
correct one, it is e\ident, and this it is important to
observe-that all the knowledge that he can acquire by
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
senice to him, may be TESTED BY ExPERIENCE. Tes-
timony is valuable only as showing what may be from
what has been; and as man's reasoning power and his
progressive nature, and consequently his welfare and
safety, are dependent upon his observation of the order
of nature, it would seem to be not a presumptuous or
unwarrantable conclusion that the all-wis.e Creator does
not suffer that order to be invaded by what is termed a
special Providence ; the interference of which would
render His highest gift to man, that which places him
so far above all other creatures here, valueless and
inoperative. Cause and effect, the relation having
been once established, must be in·mriable ; and it is
man's duty to trace out their connexion and to adapt
his conduct to it, rather than to petition the Deity to
break such connexion for his own indhidual adYan-
tage ; a petition which, if answered,· must bring curses
rather than blessings to all around.
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER III.
ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE, AND THE ADAP-
TATION AND RELATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL
FACULTIES TO THE EXTERNAL WORLD.
·LocKE, in the Introduction to his Essay, says,
" When we know our own strength, we shall the better
know what to undertake with hopes of success ; and
when we have well surveyed the powers of our own
minds and made some estimate what we may expect
from them, we shall not be inclined either to sit still,
and not set our thoughts on work at all, in despair of
knowing anything; nor, on the other side, question
everything, and disdain all knowledge because some
things are not to be understood. It is of great use to
the sailor to know the length of his line, though he
cannot with it fathom all the depths of the ocean. It
is well he knows that it is long enough to reach the
bottom, at such places as are necessary to direct his
¥oyage, and caution him against running upon shoals
that may ruin him. Our business here is not to know
all things, but those which concern our conduct. If
we can find out those measures whereby a rational
creature, put in that state which man is in, in this
world, may and ought to go¥ern his opinions and
actions depending thereon, we need not be troubled that
some other things escape our knowledge.
"This was that which gave the first rise to this e!'!say
Digitized by Coogle
96 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
concerning the understanding. For I thought," he
continues, " that the first step towards satisfying several
inquiries the mind of man was very apt to run into,
was to take a survey of our own understanding, ex-
amine our own powers, and see to what things they
were adapted. Till that was done I suspected we began
at the wrong end, and in vain sought for satisfaction in
a quiet and sure possession of truths that most con-
cerned us, whilst we let loose our thoughts into the
vast ocean of being ; as if all that boundless extent
were the natural and unbounded possession of our un-
derstandings, wherein there was nothing exempt from
its decisions, or that escaped its comprehension. Thu!i
men, extending their inquiries beyond their capacities,
and letting their thoughts wander into those depths
where they can find no sure footing, it is no wonder
that they raise questions and multiply disputes ; which
never coming to any clear resolution, are proper only
to continue and increase their doubts and to confirm
them at ]ast in perfect scepticism. Whereas, were the
capacities of our understanding well considered, the
extent of our knowledge once discon•red, and the ho-
rizon found,' which sets the bounds between the en-
lightened and dark parts of things; between what is
not comprehensible by us, men would perhaps, with
less scruple, acquiesce in the avowed ignorance of the
one, and employ their thoughts and discourse with
more adl'antage and satisfaction in the other."
Dugald Stewart describes the aim of Kant in his
"Critique of Pure Reason," to be entirely similar:-
" It is no less than to lead reason to the true know-
ledge of itself; to· .examine the titles upon which it
founds the supposed possession of iw metaphysical
Digitized by Coogle
ON THE ORIGIN OP OUR KNO'WLEDGE. 97
knowledge, and by means of this examination, to mark
the true limit beyond which it cannot venture to spe-
culate without wandering into the empty region of pure
fancy."•
It is an acknowledged truism, "What can we reason
but from what we know ;" but had mankind given due
weight and importance to this mere.truism aud have
settled the not unimportant question, " What can we
really know ?" it would have saved them from the
endless controversies concerning the nature of matter
and of mind, materialism and immaterialism, that
have occupied metaphysicians from the remotest ages
until now. Had they seen the necessity of establishing
first principles in Metaphysics, as in Physics, and of
laying down a clear chart of the mental faculties,
their powers, relations, and modes of action, it would,
even as the spirit upon the face of the waters, have
reduced the chaos of their systems to order and utility.
Such a chart, the necessity for which Locke so clearly
expressed his conviction, but which neither he nor any
one of those that have adopted his mode of investigation
has been able to supply, seems to have been furnished
by the new philosophy of Phrenology, which has suc-
ceeded in pointing out the fundamental powers of the
human mind, not by mere reflection on consciousness,
but by a method strictly inductive.
From what has already been demonstrated concern-
ing the nature of the mental faculties, the truth of the
following remarks will, we think, be evident.
Man has been endowed with certain propensities and
sentiments on which his happiness has been made to
• Dissertations, p. 189.
0
Digitized by Coogle
98 ON Tlm ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
depend, for their exercise is attended with highly plea-
surable sensations, the aggregate of which constitutes
happiness. These faculties or feelings bear certain
relations of love and antipathy to external things ; we
can trace no reason from the nature of things them-
selves why one object should excite love or antipathy
more than another ; but such a relation bas been esta-
l>lished between us and them to answer a certain
purpose. Another set of faculties has been added to
these, bearing that relation to the external world which
shall best enable man to bring his feelings into acti,·ity,
direct them to their proper ends, and thus insure that
happiness which is the object of his being.
We can know nothing, therefore, but that which
results from the relation established between our intel-
lectual faculties, and what we intuitirely beliere to be
an external world.
Each intellectual faculty has rcceh·ed a particular
constitution, in consequence of which it is susceptible
of a form of intelligence or mode of thought peculiar
· to itself; but there is no reason that we can discover
why it should produce one kind of ideas more than
another, except that it has been so constituted with
relation to its external cause for a particular purpose.
The intellectual faculties are of two kinds, those that
are acted upon by external causes, through the medium
of the senses, and whose ideas, therefore, are modified
by the sense, and those faculties that act upon these
ideas when so furnished by the first class. They have
been very properly divided into ideas of Simple and
Relative Perception.
All the knowledge, therefore, that we acquire of an
external world is of its action through the medium of
Digitized by Google
ON TUE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE. 99
the senses upon only a few of the mental faculties, and
which action of the perceptive faculties alone, would be
quite insufficient to give us the idea of nature as we
now conceive of it. The world, as it appears to us, is
created in our own minds by the action of the faculties
of Relative Perception, upon the comparatively few
ideas furnished by the faculties of Simple Perception.
NoTHING IS THEREFORE KNOWN TO US AS IT IS,• but
our ideas of things result from the relation that ha."
been established between the object or cause, the sense,
and the two classes of intellectual faculties, and it has
been the want of knowledge of this fact, and of what
belongs to each of these departments, that has caused
most of the differences, controversies, and obscurities
of metaphysicians. One class has argued for the real
existence of an external world exactly as it appears to
us ; another has maintained that the w.orld only e1tists
in part as it appears to us ; and a third that it is solely
and entirely a creation of the mind. Much has yet
to be learned in this department of metaphysics, but
• " We may observe that it ill universally allowed by Phlloso-
pbl'rs, and is besides, pretty obvious of itself, that nothjng is ever
nally present with the mind but its pl'rcPptions or impressions and
ideaat, and that external objl'cts become known to us only by these
perceptions they occasion. Now since nothing is ever present to
the mind but perceptions, and since all ideas are derived from
eomething antecedent to the mind, it follows that it is impossible
for us 10 much as to conceive or form an idea of anything speci-
fically different from ideas and impressions. Let us fix our ideas
out of oursl'lves as much as possible ; let us chase our imaginations
to the heavl'ns, or to the utmost limit of the universe ; we never
really advance a stl'p beyond ourselves, nor can perceive any kind
of existence but those pl'rceptions which have appeared in that
narrow rompMs."-Hume. '
Digitized by Coogle
}()() ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
enough is already known to show what degree of truth
or error exists in the old systems.
Man possesses feelings and intellectual faculties in
common with the brutes, and also sereral in addition ;
had he been endowed with more propensities and sen-
timents than those that now belong to him, more senses
and intellectual faculties would probably have been
necessary, to enable him to bring them into exercise or
use. Even now, we cannot but suppose that we \iew
nature with very different eyes from the brutes, and an
additional sense or intellectual faculty might have
changed the whole appearance that nature now presents
to us. The organ of Ideality may furnish us with an
illustration. Man alone is supposed to possess this
faculty. It gives feelings which invest nature with a
beauty and splendour foreign to the mere properties
of objects, as indicated by the intellectual faculties : it
ascribes to it an excellence and charm and perfection
which are invisible to those creatures that have it not;
and the man in whom it is weak, and he in whom it is
strong, truly regard nature with different eyes.
No two men can be said to view nature precisely in
the same light, because the natural constitution of no
two minds is ever exactly the same. The properties of
matter are never exactly the same to any two iodin-
duals, because the knowing faculties are different as to
their relative power in all men, and the impressions
they receive through the senses from the external
world, must, therefore, be in some measure different.
The external cause may be the same, the sense may
be the same, but the mental faculty that receives the
impression from without is different, and therefore the
idea is different ; although, owing to the necessity for
Digitized by Coogle
B:RLIEF. 101
. .
a common language, w~ -it~~·the same name to express
the idea we each receive.··=~~e faculty differs not in
nature but in the degree of -~~~station of which it
is capable. Strictly, therefore/ a.person can only say
how h8 feels in certain situatiod~~:-:·and how things
appear to him. One who has the fsftrlties that per-
ceive existence powerfully developed, }i'li.S .a much
clearer perception of what are called the pi'Q#!<i:es of
matter, than he who bas such faculties weak ;.·add he
who bas the reasoning powers strong, has a· ·¥9~
clearer perception of the relations and dependencies· of·...
phenomena than another in whom they are feeble.
BELIEF.
" All belief, it is evident, must be either direct or
indirect. It is direct when a proposition, without re-
gard to any former proposition expressed or understood,
is admitted as soon as it is expressed in words, or as
soon as it rises silently in the mind. Such are all the
order of truths which have been denominated, on this
account, first truths. The belief is indirect when the
force of the proposition, to which assent is given, is
admitted only in consequence of the previous admission
of some former proposition with which it is felt to be
intimately connected, and the statement in words, or
the internal development of these relative propositions
in the order in which their relation to the primary
proposition is felt, is all that constitutes reasoning.
The indirect belief which attends the result of rea-
soning, even in the proudest demonstration, is thus
only another form of some first truth which was believed
directly and independently of reasoning ; and, without
Digitized by Coogle
10.2 ON THE ORIGIN OF QPR KNOWLEDGE.
. .
..
this primary and intuitive- ;.~ent, tho demonstration
itself in all its beautifu~. P.teciSion and regularity would
be as powerless arul"·illile as tho most incoherent
verbal wrangling.":·: ··.. ·
" Without s.Q~~j1tinciples of immediate belief, then,
it is manifest,··th6t we could have no belief whatever ;
for we b~lie~ one proposition, because we discover its
relatioa'l;(t· some other proposition, which is itself, per-
haps~-I.ei~ted, in like manner, to some other proposition
forf4erly admitted, but which, carried back as far as it
<·.may, through the longest series of ratiocination, must
ultimately come to some primary proposition, which
we admit from the e\idence contained in itself, or, to
speak more accurately, which we believe from the mere
impossibility of disbelie,·ing it. All reasoning, then,
the most sceptical, be it remarked, as well as the most
dogmatical, must proceed on some principles which are
taken for granted, not because we infer them by logical
deduction, for this very inference must then itself be
founded on some other principle, assumed without
proof, but because the admission of these first prin-
ciples is a necessary part of our intellectual con-
stitution.''•
That belief or faith is something more than a
mere intellectual perception there can be little doubt,
and I have previously endeavoured to point out the
particular part of the men.tal constitution to which it
belongs. It must be regarded not as a mere perception,
but as a sentiment dependent for its direction, like
conscientiousness or benevolence, upon the intellectual
faculties. Like the other feelings, it is a blind instinct,
• Brown's Phil. of the Human Mind, Lrcture l;i, p. 78.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 103
and as conscientiousness, or the disposition to do right,
cannot of itself dictate what is right, so the instinctive
tendency to believe, equally requires the guiding and
restraining hand of reason. Faith, Hope, and Charity,
are virtues only when properly directed, the first to
truth, the second to reasonable expectation, and the
third to the real interests of mankind.
But what are thesefirst truths which Dr. Brown says
are believed directly and independently of reason, and
from which all other belief results. We find little
difference in opinion between mathematicians, and
it is because they first agr~e upon the grounds of
reasoning ; they lay down certain principles or axioms
founded upon their own definitions, and these stand
with them in the place of first truths. For instance,
" A point is that which hath no parts, or which hath
no magnitude." "A line is length without breadth."•
" Let it be granted," says the mathematician, " that a
straight line may be drawn from any one point to any
other point," that is, from that which has no parts
and no magnitude, to that which has no parts and no
magnitude ; now we may readily grant this when it
has been discovered where that is. Proceeding in this
way, any kind of propositions may be proved. And
yet, as Dr. Brown shows, it is the only way in which
we can reason at all. From the want of such admitted
grounds of reasoning in m_
ental science, metaphysi-
cians have, invariably, arrived at different conclusions.
• Elements of Euclid.
" The whole is greater than a part : how ncecdingly true !
Nature abhors a vacuum! How l'Xcecdingly false and calumnious!"
Again, " Nothing can act but where it h:1: with all my hl'art; but
eAere is it ?"-Sartor Resartus, p. 52.
Digitized by Coogle
I04 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
Locke, in his arguments with.his friends, soon became
aware of this, and his Essay on the Human Under-
standing was the result of his efforts to establish such
first truths with regard to mind. But of the first
truths admitted by those who call themselves his fol·
lowers, the leading one that " Nihil est in intellectu
quod non prius fuerit in sensu,"• is not true, and
therefore, the propositions which they found upon it
cannot be true. Hume showed that our ideas of re-
lations, particularly the relations of cause and effect,
upon which, as we have seen, all reasoning is founded,
come not through the senses, and therefore he inferred
that such relation bad no real existence and was a
mere nonentity; which being granted, we can prove
nothing. Reid, percehing this inevitable consequence
of the theory, viz., that nothing can be proved but
upon some proposition previously admitted, founded
his philosophy upon what be called Common Sense ;
that is, he established as his " first truths," the pro-
positions which the great body of mankind generally
admit, and which he supposed could not but be believed.
But a great many of these common sense "first truths"
are recognised as only common non-sense by most
philosophers of the present day. Another class of
philosophers, the Phrenologists, have discovered the
connexion between the primitive faculties of the mind
and certain parts of the brain, and by constantly
repeated observations, have pointed out the relation
• That Locke hi.trulelf was not chargeable with the error implied
in this celebrated proposition appears from his admitting of Ideas
of Reflection, as well as of Sensation. He seems only to have
meant that Reflection must always have ideas derived originally
from the senses to act upon.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 105
between external objects and certain organs, and
between other organs and these, so that the exact mode
of manifestation of most of the fundamental powers
of the mind is now known. The indications that such
faculties give us, the modes of thought or intelligence
peculiar to each, whether real or ideal, must be received
as first truths, upon which all reasoning is founded.
Belief attends the action of each faculty, and cannot
be separated from it. The most sceptical, if they
express doubt in words, express belief in practice.
Thus, an object is presented to the senses, a tree, for
example; we are impressed with ideas of its form,
size, colour, and impenetrability, or power of resistance,
and we believe it to possess all these qualities ; and
Individuality gives them unity; so that we believe not
in a separate form, size, colour, &c., but in an indhi-
dual tree to which all these qualities are attached. The
idea of substance, which also includes that of extension
and relative position, gives us the idea of space, and
we believe that space exists, although our reasoning
faculties tell us that that which we call space is only an
idea, a sensation, a kind of feeling, and that, therefore,
in reality, extension cannot belong to it.
Again, E,·entuality notices the circulation of the sap
in the tree, the budding forth of the leaves, the ripen-
ing of the fruit, and so on, and Time gives the idea of
succession in such phenomena; and we believe in both
action and time. Causality notices the connexion of
the sap with the root, and of the root with the earth,
and we believe that there is a real dependence and
connexion, one upon the other. If we possessed only
the knowing faculties, we should perceive the earth and
the tree and believe in them as existences, but Causality
Digitized by Coogle
106 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR XNOWL£DGE.
gives the idea of something more, of the relation that
they bear to one another, and we believe that the tree
could not exist without the earth, or, at least, that the
earth causes the growth of the tree.
Comparison observes the situation necessary for the
growth of the tree ; that if the tree be placed in the
earth, without the root, it will not grow ; and takes note
of all other conditions necessary to the continuance of
its being, so as to be able to apply such knowledge to
other situations ; and we believe that the differences
and resemblances, of which Comparison gives us the
ideas, exist.
Causality also traces tho connexion between these
ideas and the brain, between the brain and the external
sense, and between the sense and something acting
upon it, and we cannot but believe that a real connexion
exists between these sequences, one producing another;
hence we believe in the actual existence of a something
external, which something we eall a tree. The idea
of a tree, its properties and, relations, are associated
together in one idea in the mind, so that we are never
conscious of it without the belief that it bas a cause,
that cause being the last link that we trace in the chain
•of sequences, and regar.ded consequently as an external
existence.
Our reason is sufticient to show us that the greater
part of those things in which we believe, have no
real existence except in our own minds : thus, number,
space, time, action, motiol), relation, the ideas of
which are not formed by the senses, are no more the
real properties of substances than the names by which
we designate them, which names themselves are.sup-
posed by the ignorant to be as much inherent parts of
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 107
the substance named, as we are apt to suppose its
relations to be.
So, we believe in power, and yet we can find nothing
to represent it, it being an idea derived from the func-
tion of causality. Perceiving that one event always
follows another, we regard the latter as the cause of
the former. As, also, we find nothing existing by
itself, but eYerything in the relation of antecedent and
consequent, we become impressed with the belief that
this relation is a necessary one, and invariably look for
an antecedent or cause.
Dr. Brown says, "We see in nature one event fol-
lowed by another. The fall of a spark on gunpowder,
for example, followed by the deflagration of the gun-
powder, and by a peculiar tendency of our constitution.
which we must take for granted, whatever be our themy
of power, we believe, that, as long as atl the circum-
stances continue the same, the sequeftce of events will
continue the same ; that the deftagration of gunpowder,
for example, will be the invariable consequence Gf the
fa]) of a spark on it, in other words, we believe the
gunpowder to be susceptible of deflagration on the
application of a spark, aod & spark to have the power
of deftagrating gunpowder."
" Power is significant not of anything different from
the invariable antecedent itself, but of the mere inva-
riableness of the order of its appearance in reference
to some invariable consequent; the invariable antece-
dent being denominated a cause, the invariable conse-
quent an effect. To say that water has the power of
dissolving salt, and to say that salt will always melt
when water is poured upon it, is to say precisely the
same thing ; there is nothing in one pro1losition which
Digitized by Coogle
~
108 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
is not exactly, and to the same extent, enumerated in
the other.
" To know the powers of nature, is, then, nothing
more than to know what antecedents are and will be
invariably followed by what consequents ; for this inva-
riableness, and not any distinct existence, is all that
the shorter term, power, in any case expresses." •
It is true that such is all that we know of the powers
of nature, but such is not all that we believe, for from
the action of the primitive power of the mind, Causa-
lity, an idea of force or power is generated, and we
believe, and must believe, as implicitly in its existence
as in the reality of anything the idea of which we
receive through the senses. Thus, Mr. Combe says,
" If a cannon be fired, and the shot knock down a
wall, Individuality and some other perceptive faculties
observe only the existence of the powder. E\·entuality
perceh·es the fire applied to it, the explosion, the fall
of the building, as events following in succession ; but
it forms no idea of power in the gunpowder, when
ignited, to produce the effect. When Causality, on
the other hand, is joined with Eventuality in contem-
plating these phenomena, the impression of power or
ejficiency in the explodin~ gunpowder, to produce the
effect, arises spontaneously in the mind, and Causality
produces an intuitive belief in the existence of this
efficiency, just because it is constituted to do so."
In giving the above quotation, howeYer, we can-
not agree in ascribing to Eventuality the office of
perceiving eyents in succession; it is true that it
perceives events, but it appears to us that the organ
• Philosophy of thr Human )lind, L<•durr G.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 109
of time alone gives the idea of their succession. So
Causality gives the impression of power or efficiency,
but without another mental faculty no belief would
attend it. Wonder, as we have endeavoured to show
before, creates belief, as it invests all our ideas with a
feeling of reality. It does more; it gives to this idea
of power a personality; it dresses it in all the clothing
that the other faculties furnish; adds to it unity,
infinity, ascribes to it the tendency or design of all
causation, and transforms it into a God, infinite in
power and goodness.•
BELIEF IN DEITY. Granting, as.we think must be
done, that our belief in a Supreme Power originates in
the manner above described, the question still arises ;
are there sufficient grounds for such a belief indepen-
• "Peron and other travellers in New Holland, mention, that
the natives of that country are the only people hitherto discovered
who have no conception of a God or of the existence of any super-
natural being. They do not labour under any deficiency of vener-
ation; which, indeed, considered relatively to the other organs,
is large. But they are lamentably dl'ficient in Wonder, which
gives the sense of presence or vitality to what is absent or lifeless;
and in Constructiveness, which produces the desire of accounting
co1111i.stently for, and reconciling in theory, all phenomena. And
thus are they Atheists, not froiJl a sceptical disbelief of evidence,
but from never having formed a conception of anything that was
not present to the senses. Veneration superinduces the sense of
our own unworthiness ; Wonder that of the personality of a First
Cause or Intelligent Power in the elements--the attributes of the
Being, of course, taking their shape from the leading tendenciPs
of our own minds; a low intPllect concPiving only a grovelling
dPity, while an elevated soul givps a lofty character to its concPp-
tion. Without this organ of WondPr, faith in a God, or invisible
power, is impossible; by faith, me1ming not a conviction merely
of the abstract proposition, that there is a First Causl', but the
Digitized by Coogle
IIO ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
dently of the internal comiction of the existence of a
Deity, which one particular faculty creates within us?
We find the belief in supreme power nearly universal
in all countries yet known to us ; and this power to
have been " in every clime adored" as far back as
written records extend. ln the first ages of the world
the powers of nature were deified and worshiped under
e\·ery variety of form, wi~h attributes borrowed always
from man's own nature,· fashioned according to the
laws of his own intelligence and the degree of civiliza-
tion then premiling. E,·ery cause that was hidden,
every antecedence not evident to the senses, a spiritual
Being was created to supply ; the earth was peopled
with fairies and genii, and there were gods of the
winds, of the sea, and of the air. As man increased
in intelligence, his gods diminished in number, and as
real sentiment that there is a Being with certain attributes, whose
spirit we conceive, whose character we truly love, and whom we
feel not to be far from every one of us. We say that the man
with deficient Wonder cannot be anything else than practically a
sceptic, because he naturally is so weak in the power of conception
nrcrssary to see ' God in clouds, or hear him in the wind,' that
with him faith is a moral impossibility. Of course, we do not
mean that such bt>lief cannot, by a miraculous interposition of the
DP.ity, be suprrinducrd ; but as God, even in the miraclt>s recordt>d
in the New Tt>stamt>nt, always works by means, and as in the
case of an individual with small Wondt>r the mt>ans are wanting,
it apprars to us unlibly that such a one should be selected as the
subjt>ct of the miracle of rrgeneration. If, then, a large develop-
ment of Wonder is always found in believers, it will not be easy
to prove that their faith is not the result of that organ, instead of
being produced by a miracle. At all events, it is quite certain,
that in this country, and in modern times, faith is prPst>nt or
absrnt invariably in the proportions in which this org11.n is dt>Yc-
loped."-Sidnl'y Smith'!:! Principlt>s of Phrrnology, p. 16~.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. Ill
his knowledge enabled him to generalize the powers
of nature, he attached them to one supreme source,
the Great Cause of all.
Such is in accordance with the laws of the human
mind; Wonder gives the sense of reality; and wherever
this sense of reality exists, there is an irresistible
tendency to invest it with the forms of our own intelli-
gence. In this manner our sensations and ideas are
to us realities, and although they are known to us as a
train of separate thoughts only, yet we invest them
with the form of intelligence peculiar to Individuality,
and we have the idea and speak of the mind of man
as simple and indivisible, as one individual mind. We
eYen individualize all things that exist, and call it the
universe. So we individualize the separate impressions
of power or efficiency derivable from every separate
cause, and thus form the idea of God as ooe, as a
personality. But it is evident that this is to invest the
Great Cause of all with an attribute derived from our
particular form of intelligence, and we may as much
err in ascribing to Him unity as if we were to depict
Him under our own particular bodily shape.
But if it be irrational to measure that which is infi-
nite by powers that have relation only to that which is
finite ; to invest the Deity with our own forms of
thought, our own modes of intelligence; it is, if any-
thing, more inconsistent with reason to ascribe to Him
feelings which belong to man, and have been given
to enable him to perform his part upon this earth.
This, however, have mankind ever done. Necessarily
believing in a God, they haYe formed Him after their
own image, not unfrequently ascribing to Him some
of the lowest of our feelings in their greatest abuse.
Digitized by Coogle
112 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
We have no faculties that can make us acquainted
with God as He is, or with His mode of existence,
and we only degrade Him by reducing Him to our
le\·el. Even the world in which we live is known to
us only relatively and not in itself; it is necessarily to
us an ideal or phenomenal world, perceived by us only
through the medium of the sensations that it occasions
within us, and which form the mirror in which we
view it.
If this be so, what have we to reply to the sceptic?
What do we know of God? Much, everything that is
necessary for confidence and love. Of first causes we
know nothing ; of no causes know we anything but as
invariable antecedents ; and no philosopher has yet
been able to assign a reason why one cause should be
followed by its effect ; the extent of our knowledge is
that such a relation between them has been established
and ia maintained, and in many cases we have disco-
vered to what end. To say that God gi,·es to each
cause its power of producing its effect, is using words
without meaning ; for power is nothing in itself, but a
creation of the mind, and, as we have seen, is identical
with invariable antecedence. It follows, therefore, that
as there is no such thing as power, and consequently,
no delegation of power, the being who established the
relation between cause and effect, must maintain that
relation. This is commonly granted, but in a different
sense from the one here intended ; it is argued that as
in a train of sequences all that is requisite is to move
the first, the rest producing each other of necessity,
the Deity is to be regarded as the First Cause, but not
as the immediate cause of all things. But this may
possibly be an error founded upon the hypothesis abo,·e
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 113
objected to, viz., that there is in each cause an inherent
power to produce its effect. It will, however, appear
more reasonable to suppose that whatever influence sets
the first of a chain of sequences in motion must be
continued to the last, for wherever such influence ceases,
the chain must necessarily be broken ; God, therefore, 'I
must not be considered as only the first of a series (
of causes, but as the all-pervading influence which 5
maintains the connexion between all antecedents and
consequents.
We see a steam engine in motion, extending its giant
arms in a hundred different directions, and performing
a hundred different offices. The parts are so con-
nected that motion imparted to one is communicated
to all ; and we imagine the steam to be the prime
mover, the cause of all the motion throughout the
engine. But this is not the case. There is an influence
in each separate cause and effect, not dependent upon
the steam, an influence requiring to be sustained at
each separate link as much as at the first. We can
assign no reason why one part of the engine should
move another ; we know only that it appears to do so ;
nor does it elucidate the matter to say that it does so
by means of repulsion, a power of resistance, action,
or reaction ; for these are names only to express the
common influence. If we were even to discover the
cause of this repulsion, it would only add another link
in the chain of mere antecedence, and the relation
between it and repulsion would equally require to be
maintained as between any other observed sequence.
" Sweep away the illusion of time ; glance, if thou have
eyes, from the near moving cause to its far distant
Mover. The stroke that came transmitted through a
Q
Digitized by Google
114 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
whole galaxy of elastic balls, was itless a stroke than
if the last ball only had been struck and sent flying ?
Oh, could I, (with the time-annihilating Hat,) transport
thee direct from the beginnings to the endings, how
were thy eyesight unsealed, and thy heart set flaming
in the.light-sea of celestial wonder ! Then sawest thou
that thi.'J fair universe, were it in the meanest province
thereof, is in very deed the star-domed City of God ;
that through every star, through e\·ery grass-blade, and
most through every living soul, the glory of a present
God still beams : But Nature, which is the Time-
vesture of God, and reveals Him to the wise, hides Him
from the foolish." •
Thus are we very near to the Power that " directs
the atom and controls the storm," and truly and lite-
rally may it be said, "in Him we live and move and
have our being."
Causes and effects,. trai.Ds of sequences, meet us on
all sides, having, as far as we can discover, no neces-
sary connexion, but only a :relation established to effect
a particular purpose. It: then, reason may be our guide
in an inquiry of this nature, it would seem e\;dent that
the relation between e\·ery cause and its effect is sus-
tained by the immediate hand of God ; that every atom
requires the perpetual influence of the Deity to preserve
it in its tendency towards every other atom ; upon the
withdrawal of which influence, but for a moment, all
must fall asunder and the book of creation be closed.
And thus, in a mode mysterious and incomprehensible
to man, may the Creative Spirit of the Universe form
a part of all Nature.
" All are but parts of one stupendou~t wholl',
Whose body Nature is, and God the Soul."
• Sartor R<•sartus, p. 274.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 115
Although each cause and effect may be required to
be sustained separately, yet general laws, laws that man
can classify and reduce to rules, seem necessary for the
eKercise of his reason : and yet this uniformity in the
laws of nature it is that "hides God from the foolish."
Were this connexion variable instead of inYariable, man
would advance but little in the paths of science, and
his reason would be able to raise him but little above
the brute creation.•
But this idea of Power or Cause that we have been
considering, is inseparable fr.om Effect ; and Effect
supposes object, or aim, tendency, design. It is doubt-
ful whether we should ever form the idea of Power ..
from ·inYariable antecedence, if it were not from the
perception, at the same time, of the ebject or tendency
of such Power. If things were oonnected for no pur-
pose disco\·erable to us, there would be no endence that
they were connected at all, however invariably they
• We would not assume that upon this point man's fac11lties are
capable of deciding with certainty, or assert that because we can
trace no necessary eonRexion between cause and effeet, that there-
fore there t6 no neeeSllary connnion. Such connexion, or the laws
of matter, may be as Eternal as the Deity, and He may have
made use of such general laws, aa man uses them, to work out
the pnrpose of creation in the order, beauty, and Mrangement of
the universe; much of what we ·call Evil may be owing to the
inertia or stubbornness of matter, which renders it averse to any
change of state, and therefore naturally opposed to the dictates of
lnt~Uigence. But on consideration of the whole subject, and for
reasons expressed in various parts of this work, particularly in
the Chapter on Evil, the views contained in the text we considu
as most probable.
It may be also asked, if the Deity is to be considen•d as the
i1NnediaJe r.ause of all effects, why i:~ Pain or Evil nrcessary at
•
Digitized by Coogle
116 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
might follow each other. From our ideas of the ten-
dency of all the causes and effects we observe, that is,
from the evidence of design everywhere around us, we
ascribe wisdom and benevolence as well as power, to
the Deity; all whose attributes extending beyond our
conception, we call infinite. Many who contend that
Power is a mere abstraction of the mind, having no
real existence, yet cannot resist the e'idence for the
existence of God from the marks of design in creation.
The nature of the human mind itself will serve as a
beautiful illustration of this design. Man is possessed
of Propensities and Sentiments, all tending to certain
necessary ends ; and happiness results from their exer-
cise, when active in the accomplishment of these ends.
Knowledge is necessary for the guidance of these feel-
ings, and faculties are given that furnish him with the
necessary knowledge and no more : and although the
knowledge that they afford may not be accurate as to
man's protector, guide, incitor, and instructor ; why could not such
pain have been spared by God's wisdom making up for the foolish-
ness of man, or by His power protecting him from the effects of
such foolishness? We would reply, that a much greater balance
of happiness appears to result from man's po~session of the liberty
of action which reason gives to .him, than could possibly arise
from any interference with such liberty, by the immediate power of
God in the prevention of evil. All that makes up the sum of
man's hopes and fears, all that so infinitely diversifies his sens~
tions depends upon this lioeri!J, (a liberty not at variance with
necessity,) and although he suffers more pain in consequence, he
• receives infinitely more pleasure ; the balance of happiness must
be calculated by the preponderance of pleasurable over painful
sensations, man being a gainer by having a hundred pleasurable
and ten painful sensations, rather than by having fifty pleasurable
sensations and no painful ones.
Digitized by Google
•
BELIEF. 117
the real nature of things, yet, by endo~ing all sub-
stances with form, size, colour, and relations, they not
the less create for him a world in which to live and be
happy.
Whence came man's Propensities and Sentiments,
and whence their tendency to impel him to do that
without which he could not exist? Again, whence
comes our knowledge of an external world? Not from
matter, nor from the senses, nor from mind; for
neither alone could produce a single idea ; but from
a relation that has been established between them ;
knowledge or ideas being the joint production of all
three.
Whence then, this relation, this beautiful adaptation
of one to the other ? For if the relation were one of
mere sequence, would the end produced be always
important, if not necessary, to the well-being of man?
In attempting to solve these queries, we seem forced •
into the full admission of the being of a God possess-
ing the attributes of wisdom as well as of power ; and
when we trace further the object of all creation, and
see all relations of cause and effect tending to one end-
the production of the largest possible sum of enjoy-
ment; even that which we term Evil aiding to pro-
duce this beneficent result, we are constrained to add
benevolence to the other attributes of our Creator.
The relation of our intellectual faculties to an ex-
ternal world being one of cause and effect, can be sus-
tained alone by Him who established it. Thus do we
lee all thin!J8 in God.
To return to the subject of Belief. Direct belief, that
is-" where a proposition, without regard to any former
proposition expressed or understood, is admitted as
•
Digitized by Coogle
/
118 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
soon as it is expressed in words, or as soon as it rises
silently into the mind," is and must be founded upon
the action of each of the primitive intellectual facul-
ties, the indications that they give of the existence and
relations of the external world, being the First Truths
upon which all reasoning must be based.
Belief in Testimony is merely beliefin ideas furnished
by Causality, that is, the action of the primitiV"e faculty
of Causality gives us a perception of a relation existing
in ~train of sequences, and our belief is in propor-
tion, as that relation seems sustained and unbroken.
"For what is Testimony? It is itself an event.
When we believe anything, then, in consequence of
testimony, we only believe one event in consequence
of another. But this is the general account of our
belief in events. It is the union of the ideas of an
antecedent and a consequent by a strong association."•
Belief in Propositions, or indirect belief, is founded
upon a perception of relation between such proposi-
tions, and the knowledge previously furnished by the
primitive faculties of the mind upon which direct
belief depends. Such is the belief in God. t
TRUTH. To man, and probably to all created intel-
• .Mill, vol. 1, p. 290.
t Of course in speaking of bt>lief herl', we mt>an not the feeling
itst>lf, viz., the action of the organ of " Wonder," but what ought
to constitute the proper direction of that feeling, in the same way
as the Intellectual faculties are required to decide for Conscil'n-
tiou~:~ness, what is right or wrong. As metaphysicians of the old
school formerly confounded the action of the feeling of Conscien-
tiousness, with its direction by the Intellectual faculties, the meta-
physicians of the new school now seem to confound the action of
the organ of Wonder, which gives the ft>eling of •'aith-the sense
of Reality, "·itb its direction. __ __,. --
Digitized by Google
TRUTH. 119
ligences, truth must ever be relatire and not absolute :
for, as we haYe seen, nothing can be known to us as
it is ; "it is impossible so much as to concei,·e or form
an idea," as Hume observes, " of anything specifically
different from ideas and impressions." The Truth,
therefore now under consideration, is that so called by
mankind, and not absolute truth, which can be known
to God only.
Truth, .to man, is merely the record of hi.s fe~lings
andliiipresswns. Thus, we - haYe propensities and
senttmenfs W
.hich giYe US particular feelings or sensa-
tions, in particular circumstances and situations, and
we haYe intellectual faculties which give us other kinds
of feelings that we call ideas. That we are the sub-
jects of these different kinds of sensations/ we say is
true. Causality traces such impressions to external
causes, the aggregate of these external causes we call
the external world, and we say it is true that there is
an external world.
These external causes act, by means of the senses,
upon our perceptive faculties, producing in us certain
ideas ; and we say that it is true that matter (the
name given to the unknown cause,) has the properties
of form, size, colour, weight; such being the names
by which we denominate these ideas.
We have faculties also that give us ideas of rela-
tions, of likenesses and differences, of connexions
and dependencies ; and we say that it is true that such
modes of exiRtence belong to matter.
But what is the proof that these are truths? There
is no proof: we must take them for granted : we intui-
tiYely belieYe them, and we cannot, for any practical
purpose, believe otherwise. The present condition of
Digitized by Coogle
120 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
1elj is all of which we can speak with absolute cer-
tainty. The existence of an external world, with its
properties, connexions and dependencies : with every-
thing relating to past, present, or future; and conse-
quently our own identity, must all be taken for granted;
the only evidence of their truth being that we feel with
reference to them,as we say that we do.
The evidence of Truth will, therefore, be different to
every individtral mind ; neither can that which is truth
to one mind be strictly said to be truth to any other ;
as no two minds are exactly organized alike, and no
two minds are ever, therefore, affected exactly in the
same way. We have seen that ourideas depend equally
upon the object or cause, the sense, and the subject or
intellectual faculty ; and although the object and sense
may be the same, yet the intellectual faculties differing,
as they do, more or less in all men, the perception of
the object differs. We may readily conceive of an
intelligence, with faculties so differently constituted from
our own, that all which we call truth should to it appear
f.'llsehood. Matter might appear to such a mind to
have different properties, different relations, different
dependencies.• In minds constituted in other respects
• " To beings capable of perceiving and distinguishing the dif-
ferent particles that form by their aggrt'gation those small ma~~~~es,
which, after the minutest mechanical division of which we are
capable, appear atoms to us, the pride which we feel, in our che-
mical analysis, must seem as ludicrous, as to us would seem the
pride of the blind, if one, who had never enjoyed the opportunity of
beholding the sun, were to boast of having discovered, by a tu"ct!
compari~tm of IM clwnging lempetii/Ure of lxxlin, that, during
certain hours of the day, there passed over our earth some great
source of heat. The addition of one new sense to us, who have
already the inestimable advantages which vieion affords, might
Digitized by Coogle
TRUTH. 121
like our own, the addition of a single faculty might be
sufficient to alter the whole appearance of nature. It
is unphilosophical, therefore, to suppose that the causes
probably, in a few hours communicate more instruction, with re-
spect to matter, than all which is ever to repay and consummate
the physical labours of mankind ; giving, perhaps, to a single
glance, those slow revelations of nature which, one by one, at in-
tervals of many centuries, are to immortalize the future sages of
our race."-Brown's Philosophy of the Human Mind, Lecture 5.
" 'Tell me,' says Micromegas, an inhabitant of one of the planets
of the Dog Star, to the secretary of the Academy of Sciences in the
planet Saturn, at which he had recently arrived in a journey
through the heavens,-' Tell me how many senses have the men
on your globe P' "-"I quote, as perhaps the name bas already in-
formed you, from an ingenious philosophical romance of Voltairt.>,
who, from various allusions in the work, hae evidently had Fon-
tenelle, the illustrious secretary of the French Academy of Sciences,
in view, in the pictue which he gives of the Saturnian secretary."
' We have seventy-two senses,' answered the academician, ' and
we are, every day, complaining of the smallness of the number.
Our imagination goea far beyond our wants. What are seventy-
two senses! and how pitiful a boundary, even for beings with such
limited perct.'ptions, to be cooped up within our ring and our five
moons! In spite of our curiosity, and in spite of as many passions
as can result from six dozt>n of senses, we find our hours hang very
heavily on our hands, and can always find time enough for yawn-
ing.' 'I can very well believe it,' says Micromegas, ' for, in our
globe, we have very near one thousand senses; and yet with all
these we feel continually a sort of listless inquietude and vague
desire, which are for ever telling us that we know nothing, and
that there are beings infinitely nearer perfection. I have travelled
a good deal in the universe; I have seen many clatlses of mortals
far beneath us, and many as much supPrior; but I baYe never had
the good fortune to find any ~ho had not always more desires than
real necessities to occupy their life. And, pray, how long may you
Saturnians live, with your few senses P' continued the Sirian;
' Ah! but a very IJhort time, indeed !' said the little man of Saturn,
R
Digitized by Coogle
122 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
of ideas in us are necessari1y what they appear to be;
all that we can affirm respecting them is that they
affect us in a certain manner ; and the description of
with a sigh. 'It is the same with us; said the traveller; 'We
are for ever complaining of the shortness of life. It must be an
universal law of nature.' 'Alas !' said the Saturnian, 'we lh·e
only five hundred great revolutions of the sun, (which is pretty
much about fifteen thousand years of our counting.) You see well,
that this is to die almost the moment one is born. Our existence is
a point-our duration an instant-our globe an atom. Scarcely
have we begun to pick up a little knowledge, when death rushes in
upon us, before we can have acquired anything like experience. As
for me, I cannot venture even to think of any projl.'rt. I feel mys<'lf
but like a drop of water in the ocl.'an; and espl.'cially now, when I
look t{) you and to myself, I really fl't>l quite ashamed of the ridicul-
ous appearance which I make in the unh·erse.' 'If I did not know
that you were a philosopher,' replil'd Micromegns, 'I should be
afraid of distressing you, when I tell you, that our life is seven hun-
dred times longer than yours. But what is even that ? Whl'n we
come to the last moment, to have lived a single day, and to have
lived a whole eternity, amount to the very same thing. I have been
in countries where they live a thousand times longer than \Vith us;
and I have always found them murmuring, just as we do ourst>lvl.'s.
But you have seventy-two senses, and they must have told.you
eomething about your globe. How many properties has matter
with you ?' 'If you mt>an t>ssential properties,' said tht> Saturnian,
'without which our globe could not subsist; we count three bun-
dred,-exteusion, impenetrability, mobility, gravity, divisibility, and
eo forth.' 'That small number,' rl'plied the gigantic travt>ller,
' may be sufficient for the views which the Creator must havt> bad
with respect to your narrow habitation. Your globe is little; itll
inhabitants are so too. You have few senses; your matter has few
qualitit>s. In all this, Providl'nce has suited you most happily to
each other.' The academician was more and more astonished with
everything which the traveller told him. At length, after commu-
nicating to each other a little of what they knew, and a great deal
of what they knew not, and reaMOning, as wt>ll and as ill, as philo-
Digitized by Coogle
TRUTH. 123
the mode in which we are affected is that which con-
stitutes truth to us. •
The " first truths" or fundamental principles upon
sopht>rs usually do, they resolved to set out together, on a little tour
of the universe.'
" That with the one thousand sen~es of the Sirian, or even the
seventy-two >~ensc!l of the inhabitant of Saturn, our notions of matter
would be very different from what they arc at present, cannot be
doubted; since we ~hould a~sign to it qualitie11 corresponding with
all the varietie>~ of our six dozen or one thousand classe11 of sensa-
tions. But, even with all these sensations, it is evident, that we
11hould 11till know a~ little of matter, independent of the phenomena
which it exhibit~s in relation to us, as we know at thi~ moment. Our
delmition of it would comprehend more phenoml·na; but it would ~till
be a definition of it~ phenomena only. We might perhaps be able
to fill up the ~aturuian catalogue of threE' hundred essential proper-
ties, but these would be still only the rl.'lation~ of matter to our own
perception. A change in the mere susceptibility of our organs of
Belllle, or of our sentient mind, would be, relatively to US, like &
change in the whole system of things, communicating, as it were,
new properties to every object around us. A single 11ense additional,
in man, might thus be to external nature, like the creation of the
sun, when he first burst upon it in splendour, ' like the god of the
new world,' and pouring everywht>re his own effulgence, seemed to
shed on it the very bt>auties which he only revealed."-Philosophy
of the Human Miud, Lecture 9.
• " In all German 11y~tems since the time of Kant, it is the
fundamental principle to deny the existence of Matter; or rather,
we should say, to believe it in a radica.lly different sense from that
in which the Scotch Philosopher strives to demonstrate it, &Jld the
English Unphilosopher bt>lieves it without demonstration. To any
of our readers who has dipped ne\'er so slightly into metaphysical
reading, this Idealism will be no inconceivable thing. Indeed it
is singular how widl'ly diffused and undl'r what differl'nt aspl'cts we
meet with it among the mo11t dio~similar clas>!l'S of Ulaukind. Our
Bishop B('rkdt•y seems to han~ adopted it from rl'ligious indurl'-
ments: FathPr nosro'l"'ich wa~ lt·d to a Hry cognatE' rt>sult, in his
Digitized by Google
124 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
which all reasoning is based being different in all men,
our surprise need not be excited when we find that the
line of argument that appears irresistible to one, utterly
Theori'a Pln"losoplaia Naturali's, from merely mathematical consi-
derations. Of the ancient Pyrrbo or the modern Hume we do not
speak : but in the opposite end of the Earth, as Sir W. Jones
informs us, a similar theory, of immemorial age, prevaDe 11.mong
the theologians of Hindostan. Nay, Proft>ssor Stewart has de-
clared his opinion, that whoever at some time of his life has not
entertained this theory, may reckon that he has yet shown no
talent for metaphysical research. Neither is it any arguml'nt
against the Idealist to say that, since he denies the absolute
existence of Mattl'r, he ought in conscience likewisl' to deny its
rl'lative existence ; and plunge ovl'r precipices, and run himsl'lf
through with swords, by way of rl'creation, since these, like all
other material things, are only phantasms and spectra, and there-
fore of no consequence. If a man, corporeally takl'n, is but a
I phantasm and spectrum himself, all this will ultimatl'ly amount to
much the same as it did bl'forc. Yet hl'rein lies Dr. Rl'id's grand
triumph over the Skeptics, which is as good as no triumph what-
ever. For as to the arguml'nt which be and his followl'rs insist
on, under all possible variety of figurl's, it amounts only to thi11
very plain consid£>ration, that 'men naturally, and without rea-
soning, beli'eve in the existence of Matter ;' and seems, philo!IO-
phically speaking, not to have any value ; nay, the introduction of
it into philosophy may be considered as an act of suicide on the
part of that science, the life and business of which, that of ' in-
terpreting appearances.' is hereby at an end. Curious it is, more-
over, to observe how these common-sense Philosophers, ml'n who
brag chiefly of their irrefragabl£> logic, and kl'l'p watch and ward,
as if this were their 11pl'cial trade, against 'MysticitJm' and
1 Visionary Theories,' are themselves obliged to base their whole
system on Mysticism, and a Theory, on Faith, in short, and that
of a very comprehensive kind; the Faith, naml'ly, l'ither that
man's Sensl'S are thl'mselves Divine, or that thl'y afford not only
an honest, but a Hteral representation of the workings of 110me
Divinity. ~o true is it that for thl'se men also, all knowledp:r of
Digitized by Coogle
TRUTH. 125
fail~ to convince another; and that two indh·iduals
seldom arriYe exactly at the same conclusions. Thus,
one sees only coincidence where another traces cau-
the visible rests on belief of the invisible, and derives its first
meaning and certainty therefrom !
" The Idealist again boasts that hi11 Philosophy is Transcendental,
that is, 'ascending beyond the senst's ;' which, he asst•rts, all
Philosophy, properly so called, by its nature is, and must be : and
in this way he is h.
·d to various unexpected conclusions. To a
Transcendentalist, Matter bas an existence but only as a Pheno-
menon ; were tre not there, neither would it be tht•re ; it is a mere
Rdation, or rather the result of a Relation bl'tween our living
Souls and the great First Cause ; and depends for its apparent
qualities on oor bodily and mental organs; having itself no irlin·n-
ll'ic qualities, being, in the common sense of that word, Nothing.
The tree is green and hard, not of its own natural \·irtue, but
simply because my eye and my hand are fashioned so as to discern
such and such appearances under such and such conditions. Nay,
as an Idealist might say, even on the most popular grounds, must
it not be so ? Bring a sentient Being, with eyes a little different,
with fingers ten times harder than mine ; and to him that Thing
which I call Tree shall be yellow and soft, as truly as to me it is
green and hard. Form his nervous-structure in all points the
reJJer~e of mine, and this same Trt'e shall not be combustible, or
heat-producing, but dissoluble and cold-producing, not high and
convex, but deep and concave ; shall simply have all propertie11
exactly the reverse of those I attribute to it. 'There is, in fact,'
says Fichte, ' no Tree there, but only a manift•station of Power
from something that is not I.' The same is true of material
Nature at large, of the whole visible universe, with all its move-
ments, figures, accidents and qualities ; all are impressions pro-
duced on me by something clflimmt from me. This, we supposr,
may be the foundation of what Fichte means by his far-famt'd Icla
and Nicht-Icla (I and Not-1 ;) words, which taking lodging, (to
use the Hudibra.'!tic phrase) in certain 'heads that were to be let
unfurnished,' occasioned a hollow echo, as of Laughh•r, from the
t'mpty apartments ; though thr word::~ arr, in tht•msch·e>!, quite
Digitized by Coogle
126 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
aation, and is enabled to employ the same causes to
produce the same effects in different circumstances.
And yet, is it not the commonly received opinion that
all men naturally are equally capable of judging; and
are not men frequently the most dogmatical on those
subjects that they are the least capable of understand-
ing, and the most eager to refute those arguments the
force of which nature has giYen them no faculties to
appreciate ? This may be accounted for by the fact
that each person instinctively believes that which he
himself perceives, whether his perceptions be correct
or not : and the greater part of such belief is formed
at a period during which our perceptions are likely to
be incorrect from thelr incompleteness. Belief also
being instinctive, is as readily extended to the ideal as
to the real, to fancied relations of cause and effect as to
true ones. Thus, when the judgment i~ not sufficiently
strong to examine correctly the grounds upon which
bel~ef is founded, prejudice will come to its aid and
pause a man to maintain his point in spite of reason,
J!armless, and may represent tht> basi~:~ of a tut>taphy~:~ical Philoso-
plly as fitly as any other words. But farther, and what is still
stranger than such ldeali~:~m, according to these Kantean systems,
~he organs of the mind too, what is called the Understanding, are
pf a no less arbitrary, and, as it Wl're, accidt•utal charactt>r than
tbo~:~.e of the Body. Time and Spact> thrms<'lw~:~ are not external
b~t internal entities: they have no outward existl•nce, there is no
Time and n.o Space out of the mind; they are mereforms of man·s
spiritual being, laws under which his thinking nature is constituted
to act. This ~:~e.e1ns the hardest conclusion of all ; but it is an
important one with Kant; and is not gin•n forth as a dogma, but
cart>fully deduct>rl in his Critilc cler Reinen Vemutifl with great
precision, and tht> strictest form of arguml'nt."-Carlyle's Miscrl-
lanies, vol. !, p. 106.
Digitized by Coogle
TRUTH. 127
and e\"en contrary to it. But since all men think and
feel and believe differently, what is to be the test of
truth ? We can haYe no other than experience. The
record of the mode in which the maJority of men are
affected by the external world must be considered truth
with respect to it. That which appears blue to the
majority, must be said to be blue, although to some
few who possess a peculiar development of the faculty
that perceives colour, it may appear to be green or
pink.
With regard to the truth of those propositions upon
which experience does not directly bear,-the existence
of a Deity-for example, the Qnly test can he the re-
lation of such propositions to those of which experience
does inform us. And here it is that mankind fall into
controversy and error; for while all agree with respect
to those truths of which direct experience affords every-
day proof, the evidence for those truths which require
to be searched out by the reasoning powers, must
appear valid or otherwise, as those reasoning powers are
more or less efficient; so that what seems indubitably
true to one may be considered improbable or even
absurd by anoth.er who is more capable of sifting evi-
dence.
That which Mr. Combe relates of a few individuals,
will be found to apply to all mankind, viz., " That there
is a tendency to belieYe withaut examination; and that
an effort of philosophy is necessary to resist belief,
instead of evidence being requisite to produce it."
The natural tendency of all minds is to credulity and
not to scepticism, and it is necessary that it should be
so, for " faith removes mountains." Ignorance believes,
but philosophy doubts and examine~. Of that which
Digitized by Coogle
128 ON THE ORIGIN OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
constitutes the belief of the great mass of mankind,
one half, at least, may be shown to be erroneous. They
belie'fe in things and beings for the existence of which
there is not the slightest evidence, and their minds .are
filled with imaginary relations of cause and effect
which the experience of a life is insufficient to disproYe
or correct.•
To searchers after truth, then, it is absolutely neces-
sary that nothing be admitted which is not either a
first truth, or founded upon a first truth. A single
proposition believed without sufficient evidence, is dan-
gerous to all truth ; it becomes "ith us a first truth,
upon which we build all kinds of erroneous conclusions.
If we attempt to go beyond that to which our faculties
are limited, if we attempt to reason independently of
those first truths which it is the prorince of each faculty
• "In contemplating the character of the eminent persons who
appeared about this era, nothing is more interesting and instruc-
tive than to rPmark the astonishing combination, in the same
minds of the highest intellectual endowments, with the most de-
plorable aberrations of the understanding; and even, in number-
less instances, with the most childish superstitions of the multitude.
Of this apparent inconsistency, Dodinus docs not furnish a solitary
example. The same remark may be extended, in a greater or less
degree, to most of the other celebratPd names hitherto mentioned.
Melancbthon, as appears from his lettPrs, was an interpreter of
dreams, and a caster of nativities; and Luther seems to have
seriously believed that he had himself frequently seen the arck
e11emy face to face, and held arguments with him on points of
theology. Nor was the study of the severe sciences, on all occa-
sions, an effectual remedy against such illusions of the imagina-
tion. The sagacious Kepler was an astrologer and a visionary ;
and his friend Tycho Brahe, the Prince of Astronomers, kept an
idiot in his service, to whose prophecies be listened as revelations
from above."-Stewart's Dissertations, Encyc. Brit., p. 29.
Digitized by Coogle
BELIEF. 129
to furnish, we immediately fall into absurdities and
contradictions.
For instance, the term "infinite," used so much by
theologians, is usually employed to designate that which
is unlimited, boundless, to which nothing can be added
or taken away. But this definition consists of words
without meaning, for our faculties give us no know-
ledge of that which is boundless ; and in reasoning
upon it we necessarily plunge into obscurity. Thus,
concerning " infinite" space, if this planetary system
were to be deducted from the universe, we cannot
suppose that the universe would be less infinite than it
was before ; therefore, a part is as great as the whole.
So of Infinite Duration or Immortality, as applied
to beings who have begun to be : in consequence of
this beginning of existence they can never be said to
live for more than half an Eternity: therefore that
which is infinite is capable of being halved.
Again, the doctrine of Infinite Dh·isibility implies
the same absurdity and contradiction. " Everything,"
as Home says, " capable of being infinitely divided
contains an infinite number of parts ; otherwise the
division would be stopped short by the indivisible parts,
which we should immediately arrh·e at. Finite exten-
sion must, in this case, suppose an infinite number of
parts."
Upon speculative points like these, theory upon
theory has been formed, and mankind have been en-
gaged in perpetual controversy, and will be so to the
end of time, unless, by a close analysis of the powers
of the mind, showing the relation that has been esta-
blished between us and the external world, the boundary
of our possible knowledge be determined. With the
s
Digitized by Coogle
130 ON THE ORIGIN Oi' OUR KNOWLEDGE.
help of an analysis like this, which will acquaint us
with each intellectual faculty and its function, we shall
be in no danger of wasting our powers in the vain
attempt to overstep this boundary : we shall possess a
standard by which first truths may be determined-
the want of which has led to the unwise extension of
them by one party, and the equally unwise limitation
of them by others, producing thereby end]ess errors
and uncertainty respecting that science which of all
others ought to be the most certain, as in it are in-
volved the highest interests of mankind.
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER IV.
ON THE CONNEXION OF THE MIND WITH ORGANIZATION.
MANY important deductions result from our know-
ledge of the connexion between the Mind and Brain ;
and many facts there are now on record that point to
general principles yet to be discovered, that, in all
probability, are of equal, if not of much greater mo-
ment than those with which we are now acquainted.
One of the most important of the practical prin-
ciples derivable from the knowledge of this connexion
is, that an the physical Jaws that tend to increase the
health of the body generally, and of the brain as a part
of its organization, must tend also to increase the
health and strength of the mind. It is found, by ex-
perience, that, as the muscles of the body become
larger and stronger by use, so the brain increases in
acth;ty and size by judicious exercise-and with it the
mental powers. And if further investigation should
.
.
lead to the complete establishment of the fact that
peculiar dispositions and tendencies of the mind, as
well as general bodily constitution, are transmitted
from parents to offspring, we may hope to possess a
certain, efficient, practical rule, by which, in the course
of generations, the race may be improred; those men-
tal faculties be made to predominate which lead to
happiness, and those kept within proper bounds which,
uncontrolled, create mi~ery and confusion.
Digitized by Coogle
132 CONNBXION OJ' MIND
It is also known that activity and power of mind
depend greatly upon quality of brain. Some persons are
distinguished for great retentiveness of memory, for
remembering everything that they hear and read. Sir
Walter Scott was an example of this. Others have little
or no power of retention, and can scarcely remember
their own names. Again, some are capable of great
mental endurance, whilst others sink under the slightest
exertion; some are active, others slow : all of which dif-
ferences are dependent, not so much upon organization,
as upon quality of brain. It may perhaps be disco-
vered ere long, now that so many minds are turned to
the subject, what it is that characterizes these varieties;
the knowledge of which might be made greatly service-
able in the improvement of the powers of the mind.
Of the action of the mind upon the body, and the
body upon the mind, and of the causes and modes of
this mutual influence, many very curious facts have
been registered, but our present knowledge is insuf-
ficient to enable us·to generalize them and turn them
to any practical account.
The following are some of these facts ; detailed, not
for the purpose of drawing inferences from them, or as
being necessarily connected, but because they appear
to point to some important principles yet to be dis-
covered.
" Professor Ehrenberg asserts that by means of the
microscope be has discovered the fibres of the ence-
phalon, spinal chord, and nerves, to be tubular, (i.e.)
that they do not consist of solid fibres, but of parallel
or fasciculated tubes, dilated at intermls, or jointed,
and from .J. to ~ of a line in diameter. 1\.lso, that
they contain a perfectly transparent tenacious fluid,
Digitized by Coogle
WITH ORGANIZATIOK. 133
never visibly globular, the liq'lW'I' nerr:ens, which differs
from the nervens medulla as the chyle does from
blood."*
" When the pneumo-gastric or chief nen~e of the
stomach is tied or cut through, and its end separated
so as to interrupt the ftow of nervous energy towards
that organ, digestion is either entirely arrested or
greatly impaired. • • • As, however, the direction of
a current of gah·anism to the cut end of the nerve,
next the stomach, suffices to re-establish digestion
after that process ha8 been susperaded by the interrup-
tion of the nervous influence consequent on its division,
we may reasonably infer that, in the healthy state, the
nerve merely transmits to the stomach a stimulus or
energy generated for the purpose either in the brain or
in the spinal marrow and ganglia-that the nerve, in
short, acts only as a conductor, and does not originate
the influence which it evidently imparts."t
This nervous energy, however generated, or from
whatever source derived, seems equally essential to
thinking and feeling as to digestion ; for whenever it is
drawn off to assist in digestion, or other mere bodily
oftices, the power of thinking and feeling is proportion-
ally decreased. Deep study and digestion mutually .
impede each other. So, if the ncrrous energy is spent
in bodily exercise, great mental activity is impossible.
The activity of one mental organ is quieted by
calling another into exercise ; so also deep study or
great activity of the anterior lobe of the brain decreases
the energy of that portion of it connected with the
feelings.
• Dr. Elliotson's Human Physiolo~, p. 466.
t Dr. A. Combe on Dig<>stion and Dietrtics, pp. 77, 79.
Digitized by Coogle
13-J. CONNEXION OF MIND
There are cases in which this nenous energy ap-
pears to be deranged, as in epilepsy ; or in which it
seems to be increased almost without limit, as in the
paroxysms of passion or madness, or in the temporary
excitement occasioned by the use of stimulating drinks ;
during which time persons naturally weak, seem to
acquire a supernatural strength, so as often to require
the force of several strong men to restrain them.
Each organ of Propensity and Sentiment appears to
exercise its peculiar influence upon the body, and to
hare its particular set of muscles attached to it. This
influence produces what is called the natural language
of the faculty ; appearing when it is strongly marked,
not only on the countenance, but throughout the whole
person. Who is not. more or less acquainted with the
impress of Benevolence, of Veneration, Firmness, Con-
scientiousness, Hope, Wonder, Self-Esteem, Lo,·e of
Approbation, Combati,·eness, Cautiousness? This na-
tural language of the faculties gives rise to a great
Yariety of important mental phenomena; for each feel-
ing bas not only a strong influence over most of the
bodily functions, but is also, when manifested in this
way, intelligible to other~, and has the power of calling
. into activity the same feeling in them: thus, harshness
produces h!l.rshness, and kindness kindness ; it is in this
way that good or bad fceEngs may be stimulated, .
and thi.;; kind of sympathy become an ii~portant ele-
ment in moral training. There is a manifest difference
in the influence of the speaker who feels forcibly what
he is expressing, and who therefore throws the natural
language of that feeling into his manner, and the one
who delivers the same speech heartlessly, and without
feeling his sul~cet.
Digitized by Coogle
WITH ORGANIZATION. 135
'' True BJmpathy/' says Mr. Combe, " arises from
the natural language of any active feeling exciting the
same feeling in another, antecedently to any knofCledge
of what excited it in the person principally concerned ;
and this is sufficient to account for the origin of panics
in battles and in mobs, and for the electric rapidity
with which passions of every kind pervade and agitate
the minds of assembled multitudes." This cause, how-
ever, does not appear to be sufficient to account for the
epidemical mental diseases that sometimes pervade
particular countries and districts, manifesting them-
selves by suicide; tumults, riots, acts of violence, and
fanaticism.
The nerves connected·with the brain are everywhere
distributed O'\"'er the body with the minutest care, and
are also intimately connected with each other through-
out the whole system. Every impression occurring at
the extremity of the system is instantaneously propa-
gated to its centre ; and for every action of the mind
there is a corresponding action outwards in the organ
intended to administer to its gratification. If this in-
timate connexion and communication btrinterfered with,
by being either checked or suspended, some particular
form of disease is the consequence. It is with resp~ct
to these kinds of diseases that miraculous cures are
often said to be performed ; for any strong mental
emotion tha.t shall send the nervous current through
the system with more than ordinary force, will fre-
quently restore the nervous communication that has.
been impeded, and cure the dise.ase consequent upon
it. Implicit belief, itself a strong feeling, is necessary
to call the other faculties into the simultaneous action
required to produce a strong mental emotion ; faith,
Digitized by Coogle
136 CONNE~ON OF MIND
therefore, is the first thing necessary ; nothing can
be done, in such cases, without it. If we observe
even the ordinary effects of the mind upon the body,
we must feel convinced that the combined action of
some of our strongest feelings, in such extraordinary
cases, is sufficient to produce the so-called miracu-
lous cures on record. We see how readily tears or
blushing are produced by the slightest mental emo-
tion : we witness the ordinary effects of grief in derang-
ing the system, and the opposite effect of joy and a
happy state of mind in promoting a cure. In fact, no
emotion takes place in the mind without some tempo-
rary effect upon the bodily system ; which ordinarily
passes unobserved from the want of the recognition of
the strict communication that exists between the mind
and the body.
Amongst the most extraordinary of the phenomena
connected with this subject, are undoubtedly " sleep-
waking" and "sleep-walking,"-whether or not we giye
implicit credence to the common accounts of the won-
ders performed in these states, such as reading, writ-
ing, correcting omissions, when asleep, or in the dark,
or with the eyes shut or carefully bandaged.
Many of the phenomena of Animal Magneri::~m,
or Mesmernm, are attested by such high authority as
to leave no room for doubt as to their general truth.
We quote the following passage from Dr. Elliotson :-
" 'Among all the phenomena,' says Professor Dugald
Stewart, 'to which the subject of imitation has led our
attention, none are, perhaps, so wonderful as those
which have been recently brought to light, in conse-
quence of the philosophical inquiries occasioned by the
medical pretensions of Mesmer and his associates.
Digitized by Coogle
WITH ORGANIZATION. 137
That these pretensions involved much of ignorance, or
of imposture, or both, in their author, has, I think,
been fully demonstrated in the very able report of the
French academicians ; but does it follow from this that
the facts witnessed and authenticated by those acade-
micians should share in the disgrace incurred by the
empirics who disguised or misrepresented them? For
my own part, it appears to me that the general conclu-
sions established by Mesmer's practice, with respect to
the physical effects of the principle of imagination,
(more particularly in cases where they co-operated
together,) are incomparably more curious than if be
had actually demonstrated the existence of his boasted
science : nor can I see any good reason why a physi-
cian, who admits the efficacy of the moral agents
employed by Mesmer, should, in the exercise of his
profession, scruple to copy whatever processes are ne-
cessary for subjecting them to his command, any more
than that he should hesitate about employing a new
physical agent, such as electricitS or galvanism.'"
" The result of Gall's inrestigation was this:-
'Neither we, nor any other dispassionate observers,
who have been present at the famous experiments
of which such wonderful accounts have been given,
have witnessed anything supernatural or contrary to
nature : we ought therefore to abandon the belief of
the metamorphosis of nerves, (the performance of the
function of one nerve by another,) to those who are
better organised for the marvellous than ourselves. • •
• • • How often in intoxication, hysterical and hypo-
chondriacal attacks, convulsions, fever, insanity, under
violent emotions, after long fasting, through the effect
of such poisons as opium, hemlock, bella-donna, are
T
Digitized by Coogle
138 CONNEXION OF MIND
we not, in some measure, transformed into perfectly
different beings, for instance, into poets, actors, &c.?'
' Jnst as in dreaming, the thoughts fi·equently have
more delicacy, and the sensations are more acute, and
we can hear and answer; just as in ordinary som-
nambulism we can rise, walk, see with our eyes opep,
touch with the hands, &c.' ' We acknowledge a fluid
which has an especial affinity with the nervous system,
which can emanate from an indil"idual, pass into an-
other, and accumulate, in virtue of particular affinities,
more in certain parts than in others.' ' We admit the
existence of a fluid, the subtraction of which lessens,
and the accumulation augments, the power of the
nerves; which places one part of the nervous system
in repose, and heightens the activity of another; which,
therefore, may produce an artificial somnambulism.'"
"A rigid mathematician, La Place, observes. that
'of all the instruments which we can employ, in order
to enable us to discover the imperceptible agents of
nature, the nerves are the most sensible, especially
when their sensibility is exalted by particular causes.
It is by means of them that we have discovered the
slight electricity which is developed by the contact of
two heterogeneous metals. The singular phenomena
which result from the extreme sensibility of the nerves
in particular individuals have given birth to various
opinions relative to the existence of a new agent, which
has been denominated animal magnetism, to the action
of the common magnetism, to the influence of the sun
and moon in some nervous affections, and, lastly, to
the impressions which may be experienced from the
proximity of the metals, or of a running water. It is
natural to suppose that the action of these causes is
Digitized by Coogle
WITH ORGANIZATION. 139
very feeble, and that it may easily be disturbed by
accidental circumstances ; but because, in some cases,
it has not been manifested at all, we are not to con-
clude it has no existence. We are so far from being
acquainted with all the agents of nature, and their
different modes of action, that it would be quite un-
philosophical to deny the existence of the phenomena,
merely because they are inexplicable in the present
state of our knowledge.'"
"Cuvier fully admits Mesmerism :-'We must con-
fe5s that it is '\"ery difficult, in the experiments which
have for their object the action which the nervous sys-
tem of two different individuals can exercise, one upon
another, to distinguish the effect of the imagination of
the individual, upon whom the experiment is tried,
from the physical result produced by the person who
acts upon him. The effects, however, on persons igno-
rant of the agency, and upon indh;duals whom the
operation itself has deprived of consciousness, and those
which animals present, do not permit us to doubt that
the proximity of two animated bodies in certain posi-
tions, combined with certain movements, have a real
effect, independently of all participation of the fancy,
It appears also clearly that these effects arise from
some nervous communication which is established be.
tween their nervous systems.' "
" I have no hesitation in declaring my conviction
that the facts of Mesmerism which I admit, because
they are not contrary to established morbid phenomena,
result..from a specific power. Even if they arc some-
times unreal and feigned, and, when real, are sometimes
the result of emotion,-of imagination, to usc common
languagP ; hut that thPy may be real and indrpcndent of
o;gitizedbyGoogle -
140 CONNEXIO~ OF MIND
all imagination, I have seen quite sufficient to comince
me. • • • • To describe the phenomena which I haYe
witnessed to emotion and fancy, to suppose collusion
and deception would be absurd. They must be ascribed
to a peculiar power; to a power acting, I have no doubt,
con-stantly in all living things, vegetable and animal,
but shown in a peculiar manner by the processes of
Mesmerism. I have witnessed its power at least three
times a week for two months ; and should despise
myself if I hesitated to declare my decided conviction
of the truth of Mesmerism. I am willing to beliere
that .a sleep-waker may prophesy morbid changes in
himself with accuracy, as the boy mentioned by Gall
predicted the termination of his fit if his friends would
lead him into the garden, and the girl mentioned by
Lord Monboddo, predicted the cessation of her disease
with equal accuracy. • • • But I have never witnessed
more than what, it is certain, takes place in health
and disease. I haYe seen persons sent to sleep, I
have felt and heard others declare they had tingling,
and heard some declare they had various other sensa-
tions and pains, I have seen twitchings, convulsions,
and spastic contractions of museies, loss of power of
muscle, and the most profound coma ; and I have seen
these evidently and instantly removed by the process.
I have seen one sense restored in the coma by the pro-
cess, so that the person was insensible in taste, smell,
sight, and yet heard and answered questions well. I
have seen paroxysms of sleep-waking and ecstatic
delirium, which had been originally induced by its
disturbance of a system already epileptic, put an end
to evidently, and in general quickly, by Mesmerism.
But I have not witnessed persons sering through walls
Digitized by Coogle
WITH ORGANIZATION. 141
or pasteboard, nor tasting or smelling with the epigas-
trium or fingers; nor speaking or understanding lan-
guages they had never learnt ; nor telling the circum-
stances past, present, and to come, of persons they had
never heard of before. • • • No marvel bas yet pre-
sented itself in my experience : nor bas any good been
yet effected in the diseases of my patients ; but the
perfect coma induced in some of them would be an
inestimable blessing in the case of a surgical operation,
which I am positive might have been performed without
the slightest sensation on some of the female patients,
exactly as took place at the Hotel-Dieu, where a can-
cerous breast was removed in Mesmeric coma from a
poor woman, without her knowledge. I have no doubt
that I shall in time see all the established phenomena
of sleep-waking,-writing, reading, and doing endless
things, even better than in the waking state. But,
before I see, I cannot believe more." •
So much does Dr. Elliotson profess to believe, and
he seems careful to admit no more than facts appear
to warrant. Others, however, go much farther; thus,
Walther, the Professor at Landshut, quoted by Gall,
" for a description ci'l the stages of Mesmerism, in the
highest of which (clairvoyance,) time and space no L--
longer present obstacles to the penetration of the mag-
netised,' ' who sees as distinctly into the interior of
the magnetiser's body as into his own,' the reason of
which is, that, 'all the nervous system is an identity
and a totality-a pure transparence without cloud, an
infinite expansion without bounds or obstacles, such is
universal sense ;' and as, ' in the waking state the
• Human Physiology, p. 677, !'t s1•q.
Digitized by Coogle
142 CONNEXION OF MIND WITH ORGANIZATION.
soul is more closely and intimately united with the
body;' and 'natural sleep is a more intimate com-
munication of our soul with the universal soul of the
world ; so in magnetic sleep our soul is united in the
most intimate manner with the soul of the world and
with the body, and with the latter not by means of the
nervous system only, but immediately in all its parts
and members, so that life is no longer a particularity,
but original life.' "•
That Mesmerism may be true in all its stages, we
think can scarcely be disputed by those who have fol-
lowed us in our investigation into the present extent of
our knowledge of both Inind and matter ; but that the
evidence in favour of its latter stages is not yet suf-
ficiently powerful to overbalance the a priori high
improbability of th(!ir truth, is, we think, equally cer-
tain. But the phenomena alluded to in this chapter,
relating both to animal magnetism, and to sympathy,
in its various modes of manifestation, seem all to ema-
nate from one source, and to point to some nervous
agent, some general power, or perhaps some fluid,
which, if it exist at all, must perform a most important
part in the human constitution ; the discovery of which
will be a vast step gained towards the knowledge of
all the influences that affect and rule over the mind
of man.
• Elliotson's Human Phy11iology, p. 674.
Digitized by Coogle
•
CHAPTER V.
MATERIALISM, CONSCIOUSNESS, IDENTITY, ASSOCIATION.
WITH reference to the truths called "first truths,"
although we must agree with Reid and Brown in placing
them at the foundation of all practical reasoning and
belief, it will be subsequently shown that they are not
immutable truths, but merely instinctive indications
given us for our guidance under the circumstances in
which we are placed upon this earth, informing us not of
the real nature of anything, but merely of the temporal
relation between external things and beings possessing
our particular organization : for as we have faculties
that test the evidence of the senses, so the evidence of ·
one intellectual faculty, or class of faculties, may be
tested by others in the same mind, proving that " Pure
Reason" and " Practical Reason," are sometimes at
variance.
MATERIALisM. Matter is known to us 9_n_ly as the
c~ of certain sensations which we call by various
nrunes, as solidity, extension, &c., but whether this
cause be materi2! _
or -~a~!ial, w~ _
have no means of
~nninm_g. - -
The Soul, (if the term mean anything,) is the prin-
ciple of sensation, which, down to the lowest animal in
the scale of creation, is found to depend upon the ner-
vous system ; the nervous system depending upon the
vital principle, and the vital principle upon organization.
Digitized by Coogle
144 MATERIALISM, CONSCIOUSNESS.
The Mind, as we have previously stated, is only the
aggregate of all the sensations of which a being is
conscious ; individuality and unity being given to it
by a form of our own intelligence. What we term
Perception, Conception, Memory, Imagination, Judg-
ment, are only diversified sensations, different in their
degree of intensity and in their character to the feel-
ings resulting from the action of the ~opensities and
Sentiments, but still mere sensations. We are not
justified in designating the mind as the cause of sen-
sations ; for of cause we know nothing but as the
innriable antecedent, and the invariable antecedent of
these sensations is, as far as we have yet disco'fered,
the action of the brain. Nor are we justified in saying
that the Mind is material, because that would be equi-
valent to saying that Sensation is material, which would
be to make the cause and effect the same. All facts,
however, justify us in saJing that Sensation is caused
by that which we call material, in the only sense in
which we can use the term cause.
The fact that the properties of Matter are concei'fed
of differently by different indhiduals, according to their
own particular organization or internal forms of thought,
is a clear proof that the only connexion between· the
mind and the real constitution of objects, is one of
mere relation ; whence it follows that the question of
1 Materialism is an idle question, and one of mere words ;
it being impossible for man to separate the qualities
really belonging to an object, from such qualities as
modified by the forms and modes of his own intel-
ligence. ·
CoNSCIOUSNEss, as the term is used by one class of
writers, the metaphysicians, means nothing more than
Digitized by Coogle
CONSCIOUSNESi. 145
sensibility to present feelings and ideas; to feel a sen-
sation and to be conscious of it, being, according to
them, synonymous. " There are not," Dr. Thomas
Brown observes, "sensations, thoughts, passions, and
also consciousness, any"'more than there is quadruped
or animal as a separate being, to be added to the
wolves, tigers, elephants, and other living creatures,
which we include under these terms."
Again, Mill says, " It was of great importance for
the purpose of naming, that we should not only have
names to distinguish the different classes of our feel-
ings, but also a name applicable equalJy to all those
classes. This purpose is answered by the concrete
term Conscious ; and the abstract.of it, Consciousness.
Thus if we are in any w.ty sentient ; that is, have any
of the feelings whatever of a living creature ; the word
Conscious is applicable to the feeler, and Conscious-
ness to the feeling: that is to say, the words are
generical marks, under which all the names of the
subordinate classes of the feelings of a sentient crea-
ture are included. When I smell a rose, I am con-
scious; when I have the idea of a fire, I am conscious;
when I remember, I am conscious ; when I reason, and
when I believe, I am conscious ; but belie·Hng and
being conscious of belief, are not two things, they are
the same thing ; though this same thing I can name,
at one time without the aid of the generical mark, while
at another time it suits me to employ the generical
mark."*
In the sense in which the term Consciousness is used
by these writers, it is evidently common to all sensitive
• Mill's Analysis, vol. 1, p. 172.
y
Digitized by Coogle
146 CONSCIOUSNESS.
existence, and is in fact equivalent to that which we
have hitherto denominated "Sensation."
But this signification is not the one that the gene-
rality of mankind attachto the term, when they say that
they are conscious of the operations of their own minds.
With them, to have an idea, and to be conscious of the
idea, are different things ; such kind of consciousness
implying reflection, and being the action of one part of
the mind upon the other.
The phrenological definition of this term, woul<l
appear, therefore, to be the most correct. "Conscious-
ness," says Mr. Combe, "means the knowledge which
the mind has of its own existence and operations." • In
thi! sense, Consciousness belongs to man alone; for
though the brutes possess feelings and ideas-though
they are endowed with perception, conception, memory,
and a kind of judgment, yet there is not the slightest
evidence that they are conscious of such states of mind;
they seem to experience mere trains of sensations, and
to be impelled by them to action, without having any
idea of their existence.
The question has often and naturally arisen, how is
it that with a plurality of organs, and each of them
double, Consciousness is invariably single ; so that we
are never conscious of more than one feeling or idea
at the same time P
The answer is simple, viz., that _however great may
be the variety of feelings and ideas occurring in _
the
mind simultaneously, they make but one sensation. A
compound sensation it may be called, because com-
posed of other sensations which may be distinguished
• System of Phrenology, p. 647.
Digitized by Coogle
CONSCIOUSNESS, IDENTITY. 147
separately when occurring consecutively, but not the
le~s a simple and indivisible sensation at the moment
of_ our being conscious of it ; in the same way that a
musical chord is not the less a single sound, because
the notes of which it is composed may be struck suc-
cessively, each producing a separate sound.
But it has been objected, that thP- mind has, in fact,
the power of taking cognizance at the same moment, of
the component parts of its compound sensations ; for
instance, that when, in a band of music, the different
instruments combined make but one sound, a practised
ear will listen to two or three of the instruments sepa-
rately ; but if this process of listening be carefully
analysed, it will be found that the ear merely follows
the different instruments one after another, so rapidly,
that the idea of succession is lost, and the separate acts
of attention appear simultaneous.
The notion of the simplicity and indivisibility of the
mind itself seems to have originated from the observa-
tion of this law of our nature, viz., that more than one
feeling or idea cannot exist simultaneously in the same
mind, but, of whatever organs they may be the pr~duce,
they blend and make but one sensation.
IDENTITY. It has been previously explained that all
our knowledge must be derived from the instinctive
indications of our Intellectual Faculties, which indica-
tions must be admitted as first truths in reasoning on
all practical subjects, although they are not intended
to inform us of the real nature of things, but merely of
the relation establ~hed between oursell"es and the ex-
ternal world. Some of our faculties, our reasoning
powers, for instance, are capable of pas::-ing judgment
upon the other organs a.~ to whether t}l('ir indi<'arions
Digitized by Coogle
148 IDENTITY.
, be correct or not, and they suffice,. in se\·eral instances,
to show that what some of our faculties would represect
to us as real existences, haYe no place but in our mm
minds. Thus one of our faculties, Individuality, gives
us the idea of individual existences, but reason sug-
gests to us that if we could Yiew creation as it is, and as
a whole, it would no longer appear to us as composed
of individual parts, of independent existences, but as
one great mass of matter and sensation ; each atom Gf
the former, and each diversified form of the latter to
inseparably connected with all the rest, that nothing
could with propriety be called individual but the uni-
verse itself.•
But it seems to be necessary to our present mode of
existence, not only that we should have the power of
individualizing, but that we should be able to attach a
certain idea of sameness to individual existences, e-o
that what appeared to be an individual yesterday seems
to be that self-same individual, and no other, to-day,
and will continue to be so. Without this sense of
Identity, the world would seem but an assemblage of
flitting phantoms, and all would be confusion and
chaos ; but that it is merely a feeling given to us for
wise purposes, there being nothing answering to it in
reality, our reasoning powers wuuld render rrobahle.
Philosophically speaking, nothing with which we are
acquainted remains the same for two seconds together.
The atoms of which bodies are composed are in strict
union with the atmosphere, and are continually blend-
ing their particles with eYerything around them. Or-
ganized bodies are perpetually changing their structure
'"' ~ee Individuality, chartrr 2, It~telln·lual Fa<'ultr(·.~.
Digitized by Coogle
IDENTITY. 149
by the vital processes of waste and reproduction ; and
if the mind continued the same for any perceptible
time, we should lose all consciousness of its existence ;
for it is only by its successive changes that it is cog-
nizable to us at all. No idea or feeling of the mind
can even be said really to be repeated, for whatever
may be the character of memory, it never presents
ideas, in every respect, as they at first occurred ; either
they differ in intensity or in their association with other
ideas. So that, in fact, at no two perceptible periods,
of an individuars existence, is the mind strictly the
same.
What is it that constitutes the sameness between the
infant and the old man-
. between a person when pos-
sessing sound health and vigorous intellect, and when
weakened in mind and body by disease ? How is it,
that although we perceive the process of change conti-
nually going on in ourseh·es throughout our whole
system, so that from one important period of our lives
to another we seem to be altered beings ; yet still the
feeling of Identity clings to us? Whence we know not-
unless we believe it to proceed from a principle of our
nature; to be the result of an intuitive or instinctive
action of faculties, indications of which must always
be admitted as the grounds of all practical reasoning,
and taken for granted as they cannot be tested.
The belief that we are the same persons throughout
our whole existence, is commonly adduced as an e,;_
dence of the fact, and much ingenuity has been dis-
played in its explanation. Brown says that atoms are
truly identical, and all the change that takes place is
change of state ; and that this analogy may be carried
to the mind, the mind being, like ultimate atoms, simple
Digitized by Coogle
150 IDENTITY, ASSOCIATION.
and indivisible. But both these propositions are mere
assumptions, as we have no faculties that can inform
us concerning atoms in their ultimate state, or even
whether such atoms have any existence; and with
reference to the mind's being simple and indivisible,
the arguments that would prove it to be so, would also
prove each separate thought and feeling to be simple
and indivisible, and consequently indestructible.
It is clear, however, that whatever our reasoning
powers may tell us with respect to the instinctive action
of our faculties, we still must put implicit faith in their
indications, and since it is necessary for us to belie\"e
that there are individual existences, and that they pos-
sess identity, it is not put within the power of the
strongest intellect to shake this belief as regards prac-
tice, whatever it may do in respect to theory.
AssociATION. Much bas been commonly attributed
to Association, which an intimate knowledge of the pri-
mitive faculties of the mind· pro,·es, in no way, to
belong to it. Feelings and "new principles of action,"
hare been supposed to be formed by it. The obsena-
tion of the fact that the Intellectual Faculties are
necessary for the guidance of the feelings, for their
direction in action, may have· generated this error.
Our thoughts have also been supposed to follow each
other in an established order, and metaphysicians have
endeavoured to base education upon general laws of
such associations. But so great is the diversity in
minds that such general laws will ne¥er be discovered,
and the causes that determine a train of thought, a
$UCcession of ideas in one individual, can seldom, if
e\"er, be applicable to another. But though the im-
portance of the principle of Association has been,
Digitized by Coogle
ASSOCIATION. 151
in some cases, misunderstood, it cannot be oYer-esti-
mated. We have seen that it is upon a very narrow
stratum of ideas that the external world, as it appears
to us, is built; the ideas derived directly from the
senses, such as sounds, smells, tastes, and touch, and
from the organs of some of the perceptive faculties,
are probably all that the other mental faculties have
to act upon to create within us the whole order and
beauty of nature, or the whole picture of the world as it
appears to us. Any defect in the power of association
of ideas would disturb the whole of this harmouy.
But it is the association of feelings with ideas to
which the highest importance attaches. The propen-
sities and sentiments being mere blind impulses, and
depending upon the intellectual faculties for their
proper direction, every variety of erroneous associa-
tion between the intellect and feelings ~ formed in
early life, before the reason has been taught, or is
capable of judging for itself of the correctness of the
connexion. Such associations are common to all the
feelings, and until they can be broken, tend on all
occasions to mislead the judgment. One of the most
common illustrations, and one familiar to every one, is
the association so frequently formed between darkness
and danger. Stories of ghosts and other frightful
absurdities, are related to children, until they fear to
be left alone in the dark. As they grow older they
may reason very correctly upon the groundlessness of
such fears, but darkness does not the less excite their
feeling of Cautiousness. So strong is the association
in some cases, that there are instances on record of
physically and morally brave persons who, after being in
twenty battles without being conscious of fear, have yet
Digitized by Coogle
15! ASSOCIATION.
dreaded to be left in the dark. There is a great variety
of objects to which the same feeling may be as
erroneously attached, and there are few persons that
ha-re not some antipathies, compounded of hatred and
fear, that have no better foundation. "Some persons
have what is called an antipathy to a spider, a toad,
or a cat. These feelings generally originate in some
early fright. The idea of danger has been, on some
occasions, intensely excited along with the touch or
sight of the animal, and hence the association so
strongly formed that it cannot be dissolved. The sen-
sation, in spite of them, excites the idea and produces
the uneasiness which the idea imparts."•
False associations with the feeling of Conscientious-
ness are still more injurious in their tendency. This
feeling, as we have seen, gives us no knowledge ofwhat
iCJ right or wrong, but merely approves the right, and
gives the disposition to act in accordance, when it is
known to us what is right. In early childhood, before
the judgment is active, it must be associated with what
the tone of society approves ; and whether the stand-
ard of morality be high or low, it is not the less difficult
to break the association in after-life, and to make us
feel that to be wrong, which we have been early taught
to regard as right.
This law of the mind has been the great prop of
superstition in all countries and ages ; for the religious
feelings, like all the others, are capable of any direction.
The feeling of veneration, which gives the disposition
• Mill, vol. I, p. 75.
There can be little doubt that such erroneous associations do not
always originate with the individual, but that the state of the brain,
on which they depend, is transmissible to offspring.
Digitized by Coogle
ASSOCIATION. 153
to venerate and respect, to worship and adore whatever
we may be taught to consider worthy of such senti·
ments, may be associated equally in the infant mind,
with a wooden idol, the sun, the moon, an animal, a
prophet, a saint, a crucifix, or the God of the uni-
verse. Accordingly, there is scarcely anything that
some superstition bas not made to usurp the place of .
the Most High in the minds of the ignorant and de-
luded. "He in whom veneration is powerful," .says
Mr. Combe, " and to whom the image of a saint bas
been from infancy presented as an object to be ven·e-
rated, experiences an instantaneous and involuntary
emotion of veneration every time the image is pre-
sented to him, or a conception of it formed ; because
it is DOW the sign which excites in him that emotion,
altogether independently of reflection. Until we can
break this association, and prevent the conception of
the image from operating a.~ a sign to excite the faculty
of veneration, we shall never succeed in bringing his
understanding to examine the real attributes of the
object itself, and to perceire its want of every quality
that ought justly to be venerated." The same law
applying, not only to the image of a saint, but to all
creeds and dogmas, each sect of religionists hare
always shown themselves anxious to take advantage of
it, by impressing the minds of the young with the
doctrines of their particular persuasion, and associating
their religious feelings with them, before the feebly-
developed reasoning power is capable of forming a
judgment for itself. Veneration, Hope, and Wonder,
jointly compose the religious feelings, and in this way,
may be made to take any direction ; that is, a child
may be taught to worship anything, however unworthy ;
w
Digitized by Coogle
154 ASSOCIATION.
to hope for anything, however unreasonable ; and to
believe anything, howe¥er monstrously absurd. Such J
associations, once formed, are not easily broken, and
until they are, a person is disqualified from forming a
philosophical examination of the grounds of his belief..
Who does not see that such is the mode in which reli-
gious belief is generally propagated in all countries ;
that people are made to feel and not to reason upon
the subject, and that such feelings constitute with
eacb nation, whether Chinese, Hindoo, Mahometan, or
Christian, the internal evidence for each particular reli-
gion, whether true or ·false? Feeling, therefore, can
never be adduced as a proof of the truth of any reli-
gion; since this internal evidence is professed alike by
the advocates of each nation's particular creed.
The law of association also explains another mental
phenomenon, viz., sudden conversion, as it commonly
takes place. A strong religious impression has been
produced in childhood; the religious feelings, with Cau-
tiousness, have been associated with particular creeds,
with particular interpretations and passages of Scrip-
ture, but circumstances baYc, for a time, o\·ercome
those impressions, and such feelings have given place
to others. The animal propensities have probably
assumed the ascendancy ; but the early association has
not been broken, any more than the association of fear
with darkness is broken, because fi>rgotten in the day
time. An allusion to the formerly-cherished creed-a
passage of Scripture-a single word-is often sufficient
to bring back these early impressions with redoubled
force ; and alternate :fits of sorrow and remorse for
former backslidings, and of joy from the natural re-
bound of the feelings from a state of deep dE>pres~ion,
Digitized by Coogle
ASSOCIATION. 155
are the consequence. In most cases, however, the dis-
carded worldly propensities will at times regain the
~cendancy, which accounts for the frequent sinning
and repenting during such states of feeling.
They who are ignorant of the natural mode of action
of the mental powers, suppose that there is something
~:~upernatural in such phenomena; but it will be found,
upon im·estigation, that a1l cases of "con-version," and
"religious experiences," are strictly in accordance with
tbe general laws of mind,- and bare no title to be
classedamongst things--
miraculous. This knowledge of
the mental constitution seems to be absolutely neces-
sary to rescue some minds, and those, too, naturally
strong ones, from the depths of superstition, and to
dispo8sess them of the belief that they are the instru-
ments of divine and spiritual influences. Thu~, in
cases where the religious feelings haYe been culth·ated
to the exclusion of others, and where means have been
taken to keep them predominant by the continued
and invariable repetition of deYotional exercises, by
" coming out of the world," and by constant attend-
ance upon public religious services-the judgment,
meanwhile, being systematically excluded from ha\ing
any share in their regulation-the high enjoyment
resulting from the natural exercise of such feelings is
imagined to be of a supernatural character. And
when these feelings, proceeding principally from Vene-
ration, Hope, and Wonder, are internally active, with-
out any apparent external stimulant ; when strong faith,
brilliant hopes of eternal felicity, and a feeling of self-
abasement take possession of the mind, it is not to be
wondered at that the contiction is irresistible that such
aspirations proceed from more than natural causes, and
Digitized by Coogle ....
156 ASSOCIATION.
that the Spirit of the Most High possesses the heart.
And so, in truth, it does, and eYer does ; but God "acts
not by partial, but by general laws.''
It is thus that each religion has its " internal e\·i-
dences," which, being planted in the inmost recesses
of the heart, render any external evidence unneces-
sary.; and, in fact, are capable of resisting it, and of
supporting any amount of positive contradictions and
absurdities.
Happiness depends upon each faculty being directed
to its proper object ; everythi~g, therefore, that tends
to misdirect the faculties, and cause them to form erro-·
neous associations, deducts from the sum of happi-
ness of which we are capable ; and when we observe
how small the amount of happiness hitherto pos-
sessed by mankind, in comparison with their capacity
for it, the urgent want is evident of efficient rules for
the guidance of the faculties. In the mass of the
people at the present time, the higher faculties of
human nature seem either to be cramped and perverted
by ignorance and hurtful prejudices, or else completely
overruled by the predominance of the selfish instincts ;
and so long as there are classes of men whose calling
and position in society depend upon the ignorance of
the people, and who have the means of perpetuating
this ignorance, it cannot well be otherwise. The best
feelings of the multitude are carefully associated with
those principles and prejudices which shall most favour
the temporal interests of these classes ; and the means
of forming more correct opinions are sedulously denied :
it thus frequently happens that the forms and institu-
tions of society for which the multitude have the most
veneration, connected either with politics or religion, are
Digitized by Coogle
ASSOCIATION. 157
those which are the most opposed to their own real
interests. That the interest of Class has thus been
able to supplant the interest of the many, is owing
principally to the influence of prevailing superstition,
and to the want of recognized laws for the production
of happiness, based upon a correct knowledge of the
Constitution of Man.
Digitized by Coogle
PART II.
MORAL SCIENCE.
CHAPTER I.
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. •
THIS subject has generally been considered as one
of unusual difficulty, for the proper treatment of which
human reason is scarcely adequate. But this Yiew of
it arises, not so much from any real abstntseness in
the question itself, as from the apparent opposition
which the doctrine offers to established opinions, and
even to common sense itself. Many, therefore, and
perhaps the greater number of those who have had
their attention called to it, and who haYe not been
able to resist the evidence upon which it stands, have
found it necessary to admit the opposite doctrine of
freedom of will also ; the incompatibility of the two,
although allowed to be somewhat a mystery, being a
less difficulty with them than the giving up of many
pre-established opinions.
There is, perhaps no proposition that admits of
stronger proof, or that can be more logically, if not
mathematically, demonstrated ; but its supposed ten-
• The substance of this Chapter has been already published in
a controversial form.
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 159
dency has mystified an otherwise plain question. Many
have admitted and prol"erl the doctrine of philosophical
necessity, to serve a sectarian purpose, who, when that
object has been answered, have discarded it as of no
farther use ; as a mere abstraction, ba,;ng no practical
bearing upon any one of the important interests of
mankind; and even of mischieYous tendency, when per-
mitted to escape from the closets of philosophers and
to circulate amongst the vulgar. The author of" The
Natural History of Enthusiasm," for instance, in his in-
troductory Essay to Edwards' "Inquiry," considers the
doctrine, the truth of which he appears not to deny,!
as useless when applied to questions of " common life,
affecting the personal, social, and political conduct of
mankind, or as applied to Theology and Christian doc-
trine, or to the physiology of man, or to the higher
metaphysics!' But that no truth is unimportant, still
less pernicious, will scarcely be denied by those who
love not darkness rather than light; and we think it
may be shown that this doctrine, so far from being
valueless to man in a practical sense, bas a most im-
portant bearing on all his best interests, and is also
fundamental to all just views of the Divine GoYern-
ment.
Of all those who haV'e written upon the subject,
Jonathan Edwards may be considered to baV'e been
the most successful in proving the doctrine of philo-
sophical necessity. The following passages from the
" Inquiry concerning Freedom of Will," contain the
argument in its support, as stated by him :-
" The argument frum cause and effect.
" Nothing comes to pass without a cause. What is
self-existent, must be from Eternity, and must be un-
Digitized by Coogle
160 KOBAL SCIENCE.
changeable ; but as to all things that begin to be, they
are not self-existent, and therefore must have some
foundation of their existence without themselves. That
whatsoe¥er begins to be, which before was not, must
have a cause why it then begins to exist, seems to be
the first dictate of the natural and common sense which
God has implanted in the minds of all mankind, and
the main foundation of all our reasonings about things
past, present, and to come. If once this grand principle
of common sense be giren up, that what is not necessary
in itself must have a caus~and we begin to maintain
that things may come into existence, and begin to be,
which heretofore have not been of themselves without
any cause-all our means of ascending in our arguing
from the creature to the Creator, and all our e¥idence
of the being of God is cut off at one blow. In this
case, we cannot prove that there is a God, either from
the being of the world and the creatures in it, or from
the manner of their being, their order, beauty, and use.
Should we admit that things may come to pass without
a cause, we should be without evidence of the existence
of anything whateYer but our own immediate, present,
ideas and consciousness. For we haYe no way to prm·e
anything else but by arguing from effects to causes ;
from the ideas immediately in Yiew, we argue other
things not immediately in view; from sensations now
excited in us, we infer the existence of other things
without us as the causes of these sensations : and from
the existence of these things we argue other things,
which they depend on as effects on causes. We inter
the past existence of ourseh·es, or anything else, by
memory : only as we argue that the ideas which are
now in our mind, are the consequences of past id(>as
Digitized by Google
PHII~SOPHICAL NECESSITY. )61
and sensations. So if there is no absurdity or difficulty
in supposing one thing to start out of non-existence
into being, of itself, without a cause, then there is no
absurdity or difficulty in supposing the same of millions
of millions. For ·ootbing, or no difficulty multiplied,
still is nothing or no difficulty; nothing multiplied by
nothing does not increase the sum.
"Now, according to the hypothesis of some, of the
acts of the will coming to pass without a cause, it is
the case in fact, that millions and millions of events
are continually coming into existence, contingently
without any cause or reason why they do so, all over
the world, every day and e\·ery hour through all ages.
So it is in a constant succession in every moral agent.
This contingency, this effectual no cause is always
ready at band to produce this sort of effects, as long as
the agent exists, and as often as be has occasion.
" If it were so, that things only of one kind, viz.,
acts of the will, seemed to come to pass of themselves,
but those of this sort, in general, came into being thus ;
and it were an event that was continual and that hap-
pened in a course, wherever were capable subjects of
such events, this very thing would demonstrate that
there were some cause of them, which made such a
difference between this event and others, and that they
did not really happen contingently. For contingence
is blind, and does not pick and choose for a particular
sort of events. Nothing has no choice. This no-
cause, which causes no existence, cannot cause the
existence which comes to pass to be of one particular
sort only, distinguished from all others.
" Some suppose that volition can arise without a
cause, through the activity of the nature of the soul;
X
Digitized by Coogle
162 MORAL SCIENCE.
but I can conceive of nothing else that can be meant
by the soul's having power to cause and determine its
own volitions, as a being to whom God has giYen a
power of action, but this, that God has given power to
the soul, sometime, at least, to excite volitions at its
pleasure, or according as it chooses. And this certainly
supposes in all such cases, a choice preceding all voli-
tions which are thus caused, ev-en the first of them,
which runs into an absurdity.
" A great argument for self-determining power is
the supposed experience we universally have of an
ability to determine our wills in cases wherein no pre-
vailing motive is presented. The will (as is supposed)
has its choice to make between two or more things that
are perfectly equal in the view of the mind ; and the
will is apparently altogether indifferent; and yet we
have no difficulty in coming to a choice ; the will can
instantly determine itself to one, by a sovereign power
which it has over itself, without being moved by any
preponderating inducement. The very supposition
which is here made directly contradicts and ov-erthrows
itself. For the thing supposed wherein this grand
argument consists, is, that among several things, the
will actually chooses one before another, at the s~e
time that it is perfectly indifferent, which is the very
same thing as to say the mind has a preference at the
same time that it has no preference.
" To suppose the will to act at all in a state of
perfect indifference, either to determine itself, or to do
anything else, is to assert that the mind chooses with-
out choosing. To say that when it is indifferent it can
do as it pleases, is to say that it can follow its pleasure,
when it has no pleasure to follow. And, therefore, if
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 163
there be any difficulty in the instances of two cakes, or
two eggs, &c.; concerning which, some authors suppose
the mind in fact has a choice, and so in effect supposes
that it has a preference, it as much concerns them to
solve the difficulty, as it does those whom they oppose.
" It will always be among a number of objects in
view, that one will prevail in the eye, or in idea, beyond
others. When we have our eyes open in the clear
sunshine many objects strike the eye at once, and
innumerable images may be at once painted in it by
the rays of light ; but the attention of the mind is not
equal to several of them at once; or if it be so, it does
not continue so for any time. And so it is with respect
to the ideas of the mind in general ; several ideas are
not in equal strength in the mind's view and notice at
once, or, at least, do not remain so for any sensible
continuance. The involuntary changes in the suc-
cession of our ideas, though the cause may not be
observed, have as much a cause as the changeable
motion of the motes that float in the air, or the con-
tinual, infinitely various, successive changes of the
unevennesses on the surface of the water, so, though
the falling of the die be accidental to him that casts
it, yet none will suppose that there is no cause why it
falls as it does.
" Concerning liberty of will consisting in indifference,
the very putting of the question is sufficient to show
the absurdity of the affirmative answer; for how ridi-
culous would it be for any one to insist that the soul
chooses one thing before another, when at the same
time it is perfectly indifferent with respect to each !
This is the same thing as to say the soul prefers one
thin~ to another, at thE:' ,·ery same time that it has no
Digitized by Coogle ..
164 KORAL SCIENCE.
preference. And should it be inquired whether volition
is a thing that ever does, or can, come to pass contin-
gently, it must be remembered that it has been already
shown, that nothing can ever come to pass without a
cause or reason why it exists in this manner rather
than another ; and the evidence of this has been parti-
ticularly applied to the acts of the will. Now, if this
be so, it will demonstratively follow, that the acts of
the will are never contingent, or without necessity in
the sense spoken of, inasmuch as those things which
have a cause or reason of their existence must be
connected with their caU8e.
" If liberty consist in that which Arminians suppose,
viz., in the soul's determining its own acts, having free
opportunity, and being without all necessity: this is
the same as to say, that liberty consists in the soul's
having power and opportunity to have what determina-
tions of the will it pleases or chooses. And if the
determination of the will and the last dictates of the
understanding be the same thing, as Dr. Clarke affirms,
then liberty consists in the mind's having power to have
what dictates of the understanding it pleases, having
opportunity to choose its own dictates of understanding.
But this is absurd ; f'or it is to make the determination
of choice prior to the dictate of the understanding and
the ground of it, which cannot consist with the dictate
of the understanding's being the determination of
choice itself.
" The argumentfr(Jtn Fore-knorcledge.
" Granting, as we certainly must do, that God has a
certain and infallible prescience of the acts of the will
of moral agents, I come now to show the consequence,
to show how it follows from hence that these events
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 165
are necessary, with a necessity of connexion or con-
sequence.
" In· order to this, I would observe the following
things. It is very evident, with regard to a thing whose
existence is infallibly and indissolubly connected with
something that already hath, or has had existence, the
existence of that thing is necessary. Here may be
noted ; that in things that are past, their past existence
is now necessary ; having already made sure of exist-
ence, it is too late for any possibility of alteration in
that respect, it is now impossible that it should be
otherwise than true that that thing has existed.
" If there be any such thing as a divine fore-
knowledge of the Yolition of free agents, that fore-
knowledge, by the supposition, is a thing which already
has, and long ago had, existence ; and so, now its
existence is necessary, it is now utterly impossible to
be otherwise than that this fore-knowledge should be,
~r should have been.
" It is no less evident, that if there be a full, certain,
and infallible fore-knowledge of the future existence of
the volitions of moral agents, then there is a certain
infallible and indissoluble connexion between those
events and that fore-knowledge; and that, therefore,
by the preceding observations, these events are neces-
sary events, being infallibly and indissolubly connected
with that, which has had existence already, and so is
now necessary, and cannot but haYe been.
" That no future event can be certainly fore-known,
whose existence is contingent, and without all necessity,
may be proved thus : it ~ impossible for anything to
be certainly ~mown to any intellect without eYidence.
To suppose otherwise implies a contradiction ; because,
Digitized by Coogle
166 MORAL SCIENCE.
for a thing to be certainly known to any understanding
is for it to be evident to that understanding, and for a
thing to be e'ident to any understanding, is the same
thing as for that understanding to see evidence of it :
but no understanding, created or uncreated, can see
evidence where there is none. And, therefore, if there
be any truth which is absolutely without evidence, that
truth is absolutely unknowable, insomuch that it implies
a contradiction to suppose that it is known.
" But if there be any future event whose existence
is contingent, without all necessity, the future existence
of the event is absolutely without evidence.
"To suppose the future volitions of moral agents
not to be necessary events, or which is the same thing,
events which it is not impossible but that they may not
come to pass, and yet to suppose that God certainly
foreknows them, and knows all things, is to suppose
God's fore-knowledge to be inconsistent with itself.
For, to say that God certainly, and without all conjec-
ture, knows that a thing infallibly will be, which at the
same time he knows to be so contingent that it may
possibly not be, is to suppose his knowledge inconsist-
ent with itself, or that one thing that he knows is utterly
inconsistent with another thing that he knows. It is
the same thing as to say, he knows a proposition to
be of certain infallible truth, which he knows to be
of contingent uncertain truth. If volitions are in them-
selves .contingent events, without all necessity, then it
is no argument of perfection of knowledge in any being
to determine peremptorily that they will be ; but on
the contrary, an argument of ignorance and mistake ;
because, it would argue that he supposes that propo-
~ition to be certain, which in its nature, and all things
Digitized by Coogle
PBILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 167
considered, is uncertain and contingent. To say in
such a case, that God may have ways of knowing
contingent events which we cannot conceh·e of, is
ridiculous, as much as to say, that God may know
contradictions to be true, for aught we know ; or that
he may know a thing to be certain, and at the same
time know it not to be certain, though we cannot con-
ceive how ; because he has ways of knowing we cannot
comprehend.
" There is as much of an impossibility but that the
things which are infallibly foreknown should be, (or
which is the same thing,) as great a necessity of their
future existence as if the event were already written
down, and was known and read, by all mankind through
all preceding ages, and there was the most indissoluble
and perfect connexion between the writing and the
thing written. In such a case it would be as impos-
sible the event should fail of existence, as if it had
existed already ; and a decree cannot make an event
surer or more necessary than this."
The argument from cause and effect we consider to
be conclusive, although the connexion between antece-
dent and consequent, or cause and effect, be not con-
sidered as a necessary connexion, but one established
and upheld for a particular purpose. The argument
from foreknowledge would appear to be less satisfac-
tory ; for the idea of prescience not being derived from
experience, our knowledge upon the subject cannot be
of such a character as to admit of our drawing logical
inferences from it.
We shall now proceed to a more practical elucidation
of the subject.
The doctrine of necessity, in plain language,
Digitized by Coogle
168 MORAL SCIENCE.
means that a man could in no case have acted differ-
ently from the manner in which he did act, supposing
the state of his mind, and the circumstances in which
he was placed, to be the same ; which is merely saying,
that the same causes would always produce the same
effects. Men are prone to suppose that they could
have done otherwise, be(fause, in reviewing their con-
duct, its consequences-the experience resulting from
it-are mixed up with the motives that decided them
before, so that if they had to decide over again, differ-
ent circumstances must be taken into the calculation.
Suppose a case : A man has to decide upon some spe-
culation in business ; his conduct is voluntary, that is,
it is free from external compulsion, he is at liberty to
do what he shall will to do ;-what is to determine his
will?· Surely we need not consult Edwards to tell us
that his will will be determined by the " greatest appa-
rent good," not, perhaps, in the opinion of other people,
but in his own opinion at the moment. This good is
the motire whieh governs his will.
To suppose that the man is not governed by mo-
tives, or even to suppose that he acts contrary to
motives, does not make the action less necessary, for
there must be a cause why he acts in one way rather
than another, and the cause must be sufficient to pro-
duce the act; for "Nothing comes to pass without a
cause.''
But upon what will the motir"es that decide the
will depend ? Upon the mental constitution of the
individual, and upon the circumstances in which he is
placed. If he has a strong sense of justice, he will
consider whether what he is about to do is perfectly
honest ; if he is a benevolent man, he will take care
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. ]69
to do nothing likely to injure his fellows, and so on
with respect to all the natural feelings of which the
mind consists ; they will impel to action or restrain,
according to their natural or acquired strength, and the
direction they may have received from education.
The intellectual faculties have reference to the circum-
stances which influence the determination of his will ;
they examine how far the speculation is likely to suc-
ceed, and the correctness of the judgment will depend
upon the strength of the reasoning powers, the edu-
cation they have received, and a more or less complete
view of all the circumstances. All these motives to
action are without his own control, and it will be found,
upon a like examillation, that every influence that has
previously tended to make his mental constitution what
it now is, and everything that produced the circum-
stances in which be is now placed, bas been, in like
manner, dependent upon causes over which he bad no
control. -
In what, then, does the Liberty which man feels that
he possesses1 consist? Certainly not in the being able
to act without moth·e, or contrary to the strongest
motive ; but in the wide field of action open to him,
and in the almost infinite number of paths to the objects
of his desires lying open to his choice. The brutes
approach their objects directly, impelled by one or more
simple instincts, while Reason offers to man a hundred
different ways of approach, a yast Yariety of different
means by which his aim can be accomplished; and be
can suspend its pursuit until be finds the proper path,
for he knows that if he take the wrong direction out of
the many that she presents to him, pain and suffering
will be the consequence of his error. Reason thus
y
Digitized by Coogle
170 MORAL SCIENCE.
calls into activity a great variety of feelings, and keeps
up an endless succession of sensations. If man would
eat, he is not confined to one or two simple articles of
diet, but he can vary his food to suit his palate.
Would he lay up store for a future day-his stock is
not of one kind only, like that of the bee, nor is his
warehouse, like hers, of one particular construction,
however perfect; but this desire, in combination with
others, gives rise to the diversified products of com-
merce and the arts. Would he train up his offspring
-he does not act instinctively, but adapts his treat-
ment to the requirements of the mental and bodily
constitution of his child, excited by all the hopes and
fears of parental solicitude, which reason suggests.
But because his choice of any one mode of action is
still determined by the strongest motive, this kind of
liberty does not take man from under the governance
of necessity.
That which has most mystified this subject, and
made men think the doctrine of necessity contrary
to common sense, or what thP.y imagine to be intuitive
evidence, is the supposition that it annihilates the
free agency of man : they reason in this way-we feel
that we have the power to do as we please ; we are not
obliged by necessity to do anything ; we have the per-
feet control of our own actions ; are we not then free
agents? But true necessity is not opposed to that which
is voluntary, but to that which is contingent. It is un-
doubtedly true, therefore, that man can always do as he
pleases; bot what he pleases to do will ever depend upon
his mental constitution, (which is only another word for
himself,) and the circumstances in which he is placed.
This is no more than saying that God has gi\·en to
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 171
man, as he has to everything else which he has created,
a definite constitution, and that he must act according
to it. Locke says in his Essay, "As far as man has
' power to think or not to think, to move or not to move,
accurding to tke preferences ur direction qf Ids own mind,
so far is a man free." Here the only liberty acknow-
ledged is that of acting according to the internal
mechanism of a man's mind. He says also, "The
mind having in most case~, as is evident in experience,
a power to suspend the execution and satisfaction .of
any of its desires, and so of all, one after another, is
at liberty to consider the objects of them, examine
them on all sides, and weigh them with .others. In
this lies the liberty a man has. He has the power to
suspend the execution of this or that desire, as every
one daily may experience in himself; this seems to me
the source of all liberty. Jn this seems to consist that
which is, as I think, improperly called free-will." But
this power of suspension is quite consistent with the
doctrine of necessity; for, if we delay the performance
of any action, it mQst be because we have a motive for
doing so, and that motive is the necessary cause.
Motive is to \·oluntary action in the moral world,
what cause is to effect in the physical, and the order of
nature is as fixpd in the ·world of mind as of matter ;
for if the course of nature were not as fhled in the
moral world as in the physical ; if necessity did not
regulate one as well as the other, man's reasoning
power, which depends for its exercise upon the unifor-
mity of events in both, would be of no usc. If man
could refuse to be go,·erued by motives ; if his conduct
did not deper.d upon springs of action which could be
calculatt>d and relied upon-that i~, if he were not the
Digitized by Coogle ....
172 MORAL SCIENCE.
agent of necessity, the superiority of his organization,
which now raises him so eminently above the brute
creation, would have aYailed him nothing. Reason is
dependent for its exercise upon experience, and expe-
rience is nothing more than the knowledge of the
invariable order of nature, of the relations of cause
and effect. Man observing these sequences and ex-
pecting them to occur again in like circumstances,
shapes his conduct accordingly. In the first ages of
the world, when succession was only observed in a
few simple things, such as the rising of the sun from
day to day, it was thought that the same free will now
attributed to man, belonged to the physical world also ;
that eYents might come to pass, or they might not, and
the term chance denoted this uncertainty. But increased
knowledge has tended to abolish this tenn, by showing
the uniform manner in which eYents follow one another,
and that under similar circumstances the R&me results
may be expected to follow. The explosion of gunpowder
could not be predicted by the analysis of its parts, and
the simplest phenomena were all at first at an equal
distance from human sagacity. Having observed then
the order of nature, we can anticipate eYents and
regulate our conduct accordingly, suiting our circum-
stances to this known order of events ; we regulate
our conduct by what we expect to result from it, by
making use of the same causes to produce the same
effects.
Admitting that this is a proper definition of the
exercise of reason, it follows that if this uniformity did
not exist, the exercise of it would be as likely to be
ruinous as serviceable to us ; our knowledge would in
no way avail us, for we could not predict that things
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 173
would occur again as we had before observed them.
All the discoveries that man has made in the arts and
sciences, everything in fact that bas tended to amelio-
rate and raise his condition, depends on this known
order of nature, and rests upon its immutability.
Because the causes of human actions have been
hidden from us like those of physical action in the first
ages of the world, such actions have been supposed to
be contingent, to depend upon chance and not to follow
the same law of invariable sequence ; but if this were
really the case-if the doctrine of philosophical neces-
sity were not true, the regularity of events in the
physical world would little avail us, neither would they
afford sufficient foundation for morality and prudence,
as the voluntary conduct of our neighbours enters into
almost all those calculations upon which our plans and
determinations are founded.
" A person well acquainted with the necessary order
in which events follow each other, (i. e.) well skilled in
the ordinary movements of the machinery of life, may
with confidence, if not with absolute assurance of suc-
cess, risk his most important interests upon the issue
of well concerted plans. Skill and sagacity in manag-
ing the affairs of common life, or wisdom in council or
command, is nothing else than the knowledge of the
fixed laws of matter and mind, which together dictate
the intricate movements of the great machine of the
social system. It must be upon the immovable sub-
stratum of cause and effect, of motive and voluntary
action, that our calculations of futurity are formed, and
it is upon this basis alone, that a wise man rests his
hopes and constructs his plans."
However it may suit the interests of certain creeds
Digitized by Coogle
174 MORAL SCIENCE.
to deny the necessity of all our actions, yet those who
adopt them, acknowledge it in action, if they deny it
in words. Do not such persons expect from certain
moral inducements to produce a certain voluntary line
of conduct? All the arguments they use to excite our
hopes or fears, proceed upon the supposition that mind
is subject to certain laws, and that if their arguments
are efficient as a cause, the effects desiderated will
inmriably follow. "Do you think such moti\"es are
sufficient to induce him ?" is a question with them
as pertinent as " Do you think this lever has the power
to raise that weight?" But, say the advocates of free-
dom of will, necessity is not here implied, for though
we are obliged to admit a connexion between motives
and actions, yet this connexion does not appear to us
to amount to a certainty. The mind possesses an in-
herent activity, by which it can at pleasure dissoh,.e this
connexion ; consequently when motives are presented
to induce a particular line of conduct, it is not done
with certain expectations of success, and we .are nut
always disappointed if we fail. We make a reservation
for a certain liberty of will a person is supposed to
possess, which may cause him to resist all our induce-
ments. This objection is as forcible when applied to
matter as to mind. It arises from our not being suf-
ficiently acquainted with the causes necessary to pro-
duce the effect we wish. A philosophical experiment
may succeed ninety-nine times and fail the hundredth,
not from any liberty of will that the materials possess,
but from some counteracting cause that has crept in of
which we are ignorant, but which farther investigation
may discover. So with respect to mind, if our argu-
ments are not successrul, it is because they are uot
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 175
forcible enough, or they do not apply to the state of
mind of the individual, or there is some prE>judice still
unmoved ; and not from any power he may possess of
refusing to be moYed, by a motive strong enough for
the purpose. In the latter case, as in the first, we must
not ascribe our failure to the free will of the indhiduaJ,
but to our own ignorance of bow to move him, and if
we would succeed, we must look in both cases for the
hidden cause of the failure.
The character of man is the result of the organization
he receiYed at birth, and all the various circumstances
that have acted upon it since, and these, if that were
possible, being given, a mental philosopher would pre-
dict the line of conduct that will be invariably pursued
by each indi,idual, as readily as the chemist cau pre-
dict the exact result of the mixture of any chemical
substances. Man, like everything else around, has
received a definite constitution, and be is no more
capable of acting contrary to that constitution, and of
refusing to be acted upon by the influences that every-
where surround him, than the atoms of matter are
capable of resisting the impulses of attraction and
repulsion, and the various affinities from which result
all the ben~ficial order and arrangement of the present
material system. The same disastrous effects might
be expected to result in the one case as the other, for if
matter refused to obey the laws that have been given
to it, man could not depend upon the causes that are
capable of producing certain results to-day being
efficient to the same ends to-morrow, and if there were
no certain connexion between motive and action, be
would never be able to predict what men would be from
what they had been; thus reason would be of no usE>,
Digitized by Google
176 MORAL SCIENCE.
all progression would cease, and man would be as the
beasts, moved by immediate impulses, and confined to
an equally limited range of ideas and enjoyments.•
SECTION I.
THE APPLICATION OF PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY TO
RESPONSIBILITY, PRAISE AND BLAME, REWARD AND
PUNISHMENT, VIRTUE AND VICE.
REsPONSIBILITY. If a man's actions are deter-
mined necessarily by the previous state of his mind,
and the circumstances or influences to which he is
exposed, and if, consequently, no action of his life
could possibly have been different from what it actually
was, in the circumstances, responsibility, in the sense in
• " 'Professor Kant is dt'cidedly of opinion, that although many
strong and ingenious arguments have been brought forward in
favour of the freedom of the will, they are yet very far from being
decisivE'. Nor have they refuted the arguments urged by the
Necesl!itarians, but by an appeal to mere feding, which, on such a
qut'stion, is of no avail. For this purposE', it is indillpensably
nt'cessary to call to our assistance the principles of Kant.' "
'"In treating this subject (continut's NitscA, pupil of Kant)
Kant begins with showing that the notion of a Frt'e Will is not
contradictory. In proof of this he observes, that, although every
human action, as an event in time, must have a causl', and so on
ad infinitum,· yet it is certain, that the laws of cause and effect
can have a place there only whf're Hme is, for the effect must be
consf'quent on the cauS('. But neither time nor 6JXlCf! are properties
of things; tht'y are only the gf'nt'ral fMms under which man is
allowed to view himself and the world. It follow,., thereforl', that
man is not in time nor in space, although the forms of his intui-
tive ideas are time and space. But if man exist not in time and
Digitized by Coogle
PBILOSOPWCAL NECESSITY. 177
which it is generally used, is without meaning. A man
is usually considered to be responsible, or accountable,
for having acted in a certain manner, because it is sup-
posed that he might have acted differently; but this
not being the case, all responsibility for actions that
are already past, would be useless and absurd, for
actions that are already past God himself could not
prevent. Man is then responsible in the only way in
which responsibility could be of any use. The Creator
bas attached it in the shape of inevitable pain, moral
or physical, to every breach of his laws, moral or
physical. He bas given to man a frame, fearfully and
wonderfu11y made, and caused his happiness to be
dependent upon the proper regulation and protection
of its complicated mechanism. If he do anything that
has a tendency to injure this constitution, either bodily
or mental, pain follows, and obliges him to desist.
space, he is not influenced by the laws of time and space, among
which those of cause and effect hold a distinguished rank ; it is,
therefore, no contradiction to conceive, that, in such an order of
thingM, man may be free.' "
" In this manner Kant establishes the pouibt1ity of man's free-
dom; and, farther than this, he does not conceive himself warranted
to proceed on the principles of the Critical Philosophy. The first
impression, certainly, which his argument produces on the mind is,
that his own opinion was favourable to the scheme of necessity.
For if the reasonings of the Necessitarians be admitted to be
satisfactory, and if nothing elm be opposPd to them but the incom-
prC>hensible proposition, that man neither exists in space nor in
time, the natural inference is, that this proposition wa.<t brought
forward rather to save appearances, than as a sprious objection to
the universality of the conclusion."
" Here, however, Kant calls to his aid the principles of what he
calls practical reason. Deeply impressed with a conviction that
morality is the chief concern of man, and that morality and the
z
Digitized by Coogle
178 MORAL SCIENCE.
Thus if he put his hand into the fire, he is subjecting
it to an influence that would soon destroy it, and with
it all the pleasures that are dependent upon its use ;
the pain that he feels, therefore, or the punishment that
is inflicted upon him for doing so, quickly obliges him
to take it out. Here, then, he is responsible for the
ignorance or carelessness that induced him to put his
hand, where, from the relation that heat bears to the
body, it must be injured; and this whether the action
be voluntary or not, for the object of the pain being to
deter the individual and others from the breach of this
law, the pain _must be attached to the act. So also
with reference to the mind ; if a man commit an act of
injustice or treachery, he suffers its consequences in
the distrust and resentment of his fellow-men, though
his evil action be the result of bad education and
temptation ; becam~e the certain connexion of such
freedom of the human will must stand or fall together, he exerts
his ingenuity to show, that the metaphysical proof already brought
of the possibility of free ag£>ncy, joined to our own consciousness
of a liberty of choice, affords evidence of the fact fully sufficient
for the practical regulation of our conduct, altllough not amounting
to what is represented as d£>monstration in the Critique f!f Pure
Reason."-(Stewart's Diss£>rtations, p. 196.)
"That a man's charactf!r is formedfor him and not by Mm," is
Mr. Robert Owen's mode of expressing the doctrine of Philosophiclll
Necessity, but it seems calculated to lead to serious enor. When
a man speaks of " himself," he means by that term all that consti-
tutes man, viz., the aggregate of his bodily and mental faculties ;
now, it ia certain that mental faculties of one class act upon those of ·
another class in the same mind, in impelling, restraining, and dir£>ct-
ing, and in this sense a man's character is form£>d as much by Aim as
for Aim. The shortest mode, perhaps, of expressing what we think
Mr. Owen's meaning is, that " a man's character is formed by his
mental constitution, and by the circumatance11 in which he is placed."
Digitized by Coogle
PIIILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. }79
conduct with such con8equences, is necessary to make
men attach importance to good education and to the
avoidance of temptation. We are thus accountable to
our Maker for the breaking of his laws, whether such
breach proceed from our ignorance, our convictions, or
our feelings ; and we are made t~_suffer for that which
is_already done, thatthe-furtfu~r evil may be preYented
which would ensue from the repetition of the offence.
Man is, thus, not only responsible for that portion of
his happiness which depends upon his own body and
mind, but for that which he derh·es from the great
body of Society, of which he is a member; and if he
commit any offence against this latter ; that is, if he
inflict any injury upon it, he is accountable in the
same sense; and in no other. For such breach of the
moral law he suffers, or ought to be made to suffer,
just so much as will prevent the same fault in future.
If its recurrence could be prevented without any suffer-
ing at all, we only do an injustice to the individual in
subjecting him to it, since be could not have acted
otherwise.
PRAISE AND BLAME. l7pon a cursory view of the
subject, the difficulty naturally arises, that if actions
are necessary, then merit and demerit are mere names,
denoting only the character of certain actions ; and
that, in consequence, man is not, properly, the subject
of praise and blame. Upon reftexion, however, it will
be found to be just the re,·crse; for if there were no
necessary connexion between motin's and actions, if a
man might refuse or not to be guided by the former,
then, indeed, all prai~e and blame would be useless ;
for we praise a certain line of couduct that it may be
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
180 MORAL SCIENCE.
pursued, or we blame it that it may be forsaken, and
our approbation or disapproval act as motives, that
are calculated to produce one kind of action more
than another.
We naturally approve of, or praise, that which ·is
agreeable to us, and disapprove of, or blame, that
which is disagreeable ; and that this sense of what is
pleasant or unpleasant to us, may have proper weight
with those upon whom our happiness in a great mea-
sure depends, nature has given us a disposition ·by
which such praise or blame becomes a great source of
enjoyment or discomfort, and a strong motive to incite
to some actions and to restrain from others. The
expression of praise and blame is, therefore, necessary
and proper, although a man could in no case act other-
wise than he did act under the circumstances. What
a complete revolution will take place in society when
the expression of this praise and blame shall be no
longer made instinctively, but be brought into accord-
ance with the doctrine of necessity ! A child knocks
its head against the table, and thinking the table had a
choice in the matter, turns round and beats it. So
man, " a child of larger growth," knocks his head
against some rough corner of another's disposition,-
he meets with some injury or offence, and not knowing,
or: not thinking, that the offender could not possibly
have done otherwise, he acts as instinctively as the
child, and expresses his disapprobation in all probabi-
lity in the same way. What, however, would be the
conduct of a person brought up from infancy as a
disciple of necessity ? He would know, that of what-
ever action a person might have been guilty against
him, in the state of such an indh·idual's views and
Digitized by Google
PBILOSOPBICAL NECESSITY. 181
feelings he could not have acted differently, and that it
would be as absurd to give way to the feeling of anger
in this case as in that of the child. That to produce
a different effect towards himself be must alter the
cause, that is, he must change the views and feelings
of the offender towards himself. If the offence were a
personal insult, and the object to prevent it in future-
if knocking the party down were the best mode of
doing this, why then knock him down ; but this display
of·the combative propensity would probably produce a
similar exhibition on the part of the other, and if they
were well matched they would leave off just where
they began. But if inquiry were calmly made into the
motive of the insult, and the cause removed if possible
-according to the dictates of the moral feelings, with
kindness and justice-in the generality of cases there
would be no fear of its repetition. It can only be this
mode of looking at injuries, and the temper of mind
consequent upon it, that can make a Christian, that
can induce us " if they smite us on one cheek to tum
to them the other also," and that can give that " soft
answer that tumeth away wrath." By the predomi-
nance of feelings, the produce of opposite ,·iews to
these, many minds dwell in a state of perpetual irrita-
bility, occupied in resenting not only real injuries, but
imaginary offences ; and it is a question, whether a
larger amount of unhappy feeling in the world is not
occasioned by the latter class than the former.
The evils resulting from the ordinary mode of con-
sidering this subject are very numerous. The common
notions concerning merit and demerit, praise and blame,
and responsibility, give rise to the worst abuses of our
selfish propensities, to envy, hatred, malice, and all
Digitized by Coogle
182 MORAL SCIE~CE.
uncharitableness. If we were early taught to feel and
know that a man's character is the result ofhis mental
constitution, and the circumstances in which he is
placed, all such feelings would be kept in check from
the mere absurdity of gh·ing vent to them. True, the
exhibition of anger and of those feelings that induce
us to take immediate vengeance for an offence, may,
to a certain extent, have the effect of preventing
offences ; and among the inferior animals this is appa-
rently the legitimate and only mode of doing so ; but
man possessing additional faculties, his reason enables
him to foresee the direct consequences of open vio-
lence, and to avoid them, whilst producing secret and
much more complicated mischief. How is it possible
to " Love our enemies, to bless them that curse us, and
to do good to them that hate us," so long as we look
upon them as the cause of our suffering in the sense
that they had liberty to do otherwise? But when they
are considered as mere instruments, as acted upon by
causes O\·cr which they had no control, then indeed we
may "love our enemies," love them as fellow-creatures,
pity them as being in all probability greater sufferers
than ourselves, and with calmness and reason, guided
by benevolence and justice, endeavour to remove the
cause of their enmity ; or if that be impossible, to
guard ourseh·es against it with as little suffering as
may be to them.
It may be said perhaps, it is impossible but that by
a law of our nature we should hate that which is un-
pleasant to us. This is true, but let the feeling receive
its right direction, let us hate 1~ice, not the vicious. The
precautions we take to secure ourseh·es against that
whi('h injures U!', arc not ne('essarily ('ODnc('fed with
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPJIICAL NECESSITY. 183
our hatred of the injurer. We guard ourselves sedu-
lously against the poison of the viper, and the destruc-
tive propensities of the tiger, although, knowing as we
do that their power and disposition to injure is the
ine\'itable condition of their nature, we cannot be said
to hate them.
A man cannot be a true Christian or a true philoso-
pher, until he is a practical Necessitarian. It is then
only that he can exercise a perfect control over his
own feelings, and cease to be acted upon, to his own
discomfort, by the injurious feelings of others. It is
then that he can feel himself master of his own fortune
in the strictest sense of the word, for he knows that
nothing is uncertain, but that he has only to seek and
apply the proper cause, and the effect desired will
inevitably follow.
REWARD AND PuNISHMENT. After considering Re-
sponsibility, and Praise and Blame, little remains to be
said under this head. We have shown that the respon-
sibility of man consists in his experiencing always the
natural and necessary results of his actions, and that
praise and blame, and consequently reward and punish-
ment, can be employed by the Necessitarian only as
motives to the adoption or abandonment of any given
line of conduct. Desert and merit being entirely
out of the question, where a man could not possibly
have'~ted otherwise than he did- act, so also are all
rewards to which a man may consider himself entitled.
The rewards of nature are the pleasurable sensations,
the happiness consequent upon the study and obser-
vance of her laws ; her punishments arc the pain that
fol1ows the breach of them. It is in this way that
Digitized by Coogle
184 MORAL SCIENCE.
nature is more powerful than mere doctrine all over
the world, and it is well for mankind that she is so, for
had man been a free agent, such as be is represented,
capable of observing and following the pernicious creeds
and dogmas that selfishness has ne-rer failed to instil
into his mind, he must long since have ceased to exist
on this earth. But in spite of what a man professes to
belie-re, be cannot help invariably seeking, in practice,
that which is pleasurable, and avoiding that which is
painful ; and this it is that secures to him, on all occa-
sions, the object of his being, a balance of enjoyment ;
and preserves that consistency in his conduct, which
would be lost, if his actions were guided solely by his
opinionfl. This balance of enjoyment is the natural
reward which a man receives for ha~ing sought for
happiness where it was to be found; but given to him
without any desert on his part. So suffering is the
punishment that nature inflicts upon those who have
sought for happiness where it was not to be found.
But we nowhere find nature inflicting this punishment,
excepting for the good of the party offending, or of
society at large; for where a man has offended against
the physical or organic laws of his being, so that the
pain or punishment resulting can be of no use in a
remedial point of new, the pain does not last long, for
death mercifully takes him from this state of existence.
But, says the advocate of freedom of will, it is not
enough that punishment should be merely remedial,
that it should merely have for its object the prevention
of the repetition of the offence-a criminal should be
made to suffer in exact proportion to the fault he bas
committed ; and thiS idea of retributive justice, as it
is called, but more properly vengeance, lies at the
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. )85
foundation ~f all criminal codes throughout society, is
the main cause of their inefficiency, and of a vast
amount of unnecessary suffering. To the consistent
Neces.qitarian, any punishment beyond such as is
requisite for the purpose of amendment, must appear
an injustice of the highest degree towards the individual
upon whom it is inflicted, because itis evident that under
the circumstances in which he was placed, and.with his
liews and feelings, his conduct was inevitable. Our
Criminal Codes cannot be radically reformed and made
effectual, until this view of the question with respect to
accountability and punishment becomes general; until
the very idea of retribution be dismissed from our
thoughts, and, consequently, the principle of it from
our Institutions. The wicked must be regarded as the
truly unfortunate of the earth, and punishment the
means which true kindness would dictate of correcting
vicious habits, and of clearing away the obstacles to
that large amount of enjoyment of which their bad
dispositions deprive them. An enlightened and prac-
tical writer of the present day, when speaking of the
inefficient protection of society from crime, says-
" It appears very extraordinary-to the reflecting and
virtuous-that human beings should see before them
disgrace, confinement, the tread-wheel, the scourge,
the hulks, .the antipodes, the gibbet, and practically
feel these to be motives to abstain from crime, of infe-
rior force to their own impulses to commit it. But
so it actually is ; these visitations-falling as they do
every hour on tb.e devoted heads of human beings-
produce no effect on others who have the same ten-
dencies to crime ; yet the machinery is maintained at
an enormous cost, and while humanity is afflicted by
AA
Digitized by Coogle
186 MORAL SCIENCE.
the increasing spectacle of fruitless aftliction, society
remains permanently exposed to depredation and vio-
lence. The practical -conclusion, from what has just
been said, is obvious ; because the failure is total,
because the disease is unabated, the whole treatment is
in principle erroneous, and must be radically altered."
One cause of the inefficiency here mentioned is,
that the Criminal Code is directed against the breach
of la~, which are at variance with those of nature.
Man establishes institutions for the good of the few,
·and endeavours, by penal enactments, to force the mass
-of mankind into a course in opposition to the laws of
nature; it follows, -of course, that such enactments are
inefficient. Let all man's laws and institutions be
founded in truth, in justice, and benevolence, and
nature's rewards and .punishments will in almost all
cases be found sufficient, without .his artificial mode
of creating suffering.
The following observations from the same writer,
illustrate in a very practical manner the doctrine of
necessity, which we have made the foundation of onr
reasoning on these subjects ; he divides human beings
into three classes :-
" First, those whose animal appetites or propensities
are so powerful, as to over-balance the restraining force
of their moral and intellectual faculties. Beings of this
constitution ofmind, are nuder the dominion of strong
lusts, violent passions, and intense selfishness. Their
impressions of moral duty are so weak, as to offer no
restraint to the gratification of their selfishness, at any
cost of property, limb, or life, to those, no 'matter how
unoffending, who stand in their way; while in most of
them, a limited intellect bas obscure views of the real
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 187
nature of things, co.nfused perceptions of consequences,
oyer-weening confidence in their own power of conceal-
ment, evasion, and escape, total blindness ro the guil'
of their actions, a fixed rejection in their own case of
all idea of retribution ; on the contrary, a persuasion
*hat all restraint imposed upon themselves, is the
unwarrantable act of the strongest; and, finally, the
feeblest powers of controlling their passions, even when
they do see the fatal consequences of yielding to tl;teir
sway. Any better endowment of intellect in this cla;;;s,
is always perverted to the purposes of crim\'l-; Qe~ce
expert plan-laying thieves, pickpockets, swindlers, and
forgers.
" The second class of mankind are very numerous,
those whose animalism is nearly _
as strong as in the
first class, but whose moral and intellectual powers of
restraint are so much greater, as' to bring the tendencies
to indulgence and ·forbearance alDWst to a balance--
external circumstances in such persons turn the scale.
In low life, uneducated, neglected, and destitu~e, they
have often become criminals ; in a more favourable
condition of education and society, they have continued
respectable : but, within the influence of bad example,
they will be found sensual and often profligate, and
they are always selfish and self-indulging.
" The third class are those who, as the Apostlc says,
are ' a law unto themselves.' In them the animal
propensities are sufficient for their legitimate ends, but
the decided p~edominance of intellect and moral feel-
ing, as faculties of their minds, renders it nearly a
moral impossibility, that the inferior tendencies should
ever master them so far as to impel them to commit
cnme. It is pllysically possible for such men to rob,
Digitized by Coogle
188 MORAL SCIENCE.
or steal, or torture, or murder, but it is morally impos-
sible ; and they would attempt any physical difficulty in
preference. They enjoy strong moral and intellectual
perception. Their passions, sometimes vigorous, are
reined by their higher feelings; they feel the law
written on their heart with the same finger that graved
it on tables of stone ; instead of all their aspirations
and aims being selfish, they have time, and thought,
and exertion, and money, to spare for their fellow-
creatures ; and are made happy by the extension of
the virtuous enjoyment of life throughout the world.
They cannot exist in a grovelling atmosphere, and tend
upwards into a purer moral medium1 when by circum-
stances depressed into vicious contact. These, lastly,
are the men who are sincerely, conscientiously, ra-
tionally, and practically religious, and whose morality
is based in the Dh;ne will and the precepts of Christi-
anity. It is manifestly the Creator's design that such
men, from intellectual as well as moral power, shall
rise to the guidance of society ; and liberty, and light,
and national happiness, are in the direct ratio of their
ascendancy-an enlightened and effective Criminal
Code will emanate from them alone."
" One grand error in criminal legislation has been,
that the three-fold distinction now drawn has never
been taken into account as true in nature ; there is no
practical belief in its existence. We do not find it
adverted to in any of the thousand and one treatises
already written, and by the most talented of men, on
criminal legislation ; yet it may be predicted that, till
it shall be acted upon as a practical truth, speculation
after speculation, code after code, institution after in-
stitution, for the protection of society from crime, will
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 189
fall to the ground. The prevalent practical belief of
the million, and the law-makers in whom they confide,
is, tha~ in power to obey the laws there is among men
no difference of mental constitution ; that a good man
has 1oilled to be virtuous, and a bad man has willed to
be vicious, and that either might have willed equally
easily the opposite character. That it wa.., a mere
voluntary choice that, on the one hand, filled the
prisons with wretches, whom a Howard Yisited, and
that determined Howard, on the other, to visit them.
Hence the indignation and resentment felt against the
criminal, and the tendency to visit upon him the retri-
bution considered due to a deliberate choice of the
wrong, in spite of a clear perception and feeling of the
right. Now, the truth will challenge the strictest inves-
tigation, that the great majority of criminals in this
country hav-e minds so constituted, and that, inde-
pendently of their own volition, as to rank them in the
first class abov-e described. They are born with a
greatly preponderating animalism, which grows with
their growth and strengthens with their strength, be-
longing to the lower, and often the lowest ranks of life,
having neither moral nor religious training and exer-
cise, little or no intellectual education, no habit or
practice of industry, frugality, sohriety, or self-denial ;
strangers to all encouragement, from a higher moral
society, to l'alue character; on the contrary, familiar
from infancy with the example of debauchery, profli-
gacy, and recklessness, and crime, in their very parents
and relations, trained often to early mendicity, and
always to thieving, habituated to hear debauchery aud
successful ,·illainy laud£!d in the ~oriety with which
they mix, and morality and justice ridiculed or defied,
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
190 lriOBAL SCIENCE.
they may be said to be indee,l born in iniquity, and
bred in crime. Such are the beings whose acts create
resentment and retributive reYenge in the minds of the
unreflecting, the untempted, and, in regard to a sound
philosophy of man, the uninformed." •
VIRTUE AND VIcE. But if philosophical necessity
be true, what becomes of all the distinctions between
'1rtu~. and ,-ice? If all actions are necessary, are not
a11equally virtuous or vicious? They would undoubt-
edly be so if there were no difference between plea."ure
and pain, happiness and misery ; but so long a.<J there
is this difference, the inherent distinction between
actions must continue, as they tend either to one state
or the other. Thus, if they tend, all things considered,
to produce happiness, they are virtuous ; if they tend
to misery, they are vicious ; and it would be difficult
to proYe any other distinction between Yirtue and vice,
if considered with reference either to this world or
another.
Much has been written and said upon this subject,
and although plain in itself, so much has it been mys-
tified, that it has become the general opinion that there
is something in actions themselves, that places them in
the one class or the other. "In order," says Edwards,
"to a thing's being morally evil, there must be one of
these things belonging to it ; either it must be a thing
unfit (lf' unsuitable in ita own nature; or it must have a
bad tendency ; or it must proceed from an evil dispo-
sition, and be done for an evil end." Now, if it were
possible to conceive of anything unfit or unsuitable in
• Simpson'11~ecest~ity of Popular Education, p. 283.
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOSOPHICAL NECESSITY. 191
its own nature, supposing that the doctrine of necessity
were unproved, it is impossible to believe it together
with the conviction that nothing could possibly have
been otherwise than it was, and that everything was
appointed by an All-Wise Creator. The same act,
according to circumstances, is sometimes either vir-
tuous or vicious : thus the act of killing a man, when
done in our country's defence, is meritorious, but when
committed to suit private revenge or interest, it is
murder, and a crime of the deepest dye. We might
easily multiply instances to show that in the moral
world, there is no difference in the character of actions,
when considered separately from their effects upon hap-
piness or misery, but that will be unnecessary, as they
must present themselves to every one. "Morality is the
science of the means invented by mao, to live together
in the most happy manner possible." It is impossible to
conceive that God can ha're any other view, in laying
down laws, than the happiness of his creatures ; Chm-
tianity, with all its beautiful precepts, has for its objeet
the making man a better, and therefore a happier being.
Are all therefore to be put upon the same level in
society ? Are the vicious upon an equality with the
virtuous ? Yes, when the tiger and the lamb are so.
When the lap dog gives place to the wolf, when vipers
are hidden in men's bosoms; in fact, when we prefer
the company of that which gives us pain, to that which
bestows happiness. Virtuous, holy, pure, and other
terms of like import, have no meaning when applied
to actions, in any other sense than as they ·tend to
happiness or misery; and when we speak of any kind
of discipline as having a tendency to perfect our cha-
racter, to make us more pure and holy, we cannot mean
Digitized by Coogle
192 MORAL SCIENCE.
anything else but that it tends to increase our capacity
1 of enjoyment, and our power of adding to the happi-
ness of all around. That man is most perfect who is
capable of giving and receiving the greatest sum of
enjoyment. Neither can we admit that actions are
\, ,·irtuous or vicious, according to tl.!e motives that die-
, tate them, for all motives are equal, being all depend-
: ent, like the actions to which they give rise, upon the
I mental or bodily constitution and circumstances. " All
motives," says Bentham, "are abstractedly good; no
man ever has, ever had, can, or could have, a motive
contrary to the pursuit of happiness or the avoidance
of pain."
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
ON THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND ADVANTAGES 01' EVIL.
TuRNBULL, in his Christian Philosophy, as quoted
by Edwards, observes, "If the Author and Governor
of all things be infinitelnerfect, then whatever is, is
right; of all possible systems he has chosen the best ;
and, consequently, there is no ahaolute evil in the
universe. This being the case, all the seeming imper-
fections or evil in it are such only in a partial view,
and with respect to the whole system they are good."
" Whence then comes evil P is the question which
hath in all ages been reckoned the Gordian knot in
philosophy. And, indeed, if we own the existence of
evil in the world in an absolute sense, we diametrically
contradict what hath been just now proved of God.
For, if there be any evil in the system that is not good
with respect to the whole, then is the whole not good,
but evil, or, at the best, very imperfect; and an author
must be as his workmanship is ; as is the effect, such
is the cause. But the solution of this difficulty is at
hand ; that there is no evil in the universe. What !
are there no pains, no imperfections ? Is there no
misery, no vice in the world P or, are not these evils P
Evils indeed they are; that is, those of one sort are
hurtful, and those of the other sort are equally hurtful
and abominable ; but they are not evil or mischievous
with respect to the whole. But God is at the same
time said to create el·il, darkness, confusion ; and yet
BB
Digitized by Coogle
194 THB ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
to do note\;), but to be the author of good only. He
is called the Father of lights ; the author of enry
perfect and good gift, with whom there is no variable-
ness nor shadow of turning ; who tempteth no man,
bot giveth to every man liberally and opbraideth not.
And yet by the- Prophet Isaiah He is introduced saying
of Himself, I bm light and create darkness : I make
peace and I create evil : I, the Lord, do all these
things. What is the meaning, the plain language of
all this, but that the Lord delighteth in goodness, and,
(as the Scripture speaks,) evil is His strange work ?
He intends lftld pursues the universal good of his
creation ; and the evil which happens is not permitted
for its own sake, or through any pleasure in evil, but
because it il requisite to the greater good puraued."
The previous inquiry into the nature of rirtue and
vice is essential to the proper understanding of this
question of acknowledged difficulty. The supposition
that there is something in actions themselves, some-
thing nnfit or unsuitable in their own nature, that ren-
ders them virtuous or vicious, bas tended to involt'e
the subject in mystery. It bas been shown, howet'er,
that the distinction between physical and moral evil can-
not be maintained ; that sin, vice, and moral turpitude,
are only evils from their tendency to produce physical
evil, that is, pain and misery; that, consequently, there
is no eril bot pain; pain, either mental or bodily, in
all its different degrees, from mere uneasiness, to that
agony which can be supported only for a few moments :
and the question, on being extricated from all those
difficulties with which the notion of man's free agency
has encumbered it, assumes its simplest form, viz., what
is the use of pain ?
Digitized by Coogle
ADYANTAGES OF EYIL. 195
The Deity, of course, cannot but be regarded by the
Necessitarian as the Author of all things, of the evil
as well as the good ; and that.evil has its use, and that
a benevolent one, cannot be doubted by him whose
knowledge of our Creator has been gathered from the
numberless instances of benevolent design throughout
the universe, which, whilst they manifest the power of
God, show us plainly the direction of that power
towards tbP. production of the greatest possible enjoy-
ment. If, therefore, it can be demonstrated that pain,
which is the only evil, is a necessary agent in the hand
of God for the production of this balance of enjoy-
ment ; that it is the only effectual guardian of that
system of organization upon which our happiness de-
pends ; that it is essential even to our very existence ;
will not the question in part be stripped of its mystery,
and the ways of God to man be justified eYeD to our
finite comprehensions ?
To creatures possessing our modes of intelligence,
there are some propositions which appear by their
nature to be absurd and contradictory ; thus, that
the half of a thing can be equal to the whole, and
that an eYent which has already taken place can be
caused not to have taken place, we instinctively feel to
be contradictions, and the reverse of each of these
propositions we constitute into an axiom which serves
as a basis of reasoning. In the same way we deduce
the axiom that God could not create an intelligence
equal to Himself; for to suppose that he could do so
would inYolve the absurdity of two infinite existenceR.
All created intelligences must, therefore, be finite ;
limited in their powenc of knowinJl; ; and such limita-
tion implies l\ certain degree of imperfection which
Digitized by Google
}96 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
must extend throughout the whole universe of mind.
But w·e cannot conceive of perfect happiness consisting
with any degree of imperfection ; for, in the space
between finite and infinite knowledge there must be
numberless things, the nature and tendency of which
the highest order of created beings cannot know, and
with reference to which they must be continually liable
to act wrong ; that is in opposition to the laws which
constitute the definite character which everything has
received, and in disregard of the relation which the
Creator has established between such objects and the
subject or intelligence, thus causing a perpetua1ly in-
creasing amount of disarrangement. To check, there-
fore, that utter subversion of order, and consequently
of happiness, which the necessary ignorance of created
intelligences would occasion, a something must be ap-
pointed which sha11 constantly act as a warning when-
ever these laws are transgressed. It is doubtful whether
a monitor more effectual or better adapted for the
purpose than Pain could possibly have been selected,
so far as regards intelligence, so limited as belongs to
the inhabitants of this earth.
No part of the known creation, then, is free from
evil, in the sense in which we thus use the term, as it
is the invariable accompaniment of that error which is
consequent upon the necessary limitation of the potDerB
of krwwing. With respect to the employment of pain
for the correction of error in other worlds, it must be
mere matter of conjecture, for " what can we reason
but from what we know?" It would appear, however,
to be probable, that wherever there are created beings
susceptible of enjoyment, there also is pain.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 197
SECTION I.
PAIN CONSIDERED AS THE NECESSARY AND MOST EF-
FECTUAL GUARDIAN OF THAT SYSTEM OF ORGANIZA-
TION UPON WHICH HAPPINESS DEPENDS.
As the capability of enjoyment is e\·er found to
increase with complexity of structure, the power of
feeling pain always increases in the same proportion.
For the more complex and delicate the nervous sys-
tem, and consequently the more varied and intense
the powers of thinking and feeling, the more necessity
has it for a protection from the numerous surrounding
influences which would tend to throw it into disorder,
or to destroy it. Pain, in many cases intense pain, ·
could alone compel us to desist from subjecting our
body to such influences, and thus destroying the power
of enjoyment dependent upon the perfection of our
organization.
The architecture of the frame of man would seem
to surpass in wonder the stupendous architecture of
the Heavens, "Where worlds on worlds compose one
Universe," for the laws that regulate the motions of
the heavenly bodies appear simple compared with
those that regulate the animal and mental functions.
Of what character must be that mind which is not
struck with wonder at the arrangement by which
extraneous substances introduced into the body, are,
by a long and intricate process, fitted for becoming
part of a living structure, and by a still further process
are adapted not only for living, but for feeling and
thinking-by which out ofthe same blood are formed all
Digitized by Coogle
}98 THE ORIGIN, OBJF.CTS, AND
the different materials of which our frame consists, each
new atom being deposited in its proper place, and the
old materials, by a variety of processes, carried out of
the system, or mixed up with new maUer to be re-
vivified? It is manifestly necessary that each atom
should perform the part assigned to it by the All-Wise
Artificer, and that it should assume exactly its proper
place in the Hystem. Should, therefore, any derange-
ment or artificial obstruction prevent this, man is
immediately warned and made conscious by pain that
something is wrong, the pain being generally in pro-
portion to the importance of the derangement, and it
is the office of medical science to discover the causes
of these pains and to remove them.
We thus find mao possessed of a complicated ap-
.paratus, consisting of numerous functions ; first, those
necessary for the preservation of life, and secondly,
those essential for the support of the nenous system
upon which sensation depends ; and he is surrounded
on all sides with objects bearing a fixed relation to
himself, the greater part causing pleasurable sensations,
but all, when calculated to injure him, causing painful
ones. Experience, thus tutored by pleasure and pain,
is his only guide as to what is injurious and what
~alutary. It follows that real Education consists in
hnparting a knowledge of the tendencies of e\·erything
around us to produce pleasure or pain in ourselves. The
knowledge of this kind, that one man's experience can
furnish, is very limited ; but the knowledge that man-
kind at present possess, is the result of the registered
experience of the whole race through all ages. In the
department of Physics, the Science that treats of the
relation that matter, in all its forms, bears to man, the
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EYIL. 199
progress has been great ; but with regard to Moral
Science, ?dllch shows the relation that man bears to
his fellow-man, little is generally known, and still less
acted upon.
It is easy to make apparent the objects and ad-ran-
tages of evil, as it is denominated, in the physical
world, by showing that the benevolent guardianship of
pain alone could maintain our bodily frames in the
state requisite for the enjoyment of which they are the
source. For instance, if a person fall into the fire,
pain compels him to extricate himself in the most
speedy manner possible ; if a limb be fractured, or any
important bodily function deranged, pain obliges him to
seek a remedy and to repair the mischief. In all these
cases, the benevolent intention to the individual sutrerer
is evident, and he who would consider bodily pain as
an evil and not as a good, is like the unruly child that
quarrels with its nurse for not allowing him to play
with a razor, or to drink poison. But in the moral and
intellectual world, suffering, though no less remedial,
is less evidently so to mankind at large ;. although in
bow great a degree the comfort and welfare of all may
be enhanced, when it is universally understood that all
mental as well as bodily suffering, is intended to apprise
us ofthe infringement of some important law of nature
upon which the preservation of happiness depends, can
-
scarcely be calculated. And here let it be remarked,
that a large class of those sufferings which are thought
I
to be purely mental, may, upon further in"festigation
into the intimate connexion between matter and mind,
be found to be solely referrible to peculiar states of the
bodily system, and may be capable of much alleviation
when the corporeal functions upon which they depend
Digitized by Coogle
200 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
shall have been discoYered, so as to bring the disease
within the province of medicine.
With respect to the sufferings to which man is liable
in consequence of the relation in which he stands to
society, the benevolent tendency is less obvious, by
reason of our present ignorance as to the nature of
that relation, and of our own constitutions. Our ideas
of justice have been formed upon notions of free-will ;
we have regarded ourselves strictly as individuals,
inRtead of mere parts of the great body of society,
united to it by ties quite as strong as those that unite
one part of our body to another, not indeed by conti-
guity of atoms, but by contiguity of feeling. For it
would be quite as reasonable for one part of the body to
object to suffer for the derangement ofanother part-for
the lungs to expostulate with the stomach, " Why must
I suffer for your imprudence ?"-as for one man to
complain to the body of society, of which be forms
only a member, " Why must I individually suffer for
your misdeeds ?" The same answer might be given
in both cases, that, as one part of the body could not
exist without the other, au injury to one is felt by all,
that all may feel interested in the restoration of the
injured member ; that, as one man could not" exist
(in a state in which existence would be a blessing)
• without society, be suffers from the sins of another,
• that he may have an interest in removing the ignorance
or ill-feeling from which be suffered, and in keeping
every member of the general body sound. Society is,
in fact, so organized, that so long as there is one of its
members ill-disposed or ignorant, all are liable to pay
the penalty; and although this distribution of evil may
not seem in accordance with the common notion of
Digitized by Coogle
ADV.ANT.AGES OJ' EVIL. 201
justice, liz., that each man should suffer only for his
own misconduct, yet if it can be shown that each indi-
vidual gains infinitely more than he loses by such an
arrangement, justice cannot be said to be outraged by
a system which produces the greatest possible happi-
ness to all; especially when we consider that no man's
virtue, or supposed merit, entitles him to more hap-
piness than another, except in so far as such additional
happiness may be the inevitable accompaniment of the
virtue.
We have already seen, in our consideration of the
nature of man, how many of his faculties bear relation
to his fellow-creatures, and would consequently become
useless if he were obliged to live in solitude. The
following, from Dr. Amott, is a very pleasing picture
of the result of civilization and of the advantages we
derive from living in society : " Every one feels that
he is a member of one vast civilized society which
covers the face of the earth; and no part of the earth
is indifferent to him. In England, for instance, a man
of moderate fortune may cast his looks around him
and say with truth and exultation, ' I am lodged in a
house that affords me conveniences and comforts which
some centuries ago even a King could not command.
Ships are crossing the· sea in every direction to bring
what is useful to me from all parts of the earth. In
China, the men are gathering the tea leaf for me; in'
America they are planting cottop for me ; in the West
India Islands, they are preparing my sugar and my
coffee for me ; in Saxony they are shearing the sheep
to make me clothing ; at home, powerful steam-
ugines are spinning and weaving for me, and making
cutlery for me, and pumping the mines, that minerals
cc
Digitized by Coogle
202 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
'\lseful to me may be procured. Although my property
is small, I have post-coaches running day and night on
all the roads, to carry my correspondence, and I have
protecting fleets and armies around my happy country,
to secure my enjoyments and repose. Then I have
editors and printers, who daily send me an account of
what is going on throughout the world, among all those
people who serve me. And to crown the whole, I have
books ; the ~e of all my possessions, more won-
derful than the wishing-cap of the Arabian Tales ; for
they transport me instantly, not only to all places, but
to all times. By my books I can conjure up before
me, to vivid esistence, all the great and good men of
antiquity ; and for my individual satisfaction I can
make them act over again the most renowned of their
exploits : the orators declaim to me : the historians
recite, the poets sing : and from the equator to the
pole, or from the beginning of time until now, by my
books I can be where I please.' " Such has been the
effect of the combined powers of man, giving " to each
individual of the civilized millions that cover the earth,
nearly the same enjoyments as if he were the single
lord of all."• Compare these advantages with those
which an individual might possess by his own unaided
powers, and it is evident how ;much more he gains by
the social arrangement than he loses by being. a part
of the great whole. Thus the design of the Creator
will be found to be to produce the largest possible sum
of enjoyment to all, considering individuals not as
individuals, but only as parts of the sensitive creation.
And is it not probable that to practical ignorance of
• Elements of Physics, Introduction, p. 26.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES 011' EVIL. 203
this wise arrangement of nature, and to the tendency
that all have to individualize their enjoyments, may
be attributed much of the moral evil now prevalent
throughout society? Christianity says, " Love your
neighbour as yourself." Nature says, "Love your
neighbour as yourself;" but all our existing social in-
stitutions, based upon the assumption of the reality of
free will and accountability, seem to render this impos-
sible ; and .the pain or evil that nature benevolently
causes man to suffer, that he may be compelled so to
change his ideas and institutions as to make practi-
cable the law of universal brotherhood, has hitherto
been unavailing, apparently, although it has doubtless
set those causes in motion which must ultimately bring
about the desired result. The advantages that ought
to be derived by the race generally from the progress
of civilization, are, for the most part, monopolized by
the few, whose happiness, meanwhile, would be far
better secured if they were made to participate only in
the general well-being. The overgrown wealth which
tempts the possessor to the destruction of the power of
enjoyment which nature gave him, would suffice to call
into healthy and vigorous action those of hundreds,
cramped and stunted under the chilling influence of
want. The sum of ease and leisure which eats into the
soul of the indolent in the lap of luxury, would refresh
the minds, and cheer the spirits, of a multitude whose
incessant toil furnishes the perverted blessing to its
victim. The object and advantage of moral evil, then,
is to extend these advantages to the whole of mankind.
What then, will it be said, are crimes against the
person and property, robberies and murders, good upon
the whole to society ? These evils bear the same
Digitized by Coogle
204 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
relation to the body of Society, as physical evils do to
our own bodies, and are intended for the same pur-
pose-to secure the health and happiness of the system.
Some vital organ is diseased, and the consequent pain
drives the individual to seek a remedy before the
organic functions are destroyed. Robbers and mur-
derers are diseased parts of the body of society, and
the evils resulting from the inroads of such parties,
serve to induce men to look to the causes of crime,
and to apply those measures that are calculated to
restrain it ; thus diminishing by the most direct means
crime, and the suffering thence resulting.
Let us take the case of murder. A man enters a
house, commits a murder upon an old woman, and is
hung for the offence. Now, what benefit results to
society from this ? In an unadvanced state of society
all the benefit would be derived from the effect that the
example might have upon the minds of hundreds of
others, in deterring them from the vices that ultimately
lead to murder, from fear of the suffering to themselves
which must ensue from the act ; and from the increased·
precautions which a hundred other old women would
take to preserve themselves from a simi1ar fate. But
upon a more enlightened state of society the effl'Ct
would be different. The thinking portion of the people
would reflect that a society could not be in a healthy
state which could produce a murderer, and would
search for the cause ; not resting satisfied with ascrib-
ing it to the free-will of the murderer, and supposing
that it was optional with him to commit the act or not.
The cause being traced to the mental organization of
the individual, defective, perhaps, from his birth, and
rendered still more so by constant ('Xposure to baneful
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 205
influences, they would investigate the laws of heredi-
tary descent, and search out the best means of acting
upon an originally defective mind, and would come to
the conclusion, that a good moral and intellectual
edncation bears the same relation to the health and
well-being of society, and to the individuals of which it
is composed, as the sciences of Physical Education and
Medicine do to the health of the body. That an im-
mense amount of happiness would result from any
circumstance that should force mankind to act upon
these considerations is sufficiently obvious, if we reflect
but upon the degree of ignorance and moral evil, and,
consequently, of wretchedness, that must exist in that
diseased branch of society which can produce a mur-
derer; and also upon the natural capabilities of all that
are born into the world to become usefol and happy
members of society, provided that the circmnstances
which act upon' them through life are of a salutary
kind.
But it will be objected, that the good of the sufferers
themselYes is left out of the consideration, and that
they might reasonably demur at thus being made ex-
amples for the good of society. Was it equitable that
the old woman should be murdered, and the murderer
hanged, that the rest of mankind might take warning
from their fate? The consistent Necessitarian will not
hesitate to reply in the affirmative : he will regard
the parties merely as links in the chain of causation,
as atoms of the great mass of sensation which it
appears to be the object of the Deity to produce.
He will reflect that so far from injustice being done to
either, they were each brought into the world, and
made the vehicle of ten thousand more pleasurable
Digitized by Google
206 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
sensations than painful ones, and that without any
desert on their part-the balance of enjoyment, bow-
ever, being, in all probability, greatly in favour of the
old woman-and that although their final sacrifice
could not benefit them, yet during their life-time they
were both gainers by the law that rendered iheir ex-
amples efficacious to the good of society ; for had it
not been for some former example, similar to what the
man himself afterwards furnished, he might have mur-
dered the woman ten years before.
This principle may be further illustrated by another
instance. It has been objected that virtue does not, in
the present state, on all occasions, produce a balance
of good to the virtuous. As a general rule, it is ad-
mitted that it does so, and that when the laws of nature
ha\·e free operation, there are no exceptions; but it is
urged, that since the laws and social institutions of
mankind are at variance with the laws of nature, par-
ticular cases do occur in which a man suffers for acting
virtuously ; and with reference to such cases, it bas
been represented, that God is not just unless a future
state be made to compensate the virtuous sufferer.
We shall consider the rationale of such cases, and we .
think it may be shown that the happiness of a future
state must be as gratuitous as the happiness here, and
that no one is justified in claiming it of the Deity as
the payment of a debt.
"Virtue, to the Necessitarian, means that line of
conduct which, aU things considered~ shall be pro-
ductive of the greatest happiness to all. Now suppose
that in consequence of some human law made for in-
dividual advantage, or the advantage of a class, as too
many of those of the present day are, a person in
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF E''IL. 207
calculating the results of a certain action, perceives
that though it may tend to the advantage of the whole,
yet that he individually must suffer by it. Still the
strength of his moral faculties, his innate love of
virtue, and the persuasion in which he bas been
brought up, that virtue is the best policy, induce him
to choose the virtuous path. What good arises from
his suffering in the cause of virtue ?· Thus much.
The evU he suffers induces him to look to the cause-
he discovers it in the unjust law, and he joins others
who have felt the ill effects of the same law, in oblig-
ing legislators to repeal it. It is in this manner that
the state of society is continually improved. But this
particular individual may not live to enjoy the fruits
of his virtue-how then is he benefited by it P He
has been benefited all his life, by the state of society
in which he has lived having been improved by similar
means. He thus reaps the reward of virtue, though
not of his own individual virtue.
As earthquakes, storms, and hurricanes tend to re-
store the equilibrium of nature's powers, a few suffer-
ing by them, but thousands benefiting, so moral
. tornadoes help to maintain communities in a healthy
state. Let us suppose the case so often repeated in
history, of a people under a despotic government, (the
best form of government that perhaps could have been
adopted in the early stages of society,) having been· re-
duced to a state of slavery and vassalage by the selfish
policy of their rulers, and their masters, an·hereditary
aristocracy-in what way has their emancipation usu-
ally been effected P By nature's mode of relief, the
good of evil. Nothing can repress the innate energy
of the human mind, forced forward by inevitable
Digitized by Coogle
208 THE ORIGIM, OBJECTS, AND
necessity. In a country whose government admits of
improvements, to keep pace with the enlargement of
the human understanding and with the growing wants
of the age, reform of its institutions is the conse-
quence of these wants on the part of the people ; but
in a country whose government admits of no alteration,
where all improvement is resisted, the evils continue
for a longer time ; but ultimately Revolution sweeps
them away, clears the moral atmosphere, and renovates
the Social and Political System.
These causes and effects may all be traced in the
French Revolution of 1789. The reign of terror,
appalling as it was, was the natural consequence of
the conduct of the aristocracy, of the ignorance in
which they had kept the people, and of the oppressions
which they had infficted upon them. By this revolu-
tion, the moral atmosphere of France bas been rendered
far more favourable to the growth of virtue, and, con-
sequently, of enjoyment, to the whole of its inhabitants:
and what are all the horrors that were then perpetrated,
to the increased amount of happiness that has thereby
resulted to above thirty millions of the human race ?
Scarcely as the prick of the lancet, to the enjoyment
of which the body is capable, when restored to health
by a timely oJeratlon.•
• "History, looking back over this France through long time,
back to Turgot's time, for instance, when dumb Drudgery stag-
gered up to ita King's Palace, and in wild expanse of sallow faces,
~~qualor and winged raggedness, presented hieroglyphically ita
Petition of Grievances, and for answer got hanged on a 'new gal-
lows, forty feet high,' confess£'8 mournfully that there is no period
to be met with, in which the Twenty-five Millions of France suf-
fered leu genPrally than in this period which tht>y name Reign of
Digitized by Coogle
ADYANTAGES o.- EVIL. 209
The ~vils of WAR present great difficulties to those
who regard only its immediate effects upon a people or
district ; but to such as study the history of civiliza-
tion, the wars which have accompanied its progress,
appear, not as unmixed gratuitous e\il, but as the means
of working out the benevolent intentions of Pro,idence ;
by fom1ing the character of nations; introducing light
where darkness and night before existed; uniting by
one bond of brotherhood the people of each nation,
formerly consisting of detached individual families or
clans ; breaking down old and useless institutions that
had answered their ends, and now served merely .as
Terror! But it was not the Dumb Millions that suffered here; it
was the Speaking Thousands, and Hundreds, and Units; who
shrieked and published, and made the world ring with their wail,
as they could and should: that is the grand peculiarity. The
frightfullest Birth~ of Time are never the loud-spPaking ones, for
these soon die ; they are the silent onPs, which can live from
century .to century! Anarchy, hateful as Death,. is abhorrent to
the whole nature of man; and so must itself soon die."
" Wherefore let all men know what of depth and of height i~
11till revealed in man ; and with fear and wonder, with just
11ympathy and just antipathy, with clear eye and open heart, con-
template it and appropriate it; and draw innumerable inferencrs
from it. This inferPnce, for example, among the first : That if the
gods of this lower world will sit on their glittering thrones, in-
dolent as Epicurus' gods, with the living Chaos of Ignorance,
Hunger, weltering uncared for at their feet, and smooth Para.,itPs
preaching 'Peace, peace, when there is no pPacP,' then the dark
Chaos, it 'vould seem will rise; bas risen, and 0 heavens! bas it
not turned their skins into breeches for itself? That there be no
11econd Sansculottism in our Earth for a thousand years, let us
understand well what the first was; and let Rich atHI Poor of us
go and do otherwise."-Carlyle's French Re,·olution, vol. 3, p. 434.
cc Mr. Arthur Young has truly described the d~>ploraLll' indigPnce
of the French peasantry prior to the Rc,·olntion, allll the pre3ent
DD
Digitized by Coogle
210 TRB ORIGIN, OBJRCTS, AND
clogs to the advancement and happiness of society ;
by clearing away old and decayed states in which,
from defective institutions and the misgovernment of
ages, the balance of happiness was reversed and turned
against the people. The wars of the Crusades, mad
as they would appear, yet were the means of spreading
throughout Europe the light that broke the bonds of
superstition, and gradually led to the Reformation,
which again contributed to that freedom of inquiry
from which the present advance in science results.
The wars between France and England, notwithstand-
ing their many disastrous consequences, helped to
age baa sufficiently experienced the evils arising from the miserable
condition of the Irish poor. Posterity, however, will not fail to
remark, that the sufferings of the peasantry in France brought
about the Revolution, by which the condition of the labouring poor
waa, in the first instance at leaat, considerably, and, but for the
enormoua aina they committed during its progress would have
been durably improved ; and we are ourselves witneasel\ to the
formidable weight which the Irish people have acquired, since
the redundance of their population has awelled the ranks of the
disaft"ected, and deluged their neighbours with distreas. The
political or imaginary grievanc~s of Ireland might have been
long enough disregarded by the English people : but when she
thundered in the name of seven milliona, they could no longer
be overlooked : her real grievances had for centuries overspread
her own plains with unheeded suffering, but when they filled
the English parishes with paup«.>ra, and the English cities with
destitution, the magnitude of the evil attracted univeraal atten-
tion to the means of ita removal. Five centuries have elapsed since
the English standard waa first planted in Ireland, and English
cupidity laid in the confiscation of ita landed property the dt't'p
foundation of suffering to the one country, and retribution to the
other ; and the mortal hatred shown by the early Irish to the
English power is still unappeased : blood baa ftowed in our days
from the effects of this long resentment, and the empire is now
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OJ' EVIL. 211
strengthen the character of both people, and to give
that spirit and hardihood by which the greatness of
each has been maintained. The wars of the White
and Red Roses, whilst they ravaged our ooUBtry and
weakened the aristocracy, emancipated the people, the
masses, from civil bondage, and led to the formation
of those institutions upon which British &eedom has
been dependent.
"War,'' says Mr. Alison, "is the great instrument
by which the agency of some important laws of nature
is maintained. The increase of mankind in dte pas-
toral regions produces periodical invasions of the agri-
involved in difficulties, chiefty from the numbers, the turbulence,
and the misery of the children of this oppressed race. Towards
nations, if not to individuabl, Providence is truly a jealous
God, and visits the sias of tbe fathers upon the childr-en : in the
consequences which naturally arise from injustice is provided the
punishme11t which its wickedness deeerves: in tbe effects which
flow from its severity, the means of ultimately destroying it. It is
thus, that when the errors in the political system are not great
enough to thin the numbers of the people, and weaken the political
power of the State, they occasion that convulsion at home which
ultimately leads to their removal. The miaery, therefOre, which
ia the immediate cousequenee of the redandant population which
flows from political oppreui()l), is in fact the means which nature
takes to hasten the downfal of the institutions which have occa-
.sioned it; lik~ the swelling of a limb which baa been wounded or
imbibed poisonous matter, it is the effort of nature to discharge
the noxious substance which occasions the lnlft'eriag. The benevo-
lent laWB of aatnre are iDceasaotly operatilag for the goo! of man,
even when their tendency is most mistaken by numerou observers.
At the moment whE>n the mtsery of Ireland was confidently ap-
pE-aled to, as dE'monstrating the unavoidable pressure of population
upon ~SUbsistence, that very misE-ry was the means which she waa
taking to tE'rminate the distresses of the country, and heal the
wounds of the JtOcial system."-Alison on Population, vol. I, p. 247.
Digitized by Coogle
212 THE. ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
cultural or commercial states ; the wealth which fol-
lows a course of peace and prosperity attracts from
afar the rapacity of northern ambition. During the
rise of civilization, the superiority of discipline and art
is sufficient to repel the danger. The Cimbri, whom
Marius destroyed on the plains of Lombardy, and
the Helvetii, whom Cresar vanquished in the defiles
of the Jura, were not less formidable than the armie~
which, under Alaric and Totila, O\"erthrew the empir~..
It is the decay of military virtue which exposes civi-
lized states to destruction from the efforts of their
barbarous neighbours. Their fall does not take place
till they have conferred all the benefits on mankind of
which they were capable, and till their further continu-
ance would be a misfortune to humanity. The de-
struction of Nineveh by the Medes, of Babylon by the
Persians, of Rome by the Goths, and of Constantinople
by the Turks, served only to extinguish so many
branches of the human race, in which age had withered
the sinews of virtue, and prosperity exhausted the
sources of happiness." •
Upon the same subject Mr. Combe observes, "There
is more of benevolent arrangement in the tendency of
savage and barbarous tribes, to wage furious wars with
each other than at first sight appears. The Irish pea-
.santry are still barbarous in their minds and habits,
·and but for the presence of a large army of civilized
men, who preserve the peace, they would fight and
exterminate each other. It is questionable whether
the miseries that would attend such a course of action
would exceed those which are actually endured from
• On Population, vol. 1, p. 268·.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 213
starvation. The bane of Irelandis, that her population
has increased far more rapidly than her capital, mo-
rality, and knowledge. Where a nation is left to follow
its own course, this does not occur. Dissension keeps
down the numbers, until intelligence, capital, and in-
dustry take the lead. England prevented the Irish
from fighting, but she did little to improve them." •
These are some of the effects of Evil considered
~ith reference to society as a whole : with respect
to the individuals of which the social body is composed,
the subject has been partially considered in treating of
Rewards and Punishments.
SECTION II.
PAIN NECESIU.RY AS A MOTIYE AND STIMULUS TO ACTION.
The greater part of mankind being imbued with a
notion that the will is free, are in the habit of regard-
ing more the objects and ends of actions, than the
causes which originate them; intent chiefly upon results,
the delicate and wonderful machinery that produceM
these results is comparati,·ely unnoticed. A large part
of that which is called " evil" in the world consists
of nothing more than the wants, the desires, that
furnish the motives to action, and without which we
could not maintain our existence for a day. All the
faculties of man, when active, constitute wants or
desires. Thus he wants food, he wants some one to
love, and who shall love him in return ; he wants the
• Ltcturea on Moral Philo~ophy, p. 2'28.
Digitized by Coogle
214 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
approbation of his fellows, he wants to see every one
receive that which is his due; his happiness consists in
the gratification of these and of his other wants, and
pain results when from any cause they remain ungrati-
fied. But these wants are the impelling forces which
irresistibly set him iu motion, securing an infinite diver-
sity in the direction of his powers, and a ne¥er-ceasing
succession of sensations.
Some of man's most pressing wants ha'f'e relation to
the very presenation of his existence, the appetite for
food, for instance : and although man might have been
made to live without sustenance, freedom from all lia-
bility to the pains of hunger would not compensate for
the loss of the pleasures of appetite. Nor would the
prh·ilege of requiring no bread, be equal to the advan-
tage man derives from the Jaw of nature which compels
him to earn it by the sweat of his brow. For nature has
enjoined no more labour than is pleasurable and neces-
sary for the health of man: unjust laws and regulations
with respect to the distribution of the products of
labour, compel the majority to toil more than is con-
sistent with health or happiness ; but more fatal than
unjust laws would it be to the well-being of society, if
all necessity for exertion were abrogated. Laing, in his
"Journal of a residence in Norway," observes: "The
food best for a country is clearly that which it requires
the greatest exertion of industry and skill to produce.
That which requires but little of such exertion, as
potatoes, would undoubtedly, reduce a nation to a low
state of industry and skill. Those are in the wrong
path who would reduce the rate of pauperism in Eng-
laud by reducing the standard of subsistence for the
poor. If the English labourers, instead of considering
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF E''IL. 215
wheaten bread and meat necessary for their proper
subsistence, were to be contented with potatoes and
salt herrings, the increase of pauperism among them
would be.in proportion to the diminished value of their
food, and the ease of obtaining it." " Potatoes are the
worst food for a nation to subsist on, because in pro-
portion to theif nutriment as food, they require less
labour, less exertion of body and mind to bring them
to a state of food than any other article of human
culture. The planting and digging-up, the boiling or
baking, are almost the only operations required with
the potato ; and therefore, the nation which is satisfied
with a potato diet must be in a state of sloth and
inactivity, bodily and mental. The most complicated
manufacture, perhaps, which we have among mankind,
and which in all its parts requires the most continual
exertion of human industry and skill, is the production
of a quartem loaf from a few seeds of wheat put into
the ground."*
Thus necessity is the mother of invention. The
ordinary and common wants of our nature, of food,
clothing, and lodging, always recurring and never
satisfied, set man in motion, bring into action all the
powers of his mind, and call for that exercise which
is as necessary to the mental powers as aliment to the
body. Locke says, "all our actions owe their rise to a
state of uneasiness," which uneasiness is more or less
intolerable as the action to which it would urge us is
more or less important. The disposition to activity
increases with exercise, so that the common wants of
our nature being supplied, fresh desires arise, in the
gratification of which fresh happiness is found. Look
• Page 45.
Digitized by Coogle
216 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
at the endless pursuits of man, at the thousand new
desires consequent upon a state of civilization which
keep him ever occupied The more he does, the more
he seems disposed to do ; and it may with truth be
said that never is be so happy as when every moment
has its full employment. Take away the common
wants of our nature, and you take away that which
produces all this actinty. So that these const$ntly
recurring wants, so far from being infirmities in the
body of society, are its very principle of life, the source
of aU its health and enjoyment.
It is not uncommon to hear the solid and perfect
happiness of the future state described as consisting
in total rest, inactivity, aud freedom from all wants
and desires; but whatever may be the case in the un-
known world, constituted as we are with respect to
this, we can conceive of no possible degree of happi-
ness resulting fi·om such a state; for all our ideas of
enjoyment are ideas of wants gratified ; and man is
unquestionably the gainer by being surrounded perpe-
tually by wants, more than be is the loser from their
occasional non-gratification.
E\il, then, is the result of the necessary limitation
of our faculties, and the correctiYe of those unregu-
lated desires which rush towards gratification without
yielding to the guidance of reason. According to this
Yiew it is obvious that pain is a most bene,·olent dis-
pensation, without which our bodies could not be kept
in that state which would render them capable of en-
joyment ; no means of knowing or avoiding what
would injure us would be ours; and none of our motives
would be sufficiently strong to induce us to seek our
own wclt-..re.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 217
The ordinary idea of philosophical Christians differs
apparently but little from this view of the nature of
evil, nz., that it is permitted by an All-wise Providence,
and that in His bands, it on all occasions tends to good ;
that it is the means of the improvement and purifica-
tion of our characters, and a preparation for a future
state. But there is considerable practical difference
between the two Yiews. Pain, says the advocate of
one, is intended to prepare you for a future state ; bear
it therefore with resignation, looking to a hereafter
for the reward of your patience. Pain, says the ad-
vocate of the other, is the invariable intimation that
you have disobeyed some of the Creator's laws upon
which happiness is dependent here; look to its cause,
therefore, and remo\'e it.
But the question may arise here, if e,·il results from
ignorance, could not an Omniscient and Omnipotent
God have interposed on all occasions, by a special
providence, to prevent the ill effect, and thus pain have
been spared to us ? Granting that He could do so, our
own limited faculties are sufficient to show us, that in
thus depriling us of evil, we should have been deprived,
at the same time, of a much larger amount of good.
It is even doubtful whether happiness could have been
produced at all, in such a case ; for, in the first place,
man would be left without sufficientstimulus to exertion,
and would consequently ha\"e remained in the savage
state, all advances in chrilization having been caused
by "necessity, the mother of invention;" besides, if
the ill effects of misconduct were always ol"er-ruled
hy a special providence, and man were always protected
from its painful consequences, he would have no interest
in rectifying his error, neither would there be any
EE
Digitized by Coogle
218 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
means of distinguishing good from evil. In the second
place, were the Deity to interfere with the established
laws of nature, either physical, moral, or intellectual :
man's highest prerogative, his reasoning power, would
no longer be of any use; it could no longer be exer-
('ised ; for this immediate interference of Providence
would prevent the same effects from following the same
causes,. and the exercise of reason, as before shown,
is nothing but the adaptation of our own conduct to
invariable sequences.
Prayer, therefore, is rational only so far as it bas a
tendency to answer itself; as a cause to produce the
effect ; or rather, as a motive for us to apply the
natural means which God Himself has appointed to
bring about that which is desired. We desire phy-
sical blessings-we may suppose the answer to our
prayer to be- study the laws of Nature; certain causes
bare been appointed that inmriably produce the result
you require. In finding out these you will derive as
much happiness, as in the effects they are ('alculated
to produce. Happiness consists as much in the search
after good as in the enjoyment of it. To our petition
for· moral blessings-study the nature of man, and
obey the laws which are appointed to produce them.
Would we receive our daily bread-it is in accordance
with all our best interests that it should be furnished
only as the result of our applying the natural means
to obtain it-and in the same mode is it most ex-
pedient for us that the kingdom of God should be
advanced on earth.
There is another question connected with this subject
which can scarcely be omitted, as it is one of consider-
able difficulty in the minds of many, riz., since Evil
Digitized by Coogle
•
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 219
arises from the necessity of experience to the guidance
of reason, is not reason a fatal gift ? Would not
man's happiness hal"e been better secured had all his
desires been guided by instinct infallibly to their
objects ? There is, perhaps, no term used more in-
definitely, or with a greater variety of significations
then the word Instinct. It is used by some to express
the cause of aJI the actions of animals, as a motive
power to which we find nothing similar in ourselves.
The correct definition of it is, perhaps, that it is an
innate propensity, impelling the animals endowed with
it to act conformably to the objects o( their being
without intention or purpose. The Author of the
Natura) History of Enthusiasm says, " The reader
need not be reminded that the application of the word
lnMtinct comprehensh·ely, and without distinction,· to
aU the actions of the brute orders, is a popular impro-
priety. One might as well call all the actions of man
rdtional, as all of the inferior order instinctive. When
an animal acts in a manner, which differs in no essen-
tial circumstance to a corresponding action in man, a
delusion must be engendered by applying to the two
actions different terms. We should confine the word
Instinct to those instances in which a course rational
as to its end, is pursued by a voluntary agent, under
circumstances that forbid the supposition that it springs
from a perception or calculation of the connexion of
means and end. The instance usually adduced, that
of the construction of the honey-comb, is one of the
most popular that can be named, especially because it
io,·ol\"'es some of the higheMt and most abstruse princi-
ples of geometry. Philosophical writers mu~t be
understood to use the words reason and instinct in a
o;gitizedbyGoogle .-
220 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
popular sense, when attributing one to man as his
prerogative, and the other to the brute as his blind
faculty. The terms reason and instinct thus vaguely
used mean, more reason and less reason. For if the
brutes were altogether destitute of reason and liberty,
in the same sense in which the bee is destitute of both
in building her cells, rewards and punishments would
have no operation or efficiency."
Again, Spurzheim observes, " It is an error to say
that animals act solely by instinct. It is true that
some of their doings, such as the labours of insects,
are the result of mere instinctiYe powers, but many
animals modify their actions according to external cir-
cumstances; they even select one among different
motives. A dog may be hungry, but with the oppor-
tunity he will not eat, because he remembers the blows
he has received for having done so under similar cir-
cumstances. If, in following his master, he is
separated from him by a carriage, he does not throw
himself under the feet of the horses or its wheels, but
waits till it is passed, and then by increasing his speed
he overtakes his master.
"This shows that some animals act with understand-
ing. On the other hand, though new-born children
.cry, and suck the finger, they certainly do not act
from understanding. And if men of great genius
manifest talents without knowing that such faculties
exist, if they calculate, sing, or draw, without any
tuition, do they not so by some internal impulse or
instinct, as well as the animals that sing, build, migrate,
and gather provisions? Instinct, then, is not confined
to animals, and understanding is not a prerogati,·e of
mankind."•
• Philosophical Principles of Phrenology, p. 3.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 221
As far as we can judge of the nature of il;lstinct by
its operation in animals, it appears to be a power
impelling them to act perfectly in cme single direction
UJitlwut intention qr purpose, without any perception of
the connexion of means and ends, and consequently
not at all capable of adapting itself to circumstances.
If, therefore, man were to be governed entirely by
instinct, in order to his possessing the liberty of action
that he now enjoys, he would require ten thousand at
least. BJit all tho instincts with which we are
acquainted we find acting by means of organization ;
and a brain containing the organs of ten thousand in-
stincts would, it is to be feared, be inconceivably large.
It is not for us to set limits to Almighty Power, and to
say that the Creator coul<l not have go,·erne<l man by
infallible instinct ; but we can only reason respecting
what He would do from what He bas <lone. l\lan is a
creature possessing a mriety of instincts, which give
him his purpose and disposition to act; but instead of
their being directed to their objects in one unvarying
manner, they are put under the charge of a gene-
ralizing instinct, which we call reason, and which
gives to each a liberty of acting in a hundred different
ways, calling at the same time our other feelings into
sympathetic action. It must be evident that thh~ i8 a
means of increasing our sensations a hundre<l-fol<l, and
it is the aggregate of pleasurable sensations that con-
stitutes happiness. It might be demonstrated also that
the e,·il, or the painful sensations resulting from the
wrong direction which our Instincts sometime~ take,
are not in the proportion of one to a hundred of the
extra sensations we receive.
Suppose appetite in man, as in the lower animals,
o;9;ozedbyGoogle ~
222 THE ORIGIN; OBJECTS, AND
infallibly directed him to eat only at proper times, and
in proper quantities, of such things as are most whole-
some, the many e\""ils bodily and mental, which arise
from gluttony and drunkenness, would be spared, but
man would lose the Yaried plea.'Jures of the taste, with
all the sympathetic pleasures which accompany its
gratification.
Take another instance, the love of offspring. Sup-
po~e that children could run about as soon as they
were born, and were protected by the perfection of
their instinct.'J; much trouble in nursing would be
saved, and all the e,·iJs of physical mismanagement;
but all the pleasures, the hopes and fears, joys and
t;Orrows, of parental solidtude would be lost. Perhaps
nothing shows more the folly of those who would
take the place of the AImighty and make a better
jo:ystem, than the fact that the pleasures derh·able from
o.ff..~pring, more intense perhaps than any other, depend,
in a great measure, upon what may be called the evil
of the helplessness of the object.
Happiness is made up of units, of single plea.'Jurable
sensations, and the object of nature is to bring man
into such circumstances as shall produce a constant
succession of such sensations ; and eYen if they are
partially painful, they are preferable to the pains of
ennui, " which is the absence of sensations sufficiently
acute to engage attention." Habitual sensations also
arc too weak to avert ennui, and none but habitual
H(~mmtions could be experienced by us if we were
J!Hirled hy infallible instincts without the diversifying
pmn•r of reason ; for n.ll progression would cease, and
co:nparath·e stagnation wou!d be the consequence.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 223
SECTION III.
ON THE EVILS CONSEQUENT UPON THE VARIETIES OF
CONDITION AMONG MANKIND.
That the present form of Society in which such
great inequalitic.~ of condition exist, is a necessary
stage in its progre~s, no one can doubt. Inequality of
property in the early ages of mankind, when, from the
imperfection of machinery, incessant human labour
was required to supply even the necessaries of life, was
indispensable, in order that one class might be absoh·ed
from such physical labour, and thus have leisure to
cultivate their higher moral and intellectual powers for
the guidance and gol"ernance of the rest. The present
form of society, of which the vast inequality of con-
ditions is the distinguishing feature, although not cal-
culated to produce anything like the amount of happi-
ness of which man is capable, is undoubtedly the form
best adapted for calling out all his powers and energies
for the conquest of nature, and for the overcoming of
those difficulties which hinder the advancement of the
race. No occupation is too degrading for man to
undertake, so that be may but live : for to live be
considP.rs necessary : nothing is too difficult for him if
it enable him to rise in the artificial scale of Society :
no toil and trouble too great to prevent his falling.
The competition for the means of subsistence calls out
cl"ery physical energy of the majority of mankind : the
competition for rank and consideration developes every
mental power of the remainder.
This competition of indh·iduals, each to mise
Digitized by Coogle
224 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
himself. each to improYe his own condition, although
productive of much evil and loss of happiness to the
present generation, is yet the shortest road to a better
and more perfect state of Society. The present may
be looked upon as a probationary state, in which neces-
sity, or the desire of distinction-of some place in the
world's esteem, engages all in the development of those
resource!:~, which shall giYe man unlimited control over
the powers of Nature, and leave to the generations
which are to come the necessity for no more bodily
labour than health requires, allowing to all, not merely
to a small prhileged class, time for intellectual and
moral pursuits and enjoyments.
Such seems to be the direct good arising out of the
present state of Society. Nor are the pains or evils
nttending the great inequalities of condition so great
as would at first appear; for in nothing are the wisdom
and benevolence of the Deity more manifest, than in
that constitution of the mind which makes these varie-
ties of condition interfere so little with the mass of
happiness of which human nature is susceptible. It
may suit some creeds to represent the misery of the
world as greater than it is ; and the prevailing
ignorance of the constitution of the mind, and of
the consequent conditions of happiness, may cause
such exaggerated statements to be believed ; but
those who speak of this world as "a barren wil-
dcmess, a Yale of tears, the mere passage to a better,"
can scarcely acquit themselves of the charge of base
ingratitude to their Creator, who bas so constituted
them that they must receive a balance of happiness
whether they will or not ; for there are few or none
hut must confcs::, if they calculate the predominance
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 225
of their pleasurable sensations over their painful ones,
that they have had "years of joy for hours of sorrow."
"No man," says a popular writer, "can judge of the
happiness of another ; as the moon plays upon the
wave8, and seems to our eyes to favour with a peculiar
beam one long track amidst the waters, leaving the
rest in comparative obscurity : yet all the while ·she
is no niggard of her lustre-for though the rays that
meet not our eyes seem to us as though they were not,
yet she with an equal and unfavouring loveliness
mirrors herself upon every wave ; even so, perhaps,
Happiness falls with the same brightness and power
over the whole expanse of life, though to our limited
eyes, she seems only to rest on those billows from
which the ray is reflected back upon our sight."•
In all the various worldly conditions in which man-
kind are placed, there is less difference with respect to
the amount of happiness enjoyed than would at first
sight appear. Nature, as if to force men to expel
from society the extremes of both poverty and riches,
has made evils to attend both estates.
Happiness consists in the gratification of our wants,
and in the legitimate exercise of all our faculties ; and
its quantity is to be estimated by the number of plea-
surable sensations, as compared with, or after deduct-
ing, the painful ones. To estimate the difference of
condition as regards happiness, is, then, to calculate
the different sources of pleasurable sensation that are
open to each state, to rich and poor. An erroneous
estimate is generally made from not pursuing this
method, and from forming our judgment upon the
• Bulwer.
FF
Digitized by Google
226 THE ORIGIN, OB.JKCTS, AND
amount of painful or pleasurable sensations which we,
with our present feelings, should experience upon being
transferred to this or that condition. In this case, the
change from one condition to another is the chief
source of pain or pleasure occupying our thoughts :
whereas, in order to form a just estimate of the
feelings of another in any particular circumstances, it
is necessary that we should have been in his situation
for an equal length of time, aud not that we should
immediately transfer ourselves from our present state
of feeling and thinking. te his.
The poor man is bom in the condition in which we
find him, · and those things that would be incon-
veniences and pains io the rich are unobserved by
him, since be bas known no other state. Health is
much more essential to his happiness than riches, for
that leaves almost all the natural sources of plea-
surable sensation open to him, that are open to the
rich man. Thus the pleasures of benevolence, or of
sympathy in the happiness of others ; those arising
from the constant diseharge of duty ; the pleasures of
religion ; of hope ; of the imagination and memory ;
of self-approbation and the approbation of others ;
of the social affections, consisting of the lo-re for wife,
children, and friends ; of eating and drinking-(appe-
tite making up for the want of delicacies) are all inde-
pendent of riches, being the natural heritage of all.
Each individual, by the benevolent dispensation of
Providence, whatever his circumstances in life, is sur-
rounded by a cirele in which all his feelings may be
brought into pleasurable excitement. Society consists
of an aggregate of such circles, to one or other of
which we all belong. It is with those within our own
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 227
circle that we sympathise, it is their approbation we
desire, it is their public opinitm that directs our con-
duct, and in forming an estimate of our own condition,
we compare it with the condition of those within this
little boundary. Each finds a source of contentment
in there being still some one below him, and few would
exchange conditions, all things considered, with any
other individual.
Although pleasurable sensations are not thus neces-
sarily dependent upon riches, they are to a great
degree dependent upon Mora] and Intellectual culture ;
intellectual that shall direct each feeling to its legiti-
mate object, and moral that shall make inclination
accord with such direction, so that each feeling may
be exercised in accordance with the good of others.
If this be not done, Nature's law is broken, and pain
ensues as the inevitable consequence of the infringe-
ment. It is more in amount than in kind that the
difference as to happiness consists ; for pleasurable
sensations, arising from the gratification of the wants
of either rich or poor, are about equal in intensity ;
but the ignorant man, of either class, has appended to
his pleasures a large amount of future pains.
Let it not be forgotten in the estimate of this
subject, " that habit renders labour, when not too
severe, agreeable, • • • that by a law of our
nature, a state of action is more conducive to happi-
ness than a state of rest, for employment gives pleasure
to every moment. • • • That want is the principle
of activity and happiness in maQ, and that when we
ha,-e obtained what we want, there is no longer a
desire for it, and the mind is conMequently inactive.
This account!i for there being more pleasure in the
Digitized by Google
228 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
pursuit than in the possession of the object of our
desires. Thus it is not when we have acquired a
fortune, but in the acquiring it, it is not in having no
wants, but in the satisfying them, not in having been
prosperous, but in prosperity, that happiness consists."•
The evils attendant upon Wealth, although of a
di.ff'erent kind, are perhaps as great as those that wait
upon Poverty. The very absence of those wants that
press too heavily upon the poor, obliging them to
labour incessantly, is frequently the cause of the
inactivity of mind, the ennui, the absence of sufficient
stimulus to exertion, that deprives the rich man of so
much enjoyment. Not having the wants of the poor
man, he cannot always replace them with others ; like
the man who is never hungry, and who consequently
loses the pleasure derived from the gratification of ap-
petite. t From the want of the habit of constant employ-
ment, every trifling exertion becomes a painful labour,
and the effort required to secure any great pleasure, or
to carry out any high moral purpose, if made at all, is
made with aversion. It is a secret mankind have yet
to learn, that if they would be constantly happy, it
must be in the legitimate gratification of their natural
* Helvetius on Man.
t " The vices of the great will commonly be found to arise from
one cause ; the experienced necessity of supplying by artificial
excitation for the absence of that daily labour which constitutes at
once the destiny and the blessing of mankind. The childish
extravagance of Moscow, the incessant trifling of Milan, the
habitual gallantry of Paris, the ruinous expenses of London, are
the different directions which, according to the natural tempera-
ment, the incesllant dellire for occupation and excitement has
taken."-Alison on Population, vol. 1, p. 298.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OP EVIL. 229
feelings, and .not in the gratification of artificial wants,
which can, in general, only be satisfied by the over-
strained labour of the multitude. From the multiplica-
tion of such artificial wants, " the happiness of the rich
man is like a complicated machine, some parts of
which are always out of order. • • • Nature's plea-
sures are the purest, are attained at the least expense,
and are always at hand." •
It is usual in estimating the evils in the world, to
take them in mass, to put together the wars, and mur-
ders, and crimes of centuries, as generally collected in
the pages of history, and to say-Behold the picture
of our race-but this is an unfair representation ; and
if the evil belonging to any particular period were
analyzed, and compared with the aggregate of good
enjoyed during the same period, the latter would
be found greatly to predominate. History makes
mention chiefly of the evil ; this is thought the best
worth recording, as being the most unusual ; the na-
tural state, the happiness that is noiselessly enjoyed
during the same period, passes unnoticed. So it is
with respect to the generality of individuals ; every
• Helvetius
How little happiness is rPally dependent upon artificial wants
i11 evident if we consider " That the highest objects of luxury, in
one age, become comforts to the one which succeeds it, and are
considered as absolute necessaries in the lapse of a few generations.
'fhe houses which are now inhabited by the lowest of the populace,
were the abodes of rank and opulence three centuries ago ; the
floors strewed with llUihes, which were the mark of dignity under
the Plantagenet princes, would now be rt>jectcd even by the inmatE's
of workhou11es ; and the vegetables which were known only to the
Court of Queen Elizabeth, are now to be Keen in thl' garden of every
English labourer."-.!lison on Population, vol. I, p. 104.
Digitized by Coogle
230 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
misfortune, enn·y pain, is distinctly remembered ; the
enjoyment is forgotten : although each must admit, if
candid, that the latter has far exceeded the suffering.
Let a person examine the state of his own feelings
under some severe dispensation, ·under some great loss
or affliction, and he will find that such is the natural
constitution of the mind, that it expands from under
the pressure, in spite even of an effort to keep it down.
Let us take the most miserable day of our lh·es, and
divide fairly the sensations experienced in its course
into painful and pleasurable ones, and there are few
but must admit that the pleasurable predominate.
Even with respect to cases of acute disease, of se\·ere
bodily sufferinl!:, this would be found to be the truth
more frequent(y than is commonly imagined. From
the account given of such suffering afterwards we
form our idea of it as continuous ; but such is seldom
the case ; frequently long intermls occur, free from
pain, and are, by contrast, amongst the sweetest mo-
ments of existence, but f'rom the v-ery reason of their
being unmarked by acute sensation, are soon lost
to the memory. The body is only capable of bearing
a certain portion of suffering, and if pain finally tri-
umph, no respite being allowed by which the frame
may recover strength to endure its next assaults, death
speedily and mercifully arrives to release the sufferer
from such an undesirable condition.
The writer quoted at the commencement of this
Chapter, observes, " In the estimate of the ills of life,
we never sufficiently take into consideration the won-
derful elasticity of our moral frame, the unlooked-for,
the startling facility with which the human mind ac-
commodates itself to all changes of circumstances,
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EYIL. 231
making an object and even a joy from the hardest and
seemingly the least redeemed conditions of fate. The
man who watched the spider in his cell, may have taken
at least as much interest in the watch, as when engaged
in the most ardent and ambitious object of his former
life ; and he was but a type of his brethren ; all in
similar circumstances would have found some similar
occupation. Let any man look over his past life, be
will find that the dreary present, once made familiar,
glided away from him as if it bad been all happiness ;
his mind dwelt not on the long intervals, but on the
stepping-stones it had created and placed at each; and
by that moral dreaming which for ever goes on within
man's secret heart, he lives as little in the immediate
world before him, as in the most sanguine period of
his youth, or the most scheming of his maturity."
Mr. Alison, after speaking of the evils of mis-
gol·ernment, as already quoted, says, " Nor is it to
be imagined that the happiness of the individuals
·who are subjected to despotic government, is neces-
sarily sacrificed during the effort of Nature. to throw
off the load which oppresses it. The same impro-
vidence and diMregard of the future, which is the
immediate cause of the growth of a redundant popu-
lation, afford sources of enjoyment to the individual,
unknown in civilized life, and softens the stroke of
suffering to a degree which can hardly be conceived in
more prosperous states. It is by supposing the sub-
jects of such governments actuated with our feelings,
desires, and habits, that their condition appears so
unhappy. We forget that Nature has accommodated
the human mind to all the circumstances in which
mankind can be placed, under the varied physical and
Digitized by Coogle
232 THE ORIGIN, OB.JBCTS, .AND
political circumstances of the species, and that instincts
and gratifications to us unknown, compensate to them
for the want of those enjoyments which to us appear
indispensable. The country of Europe where distress
appears in its more aggravate.d form is Ireland; and
Persia is the dynasty of the East, where desolation and
misrule have longest prevailed : yet every person who
has visited the former country has observed the uniform
cheerfulness and joyous habits of the peasantry ; a very
competent observer has expressed a doubt whether
the people of Persia do not enjoy life as much as in
the more civilized and laborious states of Europe ; and
the able author who has demonstrated that it is in the
purity of domestic life, and simplicity of manners in
the East, that the real antidote to the whole political
evils to which they have so long been subjected is to
be found, has confidently asserted the opinion, that the
average amount of human happiness and virtue is not
less in the East than the West. The French peasantry
danced apd sung in the midst of the political evils
which led to the Revolution ; and even under the hor-
rors of West India slavery, the evening assemblies of
the Negroes present a specimen of temporary felicity,
rarely witnessed amidst the freedom or luxury of their
oppressors. The freedom from anxiety, the sweetness
of momentary gratification, the relaxation from labour
which result from the prevalence of habits of improvi-
dence, frequently compensate to the individual for the
dear-bought comforts of prosperous life, while suffering
loses half its bitterness by never being foreseen, and
misfortune half its severity by being speedily forgotten.
'In peace of body,' says Mr. Smith, ' all ranks of men
are nearly upon a level, and the beggar who suns him-
...
Digitized by Google
ADVANTAGBS OF EVIL. 233
self by the highway, possesses the security that kings
are fighting for.' ''
Thus happiness is little dependent upon situation or
circumstances, for, as is so justly observed, "we make
an object and even a joy from the hardest and seemingly
the least redeemed conditions of fate." Our feelings
and faculties are capable of an almost infinite variety
of direction; deprive them of one class of stimulants
and they will soon make others for themselves. The
greatest amount of toil, privation, and suffering, which
the law adjudges to criminals as a punishment for hei-
nous offences, is not more than that endured by thou-
sands whom the division of labour, and the present
artificial state of society, compel to seek a subsistence
in mines or in some of our factories ; and yet the hard
drudgery of these latter being, in some sense, voluntary,
is submitted to with cheerfulness, and the indhiduals
are comparatively contented and enjoy a large balance
of happiness. Instances might be brought forward of
pleasure being found even in death ; of fanaticism and
enthusiasm overcoming bodily torment ; witness the
bearing of the Christian martyrs; of the Hindoo who
immolates himself under the chariot-wheels of Jugger-
naut ; of the Mahometan who dies fighting for his
Prophet ; nor should the followers of Odin be forgot-
ten, who sang hymns in praise of death, with nothing
better to inspire their song than the hope of drinking
beer out of the skulls of their enemies, in the palace
of Odin.
It will be found that most real misery and poignant
sorrow, is experienced, not in any fixed course of life,
however comfortless and undesirable, but in passing
GG
Digitized by Coogle
234o TRB ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
from one condition to another ; and that the intensity
of the feeling will materially depend upon the sudden-
ness of the change. How small a part these changes
make of our existence, is evident to every one who bas
no motive for misrepresenting our condition, and who
feels but ordinary gratitude for the numberless blessings
be enjoys, and the wonderful adaptation of his consti-
tution to its end-the production of happiness.
But although there is this general equalizing ten-
dency in the distribution of happiness ; although Nature
has evidently intended that there shall be a balance of
enjoyment to all that breathe ; it must be admitted that
great inequalities do nevertheless exist, depending upon
Health, Organization, Circumstances, and Education.
The present state of society contains the representatives
of all the various stages of civilization, from the most
grovelling ignorance and physical destitution which has
scarcely gained tbe first step in the ascent, to the highest
round of enjoyment, mental and bodily, which the
registered experience of ages bas placed within the
reach of mankind. There cannot be a doubt that he
to whom birth and circumsta.f!ces have allotted this
enviable position in society, who, while every imagin-
. ·able physical want is supplied without care on his part,
has leisure and inclination to cultivate his highest
faculties, and to revel amongst the stores of literature
and science whleh offer a continual feast to the man of
taste and fortune, enjoys a happiness superior to that of
the " poor child of toilt who is not the less a loser by
being debarred from tbe legitimate gratifications of the
opulent and educated, that be is totally unconscious of
what be is deprived. And here the question arises-
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OP EVIL. 235
Admitting that the state of the world is consistent with
Benevolence, is this inequality of conditions equally
consistent with Justice?
It is thought that in order to reconcile the present
inequalities with the justice of God, a future state of
existence in another world is necessary, where those
whose happiness had fallen short in this, as compared
with that of others, might be duly compensated for the
deficiency. And this argument is adduced by many
as one of the strongest that reason affords for our
existence in a future state. But since we can only
judge of the attributes of God by what we see and
know of His works, are we not bound to admit, that if
He cannot be proved to be just with respect to this
world, there is no evidence that he will be so in an-
other. Admitting, however, that justice is proved to
be the actuating principle of the Deity, let us consider
how its claims would ba satistie<l by this system of
compensation in another life. Who, upon the plea of
ju8tice, must become the inhabitants of heaven? The
wicked, not the good. For, granting that all actions
are necessary, those of the wicked man could not have
been other than they werf,'l, qnder the circumstances in
which he was placed ; and the natural consequence of
vicious actions being loss of enjoyment, be has already
suffered from a great deficiency of happiness in the
present state. And such having been the lot assigned
to him here, ought be still to be among the most
unhappy in another world? Tbis question iii answered
by many in the affirmative, on the ground that punish-
ment in another state will have the 8ame benewlt'nt
ohjcct that it ha:; here, viz., reformation ; and that hy
Digitized by Coogle
236 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
its means, evil-doers will be fitted for the enjoyment of
eternal bliss, to which the preparatory suffering will
bear no comparison. But if suffering in the unseen
world is to act upon individuals according to the same
laws by which it operates here, it must be of long, of
very long duration, before it effect its object of ren-
dering the proper occupant of hell, a pure and suitable
inhabitant of heaven. And, if we may, without irre-
verence, employ reason upon such a subject, the long
and painful process would appear to be perfectly gra-
tuitous ; as, in the re-organization of a being for a
future state, the leaving out of the causes that led to
vice would seem to be the most direct means of amend-
ment. Such causes we have seen to be dependent
upon the organization of the individual, and the cir-
cumstances in which he is placed. The propensities,
sentiments, and intellectual faculties of which the mind
consists, are, so far as respects the majority of them,
adapted only to a world like the present ; and if a
future state is to be unlike the present, they also must
undergo a corresponding alteration. If there is to be
no marrying and giving in marriage ; no offspring ; no
difficulties and dangers ; no death ; then many of our
mental faculties will have no use. So also, if the order
and constitution of things in another world resemble
not exactly those to which we have been accustomed
here, the knowledge acquired on earth will be unavail-
able. For knowledge is nothing but experience of the
qualities and properties of· things ; of the order in
which they follow each other, and their relations to our
peculiar constitution, and it would consequently be of
no use were such laws changed. Why then must a
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 237
long probation in a future state be necessary ? Why,
in the re-organization that must take place, could not
the mind be divested of those qualities that have led
to vice here, without the aid of suffering ? Or might
we not even ask, why would not the creation of another
more perfect being answer the benevolent design of
the Creator, as well as the re-organization of the same?
Such subjects, however, not being matters of expe-
rience, but of speculation, are best left to individual
opinion. It is enough, if no opinions are entertained
at variance with the one great truth that all nature
proclaims, viz., the BeneV"oleoce of our Creator; for
we may then leave ourselV"es with unbounded confidence
to His disposal, feeling certain, that whateV"er mode of
government will best promote the happiness of the
whole of His creatures, that He will pumue; and none
but the ungrateful and selfish would desire otherwise.
But the Necessitarian does not require to call in the
aid of another world, in order to reconcile the state of
things here with perfect justice on the part of the
Author and Disposer of all things. He believes that
the scheme of Providence is to produce the largest sum
of enjoyment upon the whole ; and, everything pos-
sessing sensation being taken into the estimate, that
God has given to every creature the situation best
adapted for that purpose. A brute, therefore, had he
sense to compare conditions, has just as much reason
to complain that he is not a man, as mao, that he is
not higher in the scale of intelligence. Had man's
possession of a higher degree of intelligence been con-
ducive to the greater happiness of the whole sensitive
creation, he may rest assured it would ha,·e been given
to him ; more he ought not to desire.
DigitizudbyGoogle .........
238 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
· The arrangement by which man, for his own interest,
provides for the happiness of so many of the animal
creation, is a beautiful illustration of this tendency in
the natural laws to ensure the largest sum of enjoyment.
He spreads the verdant mead, and lays out pleasure
grounds for the horse, the ox, the sheep, the deer; and
the pang that deprives them of existence, is as nothing
compared to their life of enjoyment. Were there no
men to till the ground, the earth would not maiatain a
thousandth part of the animals that it does at present,
and the want of cultivation would also unfit it for the
mass of living insect enjoyment with which it now
8Warms.• We cannot turn our eyes in any direction in
which pleasurable sen8ation is not spread around ;
every leaf, every blade of grass, the atmosphere, the
waters, swarm with creatures in a state of positive hap-
piness, the collective sum of which, perhaps, may
equal the aggregate of that of the whole human race.
The happiness of an individual must be subservient to
that of the human race, and the human race is again
only a part of the great whole of animated existence,
and man's situation and position on this earth must
• The animals killt•d weekly in England for the consumption of
man, are probably more than the whole of England would su~taiu
in a wild 11tate, without the aid of man. There are, on an average, •
26,800 sheep and cattle, only, sold wet-kly in Smithfil'ld to supply
the London market. (Macculloch'l! Stat. British Empirt', vol. 2, p.
497.) The number of horses alone in Great llritain i11 estiwatl-d .
at 1,500,000. "It appears that the whole value of the agricultural
pr111lnc1• con~onwd hy animals il! £120,000,000; that required by
man ill only .£70,000,000: in othrr words, the subsish•nce rai>~l'rl
f.n· m:m throughout the Empire, is littll' more than/ur!f/he umQfml
nf that rt't)llin•d for the animals of which he wakes use.""-Alison,
vol. I, p. 2lH.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 239
have reference to the whole plan of God's providence
for the happiness of all : then-
" How strange is human pride !
I tell thee that those living things,
To whom the fragile blade of grass,
That springeth in the morn
And perisheth ere noon,
b an unbounded world ;
I tell thee that those viewless beings,
Whose mansion is the smallest particle
Of the impassive atmosphere,
Think, feel, and live, like man ;
That their affections and antipathies,
Like his, produce the laws
Ruling their moral state ;
And the minutest throb,
That through their frame diffuses
The slightest, faintest, motion,
Is fixed and indispensable
As the majestic laws
That rule yon rolling orbs.''•
Such, though a poetical, is yet a logical deduction from
the doctrine of necessity. Man, without any merit on
his part, without even his own consent, is brought into
existence, and he differs from other animals, not in
being less surely moved to action by the inevitable laws
of necessity, but in being made more noble, and of
. higher importance than they, inasmuch as he is the
recipient of a larger portion of happiness himself, and
the dispenser of a large amount to others.
Is man, then, entitled to say to his Creator, Why
hast thou made me thus? Why was I not placed higher
in the scale of creation ? Why was I made so weak, so
• Shelley.
Digitized by Coogle
240 THB OBIGIX, OBJECTS, AND
poor, so imperfect? Ought he not rather to acquiesce
in the poet's argument-
" First, if thou canst, the harder reason guess,
Why formed no weaker, blinder, and no less P"
" Then say not, man's imperfect, Heaven in fault,
Say rather, man'11 as perfect as be ought ;
His knowledge measured to bill state and place,
His time a moment, and a point his space."
The Creator bas called all into existence, and placed
each in his proper sphere, and justice requires only
that the existence of each should be a blessing, the
whole of his being considered ; this preponderance of
good being secured, the Creator may make the con-
dition of each whateYer He sees fit, that is, whatever
the happiness of the whole may require.
The last evil to which man is subjected is Death,•
and with this is connected the pains of separation.
• " Death is the gradual exhaustion of our faculties, the sinking
away of the powers of animal life, till they finally cease to act and
to be. Now, this process may be hastened or retarded; may have
its progress and its different stages ; one power after another may
yield-the faculty of speech, of bearing, of motion ; but to fix on
one particular moment rather than another, and to say that twill
the deceased person is ' struck with death,' is to use language
without any foundation in philosophy, or support from observation.
All decay is but dying ; all disease is a progress towards death ;
every beating pulse is wearing away the channels of life ; every
breath of that heaving boaom is preparing for the time when it
shall breathe no more. There prevails also an erroneous or an ex-
aggerated idea of many of the circumstances that attend the dying
hour. In particular, it is thought that this final event passes with
some dreadful visitation of unknown agony over the departing
sufferer. It is imagined that there is some strange and mystE>rious
reluctance in the spirit to leave the body ; that it struggles long to
retain its hold, and is at last torn with violence from its mortal
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OJ' EVIL. 241
Paley says, " In the brute creation, nature seems to
have stepped in with some secret provision for their
relief under the rupture of their attachments. In their
instincts towards their offspring, and of their offspring
to them, I have often been surprised to find bow
ardently they love, and how soon they forget. The
pertinacity of human sorrow (upon which, time also,
at length, lays its softening band) is probably, there-
fore, in some manner connected with the qualities of
oar rational and moral nature. One thing, however, is
clear, viz., that it is better that we should possess aft'ec-
tions, the sources of so many virtues, and so many
tenement ; and, in fine, that this conflict between the soul and the
body greatly adds to the pangs of dissolution. But it may be jWJtly
presumed from what usnally appears, that there is no particular
nor acute sufl'ering ; not more than is often experienced in life ;
nay, rather, that there is leu, because the very powers of sufl'ering
are enfeebled, the very capacities of pain are nearly exhausted.
Death is to be regarded rather as a sleep than an acute sell8ation,
as a suspension rather than a conflict of our faculties. Death is
the sleep of the weary. It is the repose, the body's repoee, after
the busy and toilsome day of life.
" We have all witneued, perhaps, the progress of this change,
and what was it ? Let our seD868 and our understandings allBWer ;
and not our imagination. What was it, but gradually dimiaishing
strength, feeble utterance, failing perception, and total i1111eusibility P
The change, as it passed before us, may have been attended with
accidental circumstances of mental experience or bodily sensation ;
but the change itse~ death considered as an event, was only a
gradual decline and extinction of the powers of life. This is all
which we saw, or could know, as necessarily belonging to this crisis
in the progress of our being. And yet, from this ignorance, we
aDow ourselves to be troubled by the phantoms of agitating conjec-
ture. We imagine, and, indeed, it is common to say, that because
no one has returned to tell us ' what it is to die,' the.re must be
.some mysterious and peculiar sensation, some awful physical expe-
HH
o;gitizedbyGoogle "'
242 THE ORIGIN, OBJF.CTS, AND
joys, although they be exposed to the incidents of life,
as well as the interruptions of mortality, than, by the
want of them, be reduced to a state of selfishness,
apathy, and quietism." One object of human sorrow
for the departure of friends, is doubtless to induce us
to make every effort :to save them, to keep them with
us, when suffering has rendered them incapable of
helping themselves. Every one can bear witness to
the intensity of affection that is felt by a family circle
towards the stricken member of it, who is not likely
rience attending it. But we see not!ling, and we ought not to
presume anything of this nature.
"Neither are we to presume that death arouses the mind in the
last momenta of ita earthly existence to the keenest attention, or to
the most intense action of ita powers. The subject, when distinctly
contemplated beforehand, may do so; it may often do so in the
midst of life ; and well were it, if it far more frequently aroused us
to do in season the work of life. All we wish to say is,-and we
wish to say it to preclude all appeals, at once, to mysterious fear
and unfounded hope,-that there is no peculiar, no fearful nor
hopeful activity of mind amidst the solemnities of dissolution ;
that, in most cases, there is no activity. It is probable, that the
exhausted faculties usually siuk to their mortal repose, as they do
to nightly sleep ; and that the convulsive struggles which are
sometimes witnessed, are often as unconscious as those with which
we sink to the slumbers of evening rest. Nor, when the veil of
delirium is spread over the mortal hour, can we regard it as the
evil that it is often thought to bl'. It has seemed to us rather, in
many cases, as a friendly veil, drawn by the hand of nature over
what would otherwise be the agonies of separation, over the anguish
that the parent would feel at leaving children orpha1111 and desti-
tute, or that the friend would feel, in saying farewell to tho~te who
were dearest on earth. Delirium often interposes, we believe, by
the kind providence of God, where nature would be too weak, or
faith too infirm for the trial."-(" Enoneous views of dt>ath
reproved," by Orville Dewey.)
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OP EVIL. 243
long to be one amongst them: how unwearying the
attention to every want ; how anxious the suppression
of everything calculated to trouble or annoy; how ten-
der the forbearance, if suffering renders the dying one
irritable or captious : all which devotion and kindness
seem intended by nature as palliatives during life's last
trials, and which could not be displayed if the death
of a friend were a matter of indifference. It is, in
fact, impossible to estimate the softening and moral
influence which the occasional loss of some friends,
and the liability to lose all, have upon the human
character, nor the degree of hard selfishness that might
be engendered, if we never had to contemplate a sepa-
ration from Qur companions in life; or, which would
be the same as to effect, if we could take our final
leave of them without anguish, without regret. The
flow of affection that is felt towards survivors when one
friend bas departed, the fond clinging to those that are
left lest they too should soon be torn from us, show, in
a direct manner, this humanizing influence to which we
allude, and which, by the suppression of animosities,
and inducement of kindly feelings, not unfrequently
renders a berea\·ement, upon the whole, a blessing.
"When Death strikes down the innocent and young,
for every fragile form from which he lets the panting
spirit free, a hundred virtues rise, in shapes of mercy,
rharity, and love, to walk the world and bless it. Of
every tear that sorrowing mortals shed on such green
graves, some good is born, some gentll"r nature comes.
In the Destroyer's steps there spring up bright crea-
tions that defy hio;; power, and his dark path becomes a
way of light to hearen.'' *
• Dickrn~.
Digitized by Coogle
244 TBB OBIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
In the present state of society, when selfishness is,
for the most part, the predominant feeling in every
breast, the pangs ofseparation are perhaps, necessarily,
acute and agonizing, in order to induce us to tend
sedulously those who are no longer able to assist them-
selves, and who cannot benefit us in return ; yet there
is reason to hope that in a more advanced state of
society even these pangs may be mitigated. When
man shall have studied his own constitution, and shall
act so as to follow out the object of nature, and to
produce the largest sum of enjoyment to the whole,
individual attachments, which are of a selfish cha-
racter, will be weaker, and general attachments will
be stronger. He will look upon Death as a benevolent
dispensation, as natural as life ; be will look forward
to separation without dismay, and be consoled for
the loss of one friend by beholding the world l'ull of
friends who are still left to him, each striving to make
up the deficiency. The faculty that attaches us to
individuals, (Adhesiveness,) and that which attaches
us to mankind generally, (BeneYolence,) are different
faculties of the mind. In the present state of the
world, the first unduly predominates; it is stronger
than is consistent with the greatest happiness of the
whole ; hence results greater suffering on the death of
our fellow-creatures, than, under a well-organized sys-
tem of society, would be necessary to make us exert
ourselves in their behalf during sickness.
With respect to death itself--keeping in view the
object which we are justified in regarding as the one
proposed by Providence, viz., the production of the
greatest sum of enjoyment, not to any particular indi-
viduals, but to the whole living creation-the question
-..__
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 245
is, whether man had been better made immortal, or
whether his term should have been limited to its three-
score years and ten? Without death the whole consti-
tution of things here must have been altered; it must
have been an entirely different world, man must have
been a totally different being, and his happiness must
have been dependent upon other things than it is now.
The ordinary notions with reference to knowledge and
our aspirations after it, would seem to be erroneous.
· Knowledge is only valuable as a source of happiness,
and that happiness arises principally from the direction
which knowledge gives of our feelings to their legiti-
mate gratification. It is like money, useful according
to the manner in which it is used, and they who pursue
it for its own sake, are like the miser with his gold.
When time has blunted the feelings, when the objects
of them no longer exist, knowledge is of little use as a
means of happiness, unless it can be, as it is now by
nature, infused into a new form, capable of all that
freshness of feeling in which youth so much excels old
age. Happiness depends upon a continual succession
of new sensations ; were man, organized as he now is,
to live much longer than the time allotted to him, his
sensations, from being habitual, would be too weak to
afJ'ord him enjoyment ; his life would become a burden ;
and the instinct of the '' Love of Life" would be too
feeble to make him wish to preserve his existence.
With the pres~nt arrangement, the great Body of So-
ciety, (considered as an individual,) with its Soul, the
principle of Sensation, is ever fresh and vigorous and
increasing in enjoyment. As yet it is but in its child-
hood: as its knowledge increases, so will its happiness.
Death and Birth, the means of removal and succession,
Digitized by Google
246 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
bear the same relation to this body of society, as the
system of waste and reproduction do to the human
body : the old and useless aud decayed material is car-
ried out, and fresh substituted, and thus the frame is
renovated and rendered capable of ever increasing
happiness. The parallel between the soul of society
and that of the individual man is equally complete ;
as with respect to the latter, all the aimless studies
and useless accomplishments of youth are soon for-
gotten, while only the knowledge that is serviceable
is remembered, so in the great mind of society, the
absurd theories and systems that occasionally rear
themselves into notice, are shortly consigned to obli-
vion, and all the useful ideas that ha,·e existed in the
individual minds of the human race, are retained.
While our thoughts traverse, as if in personal recollec-
tion, the different by-gone ages of society, the minds
of all the illustrious men that have lh·ed, form part
of our own, until we arrive at its infancy, concerning
which, as of our own infancy, we can remember no-
thing. The minds, that is to say, the ideas and feelings
of which they were composed, of Socrates, Plato, Epi-
curus, Galileo, Bacon, Locke, Newton, are thus for
ever in existence, and the immortality of the soul is
preserved in the great body of society. It is in this
sense that the soul may be said to be immortal even
here. In this sense also we may say, that for all the
elements of happiness-
" For love and beauty and delight
There is no death, nor change,"
• • • • •
" 'Till tee, 'tis ours an> changed; not they."
It is not possible, neither is it necessary to mention
all kinds of evils separately ; the principles assumed
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 247
we think will enable the reader to assign to each its
objects and advantages, and also, however great it may
appear in mass, to analyze it, and assign to it its due
relation to individual enjoyment, to which it will be
found to bear but small proportion. There is one
question, however, which it is doubtful if the present
state of our knowledge will enable us to answer quite
satisfactorily, which is, that considering happiness is so
much dependent upon knowledge and civilization, how
is it that society has made such slow progress in such
knowledge and civilization ? Why is it still in its child-
hood? Why bas moral science, upon which happiness
is as dependent as health upon physical science, kept
so far in arrear of the other ? There are several consi-
derations that suggest themselves towards the solution
of this difficulty. It was necessary that the whole earth
should be peopled, for to ensure the largest sum of
enjoyment the world will contain, is the end and aim
of Providence. It is probable that if civilization bad
progressed more rapidly, this would not have been
effected : mankind would have preferred keeping their
numbers within the means of subsistence in a parti-
cular country, to going forth into the wilderness of a new
world, if instinct rather than reason bad not dictated
their increase, and bad not necessity, in consequence,
obliged them to encounter all the trials and difficulties
of new settlers. Such difficulties are not slight; Mr.
Alison says, "The immense and apparently Insur-
mountable obstacles which present themselves to the
extension of industry on the first cultivation of the
earth; the extent of morasses, the thickness of the
forests, the ruggedness of the mountains, forbid the
hope of success but from the accumulated force of
Digitized by Coogle
248 THE OB.IGIN1 OBJBCT81 AND
multitudes. In the first attempts to clear the ground,
numbers perish from the unhealthiness of the atmo-
sphere, the severity of the labour, the magnitude of the
hardships to which they are exposed. From the nar-
ratives of the extreme sufferings undergone by the first
settlers in distant colonies in our own times, even with
the aid of iron instruments and the arts of civilization,
we may gather what must have been the condition of
the human race in remote and now forgotten periods.''•
Another reason why society has advanced so slowly
is, that physical comforts must be first secured, before
moral and intellectual pleasures can be enjoyed, and
necessity was required to drive men forward to the
discovery of those arts and sciences upon which the
increase of physical comforts depends. We appear to
be fast approaching that state in which the powers of
production will be so far increased, as to afford leisure
for moral and intellectual pleasures to all. To have
given man such moral and intellectual desires, at the
same time that he was obliged to work eight or ten
hours per day in order to supply his physical wants,
must have diminished rather than increased the amount
of his enjoyment; wants and desires, without the means
of gratification, being pains.
There is another consideration of great importance
to which we cannot attach too much weight, viz., that
all knowledge to be available, must partake of the cha-
racter of experience: it is probable, therefore, that any
quicker mode of revealing knowledge to mankind than
the present slow, experimental process, must have been
ineffectual. The wisdom of others is of little or no
Principles of Population, vol. j, p. 467.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES O:F BVIL. 249
use to the individual, until experience has made such
wisdom peculiarly his own ; and the same law applies
to society at large.
And lastly, in the words of Mr. Alison, "If man
had been destined merely to exist, like the inferior
animals, upon the fruits of the earth, he might have
gone on increasing from generation to generation, like
the back-woodsmen in America, and at no very distant
period overspread the whole earth with his descendants.
But it was not in so hurried a manner that the great
year of existence was intended to be passed, nor for
the gratification merely of his animal wants that this
race was implanted in the earth. He was intended to
advance in the individual and the species ; to rise from
the grossness of animal to the dignity of intellectual
nature; in the words of his Creator, he was ordained
not merely to ' replenish' the earth, but to 'subdue it.'
To him were ultimately destined the command of the
element.~, and the powers of thought ; the fervour of
genius, and the dignity of intellect; the heroism of
virtue, and the constancy of misfortune. For these
elevated purposes it was essential that the progress of
the species should not be too rapid ; that the earth
should not be replenished merely with rude and un-
thinking husbandmen ; that his command over the
elements should increase with the elements with which
he had to contend ; and that the growth of the human
mind should keep pace with the enlargement of the
species. Such a provision is made in the varying
wants and desires which arise in the human breast;
in the blind impulses which actuate him at one period,
and the far-seeing sagacity which direct." him at an-
other; in the bursting vigour and activity which ani-
I I
o;gitizedbyGoogle .. ..
250 THE ORIGIN, OBJECTS, AND
mate him in one stage of his progress, and the decline
and decrepitude which enfeeble him at another. Unlike
the inferior animals, which at once multiply up to the
measure assigned them by nature, many ages elapse
during the childhood of his being. The infancy of the
race is as long in proportion as that of the indh·idual.
Long as his species has covered the earth, it has not
yet entered upon the manhood of existence. The cor-
rupted communities, and now decayed empires, which
have successively risen and fallen during this constant
but unobserved progress, have been swept away when
they had performed their mission in human affairs.
There are destroyers provided for the carrion of nations,
not less than the corpses of individuals; pernicious
remains- are not permitted to taint the moral any more
than the natural atmosphere ; unseen in ordinary times,
the vnltares of the North appear in the distance, when
their cleansing is required; the Scythian cavalry scent
frem afar the odour of human corruption, and the
punishment of the vices of nations conducts the mighty
~stem of human advancement."•
Had history been written with a right view of the
nature and objects of evil, much light would have been
thrown upon this question, as well as upon all those
connected with the advancement and progress of the
race. Even now, a universal history of civilization
would dispel much of the darkness that still envelops
the subject. When the common superstitions concern-
ing Evil, shall give place to the above views of its
nature and object.~; when it shall in all cases be re-
garded as remedial, and its causes, therefore, inquired
into, a much more rapid advance of the race towards
* "On Population," vol. 1, p. 80.
Digitized by Coogle
ADVANTAGES OF EVIL. 251
the perfection of which it is capable may be expected
to take place. Nature will then no longer be judged
by her dealings with regard to a single people, nation,
or even generation-whom she no more hesitates to
cut off, if the general good requires it, than a surgeon
does to amputate the limb which threatens the life and
welfare of an individual-but with regard to the gene-
ral good of all her children in all times and places ; and
the dispensations which, to our short-sighted wisdom,
frequently appear as unmixed evils, will then prove her
to be guided by an unerring and benevolent Power.
Although there must still be many difficulties attached
to this subject, and the causes of many evils must still
remain unexplained, yet to those who trace out final
causes, who study the Creator in his works, the mystery
of Evil may be sufficiently unravelled to gire infinite
confidence in His providence, and faith that farther
knowledge will make manifest the benevolent tendency
of all creation, and bring home to every heart the all-
cheering conviction that "WHATEVER IS, IS RIGHT."
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER III.
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
SECTION I.
MORAL OBLIGATIOI.
WB hear of Moral Obligation, of acting according to
conscience, and not according to self-interest, pleasure,
appetite, desire ; but it is seldom clearly defined in
what Moral Obligation consists. Some say it is acting
in accordance with the will of God : but then arises
the question, what is the will of God ? Others say
that we are to be governed by an inward monitor,
which all possess : but then what is to be the standard
by which the indications of this inward monitor are to
be judged, since we seldom find two persons in whom
its promptings coincide on all subjects. "We are to
do so and so, because it is right," says one ; "Because
common sense, reason, the fitness of things, the law of
nature, justice, the public good, require it," say others.
But as Mr. Bentham has ably shown, all these are
mere modes of expressing the individual opin~on of
. any one who chooses to dogmatise concerniDg rigl!t
and wrong, without assigning ~ny reason for it beyond
his own internal conviction.
The science of Morality goes farther than merely
to lay down rules of conduct: it has to show the reason
Digitized by Google
TBE PRINCIPLES OP MORALITY. 253
for them, and the foundation of the obligation to obey
them. The Foundations of Morality can only be dis-
covered by studying the constitution of man and its
relation-to everything -around him. The application of
tnedoctrine of Philosophical Necessity to Virtue and
Vice, Praise and Blame, Reward and Punishment, has
shown us that, abstractedly, all actions are alike, both
with respect to their fitness and unfitness, or with re-
ference to the motives that produced .them ; that, in
themsel'Des, they are all equally deserving of praise or
blame, reward or punishment, because they are all the
produce of causes, arising out of natural constitution
and circumstances over which the individual has no
control; and that, therefore, the only distinction which
can be made between actions is with regard to their
tendency. Actions, then, must be l-iewed as right or
wrong, as in accordance with common sense, reason,
the fitness of things, the law of nature, justice, the
public good, not with reference to anything in them-
selves, that marks them as such, but according to their
tendency-their tendency to produce happiness or
misery, pleasure or pain. That it must be as their
tendency to produce happiness or misery, has been
proved by showing the nature•of man's responsibility
or obligation to act in one way rather than another ; it
appearing that such accountability is founded upon
pain attending some actions, and pleasure others, in
proportion as such actions are or are not calculated
to promote the happiness of all the sensitive creation.
It is to this issue that all the advocates for different
standards of morality are obliged to come, if pushed
to a conclusion: they are all olJiigcd to acknowledge
that the fitness of things means their fitness to
Digitized by Coogle
254 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
produce happiness ; and so of the rest; and that
conscientiousness and veneration, which teach us to
" do jm~tly and to walk humbly with our God," are
virtues only because they promote the general happi-
ness. But though all are ultimately obliged to take
this test, and to admit that God being infinitely bene-
volent, happiness must be the end and aim of creation,
yet a great point of dispute still remains, whether hap-
piness here, or happiness hereafter, is the end, and
ought to be the aim, of man's existence. This question,
of course, must be decided by the relation which man's
faculties bear to things around him. We know, from
the relation that the lungs bear to water, that we were
not intended to live in the water; we know, from the
relation that the human stomach beant to the different
kinds of food, that it was not intended to digest grass,
like that of a cow ; from the relation of the eye to
light, we know that we were not intended to live in
darkness ; so with respect to the relation that the
mental faculties bear to things around us, we find that
they have direct reference to the present life, and that
they would be as uselesl'l in a state unlike the present,
as the fins of a fish on land or the wings of a bird in
the water. So that whatever may be the intention of
our Creator with regard to us in a future state, we are
certain that he intended us for happiness in this, as
happiness is the natural result of the legitimate exer-
cise of all our faculties ; and those faculties, although
some few of them are capable of a direction towards a
future state of being, have all direct reference to t.he
present world. The obligation, then, that a man is
under to act in one way rather than in another, is
owing to its tendency to happiness to the a\·oidance of
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 255
pain, and Morality may be defined as " the science
which teaches men to live together in the most happy
manner possible." •
SECTION II.
PAIN AND PLEASURE.
The ground being so far cleared before us, our line
of reasoning is henceforth simple and straightforward,
relating only to the question of Pain and Pleasure-
Happiness and Misery. These will be found the ultimate
springs of all our actions. Pain and Pleasure, which are
only other names for desire and aversion, liking and
antipathy, being to volition in the sensitive creation, what
attraction and repulsion are to the motions that go on
in the.physical world. Man, as we have seen, is equally
the agent of Necessity with all other created beings,
and this is the law, the first law of his nature, that he
should wish for and seek his own happiness ; and he is
no more capable of avoiding it, or of acting contrary
to it, than the atoms of matter can refuse to be guided
by the influence which is called attraction. 1'his pro-
position, however, requires explanation, for it will. be
immediately denied by many, who, from want of clearly
understanding the nature of the law referred to, feel
convinced that they are impelled to action by a thou-
sand motives which cannot be said to partake of the
character of either pleasure or pain. But they who
reason in this way, for the most part think only of
mere bodily pleasure and pain. All kinds of feelings
• Hl'h·etius.
Digitized by Coogle
256 THB PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
emanating from any part of the body; all actions of the
mind, whether proceeding from the Intellectual Facul-
ties, the Sentiments, or the Propensities, come under
the denomination of Sensations, as before explained;
and all sensations are pleasurable or painful, though in
a thousand different degrees, at least all that are powerful
enough to impel to action. Locke says, "all action
has its source in uneasiness ;" at all events, we have
previomdy seen that all action bas a cause. We act
either instinctively or from motive. If instinctively,
we are impelled by some desire, which desire proceeds
from the action of some faculty, and each faculty,
when indulged in its natural action is the source of
pleasure, and when ungratified, or disagreeably affected,
produces pain ; pains and pleasures are thus as nume-
rous in their kind as the faculties. One individual will
feel pleasure in doing good, another in doing mischief;
one in saving money, another in spending it; one will
instinctively run away at the slightest cause of alarm,
another will as instinctively face it. In all which cases
it is not the less a pleasurable or painful sensation that
induces each individual so to act, because be docs not
stay to make a calculation of the balance of pleasures
or pains. When calculation docs take pla;ce, we hal'e
seen that the will is determined by the greatest appa-
rent good, and the anticipation of pleasure derh·able
from the good is the moth·e to action. The lower
animals are impelled immediately to action by plea-
sures and pains, without even knowing that there are
such feelings, i. e. without having any abstract notion
of either one or the other, and by far the greater part
of men's actions arc performed in the same way, in-
stinctively, ami without any calculation or reference
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 257
to either pleasure or pain. Some of the most intelli-
gent of the animals, dogs for example, are enabled to
make some sort of calculation, and to balance future
punishment against present enjoyment, and so also
does man in proportion as he becomes enlightened and
his feelings are put under the direction of reason. It
is here that the moralist can be of use, by enabling
men to make a more correct calculation than their un-
assisted reason could otherwise accomplish ; by showing
from experience and from the constitution of nature,
what conduct invariably leads to happiness in the end,
and what to misery. The duty of the moralist then is
to enable men to make a correct calculation of their
pleasures and pains.
If the common objection be urged-" Are all men,
then, eternally calculating pains and plea.'!urcs in
all their actions ?" we answer, no ; they more fre-
quently act instinctively, that is, without calculation ;
but the pain or pleasure of the gratification or non-
gratification of their wish, or desire, impel them into
action. Take, for instance, the most common desire,
that of food-appetite. A man, before he eats, does
not sit down to calculate the pleasure he shall haYe
in eating, or the pain he shall suffer if he do not ;
but he feels a desire to cat, which desire, if analysed,
will be found to consist of a slightly painful or uncom-
fortable feeling which increases in intensity until it is
gratified. All other desires which form the motives to
action, are similar in character, but not being equally
necessary to the preserration of ~elf, if not gratified
the uneasy feeling ceases instE'ad of incrC'asing in
intensity.
KK
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~
258 THB PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
Again, are all men moved to action only by the ex-
pectation of self-enjoyment, or is it possible to disre-
gard our own individual interests ? Self-enjoyment or
individual interest may form no part of our object or
aim, and yet it is not the less pain or pleasure that
impels us to action. It may be the pleasure of per-
forming what we conceive to be our duty, or the pain
following the neglect of it. It may be the pleasure we
have in promoting the interests of others, or the pain
of seeing them in want of such assistance ; at any rate
we cannot be indifferent, whether the end of the action
regard ourselves individually or not; for in a state of
indifference there is no motive, nothing to move the
will, and we must will before we act.
Bentham says, "No man ever had, can, or could
have,a motive differing from the pursuit of pleasure or
the avoidance of pain." And also that " the first I:LW
of nature is to seek our own happiness ;" and in illus-
tration of this he says, ''Prudence, in common par-
lance, is the adaptation of means to an end. In the
moral field that end is happiness. The subjects on
which prudence is to be exercised are ourselves and all
besides: ourselves as instrumental, and all besides as
instrumental to our own felicity."
" Of what can the sum total of happiness be made
up, but of the individual units ? What is demanded by
prudence and benevolence is required by necessity.
Existence itself depend'l for its continuance on the
self-regarding principle. Had Adam cared more for
the happiness of Eve than for his own, and Eve, at the
same time, more for the happiness of Adam than for
her own, Satan might have saved himself the trouble
of temptation. Mutual misery would have marred all
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OJ' MORALITY. 259
prospects of bliss, and the death of both have brought
to a speedy finale the history of man.''•
"But self-regarding prudence is not only a virtue-
it is a virtue on which the very existence of the race
depends. If I thought more about you than I thought
about myself, I should be the blind leading the blind,
and we should fall into the ditch together. It is as
impossible that your pleasures should be better to me
than my own, as that your eye-sight should be better
to me than my own. My happiness and my unhappi-
ness are as much a part of me as any of my faculties
or organs, and I might as wen profess to feel your
toothache more keenly than you do, as to be more
interested in your well-being than in my own well-
being."
" It will scarcely be denied that every man acts with
a new to his own interest-not a correct view, because
that would obtain for him the greatest possible portion
of felicity ; and if every man acting correctly for his own
intere.~t, obtained the maximum of obtainable happi.
ness, mankind would reach the millenium of accessible
,!>liss ; and the end of morality-the general happiness,
be accomplished. To prove that the immoral action is
a miscalculation of self-interest; to show how erro-
neous an estimate the vicious man makes of pains and
pleasures, is the purpose of the intelligent moralist.
Unless be can do this he does nothing: for, as has
been stated above, for a man not to pursue what he
deems likely to produce to him the greatest sum of
enjoyment, is in the very nature of things impossible."
" Every man is able to form the best eRtimate of his
own pleasures and his own pains. No description of
• Deontology, vol. 1, p. 18.
Digitized by Coogle
260 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
them, no sympathy for them, can be equivalent to their
reality. No story of a blow ever produced a bruise;
nor was the agony of tooth-drawing ever felt by mere
interest excited in the sufferings of a friend under the
hands of a dentist. E\·en were it otherwise, the power
ef sympathy is nothing till it acts upon self; a truism,
which is almost reducible to the self-identical propo-
sition th~ a man can feel nothing else but his own
feelings. To escape from one's self, to forget one's
own interests, to make unrequited sacrifices, and all for
duty, are high-sounding phrases, and, to say the truth,
as nonsensical as high-sounding. Self-preference is
universal and necessary: if destiny be anywhere des-
potic, it is here. When self is sacrificed, it is self in
one shape to self in another shape ; and a man can no
more cast off' regard to his own happiness, meaning the
happiness of the moment, than he can cast off' his own
skin, or jump out of it. And if he could, why should
he? What provision could haV'e been made for tile
happiness of the whole, so successful, so complete, as
that which engages e,·ery individual of that whole to
obtain for himself the greatest possible portion of hap-
piness? and what amount of happiness to mankind a£
large could be so great, on the aggregate, as that which
is made up of the greatest possible portion obtained by
every individual man ? Of the largest number of units,
and those units of the largest amount, the largest sum
total must be the necessary result."•
The above quotations speak very plainly, and it is
absolutely necessary that the principle should be stated
as broadly as possible, because there has been and still
is, among moral philosophers, considerable mystification
• .Deontology, vol. 2, p. 121.
Digitized by Coogle
TBB PRINCIPLES 011' MORALITY. 261
of the subject. The want of proper attention to two
facts has mainly caused this obscurity, one of which is,
that mankind do not seek happiness or pleasure imme-
diately, but they seek the object of their desires, and
happiness attends apon their gratification : the other,
that one class of these desires has the happiness anc;l
welfare of others for its object, and it is supposed that
in attending to such impulses we disregard ourselres,
which is not the case, as we merely sacrifice "self in one
form to self in another." To be constantly preaching
self-sacrifice is of no avail, for it is only where those
feelings predominate that give a pleasure in acting for
the good of others, that the good of others will be pre-
ferred. An habitual disregard of self and attention to
the interests of others, is frequently found, but it is
~nly where there is more pleasure in attending to others
than to self. When this is clearly understood, the folly
of preaching self-sacrifice to the selfish will be mani-
fest ; and it will be seen that to further the interests of
morality, we must strengthen by culti\·ation that part of
our nature, those moral feelings, that have the good of
others for their object : in short, would we have a man
·pay habitual regard to the welfare of his neighbour, we
must address those feelings, and place him in those
circumstances .that will make it both his pleasure and
his interest to do so.
We need not fear the conclusion to which we are
constrained to come, that pleasures and pains are the
sole springs of action, and that a man necessarily seeks
his own happiness, as the law of his being ; in fact,
" that he can feel nothing else but his own feelings."
The object of the Science of Morality, therefore, is
simple ; it is not to dogmatize about duties, but to
Digitized by Coogle ..... ..
J
..
262 THE PRINCIPLES OJ!' HORALITY.
. show what conduct will, on all occasions, best promote
man's real interest ; what will produce to mankind the
· largest sum of enjoyment; for this only constitutes
duty. In this investigation we shall find that the con-
duct whieh produces the greatest happiness to the whole
of the sensitive creation, produces the greatest amount
of enjoyment to the individual.
SECTION III.
MAN CONSIDERED IN HIS RELATION TO EXTERNAL
OBJECTS.
Man's real interests can only be discovered by ex-
amining into the nature of his own constitution, and
the relation it bears to everything around him. It is
. from this examination that we infer what were the
Creator's intentions with respect to this world, and we
may rest assured that it is only by acting in accordance
with these purposes of His providence that we can
hope to ensure our own happiness. Our former Chap-
ters have been occupied in considering the nature of
man, and of the things by which be is surrounded, and
we have now to consider their relation to happiness,
and in what way the largest sum of enjoyment can be
produced by their joint action.
Man, as we have seen, is surrounded on all sides by
agents which have received a definite constitution, and
which bear a certain relation to his well or ill-being, in
proportion as he makes himself acquainted with their
invariable mode of action, and conducts himself in
accordance with it; in working out, then, the object of
Digitized by Coogle
THE PIUNCIPLBS OF MORALITY. 263
h~ being, happiness, he is subject to the influence of
these agents, and his pleasurable or painful sensations
will depend upon his own actions being in conformity
to the action of the laws which regulate them, and to
the invariable sequences going on around him.
It is the use of reason in the observance and regis-
tering of such laws that raises man so infinitely above
the brute creation, and in proportion as he discovers
and obeys them, he advances from the savage to the
civilized state. The following passage from Dr. Arnott,
well sets forth the advantages that man has derived
from the study of the first class of the natural laws :-
"The greatest sum of knowledge acquired with the
least· trouble, is perhaps that which comes with the
study of the few simple truths of Physics. • • • He
who studies the methodised Book of Nature, converts
the great universe into a simple and sublime history,
which tells of God, and may worthily occupy his atten-
tion to the end of his days. We have said already, that
the laws of Physics govern the great natural pheno-
mena of Astronomy, the tides, winds, currents, &c.
We will now mention some of the artificial purposes to
which man's ingenuity has made the same laws sub-
servient. Nearly all that the civil engineer accom-
plishes ranges under the head of Physics. Let us
take, for instance, the ad1nirable specimens scatterrcl
over the British Isles :-the numerous canals for inlaJ;;.I
traffic; the docks to receive the riches of the world,
pouring towards us from every quarter; the many
harbours offering safe retreat to the storm-driven ma-
riner; the magnificent bridges which everywhere faci-
litate intercourse ; hills bored through to open ways fol'
commerce by canals, common roads, and rai1roads, the
Digitized by Coogle
264 TIJE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
canals in some places being supported, like the roads,
on arches across vallies, or above rivers, so that here
and there the singular phenomenon is seen of one
vessel sailing directly over another ; vast tracts of
swamp or fen-land drained, and now sening for agri-
culture ; the noble light-house, rearing its head amidst
the storm, while the dweller within trims his lamp
in safety, and guides his endangered fellow-creature
through the perils of the night, &c. &c.
" In Holland, great part of the country has been
won and is now preserved from the sea, by the same
almost creating power ; and now rich cities and an
extended garden smile, where, as related by Cresar,
were formerly only bogs and a dreary waste.
" As a general picture it is interesting to consider,
that in many situations on earth where formerly the
rude savage beheld the cataract falling among the
rocks, and the wind bending the trees of the forest,
and sweeping the clouds along the mountains' brow, or
whitening the face of the ocean, and regarded these
phl'nomena with awe or terror, as marking the agency
of some great but hidden power, which might destroy
him; in the same situations now, his informed son,
who works with the laws of nature, can lead the waters
of the cataract, by sloping channels, to convenient
spots, where they are made to turn his mill-wheel, and
to do his multifarious work ; the rushing winds, also,
he makes his sen·ants, by rearing in their course the
broad-vaned wind-mill, whieh then performs a thou-
sand offices for its master, man; and the breezes which
whiten ocean are caught in his expanded sails, and are
made to waft their lord and his treasures across the
deep, for his pleasure or his profit.
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 265
" In Architecture, also, Physics is supreme, and has
directed the construction of the temples, pyramids,
domes, and palaces, which adorn the earth.
" In respect to machinery generally, Physics is the
guiding light. There are, for instance, the mighty
steam-engine ; machines for spinning and weaving,
and for moulding other bodies into various shapes,
yea, even iron itself, as if it were plastic clay; wind-
mills and water-mills; and wheel carriages; the plough
and instruments of husbandry; artillery and the furni-
ture of war; the balloon in which man rides triumph-
antly above the clouds, and the diving-bell, in which
he penetrates the secret caverns of the deep ; the im-
plements of the intellectual arts, of printing, drawing,
painting, sculpture, &c. ; musical instruments ; optical
and mathematical instruments, and a thousand others."•
If in addition to these Physical laws we consider
those of Chemical agency, we shall perceh·e the vast
influences which they both exert over the happiness and
welfare of man ; but so much as he gains by attention
and obedience to them, so much will he suffer by
inattention and disobedience-if the elements are his
mighty servants to do his bidding-let him not com-
plain that if through ignorance or idleness he neglects
to secure the mastery, their unrestrained forces will
dash him and his works to destruction.t
• Elements of Physics, p. 21.
t The Physical Law has its own sanction, its own rewards and
puni~hments, in the same mauurr as the Organic and the Moral
Laws have each their own-wl1il!!t they all act in harmony. Fire
will burn, watt'r will drown, thl' virtuous man no IPs~ than the
vicious ; but upon him whose bodily frame i~ in a hl'althy statl',
physical injury is less likely to take serious dfect than upon his
LL
Digitized by Coogle
266 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
Besides the connexion which man has with the world
of inanimate matter, goV"erned by the Physical laws,
he is related to it as an organized being ; and that he
may fulfil the purpose of his existence-happiness, he
must be acquainted with the laws of vital and sentient
being, and obey them. He must understand the con-
struction of his own frame, the uses and functions of
its parts, the relations which it has with food, air, ex-
ercise, rest, habit ; the means of preserving health,
and of co-operating with the " medicating power" of
Nature in restoring it when lost. He must learn
the nature of the soil, how to use and improve its
powers of production, so that it may yield in abund-
ance the vegetables which are, directly or indirectly,
to serve him for food, for medicine, or various pur-
poses of utility and pleasure ; to ascertain those which
will afford the most wholesome and grateful nutriment,
and to reject those which would be deleterious. He
must study the nature and habits of the inferior ani-
mals, so that he may not only make them best subserve
his use, but secure to their limited being a balance of
pleasurable sensations.
As the capability of enjoyment rises with the com-
plexity of the apparatus for furnishing it, so also must
the liability to pain. In proportion to the importance
to happiness of the observance of the laws of life and
who has neglected the organic laws ; whilst he whose moral faculties
have their proper supremacy, is less liable to incur the risk of such
injury, than he whose reason and moral powers are disordered by
headlong passions and blind propensities.
The whole of this su~ect has been so clearly illustrated in Mr.
Combe's well-known work on the Constitution of Man, that it is
unneceuary to pursue it here to any length.
Digitized by Coogle
•
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 26'1
sensation, must be the severity of the punishment
attending upon the breach of them, and pain-some-
times intense pain, is required to admonish the offender.
Is it not then most evident that if man would seek his
own interest, if he would avoid pain, he must conform
to the organic laws, and act so as to keep the powers
of his bodily frame in a healthy state, or that in
which they are most susceptible of pleasurable sensa-
tion? But, on the contrary, man carries his body about
with him, ignorant of the offices of its several parts,
of the relation of the lungs to pure air, of the stomach
to the most wholesome food, of the skin to secretion,
waste, and reproduction, and of the nervous system
and brain to thought and feeling. Were man not de-
pendent upon reason, which is dependent upon know-
ledge, for the proper regulation of these offices-had
he instincts like the lower animals for his guidance, he
might trust to nature alone for the pleasurable or pain-
ful sensations dependent upon the proper exercise of
these functions; but reason is given him to extend
almost infinitely his sphere of action, and his conse-
quent capability of enjoyment, and it is only by the
exercise of that reason that he can preserve his own
pleasurable existence.
The mass of suffering incident to ignorance and
the consequent neglect of this class of nature's laws
is incalculable ; plagues, epidemics, every kind of dis-
ease, melancholy, madness, mental depravity-for the
mind depends as much upon the organic laws as upon
external circumstancea-are all attributable to this
cause. Nor do the consequences of this ignorance and
neglect rest with the individuals upon whom they are
chargeable, but they descer,d to the third and fourth
Digitized by Coogle
268 TBE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY•
•
generations, and thus it is that the sins of the fathers
are visited upon the children.
Evident, however, as appears the importance of this
knowledge to the happiness of mankind, is it furnished
to them by those who are constituted their instructors ?
No, they teach that these and other evils are a neces-
sary part of human nature, consequent, not upon their
own ignorance and transgression of laws with which
they ought to be acquainted, but upon the first trans-
gression of Adam. That they have been inflicted as
arbitrary chastisements or trials by God, and that they
can be removed only by him in the same manner.
They are, therefore, instructed to pray for the removal
of these evils without any effort of their own towards
it. Blind leaders of the blind ! Does not the voice of
nature, which is the voice of God, speak trumpet-
tongued to you that these evils are the necessary
consequence of your own actions; that if you would
be relieved from them, you must study their causes,
which will be found to be disobedience to those laws
upon which your very existence is dependent ? That
pain, or the evil consequence, as it is called, of such
transgression, is a most merciful dispensation instead
of a curse, and that could you, as you foolishly pray,
be delivered from it without altering the conduct that
causes it, the complicated structure upon which your
happiness is dependent would soon be destroyed ?
It is the duty of man, therefore, to study the nature
of everything around him, to make himself acquainted
with the particular constitution which they have received
from the hand of the Creator, and their relation to his
own organization, for they all act upon him for good or
for evil-they are all capable of producing either plea-
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OJ!' MORALITY. 269
sure or pain, and which of these they shall produce,
will depend upon the adaptation of his conduct to their
properties and relations.
SECTION IV.
IIAN CONSIDERED IN HIS RELATION TO HIS PELLOW MAif.
The Creator claims equal obedience to the Moral
Laws. Men were intended to live together in society ;
the laws which regulate their intetcourse with each
other, and by the observance of which they are enabled
to live together in the most happy manner possible,
are called the Moral Laws.
We have seen that pain and pleasure are the moving
springs of action with man, as with the other animals,
and that it is the law of his being to act according to
what he conceives will produce to him the greatest sum
of enjoyment. The question then which follows for
investigation, is, whether mankind, living together in
society, will best promote their own happiness by seek-
ing each his own individual enjoyment, without refer-
ence to the enjoyment of others, or whether it will be
best secured by each seeking his own happiness in the
happiness of all. This question can only be solved by
ascertaining what is the law of the Creator-His inten-
tion as developed in the nature of the faculties that
have been given to us. It will then appear that man's
feelings bear such relation to his fellows that he cannot
be happy whilst they are unhappy ; that God bas so
constituted him that in order to be as happy himself as
he is capable of being, be must do all that he can to
Digitized by Coogle
270 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
promote the happiness of others ; and that, as in the
administration of the Physical and Organic laws, he who
acts contrary to them is punished, because he did that
which was calculated to injure himself, personally-so
in the administration of the Moral laws, he who com-
mits an action the tendl."ncy of which is to injure his
fellows, will be puni~hed also for acting contrary to
the Moral law. From the want of a clear perception
of the tendencies of actions ; from ignorance that a
deviation from the Moral law is attended with punish-
ment as certainly as from the Physical, it is too often
assumed that vice would be pleasant enough were it
not forbidden ; and many do that which they know will
injure their fellows, because they think the punishment
uncertain, while the pleasure is immediate. But if the
Moral law certifies to us that it is the intention of the
Creator, that each should seek his own interest only so
far as is consistent with the interest of all, then each
departure from the law will be attended with punish-
ment that cannot be escaped-with evils that are
inevitable.
The difficulties that man has experienced in solving
the mysteries of God's moral government, in tracing
His law in the moral world, have arisen principally
from his taking an erroneous view of his own nature
and of his situation here. His pride or ignorance has
always prevented his carrying out the doctrine of Ne-
cessity to its legitimate consequences. He has regarded
himself solely as an individual, and has reasoned upon
the constitution of things here as it relates to himself
only; he has considered that certain rights are due to
him as an individual, and believing the Divine Being
to be infinitely just as well as benevolent, whatever he
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 271
receives short of this supposed due, he conceives will
in justice be made up to him hereafter. He does not
know, or he does not reflect, that Justice is only the
handmaiden of Benevolence ; that it is useful only in
so far as it tends to promote the production of the
greatest amount of felicity, and that if Injustice pro-
duced most happiness, Injustice would be the virtue
and Justice the vice. The object of Infinite Benevo-
lence being to produce the greatest sum of enjoyment,
that must be justice to individuals that best promotes
this object, whatever may be the portion allotted to
them of the common stock.
What is man, viewed philosophically by the aid of
the doctrine of Necessity? A mere link in the chain
of causation, connected with innumerable links before
his existence, and with the future chain ad infinitum,
the consequences of his existence being endless ; call-
ing, probably, numberless beings into existence by the
same necessary law by which he himself began to be.
A mere atom in the mass of sensitive creation, called
into existence without any choice on his part, and
moved by influences over which he has no more control
than an atom of matter over attraction or repulsion,
or whatever other laws it may be constituted to obey.
He, an atom of the great body of mankind, bearing the
same relation to it as a single atom of the human body
does to the whole : the atom is introduced into the
system by the laws of nature ; it passes through the
several stages of assimilation-becomes capable of
feeling, and again passes away; so does man from the
great body of society, the eternal receptacle of" youth,
and beauty, and delight." But independently of these
views which are suggested by the doctrine of Necessity,
Digitized by Coogle
272 THF. PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
were it not for the action of one particular faculty of
the mind, as we have shown before, we should perceive
ourselv-es to be in reality, and not only in the poefs
imagination,
" Parts of one stupendous whole
Whose body Nature is, and God the Soul !"
Man, however, in his instinctive tendency to iodin-
dualize, makes himselfthe centre from which he judges
of time and space. Within the bounds of his horizon
is comprised his world, beyond which his ideas, his
feelings can scarcely extend ; and it bas been well ob-
served, that if China with its millions were swallowed
up by an earthquake, few would have less appetite for
dinner; but if one within a man's own horizon, within
his own little circle, dies, be mourns, and the whole of
God's economy must be inverted to afford him relief:
yet from the great body of mankind some half-hundred
hav-e departed-into it some half-hundred have been
born, ere his watch has indicated the smallest measur-
able portion of time. To the eye that views mankind
and not man, it would seem as wise to mourn for the
departed, supposing even that they exist no more, and
are to us as before they were born, as to mourn for
those who might have been born, but yet were not. To
the "Infinite," with whom there is no succession-no
time-no past and future, the existence of a being is
as real before its existence, to our seeming, as after-
the chain of causes and effects with which such exist-
ence is connected, is as perfect and unbroken.
Can the Creator be supposed to have any other
object with respect to this world than the production of
the largest sum possible of enjoyment ? Is there a
higher object-one more consistent with e\·ery attri-
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. .273
bote of Deity ? And would man have any right to
complain, even if his portion in life were less happy,
than if he bad not been made instrumental to a great
amount of happiness in the world besides his own ?
In the mordl government of the world we everywhere
find individual happiness made subservient to the ge-
neral good. MoYed on all occasions by necessity, mao
can merit nothing, and can, in justice, claim nothing
but a balance of enjoyment upon the whole of his being.
To the very existence of man, as man, general laws are
necessary, and the result of these general laws is to
produce great variety of conditions with reference to
the relative quantity of happiness enjoyed by eaeh
creature. Throughout social existence, as we have
previously seen, man is made to suffer for the faults of
his fellow; the effects of his neighbour's injustice fall
upon himself, and by this arrangement the general
we11-being is secured, by creating the strongest of all
motives for each to dispel the clouds of ignorance
around him, and to eodea,·our to carry his fellows for-
ward with himself in the march of improvement.
Thus the government of a country may be badly con-
ducted; individual and class interests may alone be
consulted ; the authors of the wrong, and their con-
temporaries, may not suffer so much, in consequence,
as the generation that succeeds them ; but to them,
nevertheless, the suffering is necessary to oblige them
to repeal the selfish and noxious laws, and to make
such as shall benefit the majority. The generation
that follows will reap the advantage of the reforms
produced by such suffering, in the same way that the
then existing generation may be enjoying the fruits
of the sufferings of fi)rmer generations. The oppres-
1\1 M
Digitized by Coogle
274 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
sion; the priestcraft, and the ignorance that pro-
duced the French Revolution, bad been in operation
for generations, and thousands who bad had nothing to
do with their production, were yet involved in the com-
mon suffering; not, however, without having partaken
of the advantages transmitted by the struggles of
former ages during the progress of civilization. The
effect of the Revolution ·was the breaking up of old
institutions which were not in accordance with the
advancing light of the age, and the clearing away
of barriers which selfishness bad everywhere set up
against the general good ; thus purifying the moral
and social atmosphere of deleterious influences every-
where abounding, in which freedom and happiness
could not breathe and live, and preparing the country
for the production of a much larger sum of enjoyment
to all its inhabitants. We may lament that the un-
fortunate victims were many who bad had no share in
the production of the causes that led to this moral
earthquake, and that the poor harmless Louis XVI.
suffered for the sins of his fathers ; yet we immediately
see that this evil, great and crying as it was at the
time, bore no proportion to the good which it served
to introduce. The Necessitarian sees no injustice in
this arrangement, even when considered with reference
to this world only, because those who broke the law,
and those who did not, " moved merely as they were
moved," and the punishment was not intended for the
fault, but for the remedy. Again, plagues and earth-
quakes carry off mankind by thousands, but the object
of the law which thus scatters destruction is to free the
earth, or particular districts, from inftuences that might
destroy the enjoyment and Yitiate the physical consti-
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OJ' MORALITY. 275
tution of the millions that remain, and are to follow.
In the case of natural calamities, if the innocent suffer
with the guilty, (if indeed we are philosophically war-
ranted in making such a distinction,) yet they are
gainers by the existence and operation of the same law
by which they suffer; for without the constant action
of such laws the earth could not be kept habitable,
and those sufferers would either not have been, or
would have lived in a very inferior state of enjoyment
to that in which they had been placed previously to
their destruction.
Hence we may infer that in God's moral goYemment
of the world, His object is to produce the greatest pos-
sible sum of happiness to the whole; and that the
present apparent interests of individuals, of hundreds
and thousands, are not considered, when such interests
stand opp<>Red to laws upon which the general good
depends. If each individual be " an atom of the
mass" connected with it by sympathies and influences
innumerable, flowing from all points and commingling
with an intricacy too complicated for our acutest powers
to unravel, that which produces the greatest happiness
to the whole, must produce, when all things are consi-
dered, the greatest happiness to the individuals of
which that whole is composed. If this then is the
Creator's mode of procedure in the production of hap-
piness, for man to oppose himself to it, and to set up
individual interests as paramount, must as inevitably
lead to suffering, as any breach of the physical or
organic laws, because it is as much a breach of the
law of God, and of the institutions of the Creator in
the moral world.
This law for man's guidance, "that he should seek
Digitized by Google
276 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
his own happiness in the happiness of others," is legibly
marked on his constitution, an instinct having been
given to him by which he frequently is impelled to act
for the good of others, without the least calculation of
the results of such conduct to himself. This instinct, or
tendency to Benevolence, is of different relative strength
in different constitutions, and so strong has it proved
in some, that, combined with other feelings that have a
similar tendency, it has induced the sacrifice even of
life for the good of others.
TheMoralLaw, then, requires a conduct in accordance
with the production of the greatest happiness, and the
duty of the moralist, as before stated, is to lay down
rules that shall best further that end. But the question
arises here-how is a knowledge of such rules to be
obtained? It will never do to leave individuals to cal-
culate the balance of pleasures and pains before eYery
action ; the wisest, the best, and the most experienced,
would be constantly liable to err were that to be the
established mode of proceeding. Mankind might as
reasonably be expected to determine, on all occasions,
the effect of the varied influences of the laws of attrac-
tion and repulsion, or to state at once what chemical
results would be produced by the combination of dif-
ferent materials, as to be able, without reference to
general laws, to decide what conduct would lead to the
greatest good upon the whole. It is as necessary in
Morality to have laws as in Physics, and no less essen-
tial to our happiness to be acquainted with them.
Morality, viewed in this light, as a science, has not
been much pursued, although the laws of happiness
are as calculable as the laws of life, and the science
of Morality is as certain as that of Phy!iiology. But
Digitized by Google
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 277
important in the highest degree as this branch of know-
ledge must be allowed to be, there are several causes
why it has made so little progress. Men, as we have
seen, are divided as to the very foundations upon which
the science must. be based ; some imagine that there is
a higher object to be attained than the production of
happiness; others, that happiness hereafter, to be ob-
tained through a life of suffering or probation here, is
the sole end to be pursued. Some, again, suppose that
the Christian Scriptures contain all that is essential to
our moral guidance: a.", however, the rules therein are
not sufficiently explicit for all relations of man with his
fellows, and a.q besides to the majority of the world these
Scriptures are not given, an internal monitor bas been
superadded called Conscience, which if attended to, and
not pertJerted, will dictate, on all occasions, what is
right and what is wrong. But the principal reason
why Morality has not advanced as a science is, that
the mental constitution has not been understood, and
in ignorance of this, laws for the production of the
greatest happiness were empirical and fruitless, as
they could have no more foundation in real knowledge
than the science of Medicine before the discovery of
the circulation of the blood; and as before Harvey's
time, bleeding and blistering were considered the almost
universal remedies for all diseases and organic de-
rangements, so in the present time heaven and hell,
that is, the selfish fear of the one or hope of the other,
is preached as the universal panacea for all moral dis-
orders. But as knowledge of the structure and func-
tions of the several organs of the body is essential in
order to minister to their disorders, so an intimate
Digitized by Coogle
278 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
acquaintance with the faculties and functions of the
mind is requisite to remedy moral disease.
Man, as we have seen, is a compound of instincts,
and of reason or intellectual faculties for the proper
direction of these instincts. The instinct is the incen-
tire to action, and reason the guide to the object of
such action. Some of these instincts have reference
to man's indi,·idual welfare. They induce him to cling
to life, though excessiYe piP.n should for the moment
predominate, rendering life for the time being unde-
sirable ; they induce him to supply his body with the
material necessary for its sustenance ; to attach him-
self to those who adminiRter to his pleasures; to accu-
mulate for a future day ; to defend himself and repel
aggression ; to meet necessary danger ; cautiously to
avoid that which has a tendency to injure; to desire
approbation ; to exalt himself, and to view things only
with reference to self. These are called the selfish
feelings. Another class of man's instincts leads him
to seek for gratification in the welfare of the great body
of society ; to desire the happiness of his fellow-
creatures ; to treat them with deference and respect ;
to do justly himself, and to see that justice is done
between man and man. These are termed disinte-
rested feelings, not because they have not as direct a
reference to indiYidual happiness as any of the others,
but because the happiness derived from their gratifica-
tion is a consequence and retlection of the happiness
of others. Man is thus connected by one part of his
organization with the earth, and his happiness requires
obedience to the physical and organic laws ; by the
other portion he is connected with the race of man-
Digitized by Google
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 279
kind and the whole mass of sensitive existence, and
his happiness equally requires that the laws that con-
nect him with these should be obeyed.
To living in society then be is indebted for a great
part of his enjoyment, a thousand fold of that which
he could possibly experience in an isolated state; but
that he may derive full benefit from the social system,
he is repeatedly called upon to give up the immediate
gratification of the selfish feelings, whenever such gra-
tification would militate against the well-being of
others; for the wound inflicted upon society must ex-
tend to himself, and cause greater pain than the non-
gratification of the selfish desire. Thus to sacrifice his
own immediate interest to that of his fellows, is termed
virtue; to persist, on the contrary, in self-gratification,
to the detriment of others, is vice. Virtue, then, in
this sense of the word, must be synonymous with true
self-interest, because if it were not for its exercise~
man could not live in union with his fellows, and would
thus be deprived of all the numberless advantages of
the social state.
With reference, therefore, to the question whether
•
we best promote our own interest by seeking our
own individual enjoyment, without regard to the en-
joyment of others, or whether we should seek to
secure our own happiness in the happiness of all : it
has been answered, firstly, by showing that the law of
God's providence in the government of the world is
the sacrifice of individual to general interests : and,
secondly, that if men were to seek their own individual
enjoyment only, society could not subsist; for every
injury that our selfish pursuits should bring upon our
Digitized by Coogle
280 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
fellow-creatures, would be immediately retaliated upon
ourselves, and perpetual warfare ensue : const.-mt ag-
gression would produce constant re\"'enge. And, lastly,
it is shown by comparing man's faculties with each
other, that he could not be happy in the gratifi-
cation of the selfish propensities alone. Happiness
consist8 in the proper exercise of all our feelings and
faculties; but they must all be exercised harmoniously,
so that in gratifying one we do not offend the others.
Thus, in the gratification of the instinctive love of
offspring, we may endeavour to promote the interests
of our children at the expense of others, but in so
doing Conscientiousness is outraged, and the pains of
remorse are the consequence. We may seek the appro-
bation of our fellows, but if by that means we occasion
uneasiness to others, Benevolence ili offended, and we
suffer more from this than we should enjoy from the
momentary approbation that we might ha-re recei-red.
But all our faculties are sources of happiness when
exercised legitimately, and all ha-re a wide field of
action without interfering with the rights or happiness
of others, and the object of the moralist is to show how
each may be gratified consistently with this limitation.
The greatest possible amount of happiness can only be
experienced when the disinterested feelings predomi-
nate, and in proportion as these take precedence over
the rest, does happiness increase ; the reason of which
is, that while the gratification of the selfish desires is
single and solitary, and confined to one object, that of
the disinterested feelings is boundless in its range, and
is composed, not only of the enjoyment which always
results from the legitimate exercise of the facultie~, but
Digitized by Coogle
'l'BB PRiilCIPLB8 OJ.I' MO&ALI'l'l'. 28\
also dC the happiaess reflected from that of all benefited
by such exercise : the former is ever but an unit; the
latter always compound.
But not only is it necessary to morality tllat those
feelings which have the interest of others tbr their
object should have the supremacy, the intellectual
faculties must also be cultivated and enlightened.
To ensure our own pleasurable existence being the
first law of our being, and the happiness of all, the
means by which it is to be ensured, the intellect is
required to regulate the conduct so that it may best
advance these means. The feelings that prompt us to
action are mere blind impulses ; those that have for
their object our own individual welfare are as likely to
destroy as to benefit us, unless guided by reason, and
those that have for their object the welfare of our fel-
low-creatures are as likely to injure them as to increase
their enjoyment, unless similarly directed. Thus a
mother of the human species must be guided by rea-
son, and not, like the brutes, by instinct, in the
rearing of her oft"spring ; and however much she ma.y
desire its welfare, she cannot promote it but by study-
ing the organic and physical laws that have reference
to its rood, clothing, and general well-being. So we
may naturally desire to do right, to act J118tly ; but
nothing but enlightened intellect can tell us what is
right, what is justice. In the exercise of benevolence
we may create more misery than we relieve, unless
the intellectual faculties make a strict investigation
and calculation with respect to the real tendencies
of actions. For instance, we may meet a miserable-
looking street beggar, we may be excited meompassi.on,
and to relieve ourselves by the gratification of such a.
NN
Digitized by Coogle
282 .THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
feeling, we may give him an alms; but that Mlch an
action is misdirected benevolence, is proved by statis-
tical data which show that such charity produces more
misery than good, by its tending to create a class of
persons which must necessarily be a depraved and
miserable one. The greatest happiness, then, that man
can enjoy requires the constant supremacy of the in-
tellectual and moral faculties ; and the comparative
happiness of individuals will be found to be in strict
and constant proportion to the degree in which this
supremacy is found. The generality o£ mankind, how-
ever, seem satisfied with a much lower standard : the
intellectual faculties occupy a most humble position ;
undirected impulse or instinct dictates most of their
actions, and the moral feelings, instead of being the
·leading springs of action, whence should flow most of
their pleasures, are constituted merely the guardians of
the propensities, with no higher office than to restrain
their exercise and prevent their abuse. If a man in
the present state of society follows his calling, of what-
ever character that may be, without wilfully interfering
with the rights of others ; if he injures no one ; if he
performs the religious duties sanctioned by public
opinion, every Sabbath, with a decent and reverent
demeanor ; and his duties as a citizen to the extent
that is expected of him, he considers himself a moral
man. But here is no supremacy of the moral feelings ;
in this poor, negative kind of morality, their high
claim.~ are wholly unanswered. No, not only would
they forbid him to interfere with the happine~s or
others, but they would cause him to be ever on the
alert to promote it by all the means in his power. It
is the law of the Creator, connecting us with one.an-
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 283
other, · that we should " love our neighbour as our-
seh·es." He has impressed it on the intellectual faculties
by enabling them to trace out the mode in which this
law leads to the greatest happiness. He has impressed
it unalterably on our moral constitution, by endowing us
with a faculty which makes the love of our neighbour
almost as necessary to us as the gratification of hunger
and thirst, and a source o'f enjoyment so exquisite that
all others seem in comparison poor and unsatisfying.
Since the law of God requires that we should actively
seek the good of others-that the moral feelings, di-
rected by enlightened intellect, should ever employ their
energies in systematic efforts for the production of the
largest sum of enjoyment possible, that man may be
strictly declared to be immoral who allows a single
opportunity of making a fellow-creature happier, to pass
him. This great, first, moral law we must make, on all
occasions, the rule of our conduct, working it out our-
selves to the best of our ability ; not trusting, however,
solely to our own calculations, but borrowing from the
collective wisdom of the highest minds and the dictates
of their experience.
The constitution of man being so far understood,
and the relation traced of the Physical, Organic, and
Moral Laws to the foundations of happiness and misery,
i.e. pleasure and pain, it becomes evident that a syste-
matic obedience to all the sets of laws, on the part of
all mankind, can alone ensure the perfect happiness of
the race or of any one individual belonging to it. But
since this entire obedience presupposes a perfect know-
ledge of all the properties, relations, and combinations
of matter ; of the nature of our own constitutions,
Digitized by Google ...
284 TBB PIUliCIPLB~ OP JIO&ALITT,
bodily and mental, and of the ultimate COilJeqUences
of all actions-knowledge which can never be in the
possession of a finite, created, intelligence-it follows
that perfect happiness can never be the lot of man.
It is, however, an important step gained to know that
every advance towards perfect knowledge is also an
advance towards perfect felicity.
An exposition of the Principle• of Morality is the
object of this Chapter, and not the carrying out of
those principles into detail ; some few remarks, how-
ever, with reference to the regulation of the mind and
conduct, may serve to illustrate the foregoing.
" Know thyself," has been the leading injunction of
the moralist in all ages. Mental Philosophy is suf-
ficiently advanced to make this knowledge more attain-
able than it has yet proved. It furnishes a tolerably
correct catalogue of the propensities, sentiments, and
intellectual faculties peculiar to man; and the relative
proportion in which they are possessed by the indivi-
dual may be approximately assigned. Possessed of
this knowledge, man may learn to avoid those temp-
tations to which, by constitutional temperament, be
is peculiarly prone ; and experience will soon con-
vince him that the best way to resist temptation is to
avoid it, and where to avoid it is impracticable, at least
he will be forewarned, and forewarned is forearmed.
Knowing the use and abuse of each faculty, he will be
aware when be is tempted to overstep the bounds
which nature and the moral law have set to each desire.
Above all it is most essential that he shall be placed
in a situation for which his natural endowments have
fitted him, and so far as circumstances permit, will he
Digitized by Coogle
TBB PlliNCIPLBil 01' IIORALITY. 285
choose one which will provide for the daily use of his
highest feelings, in directly promoting the happiness of
others.
In connexion with the most prominent duties upon
which happiness will be found to depend, may be men-
tioned the Law of Labour with its numerous dependen-
cies. As we are obliged to consume, so the moral law
imperatively requires that we should give an equivalent;
if not, the world is exactly so much the poorer by what
we have consumed. All the comforts and conveniences
of life are the produce of labour ; and although the
present laws of society allow one man to possess the
produce of the labour of hundreds and of thousands, yet
the moral law does not the less require that an equiva-
lent should be given, and ordains suffering and loss of
happiness to follow invariably upon the breach of this
law of natural justice, not perhaps directly to the indi-
vidual, but to the whole community of which he fonns
part. We shall see, in tracing the causes of the evils
that at present pervade society, that they are, in a great
measure, owing to this breach of morality. But as
society is at present constituted, how is the breach of
this duty to be avoided, and how shall we calculate
what is the amount of the debt that we owe to society ?
Let each estimate the product of his labour, whether of
head or of hands-so much he is fairly entitled to ; but
for all of his income which exceeds this, he is indebted
to othem. It is of no moment from what quarter the
income may be derived; when traced to its original
source, it will always be found to be the gift of society.
And how is the debt to be paid ? In the present unjust
division of the produce of labour, a moral man can
only consider his income as gifen to him in trust for
Digitized by Coogle
286 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY•.
the interests of all ; he will take care, therefore, that it
receive the direction that is best calculated to promote
the interests of all. His mode of living will be at the
Yery lowest rate that is sufficient to furnish each faculty
or desire with its legitimate gratification. This he
would receive, and to this he would be entitled, if the
produce of labour were equally and justly distributed:
all that he spends beyond this, is spending that which
properly belongs to others. As knowledge unveils the
beauties of nature, artificial enjoyments become less
necessary, and the labour required for their production
may, therefore, be dispensed with. To the pure and
well-regulated mind the study of the natural sciences
is a source of endless occupation and delight ; it is
making God a companion instead of man. The en-
joyments proceeding from the legitimate gratification
of our faculties are cheap, nature itself supplies the
greater part of them ; and therefore are the pleasures
of the poor man and of the rich more equal than is
ordinarily supposed. The surplus income, after such
wants have been supplied, belongs to society ; and if
by immediately distributing it among those who want
it, most good would be done, it would be our duty so to
dispose of it ; but it might be shown that such a
mode of dispensing it would injure society more than
benefit it. Our duty, then, rather lies in doing all we
can, by the means with which we have been entrusted,
to promote the good of the whole body of society, by
the spread of knowledge, by reforming abuses, and by
correcting the present vicious system for the distribu-
tion of the products of labour-a system by which the
mass of the people in all countries are reduced to toil
!'iO incessant, that anything like the ~prcad of education
Digitized by Coogle
. THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 287
or the knowledge of the natural laws among them is
impossible. The constant and unvaried labour to which
the many are condemned, is far different from that
habitual actirity the greatest happiness principle re-
quires-an activity which results from the healthy and
daily exercise of all our feelings and faculties. The
decree that man should earn his bread by the sweat of
his brow, was intended as a blessing, and not as a curse,
and the true satisfaction and enjoyment resulting from
obedience to the law of labour here enforced, will more
than repay us for the loss of those flimsy and artificial
gratifications by which society endeavours to tempt us
into an opposite course. The happiness flowing from
a state of mind consequent upon the systematic effort
to do good, would be far more than equivalent to that
.which any elevation of state in society could procure,
provided that such a station could only be maintained
by squandering the produce of the labour of a thousand
poor.
One of the surest foundations of happiness is inti-
mately connected with the duty we have been enforcing,
viz., moderation and consistency in our desires and ex-
pectations. If our enjoyments are such as nature affords
from the habitual gratification of our higher faculties,
they are easily attainable ; they lie within ourselves
and immediately around us, and it is not in the power
of society to deprive us of them. Such happiness does
not depend upon wealth and splendour, power or fame;
.for the secrets of nature are more valuable than
secrets of state, and our own good opinion than that
of all the world. There can never be want of employ-
ment that is pleasurable ; .and habitual activity is the
source of health to both mind and body. Expectations
Digitized by Coogle
288 THK PBINCIPL&S OP IIOILALITT.
founded upon nature's rewards can seldom be disap-
pointed, and should one source fail, a tbousand are
open which do not depend upon the unmitigated and
poorly-requited labour of our fellow-creatures. Could
the true standard of happiness be set up in society
instead of the false one now erected, how easy and
straightforward would appear the means by which to
make that happiness our own! "To do justly, to love
mercy, and to walk humbly with our God," would no
longer be regarded as the dictum of the Creator to be
blindly obeyed by the creature ; but all nature and our
own hearts would join Him in requiring it of us-we
should fulfil the end of our being, and be happy.
Akin to that independence of spiritwhich sets fashion
and public opinion on one side1in its steady pursuit of
the legitimate means of happiness, is Sincerity; a vir-
tue urgently called for in the present fictitious state of
society. While mankind attach merit or demerit to
qpinion, as if opinions were optional and the proper
subjects of praise and blame, the opposite vice of Insin-
cerity will be commonly generated. If a man di1f'er
essentially from his brethren in his religious belief, or
political sentiments, he may act consistently and con-
scientiously according to his principles, but his character
will seldom escape wholly unimpeached.
Sincerity will not yield to expediency, if we calculate
correctly. The best mode of attacking error is by
spreading truth, or, at least, what appears to us after
sufficiently careful examination, to be truth; but what-
ever may be the convictions at which we may arrive,
and whatever may be the opinion of society with respect
to such convictions, we are bound to state them when
called upon. Without forcing them upon society un-
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 289
seasonably and uncalled for, they must not be dissem-
bled or concealed, otherwise the interests of truth, and
consequently the cause of human improvement and
happiness, must suffer. Were each mind honestly to
declare the faith that it holds, troths that are now treated
as errors dangerous to the interests of society, would
be at least regarded with respect, out of deference to
the talents and character of those that entertain them,
and the improvement of our institutions would be more
rapid.
Sincerity may be equally demonstrated to be the
interest of individuals. For though the "world has
ever shown but small favour to its teachers ;"• though
it has ever regarded with an evil and a jealous eye the
propounders of new truths, yet the honest expression
of all that we believe will be found to be most in ac-
cordance with the promotion of our own happiness.
We may be neglected and even persecuted by society
at large ; yet the sympathy and friendship of the few
real lovers of truth, who are capable of appreciating
our motives and views, and the internal consciousness
arising from the activity of the highest feelings, will
• " The world has ever, we fear, shown but small favour to its
teachers : hunger and nakednl'lls, perils and reviling, the prison,
the cross, the poison-chalice, have, in most times and countries,
been the market-price it has offered for wi11dom, the welcome with
which it has greeted those who have come to enlighten and purify
it. Homer and Socrates, and the Christian Apostles, belong to old
days; but the world's martyrology was not completed with these ;
Roger Bacon and Galileo languisl1 in priestly dungeons, Tasso pines
in the cell of a madhouse, Camocns dies bl'gging on the streets of
Lisbon. So neglected, so 'persecuted they the prophets,' not in
Judea only, but in all places where men haYe been."-Carlyle's Mis-
cellanies, vol. I, p. 3-il.
00
Digitized by Coogle
290 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
more than repay us for all that the world is capable of
withholding. Unless this virtue of perfect sincerity be
practised, it is impossible that a man's friendships and
connexions can be formed upon the only lasting and
desirable footing, viz., sympathy of thought and feeling ;
and one friendship engrafted upon this genuine stock
surpasses all the ties of mere consanguinity. Though
the friends of the man who dares to promulgate and
support unpopular truths are necessarily few, yet they
are more valuable, and are the source of more happi-
ness than a host bound to him by the ordinary worldly
ties, or than the stupid staring and loud huzzas of the
multitude.
The error most to be guarded against in the carrying
out of the greatest happiness principle, according to the
Utilitarian Philosophy, is, as remarked by Mackintosh,
" that of sliding from general to particular conse-
quences; that of trying single actions, instead of dis-
positions, habits, and rules, by the standard of utility ;
that of authorizing too great a latitude for discretion and
policy in moral conduct; that of readily allowing excep-
tions to the most important rules ; that of too lenient a
censure ofthe use ofdoubtful means when the end seems
to them to be good ; and that of believing unphilosophi-
cally, as well as dangerously, that there can be any mea-
sure or scheme so useful to the world, as the existence of
men who would not do a base thing for any public ad-
vantage. It was said of Andrew Fletcher, ' be would
lose his life to sene his country, but would not do a
base thing to save it.' "• And such is the conduct that
the greatest happiness principle enjoins. Exceptions to
general rules, the dictates of the higher feelings, mm~t
• Mackintosh's Dissertation, Encyc. Brit., p. 383.
o;gitizedbyGoogle •
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 291
.never be allowed, however great may appear to be the
good that would result from a departure from the rule
in any particular case. The plea of expediency must
never be listened to. To do evil that good may come
will be found to be an impossibility, when the action is
carried out into all its consequences. For in judging
--
of an action, we should not only regard the particular
benefit that will accrue to ourselves or others from it,
but what would be the consequence if such actions
were generally admitted. Thus on no occasion can it
be right to tell a lie; for though it is possible for a par-
ticular case to occur in which good might ensue from
deception, yet if the principle of falsehood were ad-
mitted, no one could be believed. So, though a parti-
cular case might occur in which most happiness might
result from depriving a man of his due, yet if injustice
were general, society could not exist. A serious
mischief is done tQ the mind by admitting even the
supposition that, in any case, the greatest happiness
principle will allow of a departure from the general rule
of right. Conscience can admit of no appeal; it must
be a supreme ruler; for habitual obedience to its dic-
tates i."' the only means of preventing the mind from
being divided against itself, and of keeping it in the
state which is necessary to happiness. The Utilitarian
Philosophy requires, therefore, to be used with caution.
It serves to test the soundness of general rules, and
to supply a motive where no such general rules exist:
the well-being of society can never be secured by leav-
ing it to every individual to calculate the consequences
of each action, but by the obedience of each to those
rules that experience has shown generally to tend to
happiness. The performance of duty, therefore, not
Digitized by Coogle
292 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
the pursuit of happiness, may be considered as the
safest road to happiness ; trusting, as we may do im-
plicitly, that if we act in accordance with the will of
God, in obedience to the moral law, our well-being will
be best secured ; even as it has been shown with re-
spect to the physical and organic laws.
The main thing to be sought, then, is the habitual
predominance of the moral feelings ; the maintenance
of them in a state in which "the prospect of advantage
through unlawful means should never present itself to
the mind;" or if it did, that its expulsion should follow
instinctively, without any calculation on the subject as
to whether the " particular circumstances" do not make
it lawful; for he that hesitates is lost. If an action
be considered at all doubtful, the thought of it is occa-
sionally entertained, the mind becomes accustomed to
the possibility of its performance, and will then gene-
rally yield to the first strong temptation. Thus eYen
thoughts at variance with the highest purity of mind
should never be permitted to gain entrance, for evil
thoughts invariably lead to evil deeds, as minor crimes
·to greater. So the habitual indulgence of one fault
lowers the tone of the whole of the moral sentiments,
and is incompatible with the higher virtues, and con-
sequently with the highest happiness.
But can it be proved that lirtue, or obedience to the
Moral Law, always produces the greatest happiness if
steadily pursued-because the interests of virtue seem
to demand that it should be so proved? If that which,
all things considered, will produce the greatest sum of
enjoyment be the only thing worth pursuing, this is not
a question that will admit of being left in any doubt.
In the present artificial state of !Ociety, where its lawR
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 293
are in so many instances opposed to the laws of nature,
every individual act of "irtue cannot be said to lead
directly to happiness. The sacrifice of external ad-
vantages required by such an act may even be very
great ; but we must bear in mind, what moralists too
often forget, that it is not in eYery act of virtue that
the reward is to be looked for, but in the general
amount of happiness resulting from Yirtuous dispo-
sitions, habits, and feelings ; a state of mind which is
only attainable by the invariable and constant practice
of virtue. A man's lirtue may be of the negatiYe
kind, that is, confined to doing no one any injury ; but
if he do to no one any good, although he may not
actually suffer in consequence, be will lose all the hap-
piness derived from actire virtue. His condition will
be similar to that of a man born blind, who suffers not
positively from the want of sight, neYer haling known
what it is to see, but who loses all the advantages de-
rivable from that sense. So the man of low moral
manifestation may not be a greater sufferer, but he is
susceptible of many degrees less happiness than the
highly moral man, in the same way that the brutes are
capable of less enjoyment than himself. " If we know
a man who is palpably cold-hearted, grasping and
selfish, we are authorised to conclude, First, that he is
deprired of that delicious sunshine of the soul and all
those thrilling sympathies with whatever is noble, beau-
tiful, and holy, which attend the vivacious action of the
moral and religious faculties: and, Second, that he is
deprived of the reflected influence of the same emo-
tions from the hearts and countenances of the good
men around him.''• Mackintosh, in speaking of Leib-
~ Combe'5 )loral Philo~ophy.
Digitized by Coogle
294 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
nitz's Ethics, obser¥es, " It entirely escaped his sagacity
as it has that of nearly all other moralists, that the
coincidence of morality with well-understood interest
in our outward actions, is very far from being the most
important part of the question ; for these actions flow
from habitual dispositions, from affections and sensi-
bilities which determine their nature. There may be,
and there are, many immoral acts, which, iu the sense
in which words are commonly used, are advantageous
to the actor. But the whole sagacity and ingenuity of
the world may be safely challenged to point out a case
in which \irtuous dispositions, habits, and feelings, are
not conducive in the highest degree to the happiness
of the individual ; or to maintain that he is not the
happiest, whose moral sentiments and affections are
such as to prevent the possibility of the prospect of
advantage, through unlawful means, presenting itself to
his mind. It would indeed have been impossible to
prove to Regulus that it was his interest to return to a
death of torture in Africa. But what if the proof had
been easy ? The most thorough conviction on such a
point would not have enabled him to set this example,
if he had not been supported by his own integrity and
generosity, by love of his country and reverence for his
pledged faith. What could the conviction add to that
greatness of soul, and to these glorious attributes? With
such \irtues he could not act otherwise than he did.
Would a father, affectionately interested in a son's hap-
piness, of very lukewarm feelings of morality, but of
good ~ense enough to weigh gratifications and sufferings
exactly, be really desirous that his son should have these
virtues in a less degree than Regulus, merely because
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 295
they might ell.pm!e him to the fate that Regulus chose ?
On t~ coldest calculation he would surely perceive
\ that the high and glowing feelings of such a mind
·· during life, altogether throw into the shade a few hours
of agony in leaving it. And, if he himself were so
unfortunate that no more generous sentiment arose in
his mind to silence such calculations, would it not be a
reproach to his understanding not to discover, that
though in one case out of millions, such a character
might lead a Regulus to torture, yet, in the common
course of nature, it is the source, not only of happiness
in life, but of quiet and honour in death? A case so
extreme as that of Regulus will not perplex, if we bear
in mind, that though we cannot prove the act of heroic
virtue to be conducive to the interest of the hero, yet we
may perceive at once that nothing is ~o conducive to his
interest as to have a mind so formed that it could not
shrink from it, but must rather embrace it with glad-
ness and triumph. Men of vigorous health are said
sometimes to suffer most in a pestilence. No man was
ever so absurd as for that reason to wish that he were
more infirm. The distemper might return once in a
century. If he were then alive he might escape it ;
and even if he fell, the balance of advantage would be
in most cases greatly on the side of robust health. In
estimating beforehand the value of a strong bodily
frame, a man of sense would throw the small chance
of a rare and short evil entirely out of the account.
So must the coldest and most selfish moral calculator,
who, if he be sagacious and exact, must pronounce that
the inconveniences to which a man may be sometimes
exposed by a pure and sound mind, are no reasons for
Digitized by Coogle
296 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
regretting that we do not escape by possessing minds
more enfeebled and distempered." •
It may be asked, whether our own happiness be an
inducement to morality sufficiently strong ? Whether
it will be able to produce the self-denial necessary to
form a highly moral character? For morality con-
stantly requires the sacrifice of immediate pleasures to
greater ones more distant, and of present enjoyment
to the good of others. But if our own happiness is
not a sufficient inducement to morality, what is? Our
own happiness results from the gratification of our
desires and affections ; we desire the approbation of
the public and our own esteem ; the loYe of those with
whom we associate: we desire to do what is right; the
happiness of others ; the love of God ; and if stronger
motires to action than these can be pointed out, what
are they? Are not these the principles of action by
which the generality of mankind are influenced ? The
enjoyments proceeding from the highest feelings of our
nature, the love of mankind and of that which is right,
are beyond all comparison more animating and durable,
as well as more refined and elevated, than those pro-
ceeding from selfish or sensual gratifications ; and all
that can be said, therefore, of him who is ca11ed the
Rufferer for conscience sake, is, that he prefers the
higher pleasure to the lower.
One more essential to our greatest happiness we
shall mention. It is requisite that the mind should be
freed from the degrading notions of the character of the
Deity that have been handed down to us from the
dark ages of ignorance and superstition, and that it
should entertain views more consistent with the Divine
• Mackintosh's Disst'rtation~, p. 338.
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 297
Pe1-fcctions. It is the tendency, we think, of the above
principles to give expanded views of God's dealings
with his creatures ; and the mind that is thoroughly
imbued with them will find· its own happiness in being
able to reject, as derogatory to the character of God,
what is inconsistent with the highest principles of its
own nature. It will not be driven to the miserable
subterfuge of supposing that what are Benevolence
and Justice to us, are not so to God ; that Infinite
Benevolence can ordain a balance of misery, or that a
balance of misery in this world, and infinite misery in
the next, must necessarily be the portion of one part
of God's creatures to ensure the welfare of the rest;
that the Omniscient Deity can propose a plan for the
temporal and eternal interests of His creatures, which
at the same time He knows is inefficient to the purpose,
because it will not be accepted by them ; that the best
and highest happiness of His creatures here is incon-
sistent with their happiness hereafter ; or that the final
purposes of creation are God's honour and glory. No;
from the mind_ that has contemplated the perrections of
the Almighty in the book of his works, such degrading
notions will be banished, and it will tremble to impute
motives and actions to God that are inconsistent with
the highest virtue even of His creatures ; though they
should be revealed by an angel from heaven, or by
a priesthood claiming for itself inspiration from the
Highest. .More consistent is the Atheist than he who ·
allows himself to entertain such ideas ; more reasonable
were it to beliere in no God, than in one possessing
such attributes! As we have attempted to show, the
argument for the existence of God from the necessity
of a First Cause is unphilmmphical, and cannot be
pp
Digitized by Coogle ....
298 THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.
maintained; it involres as great a difficulty as it solreK.
There is no more difficulty in supposing the eternal
existence of Matter, with its properties, than in sup-
posing that God and his attributes are uncaused.
What we term cause and effect, however, are mere
antecedence and consequence, and such succession
does not involve, so far as we can discover, any
necessary connexion, but has been established and is
maintained to answer a particular purpose. The exist-
ence of God, of the per¥ading Spirit of Creation and
Intelligence, rests upon a much surer foundation if
inferred from the uniformity of such causes, and the
adaptation and relation of them all to one end-the
production of happiness. Such a line of argument,
however, cannot coincide with the common notions of
God's providence ; of His moral government of the
world ; or with the ordinary ideas concerning the
nature of eril; for the illustrations of design in such
a scheme are unworthy eren of the limited intelligence
of man. But he who looks deeper into the ways of
Providence, finds a scheme worthy of Omnipotence, in
the production of the largest sum of enjoyment pos-
sible; that He works not by partial laws, but by such
as pervade the whole sensitive creation, and cannot be
resisted by any supposed freedom of will. He feels
the most implicit confidence in God, finding that there
is no e,;dence for the existence of any other 6bject but
the good of his creatures ; that pain is necessary for
his preservation, and is as his schoolmaster to instruct
him and impel him forward in the race of improve-
ment-that it is intended to correct error, not to punish
it. He feels and knows that the laws of God are not
changeable, but that be may depend upon them in the
Digitized by Coogle
THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY. 299
calculation of his well-being; and that there is no
necessity for us to pray to God that He will alter His
laws for us to be happy, but that if we do. but study
and obey them, our happiness will infallibly fo1low ;
that, as it is the law of his existence that be should
desire his own happiness, and morality is the most direct
road to it, he must, as he advances in intelligence and
sees more clearly this connexion between virtue and l -
happiness, of necesgity choose the former; To the man
who can divest his mind of the degrading superstitions
of his childhood, and exercise it upon the great plan of
Providence, every cause and effect that he may witness,
every truth that he may discover, is a new illustration
of the goodness of God. To see Him iu His works ;
to know what He does, and wherefore He does it, is to
feel for ever in His presence : he who thus seeks the
Penading and Creating Spirit of the universe, sees on
e\·ery side of him wonders going forward which only
a God can perform; each atom obeying the laws of
order given to it ; each plant elaborately and systema-
tically assuming the form peculiarly its own; each
animal working out the object of its beiug, and Sensa-
tion-Feeling-the great Soul of the world, periodically
changing its garment, as generation after generation of
men, and all living creatures, are organized, vitalized,
and again return to their mother Earth to form new
combinations. " Is not God's Universe a Symbol of
the Godlike, is uot Immensity a Temple? Usten, and
for organ-music thou wilt ever, as of old, h<'ar the
morning stars sing· together.'' •
• S;ntor Rt•:!artu;, p. 2li3.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~
Digitized by Coogle
THE PHILOSOPHY OF NECESSITY.
PART III.
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
CHAPTER I.
ON THE PRESRNT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
WE have examined the Constitution of Man, and the
laws of his Physical, Moral, and Intellectual Being,-
and we have seen that there is nothing in the constitu-
tion of human nature that should prevent the whole race
from becoming what any fl1UJ member of it has become.
We have observed the laws of Mind and Intelligence
to be equally fixed with those of Matter, and we find
that man moves merely as he is moved, by the original
constitution or organization which he bas received at
birth, and the circumstances in which he is placed;
and that knowing such original constitution and cir-
cumstances, we can, for our guidance, calculate as
much upon V'olitiou as upon the physical Jaws of At-
traction and Repulsion : that in consequence of the
necessary limitation of his faculties, and his ignorance
of the nature of all things around him, he is liable to
do that which will injure him, and to leave undone that
which is essential to his well-being and existence, and
that pain, (which in its various modifications is called
eril,) was appointed to drive him into the proper course
of action, or to restrain him from that which is hurtful.
Pain is thus the necessary consequence of man's diso-
bedience to the Jaws upon which his well-being dependl(,
Digitized by Coogle
3()() PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
and pleasure the consequence of his obedience to such
laws. Pain and pleasure, therefore, regulate all the
actions of sensitive creation; and God's government of
the world consists in his attaching pains and penalties
to certain actions, and pleasures to others-a simple
revelation of His will, intelligible to all mankind-a
language universally understood.
We have seen that evil is in·all eases remediable by
the discovery of the cause, and by pursuing a different
mode of action to that which produced it, and that hap-
piness is therefore dependent on knowledge.
Morality we have defined to be the science which
teaches men the laws by which they may live together
in the most happy manner possible, the fundamental
moral law being the production of the largest sum of
enjoyment to all, and not the happiness of the few at
the expense of the many ; and we have shown that
man must necessarily obey such laws, when he dis-
covers the eonnexion between them and his own well-
being, as it is the law of his existence to follow that
which will produce the greatest happiness.
We have now to examine the present organization
of Society, in order to ascertain how far it is in ac-
cordance with those principles which have been shown
to be essential to the production of the greatest
amount of happiness. In considering this question,
we propose to trace the many evils and abuses that
afllict Society to their source, and to examine how far
the numerous remedies proposed for their abatement
and reform, by various conflicting parties, are calcu-
lated to effect that purpose. As the Working Classes
are by far the most numerous part of the population
hi .all countries, in considering the mode by which
the largest amount of happiness may be produced,
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 301
their condition surely ought to constitute the princi-
pal object of regard. Hitherto the working classes
have seldom been viewed in so important a light;
they have been looked upon by Political Economists,
and too much so by their Rulers, as means only to
the production of the largest amount of wealth, not
as means to the largest amount of happiness. Athens,
in the time of Pericles, contained 30,000 free citizens
and 400,000 slaves : what these slaves were to the free
state of antiquity, have the working classes been to us ;
for necessity bas been and is now, a harder taskmaster
than any mere instrument of human tyranny. But we
trust that the time for their emancipation draws near,
when the steam-engine shall take the place of the
slaves, and do the drudgery of Society, and when all
the higher and nobler parts of their nature, that
peculiarly distinguish them as men, may have full
s~ope, and they shall no longer be regarded as the
mere hewers of wood and drawers of water.
SECTION I.
DIVISION OF SOCIETY, ANNUAL INCOME OF THE KING-
DOM, AND MODE OF ITS DISTRIBUTION.
The population of Great Britain, and we sball for
the present speak of Great Britain alone, is estimated
by Mr. .M•Culloch to consist at the present time of
18 millions of inhabitants.• The average rate of in-
crease of the whole population has been ascertained to
be about 1t per cent. per annum.
• 8tatil!tical Account of the Briti:>h Empin·, yo). 2, p. 509.
Digitized by Coogle
302 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
Taking the census of 1831, with the ordinary rate
of increase added, the inhabitants may be divided into
" Occupiers of land, employing and not employing
Labourers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .•• 409,260
Capitalists, Bankers, Professional, and other Edu-
cated Men ... ... ... .. . ... .. . ... ... !46,530
Employed in Retail Trade, or in Handicraft, as
Masters or Workmen ... ... .. . •.. ... 1,333,837
Labourers and Operatives employed in Agricul-
ture and Manufactures ... ... ... ... ... 3,135,299"•
By this division there would be rather less than three
persons dependent upon each of these, or less than four
people to a family.
The average annual income of Great Britain, Mr.
M'Culloch estimates at about £300,000,000, which is
perhaps nearer the truth than the much larger esti-
mates of some other parties. t
The land in cultivation in England and Wales is
estimated at ... ... ... ... ...
" " Scotland •. . ...
The whole extent of surface
Aerea.
28,749,000
5,043,450
51,000,000
The Rent of Great Britain is estimated at
Profits of Occupiers of Land
... £34,778,685
31,500,000
Profits of Manufacturers, Professional Men, &c.,
as determined by the Income Tax in 1814 and
1815, with 35 per cent. estimated increase
added
National Revt>nue
50,000,000
50,000,000
Total ..4166,278,685~
The total of which Rent, PrQits, a~d Taxes, de-
ducted from the annual income of the kingdom, leaves
• Portt>r's Progress of the Nation, sec. 1, p. 53. t Vol. 2, p. 509.
~ It is not pretendt>d that the above data are absolutely correct;
th<'y art' gh·cn only as being as near an approximatbn to the truth
as we have any means yet of IYking.
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 303
.£133,721,315, as the share of the Retailers, and of the
Labourers and Operatives. Deduct only one-third as
the share of the Retailers, supposing that some of them
may be included in the other classes, it leaves for the
3,135,299 of all kinds of Agricultural and Manufac-
turing Labourers, .£99,157,544, being rather less than
one-third of the whole annual produce. This is the
share allotted by the Landowner and Capitalist to the
Labourer of that, which, in consequence of his labour,
becomes joint capital. It is not quite .£33 per year,
or 12s. Sd. per week, for each family. For the use of
land, machinery, capital, for liberty to work, and for
protection, the working man thus gives 8 hours labour
out of every 12.
"The returns of the Income Tax, in 1812, showed in Great
Britain 127,000 persons with an income from £50 t~ .£200
22,000 " " " " 200 to 1000
3,000 " tt cc tt 1000 to 5000
600 tt " tt above 5000
152,600 persons in all, possessing an income above £50
a-year; or 600,000 souls dependent upon persons in that situation.
Of these the great majority unquestionably derived their incdmes
from professions or trades, and not from realized property. To so
small a number is the immense wealth of Britain confined. The
number is now greatly increased, but probably does not exceed
300,000. Mr. Colquhoun calculates the number of persons of in-
dependent fortune in Britain, that is, of persons who can live
without daily labour, at 47,000, and their families at 234,000; or,
including bankers, merchants, and others, who unite industrial pro-
fits to the returns of property, 60,000, and their families 300,000.
On the other hand, there are 3,44(),000 heads of families, and,
16,800,000 persons living on their daily labour. The pa.uprrs,
criminals, and vagrants, alone are 1,800,000.-Colquhoun, 107,
111, and Baron de Stael, 54."•
" These facts," says Mr. Alison, "are deserving the
• Alison's Principles of Population, vol. 2, p. 48.
Digitized by Coogle
304 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
most serious consideration. They indicate a state of
society, which is, to say the least, extremely alarming,
and which, in ancient times, would ha\e been the sure
forerunner of national decline."
SECTION II.
ON THE INCOMES OF THE WORKING CLASSES, AND MODE
OF EXPENDITURE OF THEIR WEEKLY EARNINGS.
The sum already mentioned as the average income
of the family of a working man, consisting of four
persons, viz., £33 a-year, or about 12s. 6d. a-week, will
be found very nearly to coincide with the information
derived from all other sources. If we reckon the
family to consist of five persons, which is nearer the
average than four, we must add about 3s. to the weekly
earnings, making them 15s. 6d., or £40 a-year.
From the table drawn up by the Manchester Cham-
ber of Commerce in 1832,• (since which there has
£, •. d. £. .. d. / WIIAVINO BY H.&liD,
• Spinners, men 1 0 0 to 1 li 0 Quality. WoYeD by •• a. £, •. d.
women 0 10 0 ou 0 Nankeens, fancy, men 9 0 ._. 0 lli 0
Stretchers ..• ... 1 li 0 1 6 0
1
Do. eommon, children
Pieeers, boys & girla
' 7 0 7 0 andwomen ... 6008 0
Scavengers •.. 0 1 6 0 2 8 Do. best, men ... 10 0 0 13 0
IN TH8 CAII.D ROOK : Checks, fancy, men 7 0 0 7 6
~len ... .. ... 0 14 6 017 0 Do. eommon, children 8 0 e 7 0
Young women ... 0 9 0 0 9 8 Cambrics, all ages 6 0 0 8 6
Children ... ... 0 6 0 0 7 0 Quilting&, men & wom. 9 0 0 12 0
Tbl'OIItle Spinners 0 li 0 0 0 6 Fuatian·cutters,all ages 10 0 0 12 0
Reelers ... ... 0 7 0 0 9 0 Mach~e-makers,
W&.!.VIIRB BV POWIIR: men ... ... 1 6 0 1 10 0
Men ... ... ... 0 13 0 0 16 10 Jron-founders, men 1 8 0 1 10 0
Women .. ... 0 8 0 0 12 0 Dyers&. dl'81111Crs, do. 15 0 1 0 0
Dresaers• men ... 1 8 0 1 10 0 Ditto, young men 0 12 0 0 14 0
Winden & Warpen 8 0 on 0 Ditto, boya ... 0 li 0 0 10 0
Mechanics... •. 1
' 0 I 6 0 Tailors, men ..• 0 16 0
Digitized by Google
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 305
been no material alteration,) of the wages paid to
labourers in cotton factories and other descriptions of
workpeople in Manchester, the average weekly earn-
ings, including all kinds of employment in the cotton
factories, was from 12s. to 14s. 6d. If with these we
include the wages of tailors, shoemakers, carpenters,
bricklayers, plasterers, &c., it raises the average to from
13s. 6d. to 15s. 9d. per week. The wages of some of
the persons employed in the factories are as high as
30s., and of the other class of workpeople 248. per
week.
The condition of the hand-loom weavers is much
£ . •• d. £. ..d• £ • •. d. £ .•• d.
Portel'll • • 0 14 0 to 0 1& 0 Bricklayel'll ••• .•• 0 17 Otol 0 0
Packel'll •• 1 0 0 Bricklayel'll'laboul'lln 12 0
Shoemakel'll ••. 0 15 0 0 16 0 Paintel'll ... •.. 0 18 0
Wbiteemitb11 ..• 1 2 0
• 0 Slaten ..• 0 3 8 per day
Sawye111 ... •.• 1 4 0 8 0 Plaaterel'll ... •.• 0 19 0 1 1 0
Carpente111••• ... 1 4 0 Spademen .••• .•. 0 10 0 0 l& 0
S&onemaaona ••• 0 18 0 2 0
Subjoined is an account of the prices of the principal articles of
provision in Manchester, from 1826 to 1832, both inclusive, also
drawn up by the Chamber of Commerce :-
ARTICLBII. 1826. 1827. 1 1828. 1829. 1830. 1831. 1832.
II. d. s. d. 'a. d. .. d. II. d. II. d. .. d.
Beef, best ..• .. it. ••. 0 66
..I.·~ 0 6 0 &6 0 6
Do., coarse \"it. ... 0 43 0 • 0 • 0 3f 0 3 0 Sf
Bacon ..• ••• \"it. ... 0 n 0 8 . 0 n 0 76 0 6! 0 7 0 7
Brend-ftour \"12ft. 2 & 2 6 2 7 2 9 2 7 2 6 2
•
Do., wheaten f' it. ... - - 0 If 0 2 0 2 0 ., 0 If
Cheese ... •.. \" it. ... 0 7! 0 7! 0 8 0 61 0 7! 0 8 0 7i
Malt ....•• f'91b 2 1 2
• 2 2 2
:I: 1 2 4 2 2
Meal ...• .• "10 lb 1 76 1 8f I 71 1 6 1 6 1 3
Potatoes .•• "2521b, 9 9
• 9 6 8 6 6 6 0 6 3 4 3
Pork ... ... "it. ...I0 6f 0 7 0 6! 0 6l 0 5 0 5I 0 56
" These authentic statements fully demonstrate that, as respects
wages, the condition of the workpcople employrd in cotton factories
is eminently prosperous.''-M•Cullocb, vol. 1, p. 66t..
QQ
Digitized by Coogle
306 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
worse. From the Report of the House of Commons
on the Hand-Loom Inquiry in 1835, it appears that
the wages of the hand-loom weavers have been gene-
rally reduced since 1815 to one-third of the wages
paid at that period.
The weekly wages that a fair average weaver can
earn by the kind of work at which the majority of the
weavers are now employed, are stated in evidence by
weavers, manufacturers, and others, to be at
.. d. .. d. .. d. ..
Aberdeen 3 6 to 5 6 Nett Manchester 5 0 to 7
Bolton ... 4 1i " Paisley ... 6 0 to 7
Dundee ..• 6 0 to 7 0 " Perth ... 4 9 to 7
Forfar. ... 6 0 " Preston ... 4 9 to 6
d.
6 Nett
0 Gross
9 Nett
9 Gross
Glasgow •.. 4 0 to 8 0 Gross ISpitalfields 7 9 to 8 6 "
Huddersfield 4 6 to 5 0 Nett 1 Stockport 9 0 "
a few as high as 16s. l Coventry 7 6
Lanark ... 5 0 I Nuneaton 4 8
Nett
It
From the same Report we have a table by Mr. Need-
ham, in which the price of weaving and the price of
food are given, during five periods of seven successive
years each, and one of two, comprising the time
between the years 1797 and 1834.
From 1797 to 1804, a weaver could earn 26s. 8d.
per week, which would purchase 1OOlbs. of flour, or
142lbs. of oatmeal, or 826lbs. of potatoes, or 55lbs. of
butcher's meat, which would gire a general average of
a relative proportion of these articles of 28llbs.
From e. d. A. •
1804 to 1811 the general average of Wages, 20 0 do. of Food, 238
18ll to 1818 '' " " " 14 7 " " 131
1818 to 1825 " " " " 8 9 " " 108
1825 to 1832 " " " " 6 4 " " 83
1832 to 1834 " " " " 5 6 " " 83
During the time that· wages are reduced to this
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 307
extremely low rate, it may naturally excite surprise, that
all this class of workpeople do not find other employ-
ments. But, in fact, this very.}ow rate of wages bas a
tendency to increase rather than diminish the number
of this cla!i!s, for this reason ; a single man cannot lh·e
on so small a sum, he, therefore, marries as soon as
possible, and he with his wife manage to support them-
selves on their joint earnings. The children are early
trained to the same employment ; so that when a family
consists of fi\·e persons, and two of the children are
above eight years old, their joint weekly earnings will
amount to 12s. or 14s. per week. This class of people
is thus continued because they require the senices of
their children early, and because they ha¥e not the
means, e\·en if they could spare them, of bringing them
up to any other employment.
Mr. Porter, in his " Progress of the Nation," p. 122,
states, that
" Among the questions sent to the various parishes in England,
during the enquiry into the administration and practical operation
of the Poor Laws, it was asked ' What on the whole might an ave-
rage labourer, obtaining an average amount of employment, both
in day-work and pit>ce-work, expect to earn in the year, including
harvt•st-work and the value of all his other advantages and means
of living, excPpt parish relief? And what on the whole might
a labourer's wife and four children, aged 14, 1I, 8, 5, respectively,
(the eldest a boy,) expect to earn in the year, obtaining Wf in the
former case, an average amount of employment?'
" The answer to these quPries from 856, gh·<>, for the annual
t·arning of the man, an average of ... .. . .. . .. .£27 17 10
And the answt>rs from 668 parisht>s, give as the annual
earnings of the wife and children an average of ... 13 19 10
Annual income of the family ... ... ... ... ....£41 17 8
" To tht> further qurstion, 'Could such a family subsist on the
Digitized by Coogle ....
308 PR:&SENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
aggregate earnings of the father, mother, and children; and if 1>0,
on what food P' Answers were returned from 899 to the follow-
ing effect,-71 said simply 'No;' 212, 'Yes;' 12, •Barely, and
without meat;' 491, ' With meat.'"
This account of the rate of wages of the agricultural
labourers may be considered a very favourable one ; for
it is to be observed, that it is not what they really do
earn, but what they might earn with an average amount
of employment, supposing them all employed. Other
accounts state the income ofthe Agricultural Labourers,
particularizing Gloucestershire, Somersetshire, Worces-
tershire, and Wilts, at an average of .£22. 7s., or Ss. 6d.
per week. A correspondent of the Morning Chronicle
says, that few earn more than Ss. per week, and that
this, allowing 9d. per week for rent, Is. 6d. for fuel,
9d. soap, candles, &c., leaves 5s. for food, which, for a
man and wife and four children, is just lOd. a-week for
each; or, allowing them food three times a-day, it will
give something less than one halfpenny a meal.
The above rate of wages of each class is calculated
upon the supposition that the people ha;e constant
employment, which is by no means the case. Scarcely
a year passes in which the Cotton-Factory hands are
not, at different periods, put upon half work. In fact,
derangement in the currency, in both England and
America; changes in the fashion; foreign competition,
and other causes, are constantly in operation to throw
the mass of the manufacturing population out of em-
ployment, and to put even the very best workmen on
half work. The state of the weather and other peculiar
causes, have the same effect in out-door employments;
so that it requires the constant effort, the almost un-
ceasing labour of the whole of a. family to keep the
Digitized by Google
PRRSENT CONDITION OF SOCIRTY. 309
average rate of wages at the sum mentioned, all the
year round ; when we have seen what this weekly
income will furnish, and call to mind all the casualties
to which the poor are constantly subject, we shall not
be surprised that four or six millions annually for
poor's rates are required.
Whether this 1ow rate of wages is peculiar to the
labouring population of Great Britain, is an interesting
question connected with the present inquiry, as, in
looking to the cause, it will help to determine whether
it belongs to our particular institutions, or is the com-
mon feature in all the different States of Europe,
whatever their form of Government, amount of Taxa-
tion, &c. We shall find, that the poverty of the
working classes is common to all the countries of
Europe, with very little variation as to the degree in
which it exists. The peop1e of Norway and Switzer-
land appear to be the most exempt from extreme
poverty.•
Of course, in considering the amount of wages
receh·ed in other countries, it will be necessary to take
into account, not only the money price, which may be
of very different relative va1ue to what it is in England,
according to the amount of necessaries that it may
furnish, but the quantity of work that is done for it. It
will be also necessary in comparing the relative condi-
tion of the people of different nations, to consider what
things may be called 1zecessaries in each. Differences of
climate, and, consequently, differences in the habits of
t.he people, render the wants of one people no criterion
for those of another, and a man would be stan·ed in
• See Mr. Laing'11 very intere1:1ting account of the Norw('giaus.
Digitized by Coogle
310 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
England with the lodging, food, and clothing, that
would suffice to make him very comfortable in the
south of Europe.
There are several writers who furnish information
upon this subject. The following estimates are taken
from Porter's" Progress of the Nation," chap. 4:-
SwznBN. "The daily wages of artizans are Is. 7d., and of skilled
agricultural labourers 7d. or 8d., while the unakilled obtain no more
than 3d. or 4d. Families can subsist upon their earnings. Agricul-
turists in the southern provinces live upon salt fish and potatoes;
in the northern provinces, porridge and rye bread form their food.
Pauperism has increased in a greater ratio than the population."
DENMABit. "A man with a wife and four children, who work
every day of the week, including Sunday, earn among them about
12s. sterling per week. The principal food of the labouring people
is rye bread, groats, potatoes, coffee, butter, cheese, and milk ; pro-
visions are cheap, and with prudence and economy, the earnings of
a family are sufficient for their subsistence."
MEcKLENBURG. "The wag('8 of artizans vary from 7s. to lOs. 6d.
per week in towns, and in the country they are about Is. 3d. less.
In addition to money wages, working men are boarded and lodged
by their employers. Labourers in the country are paid 3s. 6d. per
week, and have found for them a dwelling with a garden, pasture
for a cow and two sheep in summer, and provender for them in
winter. With these advantage!! they are enabled to procure a suf-
ficiency of good sound food, and occasionally to indulge in the use
of meat, which falls to the lot of very few of the working classes
of the countries on the Continent of Europe."
FRANCE. "Mr. Scott, the British Consul at Bourdeaux, in his
rrply to the questions of the Poor-Law Commissioners, states, that
a common labourer earns, all advantages included, £21. 12s., and
that his wife and four children, aged 14, 11, 8, and 5, could earn
about £12 more. That such a family could lay something by, as
the wants of the lower clasHes are much fewer than in England.
But from canst's previously mentioned, that few of the peasants
han~ any surplus at the end ofthe year; on the contrary,tht'y are
mostly in dt•bt."
Hor.L.\XD. "The amount of the annual t'arning11 of a labouring
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 311
family here is stated to be from £12. lOs. to £18. 15s. Mr. Porter
says, 'It should be borne in mind, however, that from the habits of
the people, and the comparative cheapnesll of provisions in Holland,
as compared with England, the expenditure of the smaller sum in
the first-named of these countries, is more nearly equivalent to
the larger payment than would at first appear.' "
BEL&UJM. " A skilled artizan may earn in summer from ls. 2d.
to ls. 5d. per day, and in winter from 10d. to Is. 2d. If unskilled,
artizans will earn little more than half these rates. With these
wages, joined to what may be earned by the wife and children, a
family may subsist on rye bread, potatoes and milk. It is but
rarely that they can procure meat. In towns where manufactures
are carried on, the situation of artizans is better than that just
described. Agricultural labourers are generally boarded by the
farmers with whom they work."
Mr. Jelinger Symons, in comparing the results of
labour at Home and Abroad, gives us the means of
estimating the above amount as compared with English
money. He says,
" As a general proportion, (subject, howcvt>r, to large variations,)
we may perhaps assume, that in Switzerland ls. will go all far for a
working man as ls. 3d. here; in France, Belgium, Rhenish Prussia,
as far as ls. 4d. here; in Austria, and many parts of Prussia, as
far as ls. 5d. here; and in Wurtemburg, part of Austria, some of
the Duchies, and Bohemia, as far as ls. 8d. or ls. lOd. here; always
comparing towns with towns, and country with country, agricultural
with agricultural districts, and manufacturing with manufacturing
districts.
"TABULAR VIEW OF WAGES ABROAD AND AT HOME.
lin Prance and lin Bnsland, Dlft'erenee In fayoar of
en-ol Labounn.
Belclum, aver- uerAse Ensland after addlnl
qe w"kl7 weekl7 on•lhlrd lor JN&Ift
wqeo. waseo. eoel ol lood.
1st Class Mechanics....... 12s. 6d. 20s. Od. 3s. 4d.
2d ditto ditto.............. 9s. Od. 14s. Od. 2s. Od.
Farm Labourers............ 6s. 6d. lOs. Od. ls. 4d.
Spinning Factory ditto,}
m~n,wome~n.l children
6s. 3d. lOs. 6d. 2s. 2d."
With 'ft\feloence to this apparent cheapness of labour
Digitized by Coogle
312 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
abroad, Mr. M'Culloch says, (vol. 1, p. 666,) that" 1\lr.
Cowell has shown the nugatory nature of the state-
ments laid before the Factory Commissioners, as to
the cheapness of foreign as compared with English
labour. It may be true that a workman earns 30s. or
40s. in a given time in a mill in Manchester, and only
15s. or 20s. in a mill in France or Prussia. But what
has this to do with the cost of labour ? Arthur Young
said that a labourer in Essex was cheaper at 2s. 6d. a-
day than a labourer in Tipperary at 5d. Without know-
ing the quantity of work done in the mills of which we
know the earnings of the workmen, we haYe no ground
whatever for affirming that the labour performed by
the one who gets the least money is really the cheap-
est." • • • " Mr. Edwin Rose, who had been prac-
tically employed as an engineer in different factories in
France and Germany, on being examined by Mr.
Cowell, stated distinctly, that it took twice the number
of hands to perform most kinds of factory work in
France, Switzerland, &c., that it did in England ; and
that wages there, if estimated by the only standard good
for anything-that is, by the toork done-were higher
than in England !"
There are many causes that make the standard of
living necessarily higher in England than it is in most
countries abroad ; and if we estimate the condition of
the operatives by the things absolutely necessary for
them, and the incessant labour required to furnish
them, there is little doubt, whate'\"er may be the nomi-
nal rate of wages, that the condition of the working
man in Britain is the worst.
But a statement of the rate of wages per week
furnishes very little information generally, as to the
Digitized by Coogle
l'RESENT COSDITION. OF SOCIETY. 313
real condition of the poor ; and all the remarks that
are commonly made upon the subject show that very
few understand how this income is expended, or what
it will furnish. If the poor require assistance, it is
attributed to idleness, improvidence, or connexion with
some party whose professed object is the improvement
of their condition as a body; and if one in a hun-
dred, with more honest pride and independence than
his neighbours, prefers quietly and secretly to endure
the hard struggle with poverty, rather than to make a
parade and a trade of his miseries, he is cited as a
proof that the poor ought not to require assistance,
for they are in reality well enough off, if they would
but be content. Alas, let these censors look a little
beneath the surfiLce-let them ascertain " how do poor
men lin~," • and they wi:l see in what this " well off"
consists. The following are details of the weekly ex-
penditure of some of the most industrious and frugal of
the working families in this neighbourhood, (Coventry,)
whose earnings are from l4·s. to 20s. per week. It must
be observed, however, that even the first. mentioned sum
may be considered too high as a general average, if we
take the year throughout, or a series of years, in which
good and bad states of trade will always be included,
although there are families who, by their joint earnings,
make 20s. per week, and also a class of mechanics who
realise as much, such, for instance as Curriers, Tailors,
Plasterers, Bricklayers, Carpenters, Painters, &c. ; but
these constitute a very small part of the great body of
the working class.
• There ilJ an exc<•llent article with tbi!i title in Tait's Magazine
for January, 1839, which all ought to sec who take an interest in
the subject.
RR
Digitized by Coogle
3}4 PREiBNT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
Weekly expenditure of a family of five persons, man, wife, anti
three children, earning 14s. per week:-
•· ct.
House Rent... ... 2 0
1~ cwt. of Coals ... 1 0
lib of Candles ... ... 0 6i
Soap, Soda, Salt, Pepper 0 4
Oatmeal .•. 0 3
Milk, one pint each day 0 7
(This is mixed with water,
and, with bread, genemlly
ee"ee the three children
and lather lor bre&kfaet.)
Flour, It stone,with Yeast
and Baking ... 4 4
(This wiD make 27 ft. of
bread, and allowing ooly 3
mealaperday,isonly 4 oz.-
per m•l, each pei'!IOn.) 9 0!
.. d.
Brought up ... 9 0~
Potatoes,3 tbperday,2llb 0 9
Sugar, 1~ lb ... 1 0
(Tbia ia often mixed with a
little warmwater lor dinner
and eopper, with bread.)
Tea or Coffee ..• 0 4j
Bacon, Bullock's Liver, or
other coarse mf.'at .. . 1 2
Clothes, Haberdashery,
and mending ShoPs... 1 8
14 0
}'or their clothing this class depend a great deal upon friends and
charities, and the majority have no other bed than straw in bags of
wrapping.
Weekly expenditure of a family of five persons earning 20s. per
week:-
•• ct.
House Rent ... ... 2 6
Candles, 1~ lb ... 0 8
Coals, 1~ cwt. ... 1 0
Soap and Soda ... 0 5
Starch, Blue, Pepper, Salt 0 2i
Milk, 7 quarts •.. 1 2
Oatmeal ... 0 3
Cheese, 1~ lb ... 1 0
Meat 4lb ... 2 0
(Generallydirided10 u toee"e
for three dionere.)
Bacon or coarse Meat
Potatoes, 18lb
Sugar, 1~ lb
... 0 6
... 0 8
... 1 0
11 4i
•• ••
Brought up ...11 41
Tea or Coffee ... 0 6
Beer ... 0 3
(Tbia ia generally had oo Sator·
dayand Monda)' oigbta, lid.
each night.)
Butter ... ..• ... ... 1 lj
Bread ... ... ... ... 4 0
(Tbia clue eat •- bread than
thoee who earn lea.)
Rice or Sago ... 0 3
Benefit Club ..• ... 0 6
Medicine ... 0 2
Clothes, Bedding, &c. ••• 1 10
•£1 0 0
• The above are the prices which the poor are now paying, De-
cember 1839, in and about Coventry; provisions being, at the
present time, very high.
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 315
As we before observed, the above is the highest esti-
mate for the wages of artizans ; as it may be safely
affirmed that the average rate of wages for a family of
five persons, including all classes of labourers, and ex-
cluding the Irish, which would sink the estimate much
lower, is not more than 14s. per week. Two-thirds,
therefore, of the families of the working population of
Great Britain have not £1 a-week to spend; and yet
who is prepared to say that the above is an extravagant
outlay ; that any one of the articles enumerated as
part of the weekly consumption of such a family, ought
to be dispensed with; who, indeed, will say, that there
is enough for five people even of any one article? Is
Is. lOd. per week, or £4. 15s. 4d. per year, enough to
supply a family with decent clothing? Will it supply
to each member of it a Sunday suit, with hat, shoes,
stockings, flannels, &c., to say nothing of bedding ?
On the contrary, we know that the whole sum would
but barely furnish the man alone with the requisites to
make a respectable appearance ; notwithstanding the
much-Yaunted results of machinery, which have been
said to put good and sufficient clothing within the reach
of all. Again, can we say that the above expenditure
for fire, candles, or meat, is exorbitant? Nothing is
allowed for beer-for the half-pint on Saturdays and
.Mondays, can scarcely be reckoned-and we see but
too well that if this luxury were indulged in, it would
grievously intrench upon the necessary items ; neces-
saries which must be shared with the children, and are,
therefore, far more important.
Different families would, doubtless, have different
modes of spending their l4s. or 20s. per week : the
above detail8 are merely intended to show what such
Digitized by Coogle
3}6 PRESENT COSDITIOS OF ISOCIETY.
sums will procure und.er the management of a good
housewife, and are valuable from their not being merely
hypothetical, but furnished by artizans themseh·es as
the actual mode in which they are accustomed to lay
out their earnings.
The first thing that strikes us in looking over their
estimate, is, that the expenditure is quite up to the
income; that, besides the Gd., in the latter case, to the
Benefit Club, there is nothing laid by to enable them
to meet those casualties which beset the poor on all
sides, independently of that most serious and yet most
common one, want of work. There is no pro,-ision for
the very young children ; none for settling the elder
ones respectably in the world ; none for old age ;-but
here it is sadly forced upon our observation how
speedily nature provides for the aged poor in a manu-
facturing town ; how seldom, indeed, is it permitted
to the over-worked artizan to lh·e out his threescore
years and ten !
The cry of improvidence is uniformly raised against
the poor at periods of distress when their claims are
more than commonly urgent ; but it would be as well
if those who think it a duty to exhort the poor to the
practice of economy, as being the one thing needful to
ensure to them continual prosperity, and to a habit of
saving as the only safeguard against the day of adver-
sity, would point out in what this economy is to consist,
and where the saving is to begin. It is true that by
the exercise of some self-denial,,an artizan of the lowest
class may contrive to put by a small sum-a few pence
weekly,-as has been proved ~ the experiment of
Provident Societies ; but it must be remembered that
the chiefbencfit that such a man derin·s from hil-4 con-
. o;gitizedbyGoogle
PRI':SENT CONDITION OF SOCIF.TY. 3}7
nexion with one of these societies, consists in his being
brought by it into intercourse with his rich neighbours,
who have thus the opportunity of knowing and appre-
ciating his character without any degrading efforts on
his part to obtain their notice, and who are enabled to
render him timely aid and kind offices, in a manner the
least offensire possible to his self-respect; ad,·antages
which he may enjoy conjointly with the wholesome
feeling that he is in some way entitled to them, from
his own efforts after independence. The chief benefit
does not consist in his having realized an efficient fund
from his own savings. On the contrary, we know that
however resolutely and perseveringly one of this clasll
may put by a portion of his wages, the accumulated
sum must necessarily be so trifling in amount, that the
first casualty, an illness, or a burial, or a dearth of
employment, soon swallows up the little fund, and leaves
him burdened with debt.
And ha,·e not the poor moti'\"es enough to save, inde-
pendently of the exhortations and advice of their more
comfortable neighbours? Have they not the strongest
that can appeal to human nature-the good of their •
children ; their respectability amongst their fellows ;
their fear ofthe workhouse? Yet they do not, and they
cannot provide against the e\il day. No! providence
there may be, economy there must be, but saving is
next to impossible.
The above rate of wages not only furnishes no sav-
ings, but plainly allows nothing for all those comforts
and luxuries which, though not absolutely essential to
life, add so much to. it8 value; and many of which
a person in a middle station of society would pronounce
it fairly impossible to subsist \Vithout. For instance,
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..
3}8 PRESENT CONDITION Oil' SOCIETY.
boob, newspapers, periodicals, (ofwhich latter so many
are published exclusively for the use and benefit of the
poor), admittance to a place of worship, mechanics•
institutions, lectures, theatres ; postage and carriage ;
occasional relaxation from labour ; excursions into the
country ; a little extra outlay for high days and holidays ;
good education for the children, which fourpence a-
week will not furnish ; proper medical attendance ;-
for although in the above estimate twopence per week
is allowed for medicine, less than sevenpence a-week,
the required subscription to a Self-supporting Dispen-
sary, is too small a provision against sickness.
An examination of this sort, which shows what the
means ofeven the first class of mechanics are equal to,
is more likely to carry conviction and to instruct, so
far as regards the real condition of the whole body of
the poor, than pictures of local misery and distress
which may be suspected to be exaggerations-as such
pictures frequently are. We find that the wages of
even the most fortunate among the operatives, furnish
barely the nece~aries of life, without allowing any sur-
plus for those depressing circumstances that so often
occur, and which frequently reduce a family, first to
the second class, and then to the workhouse. It will
not be found that we exaggerate if we state that the
great mass of the working population is kept as near to
the staning point as possible, and that their constant
exertion is necessary to enable them to keep from
sinking below it, and independent of charity and the
workhouse. This will assist us, in part, to account
filr the fact that in those towns which possess many
t•udowed charities, the condition of the working popu-
laticm i:s the worst. For so loug as a poor mau l'ceJg
Digitized by Google
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 319
that his only resource is in himself, necessity gives
him strength, and his efforts to keep his head above
water, although often painfully great, are seldom un-
successful ; but no sooner does he find that there are
charities to be had for the seeking, and he is tempted to
run after them, and to trust to something besides his
own unwearied exertions, than his resolution fails, his
energies flag, and he begins to sink. It is true charity
to help the poor to help themselves, but to weaken in
any way their self-dependence is to inflict a positive
injury.
SECTION III.
THE CONDITION OF THE WORKING CLASSES.
It is very much the custom of poiitical economists to
represent the condition of the labouring classes as emi-
nently prosperous, compared e-ren with what it was in
the middle of the last century. " The labouring
classes," says Mr. M'Culloch, " have been the princi-
pal gainers (by the improvements in the arts and
sciences), as well by the large numbers of them who
have succeeded in advancing themselves to a superior
station, as by the extraordinary additional comforts
that now fall to the share even of the poorest families."•
That the improvements in the arts and sciences, and
in machinery, have raised the condition of the middle,
and increased the comforts of the upper classes-of
all kinds of capitalists, there can be no doubt. That
they have raised many to the middle that belonged to
• Statistical Account of the British Empire, vol. 2, p. 494.
Digitized by Coogle
320 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
the lower class, is equally certain. Neither can it be
denied that the poor can now obtain many things that
were considered as luxuries even to the rich, two cen-
turies ago. And yet that the body of them is happier,
and therefore better off, there is much reason to doubt.
They judge of the condition of their cla.'!s, not by what
it was two hundred years ago, but by the condition of
those abo-re them. If they have more comforts, they
have more anxiety ; and such extra comforts, which,
by the advance of the age, ha-re become necessaries,
are earned only by more incessant labour.
We shall find also, on a close examination, that much
of the apparent improvement that is observable in the
condition ofthe poor, lie3 very near the surface.
" Among the popular fallacies employed to propagate the belief
of the increAsing prosperity of the labouring classes, are the Savings'
Banks. But we will venture to say, that labourers who are house-
holders, rearing families, are rarely indeed contributors to these
useful establishments ; unless they have soml' l'Xtraneous source of
income. We haYe dt>monstrated the utter impossibility of a married
workman, in the ordinary trades, saving anything, unless he starve
his family. A very large proportion of them are female st>rvants and
children, who are directed by their mil;tresses and friends to this
means of placing tht>ir small savings. Instead of the wonted
gown or cap, a present from a st>nsible mistress to a faithful st>r-
vant, is now frequently a dt>posit receipt for a pound or two-the
nest-egg of the future hoard. In examining the classes and de-
scription of dt>positors in a savings' bank, in an English county, we
find the greatest number t~ be female servants, who also hold the
greatest amount of funds. There are also childrt>n, apprentices,
schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, seamen, clergymen, half-pay
officers, revenue officers and pt>nsioners, small farmers and females
engaged in trade-probably single women-guards and drin•rs of
coaches, and male domestic servants; but a small proportion of
artificers, mechanics, and handicraftsmen, or of the labourt'rs of
husbandmt'n, and that small number, it is fair to conjrcturr, are
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 321
aingle men, saving that they may prudently marry, if ever a work-
ing man can prudently marry."
" Another common fallacy in looking to the condition of the
labouring population, is the reduced price of all manufactured
goods, and especially of clothing. The flimsy texture of the spu-
rious wares which have deeply injured the character of British
goods in every market of the world, and driven them from some, is
never considered. A labourer'11 wife may now have four or five
pretty-patterned cotton gowns for 4s. or 5s. each, where her grand-
mother's would have cost 20s. ; but tht>n it would have worn and
washed out six of the gay and modern flimsy dresses ; which, more-
over, must cos~ur times lining and furnishing ; and either the
housewife's time, if she have the necessary skill, or else her hns-
band's money to the mantuamaker. The same spurious economy
holds of all articles of female, and many of male dress, used by the
labouring class. How true is it that what is low-priced is not often
cheap ! But admitting that the pretty cotton gown and shawl, and
the Sunday stockings of womt>n and girls, are greatly cheaper,
though worthless and flimsy, how does it 11tand with the more es-
sential articles of clothing in our climate P We shall take the
women's flannel and stuff petticoats and gowns ; their warm, long-
wearing shawls and cloaks, stout shoe!!, and worsted stockings.
These, if good, and of lasting texture, are no cheaper-cannot be
cheaper than those which lahoureflf' wivt>s formt>rly manufactured
for themseh-es in their cottagt>s, and now often go without, because
they cannot afford to wear them, unless the lady of the manor deal
out garments at Christmas. Articles of prime necessity to the
comfortable condition of working mcn'11 families, are meat, beer,
Aubstantial woollen fabrics and good shot>s; and these never have
been cheap in wealthy,manufacturing England; and ne\·er can be,
even in tht> best times, easily admissible to the labouring class in
anything like reasonable plenty under the present system." •
The operation of machinery upon the condition of
the working cla..'lses, notwithstanding the great decrease
·in price of many of the necessaries of life consequent
upon its improvement, is clearly indicated in the follow-
• Tait'" Magazine, 1639, r·21.
ss
Digitized by Coogle
3.2.2 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
ing passage from Porter-article, Pauperism:-" Owing
to the operations ofthe war and a succession ofdeficient
harvests, the prices of almost all the articles required
for the support of life were, at the beginning of this
century, driven up to a distressing height, which state
of things continued through the remaining period of
the war, and for one or two years beyond its termi-
nation. Since then, the fall that has occurred in the
prices of all the articles comprising the 'Poor man's ex-
penditure bas been so great, that we ma.-rrly estimate
it to be fully equal to the simultaneous fall in the price
of grain, so that the sum of 9s. 9d. in 1831, would have
purchased as much as 17s. would have bought in 1801.
Applying this test we shall find that the weight of
pauper expenditure in proportion to the population at
the two periods, was as 7 in 1831 to 4 in 1801." Now,
although this may be in part accounted for from the
injurious operation of a bad system of poor-laws, yet it
is a sufficient indication that the labouring population
in both town and country, were kept as near the starv-
ing point as possible. The sum expended for the relief
of the poor in 1834 in England and Wales, among a
population of 14,531,957, was £6,317,255. •
We would avoid giving an exaggerated picture of the
condition of the working classes, and pass over, there-
• On the condition of the people, in both town and country, a
great mass of information has been collected, which may be found
in accounts published by the Statistical Society ; in the Reports of
the House of Commons on the Education, (1838,) and on the Health,
(1840,) of the Poorer Classt's in large Towns; in Dr. Alison's
Report on the Poor of Scotland, and Mr. Alison on the Principl~
of Population ; in Mr. Slaney's State of the Poorer Classes in
great Towns; in the Reports of the Hand-Loom Inquiry, and of
Digitized by Coogle
PBESJUfT CONDITION OJ' SOCIETY. 323
fore, not as untrue, but as partial, the great number
of heart-rending descriptions that are daily presented
to us of the state of the labouring population in parti-
cular localities, London, Manchester, Liverpool, Glas-
gow, Huddersfield, and extensive agricultural districts.
the Poor Law Commissioners, &c. We select the following from
such statements :-
" In London, one-tenth of the whole population are paupers, and
20,000 persons ~ every morning \\;thout knowing where they are
to sleep at niglf: at Glasgow, nearly 30,000 persons are every
Saturday night in a state of brutal intoxication, and efJe1Y IU?elflA
Muse is devoted to the sale of spirits ; and in Dublin 60,()00 per•
sons in one year passed through the fever hospital."-Alison on
the Principles of Population, vol. 2, p. 80.
" The number of individuals charged with serious offences is in
England five times greater than it was thirty years ago ; in Ireland
six times; but in Scotland 27 times.''-lbid, vol. 2, p. 98.
" The cost of punishing and repressing crime is calculated at
above a million and a half sterling in England and Wal<'zl."
" The annual cost of vicious characters, of both sexes, throughout
the country, is estimated at ten millions per annum; the cost of
4,700 vicious characters in Liverpool alone was reckoned at
£700,000 per annum."
" The outlay in drunkenness and in the use of spirituous liquors
injurious to health, (after every allowance for reasonable convivi-
ality,) is above fifteen millions per annum throughout the kingdom.''
" The poor rates ti/JfiJ amount annually to upwards of four millions
per annum.''
"H«'re, then, we have an enormous aggregate outlay, amounting
to abov«' thirty miliions per annum, (equal to the whole interest of
the national debt,) the cost of poverty and crime, t~ be gradually
and constantly lessened, as we turn our exertions to the improve·
m«'ot of the physical and moral condition of the poorer classes.
" Tbe saf«'st, the wisest, the cheapest way to support any given
number of pel'l'IOD!I, from birth to death, is to teach the young, to
encourage and assist the middl«'-aged, and to protect the old; to
induce thl.' people to e.rert tlwmselres /o :mpport themse/ws, and to
Digitized by Coogle
324 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
These accounts, however, show that if the a\·ernge
annual income of the poor be £30 or £40, that income
is most unequally distributed so far as regards parti-
cular districts.
The following statements, descriptive of the condition
be frugal, industrious, providt'nt for their own benefit. But to do
this they must have fair play ; they mu:~t have reasonable encou-
ragement, leading, and assistance ; they must be afforded the meall.,
'!f graduall!J improuing t!leir condition, and not doomed to constant
toil to increase the general wealth, which they SW fructifying and
augmenting, while they are depressed and dispirited, confined to
unhealthy habitations, amidst filth and wretchedness, and with no
relaxation or amust'ment but the occasional excitement of drunken
excess. Can any one deny that this is the case with multitudes of
the poorer class in great towns ? It is vain and idle to say it i11
their own faults ; that they are reckless, improvident, dissolute.
They are the children of the circumstances in which they are
placed, and these circumstances speak aloud, and in a tone not to
be mistaken, of the error or neglect of those whose duty and inte-
rest it was to have improved their condition."-~lr. Slaney's Re-
ports of the House of Commons on the Education and Health of
the Poorer Classes, &c., p. 11.
From the same source we quote also the following :-" In Liver-
pool there are upwardH of 7,800 inhabitl'd cellars, occupied by up-
warda of 39,000 pPrsons, being one-fifth of all the labouring classes
in that great town ; and an account of undoubted veracity states,
'that the great proportion of thPse inhabited ct'llars were dark,
damp, confined, ill-ventilatt>d, and dirty. In Mancht>eter, also,
nearly 15,000 persons, being almost 12 per cl'nt. of the working
population, live in cellars; and. in the adjacent town of Salford,
3,300.'
" The proportion of cases of fever occurring among the inhabit-
ants of cellars is about 35 per cent. more than it ought to be, cal-
culating the proportion of the inhabitants of cellars to the whole
population ; the mortality of Liverpool was lut year 1 in 33~.
'That of all England, 1 in 51, and of Birmingham, 1 in 60.'
" Mr. J. Robt'rtllOn, an t'minent surgt'On at Manchtstcr, aftf'r
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 325
of the poor and of the effects of the incessant toil to
which they are reduced, in the deterioration of the race
in both bodily and mental constitution, were given by
a physician of eminence, in a course of lectures on
_Education, delivered at the Philosophical Institution,
rt>marking that, when well fed, the families of working people
maintain their health in a surprising manner, even in cellars and
other close dwellings, states, ' That in 1833-4-5 and 6, (years of
prosperity,) the number of fevt'r cases admitted into the Manchester
House of Recovery, amounted to only 421 per annum; whilst in
two pinching years, 1838-9, the number admitted was 1,207 per
annum.'
" In Leeds, with a population of above 80,000 persons,- the state
of the streets, courts, and dwt>llings inhabitt'd by the working
classes, appears greatly nt'glected ; paving, sewerag(', and cleaning,
(as applicable to the health and comfort of these workm('n,) set'm
&t'ldom thought of, and never enforced ; and the gen('ral conclusion
of the Town Council is, ' that the great('r part of the town is in a
mo't filthy condition, which demands an immt'diatt' rt'medy.'
"Your Committt'e cannot help repeating th('ir conviction, that,
in addition to the phy11ical evil~ which this want of the means of
carrying off the refuse and impuriti~s from tht'ir dwellings entails
upon the poorer classes, it is impossible to dt'ny, from the evidence
before them, that their moral habits are affected by the same causes.
That a constant residence in a tainted and pollutt'd atmosphere,
whilst it predisposes them to diSt'as(', and rend('rs th('m less able to
f('pel its attacks, also produc('!l a dl'gradation of moral charactt'r,
an indifference to the common decencies of lift>, and an utter reck-
lessness of all those comforts which person11 in their station might
be expected to t>njoy.
" The effect of thi11 utter pro11tration of enngy, and of all the
better feelings of the mind, ha.'l been to reduce multitudes, who
might otherwise have passed with cr('dit through th('ir humble
spheres, to have r('course to ardent spirits as a desperate alleviation
of their wretchedness ; and your Committee need hardly point out
how surely this irresistible temptation leads, step by st('p, to habi-
tual dissipation and debauchery."
Digitized by Coogle
326 PRESENT CONDITION OJ' SOCIETY•
Birmingham, in the spring of 1839, and their interest
and value principally depend upon their being founded
on personal experience, derived from long practice
amongst the poor in both town and country. The
enlightened and philanthropic lecturer defined the end
ofEducation to be the improving and perfecting of every
human being, in every bodily and mental faculty; and
his object in the following quotations was to show the
counteracting circumstances which ma.Ke education in
this sense quite unattainable by the mass of the people.
" The large manufactories of Lancashire, and some parts of
Scotland, present a combination of all the evils incidental to the
copdition· of a working man, and on a large scale.
"Too early employment-too long employment-too much
fatigue-no time for relaxation-no time for mental improvement
-no time for the care of health-exhaustion-intemperance-in-
different food-sickness-premature decay-a large mortality."
" There is every reason to believe the frame of body and mind of
persons employed in manufactories, where they are on their feet all
the day, in a heated atmosphere, and living on poor diet, becomes so
feeble and irritable, as to lead, as a matter of coune, to intemper-
ance and disorderly passion~, and to an actual degeneration of the
species ; so that the mortality becomes very great, and the sickly
and imperfect state of a great proportion of the children who are
reared, is such that a greatt>r and greater deterioration in each
generation is inevitable. The visitor to the large manufactories
sees little of the misery tbt>y entail. The sick and feeble are at
home ; in miserable houses or in cellars. Those who are present
are interested by the coming of strangers, and their general appear-
ance, it is only fair to state, bespeaks animation and pretty good
. health. The viHitor set'S them for half an hour, but be cannot forget
that a1 be sees them-on their feet, and in continual although not
perhaps, laborious t>xertion, tht>y remain during the whole of every
day t>Xct-pt Sunday. For the const>quences be must go to tbt>ir
bomt's; he must in~tpect their food; tht>ir lodging, accommodations;
be mu~tt obl!erve what are tbt>ir l't'laxations, and, if they can so be
called, thl'ir plea:surl:'s. Still ruorc-ht> m~t exawine their children,
Digitized by Coogle
PRRSENT CONDITION OF SOCIRTY. 327
and particularly when all the causes acting upon them have brought
them into the public Charitable Institutions ; and then he will see
what neglect and over-work can do for an industrious, and even an
intelligent class of people.
"He will find these children, for the most part, not deficient in in-
telligence; but also for the most part, siclrly. The remarkable thing,
indeed, if the poorest children are looked at, in the workhouses and
asylums, (the children ofparents reduced to indigence, or gone to an
early grave, entirely worn out,)-the remarkable fact is, that there is
an uttiDW&al.appearance of sickliness among them ; a healthy face
and figure is an exct'ption :-the spectator is surrounded with palt',
blue, flabby faces, inflamed eyes, diseast's of the scalp. Many little
creatures sit over the fire, with faces of old people ; shrivelled,wasted,
wretched objects, with slender limbs, a dry, harsh, loose, coarse
skin; large joints, prominent eyes and jaws :-these little creatui'es
are cold and feeble and fretfuJ, and utter plaintive cries like a suf-
fering animal. Ask the medical officers concerning these circum-
stances, and you will learn that the children are well fed, well
lodged, well clothed, and allowed proper exercise in the open air,
and the older children are instructed in a school. Education, phy·
sical and moral, is not neglected ; but it is working on materials
too imperfect to be much improved. The organization is frail and
incomplete: the stock of life i~ bart'ly sufficient for a few years.
If the children are attacked with acute illness, they can neither
bear the disease nor the remedies: the loss of a little blood is fatal
to them. Chronic affections cling to them. Curative processes
cannot be set up. The medicating power of Nature is not actiYe
in their frames. The tissues of their bodies are aD unfinished
pieces of Nature's workmanship, and prone to disease; their hearts
are feeble, and blood is not vigoroUB)y circulated, nay, it is not
healthily elaborated in their bodies ; and the regulating nervous
system is as faulty as the rest of their economy. Herded together,
without parental care, and the thousand little offices comforting to
early childhood, their affections have a 11mall range, and tbtoir
countenances are blank and melancholy. They are even the vic-
tims of diseases never seen amongst the comfortable classes of
society. Every common disorder leaves consequt'nces not to be got
rid of-measles and smallpox leaving opthalmia and blindness.
" All this is distressing, but not wonderful. In many a rrgion,
Digitized by Coogle
328 PRESENT CONDITION OJ' SOCIETY.
misery and exposure produce a marked physical degeneration, and
even create diseases scarcely known in other circumatances.
"It might lead me away from my immediate subject, if I were
to state how often epidemics of all kinds prevail among the poor
alone. Yet you cannot be too often reminded that as such dis-
eases find a reception in miserable courts and alleys, and from
thence spread over the more happily circumstanced families, 10 aho
the moral infirmities allowed to grow among any part of a popu-
lation, spread their infectious influence all around. There is, how-
ever, another, and a very large portion of our community, whose
state, although.often boasted of, is not, in my opinion, more favour-
able to the preservation of perfect life of body and mind than that
of the manufacturing poor. I mean the labouring poor of agricul-
tural districts. What I say concerning these poor people is the
result of much obaervation of them, and I consider it a duty to lift
the veil from a subject surrounded by many respectable prejudices.
I know that they are kindly visited and assisted by the wealthier
classes living in the country, and charity waits upon them in every
shape, in sickness, or for the education and clothing of their chil-
dren. Indeed but for this charity-and often, but for the boundless
charity of the clt>rgyman alone-the pt>ople would be utterly lost.
But thl'ir extreme poVl'rty, and their constant labour, so influence
them, that the majorit)'-I am sure I speak within bounds-have
nevl'r the t>njoyment of ht>alth after forty yean of age. Athousand
times in the course of dispt>nsary practicl', I have ft>lt the mockery
of prescribing rot>dicines for the various stomach complaints to
which they are so liable, and which are the product of bad food-
insufficient clothing-wearing toil-and the absence of all hope of
anything better in thi11 world."
" The peasant's home is not thl' abode of joy or evt>n of comfort.
No 'children run to lisp tht>ir sire's return, or climb his knees the
envied kiss to share.' Tht> children are ft>lt to be a burdt>n, ill-fed,
ill-clothed, and lying on beds wone than the lower animals ; they
are ragged or clothed by charity; untaught or taught by charity ;
if sick, cured by charity ; if not starved, fed by proud charity ; of
which they bear the marks in the fantastic uniformity of their
dress, or in the pri~n-look imparted by the gt>neral order under
which they li\"e, that their clustering hair shall be cut close to their
heads, lest they ahould grow up fond of admiration, Observe their
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 329
look of humility, of discontent,-their abject curtseys. In such a
habitation-in the poorhouse-is it possible to apply Physical and
Mental Education? Its very elements are repelled from such a
place. Dulness of the mental faculties, obtuseness of the moral
lcf'lings, and sickly bodies, can alone be formed." • • • " In
agricultural districts, boys are very early employed in the fields;
and their minds become utterly vacant. The scenes in which they
live have no charms for 1/u!m. They toil early and late in certain
services; never live well; are condemned to poverty if they marry.
For them also physical and mental education is quite out of the
question.
" The girls are no better off-many of them work laboriously ;
and marry the poor labourers we have spoken of. Others become
servants. Servants in under-ground or back kitchens-no out-of-
door exercise-no friends-no followers-no visits to others-no
mental or other variety-yet every virtue expected from them, and
a good humour which not even the inconaideration and injustice
and caprice of others ran rufftf'."
" In the case of the manufacturing labourer, tbe necessary po-
verty is, I presume, by no means so pressing: their wages are
better ; they buy provisions in towns, at better advantage ; but
their exhaustion from over work, and their living surrounded by
temptations to sensual gratifications, and particularly to intemper-
ance, conspire to make tbl'm as destitut~ as the agricultural la-
bourer. The latter, excluded from many temptations, never receives
enough to support a family ; his food is just sufficient to prevent
divorce of soul and body for the best years of his sad life; if sick-
ness assail him or his children be h&lf no hope but the poor-bonae ;
and after toiling until be is old, the yawning poorhouse still awaits
him. On the brink of that gulf he has ever been, and be sinks
into it at last."
" I lately accompanied a friend over a large and well-conducted
Union Workhouse in an agricultural district. The pnsons whom
I saw there were of two kinds ; aged and belpll'ss men who bad
toiled, as they do in most eountril's, with the certain prospect of
pauperism before them all their lives long; and younger men, who
appeared to be deficient in intellect. Of the women, Sf'VI'ral also
were old and helpless ; a few were young, and of these, several, I am
inclined to think more than half, were idiotic. There were uurserie~
TT
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
330 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
and schools for the boys and the girls. In the nurseries I was shockl'<l
with the spectacle of little laughing idiots, the cbildrt>n of idiotic mo- .
thers; but in the older children, with a few excl'ptions so stJiking that
one felt surprised to see thl'm tht're, the children preBl'ntl'd coarse
features ; their heads were singularly low and broad, as if they bad
a broad shallow brain; and in several instances the upper dimen-
sions of the head were 1!0 evidently defective, that no one could h<'lp
observing it. Every physiologist, nay, ev<'ry ordinary observer,
would say, of such a shapt>d head, that it was associated with Vt'ry
small intellectual pow<'r ; and the figure of the bt'ad, takt'n with
the faculties and expression of the face, was too manifestly such as
every observer would say prophesied ill for the future character of
the individual. Great care might possibly do much ; but when you
consider these evils of birth, and the unavoidable privations and
neglect to which these human beings must be exposed as thPy grow
up, the afl!ftd consideration presents itself that thPy arE' prPdoomPd,
from childhood-from birth-&>fore birth -to ignorance and help-
lcssnt>ss, or to crime; to the lowest toil-to want-to premature
death, or to pauperism in age.
"As in the agricultural workhousE', we find the human brain
brought to a very low state of devl'lopment, and the faculties of the
mind very limitt>d, so in the manufacturing workhouse we find the
results of causes of degeneracy acting on a population whose facul-
ties are kept in greater activity, but whose bodies are deteriorated,
and whose offspring are prone to every evil that belongs to an im-
perfect structure of every tissue of the body, and to the imperft>ct
action of the organs which circulate the blood, or which elaborate
the chyle, or which should renew and repair the perpetual waste ;
so that, even in them the brain cannot long continue healthy and
effideht. If the children in the agricultural workhouse were taken
out and brought up ever so carefully, I believe that a very small
proporti?n of them would exhibit a capacity of much mental im-
provement. If the children in the manufacturing workhouse were
separated, and brought up in families where every article of diet
and regimen was very carefully attt'nded to, many of them would
be found incapable of continued life beyond a few years. They
might escape some of the worst forms of disease which now carry
them off in infancy, but a considerable portion would t'ventually
perish of some form or other of tuberculous disease-consumption-
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 331
or disease of the mesenteric glands. With these, then, you see how
limited must be the effects of the best physical and moral education
that could be devised, even if it could be at once and in every case
applied. And so long as these classes remain in this state, disease
and premature death, and many moral evils which disfigure life,
must be perpetuated. Of both these classes of the poor a propor·
tion will still live to be thirty or forty, and become, unhappily, the
parents of children who will inherit their infirmities of mind and
body, and their tendencies to disease; until, by the gradual aug-
mentation of the evil, tmccessive families are extinguished. Less
time is required for their total extinction than is commonly sup.
posed. Sir A. Carlisle says, that where the father and mother are
both town-bred, the family ends with the third generation.
" I am unwilling to accumulate painful images ; it may be enough
to quote the words of a very able writer on Medical Statistics,
which point at several instances of human deterioration. ' Life and
death, thf'n,' says Dr. Bissett Hawkins,' 'mainly depend on the
prosperity of the circumstances which surround us: physical pros-
perity and moral happiness, which often depend and re-act upon
each other, prt>scnt a safe-guard at evf'ry crisis of existence, both
to individuals and to nations. We may often judge with tolerable
accuracy of the mortality which is likely to t>xillt in any given
country, town, or hospital, from the degree in which poverty or
wealth, knowledge or ignorance, misfortune or success, are seen to
prt>vail. Wherever want or misery prevails, there the mother is
more likely to die in labour, tht>re still-births will be more frequent,
there the deaths during infancy will be more numerous, there epi-
demics will rage with more violenct>, there the recoveries from sick·
ne!!s will be more tediou!!, and the fatal tf'rmination of it more
probable ; and there, al!!o, will death usually approach at an earlier
period of life than in happier situations.'
''My rt>ason for dwelling on these points is, that I would fain
11how the mockery of expecting, by anything which philanthropy
can dl'vise, the production of mental power, or even of virtue, any
more than of healthy bodies, in the children of a very considerable
portion of all the most civilized communitit>s of Europe, in their pre-
sent condition; and that until this condition is so modified that the
human economy can be healthily t>Xercised, no physical education-
no g('neral instruction-no >:~cheme of benevolence-can train these
Digitized by GoogltA.
332 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
children into healthy adults. You cannot engrcifl wtue on plt!Jsicttl
miser!J. To hope to plant T~mperance, Fort>thought, Chhtity,
Content, in a soil where the body. and soul are corrupting,
where the mat~rials of the body are advanc<>d toward~t d~ath, and
incapable of the full actions of vitality, is the dr~am of benevol~nce.
You must secure good food, clothing, lodging, and cheerful m~ntal
~;timulus to all classes, befor~ you can raise them above that condi-
tion in which they will be glad to forget their mi~ry in any sen-
sual gratification that offers. Until thl•n, they must continue ft·~ble
and sickly, discontented and fretful, and prone to fly for consolation
t<~ stimulants; and, becoming parents, their childrE-n will inht-rit
their imperfections, some dying ~arly, and oth~rs living in such a
state that at length, perhaps, the intolerable magnitude of the phy-
sical and moral evil may suggest a remedy, and the means of effect-
ing that first object of education, the formation of a healthy and
virtuous people.
" It seems scarc~ly credible that in an age which, compar~d with
fE-udal days, appears civilized, thousands of children are nery y~ar
born only to be the prey and victims of diseasP, of early death or
of public punishment; th~ir part>ntd not able to support the life
tht>y have created; and the wretched progeny being consigned, one
may almost say, before birth, to fill the hospitals and jails; to be
swept away by diseases from which aU the comfortable classes are
comparatively protected, or t<~ linger out a wretched age in the
poorhouse. There is no physiologist who, contt>mplating the~
things, can complacently conclude, that it is not posaihle to do
110mething better for the health and life of erer!J child that is born
into the world.
" I anxiously wish to avoid being b~trayed into exagg~ration on
thes~ points; and I would say, gent>rally, that tht>re are not many
occupations which would be in tht>m~lvel4 unwholesome, if it were
not for the number of hours in which it is rt>qnisite for those to be
employed who live by the labour of their hands, or even by the
exercise of their minds, in busint>ss. The merchant's desk, the
professional man's study, the author's library, the artist's studio,
the manufactory, the 11hop, possess nothing dt>adly to mankind, if
human beings are not too long in tbem at one time ; or too labori-
ously exercised whilst there, or not expost>d to fatigue at ·too early
an age. It seems a sad result for an hone!lt and industriou~t house-
Digitized by Coogle
PRESENT CONDITION OJ' SOCIETY. 333
painter, that his banda and feet should become paralysed, and that
he should be liable to attacks of excruciating pain and delirium.
It would seem cruel to consign a youth to such a business, but with
care and cleanliness these results are, generally speaking, avoid-
able ; and if time be allowed in which good air may be breathed ;
the working clothes laid aside ; they may be altogether escaped.
Scarcely any of the evils arising from trades and occupations are
unavoidable in themselves. The circumstance, therefore, that con-
stitutes the hardness of life of the working classes, is not so much
the nature of their work ; for in this, and the muscular or mental
exertion required for it, thue is actual benefit to the health, and
pleasure to the sensations, and recreation to the mind ; but it is
the absorption of lifo itse!f inlo lahour, so that the body and the
mind are no longer educated, no longer heeded, when life's toil has
fairly begun, and the health of both must be sacrificed, and men
mwl die to lice."
"It would occupy too much time to take even the most passing
view of the poor of large cities not employed in manufactures.
Dr. Bateman, who wrote so much and so well on the diseases of
London, tells us, what we may well believe, that in hot weather
their houses are so heated and ill-ventilated, as to produce a state
of faintness, depression of spirits, langour, pains in the back and
limbs resembling those from fatigue, a fluttering in the rt'gion of
the stomach, vertigo, tremors, cold perspirations, and various
symptoms of indigestion ; with a feeble pulse. Impure air, fatigue
and anxiety, contribute, he says, to produce these effects; which
they chiefly do in woman. How these must influence the temper,
affections, and habits, and how interfere with the proper care of
their children'li bodies and minds, I am sure you will readily
imagine.
"Visit the same poor people in winter; you will find every
cranny closed, and fe\"er carrying off its victims in great numbers.
" Often, very oftt>n doubtless, moral evils flow from hence to the
better quartt>rs of the town, and poison the peace of happy families:
often, very often, the infection of fevers there cherished, floats over
the luxurious part" of the capital, and awakens the great and
wealthy to the Sl'nse of the common lot of humanity.
"Nor can we from these evils ever be free until all rE'cl'iVt' the
benefits of physical, and moral, and mental education, which they
~annol do so long as thl'y arE' stet>pcd to the lips in povl'rty.
Digitized by Coogle
334 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
"You must give them-the poor citizen-the manufacturer-the
agriculturist-let8ure for instruction, and comforts which will pre-
vent their being reckless ; and then-fear not that thPy will r~
to be comfortable. Then they will bpcome provi&nt, careful of
their health, prudent as to marriages, temperate, content-in short,
reflecting creatures, exercising that now dormant brain, that capa-
bility and god-like reason, which their good Creator gave them,
not to rust in them unused."
" From the observations I have madP, you will gather that I do
not believe the world to be so constituted that a large portion of
mankind must, from the very necessity of nature, be consigned to
constant poverty, ignorance, suffering, disease, vice, and premature
death.
" I even confess, that I am shocked when I hear the sacred
writings quoted with comfortable satisfaction over 'good men's
feasts,' as affording assurance that there must ever be 'hewers of
wood and drawers of water ;' for without at all denying the neces-
vity of these services, I have never found any reason to believe
that hewers of wood and drawers of water must, as a matter of
course, be starved, and sickly, and vicious, and limited in this life
to half of the allotted years of men. I fear we dishonour the
Great Unseen Father of all his creatures by suppositions of this
kind ; and wrest the word:t of Scriptures to some purposes which
He is far from approving.
" Valueless, indeed, in my opinion, would all our own advantages
be, if we could still cherish the selfish belief that for us and for our
children alone such gracious advantages were conferred.
" There is nothing in the structure and capacities of any portion
of mankind to sustain the notion that the same Deity who endowed
tht>m with feelings, affections, appetites, sensations, and intellect :
-the same Being who accorded to rich and poor alike the gifts of
light and air, has still ordained, that to any one class, and for ever,
are to be denied the power to enjoy, not mere physical life alone,
exempt from many miseries now incidt>ntal to their share of it, but
also those pleasures of contemplation and reflection, those upliftings
of the mind to Him, and all that intelll'ctual and spiritual life,
which alone gh·es mere physical life any solid value to us. Feel-
ing. that lor us the ddights of existence are incrPased a thousand-
fold by thl' possession of health and by opportnnitil's of instruction,
wht>rcby are dt>vt>loped countlt>s!l sonn·ps of pur£> and l')eyatrd enjoy-
Digitized by Google
PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 335
ment, we must not-we cannot-ungratefolly turn round and say
that, except for a small number, the blessings of good air, good food
and clothing, immunity from epidemic diseases, leisure and freedom
of heart, healthy and peaceful old age, and a disposition to seek
after immortal good, are for ever and absolutely denied."
Such is the account presented to us of the present
condition of the majority of the working class, by one
of the leading minds of the age ; and there is no rea-
son for supposing that their condition in other countries
is more prosperous.
" It has been observed," says Mr. Alison, "that the paupers of
England are better f~ than the labouring poor of the Continental
States; it may be safely affirmed that, in every gradation of rank
above the workhouse, the difference is still more remarkable.
Mr. Young observes that 'the labouring classes in France are 76
per cent. worse clothed, fed, and lodged, than their brethren in this
country; and it is a remarkable fact, that, with the increase of
agricultural wealth in the fom1er country since the Revolution, a
corresponding change in the diet of the peasantry bas taken place.
Notwithstanding this change, however, it is calculated by the latest
political writer in the two countries, that the quantity of butcher-
meat, butter, and cheese, consumed in Britain is 50 per cent. greater
than in France. A comparison of the food of the poorer classes in
Poland, where the peasantry live entirely on inferior grain, while
their splendid harvests of wheat are transported untouched to the
London market, with that which is consumed by the same classes
in Sweden or Switzerland, where ages of comparative freedom
have diffused opulence through the rural population; or of that
daily in use among the Irish poor, with that which for ages bas
subsisted among the opulent yeomanry of England, is sufficient to
demonstrate the truth of these observations.' "
"'Traversing the country south of Moscow,' says Clarke, 'it ia
as the garden of Eden, a fine soil, covered with com, and appa-
rently smiling in plenty. Enter the cottage of the labourer, and
you find him, though surrounded with these riches, often in want
of the necessaries of life. Extensive pastures often furnish no
milk to him ; in autumn the harvest affords no bread to his
children; every road is covered with caravans bringing the pro-
Digitized by Coogle
336 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
duce of the 10il to the lords of Petersburgh and .Moscow, while the
cultivators who raised it are in want of the necessaries of life.' "
"In the rich and fertile plain of Lombardy, where three crops
annually repay the labour of the husbandman, and the means of
perpetual irrigation are afforded by the streams that descend from
the adjoining mountains, want and indigence generally prevail
among the peasantry. Inhabiting a country which abounds in
wine, it is seldom they drink anything but water : their clothing is
scanty and wretched ; their dwellings destitute of all the comforts
of life. On the public roads, in the villages, in the cities, the tra-
veller is assailed by multitudes of beggars, whose squalid looks and
urgent importunity attest but too strongly the abject distress to
which they are reduced. On the mountains,. as on the plains, be
perceives the traces of a numerous population, and the benignity of
the climate clothes the wooded slopes with innumerable villages,
whose white walls and elegant spires give a peculiar charm to
Italian landscape; but within their walls he finds the well-known
features of public misery, and the voice of distress supplicating for
relief, in scenes which, at a distance, appear only to teem with
human happiness.''
"Provisions are incomparably cheaper in Poland and in Russia
than in this country; but are the Polish or Russian peasants half
as comfortably fed, lodged, or clothed, as the corresponding classes
in this country ? Every one knows that, so far from being so, or
obtaining any benefit whatever from the cheap price of provisions
in their own country, they are in truth the most miserable labourers
in Europe, and feed upon scanty meals of rye bread, in the michit of
the splendid wheat crops, which they raise for the more opulent con-
suml'rs in this country. In the southern provinces of Russia,
wheat is often only ten shillings a quarter, from the total want of
any market. But what i11 the consequence? Why, that wages are
so low that the Cossack horseman gets only eight shillings and six-
pence a-year of pay from government. Wheat and provisions of all
sorts are much cheaper in Ireland than in Great Britain ; but ne-
vertheless, the Irish labourers do not enjoy one half of the comforts
or nece11saries of life which fall to the lot of their brethren on this
side of the Channel.''
" The ml're necessariu of life are sold almost for nothing in
Hindostan and China, but, so far from obtaining any benefit from
Digitized by Coogle
PRESEST CONDITION OF SOCIETY. 337
that low rate of pricl's, the labouring classes are so poor as to taste
hardly anything but riel' and water; and wages are so low, seldom
exceeding two-pl'nce a-day, that l'Vl'ry sepoy, foot-soldil'r, and
horseman, bas two, and l'\'l'ry native, three attl'ndants to wait
upon his pl'rson."•
To the friend of humanity it affords, however, un-
speakable consolation to reflect, that if there is any
truth in the principles ad¥ocated in the former parts of
this work, the evils we have been considering are not a
necessary part of human nature, nor irremediable.
That such is the case may be inferred from the advance
already made, from the improved physical condition of
the upper and middle, and in some respects even of
the lower, classes of society as compared with what it
was a century ago. The tables of mortality show a
great increase in the average term of human life.
"In 1700 the mortality in London was 1 in 25
1751 1 " 21
1801 1 " 35
1811 1 " 38
1821 1 " 40
In 1801 in England and Wales... 1 " 44
1811 1 " 50
1821 ... ... ... .. . .. . ... 1 " 58
1831 .. . ... ... .. . 1 " 52"t
Various epidemics and diseases have entirely disap-
peared.
" Thl're died of the plagul' in l-ondon,
In 1348 about 100,000 In 1625 about 35,000
1563 " 20,000 1636 " 10,000
1592 " 15,000 1665 " 68,596!
1603 " 36,000
"And this was the last-what the Court never thought of, the
Fire of London eft'ected."
• Alison, vol. 1, pp. 202,200,435, 4H; vo'. 2, 419,420.
t Ibid, vol. 1, p. 222.
Digitized by Coogle
338 PRESENT CONDITION OF SOCIETY.
Life has been lengthened in proportion as man's
knowledge of the Physical and Organic laws, and his
obedience to them, have increased, and we trust to
show that nothing more is necessary to remove the
numerous evils that now aftlict society, and the work-
ing classes in particular, than a similar knowledge of,
and obedience to the Moral Law, which requires that
all our Institutions should be framed in accordance
with the happiness of the greatest number. In pro-
portion as we succeed in doing this, we shall find that
moral evil will disappear from the face of the earth,
like those physical calamities which have given way
before science and increased knowledge of the laws of
Nature.
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
ON THE MEASURES PROPOSED FOR THE A)IELIORATION
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE.
ALTHOUGH the labouring population constitute the
majority of the people in all countries, yet have their
interests and condition been strangely neglected. Go-
vernments, with respect to most of their acts and pro-
ceedings, would scarcely seem to be aware of their
existence, excepting as a necessary part of the ma-
chinery of the country for the production of wealth ;
and their wrongs might for ever remain umedressed,
did not the extreme of them at times compel this class
to become troublesome, and consequently important to
the State. With Political Economists production is the
grand object ; distribution being left to find its own
level; although it is evident, that if distribution be still
left to find its own level, as it has hitherto done, the
world may be filled with goods by the aid of machinery,
whilst those who have nothing to give but their labour in
exchange, may want all the necessaries of life. The two
great divisions of what is called "civilized society," con-
sist of those who possess property, and those who live
.only by the wages of labour, and it has been usual to
consider the interests of both classes as one ; yet nothing
is more certain than that those vast physical resources
and impro,·cmeut.s which ha,·e so much increased the
comforts of one class, have done little or nothing fi1r
the other. or the immense masses of wealth produeed
Digitized by Coogle
340 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
in Manchester, Glasgow, Leeds, and others of our large
manufacturing towns, but little has fallen to the share
of the working classes, for it is there that poverty, with
its accompanying vice and misery, exists in all its most
aggrayated forms. Rents have risen 50 per cent. within
the last fifty years,• and the condition of the agricul-
tural labourer is the same as it was before, or but little
improved. The property of the fund-holder, and all
property, has increased with the increased powers of
production, but all facts show that this advantage bas
not yet been shared with the working class as a body.
The evils arising from the present imperfect condi-
tion of the people are now forcing themselves into
general notice ; and all parties ha'fe their remedies, in
Politics, in Emigration, in Education, in Religion, in
Social Reform ; and in examining how far these reme-
dies are likely to prove efficacious, we must keep in
mind that they are to be judged of according to their
bearing upon the condition of the working classes ; not
upon the powers of production : we must consider also,
not only whether the proposed measure is good in the
abstract, but bow far it is applicable to and practicable
in present circumstances.
It generally happens that those whose station gh·es
them an influence over public opinion, are too much
engaged with their own individual interests to gh-e the
subject the attention that it deser\"es. They are born
to some party in politics, as in religion, and not seeing
how the condition of the people around them imme-
diately affects their own, they seldom examine either
into its real state, or into its cause; but ~atisfy them-
• :M•Culloch, Yol. 1, p..~Jti.
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONDITION OF THB PEOPLE. 341
selves with the opinions prevalent, and the measures
proposed by the sect or party to which they belong.
Of Strikes, Trades' Unions, and all combinations of
workmen against the capitalists, we have seen in num-
berless instances the utter failure ; the capitalist being
always able to starve the workman into taking the
offered terms ; terms, dictated by the demand for
labour.
Political Unions can at present do little more. Sup-
posing it to be granted that they were mainly instru-
mental in obtaining a Reform in Parliament ; yet
questions having direct reference to the condition of
the people are seldom brought forward in this Reformed
Parliament; and if little has been said, still less has
been done.
The late union of the working men for the purpose
of obtaining what is called the Charter, the chief object
of which is an extended suffrage, bas demonstrated
how utterly incapable this class is of undertaking the
management of its own affairs. Whatever may be the
opinion with respect to the desirableness of placing
political power in the hands of the majority, it cannot
be doubted, that in the hands of a majority such as our
working classes in their present condition constitute, it
would tend more to their injury than benefit. "Order,
Hea•;en's first law," would soon cease to exist. What-
e\"'er exception may be made in favour of some few
amongst them who ha,·e far outstripped their brethren
in reason and intelligence, it may be asserted that, as
a class, they ba,·e no knowledge of the foundations
upon which society is built ; of the steps by which we
have arrived at our present stage in civilization ; of
the necessity to the adrancemcnt of the race, of that
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..
342 MEASURF.S FOR THE AMELIORATION
which now strikes us as a glaring abuse; of the mu-
tual sacrifice of our natural liberty which is hourly
called for, to ensure to us the advantages of lhing in
society at all. They have no knowledge of the causes
of the evils that oppress them, and where, therefore,
the remedy should be sought. Scarcely any two
among them agree as to what should be done, had they
the necessary power, and they are consequently led
away by every demagogue who can put sufficient energy
and unction into his holdings forth, and who has his
own especial quack medicine for the diseases of the
State. It is quite impossible, as society is now consti-
tuted, that they, with their limited means of acquiring
infbnnation, and the incessant toil to which they are
subjected, can acquire sufficient knowledge for their
own go¥ernance, or perhaps e'\"en to choose those who
are qualified. Legislation requires more knowledge
than any other profession. A legislator ought to be
intimately acquainted with the constitution of human
nature; the constitution of society ; the history of civi-
lization ; with the particular character of the people,
and of the institutions of the country for which he
would legislate. This is a knowledge to be acquired
only by long and arduous study, the time for which is
denied to the multitude. Universal suffrage, including
all that can make that suffrage available, will be excel-
lent and necessary, when the people know how to use
it; but a great improvement in their physical condition
must take place before this can be the case. They
must be emancipated from the thraldom of the capi-
tali~~t, before any mere governmental changes can ma-
terially affect their condition. Change!'! brought about
by the representatires or the people in ignorantl' of the
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 343
causes of oppression, would only make things worse,
by affecting the order, tranquillity, and security neces-
sary to the spread of knowledge, and to the improve-
ment which can be based only upon such knowledge.•
PoLITics.-The great body of reformers throughout
the country are looking to political reform, to govern-
mental changes, to effect our relief from the evils under
which we suffer ; and the periodical press may be said
almost exclusively to represent this party. But in all
countries the condition of the great body of the people-
of the working classes, is, with but slight differences, the
same. In all the wages of labour are, relatively to
what such wages will purchase, equally low and insuf-
ficient : and yet some of these countries possess all for
which liberal politicians of this school are contending. Is
not thi.CJ, therefore, evidence of some fallacy in the liews
• " The most common error in the present day consists in sup-
posing that the people in general are to be influenced, even in
regard to contemporaneous events, by their reason ; whereas they
are entirely governed in their opinions on such topics, by their
interests, their prejudices, or their passions. The Girondists, in
the Legislative Assembly of France, confidently expected that, by
the force of their arguments, they would bear down the efforts of
the Jacobins; but events soon proved that where popular passions
are roused, the force of demonstration itself is speedily destroyed
by the contests of factiou. This consideration furnishes an unan-
swerable argument against the extension of the elective franchise to
the great body of the people. It has no occasion to be illustrated by
argument; experience everywhere demonstrates its truth ; and
mankind will in the end be generally convinced, that to subject the
Legislature to the direct influence of the multitude, is to subject
them in periods of tranquillity to the contentions of interest, anti
in moments of agitation to the storms of passion."-Alison, vol. 2,
p. 286. .
Digitized by Coogle
344 MEASURES FOR THE AMRLIORATION
of this party, if indeed the object of their measures be to
raise the condition of the people ? In questioning,
however, whether the measures ofwhat is called a liberal
and enlightened policy do often or always conduce to
this end, and in endeavouring to show their exact
bearing upon the condition of the people, we would not
wish to appear to condemn such measures, or to repre-
sent them as containing no good. It is impossible not
to be aware of, and to appreciate, the benefits that have
been and will be conferred by them upon all possessing
property ; it is ob,ious also that increased production
must reflectively, and in a minor degree, benefit those
who have no property, but who live by the wages of
labour ; and that it will raise many of the latter class
into the former: but that such policy will not materially
ameliorate the condition of the majority, may, we think,
be demonstrated.
Firstamongst the remedies of this class to which the
people are taught to look for relief, is the lessening of
Taxation, cheap Government, and the taking off the
duties on everything that the working man finds
necessary for the support of his family. The national
debt and our heavy taxation, it is said, press down our
people into the dust. But in those countries where
there is no national debt, and where taxation is light,
is the condition of the people better ? It appears a
hard thing that the working man should have to pay at
least 7s. of every guinea that he earns, in direct or in-
direct taxation. Lodging, meat, beer, clothing-every-
thing is taxed, and out of an income of £50, he pays
perhaps £17 towards the government ofhis country, and
the interest of its national debt. And yet, supposing
the same rate of taxation to affect the capitalist, and
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 345
that his income is £1000 a-year, he pays only £333,
leaving in the one instance, £34 a-year, and in the
other, £667 ; it thus reduces one party to the point of
star,·ation, and leaves the other with every means of
luxury. But were the working classes relieved from all
taxation, and were those who are so much better able to
bear the burden made to do so, how would it affect the
former ? At first, and for some little time, the operative
would find that his guinea per week would go much
farther in supplying his wants ; it would not only yield
necessaries, but comforts. But soon the inevitable fluc-
tuations in trade, and a lessened demand for labour,
would throw him out of employment, and in order to
obtain his share of the work that remained, he would
necessarily offer his labour for less and less remune-
ration, until within a short period his wages would again
be reduced to the starving point,-as we find to be the
case in other countries where the necessaries of life are
cheap.
One advantage he would derive-but that would
also be fleeting, although, perhaps, not equally so--
the demand for his labour would be more steady in
consequence ofadditional markets abroad being opened
to his employer. This, however, in many cases, would
throw people out of employment elsewhere, or if their
wages admitted of any reduction, would grind them
down to meet this additional competition.
These observations apply, of course, to the present
prevailing question of Corn Law or no Corn Law; that
is, as much to the tax on bread as to any other. It is
unjust to a country that bread should be made dear that
rents may be high, particularly as it L<;J allowed that
rents have risen full 50 per cent. in the last halfcentury ;
ww
o;gitizedbyGoogle ··
346 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
but let not the working classes suppose that the aboli-
tion ofthis tax, any more than that of any other, would
in the end be of much benefit to them. " The money-
rate of wages, wholly independent of the price of pro-
visions from year to year, is entirely regulated by it,
other things being equal, from ten years to ten years."•
Under the present system the working classes are
merely the instruments of production, and to relieve
them of taxation would have exactly the same effect
upon production a.~ improvements in machinery ; as
they would be able to live for less, they would be enabled
to produce for less. This would lead to increased de-
mand, depending, of course, upon the cheapness of
the produce. No increase, therefore, of wages would
take place, but a great increase of population, similar
to that which has taken place in Manchester, Glasgow,
Leeds, and other large towns, where improvements in
machinery, and our consequent power of producing
cheaply, have enabled us to command extensive mar-
kets. But in a short time population would be upon
a par with this increased demand, and foreign com-
petition, over-speculation, fluctuating currencies, and
all the various causes that di.~turb our commercial
atmosphere, would again throw the people out of em-
ployment, and produce all the distress for which we
now seek a remedy.
...
The great political questions of the day are questions
concerning more or less representation-more or less
taxation-whether this or that section of the aristocracy
shall have power and patronage; but they are not ques-
tions that tend ultimately to raise the condition of the
people ; the utmost that we can expect from the satis-
• Alison, vol. 2, p. 418.
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 347
factory solution of them is, that by enabling us to
produce more cheaply, increased demand may gire
employment to the working classes for a time, when
otherwise there would be none, and thus afford leisure
to introduce gradually and securely other measures
which can alone be effectual to the desired end.
THE PoLITICAL EcoNOMISTS. It is upon the theories
of the political economists that the creed of reforming
politicians is principally based. Their expectation is
that improved education, and increased habits of pru-
dence and economy, will ultimately induce the working
classes to keep population within the means of support.•
Not the support which their own labour would furnish,
bad it a profitable direction, but the support which it is
the interest of the capitalist, in the present artificial
relations of society, to afford. The main object of this
party is to increase production-to multiply capital;
and as the most direct means to this object, they look
to perfect freedom of trade, the abolition of all mono-
polies, bounties, and prohibitions, by which all trade
would be made to flow into its natural channels ; each
country furnishing that for which nature has best qua-
lified it, and which costs, therefore, the least labour to
produce, that we may no longer be obliged to grow
• " The result to be aimed at is to secure to the grPat body of
the people all the happinPss which is capable of being derived from
the matrimonial union, without the evilll which a too rapid increase
of their number involves. The progress of lPghdation, the improve-
mf'nt of the education of the people, and the decay of tmperlltition,
will, in timP, it may be hoped, accomplillh the difficult task of re-
conciling these important objt>cts."-Mill"!! Ell'ment!i of Political
Economy, p. ;
}':'.
Digitized by Googl
348 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
wheat upon land unfitted for it, any more than we
should attempt to grow grapes and oranges in our
northern latitude~. Free trade so far would be un-
doubtedly the true policy, and would benefit all, if the
labourer received his due share of the produce. As a
general principle, no more labour should be spent in
production than is absolutely necessary, and articles
ought never to be produced in one country, that can be
obtained at a less cost through the medium of exchange
with another. But this policy, as society is now con-
stituted, tends to make a nation great only in the sense
of the political economists, i. e. to increase its power
and resources ; to multiply its ships and navies ; to
enlarge its rents and profits, and means of paying
taxes; to add to the number, wealth, and importance of
its merchants and manufacturers, and of all capitalists ;
but to leave all who live by labour alone, in little, if
any, better condition than they were before. It is even
possible that it might leave them worse than they were
before. While individual advantage only continues to be
pursued, free trade would not be confined to the exchange
of one nation with another, of that which each nation
was best fitted by nature for growing or manufacturing,
but would lead to the competing of each with the other
in trade and manufactures for which they might possess
nearly equal natural advantages. This would throw
each open to the competition of the whole world, and
would reduce everything to the lowest possible price ;
and although this might double and triple the means
of those who possess property, it would not benefit the
working man, because, in order to effect this reduction
in goods, his wages must be reduced to the lowest pos-
sible rate also. It could only then be hy getting goods
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 349
produced cheaply that manufacturers could employ
their capital to advantage; and if any circumstances
were to raise the price of wages, they must be thrown
out of the market. Why do our manufacturers at the
present time desire the repeal of the Com Laws ?
Principally that the operative may be able to live for
less, and that, therefore, by a reduction of wages, they
may bring their goods cheaper to the foreign markets,
which would otherwise be closed upon them. With
our superiority in machinery and manufacturing skill,
free trade would much increase our production, and if
the labourer had his due share of the profits instead of
being paid in the shape of wages, it would benefit him
as well as the capitalist. We must not forget, however,
that this result would be owing to our manufacturing su-
premacy, and would last only so long as that was main-
tained, but should any circumstances tend to lower that
supremacy and tum the scale against us, we ourselves
should be driven from those markets from which we
now drive others, or into which, at least, we prevent
their entering.
The question of Free Trade is nearly identical with
that of Taxation ; and in the practical bearing of each
upon the condition of the operatives, the establishment
of the one and abolition of the other, would be the same.
To abolish monopolies and to remove prohibitions is to
take off indirect taxes : but there would be also the
farther effect of opening fresh markets upon the reci-
procity system ; thus increasing the cheapness of all
articles, (because produced at less cost,) and the de-
mand for them at the same time. With an increased
demand for goods would come an increased demand for
labour, and this, say the advocates of free trade, would
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~
350 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
raise wages and the condition of the operatives. Rea-
soning abstractedly, Malthus's theory with. respect to
the increase of population, would appear irrefutable ;
the only argument against it is, that all facts from the
beginning of the world to the present time prove it to
be based on false premises ; for as comforts and arti-
ficial wants are generated, checks come into operation
which Mr. Malthus leaves entirely out of his calculation.
So also with respect to the question before us, abstract-
edly reasoning, it would seem obvious that a great
increase in the demand for labour would considerably
raise wages and the condition of the operative, but have
we not sufficient facts before us to show that this would
not be the case excepting in a very limited degree ? In
agricultural labour, such might be the result, but in
manufacturing labour it would appear that the operation
of machinery, and other causes affecting trade which
we ha\'e before mentioned, would always be sufficient
to counteract the natural effect of an increased demand
for labour-or rather, machinery would always be
multiplied to supply that demand.
We must bear in mind that the principal advantages
to be derived from free trade are increased cheapness
and increased demand from extended markets. Now
Manchester possessed all the advantages in this respect
that free trade could possibly give to any town or coun-
try. Improvements in machinery by Watt and Ark-
wright, and peculiar advantages of situation opened to it
the markets of almost the whole world. It was enabled
to import its raw material from India, to manufacture
it, to send it back again, and yet undersell the Indian
who works for twopence per day, in his own market.
In thi:::~ dE>Imrtment of cotton-spinning, the impro\"e-
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 351
ments in machinery enabled one man to do the work
that it required 200 men to do before; and here one
would think that if the extra produce were divided fairly
between the capitalist, or owner of the machine, and the
operative, there was plenty of room for the improvement
of his condition. But did it increase his leisure? No.
Were his wages increased for doing 200 times more
than he did before ? But very little : for the compe-
tition for employment of those who were at first thrown
out of work by the extra productiveness of the machine,
obliged him to work the same number of hours, and to
be satisfied with nearly the same rate of wages as before.
Where then was the advantage t> The extra number of
pieces produced went to the warehouse of the capitalist,
and by reducing them in price, be forced them all over
the markets of the world. The reduced price occasioned
a greatly increased demand ; capital flowed in that di-
rection ; manufacturers and merchants multiplied and
grew rich; and the number of bands employed, instead
of being ultimately decreased, was increased until it
reached the number of about 1,200,000,• with whose
condition Parliamentary enquiries have made us but too
well acquainted.
The greatest advocates for freedom of trade can
scarcely expect that it can do more for the country at
large, than improvements in machinery and other pecu-
liar local advantages have already done for Manchester,
Leeds, Glasgow, and some other of our large manu-
facturing towns, and as the question is one of peculiar
moment and interest, and one towards which the coun-
try is looking with great expectation, we shall state
what is said, on good authority, of the condition of the
• M'Culloch, vol 1, p. 6J8.
Digitized by Coogle
352 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
people in such towns. The following description is
given of those employed in the cotton factories, by
Dr. Kay:-
" ToE FAcTORY SvsTEM.-The population employed in the cotton
factories rises at five o'clock in the morning, works in the mills from
six till eight, alld returns home for half an hour or forty minutes to
breakfast. This meal generally consists of tea or coffee, with a
little bread. Oatmeal porridge is sometimes, but of late rarely,
used, and chiefly by the men ; but the stimulus of tea is prt>fened,
and especially by the women. The tea is almost always bad, and
sometimes of a deleterious quality ; the infusion is weak, and little
or no milk is added. The operatives return to the mills and work-
shops until twelve o'clock, when an hour is allowed for dinner.
Amongst those who obtain the lower rate of wages, this meal gene-
rally consists of boiled potatoes. The mess of potatoes is put into
one large dish ; melted lard or butter is poured upon them, and a
few pieces of fried fat bacon are sometimes mingled with them, and
but seldom a little meat. The family sits round the table, and each
rapidly appropriates his portion on a plate, or they all plunge tht>ir
spoons into the dish, and with an animal eagerness satisfy the
cravings of their appetite. At the expiration of the hour tht>y are
aU again employt>d in the workshops or mills, where they continue
until seven o'clock, or a later hour, when they generally again
indulge in the use of tt>a, often mingled with spirits, accompanifi!d
by a little bread. The population nourished on this aliment is
crowded into one dense mass, in cottages 11eparated by narrow, un-
paved, and almost pestilential streets, in an atmosphere loaded with
the smoke and t>xhalations of a large manufacturing city. The
operatives are congregated in rooms and workshops during twelve
hours of the day, in an enervating, ht>ated atmo11phere, which i;
freqpently loaded with dust or filaments of cotton, or impure from
constant respiration, or from other causes. They are engaged in
an employment which absorbs their attention, and unremittingly
employs their phy~ical energies. They are drudgt>s who watch the
movements, and assist the operations of a mighty material foree,
which toils with an Pnergy ever unconscious of fatigue. The per-
severing labour of the operative must rival the mathematical pre-
cision, the incessant motion, and the exhaustless power of the
Digitized by Google
OJ' THE CONDITION OJ' THE PEOPLE. 353
machine. Hence, besides the negative results, the total abstraction
of every moral and intellt'ctual stimulus, the absence of variety,
banishment from the grateful air and the cheering influences of
light, the physical energit's are exhausted by incessant toil and
impt>rfect nutrition. Having been subject to the prolongt'd labour
of an animal-his physical energy wasted, his mind in supine
inaction-the artizan hM neither moral dignity, nor intt'llectual
nor organic strength to resist the seductions of appetite. His wife
and children, too frequently subjected to the same process, are
unable to cheer his remaining moments of leisure. Domestic eco-
nomy is neglected-domestic comforts are unknown. A meal of
the coarsest food is prepared with heedless baste, and devoured
with equal precipitation. Home bas no other relation to him than
that of shelter-few pleasures are there-it chiefly presents to him
a scene of physical exhaustion, from which be is glad to escape.
Him.self impotent of all the distinguishing aims of his species, he
sinks int.o sensual sloth, or revels in more dt'grading licentiousness.
His house is ill-furnished, uncleanly, often ill-ventilated, perhaps
damp ; his food, from want of forethought and domestic economy,
is meagre and innutricious ; be is debilitated and hypochondriacal,
and falls the victim of dissipation.''
"The City of Glasgow exhibits so extraordinary an example,
during the last fifty years, of the progrt'ss of population, opulence,
and all the external symptoms of prosperity, and at the same time
of the utter inadt'quaey of all these resources to keep pace either
with the moral or spiritual wants of the peoplt', or provide adequate
funds for the a~iation of their cmtresses, that it is deserving of
particular consideration.
"It appears from Dr. Acland's admirable Statistice of Glasgow,
tflat Population, Custom-House Duties, Harbour-Dues, and Post-
Office Revenue of the City; have stood, in the undt'rmentioned
years, as follows :-
Y•n. Population, C~~~&om-H- Duliee. Harbour Does. Poet-Ofliee,
1770 31,000 £149 0 10 £33,771
1801 83,769 .£3,124 iu 1812 3,319 16 1 23,328
1831 202,426 72,053 17 4 20,296 18 5 35,642
1839 290,000 468,974 12 2 45,287 16 10 47,527
" This prodigious increase is probably unprrcedt'nted in any other
XX
Digitized by Coogle
.•
. 3~4 MEASURES FOR THE Al!riELIORATION
. '
country in Eu'ropt> during the same or prrbaps any other period,
and a paralll•l to it i8 only to be found in the transatlantic provinces..
It is a fact well worthy of observation, that the progress of popu-
lation in New York from 1820 to 1830, was as nearly as possible
the same as that of Glasgow from 1830 to lf:l40; beth citieg at the
commencementof the respective pt>riods having 200,000 inhabitants,
and having increased to 290,000 at their close. (Chevalier's Ame-
rica.) Here then, if anywhere, was to be found an example where,
in consequence of the prodigious and unprrcedented prosperity of
the place, ample scope was afforded for the voluntary systf'm, whe-
ther in religioug instruction or temporal relief. And tl1at the mer-
chants of Glasgow are at least equal to any in Europe, in the benr-
volence and liberality with \Vhieh, on all important occasions, they
come forward for the relitof of the distress by which they are sur-
rounded, or for any purpose of public charity or munificencr, is
amply proved by the following list of subscriptions made by t'hrm
annually, or for the last sevrn years:-
For Church Extension ...
House of Rrfuge for young Criminals ....
Female House of Rrfuge
Normal Scl1.0ol
Infirmary, annually, .£'4,500 in seven years
Wellington Testimonial
Relief of Poor in 1837
In se\·en years
... .£42,300
14,800
4·,~00
4·,900
31,500
9,500
7,000
£114,800
-
"Nevertheless, so far are these splendid subscriptions from being
~· · able to keep pace with the progrell8 of destitution and suffering in
'l
f'""{;lasgow, that, as already mentioned, there are no less than 80,000
persons for whom there is no accommodation whatever for attend-
ing any place of religious worship, of whatever persuasion, in the
city and suburbs. About £20,000 a-year are levit>d for the sup-
port of the poor in the city and suburbs, in addition to innumerable
private charities, and much individual beneficrnce. Yet in spite of
all this munificence the following is the account givt>n of the state
of the most destitute part of the community, by two most compe-
tent observers, whose valuable works, well known to the public,
have gained for them both an extensive and well-earned reputation.
' Glasgow exhibits,' says the able and indefatigable Dr. Cowan, 'a
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONDITION OF THB PEO!»LE. 355
frightful state of mortality, unequalled, perhaps, in any city in Bri-
tain. The prevalence of fever presents obstacles to the promoti~n
of social improvement among the lower classes, and is productive
of an amount of human misery credible only to those who havl\
witnessed it. (Cowan's Vital Statistics of Glasgow, p. 14.) The
extraordinary progress of mortality which has, as already shown,
declined from 1 in 41 in 18'23, to 1 in 24 in 1837, while the annual
average mortality of London is about 1 in 36, and over all England
1 in 51, affords too melancholy a confirmation of this observation.
And the following is the account given of the Glasgow poor by a
very intelligent observer, Mr. Symonds, the Government Commis-
sioner for examining into the condition of the hand-loom weavers:
'The wynds in Glasgow comprise a fluctuating population of from
15,000 to 30,000 persons. This quarter consists of a labyrinth of
lanes, out of which numberless entrance!! lead into small square
,
courts, each with a dunghill reeking in the centrt'. Revolting as
was the outward appearance of these placeR, I was little prepared
for the filth and destitution within. In some of these lodging-rooms,
(visitt>d at night,) we found a whole lair of human beings Jittered
along the floor, sometimes fifteen or twenty, some clothed and some
naked; men, women, and children, huddled promiscuously together.
Their bed consist~d of a layer of musty straw intermixed with rags.·
There was generally little or no furniture in these places ; the sole
article of comfort was a firt'. Thieving and prostitution constitute
the main source!! of the revenue of this population. No pains set'm to.
be taken to purge this Augean pandemonium; this nucleus of crime,
filth, and pestilence, exillting in the centre of the second city of the
empirt'. These wynds constitute the St. Giles of Glasgow ; but I owe
an apology to the metropolitan pandemonium for the comparison. A
very extensive inspection of the lowest districts of other plact's, both .
here and on the Continent, nt'Vt'r prt'st'ntt'd anything one lla!J,.,.!fO
bad, either in intensity of pt>stilenee, physical and mo~al,. .Or ia~ .'.:: · ·
.••f -•A -·
t'Xtent proportioned to the population.'-Arts and Artizans a~ Home .·, ''
and Abroad, p. 116."• · ··. • ·
" Of all the effects which the progress of civilization prod.ucrs,
tht>re is none !!O deplorable as the degradation of the human ·clta.- ,·
ractf'r which arisrs from tht> habit.'! of the manufacturing ill~es.~:- .
*Alison, vol. 2, p. ~7 .
o;gitizedbyGoogle ;.-
.
.
..
356 IUASURBS POR TBB AMELIORATION
The &ssembl&«e of large bodiea of aen in one place; the close
oonfioemen.t to which they are subjected ; the promiscuous inter-
course of the sexes at an early period of life ; and the debast>ment
of intellect which arises from uniformity of occupation, all conspire
to degrade and corrupt mankind. Persons nnacquainted with the
manners of the lower orders in the great manufacturing cities of
Britain, can form no adequate conception of the habits whieh pre-
vail among them. In Glasgow, at this moment, (1840,) tht>re are
3000 public-houses among 290,000 persons included in 58,000 fami-
lies; being nearly one publie-houe for evt>ry 20 families. The num-
ber of inhabited houses is about 30,000, 10 that every tenth house
ia appropriated tothe aale of spirita: a proportion unexampled, it is
believed, in any other city of the globe. This number has risen from
1600 since the year 1821, though not more than 140,000 aouls have
been, during the same period, added to the population. Seasons
of adversity lead to no improvement in the habits of these work-
men ; the recurrence of prosperity bring. with it the usual attend-
ants of profligacy_ and intemperance. Ten or twenty workmen are
more or less intoxicated every Saturday, and for tht> most of Sun-
day; every farthing whichcan be spared i11 too often converted into
ardent spirits. The same individuals who, a yt>ar before, wt>re
reduced to pawn their last shreds offurniture to procure subsistence,
reckleasly throw away the surplus earningsof more prosperous times
in the lowest debauchery. The warnings of religion, the dictate~J
of prudence, the means ofinstruction, the lessons of adversity, are
alike overwhelmed by the passion for p10mt>ntary gratification. It
seems the peculiar effect of such debasing employments, to render
the condition of men precarious at the same time that it makt>s
their habits irregular: to aubjt>ct them at once to the most trying
fluctuations of condition, and the most fatal improvidence of
character.
" The prevalence of such habits is in the highest degree danger-
ous to the increase of mankind. Nothing more ruinous to public
welfare can be imagined than the existence of a large body of men
in the State, whose employment is un~rtain, while tht>ir p&Siiions
are uncontrolled: whose increase, like that of tbt> lowt'r animals, is
wholly uninftuenced by the dictatt>s of reason, and "·ho are steady
in nothing but the indulgence of desire. Experit>nce bas provf'd
accordingly, that the proportion of marriage11 in these dasses ill
Digitized by Coogle
Oil' THE CONDITION Oil' THE PEOPLE. 357
much greater than in the agricultural di11tricts; and the increase of
population iJt still more rapid, as the dissolution of manners hu
multiplied to an incredible degree the number of bastards." •
" It has been the well-known policy of Great Britain for the last
century and a half to encourage, by every means in its .JIOWer,
the manufacturing industry of ita .people, and this policy ably
and steadily pursued, and accompanied with the advantages of our
cool, insular situation, and free constitution, have produced the
immenae results over which, in one view, we have reason to exult,
and in another to lament. It is utterly impossible thai this unpa-
ralleled growth of our manufacturing industry can co-exist with
the firm foundation of public prosperity. Ita obvious tendency is to
create immense wealth in one part of the population, and increased
numbers in another ; to coin gold for the master manufacturer, and
multiply children in hia cotton mills; to exhibit a flattering increase
in the exports and imports of the empire, and an augmentation as
appalling in ita paupers, its depravity, and !ts crimes."t
The character of the Glasgow weavers, which once
stood deservedly high, has been sadly deteriorated. In
the admirable report of the suburban Burgh of Calton,
presented to the British Association by Mr. Rutherglen,
a Magistrate of that Burgh, we find the following
remarks:-
" From personal experience," says the Secretary to the Glasgow
Statistical Society, " as weU as from the information of others
intimately acquainted with the subject, the writer is able to state,
that the religious, moral, and intellectual condition of the weavers
was long of a very high grade ; and even yet the writer ia of opi-
nion that the elder portion of them ranks higher in these respects
than any other class of tradesmen. But as poverty prevents many
of them from attending public worship, and still more, from edu-
cating their children, there can be little doubt that their character
ia fast deteriorating, and that their children will be in a still more
deplorable condition.
" There is a series of crimes, or, as they are more gently called,
embezzlements, carried on both in the city ofGlasgow and suburban
• Alison, vol. 1, p. 190. t Ibid, p. 519.
Digitized by Coogle
358 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
districts, to an alarming extent, and which are attendl'd \\;th very
baneful effects, and indeed it is impossible to form an idea of the
amount of property, in pig and scrap iron, nails, brass, &c., stolen
in this way. A gentleman who has had much eXp<'rience in the
tracing of these cases, has given it as his opinion, that at the
Broomielaw, and on its way for shipment, five hundred tons of pig
iron alone are pilfered ; and he calculates that in the above articles
upwards of four thousand pounds value passes into the hands of
these ~elinquents yearly, without even a chance of their being
punished. Another of these class of embezzlementli is that well
known under the name of the bout/ tcifl system, generally carried
on by weavers, winders, and others employed by manufacturers,
and consists of the embezzlement of cotton yarn~, silks, &c., which
are sold to a small class of manufacturer~, who, in consequence of
purchasing this material at a greatly reducl'd price, get up their
11tuffs at a cost that enables them to undersell the honest manufac-
turer ; and, indeed, in hundreds of caset1 he bas to rompete with the
low-priced goods made from the material pilfered from his own
warehouse, or embt>zzled by his own out-door work<>rs; and it is to
be regretted, that this clas!l of corks should always find, even among
rP><prdablc merchants, a ready market for their goods. Agentleman,
who employs somewht>re about 2t)(X) out-door workers, and admits
that his calculation is moderatt>, allows one penny each man per
day as his lo!!s from this system; -it is believed from fifty thousand
to sixty thousand pounds per annum would not cover the value of
articles pilfered in this way within the Parliamentary bounds of
this city."•-Dr. A. C. Taylor's Moral Economy of Large Towns.
Such are the results that have followed, and such are
the results that may be anticipated in the present state
of society, diYided as it is into Capitalist and Labourer,
• The 11ystem of embezzlement appears to be very general in all
manufacturing towns where the artizan is entrusted with the raw
mat<>rial to manufacture at his own home.
In Coventry the nmnufacturers complain much of the prevalence
of the ~<ysrem. W<>avPrs, from silk partly purchased and partly t>m-
brzzled, introduce goods into the market, through parties calling
themselv<>~ manufacturer~, at prkes with which the fair trader has
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 359
from that system of policy that seeks the market of
the world for the ptoduce of our manufactures. Its
tendency is to create large masses of population ; to
reduce them to the lowest point of the social scale; and
to make them dependent, not from year to year, but
« almost from day to day, upon all the fluctuations in
trade; all the changes in our commercial relations ; and
all the Yarious casualties that daily occur in numerous
countries throughout the world. " Great Britain is
to be regarded now as a great workshop, which diffuses
its fabrics equally over the frozen and the torrid zone ;
which clothes alike the negroes of the West Indies, the
labourers of Hindostan, the free settlers in Canada, the
vine-growers of the Cape, and the sheep-owners ofNew
Holland and Van Dieman's Land."• Thus a great
part of ~ur population is not only subjected to all those
causes that tend so frequently to derange our commer-
cial system at home, but is made dependent upo;o. the
good conduct and stability of all the different countrie!4
in the world ; and is ahw subjected to the competition
of the whole world. If America, for instance, over-
trades, or mis-manages her monetary system, our ex-
ports to that country may fall in one year from about
13 millions to three millions, as in 1836 and 7. If
she chooses to exercise her own manufacturing skill,
possessing, as she does, so many natural adYantages,
no chance of competition, part of the silk being stolen, and part or
the labour given for nothing. Bot this is a natural conspquence
where men are reduced, even in a good time of trade, very nearly
to the lowest rate of wages at which thPy can live, and who, in
bad and fluctuating times, feel themselves driven to sucb demo-
ralizing practices, or to the workhonse.
• Alison, vol. I, p. 519.
Digitized by Coogle
360 MEASURES FOB THE A.MRLIOBA.TION
the difference of a hundredth part of a farthing per
yard, is sufficient to drive our cotton manufacturers
from markets, upon the retaining of which almost the
very existence of their workmen depends.• The de-
mand for labour, therefore, being consequent upon
such numerous and complicated relations, is itwonder-
ful .t}_lat such formidable distress should occasionally
arise in our large manufacturing towns from want of
employment, or that competiton amongst the operatives
should always keep them poor and destitute ?t
The question, then, ofFreeTrade, is not as to whether
it would be a most effectual stimulant to the increase
of what political economists designate the wealth and
industry of the nation ; for of this there can be no
doubt, as long as we retain our present manufacturing
"!. • "Putting these things aside, the repeal of the proposed duties
will be felt where it is not perceived. Many of them being taxes
on materials, their effect is to increase the wholesale price of ma-
nufactured good11; the great object proposed in their repeal is to
stimulate the foreign trade, by enabling the manufacturer to reduce
the price of his exports. Trifling, as regards the commodity, these
taxes often are not; but if they were, it is tri1les that are driving
us from foreign markets. Three per cent. is the advantage of the
American over the Briti.~h manufacturer in the coarser cotton articles,
which are superseding ours nearly all over the world. In a yard of
cotton, thill is 80 small that no fraction of a coin can express it-we
must resort to the decimal parts of a thousand to present it to the
eye. But to the foreign merchant, who buys hundreds and thou-
eands of yards, three pounds, or even three shillings, will turn the
scale against us."-Spectator, January 2, 1841.
t The conviction is forced upon us that the only thing that can
make the principle of free trade •l!fo and to the ultimate interest of
the majority, is that all11hould be first made independent of foreign
markets, 80 far at least as the mere necessaries oflife are concerned-
and this is incompatible with the present form of society.
Digitized by Coogle
Oli' TRE CO~DlTlON Oi' THB PEOPLE. 361
skill; but whether such advantages are worth having,
when coupled with the necessity of calling into exist-
ence such populations as those of Manchester and
Glasgow : whether it is safe or desirable that England
should become the workshop of the world on such
conditions : and whether that which now constitutes
our greatness according to the political economist, may
not ultimately be the means of our destruction. We
doubt if any country can long continue prosperous,
where the manufacturing population greatly exceeds in
numbers the agricultural.
But if'Free Trade would increase the wealth of the
country, it is thought that it must necessarily have a
fa\·ourable bearing upon the condition Gfthe poor ; for it
is said that " every addition that is made to the luxuries
ofthe great, becomes in the end an addition of comfort
to the poor." But this does not seem to be borne out
by facts; for we find that those who produce luxuries
for the rich are generally in a worse condition than those
operatives who are employed in producing necessa-
ries. Examine, for instance, the condition of the ribbon
weavers, lace makers, milliners' apprentices, and gilders.
We ha\"e also seen the proportion which voluntary con-
tributions bear to the real wants of the poor in the city
of Glasgow, where the accumulation of wealth by a
few has been immens~, and the contributions are
undoubtedly liberal. No, we clothe the whole world
in our cloth and cottons, while the producers of
such cloth and cottons are naked at home, · that the
whole world in return may collect its luxuries to pour
into the laps of the rich! The great wealth amassed
by the few, is squandered, partly in an unprofitable, (so
far as the operatin•s hl•re a.re concerned,) foreign trade,
yy
Digitized by Coogle -
362 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
and in keeping a number of idle, unproducti'"e senauts,
or useless horses, each one of which consumes the pro-
duce of as much land as eight men.
As a proof of the futility of those measures for which
the extreme liberal party are contending in this country,
may we not instance the Americans, who possess all
the advantages which it is the hope of the veriest Ra-
dical to see realized here ? They have no national
debt ; no corn laws ; no taxes ; an extended represen-
tation; and yet what is their condition? If their work-
ing classes are better off than ours, it is owing to none
of these things, but to peculiarities in their position as
a young country, which e'"ery day is making less appa-
rent. It is owing to that kind of labour being in de-
mand of which machinery cannot supply the want, and
which, therefore, must be competed for by the capital-
ists. But this state of things never does and never can
last long. The condition of the Americans is exactly
what might have been expected from the leaving
free and untrammelled the selfish spirit of trade. The
pursuit of wealth, competition for individual advan-
tages, are but modes of expression for the predominance
of the selfish principle ; and where this pursuit is the
business of every day-of all the day, where self-
interest is ever the one thing cared for, necessarily
without reference to the good of others ; where each
ill constantly striving to excel his neighbour, trusting
for distinction, not to the ennobling qualities of our
nature, but to that wealth for which all are contend-
ing ; what kind of character must we expect to see
produced? One utterly selfish. If we may trust the
reports of travellers, the spirit of aristocracy, the im·a-
riable attendant of the present social system, is growing
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 363
fast amongst the Americans, notwithstanding their re-
publican and democratic institutions. America affords
also other illustrations of the inefficiency of any-
thing that the present system of trade can effect, for
improving the condition of the operatives. Possessed
of every possible advantage for the production and
distribution of wealth, there are seasons of greater dis-
tress in America than in the old and more thickly-
populated countries. There are more failures and greater
fluctuations in fortune, and the insatiable thirst for and
pursuit of wealth, leads the people from everything
upon which real happiness can alone be founded. Miss
Martineau says,
"Under the present principle of property, the wisdom and peace
of the community fall far below what their other circumstances
would lead themselves and their well-wishers to expect. * • •
TbP. moralists of America are dissatisfied-the scholars are dissatis-
fied-the professional men are dissatisfied-the merchants are dis-
sati!lfied. Are the mechanics and farming classes satisfied i' No !
not even they ; they must be aware that there must be something
wrong in the system which compels them to devote almost the
whole oftheir working hours to procure that which, under a differ-
ent combination of labour, might be obtained at a saving of three
quarters of the time."
Captain Marryatt, describing the condition of the
city of New York in 1837, says,
" Two hundred and sixty houses have already failed, and no one
knows where it is to end. Suspicion, fear, and misfortune have
taken possession of the city. Had I not been aware of the cause,
I should have imagined that the plague was raging, and I had the
description of Defoe before me.
"Not a smile on one countenance among the crowd who pass and
repass ; hurried steps, care-worn faces, rapid exchangt's of salu-
tation, or ha.'lty communication of anticipatt'd ruin before the sun
goes down. H('re two or three are gathered on one side, whisper-
ing and wat<'hing that th~>y are not overht>ard; tht>re a solitary,
Digitized by Coogle
3~4 MEASt:RES FOR THE Al\IELIORATIOK
with his arms folded and his hat slouched, brooding over drparted
affluence. Mechanics thrown out of employment, are pacing up
and down with the air of famished wolves. The violent shock has
been communicated, like that of <>ll'ctricity, through the country to
a distance of hundreds of miles. Canals, railroads, and all public
works have been discontinued, and the Irish emigrant leans against
his shanty, with his spade idle in his band, and starves, as bi1
thoughts wander back to his own Emerald hie."
And again, of a former crisis, "The New Era," a
New York periodical, says,
" At no period of our history bas there been so great a drgree of
general distress in this city as there is at this day. Of its mecha-
nics and other working men, at least 10,000 are without employ-
ment, and their wives and families, which, on a low calculation,
amount to 10,000 persons more, are suffering want, many of them
heart-rending want. Full 2,000 of that comparatively educated
class, the commercial clerks, have bP.en dismissed from their occu-
pations, whose previous scanty salaries allowed them to make but
little provision for such a contingency. Of sempstresses, bonnet-
makers, and other industrious females, 3,000 are at this moment in
pining destitution."
Such, then, is occasionally the state of America,
with all its boasted institutions, possessing e'\"'ery-
thing that the working classes are taught to look
to for the raising of their condition, and to the want
of which they attribute their present depressed and
wretched state. Do not these facts show that not only
the uneducated, but even the educated class of pro-
ducers who are not capitalists, are unable to provide
against contingencies ? It is true that in America
those that have no capital easily acquire it, join the
class of capitalists, and thus raise themselves upon the
shoulders of their fellows ; but these advantages, if
fluch they may be called, are fleeting and must entirely
cease so soon as the scanty population becomes dense
and overgrown; and ought not our working men to
Digitized by Coogle
Oi' THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. .365
learn from the case of America, as well as the condi-
tion of other countries, that those objects for which
they are strh;ng are not such as would ultimately
benefit them ? They will benefit the capitalist, but not
the labourer; and should the majority succeed in effect-
ing those changes for which they are toiling, the latter
would find, to his disappointment, that his outward
circumstances were nearly the same as at the present
moment. Their leaders, the conductors of the pe-
riodical press,• are the disciples of the present fashion-
able school of political economy, which concerns itself
with the production of wealth more than with its equit-
able distribution; whose sole avowed object is to in-
crease the wealth and industry of the land; the wealth
that makes a few enormously rich manufacturers, and
the industry that creates immense masses of half-
starved operatives; whose political economy is, in fact,
for the rich and not for the poor.
COLONIZATION AND EMIGRATION. That population
presses upon the present means ofsubsistence is perhaps
true; but whether it is in consequence of a natural law,
or the effect of our artificial arrangements for the pro-
duction, and, more particularly, for the distribution of
• It would bl' ridiculous, were it not d<'plorable, to S<'e article after
article issu<'d from the periodical prl'ss showing forth in true
colours th<' state of our operative classes, the wretched and starving
condition of thousands of them when out of employment, and the
unremitting labour to which all are subjected when work is to be had ;
and then stating as the only and suffici£'nt remedy, the r<'peal of the
corn laws, or an <'Xtension of the suffrage, or an alt<'ration in the
currency, or to place th<' Torif's in office instead of the Whigs, or vice
versA. We think of the mountain in labour, and of the blind l<'ad-
ing the blind.
Digitized by Coogle
366 MEASURES FOR THE A.M.ELIOIU.TIOl'f
wealth, which prevents the increase of capital to its
greatest possible extent, and the proper application of
that which is produced, will hereafter be considered ;
and the tendency of Emigration to impro\"e the condi-
tion ofthe operatives will be better seen when the former
question is decided. To thin the population of our
densely crowded cities, and to transport our half-starved
mechanics and agricultural labourers to new countries
where their labour is the thing most wanted ; to rescue
the former from all the temptations to which a large
city subjects them, and to transport both to new regions
where their labour shall produce for them at least el"ery
necessary of life ; to people other lands, giving them
all the advantages in civilization which belong to the
mother-country, are measures unexceptionable and
most desirable, and may very much improYe the con-
dition of those who go out; but it is \"ery doubtful
whether the most systematic efforts for gh;ng effect to
emigration can e\"er benefit much those who are left at
home. Ifa number equal to the whole annual increase
of our population were sent yearly to our colonies, the
effect upon the labour market would perhaps scarcely
be felt, for the power of machinery increases much
faster than the population, and might be increased in-
definitely. This power is at present calculated to equal
that of 600,000,000 ofmen; a power capable ofaccom-
plishing ten times the work that it actually does per-
form, if it were required.
EnucATION. There is a large and inftuential class
in the country who trust to education to remedy all our
edls. "Knowledge is power," say they; "Give know-
ledge to the people, and they will imprO\·e their own
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 367
condition." And this is true; but how, in their present
degraded physical state, is this knowledge to be im-
parted ? Besides, this knowledge to be effectual must
be accompanied by physical and moral training, these
being the most important departments of education.
Education has been previously defined to be " the im-
proving and perfecting of every human being in every
bodily and mental faculty." "It is," says Mackintosh,
" a wise disposal of all the .circumstances which influ-
ence character, and of the means of producing those
habitual dispositions which ensure well doing." But a
true picture of the condition of the working classes
would show that the spread of education amongst them,
in either of the above senses, is utterly impossible.
The character of a person will always depend upon his
original constitution and the circumstances by which
he is surrounded, and all the differences among men in
health and strength, in manners, morals, and religion,
may be traced to these influences. We may establish
schools, but it is impossible that the working classes,
in their present condition, can avail themselves of them.
The children are necessarily set to work too early to
allow of anything like a training of their faculties, and
the work is too laborious and incessant to admit of
adult instruction ; and not only this, if both strength
and leisure were permitted them for mental improve-
ment; if our Infant, National, and British Schools, and
Mechanics' Institutions were filled, it would not be there
that the poor would receive their education. It would
be the circumstances by which they were surrounded at
home that would form their minds and characters. Had
they leisure to acquire a perfect knowledge of all the
sets of laws, physical, organic, and moral, on which
Digitized by Coogle
368 :MEASURES FOR THE .A.:MELIORATlON
happiness is dependent, it would be quite out of their
power to obey them. A sound mind can only be based
upon a sound body; for which latter we are to a certain
extent dependent upon our parents, and the circum-
stances in which they were placed previously to our
birth. These circumstances are decidedly unfavour-
able amongst the working classes, an.d it is to be feared
that in many cases they cause a deterioration of both
bodily and mental faculties greater than any after edu-
cational training can remedy. They are ill-fed, over-
worked, badly lodged and clothed ; the exercise of their
bodily and mental powers is partial and irregular, and
they are subjected to numerous sources of disease con-
sequt!nt upon their particular employments; these are
evils that act upon the constitution of their children
before they are born, and must be removed before
they can be educated. "It is a very important phy-
sical fact," remarks the Physician formerly quoted,
" deeply connected with the improvement of nations
and the progress of civilization, that the human frame
and human brain obey certain physical laws, in con-
sequence of which many qualities are inherited, and
communities perfected and deteriorated in the course
of successive geuerations to an indefinite cxtent,-
deteriorated to almost inactivity bordering upon fa-
tuity of mind; and on the other hand improved, how
far it would be presumptuous to say; but certainly be-
yond any limit yet attained." And again, in speaking
of St. Giles and similar haunts in London, and other
crowded cities, he says, " In these cases, it is not
defective education, but I feel assured from observation
that the frame is modified, the organization affected by
long-established ancestral crrcrs, the results of which
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 369
upon the human frame are an incapacity to preserve its
intellectual and moral beauty, any more than its physi-
cal beauty, which is so defaced that the figure and
countenance reveal a whole life of wretchedness and
foul thoughts, and often of crime."
It is evident, therefore, that unless the circumstances
in which the working classes are now placed be changed
-unless their physical condition be materially im-
proved-
· to spread education amongst them to any
available extent is impracticable. It is quite impos-
sible that the nervous energy which each brain gene-
rates or supplies can be devoted to mental, when it
bas already been spent in physical effort. It is impos-
sible, after a day's bard toil, that there can be much
disposition to study. A stimulant for the exhausted
faculties, found generally in physical excitement, seems
to be the thing required and sought for by most. It is
owing to this that our Mechanics' Institutions scarcely
deserve the name, and that amongst the members are
seldom numbered 20 per cent. of the working classes,
and not perhaps more than 1 per cent. of all the
working men in the several towns in which they are
established.
Yet education of some kind-though not the kind
that is desirable-not the kind that is safe-is advancing
rapidly amongst the people. It is education of the
intellect alone; there are few now who cannot read and
write; but physical and moral education, s~ much more
difficult to instil and to imbibe, is necessarily almost
entirely wanting. In the growth of the individual mind
the intellect advances before the moral powers; for it is
necessary to know what is right before we can practise it,
and this precedence of the intellect is perhaps a neces-
zz
Digitized by Google ....
370 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
sary stage in the advance of the race ; but there are
circumstances that make this stage of our progress, in
this country, and perhaps in all old countries, particu-
larly dangerous. "The tendency," says Mr. Alison,
"of the present state of society is everywhere towards
great cities, huge properties, corrupted manners, dense
masses of the poor, selfish habits in the rich, and uni-
versal thirst for pleasure." • In such a state of things
the" little knowledge" which the poet so truly describes
as "a dangerous thing," and which is all that the majority
of the working classes have leisure to acquire, is little
better, and more dangerous to society, than no education
at aU. It is sufficient to show them the advantages
which the possession of capital gh·es to its possessor
over those who live by the wages of labour ; to show
them the evils attendant on the present law of pro-
perty, without showing them that aU civilization has been
based upon that law, and that without security there
could be no property at aU. It is sufficient to give
them ideas above their station and a desire for wealth
without showing them that the possession of wealth,
without the habits acquired in its accumulation, or
still higher moral and intellectual aspirations, would
be worse than their previous poverty. In fact, the
knowledge that they can acquire, (of course there are
many exceptions,) is of that superficial kind which
tends only to give them exalted ideas of their own
judgment, to make them intolerant, bigoted, dog-
matical ; the prey of every species of empiricism, and
of every designing demagogue who has a free flow of
language, and sense and skill sufficient to flatter their
prevailing passions and prejudices. Yet is tbere no
• Vol. 2, p. 282.
Digitized by Coogle,;!_·
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 371
road open to us but onwards ; we must make the edu-
cation of the people as complete as circumstances will
admit; and we trust that this country may be saved
from the experience that a mass of ill-digested infor-
mation is worse than ignorance. But we fear.
RELIGION. The dangers which arise from merely
intellectual education, have been fully appreciated, if
not exaggerated, by a large class in this country who
are aware that " the schoolmaster is abroad," and that
it is now useless to attempt to confine him at home ;
they therefore endeavour to obviate the mischief that
arises from partial instruction, from the mere training
of the intellect, by joining it with religious instruction.
They justly think that a knowledge of rights should
be accompanied by a knowledge of duties, and as they
have no idea of morality separate from religion, they
imagine that such instruction can only be imparted by
religious establishments. If the science of ·morality
were in a more perfect state and more cultivated, the
distinction between morality and religion would pro-
bably be acknowledged; Religion being the percep-
tion of the relation in which we stand to our Creator ;
Morality having reference to the duties we owe to our
fellow-creatures. But imperfect as the science of Mo-
rality is at the present day, Religion is so much more
clogged with error and absurdity as to render the union
of the two, which would naturally be so harmonious-
so salutary, productive of confusion and even mischief.
And yet the Christianity of our generation, mixed as it
is with the barbarous dogmas of a young and unci-
vilized age, still contains the beautiful embodiment of
the Moral Law, "Thou shalt loYe thy neighbour as
Digitized by Coogle
372 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
thyself," and so long as men insist upon having the
knowledge of their social duties conveyed to them in
so cumbrous and unsightly a vehicle, our religious
teachers must continue to be almost the only teachers
of morals, and they are right who insist so strenuously
upon the union of Religious with Secular instruction.
While, however, we thankfully take the good that is
granted us, it must be matter of great regret that the
zeal which is so abundantly manifested at the present
day in the cause of religion, is not more a zeal accord-
ing to knowledge. The e\ils that surround us, our
hardships and privations, our toils and misfortunes, our
bodily sufferings, our mental anguish, are not regarded
as consequences resulting from causes over which we
have any control, but as part, a necessary part, of the
ordinances by which the world is governed ; not as
warnings that we have broken those laws upon which
happiness is dependent here, but as trials sent to
prepare us for a state of happiness hereafter. So long
as this view prevails, there will be no seeking for the
causes of misery in the circumstances that surround
us, in the imperfections of our own institutions; and
without a due appreciation of the cause, we cannot
control the effect. The same causes that prevent the
extension of general enlightenment amongst the people,
prevent the extension of a pure religion. True religion,
the love of the Invisible Source of all that is good and
beautiful, springing from the lore of the goodness and
beauty that is visible; which spends not itself in idle
admiration and adulation, but perpetually gains strength
by efforts to make this earth still more good-still more
beautiful-can scarcely co-exist with the ignorance in
which the multitudes are imprisoned. Superstition may
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OJ' THE PEOPLE. 373
grow and ripen, for ignorance is the soil in which it best
flourishes : a slavish fear of Hell may enthral, or a
selfish hope of Heaven may excite; but the love of God
can only be ba8ed upon just and enlarged views of His
character and works, and the love of our neighbour is
incompatible with the selfishness engendered by that
system of society which obliges us to seek our own
individual interests six days out of every seven. The
ministers ofreligion do well to represent the spirit oftrue
Christianity as opposed to the prevalent principles ofour
nature-to declare that a change must be wrought in us
before we can appreciate and practise Christianity. But
though we may pray for the coming of the Kingdom of
God, as well as for our daily bread, both are equally
dependent upon our own effort, upon the use of natural
means ; and we can no more plant true religion in a soil
that has not been prepared for it, than we can gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thi8tles, or reap where we
have not sown. The principles of man's nature are
selfish and opposed to the spirit of religion, because the
circumstances in which he is placed all tend to make
them so ; the whole character of our social system must
be changed, and man must have an interest in loving
his neighbour as himself, before Christianity will be
generally practicable. The erroneous notions concern-
ing the freedom of the will ; the idea that man is able to
act contrary to ·the laws of his being, and uncontrolled
by surrounding circumstances, have helped to retard
this moral reformation. It is much easier for a minister
to rest satisfied with the conclusion that the members
of his flock are all free agents, and that their con-
demnation must consequently be upon their own heads,
than to examine into the causes of their irreligion or
D1g111zed by Coogle·
374 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
unbelief, and to take the proper means to prevent its
occurrence. But this would give much trouble to the
pastor ;-and moreover, in such a mode of procedure,
" faith," i. e. the belief that effects may be wrought
without cause or means-would be left out; so it is
easier to leave the flock to God's free grace and their
own free will. But when the causes of \ice and irre-
ligion are better understood, it will be seen who were
the hirelings and who the true shepherds. The failure
of the vast efforts that have been and are being made
for the spread of religion-for a failure it must be
pronounced when the effects produced are compared
with the enormous machinery in operation-can be
accounted for only on the supposition that these efforts
have not been made in accordance with the laws of
God, as revealed in the established connexion between
cause and effect.
That which separates happiness here from happi-
ness hereafter, as if they were inconsistent with each
other, is a great and pernicious error. It is only by
obedience to all the laws of God that happiness can be
obtained here, and any other preparation for a future
state of happiness besides such obedience, is incon-
ceh·able. And yet, does there arise a philanthropist
who studies the laws of his Creator, and teaches man-
kind that happiness is to be sought by obedience to
these laws, is he not decried by the priesthood as not
of them, or of their creed-as a pernicious misleader,
who offers happiness to men at the expense of their
eternal salvation ; temporal gifts for their everlasting
interests? It is, unhappily, too much the policy of the
priesthood to separate religion from temporal interests,
to disconnect it altogether from worldly prosperity
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 375
and happiness, and in place of the good things which
God has given so plenteously, and which He intends
equally for all His children, to allow liberally to the
poor " post obit bills on HeaYen," as a compensa-
tion for what the wretched system of society and its
upholders have taken from them here.
Zeal in the cause of the religion of the country is
perhaps a characteristic of the age, and if it were
founded more upon knowledge, and were purified from
motives that are sometimes secular, often selfish, and
not unfrequently malignant, it would be a favourable
sign of the times, and might have a most beneficial and
humanizing effect upon our manners and institutions.
But while the so called arthodo:c religion is supported
by one class, because " the Deity is in some inexplicable
manner supposed to be of the government party," it is
supported by another class, equally numerous, out of
deference to public opinion. There is, undoubtedly,
one portion of the religious world, whose zeal in the
cause may be traced to a sincere anxiety for the eternal
interests of themselves and their fellow creatures; and
this class, although comparatively a small one, con-
tains many of the excellent of the earth, who hat'e
sought a resting-place for the highest, and purest, and
most ennobling of the feelings peculiar to man, and
-finding none in the impenetrable selfishness of the
world-have flown to the beautiful precepts of pure
Christianity. But these have erred in forgetting, or in
too much neglecting, the book of God's works, and in
not using it as the interpreter and test of all other
books that have been handed down to us for our
instruction and guidance.
A far more numerous class than this is one with
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~
376 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIORATION
which the forms and ceremonies of religion constitute
the code of morality. The indhiduals composing this
class are regular attendants at the parish church, or
meeting-house, to which they have been accustomed
from childhood ; they annually give their guinea at the
charity sermon, for the education and clothing of pau-
per children; and if called upon, subscribe handsomely
to the Bible Society, or to the Missionary Society, or
towards building a Christian Church for converted Jews
at Jerusalem. But the poor of their own land, of their
own neighbourhood, are unheeded-for the many thou-
sands around them who are dying of want, body and
soul, in a land of plenty, they have no sympathy, that
is, no sympathy that forces them to act as well as to
feel in their behalf. To inquire into their real con-
dition and to strive to mend it, is not one of the duties
enjoined by the priest or sanctioned by custom, and is
therefore no concern of theirs. And thus, while the
rich man, having been to church and performed his
weekly religious exercises, with well satisfied conscience
and complacent demeanor, is feasting himself and
friend8 upon costly wines and delicacies collected from
the four quarters of the globe-a few feet of brick and
mortar only, perchance may separate him from a family
starving for want of the common necessaries of life.
But the principal cause of much of the zeal mani-
fested for religion, is that the teaching of it constitutes
a respectable profession, which i~:~ a favourite one on
account of its requiring less natural talent, previous
study or mental endowment than any other, (excepting
perhaps the military,) and which, while it ensures a
livelihood, and often a competence, leaves much leisure,
during six days in the week, for other pursuits. So that
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 377
if mankind were once to find out that they can learn
religion better from God, as revealed in His works, than
from clergymen, either orthodox or dissenting, many
thousands, eren in this country, of most respectable
geutlemen would be thrown out of employment and
subjected to much distress and inconvenience.
To those who watch with an eye of enlightened
interest the signs of the times, it must appear as a me-
lancholy symptom, that so blessed a thing as Religion
should thus be degraded by close contact with all that is
mean and paltry and debasing in man ; that its name
should be used as the passport to place, emolument,
and political power ; that its fair form should be so
cramped by ignorance or bedizened by superstition, so
cumbered by priestly trappings, and stifled beneath
the mask of hypocrisy, that if the lovely original con-
tinues to exist at all, it is scarcely recognizable ; that
so many noxious influences should be suffered to as-
sume its title and usurp its place, and to bring discredit
on its name by blighting instead of blessing the heart
of man. And yet to those who have faith in the power
of truth, there is always the cheering hope that even
with respect to religion, it will prevail at last, and suc-
ceed in divesting it of all those dogmas and appurte-
nances which have hitherto rendered it comparatively
useless and pernicious. For instance, it will be found
that the interposition of a particular providence is in-
compatible with the exercise and use of reason ; that
God's only mode of helping us, is by giving us powers
by which we are enabled to make use of those causes
which He has appointed to produce the effect we
desiderate. That original sin is only the necessary
consequence of the unavoidable limitation of our intel-
Aa
Digitized by Coogle
378 MEASURES FOR THE A.MELIORATION
lectual being. That punishment is always intended
for the reformation of the offender, and that therefore,
accountability, in the sense in which the term is com-
monly used by religionh~ts, does not exist. That nothing
is to be left to man's free will, because his character
depends upon his original constitution and the circum-
stances in which he is placed. That his faith, there-
fore, can only depend upon evidence, and his morality,
religion, and intelligence, upon the influences calcu-
lated to make him moral, religious, and intelligent.
It is not to the present religious world or its teach-
ings that we can look for the amelioration of the con-
dition of society, for it holds that the evils under which
we suffer are not remediable, but are a necessary part
of man's worldly estate; a doctrine which acts as an
effectual drag upon the progress of impro-rement, by
inducing men to suppose any great forward movement
to be impOflsible, and exalted 'iews of man's future con-
dition here, utopian. Yet, however inefficient our va-
rious religious establishments are, compared to what
they might be with their machinery and enormous re-
sources-in the present wretched state of society, in
which the degrading pursuit of individual gain, the
competition for individual advantage, form the business
of life, they are the only establishments that we have
for the calling forth and exercising of man's best and
highest feelings, and in which the precepts of him who
said " Woe unto them that are rich," are read, if not
heeded. Moral training for the people there would be
none without them.
We find no fault, therefore, with the temples that
everywhere cover the land ; and we would lend no
helping hand to pull them down ; but as soon as may
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLB. 379
be we would have the money-changers and the spirit
of Mammon driven thence-we would have them
converted into the temples of God, where His laws
should be taught, and the people instructed to follow
His will on earth, as it is in Heaven. The physical,
the organic, and the moral Laws are the Laws of God,
and the petition, "Deliver us from evil," is useless so
long as we disobey them in wilfulness or ignorance.
Places of assembly for the people we must have, be-
cause " the people" must always be led, and where else
are they to look for those appointed by God for leaders,
by a greater endowment than the average of mental
and moral qualities-where else can the right road be
so well pointed out to them, or the feeling generated
that is to carry them on that road rejoicing? But
places for public wwship there can properly be none ;
and in nothing did the great Teacher prove his wisdom
and deep insight into the nature of the human heart,
more than by the veto which be virtually put upon
" standing up in the synagogues to pray," and by the
sanction which he gave exclusively to the prayer that
is uttered to the Father in secret, when the door is
closed against all human intrusion. And we find that
though he taught in the synagogue, he prayed on the
lonely mountain side, or in the desert place apart.•
• The words or example of Jesus of Nazareth must, however,
have little weight with those who take his own simple and beautiful
prayer-which be bequeathed to his disciples lest they too should
fall into the practice of "much speaking" and "vain repetition"-
and repeat it four, and frequently five times in the space of an
hour and a half, every Sunday morning, and twice or thrice in the
evening.
The practice of public worship has now perhaps reached its
o;gitizedbyGoogle ,...
380 MEASURES FOR THE AMELIOBATIOM
And is it not in solitude, in the Temple that He Him-
self baR created, that the heart is most drawn towards
the Eternal, and where the worship of Sincerity and
Truth can be best offered up? It is in His beautiful
world, under His own canopy of Heaven, that love and
acme of abuse. Although tht>re may be a few who frt>quent the
consecrated edifice because they feel it to be right, and who suc-
ceed in summoning the spirit of dt>votion, even amidst the a<'ct>s-
sories of a pompous priest and a gazing, listless multitudt>, there
cannot be a doubt that, with the exception of those who "go to
church" from mere habit, the principal motive for the regular
attendance of the majority, is "that they may be seen of men."
The opulent man fears the tacit wonder and reproach of his neigh-
bours if he neglect the "decencies of religion." The tradt>sman
ft>ars to lose his customers, or the patronage of the clergyman, if he
pay no regard to established observances; the poor man likl's to
show how respectable an appearance he with his wife and children
can make once a wt>ek ; but it is probable that if a church
were so contrived that all the membt>rs of the congregation were
invisible to each other, and so that no eye could mark the entrance
or exit of any one, the clergyman would not st>ldom find himself in
Dean Swift's predicamt>nt-preaching to himst•lf and " dearly be-
loved Roger."
But to go and "pray in the synagogue," " that they may be seen
of men," is not only the unacknowledgt>d practice of the many, but
in a few instances fashion has sanctioned it into a most lt>gitimate
and expedient custom. The bride, wht>n sht> takes ht>r place in the
pew by the side of her newly-made husband, does so for the t>xprt>ss
purpose of being "seen," for this "being set>n at church" is the
important prelude to a series of calls and visits ; and if the ap-
pointments of the drawing-room in which she is to sit to receive
ht>r guests, are not yt>t in dut> ordt>r, or the becoming morning dress
in which she is to perform this ceremony is not yet completed by
t.he mantua-maker, she hesitates not to put off her appearance at
church till another Sunday, justly thinking that her wt>ekly homage
will not, for once, be much missed in Heavt>n. In the sadly dif-
fert>nt case where a train of bereaved ones fill a pl'w with the
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 381
gratitude and admiration devote us to His service, and
that we leani best how He may be served. It is then we
best can trace the design of His providence in laws all
tending to one object-the good of His creatures, and
the conviction is forced upon us that if we would serve
lugubrious signs and apparel of mourning, it is still "to be seen
of men" that they are there ; for their bursting hearts tell them
too plainly that were it not a duty that they owe to custom, this
making of their sorrow public is not indt>ed the way to assuage
grief.
All this would be very well-it would be vt>ry well for the rich
and poor to meet together once a week in a place of public instruc-
tion; it would be wt>ll for fellow-citizens to have such opportunities
of friendly though silent intercourse, of forming the bond of union
which the bt>ing members of one church always crt>ates; it would
be well for the working man to have this inducemt>nt to emulate
his more comfortable neighbours in the cleanliness and respecta-
bility of his attire; for the new-married couple, if so it please
them, thus publicly to introduce themselves to their friends, and
pledge themselves to society as its nt>w member; and even for
mourners to show openly to the world their st>nse of bt>reavt>ment,
if in so doing they find peace and satisfaction, and are not com-
JX'lled to it against their natural feelings by the idea of its being a
rt>ligious duty ;-all this would be very well, if our churches were
places where duties were taught and consolation administered, the
mind instructed, and the heart made better-but it is far, far from
well in what are called Houst>s of Prayer. It is not well that at
such times whrn it is prt>tt>ndrd, and believt>d, that man is ushered
into the more immediate presence of the Great First Cause, for the
purpose of holding actual communion with the tremendous Power
of the Univt>rse, external circumstances should be so arranged that
it is scarcely possible for the mind to free itself from thoughts, that
if not absolutely frivolous and trifling, are exclusively of the earth,
earthy. This constant triumph of the animal nature over the
high aspirations of religion can have but one tendency, viz., to
deaden the heart against the infiuenct>s of·devotion, to produce
hypocrisy and lip-servict>, and in some minds to generate Atheism
Digitized by Coogle
382 MEASURES FOB THE AMELIORATION
Him, it can only be by love and sympathy towards all
creation, and in active efforts to promote the happiness
of all made capable of enjoyment.
After enumerating these different remedies for ex-
isting social evils, and plans for improvement pro-
posed by various parties who admit and deplore their
existence, we must not omit to mention another nume-
rous and powerful party, who, being in possession of
all the comforts and admntages of civilization, desire
no change. The present system which accumulates
all the produce of labour at one end of the scale and
all the labour at the other, works well for them, and
they fear its subversion. The great inequalities of con-
dition, consequent upon the present arrangements for
the production and.distribution of wealth, they profess
to believe to be necessary and established by the Deity.
Kings, Lords, and Commons-masters and workmen
-rich and poor-they hold to be natural grades, and
not to depend upon the will of society. Those who
reason amongst this class draw their arguments from
thi page of history : such has man ever been and
s\\& he must ever be. The progressive character of
man's nature is omitted in their estimate. They point
of the worst species ; for the practical Atheism of the unreflecting
church-goer is far more destructive to all that is good in man, than
the philosophic non-belief in any personal Deity, which may spring
up in the mind of a Hume or Spinoza. No, let the principle of
devotion be suggested to every heart, -as well by the discourses
of good and wise men in temples made with hands, as by
Nature's teachings under the high arched roof of Ht-aven; but let
not itl! accents be pt-riodically forcf'd from lips as cold as the stones
that ~>cho back the licartlt-ss murmur, and the Most High be pt>r-
petually mockt'd that man may be occasionally t-difi~>d.
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OJ' THE PEOPLE. 383
to all the necessary evil that bas attended all great
changes and revolutions, and to the failure of so many
of the schemes for the amelioration of the condition of
mankind. As in all changes, however great may be
the ultimate advantage, some must suffer, these suf-
ferers are the only objects of their regard. The agonies
of the few who fell in the breaking down of the old
and rotten institutions of France in 1789, strike them
with horror, but the sufferings of the millions slain in
support of the present system are not thought worthy
of notice. The blood of a few thousands of the pri-
vileged they esteem more worth than an ocean from
plebeian veins shed on the field of battle.• They delight
to picture the anarchy, disorder, and disorganization
that would arise from the predominance of an ignorc1nt
democracy-for a democracy otherwise than ignorant
is to them an anomaly. They are disciples of the
Rev. Mr. Malthus ; they believe that there is a neces-
sary tendency in population to increase faster than the
means of subsistence, and that the wretched poverty
and starvation that exist are absolutely required to pre-
vent the people from increasing too fast. Believing that
the world must always be divided into castes, and that
"the poor," (signifying miserable, balf-stan·ed beings,)
'' we must always have with us," they are unfriendly to
any education for the people, excepting that State reli-
gious education which teaches them to look to another
world for comfort and not to this ; which carefully instils
into them the belief that the present division of society
into those that rule and those that serve, is appointed
of God, not of man, and that therefore the principal
duty of the people is to " Honour and obey the King,
• See Carlyle's French Revolution, vol. 3, p. 65.
Digitized by Coogle
384 MEASURES .FOB. THE AMELIOB.ATIOl!f
and all that are put in authority under him." "To sub-
mit themsel\"es to all their gorernors, teachers, spiritual
pastors and masters." " To order themselves lowly and
reYerently to all their betters." "Not to coYet or desire
other men's goods; but to learn and labour truly to
get their own li"fing, and to do their duty in that state
of life into which it shall please God to call them."
They remember that the Founder of Christianity sanc-
tioned the payment of tribute to Cresar, but they forget
that after describing bow " the Princes of the Gentiles
exercise dominion orer them, and they that are great
exercise authority upon them," he added, "But it shall
not be so among you, but whosoever will be great
among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever
would be chief among you, let him be your servant."
They are the active supporters of charities, for they
hold that one great use of the poor is that the rich may
have objects to exercise their Christian benevolence
upon. These charities, howerer, are seldom such as
help the poor to help themselYes, but such as mark the
dependence of the poor upon the rich, and care is taken
that the badge of servitude shall not be omitted.
There are many of this party, as of all parties, who
conscientiously oppose change from the fear of its lead-
ing to greater evils than those under which the nation
at present suffers ; but it is to be feared that the majority
of them are wilfully ignorant of the real condition of
the great body of the people, and that their opposition
to change is dictated by the instinctive selfishness that
fears to lose any of the distinguishing advantages which
belong to their peculiar caste. It is not to this party,
therefore, that we can look for any improreml'nt in
the condition of the working classes.
It is but justice, howerer, to say, that if the working
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE. 385
classes must always remain working classes ; if the
increase of their numbers, and the competition of ma-
chinery, must always keep them poor and condemned
to labour incessant; if there is no more hope of their
advancement than is to be found in the various schemes
for their improvement that have been examined above,
then the policy of the Conservati\"e party is the right
one-there is more to be feared than hoped from
change. The people having no time to educate them-
selves, and therefore remaining ignorant, ought not to
be entrusted with power, as it must under such circum-
stances be subversive of order. To educate them,
were it possible, would be wrong without an addition
to their physical comforts, for it would render their lot
even more unbearable. ·It has been said, and with
truth, that education hitherto has only tended to make
the poor dissatisfieJ; and such might have been ex-
pected to be the effect of gi\"ing moral and intellectual
wants without the means of gratifying them. An ass,
while h~ is an ass, does his work contentedly ; but could
you change his nature by enlightening him, he would
require a more just portion of the fruits of his labour
than the road-side thistle. So, if the condition of the
mass of the people does not admit of physical improve-
ment, it is better, if it be possible, to keep them in a
state of ignorance, utter, blind, gross, ignorance-for
knowledge can only serve to show them a state of hap-
piness and comfort in which they must never share.
If this be rwt possible-which this party begins to sus-
pect-then are they still po1itic in strh·ing to give to
increased knowledge the consolation of believing that
what they do not receh·e here will be made up to them
hereafter.
Bb
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER Ill.
OM THE CAUSES OF THE POVERTY OF THE WORKING
CLASSES.
THE working clas~tes constitute the majority of the
people in all countries, and their condition, with slight
differences dependent upon local sitdation, government,
laws, and institutions, is everywhere the same-they
are everywhere poor, ignorant, and overworked. This
of itself gives reason to suspect that the causes of this
condition are not those which the greater number of
philanthropists and politicians are striving to remove,
and to which public opinion is directed through the
preS~~. The effects being similar in all countries, we
may infer· that the causes wiU be found to be similar
also, and to lie deep in the very constitution of society
itself.
However startling it may appear to those who view
the present form and constitution of society as one that
must always exist, yet we think we shall be able to show
that the poverty of the working classes-the degrada-
tion of the great mass of mankind, is inseparable from
it, and that so long as society is divided into capitalist
and labourer, into master and workman, any efforts to
improve materially the condition of the latter will be
unavailing. When we make this assertion, it must not
be supposed that we do not sufficiently appreciate the
progress we have made, during the period of separation
between Capital and Labour which commenced with
Digitized by Coogle
POVERTY OF TBB WORKING CLA88E8. 387
the institution of the present Law of Property ;-a
separation which appears to have been absolutely neces-
sary to develop the resources of society in the non-age
of man's highest faculties. We cannot speak lightly
of that co-operation of man with man, of that form of
society, of that state of civilization, however defective,
which enables us to send a coach and four, or a steam
carriage with our correspondence, from one end of the
kingdom to the other for a penny, that penny being
more than sufficient to defray all the expenses of its
conyeyance ; of that advance in knowledge and arts
that gives to individuals and to classes, advantages
equal and similar to those they would enjoy if each
were sole lord of all.
It is impossible to be too careful not to risk the loss
of any of this progress ; but ought this consideration to
paralyze our efforts to hasten the time when its advan-
tages shall extend, beyond mere individuals or classes,
to the whole human family ?
Society in its present form is dh;ded into Capitalist
and Labourer-into those who possess everything, and
into those who possess, comparathrely, nothing. When
the poor man comes into the world be finds it already
occupied ; every part of it, except uncultivated regions
inaccessible to him, is already appropriated. All the
means by which labour is made available to production
are private property, and all that is left to him is the
strength of his body, the use of his limbs. His labour,
therefore, is all that he bas to exchange for the means
of subsistence, for lodging, food, and clothing ; what
he shall receive for it, will depend upon the bargain he
shall be able to make with those who possess the means
of setting him to work. This bargllin will be more or
Digitized by Coogle
388 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
less in his favour as his labour may be more or less
wanted. But should the capitalist ha¥e no need of
labour, should he already have as many things as he
wants, or as many as he can profitably dispose of, he
who has only labour to give in exchange for food, must
stan·e, or depend upon charity for support, although
he could produce three times as much as he can con-
sume.
This, then, is the present state of things ; the world
is in possession of the few, and the many are dependent
upon their interest or caprice for the enjoyments, the
comforts, the necessaries of life. On the effects of
such an arrangement tbe pO\·erty of the working classes
will everywhere be found to depend.
The institution of private property originated in the
erident necessity there was for securing to every one
the fruits of his labour, in the only way that could be
devised in the infancy of society. No one would cul-
tivate a field if another might reap what be had sown,
aud the fruits of the earth would scarcely be allowed
to come to maturity, if no one were interested in pre-
serving them to their full time.
It was ordained in the beginning that man should
eai'n his bread by the sweat of his brow, that labour
should in all cases be necessary to production. Without
the labour of cultivation the earth would support n-ry
few inhabitants. However abundant the raw materials
for clothing and lodging, labour must fit them for the
purposes required. There must also be capital, land,
houses, implements, and machinery, to make this
labour available to further production. There must
also be an accumulation of capital, that is, more than
enough to meet the wants of existing individuals ; for
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 389
the rising generation, the young unable to produce for
their own support, must be provided for. That there
may be this accumulation it is absolutely necessary
that the fruits of a man's industry should be secured
to him, and in the rise of society the only means of
doing this is by a system of individual interests, by a
law of private property. But however superior such a
system to one of no laws and no rights, it is perfectly
inadequate to fulfil the moral law of society, and will
be found the occasion of most of the evil which at
present afllicts it.
The moral law is founded upon the divine precept,
" Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself;" but the
institution of prh·ate property makes this impossible,
by disjoining the interest of every individual from that
of his fellow, and causing individual interests, instead
of the interests of al1, to be the leading pursuit. The
selfish part of man's nature is thus maintained in pre-
dominance by being brought into constant activity;
strife, confusion, and hatred are the consequence,·and
distinction is made to depend upon "property" rather
than upon ennobling qualities.
The object of the institution of the present law of
property was to secure to erery one the fruits of hi&
labour; but in its subsequent effects it has become the
instrument by which the mass of mankind are deprived
of a large portion of these fruits. We have already
stated the proportion which the class of Capitalists and
Landowners bears in Great Britain to that of the La-
bourers; we ha,·e also seen that whatever may be the
number of the labouring class, who, in one sense, pro-
duce everything, they receive but one-third of the pro-
duce; that of every twelre hours' labour, one-sixth, or
Digitized by Google
390 CAUSES OF THE POYERTT
two hours, is required for the expenses of Government,
five hours for the landowner and capitalist, in the shape
of rent and profits, and about one hour for the re-
tailers and distributors. The remaining four hours,
as we have seen, under the present chance arrangements
of society, will scarcely provide the means of keeping
life together. We shall let an eminent political econo-
mist explain the principle of wages for himself:-
" In the greater number of eases, especially in the more improved
stages of 80Ciety, the labourer is one person, the owner of the capi-
tal another. The labourer has neither raw material nor tools. These
requisites are provided for him by the capitalist. For making this
pro,·ision the capitalist of course expects a reward. As the com-
modity,. which was produced by the shl){'maker, when the capital
was his own, belonged wholly to himself, and constituted the whole
of his reward, both as labourer and capitalist, so, in this case, the
commodity belongs to the labourer and capitali11t together. When
prepared, the commodity, or the value of it, is to be shared between
tht>m. The reward to both must be derived from the commodity,
and the reward of both makes up the whole of the commodity. In-
stead, however, of waiting till the commodity is produced, and
abiding all the delay and uncertainties of the market in which the
value of it is realized, it bas been found to suit much better the
convenienct' of the labourers to receive their share in advance.
The shape under which it bas been most convenient for all parties
that they should receive it, is that of wages. When that share of
the commodity which belongs to the labourer bas been all received
in the shape of wages, th~> commodity itsl'lf belongs to the capitalist,
be having, in reality, bought the share of the labourer and paid for
it in advance.''•
This at once shows very plainly the source of the
power of the capitalist; for why does it suit the conve-
nience of the labourer to receive his share in advance?
Simply because having nothing but the fruits of bi.q
labour to live upon, he must starve if he does not, and
• )fill"s Elenu.•nts of Political E<·oJwmy.
Digitized by Coogle
OJ' THE WORKING CUSSES. 391
like Esau, rather than starve he sells his birthright for
a mess of pottage.
For this reason all combinattons of workmen against
the capitalists to oblige them to give a more just shan~
of the joint produce, han failed, and always must fail ;
the workman being compelled to take what the capi-
talist chooses to give, or starve. Strikes and Trades'
Unions, therefore, can never succeed in raising the con-
dition of the working classes. But if such combinations
do not determine what shall be the share of the labourer,
that is, the wages he shall receive, what does determine
it ? The demand for labour, and the supply-that is,
the work to be done, and the number of hands to do it.
" Let us begin by supposing," says Mill, "that there is a certain
number of capitalists, with a certain quantity of food, raw material,
and instruments, or machinery ; that there is also a certain num-
ber of labourers; and that the proportion in which the commodities
produced are divided between them, has fixed itself at some par-
ticular point.
"Let us next suppose, that the labourers have increased in num-
berone half, without any increase in the quantity of capital. There
is the same quantity of the requisites for the employment of labour;
that is of food, tools, and materials, as there was before ; but for
every 100 labourers, there are now 150. There will be 50 men,
therefore, in danger of being left out of employment. To prevent
their being left out of employment they ha\·e but one resource;
they must endeavour to supplant those who ha\"e forestalled the
employment ; that is, they must offer to work for a smaller reward
-wages, therefore, decline."•
Thus, then, CoMPETITIONt decides the share of the
• Mill, p. 43.
t Competition also decides the share of the Capitalist ; 11·ith im-
provements in machinery, increased markets, and general confi-
dence, profits are very large ; but when any of the numerous
disturbing causes affecting trade arise, competition is generally
strong enough to dt>priYc manufacturers of all profit, and many
Digitized by Coogle
392 CAUSES OF THE POV:EJlTT
labourer, and thus, under the present system, it must
ever be ; the working man, even to live, must take the
bread from his neighbour. The state to which we haYe
found the class reduced, deteriorating in mind and
body, dying by thousands, if not immediately from
want, from its direct consequences, is the result. But,
says the political economist,
" If we suppose, on the other hand, that the quantity of capital
has increased while the number of labourt>rs remains the same, the
effect will be reversed. The capitalists have a grcatu quantity
than before of the means of employment ; of capital, in short ; from
which tht>y wish to dt>rive advantage. To derive this advantage
they must have more labourt>rs. To obtain th<•m, they have but
one resource, to offer higher wages. But the mastt>rs by whom the
labourers are now t>mployed are in the same predicament, and will
of course offer higher to induce them to remain. This competition
is unavoidable, and the necessary effect of it is a rise of wages." • • •
" From this law, clearly understood, it is easy to trace the cir-
cumstances which, in any country, determine the condition of the
great body of the people. .If that condition is easy and comfortable,
all that is necessary to keep it so is to make capital increase as fast
as population ; or on the other band, to prevent population from
increasing faster than capital. If that condition is not easy and
comfortable, it can only be made so by one of two methods; either
by quickening the rate at which capital increases, or retarding the
rate at which population increases ; augmenting, in short, the ratio
which the means of employing the people bear to the numbt>r of
people."
" If it wt>re the natural teudt>ncy of capital to increase faster
than population, there would be no difficulty in preseniog a pros-
perous condition of the people. If, on the other hand, it were the
must fail. Upon the present system a time invariably arrin•11 in
which all the known channels for our produce are filled up with
goods, and there is no remedy for the then preniling distrn11 but
new markets, or the failure of a great number of our manufac-
turPrs, and conspquent starvation of tht>ir workmen.
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 393
natural tendency of population to increase faster than capital, the
difficulty would be very great ; there would be a perpetual tendency
in wages to fall ; the progressive fall of wagl's would produce a
greater and a greater degree of poverty among the people, attended
wit~ its inevitable consequences, misery and vice. As poverty and
its consequent misery increased, mortality would also increase. Of
a numerous family hom, a certain number only, from want of the
means of well-being, would be reared. By whatever proportion the
population tended to increa.'IC faster than capital, such a proportion
of those that were born would die : the ratio of increase in capital
and population would then remain the same, and the fall of wages
would proceed no farther.
"That population has a tendency to increase faster, than, in most
places, capital has actually increased, is proved, incontl'stibly, by
the condition of the people in most parts of the globe. In almost
all countries, the condition of the great body of the people is poor
and miserable. This would have been impossible if capital had
increased faster than population. In that case wages must have
risen; and high wages would have placed the labourer above the
miseries of want.
" Thilt general misery of mankind is a fact, which can be ac-
counted for, upon one only of two suppositions: either that there is
a natural tendency in population to increase faster than capital, or
that capital has, by some means, bel'n prevented from increasing so
fast as it bas a tendency to increase. This, therefore, is an inquiry
of the highest importance."•
The leading school of Political Economy decides
that the former supposition is the fact, and this is the
cause it assigns for the poverty of the working classes.
The latter supposition, namely, that capital has been
prevented from increasing so fast as it might increase
under better arrangements, we think we shali be able
to prove to be the true one, and this fact, joined to its
unequal distribution, will account for the general misery
of mankind.
• .Mill, p. 43.
cc
Digitized by Coogle
394 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
That population, in some countries, and at certain
periods, has increased faster than capital, may be true ;
but that this is, as the Economists snppose, its neces-
sary tendency, is a supposition highly derogatory to
the Presiding Power of the universe. " How slow
soever," says Mill, " the increase of population, pro-
vided that of capital is still slower, wages will be
reduced so low that a portion of the population will
regularly die of want." We know that among the
lower animals there is a tenderacy to increase faster
than the means of support, and that as Reason is not
given to them to increase the fruits of the earth, to sow
and gather into barns, to invent machinery to lightea
their toil, Nature has placed a check upon this tendency
by causing large classes of them to feed upon one
another ; and by placing numerous other tribes under
the dominion of man, whose reason prevents their in-
crease faster tban ke has U5e for them, and means for
their support ; consequently they do not die of starva-
tion. Is man then worse provided for, that he must
die this worst of all possible deaths? No, not by the
laws of nature and of reason ; but if he is so in fact,
it is the consequence of faulty institutions.
Under the present system, if increase in the number
of operatives c9uld be prevented altogether, improve-
ments in machinery would be equivalent to an increase
in numbers, and have the same effect in keeping them
poor. A certain article of production, for instance,
may be in steady and increasing demand, and compe-
tition amongst the capitalists may have slightly raised
the wages of the artificers employed on it; the in-rention
of a machine by which a dozen such articles are made
with the same cost of time and labour as the one before,
Digitized by Coogle
OF TOE WORKING CLASSRS. 395
will throw many of them out of employment, because
so large an increase of production outstrips, for a time
at least, the demand. Wages fall, and the earnings of
the man who makes a dozen where he previously made
one, are scarcely equal to what they were before, while
the others starve, or like the hand-loom weavers, work
for from 5s. to 7s. per week. The advantage arising
from the extra production in the additional eleven
pairs or pieces, is divided between the public, in the
reduction of price in the article, and the capitalist who
owns the machine. Very little of the advantage of
increased demand, which the cheapness produced by
improvement in machinery occasions, reaches the ope-
rative, since competition always obliges him to take as
little as he can live upon.
In the cotton manufactory, improvements have been
introduced which have enabled one man to do the work
of 200. Should we not imagine that the share of the
operative in such a case would increase? But no, the
same quantity of labour is still required of him, and
for nearly the same poor pittance.
As society is now constituted, the effect of machinery
is the very reverse of what it ought to be. That which
should lessen the hours of toil and give time for moral
and intellectual improvement, under present arrange-
ments works against rather than for the mass of the
people. It comes into direct competition with the
workin~ man, and renders nugatory all efforts to keep
the supply of labour within the demand. Divided as
society is, into the few who have capital and those who
have none, if machinery can be invented that can do
all the work the former require, those who have nothing
but labour to offer must stan·e. Thus it really hap-
Digitized by Coogle
396 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
pens, that the world is deluged with goods by the aid
of machinery--our warehouses are filled to overflow-
ing--our merchants are traversing the whole earth for
customers-while thousands and thousands are ragged
and destitute at home. Such is one of the anomalies
of the present system of Political Economy, and the
necessary effect of individual property. Though the
world is replenished with all that labour can produce,
this brings no leisure to the working man ; in propor-
tion as machinery assists him to multiply the products
of the earth, the fewer fall to his share. Of what avail,
then, is it to him that the articles he needs are cheap,
if the labour, which is his purchase money, is unmar-
ketable?
The causes that tend to depress wages are constant,
those that tend to raise them are always fluctuating.
A constant and regular demand for labour for years, is
required to raise wages much above the price which
competition has fixed ; but any one of the fluctuations
affecting the demand, · has an immediate effect in
bringing them down, and causing the sudden and
overwhelming distress which so frequently occurs.
The only means of raising the rate of wages and the
condition of the operative, under the present system,
is competition among the capitalists for labour, and
that there is so little of this competition is principally
owing to the increasing power of machinery. •
The case, then, is now before us, and the true cause
of the poverty of the working classes made evident.
•" Ricardo, Say, and Mill, (in his 3d edition, p. 228,) have denied
the possibility, on the large scale, of any such thing as a glttl in
the general market of production :-
" 1st, Because demand and supply must be co£'qual and col'X·
Digitized by Coogle
OF TB..E WORKING CLASSES. 397
To recapitulate briefly :-in consequence of the ar-
rangement by which Property belongs to individuals,
instead of to the Community to be used in furtherance
tensive ; for no man would produce what he does not want himself,
unle88 to purchase with it what he wants from others ; and this,
his want, is equal to the means he brings with him to satisfy it.
This is the case with every producer; therefOre demand and supply
are coextensive, for every man's demand must be limited by his
supply.
"2ndly, The production of new and unexpected articles, always
produces a want that did not before exist ; and therefore increases
demand, which uses up the supply produced ; as in case of steam
engines, new fashions, and new inventions of all kinds. Metaphy-
sically and in words, supply and demand must be coextensive, if by
demand you mean merely t!&e wmt of commodities you do not
possess, excluding t!&e ahili'ty to purcluue,· which, however, is an
essential part (as I think) of demand. Suppose I want a steam
engine, and have nothing but printed calicoes to pay with, in a
market overstocked with printed calicoes ; is not this a glut, so
far as it goes ? Does not the introduction and improvt>ment of
machinery tend universally to over-production--production beyond
what is wanted, or what can frugally be purchased? People do
not buy for the sake of buying, but of using; and they will buy,
therefore, no more than they actually want for comfortable use.
Tell the manufacturers and operatives of Lancasbirt, of Huddel'll-
field, of Norwich, of Birmingham, of Massachusetts, of Rhode
Island-tt>ll the wine-growers of Franc£>, that over-production is
impossible,-will they condescend for a moment to hear your rt'a-
sons for this paradox, that sets all matter of fact at defiance P If
a dozt'n pair of stockings will serve my purpose, and a manufac-
turer preBSes me to take from him one hundrt>d pair, is not this a
glut? What may happen in fifty cast's, as in Great Britain, and
our North-eastern States, may happen in a hundrt>d-in any
assignable number. I agree, therefore, on this subject, with
Malthus and Sismondi; according to the actual arrangements of
commerce there may be ovu-production in one, in fifty, in a hun-
d_r:ed articles-tht>re may be a glut of rowmoditit>s in the market.
Digitized by Google
398 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
of the best interests of all, the labourer is compelled to
take his share of what is in reality joint capital, in the
shape of wages ; which share, owing to the increase of
It is undeniable that there is a glut in the production of cotton
and woollen goods at this moment in Great Britain.
" Let any man read the Report of the Committee of Manufac-
tures, August, 1829, in the .Leed• .Mercury, signed John Stock,
jun., Chairman, presented to Mr. Peel, and some other Noblemen,
11tating the starving condition of 13,000 operatives, within the
immediate neighbourhood of Huddersfield, in Yorkshire, who could
earn by their labour but twopence half-penny sterling per day, (five
cents,) out of which they had to defray the wear and tear of their
looms, and to maintain tht>mselves and their familit>s. Is it pos-
sible to ascribe this to anything but the want of demand for labour,
owing to an over-supplied market by means of machinery? At
least 200,000 operatives are now in this situation in Great Britain;
nor can any one be11itate to pronounce that this state of thingg is
owing exclusively to a glut in the market. I am very willing to
concede that my argument depends mainly on the present state of
things-<1n the prevalence of 'the restrictive system' which inter-
feres with, and clogs every operation of production and interchange.
Let ns suppose a system of free trade and free ports, and I have
no doubt but supply and demand would so adjust them11elves to
each other, that a glut would never tab place."-Cooper's Political
Economy, p. 215.
"A population that extends beyond the means of subsistence-
where the labourers crowd each other by compt>tition to obtain
<'mploymt'nt-where the wages earned are not 11ufficient to enable
a man, his wife, and a couple of children, to obtain the necessarit>s
of life in sufficit>nt abundance to maintain health and strength-is
a state of society where happiness diminishf's as riches incre&S('.
Such is the case with alar~ portion of the European population at
thi~ moment, and such is at this moment (1829, 1830,) prf'-emi-
lll'lltly the case with Great Britain. I shall take up thi11 11ubject
again in ron!lidering th<' distribution of national W<'alth; hut I
ronfl'sH mys('lf at a. lost< to tmggest any ad<'qunt<' rl'medy. That
tht> I'Xh·n,..iH usr (If ma('hinrry hale' ('OntriiJltf('rl tn o\·<'r·rrodurtion,
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 399
his own numbers, and of machinery, a~d the conse-
quent competition, is always as small as he can live
upon. The rate of wages in no case depends upon the
and thrown hundreds of thousands of workpeople out of employ-
ment, I see clearly; but to prohibit or to lay aside machinery, I
consider as utterly impossible. If.one nation would do so, others
would not. The evil I fear must cure itself, by the deaths conse-
quent on the diseases of extreme penury. It is one among the
difficult cases involved in the question of the origin of evil, which
human knowledge has not yet accounted for on any satisfactory
theory."-Ibid, p. 293.
If it were the natural tendency of capital to increase fastt>r
than population, there would be no difficulty in preserving a pros-
perous condition of the peoplt>, say the Political Economists; but
we think that if it were the natural tendency of capital to increase
faster than population-and we believe that it is, and that we shall
prove it to be so-yet in the present artificial state of our commer-
cial system, there would be great difficulty in preserving a pros-
perous condition of the people. Is 1t the want of the means of
setting the increased population to work, that is, of capital, in
Great Britain, and in all old countries, that causes the general
distreSB; or of aprofitahle direction for such capital ? Is it want
of capital in Manchester and in all our manufacturing towns, that
prevents the employment of the people, or the want of markets P
There is, perhaps, no single branch of our manufactures in which
production has bt>en stopped for want of capital ; it has always been
from want of demand. In Great Britain floods of wealth roll in all
directions in which there is even the appearance of a profitable
investment. Look at our national debt and the immense sums
raised during the war ; the subsidies granted to any country in
the world that can offer good intt>rest and reasonablt> security;
the sums expended in railways-and then let us ask ourselves the
question, whether it is the want of the means of setting the people
to work that is the cause of their unprosperous condition P
On the contrary, may not our present difficulties be ascribed
with more truth to our being able to create wealth too t>asily and
rapillly, so rapidly, in fact, that no one can be found to buy it
Digitized by Coogle
400 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
quantity of work done, or opon the amount of the pro-
duce, which would always be the case upon a system
in which the labourer received his due share.
fast enough P No; it is want of demand, not of capital, which is
the cause. Demand enough there certainly is for almost every
comfort on the part of two-thirds of the population,-but then tb('y
have nothing but their labour to give in exchange, which, as ma-
chinery increases and suP"rsedes it, becomes of less and )('!IS value
until it is insufficient for their support. But few of the working
men are wanted, for machinery, aided by the natural powers of
wind, water, h('at, electricity, bas been made to take their place.
What, then, b('comes of the theories of Political Economists with
respect to the impossibility of gluts, and to the constant rise of
wages with the increase of capital, &c. P Why that they may be
true in the abstract, like the mathematical definition of a point,
viz., that which has no parts and no magnitude, but that they
are altogether inapplicable to present circumstances. If a plan of
exchange were devised by which an increased quantity of goods in
one department could always be exchanged for an increased
quantity, or equivalent value, of commodities required by the party
producing them, that is, if it were made as easy to sell a:~ to buy ;
if trade were perfectly free in all countries ; if all restrictions upon
commercial intrrcourse with the whole world w('re removed; if
railways int('rsected all its lands, and steam-ships traversed all its
seas ; if the facility of communication with all countries equalled
that betwel'n our own counties ; then, perhaps, their truths
might be true in practice. They bold that demand and supply
have an equal tendency to find their level with water, and they
think it of no importance that in the operation whole towns are
ruined, and whole countrieH half-starved.
In the consid('ration of the question of wage~t, we have not
overlooked the fact, that the same cause, namely, competition,
which reduces wages, lowers also the profits of the manufacturer,
and reduces all produce to the lowest poBHible price; but this
under the present system does not lessen, it perhaps only in-
creases the difficulty, for the world becomes filled with produce
of which no one is at liberty to make use. The rate of intt'rest
Digitized by Coogle
OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 401
Owing to the present defective arrangements for the
production or wealth, the capitalist only employing his
capital for further production as it suifB his individual
interest ; and owing to the unequal division of the pro-
duce or labour by which a large portion is wasted, and
another large portion withdrawn from being useful
towards further production, capital does not increase
so fast as it has a natural tendency to increase, and
does not keep pace with population. This diminishes
the means of employing the people, and again in-
creases the competition for employment, upon which
the rate or wages depends. It is impossible to prevent
this competition in the present constitution of society,
because it is impossible to prevent the increase in
numbers of the labourers ; and supposing it possible
to prevent such increase, machinery might be in-
(which determines the income of the capitalist,) depends upon
the profits of trade, and Ui consequently low ; the capitalist, there-
fore, has not the means of purchasing. Capital is plentiful, pro-
duction is great, and the competition among manufacturers for the
sale of such produce is great in proportion, profits are necessarily
low, and the manufacturer cannot purchase. The profits of the
manufacturer being low, he endeavours to live by grinding still
lower the wages of the artizan, with whom to purchase is more
than ever out of the qut-stion. And thus it is that universal
abundance co-exists with individual want. So also, although
production is great, it falls far short of what it might be, for the
manufacturer only produces so long as he can do so at a profit, and
profit dt>pends upon the scarcity, not the incrt>ased quantity of an
article. With the increased quantity of goods in a market profits
fall ; with a still further incrPase comes a loss, and production of
course stops, although two-thirds of the population are in need of
such produce. It is such artificial cbe(!ks, resulting from an
imperfect sy11tem, that prevent capital from increasing so fast as it
has a tullttral tendency to do.
nd
Digitized by Google
402 CAUSES OF THE POVERTY
creased to do all the work that the interests of tbe
property-owners require. In young and agricultural
countries, where machinery is less applicable t;o. the
work to be performed, labour may be sufficiently in
demand to make the condition of the labourer com-
fortable ; but in all old States it is a drog ; an unmar-
ketable commodity; nothing in fact is of so little value
as a strong able-bodied man ; and the result is the
condition in which we have found the working classes
-everywhere competing with each other for the sale
of their labour, and reducing it in consequence to the
lowest possible price that nature will allow them to
take.
What is wanted, therefore, is apparent-a state of
society in which property shall be so employed for the
good of all, that the labourer shall not be obliged to
take a less share of what he is instrumental in pro-
ducing, than by right belongs to him ; so that if a ma-
chine should be introduced which will enable him to
execute a hundred times more work than before, he
shall take his just proportion of the produce :-a state
in which, the produce being equitably distributed, no
one will have so disproportionate a share as will enable
him to waste it, or to withdraw it from its use towards
farther production ; and, as it is in the power of every
one to produce more than he can possibly consume,
all artificial restraints upon production being removed,
arrangements might be made by which all should be
profitably employed, and production be always kept in
advance of population.
The principal cause, then, of the evils that we have
been considering, we cooceive to be the present division
of society into the class of those who possess every-
Digitized by Google
OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 4()3
thing, and that of those who possess nothing-into ca-
pitalist and labourer, rendering the latter and by many
times the most numerous class, altogether dependent
upon the former-to which must be added the want of
an efficient plan of exchange-and the remedy we
conceive to be, the establishment of a system in which
Property should be held in trust by society for the
production of the largest sum of enjoyment to all.
As we believe that a11 other remedies for the evils
that now aftlict society will be but partial, or aJtogether
unavailing, we propose in all the seriousness that such
a conviction inspires, after having stated and considered
the vast amount of such evils, to examine into the
practicability of gradually introducing such a system.
In this examination we shall never lose sight of the
sacred right8 of property, but we would aJso keep promi-
nently in view the still more sacred right8 ofindustry-
convinced that although now divided and at variance,
they are not incompatible, but admit of a strict union,
and that in this union will be found the remedy for
most of the disorders that now prey upon social
existence.
Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER IV.
SOCIAL REPOIUI.
b happiness be the object of man's being-if the
happiness of individual mao be as the whole of which
be forms part--if the greatest happiness of that whole
be the fulfilment of the Moral Law-the social system
which accords best with that law, must be that which
secures the largest sum total of happiness to the whole.
Property is the means ofhappiness ; like the life-giving
stream it may diffuse itselfby universal channels over
the land, covering it with fertility and plenty ; or left
to its unchecked course, it may leave unvisited, on the
one band, arid and desolate wastes, whilst on the
other, it accumulates into noxious pools, spreading
disease and corruption around. Without this general
diffusion of the means of happiness-of property-the
state of society cannot be perfect ; and as the only
means by which it can be effected, property must be
considered as held in trmt by society for the benefit
of all.
This, then, is the principle upon which society must
be based to place it in accordance with the natural
laws, and from which all subordinate arrangements .
must spring.
lflStory bas hitherto presented mao to us as acting
under the influence of the mere animal part of his
nature, his higher feelings not constituting leading
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 405
principles of action, but set merely as a guard over
the others, to keep them within those bounds which
are absolutely necessary to enable him to live in society
at all. His powers have been directed towards the
production and accumulation of wealth, not as a means
of gratification of the higher faculties, and of general
happiness, but of individual aggrandizement and dis-
tinction. Thus the selfish principle has universally
predominated, and the institutions of society have been
framed in accordance, so that each man is obliged to
consider the taking care of himself as his first duty,
and to devote all his energies in competition with all
around him to that object. So searching is this com-
petition, that little time remains to him for anything
besides; those parts of his nature that have higher
objects than mere personal good, lie dormant and
inactive, and man falls far short of his greatest happi-
ness. Most of the evils that we have been considering
are consequent upon this state of things, upon this
violation of the natural laws; for man's social institu-
tions, while they are built upon the selfish principle,
are as much opposed to the moral law, as the rolling
of water up bill to the physical law.
However distant we may suppose the period when
man, arrived at manhood, shall be the fitting member
of a state of society based upon the moral principles of
his nature, to this all our wishes and exertions must
·point; and in proportion as we can approximate to it,
will the evils we deplore disappear. We must look for
encouragement and hope in our efforts to bring about
this more perfect state of society, not from the picture
which history everywhere presents of the race, but to
the progressive nature of hi~ being, which is the grand
Digitized by Coogle
406 SOCIAL REJ'OB.Jf.
and distinguishing attribute of man. To such a system
have the hopes of mankind, during all ages, with more
or less distinctness been directed. Sometimes the
happy community was to dwell in a millenium of this
earth, sometimes in a fellowship of the saints in
heaven-the poet dreamed of it in the golden age-the
philosopher in his Republic,-his Atlantis, his Utopia.
Amidst all the draperies of fancy and fable which have
clothed the vision, it still stands forth, a living form of
truth,-a type of the future brotherhood of man.
The full realization of this idea may yet be but dimly
seen through a perspective of ages, but the outline
may even now be traced, and the eye accustomed to
its proportions. The old maxims of selfish individual-
izing interest may be gradually displaced, the true
relation of man to society be more distinctly recognized,
and the duties which it involves more widely acknow-
ledged.
In discussing, therefore, what we bold to be the true
system of society, it is not under the idea of its present
universal establishment, but with a view to show the
direction which all effective remedies for the evils of
society must take, and to urge even the partial and
limited adoption of the principles by those who have
everything to hope, and little to fear from change.
We have all been educated under the present system,
and our associations and ·prejudices may therefore all
be supposed to be in its favour. We are accustomed
to all its abuses, to all the restraints it imposes upon
u~, as the birrl to the cage in which it was born ; but
Jet us not on that account be deterred from giving due
con:sidcration to principles which c1aim to be founded
in the laws of our moral being, although their adoption
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 407
may lead to a change in the form of society itself.
Aware of the present condition of the mass of the
people, let us not, at least, object to examine any
plan that presents a reasonable prospect of improving
it ; and as a plan for giving comforts to those who are
now comfortless, we shall at present chiefly consider
the subject, not avoiding the reflections and compari-
sons suggested by it, although, as we have said, the
immediate alteration of the whole face of society is
neither practicable nor desirable.
The change required is one that shall render it
unnecessary for the workman to sell his share of what
his labour produces for less than it is worth ; that shall
give capital the most profitable direction towards fur-
ther production, and cause machinery to work for the
labourer, not against him.
These objects can only be effected by the re-union of
capital and labour-by the labourer himself becoming
a capitalist, and the owner of the machinery with
which be produces. It is proposed, therefore, that the
working men should be encouraged and assisted .to
unite together in a.~sociations or communities, upon the
principle of Joint-Stock Companies, in such numbers
as convenience may dictate, for the production and
equal distribution of all the necessaries and comforts
of life.
The capital of these associations would consist of
equal sums contributed by each member, the produce
of his own savings, or furnished by capitalists, who,
from motives of benevolence or interest, should lend
their aid to the undertaking. This joint capital would
be laid out in the purchase of land, the building of
houses and manufactories, and the furnishing of agri-
Digitized by Coogle
408 SOCIAL REFORM.
cultural stock, machinery, and raw material. Or, all
this might be done by a company of capitalisU,, and
then let to the members of the association, at such a
rental as should pay the interest and profit on the
capital, allowing to them the right of future purchase.
There is no doubt that, under proper regulations, such
establishments would offer an eligible and secure in-
vestment for capital. •
All trades and professions that have for their object
the supply of the necessaries and most essential com-
forts of life, would be comprised within the community,
so that all of which the particular locality would admit,
would be produced upon the spot. A staple manufac-
tory would also be established in each, the produce of
which would be sold to furnish the means of procuring
such articles of foreign growth as are indispensable to
comfort.
A Governor or Board of Directors would require to
be chosen by the members themselves, whose office it
would be to provide that each should be employed in
that occupation for which nature or education bad
best fitted him. The joint produce, or, at least, the
greater part of it, would be common property, and
used by the Directors to furnish to all the largest
amount of comfort and enjoyment to which it could be
adequate, allowing luxuries to none until necessaries
were afforded to all. The co-operation required would
be voluntary ; the right to private property being given
up to the community by the individual himself, only in
• The plan here proposrd is not in the smallest degree original ;
it is simply adopted as an approach towards the realization of the
foregoing principles. See Appendix.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REJ'ORirf. 409
consideration of receiving a greater advantage in return
than he could gain by any other investment. It is no
part of the proposed plan to interfere with either the
rights or security of property as now established.
We shall first consider the economy of such an
arrangement, and its capability of furnishing physical
comforts ; since an improved physjcal condition must
precede all other improvements. We shall next con-
sider bow far ·it contains the means of bappiuess ; that
is to say, bow far it would afford facilities for obedience
to the physical, organic, and moral laws.
With respect to the economy of such a system, and
its capability of making capital keep pace with popu-
lation, we know that the members of a large family,
whose funds would not allow of their keeping ~eparate
establishments, will find their incomes,- when united,
amply sufficient to maintain them in one ; and it is
accordingly inferred that·by means of combination the
artizan's pound a-week might be made to furnish him
with comforts that would otherwise require many
pounds to purchase, and that for the wretched hovel or
cellar, or small and ill-built house, might be substi-
tuted large' and commodious apartments. The bouse~
bold arrangement." would be those of a large family,
whose members would be equally furnished with com-
forts in proportion to the amount of the common fund.
The great amount of labour now wasted in individual
establishments would thus be placed at liberty. In
the department of cookery, for instance, there is no
doubt that labour and expense would be much econo-
mized if the food of a multitude of persons could be
prepared at one fire, and by means of the same appa-
ratus ; and it is well known that the fires which are
Ee
/
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
410 SOCIAL REFORM.
necessary to warm one large house, might, by proper
management, be made to warm those of a whole com-
munity. The same principle would hold good with
most of the other items of domestic economy. But
although kitchens, dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, read-
ing-rooms, lecture-rooms, gardens, would be in com-
mon for all who chpse to make use of them, upon the
plan of clubs in London and elsewhere, solitude need
not be denied to the lovers of solitude ; on the con-
trary, to each might be secured private apartments,
and, with the means of perfect seclusion, all the
advantages that solitary individual arrangements could
possibly furnish.
Another great saving would arise from the conver-
sion of unproductive labourers into producers. We
have seen how very large a portion of the products of
labour, under the present system, go to the non-pro-
ducer in the shape of profits to the retail traders,
manufacturers, and land-occupiers : almost all of
which would be saved under the proposed arrangements.
The division into masters and workmen, maaufacturers
and operatives, would no longer exist ; and as a single
store of the requisite articles of COJ?SUmption would
perhaps be sufficient for a whole society, the profits of
retailers would not only be saved, but the retailers
themselves would be employed in production ; and as
the persons engaged in that department of industry
constitute a fourth of the whole population, an immense
mass of labour would thus be liberated ;-liberated,
too, from an employment as degrading under the
present system as it would be unnecessary under the
other.
One of the great advantages of the plan proposed
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 411
would be, that all the labour that could be set free,
would be· so much gain to the whole community ; since,
as all in the capacity ofjoint proprietors would receive
a just proportion of the produce, any improvement in
machinery which would enable them to do ten or twenty
times the work in a given time, would be a common
benefit; whereas, in the present system, labour saved
is loss to the workmen, who are paid for their labour
only, and have no share in the produce. Here the
notable expedient of the late Lord Castlereagh, of
setting the people to dig boles one day, and to fill them
up the next, would be unnecessary; for when the stores
were full, they might cease to labour without being
starred.
It is by this means only that the use of machinery
can be made a blessing to mankind. The enormous
power generated by steam machinery during the last
forty years has rather tended to increase manual labour,
and to impoverish the people, than to furnish leisure
for the development of their moral and intellectual
powers, which is its proper use. The rectification of this
error alone would strike at the root of most of the evils
that at present beset the working classes. The powers
of machinery are as yet unknown and unappreciated,
because they have been hitherto only applied for indi-
vidual advantage, and not for the public good ; but let
them once receive their proper direction, and it will be
found that manufactured produce is limited only by
the will !lf man, and by the capability of the earth to
supply raw material: machinery being a servant that
never tires, that consumes but little, and whose powers
may be multiplied almost to infinity.
If the powers of production, then, aided by rna-
Digitized by Coogle
412 SOCIAL B.BPOBM.
chinery, are immense, notwithstanding that the present
system does not admit of their being half employed,
what becomes of the fruits,-for we have seen that
the working classes, two-thirds of the whole popula-
tion, receive but one-third of the produce P
Political Economists have turned their attention
principally to production, trusting to the selfish instincts
cf man, as they would to the infallible law of Gravita-
tion, to regulate distribution ; but it is only by a system
such as we propose, founded in the onion of interests,
that demand and supply can be so proportioned to each
other, as that none shall be in want, or the fear of
want, and machinery be made to work for the good
of all.
The tendency of capital in commercial countries is
everywhere towards its accumulation in vast masses.
The advantage which great capital gives its possessor
over thosp: who have but .little, is so great, that it
enables him ordinarily to distance all competition, and
in the times of bad trade, which periodically ensue, to
drive his smaller competitors from the market. Tmly
" unto him that hath is given, but unto him that bath
not is taken away even that which he bath." But
however disproportioned the capitalists' share of the
wealth produced may seem to be, it cannot be said
that the present system works well even for them.
The majority of them who with small means hal"e to
compete with the monied men, may in prosperous
times advance a few steps, but these they must painfully
retrace when the tide ebbs, and the markets become
again and again overstocked. What then is the picture
which the capitalist presents P It is one with which we
are too familiar. Orerwhclmed with care-sinking
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 413
under the load of his responsibilities-his anxieties.
If be stops his machinery-dismisses his operatives,
his fixed capital lies wasting, dead and profitless ; his
best hands are dispersed ; if he continues to work it, ·
his capital is consumed in raw material and wages, to
be converted into goods which only reduce still further
the value of the stock on h~nd. His invention is
racked to produce some novelty which may perha~
stimulate demand-if for a moment he succeeds, num-
bers rush in, in competition, until, like shipwrecked
mariners, they all sink in that which would have sa¥ed
a few. If it should not succeed, ruin stares him in the
face-he must refuse work to those who depend upon
it for existence, or lower the rate of payment to the
utmost point. Distressed with their miseries, the re-
quirements of his own family harass him still more ;
habituated to ease and indulgence, now striving pain-
fully to retrench with all those feelings and associations
which give the sharpest sting to poverty. Who that
has seen this-and who in this manufacturing country
has not seen it a hundred, a thousand times repeated-
will say that this division of society is good e¥en for the
Capitalist himself?
In this degrading competition almost all trace of the
moral nature of man is lost. The possessor of an
enlarged mind and generous sympathies who cannot
devote his whole soul to money-getting, has little
chance of success; but he whose views are contracted
within one narrow circle,-that of the commercial
world, who gives his whole time .and attention to the
science of profit and loss, who has least sympathy with
the mass of hiM fellow-beings, and who is not over
Digitized by Coogle
414 SOCIAL REFORM.
scrupulous as regards the means he makes use of, is,
as a matter of course, the most likely to succeed. •
To return to the question of what becomes of the
produce of our immense power of machinery ? The
public enjoy some part of the advantage in the extra
cheapness of all articles upon which it is employed; the
rest benefits the capitalist, but principally the fortunate
• " The tendency of the system is to throw an accumulating
burden of mere labour on the industrious classes. I am told that
in some of the great machine manufactories in the west of Scotland,
men labour for sixteen hours a day, stimulated by additions to their
wages in proportion to the quantity of work which they produce.
Mast~rs who push trade on a great scale, exact the most energetic
and long-continued exertion from all the artizans whom they
employ. In such circumstances, man becomes at once a mere
labouring animal. Excessive muscular exertion drains oft' the ner-
vous energy from the brain ; and when labour ceases sleep ensues,
unless the artificial stimulul:l of intoxicating liquors be applied &o
rouse the dormant mental organs and comer a temporary enjoy-
ment, which, in such instances, is very generally the case. To
call a man, who passes his life in such a routine of occupation,-
eating,aleeping, labouring, and drinking,-a Chril:ltian, an immortal
being, preparing by his exertions here, for an eternity hereafter,
to be passed.in the society of pure, intelligent, and blessed spirits,-
is a complete mockery. He il:l preparing for himself a premature
grave, in which he shall be laid exhausted with toil, and benumbed
in all the higher attributes of his nature, more like a jaded and
maltreated horse, than a human being. Yet this system pervades
every department of practical life in these islands. If a farm be
advertised to be let, tenants compete with each other in bidding
high rents, which, when carried to excess, can be paid only by
thl'ir converting themselves and their servants into labouring
nnimall:l, bestowing on the land the last effort of their strength
autl 11kill, and resting satisfied with the least possible enjoyment
from it in n•turn.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 415
few who have the means of employing it in the largest
quantity. To them it furnishes not only the necessaries
and comforts of life, but luxuries and superfluities from
ev~ry comer of the globe ; the inmost recesses of earth
and ocean are ransacked for those means of external
ornament and show to which they trust for distinction,
in the absence of better claims. They maintain horses
"By the competition of individual interests, directed to the
acquisition of property and the attainment of distinction, the
practical members of society are not only powerfully stimulated
to exertion, but actually forced to submit to a most jading, laborious,
and endless course of toil; in which neither time, opportunity, nor
inclination, is left for the cultivation and enjoyment of the higher
powers of the mind. The whole order and institutions of society
are framed in harmony with this principle. The law prohibit.~
men from using force and fraud in order to acquire property, but
sets no limit to their employmrnt of all other means. Our edu-
cation and mode of transacting mercantile business, support the
same system of selfishness. It is an approved maxim, that sccresy
is the soul of trade, and each manufacturer and merchant pursues
his separate speculation secretly, so that his rivals may know as
little as possible of the kind and quantity of goods which he is
manufacturing, of the sources whence he draws his materials, or
the channels by which he disposes of his produce. The direct
advantage of this system is, that it confers a superiority on the
man of acute and extensive observation and profound sagacity.
He contrives to penetrate many of the secrets which are attempted,
though not very successfully, to be kept; and he directs his own
trade and manufacture, not always according to the current in
which his neighbours are floating, but rather according to the
results which he foresees will take place from the course which
they are following ; and then the days of their adversity become
those of his prosperity. The general effect of the system, how-
ever, is that each trader stretches his capital, his credit, his skill,
and his industry, to produce the utmost possible quantity of goods,
under the idea that the more he manufactures and sells, the more
Digitized by Coogle
416 SOCIAL BBFORM.
and servants, who consume without re-producing the
fruits of the earth, whilst they who labour for bread,
are compelled to employ this labour upon absurd and
useless articles for the gratification of vanity or capri-
cious taste.
Thus are the fruits of machinery wasted in an un-
productive foreign commerce of luxuries, and in setting
the people to work upon useless, worse than useless
profit he will reap. But as aU his neighbours are animated by the
same spirit, they manufacture as much as possible al110 ; and none
of them know certainly bow much the other traders in their own
line are producing, or bow much of the commodity in which they
deal, the public will really want, pay for, and consume, within any
specific time. The consequence is, that a superfluity of goods is
produced, the market is glutted, prices fall ruinously low, and all
the manufacturers who have proceeded on credit, or who have
limited capitals, become bankrupt, and the effects of their rash
speculations fall on their creditors. They are, however, excluded
from trade for a season,-tbe other manufacturers restrict their
operations,-tbe operatives are thrown idle, or their wages are
greatly reduced; the surplus commodities are at length consumed,
demand revives, prices rise, and the same rush towards production
again takes place ; and thus in all tra<\es the pendulum oscillates,
generation after generation, first towards prosperity, then to the
<'qual balance, then towards adversity,-back again to equality,
and once more rises to prosperity.
" The ordinary observer perceives in this systetn what he con-
siders to be the natural, the healthy, and the inevitable play of
the constituent elements of human nature. He discovers many
advantages attending it, and some evils; but these be regards as
inseparable from all that belongs to mortal man. The competition
of individual interests, for example, he assures us, keeps the human
energies alive, and stimulates all to the highest exercise of the
bodily and mental powers ; and the result is, that abundance of
every article that man needs is poured into the general trealt"Ury of
civilised life, even to superfluity. We are all interested, be conti-
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 417
employments, while hundreds of thousands want the
means of subsistence, and the first comforts of life at
home. It must ne\·er be forgotten that " labour was
the first price, the original purchase-money that was
paid for all things. It was not, and is not, by gold or
by silver, but by labour that all the wealth of the world
was originally produced." No factitious or artificial
want can be indulged without causing extra labour to
nues, in cheap productions, and although we apparently suffer by
an excessive reduction in the prices of our own commodities, the
evil is transitory, and the ultimate effect is unmixed good, for all
our neighbours are running the same career of over-production
with ourselves. While we are reducing our shoes to a ruinously
low price, the stocking maker is doing the same with his stockings,
and the hat mahr with his hats; and after we all shall have
exchanged article for artie!«.>, we shall still obtain as many pairs of
stockings, and as many bats, for any givt•n quantity of shoes, as
ever ; so that the real effect of competition is to render the nation
richer, to enable it to maintain more inhabitants, or to provide for
those it possesses more abundantly, without rend«.>ring any indivi-
duals poorer. The evils attending the rise and fall of fortune, or
the heart-breaking 11cenes of bankruptcy, and the occasional degra-
dation of one family and elevation of another, they regard as storms
in the moral, corresponding to those in the physical world, which,
although inconVl•nient to the indi,·iduals whom they overtake, are
on the whole, beneficial, by stirring and purifying the atmosphere ;
and, regarding this life as a mere pilgrimage to a better, they view
these incidental misfortunes as means of preparation for a higher
sphere.
" This representation has so much of actual truth in it, and
such an infinite plausibility, that it is almost adventurous in me to
que11tion its soundness ; yet I am forced to do so, or to give up my
best and brightest hope of human nature and its destinies. In
making these remarks, of course I blame no individuals. It is the
system which I condemn. Individuals arc as much controlled by the
social system in which they live, as a raft is by the current in
which it floats."-Combe's Moral Philosophy, p. 216.
Ff
Digitized by Coogle
'
418 SOCIAL REFORl-1.
some member of the community; we can make use of
nothing that bas not cost labour in its production ; and
that this labour is necessary to the support of the
workman, and is therefore thought a blessing, is the
pernicious consequence of the present system of society.
A state of society such as we contemplate, of co-
operation amongst rational beings for mutual interests,
where all should be proprietors, and where all should
share the labour required for everything produced,
would soon change all this, and introduce a new stan-
dard of wants. At least one-third of the labour em-
ployed in Britain is wasted in supplying artificial and
factitious desires ; but the vauity of the absurd distinc-
tions which now characterise society, would soon be
seen and felt, when it was found that to furnish them
required the extra two or three hours' labour per day
of each member of the society. Neither, for the same
reason, would idle servants or useless horses be main-
tained. The standard of utility would supplant that of
caprice and fashion ; and as useless articles of luxury
aud vanity would no longer be an indication of the
extent of private property, or marks of superiority,
being possessed by all if by any, they would no longer
be desired, and distinction would be sought where
alone it ought ever to be found, in useful and ennobling
qualities. Food, lodging, and clothing, with every-
thing that tended to produce sound health, would first
be secured as the necessary foundations of all happiness,
and until these were obtained for aU, luxuries would
be permitted to none. All artifici~l wants would gil"'e
place to real ones, and those the most essential and the
least costly would be first attended to ; and although
foreign markets might still be desirable for the sale of
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 419
home manufactures and the supply of foreign produce,
yet as e\·erything indispensable to life and comfort
wuuld be furnished to all without aid from abroad, men
would be virtually independent of such markets, if
deprired by any unforeseen circumstances of them.
But in the existing state of things, it would be as inju-
rious to the interests of a town like Manchester to cut
off its supply of cotton from abroad, or its markets for
the sale of such cotton when manufactured, as to de-
prive it directly of its supply of corn, either by home
scarcity or foreign enmity.
When all possible physical wants, comforts, and
conveniences had been supplied, when all the high and
ennobling pleasures derimble from our moral and
intellectual nature had been provided for, thtm, and
then only, the labour of society, if it were to spare,
might be employed in the acquisition of comparath·ely
useless luxuries and ornaments.
The means of gratifying the wants of that part of his
nature, which peculiarly distinguishes man, as man,
are furnished abundantly on all sides of him, and are
to be acquired at little expense of labour either to him-
self or others. On every page the progress of science
has written something deserving his attention, and the
beauties and wonders which she opens to his view may
well compensate for the childish and costly pursuits
that now occupy him. A flower may come to be
esteemed more highly than a diamond, and a more
becoming ornament than pearls ; since these latter
productions of nature, however beautiful, cost more
labour than society will be willing tu bestow in
exchange for them.
If we, therefor<', calculate the saxing of labour that
Digitized by Google
420 SOCIAL REFORM.
would be effected by the int.roduction of such a system
o(society, from all the abovementioned sources, it will be
found to be of immense amount, and sufficient, properly
employed, to furnish not only necessary comforts to the
working classes, but ample time for intellectual and
moral enjoyment. There would be the saving from
all household arrangements being in common, instead
of individual family establishments; of the profits of
manufacturers, merchants, and retailers, and of the
enormous expense to which it is now the fashion to go
in retailing ; of the carriage and expense of convey..
ance of goods, as almost everything would be produced
and consumed on the spot; of the produce of the land
which is now employed in growing grain, bops, &c., to
make intoxicating liquors~ of the maintenance of the
unemployed and half-employed labourers who are
without work in consequence of stagnation of trc~.de,
brought on by gluts in the market, derangements in
the currency, and the various causes that so frequently
disturb our artificial system; and lastly, and above aU,
from the release of the labour that is now uselessly and
perniciously engaged in gratifying the artificial wants
of the rich, and the employment of that labour for the
good of the whole community.
So far, then, it must be admitted that such a state
of society would be superior to the present, in its
economical arrangements, for the saving of labour,
and consequently of the cost of labour, which is
equh·alent to the production of wealth. With respect
to the direct production of wealth, there can be no
doubt that from the universal diffusion of the appro-
priate knowledge, and from the absence of aJI selfish
impediments, together with the waste of pmver and
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 421
material arising from indhidual operations, facilities and
advantages would be afforded far surpassing any which
the present system of industry enjoys from the stimulus
of competition. Unity of purpose in production would
be found no less beneficial than unity in all other ob-
jects. In so far as the principle bas been adopted, it
has achieved the stupendous undertakings of chilizatiou
from the pyramid to the...railroad ; but when it shall be
carried out to its full extent, and applied to the increase
of the products of the earth-the means and the com-
forts of life, the results will probably leaYe our cal-
culations far behind.
We have next to examine whether it would afford
equal facilities for the practice ofthose principles which
we assume to be essential to happiness, namely, obe-
dience to the Physical, Organic, and Moral Laws.
A community such as we are contemplating must
be regarded as one large family, each member being
dependent upon the labour, and, therefore, the health
and strength of all ; the strongest possible inducement
is thus held out for the making of all its arrangements
in harmony with those laws upon which health and
strength of body are dependent; and for the adoption
of all plans by which labour may be shortened. The
medical functionaries of such an establishment would
have an interest in keeping e\·ery one in good health,
not, as now, depending upon the want of health of the
community for subsistence; they would be anxious to
make known, and to teach every one to avoid aJI causes
of ill health ; and to this end e\·ery one would be made
intimately acquainted with the structure and functions
of his own body, and the relation of e\·erything around
him to his well-being. The best arrangements for the
Digitized by Coogle
422 SOCIAL REFORM.
preservation of health, which the knowledge yet ac-
quired could suggest, would be adopted in all buildings,
sitting and lille<.!ping rooms, factories, workshops, &c.
The greatest attention would be paid to warming, ven-
tilation, and cleanliness ; to clothing, diet, and all
circumstances upon which physical welfare depends ;
for the illness of a member would be the loss of his
share of labour to the community. Among parties co-
operating for mutual interest, this care would be pos-
sible ; in choosing their site for building, they would
determine upon a healthy and convenient spot. How
little care is now taken of the health and comfort of the
poor in this respect! In passing through the country
it must strike all who obserre how little mutual accom-
modation, how little regard to others' interests is shown
in every pile of building that meets the eye. The
l!lituation of each is dictated by individual caprice, with
no regard to the laws of health ; and we are irresistibly
compelled to wonder at the Power which could make a
piece of mechanism so delicate as that of man, capable
of withstanding, in any degree, so many deleterious
influences. In manufacturing cities, the dwellings of
the poor are still worse-crowded together in courts and
aUeys, the sitting room and sleeping room frequently
the same-sma11, dirty, unventilated, ill-constructed,
and ill-drained. Can we wonder that health is not often
found there?
Under the new system a complete change would be
effected as regards these evils, since agriculture would
be made in all cases the basis of the prosperity of the
members. All would be employed, at least part of their
time, upou the land in producing at home whatever
the soil ami cii:nate would permit. The advantages
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 423
of country and town residence would thus be gained,
and, without losing those that are derived from the
dirision of labour, agricultural and manufacturing
labour would be united. No man would be kept for
twelve hours together to one dull, monotonous, soul-
destroying employment, but labour would be so blended
as to ensure the largest return of health and happiness.•
• "As the division of land is thus the great step in the progre!lll
of improvement, so its distribution among the lower orders, in
civilized society, is essential to maintain that elevation of mind
which the separation of t>mployments bas a tendency to depress.
It is too frequently the melancholy efft>ct of the divi~ion of labour,
which takes place in the progress of opulence, to degrade the indi-
vidual character among the poor; to reduce men to mere machines,
and prevent the development of those powers and faculties which,
in earlier times, are called forth by the difficulties and dangers
with which men are then compelled to struggle. It is hence that
the wise and the good have been so often led to deplore the degrad-
ing effect of national civilization : that the vast fabric of society
bas been regarded as concealing only the weakness and debase-
ment of the great body by whom it bas been erected; and that the
eye of the philanthropist turns from the view of national grandeur
and private degradation, to scenes where a nobler spirit is nursed,
amid the freedom of the desert or the solitude of the forest."
"Manufacturing employment, however, is not in itself fatal to
habits of frugality ; on the contrary, it tends to encourage them
where it is combined with separate dwellings and rural re11idence.
There is not in the world a more industrious and frugal set of men
than the watchmakers of the Jura, the straw manufacturers of thl'
Val d'Amo, the chintz workmen of Soleure, or the clothiers of
Cumberland and the West of Yorkshire-. The savings of these
laborious men are aU realized for the benefit of their families, and
produce those beautiful little properties which gratify the traveller
in those delightful regions. On the other hand, there is not to be
found among civilized nations, a more dissolute, improvident, or
reckless race, than the silkweavers of Lyons or Spitalfields, the
cotton manufacturers of Rout>n or Mauchestt>r, or the muslin opt>-
Digitized by Coogle
4.24 SOCUL REFORM.
We find a total disregard of the organic laws among
the poor, both from ignorance, and from an utter
inability, in those who have more knowledge, to help
themselves; and who, now, has any interest in altering
the state of things? All are disunited, isolated, indi-
vidualized, competing with each other ; not as members
of one family, working-pulling-together. The sla¥e-
ratives of Glugow and Paisley. How great soever their earnings
may be, they are for the most part wasted in the lowest licentious·
ness ; the recurrence of seasons of distress has no effect in inducing
habits of economy ; the revival of prosperity only increases the
oceans of spirits which are swallowed ; the return of depression
sends their furniture to the pawnbrokers, their families to the work·
house. It is the extension of machinery, the accumulation of men
together, which produce these fatal effects. The man who could
discover a mode of combining manufacturing skill with isolated
labour and country residence, would do a greater service to
humanity, than the whole ra<-e of philosophers."-Alison, vol. 2,
pp. 8 and 155.
The Free Trade principle, "that wr should never produce in one
country what can be produced at less cost of labour in another,"
should be received as admitting of many exceptions, because wh~.>re
labour would probably be to sparr, such occupations would be
chosrn as were most conducive to b~.>alth and .happiness rath~.>r
than always those that the circumstances of the country render~.>d
most productive. At prrsent proJu::tion is considered only, without
reference to health, and the produce of one hour's labour in our
manufactories is exchanged for the produce of one hour'tt labour
upon land abroad ; such land being twice as productive as our own,
one hour's labour on manufactures here produces by the exchange
double the quantity of corn that could be produced by the same
labour upon our own soil. But may not the question be fairly
asked, whether two hours' labour upon land be not more to the
interest of the labourer, if he had his due tthare of the produce,
and all other influences b~.>ing taken into consideration, than one in
a factory i' That system must be bad which takes no account of
the health of body or mind in the saving of labour.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 425
owner has an interest in the health and physical well-
being of his slaves, the capitalist has the same in that
of his horses and dogs, but if his workmen should die
by thousands, it makes no difference to him, since
others are immediately supplied from the overstocked
labour-market. The poor have none to care for them
in this Christian country, and notwithstanding the
number of its religious associations and ostentatious
charities, they may be said as a body to be left
almost entirely to their own undirected resources. It
cannot be thus under a system in which all are made
to feel immediately and directly the suffering of any
individual member ; for though man may be without
teachers who content themselves with saying, "be
ye clothed and fed," and give tracts on temperance
and frugality, yet he will not be without those who
have made the laws of God on earth their study, and
the wisdom of the wise will be at the service of those
that are foolish, and the people will not be taught that
the most direct road to heaven is the total disregard of
the law of universal brotherhood, and of every other law
upon which God has made happiness dependent upon
earth. Everything that tends to improve the race, to
increase its health, and strength, and beauty, to perfect
the bodily and mental faculties, will be the subject of
inquiry and deep interest, and a department of know-
ledge thrown open which has of all others been the
most neglected.
The laws of the hereditary descent of the qualities
of body and mind ha,·e, up to the present time, been
deemed worthy of application only to the brute crea-
tion, to horses, dogs, and cattle ; yet their application
and \·ast importance to the human race is undeniable.
Gg
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..-
426 SOCIAL REFORM.
If we would regulate the influences upon which the
possession of" a sound mind in a sound body" depends,
we must begin before birth. That health is inl"aluable,
all acknowledge-for in health alone is comprehended
the " possibility of every exertion we wish to make-
every virtue to which we aspire-every happiness we
would possess ;" and yet no care ·is taken by parents
to fulfil those conditions which are essential to a per-
fectly healthy constitution, and the seeds of disease,
mental and bodily, are born with most of us. The
license of a clergyman, or of a magistrate, is deemed
an all-sufficient warrant for handing down to posterity
every disease of body, and weakness of mind. Let us
hope the time is not far distant when the public voice
will be uplifted, and the popular sanction withheld,
from conduct so grossly selfish and immoral. The
character of man, and the happiness dependtlnt upon
it, result from the original constitution derived from
his parents, and the circumstances in which he is
placed, but no after-circumstances can overcome the
effects of an originally defective constitution. An
American writer says, " The disregard and ignorance
of the laws of human organization manifested in the
transmission of disease to posterity, desen·e the se-
verest censure. While parents will spare neither labour
and toil of body, nor care and anxiety of mind, to
accumulate and bequeath princely fortunes to their
children, they little think, perchance, of the germs of
disease entailed upon them. • • • May the day be not
far distant when a sound and vigorous constitution
shall be esteemed the richest legacy that ancestors can
bequeath to their posterity."* In the transmission of
• American Phrenological Journal, No. 3.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 4.27
consumption and madness, the law is acknowledged,
but little regarded ; passion and interested worldly
motives are sufficient to throw into the shade all moral
considerations of the consequences to others. Not
only in these more striking instances do we behold the
truth exemplified, but in large classes everywhere
around us, whose physical condition, every physiologist
will acknowledge, is far below what it might have been
if this law had been obeyed. " Wherever we tum our
eyes on the crowd of life," sayM a writer of large expe-
rience, " we see human beings falling a sacrifice from
their early years, all through their career up to old
age, to causes of premature death which seem to be
una\·oidable ; and a truly natural decay is a rare
occurrence."
Mind, too, dependent upon organization, owes its
health, and vigour, and capacity, or its weakness and
inefficiency, to parents, and the laws regulating the
transmission of mental qualities are deserving of the
most careful attention as intimately connected with our
highest happiness. Let but the same care be given to
man which is now bestowed upon the brute creation,
and a constitution approaching more and more to
perfection, might be imparted to each successive gene-
ration. In a state in which it would be for the interest,
comfort, and happiness of all that each member should
·possess an originally sound and vigorous constitution,
no pains would be thought too great to ensure it. The
voice of public opinion would be loud against all unions
that had an opposite tendency. Marriages would be
dictated by different and higher motives than those
which now cause the union of the majority of mankind.
Worldly circumstances, which, from th6 highest to the
Digitized by Google
428 SOCIAL 1\B.POIUI,
lowest, are too frequently the motives to such con-
ncxions, rather than suitable mental and bodily quali-
fications, could have no influence in a state of society
where all would be equal, and no motives but mutual
affection could have place.
THE MoRAL LAw. The law of universal brotherhood,
the essence of unperverted Christianity, is impracticable
under the present system-if system that can be called
which is a mere chaos of conflicting interests; born of
chance and of selfish instinct, over the surface of which
the spirit of reason, directing and arranging each part
for the production of the greatest happiness, has ne\·er
moved. That society should be founded upon laws by
which all might live together in the most happy man-
ner possible, has yet to be acknowledged. The present
constitution of society, on the other hand, has been left
to form itself; part has been added to part, as time and
circumstances, the increase of mankind, and the for-
mation of section after section, have- called for it-
each portion f~hioned after the individual interests of
class, without any reference to the good of the whole.
It has been said, and truly, that " our laws and insti-
tutions are not the product of wisdom and virtue, but
of modem corruption grafted upon ancient barbarism.''•
Thus it is we find "all mankind heaped and huddled
together, with nothing but a little carpentry or ma-
sonry between them; crammed in like salt fish in their
barrel ;-or weltering (shall I sayP) like an Egyptian
pitcher of tamed vipers, each striving to get its head
above the rest."t The immutable and resistless laws of
nature have, however, been at work, and through the
• Wrstmin!!ll·r Rl'virw, No. 61. t Sartor Rt•sartus.
Digitized by Coogle
429
all-powerful influences of pleasure and pain, have been
pushing man forward in the march of improvement,
and, like the forces which, in the course of many ages,
laid stratum upon stratum and prepared the way for
sensitive existence upon the earth, have gradually been
preparing the earth for the existence of man, not
merely as a selfish animal, but in all the capacities of
his physical, moral, and intellectual being.
If we trace back the progress of the development of
man's resources, we find the foundation of the present
social institutions laid at a time when, to prevent him
from preying upon his fellow like wild beasts upon
each other, rights of property were established and
maintained by the strong arm of force alone. The
greatest want, and therefbre the greatest blessing, was
security of life and limb ; and the institution that could
best afford it, was the most desirable. Here then was
the foundation of an aristocracy. The leaders chosen
to head the different associations of men for their com-
mon protection, maintained a kind of security, and
" the strong man" was in proportion respected. Kings
were at first only the chosen leaders of armies ; valour
and military skill were the virtues most in request;
protection became a profession, and a soldier, as the
representative of that profession, the most honoured.•
But the power thus necessarily entrusted to an indi-
• " All high titles come hitherto from fighting. Your Herzog
(Duke, Dux,) is leader of armies; your Earl (Jar!,) is 11trong man;
Marshal, cavalry horse-shoer. A Millenium, or reign of Peace and
Wisdom, having been prophesied, and becoming daily more and
more indubitabiP, may it not hP apprehl.'nded that such Fighting
titles will cease to be palatable, and new and higher nl.'ed to be de-
vised ?·'-Sartor, p. 256.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..~
430 SOCIAL UEFORM.
vidual, was soon abused, assumed as a right derired
from God only, and not from the people, and ultimately
became irresponsible. A profession of arms ba-ring
been established with leaders whose interests were at
variance with those· of the people, constant wars were
necessary to find occupation for such a profession, to
promote the individual aggrandizement of the leadel"!f,
and maintain the influence they had usurped ; and their
real moth·es were concealed under the high-sounding
names of Glory, Patriotism, and National Honour.
The power thus yielded by the people to ensure per-
sonal security when no better means could be devised,
has rierer yet been recovered. Magna Chartas, Crom-
wellian Revolutions, Parliamentary Reforms, mark the
progress which has been made towards it, and the bar-
riers to liberty that ha,·e been removed. The problem
to be soh·ed is,· bow to make perfect liberty compatible
with security to life and limb, and the fruits of in-
dustry.
In the first stage of society physical prowess was
alone regarded ; but no sooner were the wild barbarous
hordes that founded the present nations of Europe set-
tled down into some quiet, than the inftuenr.e of .mind
began to be felt, and then arose the power ·of the
priesthood-a power sufficient, in some measure, to
control the licence of the feudal lords, and to weaken
the arm of violence and blood, which was constantly
uplifted in their mutual aggressions, or attacks upon
the liberty of neighbouring States.
Oral teaching was then all-important, for when there
were few books, and fewer still who could read, it was
almost the only means of imparting instruction. The
sole po:'lses:iors aud interpreters of the book which was
Digitized by Coogle
tiiOCIAL REFORM. 431
supposed to contain the Revelation of God's Word,
claimed and received universal dominion over the mul-
titudes who knew no other source of light and truth ;
but now that we are furnished with a more ample reve-
lation of His laws unfolded by the experience of ages,
and the written means ofcommunicating it to the hearts
of all,-shall oral instruction still be the only method of
making known the law of the Lord,-and the more
extended knowledge of His will, as revealed in His
works, still continue to be sealed ?
As other wants of society took shape and form, the
class through whom such wants found the means of
grc~.tification arose in importance. With personal se-
curity and comparative security to property, trade and
commerce began to flourish ; and however much the
pursuits connected with them were at first despised, as
the dependence of society upon them for foreign pro-
ductions, and even the comforts of life, became recog-
nised, they were first tolerated, and then protected,
until an aristocracy of wealth has gradually arisen,
which treads close upon the heels of the aristocracy of
birth.
When trade and commerce flourished, and the right
of the ·strongest was no longer admitted, the laws of
property became necessarily more complicated ; hence
a class was called forth for the expounding of those
laws, and their administrators rose in proportional im-
portance. On the complexity of the laws depended thu
necessity for Lawyers,-make the laws plain, their
occupation is gone. Consequently the simplest ques-
tion, in their bands, assumes an intricacy which the
strongest uninitiated inte1Ject cannot unravel ; and the
plainest, most intelligible language of common sense
Digitized by Google
432 SOCIAL REFORM.
and justice, soon becomes that of an unknown tongue
to the people. With truth did Voltaire designate the
body of lawyers as " the conservators of ancient bar-
barous usages."
Thus it appears the right of each class of society to
the'tlistinction it claims was based upon utility ; but the
world is changed, and society pays homage to the
shadows of things that were. As each of these leading
divisions became necessary to the good of society, its
pre-eminence has been acknowledged ; and although
the wants that ga-re ~e to it may be now reduced
in importance, it still maintains its rank in the social
scale. With security and peace, the power of man o-rer
the earth and its produce has increased, until money,
the representative of this produce, has become almost
omnipotent, " and whoso bas sixpence is sovereign, (to
the length of sixpence,) over all men ; commands
cooks to feed him, philosophers to teach him, kings to
mount guard over him,-to the length of sixpence."
Money, therefore, is the uni-rersal want, and respect
in proportion is paid to those who have it-with it man
is everything, and without it he is nothing.
One class only bas not hitherto been duly acknow-
ledged-the working class ; but the signs of the times
indicate the approach of a period when it must and will
be recognized. "There is, however, something greater
in the age than its greatest men ; it is the appearance
of a new power in the world, the appearance of a mul-
titude of men on that stagl', where as yet the few have
acted their parts alone."• Money, the representative
of all the produce which flows from the labour of the
multitude, has been the means of defrauding them of
• Dr. Channing's "Prt>!ll'nt Agr.''
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 433
the rights resulting from their real weight and im-
portance ; by the help of money the truth has been
concealed that everything which give8 support, accom-
modation, and luxury to life, comes through the
medium of the working classes, and the tribute due
to them in return bas been paid to the god of tliese
latter days-Mammon. They will discover this, Mam-
mon will be undeified and dethroned, the working
classes in working for others will also work for them-
selves, and their claims will be then acknowledged.
Yes, "be who first shortened the labour of copyists
by device of moveable types, was disbanding hired
armies, and cashiering most kings and senates, and
erecting a whole new democratic world : he had
invented the art of printing.''• By its means the
people will ultimately become wise enough to take
their own concerns into their own keeping, to govern
and protect themselves ; they will then withdraw the
power which they formerly delegated, from those who
have shown themselves unworthy of the trust-unjust
stewards, who have kept the wheat and dispensed only
the chaff. They will no longer consent to labour eight
hours out of twelve to furnish the means by which
they themselves are kept in ignorance and slavery.
They who have hitherto ruled, may plead their claims ·
to power and dignities through ancestral services, or
musty parchments, but they will be no longer ad-
mitted ; present not past utility will be the only
acknowledged title to distinction. Your wealth, will
the working classes say, however acquired, keep, until
you yourselves see fit to surrender it to the common
stock ; but what belongs to us, the produce of our
• Carlyle.
uh
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
434 SOCIAL llEFORM.
toil, that for the future we will keep. To make this
possible they must take production from under the
control of an interested class,-it must be encou-
raged to the utmost limits, and distributed on better
principles.
The present system of competition is founded upon
the predominance of the selfish and animal principles
of our nature ; each i.q left to take care of himself, and
if he cannot do that the world bas no place for him.
There is no co-operation for the good of aU ; each
class, each family, each individual, bas interests at
variance with those of his neighbours. The lawyer
has an interest in the promotion of civil strife; the
medical practitioner in the increase of disease ; the
clergyman, the soldier, the placeman, desire the death
of their superiors, that they may obtain preferment,-
the young that of the old, that they may inherit their
riches, their honours. Capitalist competes with capi-
talist, workman with workman, retailer with retailer ;
and in this contest, not for happiness but for support,
and for the means of rising each above his neighbour,
every sound moral feeling is vitiated, every dissocial
impulse called into habitual activity. And then the
efforts, the struggles, the madness, the despair, of those
who do not succeed, but who sink in the worldly strife!
The right of the strongest, in body, to deprive his
neighbour of his share of the common bounties of
Providence is no longer acknowledged, but the right of
the strongest in mind is still maintained ; the weak, for
no fault but that he is weak, is trampled into the earth,
and deprived of his share of the common stock in the
general scramble. In the present competition for
wealth, not only can the rich oppress the poor, but the
·~ .
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 435
strong-minded can legally take the portion of his
weaker brother. Men, it is true, do not, like the
beasts of the desert, devour one another ; but they do
that which is worse-they devour each other's sub-
stance, and leave famine and misery to finish the work.
In a state of society like this, the law of universal
brotherhood is inoperative, the moral law is imprac-
ticable, and man might as well make all his physical
arrangements at variance with the law of gravitation,
as expect to find happiness with all his institutions so
opposed to the moral law. But society based upon
the principle proposed, reconciles all conflicting forces
and unites the interests of all. The members would
be as one family, each bringing what he possessed to
the common stock for the general good ; each employing
the talents with which Nature had endowed him, not for
hisown personal advancement, but for the good of all.
Are any strong in mind or body ?-they owe it to God
and not to themselves; for so far as merit is concerned,
the doctrine of necessity shows us all to be equal ; they
will therefore share their strength with the weak. God
has said, " Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself ;"
and if He has given to one advantages more than to
his fellows, it was that he might be the instrument of
communicating them, and he will look for a higher
reward than that which society now offers to him-
individual advancement-in the reflection of the hap-
piness which his extra endowments enable him to
confer upon others. All, then, would be employed
according to the talents, physical, moral, or intellec-
tual, with which nature and education bad furnished
them, and all would share alike the fruits of such
labour; the weak would be assisted by the strong-
Digitized by Coogle
436 SOCIAL REFORM.
the sick by the healthy-the old by the young. The
idle could not continue idle where all others were
industrious, nor the vicious continue vicious in an
atmosphere of morality. Offences against property
must cease when all were joint proprietors, and "envy,
hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness," would dis-
appear with this strife of competition for individual
advancement and enrichment.
With society moulded into such a form, would Edu-
cation, as we have defined it, alone be practicable ;
for here only could there be " a wise disposal of all the
circumstances that influence character, and of the
means of producing those habitual dispositions which
ensure well-doing ;" for such a community only would
have the means of doing this. Every bodily and
mental faculty would receive proper direction and
exercise, and all that knowledge and attention could
do, would be done to bring such faculties to perfection.
The young would early be taught the principles upon
which the good of the community depends, and all
instruction would be made to bear upon this, the most
essential point ; above all, they would be taught that
they were children of the community, that they were all
of one family, and that the duty of love is to all, not
merely to those who are parents, or brothers and sisters,
by blood, and consequently that all their bodily and
mental endowments were due to the service of all.
Virtuous dispositions, habits, and feelings, would be the
first developed, and consequently the intellectual and
moral faculties would almost naturally take their right-
ful ascendance o¥er the lower feelings, and the happiness
of the individual would result from well-directed efforts
for the general good.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 437
That this should be the case now is impossible,
unless the laws of nature should be reversed and the
same causes produce different effects. The strength
and activity of a feeling ~ always in proportion to the
exercise it receives. The selfish feelings are now most
exercised, because each individual is obliged to take
care of himself; therefore they are necessarily predo-
Iriinant. The law of love may be preached, and the
innate depravity of human nature may be pointed to
as the cause of the inefficiency of such preaching ;
but until the present system of indhidual interests is
altered, however much it may be on the lips, the law
of love will neYer be in the heart. The institutions of
man and not his nature are chargeable with the failure
of such misdirected efforts to improve it. Mr. Combe
observes truly, that " if a constant struggle for supre-
macy in wealth and station be unavoidable among
men, it is clearly impossible for us to obey such pre-
cepts, which must therefore be as little adapted to our
nature and condition, as the command to love and
protect poultry, but never to eat them, would be to that
of the fox.'' •
Such then is the Social Reform needed, such the
only means that will bring about the amelioration of
the condition of the people. This alone strikes at the
root of all the evils that now beset us-poverty, igno-
rance, crime, the toiling anxiety of the millions. If
we examine the registers of crime we Rhall find that
the causes of most of the offences committed against
property are poverty and ignorance. The offences that
are not punishable by the criminal code-ill-will, sus-
picion, jealousy, mistrust, unfairness, covetousness,
* ~loral Philosophy.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~-
438 SOCIAL REFORM.
are no Jess the produce of competition for individual
advantages.
There are some who will trace in this plan the
essence of pure and practical Christianity, divested of
priestcraft, and of that which has conYerted it into a
trade-there are few who would think the introduction
of such a system of society undesirable, when com-
pared in its results with the present-but there are
many who imagine it impracticable and Utopian. We
shall, therefore, proceed to consider some of their
strongest objections.
Perhaps the objection that bas most weight with
those who have given any attention to the subject is
founded upon that axiom of the political economists
before alluded to, that " capital has a less tendency
to increase than population ; and that forcible means
employed to make capital increase faster than its
natural tendency, would not produce desirable effects."
If all were placed in a state of physical comfort, if
the natural checks upon population, of want, misery,
and crime, were withdrawn, numbers, it is imagined,
would soon overflow beyond all power of capital to
provide for them. This is founded upon the sup-
position, that land would gh·e less and less return
to the labour and capital bestowed upon it, that it
would ultimately be impoverished, and, that therefore
the much-increased population would necessarily be
reduced to great poverty and distress, and ultimately
starve. The hypothesis of Mr. Malthus is, that popu-
lation has a tendency to increase in geometrical pro-
gression, while subsistence can only be made to increase
in arithmetical progression ; but this has been met, as
we think, satisfactorily, hy Mr. Alison, in his late
Digitized by Google
SOCIAL REFORM. 439
work on Population. It is here shown that " there is
no instance in the history of the world of a country
being peopled to its utmost limits, or of the multipli-
cation of the species being checked by the impossibility
of extracting an increased produce from the soil ;" and
that "the true question on which mankind is really
interested is very different : that the main point in
civilized society is not what are the productive powers
of nature in the soil, but what are the means that the
human race have "f(Jf' getting at these powers, and ren-
dering them available for general happiness:·• That
this is the true question, is pretty evident; for though
it must be admitted that the produce of the land cannot
be increased past a certain limit, yet in no country bas
that limit ever been attained; and although many
thousands in this country may be said to want the
means of sustenance, and die yearly from want, or its
effects, yet it may be shown that its soil could be made
to support three or four times its present population.
The Earl of Lauderdale calculated that a farm contain-
ing 504 statute acres would, under proper management,
produce sufficient food for the maintenance of 1977
people; and, consequently, that 9,000,000 of people
would require only 2,412,746 acres for their support.
In that case England would support 180,000,000
of souls. The land annually under cultivation for
wheat in England and Wales is but 3,800,000 acres, t
and yet this, in years of ordinary plenty, supplies the
whole population of Great Britain. ln six bushels of
wheat there are 280lbs. of fine flour, without including
the coarser sort, bran, and waste ; this is equal to
373 lbs. per quarter. Every 14 lbs. of flour make
• Alison, vol. 2, p. 173 ; vol. 1, p. 77. t See :M'Culloch.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ...
...
440 SOCIAL REFORM.
18lbs. of bread. The average produce of wheat, as
given by M'Cullocb, is 3i quarters per acre, which
would give 1556lbs. of bread per acre. This would
allow lib. per day to 4i persons throughout the year.
If a third of the land in Great Britain were under
cultivation annually for wheat, although this is perhaps
more than is possible, it would allow I lb. of bread
daily to three times the present population. Bot some
land will produce six quarters per acre ; and by an
improved system of cultivation, most land might be
made equally productive, and this again would nearly
double the population that could be supported. The
evidence before the House of Commons Committee on
Agriculture, in 1836, proved that the chief reason for
the produce of the English farmer being below what it
ought to be, was his stupid perseverance in the use of
old and clumsy implements, and adherence to a bad
system of cultivation which the intelligent farmer of
Scotland bad discarded. The want of land to work
upon, and of material to work with, is a difficulty so
remote that none need be deterred by it, from adopting
measures to secure the happiness of mankind in the
long interim. •
• " So boundless are the resources of nature in yielding subsist-
ence to the labour of man, compared to the power of multiplication
in the human species, that it will immediately appear that at this
moment the British population is capable of doubling the whole
subsistence raised in the British empire, not in five-and-twenty
years, but perhaps in five, certainly in ten years. And the same
rate might go on successively, if no other moral obstacles existed
to the rapid multiplication of mankind, until the land in these
islands was cultivated to its utmost. The powers of man over the
soil do not diminish as agriculture improves and society advances ;
on the contrary, they are greatly increased; and the rnults are
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 441
With respect to the powers of production, we quote
the f~llowing passage from Mr. Owen's Memorial to
the Congress at Aix-la-Chapelle, in 1818 :-
"At the w>tvnencement of the last quurter of a century, a ruucb
larger proportion of the population of Great Britain was engaged
in agric••ltu1·e than in manufactures, and it is probahle the inha-
bit;:nt~ of the British I~les expe1ienced a grcatt.)r degree of substan-
tia! prosperii.y than they had attained before, or than tlu~y have
staggering, doubtless, ju.Jt as the distances of the fh:l'd stars, or
any of the calculations Qf astronomy arl', bnt they are not less
fixed on authentic uata, nor less productive of conviction to an ·
intelligent mind.
" If, in onler to test the comparative powl'rs of population and
production, it is allowable to put the physically possible, but highly
improbable and morally impossible event of an old State like the
Drilish empire, doubling in numbers every five-and-twenty years,
it is of cuurse neces:mry to supposE', on the other_
side, the equally
physkally possible, but morally improbable event of the whole re-
sources of the country being applied, during the same period, to the
production of subsistence. Now, if that were done, there cannot
be the shadow of ,,, doubt, that thE' island could, in the space of five
or ten yl'nrs, be made to maintain double its present number of
inhabitants. It is stated by Mr. Cowling, whose accuracy on this
subject is well known, and his statl.•ml'nt is adopted by the learned
and able 1\ir. Porter, that there is in England and Wales 27,700,000
cnlth•atcd acres ; in Ircluntl, 12,12;),000, and in Scotland about
5,265,000, in all 45,090,000 ; and of these, he calculates that there
are at present in cultivation by the ~:padl• and the plough, 19,237,000
acres, aud 27,000,000 in pasturage. '1'hat is just about two acres
to every human being in the United Kingdom; the uumber of
inhabitauts in Great Britain and Irclaud iu 1827, bciug about
2:3,000,000, and the same proportion probably obtains at the preseut
time, when their numbers arc nearly 30,000,000. Now, a full
supply of subsi3tence for every pPrson in wheat is one 'luarter a
year; so that at this rate there is only one quarter raised ov£>r the
whole empire, for every two acres of arable autl meadow land.
But an acre of arabi£> laud yields, on an average of all England,
I l
o;gitizedbyGoogle .-
442 SOCIAL REFORM.
enjoyed since. The cause is obvious: the new manufacturing sytt-
tem had then attained th~t point which gave the highest yalue to
manual labour, compared with the prices of the necessaries and
comforts of life, which it was calculated to afford, and it had not yet
produced the demoralizing el'ects which soon afterwards began to
emanate from this system.
" At the period mentioned, the manual and the scientific power of
Great Britain were sufficient to create a degree of prosperity which
placed all her population in a state of comfort at least equal, if not
2 quarters and 5 bushels, or somewhat more than ~ ~ quarters ;
so that evecy two acres is capable, at the present average, of
maintaining five human beings, or five times the present inhabit-
ants of the empire. Can there be the smallest doubt, that in a
few years, thill quarter per half acre might be turned into two
quarters per acre, less than the existing average of England ?
Nay, is there not ground to believe that, by grt>ater exertion,
every acre might be made to produce 3 quarters, still less than the
average of many of its counties? The first of these changes would
at once yield food for ()ur times, the last for six time11, the present
inhabitants of the British hies, independent altogether of the W&l!te
lands, &c.; of which, Mr. Cowling states, there are 6,000,000
acres capable of being turned into arable and pasture lands, at
present wholly uncultivated, which, at the same rate, would
maintain nearly 20,000,000 more. So that if thne data are
correct, it will follow that about 120,000,000 of human beings, in
the first view, and 180,000,000 in the second, supposing our
present population to be in round numbers 30,000,000, might be
maintained with ease and comfort from the territory of the Unitro
Kingdom alone ; and supposing them all to be maintained on
wheaten bread, drawn from the arable, and butcher-meat, raised
on the pasture, lands, without any mixture of potatoes, or inferior
food, which is greatly more productive."-Alison, vol. I, p. 48.
"It seems, therefore, in every point of view, to be abundantly
clear, that the true reiation between population and subsistence is
that of cAUSE and EFFECT; that the labour of man's bands is, by
the eternal law of nature, adequate to much more than his own
support; that this superiority of the powers of production over
those of population, is a fundamental law of hill existence, which
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM.
sup('rior, to that of the inhabitants of any other part of the world.
The value of her national funds wat higher in 1792 than at any
other period, and pauperism among the working class was but
little known.
" The productive powers which created this high degree of pros-
perity consisted of temperate manu_. labour and mechanioal and
other scientific powers, which bad been very gradually and slowly
accumulating through the previous periods of her history.
" The manual labour was chielly performed by men, unaided by
D('Vcr fails him in any period of his progress, and that, so far from
thia superiority becoming less in the later stages of society, it is
constantly becoming greater, and that it is owing to that excess
that the accumulation of wealth, arts, commerce, and manufac-
tures owe their existence. It these principles be well-founded, it
mut be at once apparent that all apprehensions of the increase of
population beyond the means of subsistence which the soil affords,
are t'ntirely chimerical in a.ny particular country, until its cultiva-
tion ill ('Vidently approaching the extreme limit of perfection; and
equally visionary in ref('rence to the whole world, until the globe
itself is all cultivatro to its utmost."-lbid, p. 63.
" The habitable terrestrial globe contains 37,673,000 square
geographical miles, of which it is probable that upwards of
20,000,000 are available for the subsistence of the human race.
This is making a very large deduction for the arid deserts of the
torrid, or the frozen mountains of the arctic zone. Now, in the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland there are 91,000
square geographical miles, and on them food is now raised for
nearly 30,000,000 of human beings. If, therefore, the whole world
were peopled in the same proportion as the British Islands, th('re
would be about 220 times as many inhabitants as there now are in
the Unitcd Kingdom, or the globe would contain 6,600,000,000,
being at least eight times its present population. When the vast
superiority of the productive powers of the 110utbern regions of the
globe are taken into ronsideration, as well as the great increase
which it bas been shown the British Islands thl'mselves can be
brought to yi('ld ; wh('n it is recollected that, in almost all the
I!OOthl'rn climatl'll, two crops are obtained in the year from soil
where irrigation can be attain('d; that th(' potato will maintain
"'
Digitized by Coogle
..
444 SOCIAL REFORM.
ihe premature exertion~ of r:hildren, and its whole amount may be
e:-;timated, in 1792, at that of one fourth of the population, which
wa~ then about fifteen million.t.
" The :wil'ntific power at the same period, was probably about
three times the amount of i~ whole manual labour, in which case
the manual labour would bl' equal to the work of 3,750,000 men;
and the scientific three times the amount, or 11,250,000 of men,
which makes the aggregate power equal to the labour of 15,000,000
of men, the population was also 15,000,000. 1'hus the population
and aggregate powersofproduction appear to be equal, or as one to
----------------
three times as many human beings on an equal extent of ground
as wheat, and the banana, according to Humboldt, 25 times u
many, it is not exceeding the bounds of reasonable argument to
hold that Jhis number of 6,600,000,000 might with l'&se oo raisl'd
to 20,000,000,000, being above 20 times the whole probable popu-
lation of tl1e globe at this period.
" It is observed by 1\lr. :Malthp~t1 that, from all the accounts we
have of China and Japan, it may be doubted whether they could
be made to double their subsistenc:e in any period of time. Let us
test the accumcy of thi!l lStatem£>nt by the more colTl'Ct statistical
.information which the researches of modern times have brought to
light. In China, according to Humboldt, the superficial ar£>a
amount;,~ to 463,000 square marine leagues, and the populution1
acc:orcling to him, is 175,000,000. If it were peopled in the ;,~ame
proport:on as lbe British Islands, which contain 2,250 to the square
league, it would contain 980,000,000, or nearly five times it.-J
present inhabitant:!!, according to one estim~~te, and three tim£>s by
another; and if it. were cultivated as Gre::.t Britain 01ight be, as
already shown, on the principle of every third acre being devoted
to the staple food of man, and the remaining two ror his luxu1il's,
it would maintain 2,300,000,000 of inhabitants, or above 12 times
it.'l p1·cscnt population.
" The penirumla of India, according to Humboldt, contains
109,200 square marine leagues, and 1a4.,000,000 of inhabitants.
If these were peopled in the o;ame proportion as lhe British Island:t,
which tontain ~;2JO to the square league, tbry would e;ontuiu about
200,000,000 of inhabit;-nt!l, or nearly uouble their prrsl'nt number;
and if they were cultivated in the same way M the British Island!j
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 445
one. The introduction, however, ofthe improved steam engine, and
spinning m3Chinery, with tht> endle11s variety of mechanical inven-
tions to wl1ich they gave rise, and which have been applied to
almost all the useful purposes and ornamental arts of life, have
created a change iu the productive powers of Great Britain or·the
most extraordinary amount.
"Manual labour has been increased by calling into action the
almost unceasing daily labour of women and childrel;) into manu-
factures, and in consequence, its whole amount may be now esti-
mated at about that of one third of the population, which in 1817
might be on the principles above laid down, it would maintain at
least 1,000,000,000 of so~."-Alison, vol. 1, p. 66_
.
" But it is putting the case much too favourably for Mr. Malthus
and his partisans in the doctrine of the pressure of population
upon subsistence, to select merely for an illustr&tion of the gem•ral
law of nature, those countrit>s, such as China, Japan, or the
British Isles, in which population appears in tl-te densest form that
has yet been recorded ln the history of the world. '1'o restore the
balance, it is but fair to take ~ few instances on tlte otlter side, and
examine the capabilities of human increase which exist jn ilte rich,
but desert, or but imperfectly explored regions of the globe. If we
do this, and sit down in the lodge of t'l:le wayfaring man in the
wilderness, what u stupendous prospect is exhibited on all sides of
the almost boundless capabilities for irtLrease which are afforded to
the human race ! 'J.'he basin of the !'lissi'!sippi alone wntains,
according to Chevalic.r, 1,015,000 square geographical miles, or
more than 11 times the whole surface of the British Isles, and
nearly seven times that of the whole kingdom of France. The
whole of that splendid surface is not only rich and fertile, but
watered with noble rivers, and almost entirely destitute of hills or
sterile spots. If it were peopled in the same proportion as the
llritish Islands, this portion of .!mt>rica alont>, lying between the
· Alleghany and the Rocky mountains, would contain above
3j0,000,000 of inhabitants. South and North America contain
nearly 12,000,000 square miles, of which 6,000,000 may be con-
sidered as susceptible of cultivation, and of productive powers, as
Humboldt has told us, far greater than even the most favourPd
regions of Europe. If these 6,000,000 of square miles were culti-
o;9;ozedbyGoogle ·"'
446 SOCIAL REFORM.
was calculated to be about 18 millions, or iu 25 years to have
increased 3 millions.
"But since the introduction of Arkwright's IUld Watts' improved
mechanism, there ha:i been a rPal addition to the power of creating
wt>alth equal to that of 200 millions of active, stout, wt>ll-trained
labourers, or to more than ten trines the prt>sent population of the
British Isles, or than t!&irtylimes the manual labour which thPy
now supply for tht> production of wealth.
"The following changes have then occurred from 1792 to 1817:
" The population increased from 15,000,000 to 18,000,000
" The manual labour from one-fourth of 15,000,000
to one-third of 18,000,000, or to ... 6,000,000
" The new-created scientific power may be estimated
at the lt>ast equal to the labour of... ... 200,000,000
" The scientific power e11timated in 1792 at three
times the manual labour, was equal to . . 11,250,000
" Which gives for the aggregate productive power in
1817 ... 217,250,000
" Or in proportion to the population in 1817, as twelve and a
fraction to one.
" It follows that Great Britain has thus acquired a new aid from
scientific skill in twenty-five years, which enablt>s her to increue
her riches annually twelve timt>s beyond what she possessed the
power of creating prior to that period, and which she may either
waste in war, dissipate by an unprofitable foreign commerct>, or
apply directly to improve and ameliorate her own population.
" This enonnous addition to tht> productive powl'rs of Great Dri-
vated, so as to produce even the same amount of subsistence to
1,500,000,000. It is no wonder that both Humboldt and General
Miller, when traversing these boundless tracts of fprtile land, where
labour for three days in the week would make any family comfortable,
and the produce of wheat, under even the most wretched culturt',
was nevPr less than seventy, sometimes a hundrt>d fold, should
have been impressed with a sense of the boundless immensity of the
gifts of Nature, and of the unhappy effects of those arbitrary insti-
tutions, and that squalid poverty, which in so wany placrs retains
multitudt•s in indigt•ncP and sull'<•ring, in a world groaning unJn
the rirhrti of nature."-Alison, vol. J, p. H.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 447
tain, is, however, trifting compared to that which she may now
acquire. She has still capital and industry, unemployed or misap-
plied, sufficient to create, annually, an addition to her present
productive powers far exceeding the amount o.f her actual manual
labour.
"Already, with a population under twenty millions, and a manual
power not exceeding six millions, with the aid of her new power
undirected except by blind private interest, she supplies her own
demand, and overstocks with her manufactures all the marketll in
the world into which her commerce is admitted : she.is now using
every exertion to open new markets, even in the most distant
regions, because shefeels she could soon supply the wants of another
world equa11y populous with the earth.
"Instead, howl'ver, of thus contending with othl'r nations to
supply their wants, and thereby, under.the present arrangements
of society, diminish thl' value of their manual labour, and depress
their working classes, she might most advantagl'Ously for herself
and them, extend the knowledge which she has acquired of creating
wealth, or new productive power, to the rest of Europe, to Asia,
Africa, and America."
This productive power is now proportiona11y in-
creased, the lowest estimate being that of 400,000,000.
With powers so stupendous at our command, and
more than half a world yet uncultivated, the objection
of the Malthusians that population has a greater ten-
dency to increase than capital, which has closed the
avenue to systematic efforts for improving the condi-
tion of the poor, would seem to have little force.
But grant, however, for a moment, that a time were
arrived when aU the land should be occupied, and sul-
sistence becoming scarce,-would an educated and
enlightened population, such as the new system would
produce, who had tasted the sweets of plenty, and all
the refined advantages which such plenty could bestov.:,
aJlow of increase to its numbers beyond the point at
which such a state could be maintained-until many
Digitized by Coogle
448 SOCIAL REFORM.
must starve, and all be reduced to poverty? No; the
first lesson instilled into them would be, that all the
feelings, the selfish ones in particular, must be placed
under the guidance of reason, and be exercised only in
accordance with the greatest happiness of all. It is an
absurdity to suppose that all other advantages would
be sacrificed to that of increase without restriction.
Among men alone, and men of cultivated moral and
reasoning powers, is the increase of population not to
be limited to the means of support ? If we were to
permit the brute creation under our charge to multiply
past our means of keeping them, so that they should
perish for want, would not the immorality of it be
sufficiently glaring?
Under a system of community of interests a check
to population, if it should ever become desirable, would
be readily imposed. The Shaker communities, under
the influence of superstition alone, and not of reason,
adopt the children of others, and ha,·e none of their
own. But as society is now constituted, the supposi-
tion of the possibility of imposing moral and prudential
checks to population is an absurdity ; and those who
tell the working classes that they have only to limit
their numbers to raise wages and improve their condi-
tion, can do it only in mockery.
Labour and the means of subsistence ha,·e been ap-
portioned to each other by an All-wise Providence, and
if it does not procure food for all, it is not from want
of productive power in the soil, but from the imperfec-
tion of man's institutions, which preclude him from the
.fruits of such productiveness. It is well ascertained
that each healthy adult individual can produce consider-
ably more than he can consume, if his labour be pro-
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 449
fitably directed. "Taking the best data that can be
had, it appears that the labour of 19 families is required
to produce annually 1160 quarters of all kinds of
grain, being at the rate of 61 quarters by each
family."• According to this estimate the labour' of one
family would support about 15, and these 15 families,
therefore, might be spared for manufactures. The
producth·e powers of machinery in manufactures are
scarcely calculable; in the cotton manufactory, already,
one man by thi~ power performs the work of two or
three hundred, and the whole mechanical power of
the country is estimated at that of 400, according to
some of 600, millions of men,-a power, properly ap-
plied, sufficient to giYe as much leisure to the whole
of the people a~~ is consistent with health and their
best interests; and also to pay off the incumbrances
of the land, the principal and interest of its borrowed
capital. Is there then reason to fear that capital cannot
be made to keep pace with population, under proper
regulations for the production of wealth ?
The next important objection to be considered is,
that community of property would destroy, or at least
weaken, the motives to exertion, and consequently
impede the progress of improvement. It is supposed
that without individual reward there would be no indi-
,·idual effort ; that unless each could appropriate to
himself the fruits of his labour, he would not labour.
It is Yery certain that men would not labour unless
they could enjoy the fruits of their labour, if they were
not compelled, as at present, by dire necessity and the
fear of starvation ; but a community of interests does
not suppose an annihilation of interest.<~ ; far from this:
• Purl<·r, Yo!. I, p. 59.
Kk
Digitized by Coogle
450 SOCIAL REFORld.
it proposes that each shall receive the full reward of
his labour, and if be shall find that by allowing it to
form part of the common stock, all the advantages to
be derived from that produce will be multiplied fifty
fold, be will be most willing that it should do so. The
real reward of labour is not individual property, but
the comforts, conveniences, and enjoyments which that
property will furnish. If men will labour incessantly
for the few necessaries that labour will now procure,
would there not be an extra motive to exertion when
they found that they were working to enrich, not a
master, but themselves; that every effort added some-
thing to their capital, and produced an adequate re-
ward ? It is only supposing them to be sufficiently
enlightened to know their own interest where it so
broadly lies before them,-and this knowledge of
the true bearing of the social principle must be given,
before the working classes will be qualified to act
together in such a co-operation of interests. Societies
on these principles have been established, and such
societies have. failed, because it bas not been sufficiently
borne in mind that a perfect system of co-operation is
impracticable, among people who have derived most of
their habits and feelings from the present state of
society, and whose faculties have been so little deve-
loped as those of the generality of the working classes
of the present day. Ignorant and selfish persons hal"'e
been assembled together expecting to find a paradise,
without any exertion on their own part, without any
knowledge of the principles of social union ; all aiming
at securing the largest share of the fruits with the
smallest share of the work. Such associations failed
of course in their object, and such would fail again.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 451
Until men shall have been better educated, and sur-
rouoded by such circumstances as shall be calculated
to bring into predominant activity the moral and intel-
lectual part of their nature, a modification only of the
true principle of society can be introduced.
But we have not fairly met the objection. It is found
that in those countries where, from adVantages of
climate or other causes, the necessaries of life are
easily attainable, lodging and clothing of the slightest
kind being sufficient, and simple vegetable food being
produced without much labour, that the people ad-
Yance but very slowly in civilization, and rise but
little above the mere animal state. It is true that
" necessity is the mother of invention," and we have
seen that much of what has been supposed to be evil,
was not evil but good, inasmuch as it has been required
to stimulate man to those exertions on which his well-
being depended. Labour was intended as a common
blessing, and it is the selfishness of man alone that
has turned it into a curse ; it is essential to the deve-
lopment of the physical powers, and to the happiness
dependent upon a sound body. The labour of the
mind is also equaUy essential to the health of the mind.
If the Creator had supplied directly all man's phy-
sical wants, there would not bal"e been sufficient motive
for the bodily exercise he requires-if he had been
made all-knowing in his sphere, that is, if all the truth
necessary to his situation upon earth bad been re,·ealed
to him, be would ha'fe had no motive for mental exer-
tion ; a sound mind in a sound body could not then
haYe existed.
The force of the objection under notice with thm~e
who judge of man by what be has been, rather than
Digitized by Coogle""'
452 SOCIAL REFOR~I.
by what be is capable of becoming, lies in the foregoing
reflections ; they only show, howe\"er, that the different
stages of man's progress were necessary towards his
present position in civilization, to de'\"elop all his re-
source~ in the infancy of his higher facultie~. In this
progress moral and intellectual wants have been gene-
rated, and the means of gratifying such wants arc now
attainable by exertion. In the early stages of society,
whether exhibited in the past or present history of tho
world, when the physical wants of man were gratified,
there was nothing left to set him in motion, to ensure
healthy activity of mind and body. Now, however, a
considerable portion of the race is approaching a con-
dition in which they may be safely placed free from
the impulse of these physical wants,-wheu, these
being easily supplied, and as a matter of course, the
highest energies of the mind and body will be excited
by higher wants-Knowledge-Truth. The practical
as well as theoretic culti'\"ation of the Sciences and
Arts-their application to all the purposes that can
benefit mankind-the pursuits of refined taste-the
search after those truths which the book of nature
unfolds in ever new succession to our wondering
gaze-the tracing of God in His works, and the pur-
suit of the higheRt happiness in aiding Him in the
production of the largest sum of enjoyment,-these
will be the motives-powerful moti'fes-to bodily and
mental activity.
But until these moral and intellectual tastes ha,·e
been developed it is not desirable that the physical
acquirements of man should be too easily supplied;
additional leisure would be wasted in animal pursuits
and pleasures. It is to be feared that if the majority of
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 453
the working class were suddenly relieved from half their
labour,-if their wages were at once to be doubled,
that it would be greatly to their own injury and to that
of society ; for they ha\"e as yet no tastes upon which
such time and money could be harmlessly·expended.
Ill-educated as they now are, the strong bond of phy-
sical necessity seems in a measure to be required, to
keep all in their places and to maintain the order
and peace of society. The present social state tends
to keep them always in this depressed mental and
moral condition, since it allows no time for the culti-
vation of any higher parts of their nature ; therefore a
change becomes imperative, which shall not only allow
time for the exercise of all their faculties, but shall
create a public opinion in their own class which shall
compel them to make the proper use of it. A modi-
fication of the community principle would give time
for the exercise of all their faculties, and only remove
the physical necessity to labour, so far as higher mo-
tives to exertion and more refined tastes should render
it desirable.
The present motives to exertion are, on the part of
the majority, physical want ; on that of the minority,
for the most part, individual admncement and personal
distinction (including a man's family always in the
sphere of self) ; it must be granted, therefore, that the
change proposed would weaken and ultimately destroy
such motives to exertion ; but as it would replace them
with higher motives, equally strong, it would not im-
pede, but accelerate the progress of improvement.
Such motives, however, would probably not induce to
the production of all the lnxuries which to the higher
Digitized by Coogle
/
454 SOCIAL RBII'ORM.
orders may seem indispensable; for there is an influ-
ence in luxurious indulgences which, separately consi-
dered, may be innocent, that is opposed to the highest
virtue, and therefore to the highest happiness. Who
that has experienced the happiness derivable from the
exercise of the moral and intellectual powers, does not
feel that luxury tends to enervate both mind and body,
that indulgence is opposed to the activity requisite
to the attainment of the greatest good, and that the
habit of self-denial in little things is necessary to keep
the mind in the most healthy state ? " A scrip with
fruits and herbs supplied, and water from the spring,"
may be rather too poetical a limitation of our physical
wants, but it may possibly be found that the standard
of physical indulgence is now placed too high to coin-
cide with that of the greatest happiness. While society
struggles on divided by conflicting interests, it is im-
possible that the long-sot~ht medium between Epicu-
rean luxury and Stoical privation should be found, for
that very luxury is the distinction of the higher ranks,
to which they mainly trust-and if they could be per-
suaded to resign it, the present direction of labour is
such, that starvation to a large portion of the lower
ranks must follow. Ererything in the present system
of society tends to keep the selfish and lower faculties
predominant.
But it may be asked, would there be sufficient in-
ducement to perform all the disagreeable offices and
duties which society now requires to be fulfilled, since
in a state in which all were equal, no one could expect
another to do that which he was unwilling to do him-
self? At present there is no office, however laborious
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM, 455
and disagreeable, which, if a mere living is to be
gained by it, numberless applicants are not anxious to
undertake. The present system seems as much op-
posed to a vacuum in the labour-market as nature
was thought to be to one in the physical world. The
neces.~ity that so large a portion of the population is
under to find employment, even to live, fills up every
channel for labour with the divisibility of a fluid, and
force of a hydraulic press, developing every latent
power, energy, and resource of man's nature. He
labours in the dark mine, and in the sulphurous breath
of the fiery fumace,-he works with the fine thread of
silk, emulating the spider in the nicety of her touch,-
he searches the deep, and exposes himself to every
variety of temperature in the frigid and torrid zones,-
he braves all the dangers of tempests by sea, and of
perils by land,-in fact, bond slaves, or slaves of
necessity, society has always required for its " hewers
of wood and drawers of water," and can their place be
supplied in a society where all are free ? It will be
supplied by machinery, which will be made to perform
most menial offices. When the object is to save labour,
not to create it, much that is now done by hand will
be executed by machinery. There are very few useful
occupations degrading in themselves, or in which some
superior minds have not been at some time or other
engaged, or in which any person could reasonably
object to be employed for a short period of the day or
of life ; but if any such there were, and necessary to
the well-being of the community, its master minds
would be turned towards inventions and expedients for
shortening such labour, or for making the steam-engine
take the place of man.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~
456 SOCIAL REFORM.
In ta,·our of the present system, Mr. M'Culloch
says-
" W'e incline to think that the great inequality of fortune that
bas always prevailed in this country has powerfully contributed to
excite a spirit of invention and industry among the less opulent
classes. It is not always because a man is absolutely poor that he
is perscvl'ringly industrious and economical : he may have already
amassed considerable wealth, but he continues with unabated
energy to a\·ail himselfofevery means by which he may hope to add
to his fortune, that he may place himself on a level with the great
landed proprietors and those who give the tone to society in all that
rt.>gards t.>xpensl.'. No successful manufacturer or merchant evl.'r c.on-
siders that he has enough till be be able to live in something like
the same style as the most opulent persons. Those immediatl'ly
below the hight.>st b<.'coml', as it wt.>rl', a standard to which the class
next to tht>m t>ndca\·our to t.>levate themselves; the impulse ex-
tending in this way, to the vt.>ry lo\\'"I.'St classt.>s, individuals belong-
ing to which are always raising themselves by indnstry, addrt.>ss,
and good fortunl', to the higbt.>st places in socil'ty. Had there been
less inequality of fortum• amongst us, there would baye been less
emulation, and industry would not haw been so successfully prose-
cutt.>d. It is true that the desire to emulate the great and affiucnt,
by embarking in a lavish course of expPnditure, is often prema-
turcly indulgcd in, and carril•d to a culpable excess; but the e\·ils
thcncl• arising make but a trifling dcdurtion from the benefieial
influence of that powerful stimulus which it givcs to the inventive
faculties, and to that desire to improvl' our condition and to mount
in the scale of socil'ty, which is the source of all that is great and
elevatt>d. Hence \\'"e should disapprove of any ~;ystem which, like
that of the law of equal inhl'titancc rstablishl'd in France, bad any
tendrncy artificially to rqualize fortnnl's. To tbr absence of any
such law, and the prevalence of customs of a totally different cha-
racter, we are inclined to attribute a considerable portion of our
superior Wl'alth and industry."
" We are also disposed to bl'lil've, how paradoxical soevpr such a
notion may appear, ~bat the taxation to which we have bet.>n sub-
jrcted has, hithrrto ut ll'a~t, bl'l'n favourable to tbl.' progress of
industry . It is not enough that a man bas the mrans of rising in
the world within his command; hr must bt- pland in such n situ-
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 457
atiou that unless be avail himself of them and put forth all his
energies, he will be cast down to a lower station. Now this is
what'our taxation has effected : to the desire of rising in the world,
implanted in the breast of every. man, it superadded the fear of
being thrown down to a lower place in society; and the two prin-
ciples combined, produced results that could not have been produced
by either s<'parately. Had taxation been carried beyond due bounds,
it would not have had this effect. But though considerable, its in-
crease was not such as to make the contributors despair of being
able to meet the sacrifices it imposed, by increased skill and economy ;
and the efforts they made in this view were far more than sufficient
for their object, and consequently occasioned a large addition to the
public industry and wealth that would not otherwise have existed."
-M•Culloch, vol. I, p. 615.
Such is the reasoning of that school of Economists
who see their greatest good precisely in that to which
we attribute most of the evil we have been considering.
But the end proposed by their system is production,
without reference to either the good of the producers,
or to that distribution of the produce which shall create
the greatest sum of enjoyment. These are questions
foreign to Political Economy. The " superior wealth"
of such a state is the superior wealth of a few, realized
at the expense of the superior industry, which means
the over wMk of the many. " Efforts to place our-
selves on a level with the great landed proprietors, and
those who give the tone to society in aJI that regards
expense," " the desire to improve our condition and
mount in the scale of society," by the acquisition of
wealth, is pronounced to be the source of all that is
great and elevated. Experience tells us that it is more
often the source of all that is mean and contemptible.
It introduces a false standard of excellence, and makes
that an object of ambition which does· not necessarily
Ll
o;9;ozedbyGoogl ·
458 SOCIAL REFORM.
imply one siugle good or ennobling qualification.
When we consider also that the acquisition of a great
fortune can only be made at the expense of hundreds
of our fellow-beings, such efforts to place ourselves by
the side of our " great landed proprietors," appear to
have anything but a great and elevated tendency, and
a far different test of worth will be required in a
society where the object will be to add to each other's
happiness, not to vie with one another in acquiring
and then in squandering the earnings of the productive
classes. It is however the fact, that the present ruling
motive to exertion is to rise in the scale of society ; an
elevation, as we have said, dependent upon wealth, and
not upon any one great or valuable quality of heart or
mind; on the contrary, the most mean and selfish,
they who have but one thought, and that thought
money-getting, are they who most frequently secure
for themselves an honourable place in the world's
opm10n. From the contracted minds and warped
feelings of such men it is that society takes its tone
as to what is excellent, the best feelings of our nature
are driven into the shade, and selfishness universally
prevails.•
But can a sufficiently strong motive for exertion be
found, when this of personal distinction from individual
• "In Rritain, that individual is fitted to be most successful in
the career of wealth and its attendant advantages, who possesses
vigorous health, industrious habits, great selfishne1$s, a powerful
intellect, and just so much of the moral feelings as to serve for thf'
profitable direction of his animal powers. This combination of
endowments would render self-aggrandizement and worldly-mindt•d
prudence the leading motives of his actions; would furnish intellect
sufficient to give them effect, and morality adequate to restrain
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 459
property is annihilated ? When aU are equal with
respect to property, what then shall raise one man
above another-how shall he distinguish himself--for
dull would be the world without emulation, without
ambition ? Mental and moral excellence will open
the path to eminence, the only eminence to which
rational beings can aspire. The desire of distinc-
.tion, one of the strongest feelings of. our nature,
will no longer be associated with pride of caste, of
family, of wealth, of establishment, of equipage, or of
personal decoration, but it will take the direction of
the higher sentiments, of the moral and intellectual
faculties; each will endeavour to excel in what is in-
trinsically good, in everything that can add to the
happiness of all ; and he who is most forward in the
march of improvement will reap the meed of honour.
A change like this in the objects of ambition will of
itself effect a moral revolution, and here will be found
the most powerful motives, the strongest stimulus to
exertion. It is impossible sufficiently to appreciate
the effects of such a change ; if our present position in
civilization is the result of a limited education upon the
minds of a few, what would be the effect produced if
all should receive the best possible education, and all
them from abuses, or from defeating their own gratification. A
person so constituted would feel his facult~s to be in harmony with
his external condition; be has no lofty aspirations after either good-
ness or enjoyment which he cannot realize; he i!:l pleased to dedi-
cate his undivided energies to the active business of life, and he is
ge1u•rally successful. He acquires wealth and di»tinction, stands
high in the estimation of socit>ty, transmit" comf<JJ"t and abundance
to his family, anJ dies in a good old a.gr."-Combe'K M(lral Philo-
!!O(Ihy, Jl· 205.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL KEWO&JI.
talent l.N! turned towards the adr.mcemeot of the geoeral
welfare.•
It bas been thought that individual advantage is the
only thing that would call out all the power of iBveo-
tion ; bot is it the fact that the adYautages of improl'e-
ments in machinery have often been ~ by the
ingenious inventor, or that the prospect of such adnn-
tages first set him to work ? We know that in the
majority of cases the rel"erse of this has been trne, and
that not the inl"entor, bot some rich capitalist, bas
generally been the gainer by improvements in ma-
chinery. The cotton manufacture, the most rapid in
its progress of any, may furnish os with an example.
The improvements in the cotton machinery were made
principally by Hargreaves, Arkwright, Compton, and
Whitney. M'Culloch mentions the reward of the two
last ; he says, "Mr. Compton did not take out any
patent for his invention, which indeed he only perfected
by slow degrees. In 1812 he was advised to apply to
Parliament for a reward. His claim being entertained,
a Committee of the House of Commons was appointed
• " More discoveries (says Dr. M•Culloch, speakingof llechaoks'
IWJtitutioWJ,) will be made, according to the degree in which more
individuals are placed in a situation to make thf'm. And it is
neither impossible nor at all improbable, that the lustre that now
attaches to the name of Arkwright and Watt, may be dimmed
though it can never be wholly effaced, by the more numerous aod
perhapt1 more important discoveries, that will at no distant period
be made by those who would have passed from the cradle to the
tomb, in the same obscure and beaten track that had been trodden
by their unambitious ancestors, had not the education now so
genl'rally clliJoaed, served to elicit and ripen the seeds of genius,
implanted in them for the general advantage of wankind:'-Dr.
Coopu'l! Political Economy, p. 299.
Digitized b~ Coogle
•
SOCIAL REFORM. 461
to investigate the matter, before which evidence was
brought to prove that upwards of four millions of spin-
dles were employed on Mr. Compton's principle; that
two-thirds of the steam-engines for spinning cotton
turned mules ; and that the value of the buildings, ma-
chinery, &c., employed on the same principle, amounted
to from three to four millions. It is painful to have to
add, that, notwithstanding this conclusive evidence to
the great utility and importance of his invention, the
House of Commons voted Mr. Compton the paltry sum
of £5,000, a pittance hardly adequate to ·pay the ex-
penses of the application !"• And again, " Like too
many inventors, Mr. Whitney enriched others without
materially enriching himself. • • • In 1812, after
the vast importance of the invention had been recog-
nised in all parts of the Union and of the world, Mr.
Whitney petitioned Congress for a renewal of his patent,
or for some indemnity for the losses be had sustained
by its invasion. But notwithstanding a Committee of
Congress made a strong report in his fay-our, the thing
fell to the ground, and Mr. Whitney died, without
having gained anything by an invention by which his
countrymen have already realized a clear profit of 200
millions sterling." t
In this manner docs the world generally reward its
benefactors ; those to whom it bas been indebted the
most, have been favoured the least,-persecuted to the
death, or left in poverty to die by themselves, the world
bas shown itself unworthy of them ; until perhaps
some century afterwards, their services have been
acknowledged "by those that give the tone to society,"
and a monument raised to their honour. But if the
• Vol. 1, p. 6'!5. t Ibid, p. 650.
o;gitizedbyGoogle /
46.2 SOCIAL REFORM.
world were ready to reward with wealth the genius and
invention of those who enrich it by their discoveries,
it is doubtful whether such a stimulus would produce
anything really excellent. In the state of society we
contemplate, all this must necessarily he different; there
each would receive his reward-the only reward the
great and good ever covet,-in the consciousness of the
happiness be would be the means of bestowing on all
around, and in the respect and distinction that must
always follow when every one is Yalued in proportion
to the happiness be communicates.
The reason why the discoverers of new truths, they
who by their writings and inventions have shown them-
selves in advance of their kind, so seldom meet with a
due appreciation until such appreciation comes too late
to be of service to them, and that their reward is con-
fined to their own breasts, in philanthropic feeling and
consciousness of successful talent, is, that individual
interests are everywhere mixed up with prevailing errors,
and are concerned -in maintaining them. There is no
error however great, no abuse howe,·er monstrous, hut
the interests of some are im·olved in it, and in the
selfish clamour of these against all improvement we
find the cause of the so frequent ill-requital of talent.
But where all interests are one, where all know that
suffering proceeds principally from error, truth will be
Jo,·ed for its own sake, and the elicitation of a new
truth will be an indisputable claim to distinction. When
the admntagc of no party is connected with error, when
it is not how a question affects the interests of the
Church, or of the Law, or of the Medical Profession, or
of the Gon•rnment, or of the Aristocracy, or of any of
the otlwr s<'paratc aiHl fr<'ftll<'ntly <"onfliC'Iing intcrc~ts
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 463
into which society is now divided, but how it affects
the interests of all-then truth will be fairly discussed,
and in such circumstances probably found-giving rise
to an enlightened public opinion.
There are few questions bearing directly upon the
welfare of man, that may not be subjected to the test
of experiment,-a truth which, although acknowledged
in physical, has still to be recognised in moral science.
Morality is, however, a no les!l inductive science than
Chemistry or Medicine, and when taken from the
guardianship of a class who have reduced its most im-
portant precepts to their own low standard, it will
assume aU the importance of a regular science, the
inductions of which may, as in all other cases, be sub-·
jected to the test of experience. Morality we have
defined to be the science which teaches men to live
together in the most happy manner possible; but man-
kind are still undecided, except on a few obvious points,
as to its leading axioms. They agree that they should
do no murder, that tl1ey should not steal, nor bear
false witness, nor break through a few uther positive
precepts ; but upon most of the questions bearing upon
the happiness of man, their opinions differ, being
borrowed generally from those of the chss or caste
in which they have been educated, and partaking of
all the various degrees of latitude from the Quaker';;
to the Soldier's, from those of the Radical to those of
the ultra Tory. When freed from the trammels of
interested motives, these questionR would aU soon be
decided by experience, as questions of family economy
are now decided; whereas, in our present condition,
morality must sti11 be subjected to the influence of
priestcraft.
/
Digitized by Coogle
464 SOCIAL REFORM.
By a public opinion formed upon the tme principles
of morality, the community must necessarily be go-
verned ; for no one, where all were as friends and
brothers, well known to each other, could resist such
moral sanction. Now, however, the ,-icious can hide
themselves deep in the dregs of society, in the haunts
of crowded cities, where the public opinion that acts
upon them is that of their associates, congenial spirits
from whom their own vices are reflected ; from such
sinks of infamy arise deleterious influences, corrupting
the moral atmosphere even as fevers are generated by
physical impurities. There is not a want, however
selfish or depra,·ed, or a vice which contaminates
society, of which individual interest and necessity does
not drive some one into furnishing the means of gra-
tification.
It bas also been objected to communities of united
interests that they would tend to engender too great
an uniformity of character, thus doing away with the
variety on which happiness so much depends. It is to
be hoped that universal love and uniformity in all good
feelings, would be the result of such associations, but
the difference in intellectual faculties would be as the
vast variety of directions to which they would be turned.
Character depends upon organization as well as upon
surrounding circumstauces, and the organization of an
indh·idual would depend upon the predominant faculties
(predominant in activity,) of the parents; and the
faculties that should predominate in activity in the
parents would depend upon their leading pursuits. AII
the differences in character, therefore, that could be
.desirable would exist, for each mind would take a
peculiar bent from its own peculiar combination of
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 465
itJtellcctual powers and the different pursuits to which
this would lead.
Again, it is objected, that if such associations were
to become numerous, if the 26 millions of inhabitants
of the United Kingdom were divided into 13,000 of
these families on a large scale, competition would still
spring up between the separate establishments. This
is true, but it would not be attended with the same evil
effects, either physical or moral, as between individuals.
The competition we deplore is that which makes the
interest of one man opposed to the interest of every
other ; neither i:~ it so much the competition among
capitalists, as the competition among the workmen for
labour, which bas the effect of keeping them at the
starving point. It could never be the interest of en-
lightened communities to run down the value of each
other's goods in the same market; they would find a
means, therefore, through a Board of Trade, or other-
wise, of preventing it. Competition in knowledge, in
literary eminence, in the advancement of the arts
and sciences, and in everything that tends to raise
and refine mankind, would be healthy and desirable
competition. Competition in the production of wealth,
where all would be equal proprietors, might not be
IDJUnous. All the good effects of competition or emu-
lation, to which political economists attach so much
importance, would be retained, unmixed with the evil
which, in the present state, so greatly predominates.
Many other objections are raised, as there are also
to everything that is new amongst those with whom
precedent is law, but they do not appear to be deserving
of notice. They are most of them objections, not
against the prineiple:; of co-operation, hut against the
111m
Digitized by Coogle
/
466 SOCIAL REFORM.
plans that ha\·e been proposed for the practical carrying
out of such principles, and which objections may be
well-founded or not without affecting our argument,
since experience only can perfect the requisite ma-
chinery. If the principles of co-operation are sound,
and it can be proved that a community of interests is
alone in accordance with the moral law, while the con-
flicting, individualized, interests of society at present
are opposed to it, we may feel perfectly satisfied that
though the attempt to carry such principles into prac-
tice may have failed, and should again fail, even to the
hundredth time, the cause of such failure must be
looked for in some imperfection in the practical ar-
rangement't made for the purpose.
We do not the less appreciate the power of the steam-
engine, because at one time it could be made to work
only a common pump; neither is it less certain that
machinery is fitted to be the sen·ant of man to help
him to do his work, because it now competes with the
operative, and obliges him to work harder than before
its invention.
Objections to the practical carrying out of the plan,
if such there are, and well-founded, experience will
soon remedy ; and for the many others still unnoticed,
they are principally the offspring of pure selfishne.qs,
and are not likely to have weight with those who truly
sympathise with the evils that press so bearuy upon the
industrious classes, and who are sincerely and earnestly
seeking for a remedy. It is heart-sickening to bear
the puling objections of this sort that are brought for-
ward against a system, that bas for its object no less
than the lifting from the shoulders of the country the
immense mass ofevil which bends her to the earth, and
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 467
the raising of the condition of each individual to a
level, so far as regards happiness, with all that man
has yet attained. One demurs to the idea of giving up
one little individual advantage, another to that; one
has been accustomed to this luxury, another could not
do without that ;-why, then, in Heaven's name, keep
them-no one seeks to deprive you of them ; but stand
not in the way of those who, rather than see their
fellow-creatures starved to death by thousands every
year,-consigned body and soul to destruction,-would
prefer the giving up of some one or two exdusive
enjoyments-sacrifices which, although they might be
called for at the present moment, must in the end be
compensated a hundred fold.
Such is a brief sketch of the principles upon which a
thorough Social Reformer would base his measures for
the amelioration of the condition of the people ; they
appear to be founded deep in the immutable laws of
man's constitution and of truth ; and if that be the case,
nothing can ultimately prevent their being carried into
practice. The necessity for some change is evident on
all sides. At the present moment, (Jan. 1840,) tens
of thousands of the working classes are out of employ-
ment, declaring in some places face to face with the
constituted authorities, that the law of necessity, the
law of nature, is stronger than the law of man; and
that rather than starve in the midst of plenty, they will
help themselves from the abundance that everywhere
surrounds them. It is felt that the cry of the labouring
orders for employment must not be slighted ; and how
is it answered? Petitions are sent to the Head of the
State to patronize this foolery and that foolery, that
the artizans may get brcad,-brcad dependent upon
Digitized by Coogle"'
socllL JlEFOil)(.
a sligiJt factitiou.~ demand from the capitalist, whicb
a~tracts but a drop from the ocean of their need-
not upon the means which exist of setting eT"ery one
to work, and upon the capability of each to produce
three or four times as much as be can consume. And
if a T"oice is raised to say bow all may be fed at the
expense of their own labour, and not upon charity, it
i.'4 di-;regarded and drowned amidst the bigotry, intoler-
ance, and ignorance of the so-called Religious world.
" A fet-ling ,·ery generally exists that tbe COIIditioa and d.ispo-
Kiti•Jn of the working classes is a rathl'r omiDou matter at presenl;
tht lflJmething ought to be said, eomething ought to be door, ia
r•·g;m) w it. And surely, at an epoch of history when the ' Na-
titmal Petititm cart!! it~;elf in waggons along the streets, and is pre-
III'J•t•·d bound "·ith iron hoops, four ml'n bearing it,' to a Bl'formed
Jlou~c of Commons ; and Chartism numbered by the million and
l•alf, taking nothing by its iron-hooped petition, breaks out into
hrid:IJattt, cht·ap pikes, and even into sputtl'rings of conflagration,
1111.-IJ very general feeling cannot be considered unnatural ! To us
iwlividually thi11 matter appear!!, and has for many years appeared,
''' lw the mo~t ominouli of all practical matlt'nl whate\·er; a mattl'r
ill r•·~;:trd to which if l!Oml'thing be not done, SOIDI'thing wiJl do
iLK•·If one day, and in a fashion that will please nobody. The time
;,. w·aJiy come for acting in it, how much more for consultation
lthout acting in it, for speech and articulate inquiry about it."
" IJ•·liriou11 Chartism will not have raged entirt>ly to no purpost>,
a~ iu•l<:t·d 110 earthly thing does 110, if it have forct>d all thinking mt>n
of tlw ccJmmunity to think of this vital matter, too apt to be O\"l'r-
loohd otherwiHc. 1H the condition of the English working people
wrong ; HO wrong that rational working men, will not, and even
Khould not rt•st quiet under it? A most grave case, complex beyond
nil otht·r" in the world ; a case when•in Botany Bay, constabulary
rural polir:P, and su('h like, will avail but little."
" W" have hPard it a11hd, why Parliament throws no light on
lhiH 'Jili'Htion of the Working Classes, and the condition or dispo-
Hiliuu tlu·y arc in? Truly, to a rl'mote obsrrvrr of Parliamentary
l'''H''''llln· it twt·m~ !!llrpri~:~ing1 espl'cially in late rrformrd timrs, to St'e
Digitized by Google
SOCIAL REFORM. 469
what space this question occupies in the Debates of theNation. Can
any other business whatsoever bt> so pressing on lt>gislators P A Re-
formed Parliament, one would think, should inquire into popular dis-
contentshefore they get the length of pikes and torches! For what
end at all are men, Honourable Members and Reform Members, sent
to St. Stephen's, with clamour and effort; kept talking, struggling,
motioning and counter motioning P The condition of the grt>at
body of people in a country is the condition of the country itself:
this you would say is a truism in all times ; a truism rather pressing
to get recognized as a truth now, and be acted upon in these times.
Yet read Hansard's Debates, or the morning papers, if you have
nothing to do. The old grand qut>stion, whether A is to be in office
or B, with the innumerable subsidiary questions growing out of that ;
courting paragraphs and sulfrages for a blessed solution of that:
Canada question, Irish Appropriation question, West India question,
Quetm's Bt>dchamber qut>stion; Game Laws, Usury Laws; African
Black!!, Hill Coolies, Smithfield Cattle, and Dog-carts,-all manner
of questions and snbjects, except simply this, the Alpha and Omega
of all ! Sur£>ly llonourable Members ought to speak of the Con-
dition-of-England question too-Radical Members above all ;
friends of the people; chosen with effort by the people, to interpret
and articulate the dumb deep want of the people ! To a remote
observer they set>m oblivious of their duty. Are they not then, by
tradt>, mission, and express 11.ppointmrnt of themselves and otht>rs, to
speak for the good of the British nation ? Whatsoever great British
interest can the least speak for itst>lf, for that bl'yond all they are
called to speak. They are either speakers for that great dumb
toiling class which cannot speak, or they are nothing that one can
well specify.
"Alas, the remote observer knows not the nature of Parliamrnts:
how Parliaments, extant there for the British nation's sake, find
that they are extant withal for their own sake ; how ParliamPnts
travt>l so naturally in their deep-rutted routine, common-place worn
into ruts axle-drep, from which only strength, insight and cou-
rageous generous exertion can lift any Parliament or vehicle ; how
in Parliaments, Reformed or Unreformed, there may chance to be a
strong man, an original, clever-sighted, great-hearted, patient, and
valiant man, or to be none such ;-how, on the whole, Parliaments,
lumbering along iu tbrir df'f'JI rut>~ of common-placf', find, as 110
/
Digitized by Coogle
470 SOCIAL REPORM.
many of us otherwise do, that the ruts are axle-deep, and the tra-
velling very toilsome of itself, and for the day the evil thereof suf-
ficient ! what Parliaments ought to have done in this business,
what they will, can or cannot yet do, and where the limits of their
faculty and culpability may lie, in regard to it, were a long investi-
gation, into which we need not enter at this moment. What they
have done is unhappily plain enough ;-hitherto on this most na-
tional of questionH, the Collective Wisdom of the nation has availed
us as good as nothing whatever."•
It is upon this condition-of-England question that
we are treating ; and what may be said to be the parti-
cular state of this question at the present moment?
One of peculiar difficulty and distress; a distress, the
periodical return of which is a necessary adjunct of the
present system. If the landowning interest may be con-
sidered prosperous, the manufacturing population, now
greatly exceeding the agricultural, has for some time
been borclering upon starvation and ruin. As we have
previously seen, this class of labourers depend largely
upon foreign markets for the sale of their produce, and
any derangement abroad causes almost instantaneous
distress at home. Thus the peculiar circumstances of
the United States of America, in 1836, caused our
exports to that part of the world to fall from about
thirteen millions to three. Of course there wa.<:J less
demand for the labour of our manufacturing population,
and a strong competition for what work remained to be
done, was immediately commenced among operatives,
manufacturers, and merchants, all willing to give their
services almost for nothing, rather than stand still.
The loss of all profit to all parties concerned was the
consequence, without a corresponding advantage to
any one.
* Carlylt•'!; Charti:~m, p. r..
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 471
Again, a bad harvest in 1838 obliged us to send our
gold abroad for food; the Bank of England was com-
pelled to raise its discounts from 4 to 6 per cent. in
order to bring it back again ; and since it has become
the system of trade to make very large returns at very
small profits, and much business is done upon credit,
this raising of discounts absorbed all profit, if it did
not create a loss upon the mercantile operations in
course of transaction. Under such circumstances
it followed, of course, that our merchants would restrict
their trade, and the manufacturers be obliged to limit
their production, by putting their establishments
throughout the country upon half-work; when, as we
have seen, the operatives were barely earning a sub-
sistence before. Although good<J may not be in demand,
yet manufacturers cannot stop their machinery, and
shut up their manufacturing establishments, without
great loss, therefore production to a certain extent
must go on, and the competition for custom is suffi-
cient to deprive all parties engaged, either in the manu-
. facture or sale of such produce, of any return for their
labour; and it is probable that, in most instances, for the
last two years, the trade of the country has been done at
a loss. This is not an hypothetical case, but a fact well
known to all mercantile men, and who are now seeking
a remedy in th~ revision of our Tariff', and in measures.
that shall increase the cheapness of production, and
enable us to command additional markets abroad. This
may be effectual as a remedy for a time ; but unless that
time be taken advantage of to introduce more radical
changes-changes affecting the system altogether-
thirty years hence will find us in a worse condition
than we are in at present. A much less period will
,-
Digitized by Coogle
472 SOCIAL REFORM.
suffice to increase our productive powers so that the
actual markets of the world shall be filled with our
goods, and yet it will probably find the numbers of our
operath·es increased in greater proportion still, and
starving, as now, for want of new markets for their
labour.
If then the tendency of the present system is as
here represented-if it is liable to periodical accessions
of great distress to the operatil"es, and killing anxiety
to the manufacturer and salesman, whether wholesale
or retail, is there any plan that a really practical man,
neither an enthusiast nor a visionary, can listen to for
altering for the better such a state of things ? Is the
change in the constitution of society, which we have
been advocating, to be considered as anything but the
dream of a philanthropist,-is it, or any part of it, really
practicable ? We ha\·e seen that it is in accordance
with the constitution of man and with the principles of
morality-is there any thing then in the state and cir-
cumstances of the world at the present time which
forbids such a change? Experience has shown us that
all great rerolutions, to be permanent and efficacious,
must be the produce of time ; they cannot be brought
about suddenly; for as the body changes its parts
gradually, in the process of waste and reproduction, so
also the mind requires to undergo a similarly gradual
process in any great alteration of feeling and opinion.
It is impossible to go into the world and see the igno-
rance and physical destitution of the mass, the gross
selfishness of the middle and upper classes, without
receiring the conviction that a complete social change,
such as we have skctthed, is, in the present state of
feeling, quite impossible. The minds of the existing
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL B.:&POB.M. 473
generation are formed upon an entirely different inodel
to that which will be required for society upon the new
prin<:iple. Whether we go into town or country, we
must be &truck with the fact that there is scarcely a
single person with whom we meet, who would be a fit
member. Individual advancement to wealth and ag-
grandizement is reckoned among the first of virtues,
and the man who can accumulate the largest amount
of the blessings intended by God for all, is most
respected by mankind.
What then is to be done, if, as we have shown, all
other measures are inefficacious for the raising perma-
nently of the condition of the people, and this the true
one, we admit to be at present impracticable? To its
full extent it is so undoubtedly,-but one step is made,
and a most important one, when we know what is
required ; much may then be done in preparing the
world for its gradual introduction, " for the truths
that have to fight their way in the present generation,
become axioms universally adopted half a century
hence."• We find everywhere the marks of progres-
sion,-Conservative principles, and Reforming princi-
ples, although apparently opposed, are all working for
good. The barriers that have separated nation from
nation are being gradually removed, increased freedom
of intercourse and of trade is ~estro}ing national en-
mities and national jealousies, and substituting charity
and toleration for differing customs, manners, and
opinions, and binding together the nations of the earth
into one large family. The enlightened in all coun-
tries now perceive " that human impro¥ement and
national prosperity, are not promoted in any particular
• Dr. Coopt>r.
N n
o;gitizedbyGoogle /-
474 SOCIAL Jl:UORM.
nation, by depressing every other, but by aiding, en-
couraging, and promoting the welfare of every nation
around us. That we are all in our tum customers
to each other, and that neither man nor nation can
become wealthy by impoverishing his customers. The
richer other nations are, the more they are enabled
to purchase, the cheaper 1:1\ey can afford to sell, the
more impro\"ed they become in all the arts of liYing,
in all intellectual acquirement, in everything desirable
for other nations to imitate or improve upon. That
if other nations become powerful by our assistance,
we also of necessity become wealthy and powerful by
our intercourse with them ; and that peace and good
neighbourhood are the means of mutual happiness
among nations as among individuals."• Religious and
philanthropic feelings, although misdirected, are yet
becoming strengthened in the exercise they receive
even in this misdirection and abuse ; and the world is
gradually and surely preparing for a better, more ge-
nerally prosperous, and happy state of society. The
co-operative principle is gradually raising its bead in
the shape of Benefit and Friendly Societies, Clubs,
and various other forms, above the turmoil of indit'i-
dual conflicting interests, and much may be done by
those who appreciate its importance to accelerate its
progress.t ·
In the meantime we ought to give our aid to all
• Cooper's Political Economy, p. 209.
t " Clubs form a main feature of the social system of the nchl'r
classe11 of the metropolis. Formerly they were merely the resort of
gamblers, politicians, or bon viva1u-now they have assumed a
more intellt'Ctual character ; eVl'ry calling has its peculiar club-
from the soldier's to the scholar's. The effect which this multipli-
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 475
useful schemes for increasing the religious, moral, and
secular instruction of the people ; to everything that
tends, even temporarily, to improve their physical
condition : to urge on the remoYal of the taxes upon all
necessary articles consumed or used by the poor, and
the placing of the public burdens upon those who are
much better able to bear t~em, in the shape of property
taxes : to diSseminate industriously among the people
a knowledge of their own constitution, and of the
political and moral laws upon which the new system of
co-operation must be fouuded : and to teach them that
they must depend upon themselYes, and not upon those
who have represented them as doomed of God to their
city of clubs ha.<t produced is salutary in the extreme ; it has lwgun
already to countt>ract th~ solitary disposition of the natives; it
opens a ready intercourse with .our foreign guests, who are usually
admitted as honorary memlwrs; prejudices are rubbed off, aud by
an easy and unl'Xpensive proceiiS, the most domestic or tl~e most
profes11ionallt>aru the views of the citizen of the world. At these
resorts the affairs of the public make the common and natural topic
of conversation, and nothing furthers the growth of public principle
like the discussion of public matters. It is said that clubs r<'mler
men less domestic: No, they only rt'ader them ll'ss unsocial; tht>y
form a cheap and intl'llectual relaxation, and (since in most uf the
recent clubs the custom turns to neither gambling nor in<'bri<'ty,)
they unbend the mind even while improving it. But these are the
least advantages of clubs ; they contain the gPnu of a mighty
improvt>ment in the condition of the humblt>r cla!IS<'S. I for<'!l<'e
that those classes will, sooner or later, adopt institution:~ so pecu-
liarly favourable to the poor. By this sp<'ei(•s of co-opPration, the
man of £200 a-year, can, at present, command th<' noblt>r luxuri(•s
of a man of .£5000; airy and capacious apartrul'nts, the decPnt
comforts of the table, lights, fires, books, and iutcllt>ctunl aodcty.
The samt> principle on a humbll'r scale would procure t ht> samI'
advantage" for the shopkcept'r or the artizan, and tlw nmn of £.')()
a-year might obtnin the same comforts as thr man ol £.i00. If
Digitized by Coogle
476 SOCIAL REFORM.
present moral and physical degradation, and hal"e
therefore left them in it, thinking any question of
greater moment than this, of--What is their condition,
and what uught it to be?
There are various ways in which the people may be
taught to combine for their own advantage, and the
co-operative principle be partially carried out. Some
account of its past workings and present progress will
be found in the Appendix. That which appears to
be in the first place desirable, is the establishment
of a model society,-a sort of fW1'11U)l school for the
guidance of others, for though the working classes
may not be sufficiently enlightened to carry out the
the exp<'riment were made by the middle and lower classes in a
provincial town, it could not f~~oil of succus, and amonc \ts ;\dvan-
tages would be the check to early and imprudent marriages, and
the growth of that sense of moral dignity which is ever produced
by a perception of the highe:r comforts of life.
"Probably, from the success of this exJWriment, yet newer and
more comprehensive results would arise. A gentlPman of the name
of Morgan, in a letter to the Bishop of London, proposn the sch!'me
of clubs, not for individuals only, but families-a plan which might
include educat!on for children and attendance in sickness. Managed
by a committee, such clubs would remove the possibility of impro-
vidence and unskilful management in individuals. For professional
and literary men, for artists, and the poorer gentry, such a sch!'me
would prest'nt the greatest advantages. But the timl' for its adop-
tion is not come : two great moral checks still exist in our social
habits-the aristocratic pride not of being lll fl)e/1 r;? as our neigh-
bours, but of seeming better of, and that comml'rcial jealousy of
appropriation which makes us so proverbially like to have a Atmu!
l!f our oten. If ever these feelings decrease among us, I have little
doubt that, from the institution of clubs will be dated a vast social
revolution. But France, rather than England, is the proper arena
for the first experiment of Mr. Morgan·~ system."-England and
the Engli"h, by Buh"f'r, p. 152, vol. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 477
principle of united interests fully, yet a sufficient num-
ber of them may be selected from their body to make a
successful experiment. The efforts, therefore, of all
who wish to improve the present state of things, and
who have any faith in the principle itself, should be
directed to giving a practical proof of its truth; for
when once this practicability is demonstrated, the pro-
gress of co-operation may be much more rapid than
even the most sanguine would suppose. When the loco-
motive made its first successful trip between Manches-
ter and Liverpool, and proved the practicability and
utility of railroads, all difficulties to their farther exten-
sion were overcome, capital ftowed in that direction,
and the country, within a few years, bas been inter-
sected with railways from one end to the other.
In making this experiment great care must be taken
to im'ite such among the operatives to associate in it,
as shall be able to give undoubted evidence of their
industry, sobriety, and genera! good conduct, and who
are well acquainted with the principles of co-operation;
and until they have been well practised in these prin-
ciples, and have given proof that they are fit to govern
tbem~elres, they must not be left to their own resources
and guidance, but the government of the society must
partake of the nature of a despotism. We are much
more the creaturc8 of habit than we are aware of until
we attempt to break its chains ; and the difficulties of
those who ba,·e first to practicalize a new form of
society must be ,·ery great; they will require all the aid
of the moral and intelligent, and the experience of the
most enlightened, with the use of capital for a time.
It wou1d, perhaps, not be desirable to carry out, in the
first instance, the principle of community of property
Digitized by Coogle ,.~
478 SOCIAL BD'ORM.
to its full extent, but to allow a certain proportion of
the joint earnings to each for individual purposes. This
need not interfere with co-operation in expenditure in
all cases where it would effect a saving, and would
allow time for the feeling of personal liberty to accom-
modate itself to the true principle of its action.
An establishment of this sort would assume at first
the character of a joint-stock company for the produc-
tion of wealth ; and when it should be demonstrated
that it would afford good security, and pay 5 or 6 per
cent. for the interest of money, capital would not bo
wanting to form such companies as fast as the people
could be prepared to join them. The first, placed upon
a firm basi~, would be a stock from which to graft
others ; members would be trained and children edu-
cated there to carry out the system in new societies.
Almost everything has yet to be done, as we have just
remarked, to practicalize the Rcheme, and much will
have to be paid for experience ; but when once a form
has been established, when once custom can be brought
to bear upon the habits of the members, the greatest
difficulty will be overcome. Use and education ha'fe
made the present form of society so f.'\miliar, that we
are even unconscious of the restraint~ to which it
subjects us; we are familiarized to our bonds until we
fancy ourseh·es at perfect liberty, and have not even a
wish to be released. But every restraint imposed by a
new social state would be galling because not cus-
tomary, and we should appear to lose liberty when even
we were gaining it. The greater part of the actions of
ere>n the most intelligent are automatic, and the num-
ber of these increase with the diminution of intelligence,
so that the mo::t neces::a ·y thing for tho~e dasses who
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 479
have at present the least cultivation of intellect, is an
established and authorized form of proceeding. When
this bas once been worked out, the training of mem-
bers would proceed rapidly; eYen the least intelligent,
the idle, or the morally refractory, drafted in among
the moral, the industrious, the intelligent, would soon
feel the surrounding influence, and would be insensibly
subdued, like the wild elephant between his tamed
associates.
Although, therefore, any sudden change to a better
state of society is impracticable, and even undesirable,
yet a gradual change to a state in which all may enjoy
the advantages now confined to a few, is not a mere
visionary speculation, but may be accomplished if real
philanthropists will turn their efforts in this direction.
By their aid, personal and pecuniary, the working
classes may in time work out their own temporal sal-
vation, even without Legi.<~lati\·e aid; and it is e¥en
perhaps to be desired that they should not receive any
support of this kind, except that which is given on the
principle of " laissez faire." We admit to the full
amount all the difficulties with which the working men
must contend, but they only who can overcome such
difficulties without the assistance of Government, will
be fit members for the first communities of united in-
terests, since a higher than common average of industry,
morality, and intelligence, will be essential to their
success, and the very difficulties to be surmounted will
help to form such characters. We admit that Parlia-
ment, could time be spared fi·om its other important
labours, and should it ever feel disposed to assist in
earnest the people, may do much towards preparing
for such a change, in the spread of Education, so far
Digitized by Coogle-
480 SOCIAL REFORM.
as education is possible in the present condition of the
poor ; and in promoting the carrying out of the co-
operative principle in various ways by which the phy-
sical comforts of the working orders might be much
increased, and better opportunity be afforded for their
instruction.•
• The "Drainage of Buildings Bill," founded on the Report of
the House of Commons " on the Health of the Poorer Classes
in Large Towns," and intro,Iuced in an admirable spt>ech by the
Marquis of Normanby, February 12, 1841, is one of the few
practical measurE's of this kind. We quote from the excellent
speech of Lord Ellenborough on that occasion :-" He believed
the moral and rt>ligious improvement of the poor to be totally incon-
sistent with their physical degradation. To build churches, to build
school-houst>s, and to t>mploy clergymen and schoolmasters, was in
his opinion utterly idlE', while the physical wants and dt>stitution of
the poor continued as dt>basing as they now were. We bt>gan too
far from the real source of the evil, unless we placed the poor man
in such a position that he might have some self-respect-that he
might have something like a homt>. The objt>ct of their legislation
should be-what perhaps this Bill would do ultimately-to secure a
home for the poor wan. He (and he now spoke only of the manu-
facturrr,) was drivt>n from his wretchE'd place of abode, and almost
compelled to spend his evenings in the gin-shop; his wife followt>d
his example. What should be donE', if tht>y wished to improve the
general condition of this man, was, to enable his wife to prE'pare
for him a home wht>re his children might welcome him on his return
from the day's labour, and where he might hope for some degree of
comfort, and enjoy some share of domestic happiness. Without this
all attempts to improve the moral and religious condition of the
poor were absurd. They must not shut their eyes to the fact that
a great practical revolution had taken place in the state of society
during the last half century. The proportion betwt>en the manu-
facturing and agricultural population had been altogetht>r reversed,
and with this change was altogether changed the structure of
society. The landed proprietor w.as acquainted with the poor man
who lived in his immediate neighbourhood; he vi11itcd his cottage,
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 481
The plan which we here advocate for the amelioration
of the condition of the people, or Social Reform, does
not depend, therefore, on the Legislature to carry it
into effect; it would interfere with no vested rights,
injure no existing interests, and require no co-operation
but tl1at which would be perfectly voluntary ; and its
aim would be to let the new system of society gradually,
in the course of generations or ages, work out the old.
As such communities extended, and furnished them-
selves with comforts, labourers would be gradually
withdrawn from the labour market, and this would have
the effect of raising the wages of those that remained,
attended to his comforts, and took an interest in all his concerns.
Farmers took an intl•rest in the weD-being of their labourers and
servants, and the poor cottagers were full of kindly feelings towards
those who were in a similar condition to them~relves. There was
one bond of connexion between the agricultural population, which
made them regard each other as members of one family. But it
was otherwise with the manufacturing districts. There they saw
beside great wealth the greatest possible mi11ery, with no sort of
connexion between the classes so distinguished. Nothing was done,
except in a few rare instances, by those who derived benefits from
the exertions of the labouring manufacturer, for his moral improve-
ment. This was a fearful state of society, and what they bad to
guard against was its continuance, and be was quite sure it behoved
Parliament to employ every remedy in its power to improve the
condition of that class of the community to which he had just re-
ferred. It was by good fortune, and through the blessing of Provi-
dence, that we had hitherto avoided a pc11tilence and the plague.
The Noble Marquis might have been deterred in the framing of
his measure by an apprehension of interfering with what were called
\·ested rights. He (Lord EUenborougb,) did not think that reason
sufficient. No man should be at liberty so to abuse hi:~ property as
to atTect the health and enrlangrr the lives of the community ; and
though he admitted that avaricf' bad its rights, humanity had its
rights also, and those ought at least to be equally respected. They
oo
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
482 SOCIAL REFORM.
and therefore of improving their condition at the same
time, and indirectly by the same means, as that of the
others. In th~ course of a generation or two the
members would not only become in a much higher
degree moral and intelligent, but polished and refined ;
they would possess advantages which the present state
of society cannot afford even to the most wealthy, and
they would then be joined by those who could have no
interest in joining them at their first establishment, and
who, from education and habit, prefer the individual
freedom and comfort which the few can even now
enjoy. The aristocracy of such societies would be
bad of late increased in population and wealth, but these alone
were not the certain fruits of national prosperity and strength.
That which was more important was, that wealth should be so dis-
tributed as to elevate the moral condition of the people, and secure
the union of all classes of the community. We might look with
pride to the result of the last census-to the extension of our com-
merce and the increase in imports and exports ; but if we bad a
demoralised population, increasing every day, and increasing in
wretchedness, there was a rottenness at the heart of the structure
of society, which must soon extend to the Constitution itself. The
change effected in the structure of society by the proportion between
the manufacturing and agricultural population being reversed, was
in itself a great revolution. In the course, he might say, of a few
years, this greatest of innovations had been effected, and it prac-
tically changed the whole working of the Constitution and Govern-
ment of this country. He called the serious attention of her
Majesty's Government to this subject, for he was sure that some
measure should be at once adopted to raise the physical condition
and situation of the manufacturing poor. If that were not done,
he agreed entirely with the Right Reverend Prelate that, however
excellent their laws, however virtuous their d('signs, however good
their principles might be, they would never produce that moral and
religious improvement in the character of the people which they
desired."
Digitized by Coogle
SOCIAL REFORM. 483
nature's aristocracy of high talent and good feeling,
and the difference of conditions simply that which is
dependent upon the difference of ag~. The young,
up to a certain age, would be employed in serving
the rest ; another period of years would emancipate
them from other offices and kinds of labour, and so on,
until after a fixed term of years bodily labour in the
service of the community would be dispensed with
altogether, and the members who bad attained to such
an age only would be eligible for its governors. No
one would require of another to do what he would
during one or other of these periods have been un-
willing to do himself; and, as we have said before,
machinery would soon be made to perform the more
irksome and disagreeable kinds of labour.
Possessing everything within tbemselves essential to
comfort and happiness, such societies would be almost
independent of the world without them-which might
continue if it pleased the game of Kings and Parlia-
ments-of Garters and long-sounding titles, and sub-
mit to the reign of fashion as heretofore, but na longer
at the expense of the working men, who would now be
labouring for themselves in supplying those wants that
are really essential. The moral strength of such co-
operative associations would everywhere be sufficient
to protect them from being plundered either by force
or by Jaw, and ultimately to change the face of society
as it now exists, turning shadows into realities, and
making man, what his Creator intended he should be
when he endowed him~not a mere animal-but with
Physical, Moral, and Intellectual Attributes.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..
CONCLUSION.
IN the view of human nature we have here taken, of
its end and aim, there is everything that is consolatory
to the philanthropist, and that bas a tendency to ex-
pand our hearts in love and confidence towards our
Creator. Evil bas its origin in ignorance, and the
object of pain is to determine our choice to that which
is good-from that which would injure, to that which
would benefit ourselves and others. Truth then we
seek, truth we desire, as the great antagonist of all
evil, by which only we can learn the consequences of
our actions and acquire power over our own happiness.
Falsehood only-we fear, and that which, acting upon
ignorance and superstition, shall tend to perpetuate its
dominion.
Hence the doctrine of Philosophical Necessity, or
the Law of Consequences, becomes of the highest im-
portance,-teaching as it does, that for every conse-
quence, or effect, there is an antecedent cause, which is
always equal, under like circqmstances, to produce the
same effect, and can produce no other,-thus making
us, as we attain the knowledge of such causes, masters
oyer our own condition for good or ill.
The various superstitions fustered in the minds of
the ignorant, in all ages and countries, haYe taken
their rise in the misunderstanding of this law. Spiri-
tual agents of every imaginable kind, Gods of the
Woods and Streams, of Earth and Air, Genii, Fairies,
Digitized by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 485
Angels, Devils, Immaterial Souls, have all been brought
forward to account for effects whose causes lay remote
from ordinary sight ; while each of these agents has
been gifted with afree-will, or power of acting, or not,
under similar circumstances, so that the uniformity of
the laws of nature has been lost sight of, or has been
unknown. AU uncivilized nations, and even such as
have attained considerable knowledge, refer all natural
effects inexplicable to themselves, to the power of spirits
or demons. No rational means are therefore taken to
secure the ble~sings, or avert the ills, which come and
go at the caprice of these mysterious powers ; but
charms, and offerings, sacrifices, and prayers, are used
to appease their wrath, or propitiate their favour.
Good and evil have been represented as depending
upon the influence of the Stars, of Fate, of Original
Sin-upon the conflicting power of Satan with that of
the Spirit of God-rather than as the natural and ne-
cessary consequences of our own conduct. It has been
overlooked that our Creator in giving us Reason, or a
capability of foreseeing consequences, has given us
power over both good and et'il, and that such a gift
would have been rendered comparatively useless, if not
fatal, if He bad permitted the established course of
nature-upon which the exercise of reason is depend-
ent-to be interfered with by influences obeying no
fixed law, or none, at least, upon which man could
calculate.
Since the year 1700 no one has been burnt for
-witchcraft in our enlightened country; but the Devil,
according to the most favoured creed, is still supposed
to be powerfu1 among us. The true character of evil
is disguised, and in our popular religious instruction
Digitized by Coogle..
486 CONCLUSION.
natural effects are attributed to anything but their real
and efficient causes. Our moral and religious teachings
are still largt>ly mixed with the superstitions of the
dark ages, instead of having for their object to make
known the " Law of the Lord"-the Physical, the
Organic, the Moral Law-with the natural pains and
pleasures connected with it. May we not hope, however,
that the time approaches when God shall be known in
His works, and a Spirit of Evil no longer be supposed
to divide the sovereignty of the earth with Him; when
Chance, already dismissed from the physical, shall be
banished from the moral world ; when especial influ-
ences, no longer expected in the one, will not be
looked for in the other ? May not that be defined as
superstition, which trusts to any other inftuence to
effect a desired object, than the natural cause appointed
to produce it ? Will it not ere long be received as an
axiom, that no other power is ever exercised, but that
which we may command again under like circum-
stances-for does not this contain the very essence of
all power and faith?
An immense power is in the bands of the preachers
of religion, and the progress of truth must introduce
a change in the character of their instructions. The
connexion of cause and effect in the world of mind, as
of matter, will be insisted upon; the law of conse-
quences, that each must " reap as be sows," will be
demom~trated ; instead of prayer to God that He will
"deli\"'er us from evil," the cause of the evil.will be
sought and removed ; men will be introduced person-
ally to their Maker in the beautiful world that he bas
created, and in the laws established for their well-being,
and it will be clearly shown to them that suffering and
Digitized by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 487
evil inevitably follow the breach of any, the least of
these laws; that no selfish action involving the interests
of fellow-beings, not even a selfish or impure thought,
but must necessarily bring with it punishment to the
individual in thia state of being, either in positiYe
suffering, or diminished power of enjoyment ; and that
as we have ceased to expect the cure of bodily mala-
dies from charms or sorceries, we must cease to expect
deliverance from moral evils, by forms of prayer, or
religious observances.
To effect all this, the book of Natural Revelation
must be carefully interpreted, the order of God's Pro-
vidence observed, the nature of man's bodily and
mental constitution be taught to him, with its relation
to everything around. He must be shown the natural
boundaries of his mind, that the qrder of nature is all
that he can know, and be will thus learn what are
mysteries to him, and what in all probability will ever
remain so. The true character of evil must be made
known to him, the nature of his responsibility and
moral obligation ; and the truth that virtue does not
consist in useless sacrifice, but in the pursuing of that
line of conduct which, upon the whole, must necessarily
lead to the highest happiness of himself and others,
not hereafter but here. That is a pernicious doctrine
which maintains that evil can only be remedied in a
future state, and that happiness here is not the inYa-
riable result of systematic obedience to our Creator's
laws. We hold that the contrary can be shown, and
that if it can, it ought. The promise to the multitude,
of happiness in another world, has been the never-
failing plea upon which our religious guide~J and in-
structors, and the fortunate fete, have excused them-
Digitized by Coogle
488 CONCLUSION.
selves from sharing their many comforts and luxuries
with their less privileged fellow-creatures, or what
would be better, from taking active measures for en-
abling them to gain ~mch comforts and luxuries for
themselves.
When such shall be the character of popular in-
struction, we shall advance rapidly to a better state of
things, for which our mental progress and advancement
in physical science haYe been gradually preparing us.
When the Law of Consequences shall be studied and
observed, the broad streams of misdirected philanthropy
will take their proper course to the ever-stirring ocean
of human progression, and the human family will be
drawn closer together in the bonds of warm and ge-
nerous sympathy. Go,·ernments will discover that it
is their duty to co-operate with this law, to allow of its
free unfettered play, so that all may receiYe the fruits
of their industry, and the rewards that nature att:Lches
to virtuous conduct. Criminal codes will be reformed
when rulers shall be convinced that a man's character
is the necessary result of his original constitution, acted
upon by the circumstances in which he is placed, and
they will endeavour to make mankind virtuous by the
improvement, through education, of their natural ten-
dencies, and by removing, as much as in them lies, the
causes of vice.
All that has been here advanced, tends, we conceire,
to show the progressive nature of man, and conse-
quently of his institutions; and although history has
demonstrated that there can be no uninterrupted indi-
vidual advance of either men or nations, by the re-
corded persecutions of the great and good, and the
decay of all the cirilized nations of antiquity; yet
Digitized by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 489
history also shows that the race has steadily pro-
gressed, notwithstanding that such progression has not
been continued in a regular series among any one
people or country.
What may be the particular fate reserved for the
British Empire, whether she has already mounted to the
pinnacle of her greatness, from which she is hencefor-
ward destined to decline and yield the palm of improve-
ment to younger States, like the great empires which
have preceded her ;-or whether she is to present an
example of a better state of society to the millions she
has fostered, and who speak her tongue in distaDt
lands, lies hidden in the future. In tracing the history
of civilization, what have appeared to short-sighted
human wisdom, to be evils of the greatest magnitude,
have proved to be the means of uniting the disjointed
interests and of individualizing the great body of society,
of drawing :first the people of a nation and then nations
themseh·es into one common union for the common
good. We may therefore hope that the evils which
now afflict the country will have the effect of bringing
about the remodelling of its social condition, and the
union of its separate opposing interests ; of inducing
us to share one common lot and bear each other's
burdens, and of turning the enormous powers of pro-
duction which the advance in science has conferred
upon us, to the advantage of the community at large.
But if the course we hare been pursuing for the last
:fifty years is to be the one we are still to pursue-
and this seems to be the direction which public opinion
takes-if labour and capital are still to be disunited i
if our manufacturing skill and increased powers of
production are to continue to be employed in making
Pp
Digitized by Google
490 CONCLUSION.
a few rich, and in vastly increasing the numbers of
the poor; if production is to go on without reference
to the producer ; and if manufacturing and agricul-
tural employments are still to be separated, we see
much cause for apprehension. To make Great Britain
the " workshop of the world" may sound well in
theory, but if in the process we are to fill the country
with towns such as Manchester and Glasgow ; if an
extended foreign trade is to be as a bot-bed for the
production of populations like theirs, depending for
the very staff of life upon distant nations, it cannot
be consistent with the welfare or safety of the country.
In fact, it appears very doubtful whether it would be
possible to continue in the same course of policy for
another fifty years; and whether the present system
shall gently expire in tlte ordinary course of Nature's
proceedings, to be as tranquilly succeE:'ded by a b«:'tter,
or whether a time of anarchy and turmoil, revolution
and suffering, shall precede the renovation, will dt>pend,
in an probability, upon whether we are seriously and
in earnest disposed to study the signs of th~ tim~,
and to apply ourselves to the amelioration of the ton-
dition of the people, while yet there is time.
Let us begin, then, by assisting the working classc;>s
to assist themselves ; let us make a beginning, show
the way to a better state of things, and all the rest will
follow. Let us have faith, the only saving faith, in
the immutable tendency of the laws of God to produce
the good of His creatures ; let us press forward in the
race of improvement, in perfect confidence that evil i~
permitted only for our benefit, to make us sensible of
our errors, and tu compel us to take the path to hap-
piness. The necessity, the physical want which has
Digitized by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 4·91
distressed the mass of mankind may have been neces-
sary to overcome their indisposition to exertion ; and if
so, its object has not failed, for it has brought with it
improvement in knowledge and in machinery, which,
if applied in accordance with the greatest happiness
principle, will amply supply the physical requirements
of mankind, and allow of time and means for that
intellectual and moral training which will create mo-
tives to exertion of a more ennobling character than
those which now impel him, bringing the best parts of
his nature into activity, and immeasurably increasing
the happiness of which he is at present susceptible.
Let us then have faith-a faith giving energy and
direction to all our efforts, for God has given an omni-
potent power to Truth and Knowledge to the overcom-
ing of all evil, and the necessary and inevitable esta-
blishment upon Earth of a state equal to that which
the warmest anticipations have formed of Heaven,-a
state in which physical necessity and pain shall no
longer be required to drive man to exertions necessary
to bodily and mental health : in which the powers of
nature, employed by the inventive faculties of man
through machinery, shall do all undesirable work, and
mankind, no longer crowded together in large town~,
shall be distributed in families of one or two thousand
members, over the different lands, where each indivi-
dual shall receive all the advantages that civilization
now only gives to a favoured few. A state of society
in which, by the obedience of man to the laws of his
organization, " every bodily and mental faculty shall
be perfected"-epidemics and diseases which still
ravage society vanishing like those which ha\·e already
fled before the progress of knowledge, and, by " a
Digitized by Coogle.
492 CONCLUSION.
wise dis,osal of all the circumstances that influence
character," vice and mental infirmity disappearing with
the causes that produced them ;-in which the moral
law shall take the place of universal selfishness,-dis-
tinction shall not consist in outward trappings of pomp
and power, but in the possession of good and exalted
qualities,-and men shall Jive together as one family,
united by the common bond of brotherhood, hating
nothing but vice, or that which leads to misery-
honouring nothing but virtue, or that which tends to
the highest, purest, happiness.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX.
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX.
The principle of Co-operation, including a common interest in
the produce, has developed itself in a variety of forms in the
history of Society. A sligt.t review of some of the modifications
which the principle has assumed in past ages, and of its operation
in the present, may be useful in considering its prospects for the
future.
Cret.. Minos, in the laws which he gave to Crete, aimed at esta-
.blishing equality amongst the people, not by making new
divisions of land, or prohibiting the use of gold and silver, but by
their general scope and tendency, and the tone which they gave to
public opinion. He would not suffer any of hilt subjectll to lead an
indolent life, whatever might be their rank, but obliged them all to
serve in the army or apply themselves to agriculture. The childrl'n
were all brought up and educated together in the same maxim11,
exercises, and arts. Rich and poor, men women and children,
were fed at common tables, on the same diet, and at the public
expt'nse. The land was tilled by slaves and mercenaries, but
there is rl'ason to believe that tht'y were treated with more kindnl'stt
and indulgence than anywhl.'re l'lsl'. Once a year, at the feasts of
Mercury, tht'y were waited on by tht'ir masters, to remind men of
their primitive l.'quality. Tht'se laws subsisted in full vigour for
nearly 1000 years, and during this period Crete was held to be the
peeuliar abode of justice and virtue.•
• Rollin. Reea' Cyclop. ; Art. Crete.
Digitized by Coogle
496 APPENDIX.
lplrta. Lycurgus puaed a considerable time in Crete in the
study of ita constitution, and adopted ita principles in
his celebrated Spartan code. But be went farther in his attempt
to inatitute equality, by dividing the land which bad been before
in the banda of a few, amongst all his subjects, who were not
permitted to alienate, sell, or divide their respective portions.
He made 9,000 Iota for the territory of Sparta, and 30,000
for the rest of Laconia ; each lot being sufficient to produce
70 bushels of grain for each man, (including hia household,) and
12 for each woman, besides wine and oil in proportion. When the
number of citizens increased so as to occasion inconvenience, they
sent out colonies elsewhere. Lycurgus next attempted to divide
the moveables, but found this too difficult a task to accomplish by
direct means. He t!erefore stopped the currency of gold and silver
coin, and ordered that iron money only should be used, which,
from its bulk, could not be hoarded without detection, and which,
from its low intrinsic value, offered little inducement to neighbour-
ing nations to bring their luxuries in exchange for it. He discou-
raged the arts, trade, and commt>rct', and all intercourse with
foreigners, as the sources of factitious wants, of corruption and
vice. The meals were common and of the simplest fare ; each
citizen had a right to partake of them, and each was bound to
furnish a monthly contingent towards them, consisting of a bushel
of barley meal, 8 gallons of wine, 5 lbs. of cheese, 2 ~ lbs. of figs,
and a little money to buy tlesb and fish. The eldest sons, who
alone inherited their fathers' land, provided probably for their
younger brothers as well as for their children. Simple dwellings,
clothing, and food were the portion of all, and one citizen was al-
lowed to make use, when circumstances required, of th~ slaves,
carriages, hones, or goods of another citi.zt>n.
Lycurgus thus banished the pa.ssions to which wealth gives rise,
and as a check upon the rest, he not only caused public opinion to
range on the side of moderation, temperance, and rectitude, but he
provided a countt>rbalancin~ force in the.> love of country, which,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 497
under the influence of his institutions, became itself an ardent
passion. Obedience to the laws, and the dread of living for himself,
were the earliest lessons imprinted on the mind of a Lacedemonian.
Both sexes were inured to hardy bodily exercises. Marriages were
only made at mature age, between persons of sound constitution
and vigorous health. Children were examined immediately after
their birth by competent judges, and such as were found to be
weak or defective were not permitted to live. Those who were
pronounced to be sou.nd and healthy were left under maternal care,
free from all fear and restraint, until seven years of age ; from
that period they were educated in common, in the same discipline
and principles, undl'r the eye of the law and of the republic.
Lycurgns wonld not permit his laws to be writtl!n, thinking that the
habits which education produced in the youth ,tould be more effec-
tual than the ordinances of a lawgiver ; indeed he resolved the
whole business of legislation into the bringing up of youth. As
for learning, they had only what was absolutely necessary. Mosie
and poetry they delighted in, but the arts were in no greater credit
with them than the sciences.
These institutions were maintained in considerable purity for
four centuries, and during that period the character of the Spartan
people answered to the design of their legislator, limited as that
was by the imperfect notions of the nature of man which then
obtained; the sons of Sparta were hardy, simple-minded, disinte-
rested, contented, warlike, and averse to all industrial occupations.
These latter were consigned to the descendants of the captured
Helots, who held a sort of middle rank between the slaves and
citizens. The importance of the labour which the Spartans des-
pised, was evinced by the growing strength of the class engaged in
it, which proved in the end inimical to the safety of the State.•
It was the object of Theseus, in legislating for the Athenians, to
establish a kind of equality amongst the three bodies into which
• See l'lu&areb'a LiCe of Lyeurgue. "Travelaol Aoachania."
Qq
Digitized by Coogle
..
498 APPENDIX.
he divided them ; the nobility, who held all' public and religious
offices, the husbandmen, and the artizans. The consideration
due to the first class being balanced by the utility and necessity of
the servic£>s of the second, and the advantages of both by the
superior numbers of the third. Solon afterwards confirmed the
principle, and 11trengthened it by giving a voice in the Goverwnent
to each class, but it was out of his power to ~fl'ect what th£> poorer
citizens expected of him-a division of the lands, after the example
of Lycurgus ; and neith£>r in Athens, nor in any other of the
ancient R£>publics, do we find any r£>cognition of the principle of
common interests to the extent which it obtained in Sparta.• The
public distributions, however, were so liberal in Athens, that its
citizens were almost exempt from the necessity of manual labour.
The celebrated Agr~rian Law, which excited so much disturbance
in Rome, appear11 to have related merely to the more equitable
division of public lands, not to any equalization of private landed
property.
Ancient
Qerm&DI.
Coosar and Tacitus relate that among the ancient
Germans, property every year experienced a general
change, by a new division of the arable lands, made
by the princes and magistrates, no indi\'idual being permitted to
keep the same portion two years together. Consequently, to avoid
disputP.s, a great part of the land lay waste and untilled.t
NorU. Robertson, in his account of the North American
Amerlean
IAdlaD~o Indians, remarks that " they are in a great measure
strangers to the idea of property. The forest or
hunting grounds are deemed the property of the tribe, from which
it ha11 a title to exclude every rival nation. But no individual
arrogates a right to these in preference to his fellow-citizens.
They belong alike to aU ; and thither, as to a general and undi-
• Rollin's Ancient lliat. t Gibbon's Rome, vol. I, p. 295.
Digitized by Coogle
ADPENDIX. 499
vided store, all r£'pair in quest of sustenance. The same prin-
ciples by which they regulate their chief occupation extend to
that which is subordinate. Even agriculture ha.s not introduced
among them a complete idea of property. As the men hunt, the
women labour together, and after they have shared the toils of the
seed-time, they enjoy the harvest in common. Among some tribes
the increase of their .cultivated lands is deposited in a public gra-
nary, and divided among them at stated times, according to their
wants. Among others, though they lay up separate stores, they do
not acquire such an exclusive right of property, that they can
rnjoy superfluity while those around them suffer want. Thus the
distinctions arising from the inequality of possessions are unknown.
The terms rich and poor enter not into their language, and being
. ..
strangers to property, they are unacquainted with what is the great
object of laws and policy, as well as," the historian adds, "the
motive which induced mankind to establish the various arrange-
ments of regular government."
" People in this state retain a high sense of equality, and inde-
pendence. Wherever the idea of property is not established, there
can be no distinction among men but what arises from personal
qualities. These can be conspicuous only on such occasions as
call them into exertion, in times of danger, or in affairs of intri-
cacy. But during seasons of tranquillity and inaction, when there
is no occasion to display those talents, all pre-eminence ceases.
Every circumstance indicates that all the members of the commu-
nity are on a level. They are clothed in the same simple garb;
they feed on the same plain fare ; their houses and furniture arc
exactly similar; no distinction can arise from the inequality of pos-
sessions; whatever forms independence on one part, or constitutes
superiority on the other is unknown; all are freemen, all feel them-
selves to be such, and assert with firmness the rights which belong
to that condition. There i~ little political union among them, no
vi!!ible form of gonrnment. Ewry one seems to enjoy his natural
indt•pl·ndence aluw:;t entire. If a schcml' of public utility be pro-
Digitized by Coogle
500 APPJI:NDIX.
posed, the members of the community arc left to choose whethrr
they will or will not assist in carrying it into execution. The right
of revenge is left in private hands. If the t>lders interpose it is to
advise, not to decide. The object of government among savages
is foreign rather than domestic. They do not aim at maintaining
interior order by public regulations or authority, but labour te pre-
serve union among tht>ir members, that they may watch the
motions of their enemies, and act against them with concert and
vigour.
" But feeble as is the political tie which binds them, their
attachment to the community of which they are members is most
powerful. Each assents with warmth to public measures dictated
by passions similar to his own ; hence the ardour witb which
individuals undertake the mo11t perilous service, when the commu-
nity deems it necessary ; their fierce antipathy to the public
enemies, their zeal for the honour of their tribe, and love of country
which prompts them to brave danger that it may triumph, and
endure exquisite torments without a groan that it may not be
disgraced. Incapable of control, and disdaining to acknowledge
any superior, tbe mind of the Indian of the ruder tribe~t, though
limited in its powers, and erring in many of its pursuits, acquires
such elevation by the consciousness of its own freedom, that he
acta on some occasions with astonishing force, persenrance, and
dignity. Satisfied with his lot, he is unable to comprehend the
intention or utility of the accommodations which polished aoci~ty
deems euential. Unaccustomed to any restraint upon his will or
actions, he beholds with amazement the inequality of ranks of
civilized life, and considers the voluntary submission of one man
to another as a renunciation, no less base than unaccountable,
of the first distinction of humanity, whilst he rrgards his own
tribe as best entitlt!d, and most perfectly qualified, to enjoy real
happiness."•
• :Robertaon'e America, vol. 1, p. 292.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDJX. 501
In thi11 state were most of the tribes eastward of the Mississippi,
from the mouth of the St. Lawrence to thP confines of Florida, the
people of Bengal, of Chili, several tribes in Paraguay, and
Guiana, and in the countries from the mouth of the Orinoco to
the peninsula of Yucatan. Among other of the American tribes
and nations, property and distinction of ranks were found to be
established, in conjunction with many of the customary evils. In
Florida the authority of the caciques, or chiefs, was hereditary ;
among the Natchez, some families were reputed noble, while the
body of the people was considered as vile, and fit only for subjection.
The former were called the Respectable, the latter the SlitJcards.
In Bogota, a province of Granada, government bad assumed a
regular form, ranks were distinct, and their chief reigned with
splendour and ab!IOlute power. The causes of this dift'erence in
the institutions of these latter nations, may be traced to their
dependence upon agriculture rather than upon hunting for sub-
sistence ; dwelling consequently in one place, and acquiring by
degrees objects of selfish interest; and also to the intervention of
superstition-a formidable engine for subduing native vigour and
independence, and which resided in the bands of their chiefs.
Peru. With a far higher advance in civilization, however, the
polished a~d gentle Peruvians bad adopted the principle of
common property. " AU their lands capable of cultivation were
divided into three shares. One was consecrated to the Sun, and the
product was applied to the erectioq of temples, and furnishing what
was requisite t{)wards celebrating the public rites of religion. The
secQ.nd belonged to the Inca, and was set apart as the provision
made by the community for thP support ofgovernment. The third
and largest share was resE>rvPd for the maint<.>nance of the people
among whom it was parcelled out. • Neither individuals, however,
• '' Garcilas!o de Ia Vega tolls us (Part 1, B. 5, chap. 1,) that it was only
when there waa more Janel than auffi~:ecl for the people that the Inca ancl the
Digitized by Coogle
502 APPENDIX.
•
nor communities, bad a right to exclusive property in the portion
set apart for their use. They possessed it only for a year, at the
expiration of which a new division was made, in proportion to the
rank, the number, and exigencies of each family. All those lands
were cultivated by the joint industry of the community. The
people, summoned by a proper officer, repaired in a body to the
fields, and performed their common task, while songs and musical
instruments cheered them to their labour. By this singular distri-
bution, as well as by the mode of cultivating it, the idea of a
common interest, and of mutual subserviency, was continually
inculcated. Each individual felt his connexion with those around
him, and knew that he depended on their friendly aid for what
increase be was to reap. A state thus constituted may be consi-
dered as one gre~t family, in which the union of the members was
so complete, and the exchange of good offices so perceptible, as to
create stronger attachment, and to bind man to man in closer
intercourse than subsitited under any form of society established in
America."t
Mezlco. In the Mexican empire one class possessed property in
land in full right, and bequeatheu it to their descendants.
" The title of others to thc:>ir lands was derived from the office or
dignity which they enjoyed ; and whc:>n d<'prived of tbe latter, they
lost possession of the former. Both tbe11e modes of occupying land
were deemed noble and peculiar to the citizens of the highest class.
The tenure by which the great body of the people held their pro-
perty was very different. In cvc:>ry district a certain quantity of
land was measured out in proportion to the number of families.
This was cultivated by the joint labour of the whole; its produce
was deposited in a common store-house, and dividt•d among them
Sun received their Cull thirds ; when that wns not tho ease tltcse portions were
dioninh;hed, to augment to the pNper pro)'ortiou that o( tho people," .Mi1111'
Jlist. Brit. India, vol. I, p. 259.
+Robertson's America, \'ol. 2, p. Ill.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 503
according to their respective exigencies. The members of the
calpullee, or associations, could not alienate their share of the
common estate; it was an indivisible, permanent property, des-
tined for the support of their families. In consequence of this
distribution of the territory of the state, every man had an interest
in its welfare, and the happiness of the individual was connected
with the public security/' •
It is said on good authority that the Charaibs, or Caribbees, of
the Continent of South America, who are supposed to have bad an
oriental ancestry, had no division of lands among them, every one
cultivating in proportion to his wants. The Caribbees of the
hlands "resided in villages which resembled an European en-
campment; for their cabins were built of poles fixed circularly in
the ground, drawn to a point at the top, and covered with leaves
of the palm-tree. In the centre of each village was a building of.
' superior magnitude to the rest. It was formed with great labour,
and served as a public hall or state-house, wherein, we arc assured,
that the men (excluding the women), had their meals in common,
' observing that law,' saith the Earl of Cumberland, who visited
these islands in 1506, 'which, in Lycurgu~· mouth, was thought
strange and needless/ These halls were also the theatres where
their youth were animated to emulation, and trained to martial
enterprize by the renown of their warrior.t; and the harangues of
their orators. • • • In these islands ~here land is scarce, it
seems probable that, as among some of the tribes ofSouth America,
cultivation was carried on by the joint labour of each st-parate
community, and theirharvests deposited in public granaries, whence
each family received its proportion of the public stock. Rochefort
indeed, observes, that all their interests were in common." They
displayed considerable ingenuity and elegance in their arts and
manufactures. The youth of this remarkable tribe were trained
in a more than Spartan contempt for pain. They bad no laws,
• Rebertaou'a America, vol. 2, p. 145.
Digitized by Coogle
504 APPENDIX.
and consequently no neffl of magistrates. The oldest among them
had a sort of authority, bnt it was not rigidly enforced; in timeJt
of war, only, a leader was chosen, whose powers of endurance
were required to be tested by an ordeal of severe bodily pain.
" They were impatient under the least infringement of indl'pen-
dence, and wondered bow any man eonld be so base as to crouch
before an equal."•
PanpaJ. The establishment of the Jesuits in Paraguay, which
subsisted until the middle of the last century, supplies
us with a remarkable instance of the success of the community
principle. "They began by gathering together abont fifty wandering
families, whom they persuaded to settle and form a little township.
Having made this beginning, they labourffl with such indefatiga-
ble pains, and with such masterly policy, that by degrees they sof-
tened the minds of the most savage people, fixed the most rambling,
and subdued the most averse to government. They prevailed upon
thousands of various dispersed tribes of people to embrace their
religion, and to 11ubmit to thl'ir government ; and when they had
submitted, the Jesuits left nothing undone, that could conduce to
their remaining in this subjection, or that could tend to increase
their numbers to the degree requisite for a well-ordered and potent
society. It is said that eventually their subjects amounted to
300,000 families. They lived in towns ; were regularly clad ; they
laboured in agriculture; they exercised manufactures ; some even
aspired to the elegant arts. They were instructed in the most
exnct military discipline, and could raise 60,000 men well armed.
From time to time they brought over from Europe several handi-
craft-men, musicians and painters, principally from Germany and
Italy. The country was divided into forty-11even districts, over
which a Jesuit presided in chief. No person under tbe jurisdiction
of the Fathers bad anything that could justly be called his own
• EdwaroLi'11 Ui.st. Brit. West luclics, vol I.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 505
property. Each man's labour was allotted him in proportion to his
strength, or to his skill in the profeuion which be exerci-sed. The
product was brought faithfully into the public magazines, from
whence he was again supplied with all the things which the ma-
nagers judged to be expedient for the sustenance of himself and
family. All necessaries were distributed twice a week; and the
magazines always contained such a stock of provisions and goods
of every kind, as to answer not only the ordinary exigencies, but to
provide against a time of scarcity, or for those whom accidents,
age, or infirmities had disqualified for labour.
They provided early for the marriage of their young people.
Here, as interest could be no motive to the union, there were few
difficulties attending it. The parties were supplied with all neces·
sarles for their establishment from the public stores; and they
had at the same time their task allotted to them, by which they
were to make amends for what they had received, and to provide
for others in their turn.
Under the Jesuit were magistrates, or caciques, of the Indian
race, who regulated these details, decided trivial differences, and
gave him regularly an exact account of his district, and of the
conduct of its people. They were ·rewarded or punished according
to this r<'port. The punhlhment was by blows, from which not
even the principal magistrates were exempted. These were, bow·
ever, received by all, not only with patience but acknowledgment.
The rewards were S<'ldom more than benedictions and some slight
marks of the Jesuit"& favour, which made these men entirely happy.
Nothing, it is said, could equal the obedience of the people of these
missions, except their contentment. It is lamentable to think, that
the progress of a state of things so promising of soeial happin<'sll,
should have been arrested. The intPgrity of the Paraguayan
commonwealth was destroyed by the cession of a part of the ter-
ritory to Portugal ; and the system introduced by the Jesuits io it
bas entirely disappeared.• Similar establishments existed in Cali-
• Co-operative Magazine for Nov. 1827. See alao Muratori's Account of the
Government of the Jea.US io Paraguay.
Rr
Digitized by Coogle
506 APPENDIX.
fomia. The celebrated colony of pirates called the Boecaneera of
St. Domingo, are said to have had no distinction of property
amongst themselves, but to have enjoyed the fruits of their preda-
tory industry in common.
nta4a In Mills' History of British India we find an account
v~~~ap. of the native Hindu village preceded by some interesting
remarks on the origin of property. "It is hardly necessary to
add," be says, " that the dift'erent combinations of benefits which
are included under the idea of property, at different periods of
society, are all arbitrary; that they are not the offspring of nature
but the creatures of will ; determined and chosen by the society aa
that arrangement with regard to nseful objects which is, or is pre-
tended to be, the best for all. It is worthy of remark that property
in moveables was established, and that it conveyed most of the
powers which are at any time assigned to it, while property in land
bad no existence. So long as men continue to derive their subsillt-
ence from hunting; so long, indeed, as they continue to derive it
from their flocks and herds, the land is enjoyed in common. Even
when they begin to derive it partly from the ground, though the man
who bas cultivated a field is regarded as possessing in it a property
till he has reaped his crop, he has no better title to it than another
for the succeeding year.
"In prosecuting the advantages which are found to spring from
the newly-invented method of deriving the means of subsistence
from the ground, experience in time discovers that much obstruc-
tion is created by restricting the right of ownership to a single
year, and that food would be provided in greater abundance, if, by
a greater permanence, men were encouraged to a more careful
cultivation. To make, however, that belong to one man which
formerly belonged to all, is a change to which men do not easily
reconcile their minds. In a thing of so much importance as the
land, the change is a great revolution. To overcome the popular
resistance, that expedient which appears to have been the most
generally successful is to vest the sovereign, as the rel:lresentati\'·'
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 507
of the society, with that property in the land which belongs to the
society ; and the sovereign parcels it out to individuals, with all
those powers of ownership which are regarded as most favourable
to the extraction from the land of those benefits which it is calcu-
lated to yield. In many of the rude parts of Africa the property
in the land is understood to reside in the sovereign. Throughout
the Ottoman dominions the Sultan claims the sole property in land.
The same has undoubtedly been the situation of Persia in ancient
and modern times. ' It is established,' says the late intelligent
Governor of Java, (RafBes,) 'from evt>ry source of inquiry, that
the sovereign in Java is lord of the soil;' and when the fact is
established with regard to Java, it is so with regard to all that part
of the eastern islands which in point of manners and civilization
rest'mble Java. It is not disputed that in China the whole property
of the soil is vested in the Emperor. By the laws of the Welsh in
the ninth century, all the land in the kingdom was declared to
belong to the King, and 'we may safely,' says Mr. Turner, 'believe
that the same law prevailed while the Britons occupied the island.' "*
" It is not surprising, therefore,'' continues Mill, " that this was
the case with the Hindus.t The sovereign gives away villages
and lands, not empty, but already occupied by cultivators, and
paying rent. • • • Wherever the Hindus have remained under
the influence of their ancient customs and laws, the facts corre-
spond with the inference which would be drawn from these laws.
• • • Each village being rated to the government at a certain
quantity of rice, which is paid in kind, the land is thus divided
among the inhabitants. To every man, as soon u he arrives at
the proper age, is granted such a quantity of arable land as is esti-
mated to produce 242 }II measures of rice, of which he must pay
60 ~ measures, or about ~ to the Rajah or King."
• U ia -ly n-ry to add that $l1ia law ia the b.uia of the feudal system.
t " 'There were no hereditary estates in India; for thnt 111I the hmd belonged
to the King, which be diapoaed of at his pleasure.' l'cl'llum authority, quoted
by Stewart, Hwtory of Bengal, p. 132."
Digitized by Goog[e....
...
508 APPENDIX.
" From the reports of Place, Munro, Thackeray, Hodgson, to
the Committee of the Commons on East India Aft'airs, in 1810,
the following may be considered as a general picture of the original
Hindu institutions, pervading the whole continent:--1 A village
geographically considered, is a tract of country comprising some
hundreds, or thousands, of acres of arable and waste land. Poli-
tically viewed, it resembles a corporation or township. Its proper
establishment of office:u and servants consists of the following
descriptions : the Potail, or head inhabitant, who has the general
superintendance of the affairs of the village, settles the disputes of
the inhabitants, attends to the police, and performs the duty of
collecting the revenues within his village : the CWmtlm, who
keeps the accounts of cultivation, and registers everything con-
nected with it : the Tallier and Totie; the duty of the former
appearing to consist in a wider and more enlarged sphere of action,
in gaining information of crimes and offences, and in escorting and
protecting persons travelling from one village to another ; the pro-
vince of the latter appearing to be more immediately confined to
the village, consisting, among other duties, in guarding the crops,
and assisting in measnring them : the &undaryman, who pre-
serves the limits of the village, or gives evidence reRpP.cting them
in case of dispute: the Superintendant f!! tMter-cour6es and tank•,
who distributes the. water for the purposes of agriculture: the
Bra!mm, who performs the village worship: the &lwolmo•ter,
who is seen teaching the children in the villages to read and write
in the sand: the Ca/enJar Bra!mm, or astrologer, who proclaims
the lucky or unpropitious periods for sowing and thrashing : the
Smitk, and Carpmter, who manufacture the implements of agricul-
ture, and build the dwelling of the ryot (or huabandman): the
Polman, or potter : the ll'askerman: the Barber : the Cbw-
lreeper, who lookat after the_cattle: the Doclt:w: the Dancing Girl,
who attends at rejoicings : the Aftuician: and the Poet.
" ' Under this simple form of municipal government, the inha-
bitanb have lived from time immemorial. The boundaries of the
Digitized by Coogle
.A:PPBNDI:ll-. 509
villages have been seldom altered; and though the villages them-
selves have been sometimes injured, and even desolated, by war,
famine, and diseasl', the same name, the same limits, the same
interests, and even the same families, have continued for ages.
The inhabitants give themselves no trouble about the breaking up
and the division of kingdoms, while the village remains entire.
They care not to what power it is transferred, or to what sovereign
it devolves ; its internal economy remains unchanged ; the PotaU
is still the bead inhabitant, and still acts as the petty judge and
magistrate, and collector or rentl'r of the village.'
" These villages appear not only to have been a sort of small
republics, but to have enjoyed to a great degree the community of
goods. Mr. Place, the collector in•the jaghire district at Madras,
informs us that 'Every village considers itself as a distinct society,
and itd general concerns the sole object of the inhabitants at large ;
a practice,' he adds, 'which surely redounds as much to the public
good as theirs, each having in some way or other the assistance of
the rest; the labours of all yield the rent; thl'y enjoy the profits
proportionate to their original interest, and the loss falls light. It
consists exactly with the principles upon which the advantages are
derived from the division of labour; onl' man goes to market, whilst
the rest attend to the cultivation and the harvest; l'ach has his
particular occupation assigned to him, and insensibly labours for
all. Another practice vl'ry frequently prevails, of each proprietor
changing his lands every year. It is found in some of the richest
villages, and is intended, I imagine, to obviate that inequality to
which a fixed distribution would be liable.' "•
Ce1tou. If we may credit the relation of Diodorus Siculus, the
inhabitants of Ct•ylon lived in a sort of community iu a
remote age. He gives an account of the discovery of the island
formerly called Taprohana, in Scripture, Opkir, by one Iambulus,
• Vol. I, p. 266.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ...,..
~
510 APPENDIX.
a Greek, who was landed upon it after sundry adventures. He
describes the inhabitants as ~K-ing unlike us in their bodies and their
way of living. They were six feet high, their bones very flexible,
their bodies smooth, the opening of their ears wider than ours; and,
the historian informs us with the usual mixture of the allegorical
or the marvellous, their tongues were divided towards the root,
partly by nature and partly by art, so that they could ask a
question and give a reply at the same time. " They were divided
into tribes, according to their kindred, and into distinct societies,
yet so as there were not above four hundred admitted into any
society. They lived in meadows, where they were plentifully
supplied with all things necessary for food by what the earth
produces. They had bot and cold baths for the curing and pre-
venting of all distempers. They were learned in all sorts of
sciences, particularly in astrology. They lived long, generally
without ever being sick, to a hundred and fifty years of age.
Those that were lame, or had any other weaknell8 or infirmity of
body, (according to the severe law of their country,) they put to
death. They had a law that they might live to a certain number
of years, and when they were run up, they dispatched themselves
by a strange kind of death, for they bad an herb upon which if
any one lay down, be silently passed· away without pain, as in a
sweet sleep. They had not the institution of marriage, and the
children were all brought up together with equal care and affection,
and while they were infants were often changed by their nurses,
so that they could not be known by their mothers, and therefore
there being no ambition among them, they lived in great concord
and amity together. In every tribe or society the eldest governed
the rest as king, and the rest yielded him perfect obedience, and if
he put himself to dPath at the age of a hundred and fifty, the next
in age succeeded to his authority."
Diodorus then goes on to speak of the island as if it were one of
seven in which the same laws and cu!!toms pre\·n.iled. " Althou~tb
the islands produced plenty of provi:~ion, yt•t the inhabitants ust>d
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 511
it frugally. Their way of feeding was according to a prcscribt>d
rule, for they did not eat all sorts of meat together at one and the
same time, nor the same always ; but upon some certain days fish,
other fowl, sometimes the flesh of land cattle, at other times olives,
and on other days very low and mean diet. They helped one
another in their callings and employments by turns ; some em-
ployed themselves in fishing, others in manufactures, and others in
other things uspful and profitable to the commonwealth. Some at
certain times did exercise public offices, except those that were
grown old."
This Iambulus, after living on the island with his companion
for some years, was sent away by the inhabitants. They sailed
for some months, and were at length cast on the Indian short-.
After encountering many perils he returned to Greece, committed
all his adventures to writing, and gave an account of many things
relating to India, before unknown to strangers.•
Em>t. Herodotus informs us that Sesostris, who was advis;d by
the priPsts, " is affirmed to have parcelled out the whole
of Egypt, bestowing a square lot of equal size upon every man;
and upon each a certain tax was imposed, to be paid yearly. If
any one's lot happened to be infringed upon by the river, he made
known the fact to the King, who dispatched overseers to ascertain,
by meaaurem«.>nt, how much such a parcel of land had lost, in
order that in future a proportionate part of the tribute might he
remitted."t
brMUtee. It is uncertain whether Sesostris, or his father, Ar.;«.>-
nophis, was the Pharoab from whose persecutions
Moses withdrew the Israelites; but it is a singular proof of the
correspondence of the Mosaic with the Egyptian institutions, tl!at
either shortly before, or shortly after the Egyptian division of the
land, Moses apportioned the lands of the children of Israel upon a
• Bootb•a Diodorua Siculua, B. 2, ehap. 4. t Taylor's Herodotus, p. 147.
Digitized by Coogle
a
!H2 APP.E:MDIX•.
similar principle. He endeavoured to secure a permanent equality
of property, to a certain extent, by commanding the restoration of
lands sold or alienated, to the original families at stated periods.
....-. An entire community of possessions became in later
ages a distinguishing feature of one of the principal
Jewi»h sects-thatof the Essenes. The following extracts from Philo
give some account of them:-" These exceeding four tho118and,
are called EBBenes, which name corresponds in Greek to the word
'holy.' For they have attained the highest holiness in the worship
of God, and that not by sacrificing animals, but by cultivating
purity of heart. They live principally in villages. Some cultivate
the ground ; others pursue the arts of peace, and such employments
as are beneficial to themselves without. injury to their neighboars.
They are the ouly people who, though destitute of money and pos-
sessions, felicitate themselves as rich, deeming riches to consist in
frugality and contentment. Among thf'm no one manufacturps
darts, arrows, or weapons of war. They decline trade, commercP,
and navigation, as incenti\"es to coveto118ness; nor have they any
slaves among them, but all are fre<', and all in their turn administt>r
to others. They cultivate natural philosophy only eo far as respects
the existence of God, and the creation of the universe; other parts
of natural knowledge they give up to vain and subtle metaphysi-
cians, as really surpassing the powers of man ; but moral philosophy
they largely study, conformably to the established laws of their
country. The Scriptures they interpret in that symbolical8t'nse
which they have zealously copied from the patriarchs; and the
subjects of instruction are piety, holiness, righteousness; domrstic
and political economy ; the knowledge of things really good, bad,
and indift'erent; what objects ought to be pursued, and what to be
avoided. In discussing these topics, the ends which they have ia
view, and to which they refer as eo many rult>s to guide them, are
the love of God, the love of virtue, and the love of wan. They
evince their attachml•nt to virtue by their frt>edom from avarice,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 513
from ambition, from sensual pleasure; by their temperance and
patience; by their frugality, simplicity, and contentment; by their
humility, regard to the laws, and other similar virtues. Their
love to man is evinced by their benignity, their equity, and their
liberality. There exists among them no house, however private,
which is not open to the reception of all the rest, and not only the
members of the same society assemble under the same domestic
roof, but even strangers of the same persuasion have free admis-
sion to join them. There is but one treasure, whence all derive
110bsistence ; and not only their provisions, but their clothes are
common property. Such mode of living under the same roof, and
of dieting at the same table, cannot, in fact, be proved to. have
been adopted by any other description of men. The sick are not
despised or neglected, but li!e in ease and a.ffiuence, receiving from
the treasury whatever their disorder or their exigencies require.
The aged, t{)O, among them, are loved, revered, and attended as
parents, by affectionate children ; and a thousand bands and hearts
prop their tottering years with comforts of every kind."
They aspired t{) a greater ·moral perfection than the rest of the
world, and sought to make higher motives the rule of action;-
they had an enthusiastic expectation of a new and more perfect
state of things, which they called the Kingdom of Heaven ;-they
were therefore calumniated and persecuted by the ruling powers
as innovators. Immoralities were laid falsely to their charge, and
their tenets and customs misrepresented. Josephus attests the
heroic fortitude with which they met their sufferings in support
oftheir opinions and mode of life. He says also that there prevailed
among them a contempt of marriage ; but that they received
among them the children of others, and educated them as their
own, while yet tender and susceptible of instruction. He relates,
however, that there was another order of Essenes, who agreed with
the rest as to their way of Jiving, and cust{)ms, and laws, but dif-
fered from them in the point of marriage, " as thinking that by not
marrying tiH'Y cut otT the principal part of human life, which is
ss
•
Digitized by GoogI.e ,..
514 APPENDIX.
the prospect of succeaaion; nay, rather, that if all men should be
of the same opinion, the whole race of mankind would fail.''•
The Therapeuta! were a branch of the Easenes who devoted
themselves entirely to a contemplative life and the exercises of
devotion.
But.r It is probable that most of the fint Christians were
Obttlllau. Essenes, and that the community of goods and social
organization which they adopted were merely the con-
tinuation of the institutions to which they had been accustomed.t
But as Christianity spread and numbered among its converts per-
son!f of different nations, and of the most opposite modes of life,
the bond of union was relaxP.d into 11imple affinity of doctrine and
MoDUtlt feeling. We must, however, except the monastic
Iu&lta&l-. institutio1111, which, although not pecnliar to Chris-
tianity, have since its fint establishment held a con-
spicuous station in ita history, and preserved some of ita original
characteristics of fellowship and community of intere11t even when
distorted by the absurdities of fanaticism. With relation to their
utility as economical societies, it bas been remarked,-" These same
religious who seem to live in idleness and seclusion, should be con-
sidered as proprietors whom a peculiar constitution bas reduced to
equality and uniformity. One small· portion of them superintends
the domestic arrangements, another takes the management of their
lands, and so on of all the other possessions which constitute their
property. Sheltered by their condition from all the disadvantages
attending minorities and other derangements of property, and from
the ordinary expenses of secular proprietors, tbry maintain and
increase their capitaJ. It is to these institutions alone that the
modern nations, wbose barbarous and warlike ancestors poured in
like a flood over the countries they now occupy, owe the advantages
• War. B. 2, chap. 7.
t HeDDell's " lPquiry coooerniDg the Origio of Christianity," chap. I and 2.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 515
of the preservation of territories which their ravages would have
destroyed, without these places whose privileges secured them from
the general destruction. Such were the communitiea of agricul-
tural monks, and it is impossible to calculate the good these people
did to the deserts which formerly served them for retreats.''•
In these instances, and in most of the others which have
appeared in Christian countries, the foundation of co-operative
unions has been the belief of certain religious doctrines, and an
enthusiastic zeal in support of them, not the conviction that this
community of labour and property is the best means of secur-
ing the comfort and well-being of all ; their existence, therefore,
. depended on the permanence of these doctrines, and of their own
enthusiasm, and when these, subject to the usual fluctuation of
events and opinions, gave way, the union was dissolved; even
where it has been more lasting, the operation of the economical
principle has been so cramped and perverted by religious fanatici:~m,
and the influence of absurd tenets, that no test of its efficiency
can be deduced. History affords many instances of this, even to
our own times.
Anallapu.&~ In 1525, Thomas Munzer, a disciple of Luther,
excited great disturbance in Saxony by his opinious,
and the violence with which he attempted to propagate them. Wild
notions of divine illumination accompanied his proposals to lt!vel
the distinctions among mankind; and by abolishing property, to
reduce them to their natural state of equality, in which all should
receive their subsistence from one common stock. Munzer de-
clared that he had the sanction of Heaven to his design, and the
peasants of Thuringia, over whom he bad acquired a wonderful
ascendant, and who, like the rest of their class in Germany, wert!
driven to despair by the exactions of the government and the
oppressions of the aristocracy, set about its exl'cution with frantic
• Eueyclop. Ecoo. Politique, Art. Commuuaut~.
Digitized by Coogle
516 APPENDIX.
zeal. They depo!!ed the magistrates in many cities, llt'ized tbt'
lands of the nobles, and compelled tht'ir owners to wear the habit,
and take the appt>llations pt>culiar to the lowest orders. Great
numbers engaged in the undertaking, but neither they nor their
leader bad military talent, or courage, to resist the forces which
the Elector of Saxony and other pnnce11 brought against them.
Munzer fled, and bt'ing taken prisoner, was condemned to death.
But bis opinions were not extirpated,-they were disseminated by
his followers in varions places, particularly in the Netherlands and
Westphalia. They were called Anabaptists from their chief reli-
gious tenet, the necessity of adult baptism. To their system of
civil and religious equality they are accused of adding that of a
plurality of wives. Two of their prophets, John Matthias and
John Boccold, in 1~34, seized the imperial city of Mun11ter in the
night-time, and made a vigorous attempt to establish their princi-
ples. The estates of the senators and citizens who bad fled in
alarm were confiscated, the churches pillaged, and the produce
collected into a public treasury. Matthias commanded his adhe-
rents to bring their money and valuables to the common stock, and
nominated deacons to dispense it for the common ullt'. Public
tables were served, at which all were fed, and the dishes prescribed.
The fortifications were repaired, magazines collected, and all pt>r-
sons without distinction obliged to work ; Matthias himself inciting
them to labour, and to submit to evPry hardship by his own exam-
ple. At the end of three months the Bishop of Munster besieged
the town, and Matthias was killed in a frantic sally which be made
at the head of thirty men, who eagerly followed him " to smite the
ungodly." John Boccold, however, took his place, conducted the
defence of the city, and gained even stronger bold over the minds
of his disciples. HP was a man of wilder entbusialfm and of un-
bounded ambition, and claim£>d to be the King of Zion, with which
name Munster was dignifi£>d, by Divine commission. His claim
was• acknowl£>dged immediatdy, and be a!!sumed the state and
appointments of royalty. He wore a crown, was attended by a
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 517
body-guard, and coined money. His doctrine of the lawfulness,
nay, necessity, of a plurality of wives, which he now preached
and practised, led to great excesses, which excited the abhorrence
of men of all professions. For the space of a year he maintained
the city against its besil'gers, until, notwithstanding his prudent
and frugal economy in the public meals, it was exhausted by
famine and suffering ; it was only then, however, taken by the
treachery of a deserter. The Anabaptists and their King defended
themsl'lvl's with desperate valour ; most of them were slain, and
Boccold, after being carried in chains from city to city as a specta-
cle, and enduring insult and torture with unshaken fortitudE', was
put to death at Munster, at the age of 26. Robertson, from whom
this account i!t drawn, say!t that " the party still subsists in the
Low Countries, under the name of Mennonites ; but, by a very
singular revolution, this sc.>ct, so mutinous and sanguinary at its
first origin, hath become altogethl'r innocent and pacific. Holding
it unlawful to wage.> war, or to accept of civil officl's, they devote
themselves entirely to the duties of private citizens, and, by their
industry and charity, rndeavour to make reparation to society for
the violence committed by their founders." •
MoraYiana. Tht> lJnited Brethren, Ht>rrnhiiters, (Watchers ofthe
Lord,) or, as thl'y are usually called among us, Mora-
vians, furnish us with another instance of the adoption of the social
principle arising out of religious Zl'al. This is a Christian sect
which derives its origin from the followl'rs of Huss, the Bohemian
reformer ; its proft>ssors wrre connected at one time with the Wal-
denses ; the srct was revivl'd, in 1723, by Count Zinzendorff, who
l'Stablished a parent community at Bertholsdorff, in Upper Lusatia,
and spent his life and fortune in supporting and propagating its
opinions. " The wild entbul:liasm of this sect forms a singul&l' con-
trast with the wisdom and perst>vcrauce of their attempts to conv£'rt
• IIiattory of Charles lith.
DigitizedbyGoogle a
518 APPENDIX.
and civilize the heathens, as the smallness of their numbers does
with the variety and extent of their missionary undertakings.
Their method of conversion ill through the passions, which they
hold must first be excited by terror or sympathy before the under-
standing can be appealed to." • They live together in communi-
ties ; the single men, single women, widows, and widowers fonniDg
distinct classes, or clwirs, living apart from each other, and each
under the superintendance of elderly persons of their own class.
The children are educated with peculiar care, and in most of their
societies they have separate schools for the education of boys and
girls It is not permitted to marry out of the communion on pain
of dismillsal from the society ; the members usually refer their
choice to the church, and as the lot, which is their mode of ascer-
taining thP. Divine will, must first be east to sanction their union,
each receives his partner as a divine appointment. This might be
called a Protestant monastic institution, except for the religious im-
portance which they attach to marriage, a point on which heavy
charges were formerly made against them, but which were probably
for the most part founded in exaggeration and mistake. In their
communities, each person who is able, and is not posse8lled of
independent means of support, labours in his or her own occupa-
tion, and contributes the produce to the common fund, or, according
to some accounts, a stipulated sum for maintenance. The surplus
of the common stock is applied to the missionary undertakings,
which are a distinguishing feature of the sect. Their missions
have penetrated to all parts of the globe ; they have been esta-
blished in Greenland, India, among the Hottentots, and in
China.t
The following account of a Moravian society, established 50
miles from Salisbury, in New England, is borrowed from a French
writer:-" Their capital is Bethania, situated on a small river.
• Rees' Cyclop.
t 8cG Moehuim'e Eccloeiut. II bit.; l\liluer'l! Church llitit.; Encyc. Drit. ;
French Elll·yclol'•
Digitized by Coogle
APPRNDIX. 519
This sect or fraternity possesses a large extent of land. Their
polity and internal regulations resemble the monastic. All is in
common among them ; the youth of both sexes are brought up
separately ; all social intercourse is interdicted between them until
the time of marriage. The state gives to the newly married, a
house, a portion of land, instruments of husbandry, household
utensils ; and the produce of their industry is made over to the
public magazine. In childhood they are taught reading, writing,
and mechanical arts. Thtl uniformity and singularity of their
vestments, and the long beards of the men, which descend to their
middle, give them an uncouth and wild aspect. From the earliest
age, the children are separated from their parents and placed in
public seminaries ; from this moment they belong to the society ;
they are inspired with the love of their country, they are accus-
tomed to regard each other u brethren, and to extinguish the
exclusive paternal and filial sentiment; it is even ast~erted that
the parents cannot distinguish their own children from the others.
They have excellent agricultural establishments, from which they
export large produce ; they have also established lucrative manu-
factures, the principal of which is earthenware, a manufacture in
which they excet•·•
SbAktra. The Shaker communities in America are kindred so-
cieties, and deserve peculiar notice since they prove the
efficiency of the community system for the production of wealth, at
the smallest cost of labour to the individual ; notwithstanding that
the association being founded in gross fanaticism, they merely sup-
ply a limited physical development of the principle, which in its
intellectual and moral bearings is totally dead and inert.
The sect of the Shakers, or Shaking Quakers, originated in
Lancashire with some deserters from the Society of Friends, about
the year 1747. Their great female prophet and mother, Ann Le<',
• Lantier.
Digitized by Coogle
520 APPENDIX.
having been thought mad and being sorely persecuted, set sail with
some followers from Liverpool for New York in 1774, since which
time the sect has established itself in America. Their leading
practical tenet is the abolition of marriage.t
Duokera. The communities of the Dunkers, or Tunkers, in Ame-
rica, are of German origin. They belong to the General
Baptists. In their communities the men and women live distinct
in separate buildings, and are not allowed to marry. They live
chiefly on roots and vegetables, and eat no flesh except at their
love feasts, on which occasions only the brethren and shlters dine
together. If they should break through the rule and marry, they
are removed to another establishment about ~ mile distant, called
Mount Zion.
RappltN. " The society of Harmony (or of the Rappites,) had ita
origin in Wirtemburg, from a schism of the Lutheran
Church, about the year 1785. In 1804, 150 families, under the
guidance of George Rapp, their pastor, emigrated to America, and
located themsdves, in the autumn of the same year, on the waters
of Beevt>r, Pennsylvania, giving the name of their society to their
new abode. It does not appear that this association was formed
from a rational conviction of the many advantages arising from
co-operative industry, but from some religious sanction derived
from Acts 4, verse 32, "and the multitude of them that belit>ved
were of one heart, and one soul ; nt>ither said any of th!'m that
aught of the things he poss!'S!Ied was his own, but they had a/ltMngs
in common." Here, in a new country, surrounded by strangers, of
whose language they were ignorant,-unaccustomed to our modes
of clearing the forest,-possessing no more wealth than just suf-
ficient to purchase the soil, and remove to their new po8Sessions,
they commenced the doubtful task of providing for themselves the
• R<'ell' Cyelop.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 521
comforts of life. In this state of penury, surrounded by difficulties,
many became discouraged, and left the society ; but those remain-
ing had a rich re!JOurce in their perseverance and industry, which
rendered them in a few years the admiration of the neighbouring
country. In the year 1813, the society, already wealthy, became
desirous of finding out a more favourable location. They sent
Frederick Rapp, one of their mt-mbers, an adopted son of the
founder of their institution, on a tour of observation, with int~truc­
tions to make four points of advantage the basis of his choice, to
wit, a healthy situation-good land-water-power-and convenient
river communication. After traversing the six western States for
some months, and exploring with attention the point11 he thought
likely to meet the wishes of the society, be at length fixed on the
present site of New Harmony, and the adjacent country.
"In the spring and summer of 1814, the society, having !JO)d their
possessions in Pennsylvania for 100,000 dollars, emigrated to their ·
new abode, then a wildernPI!s, untenanted by man. Here they
were again subjected to the difficultit-s usually attending the settle-
ment of new countries. In the fall of 1824, ten years from the
first settling of what is now called New Harmony, their pos11essions
in this neighbourhood consisted of more than 80,000 acres of
valuable land, together with improvempnts, stock, and personal
effects, amounting to the estimated value of one million of dollars.
Thus we see a body of people-strangers to our country-ignorant
of our language-unaccustomed to our modes of agriculture-
imperfect mechanics, and woNe manufacturers-through the mere
advantage of co-operative industry, acquiring unrivalled skill,
enjoying the comforts of life, and outstripping the computation of
extravagant calculators in the acquisition of wt'alth. It is a fact
worthy of record, and one that should be well considerl'd by the
political economists of a fret- and enlightened republic, that in 1804,
the whole property of this people did not exceed 25 dollars per
head : in 1825, a fair estimate gave them 2,500 dollars each
person, man, woman, and child; an instance of accumulation in
Tt
Digitized by Coogle
522 APPENDIX.
the laborious professions, to which history does not aft'ord a
parallel." •
Miss Martineau's remarks on these communitit"S, in hl'r" Socil'ty
in America,'' are highly interesting, and so pertinl'nt to the subject
in hand, that we cannot forbear quoting largely from them. " The
most rl'markable order of landowners that I saw in the Unitl'd
States was that of the Shakers and Rappites ; both holding all their
property in common, and both enforcing celibacy. The interest
which would be felt by the whole of society in watching the results
of a community of property is utterly dl'stroyed by the presence of
the other distinction ; or rathl'r of the ignorance and superstition
of which it is the sign. The moral and economical principles of
these 110cieties ought to be most carefully distinguished by the
observer. This being done, I believe it will be found that whatever
they have peculiarly good among them is owing to the soundness
of their economical principles; whatever they have that excites
compassion, is owing to the badnl.'ss of their moral arrangements.
" I visited two Shaker communities in Massachusetts. The first
was at Hancock, consisting of 300 persons, in the neighbourhood
of another at Lebanon, consisting of 700 persons. There are 15
Shaker establishml'nts or ' families' in tbe United States, and their
total number is between five and six thousand. There is no
question of their entire succe:ts, so far as wealth is concerned. A
very moderate amount of labour bas secured to them in perfection
all the comforts of life that they know how to enjoy, and as much
wealth bl'sides u would command the intellectual luxuries of which
they do not dream. The earth does not show more ftourishiog
fields, gardens, and orchards, than theirs. The houses are spa-
cious, and in all respecta unexceptionable. The finish of every
external thing testifies to their wealth, both of material and leisure.
• • * Their store showa what they can produce for aale. A
• New Hannony Gazette, aa quoted In a tract publlehed by tbe AfiDII&h
Co-operative Society, 1830;
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 523
grPat variety of l$imples, of which they sPll large quantities to
London, linen drapPry, knitted wares, sieves, baskets, boxes, and
confectionary ; palm and feather fans, pincushions, and other such
trifles: all these may be had in some variety, and of the best
quality. If such external provision, with a great amount of accu-
mulated wealth besides, is the result of co-operation and community
of property among an ignorant, conceited, inert society like this,
what might not the same principles of association achieve among
a more intelligent set of people, stimulated by education, and
exhilarated by the enjoyment of all the blessings which Providence
has placed within the reach of man ?
" The wealth of the Shakers is not to be attributed to their
celibacy. They are receiving a perpetual accession to their num-
bers from among the ' world's people," and these accpssions are
usually of the most unprofitable kind. Widows with large families
ofyoung children are perpetually joining the connnunity, with the
view of obtaining a plentiful subsistence with very moderate labour.
The increase of their numbers does not lead to the purchase of
more land. They supply their enlarged wants by the high cultiva-
tion of the land they have long possPssed ; and the superfluity of
capital is so great, that it is difficult to conceive what will be done
with it by a people so nearly dead to intellectual enjoyments. If
there had been no celibacy amongst them, they would probably have
been more wealthy than they are; the expenses of living in com-
munity being so much less, and the produce of co-operative labour
being so much greater, than in a state 'of division into families.
The truth of these last positions can be denied by none who have
witnessed the working of a co-opPrative system. The problem is
to find the principle by which all shall be induced to labour their
share. Any such principle being found, the wealth of the commu-
nity follows of course.
"Whether any principle to this effect can be brought to bear
upon any large class of society in the old world, is at pretent the
Digitized by·Google
524 APPENDIX.
most important dispute, perhaps, that ill agitating socit>ty. It will
never now rest till it has bt>t>n made mattt'r of experiment.
"If a >ery low principle has servt'd tht' purposE', for a time, at
least, in the new world, there ~ems much ground for expecta-
tion that a far higher one may be found to work 88 well in
the more r..omplicated case of English society . There is, at least,
every encouragement to try. While there are large classes of
people here whose condition can hardly be made worse ; while the
present system (if such it may be called,) imposes care on the
rich, excessive anxiety on the middle classes, and desperation
on the poor : while the powerful are thus, 88 it were, fated to op-
press ; the strivers after power to circumvent and counteract ; and
the powerless to injure, it seems only reasonable that some section,
at least, of this warring population should make trial of the peaceful
principles which are working successfully elllewhere. The co-ope-
rative methods of-the Shakers and Rappites might be tried without
any adoption of their spiritual pride and cruel superstition. These
are so far from telling against the system, that they prompt the
observer to remark how much has been done in spite of such
obstacles.
"There must be something sound in the principles on which
these people differ from the rest of the world, or they would not
work at all ; but the little that is vital is dreadfully encumbered
with that which is dead. • • • Their spiritual pride, their insane
vanity, their intellectual torpor, their mental grossness, are melan-
choly to witness. Reading is discouraged among them. Their
thoughts are full of the one subject of celibacy ; with what effect
may be easily imagined. Their religious exercises are disgustingly
full of it. It cannot be otherwise ; for they have no other interest-
ing subject of thought beyond their daily routine of business ; no
objects in life, no wants, no hopes, no novelty of experience what-
ever. Their life is all dull work and no play."
"The followers of Mr. Rapp are settled at Economy, on the Ohio,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 525
18 miles below Pitt11bilrgh. Their number wa11 500 when I was
there; and they owned 3000 acres of land. Much of their atten-
tion seems to be given to manufactures. They rear silk-worms,
and were the earliest silk-weavers in the United States. At my
first visit they were weaving only a flimsy kind of silk handker-
chief; last summer I brought away a piece of substantial, hand-
eome black satin. They have sheep-walks, and a large woollen
manufactory. Their factory was burnt down in 1834; the fire
occasioning a loss of 60,000 dollars ; a mere trifle to this wealthy
community. Their vineyards, corn-fields, orchards, and gardens,
gladden the eye. There is an abundance so much bfyond their
need, that it is surprising that they work, except for want of
something else to do. The Dutch love of flowers was visible in
the plants that were to be seen in the windows, and the rich carna-
tions and other sweets that bloomed in the garden and green-house.
The whole place has a superior air to that of either of the Shaker
' families' that I saw. The women were better dressed; more
lively, less pallid; but, I fear, not much wiser. Mr. Rapp exercises
an unboundt'd influence over his people. They are prevented
learning any language but GPnnan, and are not allowed to con-
vene with strangPrs. The superintendant keeps a close watch ovt'r
them in this respect. Probationers must serve a year before they
can be admitted : and the managers own that they dread the en-
trance of young people, who might be 'unsettled ;' that is, no~
sufficiently subservient.
" I was curious to learn how 500 persons could be bpt in the
necessary subjection by one. Mr. Rapp's mfans are such that his
task is not very difficult. He beps his people ignorant ; and he
makes them vain. He preaches to them their own 11uperiority
over the rest of the world 110 incessantly that thPy fully believe it,
and are persuaded that their salvation is in his hands. At first I
felt, with regard both to them and the Shakers, a strong respect for
the self-conquest which could enable them to endure the singu-
larity,-the one community, of its non-intercourse with strang('rs;
Digitized by Coogle
526 APPENDIX.
the other, of its dancing exhibitions ; but I soon found that my
respect was misplaced. One and all they glory in the singularity.
This vanity is the handle by which they are worked.
"Mr. Rapp is now very old. His son is dead. It remains to
be seen what will become ofhis community, with its immense accu-
mulation of wealth, when it bas lost its dictator. It does not
appear that they can go on in their present state without a dictator.
They smile superciliously upon Mr. Owen's plan, as admitting 'a
wrong principle,' marriage. The best hope for them is that they
will change their minds on this point, admitting the educational
improvements which will arise out of the change, and remaining in
community with regard to property. This is the process now in
action among the seceders from their body, settled on the opposite
bank of the river, a short distance below Economy. ThE-se live
in community, but abjuring celibacy, and have been joined by some
thorough-bred Americans. It will be seen how they prosper.''•
It is said that there are at least a dozen other communities in
America, founded upon the principle of public property, and all
successful in a pecuniary point of view. Included in the number
Coton7 a& is the colony at Zoar. This consists also of a society
Zuar. of Germans from Wirtemberg, who, in 1817, emigrated
to the number of 300 on account of religious and po,. •
litical excitement, under their leader, M. BA.umler. They are settled
at Tuscarawa in Ohio, and export a large surplus of their agricul-
tural produce. " They contracted to dig the Ohio canal throughout
the whole extent of their territory, by which they not only acquired
21,000 dollars in ready money, but also made a considerable sum
by furnishing the neighbouring contractors with bread. They have
likewise built by their own unaided efforts, a large, handsome, and
substantial bridge across the Tuscarawa, as well as over the Ilana!,
which are opt>n, free of all expense, for the largest carriages. Upon
• Society in America, vvl. 2.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 527
the banks of the canal they have erected a handsome and roomy
house as a dep6t for their own produce, as well as that of their
neighbolll'll, which yields them considerable profit. An inn upon
the canal is no leas lucrative, as nearly every article of consumption
is of their own growing. Their brewery not only supplies theif own
wants, but also the demands of the two inns in the town, and that
on the canal, which it also furnishes with brandy. They have like-
wise a very well-arranged grinding-mill with a double set of stones.
A bricklayer, who is attached to the company, made the drawings
for it from a mill at a considerable distance, and has designed
and executed the whole of the arrangements with so much skill,
that the whole process requires the care only of one man and a boy.
To it are attached carding-machines, and a large sawing-mill: in
the town is a store containing a threshing-machine, oil, corn, and
other mills. The former threshes daily 200 bushels of wheat, and
300 of oats, by means of a single water-wheel. They have likewise,
besides various other machines, one for shearing cloth, looms for
stockings, linens, &c. : the latter managed by four women. The
spinning of the linen-yarn furnishes employment during the winter
for the aged women and young children : being very fine, it i11 in
much repute, and sells in the shops for oue dollar (nearly 5s.) per lb.
A little further on is the bakehouse, where excellent white bread is
mjlde by two women; and near it are the shambles, where an ox is
killed every week and distributed among the different dining houses.
The neighhouring tanneries supply materials ~or the shoes which
are made by two shops for the community, as well as for sale. In
two other houses twelve women are occupied in making up shirts, &e.
for the members of the whole association. The smith, wheelwright,
locksmith, and carpenter, have each their appropriate WQrkshops.
Out of the town are some well-managed lime and brick-kilns ;
where, by means of a machine, two persons are able to make 2000
bricks in an hour.
" The recreation of the community has also been provided for in
a very extensive garden in the centre of the town ; which, besides
Digitized by Coogle
..
-....
528 APPENDIX.
abundance of fiowers and vegetables, contains greeohousezt for
citrons and pomegranates. It is much frequented by strangers
who take up their abode in the little inn, where they find a good
table in the Gt>rman style, and pianofortes. These lattl.'r are met
with in several other houses, and the community pass several hours
every Sunday at a little musical entertainment, where .they sing
hymns, &c.
" The capital of the colony is estimated at 137,400 dollars, about
£34,300, which is altogt>ther clear profit; for the settlers had not
a single shilling of their own when tht>y first embarked in this
association. Their constitution is as follows:-The chit>f manage-
ment of the colony, the ket>ping of the accounts, correspondence,
and direction of divine service, have been unanimously entrusted
to their leader, M. Ba.umler, who had acquired the confidence of
the whole community while they were living in Germany. He is
assistrd by three directors, who arc chosen for thrt>e years, but one
of whom is obliged to rr10ign every year. The election is by ballot,
in which every person of the age of twenty-one has the 1ight of par-
ticipating. Each dirt>ctor has hizt own drpartment of agricultural,
domestic, and administrative economy ; they meet every night
at the bouse of their leadrr, consult upon matters affecting the
wrlfare of the community, and determine the labours of the follow-
ing day. On the following morning, such persons as have no stated
employmrnt assemble upon a gin•n signal before the house of
Baumler, and each of the directon chooses tht> person whom he
considers best qualified for his particular busint>ss. Tht> di-
rectors are, however, obliged to take a prrsono.l share in the
most difficult part of their labours, and to excite their workmrn
by their t>xamplt>.
"With this abundance of food and other necessaries, it may be
truly said that a pt>rson may lire free from all care in Zoar. Every
child, too, from thr ages of three or four, is sent to the general public
school, which i11 sup1•rinteuded by three frmales. The children
are instructed in eMy labour!' suitable to their age ; the girls,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENniX. 529
for insta.nct·, in spinning, and the boys in plaiting straw ; so that
t'ach has a fixed task, at tht> tt'fmination of which they art' turned
into the play-ground."•
Family It appears that a sort of patriarchal community
Conuounillea b • • N'
lu Nivemolo. system o tamed in the provmce of lVt'rnois in
France, of which a singular vestige remains to the
present day in the Jaultt~' community, established near St. Benin
des Bois, in the department of La Nievre. An old writer, Guy
Coqville, mentions that the rural management of the Nivernois
country was carri<'d on by many persons assembled in one
family. Each was employed in the different offices of agricul-
ture, according to age, sex, and capacity, under the government of
onl' head, elected by the rest, called the community master. " He
attt>nds to businebs in the towns, fairs, and ebewhere ; has the
power to bind his con~tituents in all moveable propt>rty having
refert>nce to the affairs of the community, and he alone is named
on the rolls of the rates and taxes. By this description it may be
understood, that these communitiPs are true families in a college,
who by the means of intellect, become like one body composed of
st>veral members ; and however the membPrl! may be separated
one from the other, still by fraternity, friend!!hip, and economic
bond, form one single corps. In tlu.•se communities, the children
are prized who can yet do nothing, from the expectation of what
tht>y will perform in fntnre; those who are in their '·igour for what
they do; the old fitr their ad\·ict>, and for tht> remembrance of wha~
tht>y have done. Thu!! in all ages, and in every ehapt>, they
maintajn tht>mselws, like a body politic, which by handing down,
should last for t'Vt>r." One of tht>se f;lmilies rt>taining its usages,
still exists, that of the Jaultl!. It t•onsists of thirty-six Dlt>lll-
bt>rs, men, womt>n, and childrt>n. Tht> Jault-houst> is composed of
• Penny ~lagnzinc for Oct. 211, 1837.
uu
Digitize~ by Coogle
530 APP.ENDIX.
an immense hall, having a chimney at each end, opening into a
fire-place nine feet in width. By the side of each chimney is a
11\rge oven for bread, on the other side a stone vessel for washing,
polished by constant use, and as old as the houee itself. Close by
in a closet is the well which supplies abundantly the house with
water. The grand room in its entire length, is flanked by a pas-
sage, into which open by as many doors, separate apartments, or
cells, in which each family party has its peculiar domicile. These
little rooms are kept very neatly ; in each are two beds, 110metimes
three, according to the number of children. Two presses, in oak,
carefully waxed, or else a large chest, and a clothes press, a table,
two chairs, and very few effects, comprise the furniture. The
formation of this community dates from time immemorial. The
titles, which the master preserves in an ark, which was not searched
by the incPndiaries of 1793, go back beyond the year 1500, and
they then speak of the community as of an establishment already
ancient. The possession of this nook of earth has maintaim•d it<aelf
in the Jault family, and with time it has gradually increased itself,
by the labour and economy of its members, so far as to form, by
the union of all its acquisitions, a domain worth more than 200,000f.,
in the bands of its present possessors. They possess in common
with the other inhabitants of St. Benin, besides, 400 acres of undi-
vided pasturage, and 300 acres of wood, whence they draw their
timber and firing.
At the outset the natural head of the community was the family
father; then the son ; and this natural hereditament continued as
long as the direct line was maintained, and that an elder one could
be found endowed with a suitable capacity. But, as by degrt-c.>s, in
diverging, the proximity of the kindred became remote, so as only
to offer collaterals, the most able of the grown men w1111 chosen to
preside over the affairs, and the cleverest woman to manage the
domestic business. Be"ides, the rule of this domestic management
is vc.>ry mild, and the government nearly a nullity. Every one,
Digitized by Coogle
APPRNDIX. 531
according to the testimony of the master, knows hilt business, and
performs it. The principal duty of the master is to conduct the
out-door business ; to buy and sell cattle ; to make landed pur-
chases in the name of the community, according to convenience
and cash in hand ; which he does not do without taking counsel of
his fellows ; for, as Guy Coqville has remarked, " these, all living
off one loa~ sleepin_g under one roof, and daily seeing each other,
the master is very ill-advised, or too conceited, if he does not con-
sult with, and take the advice of his fellows on important affairs."
The property of the community consists,-lst, of the old posses-
sions ; 2nd, of the purchases made for the general good with the
savings; 3d, the cattle of J!Very kind; 4th, the common chest,
formerly in possession of the master alone, but now deposited, by
way of precaution, at a notary's in the town of St. Jaulze.
But, beside11, each one has his hoard, consisting of his wife's
portion a11d the effects he has inherited from his mother, or what
has fallen to him by gift or bequest, or by any other means distinct
from social right. The community only reckons its males as effec-
tive members. They alone are the caput of the community. The
girls and women, so long as they choose to remain, live there and
work, are fed and maintained in sickness and in health, and when
they marry externally, (which happens most commonly,) the com-
munity portions them in ready money. These portions, trifting at
tint, have risen in these latter days to 1,350 livres. Bating these
portions, once paid, neither themselves nor their descendants have
any further demands on the property of the community. Only if
they become widows, they may return to inhabit the house, and
live there as before their maniage. As to women from without
who marry any of the members of the community, their portions
are not mixed up with it, because it is determined that they shall
not acquire any personal right therein. These portions constitute
a hoard apart; only they are expected to place 200 livrcs in thP
community chrst, to rPpre~ent the ntlne of thP furnit~re ginm up
Digitized by Coogle
532 APPENDIX.
to their use. If they brcome widow,; thry havr the right of re-
maining in the community, and to live thrrc with their children;
othrrwise thPy may withdraw, and in that ca,;t- the 200 lines,
which thq had originally paid, are restorrd to them.
No man, being a member of the community, who dies unmarried,
leaves property to any body. It i-. a /read leMs in the community
which rt'mains to the otbt'rs in entirt'ty, not by virtue of inherit-
ance, but by the original and fundamental condition of the associ-
ation. If he has been marrit'd and leaves children, thPy are t-ither
boys and become members of the community, where each of thrw
forms a laead, not by hereditary title, but by the simple fact that
they were born within the community and to its profit. If girls
they claim a portion, and partake with the sons in the father's
store, if he had any; but they can pretend to nothing as their
share in the goods of the community, because their father was not
a communist with right of transmitting any part whatever to
women, who might carry it into alien families ; but on condition of
living there, labouring tht're, and of having no heir but the com-
munity itself. The ancient Nivernian communities, therefore, con-
stitute a kind of corps or college, a civil personification which
continues and perpetuates itself by personal substitution.
If the conscription attaches any member of the community, it
grants 2000 livres for a substitute. In case of insufficiency the
surplus must be made up from the private purse of the conscript.
As to honesty, there is no instance of a single member of this
community being convicted of a dishonest action. Their manneJ'll
are pure. They are very charitable ; no poor person passes by
without receiving soup and bread. AU the communists, follow-
ing the law of their association, live thus-the same loaf, pot, and
salt. As to the garments, the master distributes to each family
flax and wool according to the number and age of the indh·iduals
composing it. The ht'alth of this tribe is pt>rfect. The mt'n stout
and strong; the woml'n robu,;t, >~orne of them prl'lty f'nough. Thdr
drass is nf'at and not inclPgant.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 533
" Association well conducted," say!! M. Dupin, the French jurist,
from whom this account i!! derived, "has its advantages. I have
noticed the happy rffects then'Of, and where it ypt exist!! with good
results, I put up prayer!~ that it may ever remain and perpetuate
itself."•
In Aun,....e. The custom of Auvergne also authorises these family
communities. The Pingons, near Thiers, have
subsisted in this manner for more than 600 years, in virtue of the
provision of the wise father of four brothers, who directed that
henceforth their goods and labours should be common. They never
marry out of tht'ir community, unless there should be no disposable
maiden in it; and when the daughters marry out of it, they take
their portion only in money. They live tog{'ther, flourishing in point
ofnumbers, in innocence, and wisdom, always observing the same
customs. Many associations of this naturt', and more prosperous
still, are found in thh~ same country. t
In the article A-Ioravea, written by M. Faiguet, Treasurer of
Franct', in the work just quoted, after some mention of these
family communities, it is remarked that the extension of these
societies might be very advantagt'ous; and a project is given for the
formation of general a!lsociations of industriou11 people, " who,
united by the ties of honour and religion, might rrlieve themselves
from the anxieties and V{'Xations which the want of skill and em-
ployment render almost inevitable; who, without renouncing mar.
riage, might fulfil the duties of Christianity, and labour in concert
to diminish their difficulties, and to procure the sweets of life ; an
establishment which is evidently desirable, and does not appear
impossible.'' M. Faiguet notices also a community of a similar
kind, called the Clercs cle Ia vie commune, establisht'd among the
brethren-shoemahrs and tailors, in France, towards the middle of
the S{''\'rnt{'{'nth crntury.
• New 1\lorn\ World for Juno 12, 1841.
t French En<'yclop. Econ. rulitique.
Digitized by Coogle
534
u.uen· Cullege
of lndlll&r).
APPENDIX.
In 1696, one John Bellers issued proposaL! for
raising a" College of Industry," as a model society,
in a pa~phlet published in London. His aim was
by a sort of joint-stock association, to secure " profit for the rich,
a plentiful living for the }loor, without difficulty, and a good edu-
cation for youth." It was to be effected by the subscriptions of the
rich who were interested in this triple object; and the Government
was to be petitioned to incorporate the society thus formed. His
plan was to unite, say 300 artizans "of all sorts of ust>ful trades in
a college, to work the usual time or task as abroad, and what any
doth more to be paid for it, to encourage industry.'' That for this
number a capital of £18,000 should be rai!!ed, and laid out,-
.£10,000 in the purchase of a farm of £500 per annum; £2,000
in stock for the land ; .£3,000 in tools and materials for the several
trades ; and £3,000 in new buildings or repairs. He supposes
that the labour of 200 would be sufficient to furnish the common
stock with food, clothing, and all necessaries, and the labour of the
remaining 100 for profit to the founders. That the labour of two-
thirds would suffice for the subsistence of the whole he judges,
because there would be none idle, no shopkeepers, no beggars, no
useless trades, no lawsuits, no bad debts, no dear bargains, no
loss of time for want of work, to provide for. There would be the
advantage of the women's and children's work, and of the saving of
much house-room, fuel, cookery, &c., and of the fetching and car-
rying of work and provisions; several advantages to the land from
the number of persons and cattle kt>pt on it, and the advantage of
all the hands being ready in time of harvest to st>cure tht> crops,
bf>sides the advantage to them of change of employment.
The stock to be valued t>very year, aud the profit to be
dividt>d, and either paid to the proprietors in mont>y, in goods
manufactured in the collt>ge, or invested in its enlargement and
improvement. Twelve or more proprietors to be rhosen every yt>ar
as an inspecting committee. The govnnors aml nuder offierrs to
havr no 11alaric)4, hut thr rea~onahlr ronnnirnrr!' that th€' roll~>~r
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 535
could aft'ord them. Punishments to be abatement11 of food, &c.,
ratht'r than stripes ; and for the 8reatest offences, expulsion.
Any having estates in land or money, living under the college
rnlett, and doing the college work, might be permitted to have.
college allowance, and lay up their own estates. Any giving £U
per annum in land, or .£300 in mont'y, or whatever sum might be
thought reasonable, might have the right of keeping one person in
the college without working, under the rules. Or, paying half the
money, and doing half the work, or in any other proportion.
Children al1t0 to be boarded and educated in all useful learning in
the college, who, st'eing others work, at spare times would be
learning 1t0me trade, work being not more labour than play.
Education would have many advantages in such an t'stablishment.
There would be all sorts of tools and employments for t'Very age
and capacity, and the children would very early begin to exercise
them. AU languages might be taught to them, as their mother
tongue, by having some tradesmen of all nations. Men and chil-
dren submit more easily to the rnles they see others submit to than
if they were alone.• Company being the delight of all creatures,
and the college having company enough, the temptation of seeking
it abroad would be lessened, and much evil prevented. There
might be a library, a physic garden, and a laboratory.
The poor would be made rich in the collt'ge by enjoying all things
needful in health or sickness, and if married, for wife and children ;
if parents die their children would be preserved from misery, and
their marrying encouraged. As they grow in years they might be
allowed to abate an hour in the day of their work, and at sixty, (if
merit preferred them not sooner,) they might be made overseen,
which, for ease and pleasant life, would equal what the boards of
a private purse can give, without fear of losing. " And for bodily
labour it is a primitive institution of God, that it should earn its
bread in the sweat of its brows ; labour being as proper for the
bodies' health, as eating is for its living; for what pains a man
saves by ease, be will find in dil!ease; and l~ss labour will provide
o;gitizedbyGoogle ..-
JJ
536 APPENDIX.
for a man in the college than out. The regular life in the oollege
with abatement of worldly cares, with an easy honest labour, and
religions instruction, may make it a nursery and school of virtue."
• • • " In short, as it may be an epitome of the world by a
collection of all the useful trades in it, so it may afford all the con-
veniences and comforts a man can want, or a Christian use."
The effect of this college-fellowship would be to make labour, and
not money, the standard to value all necessaries by.
As this body politic would have many difficulties in the beginning
to struggle with, it would require to take in at first only useful
hands to strengthen and support it, that in time it might be able to
bear all the poor that could reasonably be put upon it. The
nation must be lookl'd through to find some apt workmen, of good
lives and tempers, as a leal"en to the rest, " and if the poor prove
brittle, let the rich have patience, sel"en or fourteen years may
bring up young ones, that the life will be more natural to. Though
it is not natural for the old and rich to lil"e with a common stock,
yt't it is more natural for the young and poor; witness the hospitals .
of England and Holland. Old people are like earthen vrsscls, not
so easily to be new moulded; yet children are more like clay out of
thr pits, and easy to take any form thry are put into."
In answer to 11evrral supposed objections, John Bellers rrplies,
" If the act be good, we may hope God will raise instruments ; for
though some men haw taken up a rest in their rstates, and set•k
only a provision and divt>rsion for their own families, yt>t therE' arc
many have a touch of a more unh·ersal love; and is there not the
grt>atcst reason and prudence for good mt•n to place their estates
so as to influence many to virtue, especially when it will bring
profit with it P
" When trade is dull the poor will the readier accept new mas-
ters and terms; if calamiti<'s should comt', the poor in a body'would
submit b!'tter than singlf'. If it be supposrd that any who can gf't
more than will keep thf'm, will not work in the college for victuall:l
and clothes only-pt•rhaps uot ; but Ll'sides thrir own ket•ping thero
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 537
i:s laid "up in the college stores enough for tl1cir cl1ildren when born ;
for dtemselves whcn sick and aged ; and for their families when
they die. But where good workmen are not at first to be had they
may be allowed some wages to instruct the youth, and the ad,·an-
tage of the apprentices will be enough for the profit of the foundcrs.
As to the confinement of the college, neither would the poor work
if tht're were not greater inconveniences ; that is starving or
robhing, and that is hanging; and it is not proposed that the con-.
finement should be more than is absolutely needful for the good
government of the college."
"To reconcile differl.'nt interests," John Bellers concludes, "and
to answer objections that are contradictions, will be difficult ; as for
the rich man to say it will yield no benefit to the undertakl.'rs, and
at the same time for the poor to object, the proposals give too much
to the rich and too little to them. For answer, I say, that as the
proposition seems to ha~e all tht' profit the earth and mt'chaniclf
can raise anywher<', so it cuts off all superfluity and extravagancies
used among others; and consequently raises the greatest stock
both for founders and workmen, which is the point I aim at. Whilst
I am not willing to admit of the supposition, that though such
advantagc is offer!'d to the rich and poor, they will lose it for want
of agreeing how to divide it, hoping that tht're are but few would
make out the story of covetousness and envy, who when they were
offered, whatever the first asked, only the second should have
double to what the first asked, could nut agree which should ask
first. However, I have this satisfaction, I intt•nd the adyantage
of both, whilst I think the method will alford both profit to the
rich and plenty to the poor. I will not pretend to seck any method
of Jiying in this world that hath no inconveniency in it, but only
what hath fewest. But till the rich be satisfied to put it afoot, the
poor cannot if they would, for want of materials."
Tile Frboo1. " The mod!'rn provinces of Frirsland Proprr and
Gruuiugl'n, and till' prineipality of East FricslauJ,
ww
Digitized by Coogle
538 APPENDIX.
comprehend the country which was formerly dj,ijtinguU!bcd as .Prisiu
L£hera. Liberty may be entitled a mountain nymph by the poet,
but never did she find a surer domicile than amid the fl'ns of the
Netherlands. Nature bas treated man more kindly than the philoso-
phers ; they would regulate his capacity for freedom according to the
elevation of the mercury in the weather-glass ; but she teaches him
to defy their rules, and to laugh at their speculations. Frf!f! Fn'esland
was worthy of the name. The common greeting of thl' pl'ople was
neithrr simple fl!assail, nor peace be fllilh you , but tht>y saluted
one another with 'health, thou noble freeman!' In the 12th cen-
tury, they no longer feared the sword of the Emperor, nor did they
very much respect his sceptrl'. The 111ight authority which the
bead of the Holy Roman Empire retained in a few districts, was
only acknowledgl'd in theory. Military tenures did not exist, nor
were they e\·er introduced into the country ; and the priesthood
had no temporal authority. The independence and self-rule of the
~'rieslanders was so striking, when compared to the rest of Euro{l(',
that it was forced upon the notice of old Bartholomew, though the
writl'rs of the middle ages seldom advert to constitutional polity.
Bartholomew, whom we quote in the venerable language of his
translator, Trevisa, ill emphatic in his description of Frisia. 'The
men,' says he, 'ben bye of bodyc, strongc of vertue, sternc and
fiers of berte, and swift and quiver of bodye. They bt•n free, and
not subjl'cte to lordship of other nations; and they put tbt>m in
perill of dethe by cause of freedom. And thl'y hadde lever dye
than be under the yocke of thraldome. Tht>refore they forsake
dygnyte of knyghthoode, and suffre none to ryse and to be greater
among them under the tytle of knyhthode, but thl'y ben subject to
judges that they chese of thernselfe from yere to yt•re, which rule
the comynte among them.' "
"Land, contrary perhaps to what might have been expeckd,
was held freely and allodially, and feudal tenures and vassalage
were wholly unknown. The laws distinguish between land acquired
by dt•scent, or hrld by common right, and land acquired by purcha«t•,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 53!)
or by deed, called cap-lmul and hok-lond; the latter apparently
corresponding with the Anglo-Saxon tenure:·
" A custom prevailed amongst the Frisons, somewhat analogous
to Borough English ; land was partible, but the younger son was
preferred, by taking the h£>ad tenement, and the chi£>f portion of
the patrimony ; and if territorial authority was annexed to it, the
rights of jurisdiction passed undivided to the youngest son. Thus,
in 1358, Kampo, the youngest son of the noble Wiard Abdena,
succeeded to the lorchhip of Aurich, to the exclusion of his elder
brother. This custom of preferring the youngest son exists also in
some English manors. All the lands in a district, called the Theel-
land, (Frisick, Tee/an; Angl. Sax. Titan ; Eng. to till,) lying in
the bailiwick of Norden and Bertum, arc held by a very extraordi-
nary tenure-we speak in the present tense, for the custom!! of the
Theeland were subsisting in the year 1805; and we do not suppose
that they have since become obsolete. The Agrarian law, else-
where a phantom, either lovely or terrific according to the ima-
gination of the spectator, is here fully realized. · The land is
considered as being divided into portions, or Tlwels, each contain-
ing a stated quantity : the owners arc called Theelmen or Thecl-
boors; but no Theel-boor can hold more than one Theel in severalty.
The undivided, or common land, comprising the Theels not held
by individuals, belongs to all the inhabitants of the Theel-land, and
is cultivated, or farmed out on their joint account. The Thet>l-boor
cannot sell his hereditary thee!, or alienate it in any way, cYen to
his nearest relations. On his death, it descends to his young<•st
son. If there arc no sons, to the youngcllt daughter, under the>
restrictions after mentioned; and in default of issue, it reverts to
the commonalty. Dut elder sons arc not lt>ft destitutt• : when thcy
arc old enough to kcep house, a thccl ill assigned to rach of them
(l1e they ever so many,) l)llt of the common lands, to be held to
them and their issue, according to the custi)IJHUY tenure. If a
woman wl10 bas inlu•rit<'tl a thee!, ltet·onws til!' will· of a Th('c>l-
Digitized by Coogle
540 APPENDIX.
boor, who is already in possesllion of a thcel, then her land r('verts
to the commonalty, as in case of duth without issue. All lawsuits
and disputes are decided in the Folkmote, which is h"ld once in
each year; and no appeal is allowed from its decision.
" Faithful to the customs of their Scythian forefathert11 the
Teutons and Scandinavians did not willingly abandon the principle
which secured the equal enjoyment of the gifts of nature to every
individual in the tribe or sept. The Gothic nations, emigrating
from their native wilds, spoiled those who had bet'n enriched and
enervated with the treasures of Asia: yet after the frame of
society had b"oo erected again out of new and heterogt'neous ele-
ments, the community of land was still cherished and retained by
them. It is now well ascertained that metes and bounds promote
the welfare of the husbandman,• and we never regret to witness
the creation of the hedges and ditches, which, by the authority of
Parliament, iD\·ade the 'open and unenclosed common fields,· de-
rived from Scythian polity. Yet if Horace were to return from
Elysium, he might even now be rE-joiced by beholding the Vt'stiges
of the free harvE-sts of the Scythians and the Geta!; and Tacitus
might almost be quoted at Westminster Hall, when an action is
brought for a s!&ffting or clu:tngeahle acre in an English common
field. We can still trace the steps by which the boundless Jibt'rty
of the Nomadic races was partially restrained into conformity with
the wants of incipient civilization. They broke and ploughed the
ground ; the crop became as ,-aluable as the pasture; thE-y nE-eded
bread corn, and were no longer contented with milk, and the ftt'sh
of the slaughtered animal ; agriculture advanced, but they did not
cea.-;e to be shepherds and herdsmen; and the territory over which
they wt're spread continued to be the propt'rty of the community.
Hence arose the system of annual allotmE-nts of land, which were
sown in sev£'raltl, but grazed promiscuously after the r('aping of
• So 11&)'11 the Reviewl!r, And 80 perbars would the husbandman if he were rcr-
mlt&ed to cncloae an equAl share.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 541
the harvest. This is the 'special manner of common,' which in
Norfolk is called 'Shacke,' or 'Shock.'*
"In Normandy all unenclosed arable and pasture land!! were
subject, by the custom of the country, to the same 'special manner
of common;' and the season when the Normans fed and grazed
promiscue, was called the Bannon.t By this system of alternate
cultivation and pasturage, the generous freedom of patriarchal
11implicity was in some measure combined with the churlish meum
et tuum of the Iron Age. And the tenures of the tillers of the
Theeland were gradually framed to answer the saml' end.'' ~
Towards the end of the las.t century, when society was shaken to
its foundation by the conflict between old and new principles,-
when for a time the bonds of long-established usage were loosened
and unfelt, the generally-received axioms of social polity were
freely re-examined. Among other points that came in question
was that of the present constitution of property. Rousseau had·
said, " He who first enclosed a piccl' of land and said tlais £s m£ne,
and found people simple enough to believe it, was the real founder
of civil society. How many wars, crimes, massacres, bow many
miseries and horrors would that man have spared to the human
race, who, levelling the boundary and filling up the ditch, should
have cried to his fellows, ' Beware of listening to that impostor ;
you are lost if you forget that the fruits belong to all, and the earth
to no one!' " " But though," remarks the French writer who quotes
• " To ha"" Shacke, is as much as to BAy, to go at liberty, or at large."
+"Coutumea de Normandie, Art. 81-0. Paswage baa &he following note:-
' Le mot hanon eat pris pour le temps auquel lee terre& ne aout ni culth•ees ni
eusemencecs, at qu'ell011aont libree aquieonque y vent meuer - bestiaux 11&118
Ia permission du propril!t.aire, oe qui s'entend dee Ct'llee qui ne sont point cl01ea
de hayes OD de r-, leequellea &OUt der<'ndues en tout temps.' "
: Edinburgh Rev. July, 1819. ArLicle on F..1111t Friesland. "For a moat
interesting account or this district, and or the happiness and prosperity prevailing
in it in consequence or this system,- also 'TravPIS in the North oC Germony,'
by Mr. Hodgkin&." Monthly Rcpos. Feb. 1821.
Digitized by Google
-,
542 APPENDIX.
\
his exclamation, " he detested the institutions of propt>rty and the
advantages which it gives to the idle, whom he calls tkierles, he
proposed no plan for repartitioning in a mannt>r useful to society,
this 'earth common to all."'
The various tbrories and projects of equality propounded and
experimented upon during the convulsions of the French Revolution,
present us with an ill-digested confusion of philosophy and ab-
surdity, common sense and extravagance, and most of their visible
effects disappeared when the re-action took place, and the former
system was partially restored. But the doctrines then stormily
agitated concerning the natural right of man to what makes life
desirable, bad struck deep into many philosophic and inquiring
minds, and from them an impulse has been given to Social Reform,
of which the effect:J are powerfully and increasingly felt. In England
the echoes of the French Revolution were spread widely through
the writings of Godwin and others of his school, and the rights and
claims of man as a social being, became themes of discussion among
all classes. They had often been, de11canted upon by learned men
and philosophers, but now for the first time the minds of the many
were awakened to them.
Oodwln'a
"Polllleal
JUJiice."
inalienable
In "Godwin's Political Justice," published in 1793, he
asserts the right of man as man, possessing a common
nature, to common advantages ;• and that the only
right to property is the right every one has to that,
" the possession of which being awarded to him, a grt'ater sum of
benefit or pleasure will result, than coulll haYe arisen from its being
otherwise appropriated." Political J ustiee implies, according to
this author, the admis!lion of these principles, and he anticipates a
pt>rft>ct equality of condition when society shall haye adaptl'd
itlldf to tht>m. The following are some of the leading ideas of his
concluding chaptus on Property:-
• Montcsquieu nsscrted nearly the 8ame thing when ho said, thnt tho State
owes to every citizen "proper II'!Uri&lull(•nt, convcuicnt clothing, :md a kind of
lire not incomratiblc with health."
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 543
The good things of the world may be divided into four classes,-
subsistence, the means of intellectual and moral improvement,
unexpensive gratifications, and such gratifications as are by no
means essential to healthful and vigorous existence, and cannot be
purchased but with considerable labour and industry. It is the last
class principally that interposes an obstacle in the way of equal
distribution. It will be matter of after-consideration how far, and
how many, articles of this class would be admissible into the purest
mode of social existence. But in the mean time it is unavoidable
to remark the inferiority of this class to the three preceding.
Without it we may enjoy to a great extent, activity, contentment,
and cheerfulness. And in what manner are these seeming super-
fluities usually procured l' By abridging multitudes of men to a
deplorable degree in points of essential moment, that one man may
be accommodated with sumptuo.us, yet, strictly considered, insigni-
ficant luxuries. Supposing the alternative could fairly be brought
home to a man, and it could depend upon his instant decision by
the sacrifice of these to give to five hundred of his fellow-beings,
leisure, independence, con~cious dignity, ana whatever can refine
and enlarge the human understanding, it is impossible to conceive
him to hesitate. But though this alternative cannot be produced
in the case of an individual, it will perhaps be found to be the true
altt.>rnative, when taken at once in reference to the species. The
possession of thrse things is chiefly prized from the love of dis-
tinction inhrrent in the human mind ; and this love of distinction
may be tlin>rted into other channels. The monopoly.of wealth, or
of luxury, may come to be associated with public reprobation <:d
contempt, while generous, exalted sentiment, talent, and virtue, n:: y
be as conspicuously honoured.
There arc three degrees of property, the first, already men-
tioned, being a permanent right in the means of subsistence and
happinrss; hence it follows that no man may in ordinary casrs
make use of my apartment, furnitun•, or garment, or of my food,
in thr way of barter or loan, without having first obtained my
Digitized by Coogle
..~
544 APPENDIX.
consent. The second degree of property is the empire to which
every man is entitled in the produce of his own industry, even that
part of it the use of which ought not to be appropriated to him~rlf;
but still it is in the nature of a trust, the possessor is thl' steward,
and these things must be trusted to his award, checked only by
the public opinion around him. The third degree of property is
that by which one man enters into the faculty of disposing of the
produce of another man's industry : this it is clear is in direct
contradiction to the second, but it is in vain to attempt to abolish
it by positive institutions, until men's dispositions and sentiments
have changed. The distribution of wealth in every community,
must be left to depend upon the sentiments of the individuals of
that community. If in any society wealth be estimated at its true
value, and accumulation and monopoly be regarded as the sl.'als of
mischief, injusticl.', and dishonour, instead of being treated as titlei!
to attention and drference, in that society the accommodations of
human life wiU tend to their level, and the inequality of conditions
wiJJ be destroyed. A. revolution of opinions is the only means of
attaining to this inestimable benefit. But where Jaws and prat:tices
not common to aU civilized communities, but peculiar to some age~
and countries,· tend to increase the evils of the accumulation of
wealth, such as the systl.'m of ranks, entails, distinctions in landt>d
property, the claim of primogeniture, &c., they ought to be abro-
gated by the npress decision of the community ; not, howt'VN,
suddenly. "It may be doubted whether the genuine cause of refonn
evt'r del]lands that in its name we should srntrnce whole classes to
wretcbt'dness ; persuasion, and not force, is tbt> l('gitimate instru-
ment of the human mind."
The established administration of property lrads to a mean srr-
vile spirit of dependence of one class upon another, and exhibits a
perpetual spectacle of injustice. The rich man stands forward as
the principal object of gt'nt'ral esteem and deft'rence. In vain are
sobriety, integrity, and industry,-in vain the sublimest powrrs
of mind and thl• most anlt·nt brrw\'oll.'ncl', if thrir pos:,Jr•ssor u•.·
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 545
nanowed in his circumstances. To acquire wealth and to display
it, is therefore the universal passion. All riches, and especially
hereditary riches, are to be considered as the salary of a sinecure
office, where the labourer and the manufacturer perform the duties,
and the principal spends the income in luxury and idleness. Here-
ditary wealth is in reality a premium paid to idleness, an immense
annuity expended to retain mankind in brutality and ignorance.
The poor are kept in ignorance by the want of leisure. The rich
indeed are furnished with the means of cultivation and literature,
but they are paid for being dissipated and indolent. The most
powerful means that malignity could have invented, are employed
to prevent them from improving their talents, and becoming useful
to the public. This leads us to observe that the present admini-
stration of property, is the true levelling system with respect to the
human species, by M much as the cultivation of intellect i11 more
valuable and characterutic of man, than the gratification of vanity
or appetite. Accumulated property treads the powers of thought
in the dust, extinguishes the sparks of genius, and reduces the
great mass of mankind to be immured in sordid cares, besides de-
priving the rich, as we have already said, of the most salubrious
and effectual motives to activity. Ifsuperfluity were banished, the
necessity for the greater part of the manual industry of mankind
would be superseded ; and the rest, being amicably shared among
the active and vigorous members of the community, would be
burdensome to none. Every man would have a frugal, yet whole-
some diet ; every man would go forth to that moderate exercise of
his corporeal functions that would give hilarity to the spirits; none
would be made torpid with fatigue, but each would have leisure to
cultivate the kindly and philanthropic affections, and to let loose
his facultie1:1 in the search of intellectual improvement. How rapid
would be the ad\•ance of intellect, if all men were admitted into the
field of knowledge ! If all adopted the suggestions of truth, and
the lethargy of the soul wen' dismi~sed for ever!
XX
•
o;gitizedbyGoogle -'
•
546 APPENDIX.
All great occasions of crime would be cut off. All men by nature
love justice ; the fruitful source of crime consists in the circum-
stance that one man possesses in abundance that of which another
is destitute.• Hence oppression, senility, fraud, envy, malice,
revenge. No man being obliged to guard his little store, or provide
with anxiety and pain for his restless wants, each would lose his
individual existence in the thought of the general good. Were the
stumbling block of accumulation removed, each man would be
united to his neighbour in love and kindness a thousand times more
than now ; but each man would think and judge for himself.
As the equality contemplated would be the result, not offorce and
requiring to be maintained by positive institutions, but of the serious
and deliberate conviction of the publicat large, it would be permanent
-and until then it could not be realised. And as this presupposes a
state of great intellectual improvement, motives for exertion could
not be wanting. It is thought, acuteness of disquisition, and ardour
of pursuit, that set the corporeal faculties at work. Thought
begets thought.
It is desirable to reduce as much as possible all manual labour
which is not our uninfluenced choice, but society would not there-
fore lose the comforts and conveniences of civilization; for, after
its joint industry had supplied the rigid necessaries of lif<', coDlli-
derable time would remain; how would men dispo11e of it i' Not
probably in idleness, not all men, and the whole of their time, in
the pursoita of disquisition and science. A large portion would
probably be devoted to the production of such accommodations as
give real pleasure, apart from all the insinuations of vanity and
ostentation. Thus it appears that a state of equality need not be
a state of stoical simplicity, but is compatible with considerable
accommodation and even splendour,if by splendour we understand
• "Moe& or the crime. wbicb diaturb tbe intemal peace or eociety, are pro·
claoed by the restraints which tbe neceaary, but unequallaWII uf property have
impoeecl oo the appetites of mankind, by confining to a few tho r-aion of tboee
objects tbatare coveted bymany."-Gibbon'11 Rome, vol. I, p. 113.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 547
copiousness of accommodation and variety of invention for the pur-
pose of accommodation.
H it be feared that such an equality of condition would increase
population beyond- due limits, it may be answered, that Europe
might by better cultivation be made to support five times its actual
inhabitants, and that three-fourths of the habitable globe are yet
lying waste.
In this equality of condition, Godwin strenuously maintains the
right of natural independence, or freedom from all restraint except
that of reason and understanding; he disapproves, therefore, of
supererogatory l'.o-operation in labour, magazines, or meals. He
holds that all co-operation implies a diminution of private liberty,
and consequently the necessity for it is to be reduced as much as
possible by simplifying wants, and the mode of supplying them,
and by making machines execute the work of men, in proportion
as "mind becomes omnipotent over matter." This dread of the
infringement of intellectual independence he carries so far as to
make it an objection to the institution of marriage, as it now exists ;
his speculation!! upon this subject, and upon the possible future
dominion which the mind of man may acquire over his physical
frame, to the annihilation of the gratifications of sense-of pain-
and even of death, seem more extraordinary than sound ; but
he gives them chiefly as speculations.
Godwin proposes no plan for the realization of his system of
equality ; his aim is to exhibit principles which by effecting a gra-
dual revolution in the sentiments of mankind, shall in time produce
the change he contemplates. He addresses himself to the fet-lings
and ideas prevalent at a time when the outrages of the }'rt>nch
Revolution had associated the idea of violence with innovation.
He deprecates strongly any change in established customs, except
from reason and calm conviction, and he does not believe that the
rich and the great will be callous to views of gt>neral happiness,
when such vi~ws arc brought h<'fore them with that evidt>nce and
attraction of which lhl'y arc susc<'ptible. Thl'y are peculiarly
Digitized by Coogle
•
548 APPENDIX.
qualified to judge of the emptiness of that pomp, and of those
gratifications which are always most admired when ·seen from a
distance. They will frequently be found indifferent to these things
and to resign them without reluctance; but, however this may be,
they will fight in vain against truth. In the progreliS of modem
Europe from barbarism to refinemeat thert> has been a tendency to
the equalization of conditions. ln proportion as the monopolies of
rank and incorporation are abolished, the value of superfluitil'~ will
decline. Increased liberality of dealing and distribution will follow,
and the pursuit of wealth will gradually give place to the love of
liberty, of equality, the pursuits of art, and the desire of knowledge.
In the meantime the contemplation of such a state will impress us
with a just apprehension of what it is of which man is capable,
and in which his perfection consists, and will fix our ambition and
activity on the worthiest objects.•
The principles enforced in thia celebrated work lie, with more or
less of close application, at the foundation of more than one plan
of social regeneration which claims especial uotice.
s&. Simon The system of St. Simon, which has excited much at-
8yttem.
tention in France, may be called a systt>m of united in-
terests, although be disclaims a community of property.
It is founded on religious zeal, like most of the Chr~tian societies we
have alluded to, and its aim is to introduceLe Noureau CArUiianmne,
by which is understood the Roman Catholic Religion, in a state of
perfect purity, but it embraces exalted views of universal phi-
lantbrophy.
Claude Henri, Count de St. Simon, was born at Paris in 1760,
of an illustrious house, which claimed descent from Charlemagnr.
The nobility of his birth was a powerful and evt~r present stimulus
to his mind, and he was early impressed with the conviction that
he was callrd to a high de!!tiny-that to the glory of having pro-
• See·rolitical Jw;tiet', YO), 2, Dook 8,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 549
duccd a great monarch, his family would, through him, join that of
producing a great philosopher. " Rise, Monsieur le Comte, yon
have a great work to perform," were the words with which at
seventeen he caused himself to be awakenl'd every morning. At
the age of eighteen he entered the American army, and served five
campaigns under Washington. Interested del'ply in the object of
the war, he supported the painful and irksome duties of the mili-
tary profl'ssion, but they were repugnant to his taste. He says of
himself," My vocation was not that of soldier; I desired a diffl'rent
and even contrary fil'ld of action. To study the march of the
human mind, and then to work at the perfecting of civilization-
this was the end which I proposed to myself,-to this I consl'crated
my whole life, and from that period this new work began to occupy
all my powers. The rest of the time that I remained in America, I
employt>d in meditating on the great ennts which I witnessed; I
sought to discover thl'ir causes and foresee their consequencl's.
From this moment I discl'rned in the American Revolution the be·
ginning of a new political era ; that this revolution would Dl'Cl'ssi-
tate an important progress in gl'neral civilization ; and that in a
short timl' it would cause great changl's in the social ordl'r which
then existed in Europe."
Doring the French Revolution which followed, filled with pain
at the horrors which accompanied the struggles of a nation to rege-
nerate itself, be avoided taking part in the purely dt>structive
moveml'nt, and occupied himself with efforts to perfect a doctrine
which should re-establish society on new foundations. He aiml'd
at instituting" a grand E!!tablishment of Industry, and a School of
Scientific Perfection;" and spl'nt nearly all that he possessed in the
attempt, bl'fore be was obliged to rl'linquish it for want of pl'cu-
niary means, or of efficil'nt assistancl' ; he then for many yea1s
devoted himselfto the study of philosophy, and to scientific under-
takings. Several productions of hili prn upon th£·se subjects
appeared from time to time, anrl att,~t both his gl'nius and
enthusiasm.
Digitized by Coogle
550 APPENDIX.
Dut it was chiedy towards a social, practical object, that he
strove to stimulate the learned. He perceived the new character
which the development of industry must impress on society, and
the forms of government. For ten years his writiuga tended to point
out to the industrious classes the new social part which they are
destined to perform. In 1814 he publhlhed his tract on the " Re-
organ~ation of European Socit'ty," which closes with the often-
quoted sentence, " the golden age hi not behind but before us; it
consists in the perfection of social order ; our fathers have not seen
it; our children will realise it; we must smooth the road for them."
"L'lndustrie" followed in 1817, in which the rcpre11entative system
is considered &II a transition stt'p between the feudal system, and
the new order of society to be introduced by industry. "L'Organiza-
teur," "Le systeme lndustriel," and" Le Catechisme des Indostriels"
were published in succession. During this time St. Simon suffered
from poverty, neglect, and an utter want of sympathy, from any
quarter, iu his exalted views, and at length his 11pirit sank-he
attempted to put an end to his existence. The shot was ineffec-
tual, and subsequently his enthusiasm revived, and he believed
that a mission still was committed to his bands-that in addition
to his character of snge-of the Apostle of Industry-he was the
prophet of "the new Christianity." In the t'nthusiastic language
of his followers, "Moses has promised to men univt>rsal fraternity ;
Jesus Christ bas prepared it; St. Simon has realized it. At
length the true Church Univt'lBal comes; the reign of CII!Sar
ct>ases, the military givt>s way to the pt>aceful; henceforward the
Church Universal rmbract's the t£mporal as wdl as the spiritual,
that which is external as well as the internal. Knowledge is holy
-industry is holy, for they Bt'f\'e to ameliorate the condition of
the poor, to bring them to God. Priests, men of science, the in-
llustrial classes-thelt' compose our Society. The Chief of the
Priests, of the lrarned, of the industrious- thrse compose our
Go\'rrmnf'nt. All wraith is thr wraith of thP Church, Pach pro-
ft·ssion is a ri'Jiginus function, a gradl• in the socinl hil'rarchy. To
Digitized by Coogle
APPRNDIX. 551
EACH ACCORDING TO HIS CAPACITY j TO EACH CAPACITY ACCORDING
TO ITS woaJts. The r~ign of God com~ on the earth-all pro-
pheci~ are accomplished."
From this crisis of St. Simon's life until his death, his mind
became more calm and peaceful; still poor, deserted, despised, or
forgotten, be laboured to establish his principles, until in 1825 he
expired, in the presence of one disciple and two or three friends,
exhorting them "to be of courage and go forward constantly."
The spirit of the master animated the hearts of the devoted few ;
with much personal sacrifice they preached and published his doc-
trine; until within a few years from his death, the two or thr~e
followers had become a numerous association united in a generous
devotion to the common cause-the moral, int~llectual, and indus-
trial elevation of the future generations of man. "Already,'' says a
writerin the Monthly Repository for Feb. 1831, "crowds ofauditors,
nobles, deputies, persons of rank, consideration, and talent, flock to
hear the eloquent expositors of this doctrine ; some persons of con-
siderable ability write in its support; one at least of the public
journals (Tile Globe,) strenuously advocat~ its principles, and
thert> are some indications of its extending in the provinces." 3000
persons were said to attend the meeting of the St. Simonites, 23rd
Nov. 1830, in their Hall at Paris. In the article just quoted it is
observed, "that although their leading object is the amelioration
of the condition of the lower classes, they admit into their society
only persons of some influence, either from their station or talents."
St. Simon was himself of" gentle blood," and his system is ma;ked
with his aristocratic predilection, for although his r~ers and nobles
were to be those distinguished by benevolence, talent, or industry,
still society on its new basis presented itself to his mind in the form
of a monarchy, or more correctly as a hierarchy, rather than as a
republic. Some of his leading views we extract from the French
volume published in 1828-29, "Doctrine de St. Simon. Exposition."
According to St. Simon, society has exhibited itself in the alter-
nation oftwo distinct phases, which he calls the organic and cn'lical
Digitized by Coogle
552 APPENDIX.
epochs. During the continuance ofthe first., the arrangements of so-
ciety are made on a general theory, and the end of social action is
clearly defined; in the second, unity ofaction baa ceased, and society
presents only an agglomeration of individual interests clashing one
against the other; its object is the destruction ofthe established order
of things, and a complete divergence offeelings, reason, and action,
is the result.
Twice have these alternations taken place in the history of civi-
lization. The fir.tt Organic Epoch preceded the general breaking
up of Paganism, led on by the writings of the Greek Philoso-
phers, and which was the commencement of the first Critical
Epock. This tenninated in the collSOiidation of the power of the
Christian Church, which remained finnly establi11hed during the
continuance of the second Organic Epoch. The second Crilirol
Epoch commenced with the Refonnation in the 15th century, when
the regularly organized power of the Church was invaded. The
proof that society is 11till in this state is found :
First,-in the political struggles between power and liberty
which everywhere distract society.
Secondly,-in the want of gPneral philosophical theory, and unity
of design among the followers of science, owing to which the vast
heaps of isolated f~?-cts collected do not contribute as they ought to
do to its advancement; while gonrnments and society withhold
their patronage from all speculative philosophy, and attach reward
only to tht\t which is susceptible of immediate and pr'!filahle appli-
cation.
Thirdly,- in the non-application of theoretic principles to indus-
trial occupation, each arti11an dt>pending upon his individual intel-
ligence, and working out with infinite difficulty improvemt'nts in
his manufactures for himself, which a sci£>ntific education would
have imparted at once to the whole body, and which he striv£>s,
thanks to competition, to keep st'Cr£>t from his fellow-labourl'rs ;-
in tht'se he sN's only enemie!l, and their ruin is his advantagE'•. He
cam; litth· for tht• interests of soriety,-bis family, his tools, his
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 553
hard-earned gains-the:je constitute his humanity, his universe,
his God. Are the workshops, and the instruments of industry in
the hands of such as could make the best use of them ? Far from
it. They are, generally speaking, in the possession of unscientific
operative11, whom itulirNJual i'llleresl bas not yet taught what it is
nect'ssary for them that they should know.
In order to harmonize production with consumption, political
economists give us the sole general principle of laisMJz-faire, or of
non-interference, but they have confided to individual intt'rest the
realization of this grand principle, without reflecting that no indi-
vidual capacity is competent to apply it. Each seeks from his
circumscribed point of view to ascertain the exigencies of consump-
tion. Does one branch of production offer a fair chance ? Labour
and capital blindly precipitate themselvt's in that direction, without
calculating the Jwcessary limits-and political economy rt'joices
that competition is called into play. .\ few succeed-but at
the price of innumerable victim:~. The balance of production
and consumption i:~ evf.>ry moment disturbed; hence commercial
catastrophe:j and crisPs, and the temptation to add fraud to indus-
try in the struggle for success.
Besides, the principle of /ais:;e:-faire supposes individual interest
and general intf.>rest to be the same, which a tho!lsand facts disprove.
Society spes i~ advantage in the adoption of steam-machint'ry; the
operative who lives by the labour of his hands cannot look upon it
as society doe!!. Competition says ·erergthing will find t~s level-
true-but until then what shall be done with the millions of tht•
starving?
Land, machinery, capital, can only be employed to the greatest
advantage in production when confided to industrial talent i at
present the talent to make usc of them is a feeble title to their pos-
session. To acquire it is first necessary to possess, and the chance
of birth distributes blindly the instruments of production. Hence
it results that gn•J.t tH are tht> presf.>nt effects of industry, its powNil
YY
Digitized by Coogle
55-t. APPENDIX.
would be infinitely better developed with unity and co-operation of
design, and that without the miseries which are now its inevitable
concomitants.
Fourthly,-the want of unity and general aim is exhibited in
the languor and depression of the Fine Arts, in which term St.
Simon includes all the developments of the finer human feelings
and sentiments, which now lie chilled and spiritless in an age of
univen.al sel.fillb, calculating, interest. Our finest poems are anti-
social, they are either mournful or satirical-breathing paasionate
regrets, or the spirit of contempt which despoils all sacred things.
Man is not now to be touched by appeal to his sympathit-s, be
only dreads attack on his purse.
If the social affections are thus dead and inert, are the individual
ones all the more intense P On the contrary we find that pt'CUniary
interest too often forms the marriage bond, and that filial tears are
assuaged by the transports of inheritance.
This aspect of humanit.f would be heart-rending did not a bright
future even now reveal itse~ when men united in affection, opinion,
and action, shall advance in peace towards a common destiny;-
when the sciences will progress in unison towards a rapid develop-
ment,-industry regulated by the interest of all, be no longt-l a
system of strife,-and the fine arts, animated by the enthusiasm
which will proceed from mutual communion, shed tht-ir sweetest
influence over the joys of private intercourse.
This glorious future-is it attainable P It is the neces60r!J con-
sequence of the past. Humanity is a collective being, and per-
fectibility the law which guides it ; from the progress which it baa
made, may be demonstrated that which it will make. History
presents us with a uniform advance from the earliest rude asiiOCi-
ation of man with man, towards one in which love, knowledge, and
wealth will flow in a full tide of happiness. Whenever a nation
or people has ceaaed to progress, it baa fallen to decay and become
extinct, whilst the seeds of advance have been transported clst>-
where; and the racl' of man fir~t united in familit>>', in clans, in
Digitized by Coogle
•
APPENDIX. 555
castes, in nations, in confederacies, is travelling towards this uni-
versal association, which, while it will be the peifecli'on of society,
will ensure the rapid and unlimited progreu of man. Our efforts
must therefore be directed to transform education, legislation, pro·
perty, and all social relations, so as to realize as soon as possible
this future.•
Slavery, the use of man by man (ezpluitalion), was the reigning
principle of society in its fust stages ; a remnant of it still exists
io the relation of proprietor and workman. The workman is no
longer the direct property of the master-it is true that the con-
dition of service is temporary, agreed on by both parties-but is
the transaction free oo the part of the workman P It is not, for he
must accept it on pain of his life, or what is the same thing, the
means of life. Io a degree the labourer is subjugated physically,
intellectually, and morally, even as the slave formerly was, and
these labourers are the immense majority of the population in all
.
societies.
If we hold that this use of mao by man must cease, that we are
advancing to a period when all men, without distinction of birth,
will receive from society such an education as shall develop to the
utmost their lhlveral capacities, and, being classed according to
these, shall be rewarded according to their works, it is evident that
the present constitution of property must be altered which permits
the transmission of wealth by inheritance, and consequently some
to be born with the privilege of being idle, and of setting others to
work for them. But, it will be said, the labourer must pay for the
use of the productive powers possessed by the capitalist. Granting
for a moment that these productive powers are real, who has the
right to dispo11e of them, of whom are they the property, to whom
ought they to be transmitted P Three principles have been ap-
pealed to io order to determine this question, divine right, natural
• The St. SimoniAn& complain that Guizot in reviewing the coune of history
h1111 borrowed the ideas of their lll4Stcr.
Digitized by Coogle
556 APPENDIX.
rigl1t, and utility. But if mao be a progrcssi'"c ht>ing tht'tit' rights
hiust progress with him. What then is tht'ir dl'cision at the pre-
sent point of his advancemt'nt ?•
Property has been generally considered sacrt'd, yet legislation
• "The object of polit.ical economists does not relate to the principle of pro-
perty 80 much a• to ebow oow weal&b is produced, distributed, and eoDBUmed ;
it eignifiee little to them to ~~~<Certain if thie wealth, produeed by labour, ie alWllya
to be dlltribated according to &triA, and tbe larger portion of it consumed by
idJeMU.
" N'either Monteequiea, Grotius, PuB'E>ndorf, nor any of the otl~er writ•rs oo
the Laws or N'atione haYe remounted to tbe principle which I•J;itimat~'8 tloe
principle of inheritance, nor examined whether thie colllltitution or property be
eUIOl'ptible of improvement ; whether it has been the aame in all agt>~~, or why it
was made hereditary. Th•y bave done nothing in fact to prove the applicability
or the feodal tranemiuion of property by right or birth, to the p..-nt entire!)"
diB'erent state of 110eiety, nor to reeolllltitute it on a baeia adapted to tbe preeent
and future wante of l1nmanity.
'' Monsieur de Siemondi, in bie chapter on • The lawe intt>nded to perpetuate
property in laud to families,' attaeb forcibly the opinion of Legislators &.bat
property aequired by labour may be retained for ever in idleDftll ; but he apeaks
only of property in land, and doee not perceive that hie reaeoning applies no I-
to property in general."
The St. Simonian writer ean eeai'C'ely be eoneidered ae correct in uaertiuc the
silence of writers on jurisprudence and political t>eonomy with relation to the
origin and eonetitotion of property : the subject is too important not to hue
been frequently treated of. Whether it bas yet been fully and sulieiently dia-
euaed is another question.
With reepeet to the principle of hereditary suceeeeion, the hU.toriAn Gibbon
asserts that it ie 80 oninnal as to ap)M'ar to be founded in nature, the order
nlone bt>ing varioue, as eetabliebE'd by convenience or caprice.
Upon the same eulojed, a writer in the EncycloJadia Britannica, makl'e the
following observations:-" We are apt to conceive at the first view that the
right of inheritance bas nature on its aide ; yet we often mistake for nature what
we find established by long and inntarate euetom. It ie eE>rtaiuly a wiee and
eft'eetual, but clearly a political eetabliebment ; einee the Jlf'rm&nent ri~tht or
property, Yested ia the ancestor bimaetr, wu no natural, but merely a cinl
righl. It ie probable that the right of inheritance arose from the fact that a
man's children or nearest relatiYes are usually about him at hie death-bed, and
are the earliest witnll68ftl of hia deel'aee ; they bt>eome generally the next imme-
diate occupants, till at length thie frequent osage ript'ned into ~neral law.
And therefore in the earlieat lgt'!l, on failure or children a man•a 1111rvaote.
born under hie roof, were allowed to be his heirs ; being immediately on the
spot when he died. For we find Abraham expressly declaring ' That as God
had given him no seed, his steward Elil'zcr, one born in his house, •u hia
heir.'" Artielo on l'ro1•erty.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 557
has nen-r ceased to rt•gulate its nature, usage, and transwi~sion .
.Man was once the property of man ; the moralist and lrgislator
have declared this kind of property no longt>r tenablt>. Three dif-
ferent laws for the transmission of property have bt>en sanctioned
by custom and the lt>gi~lator within our series of civilization. Dy
the first the proprietor could dispose of his wealth arbitrarily, in or
out of his family ; by the second it was restricted to his eldest son ;
later still the law requires its equal division amongst all his chil-
dren.• These revolutions could not be effected without the gcnrral
moral sanction, and wbateYer thi~ demands the lrgislator must
eventua1Jy confirm. The rig!J.ts of property are vi~ibly on the
decline. The advantage which capital bas over labour is decrras-
ing, as i~ proved by the lo,vered rates of intercst. The privilrge
of living in idleness is more and more difficult to preserve. Another
change is become necessary; it is for the moralist to prepare it; in
the course of time it will be for the legislator to prescribe it. The
law of progression is tending, notwithstanding the general feeling
of the inviolability, one may almost say the sanctity, of the present
law of property, to establish a new modification of it-one which
!!ball convry to the statt>, become an Associalt'on of Labour, the
right of inheritance. The privilt>ges of birth will cease, and the
sole right to riches will be the capacity to make usc of them.
• This of course rvlates to the descent or pro~rty in France. Gibbon say..,
" Among the patriarchs, the firat-bom enjoyed a mystical and spiritual primo-
geniture. In the land o( Cana.'\n he was entitl<d to a double portiou of iu-
heriLance. At Athens tht' eons were t'qual, but the poor daughters were endowed
at the diacretion of tl1eir brnthtors. In Engla11d, the eldest 8011 inherits all the
land. The jurisprudent!e of the Romans appeoors to have deviated from the
equAlity or nature, much leas tl1an the Jewish, the Athenian, or the Eogli~>h
institutioDil. On the death ot a citizen, all hi11 dNcendanUI, Ulllt'BH thl'y ,.·ere
already treed from his pate111AI powl.'r, were called to \11e inheritance or his
Jl0118l'88ions. The insolent prerogAtive or primngonitnre was unknown : the two
sexes wtore placed on a just level ; 1111 the ~0118 nud daughters \\"ere eutitled to
an equal portion or tile patrimonial t>&tate; and ir any or the 1'0118 had been
iutercepted by A premature death, his J'CtBOn waa represented, and lais share
was divided, by l1is surviving children." Romt>, vol. 7, p. 292.
o;gitizedbyGoogle / -
558 APPENDIX.
Thilf change ill necessitated by the progreSII of the human race.
The title to property baa ~n founded in the right of conquest,
in force, or a dl'll'3ation of force ; henceforward the title will be
labour, JXIC'Jic labour, conferred directly on eaeh proprietor, but
only in the nature of a trust for further production. All will have
to labonr, except the young who are prt>paring for it, and the old
who are reposing after it, and they who now live on the sweat of
the aged labourer, or the tears of the orphan, will work to provide
bread for infancy and agt>.
By property is understood the wealth which is not immediately
consumed-or capital-either iu land or money, or as it is in effect,
the i1utrument '!{ labour. At present this instrument is in the
bands of individuals incompetent to determine its direction and
distribution, so that the harmony of production and consumption
may be prest>rved. To this end it is necessary that the system of
industry should be organized.
In the past ages of the world, when the physical strength of
society was·devoted to war, when riches were sought in conquest,
and the force of man was held to be most worthily employed in
the ext>rcise of arms, we find a systematic organization for the
purpose in the feudal systl'm. Prior to its t>stablishment we find
an individualizing spirit in warlike labours, like that which no~
prevails in our industrial operations ; the principle of compt>tition,
of liberty, reigned in the hostilities not only of different nations,
but of those in the different provinces, towns, or castles, of the
same country. In this age this same principle of free competition,
of animottity, exists betwt>en the merchants and manufacturers of
Pach country, province, town, tradE', and shop, and the same remedy
i,. l'l'quirl'd of a systf'matized organization of thE' pacific industry,
in which the physical activity of man is, in futurl', ·only to be de-
nloped.
The institution of corporations was a stl'p to the realization of
thi~ idl'a; in this sy!!tt>m the adm:ssion of each m•w trader implietl
that hi,. !'apal'ily had hl'en rrrognizPd hy compPtrnt jndgrs, and
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 559
that judges equally competent had decided upon the existing defi-
ciency of capital and labour in that particular branch of industry.
But these associations, first intended as a defence against the
military institution, and in this point of view highly useful, were
founded in the hostile anti-social principles of the times, and tended
to the monopoly of every species of indnstry, treating the consnmE'r
as the soldier had formerly treated the villain, while each indivi-
dual corporation was at war with all the rest, like the barons of
old. There is reason, therefore, to rejoice at the breaking up of
these institutions ; but still nothing better replaces them. The
principle of unlimited competition is negative only. Without unity
of action, no balance, no harmony, no proportion exists between
the different orders of labour, and crise11 and commercial convul-
sions are the result. What in effect is the realization of unlimited
competition but war to the death, in a new form, between nation
and nation, individual and individual ?
In the midst ofthis dhiorder, the germ of the true system ofindull-
trial organization evolves itself, as if by an instinctive effort. It is
to be found in the system of BANKs. These serve as the medium
between the labourer who wants the instruments of labour, and the
possessors of these instruments, who either know not how to employ
them, or will not; they fulfil in part the function of distribution, so
ill-exercised by capitalists and proprietors. A general B!Jslem f!f
Banlcs may serve then to designate, provisonally, the future organi-
zation ofsocial indu11try which is required, but this will not realize
itselfin itlt plenitude until the Labour .A.ssociatitm shall be prepared
by education, and sanctioned by the LE'gislature ; it cannot be com-
pletely realized until the law ofinheritance shall have been changed.
In the system of St. Simon, then, a central bank would repre-
sent the government in the physical or industrial department; this
bank would be the depository of the entire productive fund; that is
of everything which· now composes individual capital. Upon this
central bank would depend banks of a second order, by means of
which it would maintain relations with the principal localities, aud
Digitized by Googj e
560 APPENDIX.
ascertain their wants and productive power; these again would
command other banks more and more special in their objE"Cts, the
more slender branches of the tree of industry. To the superior banks
all demand11 would converge, from them all operations would
diverge, and the chief bank would only grant credil• to di1ferent
localities after having balanced and combined the different opera-
tions concerned ; these credits would be afterwards apportioned to
the operatives by the special banks, repre:senting the di1ferent
branches of industry.
In an industrial society thus constituted we see everywhere a
chief, masters and inferiors; everywhere legitimate authority, be-
cause the chief is he who is the most capable; everywherefree
obedience, because be is beloved ; everywhere order; no workman
in want of a guide and support in this vast workshop; all have the
tools they know how to use, the work they like to be employed
upon. The artisan will possess tool:s, machinery, and capital, in
the same sense only as the colonel possesses his military equip-
ment, hill soldiers, his arms; and nevertheless all will work with
ardour, for he who produces can love glory, can feel the stimulus
of honour, even as be who destroys. The only tax upon labour
will be the portion reserved to supply the physical wants of those
whose office it will be to develop the int('llect and moral powers
of all.
As the objt>ct proposed is to change the system of feelings, ideas,
and interests, without upsetting society, to construct not to dt>stroy,
to introduce gradually and by evolution a rrgt>neration of the
world, the primary agent in t>ft'ecting it must be education.
Education will, no less than industry, require to be systt>matically
organized, made accessible to all without distinction of birth or
fortunt>, and distributed according to individual capacitie• and
tastt>s. 1\loral, or general education,-tbe object of which is to
initiate into the relations of social being, to inculcate the lovr of
all, to direct n.Jl dcsirrs, all efforts, to the common happiness,-
as the most important, will bl' giH'n to c\·l'Ty one as the founda-
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 561
tion on which all special training must rest. The first series of
education will include, besides this, a general education of the
intellectual and physical powers up to a certain point, when,
according to the different capacities and vocations of the pupils,
they will be distributed into the three great schools-of the Fine
Art•, (including all that relates to the moral powers and sensibili-
tiet~,) of Scie11ee, and of Industry. In these each class will receive
a general preparation for the subordinate branches of each ; and
when this is completed, the young members will be placed in
special school1 for each profession and trade, until society shall
confide to them the office for which education has now thoroughly
prepared them.
With respect to legislative power, the sole aim of the future
system, the hypothesis on which it is built, is the organization of
a supreme power which shall be, from its possession in the highest
degree of the nece11sary qualifications, loved, clleris!led, t~eneraJed,
and consl'quently implicitly obPyed. But as progrPss in itsp)f implies
imperfection, anomalous cases cannot be entirely excluded, and
some error will have to be checked and reprPssed; there must be,
therefore, a penal jurisdiction, and this will correspond to the
above three general classes- the philosophical trinity of the St.
Simonites.• Crimes against the moral sentiments and relations
will be refl'rred to a court composed of members trained in the
school of moral science; offences against the interests of science
will come under the jurisdiction of a scil'ntific magistracy; while
all conduct injurious to the progress of wealth, or development of
industry, will be brought undt'r the cognizance of industrial tribu-
nals composed of men activdy engaged in corresponding pursuits-
the guardianship of the interests of industry will not be entrusted
to the idle, in virtue of their inherited property. In our present
• " To know whether an offence be crime against society, it is necessary to
know the proper constitution or society; tbe p088e88ion of tlois knowledge implies
superiority in the judge over the offendt-r, therefore the principle of trial by jury,
or by 11 mnn's e<l'anls, is erroneous."
z z
o;gitizedbyGoogle ,.,.-
562 APPENDIX.
&ards of Trade and Chambers of Commerce the incipient develop-
ment of thill ayatem ill to be discerned. The alteration in the laws
of property will cut up by the roota the endless litigation to which
they give rise.
Neither will legislation be .Olely, as now, pettal, occupied in the
repression of palpable crime, but it will be remuneratory, and dis-
tribute the honour and glory due to pre-eminent virtue, as well aa
the corrective punillhment due to error.
The completion ofthe St. Simonian doctrine is to be found in the
future full development of the religious ~~entiment which it contem-
plates. " The religion of the future will not be merely the result
of inward meditation, a feeling or idea iaolated in the assemblage
of feelings and ideas of each individual ; it will be tbe expression
of the collective mind of humanity, the synthesill of all its concep-
tioua, the rule of all ita actions. Not only is religion called to
take place in the social economy, but the social institution of the
future will be no other than a ftligioua institution." The exiatence
of a God, of a Providential Plan, of an Immortality, will be its
fundamental axioms; obedience to the will of God will be ita in-
strument of action; universal love or benevolence its manifestation.
He in whom thill love glows with the purest, most intenae, flame,
will be exalted highest, and will be placed at the head of the social
hierarchy, as God's vicegerent on earth.
The opinions and views of thill sect seem to be, in the more im-
portant characteriatics, identical with those of the advocates of a
community of property ; but St. Simon carefully repudiates this
idea ; and hill succe118Cir in bill .Aptle1Aip, and in the absolute
devotion of bill followers, the FaiAer Enfantin, repels in a letter
which closes thill " Exposition," a charge on this and another
subject, made in the Chamber of Deputies Sept. 1830. Bill
answer includes a summary of hill own doctrine, whilst it proceeds
upon a millapprehension of the other. He says, " The system of a
comm11nity of goods is universally understood, of the equal division
nmongst all the members of society, of the productive fund, and of
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 563
the ftuits of the labour of all. The St. Simonites reject this equal
division of property, which would constitute in their eyes a greater
violence, a more revolting injll8tice, than the unequal division
fon.nerly effected by conquest ; for they believe in the Mlural
INEQUALITY of men, and look upon this inequality as the basis of
association, as the indispensable condition of social order. They
reject the system of a community of goods ; for this community
would be a manifest violation of all the moral laws which they are
commissioned to teach, and which ordain that in the future each
one flfill heplacetl accorJillg to hu capacity, and rewarded according
to hU f/fOf'lr•.
" But in virtue of thi11 law they demand the abolition of all the
privileges of birth t#ltlwul ezceptwn, and consequently the destruc-
tion of lNaxaJTANCE the greatest of these privileges, which in fact
comprehends them all, and the effect of which is to leave to chance
the partition of 110eial advantages among the small number of those
who can claim them, and to condemn the most numerous class to
vi'ce, ignorance, and mi6ety. They dfmand that all the instru-
ments of labour, land, and capital, which now form-the man of
private property, shall be united into a social fund, and that this
fund shall be employed by association and BIE&AacHIC.t.LLY, so
that the task of each shall be the expression of his capacity, and
his riches the measure of his flforlr•. The St. Simonites only
attack the constitution of property in so far as it consecratf'N to
some the impious privilege of IDLENEss, that is, of liYing on th1•
labour of others ; and in so far as it abandons to the chance r:/
hirlh the social classification of individuals.
" Christianity has emancipated women from slavery, but l , .;
condemned them to inferiority, and throughout Christian Eur. ; ,.
we Aee them submitted to religious, political, and civil interdict j, : .
The St. Simonites announce their fnfranchisement, their compl<' ,.
deliverance, but without seeking on that arcount to abolish thco
holy Jaw of marriage proclaimed by Christianity : on the contrary,
they come to fulfil this Jaw, to gi\·e to it a new SQnction, to add
Digitized by Coogle
564 APPENDIX.
power and inuiolahilii!J to the union which it consecrates. They
demand like the Chri!!tiaos that one man shall be united to one
woman, but they teach that the wife shall be equal with the bus-
band ; and that according to the especial grace "·hich God has
accorded to her sex, she shall be &880Ciated with him in the exer-
cise of the triple functions of the tt>mplt>, the statt>, and the family :
so that the soci"aJ indioiduaJ which has until now been man only,
shall ht>nceforth be man and tct»nan. The rt>ligion of St. Simon
seeks only to put an end to that shameful traffic, which, undt>r tht>
name of marriage, consecrates so frequently the monstrous union
of devotedness with selfishness, of intelligence with ignorance, of
youth with dt>crepitude."
In the enthusiasm which the first preaching of tht>se doctrines
excited in France, numbers associated together to reduce them to
practice, including men of high capacity, moral purpose, and wealth.
The property of all was thrown into the productirefutul, and given
out in credits to the members, accordifl!J to tlteir capa~ly, at the
discretion of the appointed rulers. With new modes of thought
and action, new habits of life and manners were associated ;
upon broad and exalted principles were engrafted trivialities and
absurdities. The members established themselves in a community
in Paris; the fraternity dressed in uniform; the men wore long
beards, and the women absurd and uncouth garmPnts. According
to the remark of a highly intelligent countryman of our own, who
bas been intimately acquainted with their leading mt>mbt>rs, and
cognizant of their proceedings, it was not long before the vital error
of the political arrangement of the system began to work. Irre-
sponsible power defiles the band which holds it, however pure
and unsullied it might seem before. Disorders, economical and
Hocial, crept in, and when the money which bad been poured into
the common fund wa.'f all dispersed or wasted, the society, as a
society, dissolved away, but its doctrines remained firmly impressed
on many minds of !!Upt'rior order, have bet>n widely diffused, and
art> exl'rting great influence at the present day in !-'ranee.
Digitized by Coogle
Rober&
Owen.
APPRNDIX. 565
In our own country the cause of social union has been
advocated by Robert Owen, for more than twenty years
with an ardent patient zeal that has perhaps never
been equalled. His leading object appears to have been to gh·e
to the world a practical exemplification of the truth of the doctrines
which others before him have preached. He re-published, in 1818,
the " Proposals" of John Bellera, and with great candour and inge-
nuousness admitted that these exhibited the main features of hi!t
own plan for improving society.
Mr. Owen was born at Newtown, in North Wales, in 1771. He
was early devoted to trade, first in London and subsequently in
Manchester, where, at the age of twenty, he was employed in the
management of a large cotton spinning factory. In the year 1799,
he removed to New Lanark, having, in conjunction with his part-
ners, purchased the cotton mills of Mr. David Dale, whose eldest
daughter be soon after married. In consequence of a dissolution of
partnership, the whole property was subsequently sold, including the
village of New Lanark. Mr. Owen purchased it for himsdf and the
partnen whom be had been fortunate enough to unite with himself
in a new firm-six individuals who sympathized warmly in his be-
nevolent views-Messrs. Walker, William Allen, Joseph Fox, and
Joseph Forster, members of the Society of Friends; Mr. Michael
Gibbs, and the late Mr. Jeremy Bentham. Mr. Owen retained five
shares for himself, and, besides the profits arising from his shares,
he was allowed one thousand per annum for his superintendance and
management.• The mills bad been erected near the F'tlls of the
Clyde, by Mr. Dale, in 1784, for the advantage of the water power,
otherwise the spot was not well chosen. The country was uncul-
tivated, the roads bad, the inhabitants few and poor. Manufactur-
ing labour and confinement in a mill were then so di:l!iked by th('
Scotch peasantry, that none b\lt persons without friend!!, employ-
ment, or charactt>r, could be induced to submit to it.
• See Owen's sketch of his life in the Appendix to his "Development of
Principles and Plans, &c." 1841. "llampdcn of tlte Nineteenth Century."
Digitized by Coogle
~ ..
566 APPENDIX.
As a means of raitiing up labourers, five hundred children were
collected from workhouses and charities in Edinburgh, and accom-
modated in a large bouse erected for them, where they were main-
tained and educated. But the proprietor ~ing compelled to make
use of their labour to defray the expense of the eatahlishment, his
wise arrangements for their happiness and improvement were nul-
lified. Their labour throughout the day, and education at night,
became so irksome that num~rs ran away, and most left when
their apprenticeship expired. The adult population was in a
wretched statt>, they lived in idleness, poverty, dishonesty, and
almost every kind of crime; consequently in debt, out of health,
and in mi»ery.
In this state Mr. Owen found them when be entered upon his
task of superintendance, and commenced his arduous attempt to
reform and make them happy-well qualified by previous experi-
ence among similar classes in England, but ignorant of their local
habits, manners, and prejudices. His mind had been long im-
pressed _with the evils of society, and intently turned upon the
means of cure; he had formed the resolution of devoting'his life to
the endeavour to relieve the miseries of mankind. He attributed
their cause to men's having forsaken the paths of experience, and
sound deductions from real facts. The only mode in which he
conceived it possible to remedy these mist>ries was, not by giving
precept upon precept, but an actual example of the possibility of
reforming men's characters and habits, and of placing them in
such circumstances as should lead them to take as much pains to
make each other happy as they had befor<.' done to make each other
miserable; and at the same time to use to the best advantage the
means they possessed, of living in health and comfort. He had
trif.'d the effect of hi~ principles on a limited seal<.' ; be was now
anxious for a more enlarged field of action.
The people were strongly prejudiced against. a strang<'r, an
Englishman, and one of a different creC'J; they took it for grante-d,
that his design was to make the grutest possible gain out of their
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 567
labour. For two yearil be combated th-eir perverse opposition, and
he ultimately prevailed ; the population could not continue to resist
a firm well-directed kindness administering justice to all; they
began to give him some portion of confidence, and by degrees he
was enabled to develop his plans for their improvement. To
remedy the prevalent dishonesty no person was put in restraint, no
punishment was used ; but checks and preventive regulations were
introduced, which made theft more difficult, and more easily de-
tected ; while short and plain expositions of the immediate benefits
they would derive from different conduct were given to them by
some, instructed on purpose, among themselves. They were led at
the same time into lawful and useful occupations more gainful in
fact than the former. Intemperance was attacked in the same
manner ; it was discountenanced by the superiors, and its baneful
effects were commented upon by his wiser comrades, when the
individual was suffering in soberne99 from his excess ; public-houses
were gradually removed from the close vicinity of the people ; they
were led to feel the benefit to health and comfort of temperance ;
and by degrt'es drunkenness disappeared. When disputes occurred,
the manager represented to each party the wrong which usually
attached to both in such cases, and the superior advantages of for-
giveness and friendship. Sectarian jealou11ies were cured by the
same friendly admonitions, which aimed to convince them that
inasmuch as all beliend conscientiously, they were all upon an
equal footing, and that it was great folly to neglect the essence of
religion, whilst they cherished its worse than shadow, sectarianism.
Other kinds of misconduct were met in a similar manner, and were
beyond expectation lessened. Children under eight years old were
no longer employed in the mill, and their parents were exhorted to
allow them health and education until ten ; they were taught read-
ing, writing, and arithmetic from five to ten in the common school.
Modem improvements in the art of giving instruction were adopted,
and it became a pleasure to the children to learn; they were more
Digitized by Google
568 APPENDIX.
anxious for the hour of school-time than for its conclusion, and of
course their progress was rapid.
In the meantime the houses were made more comfortable and the
stret'ts improved; the best provisions were purchased, and sold to
the inhabitants at a low rate, though covering the expenses. Fuel
and clothes were furnished to them in the same manner, and they
were taught how to proportion their expenditure to their income.
They were taught to be rational, and they actt>d rationally ; those
employed became industrious, temperate, healthy, faithful to their
employers, and kind to each other, while the proprietors were de-
. riving services far beyond those of a mere mercenary connexion.
In the space of sixteen years, a complt>te change was effected in the
general charactrr of the village, containing eventually 2,000 inha-
bitants, notwithstanding the disadvantages of a continual influx of
new comers, and the daily intercourse maintained with the borough
of Lanark, which was within a mile of the works.
That which had bet'n hitherto done for the community of New
Lanark chiefly consisted in withdrawing some of the unfavourable
circumstances which had caused their bad habits; at this period
arrangrments wt>re made for surrounding tht>m with circumstances
of a diffcrt'nt character ; for leading tht>m into valuable domt'stic
habits, neatness and cleanlint>ss in their dwellings, the most econo-
mical mPthods of prPparing food, and above all for teaching tht>m
how to train up their children into valuable membt>rs of the com-
munity. As a means of effrcting tbest' ends, a building called the
" Institution for the Formation of Character," was erectrd in the
crntre of the establishment, with an enclosed space in front to
serve as a playground for the childrt>n, from the time tbl'y could
walk alone until they entered the school. Each child was made
to understand, upon his admission into this play-ground, that he
\Vas to do all in his power to make his companions happy. At
meal-times and at night thry returned to their parents with a
plt·asurl' and ragrrnrss Pnbancrd by tbP short separation. A room
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 569
in the lower story of the building was appropriated to receive them
in bad weather. The parents at first demuned at the idea of
sending their infants of two years for so many hours from under
their own charge ; but ·in the course of three months the superior
intelligence and moralpromise of those who had been thus sent were
so conspicuous, that.before the end of the first year every child in the
Yillagc was sent to the school, and before the conclusion of the
second, the parent:! petitioned that their children of thirteen and
fourteen months ·might be introduced. As they advanced in years
they were admitted into the preparatory schools, where, before the
age of six, they were initiated into the rudiments of common learn-
ing. Af'Wr passing through these schools, they entered the general
schoolroom for reading, writing, arithmetic, sewing and knitting ;
at ten years of age they were taken into the works. Boys and
girls were taught to dance; the boys were instructed in military
exercises, and such as had natural talents for them, in singing and
ruusic. This was the first modl'l of our Infant Schools, and if Mr.
Owen bad rendered no otlwr service to mankind, this would have
merited a rich meed of praise.•
At the close of each day the apartments, after being cleaned and
ventilatt'd, were thrown open for two hours of the evening, for the
instruction of the children and youth who had been employed at
work during the day. The lower rooms were appropriated to the
adults, who were provided with every accommodation to read,
write, converse, or walk about, strict order and attention being paid
to the comfort of each. Two evenings in the week the amuse-
ments of dancing aud singing were indulged in by such as chose to
join in them. One apartment was devoted to the occasional useful
instruction of the older inhabitants, concerning the best manage-
ment of domestic concerns, the training of their children, and the
wisdom which directs our intercourse with each other to the end of
• The first Infant School eaiALiishetl in London wa11 the one in Vincent-square,
\Vestminster, under the management of Buchanan, a teacher from Ncw Lanark.
" Hampden of the 19th c.,ntury."
o;gitizedbyGoogle...
570 APPENDIX.
mutual happiness. The schoolroom was fitted up to serve as a
chapel for the purpose of religious instruction.•
For nearly thirty years Mr. Owen conducted this interesting
undertaking with a degree of success which justified his anticipa-
tions, and attracted considerable notice both in our own and foreign
countries; visitors distinguished for character, talent, and rank,
resorted toNew Lanark, to witness and admire the results of thejudi-
cious experiment. In 1829, however, he resolved upon quitting this
position for the sake of devoting himself, altogether, to the preach-
ingofthe truths which it had served to demonstrate, throughout the
civilized world, and of persuading Governments to act upon the
principles which be bad elicited. Perhaps he forgot for a moment
his own maxim, that " to act is better than to speak." Like the
Hermit of old, he has carried his cross through the nations, but
they have not yet risen to welcome its approach ; and notwith-
standing his unwearied exertions during repeated visits to the
United States, to Mexico, the West Indies, and at a later period,
to France, Austria, Prussia, Bavaria, and Saxony, besides the dif-
ferent portions of the British kingdom, he still points to the esta-
blishment at New Lanark as the only satisfactory instance in which
his plans have been, though partially, tried. But although we may
regret that a full trial of his system was not made on a spot, which,
for almost the space of a generation, had received the benefit of
his philanthropic exertions, and at a time when his practical mind
was in full vigour and he had the prospect of long years before him
in which to mature his design, yet it must be allowed that he has
cast far and wide seeds which may spring up, under future culture,
to an abundant harvest.
New Some years before be quitted New Lanark-in April,
Darmony, 1825-Mr. Owen had purchased the settlement of Har-
mony, in Indiana, of Mr. Rapp, on advantageous term!.',
and here he proposed to establish a society which should serve as a
• See Owen's "Esu)'ll on the Formation of Character."
Digitized by Coogle
APPE~DIX. 571
m01M for other communities, and in which the principles of union,
common property, and co-operation should be carried out. In the
March preceding he delivered an address at Washington, before the
Presidentofthe United States and the Members ofCongress,contain-
ing a detailed account of his plan, and proposing, as a step to the full
realization of his scheme, a preliminary society in which members
should be trained for the more perfect association; in this society they
would not be upon an entire ~uality with regard to property, but all
arrangt>ments would be adapted to this rnd. Hi!! views met with
considerable sympathy among the Americans; and during the first
three months of his settlement at New Harmony, he was joint>d
by about nine hundred individuals, chiefly agriculturists and
artisans. Applications fiJr admission were more numerous than
could be receh·ed. The mechanics, who constituted about half the
number of the st'ttlers, were chiefly Engli~h, the other half princi-
pally backwoodsmrn. The roving unsettled habits of thc>se last
made them soon grow impatient of social restraint, and most of
them in a short time quitted the socirty. Difficulties !Wem to have
attended the undertaking from its commencement ; the first influx
ofmrmhers was much largrr than bad bet'n Cf.lculated for, or than
could be well accommodated. The ass<>mblage of pcr~ns was of a
most heterogeneous description ; if some understood the principles
which it was the object to exemplify, most of them were moved by
the hopt> of gain, or of living upon tht> common stock in idlt>ness.
With no previous education, or training, it was not to be rxpt>cted
that such an ill-assorted collection of indi\·iduals could give to the
world an example of a perfect community. Whilst the first im-
pulse lasted, howrvrr, and their leader kept the hdu1, affairs wrre
sufficiently prosperous to encourage hopes of ultimatr surces:~. The
government of thr Society was vested in a Committrr, appointed
in the first instance by l\fr. Owen, and nft1•rwards, at his det~irr,
by the members, assisted by a superintt•ndant of ('ach d('partment
of trade, or busine~s, chosen hy the workmrn thrmseln•s. When,
at the rnrlof threr months, 1\fr. Owrn th•partrtl fi1r England, co:~-
Digitized by Google
572 APPENDIX.
fusion and discord began to arisr; religious disst•nsions prc\'aileJ,
and after a time a separate community formed itself of the more
orthodox. In the succeeding January, another large portion of the
body, impatient of the preliminary state, resolved itself into " au
independent community," and thi11 again dividrd itself into three
smaller societies, the educational, the agricultural, and the manu-
facturing societies. A large school was established on the Pesta-
lozzian system by :M. Phiquepal, and Madame Fretageot; the
children were instructed in industrial occupations, and Wl.'rc to
contribute by a few hours of labour each day to the expense!! of
the Institution, but it appears that this branch of education
encroached upon that of the moral and intellectual faculties. Mr.
Maclure, a man of considerable property, and an enthusiast in the
cause of education, enabled the education liOciety to purchase of
Mr. Owen a large proportion of the land and buildings adjacent to
the town. Two other communities were set on foot in the neigh-
bourhood, the one chiefly consisting of English settlers, the other
before mentioned, of backwoodsmen strongly tinctured with what
is called "Methodism." Upon Mr. Owen's return he laboured
indefatigably to establish order and unanimity, but within less than
two years he was compelled to relinqui<Jh his connexion with the
colony, which now consisted of at least ten smaller communitirs,
with separate laws and regulations. Part of the laud he sold to
these societies, some of it he lt•t on lease, and he finally v;ithdre"··
with much pecuniary loss, but with undiminished confidence in hi:~
principles and ardour in the cause. It is said that the result t f
this experiment convinced him, however, that a few members well
prepared and trained were more likely to succeed, even with small
capital, in establishing a community, than a large number of ill-
disciplined individual!! with a still larger proportion of capital.
Seyeral other societies upon his plan had been formed during
this period in Am1•rica, but they probaLiy failed from corresponding
mistakes.
ort.liton. This was also thr case at homr. About thr ~amP time
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 573
that the rstablishm£'nt at New Harmony was commenced, Mr. Abram
Combt•, Mr. Hamilton, and some other admirers of l\Ir. Owen,
founded one with similar vil'ws at Orbiston, in Lanarkshir£'. .Mr.
Combe had visited New Lanark in 1820, and had become in
consequence an enthut~iastic advocate of the system which was
there exhibited, partially at least, in operation. He made one or
two attempts in Edinburgh to institute a society upon the same
plan on a small scale, and published sevnal tr£'atis£'s on the sub-
jPct ; but his most strenuous efforts, the larger portion of his
property, and eventually his life, were spent upon the undertaking
at Orbiston. The labour aBd anxiety which be underwent sapped
his strength, and prepared the way for the disease which termina-
ted his life in August, 1827. He died before the result of his
enterprise became evident, and with enthusiastic confidence in
its successful r£'sult.
The Company formed onder the auspices of Mr. Abram Combe and
Mr. A. Hamilton, of Dalzell, was a Joint-stock Company of PropriP-
tors, instituted with the double objl'ct "of obtaining a sure and pro-
fitable invel!tmrnt for capital, and of enabling those who provide
all the necessaries and comforts of life for the rest of society,
to bettf'r the condition of themselves and their children." The
Company of Proprietors wat~ to be totally distinct from the Com-
pany of thf' Tenants, and the one wall to have no more concPrn
with the othPr than any other proprietor with his tenants, or than
a capitalist with the borrow£'r. The capital of thl' Company was
to be t>xpended on Land, Buildings, Machint>ry, Utensils, lmplr-
ments, and Furniture ; the use of thrse to be lt>t to the
tPnants, at a rent of so much pl'r cent. on the whole outlay.
Each sub!!cribl•r to ha,·e the privilege of admitting one trnant for
evt>ry share. Thr tenants to have a right to conduct thrir affairs
in their own way, whilst tbl'y fulfilled tlu~ir contract. " The idea
of philanthropy," obseryes Mr. Combe in this Prospectull, " is
not introduced, bt>causc it is bPiil•\·ed that nothing will nrr
become cxten!livc but that which yil'lds a good return for capital
exprndcd."
Digitized by Coogle ,......
574 APPENDIX.
In the Prospectus of the Tenants' Company, the proposed ad-
vantages of their union arl', the doing away with the nl'ces11ity of
distributors, thl' l'nabling of the producers to !!ell their labour for
its trne proportional value, and the having their children fed,
clothed, and educated in the best manner and at the least expensl'.
In the Articles of Agreement drawn up for the Tenants, they
agree "to rest satisfied with the distinctions which exist in
nature, and which arise from superior habits and attainments;
to rrnounce as usl'less and pernicious all supposed advantages
which could not be attained by all ; and to admit of no anange-
ment which tends to place the interest of one individual in oppo-
sition to that of anothP.r. To decide all disputes by the dictates
of experience as far as posNibll'. To constitute a Committl'e of
Management consisting of all the members, male and female, and to
choose one individual, annually or otherwise, and dismi!JIIible at
pleasure, in whom the executh·e power should be vested. To
introduce no artificial rewards or puni11hmrnts, until it shall be
proved that those which God has appointed in the Natural Law
arc really defective. That the store shall include arrangements
for cleaning the clothes, furniture, and dwellings of individuals;
for cooking thl'ir food and serving tht'm at table, and for the
charge of the necessary horses and carriages. That each member
shall have liberty to labour as little as he pleases, provided that
his demands on the store do not I'Xceed the value which he has
previously conveyed to it. That each individual should prepare
an estimate of the hourly value of his own labour, and this, when
1tatisfactory, be the amount of his claims on the general store.
That the affairs of the community shall be conducted by
Committe<'s in the sewral depaTtments. That from the com-
nwncement the gem•ral profits be dividl'd Pqnally among the mem-
ht·rs, and that the children be clothed, fed, and educated, at
the expem;e of the community until thPy attain their l'igbteenth
year. That in no case shall morr than onr private apart-
mrnt be allottrd to onr iudhitlual, nor more than two ha,·e
the u:1e of the t!ame. That d1•nnlin~,s, temr..ran,-r, an1l the
Digitized by Coogle
API'ENDIX. 575
means of living, he the only further indispensable qualification!4
for admission, and the right of withdrawing be in the power of
all. And lastly, to endeavour to give to the spirit of religion, of
loyalty, and ambition existing in the human mind, the direction
which experience proves to be most conduch·e to the general
welfare and happiness of mankind."*
From these articles it appears that this society was not based
upon the full principle of community of property to which Mr. Owen
adheres, and that it resembled more nearly the Preliminary Society of
New Harmony in its provisions. In pursuance ofthe proposed plan
the company purchased the estate of Orbiston, "containing 291 sta-
tute acres, and lying nine miles east of Glasgow, and almost con-
tiguous to the south road from that city to Edinburgh, for a price
of .£20,000: they erected extensive buildings, capable of accom-
modating upwards of 300 individuals, with public rooms, store-
rooms, and other conveniences for common occupation ; and also a
manufactory on the Calder river, which hounds the property on the
south east."t
Like the sister society in America, however, that of Orbiston
failed, and from similar causes, aggra¥ated by deficiency of capital,
since the sums subscribed were absorbed in the erection of the
·large and substantial buildings. It was observed of Mr. Abram
Combe, that "influenced by a disposition to compassionate, rather
than to blame, those who, in mind, as well as in circumstances
were little to be envied, he admitted with a fatal want of due selec-
tion, persons into the Orbiston Mtablisbment who were totally
incompetent to do anything in this world save talk : he believed
his principle to be so powerful, that out of an!J materials he could
construct a beautiful edifice-a lasting monument of co-operative
superiority; but in this he was mistaken:·~
The consequences of this mistake are recorded by his brother,
• Spbero of .Joint-Stock CompMies, by Abram Combe. t Memoir of Mr,
Combe, Co-op. Mag. Dec. lll'.l7. :::Gray's Social System, r·3:i3.
Digitized by Coogle
576 APPENDIX.
~Ir. George Combe. " The establishment at Orbiston, in Lanark-
shire, set on foot ten years ago, by the admirers of that gentleman,
(Mr. Owen,) fell closely under my personal observation ; and there,
the same disregard of the principles of human nature, and the
results of experience, was exhibited. About three hundred persons,
very improperly educated, and united by no great moral and reli-
gious principle, excepting the vague idea of co-operation, Wt're
congrpgated in a large building ; they were furnished with the ~
of 270 acres of arable land, and commenced the co-operative mode
of life. But their labour being guided by no efficient direction or
superintendance, and thue being no habitual supremacy of the
moral and intellectual powPrs among them, animating each with a
love of the puhlir. good, but the reverse,-the result was melancholy
and speedy. Without in the least benefiting the operatives, the
scheme ruined its philanthropic projectors, most of whom are now
in premature graves, or t>migrants to distant lands, while every
stone which ~hey raised has bet•n razed to the foundation."*
From the time when 1\Ir. Owen began to reap the first fruits of
his labours at New Lanark, be occasionally stood forth as the
public advocate of the principles upon which he had worked. He
first attracted general attention by an .Address delivered at
Glasgow, at a dinnPr given to Jos<'ph Lancaster, in 1812, in which
he adverted to the wonderful power of machinery, and the
immense amount of human l<Abour wbich it superseded. Soon
after this he published his "Obserntions on the Effect of the
Manufacturing System ; with hints for the Improvement of those
parts of it which are most injurious to Health and Morals." To
the third edition, in HilS, Wt're addt•d a Letter to the Earl of
Liverpool, on " the Employment of Children in .Manufactories ;"
one to the Archbishop of Canterbury, on " the union of Churches
and Schools;.. and an "Address to the British Master Manufac-
----------- - -- --- - -- -
• Combe's Moral Phil<>AAphy. Lndy Dnuglns, who purehnfl<'d the proJ>erly,
,.,,·elled the lmildin~:s to pr•n·nt tl:c cstaLli&hmcnt or any t·ublic works near ber
owu estate.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 577
turt-rs.'' The most important and widely circulated of Mr. Owen's
writings are his "Essays on the Formation of the Human Cha-
racter," first published in 1813.
In the autumn of 1817 there were several meetings at the
City of London Tavern, at which Mr. Owen delivered eloquent
addrt-sses, and excited a strong sensation among the crowds who
flocked to hear him. When, however, his profession of religious faith
was found wanting in the opinion of one large class of his admirers,
they desertt>d him, and refused to listen to any propositions con-
nected with his name. During an excursion to France, Germany,
and the Netherlands, in 1818, he visited Fellenberg's educational
establishment at Hofwyl, in Switzerland. Whilst on this tour, the
Memorials to the Congress at Aix-la-Chapelle were presented,
quoted in the foregoing work. The year 1819 found Mr. Owen an
unsuccessful candidate for a seat in Parliament ; but the same
year also found two members of tht' Royal Houst> lending an ear to
his suggestions. The Duke of Kent, supported by the Duke of
Sussex, presided at a meeting convent>d at Freemasons' Hall, in
furtherance of his views. A Committee was appointed under the
presidency of the Duke of Kent, to examine into the proposed
plans, and a resolution was ultimately adopted to raise a subACrip-
tion for the purpose of founding a single establishment as an expe-
riment. Several thousand pounds were subscribed, and 500 acrl's
of land purchased at Mothl'rwell, near Hamilton ; but as an ade-
quate sum could not be obtained, the design was abandoned, and
the land resold. In furtherancl' of the object, however, meetings
of the principal gentry of the county bad taken place in 1821, and
Committees of investigation were appointed. It was on this occa-
sion that Mr. Owen published his "Report to the County of
Lanark," in which he proposed his plan of a Labour Exchange
Nott>, in lieu of the old circulating medium.
Mr. Owen visited Ireland in 1823, held several puhlic meetings,
and was listened to, as cvt>rywhere else, with eager att<'ntion.*
• "Hampden," vol. 2,
8«:
Digitized by Coogle
578 APPENDIX.
His appeals made in the first instance to the higher classC!f,
were rl'spondcd to with enthusiasm by many of the intelligent and
illustrious among them ; but the impression was, generally speak-
ing, evanescent, or not sufficiently deep to ensure their aeth·e
co-operation. Neither from the middle, or already "comfortable"
classes, was there much chance of obtaining it. But with the ranks
just below these, sufficiently educated to understand his reasonings
-sufficiently harassed in the stmggle for subsistence to hail his
offered prospects, the case was very different. Numbers of these
attached themselves to the cause, which spread like a message of
co-o.,.rattve good tidings through the land. Co-operative Societies
Sod•aiCII. sprang up on a.ll sides; Brighton \Va~ the head-quar-
ters of one, and also of a periodical, called the Rrightou Co-opnativ<>,
under the editorship ofDr. King-. About the Pnd of tht> year lSU, the
London Co-operative Society was fonned, for aiding in the establish-
ment of communities, and for diffusing information upon the subject
by lectures, public discussions, and publications ; and this was fol-
lowed by others in Dublin, Exeter, and many other placl's. Co-opera-
tive l\lagazines, Miscellanies, and Tracts were widt•ly circulated, and
Co-opl'rative Trading Societies were established in great numbers.
From a list of these publishI'd in the Brititlb Co-operator, it appears
that there were, in 1S30, forty-two of these Societies in London.
Their object, as dt>tailed in the Laws of the Biru1ingbam Socit>ty,
was to raise a common capital by weekly subscriptions ; to l'mploy
that capital in trade, and when sufficiently accumulated, in
manufacturing for the benefit of the Society ; and lastly, upon
further accumulation, in the purchase or rental of land for the
e~ablishment of a community. The trading to be carried on with
the fund raised by subscriptions or loans, by laying in goods at
wholesale prices, and retailing them at the usual profits; the profits
to be added to the capital of the company, and not in any case to be
divided among the members. No credit to be givt>n or taken in the
sales or purchases of tbe Society. The members were expectl'd to
purchase from thl' Soril'ty·~:~ ::~tore what they might requin• of its
Digitized by Coogle
APPRNDIX. 579
articles. But here again the difficulty occurred of finding fitting
agt>nb to carry out wise aud sound principles. The apparent im-
possibility of securing able and lwnesl managers of the joint con-
cerns was fatal to their succt>ss in most instancrs.
A movement had, however, taken place throughout the country,
and a tendency is apparent in the writings of philanthropists, of
different parties, to the conclusion that some change has become
necessary, although the weighty conseqnenct>s of the admission
seem to deter them grnerally from met>ting the question full in the
face. An able •.nitrr admit11, in a review of Godwin's "Thoughts
on Man," published in 1831, that "the present constitution of
society sanctions startling iniquitit>s, and that communities are far
indred from being, in their best rt>gulated departments, what they
might be, what they ought to be, what tht>y shall be,"-and looks
forward to a time when by the more equal distribution of labour,
"individual capacities will be more rasily distinguishable, anti
as a consequence of this, the rewards of labour more appropriate
and surt>."
The writer of an admirable article on Co-oprratiou in the
Monthly Repository for August, 1832, rrmarks, " Whrn we rrad
such a statement of the condition of the working classes as that
presentrd by Dr. Kay, of Manchestrr,-whPn we see, amidst all
the whirl, and bustle, and fe\'er of excitement, which the conuner-
cial world exhibits, the difficuhiPs which pPrsons in the happy
middlt> ranks find in directing thPir sons to any pursuit which is
not pre-occupied to ncl'ss ;-when we consider the reduced profits
of the mastl'rs, bolstered up as far as possible by the sadly trduced
wages of the workl'rs, and by the pernicious alchemy which coins
the blood and spirits of hapless and joyl<'ss infimc_y into the odd
halfpence and farthing;; ;-when we prrceive, through the whole
band and chorus of soci<'ty, a grand, rPsistle~s, and prevalent
thorough bass of pr<'sent di>'cont<'nt, and painful anticipation, we
incline to the imagination that thrre is sonwthin~ in our existing
rrl'dicamrnt whidt ought to 11!' chang•·rl. * * " Ld ~~~ '"k, u•lwt is
Digitized by Coogle
580 APPENDIX.
the present state of society, about which such hl'avy cowplaints arc.>
made, and whose dcfl'cts call on thousands to co-operate for their
rl'moval ? The answer shall be taken from the Edinburgh Re-
view, (Dec. 1831, p. 367.)
"' How much among us may be likened to a whited sepulchre;
outwardly all pomp and strength, but inwardly full of horror and
despair, and dead men's bones ! Iron highways, with thl'ir wains
fire-winged, are uniting all end11 of the firm land. Quays besidl's,
with their innumerable stately fleets, tame the ocean into a pliant
bearer of burdens. Labour's thousand arms of sinew and of metal,
all-conquering everywhere, from the tops of the mountain to the
depths of the mine and the caverns of the sea, ply unceasingly for
the service of man,-YET MAN REMAINS UNSERVED. * * * He
has subdued this planet, his habitation and inheritance, yet reaps
no profit from the victory. Sad to look upon, in the highest stage
of civilization, nt"ne-tentlts of manlrt"nd must struggle t"n tire lmresl
battle of savage, QT even animal man,- tire battle agat"nsl famt'ne.
Countries are rich, prosperous in all manner of increase beyond
example, but the men of these countries are needier than ever.
The rule, :ric f)()S no11 vobis, never altogether to be got rid of in
man's industry, now presses with such incubus-weight, that
irldustry must shake it qff, or be utterly strangled under it; and,
alas ! can as yet but gasp and rave, and aimlessly struggle, like
one in the final deliration. Thus cluznge, or tire trreststible
approack of ckange, t"s manifest et:eT!JWkere.'" " Dr. King, of
Brighton, author of the ' Co-operator,' has boldly preached the
desired change. He heads one of his chapters thus:-' Co-opera-
tion is the unknown object which the benevolent part of mankind
have always been in search of, for the impro'"ement of their fellow-
creatures.' "
Several of the co-operative societies above-mentioned projrctl'd
the formation of a community-one in the neighbourhood of London
in particular; anothl'r was actually commenced at Exetrr: but both
schemt·~ proved abortivr. • In In•land, hown<'r, an int<'re~ting rxpe-
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 581
riment was made, and with better success, by Mr. Vandaleur on his
nahlhlne, estate of Ralahine in the county of Clare. His tenantry
were of the lowest order of Irish, poor, di~contented, dis-
orderly, vicious. Anxious to am~>ntl their character and condition,
and also desirous for his own sake of obtaining steady and u:;eful
labourers, he determined in 1830 upon trying Mr. Owen's prin-
ciple, with modifications adapted to the circumstances. About forty
labourers willingly entered into his plan, and he formed them into
a society under his own government and superintendt>nce. To
this society he let the estate of Ralahine, containing 618 English
acres, about 267 acres of which was pasture land, 285 tillt>d, 63t
bog, and 2t acres of orchard; the soil was generally good, some
stoney. This land, together with six cottages and an old cruitle
which were con\·erted into dwellings for the married people ;-all
the farm buildings, barns, cowhouses, stable~, sheds, &c., part of
which he had converted into a public dining-room, and committee
and schoolrooms with dormitories above them, for the children, and
unmarried males and females,-he let to them for £700 a-year,
tithe and tax free. There were also included a saw-mill and
threshing-mill, turned by a water-wheel, and the shells of a factory
and of a weaving-shop, but no machinery in them. For the tools,
implement::~ of husbandry, live stock, and ad\·ances made to them
for food and clothing till the harvest was got in, tht>y were to pay
(which was reckoning about 6 per cent. interest) .£200 more.
They were to live together upon the estate in the buildings pro-
vided, in common, and they were to work upon the common ca}Jital
for their joint intere~t. After paying tht> above rent and charges, the
remainder of the produce was to be the property of the adult mem-
bers of seventeen years old and upwards, share and share alike, male
or female, 11ingle or married. The tools, implement~, and machinery,
were to be kept in as good repair a~ rf'ceived, and when worn out
replaced, and the cattle and other li\'c stock were to be krpt up
both in, nun1brr and value. The n·ut wa~ to be paid in the pro-1,
,I
Digitized by Coogle
582 APPENDIX.
duce of the et~tate always; the first year it was to be a money
rent,-£900 worth uf produce at the prices at the time in Limerick
market ; in future y<>:1n it was to be a corn rent, consisting of as
many bu~hel:c~ of grain, and hundred weights of beef, pork, butter,
&c. as were paid in the first year ; anJ whatever improvements the
society might make on the estate, no advance in rent was ever to
take place, and as soon as they had acquired sufficient capital to
purchase the 11tock, a long lease of the property was promised at
tIll' same rent.
l\lr. Vandalt>ur kept possession of the stock, crops, and premist's,
until the society should be ablt> to purchase them ; the rent and
intrre~t bt>ing wore than he had evt>r bt>cn able to realize from the
land himself. In 1t\31 the rent and intt>rest were paid in money.
In 1S32 the value of the produce was nearly £1700; the ach·anct!s
made to the 11ociety for food, clothing, seed, &c., that year being
about £350. The extra ad\·ancetl made for building cottages, fur-
niture, &c., absorbed tht> surplus produce; but comfort was increas-
ing, and a foundation laid for future pro~pt>rity and happiness.
'l'he memh<'rs of the socit•ty were to work as many hours, to do
all much labour, and to draw no more from the common fund, than
he would have paid tltt•m for wages as common labourers; and they
wrrc to continue to do so until they had a capital of their own.
To effect these objects, a regular account was kept by the secre-
tary, of the time and labour of every individual each day, and at
the end of the Wl'ek, the same sum was paid to each for his or ht>r
labour as Mr. Yandalt•ur fonurrly paid for wages. The prospect of
a share of the surplus profit of the crops affordt>d a strong motive
to indm:~try, and these people did twice as much work in a day as
any l.in•d labourers in the nl'ighbourhood. The money advancell
from the fund was in lalxmr no(Ps, payable only at their own stort'.
This enabled the proprietor to support them without actual ad-
vane<'!-! in ca~h, and l<'ndt•d to prevent intempE>rancP., as no intoxi-
C'atin;; •lriuks W!'rt' kf.pt at the store, anrl thPir monPy would not
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 583
pass at the dram-shops. The store was furnishell with goods of
the best quality, charged to the people at wholesale prices. Ac-
cording to Irish custom, potat~es and milk constituted the cbit•f
articles of food, and the aiJowance which was receiYed from the
subsistence fund W&.l:l proportionably low ; but the advantages
which the members of the society received from their union, raised
their condition far above the common standard of their class.
Agricultural labourers received 4s. per week ; their expenditure
was, for vegetables, chiefly potatoes, Is. ; ruilk, 10 quarts, lOd. ;
washing, &c., 2d.; sick fund, 2d.; clothing, h. lOd. The women
received 2s. 6d. per week ; their expenses were, for vegetables 6d. ;
milk, 8d. ; washing, &c., 2d. ; sick fund, 1td. ; clothing, ls. 0-!d.
Married members, living in cottages by themseh·es, paid 6d. per week
rent to the society, and perhaps 2d. more for fuel. All the children
from fourteen months old upwards, were supported from the fund
without care or expense to their parents. They were provided for
in the infant school until they were eight or nine years old, and
afterwards in the public dining-room with the unmarried members.
The adults bad nothing to pay out of their wages for rent, fire,
lectures, school, or amusements. They purcha!:!ed every article on
an average 50 per cent. cheaper, and they had better articles in
their own store than they could buy elsewhere. Every member
was insured full work, and the same amount from the fund every
day in the year, and the price of food was always the same at their
store. The sick or incapacitated receh·ed out of the sick fund as
much a.s when at work. If a father died, his family were pro-
vided for.
The society gradually increased to double the original numLa.
Their dwellings and furniture were clean and neat, their cooking
was done well and economically, and they availed themselves as
much as possible of machinery in every department. The youth of
both sexes, under the age of seventeen, fulfilled the usual offic<'s of
servants by turns. The hours of labour \n>re from six in the
morning until six in the evening in summer, with one hour of intt•r-
Digitized by Coogle
584 APPENDIX.
miijsiou for dinner. The Committee met every evening to arrange
the labours of the following day in such a manner as should best
suit individual tastes and capacities. The youth were engagt>d to
learn some one useful trade besides agricultural labour ; and each
individual was bound to assist in field labour, particularly in har-
vest-time. The storeket>per distributt>d the food, clothing, &c.;
the gardener the produce of the garden. Mr. Vandaleur sold the
surplus produce, and pufchased articles for the farm and for the
stort>. All disputes were settled by arbitration amongst themselves,
and no instance occurred during the three years they were together
of an appeal to a lawyer or a magistrate. Mr. Craig, the zealous
and able assistant of Mr. Vandaleur, relates the admiration of the
visitors to Ralahine, at a system " which could tame the wild
Irish, and make them forsake poverty, rags, and misery, for
cleanliness, health, and comfort."
It is painful to record the abrupt breaking up of this Society at a
time when it ·was progressing rapidly, and the melancholy cause of
such a termination. Mr. Vandaleur was allied to the aristocracy,
and, with all his excellencies, he shared one of their vices. A
habit of gambling reduced himself, his family, and his system, to
ntin. He fled from his country, and his creditors, seizing upon
hi:~ property, without staying to inquire into the justice of the
claims of the labourers at Ralal1ine, disposed of all they found
there to satisfy their own. The socit'ty was not enrolled, nor had
Mr. Vandaleur given tht'rn a lease of the premises, therefore the
law afforded them no prott'ction or redress.•
l'oor Colonies Another instance in which Mr. Ow('n's suggestions
or HollAnd. have b('en followed out, is that ofthe "Poor Colonies..
of Holland. He proposed a plan to the British Go-
vernm('nt for the ('mployment of the pauper population, which was
not adopted. It was suhst'qut'utly transmitted to that of Holland,
through the Dutch Ambassador, in 1816. The plan was accepted
• See Rnlahine, by John Finch.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 585
and acted upon ; it met with a valuable coadjutor in General Van
den Bosch, with whose previously formed scheme for benefiting his
country it entirely accorded. Whilst residing in Java this officer
bad witnessed the superior agricultural methods of a Chinese co-
lony settlt>d near to his own farm. Upon his return to HoJiand
he published the knowledge of their processes which he bad thus
acquired, and proposed that the, poor of his own country should
be employed in fertilizing and cultiv~ti~g the worst soils, on the
Chinese system.
A meeting was held at the Hague in 1818, and a Society of Be-
neficence organized under the sanction of the King. Two Com-
mittees were appointed for its superintendance and management.
The subscription was scarcely 5s. per annum, but as 20,000 mem-
bers were speedily enrolled, a large sum was collected, and the
society shortly purcbast>d a tract of sandy heath and bogland near
the town of Steenwyk, on the east side of the Zuyder _Zee, consist-
ing of from 12 to 1300 acres. The society paid .£4660 for it, and
the money was raised by loan at 6 per cent., the association
engaging to liquidate the principal, by instalment, in sixteen years.
A school-boose, warehouse, spinning-house, and fifty-two cottages
were built, and the little river Aa was rendered navigable. The
place was called Frederick's Oord in compliment to the King's
second son, President of the Society. The works were finished in
the November of the same year and occupied by fifty-two indigent
families. The association found them in food and clothing until
the first harvest, and employed them iu reclaiming and preparing
the land for the first crop : for this labour the colonists were paid
by piece-work, as other labourers would have been. Seven acres
of land were allotted to each of the cottages, and it was calculated
that each family of seven or eight pl'rsons would require an outlay
from the society of £141. 13s. llut most of the houses since
built have cost less than this estimate. The labour of building
was performed by the colonists at a fixl'd rate of wages, the clay
for bricks being found upon th<' land.
C:tt
Digitized by Coogle
586 APPENDIX.
The total expense of each family was as follows:-
Building each house ... £41 13 4
Furniture and implements ... ..• ..•
Clothing ... ... ... ... ... ...
Two cows, or one cow and ten sheep .. .
Cnltivation and seed, first year ..•
Advances in provisions
Advances of other kinds .. . ...
Flax and wool to be spun .. . ...
Seven acres uncnltivated land, net
8 6 8
12 10 0
12 10 0
33 6 8
4 3 4
4 3 4
16 13 4
8 6 8
Total establishment ... ... £141 13 4
" The estimate is between £22 and £23 for each individual, and
they are expected to repay it to the society in rent and labour,
besides maintaining themselves, in about sixteen years. Each
allotment of seven acres is laid out in a rectangle, having the house
toward the road with one end, and the other reaching fifty feet
into the allotment. The dwelling occupies the part next the road,
then comes the bam, after that the stalls for cattle, and behind
these the reservoir for manure, in which every particle ofvegetable
and animal refuse is carefully made up into compost, with the
heath and moss of the land. The preparation of this compost is
one of the most essential of their labours, and each cottager is
bound to lay eighteen tons of manure per annum upon each acre of
his land, as also to cultivate it properly, otherwise the society
would have it done for him and charge it to his account. Each
head of a family is obliged to work three days in a week for the
society, until out of its debt, for which he is paid by piece work.
The colonists are subjected to a kind of military regulation ; they
assemble at six in the morning, and those who do not answer to the
roll-call get no wages for the day. When the labour of the day is
over, each receives a ticket, stating the amount of wages, and for
that be may procure food from the store at fixed rates. Those who
are at first unable to support thPmsclves, obtain credit for a short
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 58'1
period. The women spin, weave, knit, as soon as possible from
the produce of their own fiocks and fields. On the first arrival of
a family the men and boys are taught the colonial method of spade
agriculture ; the women and girls the lighter labour of the garden
and dairy ; and before a family can obtain possession of a cottage,
it ia a rule that the women of it shall be instructed in cookery and
hou11ehold work, if before ignorant how to manage it in a cleanly
and economical manner. Each family is furniahed with a printed
paper, in which is clearly stated the duties to be performed, the
sums to be repaid to the society for the farm and the stock, and the
rt>gulations which must be observed tiJI the repayment ia completed,
as also the annual rental to them afterward11. An account-book is
also given to them with an account of the stock, tools, &c. supplied
to them, and in which is set down once a week the nms they have
earnt>d and paid off-a certain portion being deducted uniformly
from their earnings towards the payment. It ia lefi to their own
option to pay more, or to lay out the surplus in articles to be pro-
cured from the !lirectors of the colony. A superintendant ia placed
over every twenty-five families, and a sub-director over every four
of these quarter-masters, as they are called.
" The produce of a certain amount of work every week ia allowed
for the support of the sick or infirm. The whole of the appoint.
ments are inspected with military care, and such as have been
wasteful, are obliged to make good what they have destroyed. The
careful preparation of manure, the most remarkable feature in
Chinese husbandry, ia the grand resource, and its results are en-
couraging, since rich crops have been raised from soil which was
before scarcely able to support the lowest specit>s of vegetation.
The 11yst~m now pursued ia to lay down one-half of the seven acres
in grass, to sow one acre with rye, and one with potatoes ; the
remaining acre and a half being devoted to fiax, mangel wurzcl,
dover, cabbages, &c., one quarter of an acre round the house
bl'ing rel$erved for kitchen garden and fruit-trees."
Digitized by Coogle
588 APPENDIX.
In two years after their first arrival, the fifty-two families were
found to have discharged one-fifth part of the debt originally con·
tracted, and, notwithstanding this outgoing, their condition ap-
'
peared comfortable. The total number of cottages at Frederick's
Oord, in 1833, was 370, each with its seven acres of land in com·
plete cultivation. Th~re were also at this time a large school, to
which parents were required to send all their children from four to
twelve years of age, a spinning and weaving-house, four store-
houses, a good inn, a house for the resident director, and .a navi-
gable canal, whioh had just been completed. Another colony had
been added in the neighbourhood called Wellem's Oord, consisting
of 159 cottages. The aooiety also possessed an establishment at
Watereen for instructing 60 boys in the theory and practice of
agriculture, from which to supply the settlements with efficient
agricultural directors. In another and larger establishment, 1200
orphan ehildten were boarded and educated, in a great measure
earning their subsistence by agriculture and the connected trad('S.
Nine farms, of 100 acres each, were located in the neighbourhood,
and the elder boys and girls were sent thither, in the day-time, to
assist in the work of the farm and dairy, for which services they
were compensated by the instruction received from the farmere.
Besides these Free Colonies, the Society had an establishment
of Paupers, founded in 1822, the Government contracting to pay a
certain sum for their maintenance. One containing a thousand
persons was situated in the vicinity of that for the orphans, and
another at Ommerschans. In these institutions the settlers were
subjected to more rigid discipline, the rule that " he who will
not work shall not eat," being carried into practical efl'eet. In
1826 the num~r of beggars settled at the last-mentioned place
amounted to 1300. They were divided into classes according to
age and strength; a certain sum was fixed which the members of
each class were obliged to earn in a day, and for which one plentiful
meal was received; all bryond this he must pay for l•y extra labour,
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 589
and if industrious he could with ease earn two or three times the
amount. Whenever a colonist had saved forty shillings, and had
conducted himself properly, he was at liberty to leave the colony.
A writer who visited these Home Colonies in 18331 with the
express purpose of ascertaining their condition, speaks highly of
the apparent comfort and happiness of the colonists ; but it must
be allowed that to assemble a large body of paupers of the lowest
description, and place them in an isolated community, is a hazar-
dous experiment. Mr. Porter, in his "Progress of the Nation,"
informs us that the Belgian Colonies, founded in 1823 upon the
model of those' in Holland, have proved a decided failure.•
A colony for the reformation of juvenile offenders was founded
aometime ago at Mettray, near Tours, in France, upon the estate
of the Viscount de Bretignieres, who shared its direction with M.
Demetz, the projector. The principles upon which it was esta-
blished were strictly analogous to those of the Dutch orphan schools
above described. The first 11tep taken was to institute a school of
monitors of unstaint'd character, and chosen from respectable
families, as in the first instance when example would be all-import-
ant, this was considered essential. Afterwards it was intended to
elevate the most exemplary among the reformed criminals to this
post, and thus to give them the means of reinstating themselves in
society. The youths to be employed in agriculture and the trades
subservient to it. The sum which the Government agreed to give
with each offender was 60 centimes (Gd.) per day, which it waa
reckoned, with the profits of their labour, would cover the expenses.
It was proposed to commence with about sixty.t
A subsequent account of the progress of this institution was
published in the 'Phalange' of June 9, 1841, from which it appears
that it is in an encouraging 11tate. M. LeComte de Gasparin is
•Quarterly Roviow, 1829. N11w Moral World, July 3, 11141. "An Aceount
o£ a visi& &o &ho Dutch Home ColoniCII in the Au&uwu of 1033." Porter's
" Progress of the Nntiou1" vol. I, p. 109.
t" Colony of .1\JieUray," Chambers' Journal.
Digitized by Coogle
590 APPENDIX.
itl! President, and it bas been endowed by the Count d'Ourches
with the sum of 140,000f. It is now suited for the reception of
about 300 youths. An excellent di~~eipline has been established,
and considerable improvement has taken place in the morals and
ahso in the health of the young inmates.•
Llabour Mr. Owen was busily engaged in the years 1832-3
Bschaqe. on a scheme which he intended as an immediate mea-
sure of relief to the working classes, and as a step
towards the adoption of his system of society. This was the
establishment of Labour Exchange Bazaars, designed to enable the
producers to exchange their articles immediately with each other,
together with the substitution of /ahotw notes for the current
money ; the object of the first being the saving of the heavy per
centage of the shopkeepers ;-by the second it was proposed to
make the medium of exchange the representative of the real value
of the article ; the producer would also by this plan have the ad-
vantage of obtaining an immediate representative of the worth of
his goods. For instance, the shoemaker brought his pair of shoes
to the Bazaar, with an invoice of the cost of the material and the
time employed in manufacturing them. A person, supposed to be
competent and disinterested, was appointed to sanction or correct
the valuation. A lahour note of so many hours was then given to
the shoemaker, which he wn.s at liberty to exchange immediately,
or at any future time, for any other dl'posit in the Bazaar-
say a bat, a tea kettle, or a joint of meat. Upon each transaction
a commission of 8! per cent. was charged, payable in cas!, to
defray the expenses of the Institution. These were found to be
very heavy, and although the plan seemed attractive, and large
deposits and exchanges wl're made for a season, these expenses, the
gn•at difficulties of the management, and the losses attending the
n·moval of the Bazaar from Gray's Inn Road to Charlotte Street,
Fitzroy Srpwn·, soon put the labour 11ofes to a discount. Notwith-
• Sec No.:w }!oral World, July 31, llltl.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 591
standing the high expectations of sur.cess entertained by the pro-
moters of the plan, and the support which it received from numbers
of working people, to a degree which had occasioned the establish-
ment of several branch institutions, it proved entirely delusin,-
as all attempts to engraft a new system upon the old must be,
without any corresponding change of principles and habits of
action.
'' Bla)'IOD
tiM Formation
of Cbarae&er."
The "Essays on the Formation of Character," con-
tain Mr. Owen'sleading tenets, and are written with
the vigour of a mind fresh from the practice of its
principles. The general object of these Essays is to
prepare the public mind for the introduction of a system, afterwards
to be developed, founded upon .common labour and common pro-
perty. Mr. Owen sets out in them, with stating, that there are twelve
millions of the poor and working classes in Great Britain and
Ireland ; that one portion of these are trained to commit crime, for
the commisllion of which they are afterwards punished ; the other
is instructed to belt"eve, or acknowledge, that certain principles are
unerringly true, and to act as if they were !Jrossly false; thus
making society' a scene of insincerity and counteraction. To
remedy this state of things, the principle whieh by universal
experience is proved to be true, must be admitted in practice as
well as in theory; namely, that " any general character, from the
best to the worst, from the most ignorant to the most enlightened,
may be given to any community, even to the world at large, by
the application ofproper ~eans; which means are to a great extent
at the command and under the control of those who have influence
in the affairs of men." The adoption of this principle will even-
tually banish all the complicated and counteracting motives for
good conduct which have been multiplied almost to infinity, and
cause to be recognised the one single principle of action, " the
happiness of self, clearly understood and uniformly practised; which
can only be attained by conduct that must promote the happiness
of the community." These principles ouly require to be known to
Digitized by Coogle
592 APPENDIX.
establish themselves, and the outline of future proceedings becomes
clear and defined. All facts prove that children can be trained to
acquire " any language, sentiments, belief, or any bodily habits
and manners, not contrary to human nature." Plans must there-
fore be devised by the governing powers of all countries, to train
children from their earliest infancy in good habits of every descrip-
tion, (which will of course prevent them from acquiring those of
falsehood and deception); they must afterwards be rationally
educated, and their labour usefully directed. That health of body
and peace of mind may be preserved sound and entire, it is neces-
sary that the irresistible propensities that form part of the nature
of man should be so directed as to i'ncrea6e, not CQUn/eract his
happiness.
Withdraw those circumstances which tend to create crime in
the human character, and crime will not be created ; replace them
with such as are calculated to form habits of order, regularity,
temperance, industry, and these qualities will be formed ; the worst
formed disposition, short of incurable insanity, will not long resist
a firm, determined, well-directed, persevering kindness. " On the
experience of a life devoted to the subject," Mr. Owen hesitates not
to say, "that the members of any community may by degrees be
trained to live, without idlE-ness, without povE-rty, without crime, and
without punishment; for each of these is the effect of error in the
various systems prevalent throughout the world. They are all the
necessary consequencE-s of ignorance. Train any population ra-
tionally, and they will be rational. Furnish honest and useful
employments to .ose so trained, and such employments they will
greatly prefer to dishonest or injurious occupations. It is beyond
all calculation the interest of every Government to provide that
training and that employment ; and to provide both is easily prac-
ticable. The first is to be obtained by a national system for the
formation of character; the second by Governments preparing a
reserve of E-mployment for the surplus working classes, when the
general demand for labour throughout the country is not equal to
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX.
the full occupation of the whole: that employment to be on useful
national objects,from which the public may derive advantage equal to
the expense which these works may require. The national plan for
the formation of character should include all the modern improve-
ments in education, without regard to the system of any one indivi-
dual ; and should not ezclude the child of any subject in the empire."
It is of little avail to give "precept upon precept and line upon
line," unless the means shall also be prepared to train them in
good practical habits. It is the duty therefore of the Government
of every country to adopt, without delay, the proper means to
form those sentiments and habits in the people which shall give the
most permanent and substantial advantages to individuals and
to the community. In the fourth and last Essay, several interme-
diate measures of amelioration are proposed to the British Govern-
ment. These are chiefly the revision of the poor laws, the abolition
of state lotteries, a uniform national system of education and of
rational training, and the reform, not abolition, of the national
church. The two former have been adopted, the two latter hayc
not yet been tried.
Mr. Owon'a
Doctrine.
The fundamental tenet of Mr. Owen's system, that
" the character of an individual i~ formed for him
and not by him,'' ill a direct, and in no respect new inference,
from the doctrine of Philosophical Necessity, so far as the pro-
position can be said to be correct ; the mode of stating it is
open to objection. The mental and bodily constitution of an in-
dividual constitute ltimse{f, and these determine his charact('r
to a certain extent. It is true " himself" is but a link in the
chain of causation, and therefore the effect of foregoing caus('s, but it
is the immediate antecedent, or cause, of " his character;· therefore
" himself" causes his character-his character is caused by ltim-
se!f. The proposition, as intendrd for popular use, is liable to mis-
conception, since the intellectual and physical constitution influence
the character largely, not only directly, but indirectly; for accord-
ing to this constitution, giv('n external circumstances affect, or not,
Dol$
o;gitizedbyGoogle j
594 APPENDIX.
the character. There i11 the more reason for thi~:~ oLjection to the
terms of his statement, in that Mr. Owen himself appears to over·
rate the force of external circumstances ; for though be admits
that the differing inherent inclinations and faculties lead to the
"lesser varieties'' among men, be makes so little account of them
that be affirms, " that the infants of any one class in the world
may be readily formed into men of any other class."
Mr. Owen also seems to suppose that while man is the unresist.
ing creature of the circumstances which affect himself, be bas in
return an absolute control over those which affect others. In the
words of an eloquent opponent, " he can create a character for
every individual of the human race but himself."•
In the "Outline of the Rational System of Society," a sort of
text.book of his opinions published more lately, Mr. Owen make"
ample provision in words for the influence of original organization,
but the objection above made still applies to the spirit of many of
his positions. The "Outline" bases the rational system of society
upon " Fire Fundamental Facts," the general correctn£'ss of which
it would be difficult to impugn, notwithstanding the metaphysical
confusion of the second and third :-
" 1st, That man is a compound hei11f1, whose charact£'r is formed
of his coruJtitution or organization at birth, and of the effects of
external circumstances upon it, from birth to death ; such original
organization and external influences continually acting and re-
acting each upon the other.
" 2nd, That man is compelled by his original constitution to
receive his feelings and conuictilms independently of his 111t1l.
"3rd, That his feelings, or his convictions, or both of them united,
create the motive to action called the tftll, which stimulates him to
act, and decides his actions.
• Upon the propoeitlon tilt£ " man'a elwacter ia lormed lor him, not b7 him,"
all Mr. Owen's followers, without exeeption, take their stand; by a ~ution
of the proprietors at Orbiaton, the tenants wure obliged to sign their Ulellt to ic
before admieliou into the soeiety.
Digitized by Coogle
APPRNDJX. 595
" 4th, That the organization of no two human beings is ever
precillely similar at birth ; nor can art subsequently form any two
individuals, from infancy to maturity, to be precisely similar.
" 5th, That, nevertheless, the constitution of every infant, except
in case of organic disease, is capable of being formed into a fH!1'!J
i'!Jerior, or a fH!1'!J auperior being, according to the qualities of the
external circumstances allowed to intluence that constitution from
birth."
The "Fundamenlal LatDs l!f Humat• Nature, or First Pnn-
C1ples '!{ lluJ Sciencs '!{ Man," are then given in accordance with
those developed in the present work. The " C'onditiotu l!fHumata
Happiness," which will be secured to all under the rational system,
are thllll enumerated :-
" The possession of a good organization, physical, mental, and
moral.
" The power of procuring at pleasure, whatever is nece11sary to
preserve the organization in the best state of health.
"The best education, from infancy to maturity, of the physical,
intellectual, and moral power of all the population.
" The inclination and means of promoting continually the hap·
piness of our fellow-beings.
" The inclination and means of increasing continually our stock
of knowledge.
" The power of enjoying the best society ; and more particularly
of associating, at pleasure, with those for whom we feel the most
regard and the greatest affection.
" The means of travelling at pleasure.
" The absence of superstition, supernatural fears, and the fear
of death.
"Full liberty of expressing our thoughts upon all subjects.
"The utmost individual freedom of action, compatible with the
permanent good of society.
" To have tbe character formed for us to express the truth only
upon all occasions,-and to have pure charity for the feelings,
Digitized by Coogle
596 APPENDIX.
thoughts, and conduct of all mankind,-and a 11incere good-will for
every individual of the human race.
"To reside in a society whose laws, institutions, and arrange-
ments, well organized and well governed, are all in unison with
the laws of human nature."
The "Praclit-e of t!&e RatrQnal Religion will consi11t in the pro-
motion to the utmost of our power of the well-being and happiness
of every man, woman, and child, without regard to their class.
sect, sex, party, country, or colour; and its WorsAp in those in-
expressible feelings of wonder, admiration, and delight, which,
when man is surrounded by superior circumstances only, will
naturally arise from the contemplation of the Infinity of Space, of
the Eternity of Duration, of the Order of the Universe, and of
that Incomprehensible Power, by which the atom is moved, and
the aggregate of Nature is governed."
The "Elements of t!&e Science of Society" are composed of-
" A knowledge of the laws of human nature, derived from de-
monstrable facts which prove man to be a social being.
" A practical knowledge of the best mode of producing in abun-
dance the most beneficial necessaries and comforts for the support
and enjoyment of human life.
" A practical knowledge of the best mode of distributing these
productions most advantageously for all.
"A knowledge of the principles and practice by which to form
the new combination of circumstances for training the infant to
become, at maturity, the most rational being.
"A knowledge of the principles and practice by which to govern
man in the best manner, 8.11 a member of the great family of
mankind.
" A knowledge of the principles and practice for uniting in one
general system, in their due proportions, these separate parts of the
science of Society ; to effect and secure, in the best manner for
all, the greatest amount of prrmant>nt bt>ncfit11 and t>njoymcnt~,
with the fewc11t disadvantages."
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 597
" A rational Gooernmenr will devise and execute the arrange-
ments by which the conditions essential to human happiness shall
be fully and permanently obtained for all the governed; and its laws
will be few, easy to be understood by all the governed, and per-
fectly in unison with the laws of human nature." It will secure
" Full Liberty of Mi11d and Consci'etJce," it will "ProWJe for and
Educate tile Population,"-
"Every one shall be equally provided through life, with the bt>st
of everyt~ting for human nature, by public arrangements ; which
arrangements shall give the best known direction to the industry
and talents of every individual.
"All shall be educated from infancy to maturity, in the best
manner known at the time.
" All shall pass through the same general routine of education,
domestic teaching, and employment.
"All children, from their birth, shall be under the especial care
of the community in which they are born ; but their parents shall
have free access to them at all times.
"All children shall be trained and educated together, as children
of the same family ; and shall be early taught a knowledge of the
laws of their nature.
" E\·ery indh·idual shall be encouraged to express his feelings
and convictions only ; or, in other words, to speak the truth solely
upon all occasions.
" Both sext>s shall have equal t>ducation, rights, privileges, and
pt>rsonal liberty ; thl'ir marriages will arise from the general sym-
pathit>s of their nature, uninfluenced by artificial distinctions."
After the children l:lball have been trained to acquire new habits
and feelings derived from the laws of their nature, to know these
laws, and to obey them, there shall be no useless private property,
no individual punishment and reward. Society shall not be composed
as at present of single families, but of associations of men, women,
and children, in such numbt>rs as local circumstances may dctt>rmine.
As thcsl' communities incrcasr in number, unionl:l of them shall be
Digitized by 00gle
598 APPENDIX.
formed for local and general purposes, in tens, hundreds, thousands,
&c. Each shall possess around it land sufficient for the support,
for ever, of all its members, even when it shall contain the maxi-
mum in number ; and all the communites shall be so arranged as
to give to all the members of each, as nearly as possible the same
advantages, and to afford easy communication with each other.
Ear-h community shall be governed in its home department by a
general council, composed of all its members between the ages of
thirty and forty ; in its foreign department by those between forty
and sixty.
" All individuals trained, educated, and placed, in conformity to
the laws of their nature, must of necessity, at all times, think and
act rationally, except they 11hall become physically, intellectually,
or morally diseased ; in which case the council shall remove thl'm
into the hospital for bodily, mental, or moral, invalids, where they
shall remain until they shall be recovered by the mildl'st treatment
that can effect their cure.''•
The general conclusion deduced from these facts and principles
is, that " the period for remodelling the character of man, and for
governing the population of the earth in unity, peace, progressive
improvement and happiness, is near at band; and that no human
power can resist the change.''
The principal points of Political Economy which Mr. Owen deals
with are those of distribution, the effects of the growing power
of machinery, and the possibility of extracting an indefinitely in-
creasing produce from the soil,-passing by the subject of exchange,
and many other:> which occupy chiefly the attention of political
economists. His reasonings in this direction coincide so perfectly
with the line of argument taken in this work, that it is Dl'edless
to recapitulate them. With rPlation to the Domestic Economy of
Society, Mr. Owen's positions seem to be irrefutable; his only error
• Mr. 01\·cn'e system ndmit.s or neither reward nor punishment; but this
"mornl hOI<J•itnl" e.woul'll very much of the last ; there SCI:W5 to be a dis~uction
here wi&hout a dilfcrencc.
Digitized by Coogle
.APPENDIX. 599
bdng, apparently, the supposition that society is prepared to adopt
them. He has recently re-issued his scheme of a community, with
such modifications as he imagines will induce the middle and
higher classes to give it their sanction. The publication emanates
from a Society which has already raised a considerable amount of
capital in furtherance of his object.
Mr. owen'• It is proposed to form Joint-Stock Companies of
Piau. Proprietors, who, after having purchased the land
and erected the buildings, shall let them to Com-
panies of Tenants, as in the case of Orbiston. That each " Home
Colony" shaD be devised to accommodate u1timately from 2,000 to
2,500 individuals, but to be so arranged as to contain temporarily,
and during the" transition state," a larger number. The dwelling-
houses and public buildings to be erected in the form of a square
inclosing an area of about sixty-five acres, as nearly as may be in
the centre of an estate of 2 or 3000 acres. The whole edific~>,
with its Schools, Libraries, Laboratories, Museums, Places of
Worship, Refectories, &c., and the space enclosed containing
Pleasure Grounds, Gardens, Conservatories, Gymnasia, Baths,
&c., to constitute a magnificent Palace, containing within itself
the advantages of a Metropolis, an University, and a Country
Residence, without any of their disadvantages, and situated within
a beautifu1 Park of 2,000 or 3,000 acres ; the whole scientifically
arranged, and placing within the reach of its inhabitants at a
moderate expenditure, advantage11 economical, moral, and political,
never yf't possessed by any classes of society. It is intended to
combine provision for the indiflidualily of our nature with the eco-
nomical and social benefits of union, more particu1arly until this
feeling, at present so strong, shall have become modified under a
different system of education. It is therefore designed that these
shall be " Transition Colonies" merely, consisting of four Classes:-
1st, of Hired Labourers or Servants-say one-third of single women
who can earn, on the average, £25 per ann.; two-thirds of men,
who now earn £39 per ann. each. These persons will be lodg<'d,
Digitized by Coogle
600 APPENDIX.
fed, clothed, instructed, and furnished with means of recreation,
under circumstances that will gradually improve their language,
habits, and general conduct ; and thus prepare them to become
candidates for member&bip. When they marry their plact>s must
be filled up by other single persons, unless their conduct shall ha\"e
qualified them to aspire to membership; in which cast>, arrange-
ments will be formed for them, and for educating tht>ir children,
oulside the square, but yt>t within the domain of the colony.
The 2d Class, or Candidates for Membt>rship, to consist of me-
chanicA, artisans, and the superior kind of servants who now t>arn
about .£65 per annum, and who, when educatf•d and trained in
principle and practice, will be admitted as full mt>mbers or colonists,
and in the meantime will enjoy many advantages unattainable
elsewhere.
The 3rd Class will be the Members of the Colony, who will take
the establishment from the proprietors, reserving the right to fine
down the rents, and ultimately become the owners at a stipulated
price ; and who will direct the general affairs of the colony, enjoy
its full privilt>ges, and transmit them to their children.
The 4th Class, will consist of ind<'pendent Familit>s, or Indivi-
duals, who desire to enjoy all the benefits of a superior home, anrl
society, at a reduced cost, and without trouble or anxiety; and
who do not object to live under colonial rule!! and rt>gulations, these
having been framed to secure the happiness of all. They must be
of good education, manners, and habits ; they will be allowed more
or fewer private apartmrnts, according to their desire and means of
<'Xpenditure ; their meal::~ may be privatl'; they will ha\'e the free
use of the public institutions, and of superior education for their
children.
The employment of the members will partly depend upon the
localities of the situation. In some Colonies agriculture would be
principally attended to; in others agriculture and manufactures ;
in others agriculture and fishing; in oth<'r~ agriculture, fishing,
and manufactures; in other:~ agriculture and mining: but it is
Digitized by Coogle
.APPENDIX. 601
proposed that agriculture should be the basis of all; and that this
should be carried on to such an extent as to supply, in average
aeaaona, the whole of the inhabitants with a full quantity of the
beat food ; and likewise that the clothing required should be manu-
factured by themselves. Beyond the production of these necessa-
ries there will be a large surplus of labour to be employed for the
ben('fit of society, and this will be directed to the extension of
agriculture, manufactures, &c.-each person being well instructed
in agriculture, and at least in some one other art, science, manu-
facture, or useful occupation. Great facilities will be afForded to
agriculture by the power of calling out an extra number of banda,
at those times and seasons when additional aid is required ; and it
will be a primary object to introduce all scientific improvements,
which, rightly applied, are calculated to render manual labour only
a healthy and agreeable exercise. If there should not be at fi.tat a
sufficient number of persona in the colony fully competent to the
managl.'ment of the different branches of industry, the Governor
and Commitree will be empowl.'red to ('ngage the as11istance of skilful
practical men from general society. Every regard will be paid to
the inclinations of individuals in r('gulating their employments.
The estate would be divided into four farms, cultivated as far as
possible with the spade ; the agricultural buildings being near the
centre of each. The manufactories, gas apparatus, washing,
bleaching, and dyeing arrangements, stables, and coaeh-houses,&c.,
would be placed at some distance without the square, surrounded by
plantations.
In a Transition Colony of 3708 persons the annual costa are
calculated as follows:-
864 individuals of the 1st class, at .£15 per ann. .£12,960
324 " " " 2nd " 25 " " 8,100
360 " •· " 3rd " 40 " " 14,400
432 " " " 4th " 50 " " 21,600
1728 children, lodged, boarded, and educated with
3708
every advantage ... £30 " "
E•
51,840
£108,900
Digitized by Coogle
602 APPBNDJX.
Estimate of the cost of Land, Buildings, &c.
~000 Acres of Land, average quality, including timber,
at £70 per acre.. . ... ... ..• .. . £140,000
7i Dwelling-honses, at £3~0 each ..• j52,000
4 Colleges... ... ... ... ... ... 16,000
4 Central Buildings for Adults 32,000
4 CuJinary and Refectory arrangements 24,000
Furnishing the whole Establishment ... 60,000
Water, Gaa, Heating Apparatus ..• ... 60,000
4 Farm-houses and appendages for Farms 16,000
Stocking ditto ... ... ... ... ... 16,000
Baths, Gymnasia, Cloisters for each side ~4,000
Drainage, laying out interior of the Square, and
Terrace outside •.. ... ... ... ... ... 20,000
4 Towers over the CuJinary Establishmentsfor Chim-
niea, Observatories, &c. 20,000
Contingencies ..• .. . .. . .. . .. . ... .. . 20,000
£700,000, at 5 ¥' cent....
Annnal Repairs
Annual Cost
.£35,000
10,000
£45,000
£700,000
8oelallllll. The most important result of Mr. Owen's labours,
acting upon the minds of a multitude prepared to
receive his views, has been the rise of a considerable and regularly
organised Society, pledged to the 1mpport of the principles which he
espouses, and, generally speaking, looking up to him as their
respected, and now venerable, head. The Socialuts, as a body,
adhere to the metaphysical, moral, and economical doctrines which
Mr. Owen maintains ; but the class includes many who dissent
from some of his views upon the subject of religion, and of others
who doubt whether in following the dictates of hilt ardent enthu-
siasm, his judgment bas always equalled his sincerity and zeal.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 603
The Society wu first established in a double form in May, 1835.
"The Allll()ciation of all Cl888e8 of all Natiooa" was chiefly intended
for the dissemination of principles ;-the " National Community
Friendly Society," for the collection of funds to realize the desired
objects. In May, 1839,these two Societies were incorporated into
one, and enrolled by Act of Parliament, under the title of the
"Universal Community Society of Rational Religionists.'' The.
title of " Religionists" being adopted, apparently, to eecure for the
Society the protection of the existing laws in favour of religious
bodies. From the " Constitution and Laws" of the Society are
deduced the following rules, which regulate its operations so far aa
its means and extension permit.
The Government of the A880ciation is vested in a central Board
of Directors, chosen annually by the " Congress," or general.
meeting of delegates from the Branch Societies, which is held every
year in one of the principal towns of the empire, usually Manches-
ter or Birmingham. The Central Board consists of a President,
Vice President, Treasurer, General Secretary, and three other
members. Three persons are annually appointed by the Congrea
as Trustees of the Society, who, in virtue of their office, are also
members of the Board. It is the duty of this Board to direct and
control the proceedings of the Society ; to see that the Jaws are
obeyed ; to receive from the District Boards applications for Char-
ters, and reports upon them, and to grant charten when expe-
dient ; to examine and appoint Missionaries, and direct their
proceedings; to publish tracts; to appoint subordinate officers; to
summon the annual or special ~ions of the Congress ; and gene-
rally to take the most efficient means of disseminating their princi-
ples and of applying them to practice.
Great Britain and. Ireland are divided iuto Districts, with
Missionary stations iu each. At each station a District Board is
formed, consisting of the.Missionary and six memoors of the Branch
Society at the station. The Branch Societies conllist of persons to
whom a charter ha., been granted by the Ct·ntral Board, when it
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX.
bas been ascertained that the applicants are by character and
knowledge fitted to promote the objects of the Society. If the
individuals wishing to form a Branch Society be fewer than twenty-
five, they are required to form a class in conne:s.ion with the nearest
Branch until they reach the required number.
The district Missionaries and stationed Lecturers of the Society
are required to produce testimonials of good character ; to give
proof of their knowledge upon the subject they are required to
teach, by reading, and afterwards defending, before their en-
miners, an original essay upon some important topic of the science
of society ;-and likewise of their oratorical powers, by delivering
and defending an extempore address upon a subject proposed with-
out previo118 notice. The members of the Society are selected with
care, chiefly from the moat liberal, indnstriona, and 111oral of the
working classes. Before an individual oan be admitted as a
member, he must be entered on the roll of candidates for three
months ; at the end of this period, be is required to be examined
by the Committee of the Branch Society to which he desires to
belong, and if he is found qualified by knowledge of the principleF,
objects, and laws of the Society, and general fitness, he is passed
as member.
The General Fund for defraying the expenses of the Society U.
maintained by weekly subscriptions of three halfpence from each
single member, and of one penny from tbe wives of memben. The
Community Fund, for carrying out the formation of Communities of
United Interests, is raised by weekly payments of not leu than
sixpence. The sum required wit~ each member to ensure the fUll
benefits of the Society is £50. The candidates for admission into
the communities, when they are formed, will be elected by the
Society on the recommendation of the majority of the memben of
the Branch to which they belong. Other qualifications being
equal, those whose payments have been kept up fuiJy shall be fint
eligible; but as it may happen that the members best fittt'd in the
most important rt>spect~ are least ablt> to furn6h the prcuniary
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX, 605
quota, it will not be required, in all cases, that the £50 1hould
have been actually paid. Labour being recognized as the only true
source of wealth, active and industrious producers, intelligent and .
of good disposition, would soon be able to realize an equivalent to
the Society for the deficiency in their pecuniary· qualification.
The rulelf with regard to the contemplated communities proceed
upon the principle of common property. The members will have
an equal right in all communities; and every accommodation in
buildings, stock, machinery, and scientific improvements, will go to
augment the trausferable value of the £50 investments of members,
as in a joint-stock company. Under the working oC this principle
the members will enjoy the advantages of easily changing their
locality of residence.
It remains to be seen what has been the progress of a Society
with an organization so systematic. Their last published Report
contains a list of sixty..five Branch Societies in England and Scot-
land. The number of enrolled members is upwards of three thou-
sand ; of these the London Branches furnish nearly one-third.
Eighteen Missionaries and salaried Lecturers were in appointment
the preceding year, whose weekly audiences are stated to have
been on the average 10 or 12,000 perl!Ons. The last meeting of
their Congress was held at Manchester in May, 1841, Mr. Owen
attending as President of the Society. An application was then
reported as having been made, and granted, to a Branch Society
at New York.
In Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow, Worcester, Bristol, and
several other large towns, ' Hall» of Science' have been erecte<l,
and in others •Social Institutions' are supported, in which lectuns
are delivered, and social meetings are held for the instruction or
recreation of the members, or for the general purposes of the
Society.
The subjects upon which the Missionaries are charged to treat
in the fulfilment of their duty are the principles of the social theory
adopted by the SociPty ; but the discuuions into which thf'y are
Digitized by Coogle
606 APPENDIX.
drawn by the attacks and misrepresentations of those parties who
dread innovations upon old established customs and privilt'ges,
divert them too often from the main object of their mission. In-
etead of epreading a practical knowledge of the advantages of
co-operation, of 100ial union, and improved domeetic economy, these
lectures degenerate frequt'ntly into ekirmishes with the partisans
of the church, or occasionally with some political party; although,
generally speaking, the Society disclaim& all interference with
political objects. Many of the missionaries are men of native
talt'nt but of little education, and the strength and fervour of their
convictions are not always eupported by the power of logical rea-
soning, or by steadineu of intellect sufficient to enable them to
eteer clt'ar of these rocks of social offence. The marriage subject
is an ever-fruitful source of calumny and mis-statement. The free-
dom of divorce which Mr. Owen contends ought to be permitted to
the poor ae well as to the rich, is all whioh his disciples lt'em to
demand, in addition to the recent improvements in the established
law of marriage in tbis country. If Mr. Owen himself pureues the
subject farther, it is, according to his own declaration, with rela-
tion to a far superior state of society to the present, considered in
its moral aspect,-but these speculations are irrelevant to the prac-
tical object of introducing a union of interest among all mankind
in the means of life, comfort, and improvrment. This is, howevt>r,
a ready handle for accusation, and it is not suffered to lie idle.
The careful consideration which the Society requirt's from its mem-
bers before they enter the married state, might be held as a guaran-
tee for their respect for it. By the laws of the Society " persons
desiring to marry announce their intention publicly in the Sunday
asst'mbli<'s-if at the end of three months their intention remain
unaltered, they make a second declaration ;-which declaration
bt'ing registered in the boob of the Society, conetitutee the mar-
riage."
The conditions of entrance into the Society errvt' in some m~a.­
surc as vouchrrs for the gt'neral morality and intelligence of the
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 607
body ; and if any other were required, the character and tone of
the periodical which circulates among them, " The New Moral
World," as compared with those which corrupt the minds and taste
of other classes of the same level, is more than sufficient. It would
be a contradiction to the laws of the hnman mind if the constant
handling of the great topics of natural morality, and the adoption
of the tone of elevated sentiment and benevolence, did not leave
some effect upon the character and conduct. In consideration of
such effects some portion of self-conceit and sufficiency may be
tolerated, until superior education shall have reduced them to a
just proportion.
There seems to be a growing anxiety among the members of the
Society to realize some of the objects of their association ; they
have been endeavouring to work on the public mind for some years,
and they find in it an additional disposition to inquire into the
soundness of their views ; but operatives with small means can
11carc~ly be expected to continue making pecuniary sacrifices for the
sake of " working upon the public mind,"-and yet little else can
be calculated upon at present from their unaided exertions ; and
supposing they could by the union of their efforts form communities,
they cannot yet be considered as sufficiently advanced in knowledge
and wisdom to escape the difficulties which overwhelmed New
Harmony and Orbiston. It appears to be the general opinion, and
Mr. Owen gave expression to it at the last meeting of their ' Con-
gress; that until the members of such associations shall have been
qualified by training and education to take their natural rights and
responsibilities, affairs must be managed for them by one Hrrlll,
competent to direct them in accordance with their acknowlel!::;d
principle, and with power to choose fitting officers to assist in the
same object. This is in effect a reduction to the St. Simonian
maxim of government-of rule by "the most capable,'' and must
be open to the same objection, that the very poeseesion of power
produces disqualification, by its corrupting influences, unleu that
power is the power of the proprietor whose interest depends upon
Digitized by Coogle
608 APPENDIX.
the success of his plan, and is therefore strictly connected with that
of the governed, The snceess of Mr. Owen at New Lanark, aa of
Mr. Vandaleur at Ralahine, seems to have resnlted from the fact o(
his being proprietor, and retaining absolute power over the disposal
of his property.
Two years ago the Society under nQtice took possession of a
leasehold estate of 500 acres, .at Tytherley, in Hampshire, for the
purpose of forming upon it an experimental community, with the
advice and aanction of Mr. Owen ; and upon this the attention of
the members baa been noxiously fixed. The land is held of thf!
proprietor with the power of ultimate purchaae; i~ is beautifully
aituated, and, under proper cultivation, is considered likely to be
highly producti\'"e; but the soil had been previously exhausted, and
much outlay bas been required for its improvement. Many difti-
culties and discouragements have been encountered, some of which
have been surmounted, while some rl'main. The accommodation
for residenta at Queenwood, upon the estate, i11 small, and waa
utterly inadequate for the numbers who at first were admitted as
members. Much discomfort and confusion were the consequence.
At prellt'nt the number of inmates is reduced to the fl'w who can be
lodged with tolerable comfort ; and buildings are in process of
l'rection which will accommodate a much larger number. From
the Report of the procl'edings at Tythl'rley, published in May,
1841, it appears that there were fifteen adults and five children
then re!!ident at Queenwood. The weekly cost of each of the former
was calculated to be 7s. ld, exclusive of rent; including, for food,
4s. 7d.; for fuel, light, waahing, &c., lld.; clothing, 7d.; and
pocket money1 Is. The whole sum expended from the commence-
ment of the undertaking in October, 1839, had been £6580.
lOs. ld.; of which the Community Fund bad advanced above
£6000. Additional money baa been obtained by means of loans,
the interest of which i~ charged upon the estate, and which are to
be paid otT as the profita will permit. At the time the Rt-port in
question was made, the concern, owing to the heavy expt'nses of
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 609
the cultivation, showed a balance of loss, but since the crops were
gathered in the prospect bas improved, and is said to be encourag-
ing for the future. Much internal happiness and concord seem to
prevail at present in the little community. The time and attention
of the members are much engrossed in their field labours, in
which they have the assistance of about twenty hired labourers,
but they have their evening studies and occasional recreation. The
women take the household management and domestic offices by
turns of a month each, in the several departments. They seem to
be respected by their neighbours, and to have overcome the pre-
judice which existed at first against them. Their Governor had
been applied to hy the local authorities .to put his name upon
the list of nominees for the Board of Guardians, and upon one
occasion sat as chairman of a vestry meeting in the parish church.
It is in eontemplntion, if sufficient funds can he raised, to found an
t'ducational establi11hment at Tytherley, to introduce also such trades
as are adap~d to the locality, and to set up a printing establish-
ment for the Society, to he worked by its own members. Tracts
to the amount of 18,000 have been distributt'd by the Society
within the )a!lt three months.
In comparing St. Simonianhm \vith Owenism it bas been well
and. forcibly said,-" the fil"llt electrified the world with its vivid
representation:~ of universal order and harmony, but it was not
adapted £1r taking root in the earth. The second is adapted for
taking root in the earth, but not for captivating the fancy. The first
was spiritual, imaginative, elegant. It drew forth abundance of zeal
and noble resolution. The theory wa.t1 sublime, and the intentions
were benevolent ; but it is a law of nature that aJI growth shall begin
at the root, and that a house shall not be built by beginning at the
chimney tops. The imaginative is a superstructure to be reared
upon the foundation-not a foundation upon which to build-prac-
tically. In this lattt>r respect, thf'reforf', Owenism is to all appear-
ance the most natural and probable basis of a social system ; its
F•
Digitized by Coogle
610 APPENDIX.
very materiality and mechanical charact<'r are strong arguments
in favour of the supposition ; ita philosophy hi the influence of
physical arrangements on the character of man. Both systems
may be said to be based upon a religious principle, the one upon
that of universal unity and harmony, and the law of progress which
pushes society forward to universal association ; the other upon
the formation of the character upon the basis of phil010phical
neces11ity:·• " The idea of God," aays St. Simon, " is for man tbe
conception of unity, order, and harmony, tbe belief that he bas
a destination, and the explanation of this destiny. The sciencl'!f
derive their power from an idea essentially religioua--tbat there is
conaistency, order, and regularity in the succession of phenomena."
But admitting as he does its main principle, necessitarianism
seems in some sort distasteful to bim. " The future is necenary,"
be allows, "but when the feelings, the sympathies are interested
in its realization, it becomes prOflt'denlial."
Fourterblll. The desire of social union and perfection puts on a
third aspect in our times. Fourierism presents the
same leading features with those of the two foregoing systems ;-
partaking in some measure of the characteristics ofeach, while it has
strong distinctive peculiarities of its own. Fourier, like St. Simon
and Owen, believed himself to be the discoverer and herald of the
true system of society, and devoted his life, amidst discouragement
and disappointment, to declare it to the world-a world which would
not hear ;-deaf to the living voice, yet listening to its echoes.
St. 8imonianism and Fourierism are illustrations of the frequently
observed fact that a sect receives an impulse from the death of its
founder. When the interest and sanctity which attaches to the
memory of the dead is added to the truth which he taught-wbf'n
the doctrine is taken up by minds of a more practical charactf'r
than are those which generally enunciate new truths, or old truths
in a new form, and which in pruning away the luxuriant and 11u-
• Rn. J. E. Smith.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. Gil
pcrftuoo:J growths with which enthusiasm and inventive power
have encumbered them, can adapt them to the understanding and
wants of the multitude-then only are thl'y likely to spread beyond
the limited circle of personal devotion. '' That which thou eowest
is not quickened unleu it die"-or seem to die.
Charles Fourier was born at Besan~on in ~·raneE', in 1772. He
was well educated, although his parE'ntll we~;e in trade, and he him-
self was destined to similar pursuits. " He showed considerable
talent at an early age. At SE'Ven he wrote a poetical essay on the
death of a pastry-cook, wLich astonished the professors of the col-
lt•ge at which be was placed, and in 1785 he carried off the two
chief prizE's of his class for Latin poetry. His favourite study at
this time was geography, and he passed whole nights over maps
which he had purchased with his 'pocket-money. The culture of
flowers was his favourite recreation. His room W811 a flower-garden,
in which he had collected plants of various t'ountrie:J, and for which
he adopted various modes of culture. He was passiouatrly fond
of mu>~ic, and at a sub!:lequent period t'ontinucd to cultivate the
science, and made it, as it were, the natural algebra of his writings.
The heart of Fourier was always in harmony with his professions.
Wben at school, be shared for a long time his breakfagt with a
p(>or half-starved peasant, and this self-abnegation was not known
until the individual in whose favour it was exercised, could by the
absence of Fourier, speak of it without wounding hill delicacy.''•
Upon leaving school Fourier was placed in a commercial house at
I.yoWI, in connexion with which be afterward!~ travdlrd through
France, Germany, Holland, and Belgium. In 1793 be entered
into busines." on his own account at Lyons, and in\·ested his patri-
mony in colonial produce. By the drcrec of the Convention which
declared Lyons in a state of siege, be was suddenly ruined. Hi.,c
life was l!everal times in danger during those fearful times, and he
was shortly compelled to enter the a11ny, in which he served for Hix
years. At the t.>nd of that time .he returned to Lyon!:!.
• Social S.ratem of 1-'ouricr, h.Y Gibbo11• ~lerl•, Chamben' Journal.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
612 APPENDIX.
During these years of hard-earned experitmce, Fourier had ob-
served and thought much ; he had sympathized with the miseri~
of humanity and endeavoured to trace their cause,-and this he
believed to be ignorance. His whole mind was intent upon finding
a remedy, and to this he now applied himself. Two facta are re-
corded which gave a bent to his speculations. At five years old
he noticed the falsehood8 which his father's shopman uttered to
a customer in recommending his goods; the child innocently re-
vealed the imposition to the purchaser, and in his simplicity looked
to his father for applause, but to his great astonishment he m~'
with a severe reprimand. At the age of nineteen he was required
to assist in the destruction of a quantity of grain at Marseilles, for
the purpose of enhancing the price of the remainder. These two
incidents indelibly impressed his mind, and caused him to reflect
on the falsehood and fraud which are imposed upon man from his
infancy; and upon the nature of competition and monopoly which
require, for the benefit of some, the destruction of the gifts of Nature.
Had Nature made these anomalies essential to the state of man,
when nothing corresponding was to be found in the rest of her
domain? And if 11be had not, how were they to be removed? The
principle which guided him in his search was, that pain, either phy-
sical or moral, is the sign of error-pleasure, that of truth. Two
instincts have been held to be in man, the good, and the bad. Phi-
lollophy has been trying for five thousand years to suppress the bad,
to no other end but to prove that they are as fixed and unconquer·
able as the good, and therefore of an equally supt>rior origin.
Ino~tead of suppressing tht>m, tht>y must be directed,-tht>refore "to
utilise the pas11ions-to assure to them a free and entire develop-
ment, so that all may act beneficially, and none injurioualy-to as-
sociate the faculties and their energies"---constitute the aim and
object of Fourier's philosophy.
He publ~hed, in 1808, a development of his views in a work
entitled" La TMorie des Quatres Mouvements," which contains the
essential point• of his sy11tem, his later works being chieAy expl11-
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 613
nations and illustrations of the first. The philosophic commercial
clerk, for such he was, ventured not to affix his full name to his
production. Under the simple title of " Charles," the author
modestly invited the objections which society should make to his
theory. "He did not wish so much the applause and sympathy
of the many u the pecuniary resources of the few. He wanted
the means to realize the idea of his mind. He cared little about
gaining converts to the theory, but he sighed for the benefits of
experience. He hoped that the magnificence of the results-the
beauty of the solutions-their mathematical rigour-the pomp of
his plans-their grandeur and utility, would determine in his
favour the co-operation of some great capitalist or distinguished
personage. Thus did Fourier patiently wait, making little noise,
but, strong in faith, looking forward with confidence to the dawn
of a new era. But he waited in vain." " Charles" had few
readers, nor until1814, a single convert, when he gained his first
discipll•, .M. Juste l\fuiron, who gave pecuniary aid to the pub-
lication of his next work, " Traite de l'Association Domestiquc
Agricole," which appeared in 1822 ; 1\1. Muiron also attempted to
set on foot a trading co-operative establishment, which was effec-
tually opposed by the Academy at llesanc;on.
Fourier consoled himself for the neglect of the world by develop-
ing still farther the details of his plans. " Le Nouveau Mondc
Industriel,'' published in 1829, and several lesser productions,
were written with this object. Deprived of the means of realizing
his project, he occupied himself in de!!cribing the arrangements
relating to it with a~tonisbing and ridiculoul! minuteness. These
eccrntric accompaniments \\'t're the only garments in which Fouriu
would clothe his system, and he met with derision and disappoint-
ment. He applied to the different philosophers who enjoyed
popular favour, but they one and all rejected him ; neither the
followers of St. Simon, nor Owen, whom be besought to make trial
of his 11ystem in 110me one of his prospective communiti£>s, would
lt>nd him a helping hand, and in his angn he calll'd them quacks
o;gitizedbyGoogle ....
614 APPENDIX.
and egotiltts in a spirit which be afterwardlt deeply re-gretted. For
dOme yean he had maintained himself as a letter copier, and in
1832, at the age of sixty, be retired upon a small income, to in-
dulge in the dreams of his enthusiastic imagination. In these he
saw the full accomplishment of his scheme, the only happiness he
could enjoy. No monarch, no capitalist seconded his wish; but at.
length a few disciplt's gathered round him, and among them one
who brought the energies of a scientific and practical mind to bear
upon the cause which he bad espoused. M. Victor Considerant,
impressed with the idea that beauty and truth we-re in the
system, desired to introduce it to the world freed from its Spt'Cula-
tive trappings; but Fourier, with the idolatry of a man who baa
given up his life to an idea, clung tenaciously even to ita puerili-
ties. At length conferencl's were opent'd at Paris, in which
Fourier developed isolated parts of his system, whilst hi~ new
proselyte ope-ned his first course of public lectures in the town
of Metz.
It was at this critical pe-riod that St. Simonianism, after having
shone brilliantly for a short pe-riod, was ovt>rwhelmed, and ita
followers dispt>ned. From its fugitive ranks Fourier gained many
valuable recruits; among otht>n l\1. Jules Lechevalier and M. Abt-1
Transon, whose pens, besides those of M. Considerant, M. Muiron,
and of many others, were engaged in support of his thf'Ory. A
journal called ' Le Phalanstere,' was established in 1832 as the
organ of their views. llut talking and writing did not suffice for
these ardent refonnen, an attempt was made to realize the ideas of
FouriPr. Operations were commenced on some large estatps at
Conde-sur-Vesgres; the land was put in cultivation, buildings
were begun, hut the funds were insufficient ; the dizJciples became
aware that it wu necessary firztt to count the cost, and to provide
ample means before re80rting to practical measures. This failure
damped the spirits of many ; the Pbalanstere was given up, and
Fourier found himst'lf again alone and dt>Rertf'd. Hill lnHt work,
"La Faus~P InduKtrit•," was publislu•d in lt-35 ;-in 183i he dit'd,
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 615
sad and dejected at the disappointment of hi:s hopes and as·
pirationa.
In society, Fourier appeared grave, reserved, and indifferent.
Accustomed to feel that the world did not understand or appreciate
him, he contemned the world ; but among friends he was cheerful
and communicative, indulgent to the ignorant, but severe upon
philo110phers. He sought the poor rather than the rich, rarely
refusing the invitations of the former, while be seemed to shun
those of the latter. He was fond of aoimals,-and of children, as
yet uncorrupted by the "incoherent institutions" of society. He
was particularly scrupulous in putting no one to trouble or expense
on his account, and exact in keeping his promises. By constant
order and economy be made the most of hi:s narrow means; when
his family resources fell below £100 a-year, be made up the sum
by spending part of his time in earning the deficiency ; but as
bequests occasionally fell to him from relations, be was oftt>n for
years together devoted to hi:s studies entirely. At his death be
had an independent income of £60 per annum, beltides the profits
of his works. He was small and well-proportioned in person, with
eyes and forehead mild and poetic. His works abound with quo-
tations and illustrations which prove the extent of his information
and research. The traces of his early tastes are visible in his
writings ; he wa11 particularly food of clothing his ideas, to the
effect perhaps of hiding them, in the tPrms peculiar to his favourite
sciPnces-of multic and astronomy most especially. Upon his
tomb-stone at Montmartre is engraven the leading maxim of his
philosophy,-" Les attractions sout proportionelles aux destinees,"-
The desli'ny of man is proporlitmetl to Au desires.
Victor Considerant, after Fourier's death, revived the drooping
caulte, and became the editor of a new periodical called the
"Phalange," which he still conducts; a party of seceders set on
foot a second called the " Cbronique du Mouvement Sociale."
" Le Nouveau :Monde" watt al110 devoted to the same service. In
tht' course of a few years Fourierism reached an importance which
Digitized by Coogle
616 APPENDIX.
obtained for it the patronage of the Duke of Orleans, and of many
of the Deputies of the Chambers, and the assistance of some of the
diplomatic corps at Paris.• Like St. Simonianism it has engaged
in France the attention of men of cultivated minds. " In this
respect we believe there is a very notable distinction between
France and England. The social system bas never, up to this
very hour,. been patronized or encouraged, (to any extent,) by men
of education and learning. In France the very highest order of
nobility and talent do not hesitate to al"ow themselves friendly.
Probably the repression of public opinion by the severity of Go-
vernment bas a tendency to create this social prepossession in
private. The remark bas been frt-quently made that the principles
of genuine libt•rty have bePn vulgarized in Britain, by the un-
limited scope which is given to the expression of opinion, both by
the tongue and the pen. This evil will ultimately cure itself with
us; but in the meantime we have to overcome the obstacles with
which it has impPded our progress, and the difficultiPs which we
experience in so doing, will give the people some lessons in true
philosophy, which it is indisprmmble for them to lParn beforl' thf'y
can be happy."t
In his systt'm Fouril'r profes~s not only to show, as others ha\"e
tlont-, the advantages of union and co-operation, but to give to the-
world a new social tht-ory. He divid!!s the history of humanity
into four forms or periods, im:oherenll!J social-savagum, palnardt-
ali'sm, barbarism, and cin'lizalt(m, which is tlu• state in which the
greatest part of Europe now.exist!!, and which "creates the ele-
ments of happiness, but not the happiness." This is rt>served for
the combined !!'ocieties of the future, fruitful in good and in richt's.
To this future Fourier gives the name of harm01l!J. Civilization
and all the historic periods known, ha\'C their narrow foundation
on famil!J management, or morsellitlg; harmonized socit>ty will
• See Seriee or articles on Fourier, New ~lol'ftl World. Claamben' Journal.
London Phalanx.
t Rev. J. E. Smith.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 617
have the larger basis of an industrial pllalanz, or an associated
commune. By duality Fourier understands thE' opposite effects of
a natural law, or desire, according to the different circumstances
iu which it acts. Under the name of industry he comprehends all
scientific, artistic, educational, as well as agricultural and ma-
nufacturing labour-all labour useful to humanity. .Aitractire
Industry he holds to be the active destiny of man. The first of
the numerous conditions of a good social organization, is to pro-
duce the greatest possible sum of wealth, in order that this wealth
may flow back to every one, and give to all the means of satisfying
the wants of their nature, so that life may be to all a splendid
banquet and well-served ; not, as to day, a poor and miserable
table where the famished guests snatch the morsels from each
other. Civilization devotes a large proportion of its power and
labour to produce nothing or to destroy. The evils of this state,
including the unprofitable consumption of wealth, the miseries
produced by competition, and the injury inflicted on producer and
r.onsumer by the system of trading, founded on the principle of
buying cheap and selling dear, Fourier details no lt>ss forcibly than
St. Simon and Owen.
" The different phases of civilization are its byancy-charac-
terised by exclusive marriagE', and patriarchal feudalism with its
chivalric spirit. Brute force no longer governing, but trick, fraud,
and hypocrisy developing themselves largt>ly. In the second phase
of .Adolesce~~ee, the industrious are enfranchised, the ancient
vassals become people and citizens, the sciences and arts are cul-
tivated, and to the illusions of chivalry succeed those of liberty,-
we say t'llusions, for truly to realize liberty there are other condi-
tions than writing the word on a monarchical or a republican con-
stitution. The Plenitude of this second phase evolves great in-
dustrial resources, from the progress of the arts and of sciencE',
particularly from the discoveries of chemistry, and the means of
r~pid nautical communication, but the growing opposition of indi-
vidual to general interest delivers over the soil, in the mass, to
G'll:
Digitized by Coogle
618 APPENDIX.
anarchical cul/ure. At the same time fiscal loans contain the gem1
of political decadence, and tend to the formation of industrial
feudality. In the third phase of .Decline, social power no longer
reposes on the escutcheon and parchment, but on money. The
spirit of the epoch contains the germ of a. new f~udality-the
financial, industrial, or mercantile, of which the workmen are the
vassals and slaves. The power of great fortunes, multiplied by
joint-stock concentration, by fabrication on a large scale, the em-
ployment of machines, and the operations of large houses, crush
the middling and lower industrious and traden.• The destitute
workman marches hand in hand with pauperism, and revolutioM
are made for social rather than political rights. The principle of
free competition produces an anarchical commerce, and the illusions
•" The immell8e superiority of large over small manufl\ctoriea haa been suf-
ficiently demonstrated by facll!. Where,·er a great manufacturing eatl\bliahment.
with ita machines, capital, VlUit workshops, and division of labour, comes to iiUital
itaelf, it suddenly crushes the small concerns of the like kind throughout its
proximity. Also, when a machine comes to be Introduced, it inatantaneoW!Iy
breaks the anna of a multitude of workmen. It is known that we have not
dared to realize the use of mechanical saws in the quarries of stone about Paris,
because tbis immense power wonld take the bread from " crowd of workmen.
M. Lafitte wished to establillh a grand central brew-house, and he- shrunk back
from the idea of a similar result. Again at Paris, we have not dared to esta-
blish machines to sew slop pantaloons, because this invention would be fatal to
thirty thousand women who new live by this work.
"Politrcat economists any the evil is transitory. What, would the7 ha""
science stop ? Does it not daily produce im·eotions and mechanical improve-
menta? And this evil called transitory is rene\\·ed every day, and CODBf'qUrntly
pcrmarwmt. Again, these Doctors My, the introduction of a machine is good
for the workman in two ways ; first, the objects manufactured fall in price, and
the workmen can procure th"m cheaper. So, then, a workman who gainod
twenty-pence a-day in making cotton cape, ought to think hi1M8lf very happy
when be is deprived ol work by the introduction of a mnehine, for then the cottou
cap, which used to cost eightpence, will only cost fivepence afterwards. Happy
workman, take off thy cap to these Doctors ! The seoond reaaon the-y give il",
that the lowering the price augments consumption, and consequently tb.,
quanuty of fabrication, so that 1111 ronny bands are employed aa before. Ah ! but
before it comes to this, during tl1e time that passes between the roduction ol
bands and their return to work, what happens then, my routers ? Productions
would lower in price, truly; but it is nlao true, that the working cia• ' would
strictly not ha"c a penny to procure tl•cm.• " Victor Coosld.!mot.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 619
of the age arc tholle of political economy. In this Mtate of things,
the usurpation of the princes of finance upon territorial possessions
will tl'nd to bring in the fourth phase. Thill l8.1!t phase ofConducily
is marked by the regular constitution of industrial feudality, whl'n
not only commerce, manufacture, and circulating capital, but the
soil of the country will be in posses11ion of the princes of finance, or
the large capitalists and joint-stock companies; for their own interest
they will organize the sy11tem of industry, which will then be under
their sole control ; they will regulate production, consumption, and
distribution, and give universal education, as the prrcise means of
realizing the largest profits on their capital. They will have the
power-their interest will suggest the means, and thus the true
system of industrial association will by degrees introduce itself,
even from the depths of social crime. It becomes us to ele,·ate
ourselves, with the resources and instruments we possess, to a
superior period without passing through the social infamy of the
fourth:·•
" Human nature having received all the passions, or inherent
faculties, necessary to association, cannot escape individual suffer-
ings and general calamities, whilst, despising the social permanent
revelation, it persists in living in industrial inco!leret1ce andfamily
partyism. Admitting a real progress in the chain of the savage,
patriarchal, barbarous, and civilized states,- a progress charac-
terized principally by the development of the sciences and great
industry,-these are but the four pha11es of human infancy, the
unhappy period of the mf>fH!1nenl subversive.'' All the calamities
that history records, all the miseries that afBict us now, are the
punishments due to a creature who resists the law of his own being
which stimulate11 him to association, and not to disunion. Prod-
d!'nce would be in contradiction to itself to nllow of the same hap-
pint>ss to individualized, which it has designed for associated,
society.
The firllt thing which ought to br tlonr b(•fl,rr m'lnt/ harmony
• "Social Ot·stiny.••
Digitized by Coogle
620 APPENDIX.
can be introduced, is to make a rapid in~rease of produce U:J extir-
pate indigence, the scourge that falls u~n the inferior classt's. For
this reason it is necessary, U:J organize the whole system of industry,
by which its products will be increased " four-fold," a~d to begin
with the most common and productive employments~ in which
every family from the highest to the lowest is engaged,-those of
domestic economy and housekeeping. If the theory of c.ssoeiation
is found, this ought to be its first application. But we must know
how U:J associate capital and labour U:Jgether, and not the labourers
by themselves alone ; we must associate interests, anll· we must
discover aprocess '!f association.
Fourier bases his social theory upon certain doctrines of moral
philosophy strictly analogous to those of Phrenology, although he
has a classification of his own, and a mode of treating them
peculiar to himself; he also disclaims any acquaintance with Phre-
nology. The key-stone of his philosophy is this-that the natural
impulses, desires, or, as he calls them, allraclions of man, spring
from his CreaU:Jr and point unerringly to his happiness. That they
are the cause of evil U:J him now is a proof that the system of things
in which he lives is wrong, and therefore duty, restraint, punish-
ment, are all words relating to a social .state which is not in har-
mony with his indestructible passions. " Present society is eo
constituted that one can hardly be allowed to satisfy his desires
without doing injury U:J himself or his fellows. E\"ery man desires
riches, for example, but t4e greatest number is denied them. Labour,
and the practice of truth are seldom the ways of fortunt'. In
almost every direction falsehood and fraud prevail. Does any one
desire U:J procure the pleasures which civilization presents, it is an
almost certain mt>thod of ruining his purse and his health. We
cannot abandon one passion without sacrificing others. Love does
wrong to friendship, and ambition causes us to forget both, &c.
These observations are trivial ; but instead of eon11idering, aa
heretofore, these miseries as inh(.'rent in human nature, ~(. Fourirr
calls this all a world turned upside down. As he has faith in the
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 621
integrality'!f Providence,· ~e lays down as a first principle, that there
exists a social mechanism appropriate to human nature, a mechan-
ism which will make the intere11t of every man concur with the
practice of _truth, which will open to all a simple path to riches and
happiness, ·and this path will be the obedience of each to the im-
pulsions which he receives from nature. Attraction is the one and
univenal law of all movements, social as well as material.''*
.A.ttr~lion passionee is the term given by Fourier to the impulses
which nature gives anterior to reflection ; its essential springs
being twelve radical passions, to each of which the social scheme
ought to g~ve the £ullest satisfaction.t Of these, five relate to the
ezternal semes, and they tend to the luxury or happiness of the
individual :-four to the affections which bind man to family and
immediate friends, tending to the formation of particular friend-
ships, or groups,-they are friendsAip, ambition, (the source of
political groups,) love, qffectifm for family :-and three which are
the essential sources of social organization,-tbf' cabalistic, or the
spirit of party, of 11peculation, of intrigue, the composite, the spirit
of enthusia11m, of accord, and aJtr•rnaliveness, or restlessneu, which
produces the love of frequent changf'. " Let these twelve passions
have free and uncontrolled exercise, and the result will be the reli-
gious sentimt>nt, or passion for social harmony, or universal unity,
just as the blending of the prismatic colours produces the white
solar ray."
That which constitutes character is the dominion of one or more
of these pas11ions, in phrt>nological language the superior de~f'lop-
•" Have J occasion to ubaerve," asks M. Abel Transon, "that Fourier does
not attempt to justify the errors into which man is drawn by hie pueioua in the
p~nt state of aoeiety ? Ju the •ubllerlill6 order, the ~meal lfllnn, the
Christian law which commands man to suppi'CIIII hie paaeions ie infinitely wise and
superior to every other."
t Fourier naee the word pa11ion in a !Cientillc aenae, aa the motive force of0111'
nature, quite apart from the morality or the acta consequent ; he coneidere the
paeaiuns as the Iteam by which the whole engine of society is worked, and the
machinery must be eo ad.'lpted as to uail itself of the whole power for useful ends.
Digitized by Goo e
622 APPENDIX.
ment of one or more faculties ; the rank of the character in the
scale is determined by the number of these dominant faculties, and
the greater their number the more elevated is the social destiny of
the individual. Ordinary characters, whom Fourier calls IQ/ilones,
have but one dominant passion; these are, in the acale of character,
that which private soldiers are in a regiment. Nature doe!J not
produce these characters by chance, but in a fixed and determinate
proportion, so that when society t~hall have passed from its present
incoherence to a state of 110cial organization, every individuality
will have its proper place, and every character will be in the
unh·ersal order like a necessary note in one immense concl'rt.
" Nature is wiser than man ; she does not produce characters in
one monotonous mould such as custom and fat~hion would dictate ;
but 11he produces 11uch varieties as will form when united, one
harmonious whole. As with wonderful precision she adjusts the
proportion of the sexes, so she adjusts the character of the indivi-
dual tQ the wants of the social regime."
The four passions which tend to form mankind into groups
have each a material and spiritual principle ;-thus the groups
which friendship forms may be produced by the spiritual affinity of
eharacter, or the material affinity of industrial propensities; those
formed by ambition,-by the spiritual affinity of combination for
glory, or by the material affinity of interest; those formed by love,
-by the material affinity of the charm of the ~;en!ies, or the spiri·
tual affinity of real affection ; those of familism,-by the matt'rial
affinity of cont~anguinity, or the spiritual affinity of adoption. In
the groups formed by friendship and ambition, the spiritual prin-
ciple holds the first rank, the material principle rules in the otlu.•r
two. In the two first, man has the superiority; in thc two latter,
it bdongs undoubtedly to woman. Groups may be formed by the
spiritual or material principle of each of these pas11ions ; but the
attachment is most perfect when formed upon both. Groups may
al~o Le formC'd hy the mixture' of pas;ion!i, but one' will alw:~ys bE'
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 623
dominant. Groups may all:lo be formetl sometimes by the contrast
of character.
The object of association is to afford scope for allrac/Wn pas-
sionee, or thP. impulses antl faculties bestowed by nature. • The
next thing to discover is a mode of association which shall permit
their free development,-" which shall ratify the alliance of sound
reason with nature, by guaranteeing the acquisition of riches and
happiness, which are the wish of nature, to the practice of justice
and truth, which are the decrees of sound reason, and can only
reign by association ;-which shall produce unity internal, or peace
of man with himself, by ending the internal war which is occal:lioned
by putting passion and attraction at variance with wisdom and
law ;-and unity ezlernal, or the relation of man with God and the
univerate. The universe communicates with God but by attraction,
no creature from the stars down to the insl'cts arriving at harmony
but by following the impulses of attraction, it follow11 that man
must by attraction attain the end of the Divine plan-harmony and
unity."
Almost all social reformers, Fourier remarks, are more occupied
with the constitutions to be gil"l'n to empires than in determining
whether the present domestic system, the isolation of families, and
the dissociation of industry ought to continue. Whereas "it is the
commune which is the corner-stone of the social edifice, howevl'r
vast it may bt>, and it signifies little what may be the systrm of
gon~rnmcnt, if intrrl'stll are divided and opposed in the communi',
Here then social amelioration must be begun."t Fourier accord-
ingly commence11 the process of association by the formation •f
small knots, or groups, consisting of seven or eight individm: : ~
united in affection, character, or pursuits. Each individual will
be the member of several groups, in each of which some one or
• The definition which St. Simon gi•es or the object of aMOciatiun-" the moral,
inlellectual, and physical amelioration or the most numerous class," Fourier ceu-
sures 1111 comparatively vague and barren,
t Victor Considerant.
Digitized by Coogle
624 APPENDIX.
more of his dominant "passions," or faculties, will find exercise;
in some the passion of friendship will be the bond of union ; in
others, that of ambition, or love of glory ; in some the feelings of
love or admiration will be called into play ; in others, those of the
family affections. The material qffinily of union in some specific
pursuit or labour will strengthen the bonds of attachment in these
groups, or form the principal tie of union among other groups.
The workman, therefore, will not be solitary or isolated ; he will be
stimulated to his labours by the attraction of his adhesive tenden-
cies. He will also be urged on by the titles and distinctions which
each group will award to its members. Fourier thus admits the
principle of emulation and competition in his groups, and also be-
tween one group and another which will rival each other in the
perfection of their labours, but he assumes that it will be a friendly
competition, a generous rivalry. Each group will also determine
the wages of its members. The great principle of Fourier's indus-
trial system is to make labour attractive, so that every one shall be
drawn to it freely and by pas:n(m. " It is the grand, the fatal
characteristic of civilized indulltry to be repugnant, to have for
pivotal motive nothing but the fear of death from hunger!" In
Harmon!J then every arrangement will be made to obviate the
causes of this repugnance, labour will be made a social pleasure in
which even the rich will eagerly participate, and in which all will
join with friendly zeal and enthusiasm. The workshops will com-
bine salubrity, neatness, and elrgance; and the manners and
exterior deportment of the workmen will present nothing gross or
offenllive. In Fourier's sreond leading industrial principle of
"11hort sitting!l," he provides for the "restless" faculty of our nature.
No kind of labour v.ill be continued for more than two, at most
three hours, at a time, except in some especial departments of art
or science. Thus every one will be able to devote himself, in the
course of a day, to many different occupations, some of mental,
some of bodily labour. The formation of workmen into groups ad-
mit~ of this, since ten or twelve individuals will perform in one hour
--......._
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 6.25
tl.e labour which occupies a single workman for a day. Minute
division of labour is therefore necessary, that every one may ac-
quire a real skill in the different and numberless employments in
which he will take part.
The association of the groups working at the same branch of
industry, the culture of the vine, or the IQanufacture of a fabric,
will constitute a series, and every facility will be given to the
labourers to pass from one series to another, when wearied of any
one particular occupation. With respect to the distribution of the
rewards of labour, Fourier differs with both Owt'n and St. Simon,
although be agrees with the latter in condemning the principle of
t'qual participation, or community. The series will be classed in
the order of necessary, useful, and OQt'eeahle. The reward allotted
by the community for the labour of each serie11 will not be deter-
mined by the quantity of its products, but upon the rank which it
holds in this classification, and will be proportioned to the wealth of
the whole society. For instance, a series devoted to a productive
labour, such as the cultivation of fruits, will be perhaps less remu-
nt'rated than that chargt'd with the care of young children, if this
last labour be considered more useful or less attractive. Each
individual, by the very nature of the system, will be t'ngaged in a
great number of series, therefore it will be hi::~ interest that justice
should be done in all, or else he will lose in one what he unjustly
gains in anotht'r. The dividend allotted to each series will be dis-
tributed among its groups upon analogous principles, but the groups
will dispense it to their constituent individuals upon another prin-
ciple, which Fourier claims as peculiar to his own theory-in cer-
tain fixed proportions to klhour, cap£tal, and talent ; this proportion
being-to labour, five-twelfths; to capital, four-twelfths; to talent,
three-twelfths. To the poorest associate will be allotted a minimum
of lodging, clothing, and food, and even of pleasure, as the privi-
lege of hunting or fishing, admission to public entertainments, &c.
Industry being rendered attractive, the community will be able to
H•
Digitized by Coogle
626 APPENDIX.
afford to make this advance without risk ; but so long as industry
is repu!JNlnl, the workman must be stimulated by indigence.
" The aggregate of the series of each community will form the
social household, the ' Phalange,' (Phalanx,) and when it is deter-
mined how many individuals shall compose this, how much land it
should occupy, the form of its habitation, the mechanism of its
functions of production, distribution, and consumption, then we
come to consider the association of the Phalanges of the same
district, and ultimately rise to the organization of the whole
globe."
With respect to the administrative power, each group, series,
and phalange, will elect its chief. No one will have a deliberate
voice in a group, series, or phalange, in which he has not employ-
ment. The electoral right will necessarily be proportioned to the
capacity, because the number of an individual's vot~s will depend
upon the number of groups and series of which he is a membt>r,
and the number of these will depend upon the number of his domi-
nant passions, or faculties, upon which we have seen that his rank
in the scale of character depends. The authoritirs thus consti-
tuted by election exercise only the power of opinion ; any farther
constraint would be opposed to the whole spirit of the system which
works by attraction. Their advice will be passionately followed,
but it will not be binding ; a group would be free to delay its bar-
vest in opposition to the judgment of the .Areopagw. Th£'re can
be no danger of a series compromising the interests of the phalange
through obstinacy or caprice, for the members of one series will be
allied to perhaps thirty others, so that their interest in one will be
checked by their interest in others. This mingling of interests is
the effect of "short sittings of labour."
" The Phalange will be composed of the grand series of class('S,
namely, Household, Culture, Fabrication, Science, Fine Arts, &c.
Each of this series of classes is divided into series of orders:-
Forests, Meadows, Orchards, Gardens, &c. The subdivision is
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 627
continued into species and varieties, and we thus arrive at groups,
or elements, of these different industrial series. Thus, industry
organized in the natural method, in logical order, and as pure good
sense would require, is far from resembling the anarchy of civilized
industrialism. In the associated method convergence is complete:
the Phalange is a compact body, acting as a wise army."
In the social domestic establishment the play of the twelve ra-
dical passions must be provided for, and first those which relate to
the senses-internal health, and external luxury. "He who wishes
to know bow to form an association of men must know how to
lodge, feed, and clothe them." M. Considerant in his exposition
of Fourier's system, entitled" Social Destiny," contrasts in glowing
colours the wretched arrangements of actual citiE.'s and habitations,
with relation to the health and comfort of their populations, with
those which science and art might construct in harmonious propor-
tions, at an infinitely smaller cost, and to the gratification of the
taste for beauty and order. " Is it God that made Paris, Lon-
don, St. Petersburgb, Madrid P Is it God or men P No ; per-
manent misery, periodical plague, and the poisoning of the atmo-
sphere, are the work of men. God bas made the golden clouds of
bE.'aven, the wild thyme and the moss, the bird and the wood, the
flower of the field and the lily of the valley." "Civilization has
some rare palacrs, and myriads of paltry dwellings, &~~ it has rags
for the mass, and cloth of gold and silk for its few favourites."
Where there is concentration of will, edifices are raised propor-
tioned to its power ; even now the town-hall, the theatre, the
church, are distinguished because a public principle has raised
them. In Harmony all will be lodged in palaces. Fourier dwells,
like Owen, upon the superior economy in construction and ma-
nagement obtained by the institution of a single cellar, magazine,
granary, and kitchen, for hundreds of each ; on the saving effected
by the reduction of the number of individuals employed in domestic
labour, aud in the simplification of buying and sPlling, as well as
the prPV('Ilting of lo»s of timP from th(' l;(Ut(' of the atmo,.phert•, or
Digitized by Coogle
628 APPENDIX.
of the 11easons, by the combination of labour. He expatiates upon
the luxuriant and picturesque beauty of a country in which the
different kinds of cultivation are mingled together, with no restric-
tion but the adaptation of the soil and situation to the different
productiou ; instead of narrow enclosure& crowded with twenty
different sorta of produce. In the maues of OW' corn-fields and
woods many spota may be found that would mit other culturea, and
among the inferior plains many which might become cultivatt>d
gladea.
FoUJ'ier carries forward his ideaa to the time when by the force
of associated action, deaert.s will be fertilized, the aterile hills re-
clothed with woods, and by the indirect results of man's exertiollll,
even climate& be tempered and improved. Unity of enterprise
will eDIUJ'e the prompt destruction of hW'tful races of animala.
" Obaerve how well civilization takes ita meaaures, when the w{f-
4unler ia precisely the man who baa moat intereat in the preaerva-
tion of wolves; for without wolves tbel't' would be no wolf-hunter.
Truly, ma pauvre cifJilisation, thy philosophers have well perfected
thee ! And, moreover, it is thus in evl'rything. A rivulet rurus
through the valley, and the proprietors of the meadows which it
traverses make it a aubject of legal contest. In Harmony basina
will be made at the head of the valll'ys, and the rivulet will be
distributed, doubling and trebling the crops."
Mr. Owen's community is to be located in a Parallelogram,
Fourier'11 in a P/UJI4nstere. The Phalanstere is to be occupied by
the industrial phalange of from sixteen to eighteen hundred persons,
cultivating about nine square milea. The construction of the edifice
is not arbitrary, aa it must vary with different social periods and
localities. As described by Fourier, it is to consist of a atreet gal-
lery, with rowa of housea on each aide. The gallery is to be a
covered street, heated or cooled according to the different aeasou
and climatea. The ftoor of thia covered way will be on a level with
the first story of the houses, which will be of three stories, looking
ovl'r the country or intt>rior courts laid out with agrel'ablt> planta-
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 629
tions. Each associate will have his privatt! dwelling proportioned
to hill fortune, and for this, as well as for board, he will have a fixed
subscription with tbe phalange, with extras at command ; and
each, with the exception of furniture, linen, and objects for indi-
vidual ue, will share his moveable and fixed property with the
community. All labours, interior as .well as exterior, being exer-
cised by groups and series of groups, the edifice will include a great
number of public halls called seristeres. The centre of the Pha-
lanstere will be adapted for peaceable employments, for halls of
repast, exchange, council, library, &c. In the centre also will be
the remple, watch-tower, telegraph, observatory, &c. One of the
wings will contain the noisy workshops, and the industrial assem-
blages of children, who are commonly noisy in industry as in
recreation. The other wing will contain the earavanaera, with
ball-rooms, halls for strangers, &e. All the children, rich and
poor, will lodge in the entreaol, (an apartment between the ground-
floor and first-floor, to which we have nothing in England corre-
sponding,) to enjoy the benefit of the services of the night-guards,
and because they ought to be separated from the adults. Each
seristere will have apartments and cabinets attached to it for the
groups and committees of each division. Every one will be at
liberty ; every one will create his circle ; be may be passionately
attracted to take part in the labours, the pleasures, or the repasts
of some group-or he may stay at home and dine by himself-no
one will rebuke him. Employment in short sittings will demand
the luxury of ttbeltered communications, since witbollt this the
health of the workmen would be endangered during bad seasons.
The whole Phalanstere is to be ventilated in summer, heated in
winter, so that in Harmony each one will pass to his duties, his
pleasures, without knowing whether it rains or blows, whether it is
cold or hot. In agricultural operations each group will have its
moveable rents to protect it from the heat of the sun ; ittt booths
in which to deposit clothes and instruments, and refreshments and
collations, srnt from the Phalan~tcre. Here the samr principle of
Digitized by Coogle
- J
....
630 -
APPENDIX.
"short sittings" will be acted upon; if "agriculture be the basis
or ' pivot' of the social domestic establishment," it is partly because
it offers in the great variety of its labours a powerful charm for all
ages, and everything will be foreseen and arranged in such a man-
ner as to add to its attractions.
When the domestic system of association shall have been esta-
blished, each community will be employed upon certain productions,
the exchange of which with those of other remote communities,
will bring them into correspondence ; and each district will furnish
an industrial cohort, to which will be reserved great advantages.
to join during a campaign with those of other phalanges in works
of common interest, such as roads, mining operations, &c., which
will require by their nature an additional impulse of attraction.
Universal education will be given, collectively, by the commune.
This alone can obviate the diversity of style and manner which
now prevents the union of the extrell)e classes in common pursuits.
General politeness, and unity of language, can only be established
by a collective education which gives to the child of the poor mao
the manners of the rich. In this education woman will equally
partake ; ahe will be qualified equally for entering the field of
industry, freed from all that renders it degrading to her sex, and
her right to share the road to fortune and honour with man
be admitted. Her talents and powers developed, she will be
respected and independent, and no longer be compelled to exchange
her best fe('lings and sympathies for mer(' support and protection.
Th('re will Jx. no conv('ntional impedim('nts to marriage, which will
be entered upon early, and without dowry; until that period, while
mingling constantly in the industrial groups with the other sex, no
other 11ecurity for propriety will be needed, than the ever pl('~tent
t>ye of fri('nd11 and equals of h('r own.
t'ouri('r·a mind was not coniented with working out the social
problem ; bi11 philosophical theories embraced the whole provinc(' of
mattt>r and of mind, of things visible and invh;ible, of life and im-
mortality; he "t'Xtt>ndt>d hi~ !!peculations through thuf' and !'pace
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 631
to the very skirts of the universe;' to bring into harmony "scienct>,
nature, and revelation. The11e are the ornamental and atmospheric,
or aerial departments of Fourierism, not necessarily connected with
it as a practical system, but vastly entertaining t{) the imaginative
mind which loves, at times, to rise above the clods of the valley,
and shake off the dust it bas gathered on its brogues.''*
That these were not necessary t,o the theory of the combi-
nation of industry, and that they were but speculations, Fourier
himself admitted, deprecating a condemnation of the former because
the latter might be founded in error. "Strange indeed," be says,
" would be the disposition which would condemn all the productions
of an author because some of them are defective!" He claimed the
discovery of the imtinctive and the 80Ct'al1fl()vemen/s, or the attrac-
tion of the passions and instincts, and the attraction of man towards
his future destinies, as the completion of the discovery which
Newton made of the material movement, or attraction of matter.
The three principles of nature are, according to him, God, matter,
and justice, or malhemalics. This last singular combination ex-
pressing, apparently, his doctrine of the universal analogy between
moral and physical nature-justice being to the moral world what
the science of mathematics is to the physical. From the leading
axiom of his philosophy he deduced the immortality of the soul.
" If it be true that our destinies are proportional to onr desires, or
tendencies, we must live again ; for all in quitting this earth feel
that there is 11omething else to be done, to be enjoyed. We quit
this life with regret at parting with those we love, or at having
known nothing but vanity and vexation of spirit. Each feels in-
stinctively that ties yet bind him to this earth, that we have all
still a task to accomplish here. Each expresses vaguely the desire
of living again, of returning into this world, and there recom-
mencing a life happit>r and wiser ; this desire is satisfied by the
metempsychosis of souls in humanity. The theory of Fourier
• Rev J. E. Smith.
Digitized by Coogle
632 APPENDIX.
explain~ to u~ how our immortal souls will alternate from t.hU life
into the ullra mundane life ; a life where the soul is disengaged
from the body, to return anew upon this earth, and take again a
new covering, and participate in the future progress and enjoy-
ments of humanity.''• Many times, he believes, the souls of the
departed thus return.
Fourier was a firm believer in Chri<ttianity as a Divine Revela-
tion, but his notions were free and liberal, and he anxioUBiy
avoided the making of his school a religious sect, his task being,
be considered, " 'to conciliate all parties, by the benefits of quadru-
ple produce, attractive industry, and the mechanism of the pas-
sions.'' The Kingdom of Heaven which Jesus preached, Fourier
held to have a d11uble significance-a state of happiness in another
life, and social regeneration in this. Jesus Christ came to renal
the first, the last he left to the operation of human reason. In
Fourier's creed, ignorance and immorality constitute the crime
against the Holy Spirit ; and future punishments are not those of
fire and brimstone, but the sufferings of a guilty conscience, whose
thoughts and det'ds are fully exposed ; and future blessedness the
ineffable rewards of a good conscience and universal approbation.
The precepts of Chrilltianity, be maintains, cannot be practist-d
whilst the interests of men are jarring and dividt'd, but the inten-
sity of our sufferings, in the present iniquitous state of society, is
pre-ordained as a powerful stimulus to the discovery of a superior
system of social organization.
"Fourier and Owrn agree on many points concerning the eco-
nomy and moral advantages of association, but they differ entirely
with respect to the principles of religion and distributive justic<'.
Fourier believes that absolute community could only be realiud
with respect to such things as could be produced in such a relative
degree of superabundance as would render them as common as air
and water.''t Notwithstanding these differences in doctrine, the
• Extract from :&ladamc Gatti de Gamood'e Work on Fourier, N. M. World.
t Mr. Doherty.
Digitized by Coogle
APPBNDIX. 633
Fourierites, who may be called the Socialists of France, are in
friendly relation with those of England. Mr. Doherty, one of their
leading members, and editor of the .l.ottdMt Pluzlanz, attended as
their deputy at the last meeting of the" Congress" at Manchester.
The history of the two societies runs nearly parallel. The
J.<'ourierites have spread themselves and their writings widely
through France and other countries, but the "model Phalanstere"
is not yet completed. " The parent society has many partisans in
Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, and the United States. At Lyons
there is & division ofFourierites under the name of L' Union Har-
monat>tue, which bouts of having corresponding societies in thirty-
four towns in France, in Switzerland, and Algeria. It would appear
also that the system has been introduced into Texas by an en-
lightened German. Determined to try the effect of the social
system on a practical scale, this gentleman has induced fifty Ger-
man families of New York to emigrate to Texas, where they are to
live in community under the direction of a Fourierite, and it is
expected that another emigration of one hundred German families
will take place in the autumn of the present year. This is the
first practical attempt to carry the doctrines of Fourier into ope-
ration, but the parent society is endeavouring to make arrange-
ments for doing it on an extensive scale in France. Fourier's
disciples, less enthusiastic than himself, and more prudent, per-
haps, inasmuch as they know that the deep-rooted prejudices of
society must be indulged, if they cannot be respected, until they
shall disappear under the inllut-nce of practical conviction, have
confined themselves to such parts of the system as may at once
be brought into operation without exciting the fears of any govern-
ment, or of any class of persons. The greater part of the branch
societies limited their views to the establishment of agricultural
and commercial communities, governed by their own laws so far as
may regard all their internal regulations, but demanding for them-
selves no greater ~egree of liberty, as regards the established
institutions, than can he fairly conceded by any government and
I :tl:
Digitized by Coogle
634 APPENDIX.
in any country. Hence it i11 that the modified Fourierites are
gaining ground and receiving offers of capital, and even a certain
degree of encouragement from the French Government:•• Accord-
ing to the testimony of Mr. Doherty, in 1840, there were at that
period a "party united on social principles in Spain, with a journal
of their own; in Sicily another, in Germany several, and in New
York a numerous body also having a journal of their own.t On the
7th of April of the same year several public dinners took place at
Paris to celebrate the birth of Fourier, at which many distinguished
and influential persons attended. Among other toasts to his honour
at one of these feasts, Lieutenant-General Bugeaud proposed one-
' To the pacific union of the great human family by the association
of individuals, nations, and races! To the annihilation of war!
To the transformation of destructive armies into corps of indus-
trious labourers, who will consecrate themselves to the cultivation
and embellishment of the world!' Upon this occasion a society
was established for the carrying out of Fourier's Social Theory,
with a capital subscribed on the spot of 600,000f.
In September last (1841,) about a hundred workmen left Paris
for Brazil, as the advance-guard of a body of 2000 colonists, who
intend to establish a Phalansterian Society at St. Catherine, about
50 leagues from Rio Janeiro, where they have purchased land, by
the auistance it is said of a 1\lr. Young, a large capitalist, of Am-
sterdam. The same gentleman has recently purchased the old
• Chambers' Journal, Sept. 1839.
t " The attempt at lhia uuinrsal harmony ia being made in Genuany, FI'IUice,
and Italy; but especially the two Conner, are eagerly enpaed in the effect. In
Germany it aaaumes the character of a me11tal philoeophy, trying to hanuouize
and swallow up all philoeophies. In France it 1188Umee the ch&n~cter of a adeu.-e
endeavouring to embrace all eciences. The St. Simoniane, though defunct as a
~eet, have given very general circulation to the idea and the hope. And even
the new Catholic party now forming in France, of which the Allbe de Ia l\lenaia
ia an accomplished and eloquent representative, proceeds upon the eame principle.
Science, u now cultivated, creates 111 much evil u it removee 1 t.bere ia not a
new di8covery of importance in mechanics whieb doee not N&y lte thouaanc!Jo.
What ia the cause of tbia ? Tbe sciences are not yet socialized.•• • Sbrpherd,•
1837.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 635
Abbt>y of Citeaux, in the Cote d'Or, for the sum of 1,300,000f., for
the purpost> of erecting it into a model Phalanstere. It is reported
thllt Mr. Young bas also promised the further sum of l,OOO,OOOf. in
prost>cution of the design, and that he is to rE-ceive a hnndsome
interest for his money before the labourers divide the profits. •
Upon Fourier's system "all industry will become a public func-
tion, and there will be a social revenue before there will be an
individual revenue. Forming at first one common mass of richc11
produced by the combined aid of the members, aftt>rwards to be
divided among them according to the part t>ach has bad in the
Cb""makera production." As aa actual example of the association
or the .Ju.... of labour on this system, M. Considerant adduces the
mode of Cabrication of the cheese called Gruyere in the Jura
mountain11. " The peasants rent a small bouse in two parts, the
workshop and the dairy, with a cellar. In the workshop they
place an enormous copper, destined to receive the milk of two
hundred cows. A single man suffices to make two or three cheeses
of from sixty to eighty pounds weight. These cheeses are then
disposed in a cellar to be salted and cured. Every day the quan-
tity of milk brought to the dairy is noted on two pieces of wood-
one for the milker, the other for the manager. It is therefore known
exactly how much each family contributes. They can even keep
an account of the relative qualities of milk, by means of an aero-
meter. At the epoch of sale tht>y treat at wholesale with the
merchants, and charge the carriage. Then, in sharing the pro-
ceeds, they deduct rent, fuel, utensils, &c. ; they pay the managt>r
in proportion to the general benefit, and divide the rt>st amongst
the families, proportionably to the value of their respective invest-
ments."
In the same mountains the advantage of the combination oC
agricultural with manufacturing labour is shown by the men, who
in favourable weather cultivate the land, and in winter and snow
• See SpectAtor, Oct. 2, 1841. Londun Phalanx, Oct. 30.
Digitized by Coogle
636 APPENDIX.
make the most finished clock-work, rivalling Geneva, which can
scarcely compete with them in pric~ from this circumstance. The
pea~~anta in the neighbourhood of Lille, and the singl~-hand ribbon
weavers of St. Etienne, may also be cited in illustration.•
coto11l• o1 Fourier quoteat, in" La FauatSe Industri~,.. the colonies
Pruola. of Francia, the remarkable dictator of Paraguay,
as presenting an approximation, if a very imperfect one, to tbe
realization of his own theory. "Francia has founded two hundred
agricultural and social colonies, or phalanges, of fifteen hundred
persons each, which already yield an enormous produce, more than
double that of our cultures on the morselled family plan. Their
numbers increase every year by sending out swarms; these social
unions, although loaded with burdensome, unprofitable drudgery,
such as the quadruple military s~rvice, have succeed~d because
their mechanism approaches, although in a very feeble degree, to
the natural means. The phalanges of Paraguay distinguish three
classes, high, middle, and low, and yet they live in good cheer, and
burn annually one-third of their crops, because their suspicious
dictator forbids external commerce, or carri~s it on himself as a
monopoly, and surrounds his dominions by des~rt.,.
"As a result of his new method, Francia's colonists have arrived
at abundance and gaiety, they prevent indigence, and guarant~e
an ample minimum to the infirm of each phalange ; th~y have
various diversious, they are happier than their neighbours the ct'A-
lized, whom they do not join though free to quit their societies;
but they are attill far from the degree of attraction necessary to
induce imitation by the charm spread over their labours. Francia
has erred in this and in many things. He d~stroys a third of the
produce; he ruins his civilized neighbours; he di:Jmisses at the
• The aocount here given of Fourier's ayatem ia cbieS.Y oxvacMd from II,
Abel Tranaon'a "Theorie Socil!taire," published in the Revue Enoyclo~dique,
under the eauctiou of Fourier himself, a tranelatiou of which appeared in &he
"Shepherd;" from a "Seriee of articles ou Fourier," in the N. M. World;
aud from the " Social Destiny" of M. Conaidl!rant.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 637
age of forty-five the chiefs of families ; he rt>fuses to admit rich
families; be establishes a dest>rt round his possessions; he para-
lyzes commerce by rt>stricting it to a single harbour; be foreibly
reduces the number of domestics. But notwithstanding the11e and
other faults, he has made certain points of progress. He has sim-
plified finance by substituting a direct impost for all taxes ; he has
granted a minimum to the infirm, and united all for the relief of
the people; given lucrative employment to the women, and saved
the time expended on separate households ; secured healthfulness
and good guardianship to the infants in public chambers, both by
day and night, and profit by the children's labours exercised in
joyous groups ; prevented waste on Sundays and revels at the
public-house, by abundance of amusement gratis ; assured resources
to the infirm, and to the community, by funds of reserve taken
from the crops; he has united magnificence and salubrity in the
habitations of each social rt>union, and given to each a.n internal
gallery of communication at the first story. He bas given an
example of numerous unities of action, in military, agricultural, and
domestic service ; and powerful introductions into other unities, by
initiations into short sessions, four hour~ of labour only being required
each day, besides the military service ; he bas rendered commerce
to be suspected and subservient to the malls, although his system
of commerce is false; and finally, be has smitten the argument of
impossibility, which is the battle-horse of the snarling critics
again11t combined culture; he bas given the lie to philosophy by
proving, hy ezperience, that grt>at reunions are possible, and that
they may maintain themselves spontaneously, by the single support
of general well-being, without equality." " And what have been
with Francia the means of success ? Moralism has employed three
thousand years in persuading us that sensual pleasures should be
deapised, and that the people ought not to be hungry when the rich
have dined well. Here is an innovator who, by an anti-moral
digres11ion, causes the people to livr in abundance and good cheer,
Digitized by Coogle
638 APPENDIX.
and having had the good st>nae to speculate on thill lever, baa
necessarily succeedt>d."
" Politicians, truly friend• of progress, ought to fix their attention
on this eocial gl•riu whose numt>rous faults it would bt> 110 easy to
correct.''
General Bugeaud, Govt>rnor of Algeria, whose enthusiastic toast
at the commemoration of Fourier's birth has bet>n before men-
tioned, baa proposed not vrry long ago, to establish military
agricultural villages in the new Frt>nch colony. "He has been
known to have been long imprrsst>d with the truth and advantages
of co-operation, ba·dng realized them to eome extent upon his own
cstatrs. An elaborate report has appeared from him, developing
the mode of managemrnt to be adopted in these military·colonies,
for the better and more economical managt>ment of the cavalry de-
partment of the French army in Africa, showing how great a sa\"ing
would be effected according to the plans proposed. The Pasha of
Egypt has also begun an attempt, after the example of Russia, to
atlopt a sort of co-oprrati\"e military colonies:·•
norw1J. A happy illu11tration of Fourier's views in training youth
to agriculture by allraction, and in connexion with the
other departments of in~truction, has been exhibited in M. de
Fellenberg's educational establillhment at Hofwyl. This consists
of " a model farm ; an expt>rirnental farm ; a manufactory of agri-
cultural implemrnts ; a workshop employed in the improvement of
agricultural mechani!;m ; a school for industry for the poor, in
which the boys very m•arly cover the expense of a sound practical
education, by their manual labour employed upon the farm-the
workshops bring instrumrntal to thrir instruction, and the mrane
of teacl1ing to·each some trade in addition to that of husbandry;
a s~>minary for childrrn of the highest class, whose t>ducation is
fini~hrd by R course of agricultural studies, illustrated upon the
• See New 1\foral World, :\Jny!9, 18~1.
'
Digitized by c£;Ie
•
'
APPENDIX. 639
experimental farm by the assistance of the profeasors of the
agricultural department of the institution; and lastly by a scbool
for the instruction of the village school-masters from different parts
of the Swiss Cantons." •
Oberllll
loalllule.
Another in~tance which proves that industrial and
mental labour may proceed advantageou~ly together,
and that also in connexion \vith the principle of working together
for the common interest, i11 furnished by the Oberlin Institute.
About seven years ago forty young men withdrew themselves
from the Presbyterian Collrge of Cincinnati, in Ohio, rather than
submit to the .positive injunction of the head~ of the college to
abstain from all discussion, or even mention, of the subject of
slavery. They left with higb character, but with blighted pros-
pect&; they knew not what to do, or whither to turn; the stigma
of Abolitionists was upon them. They resolved to establilth an
Institution, in which the rights of conscience should be maintained,
in which the coloured pe~on could be taught, and where he would
be in all respects treated as a man and a brother. " About forty
of the band repaired to the forest, and set to work to clear a tract
of land in tbe north-east part of Ohio, about eleven miles from
Lake Erie. They first raised for shelter a long rough house of
sluhtJ, that is, of split logs, the bark remaining on the outer half.
They toiled in the forest during the winter of 1834-5. They had
no endowments, and little pecuniary help. The fame of their
virtue spread. Learned and accomplished men, whose hearts were
as cultivated as their intellects, volunteered for the honour of being
the instructors ofsuch disciples, repaired to Oberlin, flung off their
coats, felled trees for some hours of the day, and delivered lectun•s
for the rest. Young men and women tlocked to this spot in the
forest, to beg such instruction as should fit them to be teachers to
the coloured people ; and when told that there were no funds, 11.nd
seeing that there was not accommodation for the increasing mriL-
• Reports ofCount Capo d'lslrin on the establishment of M. de Fellenberg.
o;gilized by GoogI.e ...
.•
640 APPENDIX.
bers, the unfailing reply was, ' I will provide for myself, if you will
let me stay.' Building went on rapidly ; a substantial building
with brick, containing ninety-two rooms, besides the barns and
wooden dwellings, which were the first work of their hands. A
practical farmer superintended the labour of the young men. The
young women, whose number is about one-fourth of the whole,
keep the house, the dairy, and the clothes, and have yet found
time to learn whatever fits them to be school teachers in their turn;
and some are sound Greek and Hebrew scholars. The three hours
manual labour per day, which is the rule of the institution, is
supposed to be the chief cause of the excellent state of health
maintained among its members,-~ state !lf health very unusual in
fresh forest clearing. The members themselves believe that their
abstemious mode of living is also largely concerned in this effect.
When the concourse of members and the pressure of poverty be-
came great, the members, (including the professors and their fami-
lies,) gave up first meat, (fermented liquors having been excluded
from the beginning,) and then coffee and tea. They live on the
corn, garden, vegetables, and milk, provided by their own labour;
and they not only live but thrive. When they have not mooPy
wherewith to buy new clothes, the best coats are lPnt about to
those whose bu:;iness it is to go forth on excunions of business.
"One student, Randall by name, laid down for their use all the
money be had in the world, 2500 dollar!!, and goes without att long
as the institution is pressed. A farmer at a great distance, was
touched with the story of the founders of Oberlin, and drove over
a cow-the only gift he could bestow. A farmer who lived elevt'n
miles off, in a good house, named Jabez Burrell, invited the new
comers who could not be accommodated at Oberlin, to take up their
abode with him. He boarded and lodged seventy for a year and a
half. His wife, worn out with the charge of such a household, in
so wild a region, fell a sacrifice. She died eJ.hausted,-but with
perfect willingness. She went into the a.C'air, heart and band with
her husband, and prefl·rrcd being worn out in such a caust> to
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 641
drawing back from it. Another settler, named John Holcomb,
resident twenty-five miles from Oberlin, took in thirty students,
with their professor, in the same manner, and for the same time.
Other neighbours have given whatever they could-money, time,
labour of bead and bands. • • • There is one '\"acation in the
year, and during these three months the members are as bard at
work a::s any other season. They disperse themselves over the
land, some teach ; some preach ; others organize schools, or esta·
blish anti-slavery libraries. At the end of the vacation, such
students as can be spared from their new labours return to Oberlin.
All are free to go and come, as they think right; and it does not .
appear that their studies suffer from this freedom."• The Institute
comprises a Preparatory, Collegiate, and Theological department,
and numbers above 400 students, including those of "the despised
race," with twenty-six professors and teachers. The interests of
the Institution have been hitherto promoted and sustained by vo-
luntary contributions. Many of its original members have sacri-
ficed their possessions and prospects by the very act of joining the
Oberlin. There are twelve Trustees, or Directors, who perform
their arduous duties gratuitously. There are twelve ProfE>ssors,
and fourteen assi~tant Teachers, who procure much of tht•ir sup·
port by the labour of their own hands. In ~larch, 1839, the pro-
perty of the Institution was estimated at about 65,000 dollars;
consisting of land, buildings, a small library, agricultural imple-
ments, and stock.t
Society or In like manner worked with their hands, nearly two
Port-Royal. hundred years ago, the illustrious Jansenists of Port-
Royal. " Bound by no monastic Yows, the men addressed them-
selves to such employments as each was supposed best qualified to
fulfil. Schools for the instruction ofyouth in every branch oflitera.
ture and science were kept by L~ncelot, Nicole, Fontaine, and de
• Loudon and Westmioater Review, Dec. 1838.
t Appeal on behaiC oC the Oberlin Ioatitutt>, 11140.
K*
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX.
Saci. Some laboured at translations of the fatlu~rs, and other works
of pi('ty. Arnauld applied his ceaseless toil~t in logic, geometry,
metaphysics, and theological debate. Physicians of high celebrity
exercised their art in all the neighbouring villages. Le Maitre and
other eminent lawyers addressed themselves to the work of arbi-
trating all the dissensions of the vicinage. There were to be seen
gentlemen working assiduously aa vine-dressers ; officers making
shoes ; noblemen sawing timber and repairing windows ; a society
subject to no common superior ; pursuing no joint designs, yet all
living in unbroken harmony ; all following their respective callings;
.silent, grave, abstracted, self-amicted by Castings, watchings, and
humiliations-a body of penitents on their painful progress through
a world which they bad resolved at once to serve and avoid. From
year to year, till death or persecution removed them from the vallt>y
of Port-Royal, the members of this singular association adhered
pertinaciously to their design ; nor among their annals will be found
more, we think, than a single name on which r('sts the imputation
of infidelity, or fickleness ofpurpo!4e." •
" The true organic principle of hum::m regeneration runs down
the stream of time, darkly visible and dimly st•en, but still in being,
and waiting the genial influence of a new era of scientific uni-
versalism and liberal intercourst', to complete its formation."
While in the institution!! of Sesostris, Moses, Minos, and Lycurgus,
somt' of the earliest, wisest, and most successful legislators whom
Hist{Jry records, it shone with more or le11s of clearness and bright-
ness, in the writings of Plato and Ari~totle, the two great lawgivers of
ancient philosophy, the same principle is distinctly marked. It may
be interesting to glance at the sketch of social perfection which
Plato gives in his celebrated Republic.
Plato'•
~public,
The classes of Plato's citizens are three-the magis-
trates or sages-the warriors or guardian!j of the State
• Edioburgh RcYiew, July, 1841.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 643
-the mt'rcenaries or multitude. The la.st class are suppost'd
blindly to take the impress of the other two. The Wt'lfare of the
Rt>public was to depend upon the careful education and training of
the warriors. They were to dwell apart from the other citizens in
the camp, their arms always in their hands, and their sole object
to presern profound tranquillity to the State. Tlwy were to be
bred to the love of eternal justice and truth, to believe that the
wicked are wretched in prosperity, and virtue happy though unre-
quitt'd ; to contemn death and to shudder only at vice. They were
to be taught that the objt>ct of every thought and action wa.s the
public good, and that the infraction of the minutest particular which
tended to this was a crime. Music and the gymnasium were the
two chief instruments of education, the first to temper and tran-
quillize the mind, the last to give hardihood and vigour wthe body.
The reading of the poets was forbidden to them, lest thl'ir mis-
chievous fictions and the vile characters they attribute to the gods
11hould corrupt their imaginations. That no low carl's should
obtrude upon thl'ir minds thl'y should be maintained in common,
but in the simplest mannl'r, by the country to which thf'y dedicated
their livl's. They should be inured to hardship, abstinence, the
Sl'Veritil's of the st'asons. Medical art l'lhould apply prompt and
simple rl'mcdil's to accidl'ntal maladi!'s, but not be p!'rverted to
prolong a fet'ble, diMOrdl'red, l'Xistence. Thl' dl'stined wh·l's (If the
warriors should be trained with thems(•lns in the samt' principles,
under the 11ame ma11ters, rt'ceive thl' same ll'ssons of science and
wisdom, and contend with them in the gymnasium for the same
prizes. The number of marriages to be regulall•d by tht• excess or
ddicil'ncy of population of the Statl', b(•twl'en adults who t~hall be
selected by the magi11trates a!l worthy to rai:5e dl'fenders to the
Republic. The choice of iutlh·itluals to be delt·rmin!'d by lot, and
the parties again to be st'l at liberty to form frt>>~h uuion11 wh('ll the
State demanded. The children tnken at their birth from tht>ir
parents, shoultl bP h•mh·d by thP molht•rll iu ('IIIIIOlOII, thl•:nst>IVI'S
ignorant of their true offspring, and thus brPught up as one family
Digitized by Coogle
644 APPENDIX.
bound in the strictest ties of affection. Deformed or sickly children,
or those born of marriages made before or after the prescribed ages,
of between thirty to fifty-five for men, and twenty to forty for
women, to be brought up in obscurity.
Affection would thus be the common bond, and together with the
sublime love of virtue, would animate them with a zeal surpassing
their duty.
Out of this band would be selected those of rarest qualities, of
most undeviating perseverance in their duties, to educate 11till
farther for the office of the magistracy. At thirty they should be
initiated into the study of dialectical philosophy, and for five yean
meditate on the nature of what is fitting and true; then returning
to the business of the world and passing through purifying trials,
at the age of fifty they would be invested with sovereign power.
Henceforth occupied in promoting the good of the State, well-
informed by experience and theory on every branch of their duties,
they would become the representatives of the gods on earth ; their
people finding their happiness in a moderate but secure competencE',
(Plato does not howevrr give any precist> regulations to ensure thus
much, and no more,) and the warriors in their freedom from do-
mestic cares, and the respect and approbation of their countrymen.•
The object which Plato professes in his commonwealth is, " that
every man should be placed in the position for which nature baa
be11t fitted him."
That the syst£>ms of Plato and others are full of iruprrfcction11,
Godwin remarks, is no argument against their authority ; but
the contrary, since " the evidence of the truth they maintain£>d
was so great as still to preserve its hold on their undentandings,
though they knew not how to remove the difficulties that at-
tended it."
It appears that Plato felt one of the greatest of these difficulties
to b!' the dangt>r of over-population ; Aristotlt>, who hl'ld the same
• ALL~ Barthelemi.
Digitized by Google
.APPENDIX. 645
doctrines, although he waa the intimate friend of a monarch, saw
this difficulty in a still stronger light, and considered that it would
be quite impo8sible to preserve equality without rE-gulating the
numbers in a State. •
More'• Eighteen hundred years later an English philosopher
UtopiA. and lawyer, in the full tide of practice and fresh vigour
of manhood, gave to the world, in imitation of Plato, his idea of
a perfect republic ; and both productions remain to us as marb
wherewith to measure the tide of human progress. Sir Thomas
More's Gtopia is a treasure of quaint wisdom not yet out of
date, although the face of society has considerably changed since
his day. After reviewing the abuses of laws and governments, he
gives it as his opinion, " that the settling all upon a level was the
only way to make a nation happy, which cannot be obtained so
long as there is any property; for when every man draws to him-
self all that he can compass, by one title or another, it mu8t needs
follow, that, how plentiful soever a nation may be, yet a few
dividing the wt>alth of it among tht>m!lelves, tht> rest must fall into
indigence. Su that there will be two sorts of people among them,
who deserve that their fortunes should be interchanged; the former
useless, but wicked and ravE'nous; and the latter who by their con-
stant industry !lerve the public more than themselves, sincere and
honest men; from whence I am persuaded, that till property be
taken away, there can be no equitable or just distribution of things,
nor can thE' world be happily governed ; for as long as that is
maintained, the greatest and the best part of mankind will be still
oppresoied with a load of cares and anxietie8." Accordingly the
principle upon which the society of his happy island i!! founded, is
that of a community of goods, and he is more specific than Plato in
his details of its economics.
The inhabitants of the Utopian towns, which, he tells us, are
• See 1\lalthus on Population, vol. I, book xiii.
Digitized by Coogle
646 APPENDIX.
large and ••ell built, interspersed with garden~t, dwt>ll in separate
houses, which are changed by lot every ten years, but any citizen
may freely enter into any house wbatsoevt'r. Each tribe of thirty
families, placed under the superintendence of a magistrate called a
S,Yphogranl, eat together in their own public ball, the men ranged
on one side the table~, the women on the other; the magistrate
and his wife pre!!iding ; the children who are old enough serve, and
are fed by the eldeu from the table; and the children under five
sit among the nurses in a separate apartment. The families in the
country eat at their own homes. Fartll-houSl's, well contrived and
furnil1hl'd, are scattered all over the country district belonging to
each town, and extending at least twenty miles round it ; and the
inhabitants of the towns are sl'nt by turns to dwell in them; forty
men and women constituting a family, besides two slavt's. A
mastt'r and mistress j., lit't over evt>ry family, and over thirty
familit>s pre!!idu a magi>~tratP, as in the towns. Every year twenty
of this family return to the town, and are replacl'd by twenty more
from thence, that they may learn country work from those that
have bet'n there one year alrl'ady, as they must afler\\·ards teach
the nt'xt comers from the town. The country produce, after
supplying its own need, i11 taken to thl' town marhts first for the
supply of the hospitals, the hou11e for strangPrs, the magistrates,
and lastly for the puLlic tables. But if any one likes to take
provisions from thence to his own house, he may do so, bt'causc it
i11 supposed he ha11 a good rt'ason for it, otherwise be would not
prefer an ill-s<'rved meal to the public well-cooked pll'ntiful feast.
Near thl'se markets are others in which all manufactured articles
are depositt•d, all thing11 of a sort together. Thither cvt>ry father
of a family goct1 and takes whatever he nt'eds for them, or him~:~elf.
without leaving anything in exchangl'. There is no danger of a
man's asking for more, since they are sure always to be supplied,
and there is room neither for fear of want, nor glory in pomp and
exces!!. Thl•ir clothiu;; iM all of one fashion-simy1ll', adapted to the
climate, and clean, Lut <·oar:~l', and 111adl' at all littll' cost of labour
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 647
as possible. Each family makes its own clothing. Besides agri-
culture, which is common to all, each man, and woman also, has
a peculiar trade or manufacture. It is the chief duty of the Sypho-
grants to S('e that no man live idle, but that all may follow their
trade diligently. They work six hours in the day, but if the
markets are overstocked, the time of labour is shortened. That
110 few hours suffice to produce all that is neces~ary for the commu-
nity may be easily believed, when it is considered bow much
labour is saved by the ('mployment of women; by having to main-
tain no idle beggars, no idle priests, no idle rich ; by making no
useless articles of vanity and luxury ; and from the practice of
careful repairs of all works and buildings, so that new ones are
seldom required.
As their cities are composed of families, so tht>ir families are
made up of those that are nearly related to one another. Tht>ir
women, when they grow up, are married out; but all the males,
both children and grand-children, live still in the same houst>, in
great obedience to their common parent, unless age bas weakened
his understanding, and in that case, he that is next to him in age
comes in his room. No city may contain above 6,000 families,
besides those of the country round it. No family may have leu •
than ten, or more than sixteen, persons in it; if the children are
too many, some are removed to another family where they are
deficient. By the same rule, cities that do not increase so fast are
supplied from others that superabound ; and if there is any increase
over the whole island, colonies are sent to the neighbouring
continent, where they take land that is idle and uncultivatl'cl ;
since every man has, by the law of nature, a right to such waste
portion of the earth as is necessary for his subsistence.
The sick are taken great care of, and so carefully attended to in
the hospitals, that few would choose rather to lie ill at home ; and
those who have fixed and incurable diseases they cherish in all
possible way11 ; but if any is taken with hopeless and torturing
Digitized by Coogle
648 APPENDIX.
diseasE', the priests and magistrates exhort him to euft'er death
rather than linger in it, and such death is accounted honourable.
Their women are not married before eighteen, nor their men
before twenty-two; neither polygamy nor divorce being allowed
except in case of crime or insufferable perverseness, and the guilty
parties are not permitted to contract a second marriage. Slavery
for the most part is tht> punishment for the greatest crimes, since
even criminals may thus be made useful to the State ; such persons
are the only slavt>s, excPpt prisoners taken in battle, and they
perform all the sordid and disagreeable parts of labour ; they are
chained and kt>pt to continual work ; but those who bear their
punishment patiently are not left without hope of being restored to
frt>edom. Thry have another sort of slaves who are treated btottt>r,
the poor of neighbouring countries who offer themselves to sene
thrm.
When they travel thry are furnished with a passport, and are
t>verywhl're treated as at homt>, and if thry stay more than one
night in a place, they follow tht>ir own occupation in it. There are
no taverns, alehouses, nor places for corrupting each other, but
after supper they spend an hour together in their halls, in ronHr-
sation, music, and amusement.
Over every ten Syphogrants, and the familit>s subject to thrm, is
placed a superior magistrate called a Tranibor; the superior ma-
gistrate, or Prince, of each town is chosen by the Syphogrants out
of a list of four uamt>d by the people. Three deputies from each
town meet once a yt•ar in the chief city to consult about their
common concerns. In this council they examine what towns abound
in provisions, and what are under any scarcity, that so one may be
furnished from the other, and when the whole country is well sup-
plied they export the re3t in large quantities. Of tht>se goodB they
give a 11eventh to the poor of those countries, and sell the rest at a
moderate price. In exchange tbt>y bring what few things of foreign
produce they need, and much gold and silnr, which thty keep in
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 649
case of war, or to lend to their neighbours. As they use no money,
they adopt a singular expedient to preserve their treasure without
corrupting the people. If it were hoarded in some tower or place
in charge of the Prince and magistrates it might bring on distrust
and suspicion of them ; if it were made into plate the people might
grow fond of it and loath to part with it in time of need, so it is
employed for the meanest household utensils and to make chains
and fetters for their slavt>s, some of whom as badges of infamy
wear also ear-rings and coronets of gold. If by chance they find
diamond11 or pearls on their coasts or rocks, they give them to their
children to wear, but as they grow up they cast them aside with
their puppets and toys.
Both men and women are taught to spend those hours in which
they are not obliged to work in reading ; some of peculiar aptitude
for study, are allowed exemption from all labour by the suffrages of
the magistratt>s. Out of these learn~d men they choose their priests,
(of whom there is one to each of the thirteen temples in each
town,) and their superior magistrates. Tht>y have all their learning
in their own tongut>, which is copious and expressive, and they
know nothing of logic and chimeras and abstract ideas, yet they
undt>rstand astronomy and seek to know the causes of the opera-
tions of nature. They hold that the soul is immortal and that
God of his goodness designed that it 11hould be happy, and therefore
that be bas appointed rewardll for virtue and punishments for vice
in a future state. They think that virtue is the Jiving according
to nature, that is, according to the dictates of reason, and that
reason directs us to love God, to keep our minds free from passioQ
and as cheerful as we can, and to use our utmo11t endeavours to
help forward the happiness of all other persons. They reckon that
all our actions, and even all our virtues, terminate in pleasure, as
in our chief end and greatest happiness. Of all pleasures they
esteem those to be most valuable that lie in the mind, the chief of
which arise out of true virtue, and the witness of a good conscience ;
and they account health the chit>f pleasure of the body, all the other
Lt:
Digitized by Coogle
650 APPENDIX.
delights of sense being only so far desirable as they give or main-
tain health. They entertain themselves with the other delights let
in at their eyes, ears, and their nostrils, as the pleasant relishes
and seasonings of life ; yet in all pleasures whatsoever they take care
that a lesser joy does not hinder a greater, and that pleasure may
never breed pain, which they consider always follows dishonest
pleasure.
As they fright men from committing crimes by punishment, so
they incite them to the love of virtue by public honours. The
Prince himself has no distinction but a sheaf of corn borne before
him, nor the High Priest than a wax light borne in the same
maimer. They have but few laws and no lawyers, each man plead-
ing his own cause. The men, and women too, are trained daily in
military exercises, but they detest war, and are not eager to a>l'nge
frauds or injuries in trading matters against themselves, but they
are ready to help their neighbours if they are oppressed; but if
any of their own people are killed wrongfully they demand the
guilty to be delivered up on pain of going to war. And when they
go to war they endeavour to sow dissensions among their ent>mies,
and offer great bribes to such as shall kill or deliver up the Princt',
or those on whom they lay the blame of the war, that they may
prevent bloodshed and take vengeance only on the ntlers who have
done the wrong, and not on the people who arc innocent. But if a
battle must be fought, then the wives and families accompany their
husbands and fathers into it, not only as Plato recommended, to
look on, but that they whom nature bas inspired with thl.' greatest
zeal for assisting one another, may be the readiest and neare11t to
do it; and it is matter of great reproach if husban.l or wife survi\'e
each other, or a child his parent. If they agree to a trut:e they
observe it so religiously that no provocations will mah them
break it.
As to religion, though they differ in all other things yet they
agree in this-that they think there i~ one Supreme Bt>ing, who
made and governs the world. Any man may IJe of wbat religion
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 651
he pleases, only there is a solemn law against such as should so far
degenerate from the dignity of human nature as to think that our
souls died with our bodies, or that the world was governed by
chance. They never raise any that hold these maxims either to
honour or office, nor employ them in any public trust, but despise
them as men of base and sordid minds. Yet they do not punhsh
them because they lay this down as a maxim, that a man cannot
make himself believe anything he pleases. More than this it seems
even Utopian liberality could not concede.
The education of youth belongs to the priest!', and they do not
take so much care for inst:ucting them in letters a.'i in forming their
minds and manners aright. There is nothing to be seen and heard
in their temples in which the several per:masions among them may
not agree, for every sect performs those rites that are peculiar to
it in their private houses; nor are there any prayers among them
but such as every one may use without prejudice to his own opinion.
In concluding his account of Utopia, More remarks that this
it~ the only commonwealth that truly deserves the name; in others
every man seeks his own wealth, for he knows that how llouri8hing
soever the commonwealth may be, unless he provides for himself he
must die of hunger; but here, where no man bas any property, all
zealously seek the public good ; for where e\"ery man has a right to
e¥erything, they all know that if care is taken to keep the public
store full, no prirate man can want anything; though no man has
anything tbey are all rich, for what can make a man so rich as to
lead a serene and cheerful life, free from anxieties? What justice
is there in this-that a nobleman, a goldsmith, a banker, or auy
other man, that either does nothing at all, or at bet~t is employed iu.
things that a1e of no use to the puhlic, should live in great luxury
and splendour upon what is so ill aequirt>d ; and a mean man, a
carter, a smith, or a ploughman, tl1<1t works harder than the beast!!
themselves, and is employed in labour!'! so nect·~sary that no com-
monwt>alth coulJ hold on a y<'ar without th<'m, can earn so poor a
liv<'lihood, and must ll'ad .-;o misnaLlt, a lif<', that the condition of
Digitized by Coogle
6!)2 APPENDIX.
the beasts is much better than theirs? "Therefore I can have no
other notion of all the governments I see or know, than that they
are a conspiracy of the rich, who on pretence of managing the
public, only pursue their private ends, and devise all the ways a.nd
acts they can find out-first, that they may, without danger, pre-
serve all that they have so ill acquired, and then that they may
engage the poor to toil and labour for them at as low rates as pos-
sible, and oppreSIJ them as much as they please."
Bacon'• Bacon probably intended, like Plato and More, to give
Atlanu.a. a model of a perfect society in his "New Atlantis,''
but his plan appears to have been left inoomplete, and to have
advanced only so far &II to develop the idea of a republic of science,
for the conducting of experimental philosophy on the largest seale.
This scheme was partially carried out by the institution of the
Royal Societies of London and Paris.
Moehla..m. The real tendency of Machiavelli's writings has been
disputed; but whatever this may be, be asserts that
in a true commonwealth possessions must be equalized : in his
opinion " he who attempts to make a commonwealth where there
are many gentlemen, must first begin by destroying them ; that
is, destroying their rights as private possessors."•
Campanella. Thomas Campanella, a celebrated Italian philoso-
pher of the sixteenth century, also projected the
scheme of a society enjoying a community of goods, in his " Re-
public of the Sun." " His system is rude, and partakes too much
• The principle or common property, which wu oon&inued in &be Chrie&iaD
Church cbiefty in ita monastic lnatitutio1111, wu advoeated from time to time
among ita di1Fereut eeete. "Bock mentions among the early Unitariane, a,..,.
riua Pauli and Daniel Zwicker, u advoeatea for a commODity of goode.••
"Inquiry respecting Private Property," Monthly Repoeitory, Feb. 1821, which
a'l110 quotes the corresponding sentiment from "Piers Plouhman,"-" Forthi
crietene men ecbolde been in commun riche, no covetise tu hJ'IIl8Ulve."
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 653
of the martial and superstitioUlt character of his age, but bi remark-
able as being probably the source of many of the peculiar opinions
of the modem continental philosophers. He begins with Unity at
the Head ; this head bas three subordinate officers-power, wisdom,
and love. The first presides over all martial and gymnastic affairs ;
the second over scientific matters; and the third over the depart-
ment of the affections-including feasts and festivities. Each of
these bas subordinate officers for ditre:rent departments, and the
whole machinery is dependent upon univers{l.l suffrage. Property
is public. Rewards and punishments are determined by the autho-
rities. His ideas of human beauty and perfection, of the value of
gymnastics and temperance, combined with intellectual exercise,
are worthy of the best philosophers of modern times. His religious
ideas were very liberal, and his marriage system beautiful, though
the tie was not to be irrevocable:·• The heresy of Campanella
concerning the doctrines of Aristotle, and other received opinions,
exposed him to great persecution. He was branded, unjustly, as
an Atheist; he was seven times put to the rack, and spent twenty-
eeven years of his life in prison. Cardinal Ricbelieu afterwards pro-
cured him a pension, and be closed his life in 1639, in tranquillity,
at Paris.t "Leibnitz," aaya Dugald Stewart, "placed Campanella
on a line with Bacon. No philosopher, certainly, has 11poken with
more reverence than he has done, on various occasions, of the
dignity of human nature. A remarkable instance of this occurs in
his eloquent comparison of the Auman luznd with the organs of
touch in other animals."
Oaudtnllo
dl Lueea.
" The Gaudentio di Lucca of Bishop Berkeley, is
another instance of the principle of equal interests
attracting the notice of an acute and powerful mind."~ Of this
work Mackintosh says,-" A romance, of which a journey to an
Utopia, in the centre of Africa, forms the chief part, called the
• RoY. J. E. Smith. t Moreri. ~Hampden.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~ ..
654 APPENDIX.
Adventures of Signor Gaud('ntio di Lucca, has been commonly
ascribed to him (Berkeley); probably on no other ground than it,.
union of pleasing invention with benevolence and elegance.''• .At
all events Berkeley was a great admirer of Plato, and some of his
acknowledged opinions strongly favour the supposition. In his
" Querist," addressed to his Irish countrymen, be endeavours to
convince them that money is not riches, that riches signify the
possession of such things as minister to the necessaries and com-
forts of society, and that if exchange of these could be effected
without it, money would be better dispensed with altogether.
Swift. -Swift, in his well-known Gulliver, reasons nt"gativdy
on the same side, by the pointed satire which he levels
against the present ~ystem of society, by which "the bulk of our
p(•ople are forct•d to live miserably, by labouring every day for
small wages to make a few livf' plentifully;" while "we send away
the gre!ltest part of our necessary things to other countries, whenl'e,
in return, we bring the materials of diseas<', folly, and vice, to spend
amongst oursl'lns.'' t
Abbe de "The Abbe de MaLly, in his book on Legislation,"
lllubly. says Godwin, "has displayed at large the advantages
Wallace. of equality, and tht'n quits the subject in despair, from
an opinion of the incorrigibl<'ness of human df'pravity. Wal!act",
the contemporary and antagonist of Hume, in a treatise entitlt·d
• Various Pro~<p<'cts of :Mankind, Natur<', and Providence,' (pub-
lished in 1761,) is copious in his eulogium of the same systt>m,
and dest•rts it only from fear of the earth b<'coming too populous.''
He did not, however, appreh<'nd any danger to his I!)'Strm of
l'qullhy from this cans<', untiltlw whole <'arth should Lave h€en
• t·nhivatr·d to the hight'Mt point.
t P:nl 4, door. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 655
Weishaupt. " The modern attempts made by associations of
reformers to re-constitute the fabric of society upon
social principles, began with the German Illuminati, under the
leadership of Dr. Weishaupt, commonly called Spartacus Weishaupt.
From this school the French philosophy and the French Revolution
proceeded. This was the well-spring of modern Republicanism and
Socialism. The restoration of the religion of nature, and the law
of nature, was the concealed object of this formidable institution,
which had a. secret organization of great extent, embracing names
of high renown among the nobility and literati of Europe. Its
philosophy was chiefly vague and nt>gative declamation, which gaye
no definite system instead of the one it condemned. Much hypo-
thetical matter has probably been writt!'n about this mysterious
combination, but there can be little doubt that it existed in an
immense ramification throughout Europe, under the presiding
dirt>ction of a few extraordinary men in Germany and Franct•.
The campaigns of Napoleon scattered the host, many of whom
rl'garded him in the light of a political Me!!siah, to rstablish the
system for which thl'y zealou:,~ly contl'ndcd."*
Coddorcet, The "Outlinrs of a History of the Progress of the
Human Mind," wrre written, it is said, by Condorcet,
unuer the pressure of thr proscription which terminated in his
death. In this work he conceiv('s himsl'lf obliged to admit that a
class of peOJJ!t• which maintains itself entirely by industry is n('Cl'S·
sary to every Stalt>, b<'caus(' the labour requisitP to procure subsist-
ence for an extended population, will not be performed without the
goad of nt>cessity. To raise thl'ir condition and introduce a grow-
ing equality, he proposes a sort of assurance societit>s among this
class, and believes by a system of calculations which. he adopts,
that it is possible to prevent credit from being the exclusive privi-
lege of great fortunes, and of rendering the progress of industry
• ReY. J. E. Smith.
Digitized by Coogle
656 APPENDIX.
and activity of commerce less dependent upon great capitalist~.
Condorcet holds, not only that improvement and happines11 will
advance with this progress of industry, but, with Godwin, the or-
ganic perfectibility of the human race, and even the extension of
the term of life. He anticipates a time, notwithstanding, wh~n
population will exceed the means of subsistence, the re11ult of which
must be either a continual di.Jninution of happiness, or an oscil-
lation between good and evil.•
Paine. Paine, in his " Rights of Man," proposes, as a measure
for improving the condition of the poorer clas~~es, to abo-
lish the poor-rates entirt>ly, and in lieu thereof tD make a remission
of taxes to the poor out of the surplus taxes, on the following plan :
To evt>ry poor family for t'&eh child under fourteen years of ag~,
£4 per annum, upon condition that each shall be sent to school,
for which a certificate must be produced ; and to every penon of
fifty, until he shall arrive at the age of sixty, £6 per annum, and
after that period £10; and this not as a matter of grace but rigbt,
since every labourer has paid £7 or ,£8 per annum in taxes, dirl'ct
and indirt'ct, during the period of his strength and vigour, and the
annuity he would rect>ive would be no more than the intl'rt'st of the
actual sum he bad paid. "It is easily llt'l'n, that the poor are
generally composed of large familit>s of children, and old people
past their labour. If these two classes are provided for, the rt'medy
will so far reach to tht' full extent of the case, that what rt>maina
will be incidt'ntal, and in a great measurt', fall within the compass
of benefit clubs, which, though of bumble invention, merit to be
ranked amongst the best of modt>rn institutions."t
• See Malthua on Population, nl. 2.
t " Rights or Man," p. 274•
.., The progret!S of improYement, and a llelllle or mutual adYutaae, ban in·
duced eocietie. of men to units for purpoeea which haYe tbw tendency : nch are
Inaurancee, Benefit Societies, and all tho&e institutions wh..a object it is to
obYiate the iDequruitiee of fortune, and to IeMen the- weight of calamity by sharing
it among a numerous aasociatioo." (Monthly Repos., Feb. 1821.) Amon.; theM
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 657
"Thomas Paine i11 evidently a disciple of·Harrington, who wrote
his 'Oceana' in the time of Cromwell, and he advist'd the Pro-
tector to institute a commonwealth upon equable principles ; but
his Oceana is not indeed a community, nor indeed a social system.
A system which proposes to improve the condition of mankind by
the di~tribution of money, can never be a good final system of
reformation." •
spence. Spence's Doctrine on Land, which excited some attention
twenty or thirty years back, was, that the land is the people's
farm, the rent of which ought to be equally divided among them.
" But it unfortunately happened," observes Malthus, " that after
the proposecl allowances for the expenses of government, and the
other bodies in the State intended to be supported, there would be
inalitutiooa none have been more remarkable t.ban that of the Freemuooa-
ite origin lost in the earliest antiquity, and spreading to this day throughout all
civilized countrit>s. Whatever may be ite real or pretended secrete, the true ends
which it seems deaigned to promote are those of friendship, mutual assistance,
and good fellowship. " The AbiH! Baruel 81\)'S that upon his initiation into the
1100iety of Freemasons, after having taken the oath, the following worda were
adw-d to him by the Maeter,-' My dear brother, the secret of maeoury con-
sists in those words-Equality, and Liberty; all men are equal and free; all
men are brethren.'" Rees' Cyclopedia.
• Rev. J. E. Smith.
Among writere who admit the evils arising from the inequalities of wealth,
the author of "Hampden of the Nineteenth Century," mcntiooa Dr. Price, who
concludes tbat " A scheme of government may be imagined t.bat aball, by anni-
hilating property and reducing mankind to tbeir natural equality, remove moet
of the caueea of contention and wickedneas,"-Four Di1111. on Providence, 1777,
p. 138 ;-chateliu, who, in bis work " On Public Happinees," passee over the
personal history of beroee and kings, and iuveatigates the actual condition of
the people in all agee and countries; and Dr. Hall, who in his " Effects of Ci-
vilization," gives an able analytical examination of the errors of the preaent
eys..em. ''We often bear," he writes, "n( inquiriee into the slate of natiooa
in legislative auembliee, but there is a subject that never enters into the thoughts
of any one to enquire about-namely, the state and condition of the great mass
of the people ; bow they are fed, clothed, lodged ; what kind of houses tbey live
· in ; bow they are supplied with fuel; how they are ioatructed. To know these
particulars is truly to know the state of a nation." Dr. Hall proved, nearly
forty years ago, befurc labour was so much aided by science, that the working
classes received only one-eighth part of the produce of their own labour.
l\14:
Digitized by Coogle
658 APPENDIX.
absolutely no remainder to divide, and the people would not derive
a ~ingle sixpence from their estate."
· With respect to property in land, a writer before quoted observes,
that " in some parts evl'n of this country the laws are much lN;s
conducive to the accumulation of landed propl'rty than in othrrs,
and many change~, though mostly for the wone, have been made
with respect to the tenure and descent of property: we hear much
of the dangcr of innovations on private property, but little is said
against the scandalous conversion of public into private property.
A great part, perhaps all, of our lands were formerly slwclre (or
Lamruas) lands, of which the occupant had the use only whilst his
crop was on, the land then reverting to the community for pasturage.
Even now the meer-bauks that separate the lands belong to the
community, and the occupier of two adjoining fields bas no right to
plough up the meer-bauk between thl'ru." •
However wide the ditft•rence may seem between the established
system of property, and that which would make it a common fund
~or the happint'~s of all, the definition which the partizans of each
system give of the origin and objl'cts of property is nearly the same.>.
Hume's idea of property differs but little, apparently, from Godwin's
already stated. Hume defines it to be, " the good of society ;''
abstracted from this, " it is entirely without foundation." Mill's
opinion that property is " that arrangement with regard to uspful
objectR which i<t, or is pretended to be, the best for all," has been
also given before. Gibbon considers that " the original right of
property can only be justified by the accident or merit of prior
occupancy ; and on this foundation it is wisely established by the
philosophy of the civilians. The savage who hollows a tree, inserts
a sharp stone into a wooden handle, or applies a string to an elastic
branch, becomes in a state of nature the just proprietor of the
canoe, the hatchet, or the bow. The materials were common to all ;
the new form, the produce of his time and simple industry, bf.longs
110lely to himself." In process of time, " the common rights, the
• Monthly R<-pos., Feb. 1821.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 659
equal inheritance of mankind, are engrossed by the bold and
crafty ; each field and forest is circumscribed by the land-marks of
a jealous master; and it is the peculiar praise of the Roman ju-.
risprudence, that it asserts the claim of the first occupant to the
wild animals of the earth, the air, and the waters. In the progress
from primitive equity to final injustice, the steps are silent, the
shades are almost imperceptible, and the absolute monopoly is
guarded by positi\·e laws and artificial reason." •
Thompoon. The political economy of the co-operative principle ftas
been most systematically treated in the "Inquiry into the Distribu-
tion of Wealth," published in 1824, by Mr. William Thompson, of
Cork. The points chiefly insisted upon in this work are, that
labour 11hould be free, the fruits of labour secure, and exchange
voluntary. "When equal security is established, and the best
f<trm of indi\·io.lual exertion exhibited, the real points of supcrio1·ity
of labour by co-operation will he apparent, and indiridual
--------- --~ ~ - --
• Rome, vol. 7, p. 288.
This passajte leads us to notice the distinction which a French writer, formerly
quoted, l J<:ncyclopet.lie, J umprud.) makes between tllll n~galive community or
goods, or that " where all things are common bPCause no one has appropriated
them;" and the posiJive community or goods, or that " in which property be-
longs to all in the a.~me wuy as private property, and to each as much as to all."
The former, where " the materials are common to all, the new form, tl1e pro-
duce of his time and industry," belonging to the individual, is the early stage of
soci<'ty; the latter, where not only the mnteri.~la nud the labour. but thu produce
is common to all, and appropriated to the common benPfit, may be considered
rather as its ultimate and perfect state. We have seen that among simple na-
tions whoee apJfish desires have not been awnkencd to the refinements of luxury,
and whoae natul'lllsoeial tt>ntlenciea have not been submitted to disturbing forces,
there has been a disposition to pass immediately from one stage tu the other ;
and among them society may be said to be as perfect, and to afford ns much
ltappiness as the limited J.,,·clupment of their faculties will admit. But when
the transition stage of" self-lov"" and "excluMh·e 1•rop~rry," of which Gibbon
speaks as " now neces..'Ury tu human existencP," shall have wr••u;;ht their ap-
pointed eu<ls in unfolding the t>lcments of true civiliY~~tien and improvemPnt, and
society shall take its naturul, nnd therefore perfect form, it wiil, we may antici-
pate, re11ch a proportimubly .hi;{h pitch of hocial ltappi~~<·!<.'<, since the Ktate of
tho whole will rifle to the level of t!tc hi~hcsl pnint which itJ<IiviJnnl t:'X<'rtion hus
11ttaiucd. ~laukiud •>ill then pruvc th<·msc:n:s, what they now prof<·ss to be,
" of one f;unily."
Digitized by Coogle
G60 APPEXDIX.
exertion will have no means of ending the proofll of its inferi-
ority, by appealing to restraints no longer existing." Mr. Thomp-
son bequeathed his property to the hands of Trustees as a perpe-
tual fund in aid of Co-operati\"e Societies and Infant Schools,
and the promulgation generally of the principles of his writings.
It is said, however, that his relations have contested the will, and
rendered the bequest hitherto nugatory.
Gray's "Social System," which appeared in 1S31, is a plan which
seems to combine the St. Simonian scheme for regulating produc-
tion and distribution by a National Bank, with that of the Labour
Exchange, and the main diffictilty it would have to encounter
would probably be analogous to that which overwhelmed both
these last-that of finding trustworthy and competent &gl.'nts.
Of living writel'll the author of "Hampden of tbl.' Ninetel.'nth
Century," has been amongst the most zealous and successful in
the cause of the association of intl.'rests. His works are charac-
terisl.'d by refined and cultivated intellect, as well as by expansive
benevolence.•
The objections made against all systems of equal and united
interests have been chiefly three :-first, that institutions so perfect
are only adapted to perfect beings ; but if the institutions of
society are both cause and effect, it must be desirable to make
these institutions as nearly perfect as possible, <>n>n a.<1 a means to
the perfecting of the beings for whom they are designed.
The second is that they would supply no stimulus to exertion.
• Among the advocates of social rights the poets take high rank. They, in aU
ages, have been the champions of oppressed humanity-
" For the injustice grieving, that hath made
So wide a difference between man and man." •
In all measures and all tongues they hi\ve sung the golden age, the happy
state-
"Shall bless the race r•~leemed <•f man, 11·hen wealth
And power, and all their hideous progeny,
Shall sink, annihilate, ar11l all mankind
Live in the l"}Wil brothPrhood of love."t
• Worda,..orth. I !;outhry.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 661.
Malthus, who was led to his inquiries upon the subject of popula-
tion by the considerations of the systems of Godwin and others,
and who argues the subject at some length in his celebrated work,
admits that although the objection is sufficient to his own mind,
many ancient and modern instances prove that it is not, at least,
universal. " It may be said," he also adds, "that, allowing the
stimulus of inequality of conditions to have been necessary, in
order to raise man from the indolence and apathy of the savage,
to the activity and intelligrnce of civilized life, it dors not follow
that the continuance of the same stimulus should be nrcessary
when this activity and energy of mind has once been gained. It
may then be allowable quietly to enjoy the benefit of a regimen
which, like many other stimulants, having produced its proper
effrct, at a certain point must be Jrft off, or exhaustion, disease,
and death will follow." This objection, therrfore, he allows is not
of such a charactrr "as to make the proposal fbr an experimrnt
in modern timrs utterly unreasonable:·•
The third objection is that of thr rapid and rxcrssive growth of
population. " There can be little doubt," is the opinion of .Malthus,
' that the equalization of property we ha>e tmpposed, added to the
circumstance of thr labour of the whole community being directed
chiefly t{) agriculture, would trnd greatly to augment the produce
of the country ;" but, he supposes, every drpopulating cause of vice
and misery removed, the numbrrs would increase faster than in
any society yet known-faster than by any possibility the means
of sub11istence. Here then Godwin, Owen, Alison, (the reprr-
sentatives of sufficirntly opposite llchool::~) are at direct issue with
Malthu'i and the political rconomists who agrre.with him, and it
would srem that nothing but rxperience can decide the question
satisfactorily between thrm. After tracing the imaginary conse-
quences of the state of happiness which would produce a super-
abundant population, Malthus adds-" And thus it appears that a
society constituted according to the most beautiful form that
imaginatiun can conceir•·, with benrvolrnce for its moYing prin-
• Vol. 2, p. 2ill.
Digitized by Coogle
662 APPENDIX.
ciple instea~ of self-love, and with every evil disposition in all its
members corrected by reason, not force, would from the inevitable
laws of naturP, and not from any fault in human institutions,
degenerate in a very short period into a society constructed upon a
plan not essentially different from that which prevails in evt'ry
known state at present; a society, divided into a class of pro-
prietors and a class of labo!ll'ers, and with self-love for the main-
spring of the great machine." Here again the deduction is in the
inverse ratio to that which the other party draws from the same
premises, and again the appeal must be made to experience;
a priori argumPnt can avail nothing where the axioms upon
which the disputants ground their reasonings are diametrically
opposed. The one party maintains the perfect wisdom and good-
ness of the laws of nature, and that when man's institutions shall
have been placed in harmony with them, his unlimited progres-
sion and happiness will be secured ; the other believes that the
"mischief arising from human institutions is light and superficial,
in comparison with those deepcr-st•ated causes of evil, which result
from the laws of nature and the passions of mankind.''• Accord-
ing to our estimate of the truth of these sPparate \'iews, will pro-
bably be that we shall take of the conclusions to which thf'y lead.
And yet, notwithstanding his plea of impossibility derived from
his principles, the beauty and advantages of equality seem to
approve themseh·cs so warmly to his feelings that one might '00
almost tempted to claim Mr. :\lalthus amongst its ad\·ocatcs. "If,"
be says, "the danger of over-population wt>re to be removed until
the whole earth were cultivated, and a beautiful systt>m of equality
wc·re in other respPcts practicable, I cannot think that our ardour
in the pursuit of such a schcnu.• ought to be damped by the con-
tPmplation of so remote a difficulty.
might fairly be left to Providence."
An ennt at such a distance
And again-" The system of
~'quality, which )lr. Godwin proposes, is, on a first \'iew of it, the
most hPantiful and rngaging of any that ha!'! yet appearrd. A
nwlioration of ~ol.'if'ly h• b1• produ~C'rl mrn·ly by n·•~son and t·on-
• ~J.,Jthu,, vol. 2, p. ::16.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX. 663
viction, gives more promise ofpermanence than any change effected
and maintai.ned by force. The unlimited exercise .of private
judgment is a doctrine grand and captivating, and has a v&~~t
superiority over those systems, where every individual is in a
manner the slave of the public. The substitution of benevolence,
as the master-spring and moving principle of society, instead of
self-love, appears at first sight to be a consummation devoutly to
be wished. In short, it is impossible to contemplate the whole of
this fair picture, without emotions of delight and admiration, ac-
companied with an ardent longing for the period of its accomplish-
ment. But alas ! that moment can never arrive. The whole is
little better than a dream-phantom of the imagination. These
' gorgeous palaces' of happiness and immortality, these 'solemn
temples' of truth and virtue, will dissolve ' like the baseless
fabric of a vision,' when we awaken to real life, and contem-
plate the genuine situation of man on earth."
In this melancholy, dispiriting, conclusion must we indeed rest?
Or rather shall we not, in the words of Fourier's disciple, reply-
" For ourselves, who would not dishonour our own intelligence by in-
sulting the Divine intelligence; we who wish to adore and bless God,
the sovereign creator of heaven and earth, of man and his passions,
the dispenser of universal life, the Father of love, of happiness,
and harmony; we 8hall not conclude with saying-That is impos-
sible, because it i8 too beautiful ; we shall conclude on the con-
trary, religiously-That is too beautiful not to be possible."
Digitized by Coogle
ERRATA.
Vol. I, page 31, line 24, for "iuteritis" read "enteritia."
page 69, illlK'rt after the list of Intelleetual Faculties,
"Genus IV.-RIIFLKCTil<n F.AcULTJ&~<, \\ltich con1pare, judge, and
discriminate•
.. Cnliii'ARII<ON-Gives the power or discovering analogies, resetn•
blances, and difference&.
"C.IU8ALITY-Tmces the dependencies of llhenomena, and t.he relation
of cause and effect."
Page 140, line 2, for "describe," read " aaeribe."
221, line 13, for" inconceivably," road "inconveniently."
The fragmentary remarks iu chap. 4, part l, were intended to be iU~CrteJ
at the end of part.•t.
Vol. 2, page 357, line 11, for " cool, read " COlli."
pngc 372, line 29, for '' is," read " are."'
H. loll<RI\IIHIW, I'IUNTIR, l\lVEXTR\-.
Digitized by Coogle
