{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__magre___magicians_seers_mystics.pdf","mytitle":"Magicians Seers Mystics","mylang":"de"}
MAGICIANS, SEERS, and MYSTICS
( P I B I I s M K D IN h N C L A N D H I N D E R T H K T I T L E “ t h e R E T U R N O F THK. M 4(.l**)
T r a n sla ted fro m thje F r en c h
o f
MAURICE MAGRE
BY
REGINALD MERTON
NEW YORK
E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC.
MAGICIANS, SEERS, AND MYSTICS, COPYRIGHT,
1932, BY E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC. : : ALL
RIGHTS RESERVED : : PRINTED IN U. S. A.
FIRST EDITION
CONTENTS
FACI
I n t r o d u c t i o n ............................................................................9
A po llo n iu s o f T yana
His Y o u th .........................................................19
Apollonius in the “ Abode of Wise Men ” . 27
His M ission.........................................................32
His Weakness and Greatness . . . . 38
The Daimon...................................... . . . 4 2
T h e U n k n o w n M a ste r o f t h e A l b ig e n se s
The Unknown Master of the Albigenses . . 49
The Crusade.........................................................57
The Two E sclarm ondes.................................78
M ontsegur.........................................................84
The Cave of O m o lh a c .................................91
The Doctrine of the Spirit.................................94
Ferrocas’ May-tree . . . . . . 105
Ch r istia n R o se n k r e u t z a nd t h e R o sic r u c ia n s
The Life and Travels of Christian Rosen­
kreutz .........................................................Ill
True and False Rosicrucians . . . . 123
The Rose and the Cross • .................................127
T h e My st e r y o f t h e T em pla r s
The Initiates of A c tio n .................................135
Hugues des Payens and the Order of the
A ssa ssin s.................................................140
The Denial of Jesus and other Charges against
the T e m p la rs .........................................151
The Fall of the Order . ' .................................161
vii
viii CONTENTS
PACK
N ico la s F la m el a nd t h e P h il o s o p h e r ’s Sto n e
The Book of Abraham the Jew . . . 173
Nicolas Flamel’s Journey.................................180
The Philosopher’s S to n e .................................185
History of the Book of Abraham the Jew . 189
Alchemists and A d e p ts .................................196
Sa in t -Ger m a in t h e I m m ortal
His O rig in .........................................................209
The Riddle of his Life and Death . . . 2 1 5
Sccret Societies.................................................229
Legend of the Eternal Master . . . . 233
Cagliostro the C harlatan.................................240
Ma d a m e B la v a tsk y a nd t h e T h e o so ph ist s
The Masters and the Choice of a Messenger . 249
H. P. Blavatsky’s Phenomenal Life . . . 257
The Secret D o ctrin e.........................................269
The Sadness of the Masters . . . . 2 7 5
E p i l o g u e ........................................................................................281
I n d e x 285
I N T R O D U C T IO N
F rom the earliest times a message has passed from the
East to the West, like the water of a bountiful river, to
indicate the true path to perfection. At times, under
the drought of evil or the violent fervour of ignorance,
the river has dried up and the thirsty have not drunk
of the liberating water. There have been centuries
during which but a single drop has reached them,
brought by a brave man in the vessel of his heart.
There have been times also when the water flowed
abundantly, but no one was able to see the deep bed in
which it ran.
It has been my intention to write the history of the
heroic messengers who brought the message at the peril
of their lives, braving the hatred of the malicious and
the anger of the deliberately blind, as well as a more
formidable enemy, their own frailty.
This history is incomplete, because many persons
invested with a high mission have been forgotten or
disregarded in the annals of history, and also because
there are others ofwhose existence the author is ignorant.
It does not include the history ofthe highest messengers,
the founders of religions. The lives and the teachings
of these are well known, and another account would not
give new light to anyone.
I have made it my task to write of masters who are
less exalted but nearer to ourselves. The inmost cssencc
9
10 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
ofthose who are too great eludes us. We are tempted to
liken them to gods and think of them no more owing to
the distance which separates them from us. Even if we
had more detailed knowledge of the enigmatic Lao Tse,
who among us would think of imitating his mode of life ?
What one remembers of him—and remembers with a
certain satisfaction—is that he had a bad temper.
Buddha's meditation under his fig tree seems to us to
have been of superhuman duration. We should have
liked him to return, or to repent what he had done, after
he left his wife Yasodhara. We are almost drowned in
the infinite indulgence of his smile. Jesus also is too
perfect. Why did he not sometimes take up again the
scourge with which he drove the money-changers from
the temple ?
One learns more from the frailties and defects of great
men than from those of their qualities that are in­
accessible for ordinary humanity. When I read of an
Albigensian adept denouncing under torture all who had
helped and hidden him in his flight, I am first of all
indignant at his lack of courage; but then I begin to
wonder how I should have behaved myself if I had had
molten lead poured into my mouth and my legs slowly
broken in a specially constructed machine. And I have
all the more feeling for this adept who was overcome by
physical pain, and with whom I have at least this frailty
in common.
I was deeply touched by the love of Cagliostro for
Lorenza, because it gave me the means of weighing the
value of that which he sacrificed for her. He was aware
of the power given to man by chastity, and I can well
imagine the remorse and the great bitterness that he
i n t r o d u c t i o n 11
must have felt when she sold him to the Inquisition.
Even the innumerable cigarettes that Madame Blavatsky
so untiringly smoked are evidence to me that it is
possible, without despairing of oneself, sometimes to
gratify the physical body, which one is at the same time
attempting to conquer.
It is more profitable to study the history of the
imperfect masters than that of the masters who were so
near the gods that they have been enveloped in the
clouds of the empyrean. Such as they were, these
imperfect masters, they constituted the imperfect chain,
broken sometimes by their own hand, that connects the
thought of the West with the eternal truth of Brahma,
which is as old as the appearance of man on earth.
This truth is propagated by different means, according
to the epoch and according to the people. It has become
known to us through the teachings ofthe Cabala, through
the Greek Mysteries and through the Neo-Platonic
philosophy. The Albigenses of Languedoc possessed it
in all its purity. The Rosicrucians caught a glimpse of it
through the darkness of their Christianity. It is widely
and freely current now, though I should not estimate at
higher than fifteen the number of people in France who
earnestly endeavour to receive it. But in its different
aspects this truth has always been one. It is the light
from a single diamond shining through the prism of
apparently different formulae.
What has seemed to me to be the most remarkable
feature in the history of this transmission of truth is the
following phenomenon, which is ceaselessly repeated.
Whenever the eternal wisdom of the East is presented
to men—whether in the words of a prophet, or in the
teachings of a sect, or in the form of a book—it arouses
indignation. And the freer the truth from dross—the
more beautiful, the more moral, in the noblest sense of
that much profaned word—the higher the wave of
indignation. Just as a worm gets into a ripe fruit and
gnaws its heart, so an obscure agency slanders the
prophet, breaks up the sect, parodies the thought con­
tained in the book.
This phenomenon seems to be due to the working of a
conscious will. In order to turn Christians from Apol­
lonius ofTyana, the Fathers ofthe Church misrepresented
all his actions and contrasted him with Jesus. Cor­
ruption crept into the Order of the Templars and served
to justify, in external appearance, the charges brought
by the King of France and the Pope. Jesuits penetrated
among the Rosicrucians (where, thanks to their virtues
of patience and humility, they attained prominent
positions), transformed the symbolism of the Order,
diverted it from its philosophic aim and turned it into a
meaningless religious group. In modem theosophy an
inner current has recently declared itself which tends to
reduce theosophy to a kind of esoteric Catholicism. The
only exception to this rule is seen in the case of the
Albigenses, the hatred aroused by whom was so intense
that they were exterminated to the last man, and even
their descendants were exterminated. Everywhere the
idea is transformed into narrow dogma, becomes petrified
in dead ritual, materialised in ceremonial and genu­
flexions, in candles and incense. The letter stifles the
spirit. So in the Middle Ages pure Christian ideas were
stifled by the sacerdotal pomp ofthe Church.
But what is this will, which envelops movements
12 MAGICIANS, SEERS, A\I) MYSTICS
I N T R O D U C T I O N 13
towards the human ideal and opposes them, either by
force or by guile ?
Belief in these messengers involves belief in those who
have sent them. Since the earliest ages of the history
of humanity, in spite of wars and cataclysms, men more
highly developed than ourselves have been the
depositaries of the ancient wisdom which has been
bequeathed to them down the centuries. Tradition
relates that there exist seven brotherhoods of these wise
men, the most important of which inhabits an unknown
monastery in the Himalayas. These masters, who are
more learned than we in the laws of Nature, more
spiritualised, work at the development of other men to
the extent permitted by their means, which are limited,
and by our own capacity, which is extremely small.
They are neither gods nor even demi-gods ; they are our
fellows, but with more knowledge, more wisdom, more
love. They desire us to partake of the fruit of truth,
which is so difficult to cultivate and is so jealously pre­
served ; that is why they send into the world messengers
entrusted with the task of spreading their teaching.
Human ignorance is so great that these messengers
have always been received with contempt and derision.
An arrogant love of unenlightenment is the characteristic
of the Western races. But if the history of these
messengers is followed, it will be seen that it is not only
blind ignorance which has thwarted their efforts, but a
hostile will, possessed of activity and intelligence. We
are, therefore; justified in supposing that in opposition to
the masters who turn men towards the spirit there are
other masters, of another order, who have an opposite
ideal, which, on our level of development, we may call
evil. They represent the power of retrogression, which
contests our spiritual progress. Whenever a man tries to
free himself of matter and return to the divine unity
—which isthe goal ofall religions and all occult systems—
these masters hinder him and set up an ideal of
individualism, a standard of excessive material enjoy­
ment. To the ascetic in search of God they oppose the
superman, the artist or the conqueror, who finds sublime
pleasure in the egoistic aggrandisement of his being.
And it may be that these masters also send messengers.
In which case the messengers would not only be repre­
sentatives of egoism, eulogists of physical pleasure like
some of the Roman poets, insane hedonists like Nero,
philosophers like Nietzsche; they would be conscious
destroyers of thought, men who may be observed
throughout history impeding the activity of the mind.
Among them would no doubt be the Chinese Emperor
Che Hoang Ti, who, at the end ofthe third century before
Christ, had a search made in his empire for the sacred
books of China, of which he then proceeded to make an
immense auto da fe. Among educated men his name
endured as a symbol of horror. Another such was the
Roman Emperor Diocletian, who destroyed the books
dealing with the ancient occult science and condemned
to death all found in possession of them. Such, too, was
the canonised Bishop Cyril, who persecuted the philo­
sophers of the Alexandrine school and destroyed the
school, which represented the highest point of truth
reached by man. Innocent III, Torquemada, the Emir
Almohade Yacoub, who put philosophers to death,
Hakem, Caliph of Egypt, that enemy of progress, whose
greatest pleasure was to vilify and degrade, and a
14 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
I N T R O D U C T I O N 15
thousand others, may have been such messengers.
Many of them exercised with love and faithfulness their
innate hatred of the spirit. Sometimes they were kind-
hearted people ; when they had parents and children,
they loved them ; for the laws of instinct are common
to all mankind, and true evil and true good operate on a
quite different plane from that on which we usually place
them.
Moreover, it may be that from a much higher point of
viewthewhite brotherhoods and the brotherhoods of evil,
the initiates ofGod and the initiates of egoism, meet after
their long separate journeys and realise that their paths
are thenceforward one.
In the centuries to come the ascetic Albigensian will
walk hand in hand with the proud bishop who had him
burned at the stake. The idol Baphomet with his double
face, symbol of the two currents that divide man, will be
seen once more on the altar of the Templars. The
Rosicrucian alchemist will no longer listen for the step
of the Inquisitor in the street outside. There will be no
more need of messengers to bring truth to the world
because the purport ofthe message will be graven before­
hand in the souls of men.
I apologise for the deep feeling with which I have
written certain passages in this book, notably in the
section which concerns the Albigenses. But I feel
indignant at a great injustice which has never been
remedied and seems unlikely to be remedied. Those
self-controlled, unassuming men who lived in Southern
France during the thirteenth century, whose practical
rule was poverty and whose ideal was love oftheir fellow-
naen, were exterminated, and calumny has triumphantly
16 m a g i c i a n s , s e e r s , a n d m y s t i c s
wiped out even their name and their memory. Calumny
has been so active and so skilful that the descendants cf
these wonderful men aTe unaware of the noble history of
their ancestors; and when they wish to learn it it is
presented in such a fashion that they blush at their
extraordinary past. Through an analogous injustice the
names of Apollonius of Tyana and of the Comte de
Saint-Germain have been tarnished, or tainted with the
suspicion of charlatanism.
May this book, imperfect as it is, light up the lives of
those who died for a high ideal and who have not even
had the posthumous reward of being useful to their
unenlightened descendants! May it restore to the
imperfect masters, whose lives I have traced in outline,
a portion of the glory that is their due, which has been
withheld from them because they were sometimes weak
and passion-ridden, because they were human like us !
May it show that in imperfection there may be greatness,
that the face of the charlatan, if he is sincere, holds
warmer comfort than the austerity of the scholar or the
priest, and that the message of love and truth is an
encouragement to us which is all the greater in that it is
transmitted to man by a man !
APOLLONIUS OF TYANA
HIS YOUTH
THE voice which had one night cried to the ship’s
captain, “ Pan, great Pan is dead I” still
re-echoed over the Tyrrhenian sea; the three
magi of Chaldaea had hardly climbed their towers after
their journey to Bethlehem, when Apollonius was born
in the little town of Tyana.
According to legend, great prodigies marked his birth.
The most remarkable, because it is quite credible and
therefore ceases to be a prodigy, seems to me worthy of
being set down here. Just before he was born his
mother was walking in a meadow ; she lay down on the
grass and went to sleep. Some wild swans, at the end
ofa long flight, approached her and by their cries and the
beating oftheir wings awakened her so suddenly that the
infant Apollonius was bom before his time. Possibly
—for there is a relation between the birth of certain
persons and the life which surrounds them—these swans
had foreseen and marked by their presence the fact that
on that day was to be bom a being whose soul would be
as white as their own plumage and who, like them,would
be a glorious wanderer.
Apollonius, exceptionally, received the gift of beauty.
Men with the seal of the spirit are apt to be near-sighted,
disproportioned, deformed. It is as though their inner
fire causes irregularities in their physical bodies. And
their career is accompanied by vague murmurings to the
19
effect that they have followed the barren path ofthought
only because the path of pleasure was closed to them.
But there was nothing of that sort said of this favoured
among the children of Greece. And the renown of his
beauty and intelligence grew so great that the words,
“ Whither do you hurry ? Are you on your way to see
the young man ? ” became proverbial in Cappadocia.
Another unusual gift was that of a great fortune. His
father was one ofthe richest men in the province, so that
his childhood was spent surrounded by luxury. He
lacked nothing, neither learned masters to teach him
nor the invaluable possibility of dreaming, which is given
by leisure. Certain virtues devolve only on the few. In
order to distribute his fortune among others a man must
first have the good luck to possess a fortune. But every
quality has its defect. From his early education
Apollonius retained a leaning towards the aristocratic, a
foible for greatness, which impelled him, on his travels,
to hasten, before doing anything else, to visit the monarch
of the country in which he happened to be, and, later at
Rome, to become the counsellor of the Emperors.
When he was fourteen his father sent him to Tarsus to
finish his education. Tarsus, as well as being a town of
study was also a town of pleasure, and life there was soft
and luxurious for a rich young man. On the banks of
the Cydnus, in an avenue bordered with orange trees,
students of philosophy discussed Pythagoras and Plato
with young women in coloured tunics slashed to the hip,
wearing Egyptian high triangular combs in their hair.
The climate was hot, morals free, love easy. But the
young Apollonius was not carried away by this. He
showed at Tarsus a precocious puritanism from which he
20 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 21
never deviated subsequently. In his opinion the wine
flowed in too great abundance, wine that veils the clarity
ofthought and hinders the soaring ofthe spirit. Perhaps
he was disturbed one evening by a face that was too
beautiful and thought that if he once allowed himself to
lie in a woman’s lap and loosen the golden clasp of a
silken tunic, he would be tempted to the end of his days
to repeat the experience.
By his fourteenth year he was probably aware of the
existence of the two different paths and weighed up all
the riches of the mind, the time, the living energy, that
are lost by love. He must have learned the inverse
relation that exists between the gift of clairvoyance and
love. And no doubt also he did not feel the need for
enriching the mind through the heart. He resolved to
remain chaste, and he seems to have kept his resolution.
Men of austere virtue—if, indeed, the absence of
attraction by women can be called virtue—often find no
difficulty in practising this virtue because they lack the
fires which bum in other men. Of what possibilities of
knowledge are those men deprived who at the outset of
their lives adopt a rule ofchastity ? Buddha married the
beautiful Yasodhara and loved her tenderly. He even
had other wives, in accordance with the custom of his
country. Confucius was married to the obedient Ki Koo,
and Socrates had two wives, in accordance with the laws
of Athens, the charming Myrto and the bad-tempered
Xanthippe. Plato made no profession of chastity, and
Pythagoras did not include it among the essential
rules of his school; for tradition relates that he was
married to Theano and that he even laid down a series of
precepts for conjugal life. So that it was his own
prudence, his own extreme regard for spiritual safety,
that impelled the young man of Tyana to keep his
virginity, a condition which was exacted only from
vestals and Pythian priestesses.
He took up his quarters at iEgse with his Epicurean
master Euxenes. JEgse possessed a temple of/Esculapius,
the priests of which were philosophers and doctors of the
Pythagorean school. Men came from all Greece, Syria,
and even Alexandria to consult them. There were
pilgrimages, wholesale healings, an atmosphere of
psychical phenomena and miracle. The priests of JEgae
healed by the laying on of hands and by the application
of the power of thought, which was a science with them.
They practised magic, studied the art of the inter­
pretation of dreams, as well as the more subtle art of
inducing them and extracting the prophetic element.
They were the heirs of an ancient knowledge, of which
the teaching was oral, which came from the old Orphic
mysteries, and the secret of which had to be jealously
guarded by the disciple who received it.*
The school of Pythagoras formed at that time a secret
community with several stages ofinitiation, the members
of which recognised one another by certain signs and
used a symbolical language in order that the doctrine
might remain unintelligible to the profane. Music,
geometry and astronomy were the sciences recommended
by the Pythagoreans as best adapted to prepare the soul
for the reception of supra-sensory ideas. They taught
detachment from material things, the doctrine of the
* The Pythagorean Timycha cut out her tongue rather than reveal
to Dionysius the Elder the reason for the prohibition of beans in the
rules of the community.
22 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
transmigration ofsouls through successive human bodies,
the development of spiritual faculties through courage,
temperance and fidelity to friendship. They discovered
the relation ofnumbers to the phenomena ofthe universe,
and they communicated with the souls of the dead and
the spirits of Nature by means of ceremonies and incan­
tations. The aim oftheir teachings was the enlargement
and the purification of the inner man, his spiritual
realisation.
Apollonius remained in the temple of ^Esculapius,
where he showed an astonishing gift for healing and
clairvoyance and amazing eagerness to acquire the secret
knowledge. He let his hair grow, abstained from the
flesh of animals and from wine, and walked barefoot, clad
only in linen clothes, giving up all that were made of
wool. He even took a certain pride in having the out­
ward appearance of a young prophet. However great a
man may be, he does not disdain to dress his wisdom in
the uniform of a wise man.
Euxenes tried in vain to deflect him into more moderate
paths. In his opinion true wisdom was not so exacting
a master. It might be reconciled with all the pleasures
of life. Euxenes was one of those lean, insatiable
hedonists, of whom the East produces so many, and for
whom intellectual speculations were almost physical
pleasures, of the same order as the choice of wine or
women. He distrusted miracles, and what he most
admired in Plato was the fact that the immortality ofthe
soul had been discussed with the flowers and exquisite
food of Agathon’s banquet for setting.
Apollonius bore Euxenes no ill-will for being so unlike
the perfect man who was his ideal. He bought him a
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 23
villa surrounded by a garden outside ^Egae and gave him
the money he required for his courtesans, his suppers and
his poor friends.
He then imposed on himself the four years’ silence
which was necessary to obtain the final Pythagorean
initiation. He became very celebrated. This celebrity
grew uninterruptedly, a fact which he observed without
displeasure. He made predictions that came true,
quelled a rebellion by his mere presence, resuscitated a
girl whose funeral passed him. But these were only
recreations. Like all who passionately seek truth, he
went back to its sources, insisted on knowing the origin
of the divine waters of which he drank. Pythagoras
travelled to Babylon and Egypt. But, according to a
tradition preserved in all the temples, it was in India
that he received the final word of wisdom ; it was from
India that he brought the message that was to transform
the men of Greece. Since then centuries had passed,
bringing with them deep, regular waves of ignorance.
The message has to be continually repeated. Apollonius
felt that he was invested with the mission of setting off
to seek the new words and bringing them back.
He had no doubt been very much affected by the
stories with which the Greeks were then occupied con­
cerning the Buddhist priest Zarmaros of Bargosa.
Some years before the birth of Apollonius, Zarmaros had
come to Athens with an Indian embassy bringing presents
for the Emperor Augustus. He had been initiated into
the Eleusinian mysteries, and then, as he was very old,
he gave out that it was time for him to die, had a funeral
pyre erected in a public square, and mounted it in the
presence of the astonished Athenians.
24 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 25
The story of this death impelled Apollonius to see the
country in which lived the wise men who had such a
contempt for death. He made preparations to travel
alone and on foot. The journey would be long and
difficult, though less difficult than might be supposed.
For in those days wise men and men ofreligion recognised
a mutual kinship and formed secret communities in
which the traveller found assistance and shelter from
stage to stage.
Moreover, Apollonius knew where he was going. He
took the route of Pythagoras, whose itinerary chance or
the benevolence of a hidden power enabled him to
discover.
Some distance from Antioch, while visiting, as his
custom was, the ancient places that were sacred to the
gods, he entered the half-abandoned temple ofDaphnaean
Apollo. He was charmed by the solitary beauty of the
spot, the melancholy of the spring and the circle of very
tall cypresses surrounding the temple. There was no
one there but a half-peasant priest, who seemed some­
what crazy but in whom there still lived, like a forgotten
lamp, the consciousness that he had to preserve a
religious secret. When the priest returned from tilling
his land he found Apollonius among his cypresses. He
offered him hospitality for the night, which Apollonius
accepted in order to be in the holy place next day before
sunnse. For he thought that to commune with the
gods, to receive their warnings and advice, the most
propitious hour was that which precedes the birth of day.
He was at prayer next day when the priest brought him
the temple treasure, which had been preserved through
tradition, handed down from father to son. This con­
sisted of a few thin sheets of copper on which were cut
figures and diagrams. The crazy priest had jealously
preserved them till that moment, but in Apollonius he
recognised the man worthy to receive the treasure which
to him was incomprehensible.
By the light of the rising sun the Pythagorean
deciphered on the copper sheets the record of his master’s
journey, an indication of the deserts and the high
mountains to be crossed before he reached the river in
which elephants disport themselves and on the banks of
which grow apples as blue as the calyx of the hyacinth.
He saw before him a description of the exact spot which
he had to reach, of the monastery among the ten
thousand monasteries in India which was the abode of
the men who know.
Apollonius was to be the last Western emissary for
centuries. After him the door was shut. Plotinus tried
in vain two centuries later to follow in his steps behind
the armies of the Emperor Gordianus, but was compelled
to turn back. Thenceforward it was to be possible to
create light only from the almost vanished fragments of
the ancient wisdom. Darkness was about to fall for
centuries on the Christian world.
26 M A ( I K ’ I A N ' S , S E E K S , A N D M Y S T I C S
APOLLONIUS IN THE “ ABODE OF WISE MEN ”
APOLLONIUS had just reached the little town of
Mespila, which had once been Nineveh, “ bril­
liant as the sun on a forest of palms,” and was
looking at the low houses built in past ccnturies by
Salmanazar’s slaves. The curve of a half-buried cupola
emerged from the sand. Near by was the statue of an
unknown goddess with two horns on her forehead, and
among the broken mosaics a man was sitting. It was
Damis,* who from that moment was to become his life’s
companion.
By virtue of some mysterious affinity a dog which
you meet casually in the street turns, attaches itself
obstinately to you and shows inexplicable faithfulness.
Damis rose to his feet, saluted the man who was thence­
forward to be his master, and was accepted by him as a
guide to take him to Babylon.
He knew the way there perfectly, and he boasted,
too, of knowing the languages spoken in the countries
through which they would have to pass. Apollonius
smiled and replied that he knew all the languages
spoken by men and understood their silence as
* The life of Apollonius is known from the ingenuous stories of his
disciple Damis. These stories were collected in the second century by
Philostratus, who, at the request of the learned empress Julia Domna,
wrote a life of Apollonius.
27
well. Damis was to realise a little later that
Apollonius also possessed knowledge of the language
of birds, and could read the great characters, dark
against the blue of the sky, formed by the trajectory
of their flight.
But the guide was to act as guide for the terrestrial
journey only; in their spiritual journey it was he who
was to be guided. Damis was an ordinary man in quest
of his fate, whatever that might be. If a troupe of
travelling actors had happened to pass by he might have
taken service with them as a dancer. But it was a wise
man whom he met, and he dedicated himself to wisdom.
Wisdom, however, never took much account of him. He
did not penetrate below the surface of the mysteries with
which he came into contact. Possibly because Apollonius
always left him outside the door of the temples ; or else
because his love of the marvellous prevented him
understanding truth, which is more beautiful than
fiction.
The two travellers saw the glistening silver-blue domes
of Babylon ; they passed through its walls, spoke with
the magi and set out on their journey again. They
climbed mountains such as they had never seen before.
The summits were veiled in clouds, but Apollonius
remained unaffected by the gradual unfolding of their
snowy immensities.
“ When the soul is without blemish,” he said, “ it can
rise far above the highest mountains.”
They crossed the Indus and passed through countries
whose coinage was of yellow and black copper and whose
kings were clothed in white and despised ostentation.
One evening, on a lonely river bank, they came on a
28 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y 8 T I C 8
brass stele inscribed with the words, “ Here Alexander
halted.”
And when they had for many days followed the course
of the Ganges, when they had climbed more hills and
mountains, and met the single-horned wild ass, the fish
with a blue crest like the peacock’s, and the insect from
whose body inflammable oil is made; when they had
avoided the tiger with the precious stone in its skull
—they saw in the middle of a plain a stone building
with the same elevation as the Acropolis at Athens.
They were, according to Philostratus* account,
eighteen days’ march from the Ganges.* A strange
fog hovered above the place, and on the rocks
surrounding it were the imprints of the faces, beards
and bodies of men who appeared to have fallen. From
a well with a bottom of red arsenic the sun drew a
rainbow.
Apollonius and his companion had the feeling that the
path by which they had come had disappeared behind
them. They were in a place that was preserved by
illusion, in which the countryside shifted its position and
moved in order that the traveller might not be able to
fix a landmark in it. Apollonius had at last reached the
country of the wise men of India, of whbm he was later
to say:
“ I have seen men who inhabit the earth, yet do not
live on it, who are protected on all sides though they have
no means of defence, and who nevertheless possess only
what all men possess.”
Then a young Indian advanced towards them ; on his
• It may be noted that Tzigadzi, the great centre of Thibetan
lamaseries, is about 18 days' march from the Ganges.
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 29
hand was a ring of gilded bamboo in the form of an
anchor. He greeted Apollonius in Greek (for the men
whose messenger he was had heard of his arrival) and
conducted them to the community of wise men and to
their head, Iarchas.
For several months Apollonius lived with the men who
knew. It was here that he learned the science of the
spirit, the capacities hidden in the heart of man and the
means of developing them, in order to live as the gods
live. It was from Iarchas that he received the mission
that was to send him wandering all his life long among
the temples of the Mediterranean countries, for the
purpose of dematerialising religion, restoring its former
purity. It was here that he learned to pronounce the
ineffable name, the secret ofwhich confers on its possessor
supreme power over men and the capacity of dominion
over invisible beings.
When he left his Indian hosts, Apollonius had the
certain knowledge that he would be able to remain in
communication with them.
“ I came to you by land,” he said ; “ and you have
opened to me not only the way of the sea but, through
your wisdom, the way to heaven. All these things I will
bring back to the Greeks, and ifI have not drunk in vain
of the cup of Tantalus I shall continue to speak with
you as though you were present.”
The wise men, on the threshold of their valley of
meditation, gave them white camels on which to cross
India.
They returned by the Red Sea, in which the Great
Bear is not reflected and where at mid-day men cast no
shadow on the deck of their ship. They saw the country
30 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
of the Orites, where the rivers abound with copper;
Stobera, the city of the Ichthyophagi; and the port of
Balara, surrounded with myrtle and laurel, where are
found shell fish with white shells and a pearl in the place
ofthe heart.
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 31
HIS MISSION
APOLLONIUS returned from India charged with a
task of the magical order, which, within the
knowledge of man, he was to be the only person
to accomplish. It is possible that Pythagoras before him
had been invested with the same mission, which he dis­
charged during his travels. But that weshall never know.
Iarchas had shown him in a cell of his monastery a
young shining-eyed ascetic whose intellectual faculties
were more extraordinary than those of any of the other
wise men in the community, but who nevertheless was
unable to attain a state of serene meditation. Some­
times he even cursed his intelligence and declared it
useless. He suffered from perpetual restlessness, which
could not be allayed. Apollonius had enquired the
identity ofthis ascetic and the reason for his sufferings.
“ He suffers from an injustice done him in a previous
life,” was Iarchas’ answer. “ He was Palamedes, the
greatest and the wisest of the Greeks. His name is for­
gotten now and his tomb abandoned, and Homer makes
no mention of him in his history of the Trojan War.”
This was an example of the danger of knowledge.
Apollonius might have replied :
“ How grateful should we be to Nature, who has
drawn over man the veil of oblivion simultaneously with
the veil of death and has so preserved him from the evil
consequences of the life he leaves behind him 1 How
worthy of compassion is he who is developed sufficiently
32
to read the past, but insufficiently to judge an old in­
justice with indifference.”
Apollonius undertook to repair the injustice done to
Palamcdes, though he only actcd according to the
instructions he had received. He had learned from
Iarchas the art of imprisoning in objects spiritual
influences which had the power to act at a distance and
across time. In certain places, preferably sanctuaries
which already contained magnetic influences of religious
origin, he was to lay talismans intended to perpetuate
the active force which had been enclosed in them.
Similarly, in ancient tombs or sacred chambers he would
find talismans which had been laid there by former
messengers of the spirit.
The tombs of heroes long retain in their stones, in the
leaves of surrounding trees, in their solitary atmosphere,
the ideal of the man who has become dust. That is the
reason why pilgrims who cross the earth in fulfilment of a
vow and prostrate themselves before the monument of
some revered person, always bring back in their empty
hands immaterial riches which they alone can see.
A little later Christianity was to revive these practices
of ancient magic and extend their use enormously with
the worship of the saints and the adoration of relics.
But it never found out the secret of Apollonius.
His first thought after reaching Smyrna was to go to
Troy. His travels in India had increased his fame, and
many disciples accompanied him. They embarked with
him on a ship which carried them to the coast of JSoIia,
opposite Lesbos, not far from the little port ofMethymna.
They arrived at sunset in a deserted bay, and Apollonius
requested to be left alone on shore in order that he might
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 33
meditate in the hour before dawn, when the thoughts
of the spirits of the dead and of higher powers reach men
pure enough to receive them.
It was in this place that Palamedes lay buried ;
Palamedes, of whose very name Homer was unaware ;
the poet and the scholar, who had been the victim of
Ulysses, the man of action. The man who had invented
different methods ofcalculation, fire-signals and the game
of chess, the most inventive of all the Greeks, had been
stoned before the walls ofTroy through a false accusation
of treason brought by Ulysses.* That creative intel­
ligence should have gone unappreciated; that the
winged gifts of this inventor of science and beauty should
have been stifled by jealousy, and no reparation made
after his death—was a racial crime which it was necessary
to set right, a blot on the history of mankind which
would become greater as men’s culture progressed, and
which it was the duty of a wise man’s hand to wipe out.
At dawn Apollonius indicated the spot near the sea
where they were to dig, and a statue of Palamedes, a
cubit high, was found. It was set up in its former
position, in which Philostratus, two centuries later, bears
witness that he saw it. The statue of the unappreciated
hero standing opposite the sea was for long a proof to
travellers interested in the memorials of primitive Greece
that soonerorlaterjustice isdone to thosewho have litthe
firstlamps ofenlightenment. And perhaps in a cell in the
abode of wise men a taciturn ascetic felt an unfamiliar
consolation fall on him like a ray of.the iEolian sun.
* Palamedes detected Ulysses’ feigned madness. Ulysses out of re­
venge forged a letter from Priam, King of Troy, and hid it in Palamedes’
tent. Whereupon Palamedes was stoned to death.—Trans.
34 MAGICIANS, SEERS, AND MYSTICS
Where did Apollonius, during his travels throughout
the world, lay the talismans whose radiations were to
ensure man’s spirituality ? Is it to him that the im­
pression is to be ascribed that one feels at Pæstum
(where he stayed), before the now deserted Temple of
Neptune ? The man who breathes in its silence, touches
its Pentelican marble, even now finds himself compelled
to look within himself, where, in the depths of his heart,
he catches a glimpse of another deserted temple, set
before a sea that is not so definite as the Mediterranean.
It is the same with the Lérin Islands, where Apollonius
stayed because he thought (though without grounds)
that that favoured spot off the Gallic coast was to
become a centre of future civilisation. Here, soon after
his visit, was founded the monastery of Saint-Honorat,
which has endured through the centuries.
The murmur of the cypresses in the avenue there is
different from elsewhere, the colour of the stones is
different ; and if you lean over the well you feel the
vibration of the eternal verities oflife. Is this the result
of the magic of Apollonius ? It would, of course, be
childish to assert that it is. All that can be said is that
he applied, or tried to apply, a method the transcendence
of which eludes us.
The ostensible and most easily intelligible aim that he
pursued was that of unifying creeds, explaining symbols,
showing the spirit behind the images of the gods of
paganism, suppressing sacrifice and external forms, in
order that all worship might participate in the Platonic
union with divinity. For this purpose he went to all the
holy places, in Syria, Egypt, Spain ; he even reached
the rock of Gades, which later was to become Cadiz, and
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 35
was, according to Pliny, the last part of the continent
that escaped the catastrophe of Atlantis.
Everywhere he received as he passed almost divine
honours. His capacity for clairvoyance enabled him to
make predictions which were verified by events and which
had the effect of increasing his fame. He had no diffi­
culty in escaping Nero’s persecution of philosophers, and
his-admirers said that when confronted with the tribunal
that was to try him, he was able, through his magic art,
to erase the writing on the document on which his
inditement was written. He acted as counsellor to
Vespasian. He recognised the real nature of a vampire
woman, who, in the form of a beautiful girl, incited his
disciple Menippus to pleasure in order to drink his blood.
He recognised also the personality of a recently dead
and much-mourned king in a tame lion which was
herbivorous, and very gentle and affectionate. He
restored the true idea of love to a rich madman who
wished solemnly to marry a statue. He exorcised a
lecherous demon who instigated an inhabitant of Corcyra
to attack all women he met. He healed a man who had
just been bitten by a mad dog—which was an ordinary
miracle. But he pursued the mad dog a long way in
order to heal it,too, by plunging it into a river—which was
a sign of exceptional kindness of heart. Imprisoned by
Domitian and acquitted by the court which tried him,
he disappeared immediately after being set free, either
by using a trick of collective suggestion, like some fakirs,
or else, wishing for rest after the emotions of his trial,
by merely mingling unnoticed with the crowd.
At last, after a thousand natural miracles, easily
accomplished, when he was more than eighty years old
36 MAGICIANS, SEERS, AND MYSTICS
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 37
he accomplished the miracle of dying. It was a great
miracle, for everyone believed him immortal. But
perhaps after all this miracle was not accomplished, for
at the end of his life Apollonius, like all the great adepts,
disappeared without leaving a trace. The phenomenon
ofdisappearance seems to have been particularly pleasing
to him, and he did not fail to contrive it at the moment
of death, the longest disappearance of all.
Some say that one evening he left his house in Ephesus,
where he lived with two servants, and never entered it
again. Others assert that the disappearance of his
physical body took place in a temple of Dictynna, where
he was spending a night in meditation.
No one has ever heard of the tomb of Apollonius, just
as no one knows where Pythagoras died. Several
Roman Emperors who admired Apollonius, notably
Caracalla, who put up a temple to him, investigated the
matter in vain.
It may be noted, though importance is not to be
attached to the fact, that eleven centuries later there
lived in Spain an Arab philosopher named Artephius,
who claimed to be Apollonius of Tyana. This Artephius
lived in Granada and Cadiz, where Apollonius had stayed
for a long time. He stood in very high reputation
among the hermetic philosophers of his day, who came
from the most distant countries in order to consult him.
Like Apollonius he professed the Pythagorean philosophy
and studied the art of compounding talismans and
divination by the characters of the planets and the song
of birds. He had been able, he said, to prolong his life
in a miraculous way by means of his knowledge of the
philosopher’s stone.
HIS WEAKNESS AND GREATNESS
APOLLONIUS,” Domitian asked when he
appeared before him, “ why do you not wear
the same clothes as other people, but dress in
special clothes of a singular kind ? ”
To the end of his days Apollonius felt the need of
singling himself out from others, of attracting curiosity
to his person. The higher men rise, the greater grows
their pride and the more childish it remains.
As he entered Mesopotamia, the toll-collector on the
bridge over the Euphrates asked him what he brought
with him.
“ Continence, justice, courage and patience,” was the
reply.
The collector, thinking of nothing but his tolls,
said :
“ Give me a list of these slaves.”
Apollonius answered :
“ They are not slaves ; they are masters.”
When he reached Babylon a high official of the king,
whom he was about to visit, as his custom was, asked
him what presents he brought. Apollonius replied :
“ All the virtues.”
“ And do you suppose,” said the official, “ that he does
not already possess them ? ”
“ If he possesses them I will teach him how to use
them.”
38
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 39
He had two slaves, of whom he emancipated only
one—a sign of semi-generosity.
Once, when in a garden in Ephesus, he saw by clair­
voyance the murder of Domitian in Rome. “ Strike the
tyrant, strike him ! ” he cried joyfully, as though to
encourage the distant murderer. Which shows that he
did not profess the forgiveness of all offences.
His miracles were so numerous that some of them
must have been done for the purpose of dazzling his
followers, of adding to his fame. For his own personal
advantage he made use of his knowledge of natural laws
that were still unknown to his contemporaries. So, on
the penultimate rung of the ladder of development, does
self-love drag a man down again to the bottom.
Woe to those who, claiming disinterestedness, do not
achieve total disinterestedness ! Once on the path that
leads to the heights, a man no longer has the right to
look back ; and a single selfish thought destroys the fruit
of a whole life devoted to the love of mankind.
The world, for the spiritual development of which he
worked so enthusiastically, has not done Apollonius full
justice, and has even discussed sharply the perfect purity
of his life. He was surrounded with hatred as well as
with admiration. He made too many prophecies, even
though they were precisely realised, performed too many
marvellous tricks. The mediocre minds which create
the reputations of great men insist that virtue shall be
muffled in tedium and that it shall not be illumined by
anything of the marvellous. If a man lacks the audacity
or has too much sincerity to present himself as a god,
he must be content to remain within the limits of honest
humanity. If the philosophers glorified Apollonius, the
Christian world contrasted him with Jesus; while the
ecclesiastical historians for centuries, even down to our
own times, have made his name a synonym for charlatan
and trickster, with a tenacity which should suffice to
prove his greatness of soul.
Renan, the last of these ecclesiastical historians, after
calling him “ a sort of Christ of paganism,” retracts his
words and says :
“ If Apollonius had been sincere, we should know him
through Pliny, Suetonius or Aulus Gellius, as we know
Euphrates, Musonius and other philosophers.”
But Renan forgets that neither Pliny nor Suetonius
nor Aulus Gellius speaks of Jesus, whom, for all that, he
regards as a sincere man. For my part, I think that
man was “ sincere ” who never entered a temple
without saying this prayer: “ Grant, O gods, that
I may have little and feel the need of nothing.” For
contempt of riches is a wonderful touchstone of man’s
virtue.
He was a sincere man who taught the immortality of
the soul, but taught it with caution (in which he
resembled Buddha), saying that it was useless to discuss
too far this question and that of man’s destiny after
death, because he considered that that part of the truth
which was known to him was too deceptive.
He was a sincere man who said : “ When the body is
exhausted, the soul soars in ethereal space, full of con­
tempt for the harsh, unhappy slavery it has suffered.
But what are these things to you ? You will know them
when you are no more.”
For him wisdom was “ a sort of permanent state of
inspiration,” to attain which he prescribed chastity, a
40 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 41
food ofherbs and fruit, clothes as immaculate as the body
and the soul.
He was a sincere man who laboured to separate the
spiritual essence of his being and unite it with the divine
spirit; who, ascribing an important part to the
imagination, using it as a path to self-development,
discerned in the smile on the face of a statue the spirit
that lies behind form; who regarded material things, the
contour of a landscape, the colour of rivers and of stars,
the multiform earth, as the symbols of another, a purer
world, of which they were but the reflections.
THE DAIMON
ALMOST all of us at least once in our lives, during
a sleepless night or an illness, have heard a
voice which, coming from nowhere, and, as it
were, speaking silently, gives us advice, usually wise
advice. It is always when we are in solitude and most
often at moments of exaltation that this silent voice
speaks. Certain men of genius have heard this voice
near them so plainly and so often as to make them believe
that an intelligent being was about them, directing them
with inspired advice.
The Greeks called this being by the name of daimon,
and the best-known of all, that which has been discussed
at greatest length by the philosophers, was the daimon
of Socrates.
“ The favour of the gods,*’ said Socrates, “ has given
me a marvellous gift, which has never left me since my
childhood. It is a voice which, when it makes itself
heard, deters me from what I am about to do and never
urges me on.”
He spoke familiarly of this daimon, joked about it and
obeyed blindly the indications it gave. Eventually, his
friends never took an important step without consulting
it. But the daimon had its sympathies, and when it
was unfavourable to the questioner it remained absolutely
silent; in that event it was quite impossible for Socrates
to make it speak.
4*
Of what order was this daimon, which manifested itself
to Socrates in childhood but was heard by Apollonius of
Tyana only after he had begun to put into practice the
Pythagorean rules of life ?
“ They are intermediate powers of a divine order.
They fashion dreams, inspire soothsayers,” says Apuleius.
“ They are inferior immortals, called gods ofthe second
rank, placed between earth and heaven,” says Maximus
of Tyre.
Plato thinks that a kind of spirit, which is separate
from us, receives man at his birth, and follows him in
life and after death. He calls it “ the daimon which has
received us as its portionment.” It seems, therefore, to
be analogous to the guardian angel of Christians.
Possibly the daimon is nothing but the higher part of
man’s spirit, that which is separated from the human
element and is capable, through ecstasy, of becoming one
with the universal spirit. To an organism that has been
purified, therefore, it would be able in certain conditions
to transmit both the vision of past events, the image
of which happens to be accessible to it, and that portion
ofthe future the causes of which are already in existence,
and the effects of which are consequently foreseeable.
But the fact that the daimon had preferences among
Socrates’ friends, that it chose between them, seems to
show that its intelligence was different from that of
Socrates himself. Socrates often said that this inner
voice, which many times deterred him from doing one
thing, never incited him to do something else. Now it is
a rule among adepts never to give any but negative
advice ; for he who advises someone to do a thing not
only takes upon himself the burden of the consequences,
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 43
but deprives the man he advises of all merit in the
action.
Apollonius believed that between the imperfection of
man and the most exalted among the hierarchy of
creation there existed intermediaries. One of his inter­
mediaries was the ideal of beauty that we make for our­
selves, an ideal which is formless, but is none the less real
on another plane of life. This ideal was the daimon, the
reality of which became the greater in proportion as the
idea of it became the more powerful in its creator’s
mind.
Thus a sculptor with intuition who had a knowledge of
magic might, in certain conditions, be able to give form
to a creature of ideal beauty begotten by his own ideal.
In order then to steep oneself in the perfection of this
creature there would be two methods : either to actualise
it on the terrestrial plane by giving it a form; or to
enter its ethereal domain by divesting oneself of form
through the transformation of ecstasy.
Plotinus, Iamblichus, Proelus and all the mystics of
the Neo-Platonic school used the second method. They
sought the beauty of the soul, strove to find the radiant
inner ego, and thanks to the impetus of ecstasy they
sometimes attained their aim.
It may be that certain workers of miracles who
possessed an amazing secret used the first method and
lived with a divine companion whom they had themselves
made visible to their own human eyes. But they kept
their secret to themselves. Those of them who spoke
of it were regarded as mad and were imprisoned or
burned. There were others, too, whose soul was impure
and who created caricatures of the ideal and were
44 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
haunted by monsters resembling them. The Middle
Ages, when methods of ancient magic were still being
handed down, are full of stories of men possessed,
tormented by their own demons, which, once they were
created, never died and attached themselves to their
creator.
We shall never know to what order the daimon of
Apollonius belonged; whether the being who advised
him took on a form as chaste as himself and as beautiful
as the statues ofthe gods which he liked to contemplate ;
or whether the voice came from a distant master who
wished to see his pupil carry out the mission with which
he had entrusted him.
“ I shall continue to speak with you as though you
were present,” Apollonius had said as he left his Indian
masters.
Was it their words that he heard at a distance ? Did
he by divine inspiration receive the influx of their wise
thoughts ? The man to whom he gave the name of
Iarchas must often have brought the consolation of
distant support to the untiring traveller, the wandering
mystic. Even in Domitian’s darkest cell there was a
moment when a certain fluidity in the atmosphere
indicated the light of dawn. The world was more silent,
the walls became thinner, and the voice was heard :
“ The greatest are those who never find their place,
in times which are unpropitious to them. Nothing of
the good that a man has done, and, more particularly,
nothing of the good that he has thought, is lost, even if
he is imprisoned or crucified for that good. But be not
as the Hindu ascetic, who was unable to forget injustice.
Because the word of the master Jesus will burn like a
A P O L L O N I U S O F T Y A N A 45
living flame deep into the hearts of Western humanity,
you will be calumniated and forgotten. You will be
contrasted with Him, and for centuries pious men will
speak of you as a juggler or mountebank. But if you
rise to the region where neither justice nor injustice
exists, you will know that this is a matter of small
importance. . . . It will be necessary for you to share
also His sorrow, which is very great. He has been a
thousand times more misunderstood than you, a
thousand times worse betrayed. Make ready to
approach Him on the day that is appointed in the Book
without characters. Perhaps He will elect to speak with
kings, and send you to teach poor fishermen. Then
perhaps you will be crowned with the glory that you so
ardently desired.”
46 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
THE UNKNOWN MASTER OF THE
ALBIGENSES
THE UNKNOWN MASTER OF THE ALBIGENSES
WAS there an unknown master whose words gave
birth to the Catharist* truth ? Did a master
bring the eternal verities from the East to
the inhabitants of Albi and Toulouse ? Was he the man
whom a peasant of Rouergue met by the roadside one
evening as he was returning to his farm, the man who,
according to the peasant’s story to the Inquisition
tribunal, had a strange persuasive power, the features of
a Moor, and a bluish light around his head ? Was he
Pierre, the pupil of Abelard, who began teaching in the
twelfth century ? Was he one of those anonymous
preachers who stopped at street corners in small towns
to teach simple men that the poverty which brought
them apparent unhappiness was the pledge of boundless
bliss after death ?
Was the true initiate, the great propagator of
Catharism, Nicetas, the Bulgarian mystic who several
times travelled through Southern France, laid the
foundations of a new church at Saint-Felix de Caraman,
and entrusted to certain men, whom he recognised as
• The origin of the word Catharist is obscure. Derived from the
Greek naBapds, clean, pure, it must have signified those who strive
towards perfection, and been the name which the members of the sect
originally gave themselves. Pronounced Cazarist, it may have been
applied to the inhabitants of Cazares, a small town near Toulouse which
was a centre of the heresy, and the use of the word was then extended,
like the word Albtgenses, to include all the heretics of Southern France.
49
being pure of heart, the book in which the spiritual
doctrine was embodied ? Nothing is known of him,
except the deep impression left by his visit and the
extension of the Catharist movement which followed his
departure for Sicily.*
The greatest masters remain hidden, and in the origin
of the Albigenses no one sublime personage can be found
playing the rôle of initiator. Possibly, in virtue of the
expansive force of truth, the heretical doctrines that
came from the East crossed Europe, to invade France
and spread to Germany, like wind-carried pollen which
germinates wherever the ground is propitious.
In Greece the monk Niphon, a man full of wisdom
and virtue, was condemned by the Patriarch Oxites to
lose his beard, a mild and somewhat peculiar punishment.
He was also imprisoned. But he was set free by another
patriarch. His beard grew again, and his fiery preaching
raised up disciples who travelled all over the world to
spread his words.
Near Turin a fervent believer, a countess, who owned
the castle of Monteforte, formed, with the help of a
mystic named Girard, a community which attempted to
lead the perfect life. In it all men were equal, and the
goods ofone belonged to the others. No meat was eaten,
for they believed it wrong to take the lives of animals.
No wine was drunk, for its fumes obscured the presence
of the spirit. Life to them was a kind of penitence, and
if a man did not desire eternally to enter new bodies, to
• It may be noted that it was after the visit of Nicetas to Sicily
that the group of the Faithful in love was formed, whose doctrine had
so much in common with Catharism. It is said that Frederick II,
the protector of heretics, was an initiate. One of the masters of this
group was Guido Cavalcanti, the friend and initiator of Dante.
50 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 51
reincarnate endlessly, it was necessary for him to attain
to detachment from everything, for that alone would
allow him to become united with God. It was necessary
also, but only when a man had reached a certain degree
of perfection, to abstain from marriage and from the act
by which life is perpetuated.
The Archbishop of Milan conducted an expedition
against the castle of Monteforte. He took the heretics
prisoner and had them all burned at the stake. The
chronicler of these facts remarks that the archbishop
would have preferred to spare their lives, but does not
explain why he did not do so.
It was then that the words of Girard, spoken before his
death, were verified.
“ It is not I alone whom the Holy Spirit visits. I
have a large family on earth, and it comprises a great
number of men to whom, on certain days and at certain
times, the Spirit gives light.”
This light became manifest throughout France.
An unknown woman came to Orleans, and after listen­
ing to her all the canons of the collegiate church of
Sainte-Croix turned heretic. Two clerks named Etienne
and Lisoi became the theologians of a new church which
taught that Jehovah, the God of the Old Testament,
was an evil God Who, after being unwise enough to
create, concerned Himself solely with punishment; a
church which rejected baptism and gave remission of
sins only on condition of perfection of life.
At the order of King Robert these heretics were
seized at a house in Orleans in which they were meeting.
They were dragged off to a church, where Guarin, Bishop
of Beauvais, interrogated them while their stake was
being erected outside the town. Queen Constance
waited before the church door for the condemned men
to come out and with the end of her stick put out one of
Etienne’s eyes, for he had previously been her confessor
and had caused her to run the risk of hearing false
doctrine. The historian records that a nun preferred to
renounce her heresy rather than be burned at the stake,
but omits to tell us how many preferred death to renun­
ciation.
The spirit breathed at random, touching the foolish as
well as the wise. One day while the Breton Eon de
Loudeac was attending mass in a church he fell asleep.
The officiating priest had a loud, echoing voice, and Eon
was awoken by it as it was pronouncing this sentence in
the liturgy, “ Per eum qui venlurus cst judicare vivos et
mortuos” (through Him who is about to come to judge
the living and the dead). In the word eum Eon
fancied he heard his own name uttered. It was God
bidding him judge the living and the dead, distinguish
the pure from the impure. He rushed out of the church.
His mission had begun.
He started preaching. He branded the wealth of the
prelates, the harshness of the powerful. All who
possessed property were no better than dead. lie, Eon,
conferred life by the laying on of hands. He judged, as
God had directly bidden him. He expounded the
Catharist doctrines, which had mysteriously come to
him, and his sincerity, coupled with a kind of light­
hearted wildness, made him popular wherever he went.
Disciples gathered round him, and their number con­
tinually increased. After travelling through Brittany,
Eon turned southwards. He camped with his disciples
52 MAGICIANS, SEERS, AND MYSTICS
A L B I G E N S E S 53
on moors and in forests. He organised a church of
priests according to God, who possessed nothing and went
almost naked, followed by a great crowd ofthe faithful.
The Archbishop of Rheims succeeded in dispersing the
menace of these pure-living men. Pope Eugene III
travelled to preside in person over the council which
tried Eon. But to all questioning Eon merely replied
that on him lay the duty, following upon the direct order
of God, to judge the living and the dead.
In Flanders a certain Tanquelin, like Jesus, spoke with
fishermen. He roused the people of the North to
enthusiasm by proclaiming that the sacraments were
useless and that women ought to be communised on
account of the vanity of the pleasure obtained through
them. But success turned his head. He returned to
the taste for riches which he had begun by proscribing.
This former apostle of simplicity assumed princely
clothes, encircled his hair with a golden fillet and, one
day, betrothed himself to the Virgin Mary before an
image.
But it was in the region of Albi, Carcassonne and
Toulouse that the mystic revolution took place. In the
Périgord district there was Pons, at Toulouse Henri, at
Castres Guillabert. But these men were scholars and
philosophers, who expounded the wisdom of Catharism
in writing. The Roman Church had shut its iron gates
and raised the walls of its ever immutable principles.
With the Catharist philosophy many intelligent people
welcomed the possibility of disclosing by free research
the spiritual meaning of the scriptures, and of solving
the metaphysical problems which have haunted thinking
men from the earliest times. Others, men who did not
read books but observed and were shocked by the
ostentation and immorality of the bishops, listened to the
ascetics of the street corners because their souls were like
the souls of the early Christians and because there was
to be found in their words the pure doctrine ofthe master
Jesus.
That which the Church called “ the abominable
epidemic leprosy of the south ” manifested itself as an
epidemic of unselfishness, a handing on of goodness, a
chain of sacrifice.
A rich citizen of Carcassonne awoke in the night
because he could no longer bear the thought of his riches
when so many poor men had nothing. An inner voice
told him that he must not lose a moment, an order which
he obeyed scrupulously. He took up valuable pieces of
furniture and carried them into the street, for anyone
to take what he wished. As the night was dark he lit
two lamps before his door in order to facilitate the way­
farer’s choice ; and as the street was deserted he fetched
a trumpet and blew it in order that men might know
that his property no longer belonged to him, that they
might hasten to take it from him, and that the rising
sun might shine on his redeeming poverty.
At Lavaur a half-dumb man succeeded in speaking
and became eloquent in the desire to teach his fellow-
men that not only is there a single life of suffering, but a
man must reincarnate endlessly in different bodies if he
does not escape from the inexorable wheel by attaining
perfection in one life-time.
At Montauban a man named Querigut scandalised the
town by handing over his wife, to whom he was devoted,
to another man who loved her. He retired to a hill which
54 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
was the haunt of wolves, where he ate berries and roots,
and slept joyfully on the bare earth ; for, he said, a man
learns from the companionship of wolves that the more
the body suffers the higher the soul rises, and the more
he subdues human love the more he gains divine love.
Buddhist renunciation became a moral law which
spread with astonishing rapidity. From Bordeaux to
the borders of Provence, in stern Languedoc, under the
chestnuts of the Albi district and on the moors of
Lauragais, the roads were full of ascetics walking bare­
foot, eager to tell their brothers what the spirit had
revealed to them. And it was always the humble who
received inspiration. The spirit was repelled by the
magnetism which the gold of the Church released. On
the other hand, it entered freely into the solitary moun­
tain hut, into the artisan’s little house backing on to the
ramparts of a town, or into the peaceful monastery on
the banks of the Ariege or the Garonne. In the poplar
avenue and the stone cloister where walked a hundred
shaven-headed monks, it breathed sometimes with such
contagious power that it caused the gates to be shut
and the garden and the chapel to be abandoned ; it
transformed copyists of manuscripts and illuminators of
missals into wandering prophets of the new heresy.
At the end of the twelfth century the words of the
Pelagians, “ Christ had nothing more than I have ; I can
make myself divine by virtue,” seemed essential to most
men in Southern France. Estranged more and more
from the God of the churches, the God to Whom were
raised images that were too richly gilt in shrines that
were too magnificent, the God ofrich prelates and pitiless
barons, they worshipped the inner God, Whose light grew
A L B I G E N S E S 55
56 m a g i c i a n s , s e e r s , a n d m y s t i c s
brighter the more they lived pure lives filled with love
for their fellow-men.
In the eyes of selfish men there can be no greater
crime than a crime of disinterestedness and love. The
hatred aroused by moral superiority shows no pity.
The Christian Church with its priestly hierarchy, its
richly endowed brotherhoods of monks, its powerful
abbeys, could never forgive the Catharists for setting an
example of asceticism that was greater than their own.
There is no more cruel tragedy in history than that ofthe
all but total annihilation of the Catharists by the King
of France, the Pope, and the barons of the north.*
* Every history of France is a history of the unity of France, and not
the impartial history of any particular district. The conception of
unity causes the historian to violate the most elementary justice. The
war with the Albigenses seems to have assisted the future unity of France.
In those who write of it the indignation it arouses is by no means
wholehearted. It is in every case summed up cursorily. There is a
general wish to forget it. It is embarrassing. Even in the case of
Michelet, the apostle of justice, there breaks through the contempt
which northerners have always felt and still feel for the " eaters of garlic,
oil and figs.”
THE CRUSADE
AT that time the country which extended from the
sea of Provence and the towers of Fréjus to the
sea pines of Guyenne was, after the enlightened
Spain of the Moors, the most civilised in the world. It
was still illumined by the never-dying light of Athens
and of Alexandria. The baths and triumphal arches of
the Emperors had not fallen into ruin in its cities, and
there was not a hill without a Roman statue among the
vines and olives. Aristotle and Plato, who had been
translated into Latin at Granada, were the food of its
scholars. The towns had a municipal freedom that was
unknown to the northern towns. At Toulouse the power
of the Capitouls acted as a check to that of the Counts.
The voluminous literature of the troubadours flourished
even in the remotest villages of the Pyrenees. And the
Saracen invaders had left behind them when they went
the theorbo* of Damascus, on which the music of the
Orient was played.
But to the men of the north, southerners seemed what
they seem to-day : a garrulous, vain, idle race. Their
gay lightheartedness seemed a want of seriousness, and
their mysticism could be nothing but heretical. Among
them survivals of paganism were more alive than else­
where. Freedom of thought was greater ; it manifested
• The theorbo was a two-necked musical instrument of the lute
class.—Trans.
57
itself in the satirical lines of the poets, in the sermons of
predicant monks, in popular movements that were so
audacious, so lacking in respect, that it was possible for
St. Bernard, after a triumphal journey through France,
to be hooted by a crowd in Toulouse. Crusaders on
their way home from Constantinople and Palestine who
disembarked at Fr^jus and Marseilles couid not help
seeing a strange resemblance between the dark, thin
southerners, with their prominent bones and long faces,
and the infidels they had fought with such pious enthu­
siasm and thirst for pillage.
It was true that the barons of Provence and Gascony
had been their comrades. But as they ascended the
Rhone on their way to the forests of Brittany or the
plains of Flanders, they saw towns the architecture of
which differed from that of their own, towns which from
a distance bore a resemblance to those which they had
just been besieging, and before which so many avaricious
knights had fallen, for a booty that was inadequate.
They saw the hated relics of the Saracen invasion. Not
far from Saint-Tropez lay the mighty bulk of the chateau
of Fraxinet, from which the infidels had for so long
commanded the Mediterranean coast; there were also
the turreted fortifications of Narbonne; the abbey of
Saint-Donat near Grenoble; and the octagonal hill­
towers which guarded passes and cross-roads and bore
witness to the invasion of the Moors from Spain. The
dresses of the women were too ostentatious, and there
was something Oriental and immodest about them. The
language had a barbarous resonance. The towns con­
tained a great number of Jews, who not only were com­
pletely free to practise their religion, but had prosperous
58 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
businesses or professed letters or medicine, and were
honoured by the nobles.
When, therefore, at the order of Pope Innocent III,
the monks of Citeaux scattered all over France to preach
the war of extermination against Raymond VI, Count
of Toulouse, and the whole of the south, they found the
ground prepared. The campaign offered a thousand
times as many advantages as that on which they had
ventured overseas on the pretext of freeing the tomb of
Christ. The Church offered the same spiritual advan­
tages, redemption of sin and even eternal life ; while the
material advantages were immediate and familiar. The
châteaux were rich, the women beautiful, the wine
abundant. It was assuredly a task blessed by God to
invade this country, which was brown like Palestine ;
to kill these turbulent, rebellious men of Oc ; to possess,
in a setting of Moorish fabrics, their wives, who were as
perverse as daughters of Satan.
Three terrible figures dominate the great Albigensian
massacre. For the massacre to be possible, it was
necessary that an extraordinary genius for violence, for
organisation, and for hypocrisy, should take shape in
three men, who were all equally devoid of pity and,
possibly, equally sincere in their hatred of heresy and
love of the Church.
It was Pope Innocent III who, with obstinate deter­
mination, desired and decided on the crusade. The
murder of the papal legate Pierre de Castelnau was only
a pretext. Historians are unanimous in gloryifing this
pope. To them the great men of history are men who
do something, who have a powerful will and exert it to
attain an aim. It makes no difference whether the aim
a l b i g e n s e s • 59
is sublime or abominable ; it is success in attaining the
aim which gives the measure of genius.
As soon as he was elected pope, in all his public
utterances Innocent III began to talk of “ exterminating
the impious.” It was the dominating idea of his life,
and he realised it wholeheartedly. He had a deep-
rooted conviction that any man who attempted to build
up a personal view of God which conflicted with the
dogma of the Church must be burned without pity at the
stake.
He went even farther. He considered it his duty to
exhume the bodies of dead heretics whose heresy was
unknown during their lifetime, in order to deprive them
of a peacc to which they had no right. In 1206 he
excommunicated an abbot of Faenza who refused to
allow the exhumation of the body of a heretic buried
in the abbey cemetery. “ Skilful enquiry by Catholics,”
he said, “ must bring to light the crime of those who
have pretended to lead a Christian life in order to deceive
public opinion.”
In a decree to the citizens of Viterbo he assured them
that “ the divine sentence punishes fathers in their sons,
and the canonical laws sanction this disposition.”
Though he was thoroughly well informed as to the
moral purity of the Albigenses and the Catharists, he
spoke of them as “ lascivious sects, who, overflowing
with libertine ardour, are but slaves to the pleasures ofthe
flesh.” He exhorted his envoys unscrupulously to
betray the Comte de Toulouse by making promises which
they had no intention of keeping, for in so just a cause
as the destruction of heretics all means seemed to him
good.
60 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
In Simon de Montfort* he found the iron instrument
to serve his apostolic fury.
Simon de Montfort was a fortuneless soldier of noble
birth. He was a man of sixty when the crusade began
and was not attracted by women, a trait which may
cause the commander of an army to show mercy when
it is intended to massacre the entire population ofa town.
He was a man of austere morals. He was unable to read
and had no desire to learn. Possibly also he would have
been unable to learn. He was amazingly short-sighted :
in battle he could hardly see the opponent he was
striking. He used his sword entirely at random, and
after the battle was over he would laugh noisily with his
knights over the fact that he had been able to kill without
seeing. He had a habit of keeping his eyes shut, and so
was sometimes called the blind knight. It may be that
some of his cruelty was due to the fact that he was never
able to see the expression of despair on the face of his
victim. He obeyed the pope’s orders blindly. He was
animated by incredible cupidity, though he was open­
handed with the clergy. He could see no farther than
his nose, but he had the gift of seeing riches through
walls; by the time he had passed through a town he
knew perfectly well which of the inhabitants it was
necessary to accuse of heresy in order to confiscate their
property, to his own profit. He was unconscious of the
existence of the chivalrous code of his day. He seemed
to be possessed by a fury ofdestruction, by a cold passion
for razing castles to the ground, putting his prisoners
to death, spreading devastation. During the ten years
* Father of the Simon de Montfort famous in English history.—
Trans.
a l b i g e n s e s 61
that the war lasted, on no single occasion did he show a
streak of pity. He was devoured with hatred for the
country.which he was in process of conquering and of
which he had been appointed ruler. He showed no love
even for his own men. When he raised the siege of
Toulouse he left his wounded behind him, though he
could perfectly well have taken them with him. He was
merciless to the humble, sycophantic to the powerful.
He was the valet of bishops, the slave of the pope. A
lion was his heraldic emblem, and certainly nothing so
well symbolises evil as the features of that savage
animal. He had the courage given by the knowledge
that he was the strongest. He was the symbol of the
evil that isincarnate in man, and that evil was manifested
in circumstances that were the more terrible in that he
wore the mask of the Archangel Michael.*
Behind de Montfort’s head a saint raises a cross, as
though to provide him with a halo and allow him to
draw from a religious source his marvellous capacity for
destroying towns and killing men. This saint was the
Spaniard Dominic de Guzman. He represented in the
spiritual domain what de Montfort represented in the
earthly. But the enemy he was attacking had greater
powers of resistance than the walls of Carcassonne or the
chateau ofNarbonne. His enemy wasthe hydra ofheresy,
which he saw hidden in men’s souls. To gain his ends he
imitated the Albigenses, went barefoot on the southern
• Michelet, trying to find some virtue in him, speaks of " his courage,
his austere morals, his unwavering belief in God.” He also tells with
admiration the story that is told by all the chroniclers, of how he once
helped his soldiers at the peril of his life to cross a river. M. Achille
Luchaire speaks of him as " a resourceful diplomatist and a skilful
organiser of conquered countries."
62 M A C
> f C I A N S , S E E K S , A N D M Y S T I C S
roads, begging his bread, eager to preach and to convert.
His faith was as absolute, his disinterestedness as perfect,
as those of his enemies. But he could not beg. He did
soarrogantly and longed to strike with his stick anyone
who, though he might have filled his wallet generously,
remained dumb when mention was made ofHoly Church.
The men he met in the course of his wanderings had
skulls as hard as his own Spanish skull, and in his fury
at the impossibility of converting them he forged the
plan of instituting a terrible Order, which a little later
would convert by force. The sound ofhis voice was rau­
cous, and he was never able to rid himself ofhis Spanish
accent. On the French side ofthe Pyrenees men’s voices
are musical, and a southerner knows his own race by a
light in the dark eyes which the monk of Osna did not
possess. He had not the capacity for winning hearts.
He felt that he was among his kin only when he was
once more in the presence of the northern barons.
Simon de Montfort never acted without taking counsel
with him. And the mystic followed the soldier. He
never uttered a word in favour of mercy. He never
intervened on behalf of the wives or children of heretics
who were to be burned in his sight, and he was present
at every butchery. Moreover he regarded the evils of
the crusade as just punishment for sins which deserved
no pardon. He said to the crowd at Prouille :
“ Where you heed not the blessing of the Church,
you shall heed the stick. We will stir up against
you princes and prelates. Towers shall be destroyed
and walls broken down, and you shall be reduced to
slavery.”
He had no scruple about taking possession of houses
a l b i g e n s e s 63
stolen from barons of the south and given him by de
Montfort for use as monasteries of his Order. A ball of
fire miraculously falling at night on the demesne of
Prouille indicated to him God’s wish that there should
rise there the school of proselytisers which was to bear
his name; and he had no hesitation in dispossessing
Guilhem de Prouille ofhis family property. His disciples
after him glorified the saint and were elated by the
miracle ; they did not regard it as improbable that God
should have sent a ball of fire in order to designate the
scene of a theft.
The trend of his life is indicated by another miracle
which took place at Toulouse in 1234, on the day of his
canonisation. Bishop Raymond had just celebrated the
canonisation in the Dominican convent. As he was on
his way to the refectory to consummate the religious
ceremony by a feast, word was brought him that a
heretic woman of Toulouse lay at the point of death in
the rue de l’Olmet awaiting the Catharist bishop to
receive the consolamentum at his hands. Raymond
immediately rushed out with his soldiers. The friends
of the dying woman cried out, “ Here is the Bishop !”
The woman was misled and thought they meant the
Catharist bishop. Joyfully therefore she affirmed her
faith to Raymond, answered all his questions, gave him
the names of the believers whom she knew. The Bishop
and the Dominicans quickly had her condemned, and
they had just time to watch her burning in the market­
place near by without being obliged to postpone their
feast. But the woman’s happy blunder and the swiftly
kindled stake were signs of St Dominic’s favour. The
monks returned to the refectory singing canticles to
64 MAGICIANS, SEERS, AND MYSTICS
A L B I G E N S E S 65
celebrate the miracle which signalised the canonisation
of the saint.
The history of the Albigensian crusade is, or rather
ought to be, well known. I will summarise it briefly.
Catharism was spreading with extraordinary speed in
Southern France. It was the radiant cult of the pure
spirit which took possession of men’s souls, and it
seriously endangered the materialistic Church of the
pope. Innocent III realised this and despatched several
apostolic legates to Southern France. These legates
went to Toulouse, which was the capital of Catharism.
They were resolved to strike a resounding blow, which
should bring misery and terror to the south.
There lived at that time in Toulouse, in the rue du
Taur, a venerable old man named Pierre Maurand, who
had been the host of Nicetas* and held nocturnal meet­
ings at which he preached the new religion. He was
compared to St John on account of his shining eyes. He
was a capitoul (magistrate) and one of the richest men
in Toulouse. The legates summoned him solemnly
before the people, interrogated him, convicted him of
heresy and condemned him to death. The strength of a
martyr was not in him. He feared death, which is
usually harder to a rich old man than to other men, and
promised to return to the Roman Catholic Church. But
his return was made difficult. He was compelled to walk
barefoot from the prison to the church of Saint-Sernin
between the Bishop of Toulouse and one of the legates,
who beat him unmercifully with rods. At the church
he asked pardon on his knees, recanted, and listened to
his sentence, which was that he should have his houses
• See p. 49.
destroyed and his property confiscated. He had, further,
to go to the Holy Land and for three years to devote
himself to the succour of the poor of Jerusalem. Before
his departure, moreover, in order that no inhabitant of
Toulouse should remain in ignorance of his recantation,
he was obliged for forty days to visit every church in
Toulouse, scourging himself meanwhile.
Pierre Maurand, who was then eighty years old,
scourged himself and wandered naked about the streets
for the prescribed forty days. After that he left
Toulouse, crossed the sea and came to the East. He
visited Arabia to discuss mystical subjects with the
Persian Sufi,Farid Uddin,stayed in Tripoli, learned about
the Maimonid philosophy, spent the three years in
Jerusalem and returned to Toulouse, where his friends
had never thought to see him again. His career was not
yet at an end. It was hardly more than beginning.
Typical of the stubborn men of Toulouse, he started once
more preaching secretly, and for five consecutive periods
of three years he was elected consul of the town by his
fellow-citizens, who desired to honour in him the national
resistance to a foreign pope.
People had grown so used to the idea that death could
not take him that it was thought for a long time that he
had taken refuge in the forests of Comminges; and a
century and a half later inhabitants of the outskirts of
Toulouse claimed to have seen Pierre Maurand going the
rounds ofthe ramparts to examine their strength, leaning
on his stick and erect as ever.*
* Being unable to believe in this astonishing longevity, certain his­
torians have wrongly asserted that the consul elected for the periods
following his journey to Jerusalem was his son.
6 6 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
The south had been terrified by the condemnation of
Pierre Maurand. A pope who dared lay hands on
this noble old man must be the pope of evil.
Catharism grew ; the churches were abandoned. A new
Church came secretly into being, without buildings,
without a hierarchy, without grand vestments. The
voice of Dominic the Spaniard rang in vain in the public
squares.
The legate Pierre de Castelnau started back dis­
couraged for Rome. He was a former Abbot of
Maguelonne. On the day he had been promoted by the
Pope to the rank of legate he was struck, as though by
an arrow, with insane arrogance. He clothed his guards in
scarlet and himself put on a strange ecclesiastical uniform
of gold lace. He had just excommunicated Raymond
VI, Comte de Toulouse, and had united magistrates,
notables and people firmly together by addressing the
Comte in the terms of a letter of Innocent III:
“ Pestilent and perverse man, tremble ! Thou art like
the crows, which live on carrion. Impious, cruel and
barbarous tyrant, art thou not ashamed to protect
heretics ? ”
The legate had threatened Toulouse with destruction
and had assured the inhabitants that he would personally
see to it that the ground where now rose the turrets of
the ramparts should soon be ploughed fields.
A certain young man, whose name has not come down
to us, felt keenly the insult put upon the town. He
determined to punish the arrogant legate. He followed
him to the Rhone, which must have been easy, owing to
the gaudy uniforms of the guards. As Pierre de Castel­
nau was making ready at nightfall to cross the river
a l b i g e n s e s 67
near Fourques, the young man rushed at him and
wounded him mortally with a lance. He succeeded in
escaping to Bcaucaire and reaching Toulouse, where he
received no punishment for his act.
When Pope Innocent III heard of the death of his
legate he held his chin in his hand and invoked St James
of Compostela. But he did not content himself with
that. He sent messages to all Christian kings. Every
Catholic pulpit fulminated curses. The crusade against
the Albigensian heretics was preached and a promise
given that the rich towns of Languedoc should be
pillaged. The nobility of France, at the head of German
mercenaries, prepared to march south by the Rhone, the
Velay and the Agenois.
The south might have resisted the north. If Raymond
VI, the most powerful ruler in the west after the King
of France, had collected his troops and come to an agree­
ment with the heroic Trencavel, Vicomte de Beziers,
victory would perhaps have been with him. But he was
possessed more by love for women than love for his
people. Even as a youth he roused the anger of his
father by seducing his mistresses. He had just married,
as his fifth wife, the beautiful Eleonora of Aragon, who
was sixteen years old and whom her father had been
obliged to keep shut up in a tower bccause of her
amorous propensities. Raymond wanted to be allowed
to enjoy this passionate creature in peace. An Albigen­
sian at heart, he was beginning to grow accustomed to
excommunications ; but he feared an open struggle with
the Church. Possibly he had that relish for self-betrayal
which is met with in certain men who are weakened by
love of pleasure. Besides, nothing great could be
6 8 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
expectcd of a man who had blear eyes and soft, fat hands
which were always slightly moist. He made his sub­
mission to the pope, and was vile enough to guide the
army of crusaders into the plains of the south and fight
against those who had placed themselves under his
protection.
The crusaders arrived before Béziers, where the
population of the villages, fleeing before the invaders,
had taken refuge. The town contained—counting all
who had crowded into it—more than sixty thousand
people. A great number of them had taken no part in
the heretical movement and were orthodox Catholics.
It was here, in the name of the Christian religion and
through the fanaticism of one of the most venerated of
popes, that there took place one of the most ferocious
massacres in all history. But most of the historians
make only a passing allusion to the capture of
Béziers, which they regard as an event of no
importance.
The gates wrere forced on the first day by the advance-
guard of ribands,* as they called the bands of brigands
who accompanied the armies to pillage and to plunder
the dead. The crusaders rushed in behind them. On
the previous day a council of military leaders and papal
legates had decided on the extermination of the entire
population.
An ingenuous baron had asked how they were to
distinguish Catholics from Catharists. The Abbé de
Citeaux, no doubt checking the smile called up by this
innocent remark, replied :
“ Kill them all; God will know His own.”
• From this word is derived the Engtish word ribald.—Trans.
a l b i g e n s e s 69
As the streets were full of dead and the doors of the
houses were battered in, the people sought safety by
taking refuge in the churches. The crusaders set fire to
them. Twelve thousand people are said to have perished
in the cathedral of Saint-Nazaire, the roof of which fell
in on three sides simultaneously. The whole town was
committed to the flames, and the soldiers of the pope
surrounded the great pyre, killing all who attempted to
escape.
“ May God receive the souls of the dead in His
Paradise !” says a pious chronicler after recounting the
capture of Béziers.
The Abbé de Citeaux, in the letter which he wrote to
the pope giving an account of the event, modestly
reckoned the dead at barely twenty thousand.
The young Vicomte Trencavel, who was twenty-five
years old, as brave as Roland and as handsome as the
hero of a romance of chivalry, had shut himself up in his
impregnable stronghold of Carcassonne. His skin was
milk-white, he was astonishingly beardless, and he had
blue, trusting eyes, which made him look like a child.
He had a square head, which called to mind the towers
which the Templars were putting up. He was un­
suspicious to the point of absurdity, and extremely
violent. At Béziers, not long before, he had cruelly
avenged his father, who had been murdered by certain
notables of the town. Not only did he kill these men
but, hearing that their wives had taken some part in the
matter, he forced them to marry the murderers of their
husbands, men of low condition. His subjects had seen
in this a fine example of firmness.
It was in vain that the crusade attacked the stone
70 M A G I C I A N S , S K E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
towers and thick walls of Carcassonne with battering-
rams, flights of arrows and undermining. The bravery
ofthe besieged repulsed all attacks. Trencavel’s courage
became legendary. The northern barons felt that this
inspired young man was the heart of Languedoc, and
that for them to secure the victory the heart must be
torn out. They made use of his heaven-sent credulity
to destroy him. They invited him to enter the
crusaders’camp unarmed, under the protection of Christ,
who was represented by the Roman legates, in order to
discuss conditions of possible peace. The confiding hero,
incapable of suspecting an unprecedented piece of
treachery, accepted the proposal in spiteofthe uneasiness
of his comrades at arms, who besought him not to leave
them. No sooner had he reached the tents which
sheltered the flower of the nobility of France than he
was seized and made prisoner.
All day they awaited him on the ramparts. When
night came, the defenders of Carcassonne knew that they
would not see their leader again. Moans of sorrow broke
out, which spread from tower to tower, from street to
street, until there arose in the darkness a mournful
lament, the despair of the town at the loss of the heroic
leader who typified its life.
It was the fifteenth of August, the day of the feast of
the Assumption of the Virgin, patroness of the crusade.
The night was very light. The besiegers thought that
the distant outlines of the archers on guard gradually
diminished in number and finally disappeared. The
nocturnal lament died down and ceased and there fell on
despairing Carcassonne an impressive silence. The
assault was to be begun at sunrise. The fortress seemed
a l b i g e n s e s 71
dead, like a great stone tomb. Knights and soldiers
moved forward carefully under their shields, suspecting a
stratagem. They forced one of the silent gates, and
when it fell they advanced slowly, paralysed with amaze­
ment, through the town, which was deserted and dumb,
like a town in the Arabian Nights under the spell of an
enchantment. Through the half-open windows they saw
the interiors of the houses with their abandoned riches.
At street comers dogs howled pitifully. Pieces of
armour lay scattered on the ground, and riderless horses
galloped about in all directions. At first the besiegers
thought a miracle had been enacted. Soon they learned
the truth.
Old Baron Pierre de Cabaret, a friend of Trencavel’s,
had had built some years before a broad underground
passage leading from the dungeon of Carcassonne to his
château of Cabardez in the Black Mountain. Soldiers,
consuls, the entire town, had escaped during the night.
The crusaders were able to find for their gallows and
stakes a mere four or five hundred forgotten Catharists,
crouching in cellars. These they made haste to hang and
burn, though they felt defrauded at the smallness of the
number.
The south was virtually conquered. Simon de Mont-
fort was elected ruler of it and he remained to complete
the suppression of the heresy, with his troops drawn from
the Low Countries and Germany.
On the day following the election it was learned that
Trencavel, Vicomte de Béziers, had died of illness in the
prison in which he was confined. But it was known to
the farthest limits of Christianity that de Montfort had
had murdered the man whom he had just wrongfully
72 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
dispossessed. However, a murder was a small thing
when it was a question of heresy.
And the heresy was still rampant. Castles had to be
captured one by one, siege after siege to be undertaken.
At Minerve, near Narbonne, at Limoux, not far from the
mountain of ruins and human remains which was now
Béziers, at Pamiers and Mirepoix—everywhere Simon de
Montfort hanged and burned heretics. The monks in the
abbeys and the ecclesiastical functionaries of the towns
turned to the northerner who was the papal emissary,
while the Albigenses fled to the forests of the Pyrenees.
The untiring army of crusaders marched along the
Ariège and the Garonne and massacred the whole
population of Lavaur, the beautiful châtelaine of which,
Dona Geralda, was thrown alive down a well, in order
that her death might be slow and worthy of her great
sin.
“ We exterminated them with unbounded joy,” says
the pious Pierre de Vaux de Cernay, the chronicler of the
crusade, referring to this incident. He records that on
another occasion the Albigenses “ rushed forward to the
stake, so perverse and obstinate were they in their
malignancy.”
One victim, and that perhaps the most coveted of all,
escaped de Montfort’s fury. This was the château of
Cabardez with its three towers, built on a spur of the
Black Mountain, in which Pierre de Cabaret and the
defenders of Carcassonne had taken refuge. Pierre’s
wife was Brunissande, the most beautiful châtelaine in all
Languedoc, whose beauty had been made known to the
world through the songs of the troubadours. He had a
daughter by a previous marriage, the fair-haired Nova,
a l b i g e n s e s 73
and a step-daughter, the dark Stephania ofSardinia, both
of whom were renowned equally with Brunissande
for their physical beauty and their culture. De Mont-
fort’s knights dreamed of these three young women
confined in the château with the three towers. What a
guerdon for the conquerors i Before their tents in the
long evenings of the siege they had rich food for their
lecherous imaginations. There must have been quarrels
over it, they must have chosen and drawn lots. It was
said that Brunissande had refused herselfto her husband
from the mystic chastity of a Catharist adept ; and this
was a further attraction. Nova’s virginal youth was
also an attraction, and the barbarous soldiers, accustomed
to rape in the towns they had just captured, must have
pictured their entry into the château ofCabardez as entry
into a paradise of carnal pleasure. But this paradise of
stone towering among rocks and trees held out behind its
portcullises and drawbridges. The crusaders were at
lastcompelledto raisethe siege and return in long columns
to the fields of Carcassonne. They had only caught a
glimpse ofa white dress on a rampart, an uncovered head
among helmets ofsteel. Behind them they left the three
women, inviolate, like symbols of pure beauty of the
spirit, which to the brutish man remains eternally
inaccessible.
The Comte de Toulouse had vainly sought aid from
the King of France, the King of England, the Emperor
of Germany, and had equally vainly prostrated himself
weeping at the feet of the Pope. From his frequent
association with women he had attained an extraordinary
facility in weeping and kneeling. He realised at last
that no act of self-humiliation would save him. The
74 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
a l b i g e n s e s 75
heresy was nothing but a pretext ; it was his lands and
cities that they coveted. Eventually he decided on
resistance. It was too late. His barons were decimated.
He had himself handed over to de Montfort the pick of
his own side. At Toulouse Bishop Foulque had put to
death ten thousand people accused of heresy. He had
been a troubadour and was an unbelieving adventurer
who found it wise as he grew old to take up the career
in which he would amass riches most quickly. He was
so eaten up with covetousness that it was said of him
he was envious of Christ himself when he saw an altar
that was too richly gilded. When he left Toulouse he
excommunicated, for the tenth time in a few years, its
Comte, its capitouls and its inhabitants.
Thanks to the heroism ofits men and women, Toulouse
was not taken by Simon de Montfort. Twice the
crusading armies broke before its ramparts. “ O Tou­
louse, nest of heretics and tabernacle of robbers ! ” cried
Pierre de Vaux de Cernay, furious at the prolonged
resistance of a town that refused to be destroyed.
The crusaders left the impregnabletown to ravage Albi,
the Quercy and Lauragais districts, and the comté of
Foix. Time passed. Reinforcements arrived continually
from the north. On one occasion it was ten thousand
armed pilgrims from Germany, on another it was the
Comte de Bar at the head of trained troops. From
Hautpoul in the Black Mountain to Lavenalet in the
Ariège district, Simon de Montfort marched untiring,
followed by a retinue of bishops and prelates, destroying
lovingly, patiently, methodically, as though in obedience
to a mysterious ideal of death.
A great game was played at Muret, where the King of
Aragon had arrived with a large army to defend the
Comte de Toulouse. The south awoke and hoped again.
The King of Aragon was a great captain, and victory
seemed certain. But de Montfort still won. He was
under the protection of the god of battles. In those
times and in that country materialist man was bound to
conquer the spirit.
At last, under the walls ofToulouse, which he was once
more besieging and in which old men, women, and even
children had now been armed, the invincible fell. A
stone thrown by a mangonel in charge of a girl shattered
the skull of the iron soldier, the man without pity. The
name of the girl is unknown. A picture in a room in the
Capitole at Toulouse represents her in the act of launch­
ing the stone that was to liberate Toulouse. Her face is
not shown in the picture, for it has pleased fate that it
should remain unknown. But in the movement of her
arm and neck and bust, in the tresses of her hair, one can
feel the courage, the mysticism and the independence of
the southern race which was so unrighteously crushed in
the thirteenth century.
Simon de Montfort’s body was piously brought back
by his son and brother through the country about
Toulouse, Albi and Quercy, through the Black Mountain.
From abbey to abbey, from church to church, the funeral
procession made its way through silent towns, on roads
from which the peasants fled when they recognised the
banner with the accursed emblem. Now and again
in a defile a stone thrown from a height would fall on the
coffin as evidence ofthe people’s hatred. At night in the
monasteries where the body was received candles were
lit and funeral chants sung. But in the houses round
76 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 77
about all lights were put out. Simon de Montfort was
at last leaving the land whose scourge he had been. The
pope’s terrible paladin was brought back to Montfort
PAmaury, to the monastery of Hautes Bruyères. On
his sarcophagus was sculptured the symbolical lion, the
ravening, rampant beast, with the inscription, Most
gloriotis martyr ofJesus Christ.
Six centuries later the Revolution destroyed the
sarcophagus and the sculptured lion, that the wind might
carry his dust to fhe Pyrenees.
THE TWO ESCLARMONDES
MOVEMENTS of the spirit are almost always
incarnate in a beautiful woman, who becomes
the living symbol of them. The heroine of the
south, the symbolical chatelaine of the mountain in the
Pyrenees where the last Catharists took refuge and died,
was named Esclarmonde. And since resistance was
long and extended over a century, and since death was
slow, there were two Esclarmondes. There was Esclar­
monde de Foix, the chaste, she of the chateaux, who
became a sort of high priestess of Catharism ; and there
was Esclarmonde d’Alion, the bastard, Vamoureuse,
she of the forests, of the Capsir mountain, who
wandered with the hunted Albigenses, fought like
a man, loved like a woman and died with those she
loved.
Esclarmonde de Foix had given herself up since her
youth to Catharist purity. She had sworn to devote
herself to the spirit. This vow dated from her twelfth
year. In the chateau of her father, Roger Bernard de
Foix, she had seen the Bulgarian Nicetas, who was
journeying through the south to bring the teaching ofthe
East. She had had no opportunity ofhearing him speak.
He had only given her one look, and at the same time
made a slight sign with his hand. Had he recognised
m this silent child her who was bom for the under­
standing and defence of the truth ? Esclarmonde was
78
a l b i g e n s e s 79
to remember all her life the flashing look that the
messenger Nicetas had given her.
But before she became the apostle, the organiser and
the soul of Catharism, she was to undergo a long martyr­
dom. Her father used his daughters as a commercial
means of aggrandising his baronial house. He gave
Esclarmonde in marriage to Jordan, Vicomte de Gimoez,
a brutal soldier who laughed at the new mysticism and
took the innocent girl in order that she might be the
obedient instrument of his pleasures after hunting.
Esclarmonde submitted to the violation which for men
is sanctified by the sacrament of marriage ; and it was
only after her husband’s death that she began an
apostolate which was to last thirty years. Her con­
version to Catharism was marked by some display in
order to make an impression on the people. She leagued
all the oarons of the Pyrenees against the authority of
the Roman pontiff and the local tyranny of the abbeys.
She spoke, applied the religion of the spirit, became
Esclarmonde the learned.
Legend gathered about her, and those who did not
know her created an image of her, for a high ideal must
assume a physical body, become living and active among
men. When the Albigensian martyrs of Avignonnet,
Lavaur or Pamiers mounted the stake and felt the
flames licking their feet, they found happiness in the
thought that somewhere, in a distant fortress among the
Pyrenees, on the tower of Montségur amid the clouds, a
beautiful châtelaine, clad in white, raised her hands
towards the sun and symbolised the perfect purity of
their faith.
Foreseeing the future and the defeat of the south,
Esclarmonde in her prudence had had built, as a last
asylum, a final refuge, for the fleeing Catharists the
impregnable château of Montségur, above the rocky
valleys, above the silvery torrents and the pine-clad
mountains. It was to Montségur that there travelled
at night by remote paths all who would not deny their
faith, all who escaped the massacres of the pious soldiers
of the Church, the denunciation of the monks and the
subterranean dungeons of the Inquisition.
For the avenging stone that had shattered de Mont-
fort’s skull gave back Toulouse to its magistrates and
lord only for a shorttime. The day ofmunicipal freedom
for the towns of the south had passed. The Kings of
France stole Languedoc from the Comtes de Toulouse ;
the bishops of the pope returned to their fortified sees,
riding caparisoned horses and followed by retinues of
Roman prelates. The tribunal created by the
Inquisition for the express purpose of bringing to light
hidden heresy, and composed of merciless Dominicans,
began to operate in all the towns.
The story is so appalling that it becomes incredible,
and it is hard to explain the oblivion into which it has
fallen. The great barons in terror returned to the
religion of Rome—the religion which never pardons any
deviation from its intangible dogma—and delivered up
their own subjects to the Church.
The Comte de Toulouse went to Notre Dame and there
scourged himself in order to show his fidelity to the
Church and the King. But that was not enough.
Cardinal de Saint-Ange, the Roman legate and lover of
Queen Blanche of Castille, dragged him off to Toulouse
in order that he might kneel at his, the Cardinal’s, feet
80 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
in a ceremony of humiliation before the cathedral. At
the same time he removed many professors, with the
idea ofreorganising the too independent university ofthe
capital of Languedoc and giving instruction to the
Toulousains in theocratic law, in the stern Roman
theology and in the harsh dialect of Picardy and Beauce,
which was then spoken in Paris, in place of the pure
language of the troubadours.* It was not enough to
take the maize fields, the blue vineyards and the beautiful
houses with their Saracen architecture ; the brains of
these rebels had to be altered, their thought had to
conform to the icy rigidity of Roman thought.
At Toulouse they battered down the profane symbols
which adorned the façades of houses, and at Narbonne,
opposite the château and on the site ofthe house in which
St. Dominic had lived, they built the palace of the
Inquisition. The presence of a miraculous fig tree
planted by the saint intensified the fervour of the
Inquisitors. The portal of this palace still exists ; in
the stone of the pediment a bucolically-minded sculptor,
who had no doubt come from Italy in the suite of the
legates, has carved some pretty bunches of lilies and a
dove carrying an olive branch.
As a result, no doubt, of eating of the fruit of the
miraculous fig tree the Inquisitors did their work
thoroughly. The existing prisons proved inadequate
and it was necessary to undertake elaborate building
operations in every quarter of the town. In the Place
du Peyrou and the Place d’Arnaud Bernard gallows were
put up every day, and since the executioners were few
and inefficient, others were sent for to Paris. Sometimes
* Napoléon Peyrat, Histoire des Albigeois.
a l b i g e n s e s 81
a citizen disappeared and was never seen again.
He had been immured. Men were imprisoned on the
slightest suspicion of heresy. Denunciation, even when
it had no basis whatever, was invariably taken as
genuine. Torture was introduced into the procedure as
a legal means of obtaining confessions. At this in­
novation a shiver of terror passed through the peaceful
population of Languedoc; but the result was extra­
ordinary. Confessions increased to an extent which
exceeded the hopes of the judges. Everyone was a
heretic. It was enough to have heard once in thirty
years a sermon preached by an Albigensian preacher, for
a man to be arrested and compelled, if necessary by
torture, to search his memory for the names of those in
whose company he had heard the sermon, perhaps thirty
years before.
Human cowardice multiplied the treacheries and the
denunciations. AnAlbigensianadept* denouncedallwho
had given him shelter in his flight between Toulouse and
Marseilles ; the stages had been numerous and his hosts
hospitable and charitable. Men passed through the
town on their knees to ask pardon before the palace ofthe
Inquisition for a heresy to which they had never adhered ;
they could no longer bear the terror of being suspect.
Even the dead could be suspected and judged. They
were solemnly exhumed, and the property of their
children and grand-children—even though they were
good Catholics—was confiscated on the ground that they
had no right to what had been acquired by a heretic.
* The two chief grades in the Albigensian movement were denoted
by the Latin words perfecti (" perfect men ”)and credentes (" believers *').
To avoid clumsiness the former word has been translated " adepts."
See p. 97.—Trans.
82 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 83
The period during which the greatest number of stakes
was erected and the greatest number of citizens immured
was that ofthe celebration in Paris of the marriage of St
Louis, the model king. The terror cut short commercial
transactions, marriages, friendships. At Albi and
Castelnaudary men were imprisoned because they weTe
pale and were therefore suspected of practising Catharist
asceticism, the rules of which forbade wine and meat. In
order to escape this suspicion some of them rouged their
faces when they went out and shammed drunkenness.
In 1245the citizens ofthe towns addressed a complaint
to the pope ; the bishops of Languedoc, therefore, in
order to counteract the effect of this complaint, or pos­
sibly from a ferocious sense of humour, complained in
their turn of the excessive indulgence of the Inquisitors,
whose laxity, they said, aggravated the heresy.
Despair fell on the population. Those who had in
their heart of hearts retained the Albigensian faith had
now nothing left to hope for from man.
MONTSEGUR
IN the clouds of the Ariegc mountains, like a celestial
fortress, the chateau of Monts^gur, soundly built by
the prudent Esclarmonde de Foix, held out impreg-
nably against the armies of the king and the pope. The
treasure of Catharism, its bishops and its adepts had
found refuge there. In the mountains the barons and
peasants who had remained faithful to the pure doctrine
had formed themselves into armed bands, who lived
wandering lives with the collusion of the peasants. The
villagers had been terrorised into returning to Catholic
ism, but every man of them knew in his heart that the
truth lay up there, with the last loyalists, in the depths
of caves, beside the emerald torrents, on the slopes where
the snow began.
Two generations had passed and Catharism still held
firm. It clung to towns overhanging precipices, hid
itself deep in forests, lit fires at night-time in the hills as
friendly beacons to answer those on the towers of Mont-
s£gur. There were epic fights in the mountains, un-
revealcd feats ofheroism, martyrs whose names will never
be known. It was the time when the solitary Sauri-
monde, the inspired prophetess of the Mazamet district,
went naked as in the days when the world was bom,
because her soul was as bright as the sun that she
invoked. It was the time when at Hautpoul, among the
hills, Guilhem d’Ai'rons healed the wounds of the
84
Catharists by stretching over them his hand with its
magic virtue. It was the time when Guilhabert de
Castres, the saint, moved about with strange swiftness
to give the consolamentum, the extreme unction of the
Catharist religion. He appeared everywhere when a
member of the faith of the spirit was on the point of
death. Dressed sometimes as a beggar, sometimes as a
pilgrim, he appeared at the entrance of caves and in the
streets oftowns, in spite ofthe Inquisition guards and the
watchers at the gates ofthe ramparts. When a man was
being burned at the stake, he caught a glimpse of an
adept hidden in the crowd making the mysterious sign of
greeting, and died without suffering and comforted. For
the love transferred from the one to the other had saved
his soul and lodged it in its true habitation. And the
elusive Guilhabert de Castres was always beside the
stake to jnake the sign and transfer love to the martyr.
He died at a great age, and the greatest miracle was
that he himself escaped the stake. Death, which for him
was only the way that led to a better state, overtook him
at Montségur. His bones were laid to rest in crypts that
were so deep that the entrance to them could never be
found and the Inquisitors could not exhume his body, to
scatter to the winds his heretic dust.
By his side rested Esclarmonde de Foix, who had
become a legendary figure, a silver-haired high-priestess.
Her face had as many wrinkles as Catharism had martyrs.
Her body was so withered that it seemed to be incor­
ruptible. She resembled divine wisdom, which pierces its
human envelope only to purify itself and rise in the scale
of divine intelligences.
It was then that the second Esclarmonde, Esclarmonde
a l b i g e n s e s 85
d’Alion the bastard, appeared. She was niece of the
first Esclarmonde and daughter of Roger Ramon. One
evening, her father, who was a bold hunter, lost his way
as he was hunting a great wolf in the Ariège valleys. He
killed the wolf, cut off its head and, as he was seeking
somewhere to lodge for the night, caught sight of the
gate of a convent hidden among the figs, myrtles and
wild vines. He nailed the wolf’s head to the gate,
entered, supped and spent the night with the abbess, who
was young, of noble family and beautiful. In the morn­
ing he left the convent. The abbess gave birth to twins :
Loiip de Foix, so called because of his father’s exploit
on the night he was conceived, and Esclarmonde, who
was to become by her brother’s side the heroine of the
last ofthe Albigenses.
The supreme effort at resistance was made round
Montségur, at So, Tarascon and Lavelanet. Esclar­
monde was twenty years old. Before his death her
father had given her in marriage to Bernard d’Alion, the
seigneur of a small Pyrenean principality. She turned
her château into a refuge for the Catharists and ordered
that the drawbridges should be raised when the King’s
troops passed by. Her brother, Loup, was at the head
of the rebels in the mountains ; she rode off to join him,
clad in man’s armour. She fought in the passes ;
revictualled Montségur when it was under siege ; lit the
night beacons which were the means of communication
between the scattered groups of Albigenses ; with
shepherds she pushed over rocks, which crushed the
king’s soldiers as they marched through gorges. Many
a knight dreamed of this ardent girl, and as she over­
flowed with passion she gave herself to more than one
86 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
of them, in the shade of the Pyrenean pines, beside her
horse and her sword.
Monts£gur, resting on deep escarpments above its
layers of granite, with its galleries opening on to preci­
pices and its subterranean store-rooms; Monts6gur,
which hid within its walls the tombs of its saints ; whose
towers bristled with the spears of its defenders—Mont-
s6gur held out against the king, against the pope,
against the curses of the Roman world.
Ramon de Perella was in command of the defenders.
The barons who had been hunted from their feudal
demesnes—men such as Lantar, Belissen, Caraman—
took refuge there with their men-at-arms. Enough
grain was stored there to last for years, and there were
stables for horses and cells in which hermits prayed.
Corridors plunged deep into the earth, and spiral stair­
cases were cut in the great fortified rock. As at Toulouse,
the women joined in the defence, for Monts^gur was the
last refuge of the religion ofthe adepts.
A new crusade was decided on, and an army under the
command of the Seneschal of Carcassonne and the
Bishops of Albi and Narbonne blocked all the passes and
valleys in the Ariege district. War engines oftremendous
power had been sent for to batter the towers. Every
day reinforcements arrived. Lavelanet was turned into
a camp for chariots; spare ballistas were stored at
Tarascon. The siege lasted for two years, and battles
were fought every day.
Help came also to the besieged, for the Comte de
Toulouse and the Comte de Foix, terrorised by the
Roman Church, secretly protected the heretics. Once it
was the son of the poet Pierre Vidal, a poet himself, who
a l b i g e n s e s 87
penetrated the enemy lines and made his way into
Montségur to give good news. He had met on a road
at night a phantom knight on horseback, wearing a
purple cloak and sapphire gloves, which was a certain
presage of the victory of the believers. Hardly had he
brought them hope when he fell in combat. On another
occasion it was Esclarmonde who forced her way in with
a small body of men-at-arms. She soon left the fortress
again, undertaking to bring away certain Catharist
bishops.
But one by one the heroic defenders fell. They were
now only a few hundred. From the depths of the gorge
of the Ers or the valley of the Abès, the king’s army
could count them, on the high stone barbicans, in their
battered armour, which still shone bright and with which
the white robes of the adepts mingled. They had been
told to wait. A great movement was making ready.
The south was on the point of rising. The Comte de
Toulouse was about to cease scourging himselfand kissing
the pope’s feet. His troops were advancing on Mont­
ségur. “ Only seven days more !” the messengers said.
And on their towers they murmured, “ Do you not see
the army of Toulouse in the distance ? ”
But the army of Toulouse never came. Urged by a
presentiment, Ramon de Perella removed the Catharist
treasure at night, with a few men for escort, and hid it
in the cave of Ornolhac. Some shepherds betrayed
Montségur and revealed the narrow path by which the
treasure had been taken. The soldiers of the Seneschal
of Carcassonne, under the cover of darkness, penetrated
into the Ers tower and forced the posterns. A general
massacre was prevented only by a promise to surrender
8 8 M A G I C I A N S . S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 89
on the following morning. The Albigensian heretics had
one night in which to take their farewells of one another,
and when the sun rose over the mountains of Belestar
they gave themselves up to the Catholic bishops. Pierre
Roger de Mirepoix, who was in command of the com­
batants, alone obtained permission to leave the fortress
armed and with his troops.
All the others were chained by the neck and led on to a
great platform overlooking the Ers. A terrible stake
was built up with oaks and beeches from the forest. The
Bishop of Albi, in the kindness of his heart, offered
imprisonment for life to all who recanted their heresy.
Not one man accepted this offer. Priests and soldiers
sang hymns as they hurled into the flames the three
hundred adepts of Montségur.
The flames rose so red to heaven, the smoke so high
and straight, that the men of Toulouse and Albi who
were looking in the direction of the Ariège with anxious
hearts, knew by this flaming sign that their heroic
brothers had died and that the last hope of the south
was extinguished.
The château of Montségur was destroyed. There was
nothing left of it but calcined stones, save the name of
Esclarmonde, which survived in the popular mind and in
legend. Esclarmonde the chaste and Esclarmonde
Vamoureuse were blended in a single person, Esclarmonde
de Montségur. For long the villagers said they saw her
wandering in the thick mists which rise at evening time
from the steep banks of the Ers. After six centuries her
presence is still felt in the ruins of the tower which faces
the north. And it will always be felt there. Her hand
may be seen above the clouds. It is making a sign which
means that she is there, and that she will be displaced by
no ecclesiastical tyranny, by no fury of dogma. For
where the spirit has breathed it remains. Esclarmonde
came to the Pyrenees to affirm that man must strive
towards spiritual perfection, and that to show the way
which leads there one can joyously sacrifice one’s life.
90 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
THE CAVE OF ORNOLHAC
IN the Sabartez district, where the forests of Sarre-
longue die down, there was a cave well known for
its depth and its underground labyrinths. Its
mouth was half-way up the mountain above the escarp­
ments which dominate the Ariege at the point where the
icy waters of that river receive the springs of Ussat.
There the druids had celebrated their mysteries. The
Saracens had halted there to sleep ; and there in their
turn the Albigenses were to sleep.
Those of them who were still left alive were hunted in
the mountains like wild beasts. Just as, later, there were
officers in charge of wolf-hunting, so now special officers
were set over the hunting of the Catharists and had at
their disposal packs of trained hounds. The fugitives
lived either in the plain among the undergrowth or in the
mountains among the rocks. They lived in huts, which
they had hurriedly to leave when there was news of the
hunters. Sometimes they even took to the trees like
monkeys.
A great many of these wanderers travelled in the
direction of the cave of Ornolhac, in which it was known
that the Catharist treasure had been hidden. There was
formed there a new centre, a new Monts£gur. But this
one was as deeply hidden under the ground as the other
had been conspicuous above it. The untiring Inquisition
was unable to leave in peace the dark hiding-place of
91
these wretched men. By agreement with the seigneur of
Castelverdun, to whom the land belonged, troops were
sent under the Seneschal of Toulouse.
Legend relates that as these troops were advancing,
Esclarmonde d’Alion—either from pure heroism or in
order to share the fate of a man whom she loved—
galloped along the bank of the Ariege and, when she
reached the steep path which led to the cave, left her
horse, climbed the winding track on foot and joined
those of her faith.
The cave had two entrances, both of which were
surrounded, but the Albigenses climbed ladders (which
they then withdrew) to a yet deeper and more in­
accessible cave. It seemed to the Seneschal of Toulouse
impossible to attack them there. He thought it wiser
and perhaps also more humane to substitute for torture
and the stake a silent death in the darkness. He had
both entrances solidly walled up. For some time he
camped on the banks of the Ariege. He waited. He
listened for some sound to reach him from the granite
interior. Then he left the mountain which had become
a tomb.
The Albigenses must have lived for some time in the
darkness, for they had turned the cave into a granary.
Several bishops and many adepts were among them. In
the silent darkness the bishops no doubt uttered the
words which promised divine pardon as a result of the
imminence of death and of the liberation of the spirit.
No doubt they stretched forth their hands over bowed
heads in the invisible gesture of the consolamentum.
And possibly as individuals and groups bade one another
farewell in the darkness and Esclarmonde pressed close
92 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
to her earthly lover, a miraculous light lit up the vault
with its myriad hitherto lifeless crystals, the petrified
oozings ofthe rock, the age-old stalactites. Possibly, by
the miracle of love that joined them so closely, they
attained all together, as it is taught in their religion, the
abode where matter has no weight, water no fluidity, fire
no heat, and where is enjoyed the blessedness of loving
endlessly.
The mountain above the Arifege has kept the secret of
the mass without candles, of the death without grave
and winding-sheet. The book of Nicetas, which was
kept among the treasure, the lovers’ kiss, the bishops’
gesture of blessing, must have petrified from absence of
air. The last of the Albigenses, motionless, clothed in
stone, still celebrate their final ritual amid dead vege­
tation and lustreless crystals in a basilica of darkness.
A L B I G E N S E S 93
THE DOCTRINE OF THE SPIRIT
WHAT was the spiritual poison, the mortal error,
against which the West rose in fury and which
caused such torrents ofblood to flow? The books
in which the ancient truths were laid down, in which the
tradition ofthe spirit had its written basis, were carefully
destroyed down to the last page ; so that we can recover
Catharist ideas only in the bitter refutations, which are
full of imprecation and menace, of the representatives of
orthodoxy.
The mysterious Nicetas, before returning to the East
and disappearing from the world to which he had brought
a message, seems to have left a written memorial of his
doctrine. The manuscript was no doubt kept with the
Catharist treasure in the château of Montségur, and it
must now rest underground in the cave of Ornolhac, held
in the skeleton arms of a faithful guardian.
At the end of the thirteenth century a certain Ramon
Fort de Caraman had in his possession one of the sacred
books of the Albigenses. Feeling his life endangered by
the possession of this book, he handed it over to the
seigneur of Cambiac, whose wife was an ardent Catholic
and a treacherous woman. She immediately informed
the Inquisitors, but when they came the book had dis­
appeared. It was ascertained through torture that the
book was in the hands of one Guilhem Viguier. Men
were sent to his house to arrest him, but he was found
94
A L B I G E N S E S 95
dead, apparently by suicide. What had happened to the
book ? It escaped the rage ofthe Inquisition. None of
those who had kept the book and preserved it from
destruction was an Albigensian, for there were none of
them left by that time. The radiant power of the
doctrine had set free in the parchment leaves a living
force which enabled the book to survive and create
faithfulness in the hearts of those who possessed but
could no longer understand it. For long it must have
been preserved among the archives of some castle with
walls blackened by the old sieges of the period of faith.
But where is the book of Ramon Fort now ?
Almost all authors who have studied the doctrine of
the Albigenses have asserted, with the weighty authority
afforded by the Roman prejudice and with the ignorance
that makes a man invulnerable, that the Albigenses were
either Manicheeans or Catholic heresiarchs, such as the
Christian religion has begotten in plenty. In this they
are wrong.
In imprisoning, burning and massacring, the Roman
Church was logical from its own point of view. History
shows that it has always marked down for destruction
everything that was not in accordance with its dogma.
In the case of the Albigenses the Church was in the
presence of a Western branch of the Asiatic tree, the
flower of the ancient Vedas, the pure truth of the Orient.
The Albigensian creed, which, after spreading through
Southern France, might have extended its tolerance and
purity to the whole of the West, but which was to be
finally destroyed under the trees of the Pyrenees, was
born under the figtree of Kapilavastu, where the Buddha
preached his reforms.
The Albigenses were Western Buddhists, who intro­
duced a blend of Gnostic Christianity into the Oriental
doctrine. How the words of Buddha could have
traversed continents and fallen into the souls of the men
of Languedoc is not known, nor does it greatly matter.
Thought is so fluid that we can never be sure that it is
not active—even though it has no apparent means of
expression—by the mere fact that it has been thought,
in virtue of some subtle quality which eludes us. Budd­
hism travelled across the world, and among the people of
Languedoc, who were then more mystical than sensual,
it was transformed into Catharism. It is probable that,
after their great impulse towards the spirit, persecution
and disaster altered them, caused them to deteriorate and
reduced them to the materialism ofthe southerners ofthe
present day.
For the Albigenses the origin of God was unknowable.
For the Hindus, similarly, Brahma, the cause of causes,
is enveloped in a six-fold veil and is inaccessible to human
conception. At a given moment of time, men’s souls, in
virtue ofa law of desire which Christians call original sin,
become detached from the divine matrix, from the
infinite spirit, and are incarnated in matter for pleasure
and suffering. They begin a journey, in the course of
which, after reaching the lowest point of materialisation,
they will climb again stage by stage through the organised
hierarchies of creation, towards the first source, the
divine spirit, from which they have been detached.
This last part oftheir journey, the return to the divine,
proceedsbymeansofsuccessivereincarnationsinimperfect
human bodies. In each life it is our actions, our capacity
for detachment, that cause us to rise more quickly
96 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 97
or less quickly. The more desires we have, the more we
give rein to our passions, the more we love the material
—by so much do we retard our entrance into the kingdom
of the spirit. It is through illusion that we regard
happiness as consisting in the satisfaction of our senses.
Every pleasure of the senses involves a counterpart of
pain. Every physical gratification is like a step taken
by a traveller who turns his back on his goal. The goal
in this case is the return to the spirit and the enjoyment
of infinite beatitude. It is that which is called Nirvana,
which is not, as ignorant people assert, the annihilation
of consciousness, but participation in the universal
consciousness, or even something more subtle and
inexpressible—a permanent state of love which can
scarcely be described by the word divine. The means of
attaining this state is escape from the illusory prison of
our body, which creates seeming pleasures.
The Albigensian wisdom, like the Buddhist wisdom,
offered a method of destroying the desire for life,
escaping the law of reincarnation, returning within the
compass of a single life into union with the spirit.
It was a method of renunciation such as Buddha
prescribed.
Within the sect there were several grades. Ordinary
adherents, who recognised the truth of the principles,
enunciated and defended them as best they could, but
continued to lead a worldly life, were called believers
(credentes). They corresponded to those who followed
“ the middle path,” recommended by Buddha for
ordinary men, for the majority of men, for all who were
not inspired by the will for immediate liberation. Above
the believers were the adepts (perfecti), who had sacrificed
the life of the body for the life of the spirit. They had
renounced all magnificence of dress, the holding of
property, the pleasures of food, and even the pleasure of
the possession of women. Through the consolamentum,
the sign of purity made to the dying, these adepts were
able to transmit the invisible help which allowed escape
from the chain of re-births and opened the approach to
the spiritual kingdom. The consolamentum was only an
external symbol. The Albigensian adepts were heirs to a
lost secret, a secret which came from the East and was
known to the Gnostics and the early ‘Christians. The
basis of this secret was the transmission of the power of
love. The gesture of the rite was the material and
visible means of projecting this power. Behind it was
hidden the spiritual gift, by which the soul was helped,
was able to cross without suffering the narrow portal of
death, to escape the shadows and become merged with
the light.
Never has any people at any period been so deeply
versed in magical rites concerning death. The con­
solamentum must have possessed a power that to us is
quite inconceivable, a definite power which had been
proved to the living; for it would not otherwise have
been so rapidly propagated, it would not have become
so popular. The inspiration ofthe dying must have been
visible to the onlookers. And for mutual help while they
were dying they had processes the knowledge of which
is lost for ever.
In the Black Mountain, not far from Carcassonne,
there was found a chamber, dating from the Albigensian
period, containing skeletons. “ They lay in a circle,
with their heads at the centre and their feet at the
98 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 99
circumference, like the spokes of a wheel.”* Those who
have studied magical rites will recognise in this posture
of death a very ancient rite intended to facilitate the
escape ofthe soul, to allow it to traverse the intermediate
worlds by virtue of the impetus given by union.
The logical consequence of the Albigensian philosophy
is that life is evil and that it is expedient to escape from
the form in which we are confined. The principle of
creation, God the Creator, is consequently evil, since He
has created form, which is the cause of evil. He is the
Jehovah of the Old Testament, angry, destructive, Who
takes pleasure in punishment and revenge. The
Albigenses saw in this terrible God the retrograde power
of matter, Jesus Christ, the symbol of the Word, came
to teach man the means of escaping from this God and
returning to the Kingdom of Heaven. Certain of them
affirmed that Jesus had no terrestrial existence, that he
only came among men clothed in a spiritual body, and
that the miracles recounted in the New Testament had a
symbolical character and had been performed only on
the spiritual plane. The blind were healed only of
spiritual blindness, because they were blinded by sin.
The tomb whence Lazarus rose from the dead was
the dark abode in which man voluntarily imprisons
himself.
The true cult of the Albigenses was the cult of the
Holy Spirit, the divine Paraclete, that is to say, of the
principle which enables the human spirit to attain the
real world (of which our world isbut the reverse side, the
caricature), the invisible world, the world of pure light,
“ the permanent and unalterable city.”
• N. Peyrat, Histoire des Albigeois.
The conclusions which might be drawn from this creed
seemed, for all their strict logic, monstrous to men of the
twelfth century, as they would seem monstrous to men
of the twentieth. Suicide, to escape the evils of life,
which were still further aggravated by the persecu­
tions, was at least allowed, if it was not actually
enjoined.
The Albigenses, like the Romans under the Empire,
sought death gladly by opening their veins. But they
were forbidden so to end their lives unless they had
attained absolute calm, complete indifference, in order to
escape in the beyond the agony involved by a death
incurred in circumstances of agony. The executioners of
the Inquisition often found Albigensian adepts lifeless in
their cells, their white faces showing the reflection of the
eternal light towards which they were journeying.
Among them women played an unexpected part.
They were the equals of men, for the law ofreincarnation
makes no distinction of sex. The only limitation to this
equality was that women were not allowed to preach.
Marriage for them was odious, and the indissolubility of
its bonds was not recognised. The union of a man and
a woman must have no other sanction than that of their
mutual love. Such a union, however, was forbidden to
the adepts, who might not propagate the human race
and so perpetuate suffering through enslavement to the
body. Believers who were joined to one another in the
flesh were not permitted to lose sight ofthe effort towards
final liberation. Thus, in the south, sons of the noblest
families often married, without any ritual, the lowest
prostitutes, or girls living in the poorest parts ofToulouse,
or camp-followers, in order to regenerate them, to lead
100 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 101
them one step forward up the long path to perfection;
for brotherly aid of this kind is the noblest mission a
man can undertake on earth.
They had a horror of lying, and they pressed as far as
the Hindus the prohibition against killing animals and
eating their flesh. Yet they were unjust enough to except
snakes from this prohibition, for one of their super­
stitions was to believe that evil often incarnated in
reptiles, and that in no circumstances could the body of
a reptile serve as a temporary body for a soul condemned
to repent in animal form.
But what excited the greatest hatred of them was
their contempt for the things of this world, their
exaltation of poverty as an ideal. They did not recog­
nise property ; and however far back one goes in history
it can be seen that the man who has renounced this
essential tie and deprived himself with love in his heart,
becomes an object of execration on account of the social
danger he represents.
It was in imitation ofthe Albigenses that Dominic went
barefoot along the roads begging, to fight them with their
own weapons, unselfishness and poverty. St Francis
and his order also imitated this example. But though
asceticism may have been permitted to obedient monks
within the Church, it was not permitted in the case of a
race which practised it wholesale, and whose voice was
loud enough to express its indignation at papal tyranny
and kingly cupidity. A man had the right to risetowards
God by meditation and asceticism if he was an obscure
member of a monastery whose other members extorted
tithes and taxes by agreement with the barons and the
king. But if an entire race ceasedto work and to produce
children, no longer recognised the authority of their
masters but obeyed an inner authority ; ifthey presumed
to have dealings direct with God and disregard self-
seeking intermediaries—that race must be exterminated.
And this was done.
The principal cause of the great massacre of the
Albigenses, the hidden cause but the true one, was that
the ancient teaching of the mysteries, so jealously
guarded by all priesthoods in every temple in the world,
had been revealed. More than that. It had not only
been revealed—it had also been understood. What
happened at that time had never been known in the
history of the universe. While the ecclesiastical
guardians of the secret muttered the Latin ritual of its
formulae (the meaning of which they had lost), the divine
secret itself had been carried by unknown messengers
along the roads and ways of Languedoc, beside the clear
waters of the Tarn and the Ariege. The humblest men
had been dazzled by it, and they had laid down their
sword or abandoned their plough to answer the call of
God. For the universe of which they had just caught a
glimpse was a thousand times more beautiful than their
horizon of vines or their forest-covered valleys.
It was then that the faithless guardians realised that
the gold ofthe tabernacles would grow dim, the splendour
of the altars fade. They trembled as the Brahmins of
India had trembled at a lesser danger, the Buddha’s
reforms; as the fire-priests of Persia had trembled at
Zoroaster’s words.
Woe to those who possess themselves of the secret and
divulge it! The hierarchies of the Greek and Roman
priests, supported by republics and emperors, also
102 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
A L B I G E N S E S 103
punished with death the disclosure of the mysteries.
Never before had the mystery been so far unveiled for
mankind. Never before had organised society, with its
edifice of priests, barons and kings, been in such danger.
The slaves were throwing off their slavery without
destroying their masters’ fortress, without a revolution ;
they were doing it effortlessly, naturally, by the mere
play of their thought. Pope Innocent III and Philip
Augustus must have had a vague consciousness that
their dominion was compromised, that their thrones
would thenceforward have no basis. The oppressed
masses of the weak were escaping from the strong by
a door leading to the beyond, which had been opened by
an unknown hand.
The Albigensian war was the greatest turning-point in
the religious history of humanity. When the labourer
understands the vanity of labouring ; when the beggar
refuses alms because he is richer than the alms-giver;
when the word of the priest becomes valueless to every­
one because each man has a higher consolation within
himself—then the social organisation crumbles of its
own accord. The freedom which humanity so nearly
came to know was far greater than the freedom of
a conquered people throwing off its yoke. It was
liberation from evil itself, from the overwhelming power
of Nature. It spread with the speed of a fire among
pines in summer. But the men who hated the light were
stronger. Not contented with extinguishing the divine
fire, they rushed upon any twig that might give light
and heat, heaped ashes upon the smallest spark. They
called to their aid their old ally, invincible ignorance, the
friend of darkness. They did not allow the survival of
a fragment of teaching, a page of a book, an inscription
on a wall.
There was to be no trace left ofthe truth the Albigenses
had discovered. Now, six centuries later, when men
pride themselves on learning everything and knowing
everything, history has actually passed by this light
without re-kindling it. To us the Albigensian war is
only the account of the birth and death of a heresy, a
chapter superadded to the history ofFrench unity.
The sublime secret of the consolamentum, which
allowed a man to die cheerfully because he was identified
by the inspiration of love with the God within him, has
been for ever lost. Not a hill around Toulouse, not a
mountain among the Pyrenees, has preserved a trace of
the secret on its stone. Moreover, the veil of ignorance
has fallen so thickly about men’s souls that no one thinks
of seeking it, no one even believes in the possibility of its
existence.
104 M A G I C I A N S . S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
FERROCAS’ MAY-TREE
NAPOLEON PEYRAT writes, in his Histoire des
Albigeois, that when he visited the shepherds’
village of Monts^gur, which is situated at the
foot of the ruined chateau, he was struck by the sight of a
tomb on the right of the road, surmounted by a plain
iron cross. He questioned the guide who was conducting
him and was told that it was the grave of a man named
Ferrocas, who had died some years previously.
Ferrocas, whom the guide had himself known, was a
solitary old peasant, a sort of rustic philosopher, who
always refused to go to mass. The village priest had
reproached him vehemently and had even denounced him
in public from the pulpit. Ferrocas claimed to be the
only man to practise the true religion, which was not the
religion of the churches. He said familiarly that he bore
the Christ within himself, that he discovered him a little
more every day, and that he would succeed in finding
him completely only much later, in a future life—words
which were unintelligible to his listeners and gave him
a reputation for insanity. When he died, the priest—a
worthy man for all that—determined to make an
example of him and refused permission for his body to
be buried in the cemetery. The villagers of Montsegur
dug a hole at the roadside for the old philosopher, as
though he had been a dog. But they chose a spot under
a big white may-tree. Nature in her equity decided that
*05
the tree should flower profusely, should become a flower­
ing arch. The priest in his turn died, but his successor,
who was told the story of Ferrocas’ impiety and who
every day passed by the tomb overhung with flowers,
had the may-tree cut down and put in its place the rude
cross which Napoléon Peyrat saw. It was about the
year 1860 that this historian, who was a lover of the
south, visited Montségur and saw the cross.
There is no doubt that Ferrocas was the last of the
Albigenses, who must have borne semi-consciously within
himselfthe remnants ofthe doctrine for which his fathers
had died. But it was written that the Catharists of
Southern France should be persecuted in their creed
down to the last man. It was only owing to the freedom
of the century that Ferrocas1*bones were not exhumed
and scattered. His white may-tree was taken from him.
His mortal remains still have to bear the weight of the
cross in the name of which he once suffered and died.
Poor Ferrocas ! His fate was that of all southerners.
When the great Albigensian movement was suppressed,
the grandchildren and great-grandchildren ofthe heretics
were compelled to wear a yellow cross a foot long, sewn
on their clothes back and front, in order that their
connection with the heresy might be known and the
curse carried on in them. Civil employment and the
right to trade were forbidden them. They were called
cagots, and their conditions were assimilated to those of
lepers. Like lepers, they had in every town a special
street or quarter of their own ; they might only enter
churches by a small door, and a chapel was reserved for
them, because the stones touched by their feet were
contaminated.
106 M A G I C I A N S , S E E I i S , A N D M Y S T I C S
Nowadays the descendants of the Albigenses are not
treated like lepers, nor are they compelled to wear a
yellow cross on their breasts. It is because they have
become like ordinary humanity. But they bear, all of
them, a sign that is more to be feared than the yellow
cross: the sign of ignorance. They have forgotten.
They do not know. They have dissociated themselves
from the sufferings of their forefathers. They learn
vaguely the history of France, but they do not know the
history of their own country. When the bell rings at
Albi in the Tour de San Salvi, it awakens no echo. No
one counts the dead of Pr6>comtal, near Toulouse.
When foreigners walk on the ramparts of Carcassonne
with their dumb Baedekers undertheir arm and ask what
that dust is on the horizon, no one answers them that
it isthe dust raised by the ghosts ofde Montfort’sarmy.
When I myself was twenty I came from Toulouse,
where I was bom, and walked with no emotion whatever
down the slopes of the Castellar de Pamiers, where
Esclarmonde de Foix had lived; I saw Mirepoix and
Lavelanet; I walked on the roads where Esclarmonde
d’Alion’s horse had whinnied, completely unaware of the
epic that had been enacted in this country. Of the
Albigenses I knew only what one learns at school, that is
to say, nothing more than their name, the glory of Simon
de Montfort and the overthrow of Toulouse. I walked
between Mont Bidorte and the forest of Belestar, among
the chestnuts and the ferns, to the sound of sawmills and
of water against the rocks. I saw in the distance the
shadowy outline of the ruin that was Monts£gur ; then,
as the sun was about to set, I compared the distance
with my tepid curiosity, and retraced my steps.
A L B I G E N S E S 107
And so it is with all who have wished to study
Catharism and its sublime philosophy. At the mass of
illegible documents they lose heart and find the way too
long. They catch a glimpse of the tower of Montsegur
in the distance, veiled in cloud, and give up the attempt
to reach it.
I have to remember my own expedition in order to
account for the oblivion into which an important part
of history has fallen. And I sometimes wonder if it is
not some deeper cause than the lack of legible documents
that has estranged Western minds from the wisdom ofthe
Catharist sect. When I see cultured southerners con­
fusing their heroic forefathers with the Saracens, or even
the Goths ; when I see learned students of the history of
philosophy and religion passing over the Catharist
doctrine—I begin to believe in a sort of conspiracy of
silence, an organised attempt to suppress the truth.
But the truth cannot die, and when it is smothered in
one place it springs up again a little later in another
place, near by, in a nobler form. It is true that an iron
cross by the roadside near Montsegur still survives as the
symbol of the spirit. But who will go to Montsegur
and plant another may-tree for Ferrocas in place of the
cross ?
108 m a g i c i a n s , s e e r s , A N D M Y S T I C S
CHRISTIAN ROSENKREUTZ AND THE
ROSICRUCIANS
THE LIFE AND TRAVELS OF CHRISTIAN
ROSENKREUTZ
IN Southern France there are certain districts covered
with pines which are periodically ravaged by fires.
Often the pines grow again, and where before there
was nothing but calcined dust you may see, some years
later, a new forest of resinous trees. But sometimes, as
though the violence of the fire had reached the very
seeds themselves, the hill that was once covered with
pines remains bald and barren. Then on the top of the
hill there springs up a single tree, which, strangely
full of life, rises solitary as though to attest the lost
presence of a dead forest.
So ofthe great Albigensian forest, which was cut down,
burned and reduced to ashes, there survived but one
man, who was to perpetuate the doctrine by transforming
it. Like the solitary pine on the hill, he plunged his
vigorous thought deep into the human soil of his time
and saw it rise high into the blue heaven of the centuries
with its foliage of books.
From the Albigenses there sprang in the middle of the
thirteenth century the wise man who is known under the
symbolical name of Christian Rosenkreutz and who was
the last descendant of the German family of Germels:
hausen.* There are no precise data here—only a
* Almost all who have made a study of the Rosicrucians fix—wrongly,
in my opinion—the birth of Christian Rosenkreutz in the middle of the
fourteenth century. Some even place it in the fifteenth.
tradition, a story told orally. There is no written text,
no historical proof. How could there be ? So intense
was the desire to suppress the heresy that not only were
the bodies of the heretics destroyed, but even the stones
ofthe houses that had sheltered them, and the documents
which might have enshrined their thought. Besides,
these heretics very soon realised that their only chance
of survival lay in wrapping themselves in obscurity,
hiding under false names, corresponding in cipher.
History can no longer be traced except under the disguise
of legend. But a man who has left so deep a mark after
a life so obscure and so lacking in wonders and miracles
cannot have been created by legend. Discretion,
modesty, unostentatious goodness, knowledge without
parade—these are not the attributes of legend. Christian
Rosenkreutz is as real a figure as Jesus or Buddha;
their attributes may be more glorious, but their historical
foundation is scarcely more secure.
The Albigensian doctrines had spread fragmentarily to
the north of France, the Low Countries and Germany.
Families of refugees had found their way there. Solitary
men had escaped, begging their way, from the sunny land
in which they were thenceforward outlaws and accursed.
Many of them died. But some reached the distant
countries where the vine does not grow, where the
rivers are more rapid and the sun less hot. And some
of them gave an account of what they had heard in their
low houses under the shelter of the ramparts of Toulouse
or in the shadow of Monts^gur ; they imparted to others
what was still a flaming truth in their hearts. A few of
them were understood. Little nuclei of Albigenses
formed round a preacher, a spare, brown-faced man, who
112 M A G I C I A N S , S E E K S , A N D M Y S T I C S
looked like a Saracen. The seed carried by the wind was
thus to germinate in the country to which chance had
brought it.
Under the influence of a wandering Albigensian the
doctrine crossed the fir-grown mountains and flowered in
the Rhon district, on the border of Hesse and Thuringia.
In the middle of the Thuringian forest stood the castle
of Germelshausen. The men who inhabited it were a
grim, sullen family, half-brigands, whose Christianity
was mixed with pagan superstitions. They spent their
time fighting their neighbours, and they did not disdain
to ambush and rob travellers. They venerated an idol
of worn stone, the origin of which was unknown to them.
It was probably the fruit of some long-past pillaging
expedition. It might have been a Greek statue of
Athene. It stood in the courtyard of the castle beside
the chapel door.
The period was the middle of the thirteenth century.
Germany had just been devastated by the fanatical
Dominican, Conrad of Marburg, the envoy of Pope
Gregory IX. Another Dominican, Tors, carried on his
work. He was accompanied by a one-eyed layman
called Jean, who claimed that his single eye had been
given the divine faculty of distinguishing at first glance
a heretic from a good Christian. Almost all who came
within the field of view of this terrible eye were marked
with the mark of heresy. It was no doubt enough for
him to catch a glimpse, through the rocks and firs, of the
towers of the castle of Germelshausen to discover from
the colour ofits stone that it sheltered a brood ofheretics.
Perhaps something of the power of the eternal spirit was
given off from the ancient statue that stood in the
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 113
courtyard. LandgraveConradofThuringia, whohadrazed
to the ground the little town of Willnsdorf, decided on
the destruction of the castle. He besieged it several
times, at intervals of some years. The castle fell at last,
and the whole family of Germelshausen (which now
adhered to the mystical doctrine of the Albigenses,
practised its austerities, and believed in reincarnation and
in the consolamenium, which delivers from reincarnation)
was put to death at the final assault.
The youngest son, who was then five years old, was
carried from the burning castle by a monk who had
taken up his quarters in the chapel and who had been
struck by the amazing intelligence shown by the child.
This monk, this ascetic dweller in the chapel of the
Germelshausens, was an Albigensian adept from Langue­
doc, and it was he who had instructed the family. He
took refuge in a monastery near by, into which the
breath of heresy had already penetrated.
It was in this monastery that the last of the Germels­
hausens, who was to be known by the name of Christian
Rosenkreutz, was brought up and educated. He learned
Greek and Latin and, with four other monks of the
community, formed a fraternal group determined to
devote themselves to the search for truth. They made
a plan to seek this truth at the source whence it had
always sprung, the East.
Two of them started out, Christian Rosenkreutz, who
was then fifteen, and one of the four monks whom the
Fama Fraternitatis* calls Brother P.A.L. The pretext
• The Fama Fraternitatis was published anonymously in the seven­
teenth century. It is a crude summary of all that was known at that
time of the genuine Rosicrucians.
114 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
of their journey was a pilgrimage to the Holy Sepulchre.
Their real aim was to reach a centre of initiation, and
they no doubt had precise knowledge as to where it was
to be found.
Brother P.A.L. died in Cyprus, where the hazards of
travel had led the two companions. Christian continued
his journey and, no doubt as a result of directions he had
received, made for Damascus. He did so because the tie
with the East, which was about to be broken, still
existed. Just as Apollonius had learned from the
Pythagorean groups among whom he lived the exact
whereabouts of the abode of wise men, so Christian
Rosenkreutz knew, probably from the adept who had
instructed the Germelshausens, that Damascus lay on
the path to initiation.
It cannot have been easy to leave the Christian king­
dom of Cyprus for the country of the infidels. But to
him who sincerely seeks truth all religions are alike ; and
when he left Christian territory Rosenkreutz assumed the
dress and appearance of a Mussulman pilgrim.
At that time Damascus was under the dominion of the
Mamelukes. AHthe learned men and poets ofPersia had
taken refuge there from the invading Mongols under
Hulagu. The destruction of Bagdad and Nichapur and
the annihilation of their universities and libraries con­
vinced the intellectuals of the East that thought was
dying. There were rumours of the end of the world.
There had been great earthquakes in Syria and a rain of
scorpions in Mesopotamia. The Mongols occupied Persia
and watchers on the ramparts of Damascus searched the
horizon anxiously for the appearance of their advance-
guards.
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 115
How great must have been Christian’s astonishment
in the city of the three hundred mosques, among men
learned in the literature of the East! What discoveries
for a young man so greedy for knowledge ! He read the
Guide of the Erring, by Maimonides ; the Alchemy of
Happiness, by Gazali; the Golden Meadows, by Mazoudi.
He heard Omar Khayyam’s poetry recited and made
every effort to understand his books on algebra and
Euclid. He discussed astronomy with the disciples of
Nazir Eddin. He meditated on the Masnavi, the sacred
book of the Sufis, and was amazed to find in it the
mystical pantheism ofhis spiritual fathers the Albigenses.
How barbarous Germany must have seemed to him amid
the intellectual effervescence which surrounded him !
In the presence ofthe great Arab civilisation now drawing
to its close he understood still more clearly the necessity
foi his mission, which was to preserve the spirit and
transmit it to the men of his race.
After several years’ study at Damascus, when he had
acquired the greatest sum of knowledge possible to a
man whose sole aim is to learn, he thought to obtain a
higher knowledge, for which he was then ripe. The
enigmatic name of the place to which he directed his
steps has been preserved by tradition. It was Damcar,
in Arabia. At Damcar, which name probably designates
a monastery in the sand, there was at that time, and
possibly there still is, a centre of initiates. Damcar was
for him what the abode of wise men was for Apollonius.
He remained there some years, then went to Egypt,
crossed the Mediterranean, visited Fez.
In the reign of Abou Said Othman there was in Fez,
the city of the six hundred playing fountains, which was
116 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
then at the height of its splendour, a school of astrology
and magic. It had become secret since the persecutions
of Abou Yusuf. It was there that Rosenkreutz learnt
divination by the stars and certain laws which govern
the hidden forces of Nature.
But he was eager now to return to his own country.
He left Fez and took ship for Spain. It was probably
at this time that he took the name of Rosenkreutz, which
embodied the essence of his beliefs. He entered into
relations with the Alumbrados, a secret society in Spain
which had come into being under the influence of the
Arabs, and which studied the sciences and practised a
mysticism derived from that of the Neo-Platonists.
They were engaged also in the search for the philosopher’s
stone in accordance with the writings of Artephius. This
secret society was a little later to be wiped out by the
Inquisition.
The Fama Fraternitatis recounts an echo of the
disappointment experienced by Christian Rosenkreutz.
He was anxious to communicate to others the new truths
that he was bringing in the domain of science and
philosophy. He hoped to set right mistakes, to transmit
with love that which he had learned. He was received
with scorn and laughter. In all times half-knowledge
has enveloped pseudo-scholars in an illusion of certainty
which prevents them receiving any new idea. Before a
mediocre mind can grasp an unfamiliartruth, habituation
is necessary, even though the truth be radiant as the
sun.
It was then that Christian Rosenkreutz realised that
only slowly can wisdom enter the human heart. He
had to remember the persecutions that had struck down
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 117
too precocious possessors of the truth. And, though he
wondered at the time necessary for the spirit to develop,
whereas a flower opens in a single day and a tree reaches
its full height in a single century, he reconciled himself
to leaving the acorns to the pigs and keeping the pearls
for the elect, at the risk of occasionally mixing with the
acorns an infinitesimally small amount of pearl dust.
He considered the fine filters through which thought
must trickle to the men of his race in rare, microscopic
drops, so that they might not be consumed by it. He
counted up how many he would be able to initiate and
saw that their number could not be more than eight.
He laid the foundations of an occult group which was so
secret and the members of which were bound together
by an oath that was so terrible, that the group was able
subsequently to act as he had ordered, to pursue and
attain its aims, for three centuries without its existence
being known, except by vague whisperings.
The curiosity of superficial men who find pleasure in
anecdotal history may have been disappointed by this
secrecy. But who could maintain that it is due to the
egoism of a superior minority scorning to enlighten
their fellows and share their knowledge with them ?
How many.men are there in Europe at the present day
who are sufficiently free from intellectual pride to enter­
tain an absolutely new idea ? Is not this pride a barrier
which precludes even the approach of a new idea ? If
Christian Rosenkreutz disembarked to-day from Fez and
tried to explain that the problem of the unity of matter
is linked with the development of love in man—would
he not appear ridiculous to every academy in the world ?
If he tried to teach, would he not find, on the part of
118 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
those who wish to learn, this incapacity to receive ? To
help him without hope of reward, would he find now, as
he found then, even eight faithful monks ?
Christian Rosenkreutz passed through France without
leaving any trace. It must have been the time when the
mystic Marguerite Porete was burned in Paris, and
Christian was anxious to get back to Germany.
Long years had passed. Germany was affected by all
sorts ofmystical currents which sprang from the Albigen-
sian heresy. There were the Brothers of the Free Spirit,
who affirmed the vanity ofexternal cults and sacraments,
denied purgatory and hell, said that man was a fragment
of God, which must, after a long series of lives, return at
last to the divine essence. There were the Friends of
God, who aimed at emancipation from desire, and were
addicted to practices analogous to those of the Yoga
system, while their philosophy was modelled closely on
the Hindu theology. But the Church organised its
persecution more intensely than these sects propagated
themselves.
Christian Rosenkreutz, seeing the number of imprison­
ments and burnings, was compelled to weigh the danger
into which the spiritual light brought those among whom
it spread. He went back to Thuringia to find the three
monks who had been the companions of his early studies.
They formed a brotherhood of four members, and the
number was increased a little later to eight. It was at
this time that the brotherhood of the Rosicrucians had
its greatest efflorescence and contained a greater number
of true initiates than was ever again reached.
All the members of the brotherhood were Germans,
except the brother designated by the Fama Fraiernitatis
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 119
under the initials I.A., who came from another country,
probably Languedoc.
Christian Rosenkreutz first of all taught his disciples
the secret writing and the symbols by which adepts
corresponded with one another. He wrote for their use
a book which was the synthesis of his philosophy and
contained a summary of his scientific and medical know­
ledge. The role played by the brotherhood seems to
have been to influence the few men in the West who were
at that time interested in science, so that science might
be turned in the direction of disinterestedness. It is
possible that this was the great cross-road of our
civilisation. If the aim of the Rosicrucians had been
attained, science, instead of being organised for material
ends only, might have been the source of a boundless
development of the spirit. We have seen that it has not
been so.
The men designated by the symbol of the rose and
cross travelled all over the world, each one with a mission
to fulfil. But with one exception nothing was ever heard
of them again. Brother I.A., according to the Fatna,
returned to Southern France, where it may have been
his task to rekindle the old Albigensian flame. But he
must by that time have been very old. Did he succeed
in resuscitating the sect with the same secrecy which
surrounded the Rosicrucians ? Tradition reports only
his death near Narbonne.
Historically, nothing is known of the activities of
Rosenkreutz during the last part of his life, that is to say,
at the beginning of the fourteenth century. It may,
however, be supposed, without great fear of error, that
he inspired Jean de Mechlin, who preached in High
120 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
Germany, and that at Brussels he was the source of
truth from which the mystic Blomert drew. This
inspired woman performed miraculous cures and
published writings in which she taught the liberation of
the being through love. Her disciples asserted that on
either side of her they saw a seraph, who advised her.
It was in all probability Christian Rosenkreutz who
was the mysterious visitor (as to whose identity so much
has been written) of Johann Tauler. Johann Tauler was
the most celebrated doctor of theology of his time. The
learned world of Europe came to Strasburg to hear his
sermons. One day he was visited by a layman whose
name he never divulged and who converted him to a
mystical philosophy, the ideal of which was absorption
into the divine essence. For two years he kept silence
and became a member of the sect of the Friends of God.
This sect possessed the same characteristics as the
Albigenses. It rejected as the expression of evil the
cruel God ofthe Old Testament; it condemned marriage
and taught poverty as a practical means of divine
realisation.
Of the death of Christian Rosenkreutz nothing is
known. As in the case of Apollonius of Tyana, no
burial-place can be determined. It was a rule among
the adepts to maintain secrecy with regard both to their
birth and to their death. Was it merely to avoid the
violation of the grave and the profanation of the body
to which the Church condemned heretics ? Or was it in
some cases to permit the transference of their spirit into
another human body, and to prevent even the suspicion
of a secret so astounding to ordinary men ?
There has come down to us nothing more than a
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 121
childish legend regarding the burial-place of Christian
Rosenkreutz. Two and a half centuries after his death,
at the time when the story of his life was beginning to
become known, his disciples, or rather men who would
have wished to be his disciples, asserted that they had
found a geometrically-proportioned cave, in which rested,
in artificial sunlight, the still intact body ofthe master.
In all times men have wished that those whom they
considered greater than themselves should not die in the
flesh. They attach less importance to the permanence
of their spirit, although of course that is the only
possible form of eternity for them. Thus, when the
bodies of Catholic or Mussulman saints are found, they
are said to emit a pleasant odour. But the true fragrance
given off by the bodies of wise men in the silence of the
earth and in corruption is made of no material quin­
tessential atom, no perfumed volatilisation. The subtle
radiations of their soul float over the places where they
lie and impregnate them long after the bodies have
ceased even to be dust. But you must yourself be a wise
man to establish connection with this posthumous life;
and if your perception allows you to catch a glimpse of
the fact that the best cannot escape the law, it will also
make you feel more deeply the sadness inherent in all
changes.
122 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
TRUE AND FALSE ROSICRUCIANS
AT the beginning of the seventeenth century there
broke out a sort of Rosicrucian mania. The
Fama Fraternitalis and the Confessio published,
in a naïve form, what ordinary men knew of the sect of
Rosicrucians—which indeed was extremely little. A
great many philosophers and scholars, as well as many
impostors, attracted by the sublime philosophy of the
Rosicrucians, claimed to be their followers. Secret
societies were formed, which very soon ceased to be
secret owing to the vanity oftheir members, who boasted
of their membership. Most of these groups, when they
were not Lutheran, bowed to the authority ofthe Church.
Every alchemist called himself a Rosicrucian. Descartes
tried to establish contact with the genuine brotherhood
of Rosicrucians. He searched for them in the Low
Countries and in Germany, but on his return to France
said he had not been able to find out anything definite
about them.
It has been asserted that Paracelsus, Francis Bacon
and Spinoza were Rosicrucians ; but there seems to be
no proof ofthis. In the eighteenth century a new grade,
that of the Rosicrucians, was introduced into Free­
masonry by the Jesuits, who had made their way inside
the movement and everywhere formed groups within it.
The hardy independence of the heresies of the thirteenth
century had disappeared. The so-called Rosicrucians
123
recognised the sacraments, studied the Old Testament
as the source of all truth, acknowledged the power of the
Church and the infallibility of the pope. This is the line
of development which all spiritual currents follow. The
tree produces a beautiful flower, a perfect fruit, and falls
a victim to an obscure force which poisons the sap and
kills the tree.
But the true Rosicrucians carried on their work.
Their brotherhood had never ceased to remain secret.
Through the self-sought obscurity of each member no
one ever knew the identity of those who belonged to the
brotherhood. From the assertion of certain men that
they were Rosicrucians the one sure inference was that
they were not members of the sect founded by Christian
Rosenkreutz. The influence of this free spirit was felt
in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries by all who
struggled against the tyranny of Calvinism and
Lutheranism, which were as intolerant as the Inquisition,
and against the intransigence of the universities, which
tried to submit all thought to the intellectual discipline
of Aristotle. But the messengers remained faithful to
their vow not to make themselves known. The message
reached its destination, but it was not known who had
brought it.
Certain characteristics in the lives of certain men may,
however, give rise to the supposition that they were the
true possessors of the Rosicrucian tradition. Paracelsus
practised medicine gratuitously; his philosophy was
Neo-Platonic; he wore only very unpretending clothes
and exalted poverty ; upon his appointment as professor
of surgery by the senate of Bale, he burned in the
amphitheatre before the students the old medical books,
124 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
which were believed in blindly but which, owing to the
respect in which they were held, were actually an obstacle
to research. Philalethes, who possessed the secret of the
philosopher’s stone, travelled all over the world to heal
the sick ; his continual preoccupation was to escape the
fame which his cures brought him. Although the Comte
de Saint-Germain had a fondness for precious stones, he
may, for other reasons, be numbered among the true
Rosicrucians. But the same conclusion cannot be drawn
in the ease of Spinoza from the fact that his seal was in
the form of a rose and that he did not sign his work.
Certain too zealous writers have assigned to the
Rosicrucians every remarkable figure of the last few
centuries.
In 1888 Stanislas de Guaita and Papus founded a
cabalistic order of the Rosy Cross, with a ceremonial,
grades and, possibly, special dress. These facts, together
with the stir which they made over this foundation, were
sufficient indication that the new order was not inspired
by the tradition of its original founder. The same may
be said of the Catholic order of the Rosy Cross founded
by Josephin Peladan at the same time. These orders
had only an ephemeral life. At the present day there
can still be found various groups, almost all of them
Christian, calling themselves Rosicrucians ; but they do
not correspond to any reality based on initiation.
The only true Rosicrucians, the eight heirs—who have
followed one another in unbroken succession—of the
Albigensian Christian von Germelshausen, have carried
on their secret work uninterruptedly. Some have
thought that towards the end of the seventeenth century
before the growing materialism of Europe, as though they
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 125
considered the game lost, they abandoned the races which
were greedy only for material well-being and retired into
the inaccessible solitudes of the Himalayas. But a game
in which the stake is divine can never be lost. Possibly
they left Europe at one time and have since returned.
The legend of them, after providing one of the chief
topics ofconversation among European intellectuals, died
down after the French Revolution. At the present day
it interests only a small number of seekers after know­
ledge. The eight wise men have returned to their task,
though this task has become excessive. By what means
are they seeking to accomplish it ?
Sometimes it needs very little to turn a human soul
in a new and better direction. It may happen that the
reading of a book is enough, or a chance word that you
hear—even the face of a good man that you catch a
glimpse of one evening and that reminds you that good
exists. Each one of us, when the moment has come or
when he asks with sufficient intensity, may meet one of
the eight wandering wise men. Let him not be in a bad
temper that day, or inattentive, or tired. Wisdom is not
capricious, as luck is ; but it visits us much less often.
126 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
THE ROSE AND THE CROSS
T
HE Rosicrucians took the union of the rose and
the cross for their symbol because this union
embodies the meaning of their effort and
emphasises the fact that that effort must be made by all
men. For immemorial ages the wisest among us have
discovered that the aim of humanity on earth is to attain
divine wisdom. Two ways lead to divine wisdom:
knowledge and love.
The cross is the oldest symbol in the world. Ever
since the appearance of the earliest civilisations it has
denoted mind or spirit moving towards perfection. The
rose symbolises love because by its perfume, colour and
delicacy it is Nature’s masterpiece of beauty, and beauty
excites love, just as love transforms into beauty the
elements on which it is bestowed. By the rose blooming
in the middle of the cross the meaning of the universe is
explained, the only true doctrine is summed up, the truth
shines out with splendour. In order to realise his
possibilities and become perfect, man must develop his
capacity for love to the point of loving all creatures and
all forms perceptible to his senses; he must enlarge his
capacity for knowledge and understanding to the point
of comprehending the laws that govern the world, and of
being af>le to proceed, through the intelligence, from
every effect to every cause.
He who breathes the perfume of the rose and savours
127
its beauty, who sees the branches of the cross open
towards the four cardinal points of the spirit, may take
the wrong road, may go backwards, may be for the time
overwhelmed by ignorance. But he holds his anchorage
in the storm, he sees the light on the hill-top ; sooner or
later he will once more find the right way. All glory to
the messenger who found this safety-giving signal and
fixed it in wood or stone that it might be transmitted !
All glory to the messenger who, through the virtue of the
symbol, created the possibility that the truth should be
preserved 1 He has added name and number to the mile­
stone ; he has been the comfort of the traveller, the
safety of the lost wanderer.
Christian Rosenkreutz made rules for his disciples’
life. The first ofthese rules was unselfishness, which will
always be the most difficult virtue to put into practicc.
The men who have a reputation for unselfishness and live
among us with a vague halo of generosity, are only men
who are less greedy than others. Nobody is unselfish.
There is not a single example in our modern society of a
man big enough to break the terrible bond of riches and
pass readily and unostentatiously from wealth to poverty,
or even from poverty to greater poverty. As soon as the
mind has reached a certain level it understands that it
is in this direction that the first step must be taken. Yet
it does not take that step. One ofthe bravest men of all,
and one most deeply convinced of the virtue of poverty
—Tolstoy—made up his mind only a few hours before his
death to become a wandering beggar. But he was too
late.
Another essential rule was absence of pride. The
Rosicrucian had to pass unnoticed, might not pride
128 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
himself on his knowledge, had to remain so far as pos­
sible anonymous. For the ordinary man modesty is as
impossible to practise as poverty. It is even a matter of
common observation that great intellectual faculties are
almost always accompanied by a form of stupid, boastful
vanity. And this very vanity is regarded with favour as
the sign of genius.
The third rule of the Rosicrucians was chastity. Wise
men have always attached great importance to chastity,
though neither Pythagoras nor Socrates nor Plato nor
the Alexandrine philosophers practised it rigorously.
Possibly it is nothing more than a preventive measure
against excess and against the violence generated by
such desires. Logically, if pleasure in eating is not for­
bidden there is no reason why the pleasure of sex should
be forbidden. And these two orders ofphysical pleasures
are in some degree comparable. In the ordinary man
they are both equally indispensable to life. But while
eating involves only the physical pleasure arising out of a
good digestion, the other, if practised with a person who
is loved, contains marvellous possibilities of pleasure and
may even be a path to perfection. Only at present
nothing is known of this path. The laws which teach
how a high spiritual level may be attained through
community of desire and its mutual satisfaction have not
yet been written by any master. I have never heard
even ofthere being any oral teaching on chat subject. A
prudishness that is as old as the world has cut short with
a command of silence the forward impulse which
humanity might have received through the flesh.
We do not, however, know whether the rose in the
Rosicrucian symbol may not contain an implicit
I
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 129
indication of the secret of love which remains to be
found.
He who reaches higher knowledge through an enlarged
intelligence will be able to love only those persons and
things whose machinery he understands, whose move­
ments he sees, whose passions he comprehends as though
they were his own. He who reaches the state of perfect
love through the emotional impetus of the heart will see
the barriers of ignorance fall before him and will conquer
knowledge by the bestowal of himself on that which he
loves. For the two ways meet and at a certain level
become one.
The symbol is well-founded and eternal, and there will
be no need of any other for thousands of human
evolutions. Every man can weigh himself up by
reference to the rose and cross and can find in it a
provisional touchstone of good and evil. It is the inter­
rogation point which is formed in many consciences,
though they may not confess it to themselves. What is
good and what is evil ? Am I right to do something
which seems good from my point of view and evil from
that of others ? Naturally the rose and cross cannot
serve as a key to every riddle, for there are too many
doors in the darkness ofthe soul. The agonising question
which every man asks himself at least once in his lifetime
and most men ask themselves a thousand times, the
question whether it is more important to develop oneself
or to help others, whether it is better to sacrifice oneself
or to progress by study, remains unsettled. But the two
ever-present symbols give man the framework of an
answer, if he is sincere with himself.
Whenever a man becomes identified through love with
130 M A G I ( ’ I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
that totality of universes which is called God, or with a
landscape, or with some creature, though it be only a
dog, he is on the way of the rose, protected by it and
enriched by its substance. Whenever he emerges from
his ignorance, learns a fact or a law, allows his mind to
go a little farther in knowledge ofreality, he is progressing
towards that super-terrestrial and super-celestial point
at which the cross stretches forth its four spiritual
branches.
That is the message which Christian Rosenkreutz
brought to the West. It is a message which may seem
very modest to European sceptics (who are convinced
that they possess all knowledge and consider hate more
important than love). But it was brought very humbly
by a messenger who gloried in conccaling his name and
who, after journeying for more than a century to transmit
his little truth, has left no other trace of his passing than
the design of the open flower at the centre of the cross.
C H R I S T I A N R O S E N K R E U T Z 131
THE MYSTERY OF THE TEMPLARS
THE INITIATES OF ACTION
IT was enjoined on the Knight Templar by the rules of
his Order that he must never yield, but must
contend to the last, with three enemies, if need be.
It was commonly said, moreover, in the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries, that a single Knight Templar could
overcome ten Saracens.
The essential quality demanded of a member of the
Order was courage, personal bravery ; and the sum of all
this bravery was intended to establish the power of force,
material domination.
The Templars were the initiates of action, the
messengers of the sword. They signalised a fresh
defeat to Eastern initiation in its work of bringing
peace and culture to the West, which lay crushed
in the embrace of the Church. At Athens and
Alexandria the Church had previously annihilated
the Neo-Platonic initiates of knowledge. The last
survivors of that marvellous school, the disciples
of Ammonius Saecas, who dreamed of leading the
world to perfection through philosophic knowledge,
had been compelled to take refuge in Persia with
King Chosroes.
At the time when the Order of the Temple was
attaining its zenith, the initiates of love, the
Catharists and Albigenses, who had discovered the
135
secret of immediate perfection to be attained in a
single lifetime by the path of purifying poverty and
brotherly love, had been exterminated to the last
man ; and from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean it
was impossible to find a stone with the mark of their
sublime tradition.
The initiates of the Order of the Temple sought to
bring about by the sword the triumph of the truth
of the sages. They followed the third of the ways
open to man—not the way of knowledge or the
way of love, but the way of action. Their initial
success was dazzling. The flower of every country
in the world, attracted by the ideal of chivalrous
courage which they raised as a banner, joined them.
Every high-spirited young man in Europe dreamed
of taking his share in the defence of the Holy
Land in the phalanx of these glorious veterans
of the Crusade. But the directors of the Order
had glimpses of a more grandiose aim. In their
eyes the Holy Land contained the tomb only of
a prophet among prophets, not of a God. It was
their idea to make a Holy Land of the whole
world. For this it was first necessary to conquer
the world—which was within the bounds of pos­
sibility. The Order of the Temple made this attempt
and might have been successful.
The eleventh and the twelfth centuries sawthe develop­
ment of this tremendous dream, this gigantic secret
chimera, the conquest of Europe and Asia by a brave,
well-organised minority, ignorant, however, of the real
aim and directed by a small group of initiates. Success
would have meant the re-establishment of the ancient
136 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
T H E T E M P L A R S 137
Egyptian hierarchy of priests. Behind the kings and
their warriors there would have stood wise men, priests
and scholars combined, who would have imposed a
will to justice and turned the whole world towards
perfection.
It is not surprising that in the rules of the Order no
passages can be found testifying to this tremendous
aim of the Templars. A project so vast as to
include the fall of kings, the levelling of religions,
and the setting up of a unique civilisation, which
was to be both Mussulman and Christian, could
not be entrusted to any parchment and could be
revealed even to the Grand Priors of the Council only
when their ambition and discretion had been carefully
tested. At the time of the trial not a single knight
revealed the true aim of the Order, of which he
was but a blind instrument. The members of the
inner group, those who knew, confessed under torture
only external rites, which may have been scandalous
to the profane, but which did not affect the essence
of that which the Temple really was. No doubt
Philippe le Bel and Pope Clement V were well
aware of the danger to their throne and papacy.
The extraordinary avarice of the King of France was
not a sufficient lever with which to lift and break
so heavy a stone as the Order of the Temple. It
was possible that he would not succeed and would himself
be broken. He must have decided on his daring course
of action only because it was a vital matter for his
throne. Not long before, he had sought admission to the
Order and, to his great surprise, had been rejected. He
therefore suppressed those who, a little later, would have
suppressed him. The papacy would have been attacked
only much later, for to attain dominion the Order needed
the ecclesiastical organisation. At the trial, neither in
the examinations nor in the judgments was the slightest
hint given of the force which had all but destroyed the
social edifice in order to reorganise it on a more perfect
plan. It was considered enough to have convicted the
Templars of having spat on the crucifix, of having per­
mitted and even commended unnatural vice, of having
worshipped the idol Baphomet—all matters which were
proved in the letter, while the spirit was not understood.
The astonished world saw the condemnation of the
glorious and famous Order and never knew the real
reason. And history ever afterwards has remained in
equal ignorance.
The most prodigious actions can be accomplished by
those who believe. Not only can faith move mountains ;
it can toss them up to heaven with ease. Nor is it
necessary that faith should be faith in good, in God, or
in some sublime chimera. Faith in egoism has equal
power. But it gives way quickly. However, the
element of faith must necessarily be at the basis of
action. When men cease to believe in their aim, their
armour falls from them, they cease to be invincible.
That is what happened to the Templars. The amassing
of riches entered into their plan, and in an incredibly
short time they had become the bankers of the world.
The knights entrusted with accounts were even more
zealous than those entrusted with fighting (and these
had the reputation of being the best fighters of their
time). Riches corrupted them as they corrupt all who
possess them. They perished from their excessive
138 MAC. I ( M A N S . S E E K S , ANI ) M Y S T I C S
T H E T E M P L A R S 139
wealth, and with them was extinguished the dream of a
civilisation which should reconcile the East and the
West, and for the rule of kings should substitute
government by a chosen group of wise and just
men.
HUGUES DES PAYENS AND THE ORDER OF
ASSASSINS
IT was about 1120, in Jerusalem, that the magnificent
dream appeared in the gifted brain of the founder
of the Templars, Hugues des Payens.
He was a poor knight of Champagne who had followed
Godefroy de Bouillon in the Crusade and remained in
Jerusalem. Pillage had left him still without a fortune.
History shows that when a town, however big, is
captured, three days at most are enough to ensure that
there is not a house left to take or a woman to violate.
At Antioch and Jerusalem, Hugues des Payens must
have spent the three first days in thanking God for the
victory. It seems probable that the founder of the
richest Order in Christendom was a disinterested man.
He considered himself a good Christian but liked to
discuss heretic doctrines with his comrade-at-arms
Geoffroy de Saint-Adh^mar,* who came from Toulouse,
and, like all his countrymen, was imbued with Catharism.
They were young and poor, as is proper for the con­
structors of great plans, for men who swiftly transform
dreams into realities.
The East, with the beauty of its architecture, the
charm of its women and the mysticism of its philosophy,
changed men of the West with surprising rapidity.
Baldwin II, who had become King of Jerusalem, was
* Not Saint-Omer, as it is often written.
140
an example of this. Taken prisoner in an ambush by
the Emir Balak, he had been for a year in the power of
the Saracens. When he was set free he continued to
fight with the same ardour, but he spoke of the Emir
as a wise man from whose conversation he had derived
much pleasure. He dressed in robes after the Oriental
manner, affected their manner and married a girl who
belonged to an old Arab family. He was the protcctor
of the first Templars, to whom he gave as their lodging,
perhaps with intention, that part of his palace which
was built on the site of the Temple of Solomon.
Hugues des Payens and Geoffroy de Saint-Adhemar,
who were at the same time combatants and mystics,
were struck with admiration for that which the East
was disclosing to them in the domain of ideas which
interested them most. They heard nothing but stories
of holy men of Islam who imposed their mystical con­
ception by force. These men all used similar methods.
They founded a secret society, which was both combatant
and philosophic, with different degrees of initiation and
a hierarchy of membership based on the hierarchy of
nature, in accordance with the ancient principle : As
above, so below.
In Persia there had been Mastek, Kermath and the
Rawendis, who taught their initiates that souls trans­
migrate from body to body. The two Frenchmen heard
also of “ those who are clothed in white,” of Mokanaa
the masked man, who always wore a gold mask on his
face, and of Sasendeimah, the “ master of moonlight,*f
so called because, to impress his disciples, he caused a
dazzling light to appear above a fountain at night.
There was also the founder of an Ismaelitc secret
t h e t e m p l a r s i n
142 MAGICIANS, SEERS, A\I) MYSTICS
society, Abdallah, son of Maimoun, who had succeeded
in mounting the throne of the Caliphate of Egypt.
Since his accession there had been in Cairo a society of
wisdom, of which the Caliph was grand master. This
society’s “ house of wisdom ” and “ house of know­
ledge ” were full of astronomical instruments and books ;
ink, parchment and pens were distributed free, and they
were the resort ofthe doctors, the poets and the wise men
of the East.
Hugues des Payens and Geoffroy de Saint-Adh^mar
heard at this period in Jerusalem the echo of a great
event, the temporary closing, as the result of a riot, of
the “ house of knowledge ” at Cairo ; they were amazed
at the importance things of the mind seemed to have in
the East, which they had actually thought barbarous,
while they lived in their stone castles in the land of
France, shut in by their gloomy moats.
The story of Hassan-ibn-Sabbah, the Old Man of the
Mountain, and the sect of the Assassins, whose reign of
terror extended over Persia, Syria and Egypt, and even
over the Crusaders, was the subject of long talks during
the hot Jerusalem nights.
Hassan-ibn-Sabbah, as well as being a mystic philo­
sopher, was an ambitious man. Educated in the great
university of Nishapur with the astronomer-poet Omar
Khayyam and with Nizamolmouk, who was to become
the prime minister of the Caliph of Bagdad, he had been
initiated into the sect of the Ismaelites and had himself
founded a sect, of which he proclaimed himself grand
master. This sect had nine degrees of initiation and
was based on the two foundations of absolute obedience
and intellectual knowledge of philosophy. Disciplcs rose
T H E T E M P L A R S 143
in the hierarchy ofthe sect according to their intelligence.
After knowledge it was necessary to attain faith in the
higher God common to all religions. On this level they
practised the ecstasy ofthe Sufis and the saints. But on
the highest level they were taught that there was for
man neither reward nor punishment, that the world was
governed by an indifferent law, and that individual
egoism was probably the deciding principle of life. Only
a few teachers of the sect reached this final degree.
There must have been a still higher grade, which was
reached by the first grand master, Hassan-ibn-Sabbah,
and the agony involved in which he never revealed to
anyone. On this level he must have had doubts of his
own philosophy and of the final superiority of egoism.
His disciples recount of him that he spent thirty-five
years without leaving the library ofthe castle of Alamut,
which contained so many books that it became the biggest
in the world after the library of Bagdad. During this
period of thirty-five years he was only twice seen on his
balcony. But as a man who bore within himself
absolute assurance he realised the vanity of books fully
as much as a man of faith; he expected nothing from
dusty parchments and he certainly would not have
contented himself with seeing the sunlight twice in
thirty-five years.
Hassan-ibn-Sabbah had found an ingenious way of
becoming the most important person in the East, of
raising taxes and controlling kings. Every man who
resisted his will was assassinated by one ofhis emissaries.
If the emissary was captured before he had accomplished
the murder, another was sent, and if necessary a third.
And Hassan’s disciples stopped short at nothing. If it
was necessary to kill a Christian they were converted to
Christianity. Some of them disguised themselves as
beautiful women and were sold as slaves in order to
approach some suspicious, luxury-loving emir and stab
him as he caressed them.
To turn his disciples into fanatics and obtain from
them the sacrifice of their life, Hassan possessed a
method ofhis own, which he bequeathed to his successors.
Like his father, Ali Sabbah, who was sumamed the
sceptic and atheist, and for whose attainments he had
the deepest respect, he had made a study of plants since
his childhood. He had found a way of preparing hashish
and mixing it with henbane so that a man gained self-
confidence and inflexible determination. His emis­
saries took with them, besides their short, triangular
dagger, the absolute certainty of success. Possibly, as
Marco Polo has told us—and all his other statements
have received corroboration—Hassan gave his disciples
another mixture of hashish which produced in them, by
the fountains in the gardens of Alamut, blissful dreams
and the belief that they were being sent to paradise
through his divine power.* It was easy to obey a man
who could give such a reward. It is from this fact that
the members of the sect have derived their name of
assassins, or hashishins, eaters of herbs. The Old Man
of the Mountain was called the possessor of the
Hashisha.t
• Part of the castle of Alamut was called Meimoun-diz, the fortress
of happiness.
f Certain solemn persons are pleased to regard as unhistorical events
which present themselves to us in the garb of legend. Facts are often
flat and boring, but sometimes they are sublime and poetic without any
embellishment. In his interesting work on chivalry M. Victor-Emile
144 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
T H E T E M P L A R S 145
At the moment when Hugues des Payens and Geoffroy
de Saint-Adh£mar were dreaming of power to be acquired
in imitation of the Eastern intellectuals, Hassan-ibn-
Sabbah died. But his sect lost nothing of its strength,
thanks to the machinery of his organisation. The two
Frenchmen had no difficulty in seeing that what gave
it its power, more even than the dark threat ofits daggers,
was the methodical acquisition and fortification of
impregnable strongholds, garrisoned by small bodies of
disciplined troops.
And the dream took shape. It was possible to become
master of Europe if one possessed castles scattered
about various countries. To acquire these castles wealth
was necessary, but religion led to everything, particularly
to wealth. How many men had renounced their fortunes
at the time of the Crusade, exchanging their money for
the pardon of the Church 1 The knights of Christ would
drain Christendom of gold. As regards the terror, the
power of murder, which had been Hassan's principal
lever, it could be re-created in a religious watchword, in
the virtue given by faith.
This watchword came to them from the East through
the initiation which they received from Theocletes, the
Patriarch of the Gnostic sect of Johannites. This sect
centred its beliefs round StJohn the Evangelist, asserting
Michelet remarks that to derive a55o$5tn from hashishin is like deriving
cheval from equus, and he seems to find the use of hashish unworthy of
Hassan-ibn-Sabbah. The etymology that I give here is abundantly
confirmed by Sylvestre de Sacy, von Hammer, and several other
historians. Moreover, many secret societies, Persian, Indian and
Chinese, have made and still make use of beverages based on hashish,
opium and many other plants, in order to promote the emergence
of the astral " double " and the attainment of the early degrees of
ecstasy.
that he was the founder of the true church. The
Roman Church was not the lawful Church, and the
missionaries of Peter, when they preached among the
heathen, had debased the conceptions of Jesus. Accord­
ing to the Johannites it was blasphemy to say that
Jesus had mounted the cross, for the son of God could
not have been crucified. After John, the Johannite
patriarchs had succeeded one another without inter­
ruption. The last of them was Theocletes, who was
wandering obscurely about Palestine. If, however, he
could find supporters his Church would triumph over
false Churches, and his successor would be the most
powerful man in Christendom.
Hugues des Payens gathered round him seven knights
and founded an order of chivalry whose ostensible aim
was to protect pilgrims journeying to the Holy Land.
He called it the Order of the Temple, because its mystic
and secret aim was the reconstitution of the Temple of
Solomon, the symbol of perfection. This symbol had
been confined in the geometry of the stones ; it was the
pursuit of divine wisdom and its realisation under the
hierarchical direction of initiates. Material power was
to be the means of raising the Temple.
This material power was acquired with a speed which
surpassed all the dreams of the founders.
In 1128 Hugues des Payens came to France and had
the rule of the new Order approved by St Bernard. It
was ascetic and warlike. If it strangely resembled the
rules ofthe secret societies ofthe East, nobody was aware
of the fact. The Templars were divided into three
grades: knights, men-at-arms and affiliates. They
obeyed the Grand Master, but there was an inner order
146 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
T H E T E M P L A R S 147
composed of seven members, who remained unknown and
who carried on the original tradition.
Their uniform was a white robe with a red cross on the
left side. They were exempted from taxes and from
military service to kings. They might be tried only by
the pope. The number three played a particular part
in their ritual. When a candidate wished to be admitted
knight he knocked thrice on the door of the church in
which the ceremony was to be performed, and he was
thrice asked what he wanted. Every knight had to have
three horses, keep three great fasts and communicate
three times a year. Those who had committed a fault
were scourged thrice. They took three vows.
After the lapse of a few years they had accumulated
enormous riches and constituted an ever-increasing force
among the nations of Europe and in the East. Their
strength came from their financial operations.
During the hundred and eighty-four years of the
existence of the Order the aim was never lost sight of
and was pursued with stubborn determination. They
had their castles in every country, numbering about nine
thousand. They made uninterrupted progress. When
they fought the Egyptians, the Syrians and the Order
of Assassins, they learned their enemies’ customs,
military organisation and doctrine. When they built
their fortresses, it was on the plan of the Saracen for­
tresses, and they can thus be easily distinguished from
those of the Hospitallers, their rivals.
Close relations, in the form of alliances concluded and
then broken, often united the Templars with the
Saracens. They betrayed Frederick II for the Sultan
of Babylon. On another occasion they refused to fight
the infidels in support of Leon, King of Armenia. After
the capture of Damietta, Imbert, Marshal of the Temple
and confidant of the papal legate, Cardinal Pelagius,
who was in command of the Christian army, suddenly
left that army, which was stuck fast in the overflow of
the Nile, and went over to the Mussulmans. If it is a
true story that it was a Knight Templar who prevented
the Grand Master of the Assassins from becoming con­
verted to Christianity and killed his ambassador, it was^
no doubt because he did not believe in so improb­
able a conversion and saw in it nothing but a ruse
of war.
All this proves the closeness of the affinity between the
Knights Templar and their enemies. They neither
hesitated to betray Christendom when it was to their
interest, nor, when they took Mussulman prisoners, did
they allow them to go without ransom. The fact was
that for them the only truth lay in the increase of their
power.
With the years the Grand Masters became more
powerful, and power brought with it only increased
ambition. Under Thomas Berard they fought the
Hospitallers with at least as great enthusiasm as if they
had been fighting the infidels. But human life did not
count in their eyes. A great concrete plan can be carried
out only by means of the indiscriminate killing of friend
and enemy alike. Nothing counted to them, neither the
authority of the pope, which they threw off more and
more every day, nor moral laws, nor the laws ofchivalry.
We will give only one significant example.
The Christians had almost everywhere been expelled
from the East, where for nearly three centuries they had
148 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
T H E T E M P L A R S 149
destroyed the monuments of Arab art, burned libraries*
and created around them a desolation which can only
be compared to that caused by the Mongols.! Sultan
Khalil had laid siege to Acre, whose defence had been
entrusted to the Grand Master of the Temple, Guillaume
de Beaujeu. He was killed on the ramparts when the
contest had lasted several months, and since the besieged
town contained the number of priors necessary for an
election, his successor was at once proclaimed, the monk
Gaudini. The new Grand Master was an intellectual
and a philosopher rather than a soldier. He at once
tried to negotiate terms of surrender, but he was too late,
and the town was pillaged. The wives and daughters of
the nobles of the town had taken refuge in the fortress
of the Templars, which overlooked the sea and allowed
resistance to be continued. Nightfall interrupted fight­
ing and pillage. The Knights Templar were called upon
to surrender and agreed to do so provided they were
allowed to withdraw on the following day with the women
who had taken refuge behind their walls. The Sultan
accepted this condition, but it was agreed that a few
hundred Mussulman soldiers should occupy one of the
towers in order to ensure that the conditions of surrender
were adhered to. Unfortunately this tower was that
* Notably the library of Tripoli, which contained more than 100,000
volumes.
f I find it difficult to understand the admiration that history text­
books profess for what they call “ the great mystical movements of the
Crusades.” Behind the chivalry of France the scum of the West rushed
to pillage the East. St Bernard fairly described these Crusaders, whose
enthusiasm he had aroused : " That which is pleasing about this mob,
this torrent rushing to the Holy Land, is the fact that it consists of noth­
ing but scoundrels and ungodly men. But Christ has transformed his
enemies into his champions.”
in which the women were crowded. The Mussulman
soldiers, drunk with success, could not control them­
selves at the sight of the women. They dragged them
off into the church of the Order and violated them. The
knights heard the screams and rushed off to inform the
Grand Master of the treachery and consult him as to the
vengeance to be exacted.
Gaudini shrugged his shoulders and replied :
“ I am no less distressed than you, gentlemen. But
what can we do in such circumstances ? ”*
And he hurriedly embarked with the Temple archives
and a dozen of the higher officers of the Order in a ship
which escaped under cover of darkness and reached
Cyprus. The rape of three hundred women was of no
importance provided the few men who had in hand the
conquest and organisation of Europe were saved.
The Templars who remained behind killed the Sultan’s
soldiers, but on the following day they perished together
with the Christian women ; the tower in which they were
defending themselves fell at the moment of assault,
burying in its ruins conquerors and conquered.
Some years later, during the Grand Mastership of
Jacques de Molay, all the proud towers of the Temple
which had been built at the cross-roads of Europe col­
lapsed simultaneously.
150 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
* Père Mansuet, Histoire critique de l'Ordre des Chevaliers du Temple.
THE DENIAL OF JESUS AND OTHER CHARGES
AGAINST THE TEMPLARS
IT was the period when Philippe le Bel had just
debased the coinage of France for his own benefit.
In spite ofthe debasement he still remained without
money. One day he received a letter from the governor
of a château in Languedoc, near Béziers. The governor
informed him that a citizen of that town, named Squint
de Florian, who had been condemned to death, asked
to be allowed to speak to the king before his execution,
saying that he had a secret of unprecedented importance
to reveal to him. The governor had had the execution
deferred.
Impelled by curiosity the king had Florian sent to
Paris. Florian threw himself at the king’s feet and
begged his life in exchange for a secret. His petition
was granted. This is what he revealed.
Florian had spent some days in prison in the company
of a Templar apostate, condemned to death like himself.
This Templar, on the point of execution and unable to
get a priest, had confessed to his companion. He con­
fessed that before he became a criminal and while he was
a member of the Order of the Temple, he had committed
crimes far greater than those for which he was now to
suffer death. These crimes were also committed by the
flower of the chivalry of France. The Templars denied
Jesus Christ and spat thrice on the Cross when they were
151
received into the Order. They practised unnatural
vice, not occasionally but with official permission and
as a praiseworthy and commendable action. Finally,
they dedicated themselves, by the magical rite of a cord
girt round their loins, to a strange, bearded idol called
Baphomet.
It is difficult to believe that Philippe le Bel, who had
so little respect for the pope that he had recently boxed
his ears through the agency of Nogaret, was shocked
by the heresy or the worship of Baphomet, or by the
practice of sodomy, which was common at that time.
It is probable that there was revealed to him something
of the Templars’ ambitious ideal of conquest. This
ideal, known only to the inner group of Grand Priors,
must have percolated through and been whispered
abroad as a doubtful legend; it had not sufficient body
to be included in the accusations at the trial. But
knowledge of it must have made Philippe le Bel reflect
upon the extraordinary power which had arisen within
his kingdom but outside his authority. He must
suddenly have grasped the possible imminence of a
great danger and realised that if he swiftly removed the
danger by an audacious stroke he could at the same time
enrich himself by confiscating the immense wealth of
the Order of the Temple. His fear, which rested on
nothing but the vaguest evidence and was never formally
confirmed, is the only justification of the greatest crime,
after the massacre of the Albigenses, that a pope and a
King of France ever committed jointly.
Perhaps the time had come for the great realisation
of the plans of the Order. The Mussulmans had expelled
the Christians from Palestine and Egypt. How was it
152 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
possible to utilise the tremendous energy ofthese soldiers,
to whom fighting was a vital necessity ? Almost all the
revenues of the Order had been devoted to the upkeep
of their fortresses and possessions in the East. With
the cessation of the war against the infidels enormous
sums would be set free. A Templar named Roger de
Flor considered that the moment had come. He had
just been expelled from the Order for stealing part of
its treasure at the fall of Acre and for ill-treating some
Christian women who had taken refuge on his galley.
Alone, at the head of some Spanish adventurers, he tried
to found a Mediterranean kingdom. He escaped the
pursuit of the pope and of the Order, won a huge fortune
and obtained from the Emperor of Constantinople the
hand of his niece Marie and the title of Caesar.
The Grand Master, Jacques de Molay, had not the
decisiveness heneeded. Everyone liked him. Honestyand
average qualities predominated in him. These do not lead
a man far. A single fact seems to make it probable that
the Temple judged the time ripe to carry out their great
scheme in Europe. When the pope, acting in con­
junction with Philippe le Bel, summoned Jacques de
Molay to Poitiers, he recommended him to come incog­
nito and almost unaccompanied. But Jacques de Molay
left Cyprus, where he then was, with a great retinue, the
flower of the knights and the Temple treasure. That
might well have been an indication that he regarded the
field of action of the Order as being thenceforward in
Europe, where he would need all his fighting men.
Cleverly and hypocritically the King lavished on
Jacques de Molay and the Templars every mark of
friendship and favour, while Clement V, for his part,
t h e t e m p l a r s 153
could refuse the king nothing. He had been elected
pope thanks to the King of France. Public opinion was
worked up, and for the first time the university and the
people were to be asked to approve a royal decision.
But the very character of the charges would give
popularity to a sudden stroke of this kind. For a long
time there had been rumours as to the disappearance and
mysterious death of men who had been imprudent
enough to be present at a secret ceremony of the Temple.
The Templars were everywhere hated. “ It was said
that they were notoriously in relations with the Assassins
of Syria. The people observed with fear the likeness
between their uniform and that of the followers of the
Old Man ofthe Mountain. They had received the Sultan
in their houses, had permitted Mohammedan worship.
In their furious rivalry with the Hospitallers they had
gone so far as to shoot their arrows against the Holy
Sepulchre.”*
It was considered scandalous that the court of the
Grand Master should be more numerous and more
magnificent than the court of kings. Exception was
taken to the occult character of initiation into the Order.
Men spoke in whispers of magic, of the ritual murder of
children. Philippe le Bel would find allies in the anger
and hatred which a people feels for all that it does not
understand.
During the night of the 13th of October, 1306, Jacques
de Molay was arrested, together with all the knights
who were in Paris. Orders had been sent in advance
to the provinces that all the Templars in France were
to be arrested simultaneously. Torture produced more
• Michelet, Histoire de France.
154 M A c; I (’ I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
than a hundred and forty confessions. But when the
house of the Temple was searched, neither the archives
of the Order, nor the original authentic rule, nor the rite
of initiation was found. Jacques de Molay, impressed
by rumours that had been current some days before with
regard to a danger threatening the Order, had had them
removed and hidden in a safe place. They have never
been found.
The Templars were accused of denying Jesus Christ
and of spitting thrice on the Cross when they took their
vows of fidelity. This charge has been endlessly dis­
cussed and various explanations of it suggested. That
which has been adopted by many men ofsound judgment,
notably by Michelet,* is that this form of initiation
was borrowed from the ancient mysteries. In order to
bring into greater relief the perfect purity of the initiate
after initiation, he had to appear before initiation as
having attained the last degree of irreligion. He denied
Jesus. The deeper his fall had been the more thoroughly
he was rehabilitated by entry into the Order. At the
time of the trial of the Templars the rite was practised,
though its symbolical meaning had been lost.
This explanation is rather childish ; but how can an
action which must have seemed monstrous to Christians
have been demanded of th6m without the reason for it
being given, when the reason was so simple ? The
question must constantly have been asked ; for a pious
knight, invited, on admission into the Order, to spit on
that which he had been taught to worship, must have
undergone tortures. It would have been easy to soothe
• In spite of the explanation he gives, Michelet is horrified at the
grossness of the profanation.
T H E T E M P L A R S 155
his conscience, and an answer so readily understood
would soon have been forgotten !
Actually, the numerous knights who either begged
their initiator to excuse them the ceremony of denial
of the Cross or hoped to evade its consequences by a
mental reservation, could not be given the true ex­
planation without at the same time knowing the secrets
of the Order. And these secrets were kept for a deeper
initiation, entry into the inner group.
The act ofspitting on the Cross signified the Templar’s
liberation from the Roman Church, which thenceforward
he would no longer serve in heart. Just as the Assassins,
who were the enemies of official Islam, enjoined on their
disciples of the early grades rigorous observance of the
Koran, so the Order of the Temple taught a Christianity
which was rigorous in form. But in the spirit the
bond which joined each member of the Order to the
Church was broken by the ceremony of initiation. He
was bound to a higher Church, to a Christ who could
not die on the Cross; and a day would come when he
would have to fight the Pope of Rome and his bishops,
and then he would need to remember his initiation as a
living act.
The Templars were, in fact, so far detached from the
Catholic Church that they did not use consecrated wafers
at mass, and received confession from their visitors and
preceptors, who often were laymen.
The charge of unnatural vice weighed as heavily on
them as that of heresy. Not that sodomy during the
middle ages was not very widespread. On the contrary,
it seems to have been more so than in ancient Greece,
more soeventhan in the great cities ofourtimes. “ In the
156 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
eighth century, according to Alcuin, and probably in
the succeeding centuries, every bishop was obliged,
upon election and before consecration, to vindicate
himself in respect of the following canonical questions :
(1) If he had been a pederast; (2) If he had had criminal
commerce with a nun ; (3) If he had had criminal com­
merce with *a four-footed beast V’* And he was
compelled to swear that he would never subsequently
practise any form of criminal commerce. The fact that
an episcopal candidate should have been so persistently
interrogated with regard to such acts means that they
must have been common. But, as in our own day,
anything was tolerated or even permitted, provided- it
was done secretly, provided hypocrisy enveloped it with
its ashen cloak.
Many witnesses deposed that when they entered the
Order they were recommended by their superior to
practise sodomy amongst themselves and to abstain from
the love of women. This revelation aroused great anger
throughout the world, but the anger was not entirely
justified. Complete chastity was put forward as an
ideal, which, however, could not be immediately realised.
Sodomy was a first step towards it, a fining down of
sensual exaltation. Moreover the Templars were, before
anything else, warriors, who took castles and towns.
The custom in those days was to rape the women of a
town that had been captured. Those who resisted, and
sometimes those who had been raped and discarded, were
killed. So widely established was this custom that in
the twelfth century a special order of chivalry was
* Frédéric Nicolai. Essai sur les accusations intentées aux Templiers
et sur le secret de cel ordre.
t h e t e m p l a r s 157
founded to protect women during the march of armies
and after the capture of towns. It was possibly with
an idea of humane economy that a wise Grand Master
recommended sodomy as a makeshift.
In the history of mystical sects there are analogous
examples. Those who find material life irretrievably
bad are only logical in refusing to perpetuate it. In this
event they find an outlet for their senses by an act which
brings a minimum of pleasure and has no consequences.
Proceedings, which attracted a good deal of attention
at the time, were taken in India some thirty years ago
against a philosopher whose teachings were ofthis nature.
Actually, all misunderstandings arise from the inordinate
importance which religions and societies attach to men’s
physical relations. These relations, the interest of which
varies with the age and intelligence of each individual,
ought to possess importance only in so far as they
develop a feeling for beauty, and love in the highest
sense of the word.
But a rule such as that of the Order of the Temple
did not allow for the baseness of instincts, or for the
total absence of even the rudiments of spirituality in the
great majority of men. And most Templars saw in it
nothing more than licence for a pleasure which till then
was regarded as forbidden. All the rites of the Order
were debased.
The kiss on the lips given to a candidate at his recep­
tion into the Order, which was the communication of
breath, of force, in accordance with the practice of secret
societies in the East, became a symbol of pleasure. But
the reception of the knight was very often the pretext
for ludicrous and indecent scenes, in which defenders of
158 M A G I C I A N S , S E E K S , A N I) M Y S T K ' S
t h e t e m p l a r s 159
the Temple and lovers of symbols cannot possibly dis­
cover a hidden meaning. During the examination at
Cahors a knight named Amaud deposed that immediately
after his reception, “ at which he had given and received
criminal kisses, the superior who received him had at
once misused him.”*
At Carcassonne a young knight named Jean de
Cassagne confessed that “ while a priest of the Order
was reading a psalm the superior kissed him on the
mouth, lay on the bench on which he was sitting, that
they exchanged other kisses, and that the ten knights
kissed him on the navel. Then the superior took out
of a box a copper idol. . . .”
The third charge was connected with this idol. It was
named Baphomet.f The one which was found in Paris
was numbered, for each chapter of the Temple possessed
one. It was made of copper and had a long white beard.
It has been variously described, for the knight saw it
when he was initiated only for a few seconds. It has
been said that it was a kind ofmarionette, that it had the
face of a cat, and that it represented Satan. These
puerilities helped to give some foundation to the suspicion
* Histoire de I’abolition de I’Ordre des Temptiers> 1779.
f There are three possible derivations of this word :
(1) According to the oldest and possibly the commonest explanation,
it is a corruption of the word Mahomet. It was a frequent charge
against the Templars that they inclined to Mohammedanism.
(2) Von Hammer's explanation is that the word is a combination of
the two Greek words (baptism) and writ (wisdom), the Gnostic
baptism.
(3) Eliphas L6vi in his Dogme et rituel de la haute magic says that
the word was formed cabalistically by writing in reverse order the
initial letters of the Latin words, templi omnium hominum pacis
abbas (abbot [or father] of the temple of peace of all men). Thus :
TEM O H P AB.—Trans.
of heresy which hung over the Temple. The knights
were convinced that they were worshipping an Oriental
deity.
In reality, Baphomet was a symbol of Gnostic origin,
intended to embody the doctrine of the Temple and to
recall its aim. It was neither the figure of Jupiter nor
that of Mohammed that was worshipped in it; it was
power that was worshipped, power directed by in­
telligence, which was the ideal of the Temple and which
was always represented in ancient symbolism by a
bearded man wearing a crown. This bearded man is
found on the seals and medallions belonging to the
Templars. It was for them what the rose in the middle
of the cross was for the Rosicrucians, the symbol of the
sublime ideal to which they had dedicated their lives.
The flaxen cord given to every new knight, which he was
instructed to wear under his garment, had to touch
Baphomet because it symbolised the bond which links
man with his ideal.
160 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
THE FALL OF THE ORDER
ISHALL not tell in detail the story of the trial of the
Templars, which lasted seven years. The hoped-
for confessions of heresy were quickly extorted from
a great many of them by torture. The Grand Master
himself was unable to withstand it. But his confessions
must have been falsified by the three cardinals who heard
them, for when they were read over to him he did not
recognise them ; he said he preferred Saracen trials “ in
which the prisoner’s head was cut off at once.”
At first Clement V seemed to hold his hand, dismayed
at the grossness of the injustice. But interest bound
him to the King of France. Besides, he coveted the
riches of the Templars, with which he hoped to satisfy
the demands of the beautiful Brunissende, Comtesse de
Foix.
The striking feature of the trial was the terror inspired
by the king’s justice. Not a man dared raise his voice
in defence of the Templars. After two years of shuffling
and preliminary tortures a papal commission was
solemnly installed in the palace of the Archbishop of
Paris, where it sat every day to hear the defence. Every
day an usher appeared on the threshold of the palace
and cried out: “ If any man wishes to defend the
Military Order of the Temple, let him come forward.”
But no one came forward. Four months passed by,
and on every day of them the same ceremony was
161
repeated. At last, one day a man clothed in black
made his way through the silent crowd and demanded
to be heard in defence of the Order. A thrill ran through
the multitudes that thronged the streets and the com­
missioners rose to their feet in great emotion. The man’s
name was Jean de Melot. He had been a Templar for
ten years. He had much to say ; he would prove the
Order innocent. When attention was at its height, he
said that he wanted food immediately, that he was a
very poor man, and that he hoped someone would help
him. It was seen then that he was a simple. The food
that he had asked for was given him, and the possibility
of hearing any defence of the Order of the Temple was
dismissed.
There was never to be any defence. Apparently,
every knight had lost his wits. The Grand Master
asserted that he was a man of war, unable to argue
logically. After two years of captivity he requested
eight days for thought and permission for a chaplain to
say mass for him. Had terror of torture clouded the
minds of the prisoners ? Had the investigation
obliterated all sign of human intelligence ? In any case,
the mysterious part of the trial of the Templars was the
incapacity of the knights to find a reasonable defence.
Finally, after seven years, Clement nominated a
council to investigate the matter and give judgment.
But since the members of the council insisted on hearing
witnesses and making themselves thoroughly conversant
with the trial, and since they seemed to cherish a desire
to acquit the Order, Clement, on his own authority,
declared the council suspect of heresy and dissolved it.
A great many knights were confined in the royal
162 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
prisons. By the orders of Philippe le Bel all of them
who had retracted their original confessions were
hurriedly condemned to death by a tribunal presided
over by the Archbishop of Sens (the brother of the king’s
minister Marigny), on whose ferocity Philippe could
safely rely.
“ Ntar the abbey of Saint-Antoine fifteen or twenty
stakes had been put up and set alight. Flames did not
proceed from them; they were like so many beds of
coal, intended to roast the culprits by slow degrees.
Fifty-four knights were thrown on to them.”*
The Grand Master, Jacques de Molay, and the master
of the lodge of Normandy had been condemned to per­
petual imprisonment. But at the last minute, in the
presence of the Archbishop of Sens, they suddenly
retracted their confessions. They declared that “ the
Order was pure and holy and that they were ready to die
to uphold this truth.”
They died that very day. Philippe had them con­
ducted to the island in the Seine which is situated between
the king’s gardens and the Augustins. Here two stakes
had been erected. The two Templars, says the historian,
“ had become disfigured by their long captivity.” A
great crowd watched the executions. There was no
thick smoke to suffocate them, so that they were slowly
burned. When half Jacques de Molay’s body had
been consumed, tradition relates that he cried, “ Clement,
thou wicked judge, I summon thee to appear before
the tribunal of God forty days from now. And thee,
King Philippe, unjust likewise, I summon within a
year.”
* Histoire de ¡'abolition de l’Ordre des Temptiers.
t h e t e m p l a r s 163
Forty days afterwards Clement died of lupus near
Avignon. The King of France survived him only eight
months. It is said also that a Templar of Beaucaire, on
his way to the stake, met Nogaret, the king’s councillor
and instigator of the trial, and foretold his imminent
death. Florian and the prior of Montfaucon who had
followed him in denouncing the Order were both
murdered within the year.
Some have seen in these coincidences a proof of certain
magical powers which have been ascribed to the Tem­
plars. But no explanation has been given of why these
powers were never manifested during the seven years
of the trial. It may be that there is an inferior magic
which can be used only for purposes of vengeance.
* * * * * *
A legend current in the south of France relates that,
in the church of the little Pyrenean village of Gavamie,
there have been preserved the heads of nine executed
Templars. Every year at midnight on the 18th of
October, the anniversary of the fall of the Order, a voice
echoes through the church : “ Has the day come for the
liberation of the Sepulchre of Christ ? ” And the nine
heads flutter their mummied eyelids, and through their
mummied lips whisper the reply : “ Not yet!”
The liberation of the Sepulchre of Christ was originally
understood symbolically as the liberation of the spirit.
This legend shows that in the land of the Albigenses the
aim of the Order had been understood, and even after
its destruction the promised liberation was not despaired
of.
The only effect of the papal bulls suppressing the
164 M A G I C I A N S . S E E R S , A N I) M Y S T I C S
t h e t e m p l a r s 165
Order was to make it thenceforward secret. Jacques de
Molay in his prison had nominated as his successor John
Mark Larmenius, of Jerusalem, who was succeeded in
his turn by Thibaut of Alexandria ; since when the
Order has continued its existence, and “ the succession
of its Grand Masters, who have included many illustrious
and influential men, has never been interrupted.”*
Jacques de Molay’s nephew, de Beaujeu, collected his
ashes and became the possessor of the archives and
secrets of the Order. Followed by several knights he
went to Scotland, where Edward II gave them land.
This little group acknowledged as their leader the head
of the Freemasons, Henry FitzEdwin, who formed the
Edinburgh lodge. Others of them went to Sweden. In
subsequent centuries the Templars became Freemasons
and played an active part in the development of the
movement. But a study of the part they played and of
its influence on the French Revolution is too big a subject
for me to deal with here. I will mention only the final
act in the drama, which shows, if it is authentic, that the
Templar connection was still actively alive in the early
days ofthe Revolution, and that there is a direct relation
of cause and effect between the death of Jacques de
Molay and the death of Louis XVI.
The second after the head of Louis XVI had fallen
under the guillotine, a man, who had been observed
taking part in all the street demonstrations since the
taking of the Bastille, rushed forward on to the scaffold,
scooped up some of the royal blood in his hands,
made the gesture of scattering it over the crowd and
cried :
* Le Couteulx de Canteleu, Les sectes et les sociétés secrètes.
“ People of France, I baptise you in the name of
Jacques de Molay and in the name of freedom !”*
Jacques de Molay was revenged. Possibly the Order
had had no other aim than this revenge for five centuries.
From that time onwards the Order is met with only
in weakened form. At the beginning of the nineteenth
century some of its members tried to reconstitute it, but
only partially. This attempt was made with the consent
of Napoleon, who meant to extract from the Order the
greatest possible advantage to himself, perhaps even to
become its Grand Master when the Order should have
won social importance. He sent a regiment of infantry
to line the road in front of the church of Saint-Paul
Saint-Antoine when a memorial service was held, in
1808, to celebrate the anniversary of Jacques de Molay’s
death. All the new Templars took part in this ceremony,
sitting enthroned in the church. They wore ermine-
bordered cloaks and had pectoral crosses, epaulettes,
fillets, fringed girdles and white boots with red heels.
The first thing they had done, after distributing titles
and dignities, was to invent these magnificent uniforms.
It is, unfortunately, a characteristic of many sects who
think they are seeking a truly spiritual aim, to suppose
that an initiate must wear the uniform of an initiate, and
that spiritual development can be signalised only by
variety of symbols and selection of colours and materials.
The search for this easy superiority can be found in
academies, in philharmonic and other societies, and in
other groupings in which human vanity finds expression.
The new Order of the Temple was modified a little
* This story is told by Eliphas L6vi and reproduced by Stanislas de
Guaita.
166 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
later under the direction of Fabre Palaprat, a doctor,
who tried to restore the Johannite religion. Here he was
in the genuine Templar tradition of Theocletes and
Hugues des Payens. He based his beliefs on a mysterious
manuscript called the Leviticon, which he said he had
found and which, according to him, contained the secret
doctrines of the Templars of the thirteenth century.
But nothing came of his attempt, except a distribution
of new dignities and new uniforms.
The Order of the Temple has now disappeared, and its
disappearance marks the complete defeat of its great
designs. The church of John has lost its heroic cham­
pions. The liberation of the spirit and the organisation
of the world by a group of initiates who have knowledge,
has not been and will not be realised, as the nine heads
witness, under the brick and slate of Gavamie. The
wearers of the white cloak with the red cross over the
heart, who might have attempted these aims, died in
the prisons of Philippe le Bel, after being disgraced by
the investigations of the Dominican Inquisitors.
But the spirit could not be liberated by the Templars.
A great design cannot be carried out by that which is
based on a hypocrisy. The Order of the Temple taught
its knights to practise the strictest Catholicism, just as
the Order ofthe Assassins based its teachings on the rules
of the Koran. But both Orders wished to destroy the
Church which they outwardly venerated, in order to
found a more perfect Church on the ruins. Hulagu’s
Mongol cavalry and the far-seeing prudence of Philippe
le Bel made an end of these great powers of the East and
West.
If the Templars had triumphed, history would have
t h e t e m p l a r s 167
been altered in a way that we cannot now foresee. They
had understood the necessity for the union of religions.
Their close relationship with Islam and its philosophers
had taught them to respect the civilisation of their
enemies, and even to adopt it. Their social plans
included the rise of the third estate. Who knows what
the nations of Europe might have become in the hands
of this aristocratic army. Would they have been
transformed by the factor of spiritual progress ? Or
—and this is the more likely—would they have bowed
under the iron tyranny invariably wielded by the
possessors of physical force ?
The original recipients of the message had been certain
knight-mystics of the first Crusade, who wished to hand
it on by the sword. But the great truths that they had
learned at Jerusalem were incomplete. They did not
know that the Word loses its virtue with the reek of the
blood that is shed for it. There is a certain spiritual
light which dies upon contact with the metal of armour,
with the steel of the sword. And if he who wishes to
hand it on is enveloped with the magnetism of gold, the
light becomes darkness. If certain truths are to keep
their original purity they need to be spoken by the lips
of poor men ; the gesture that introduces them must be
made by a hand whitened by asceticism and long prayer.
Whether the charges brought against the Templars
were true or false, whether initiations degenerated into
the orgies found among so many mystical sects, is a
question of little importance. Nor does it matter that
the eyes of Baphomet were brilliant carbuncles, or that
the denial of Christ took such and such a form. Their
real crime was never mentioned at the trial. How should
168 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
it have been ? It was committed daily by Philippe le
Bel and Clement V.
Having lost their first ideal, the Templars had taken
the means for the end. These destroying monks became
greedy bankers, acquirers of fortresses and towns,
money-lenders, lords of vassals and feudal lands. Why
did they not keep the divine light-heartedness of the
days of their youth, when they rushed along the shores
of Lake Tiberias in defence of the pilgrims ! They were
so poor at that time that two of them shared one horse.
Those were the days when they held Jerusalem for the
Christians. When each of them had several finely-
caparisoned horses they were driven out of Acre. The
secret of their power lay in their courage and faith. But
they took wealth for their ideal, as the Albigenses had
taken poverty. They laid claim to a Christ higher than
the Christ worshipped by the common herd; but they
had not so much as heard of the parable of the camel
and the eye of a needle. They believed that,in order to
carry out a great work they might with impunity make
use of the weapons of evil.
And so their message was lost, their work wiped out,
like all work the first principle of which is not perfect
disinterestedness.
T H E T E M P L A R S 169
NICOLAS FLAMEL AND THE
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM THE JEW
WISDOM has various means for making its way
into the heart of man. Sometimes a prophet
comes forward and speaks. Or a sect of
mystics receives the teaching of a philosophy, like rain
on a summer evening, gathers it in and spreads it abroad
with love. Or it may happen that a charlatan, perform­
ing tricks to astonish men, may produce, perhaps without
knowing it himself, a ray of real light with his dice and
magic mirrors. In the fourteenth century the pure truth
of the masters was transmitted by a book. This book
fell into the hands of precisely the man who was destined
to receive it; and he, with the help of the text and the
hieroglyphic diagrams which taught the transmutation
of metals into gold, accomplished the transmutation of
his soul, which is a far rarer and more wonderful
operation.
Thanks to the amazing book of Abraham the Jew all
the hermetists of the following centuries had the oppor­
tunity of admiring an example of a perfect life, that of
Nicolas Flamel, the man who received the book. After
his death or disappearance many students and alchemists
who had devoted their lives to the search for the philo­
sopher’s stone despaired because they had not in their
possession the wonderful book in which was contained
the secret of gold and of eternal life. But their despair
was unnecessary. The secret had become alive. The
magic formulae had become incarnate in the actions of a
173
man. No ingot of virgin gold melted in the crucibles
could, in colour or purity, attain the beauty of the wise
bookseller’s pious life.
There is nothing legendary about the life of Nicolas
Flamel. The Bibliothèque Nationale contains works
copied in his hand and original works written by him.
All the official documents relating to his life have been
found, his marriage contract, his deeds of gift, his will.
His history rests solidly on those substantial material
proofs for which men clamour if they are to believe in
the most obvious things (whenever those obvious things
are also beautiful). To this indisputably authentic
history legend has added a few flowers. But in every
spot where the flowers of legend grow, underneath there
is the solid earth of truth.
Whether Nicolas Flamel was born at Pontoisc or
somewhere else, a question which historians have
investigated with extreme attention, seems to me to be
entirely without importance. It is enough to know that
towards the middle of the fourteenth century he was
carrying on the trade of a bookseller and had a stall
backing on to the columns of Saint-Jacques la
Boucherie.
It was not a big stall, for it measured only two feet
by two and a half. However, it grew. He bought a house
in the old rue de Marivaux and used the ground-floor
for his business. Copyists and illuminators did their
work there. He himself gave a few writing lessons and
taught nobles who could only sign their names with a
cross. One of the copyists or illuminators acted also as
a servant to him.
Nicolas Flamel married Pcrnelle, a good-looking,
174 M A (ï I C I A X S , S E E K S , A M ) M Y S T I C S
intelligent widow, slightly older than himself and the
possessor of a little property.
Every man meets once in his life the woman with
whom he could live in peace and harmony. For Nicolas
Flamel, Pernelle was that woman. Over and above her
natural qualities she had another which is still rarer.
She was the only woman in the history of humanity
who was capable of keeping a secret all her life without
revealing it to everybody in confidence.
The story of Nicolas Flamel is the story of a book.
The secret made its appearance with the book. Neither
the death of its possessors nor the lapse of centuries led
to the complete discovery of the secret.
Nicolas Flamel had acquired some knowledge of the
hermetic art. The ancient alchemy of the Egyptians
and the Greeks which flourished among the Arabs had,
thanks to them, penetrated to Christian countries.
Nicolas Flamel did not, of course, regard alchemy as a
mere vulgar search for the means of making gold. For
every exalted mind the finding of the philosopher’s stone
was the finding of the essential secret of Nature, the
secret of her unity and her laws, the possession of perfect
wisdom. Flamel dreamed of sharing in this wisdom.
His ideal was the highest that man can attain. And he
knew that it could be realised through a book. For the
secret of the philosopher’s stone had already been found
and transcribed in symbolic form. Somewhere it
existed. It was in the hands of unknown sages who
lived somewhere unknown. But how difficult it was for
a small Paris bookseller to get into touch with those
sages.
Nothing, then, has changed since the fourteenth
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 175
century. In our day also many men strive desperately
towards an ideal, the path which they know but cannot
climb ; and they hope to win the magic formula (which
will make them new beings) from some miraculous visit
or from a book written expressly for them. But the
visitor does not come and the book is not written.
But for Nicolas Flamel the book was written. Perhaps
because a bookseller is better situated than other people
to receive a unique book; perhaps because the strength
of his desire organised events without his knowledge, so
that the book came when it was time.
So strong was his desire, that the coming of the book
was preceded by a dream, which shows that this wise
and well-balanced bookseller had a tendency to mysti­
cism.
Nicolas Flamel dreamed one night that an angel stood
before him. The angel, who was radiant and winged
like all angels, held a book in his hands and uttered these
words, which were to remain in the memory of the
hearer:
“ Look well at this book. At first you will understand
nothing in it, neither you nor any other man. But one
day you will see in it that which no other man will be
able to see.”
Flamel stretched out his hand to receive the present
from the angel, and the whole scene disappeared in the
golden light of dreams.
Some time after that the dream was partly
realised.
One day, when Nicolas Flamel was alone in his shop,
an unknown man in need of money appeared with a
manuscript to sell. Flamel was no doubt tempted to
176 M A C
, K M A N 8 , S E E U S , A N D M Y S T I C S
receive him with disdainful arrogance, as do the book­
sellers of our day when some poor student offers to sell
them part of his library. But the moment he saw the
book he recognised it as the book which the angel
had held out to him, and he paid two florins for it without
bargaining.
The book appeared to him indeed resplendent and
instinct with divine virtue. It had a very old binding
of worked copper, on which were engraved curious
diagrams and certain characters, some of which were
Greek and others in a language he could not decipher.
The leaves of the book were not made of parchment,
like those he was accustomed to copy and bind. They
were made of the bark of young trees and were covered
with very clear writing done with an iron point. These
leaves were divided into groups of seven and consisted
of three parts separated by a page without writing, but
containing a diagram which was quite unintelligible to
Flamel. On the first page were written words to the
effect that the author of the manuscript was Abraham
the Jew, prince, priest, Levite, astrologer and philosopher.
Then followed great curses and threats against anyone
who set eyes on it unless he was either a priest or a scribe.
The word maranatha, which was many times repeated
on every page, intensified the awe-inspiring character of
the text and diagrams. But most impressive of all was
the patined gold of the edges of the book, and the atmos­
phere of hallowed antiquity that there was about it.
Maranatha! Yet Nicolas Flamel considered that
being a scribe he might read the book without fear. He
felt that the secret of life and of death, the secret of the
unity of Nature, the secret of the duty of the wise man,
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 177
had been concealed behind the symbol of the diagrams
and formulae in the text by an initiate long since dead.
He was aware that it is a rigid law for initiates that they
must not reveal their knowledge, because if it is good
and fruitful for the intelligent, it is bad for ordinary
men. As Jesus has clearly expressed it, pearls must not
be given as food to swine.
He had the pearl in his hands. It was for him to rise
in the scale of man in order to be worthy to understand
its purity. He must have had in his heart a hymn of
thanksgiving to Abraham the Jew, whose name was
unknown to him, but who had thought and laboured
in past centuries and whose wisdom he was now inheri­
ting. He must have pictured him a bald old man with
a hooked nose, wearing the wretched robe of his race
and writing in some dark ghetto, in order that the light
of his thought might not be lost. And he must have
vowed to solve the riddle, to re-kindle the light, to be
patient and faithful, like the Jew who had died in the
flesh but lived eternally in his manuscript.
Nicolas Flamel had studied the art of transmutation.
He was in touch with ail the learned men of his day.
Manuscripts dealing with chemistry have been found,
notably that of Almasatus, which were part of his
personal library. He had knowledge of the symbols
of which the alchemists made habitual use. But those
which he saw in the book of Abraham the Jew remained
dumb for him. In vain he copied some ofthe mysterious
pages and set them out in his shop, in the hope that some
visitor conversant with the Cabala would help him to
solve the problem. He met with nothing but the
laughter of sceptics and the ignorance of pseudo-scholars
178 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 170
—just as he would to-day if he showed the book of
Abraham the Jew either to pretentious occultists or to
the Academie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres.
For twenty-one years he pondered the hidden meaning
of the book. That is not long. He is favoured among
men for whom twenty-one years are enough to enable
him to find the key of life.
NICOLAS FLAMEL’S JOURNEY
AT the end of twenty-one years Nicolas Flamel had
developed in himself sufficient wisdom and
strength to hold out against the storm of light
involved by the coming of truth to the heart of man.
Only then did events group themselves harmoniously
according to his will and allow him to realise his desire.
For everything good and great that happens to a man
is the result of the co-ordination of his own voluntary
effort and a malleable fate.
No one in Paris could help Nicolas Flamel to under­
stand the book. Now this book had been written by a
Jew, and part of its text was in ancient Hebrew. The
Jews had recently been driven out of France by per­
secution. Nicolas Flamel knew that many of these
Jews had migrated to Spain. In towns such as Malaga
and Granada, which were still under the enlightened
dominion of the Arabs, there lived prosperous com­
munities of Jews and flourishing synagogues,.in which
scholars and doctors were bred. Many Jews from the
Christian towns of Spain took advantage of the tolerance
extended by the Moorish kings and went to Granada to
learn. There they copied Plato and Aristotle and
returned home to spread abroad the knowledge of the
ancients and of the Arab masters.
Nicolas Flamel thought that in Spain he might meet
some erudite Cabalist who would translate the book of
180
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 181
Abraham for him. Travelling was difficult, and without
a strong armed escort it was possible only for a pilgrim.
Flamel alleged therefore a vow to St James of Com­
postela, the patron saint of his parish. This was also a
means of concealing from his neighbours and friends the
real purpose of his journey. The wise and faithful
Pernelle was the only person who was aware of his real
plans. He put on the pilgrim’s attire and shell-adorned
hat, took the staff, which ensured a certain measure of
safety to a traveller in Christian countries, and started
off for Galicia.
Since he was a prudent man and did not wish to
expose the precious manuscript to the risks of travel, he
contented himself with taking with him a few carefully
copied pages, which he hid in his modest baggage.
Nicolas Flamel has not recounted the adventures that
befell him on his journey. Possibly he had none—it
may be that adventures happen only to those who want
to have them. He has told us merely that he went first
to fulfil his vow to St James. Then he wandered about
Spain, trying to get into relations with learned Jews.
But they were suspicious of Christians, particularly of
the French, who had expelled them from their country.
Besides, he had not much time. He had to remember
Pernelle waiting for him, and his shop, which was being
managed only by his servants. To a man of over fifty
on his first distant journey the silent voice of his home
makes a powerful appeal every evening.
In discouragement he started his homeward journey.
His way lay through León, where he stopped for the
night at an inn and happened to sup at the same table
as a French merchant from Boulogne who was travelling
on business. This merchant inspired him with con­
fidence and he whispered a few words to him of his wish
to find a learned Jew. By a lucky chance the French
merchant was in relations with a certain Maestro Canches,
an old man who lived at Leon, immersed in his books.
Nothing was easier than to introduce this Maestro
Canches to Nicolas Flamel, who decided to make one
more attempt before leaving Spain.
I can picture the beauty of the scene when the profane
merchant of Boulogne has left them, and the two men
are face to face. The gates of the ghetto close. Maestro
Canches’ only thought is by a few polite words to rid
himself as quickly as he can of this French bookseller,
who has deliberately dulled the light in his eye and
clothed himself in mediocrity; for the prudent
traveller passes unnoticed. Flamel speaks, reticently at
first. He admires the knowledge of the Jews. Thanks
to his trade he has read a great many books. At last he
timidly lets fall a name, which hitherto has aroused not
a spark ofinterest in anyone to whom he has spoken—the
name of Abraham the Jew, prince, priest, Levite,
astrologer and philosopher. Suddenly Flamel sees the
eyes of the feeble old man before him light up. Maestro
Canches has heard of Abraham the Jew. He was a great
master ofthe wandering race, perhaps the most venerable
of all the sages who studied the mysteries of the Cabala,
a higher initiate, one of those who rise the higher the
better they succeed in remaining unknown. His book
existed and disappeared centuries ago, but tradition says
it has never been destroyed, that it is passed from hand
to hand and that it always reaches the man whose
destiny it is to receive it. Maestro Canches has dreamed
182 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
all his life long of finding it. He is very old, close to
death, and now the hope which he has almost given up
is near realisation. The night goes by, and there is a
light round the two heads bent over their work. Maestro
Canches is translating Hebrew of the time of Moses. He
is explaining symbols which originated in Chaldsea.
How the years fall from these two men, inspired by their
belief in truth I
But the few pages that Flamel had brought were not
enough to allow the secret to be revealed. Maestro
Canches made up his mind at once to accompany Flamel
to Paris. His extreme old age was an obstacle. That
he would defy. Jews were not allowed in France. He
would be converted. For many years he had been
above all religions. The two men, united by an
indissoluble bond, started off along the Spanish
roads.
The ways of nature are mysterious. The nearer
Maestro Canches came to the realisation of his dream,
the more precarious became his health ; and the breath
of life weakened in him. O God ! he prayed, grant me
the days I need, and that I may cross the threshold of
death only when I possess the liberating secret by which
darkness becomes light and flesh spirit!
But the prayer was not heard. The inflexible law
had appointed the hour of the old man’s death. He fell
ill at Orleans and in spite of all Flamel’s care died seven
days later. As he had been converted and Flamel did
not wish to be suspected of having brought a Jew into
France, he had him piously buried in the church of
Sainte-Croix and had masses said for him ; for he rightly
thought that a soul which had striven for so pure an
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 183
aim and had passed at the moment of fruition could not
rest in the realm of disembodied spirits.
Flamel continued his journey and reached Paris,
where he found Pernelle, his shop, his copyists, his
manuscripts. He laid aside his pilgrim’s staff. But
now everything was changed. It was with a joyous
heart that he went his daily journey from house to shop,
that he gave writing lessons to illiterates and discussed
hermetic science with the educated. From natural
prudence he continued to feign ignorance, in which he
succeeded all the more easily because knowledge was
within him. What Maestro Canches had already taught
him in deciphering a few pages of the book of Abraham
the Jew was sufficient to allow of his understanding the
whole book. He spent three years more in searching
and in completing his knowledge, but at the end of this
period the transmutation was accomplished. Having
learned what materials it was necessary to put together
beforehand, he followed strictly the method of Abraham
the Jew and changed a half-pound of mercury first into
silver, and then into virgin gold. And he accomplished
the same transmutation in his soul. From his passions,
mixed in an invisible crucible, the substance of the
eternal spirit emerged.
184 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
FROM this point the little bookseller became rich.
He bought houses, endowed churches. But he
did not use his riches to increase his personal
comfort or to satisfy his vanity. He altered nothing in
his modest life. With Pernelle, who had helped him
in his search for the philosopher’s stone, he devoted his
life to helping his fellow-men. “ Husband and wife
lavished succour on the poor, founded hospitals, built or
repaired cemeteries, restored the front of Sainte-
Genevifeve des Ardents and endowed theinstitution ofthe
Quinze-Vingts, the blind inmates of which, in memory
of this fact, came every year to the church of Saint-
Jacques la Boucherie to pray for their benefactor, a
practice which continued until 1789.”*
At the same time that he was learning how to make
gold out of any material, he acquired the wisdom of
despising it in his heart. Thanks to the book ofAbraham
the Jew he had risen above the satisfaction of his senses
and the turmoil of his passions. He knew that man
attains immortality only by the victory of spirit over
matter, by essential purification, by the transmutation
of the human into the divine. He devoted the last part
of his life to what Christians call the working out of their
salvation.
He attained his object without fasting or asceticism,
* Louis Figuier.
185
keeping the unimportant place that destiny had assigned
him, continuing to copy manuscripts, buying and selling,
in his little shop in the rue Saint-Jacques la Boucherie.
For him there was no more mystery about the cemetery
of the Innocents, which was near his house and under
the arcades of which he liked to walk in the evenings.
If he had the vaults and monuments restored at his own
expense, it was nothing more than compliance with the
custom of his time. He knew that the dead who had
been laid to rest there were not concerned with stones
and inscriptions and that they would return, when their
hour came, in different forms, to perfect themselves and
die anew. He knew the trifling extent to which he could
help them. He had no temptation to divulge the secret
which had been entrusted to him through the book, for
he was able to measure the lowest degree of virtue
necessary for the possession of it, and he knew that the
revelation of the secret to an undeveloped soul only
increased the imperfection of that soul.
And when he was illuminating a manuscript and
putting in with a fine brush a touch of sky-blue into the
eye of an angel, or of white into a wing, no smile played
on his grave face, for he knew that pictures are useful to
children ; moreover, it is possible that beautiful fan­
tasies which are pictured with love and sincerity may
become realities in the dream of death.
Though he knew how to make gold, Nicolas Flamel
made it only three times in the whole of his life ; and
then not for himself, for he never changed his way of
life ; he did it only to mitigate the evils which he saw
around him. And this is the touchstone which allows us
to recognise that he really attained the state of adept.
186 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
This touchstone can be used by everyone and at all
times. To distinguish a man’s superiority, there is but
a single sign, a practical—and not an alleged—contempt
for riches. However great may be a man’s active
virtues or the radiant power of his intelligence, if they
are accompanied by the love of money which most
eminent men possess, it is certain that they are tainted
with baseness. What they create under the hypocritical
pretext of good, will bear within it the seeds of decay.
Unselfishness alone is creative, and it alone can help to
raise man.
Flamel’s generous gifts aroused curiosity and even
jealousy. It seemed amazing that a poor bookseller
should found almshouses and hospitals, should build
houses with low rents, churches and convents. Rumours
reached the ears of the king, Charles VI, who ordered
Cramoisi, a member ofthe Council of State, to investigate
the matter. But thanks to FlameFs prudence and
reticence the result ofthe inquiries was favourable to him.
The rest of Flamel’s life passed without special event.
It was the life of a scholar. He went from his house in
the rue de Marivaux to his shop. He walked in the
cemetery of the Innocents, for the imagination of death
was pleasant to him. He handled beautiful parchments.
He illuminated missals. He smiled on Pemelle as she
grew old, and he knew that life holds few better things
than the peace of daily work and a calm affection.
Pernelle died first. Nicolas Flamel reached the age of
eighty. He spent the last years of his life writing books
on alchemy. He carefully settled his affairs and how
he was to be buried, at the end of the nave of Saint-
Jacques la Boucherie. The tomb-stone to be laid over
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 187
his body had already been made. On this stone, in the
middle of various figures, there was carved a sun above
a key and a closed book. It was the symbol of his life.*
His death, to which he joyfully looked forward, was as
circumspect and as perfect as his life.
As it is equally useful to study men’s weaknesses as
their finest qualities, we may mark Flamel’s weakness.
This sage, who attached importance only to the im­
mortality of his soul and despised the ephemeral form
of the body, was inspired as he grew old with a strange
taste for the sculptural representation of his body and
face. Whenever he had a church built, or even restored,
he requested the sculptor to represent him, piously
kneeling, in a comer of the pediment of the façade. He
had himself twice sculptured on an arch in the cemetery
of the Innocents, once as he was in his youth, and once
old and infirm. WT
hen he had a new house built (called
“ the house with the big gable ”) in the rue de Mont­
morency, on the outskirts of Paris, eleven saints were
carved on the front, but a side door was surmounted with
a bust of Flamel.
It seems, then, that however great a man’s wisdom,
however far he carries his desire to break away from his
physical form, he cannot prevent himself cherishing a
secret affection for that unbeautiful form, and insists
that the memory of what he proclaimed contemptible
should nevertheless be perpetuated in stone.
188 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
* Flamcl's tomb-stone is in the Musée de Cluny, in Paris.
HISTORY OF THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM THE
JEW
T
HE bones of sages seldom rest in peace in their
grave. Perhaps Nicolas Flamel knew this and
tried to protect his remains by ordering a tomb­
stone of great weight and by having a religious service
held for him twelve times a year. But these precautions
were useless.
Hardly was Flamel dead when the report of his
alchemical powers and of his concealment somewhere of
an enormous quantity of gold spread through Paris and
the world. Everyone who was seeking the famous
projection powder, which turns all substances into gold,
came prowling round all the places where he had lived
in the hope of finding a minute portion of the precious
powder. It was said also that the symbolical figures
which he had had sculptured on various monuments gave,
for those who could decipher it, the formula of the
philosopher’s stone. There was not a single alchemist
but came in pilgrimage to study the sacred science on
the stones of Saint-Jacques la Boucherie or the cemetery
of the Innocents. The sculptures and inscriptions were
broken off at night and removed. The cellars of his
house were searched and the walls examined. “ Towards
the middle of the sixteenth century a man who had a
well-known name and good credentials, which were no
doubt fictitious, presented himself before the parish
189
board of Saint-Jacques la Boucherie. He said he wished
to carry out the vow of a dead friend, a pious alchemist,
who, on his death-bed, had given him a sum of money
with which to repair Flamel’s house. The board accepted
the offer. The unknown man had the cellars ransacked
under the pretext of strengthening the foundations ;
wherever he saw a hieroglyph he found some reason for
knocking down the wall at that point. Undeceived at
last, he disappeared, forgetting to pay the work­
men.”*
A Capuchin friar and a German baron are said to have
discovered in the house some stone phials full ofa reddish
powder, no doubt the projection powder. By the
seventeenth century the various houses which had
belonged to Flamel were despoiled of their ornaments
and decorations, and there was nothing of them left but
the four bare walls.
But what had happened to the book of Abraham the
Jew ? Nicolas Flamel had bequeathed his papers and
library to a nephew named Perrier, who was interested
in alchemy and of whom he was very fond. Absolutely
nothing is known of Perrier. He no doubt benefited by
his uncle’s teachings and spent a sage’s life in the
munificent obscurity which Flamel prized so dearly, but
had not been able altogether to maintain during the
last years of his life. For two centuries the precious
heritage was handed down from father to son, without
anything being heard of it. Traces of it are found again
in the reign of Louis XIII. A descendant of Flamel,
named Dubois, who must still have possessed a supply
of the projection powder, threw off the wise reserve of
* Albert Poisson, Nicolas Flamel.
190 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
his ancestors and used the powder to dazzle his con­
temporaries. In the presence of the king he changed
leaden balls with it into gold. As a result of this
experiment he had many interviews with Cardinal de
Richelieu, who wished to extract his secret. Dubois,
who possessed the powder but was unable to understand
either FlamePs manuscripts or the book of Abraham the
Jew, could tell him nothing and was imprisoned at
Vincennes. It was found that he had committed certain
offences in the past, and this enabled Richelieu to get
him condemned to death and confiscate his property for
his own benefit. At the same time the proctor of the
Châtelet, no doubt by order of Richelieu, seized the
houses that Flamel had owned and had them searched
from top to bottom.
It was impossible to hide altogether, though the
attempt was made, the profanation of the church of
Saint-Jacques la Boucherie. Robbers made their way
in during the night, lifted FlamePs tombstone and broke
his coffin. It was after this that the rumour was first
spread that the coffin had been found empty, and that
it had never contained the body of Flamel, who was
supposed to be still alive.
Richelieu took possession of the book of Abraham the
Jew. He built a laboratory in the château of Rueil,
which he often visited to read through the master’s
manuscripts and to try to interpret the sacred hiero­
glyphs. But that which a sage like Flamel had been
able to understand only after twenty-one years of
meditation was not likely to be at once accessible to a
statesman like Richelieu. Knowledge of the mutations
of matter, of life and death, is more complex than the
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 191
art of writing tragedies or administering a kingdom.
Richelieu’s search gave no result.
On the death of the cardinal all traces of the book*
were lost,or rather, all traces of the text, for the diagrams
have often been reproduced. It must have been copied,
for in the seventeenth century the author of the Trésor
des recherches et antiquités gauloises made a journey to
Milan to see a copy which belonged to the Seigneur of
Cabrières.
It has now disappeared. Perhaps a copy or the
original itself rests under the dust of some provincial
library ; and it may be that a wise fate will send it at
the proper time to a man who has the patience to
ponder it, the knowledge to interpret it, the wisdom
not to divulge it.
But the mystery of the story of Flamel, which seemed
to have come to an end, was revived in the seventeenth
century.
Louis XIV sent an archaeologist, named Paul Lucas,
on a mission to the East. He was to study antiquities
and bring back any inscriptions or documents which
might help forward the modest scientific efforts then
being made in France. A scholar had in those days
to be at the same time both a soldier and an adventurer.
Paul Lucas united in himself the qualities of a Salomon
Reinach and a Casanova. He was captured by Barbary
corsairs, who robbed him, according to his own story,
ofthe treasures he had broughtfrom Greeceand Palestine.
* Eliphas Lévi, with the sibylline authoritativeness that is habitual
to him, asserts at a venture, without any evidence, that the book of
Abraham the Jew is none other than the Ash Mezareph, the com­
mentary on the Cabalistic Sepher Yetzirah.
192 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
The most valuable contribution that this official emissary
made to science is summarised in the story he tells in
his Voyage dans la Turquie, which he published in 1719.
His account enables men of faith to reconstitute part
of the history of the book of Abraham the Jew.
At Broussa Paul Lucas made the acquaintance of a
kind of philosopher, who wore Turkish clothes, spoke
almost every known languageand,inoutward appearance,
belonged to the type of man of whom it is said that they
“ have no age.” Thanks to his own culture Lucas came
to know him fairly well, and this is what he learned.
This philosopher was a member of a group of seven
philosophers, who belonged to no particular country and
travelled all over the world, having no other aim than
the search for wisdom and their own development.
Every twenty years they met at a prc-determined place,
which happened that year to be Broussa. According to
him human lifeought to have an infinitely longer duration
than we admit; the average length should be a thousand
years. A man could live a thousand years if he had
knowledge of the philosopher’s stone, which, besides
being knowledge of the transmutation of metals, was
also knowledge of the elixir of life. The sages possessed
it and kept it for themselves. In the West there were
only a few such sages. Nicolas Flamel had been one of
them.
Paul Lucas was astonished that a Turk, whom he had
met by chance at Broussa, should be familiar with the
story of Flamel. He was still more astonished when the
Turk told him how the book of Abraham the Jew had
come into Flamel’s possession; for hitherto no one had
known this.
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 193
“ Our sages,” he told Lucas, “ though there are but
few of them in the world, may be met with in any sect.
There was a Jew in Flamel’s time who had determined
not to lose sight of the descendants of his brothers who
had taken refuge in France. He had a desire to see them,
and in spite of all we could do to dissuade him he went
to Paris. He made the acquaintance there of a rabbi
who was seeking the philosopher’s stone. Our friend
became intimate with the rabbi and was able to explain
much to him. But before he left the country the rabbi,
by an act of black treachery, killed him to get possession
of his papers. He was arrested, convicted of this and
other crimes and burned alive. The persecution of the
Jews began not long afterwards and, as you know, they
were expelled from the country.”
The book of Abraham, which had been brought by the
Eastern sage, was given to Flamel by a Jewish inter­
mediary who did not know its value and was anxious
to get rid of it before leaving Paris. But the most
amazing thing that Paul Lucas heard was the statement
made by the Turk at Broussa that both Flamel and his
wife Pernelle were still alive. Having discovered the
philosopher’s stone he had been able to remain alive in
the physical form he possessed at the time of his dis­
covery. Pemelle’s and his own funerals and the minute
care he bestowed on the arrangements for them had been
nothing but clever shams. He had started out for India,
the country of the initiates, where he still was.
The publication of Paul Lucas’ book created a great
sensation. In the seventeenth century, like to-day,
there lived discerning men who believed that all truth
came out of the East and that there were in India adepts
194 M A G I C I A N 8 , s E E H S , A N D M Y S T I C S
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 195
who possessed powers infinitely greater than those which
science so parsimoniously metes out to us. For this is a
belief that has existed at every period.
Was Nicolas Flamel one of these adepts ? Even if he
was, can it reasonably be presumed that he was alive
three centuries after his supposed death, by virtue of a
deeper study than had yet been made of the life of man
and the means of prolonging it ? Is it relevant to
compare with Paul Lucas’ story another tradition
reported by Abbé Vilain, who says that in the seventeenth
century Flamel visited M. Desalleurs, the French am­
bassador to the Sublime Porte ? Every man, according
to his feeling for the miraculous, will come to his own
conclusion.
I think, myself, that in accordance with the wisdom
which he had always shown, Nicolas Flamel, after his
discovery of the philosopher’s stone, would have had
no temptation to evade death ; for he regarded death
merely as the transition to a better state. In obeying,
without seeking escape, the ancient and simple law which
reduces man to dust when the curve of his life is ended,
he gave proof of a wisdom which is none the less beautiful
for being widespread.
ALCHEMISTS AND ADEPTS
T
HERE were other adepts after Nicolas Flamel
who possessed the secret of the philosopher’s
stone. We do not know the names of the
greatest of them, for the true sign of an adept is his
ability to remain unknown. The only trace of them
that has come to us is the odour of truth that wisdom
leaves behind her. But we know, at any rate partially,
the lives of the semi-adepts, who had enough knowledge
to practise transmutation, who dimly saw the path to the
divine, but remained too human to prevent themselves
giving way to their passions. They took part in the
work of alchemy with a selfish aim ; and sincc anything
to do with gold unlooses greed and hatred, they were
carried away by their own folly and almost all of them
perished miserably.
About the middle of the sixteenth century an English
lawyer named Talbot who was travelling in Wales,
stopped for the night at an inn in a little mountain village.
He was wearing a curious cap which encircled his head
and face down to the chin. The cap was never removed,
and was invariably mentioned when descriptions of him
were circulated. This strange head-dress served to hide
the place where his ears had been—they had just been
cut off in London as a punishment for forgery. The inn-
.keeper of the little inn where he slept was accustomed to
show his customers, as a curiosity, an unintelligible old
196
manuscript. He showed it to Talbot, who was quite
well aware of the profit sometimes to be derived from old
papers and enquired the origin of the manuscript.
It appeared that a few years before, during the
religious wars, some Protestant soldiers had rifled the
grave of a Catholic bishop, who, during his lifetime, had
been a very rich man. In the grave they found this
manuscript and two ivory balls, one red and the other
white. They broke the red ball and, finding in it nothing
but a dark powder, threw it away. The manuscript and
the white ball they had left with the inn-kceper in
exchange for a few bottles of wine. While the inn­
keeper was showing the manuscript his children were
playing with the ball.
Talbot suspected something, bought the manuscript
and the ball for a guinea, and as he had a friend, a Dr.
John Dee, who was interested in hermetic science, he
went to see him and showed him his find. Dee realised
that the manuscript dealt with the philosopher’s stone
and with the methods of finding it, but that it did so in a
symbolical form the meaning of which escaped him.
He opened the white ball and found inside it a powder
which was none other than the precious projection
powder. With its help he was able at his first experiment
in the presence of the astounded Talbot to make gold.
To describe Talbot as being astounded hardly conveys
his condition. Most men lose their self-control under
the influence of gold; for the royal metal with its dull
glitter produces an intoxication which is more intense
than that produced by any alcohol. It increases a
man’s base passions, his desire for physical gratification,
avarice, vanity. Gripped by the lust for gold, Talbot
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 197
made a pact with John Dee, whose help was indispensable
to him for the operation of transmutation; and, as his
reputation in England was exceedingly bad, a fact of
which his cap reminded him at every turn, they began
to travel.
The two companions, whose link was lust for gold,
went to Bohemia and Germany. John Dee was still
unable to understand the Catholic bishop’s manuscript,
but he could use the powder. The style they kept
up and the lectures of Talbot, who boasted of being an
adept and of being able to make gold at will, crcated
a great stir wherever they went. The Emperor
Maximilian II sent for Talbot and, with his entire court,
was present at an attempt at transmutation. He
immediately appointed Talbot Marshal of Bohemia. But
what he wanted from him was not a small quantity of
projection powder, but the secret of its production. He
had Talbot watched and then imprisoned him so that
the precious secret should not be lost. But Talbot
was unable to reveal a secret he did not know, and the
stock of the bishop’s powder was nearly exhausted.
John Dee, who had been wise enough to realise his
own ignorance and remain in obscurity, fled to England,
where he sought and received the protection of Queen
Elizabeth. The manuscript on which he had laboured
seems to have kept its secret until his death, for he lived
the last part of his life on a small pension given him
by the queen. The arrogant Talbot killed one of his
guards in an attempt to escape and died in his prison.
I have told this story to show that the secret of the
philosopher’s stone was not given to Nicolas Flamel
alone, but that it was known from immemorial times,
198 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
that it filtered through the ages by various means and
was received by men in modern times, for their weal or
woe, according to their capacity to understand and love
their fellow beings.
History records many men who have been able to
make gold. But this was only the first stage of the
secret. The second gave the means of healing physical
illnesses through the same agent which produced trans­
mutation. To reach this stage a higher intelligence
and a more complete disinterestedness were necessary.
The third stage was accessible only to very few. Just
as the molecules of metals are transformed under great
increase of temperature, so the emotional elements in
human nature undergo an increased intensity of
vibrations which transforms them and makes them
spiritual. In its third stage the secret of the philo­
sopher’s stone enabled a man’s soul to attain unity
with the divine spirit. The laws of Nature are alike
for that which is above and for that which is below.
Nature changes according to an ideal. Gold is the
perfection of terrestrial substances, and it is to produce
gold that minerals evolve. The human body is the
model of the animal kingdom, and living forms orientate
themselves in the direction of their ideal type. The
emotional substance of the soul strives, through the
filter of the senses, to transform itself into spirit and
return to unity with the divine. The movements of
Nature are governed by a single law, which is diverse
in its manifestations but uniform in its essence. It
was the discovery of this law that the alchemists sought.
If there were many of them who discovered the mineral
agent, fewer were able to find its application to the
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 199
human body, and only a very few adepts knew of the
essential agent, the sublime heat of the soul, which
fuses the emotions, consumes the prison of form and
allows entry into the higher world.
Raymond Lulle made gold for Edward III, King of
England. George Ripley gave a hundred thousand
pounds of alchemical gold to the Knights of Rhodes
when they were attacked by the Turks. Gusfcavus
Adolphus of Sweden had an enormous number of gold
pieces coined which were marked with a special mark
because they were of hermetic origin. They had been
made by an unknown man under the protection of the
king, who was found at his death to possess a consider­
able quantity of gold. In 1580 the Elector Augustus
of Saxony, who was an alchemist, left a fortune of
seventeen million rixdollars. The source of the fortune
of Pope John XXII, whose residence was Avignon
and whose revenues were small, must be ascribed to
alchemy (at his death there were in his treasury twenty-
five million florins). This must be concluded also in
the case of the eighty-four quintals of gold possessed
in 1680 by Rudolph II of Germany. The learned
chemist Van Helmont and the doctor Helvetius, who
were both of them sceptics with regard to the philo­
sopher’s stone and had even published books against
it, were converted as a result of an identical adventure
which befell them. An unknown man visited them and
gave them a small quantity of projection powder;
he asked them not to perform the transmutation until
after his departure and then onlywith apparatus prepared
by themselves, in order to avoid all possibility of fraud.
The grain of powder given to Van Helmont was so
200 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
minute that he smiled ; the unknown man smiled also
and took back half of it, saying that what was left
was enough to make a large quantity of gold. Both
Van Helmont’s and Helvetius’ experiments were success­
ful, and both men became acknowledged believers in
alchemy.*
Van Helmont was the greatest chemist of his day.
If we do not hear nowadays that Madame Curie has
had a mysterious visitor who gave her a little powder
“ the colour of the wild poppy and smelling of calcined
sea salt,” the reason may be that the secret is lost ;
or, possibly, now that alchemists are no longer per­
secuted or burnt, it may be that they no longer
need the favourable judgment of those in official
power.
Until the end of the eighteenth century it was
customary to hang alchemists dressed in a grotesque
gold robe on gilded gallows. If they escaped this
punishment they were usually imprisoned by barons
or kings, who either compelled them to make gold
or extorted their secret from them in exchange for their
liberty. Often they were left to starve in prison.
Sometimes they were roasted by inches or had their
limbs slowly broken. For when gold is the prize,
religion and morality are effaced and human laws set
at nought.
This is what happened to Alexander Sethon, called
the Cosmopolitan. He had had the wisdom to hide
all his life and avoid the company of the powerful.
He was a truly wise man. However, he married. In
order to please his wife, who was young and beautiful,
* Louis Figuier, L'afchimie et les alchimistes.
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 201
he yielded to the invitation extended him by the Elector
of Saxony, Christian II, to come to his court. As he
was unwilling to disclose the secret of the philosopher’s
stone, which he had long possessed, he was scalded
every day with molten lead, beaten with rods and torn
with needles till he died.
Michael Sendivogius, Botticher and Paykull spent part
of their lives in prison, and many men suffered death
for no other crime than the study of alchemy.
If a great number of these seekers were impelled by
ambition, if there were among them charlatans and
impostors, yet many of them cherished a genuine ideal
of moral development. At all events their work in
the domain of physics and chemistry formed a solid
basis for the few wretched fragmentary scraps of know­
ledge which are called modern science, and are cause for
great pride to a large number of ignorant men.
These men regard the alchemists as dreamers and
fools, though every discovery of their infallible science
is to be found in the dreams and follies of the alchemists.
It is no longer a paradox, but a truth attested by recog­
nised scientists themselves, that the few fragments of
truth that we modems possess are due to the pretended
or genuine adepts who were hanged in the Middle Ages
with a gilt dunce’s cap on their heads.
Moreover, not all of them saw in the philosopher’s
stone the mere vulgar, useless aim of making gold. A
small number of them received, either through a master
or through the silence of daily meditation, higher
truth.
These were the men who, by having observed it in
themselves, understood the symbolism of the third
202 M A G I C I A X S , S E K R 8 , A N D M Y S T I C S
essential rule of alchemy : Use only one vessel, one fire
and one instrument.
They knew the characteristics of the sole agent, of
the secret fire, of the serpentine power which moves
upwards in spirals, “ of the great primitive force hidden
in all matter, organic and inorganic,” which the Hindus
call kundalini,which createsand destroys simultaneously.
They calculated that the capacity for creation and
the capacity for destruction were equal, that the
possessor of the secret had power for evil as great as
his power for good ; and just as nobody trusts a child
with a high explosive, so they kept the divine science
to themselves, or, if they left a written account of the
facts they had found, they always omitted the essential
point, so that it could be understood only by someone
who already knew.
Examples of such men were, in the seventeenth
century, Thomas Vaughan, called Philalethes, and, in
the eighteenth century, Lascaris. It is possible to
form some idea of the lofty thought of Philalethes
from his book Introitus ; but Lascaris has left us nothing.
Little is known of their lives. Both of them wandered
about Europe teaching those whom they considered
worthy of being taught. They made gold often, but
only for special reasons. They did not seek glory,
but shunned it. They had knowledge enough to foresee
persecution and avoid it. They had neither fixed abode
nor family. It is not known when and where they
died.
It is probable that they attained the most highly
developed state possible to man, that they accomplished
the transmutation of their soul. While still living they
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 203
were members of the spiritual world. They had re­
generated their being, performed the task of man.
They were twice born. They devoted themselves to
helping their fellow-men ; this they did in the most
useful way, which does not consist in healing the ills
of the body or in improving men’s physical state. They
used a higher method, which in the first instance can
be applied only to a small number, but eventually
affects all. They helped the noblest minds to reach
the goal which they had reached themselves. They
sought such men in the towns through which they passed,
and, generally, during their travels. They had no
school and no regular teaching, because their teaching
was on the border of the human and the divine. But
they knew that a word sown at a certain time in a certain
soul would bring results a thousand times greater than
those which could accrue from the knowledge gained
through books or ordinary science.
From the bottom of our hearts we ought to thank the
modest men who held in their hands the magical formula
which makes a man master of the world, a formula
which they took as much trouble to hide as they had
taken to discover it. For however dazzling and bright
the obverse of the medallion, its reverse is dark as night.
The way of good is the same as the way of evil, and
when a man has crossed the threshold of knowledge,
he has more intelligence but no more capacity for love.
He is even tempted to have less. For with knowledge
comes pride, and egoism is created by the desire to
uphold the development of qualities that he considers
sublime. Through egoism he returns to the evil which
he has tried to escape. Nature is full of traps, and the
204 MA G I C I A NS , S EERS, AND MYSTICS
N I C O L A S F L A M E L 205
higher he rises in the hierarchy of men, the more
numerous and the better hidden are the traps.
Ascetics are fortunate in so far as their asceticism
is in some measure obligatory, in so far as they have
not the possibility 'of satisfying passions which are
dormant in them and which they know only from having
observed them in others. But how dramatic it would
be if the door of their cell should suddenly open and
disclose within reach of their hand all that they desire
or might have desired! St Anthony in his desert
was surrounded by nothing but dreams. He stretched
out his arms to grasp them, and if he did not succumb
to temptation it was only because the phantoms vanished
when he sought to seize them. But the living, almost
immediately tangible reality of gold, which gives every­
thing—what superhuman strength would be necessary
to resist it! That is what had to be weighed by the
adepts who possessed the triple hermetic truth. They
had to remember those of their number who had failed
and fallen away so lightly. And they had to ponder
how apparently illogical and sad for mankind is the
law by which the tree of wisdom is guarded by a serpent
infinitely more to be feared than the serpent which
tempted Eve in the Garden of Eden.
SAINT-GERMAIN THE IMMORTAL
HIS ORIGIN
THERE is a close relationship between the supreme
art of the genius and the art of the charlatan.
Magicians, sages, Cabalists, initiators, have all
unbent at times to perform tricks, to astonish and
dazzle the ignorant. From the remotest antiquity the
greatest of them have accomplished sham miracles,
faked the revelations of oracles, waved magic wands
and made every effort to impress the crowd by the
pageantry of vestments and the white robes of hiero­
phants. They have done conjuring tricks, made use of
the illusion of mirrors, foretold eclipses. Like celebrated
actors or fashionable courtesans they have enjoyed
being the subject of talk. A similar vanity is to be
found in great poets, generals and statesmen. Perhaps
it is the inevitable counterpart of genius. Or perhaps
men can learn only by the process of being astonished.
Many average, reasonable men can conceive wisdom
only under the boring form of a sermon, and the sage
only in the semblance of a clergyman. For such men
prudery, hypocrisy and the most abject enslavement to
ritual, habit and prejudice must be daily virtues. When
therefore it happens that a genuine sage, by way of
amusing himself, mystifies his contemporaries—follows
a woman or light-heartedly raises his glass—he is
condemned eternally by the army of short-sighted
mediocrities whose judgment forms posterity.
209
That is what happened in the case of the Comte de
Saint-Germain. He had a love of jewels in an extreme
form, and he ostentatiously showed offthose he possessed.
He kept a great quantity of them in a casket, which he
carried about everywhere with him. The importance
he attached to jewels was so great that in the pictures
painted by him, which were in themselves remarkable,
the figures were covered with jewels ; and his colours
were so vivid and strange that faces looked pale and
insignificant by contrast. Jewels cast their reflection
on him and threw a distorting light on the whole of his
life.
His contemporaries did not forgive him this weakness.
Nor did they forgive him for keeping for an entire
century the physical appearance of a man of between
forty and fifty years old. Apparently a man cannot
be taken seriously if he does not conform strictly to the
laws of nature, and he was called a charlatan because
he possessed a secret which allowed him to prolong his
life beyond known human limits.
He seems also to have been free personally from the
solemnity in which men of religion and philosophers
wrap themselves. He enjoyed and sought the com­
pany of the pretty women of his day. Though he never
ate any food in public, he liked dining out because of
the people he met and the conversation he heard. He
was an aristocrat who lived with princes and even
with kings almost on a footing of equality. He gave
recipes for removing wrinkles and dyeing hair. He had
an immense stock of amusing stories with which he
regaled society. It appears from the memoirs of Baron
von Gleichen that when Saint-Germain was in Paris he
210 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
became the lover of Mile Lambert, daughter of the
Chevalier Lambert, who lived in the house in which he
lodged. And it appears from Grosley’s memoirs that
in Holland he became the lover of a woman as rich and
mysterious as himself.
At first sight all this is incompatible with the high
mission with which he was invested, with the part he
played in the secret societies of Germany and France.
But the contradiction is perhaps only apparent. His
outward appearance of a man of the world was necessary
in the first place for the purposes of the secret diplomacy
in which Louis XV often employed him. Moreover,
we often have an erroneous conception of the activities
of a master. The possession of an “ opal of monstrous
size, of a white sapphire as big as an egg, of the treasures
of Aladdin’s lamp,” is a harmless pleasure if these
treasures have been inherited or have been made through
the help of miraculous knowledge. It is no great
eccentricity in a man to pull down his cuffs in order
to show the sparkle of the rubies in his links. And if
Mile Lambert had the ideas of her time on the subject
of gallantry, the Comte de Saint-Germain can hardly
be reproached for lingering one night in her room in
order to open in her presence the mysterious jewel-
casket and invite her to choose one of those diamonds
which were the admiration of Mme de Pompadour.
For pleasure in life drags a man down only when
it is carried to excess. It may be that there exists
a way by which a man may attain the highest spirituality
and yet keep this pleasure. Moreover, on a certain
plane, the chain of the senses no longer exists and kisses
cease to burn ; a man can no longer harm either himself
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 211
or others by virtue of the power which the trans­
formation has wrought in him.
* * * * * *
“ A man who knows everything and who never
dies,” said Voltaire of the Comte de Saint-Germain.
He might have added that he was a man whose origin
was unknown and who disappeared without leaving a
trace. In vain his contemporaries tried to penetrate
the mystery, and in vain the chiefs of police and the
ministers of the various countries whose inhabitants he
puzzled, flattered themselves that they had solved the
riddle of his birth. Louis XV must have known who
he was, for he extended to him a friendship which
aroused the jealousy of the court. He allotted him
rooms in the château of Chambord. He shut himself
’up with Saint-Germain and Mme de Pompadour for
whole evenings ; and the pleasure he derived from his
conversation and the admiration he no doubt felt for
the range of his knowledge cannot explain the con­
sideration, almost the deference, he had for him. Mme
du Housset says in her memoirs that the king spoke
of Saint-Germain as a personage of illustrious birth.
The Landgrave Charles of Hesse Cassel, with whom
he lived during the last years in which history is able
to follow his career, must also have possessed the secret
of his birth. He worked at alchemy with him, and
Saint-Germain treated him as an equal. It was to him
that Saint-Germain entrusted his papers just before
his supposed death in 1784.
Now, neither Louis XV nor the Landgrave of Hesse
Cassel ever revealed anything about the birth of Saint-
212 M A (i I (' I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 213
Germain. The landgrave even went so far as invariably
to withhold the smallest detail bearing on the life of
his mysterious friend. This is a very remarkable
fact. Saint-Germain was an extremely well-known
figure. In those days, when the aristocracy immersed
itself in the occult sciences, secret societies and magic,
this man, who was said to possess the elixir of life and
to be able to make gold at will, was the subject of inter­
minable talk. An inner force which is irresistibly
strong compels men to talk. It makes no difference
whether a man is a king or a landgrave; all alike are
subject to this force, and increasingly subject to it in
proportion as they spend their time with women. For
Louis XV and the landgrave to have held out against
the curiosity of beloved mistresses we must presume in
them either a strength of mind that they certainly
did not possess or else some imperious motive which we
cannot determine.
The commonest hypothesis about his birth is that he
was the natural son of the widow of Charles II of Spain
and a certain Comte Adanero, whom she knew at
Bayonne. This Spanish queen was Marie de Neubourg,
whom Victor Hugo took as the heroine of his Ruy Bias,
regardless of her real character.
Those who disliked Saint-Germain said that he was
the son of a Portuguese Jew named Aymar, while those
who hated him said, in the effort to add to his
discredit, that he was the son of an Alsatian Jew named
Wolff.
Fairly recently a new genealogy of Saint-Germain has
been put forward, which seems the most probable of
all. It is the work of the theosophists and Mrs. Annie
Besant, who has frequently made the statement that
the Comte de Saint-Germain was one of the sons of
Francis Racoczi II, Prince of Transylvania. The
children of Francis Racoczi were brought up by the
Emperor of Austria, but one of them was withdrawn
from his guardianship. The story was put about that
he was dead, but actually he was given into the charge
of the last descendant of the Medici family, who brought
him up in Italy. He took the name of Saint-Germain
from the little town of San Germano, where he had
spent some years during his childhood and where his
father had estates. This would give an air of pro­
bability to the memories of southern lands and sunny
palaces which Saint-Germain liked to call up as the
setting of his childhood. And it would help to account
for the consideration which Louis XV showed him.
The impenetrable silence kept by him and by those
to whom he entrusted his secret would in this event
be due to fear of the Emperor of Austria and possible
vengeance on his part. The belief that Saint-Germain
and the descendant of the Racoczis are one and the
same is firmly held by many people, who regard him
as a genuine adept and even think he may still be
living. These people have, however, less regard for
historical truth than for intuitive knowledge and
miraculous revelation.
214 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
THE RIDDLE OF HIS LIFE AND DEATH
T
HE Comte de Saint-Germain was a man “ of middle
height, strongly built, and dressed with superb
simplicity.” He spoke with an entire lack of
ceremony to the most highly-placed personages and was
fully conscious of his superiority. I give Gleichen’s
account of how he met him for the first time.
“ He threw down his hat and sword, sat down in an
armchair near the fire and interrupted the conversation
by saying to the man who was speaking : *You do not
know what you are saying. I am the only person who
is competent to speak on this subject, and I have
exhausted it. It was the same with music, which I
gave up when I found I had no more to learn.’”
At the court of the Margrave of Anspach, then in
extreme old age, he once showed the venerable gentle­
man a letter he had had from Frederick II and said
to him : “ Do you know this writing and seal ? ”
“ Most certainly I do,” replied the margrave; “ it is
Frederick’s seal.”
“ Quite right,” said Saint-Germain ; “ but you will
never know what the letter says.” And he gravely
put it back in his pocket.
“ He played and composed music with equal ease
and with the same success.” Many people who heard
him play the violin said of him that he equalled or
even surpassed the greatest virtuosos of the period ;
215
and he seems indeed to have justified his remark about
himself, that he had reached the extreme limit possible
in the art of music.
One day he took Gleichen to his house and said to
him :
“ I am pleased with you, and you have earned my
showing you a few pictures.”
“ And he very effectively kept his word,” says
Gleichen ; “ for the pictures he showed me all bore a
stamp of singularity or perfection which made them
more interesting than many pictures of the highest
order.”
He seems not to have excelled as a poet. There
survive of his an indifferent sonnet and a letter addressed
to Marie Antoinette (quoted by the Comtesse d’Adh^mar)
which contains predictions in doggerel verse. At the
request of Mme de Pompadour he also wrote a rather
poor outline of a comedy. But poetry is an airy grace
which seems to be granted by the powers that distribute
it, to imperfect beings marked with the fickle quality
of emotion; and inspiration usually comes from its
unknown sources only to him who has been vouchsafed
little learning.
The greatest obvious talents of the Comte de Saint-
Germain were connected with his knowledge ofchemistry.
If he knew how to make gold he was wise enough to
say nothing about it. Nothing but the possession of
this secret could perhaps account for the enormous
wealth at his command, though he was not known
to have money lying at any banker’s. What he does
seem to have admitted, at least ambiguously, is that he
could make a big diamond out of several small stones.
216 m a g i c i a n s , s e e r s , a n d m y s t i c s
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 217
The diamonds which he wore in his shoes and garters
were believed to be worth more than 200,000 francs.
He asserted also that he could increase the size of
pearls at will, and some of the pearls in his possession
certainly were of astonishing size.
If all that he said on this subject was mere bragging,
it was expensive, for he supported it by magnificent
gifts. Mme du Hausset tells us that one day when
he was showing the queen some jewels in her presence,
she commented on the beauty of a cross of white and
green stones. Saint-Germain nonchalantly made her
a present ofit. Mme du Hausset refused, but the queen,
thinking the stones were false, signed to her that she
might accept. Mme du Hausset subsequently had the
stones valued, and they turned out to be genuine and
extremely valuable.
But the feature in Saint-Germain’s personality that
is hardest to believe is his astounding longevity. The
musician Rameau and Mme de Gergy (with the latter
of whom, according to the memoirs of Casanova, he
was still dining in about 1775) both assert that they
met him at Venice in 1710, under the name of the
Marquis de Montferrat. Both of them agree in stating
that he then had the appearance of a man of between
forty and fifty years old. If their recollection is accurate
this evidence destroys the hypotheses according to which
Saint-Germain was the son of Marie de Neubourg or
the son of Francis Racoczi II, for if he had been, he
would not have been more than about twenty in 1710.
Later, Mme de Gergy told Mme de Pompadour that she
had received from Saint-Germain at Venice an elixir
which enabled her to preserve, for a long time and
without the smallest change, the appearance of a woman
of twenty-five. A gift as precious as this could not be
forgotten. It is true, however, that Saint-Germain,
when questioned by Mme de Pompadour on the subject
of his meeting with Mme de Gergy fifty years earlier
and of the marvellous elixir he was supposed to have
given to her, replied with a smile :
“ It is not impossible; but I confess it is likely that
this lady, for whom I have the greatest respect, is
talking nonsense.”
We can compare with this the offer he made to Mme
de Genlis when she was a child :
“ *When you are seventeen or eighteen will you be
happy to remain at that age, at least for a great many
years ? ’
411 answered that I should be charmed.
“ ‘Very well,’ he answered me very gravely ; ‘ I
promise you that you shall.’ And he at once spoke of
something else.”
The period of his great celebrity in Paris extended
from 1750 to 1760. Everyone agreed then that in
appearance he was a man of between forty and fifty.
He disappeared for fifteen years, and when the Comtesse
d’Adh^mar saw him again in 1775 she declared that she
found him younger than ever. And when she saw him
again tw'elve years later he still looked the same.
He deliberately allowed his hearers to believe that
his life had lasted inconceivably long. He did not
actually say so. He proceeded by allusion. “ He
diluted the strength of the marvellous in his stories,
according to the receptivity of his hearer. When
he was telling a fool some event of the time of
2 1 8 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 219
CharlesV*he informed him quite crudely that he had been
present. But when he spoke to somebody less credulous,
he contented himself with describing the smallest cir­
cumstances, the faces and gestures of the speakers, the
room and the part of it they were in, with such vivacity
and in such detail that his hearers received the impression
that he had actually been present at the scene. ‘These
fools of Parisians,’ he said to me one day, ‘ believe that
I am five hundred years old. I confirm them in this
idea because I see that it gives them much pleasure
—not that I am not infinitely older than I appear.’”f
Tradition has related that he said he had known
Jesus and been present at the Council of Nicaea. But
he did not go so far as this in his contempt for the men
writh whom he associated and in his derision of their
credulity. This tradition originates from the fact that
Lord Gower, who was a practical joker, gave imitations
at his house of well-known men of his time. When he
came to Saint-Germain, he imitated his manner and
voice in an imaginary conversation which Saint-Germain
was supposed to havehadwith the founder ofChristianity,
of whom Lord Gower made him say : “ He was the best
man imaginable, but romantic and thoughtless.”
About 1760, an English paper, the London Mercury,
quite seriously published the following story: The
Comte de Saint-Germain presented a lady of his acquain­
tance, who was concerned at growing old, with a phial
of his famous elixir of long life. The lady put the phial
into a drawer. One of her servants, a middle-aged
woman, thought the phial contained a harmless purge
* 1500-1558.—Trans.
t Gleichen.
and drank the contents. When the lady summoned
her servant next day, there appeared before her a young
girl, almost a child. It was the effect of the elixir.
A few drops more, and I have no doubt the servant
would have answered her mistress with infantile
screams !
“ Has anyone ever seen me eat or drink ? ” said
Saint-Germain, as he was passing through Vienna, to
Graffer, who offered him some Tokay. Everyone who
knew him agreed in saying that though he liked sitting
down to table with a numerous company, he never
touched the dishes. He was fond ofoffering his intimate
friends the recipe of a purge made of senna pods. His
principal food, which he prepared himself, was a mixture
of oatmeal.
Is it so surprising that the authors of memoirs depict
him as retaining the same physical appearance during
a whole century ? Human life may have a duration
infinitely longer than that ordinarily attributed to it.
It is the activity of our nerves, the flame of our desire,
the acid of our fears, which daily consume our organism.
He who succeeds in raising himself above his emotions,
in suppressing in himself anger and the fear of illness,
is capable of overcoming the attrition of the years and
attaining an age at least double that at which men
now die of old age. If the face of a man who is not
tormented by his emotions should retain its youth, it
would be no miracle. Not long ago a London medical
periodical reported the case of a woman who at seventy-
four had preserved “ the features and expression of a
girl of twenty, without a wrinkle or a white hair. She
had become insane as the result of an unhappy love
220 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 221
affair, and her insanity consisted in the perpetual
re-Jtving of her last separation from her lover.” From
her conviction that she was young she had remained
young. It may be that a subjective conception of time,
and the suppression of impatience and expectation,
enable a highly developed man to reduce to a minimum
the normal wear and tear of the body.
The Comte de Saint-Germain asserted also that he
had the capacity of stopping the mechanism of the
human clock during sleep. He thus almost entirely
stopped the physical wastage which proceeds, without
our knowing it, from breathing and the beating of the
heart.
His activity and the diversity of his occupations were
very great. He was interested in the preparation of
dyes and even started a factory in Germany for the
manufacture of felt hats. But his principal role was
that of a secret agent in international politics in the
service of France.
He became Louis XV’s confidential and intimate
counsellor and was entrusted by him with various secret
missions. This drew on him the enmity of many
important men, including, notably, that of the Due de
Choiseul, the minister for foreign affairs. It was this
enmity which compelled him to leave hurriedly for
England in order to escape imprisonment in the Bastille.
Louis XV did not agree with his minister’s policy
with regard to Austria and tried to negotiate peace
behind his back by using Holland as an intermediary.
Saint-Germain was sent to The Hague to negotiate
there with Prince Louis of Brunswick. M. d’Affry,
the French minister in Holland, was informed of this
step, and complained bitterly to his minister for foreign
affairs that France was carrying on negotiations which
did not pass through his hands. The Due de Choiseul
seized his opportunity. He sent M. d’Affry orders to
demand the extradition of Saint-Germain, have him
arrested by the Dutch Government and sent to Paris.
This decision was communicated to the king in the
presence of his ministers in council, and Louis, not
daring to admit his participation in the affair, sacrificed
his emissary. But Saint-Germain received warning
just before his arrest. He had time to escape and take
ship for England. The adventurer Casanova gives
us some details of this escape; he happened to be in
a hotel near that in which Saint-Germain was staying,
and found himself mixed up in a complicated story
of jewels, swindlers, duped fathers and girls madly
in love with him—a story, in fact, that was typical of
the ordinary course of his life.
According to Horace Walpole’s letters Saint-Germain
had been arrested in London some years previously
on account of his mysterious life. He had been set
free because there was nothing against him. Walpole,
a true Englishman, came to the conclusion that “ he
was not a gentleman,” because he used to say with a
laugh that he was taken for a spy. He was not arrested
a second time in England. Not long after this he
was found in Russia, where he was to play an important
but a hidden part in the revolution of 1762. Count
Alexis Orloff met him some years later in Italy and
said of him : “ Here is a man who played an important
part in our revolution.” Alexis’ brother, Gregory
Orloff, handed over to Saint-Germain of his own free
222 M A G 1(' I A X S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I t ' S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 223
will 20,000 sequins, an uncommon action, seeing that
Saint-Germain had not rendered him any particular
service. At that time he wore the uniform of a Russian
general and called himself Soltikov.
It was about this period, the beginning of the reign
of Louis XVI, that he returned to France and saw
Marie Antoinette. The Comtesse d’Adh6mar has left
a detailed account*'of the interview. It was to her
that he turned to obtain access to the queen. Since
his flight to England he had not reappeared in France,
but the memory of him had become a legend, and
Louis XV’s friendship for him was well known. It
was easy, therefore, for the Comtesse d’Adhemar to
arrange a meeting with Marie Antoinette, who im­
mediately asked him if he was going to settle in Paris
again.
“ A century will pass,” was his reply, “ before I come
here again.”
Tn the presence of the queen he spoke in a grave
voice and foretold events which would take place
fifteen years later. “ The queen in her wisdom will
weigh that which I am about to tell her in confidence.
The Encyclopedist party desires power, which it will
obtain only by the complete fall of the clergy. In
orderto bring about this result it will upsetthe monarchy.
The Encyclopedists, who are seeking a chief among the
members of the royal family, have cast their eyes on
the Due de Chartres. The Due will become the instru­
ment of men who will sacrifice him when he has ceased
to be useful to them. He will come to the scaffold
instead of to the throne. Not for long will the laws
* Reproduced in the Lotus Bleu for 1899 by Mrs. Cooper Oakley.
remain the protection of the good and the terror of the
wicked. The wicked will seize power with blood­
stained hands. They will do away with the Catholic
religion, the-nobility and the magistracy.”
“ So that only royalty will be left,” the queen inter­
rupted impatiently.
“ Not even royalty. There will be a bloodthirsty
republic, whose sceptre will be the executioner’s knife.”
It is quite plain from these words that Saint-Germain’s
ideas were entirely different from those ascribed to him
by the majority of historical authors of this period,
nearly all of whom see in him an active instrument
of the revolutionary movement.
These terrible and amazing predictions filled Marie
Antoinette with foreboding and agitation. Saint-
Germain asked to see the King, in order to make even
more serious revelations; but he asked to see him
without his minister, Maurepas, being told of it. “ He
is my enemy,” he said ; “ and I count him among those
who will contribute to the ruin ofthe kingdom, not from
malice but from incapacity.”
The king did not possess sufficient authority to have
an interview with anybody without the presence of
his minister. He informed Maurepas of the interview
that Saint-Germain had had with the queen, and
Maurepas thought it would be wisest to imprison in
the Bastille a man who had so gloomy a vision of the
future.
Out of courtesy to the Comtesse d'Adh£mar, Maurepas
visited her in order to acquaint her with this decision.
She received him in her room.
“ I know the scoundrel better than you do,” he
224 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 225
said “ He will be exposed. Our police officials have
a very keen scent. Only one thing surprises me. The
years have not spared me, whereas the queen declares
that the Comte de Saint-Germain looks like a man of
forty.”
At this moment the attention of both of them was
distracted by the sound of a door being shut. The
comtesse uttered a cry. The expression on Maurepas’
face changed. Saint-Germain stood before them.
“ The king has called on you to give him good
counsel,” he said; “ and in refusing to allow me to
see him you think only of maintaining your authority.
You are destroying the monarchy, for I have only a
limited time to give to France, and when that time
has passed I shall be seen again only after three
generations. I shall not be to blame when anarchy
with all its horrors devastates France. You will not
see these calamities, but the fact that you paved the
way for them will be enough to blacken your memory.”
Having uttered all this in one breath, he walked
to the door, shut it behind him and disappeared. All
efforts to find him proved useless. The keen scent of
Maurepas’ police officials was not keen enough, either
during the days immediately following or later. They
never discovered what had happened to the Comte de
Saint-Germain.
As had been foretold to him, Maurepas did not see
the calamities for which he had helped to pave the way.
He died in 1781. In 1784 a rumour was current in
Paris that the Comte de Saint-Germain had just died
in the Duchy of Schleswig, at the castle of the Land­
grave Charles of Hesse Cassel. For biographers and
historians this date seems likely to remain the official
date of his death ; certain it is that from that day
the mystery in which the Comte de Saint-Germain
was shrouded grew deeper than ever.
Secluded at Eckenfom in the landgrave’s castle,
he gave out that he was tired of life. He seemed care­
worn and melancholy. He said he felt feeble, but he
refused to see a doctor and was tended only by women.
No details exist of his death, or rather of his supposed
death. No tomb-stone at Eckenforn bore his name.
It was known that he had left all his papers and certain
documents relating to Freemasonry to the Landgrave
of Hesse Cassel. The landgrave for his part asserted
that he had lost a very dear friend. But his attitude
was highly equivocal. He refused to give any infor­
mation about his friend or his last moments, and turned
the conversation if anyone spoke of him. His whole
behaviour gives colour to the supposition that he was
the accomplice of a pretended death.
Although, on the evidence of reliable witnesses, he
must have been at least a hundred years old in 1784,
his death in that year cannot have been genuine. The
official documents of Freemasonry say that in 1785
the French masons chose him as their representative
at the great convention which took place in that year,
with Mesmer, Saint-Martin and Cagliostro. In the
following year he was received by the Empress of
Russia. Finally, the Comtesse d’Adh&nar reports at
great length a conversation she had with him in 1789
in the church of the Recollets, after the taking of the
Bastille. •
His face looked no older than it had looked thirty
226 M A (; 1C 1 A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
years earlier. He said he had come from China and
Japan. “ There is nothing so strange out there,” he
said, “ as that which is happening here. . . . But I
can do nothing. My hands are tied by someone who
is stronger than I. There are times at which it is
possible to draw back ; others at which the decree must
be carried out as soon as he has pronounced it.”
And he told her in their broad outlines all the events,
not excepting the death of the queen, that were to
take place in the years that followed. “ The French
will play with titles and honours and ribbons like
children. They will regard everything as a plaything,
even the equipment of the Garde Nationale ”—he forgot
that he sometimes wore a Russian general’s uniform
himself.—“ There is to-day a deficit of some forty
millions, which is the nominal cause of the Revolution.
Well! under the dictatorship of philanthropists and
orators the national debt will reach thousands of
millions.”
“ I have seen M. de Saint-Germain again,” wrote
Mme d’Adh^mar in 1821 ; “ each time to my amaze­
ment. I saw him when the queen was murdered;
on the 18th of Brumaire ;* on the day following the
death of the Due d’Enghien ; in January, 1815; and
on the eve of the murder ofthe Due de Berry.”
Mme de Genlis asserts that she met the Comte de
Saint-Germain in 1821 during the negotiations for the
Treaty of Vienna; and the Comte de Chalons, who
was ambassador in Venice, says he spoke to him there
soon afterwards in the Piazza di San Marco. There is
* The day on which Napoleon overthrew the Directoire (November
9th, 1799).—Trans.
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 227
other evidence, though less conclusive, of his survival.
The Englishman Grosley says he saw him in 1793 in a
revolutionary prison; and someone else wrote that
he was one of the crowd surrounding the tribunal at
which the Princesse de Lamballe appeared before her
execution.
It seems quite certain that the Comte de Saint-
Germain did not die at the place and on the date that
history has fixed. He continued an unknown career,
of whose end we are ignorant and whose duration seems
so long that one’s imagination hesitates to admit it.
228 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
SECRET SOCIETIES
MANY writers who have studied the Revolution
period do not believe in the influence exerted
by the Comte de Saint-Germain. It is true that
he set up no landmarks for posterity, and even obliterated
the traces he had made. He left no arrogant memorial
of himself such as a book. He worked for humanity,
not for himself. He was modest, the rarest quality
in men of intelligence. His only foibles were the harm'
less affectation of appearing a great deal younger than
his age and the pleasure he took in making a ring sparkle.
But men are judged only by their own statements and
by the merits they attribute to themselves. Only his
age and his jewels attracted notice.
Yet the part he played in the spiritual sphere was
considerable. He was the architect who drew the plans
for a work which is as yet only on the stocks. But he
was an architect betrayed by the workmen. He had
dreamed of a high tower which should enable man
to communicate with heaven, and the workmen pre­
ferred to build houses for eating and sleeping.
He influenced Freemasonry and the secret societies,
though many modem masons have denied this and
have even omitted to mention him as a great source of
inspiration.
In Vienna he took part in the foundation of the
Society of Asiatic Brothers and of the Knights of Light,
229
who studied alchemy ; and it was he who gave Mesmer
his fundamental ideas on magnetism and its applications.
It is said that he initiated Cagliostro, who visited him
on several occasions in Holstein to receive directions
from him, though there seems to be no evidence for
this. The two men were to be far separated from one
another by opposite currents and a different fate.
The Comtesse d’Adh6mar quotes a letter she received
from Saint-Germain in which he says, speaking of his
journey to Paris in 1789 : “ I wished to see the work
that that demon of hell, Cagliostro, has prepared.” It
seems that Cagliostro took part in the preparation of
the revolutionary movement, which Saint-Germain
tried to check by developing mystical ideas among the
most advanced men of the period. He had foreseen
the chaos of the last years of the eighteenth century
and hoped to give it a turn in the direction of peace
by spreading among its future promoters a philosophy
which might change them. But he reckoned without
the slowness with which the soul of man develops and
without the aversion that man brings to the task. And
he left out of his calculations the powerful reactions of
hatred.
All over the country secret societies sprang up. The
new spirit manifested itself in the form of associations.
Neither the nobility nor the clergy escaped what had
become a fashion. There were even formed lodges for
women, and the Princesse de Lamballe became grand
mistress of one of them. In Germany there were the
Illuminati and the Knights of Strict Observance, and
Frederick II, when he came to the throne, founded
the sect of the Architects of Africa. In France the
230 m a g i c i a n s , s e e k s , a n d m y s t i c s
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 231
Order of the Templars was reconstituted, and Free­
masonry, whose grand master was the Due de Chartres,
increased the number of its lodges in every town.
Martinez de Pasqually taught his philosophy at Mar­
seilles, Bordeaux and Toulouse; and Savalette de Lange,
with mystics such as Court de Gebelin and Saint-Martin,
founded the lodge of the Friends Assembled.
The initiates of these sects understood that they were
the depositaries of a heritage which they did not know,
but whose boundless value they guessed ; it was to
be found somewhere, perhaps in traditions, perhaps
in a book written by a master, perhaps in themselves.
They spoke of this revealing word, this hidden treasure ;
it was said to be in the hands of " unknown superiors ”
of these sects, who would one day disclose the wealth
which gives freedom and immortality.
It was this immortality of the spirit that Saint-
Germain tried to bring to a small group of chosen
initiates. He believed that this minority, once it was
developed itself, would, in its turn, help to develop
another small number, and that a vast spiritual radiation
would gradually descend, in beneficent waves, towards
the more ignorant masses. It was a sage’s dream, which
was never to be realised.
With the co-operation of Savalette de Lange, who
was the nominal head, he founded the group of
Philalethes, or truth-lovers, which was recruited from
the flower of the Friends Assembled. The Prince of
Hesse, Condorcet and Cagliostro were members of this
group.
Saint-Germain expounded his philosophy at Ermenon-
ville and in Paris, in the rue Platrtere. It was a Platonic
Christianity, which combined Swedenborg’s visions with
Martinez de Pasqually’s theory of re-integration. There
were to be found in it Plotinus’ emanations and the
hierarchy of successive planes described by modern
theosophists. He taught that man has in him infinite
possibilities and that, from the practical point of view,
he must strive unceasingly to free himself of matter
in order to enter into communication with the world of
higher intelligences.
He was understood by some. In two great successive
assemblies, at which every masonic lodge in France
was represented, the Philalethes attempted the reform
of Freemasonry. If they had attained their aim, if
they had succeeded in directing the great force of Free­
masonry by the prestige of their philosophy, which
was sublime and disinterested, it may be that the course
of events would have been altered, that the old dream
of a world guided by philosopher-initiates would have
been realised.
But matters were to turn out differently. Old causes,
created by accumulated injustices, had paved the way
for terrible effects. These effects were in their turn
to create the causes of future evil. The chain of evil,
linked firmly together by men’s egoism and hatred,
was not to be broken. The light kindled by a few wise
visionaries, a few faithful watchers over the well-being
of their brothers, was extinguished almost as soon as it
was kindled.
232 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
LEGEND OF THE ETERNAL MASTER
NAPOLEON III, puzzled and interested by what
he had heard about the mysterious life of the
Comte de Saint-Germain, instructed one of his
librarians to search for and collect all that could be
found about him in archives and documents of the
latter part of the eighteenth century. This was done,
and a great number of papers, forming an enormous
dossier, was deposited in the library of the prefecture of
police. The,Franco-Prussian War and the Commune
supervened, and the part of the building in which the
dossier was kept was burnt. Thus once again an
“ accident ” upheld the ancient law which decrees that
the life of the adept must always be surrounded with
mystery.
What happened to the Comte de Saint-Germain after
1821,inwhich yearthere isevidencethat hewas stillalive?
An Englishman, Albert Vandam, in his memoirs,
which he calls An Englishman in Paris, speaks of a
certain person whom he knew towards the end of Louis
Philippe’s reign and whose way of life bore a curious
resemblance to that of the Comte de Saint-Germain.
He called himself Major Fraser, lived alone and never
alluded to his family. “ Moreover he was lavish with
money, though the source of his fortune remained a
mystery to everyone. He possessed a marvellous know­
ledge of all the countries in Europe at all periods. His
233
memory was absolutely incredible and, curiously enough,
he often gave his hearers to understand that he had
acquired his learning elsewhere than from books. Many
is the time he has told me, with a strange smile, that he
was certain he had known Nero, had spoken with Dante,
and so on.”*
Like Saint-Germain, Fraser had the appearance of a
man of between forty and fifty, of middle height and
strongly built. The rumour was current that he was the
illegitimate son of a Spanish prince. After having been,
also like Saint-Germain, a cause of astonishment to
Parisian society for a considerable time, he disappeared
without leaving a trace.
Was it the same Major Fraser who, in 1820, published
an account of his journey in the Himalayas, in which
he said he had reached Gangotri, “ the source of the
most sacred branch of the Ganges,” and bathed in the
source of the Jumna ?|
It was at the end of the nineteenth century that the
legend of Saint-Germain grew so inordinately. By
reason of his knowledge, of the integrity of his life, of his
wealth and of the mystery which surrounded him, he
might reasonably have been taken for an heir of the
first Rbsicrucians, for a possessor of the philosopher’s
stone. But the theosophists and a great many occultists
regarded him as a master of the great white lodge of the
Himalayas.
The legend of these masters is well known. According
to it there live in inaccessible lamaseries in Tibet certain
* An Englishman in Paris, by A. D. Vandam. 5th ed., 1892.
| Journal of a Tour through part of the Snowy Range of the Himala
Mou»tains and to the Sources of the Rivers Jumna and Ganges.
London, 1820.
234 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 235
wise men who possess the ancient secrets of the lost
civilisation of Atlantis. Sometimes they send to their
imperfect brothers, who are blinded by passions and
ignorance, sublime messengers to teach and guide them.
Krishna, the Buddha and Jesus were the greatest of
these. But there were many other more obscure
messengers, of whom Saint-Germain has been considered
to be one.
I believe Mme Blavatsky was the first to mention this
possibility. “ This pupil of Hindu and Egyptian hiero­
phants, this holder of the secret knowledge of the East,”
she says of him. “ The stupid world has always treated
in this way men who, like Saint-Germain, have returned
to it after long years of seclusion devoted to study with
their hands full of the treasure of esoteric wisdom and
with the hope of making the world better, wiser and
happier.”
Between 1880 and 1900 it was admitted among all
theosophists, who at that time had become very
numerous, particularly in England and America, that
the Comte de Saint-Germain was still alive, that he was
still engaged in the spiritual development of the West,
and that those who sincerely took part in this develop­
ment had the possibility of meeting him.
About 1900 Mrs. Cooper Oakley devoted some years
of her life to searching for the Comte de Saint-Germain.
She even lived for a time near the castle of Kolochvar,
in Rumanian Transylvania, where she hoped to find him,
on evidence which is unknown to me. But she never
found him.
Fairly definite suppositions were also made with
regard to the number and hierarchy of the masters
scattered through the world to guide men’s steps. I do
not know on what facts these seductive ideas rest.
Saint-Germain was called the Hungarian master on
account of his predilection for that country and of his
incarnation as a member of the Racoczi family. It was
alleged that the master Hilarion,* who had inspired
Plotinus and Porphyrius, dictated to Mabel Collins the
admirable little book entitled The Idyll of the White
Lotus. In the name of this master, Hilarion, and with
the claim that she is his emissary, a woman calling herself
the Blue Star has, during the last few months, founded
in California a group called The Temple Movement. It
has been said that the Venetian master long concen­
trated his power on Venice, helped to enrich the library
of St Mark and directed the actions of Ludovico Cornaro
and the alchemist Gualdi. It was said that Serapis
inspired Egyptian Gnosticism, and some of these theoso-
phists have gone so far as to allege that the master Jesus
then inhabited a physical body living among the Druses
of Lebanon. No wonder it was said that these astonish­
ing things would transform the life ofa man who acquired
this knowledge, provided the capacity for doubt were at
the same time removed in him.
The documentation on these points is provided by
Leadbeaterf and Dr. Annie Besant, and unhappily it is
obtained by clairvoyance, which deprives it of most of
* " This master was known under the name of Iamblichus. He was
the inspirer and spiritual guide of Plotinus and Porphyrius,” says Mr.
Lazenby in The Work of the Masters. Now Iamblichus was the pupil of
Porphyrius, who had himself been the pupil of Plotinus. I note this to
show that statements made as to the masters must be accepted with a
certain reserve.
t Compare Leadbeater's description of certain of Anna Catherine
Emmerich's visions.
236 M A O I C I A N S , S E E If S , A X D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 237
its value. It was through these methods of clairvoyance
that Leadbeater was able to describe in detail, in so far
as that was possible by such means, a centre of initiates
in Tibet, where he saw, quite near him, all the great
adepts. He thus describes the Comte de Saint-Germain :
“ Though he is not especially tall, he is very upright
and military in his bearing. His eyes are large and
brown and are filled with tenderness and humour,
though there is in them a glint of power. . . . His face
is olive-tanned. His close-cut brown hair is parted
in the centre and brushed back from the forehead. . . .
Often he wears a dark uniform with facings of gold lace
—often also a magnificent red military cloak—and these
accentuate his soldier-like appearance.”
But Dr. Besant has been more definite and specific
still. In The Theosophist for January, 1912, she wrote :
“ The masteT (Racoczi), whom I first saw in 19,
Avenue Road, in 1896, had told me that there was a
painting of him extant, which I should find.”
So apparently Dr. Besant knows the Comte de Saint-
Germain personally. She tells us how she found the
painting in question in the council-hall of the Knights
of Malta in Rome. It was a portrait of Count von
Hompesch, Grand Master of the Knights of Malta,
who was bom in 1744 and died at Montpellier in 1805.
He lived, therefore, during the period of Saint-Germain’s
life which historically is the best known. Logically this
should demolish the hypothesis that the portrait of the
one can also be the portrait of the other. The portrait
of Count von Hompesch and that of Saint-Germain
were reproduced in The Theosophist and the Lotus
Bleu. “ There can be no possible doubt,” says Dr.
Besant; “ as may be seen by comparing the picture
herewith given, photographed from this painting, with
the well-known engraving of the Comte de Saint-
Germain.” But after examining the two faces with the
greatest care, I must confess that I am unable to find
any resemblance between them.
I only give these details to show the part played by
involuntary illusion, and the contradictions (which
perhaps are only apparent) inherent in profound faith.
It is worth comparing what Saint-Germain said to
Franz Groffer* (“ I set out to-morrow evening. I shall
disappear from Europe and go to the Himalayas.”) and
the arrival in Tibet ofthe European traveller at the begin­
ning of the nineteenth centuryf.
“ The brotherhood of Khe-lan was famous throughout
the land (Upper Tibet); and one of the most famous
brothers was an Englishman who had arrived one day
during the early part of this century from the West.
. . . He spoke every language, including the Tibetan,
and knew every art and science, says the tradition.
His sanctity and the phenomena produced by him
caused him to be proclaimed a ShaberonJ after a residence
of but a few years. His memory lives to the present
day among the Tibetans, but his real name is a secret
with the Shaberons alone.”§ Might not this mysterious
traveller be the Comte de Saint-Germain ?
But even if he has never come back, even if he is no
longer alive and we must relegate to legend the idea that
* Franz Groffer, Memories of Vienna.
■
f See reference to Major Fraser on p. 234.—Trans.
J A reincarnation of Buddha.—Trans.
§ H. P. Blavatsky, Isis Unveiled.
238 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 239
the great Transylvanian nobleman is still wandering
about the world with his sparkling jewels, his senna
tisane and his taste for princesses and queens—even so
it can be said that he has gained the immortality he
sought. For a great number of imaginative and sincere
men the Comte de Saint-Germain is more alive than
he has ever been. There are men who, when they
hear a step on the staircase, think it may perhaps be he,
coming to give them advice, to bring them some un­
expected philosophical idea. They do not jump up
to open the door to their guest, for material barriers
do not exist for him. There are men who, when they
go to sleep, are pervaded by genuine happiness because
they are certain that their spirit, when freed from the
body, will be able to hold converse with the master in
the luminous haze of the astral world.
The Comte de Saint-Germain is always present with
us. There will always be, as there were in the eighteenth
century, mysterious doctors, enigmatic travellers,
bringers of occult secrets, to perpetuate him. Some
will have bathed in the sources of the Jumna, and others
will show a talisman found in the pyramids. But they
are not necessary. They diminish the range of the
mystery by giving it material form. The Comte de
Saint-Germain is immortal, as he dreamed of being.
CAGLIOSTRO THE CHARLATAN
CAGLIOSTRO “ far anticipated the hour marked by
fate, penetrated more deeply into the sanctuary
of nature and set in motion forces which neither
his contemporaries nor many subsequent generations
were to know and use.”* He was extraordinarily gifted
in magical science, a master in the art of transmutation,
an amazing prophet through the medium of crystals and
young girls. He turned mercury into silver and silver
into gold. He practised medicine gratuitously,
generously distributed remedies to thousands of invalids,
and supported at his own expense many of the poor
among them. He easily guessed winning numbers in
lotteries and communicated them to a few privileged
people. He forgave wrongs done him with un­
precedented generosity, and even interceded himself for
his worst enemies. He opened his door wide to the
humble, while the powerful found him difficult of
access. He was noble, disinterested, magnanimous.
On events and on human nature he held a broader
view than any man of his time, and it is easy
to understand why his disciples called him Cagliostro
the divine.
And yet no one was ever more hated, more betrayed,
more despised, than Cagliostro the divine. In London
he was robbed and arrested as a swindler. In Paris he
* Mark Haven, The Unknown Master.
240
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 241
was involved in the affair of the diamond necklace,*
though he had had nothing to do with it, and was
confined in the Bastille for several months. In Rome
he was sold by his wife, whom he never ceased to love
passionately, imprisoned by the Inquisition, tortured
and condemned to death. And, which was perhaps worst
of all, the Inquisition incited a Jesuit named Marcello
to publish, under the title Life of Joseph Balsamo, an
amazing memorial of hatred and calumny, on which
an ignorant posterity has for a century and half based
its judgment.
What was the reason for his incomprehensible destiny ?
It was that never in the heart of man have such
contradictory elements been united. His words were
often admirable, but sometimes they were ridiculous.
When he was asked in the necklace trial who he was, he
replied, “ I am a noble traveller.” He could not flatter,
but he liked to be flattered, and his pride was inordinate.
“ I was not bom of the flesh and of the will of man;
I was bom of the spirit,” he said. He adored his wife,
but deceived her, excusing himself by saying that man’s
superiority does not lie in living the life of a monk;
* The affair of the diamond necklace created a tremendous stir in
France just before the Revolution. The facts were these:—Cardinal
de Rohan, who was anxious to obtain the friendship of Marie Antoinette,
allowed himself to be duped by an intriguing woman, the Comtesse de
la Motte. This woman made him believe that the queen was longing
to have a diamond necklace worth over a million and a half francs,
which the king had refused to give her. The cardinal accordingly bought
the necklace from a firm of jewellers and gave it to the comtesse to give
to the queen. However, the necklace disappeared, the cardinal was
unable to pay, and the whole affair came to light. The scandal was
exaggerated by the malice of the public and was not without its effect in
bespattering the queen, though she was entirely innocent in the matter.
—Trans.
and he often urged her to become the mistress of other
men. He usually dressed simply, but when in Russia
he wore the uniform of a Spanish colonel, and the
Spanish chargé d’affaires had to insert a notice in a
newspaper to the effect that there had never been a
colonel of the name of Cagliostro in the Spanish army.
He produced the faces of angels in a crystal, and also
scenes prophetic of the future. For this purpose he
used children dressed in white, and was accustomed to
strike them on the forehead with a naked sword ; and
sometimes he gave them their cue by describing in
advance the scenes he wanted them to see when he
invoked his tutelary genius. When he gave séances
he had skulls, stuffed monkeys and snakes in jars set
out on an altar.* The ritual of Egyptian masonry,
which he founded, betokens the highest spiritual level
and purports to be a religion above all religions. But
when he was at Trent with a bigoted prince-bishop,
from whom he wanted to get letters of recommendation,
he went to confession and communion and, on going
home after confession, said to Lorenza : “ I’ve taken
in that priest nicely.” He healed most of the sick people
whom he treated, but his elixir of life, based on Malvoisie
wine, was nothing but an aphrodisiac made by distilling
the secretions of certain animals with certain herbs.f
He spoke several languages fluently, but expressed
himself correctly in none of them, even in Italian, his
mother tongue. He asserted that he had been brought
up in Mecca and made Arabic quotations in the presence
of people who did not know Arabic ; when, however,
• Antonio Benedetti, Mémoires.
t Eliphas Lévi claimed that he had the recipe for this mixture.
242 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 243
on one occasion he was addressed in that language, he
did not answer and seemed very much embarrassed.
The perpetual duality of his life showed itself in
another way. During the first part of his life he called
himself Joseph Balsamo ; and Joseph Balsamo was a
swindler, a forger and a trickster, who complaisantly
turned to his own account the love affairs of his wife
Lorenza. From 1777 onwards he called himself the
Comte de Cagliostro, and a marvellous genius suddenly
descended on him. He was rich, and distributed
money open-handedly; he was a doctor—which he had
not been before—and effected cures which men thought
miraculous; he was a philosopher, and dreamed of the
physical and moral regeneration of man.
What had happened ? Whence came his extra­
ordinary powers, his medical knowledge, his unquestioned
superiority, which dazzled all who met him ? He might
have been another man. Yet he was the same man.
Cagliostro could not disown Joseph Balsamo, though he
tried to do so in Paris during his defence at the necklace
trial, when he childishly gave himselfout to be the natural
son of a princess of Trebizond, brought up as a prince
at an Arabian Nights court. An unbreakable physical
tie united the adventurer Balsamo with the master
Cagliostro. He married his wife Lorenza in Rome
when he was Balsamo and went on loving her when he
became Cagliostro. In vain did he lead a life of perfect
disinterestedness dominated by love of humanity. He
was pursued by his past. The former man was the
perpetual companion of the new man and shadowed the
brilliance of his actions.
The riddleofthisdual personalityhas never beensolved.
I shall not tell here the story of Cagliostro, richly
though it deserves the telling, and I mention his two
phases only because “ it is impossible to speak of the
Comte de Saint-Germain without speaking of him.”
The two have often been confused, and episodes in the
life of the one have been attributed to that of the other,
although between the jewel-loving adept and the amorous
magician there is in reality only a distant relationship.
Each of them formed part, on different sides, of the
two opposing currents which divided secret societies
at the end of the eighteenth century, then neutralised
one another, and resulted finally in the struggle between
the Convention and the Jacobins.
Cagliostro was not a messenger, as he asserted with
so much pride. “ One day I received the grace of
being admitted, like Moses, into the presence of the
Eternal.” But he was one of those bearers of truth,
those independent initiators, whom the Roman Church,
throughout the centuries, has given itself the task of
torturing and burning.
If he saw clearly, in a bottle of water, the fall of the
Bastille some months before it took place, he was unable
to see in the eyes of his wife Lorenza the treachery
which was to deliver him up to the tribunal of the
Inquisition. If he charmed and dazzled the Grand
Master of the Knights of Malta, Pinto, Cardinal de
Rohan and many others, he spoke of God blasphemously
before the cardinals assembled to judge him and before
the pope, crouching behind a wire screen in the tribunal
in order to watch his prisoner rear up the hydra head of
Freemasonry.
He was only an imperfect master, a man divided
244 M A (i I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
S A I N T - G E R M A I N 245
between aspiration for the divine, the trickery of the
charlatan, and the possession of a woman’s body. But
at least in his death he equalled the greatest. Like
Giordano Bruno he was condemned to be burnt. If
he did not actually mount the stake, it was because
Pope Pius VI, who had personally ordered that an
iron collar and manacles should be put on him,* com­
muted his punishment to perpetual imprisonment in
order that his torture might be the more protracted ;
and the judgment added the words, without hope of
pardon.
Without hope of pardon, in the penitent’s cloak,
barefoot, holding a candle, he passed through the streets
of Rome between two lines of monks to ask God’s
forgiveness for his sins. Without hope of pardon he
was taken down to an underground cell in the fortress
of San Leo. But his implacable ecclesiastical
executioners by their very mercilessness gave him the
greatness which he had glimpsed but never attained
in his lifetime. Without hope of pardon he died in
his prison, which the French entered in 1797, too late
to set him free.
Now,withthe lapse of time, his true rôle is shrouded in
obscurity. But the unjust judges, who have always
condemned to death initiates and sages, at least con­
tributed to his glory by their tortures and injustice.
Borowski, Cagliostro.
MADAME BLAVATSKY AND THE
THEOSOPHISTS
THE MASTERS AND THE CHOICE OF A
MESSENGER
WHEN Jacob Boehme was a child he was alone one
day in the shop of his father, who was a boot­
maker, when an unknown man came in to buy
some shoes. He looked deep into the boy’s eyes and
said solemnly to him :
“ Jacob, your words will one day astonish the world.
You will have to suffer much from misfortune and
persecution; but never fear and be steadfast, for you
are loved of God, and He has pity on you.”
Similarly, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, as she sat in
the silent rooms of the house of the Fadeevs, in which
the years of her childhood were spent, sometimes saw
about her a shadow, the protecting form of a man,
who smiled kindly on her and whose influence she felt
upon her. The shadow might have said to her also :
“ You will have to suffer much from misfortune and
persecution.” Some people are marked out in advance.
Those who receive the mission of bringing to mankind
a revelation, a message that liberates the highest faculties
of the soul, can do so only at the price of their fellows’
hatred. They have to suffer misfortune and persecution.
But they form links in a fraternal chain, and from their
childhood signs are given to them. Happy the child
who is given, by a solemn presence, fugitive as a dream,
the promise of a life of suffering, the child to whom it is
249 •
said : 44Never fear and be steadfast, for you are loved
of God.”
H. P. Blavatskv was the most direct ofthe messengers
of the East of whom we have any knowledge. In the
fourteenth century, Tsong Ka Pa, the great sage of
India and the reformer of Buddhism, reminded the wise
men of the great Tibetan plateaus and the Himalayas
of a very ancient law. This law concerned the balance
of two opposing principles which are both equally
true : The truth must be kept secret, and The truth must
be divulged. For though man is eternally dying as the
result of his ignorance, yet knowledge that is prematurely
given is as fatal to him as light to a man who has lived
long in darkness. Tsong Ka Pa reminded them that
at the end of each century an attempt had to be made
to teach the West, which cared for nothing but power
and material well-being.
In the lamasery of Ghalaring Tcho, near Tzigatzi, on
the borders of China and Tibet, certain men who had
attained a high spiritual level by meditation, ascetic
philosophers, who had raised themselves above our plane
by their knowledge and goodness, took counsel as to
what intermediary they should employ to bear the
message to the unbelieving and arrogant peoples. It
appears from what it is possible to know of their
deliberation that, by an almost unanimous decision,
they were on the point of giving up the attempt. Had
not the West lost all possibility of receiving and under­
standing the true and ancient doctrine ? What was
the good of sending the message to those who had no
desire to receive it ?
However, two voices were raised in favour ofobedience
250 MAGI CI ANS , SEERS, AND MYSTI CS
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 251
to the words of Tsong Ka Pa, the voices of two Hindus :
Morya, the descendant of the princes of the Punjab,
and Koot Houmi, who was born in Kashmir. They
assumed responsibility for the task of sending to the
West someone who should diffuse the Brahman philo­
sophy and unveil that part of the mystery of man and
nature which it seemed opportune to unveil.
And it was H. P. Blavatsky upon whom their choice
fell. Why should it have fallen on her rather than on a
man better equipped by balance, powers of persuasion
and absence of passion, qualities which were always
lacking in H. P. Blavatsky ? The answer is connected
with a truth which, for all its simplicity, is rejected with
a contemptuous smile by men of “ common-sense.” We
are born with a long past. It is this past which deter­
mines the conditions and events of our life, whilst we
insist on ascribing them to the shadow of hazard, to
the phantom of free will. It was in virtue of this past
that H. P. Blavatsky was bound to Morya. She was
chosen for her extraordinary mediumistic gifts, for the
supernormal faculties which she manifested from child­
hood, for the facility with which Morya and Koot
Houmi could communicate with her at a distance by
means of thought-telegraphy. And above all, she was
chosen for her unselfish faith, her boundless love of
knowledge, that mysterious enthusiasm which impels
certain people to raise ever higher, though their death
should be the result, the living lamp of their intelligence
amid the darkness in which it has pleased Nature to
envelop us.
* * * * * *
If the existence of the masters is regarded in India,
Tibet and China as unquestionable, there is in Europe
only a small minority which believes in it; and more­
over that minority is not taken seriously by the average
cultured man. The reason for this is that there exist
no definite facts with regard to the masters, that no
material proof of their existence can be given. Such
a proof might be found, but it would be necessary to
search for it, and the means to be employed would seem
unusual. It is more convenient to deny it. Besides,
the existence of the masters shocks the -pride of the
intellectual upstart which each ofus brings into the world
with him at birth.
The idea that in the sand and snow of a territory
reputed barbarous there exist men—and men of colour !
—who do not unreservedly admire motor-cars, aeroplanes
and the work of medical institutes, but who have
nevertheless gone farther than we have in metaphysical
knowledge and the study of spiritual matters—such
an idea seems unlikely, causes annoyance or a shrug
of the shoulders. We are incapable of presuming the
existence of higher men without at the same time
presuming that they are bound to make a display of
their superiority in order to become famous, to gain
decorations, to enter official academies t We have
reached a point at which disinterestedness is un­
imaginable to us. It is also unimaginable that anyone
should be able to dispense with the marvellous dis­
coveries of science, which have been so cleverly utilised
for physical enjoyments. So we liken the sages of
Tibetan lamaseries to fakirs who perform easy miracles
and mortify their flesh.
252 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 253
On the other hand, those who believe in the masters
form an erroneous conception of them. No sooner have
they admitted the idea that higher beings exist, with­
drawn in solitudes, who are more spiritual than we, who
know more, who are more developed—than they ascribe
to them the virtue and the power of gods. They forsake
probability in order to satisfy a long suppressed feeling
for religion, an innate desire for the worship of the
divine. For such men not only do the masters possess
faculties which the imagination cannot grasp, but they
direct humanity at their will, bring about the birth and
death of races, read at a glance all the thoughts of all
men, weigh good and evil. The legend of the king of
the world is exceeded by these believers, who are as
blind as the blindest Christians and utterly oblivious
of reason. Saint Yves d’Alveydre asks us to believe*
that the members of Agharta in their subterranean
explorations of the earth have found a race of men
with wings and claws and a flying dragon half-man
and half-monkey. And Leadbeaterf practically sum­
marises the conversations that take place between Jesus
and the Buddha on a stone bench at the foot of a great
tree.
The masters exist, but they are not gods. They arc
only men filled with wisdom. That is a great deal. If,
as travellers report, they are able to create in themselves
artificial heat to resist the cold of the heights, they are
yet human enough to suffer from the icy winds and the
snow. They are doomed to the regularity of food,
to the oblivion of sleep. They feel the hardness of the
* Mission de Vlnde.
f The Masters and the Path.
earth, the immensity of the heavens, the rigour of natural
law. They know the secret of death and can postpone
death, but they are nevertheless obliged to submit to
it. If they have succeeded in getting rid of the greater
part of our sufferings, created by desire and egoism,
it may be that they feel other sufferings, of an order
that is inconceivable to us, born of their understanding
and their love. When they reach the gates of Nirvana,
the look they throw behind them at their brothers,
who have remained so far away, reveals that which
often must cause them to retrace their steps. They
conquer pity by intelligence, and by pity they break
the diamond of intelligence. But do they attain perfect
serenity ?
The summit which they have so painfully gained is
no summit. There is no summit in a hierarchy without
end. Freed from the social life and its yoke, they see,
they know, by the impetus of intuition they reach
regions of light; but even if they wish, they cannot
again put on the abandoned yoke. They have cast
it behind them. Prisoners who have been set free
may not enter their former prison. They are not
adapted to men’s conduct, to their finesse, their trickery.
Not one of these sublime adepts of Agharta could hold
a commercial post, be president of an association, or
get himself elected deputy. If they have in some
measure the capacity to foresee coming events, their
calculations must often be put out by the reactions of
hatred. If their enlarged intelligence penetrates
cosmic laws and possesses powers unknown to us,
error must be their lot in the domain of human
affairs.
254 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 255
However great the feelings of veneration or awe with
which we surround the great messengers, we are com­
pelled to recognise the fact of this error. We can see
their powerlessness against evil, the futility of their
efforts to maintain their work. We ean see that often
they have employed childish methods to bring great
designs into being. This was the case with the
foundation of the theosophical movement, which might
have created a moral revolution such as had never
been seen. From it might have arisen a hearth of
brotherhood, by the fire of which races and religions
would have become reconciled to one another. But it
was based on error. Its point of departure as a means
of propaganda rested on error. It was impossible to
found a great movement with phenomena and miracles,
even if behind them lay the solid weight of doctrine.
It was going too far in misunderstanding the flower
of Western minds. Few though they might be, it was
these minds whom it was necessary to win over.
Though they did not possess true spiritual qualities,
they expected something better than the miraculous
sending of letters, and roses, still wet with dew,
falling from the ceiling. The philosophy of the
East was given them with fakir’s tricks and the
illusions of hallucination. The message lost its gran­
deur, and ignorant men and sceptics took the
opportunity of decrying it.
Men of common-sense refused to admit that a sublime
thought could come out of a conjurer’s hat. And when
The Secret Doctrine was published, it was too late.
The extraordinary currents of hatred which are un­
leashed against the revealers of new truths had beset
the book and its author. Calumny had attached the
label of impostor to H. P. Blavatsky—the sincerest and
most disinterested of all who have dedicated their life
to the spirit.
256 m a g i c i a n s , s e e r s , a n d m y s t i c s
H. P. BLAVATSKY’S PHENOMENAL LIFE
T
HERE has never been a great figure about whom
there is not something of the caricature. The
gift of the spirit is always matched by some
physical disproportion, something ridiculous, some
ugliness of feature. The ears of Lao Tse were im­
moderately long; Socrates’ head was too big ; Sweden­
borg was a giant in stature. Moreover, a genius is
always ill-adapted to life, inappropriate, embarrassing.
He knocks furniture over, has moments of strange
dumbness or else expresses himself in a voice which
resounds like a clarion.
Thus H. P. Blavatsky is seen as possessing more
defects than obvious good qualities. She grew pre­
maturely to an enormous size and carried her defective
and tormented body untiringly throughout the four
quarters of the world. She overflowed with passion,
was perpetually angry ; she lost her temper, continually
cursed and ordered people about, swore like a trooper;
she smoked all day long in public, even in the sacred
temples of India, and treated her fraternal comrade
Olcott like a fool. At the slightest illness she wrote
letters beginning : “ I write on my death-bed,” and
recovered the same day. She was a sleep-walker. She
had bohemian tastes. Whether she was in New York
or in India she would ask people to dinner on days
when she had not even a cup of tea to offer them. She
257
promised everyone, even servants, that they should
succeed her as moving spirit ofthe Theosophical Society.
She confided in strangers. She said she knew men’s
inmost nature through “ occult intuition,” and gave her
friendship to people who sought it only to betray her.
With some money that she had inherited she bought
some land in America; but she lost the deeds which
proved the purchase and even forgot in what district
the land was. While she was editing The Theosophist
in London she founded a paper which competed with
The Theosophist, and herself assumed the editorship.
From horror of religious hypocrisy she became anti­
clerical. Wherever she went she made enemies owing to
her incapacity to disguise the truth. She was in revolt
against every authority, every prejudice, every worldly
convention. She respected nothing and nobody, save
the masters ; and about them she made jokes and called
Morya familiarly “ the general.” But she was generous ;
she gave all she had. Her only aim in life was her
mission, and to perform it she was able to efface herself
entirely. She regarded her person merely as the vehicle
of expression of higher beings, her voice as the means
of proclaiming their message; and to this she sub­
ordinated her whole life.
* * * * * *
It was to the sound of the hammering of coffins that
H. P. Blavatsky was born, in 1831, near Odessa. Russia
was being ravaged by cholera, and several people had
just died in the household of her father, Colonel Hahn.
As she was a puny child she was baptised hurriedly.
During the ceremony, for which members of the family
and serfs were assembled in a large room, a candle
258 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 259
carried by a child set a priest’s robe alight. There was
a panic. The priest was badly burned, and as a result
the prediction was made that the child’s life would
be full of struggle and vicissitude. The prediction came
true. But no one then could foresee that Helena
Petrovna would re-light the candle of her baptism and,
by proclaiming to man the worship of the God within
him, would by her words bum many priestly robes
and the ornaments of many useless ceremonies.
However far those who knew her as a child go back
in their memory, they agree unanimously that at a very
early age she showed superhuman capacities. Mysterious
knockings took place when she entered a room. She
described in advance distant events which took place
according to her description. The world about her was
peopled with phantoms and spirits whose form she
depicted and whose intentions she understood. If she
took up a handful of sand from the steppe, she saw the
oceans of vanished epochs, submarine flora, fantastic
animals. If she looked at an old man passing by, she
saw in the atmosphere about him eveiy action that he
had done in his previous lives. A master watched over
her, he who was later to be known under the name of
Morya. One day when her horse bolted and threw her,
she felt two invisible arms hold her up and break her
fall.
The invisible arms were real arms, the dream figure
became a living figure ; and when she went to London
for the first time she recognised the familiar apparition
in the person of one of the Indian rajahs who constituted
an embassy from Nepal. She spoke with her master
in Hyde Park, and from that moment all her actions
were subordinated to his orders. Obviously none of
those orders would run counter to her fate. With toil
and suiiering she would have to work out her own
instruction, endure the effects resulting from her im­
pulsive, unruly nature. Her mission was to be carried
out amid anxiety, illness and anger; for all messengers
are tainted with imperfection, and it is evident that the
highest and the best in the hierarchy of creation are
liable to weakness and error.
At eighteen she allowed herself to be married by
her family to an old general; but she already felt an
irresistible horror of what she called the “ magnetism
of sex,” a horror which made her remain chaste all her
life. Her old husband did not succeed in kissing even
her finger-tips, and she left the conjugal roof at night
on horseback.
She began then a series of interminable travels.
After wandering about Egypt and Syria, she went to
South America, where she shared the wild life of the
cowboys. She travelled to India by the Pacific and
made an attempt to penetrate into Tibet, but was
prevented by the British Government. She returned to
Europe, going by Egypt, where she studied magic with
the old Coptic magician Metamon. She became violently
interested in the independence of nations and joined the
troops of Garibaldi, in whose ranks she received a severe
wound. She recovered, read Fenimore Cooper’s novels,
fell in love with the Redskins and left on the spot for
Canada, to live in wigwams, shoot arrows, see scalps.
But the squaws stole from her a pair of boots to which
she was attached, and she tired of the Redskins and
went to live in Texas with the trappers. She soon
260 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AND M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y * 261
left Texas and visited New Orleans to penetrate the
secrets of voodoo magic. She lived for some time among
this sect of negro magicians, but, receiving warning
in a dream that she was in danger, she set off again for
India. She tried once more to enter Tibet, travelled
in the Himalayas, stayedinvarious Buddhist monasteries.
She was frozen by the snow, blinded by the sand, suffered
hunger and thirst in tents, and returned to India in
1857, just before the Mutiny. Her occult guide
instructed her then to go back to Europe, and she
returned to her family, which she proceeded to astound,
for some yeaTs, by working wonders of every kind.
It was not till ten years later that the time of her true
instruction came. All her travels had been but a
preparatory pastime. She returned to India in 1867,
the period of her initiation in Tibet.
She reached Lake Palti and the Kwen Luen Mountains,
and in that unexplored region, though she would never
say exactly where, she found Morya and Koot Houmi
and learned from them the secret knowledge which it
was to be her mission to reveal. She was ordered to
go to America, where she would find a man whom she
did not know, but who had been chosen for his faith,
his courage and his unselfish love of good, to found with
her the spiritual movement which was to be known under
the name of the Theosophical Movement.
She passed through Europe on her way, but
catastrophes were in her star : the ship in which she
travelled carried a cargo of gunpowder wliich exploded,
and she came near being the sole survivor ofthe wreck.
As soon as she arrived in America she asked everyone
she met whether they knew Colonel Olcott. But she
did not have to look for him long. At some party,
which she was attending, a man with a long beard
offered her a match for a cigarette she had just rolled.
The little flame that flashed between them grew into
a great spiritual fire, which is not yet extinguished.
The tall, quiet, great-hearted American and the in­
domitable Russian with her unwieldy body, who by her
mediumistic faculties could see some part of the beyond,
became inseparable knights of the ideal. They were
Don Quixotes on the march for the reform of humanity,
and under the helmet of their faith, more enchanted
than Quixote’s helmet of Mambrino,* they fought and
conquered the terrible windmills of stupidity and
bigotry.
Mme Blavatsky’s knowledge of occult science had
grown during her travels. She came into contact with
every hypnotist, necromancer and sorcerer in the world.
With her extraordinary powers she caused equal astonish­
ment to charlatans, men of common-sense and men of
learning. There were discussions, explanations, law­
suits. In face of the accumulated facts it is impossible
to deny her powers, or if one denies them it is necessary
to presume conspiracy on the part of every household
which she entered, and complicity on the part of every
person whom she met in every part of the world. The
phenomena she produced are absolutely astounding. It
seems that in certain circumstances and in certain
states she had the power to create at will material objects,
to write long letters without hand or pen and send them
* Mambrino was a Moorish king in the Orlando of Boiardo, whose
helmet was won by Rinaldo. Cervantes mentions it in Don Quixote,
Bk. 1, chap. X.—Trans.
262 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 263
to a distant destination by means of astral force. She
gave another explanation of her own powers. She said
she had the power of making herself obeyed by certain
spirits intermediate between man and nature, called
elementáis; and she made these magic slaves work for
her invisibly.
A child came to visit her in a room that was almost
bare. Wishing to give the child pleasure, she put her
arm behind a screen and drew out a lamb on wheels,
which was not there a minute before.
Another child wanted a whistle. She took three keys
attached to a ring and closed her hand on them. When
she opened her hand the three keys had become a
whistle.
At a dinner it was found that there were no sugar-
tongs. She miraculously made a pair, which were
slightly out of shape and bore the mark of her masters.
Somebody asked her one day to draw the portrait of
an Indian sage, a teacher of outcastes, known by the
name of Tiruvalluvar and living at Vilapur. She took
a little blacklead, crushed it lightly on a sheet of paper
and folded the paper over. One minute later a detailed
portrait had been drawn, and the American portrait-
painters to whom it was shown declared that from
the technical point of view it was a unique work which
no living artist could have executed.
On another occasion she was hemming napkins.
Colonel Olcott saw her give an irritable kick under
the table as she said : “ Come out of there, you fool !”
He asked what there was there. “ It’s a little fool
of an elemental pulling my skirt,” said Mme Blavatsky.
“ Give him your napkins to hem,” said Olcott by way
of joke. She threw the napkins under the table, and
when they were picked up a quarter of an hour later
the hemming was done.
Stories of this kind could be multiplied indefinitely.
These phenomena aroused great curiosity. Mme
Blavatsky’s reputation became enormous. The Theo-
sophical Society was founded by her and Olcott, and the
two of them transferred the headquarters first to Madras
and then to Adyar.
Mme Blavatsky had known for some years that her
dream was realised. She was in the fullness of her
activities. From every part of Europe came adherents
to the new faith, to theosophical ideas, which only
express the philosophy of certain Buddhist groiips in
Tibet. With the Buddhist philosophy Mme Blavatsky
connected the ideas of evolution and of the attainment
of perfection, also an explanation of the creation of the
universe which is more ancient than Buddhism and is
probably Brahminical in origin. If many Indians
proved indifferent to her ideas, a great number became
enthusiastic adherents.
But the eternal enemies of every great upspringing
of truth took alarm and acted hurriedly. If one reads
the books and papers of this period one is amazed
at the incredible outburst of hatred provoked by a
disinterested group preaching human brotherhood and
the cult of truth. And this hatred seemed to be the
greater because it was vented on a woman.
It was impossible for the missionaries of the Roman
Catholic Church in Madras to tolerate the idea that
neighbourly love should be taught by other Europeans
than themselves, and in the name of a prophet who was
264 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 265
•not their prophet. They prepared the work of calumny
by which the Roman Church, in forms that vary but
are always inexorable, has ever struck at those who
preach the divine word outside their own iron rule.
They bribed two former boarding-house keepers, who,
by the indiscretion of Mme Blavatsky, had become
confidential servants at Adyar, to bring a charge of
fraud against the founder of the theosophical move­
ment. They alleged that they had been her accomplices,
and produced forged letters. According to their story,
Mme Blavatsky’s phenomena were mere matters of
sleight of hand, the masters were shams, there were no
masters, there was nothing.
At the same time the Society for Psychical Research
in London had sent out to Madras a young man named
Hodgson, who possessed full powers and plenty of com­
placency, to hold an enquiry into the nature of the
phenomena produced by Mme Blavatsky. Influenced by
the missionaries, by the opinion of conventional English
society, which with one voice followed the missionaries,
and by his own disinclination to believe, which he had
brought out from England in his narrow, sceptical mind,
Hodgson declared, in the course of a long report, for Mme
Blavatsky’s imposture.
The slanders of her enemies were not to be forgotten.
They germinated and fructified ; for ignorance, false
knowledge and materialism found in them a pretext
for doubt and the joy of hating what they could not
understand. Many of Mme Blavatsky’s friends left her
and spread fresh slanders. It was said that she was a
spy in the service of Russia, and in France Dr. Papus
fabricated bodily, without the slightest evidence, the
charge that she had copied part of her books from
manuscripts left by a certain Baron von Palmes. This
charge was grotesque, and the man who brought it
knew that it was grotesque. The baron was a former
officer in the Austrian cavalry, an ill-educated man and
anything but a philosopher, and he had never written
a line in his life. The hatred of those who aspire to
spiritual supremacy unlooses a frenzy that is blinder
than the possession of money.
Mme Blavatsky did not take proceedings against her
calumniators. She was poor and could not afford a
costly law-suit—a fact of which her enemies were well
aware. Besides, she could have given a victorious
reply only by proving the actual existence of Morya
and Koot Houmi and naming the place where they lived,
which she did not wish to do on any account.
Exhausted and ill she left India, in order to find in
Europe, in solitude, the quiet necessary for the writing
of The Secret Doctrine. In a wretched room in Naples
she tasted the bitterness of seeing her best intentions
disparaged, her work denied, her ideal flouted. But
no doubt from the deep inner resources which great
souls possess she drew the idea that the written word
is more important than the person entrusted with the
writing of it, and that the book survives long after the
face and even the name of the author have passed into
oblivion. She subordinated her life to the making
of her book. She forgot the powers by means of which
she had gathered admirers round her. She ceased
producing snakes out of hand-bags and many-coloured
butterflies by a gesture. She spent the last years of
her life with her eyes fixed on the deepest sources of her
266 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 267
knowledge. She stood out against the waves of hatred
implicit in newspaper articles or in the poisoned words
of those who came to visit her. Her health was pre­
carious, but she pursued her aim unfalteringly by sheer
force of will, compelling herself to do some of her great
work every day.
When she died in England she had once more found
disciples and friends who loved her. She liked to repeat
the words of Vishnu Purana: Pity is the strength of the
virtuous. She was able quietly to contemplate her
finished task. She had written the last words of The
Secret Doctrine, and the Theosophical Society had spread
all over the world.
But since it is a bitter and inexorable law that calumny,
skilfully directed, leaves a trace that does not die, Mme
Blavatsky has never been altogether cleared of the
accusations brought against her. The years have passed,
and the origins and proofs of bygone events soon become
uncertain. People listen to rumour, which is easily
mistaken for a lower form of wisdom. With secret
pleasure they breathe the breath of a scandal whose
origin is unknown. They say to themselves : “ After
all, who knows ? It may be true. . . And even
those who believe the most firmly in Mme Blavatsky
and have received the truest consolation from her
philosophy sometimes feel a doubt rise from the depths
of their being, like a melancholy cloud casting a shadow.
In the complete text of the Jewish historian, Josephus,
which was recently found in Russia, there is a striking
passage. This contemporary of John the Baptist and
of Jesus writes with regard to John the Baptist: “ He
placed the skins of animals on those parts of his body
which were hairless.” So this prophet added to nature
in order to carry out his idea of the appearance of a
prophet. And I imagine that he did so secretly in order
that, in the eyes of his disciples, he might appear an
emissary, whom God had created hairy, by contrast
with the luxurious clothing of the rich Jews. It was a
childish action on his part; yet he was John the Baptist,
who baptised Jesus.
Similarly Mme Blavatsky, who had been given the
gift of producing phenomena and perhaps considered
that she could not be a genuine wonder-worker without
continual phenomena, may have made additions of her
own invention by guile and artifice; for it must have
been a great temptation to help on a miracle when it
did not take place of its own accord, and when she never­
theless bore within herselfa miracle, which she performed
yesterday and would perform again to-morrow. It is
possible that Mme Blavatsky yielded to this temptation,
though there is no proof of it. However, the whole
matter is unimportant. If the prophet wishes to be
hairy, let him be hairy to his heart’s content. The
baptismal water between the banks of Jordan will not
be the less clear for that. It matters nothing to me if
the person who gives me a reasonable explanation of
the world, a lofty philosophy, and a morality which
transforms my heart, magically spirits away the book
which contains the sublime explanation, philosophy
and morality. I check my astonishment at the brilliance
of the trick, wait for the book to reappear, and then
drink in its revealing wisdom without bothering about
the miraculous manner in which it was presented to
me.
268 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
THE SECRET DOCTRINE
T
HE characteristic of the philosophy taught by
H. P. Blavatsky is that it appears to many minds,
when revealed to them, as the noblest of all
philosophies, as the only system which is clear and
reasonable, and the knowledge of which is a motive to
self-development.
To become more intelligent and better, not in the
ordinary meaning of the words, but to become more
worthy of esteem in one’s own eyes—that is what is
possible for man nowadays, thanks to her. On those
who have found the truth appropriate to them in the
teachings of theosophy there is conferred a title without
external sign, an honour which brings, not the respect
of other men, but inner peace. They feel the mystery
weigh less heavily on them; they have discovered the
possibility of creating their own hell or heaven; their
scale of values for human things is more correct; they
have acquired more compassion.
Just as Mme Blavatsky had not received the gift of
physical beauty so she had no knowledge of the beauty
of literary form ; the surface of her philosophy is rough
and uneven, while the body of her book is chaotic,
shapeless, crushing, sexless like herself. It contains
the doctrines of esoteric Buddhism, for what is called
theosophy is the Buddhism of a school of Tibetan
intellectuals. It is not Mme Blavatsky’s own creation,
269
nor did she ever claim that it was. She wrote without
the help of any book and made frequent quotations
from works only to be found in libraries to which she
had no possibility of access. She wrote as a medium
—all the evidence agrees on this point—at the dictation
of Morya and Koot Houmi, and also of another Platonic
initiate, who expressed himself only in French and
belonged to a different group of initiates.
It is impossible to summarise, even shortly, the
enormous mass of knowledge contained in Isis Unveiled
and The Secret Doctrine. This knowledge comes from
the ancient books preserved in Tibetan monasteries and
goes back through civilisations to the very origin of man.
This knowledge was so new and astounding to the
arrogant thinkers of the West that they preferred to
reject it en bloc without examination. Annie Besant,
Steiner, Leadbeater* and others have nevertheless made
every effort to clarify it and present it in a form accessible
to the most ordinary intelligence. That has proved
insufficient. Ordinary minds and great minds, both
alike, have found that the light came from too great a
distance, from a country which was not theirs, and that
it was too dazzling. They need a lamp of a familiar
kind, which lights up only the narrow circle of their
inherited knowledge,their little prejudices, their common­
place ideals.
What a philosophy this is, which gives us the means
of understanding the relationship of spirit and matter ;
of understanding how through the immemorial ages
* See Aonie Besant's Ancient Wisdom, Steiner's Outline of Occult
Science, and particularly M. Chevrier’s L'essai de doctrine occulte, which
is the clearest exposition of theosophical doctrines.
270 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A ND M Y S T I C S
man has become individualised, has assumed successive
bodies, to become more and more material on the
descending curve of nature, and then to rise on the
ascending curve ; how he must accomplish the opposite
task, that is to say, become spiritualised in order to be
absorbed into the divine consciousness. This philo­
sophy, which teaches us the law of reincarnation and
the law of Karma, is the only system which lights up
and to some small extent justifies what we see of a
pitiless and incomprehensible universe. If we see—and
it is possible for each one of us to do so if we try every
day—that it is we who weave our own destiny, create
the cause of our own happiness and suffering; if we
know, beyond the possibility ofa doubt, that every action
taken against others is an action taken against ourselves
—we come to the realisation that the world is perhaps
not so unjust a place as it appears. And the moment
we are aware that we live in a logical and ordered world,
we understand that the only behaviour possible to us
is obedience to that logic and that order; we are no
longer troubled by injustice, for we regard ourselves as
the sole cause of our own troubles. We seek a means
for becoming happier by conforming to the current
which carries us away. We bethink ourselves of pre­
paring our future life if it is too late to obtain great
results in this one. We realise that happiness as we
see it is not the most important kind, and that there are
scales of happiness parallel to our development. The
search for a higher happiness leads us to see dimly that
the source of the most ineffable joy lies in the spiritual
development of our being. We learn the paths which
lead there: meditation, silence of the soul and
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 271
contemplationofthat innerstarwhichshinesin our hearts,
and the light of which, when we discover it in all its
radiance, will make us one with the divine essence.
The bringing of the wisdom of the East might have
been enough to arrest Western thought in its materialistic
progress and to transform it. It did not do so. The
dark shadow which follows every new thing spread over
the woman who preached this doctrine of perfection.
It was historically too late for the Inquisition to erect
the martyr’s stake for her. Nor was she stoned or
crucified. But her contemporaries put her to the torture
of doubt and contempt. The intellectuals either rejected
her doctrine or persisted in ignoring it. It is true that
it was not to them that her message was addressed.
Theosophy, like all the great movements of the spirit,
like Christianity and like the doctrine of the Albigenses,
made its appeal to ordinary men, but it was misunder­
stood and unheeded by them. It is a strange example,
of which we are the blind witnesses. The message
came from far and from high. It is there, and yet to
those who deny it it is useless.
As for the direct disciples of Mmc Blavatsky, those
who make use of her name, unconsciously or as a result
of their own temperament, they have partly betrayed
the meaning of the message in their explanation of it.
There is a law which requires that every esoteric move­
ment which is not, like the Albigensian movement,
wrecked by total suppression should wither and petrify,
be transformed into the hard stone of a Church, the icy
marble of a dogma. Theosophy has become enveloped
in the “ religiosity ” which its founder considered fatal.
It began with the Christian adoration, the pious fervour,
272 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 273
with which the Hindu masters were surrounded, though
they certainly never asked it. The admonitions to an
upright life were transformed into Anglican prudery.
The sublime aims of brotherhood and ofthe development
of spiritual powers were neglected in favour of
expectation of the Messiah—the preoccupation of every
sect in the world—which thenceforward occupied the
first place. Buddhism, to which the founders of the
theosophical movement had firmly attached themselves,
was watered down and relegated to the background
in favour of an esoteric Christianity. Finally, in order
to satisfy men’s need to pray in edifices, to see ritual
altars, to be helped by the ceremonial magic of incense,
candles and vestments, the theosophist leaders declared
themselves bishops and, under the name of the Liberal
Catholic Church, proceeded to build up that which Mme
Blavatsky had laboured to destroy. They acted against
the majestic message of theosophy, against the essential
truth, against the law of the individual, of which Mme
Blavatsky had been the inspired preacher.
Nevertheless this message, this truth and this law
have not been lost. Mme Blavatsky’s successors, in
preparing their church, have brought up a young man,
Krishnamurti, to be the head of it. But he, instead
of proudly assuming the title of instructor of the world,
• which had been marked out for him, and of accepting
an all-powerful papal mitre, has, with a greater pride,
preferred to declare that he is “ the possessor of the
unconditioned and integral truth,” and to wear the
invisible mitre of the true sage. It matters little
whether or not he has reached this sublime state. In
any case he has returned to the teachings of Mme
Blavatsky and, paraphrasing certain texts of Sankara
Acharya* and certain words of the Buddha, he has
proclaimed them with the freedom that only youth
can give.
He has repeated that all organisations and all Churches
are barriers to understanding ; that the new forms of
worship and the new gods are no better than the old
ones ; that good intentions, good works or self-sacrifice
are not enough if the inner veil of ignorance be not
tom asunder ; that all wisdom must be sought within
oneself ; and that it is by the development, the
purification, the incorruptibility, of a man’s inner 441”
that he becomes one with the absolute.
• Sankara Acharya, who lived probably during the 9th century
A.D., was a celebrated Indian theologian who wrote commentaries on
the Bhagavadgita and the principal Upanishads.—Trans.
274 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
THE SADNESS OF THE MASTERS
AT Darjeeling, in Sikkim, on the borders of British
India and Tibet, the mysterious door opens on
the still unknown regions of the earth* Dar­
jeeling is a fashionable hill town at the foot of the
Himalayas where British society comes to recuperate
after the burning climate of the plains. It is full of
officials and tourists. But no one knows that the road
which winds uphill and plunges into the deep mountain
gorges is a road leading to another universe, a road as
long and transcendent as Jacob’s ladder.
It is by this road that explorers leave, in the interests
of geography, or to bring back striking photographs, or
because they are interested in ethnology. When these
men of action come back they give lectures illustrated
by lantern slides and tell us all about Lhasa, and the
lamaseries perched on rocky heights like mediaeval
fortresses, and the colour of the Dalai Lama’s robe.
But actually they have seen nothing. They have seen
nothing but a primitive population, stupid monks
turning prayer wheels—nothing which attests the
presence of the spirit.
How could they have perceived the presence of the
spirit ? With us, high culture is inseparable from
material comfort and good manners, and is embodied
in official institutions, universities or academies. It
gives lectures, is preceded by a military band. In
275
particular it is not concerned with moral develop­
ment. How are they to believe that a man with a
brown face—almost a nigger !—who forgets the body
for thought, who sometimes remains motionless for
days meditating in a cavern exposed to the snow;
how can they believe that such a man may have views
on science and philosophy which are more complete
than those of the great European purveyors ofideas ?
But men who cannot be seen by learned and intrepid
explorers sometimes make themselves known to a man
whose heart is filled with love.
It may happen that, in order to reach them and
receive the word which is never written, a chosen Hindu
or even a European goes to Darjeeling and starts out
on the road which winds along the slopes of the Hima­
layas. This was done by Damodar, the comrade of the
first theosophists, a Brahman who lost his caste to live
with them. There came a moment when he felt that
he was called. He was to go up among the high moun­
tains. He had a bad cough and he was so thin that
Mme Blavatsky said his legs were like sticks. He
reached Darjeeling and started on his journey. He
went in the direction of Lake Palti and the Kwen Lun
Mountains, where once Mme Blavatsky had received
her instruction. The head-porter of the caravan with
which he travelled for some days stated that he had
later found his clothes in the snow. He was never
heard of again. It may be that, living on a little rice
and the mountain air and sitting on the terrace of
some lamasery, so high that no birds fly over it, he still
tastes, scarcely aged by the passing of the years, the
beatitude of the man who loves all things. Or perhaps
276 M A G I C I A N S . S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 277
he is long since dust at the bottom of some rocky
gorge.
Mme Blavatsky said that in 1897 an occult door
would be closed. No doubt the first step to this
door was in Darjeeling, and she knew that about
that time her instructors, having scattered the seed
in the world, would be withdrawing their interest.
The masters are no longer behind the theosophical
movement. No longer does a letter arrive written on
India paper without the intermediacy of the post, as
happened to the first disciples. No longer does a grave
face under a turban illumine a sleepless night. This
form of the miraculous, which certain privileged persons
undoubtedly experienced during several years, is no
longer one of the possibilities of life.
In a pine-covered valley among the heights of the
Kwen Lun Mountains two houses with roofs in Burmese
style face one another across the valley. They are the
houses of Morya and Koot Houmi. Between them,
under the leaning trees, runs a narrow, clear stream
spanned by an archaic bridge. Koot Houmi lives with
his sister and has a Tibetan and his wife for friendly
servants. Morya lives alone and rides on horseback
every morning. They are now fifty years older than
when their pupil Mme Blavatsky returned to the world,
but the lifetime of a sage is at least three times as long
as that of undeveloped man.*
When they meet near the little bridge over the stream
and walkamongthepines,they must sometimes remember
♦ The newspapers reported four or five years ago that a Russian
explorer home from Tibet said he had spoken with a man " of a certain
age *’ who had been Mme Blavatsky's instructor.
their past attempt to indicate the path to those who
did not know it. Probably, for all their knowledge
of men, they must still be surprised at their lack of
success. If they do not feel bitterness when they
remember that their names were derided and sensational­
ised by headlines in the newspapers, and became for
many synonymous with mystification, they must yet
admit to themselves that their effort was premature.
Certainly they cannot despair of humanity, especially
as they have attained a high degree of development
and learned how to extend the limits of time. But if,
by virtue of their gift of clairvoyance, they can see
our cities and our machines, our passions and our selfish­
nesses, they must rejoice at their deep solitude and at
the distance which separates them from us. They
must tell themselves that they were highly unwise to
reveal their existence some years ago to certain English­
men, who, though perhaps well-intentioned, were
decidedly limited in their outlook. Congratulating
themselves on the folly which casts doubts on their
existence, they must survey in contentment the height
of the Himalayan peaks, the unchanging structure of
the glaciers. They must think how fortunate it is for
them that a mysterious power has seen fit to isolate
Tibet from the so-called civilised world in order to allow
Tibetans to cultivate the rare flower of intelligence. In
the colossal dark cloud, which is for them the rest of
the universe, they perceive, like flickering lights, like
lamps just lighted, the minds of men awakening and
calling to their elder brothers. How few and how
dim are these lights! How slow are men to develop
themselves! How many messengers will have to be
278 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
M A D A M E B L A V A T S K Y 279
sent out from century to century, messengers who them­
selves are imperfect and run the risk of falling back
into the darkness ! And perhaps, as they think of the
length of time that must elapse, of the greatness of the
efforts to be made, of the amount of evil in the world,
the luminous eyes of the wise men grow dim.
EPILOGUE
T
HE history of these messengers is the history of a
series of successive checks. They come, they
exert an influence which is sometimes great,
sometimes trivial, they meet with insult or death; and
life resumes its course without any apparent trace of
their passing.
What made the greatest impression on me, as I
followed the story of their lives, was the fact that they
were able to manifest themselves at all. It is surprising
that the messengers were not suffocated when they were
young, when the first light ofthe spirit shone out in their
half-open eyes. Anger against that which is spiritual
is so intense that even the fact of their manifestation
must be regarded as amazing. It is amazing that
Apollonius of Tyana should have died in extreme old
age, and that Christian Rosenkreutz should have been
able to shroud his person in a silence which no Dominican
tribunal could break.
Disinterestedness, self-sacrifice, that which it is the
convention to call good, do not, owing to their respect
for life and their scruples of intelligence, possess means
of defence or weapons equal to those of their enemies.
Logically, evil and selfishness should always win, since
they are bound by no restrictions. If, in spite of this,
the essential conceptions which constitute the human
ideal succeed in surviving, the reason is that there is in
281
them a hidden force, a higher principle, which carries
them on.
If you see a swimmer trying to fight his way to land
through a rough sea, you think he will disappear every
second. The forces that are combined to engulf him
are tremendous. His head is often lost under the foam
and we no longer see him. But the swimmer, through
his skill and in virtue of the law which keeps a moving
body on the surface, passes safely through the dangers
and, contrary to all human expectation, gains the
shore.
So it is with the courageous swimmers in the waters
of life who are the bringers of the message. Ignorance
spreads its shadow over them; hypocrisy beckons
them downwards; pride blinds them. But a current
of unknown origin, a submarine force of unknown
attraction, drives them over the waves and allows them
to attain their aim.
The message is brought regularly, in spite of the
unceasing storm. It is always the same. It is contained
in a few very simple truths, in a few words. It might
be made into a written formula to mark the road. A
man must be unselfish, despise money, become more
and more intelligent, exercise his faculty of goodness.
To this everyone replies : “ I want to enjoy life and
wealth, think only of myself, dominate others.” The
great battle of life is fought for no other prize than this.
But the higher truths have to be presented to men in
forms that are ever new. This is the duty which falls
on the messengers, and the ungratefulness of the task
is in direct proportion to the unconquerable selfishness
of the human race.
282 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , A N D M Y S T I C S
E P I L O G U E 283
The ideal is not the privilege of one race or of one
particular place in the world. It has often been pro­
claimed by men who received it from no one, and,
though they acted independently, their words were as
sincere and as beautiful. Such was Ruysbroek, called
the doctor ecstaticus, who rated the active life of the
ordinary man as high as the life of the mystic in the
sanctuary, and found the way to perfect union under the
trees of ancient forests. Such was Giordano Bruno,
who argued and discoursed in every city in Europe, and
preferred the stake to the denial of his reason. Such
was Swedenborg, who was interested in metallurgy
and was also a hearty eater. Once, in a London hotel,
he had a vision of a man bathed in light who told him
that he, Swedenborg, had been chosen to interpret the
Holy Scriptures and advised him to eat less heartily.
Such was Jacob Boehme, the cattleman and apprentice
to a Görlitz cobbler, who saw the flame of the divine
love as he continued to hammer nails into soles.
Besides such men there have been others whose names
are unknown because they cared little for fame, and truth
radiated from them without their knowing it. There
have been revealers who were unaware of the revelation
that was in them; modest sages who mingled their
wisdom with their daily life ; timid magicians who did
not know what magic was contained in a little act of
kindness. We have all of us met, at least once in our
lives, one of these unheralded initiators, and received
from them a priceless gift, by a kindly word, a certain
look of sadness, a sincere expression in the eyes.
For the message passes everywhere. Like hope and
pain, it is essentially human. In order to hear it, it is
not necessary to invoke at daybreak the Platonic
intelligences, like Apollonius, or, like the ascetics, to
practise mortification, or, like the Christian monks, to
devote oneself to prayer. A man can understand it
without knowing any philosophy, without belonging to
any religion. It is accessible to the humblest, provided
his mind and soul be open. Intelligence is not necessary ;
it is enough to desire intelligence. And the good intent
to love is the sign that the message has been received.
284 M A G I C I A N S , S E E R S , AN D M Y S T I C S
THE END
I N D E X
â c r e , 149, 153
Adhémar, Comtesse d \ 216-227
Ægae, 22
Affry, M. d’, 221, 222
Agharta, 253, 254
Albi, 49-108
Albigenses, 10, 11, 15, 49-108,
169
Alion, Esclarmonde d’, 78-93
Amraonius Saccas, 135
Aospach, Margrave of, 215
Apollonius of Tyana, 12, 19-46,
121, 281, 284
Apuleius, 43
Aristotle, 57, 124, 180
Artephius, 37
Assassins, Order of, 140-150
Atlantis, 36
Augustus, 24
Augustus of Saxony, Elector,
200
Aulus Gellius, 40
B a b y lo n , 27, 28, 38
Bacon, Francis, 123
Bagdad, 115, 143
Baldwin II, 140
Balsamo, Joseph, 241-243
Baphomet, 15, 138, 159, 160,
168
Besant, Dr. Annie, 214, 236,
237, 270
Blavatsky, Mme H. P., 11, 235,
249-279
Blömert, 121
Boehme, Jacob, 249, 283
Bötticher, 202
Brahma, 11, 96
Broussa, 193, 194
Brunissande, 73, 74
Bruno, Giordano, 245, 283
Buddha, 10, 21, 40, 95, 96,
235, 253
C a b a la , 11, 178
C adiz, 35, 37
Cagliostro, 10, 226, 240-245
Canches, Maestro, 182-184
Caracalla, 37
Carcassonne, 49-108
Casanova, 217, 222
Castelnau, Pierre de, 67
Catharists. See Albigenses.
Cavalcanti, Guido, 50 (note)
Ch&lons, Comte dc, 227
Charles V, 219
Charles VI, 187
Chartres, Due de, 223
Choìseul, Due de, 221, 222
Christian II, 202
Citeaux, Abbé dc, 69, 70
Clement V, 137-169
Collins, Mabel, 236
Confucius, 21
Cramoisi, 187
Daimon, 42-46
Damascus, 115, 116
Damis, 27-31
Damodar, 276
Dee, Dr. John, 197, 198
Descartes, 123
Diocletian, 14
Domitian, 36, 38, 39
286 I N D E X
ECK EN FdRN , 226
Edward II, 165
Edward III, 200
Encyclopedists, 223
Ephesus, 37, 39
Eugene III, 53
Euphrates, 40
Euxenes, 22, 23
F e rro c a s , 105-108
Flamel, Nicolas, 173-205
Foix, Esclarmonde de, 78-85
Francis Racoczi II, 214, 217
Fraser, Major, 233, 234
Frederick II, 215, 230
G a rib a ld i, 260
Genlis, Mme de, 218, 227
Gergy, Mme de, 217, 218
Germelshausen, 111-115
Gordianus, 26
Gower, Lord, 219
Graffer, 220
Granada, 37, 180
Grosley, 211, 228
Gustavus Adolphus, 200
H assan -ib n -S ab b ah , 142-145
Hausset, Mme du, 217
Helvetius, 200, 201
Hesse Cassel, Landgrave Charles
of, 212-226
Hodgson, 265
Homer, 34
Hugo, Victor, 213
Hulagu, 115
Iam b lic h u s, 44, 236 (note)
Iarchas, 30, 32, 33
Innocent III, 14, 59, 108
Jbsus, 40, 45, 46, 99, 219, 235,
253
Johannites, 145, 146
John XXII, 200
John the Baptist, 2Ö7, 268
Josephus, 267
Julia Domna 27, (note)
K o o t H oum i, 251-279
Krishna, 235
Krishnamurti, 273, 274
L a m b e rt, Mile, 211
Lange, Savalette de, 231
Lascaris, 203
Leadbeater, 236, 237, 253, 270
Lérin Islands, 35
Lorenza, 10, 242-244
Louis XIII, 190
Louis XIV, 192
Louis XV, 211-239
Louis XVI, 165, 223
Louis of Brunswick, Prince,
221
Lucas, Paul, 192-194
Lulle, Raymond, 200
M am elu k es, 115
Marco Polo, 144
Marie Antoinette, 216-224
Masnavi, 116
Maurand, Pierre, 65-67
Maurepas, 224, 225
Maximilian II, 198
Maximus of Tyre, 43
Mesmer, 226
Mespila, 27
Molay, Jacques de, 153-169
Monteforte, 50, 51
Montségur, 78-90
Morya, 251-279
Musonius, 40
N a rb o n n e , 49-108
Nero, 14, 36
Neubourg, Marie de, 213, 217
Nicetas. 49, 65, 78, 93
Nietzsche, 14
Nineveh, 27
I N D E X 287
O a k l e y , M r s . Co o p e r , 235
Olcott, Colonel, 257, 261-264
Orlofi, Alexis, 222
Orloff, Gregory, 222
Ornolhac, 91-93
P æ st u m , 35
P alam edes, 32-34
Papus, Dr., 265
Paracelsus, 123
Pasqually, Martinez de, 231, 232
Payens, Hugues des, 140-160
Paykull, 202
Pelagians, 55
Perella, Ramon de, 87, 88
Pernelle, 173-205
Philippe le Bel, 137-169
Philostratus, 27 (note), 34
Pius VI, 245
Plato, 20, 21, 23, 43, 57, 129,
180
Pliny, 36, 40
Plotinus, 26, 44, 236
Pompadour, Mme de, 211, 212,
218
Porète, Marguerite, 119
Porphyrius, 236
Prœlus, 44
Pythagoras, 20, 21, 22, 24, 129
Q u in z e-V in g t s, 185
R a y m o n d VI, Comte de Tou­
louse, 67-69
Richelieu, Cardinal de, 191, 192
Ripley, George, 200
Rosenkreutz, Christian, 111-131,
281
Rosicrucians, 11, 111-131, 234
Rudolph II, 200
Ruysbroek, 283
Sa in t-A d h ém a r , G e o ffr o y d e ,
140-150
St Dominic, 62-108
Saint-Germain, Comte de, 16,
209-239
St Louis, 83
Salmanazar, 27
Sankara Acharya, 274
Sendivogius, 202
Serapis, 236
Sethon, Alexander, 201, 202
Socrates, 21, 42, 43, 129, 257
Spinoza, 123
Steiner, Rudolf, 270
Suetonius, 40
Swedenborg, 257, 283
T a l b o t, 196-198
Tarsus, 20
Tauler, Johann, 121
Templars, 12, 135-169
Tolstoy, 128
Torquemada, 14
Toulouse, 49-108
Trencavel. Vicomte de Beziers,
68-73
Troy, 33, 34
U l y sse s, 34
V a n d a m , A l b e r t , 233
Van Helmont, 200, 201
Vaughan, Thomas, 203
Vedas, 95
Vespasian, 36
Vishnu Purana, 267
Voltaire, 212
Von Gleichen, Baron, 210
Von Hompesch, Count, 237
W a l po l e , H o r a c e, 222
Y a so d h a r a , 10, 21
Zarm aros o f B a rg osa, 24
Zoroaster, 102
