{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__fowler___fowler_on_matrimony.pdf","mytitle":"Fowler On Matrimony","mylang":"de"}
FOWLER ON MATRIMONY :
OR
PHRENOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY
APPLIED TO TBB SELECTION OF
SUITABLE COMPANIONS FOR LIFE;
INCLUDING THE
ANALYSIS OF THE DOMESTIC FACULTIES;
DIRECTIONS TO THE MARRIED
FOR LIVING
AFFECTIONATELY AND HAPPILY TOGETHER.
IHVin THEM HOW TO ADAPT THEMSELVES TO THE PHRENOLOGICAL DETEl-
OPEMEHTS OF EACH OTHER.
by o. s. fowler, a. b.,
practical phrenologist;
Editor of " The American Phrenological Journal," Author of " Phrenology
Proved, Illustrated, and Applied;" "Fowler's Practical Phrenology,."
"Answer to Vindex; and "Synopsis of Phrenology;"
Phrenology versus Intemperance, Sf-c., &c.
PHILADELPHIA.
For sale, wholesale and retail, by the Author, at his office, 135 Nassau St, New
York; Turner & Fisher, Philadelphia; Saxon & Pierce's Phrenological Depot,
133$ Washington St, Boston ; R. L. Adams, Rochester, N. Y. ; O. Hutchinson,
Utica, N. Y. ; and by many bookselleas.
1841.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1841,
BT O. S. FOWLER,
in the Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
PREFACE.
Although the author is fully convinced that the premature
publication of his lecture on Phrenology as applied to Mat
rimony, will not do justice either to himself or to his subject, yet
he reluctantly yields to the importunity of those who, having
heard it delivered, have earnestly solicited its publication in a
cheap form. He intends soon to revise, improve, and enlarge
it, and to incorporate it into "The American Phrenological
Journal and Miscellany." (See Prospectus to that work on the
cover.)
The object of its publication is three fold; 1st, to prevent
unhappy marriages, by showing what organizations and phren
ological developements are naturally adapted to harmonize
with each other, that is, with whom given individuals can,
and with whom they cannot, so unite in feeling, sentiment, and
object, as to live affectionately and happily ; 2d, to explain, and
thereby diminish or remove, many of the causes of discord and
hard feeling existing between husbands and wives; and also to
show each how to strengthen the ties of connubial love by adapt
ing himself or herself to the phrenological organization of the
other; and, 3d, to expound the laws of man's social and
matrimonial constitution, and thereby to expose some of those
evils which grow out of their violation, as well as to conduct
those who follow its principles to a happy union for life with
a "kindred spirit."
Some of its positions will be new, others startling, and all
vitally important to the virtue and well-being of man. Let its
contents be attentively and seriously considered.
I
FOWLER ON MATRIMONY.
Man is eminently a social being. This truth is proclaimed both
by his disposition to congregate in neighborhoods and families, and
by his desire to seek company and form friendships ; and also reiterated
by his phrenological developements.
It is a well-established principle of Phrenology, that, activity and other
things being equal, the degree of enjoyment or suffering is in proportion
to the amount of brain called into action. Now these social organs
occupy a very large section of the brain, and hence their power over the
destinies of man for good or evil, for virtue or vice, for happiness or
misery. This power is still further increased by the fact that such is
the location of the social organs, such their physical relation to every
other portion of the brain, that when inflamed, fevered, dissatisfied, or
irritated, they inflame every other portion of the brain, throwing it into
violent commotion, especially the animal propensities; but if their
action is natural, if they are properly placed, they put to rest the other
animal propensities. It is in accordance with this principle, that who
ever has been recently crossed in love, is unfit for study, cannot improve
or advantageously exercise his intellect, and finds his animal feelings
deeply excited ; he is irritable, out with every one, blames every one,
is dissatisfied, and his whole mind thrown into commotion. Even his
moral nature is disturbed, and his religious feelings thoroughly deranged.
Nothing will excite Combativeness and Destructiveness to so high a
pitch of indignation if not revenge, as to be "cutout," or "get the
mitten." Of these and kindred phenomena, this principle gives the
clear and only solution.
Another cause of their immense power over the destinies of man for
happiness or misery, is to be found in that facility with which they
combine with each and all the other faculties. This enlarges the amount
of brain called into action. But before we can fully comprehend this
subject, it will be necessary to give a short analysis of these domestic
faculties.
AMATIVENESS—Reciprocal Attachment and Love of the Sexes
as such.
This faculty is adapted to man's condition as a reproductive being, and
to the continuance of the species. In order to prevent the extinction of
G FOWLER ON MATRIMONY.
our race by death, some means for its procreation became necessary.
Propogation and death are necessarily connected with man's earthly
existence. The Deity might perhaps have continued to produce every
individual of our race by a direct act of creative power, without the
agency of parents, but in that event, the wise and benevolent relations
of husbands and wives, of parents and children, in the exercise of which
so much of man's happiness consists, would not have existed. But
what philosophical observer is not forcibly impressed with the beauty,
wisdom, and perfection of the connubial and parental relations as such?
They have their counterpart mainly in this faculty. It creates all those
relations and reciprocal feelings existing between the sexes as such, and
resultj in marriage and offspring. It originates those reciprocal kind
offices and tender feelings which each sex manifests towards the other,
refining and elevating each, promoting gentility and politeness, and
greatly augmenting social happiness. So far from being gross or
exceptionable, its proper exercise is pure, and chaste, and even desirable.
The son who loves and obeys his mother, is always tender and faithful
to his wife ; and the endearing recollections of his mother and loved one,
are powerful incentives to virtue and study, as well as restraints upon
vicious inclinations. The mother dotes upon her sons, the father upon
his daughters. All this class of feelings has its origin in this faculty.
One in whom Amativeness is large, willhe alive to the personalcharms
and accomplishments of the other sex ; a great admirer of their beauty of
form, elegance of manners, &c. ; on account of the reciprocal influence
of this faculty, can easily ingratiate himself into their good will, become
acquainted, exert an influence with them, and kindle in them the passion
of love, or, at best, create a favorable impression, and has his warmest
friends among them.
PHILOPROGENiTIVENESS—Parental love; attachment to ones
own offspring; love of children generally, of pets, fyc.
For aught we know, man, like the fabled Minerva from the brain of
Jupiter, might have been brought forth in the full possession of all his
faculties, both physical and mental, capable, from the first moment of his
earthly existence, of taking care of himself, and supplying his every
want. But the fact is otherwise. He enters the world in a condition
utterly helpless, and, but for the greatest parental care and anxiety, every
infant child must inevitably perish, and our race soon become extinct.
To this arrangement or state of things, Philoprogenitiveness is adapted,
nor can any other element of man's nature accomplish the end attained
by this faculty. The infant cannot be regarded as a friend, and there-
tore Adhesiveness cannot be exercised upon it. Causality might devise
\
ANALYSIS OF THE DOMESTIC ORGANS. 7
the means requisite for its relief, but it would not lift a finger towards
executing them. Benevolence might do something, yet it would be far
too little for their physical salvation, or their mental and moral culture.
How often do we find persons very benevolent to adults, but cruel to
children. These vexatious and expensive little creatures are far more
likely to array Combativeness and Destructiveness and Acquisitiveness
against them, than Benevolence or any other faculty in their favor; so
that if parents had no faculty adapted exclusively to the nursing and
training of offspring, their burden would be too intolerable to be borne,
whereas this faculty renders them the dearest of all objects to parents,
their richest treasure, their greatest delight, and an object for which they
live and labor and suffer more than for any other, casting into the shade
all the toil and trouble and expense which they cause, and lacerating the
parent's heart with the bitterest of pangs when death or space tears the
parent and child asunder. Who would sell his child for gold ? No one.
But why not? Solely because the gratification of Acquisitiveness is
incomparably less than the laceration of Philoprogenitiveness. What
loss, save that of a wife, is equal to that of a child? But why—whence
—the keenness of parental anguish over the death-bed of a child ? Let
the large amount of brain usually allotted to the exercise of this faculty,
answer.
Moreover, the duties and relations of the mother to her offspring,
require a much greater endowment of this faculty in her than in the
father, and accordingly, we find much larger Philoprogenitiveness in
the female head than in the male. This adaptation of the organ in
woman to the far greater power of the passion, and of both to the far
greater demand made upon her by her offspring, is certainly an importan
evidence of the truth of Phrenology.
ft should be remembered that the one primary office of this faculty is
parenfal attachment, or love of our own children. True, it occasionally
extends its function to other children, and especially to grand children,
yet the power and intensity of its action here is not to be compared with
that of its action in the parent towards his offspring. And the more
helpless they are, the greater is its power. None but a parent can
know the genuine feelings of a parent's hearf.
ADHESIVENESS—Friendship; sociality; love of society; sus
ceptibility offorming attachments; propensity to associate
together in families and neighborhoods.
Were man a lonely, unsociable, solitary being, nearly half of his
faculties would lie dormant. There would be no scope for the exercise
of Language, or Mirthfulness; none for that of Kindness or Love of
Approbation ; little for that of Conscientiousness or Imitation ; and the
s FOWLER ON MATRIMONY.
exercise of the balance of the faculties would be but feeble. Every
faculty has in it the power of kindling the same faculty in another.
Hence this faculty of friendship, by bringing man in contact with his
fellow man, keeps most of those faculties in constant action, which must
otherwiseKe nearly dormant. But for this arrangement, those operations,
works, and objects which require more than one for their completion,
would remain undone, and copartnership be unknown.
This faculty, combined with Amativeness, produces connubial love,
and regards a husband or wife as a near and dear friend.
Some phrenologists recognize another faculty, located between Adhe
siveness and Amativeness, called Union for Life, which creates a
disposition between husbands and wives in whom it is large, to be always
together. The author has seen several striking corroborations of this
opinion. He knows a lady in whom this organ is large, and who, when
ever her husband is about to leave home to be gone a week or two,
feels a severe pain in this organ. When she first pointed out the location
of this pain, and stated its always accompanying the departure of her
husband, we saw that it did not belong to either Adhesiveness or Amative
ness, but to be a lobe between the two; and as the pain at times was
very acute, and the spot very sensitive, we come to the conclusion that
there was another organ located between these two, and some time after
wards found our views corroborated by similar discoveries made on the
other side of the Atlantic. They are also sanctioned by Mr. George
Combe. Its design seems to be to perpetuate the feeling of love ; to
assimilate the affections, and to confine them to one single object, and
to desire to be continually in the company of the loved one. The lady
referred to above, absolutely and unconditionally refuses to be separated
from her husband, even for a day only.
INHABITIVENESS—Love of Home and Country as such;
attachment to the place where one has lived; unwilling
ness to change it; desire to locate, and to remain
permanently in one habitation ; patriotism.
The advantages to be derived from having a permanent home, and
the evils and losses consequent upon a change of residences, are each
very great. This faculty is designed to secure the former, and to prevent
the latter. The man who has a home of his own, " be it ever so
homely," is comparatively rich. He feels that no crusty landlord can
turn him into the street; "rent days" come and go without giving him
one anxious thought. Every married man is bound in duty to himself,
as well as to his family, to have a house of his own. The present sys
tem of renting houses, is contrary to the laws of man's domestic nature.
ANALYSIS OF THE DOMESTIC FACULTIES. 9
It prevents the landlord from improving a house except so far as is
necessary to command a price—and for this the occupant must pay
double—and the tenant will not improve it because he intends to move.
If he wishes fruit or garden vegetables, instead of picking the fully ripe
cherry, the delicious peach or pear, or the ever-varying fruits of the
season, and then sitting down quietly to enjoy them "under his own
vine and fig tree," by which their relish would be doubled, he must take
his hard earned money, pay a four-fold price in market, and take up
with a green, or wilted, or stale article at that, for it is the universal cus
tom to pluck fruit for market before it is ripe, that it may keep the longer,
and not spoil by transportation. Who does not recognize the difference
in the taste of eatables fresh from the garden, when compared with those
purchased in the market? And then again, the market-man is compelled
to pay a high rent for his land, to meet which, he is obliged to double
his charges on the products of his hired land, and even the land owner,
taking advantage of this necessity of his tenant, raises his prices also.
Hence it is that one dollar earned in the country by one who owns a
house and one acre of land, brings more than five, and probably than
ten, earned in the city or village. The tenant, also, buys every thing on
a small scale, and hence is compelled to pay double, whereas the man
who owns a house, lays in his year's stock of provision, and at a com
paratively trifling cost. To this renting system, mainly, do we owe the
exorbitant but merely nominal prices of city property and village lots.
It is one of the most efficient causes of the hard times, and has infused
its baneful influences into nearly all the relations' and arrangements of
life. So great and multifarious are its evils, that they will ere long com
pel men to abandon it. Rents will then fall, and the landlord sufier
the consequences which he richly deserves.
But the extent to which the condition of these domestic organs
influences man's moral purity or vicious tendencies, and thereby deter
mines his happiness or misery, which isjthemain point already before the
reader, depends much upon the modifications produced by their com
binations. We have already seen that their size is great, and the pleasure
and pain produced by their exercise, in proportion to it ; and also that
their location is such as to throw the surrounding organs, or the animal
propensities, into a state analagous to their own, their morbid action or
inflamed condition producing sin and misery by inflaming the neighbor
ing organs, and their proper exercise being highly promotive of moral
purity and mental vigor, by doing much to keep the balance of the brain
in a quiet, healthy state. To these important inferences we add that
such is the facility with which these faculties, individually and collec-
B
Ill FOWLER OH MATRIMONY.
lively, combine with each and all the others—it being greater than that
with which any oilier class combines with any other class—and such
their power of exciting all the other faculties to their highest pilch of
pleasurable or painful action, accordingly as they are favorably or unfav
orably excited, that their condition reciprocally affects, if it does not go
far to control, that of the whole brain, and proportionably holding the
keys of man's happiness or misery, of his virtue or vice.
For example : the meal, eaten alone, may gratify a man's Alimentive-
ness, but in a far lower degree than when it is eaten at his own table,
surrounded by his family. Even the pleasures of the palate are greatly
increased by the exercise of these faculties, and to them is added the
exquisite satisfaction derived from their company. This increase of
enjoyment promotes digestion, and thereby health, and this redoubles our
enjoyment, besides lengthening our days. This accords with the result
of an extensive census recently taken in England for the purpose of
comparing the ages of a given number of married and single persons
of both sexes. The result was greatly in favor of married life, especially
in reference to women.
Combativeness, or the element of resistance, is called into more
powerful action by an indignity offered to one's family, than by being
cheated, or reproached, or by any other imposition practised upon himself.
Our heroic forefathers, actuated neither by love of blood, nor gain, nor
glory, but mainly by love of their families, braved every danger, endured
every privation, and conquered the conquerer of the world. To this
combination mainly do we owe our ever-glorious Independence. What
husband or father will not resent an indignity offered to his family, sooner
and more fiercely than one offered to himself? Why are more duels
fought, and more implacable animosities engendered, by crosses in love
matters than by any other cause ? Let the juxtaposition of these organs,
and the facility and power with which they combine, answer. The
same principle holds true of Destructiveness and Secretiveness.
Marriage doubles and quadruples the energy of Acquisitiveness. Many
young men who, before becoming husbands and fathers, are prodigal of
their time and lavish of their money, spending much of both in what
injures instead of benefits them, after marriage, husband every farthing
and practice the most rigid economy, besides putting every hour to some
useful purpose. Were I to give the best receipt I know of for becoming
rich, I would say, marry, not a rich wife, but a frugal one. Matrimony
renders a home necessary, and greatly increases efforts to provide one,
which then serves as a place of deposite for many useful articles that
would otherwise be lost. Cautiousness is agreeably excited by the cares
of the family, by watching over them and providing for their present
COMBINATIONS OF THE SOCIAL FACULTIES. 11
and prospective wants ; whilst Self-Esteem gives to parents as much
patriarchal pleasure in governing their household, as it does a King in
ruling his kingdom. The agreeable exercise of Acquisitiveness greatly
increases this delight in those who have it to say that they own a house
and land enough to live upon, so that they are independent of the banks
and hard times, and owe no man any thing.
Approbativeness, or love of the good opinion of others, in the unmar
ried, is confined mainly to themselves ; that of parents, dotes upon their
children. True, the single lady is pleased with the marks of approbation
that may be bestowed upon her dress, appearance, and attainments, whilst
that of the mother is transferred to her darling child. Hence she takes
more pride in adorning its person and improving its mind, than she ever
took in regard to herself. Praises bestowed upon it, strike more sweetly
on her ear, and wake up more thrilling emotions in her bosom, than those
lavished upon herself ever had the power to do, because the latter can
strike but the single chord of Approbativeness, whilst praises bestowed
upon a child, sweep harmoniously the two chords of Approbativeness
and Philoprogenitiveness, thereby more than doubling her pleasure, and
opening the shortest and surest way of access to the good will of the
parent. What but this powerful combination could produce or account
for that excessive and almost sickening parental vanity, that adulation
which parents lavish upon their children, their conceit that they excel all
other children, of which the great majority of parents are guilty?
Conscientiousness finds ample scope for its exercise in dealing out
justice to all, and instilling into their tender minds the principles of
right and the sentiment of gratitude ; whilst Hope feasts itself on the
promises they give of coming virtue, and honor, and talent, and, taking
Philoprogenitiveness upon its wings, transports it in view of the budding
prospects of their coming prosperity, and of the domestic enjoyment
to be taken in the family.
To him who delights in prayer and praise to God, the exercise of
Veneration in secret may yield a rich harvest of pure and exalted pleasure ;
but it is when offering up the morning and evening sacrifice of thanks
giving and supplication, at the family altar, when praying with the
family for blessings upon the family, that this faculty is kindled up to its
most fervent state of action, melting the heart, purifying the soul, and
reforming the conduct. How much more gratifying to " go up to the
house of God, in company" than alone? This increase of pleasure
has its origin in the combination of Veneration with the social faculties.
Marvellousness also is consoled by committing and commending these
objects of their affection to the merciful protection and gracious guidance
of an all-wise and overruling Providence.
18 COMBINATIONS OP THE SOCIAL FACULTIES.
The exercise of Benevolence towards strangers, or even the brute
creation, gives its possessor a great amount of real pleasure, because it
is a large organ; but we feel doubly gratified by being able to confer a
favor upon those we dearly love. The family presents a hundred
opportunities for doing little acts of kindness where the world at large
affords one. Indeed, every hour wc can be doing and receiving an
almost continual string of kind offices, trifling in themselves perhaps,
but great in their aggregate, and highly promotive of reciprocal good feel
ing. The little ones can gratify their large Imitation by copying from
their beloved and venerated parents ; whilst the wife can indulge her
Ideality and Order in keeping the house and children neat and clean, and
in cultivating vines and flowers. She can also agreeably exercise her
Constructtveness—which is called-in requisition in almost everything
done by the hands—in making and repairing garments and conveniences
for those she loves; and the husband in "fixing up" things about the
house promotive of their comfort, and in the daily labor of his hands in
their support.
With all the freedom allowable in the family circle, Mirthfulness can
let fly its little jokes and its more grave sayings, its agreeable sallies and
its more tart repartees, without any of that studied guardedness or artifi
cial precisionrequired among others; whilstthe Language and Eventuality
of the parent or grandparent will find a delightful exercise in recounting
to their attentive listeners the incidents of by-gone days, the history and
genealogy of their forefathers, or in reading or telling stories calculated
to strengthen the memories and improve the morals of their little ones,
who in turn indulge their Language in their innocent prattle and childish
sports.
How vast the sum total of that quiet and constant flow of the sweet
est, purest enjoyments from the affectionate and happy family circle,
from their comfortable fire blazing before them, with the means at hand
of gratifying every returning want ; from their agreeable conversation
flowing incessantly from every mouth; from the chit-chat of the table and
the parlor ; from that ceaseless rattle provoked by the domestic feelings
and family arrangements ? Here, too, Order has a constant opportunity
for delightful exercise by having a place for every thing, and every thing
in its place, so as to be forthcoming at a moment's call ; and Time, by
having a time for every thing, and every thing in its season ; meals
punctually, and all at their meals at the same time ; and Tune, by
striking up the cheerful lay in giving expression to the buoyant feeling
in unreserved strains of thrilling melody. Here, also, Causality and the
THE CLASHING OF THE FACULTIES. 13
Social Faculties may combine with Benevolence in giving advice, and
contriving and arranging matters for their comfort ; with Language and
Comparison, in explaining its conclusions and in asking and answering
questions ; with Acquisitiveness, in devising and executing ways and
means of augmenting their estate ; with Cautiousness, in foreseeing and
providing against danger, and securing their good, &c. In short, what
motive is equal to that of a needy or dependent family for putting the
Causality of the parent upon the rack to invent a constant succession of
devices for their relief; to sharpen up and call forth every power of the
intellect, every energy of the body, every fountain of feeling, every
capacity of man ?
But this delightful picture is often reversed, and then how changed the
scene, how striking the contrast! When Combativeness, instead of
defending the family, is arrayed against them, and, calling Self-Esteem
to its assistance, tyranizes over them, ruling them with a rod of iron ;
—when contention supplants protection, and angry looks dispel the
smiles of affection; when Approbativeness is mortified by an exposure
of their faults and follies ; and Conscientiouiness wounded by their
unfaithfulness or unprincipled immoralities ; when Veneration turns its
back upon the social group, by refusing to join in devotional exercises ;
or a want of order or punctuality in either, incenses the Combativeness
of the other; when Language is employed to mortify Approbativeness by
administering reproaches and hurling reproofs ; and miserly Acquisitive
ness arrays Combativeness against the family because they are expensive ;
when, in short, the domestic faculties are brought into collision with
other faculties, their warfare is perpetual, because the-family relations
bring them in constant contact, and that the most direct and powerful.
Then it is that the stream of life is poisoned at its fountain head,
and made to send forth bitter waters, and that continually. The very
quintescence of misery consists in this collision of the faculties, and
as, in the case of magnetic bodies, the nearer their contact the more
powerful their attraction or repulsion, so the family relations bring every
point of the character of each into delightful harmony or direct collision
with similar qualities in the other.
With great emphasis, therefoie, we repeat our main proposition that
the influences of the domestic organs on the rest of the brain, and of
the social faculties on all the other powers of the mind, are so direct
and reciprocal, that their proper or improper exercise, their peaceful or
disturbed situation, throws the whole brain and mind into a similar con
dition, forming a kind of centre of virtue and happiness, or of vice and
misery. Is a man but happy in his domestic relations, he is happy every
14 DOMESTIC HAPPINESS AND DISCORD CONTRASTED.
where, in spite of all the evils that may assail him. No matter
if the storms of adversity beat violently from every quarter
upon his exposed head; no matter if misfortunes thicken upon
him, and every wind brings him tidings of evil; if reproach
and scandal assail him from without, and sickness within; if
"riches take to themselves wings and fly away," and all his
plans and prospects prove abortive, if he but lives affectionately
and happily with his wife, and sees his children growing up
to call him blessed, his lot is fortunate, and his enjoyments
beyond the reach of adversity. The arrows of affliction drop
harmless at his feet, and his burdens become his pleasures,
because borne for those he loves. But let a man be miserable
at home, let his wife be unfaithful or a termigant, and his
children immoral, or unkind, or his disgrace, and no matter if
every breeze is wafting to him the wealth of both the Indies;
no matter if the trumpet of fame is sounding his name through
out christendom ; if prosperity every where attends him, and
he has at command every thing that heart can wish, he is a
wretched being ; all his joys are rotten at their core, and his
life the very dregs of bitterness. What worldly affliction, what
mental agony is to be compared with the death of a campanion
or child ? It is in the power of neither poverty nor reproach to
blast or even embitter the fruits of domestic felicity, whilst it
is in the power of domestic discord or unhappiness to poison
and embitter every sweet that riches, or fame, or learning can
bestow, or any other enjoyment incident to life, the consolations
of religion not excepted. Let the blasting winds of adversity
blow upon him a perfect hurricane of trouble—let his fellow
men all frown, and scorn, and rob him—let the afflictions even
of Job be repeated upon him—only but let him live in the bosom
of his family, and let his wife and children be spared to always
greet him with the kiss of affection, and man's cup of pleasure
is full.
And if these things be true of man, how much more so of
f woman, whose home is the family, whose heart is tenderness,
whose very life is connubial and maternal love, and whose
blighted affections bear the bitterest agony experienced beneath
the sun !
In proportion, therefore, to the power of the domestic facul
DOMESTIC HAPPINESS AND DISCORD CONTRASTED. 15
ties over man's happiness and misery, is the importance of their
proper location and equally important is the inquiry, how can
we secure the former and prevent the latter? Phrenology
kindly replies; most beautifully and clearly does it unfold the
laws of man's social nature, on the observance of which these
momentous results depend. It goes farther: it shows us how
to obey them, and thereby to secure the full blessings to be
derived from them, besides pointing distinctly to the causes of
most of that domestic discord and wretchedness with which
mankind is cursed. Mark well its answer—observe and follow
its directions. They are brief and simple, but clear and plain,
covering the whole ground. All who follow them will be able
to reap the full benefits designed by nature to accompany mar
ried life, without alloy. They are,—
I. Select a companion whose feelings, sentiments, objects,
tastes, desires, and intellectual and moral qualities, harmonize
with your own, at least in all their leading elements. That is,
select one for a companion whose temperament andphrenolo
gical developements nearly agree with your own organization.
This is the general rule for securing connubial love and union
of feeling. Where your own developements are unfavorable
it should perhaps be varied—in which case, however, it is
better not to marry at all—and where you can perfect the qual
ities of your progeny by offsetting your own excesses or defects.
There may be other trifling exceptions, but they do not militate
against our general rule, the reason of which it may be well
briefly to explain.
The one main and only fundamental law of friendship, and
also of love, is this. We like, and become attached to, those
qualities in others which are similar to our own. The reason
of this is 'obvious. As the proper exercise of every faculty
gives us pleasure, and as given faculties in each excite the
same faculties of the other, we become attached to those whose
tastes, objects, sentiments, and other qualities resemble our
own, because theymost powerfullyexciteourown largestorgans,
and at the same time harmonize with their's, thereby afford
ing us the greatest amount of pleasure. Thus, if our Con
scientiousness, or sense of justice, is strong, the same quality in
another agreeably excites and gratifies this organ in ourselves;
16 THE REVERSED ACTION OF THB FACULTIES.
but if we discover a want of moral principle in another, the
reversed action of our Conscientiousness excites Combativeness,
Firmness, Intellect, Cautiousness, and nearly all the other
faculties against him.
The reader must pardon a short digression here, for the
purpose of explaining a principle and term which we shall have
occasion frequently to employ hereafter. We allude to the
reversed action of the faculties. Every faculty has its natural,
and its reversed, action. Thus, the natural function of Benev
olence is that lively feeling of sympathy for distress which
induces us to relieve it; but its reversed action is that keen
anguish, that poignant grief which the benevolent heart feels
on beholding suffering which he cannot relieve. The natural
function of Approbativeness is the pleasure felt when our lauda
ble actions meet the commendation they deserve ; whereas its
reversed action is the shame and mortification produced by a
consciousness of disgrace. The natural function of Conscien
tiousness is that self-satisfaction derived from its sanction ; its
reversed action produces the goadings and compunctions of a
guilty conscience. And as the reversed action of any faculty
calls the other faculties into reversed action, reversed Conscien
tiousness calls Cautiousness into reversed action, which makes
"the wicked flee when no one pursueth," apprehending punish
ment where none awaits them.
Amativeness creates a pre-disposition in favor of the opposite
sex, but with how much greater disgust and even abhorrence
does virtuous woman regard the man who has insulted her, or
would deprive her of her virtue, than she can feel towards one
of her own sex? No element of man's nature is so powerful
or inveterate as the reversed exercise of Amativeness and its
combinations. Amativeness alone could never turn against the
opposite sex, but the other faculties may reverse it even against
a husband or wife, and then the loathing and disgust, the
abhorrence and even perfect hatred engendered by it, may be
felt but can never be told. And then the misery of being
chained for life to this loathed creature, and to be shut out from
all others, can be known only by those who experience it.
Over such a picture let the curtain of darkness ever remain
drawn.
EFFECTS OF DISSIMILARITY. 17
But to return to our subject, namely, the reason why we
should select companions whose developements accord substan
tially with our own. If Ideality be large in one and small in
the other, the former will be continually disgusted and irritated
with the absence of taste and gentility, of refinement and
sense of propriety, in the former, who in turn, will be equally
displeased with the former's attention to trifles, arid preference
of the ornamental instead of the useful. This disparity of
tastes will call Combativeness, if not the other faculties, into
reversed action, and widen the breach it causes in their affec
tions, till even Adhesiveness and Amativeness may be reversed.
Large Mirthfulness will throw out continual sallies of wit,
which small Mirthfulness, unable to comprehend or return, will
call upon Combativeness to resent, whereas large Mirthfulness
would be gratified by, and return, them. Suppose your very
large Benevolence fastens upon doing good as your highest
duty, your chief delight, how can your feelings in other res
pects harmonize with a Selfish companion, whose god is gain,
and who turns coldly from suffering humanity, refusing to
bestow a charity, and contending with you for casting in your
mite. - ■
If thoughts of God and eternity and things sacred be upper
most in your mind, you can no more commingle your feelings,
joys, sorrows, and affections with one who triflles with these
things, than you can assimilate oil and water, besides the
painful conviction that death will separate you forever. Nor
can your irreligious companion esteem or love one whom he
regards as deluded or fanatical.
If Approbativeness be large in one and small in the other,
the conduct of the latter will frequently incur the reproach of
his fellow man, which will mortify the former extremely, creat
ing unfavorable feelings between each other.
If the large intellectual organs of the one prefer the paths of
literature to fashion, and philosophical conversation to chit
chat, whilst the weak intellectual faculties, with large Appro
bativeness and Ideality, of the other, fasten upon the splendor
of fashionable life, the former will be continually disgusted and
angered with the fashionble fooleries of the latter, who in
turn is equally displeased with the intellectuality of the former.
C
IS EFFECTS OF DISSIMILARITY
If the Temperament of the one is coarse and his feelings
rough, and those of the other fine and exquisite, the one sensi
tive, the other phlegmatic ; the one quick, the other slow ; one
elevated, the other grovelling; one clearheaded, the other dull
of comprehension, true connubial love cannot exist between
them. "How can two walk together unless they be agreed?"
How can husbands and wives live happily together, whose
tastes, dispositions, objects, sentiments, opinions, and views,
are conflicting, or even unlike? Every faculty only excites
the other faculties disagreeably, the product of which is pain,
and this engenders dislike ; whereas the very essence of con
nubial love, that alone in which it consists, is this harmony of
views, tastes, &c, the necessity of which we are urging.
If this principle holds true of the other faculties, how much
more so of the social? If they are unlike, if Amativeness or
Adhesiveness are strong in one and weak in the other, the
former will be all tenderness and affection, the other so cold-
hearted as not to reciprocate this tenderness, besides other
points of disagreement certainly not less essential. Of all other
points of agreement, those in relation to the social faculties are
the most important, and disagreement here the most disasterous.
Our leading principle, and its reason, are now before the
reader; but the next question is, how can this harmony of
organization be secured ? This inquiry is even more important
than the other, but the answer of Phrenology here, also, is
simple and in point, and its directions so plain that "he that
runs may read."
First, study yourself thoroughly; study your physical organ
ization and your phrenological developements. Ascertain just
what your qualities are, and that will tell you just what qual
ities are required in a companion to harmonize with them.
I say, study yourself phrenologically. No other method of
knowing yourself is half so satisfactory or certain as this
Without a knowledge of this science, your large Self-esteem
may magnify all your good qualities, and throw the mantle of
charity over your faults; or your small Self-esteem and large
Conscientiousness may give you too low and humble an opinion
of yourself, magnifying your defects and hiding from you your
good qualities. Our own organization constitutes the medium
HOW TO SECURE THIS HAIIMONY. 19
through which we look at every thing, ourselves included ;
and if that organization is defective, that is, if our characters
are faulty, our standard of self-estimation, and with it our self-
knowledge, is equally faulty. But if Phrenology is true, it
affords certain and tangible data for self-examination. Nor is
there scarcely a chance for deception, especially where we unite
our own consciousness with our phrenological developements.
Secondly, Phrenology will also tell you the phrenological
developements, and therebythe true character, of yourintended.
Courtship, now-a-days, is little else than a school of deception.
The time being previously appointed, the best dress is put on ;
the mouth primped up and set off with an artificial smile ; the
waist of the lady laced almost too tight to breathe ; the gentle
man arrayed in his best broadcloth ; fine sayings, well spiced
with flattery, are cut and dried before hand ; faults hid ; virtues
all set in the foreground, and every thing whitewashed for the
occasion. And, what is worse, the night season is chosen,
whereas this the most important business of our lives, should
be done in open day light, and when both parties are fully
themselves. There is nothing in this matter requiring the
shades of darkness to hide its shame or deformity. The one
object of their courtship should be to become acquainted with
each other, especially with each other's faults. Hence each
one should tell his faults especially; the virtues will exhibit
themselves. Phrenology, if true, will strip the character of
all these artificial deceptions, and furnish a true, unerring guide
to character, talents, tastes, sentiments, pre-dispositions, &c.
The developements cannot be inflated or depressed to suit the
occasion, but are fixed and permanent signs of the naked
character, just as it will be found to be on acquaintance, and
therefore furnishes an invaluable directory to candidates for
marriage.
And if you have not time to study Phrenology sufficiently to
apply it yourself with the requisite certainty, the services of
an experienced practical phrenologist, or a comparison of charts
carefully prepared by him, will answer the same purpose. At
this you smile in ridicule, but wait. What is there in this
course at all absurd or ridiculous? Is it improper to ascertain
the qualities of each other? Most certainly not; whereas it
20 LOVE FOLLOWS ADMIRATION.
is ridiculous to marry a stranger, of whose qualities you are
totally ignorant. Then this absurdity consists in the proposed
means of obtaining this knowledge, does it? The only reason
for smiling at this method of courting is, that it is novel, and
this evinces the folly, not of our proposed method, but of the
laughter. Let the ridiculer laugh on, for he is only laughing
at himself; whilst those desirous of drawing, not a blank, nor
a curse, but a prize, will derive what assistance they can from
this science.
We might here add that getting married is usually treated as
a joke from beginning to end. As soon as partiality is evinced,
the friends of both parties vie with each other to see who can
make the most fun out of the matter; whereas it should be
considered, as it is, the most momentous and eventful business
of our lives.
But says an objector, " Cupid is blind, and though you have
told us how to select companions, you have not told us how to
get in love with those selected, which is more important than
even selecting the right one." I know that mankind generally
fall in love, (and proverb says that " where love falls, it falls
flat") whereas they should get in love. I know, indeed, that
from time immemorial Cupid has been blind, but Phrenology
opens his eyes, and shows mankind how to love intellectually
Its direction here also, is plain and pertinent. It is,—
II. Rectify your standard of admiration. If Cupid has
always been blind, he has also blindly followed admiration.
We fall in love with whatever we admire, and with that only.
If a young man admires a delicate hand, or a pretty foot and
ancle, a small waist or a fine bust, a handsome face or genteel
manners, more than any thing else, he will fall in love with
one who possesses the quality he admires, and because she
possesses it; but if he admires a fine mind, or moral purity,
he will love a woman who possesses these qualities, and on
account of these qualities. And if he regards certain forms
of the head, or given phrenological developements as indices
of those qualities of mind which he admires, he will fall in
love with these developements, just as effectually as with a
pretty face when he admires it, and for precisely the same rea
son, namely, because he admires it. And why not? Our
STANDARD OP ADMIRATION RECTIFIED. 21
position that love follows admiration, is invulnerable. It is
the result of the entire experience of mankind. Whatever,
therefore, a man or a woman admires most, whether it is per
sonal beauty, a sweet smile, a talent for music, or poetry, or
painting, or be it high intellectual or moral attainments, be it
kindness, or industry, or frugality, or wit, or strong common
sense, or what is regarded as a well formed head and well
developed phrenological organs, will be fallen in love with first.
To this rule there are no exceptions. And it may not be
improper to say that my own experience fully accords, not
only with this principle, but also with the preceding, namely,
that of selecting a companion from the phrenological devel-
opements. I say emphatically that I would sooner marry from
a careful examination of these developements in connexionwith
the physiological organization and education, than from ten
years courtship, added to all the recommendation that can be
produced. They never vary, never deceive ; the latter may be
only outside appearances. How often do theylead astray even
the most cautious ? Hence, choosing a wife is generally com
pared to buying a ticket in the lottery. You may draw a
prize, but the chances are greatly in favor of your drawing a
blank, and if a blank only, it might be endured, but a blank
here is a perfect eye-sore, a perp«tual fountain of bitterness.
I fearlessly stake my reputation as a Phrenologist on the cor
rectness of the two directions already given, and am willing
to abide any evil resulting from their failure.
And here again it is objected that though I have directed
you to rectify your standard, I have not given a model by
which to test the true or the best standard. To this the answer
is ready. That standard is—
1. Ji predominance of the moral sentiments. The one
main condition of happiness and virtue, according to Phren
ology, is a predominence of the moral faculties. Not only
does their proper exercise give the purest, and the greatest
amount, of enjoyment of which our nature is susceptible, but
the exercise of the other faculties can be productive of enjoy
ment only when acting in harmony with them, and under their
sanction. This is the phrenological definition of virtue ; the one
main condition of enjoyment. It constitutes the " Moral Law"
28 EV1I.I OF MARRYING FOR MONEY.
of Phrenology. The exercise of the animal propensities with
out their sanction, or in opposition to their dictates, constitutes
the violation of this law, and this brings down its penalties
upon the head of the offender. There is a certain something
in the moral sentiments by which we feel that they should
govern. Man is conscious of his obligation to yield obedience
to their mandates. Their voice is felt to be imperious and
sovereign. When Acquisitiveness entices to take what belongs
to another, Conscientiousness, though less in size, is more pow
erful in function, resisting the enticement with more energy
and success than Acquisitiveness presents it; and it is only
when we can disarm the moral sentiments of -their power by
perverting them, that they allow the animal passions to lead us
astray. No exercise of the animal propensities without the
sanction of the moral sentiments, and especially in opposition
to them, can be ultimately productive of happiness, but invaria
bly of pain. Selfishness and sin—which are only other names
for the predominance of the propensities—punish themselves;
whilst virtue and moral purity—only other names for the
ascendancy of the moral faculties—constitutetheir own reward.
To be happy in any relation, and especially in the domestic
relations, your own moral faculties must first be gratified, and
to secure this, you must have a companion who will excite
your moral faculties most, and this requires their ascendancy
in this companion. If your own moral sentiments do not pre
dominate, you should not marry at all, because, 1st, you are
selfish, and will only make yourself unhappy by being brought
into close contact with others; 2d, you will make your com
panion miserable ; 3d, youroffspring, so faras youare concerned,
will resemble yourself and be unhappy; but if your own moral
sentiments predominate, to marry one whose animal nature
has the ascendancy, is to sow tears and reap sorrow. And
even where the moral sentiments do predominate, they must
be of a character similar to your own.
Let us dwell for a moment on the detailed application of
these principles. Suppose your standard of admiration is per
sonal beauty. You love and marry this quality. It gratifies
but the single faculty of Amativeness, combined perhaps
with Ideality, Form, and Size : so that only a small portion of
EVILS OF MARRYING TOR MONEY. 83
your brain is called into exercise, nor that long, for personal
beauty soon fades, and with it all your enjoyments. In this
case, also, the other faculties are liable to be reversed, and you
justly doomed to drag out a life of connubial misery, because
your standard of admiration was erroneous. ^_
So if you admire a singing bird, and love and marry her
because she gratifies the organ of Tune, combined perhaps
with Ideality and some others, the cares of a family, blended
with another kind of music, drown the voice of the piano and
harp, and you are compelled, with Micah, to exclaim, "Ye
have taken away my gods, what have I more?"
Suppose Acquisitiveness determines your choice, and you
marry for riches. You may indeed temporarily gratify a single
faculty, and that a lower animal propensity, but you thereby
violate the one main rule already- presented, namely, that
requiring the predominance of the moral sentiments. Married
gold soon vanishes; and even if itremains, your real motive will
be found out by the opposite party, and this very money become
a bone of contention between you for life. You cannot violate
this law without incurring its penalties, and they are terribly
severe, because the law is so all-important. The rage of
gentlemen now seems to be for rich wives and small waists—
both curses to any man. If a woman has been brought up in
affluence, her habits are any thing but those requisite to make
a husband happy. She knows nothing of domestic matters ;
is neither able nor willing to work ; and is, withal, fashionable,
which is usually only another name for a "whited sepulchre,"
full of hypocrisy ; fashionable life being a continual round of
deception, and of hollow-hearted pretensions. Rarely have
such much sterling sense, much energy of mind, or power of
intellect. Every body must be their waiter; their will must
be supreme. And then most of them have been in love, and
some, many times over. The company they have seen has
brought with it its love scenes and its blighted affections, till
their elements of love have been seared. Nor does he even
secure to himself the enjoyment of the wealth for which he
married, and to obtain which he violated the sacred relations
of matrimony, for a rich girl, almost of necessity, makes an
24 EVILS OP MARRYING FOR MOXEV.
extravagant wife, and beside being generally destitute of indus
try and domestic economy, requires a number of servants about
her, who are enough to steal and eat up and waste a fortune,
and has insatiable desires, yet feels that she deserves to be grat
ified, and to be obeyed in every thing, because she placed her
husband under obligations to her by bringing him a dowry.
Whoever marries for riches merely, should be cursed, and is
cursed. For violating the sacred relations of matrimony by
marrying for money, he deserves to drink deep, to drink through
life, to drink to its very dregs, of the cup of matrimonial bitter
ness. Nor does he merit our pity, for his punishment is just.
"What," you exclaim, "should the rich never marry?" It
is"not against riches as such that I disclaim, but against those
things that usually accompany them. We shall have occasion
elsewhere to show that the possession of great wealth is a
violation of a law of man's constitution, and therefore brings
its punishments along with it. These punishments follow riches
into married life, as well as every where else, being inseparable
from them. Go where they may, they entail unhappiness.
And the parent who leaves his children wealthy, thereby entails
upon them, "ipso facto," a curse proportioned to the amount
left them above a bare competency, including the means of
intellectual and moral improvement. Let facts be my vouch
ers. I would not have you select your companion from the
depths of poverty, for extremes either way are bad. The
"neither poverty nor riches" of Agur, is the golden medium in
this respect.
And to young ladies let me say with great emphasis, that
those who love and court you because you are rich, will cause
you to rue the day of your pecuniary espousals. They care
not for you, but only for your money.
Above all things, one should not marry a soft and delicate
hand, for soft hands necessarily accompany soft brains, and
a mind too soft to be sensible, because the whole organization
partakes of one and the same character. Ladies. (take too
much pride in cultivating delicacy and softness, and hence
refuse to labor because it spoils their hands. But if it spoils
the hands, its absence spoils the brain, because labor, or a great
amount of physical exercise, is indispensable to strength and
A GOOD CONSTITUTION AGAINST A SMALL WAIST. 25
vigor of body, and this, to a vigorous brain and a strong mind.
Take it in any way you please, rich girls make poor wives, and
yet they are the first selected.
Marrying a small waist is attended with consequences
scarcely less disasterous. An amply developed chest is a sure
sign of a naturally strong constitution, which implies a strong
hold on life; whereas a small waist is an invariable sign of
small and weak vital organs, of a delicate and sickly parentage,
and, other things being equal, of sickly offspring and a short
life. Beware of them therefore, unless you wish your heart
rent asunder by the early death of your wife and children.
Some of the Rochester ladies have wisely adopted the motto,
" Total abstinence, orno husbands/' Let menadopt the equally
important rule, "Natural waists, or no wives." Tight lacing
is no better than suicide; and, what is quite as bad, kindles
impure desires.
But our proposed limits prevent our carrying out its appli
cations in other similar respects, and also its applications
in an opposite direction, namely, the benefits growing out of
matrimony founded on the predominance of the moral senti
ments. The principle is before the reader, and its application
in detail, plain and easy. Nor do our limits allow us to draw a
model of a beau ideal head, nor of a perfect female character.
We have only room to state our principles, give a few illustra
tions of them, and leave the balance to be followed out by the
reader.
II. The second element in this standard, should be a good
physical organization, or a strong constitution. On the
importance of health in a companion or parent, we have not
room to enlarge. The "ladies' fashions" of the present day,
nearly all tend to the destruction of health, and the constitu
tions of a great majority of our ladies are utterly ruined, and
must be patched up by tea, coffee, narcotics, and those ten
thousand nostrums employed by invalid ladies. Let the med
ical profession, and especially the venders of quack nostrums,
speak on this point, and they will astonish all. Nine-tenths of
the pains experienced by women as mothers, have their origin
in a broken constitution. Delicate, sickly, nervous, peevish,
short-lived children, owe their pains whilst alive, and their pre-
D
26 NECESSITY OF A WELL BALANCED HEAD AND BODY.
mature death, to the impaired health of their parents. We
have illustrated the importance of health by referring to the
ladies, not because their health is more important, or their ill
health more disasterous, than that of men, but because
they are on an average more sickly. Both should be healthy
or forego, not the pleasures of matrimony, but its pains ; for a
chronic invalid cannot enjoy life at all, much less married life.
And what is more, the state of the mind takes its character from
that of the body. Those who are subject to the dyspepsia, liver
complaint, indigestion, ennui, hypochondria, a sour stomach,
heartburn, &c.—all different names for the same complaint,
which has its origin in excessive eating, or in the predominant
exercise of the brain and nervous system over the muscles—
are continually oppressed with sad, melancholy feelings ; with
that depression of spirits which turns every thing into occasions
of trouble, and sees impending misfortunes in every thing,
rendering them and all connected with them, miserable.
We will also just allude here to the impropriety of choosing
companions who have any hereditary tendency to mental or
physical diseases, such as insanity, consumption, scrofula,
apoplexy, &c, although to speak of those qualities which are
requisite in parents as parents, in order to impart to their child-
.ren the most desirable physical and mental qualities, does not
come within the design of this essay, it being reserved for one
on "Hereditary Descent, its laws and facts," designed to be
published as a part of " The American Phrenological Journal."
III. Select a well balanced head and body, orat leastone who
has as much uniformity of character, or as few excesses and
defects, as possible. In the lecture on Temperance, founded on
Phrenology, pp. 8 to 11, will be found some suggestions
touching this point, which apply here with increased force and
propriety. In his proposed work on the application of Phren
ology to Education, the cultivation of memory, self-improve
ment, &c, the author intends to carry out this point more in
detail, which is one cause of its omission here ; but the main
one is want of room.
This rule may seem to clash with our first direction, viz, to
select those as nearly like ourselves as possible, whereas it only
covers an implied exception to that rule. It may sometimes
DIRECTIONS FOR OFFSETTING AND BLENDING. 27
be desirable to offset your own excesses and defects by marry
ing one with opposite qualities. For example : if your own
Cautiousness is excessive, it will not be advisable to marry
one with this organ in excess, lest it should produce procras
tination and irresolution in both, and render your offspring
cowardly and timid ; yet if you marry one with small Cautious
ness, his or her carelessness will be liable to keep you in constant
fear; yet this evil may be less than the other, especially if you
bear m mind the reason of your choice, namely, to balance an
excess of your own. If Acquisitiveness is small in you, your
companion should have it full or large, otherwise the extrava
gance of both and the economy of neither, will be liable soon
to bring you to poverty. And although their parsimoniousness
may at times greatly displease you, still, by reflecting that it
supplies an important defect in your own character, you
will love them the more for this dissimilarity. Your reason
will make you "agree to disagree," which will prevent those
evil consequences which would almost inevitably grow out of
this disagreement, unless thus counterbalanced by intellect.
That knowledge of yourself required on page 18, will suggest
other applications of this principle of neutralization, or offset
ting, which our restricted limits prevent us from specifying.
In forming the matrimonial relations, special care should be
taken to blend and harmonize the qualities of each with those
of the other. The social faculties should form the head waters
of the noble Mississippi, and the other faculties its branches.
If these tributaries join the main river when running in a con
trary direction, the consequences will be a constant boiling, and
contention, and commotion of their waters through life. But if
they unite When both are flowing on in the same direction,
towards the same common destination, this harmonious union
only serves to swell the flood of joy and happiness, until its
deep and expansive waters enter the ocean of eternity. Not
only should the faculties be similar in size, but from the first
they should be disciplined to act in union and harmony with the
qualities of the other. Many begin married life by ptting
their faculties against those of their companion; but in so
doing they plant thorns under pillows of down, on which they
are compelled to lay—but not to rest—for life.
28 GRATIFYING THE GREATEST NUMBEH OK FACULTIES.
It should also be remembered that it is these " little foxes
that spoil the vines."* "Leave off contention before it be
meddled with."t So extremely tender is the plant of connu
bial love, that small things embitter its fruits. " A word to the
wise is sufficient."
I will add that the moment the parent enters his door, he
should banish those unfavorable impressions, those vexations,
cares, and hard feelings attendanton business,andplace hisbetter
feelings on the throne. How natural it is when Combativeness
or Destructiveness have been excited by impositions in busi
ness, to carry these impressions into the bosom of the family,
and sour its joys by sharp reproofs or cutting sayings, not
because they have done any thing to displease us, but because
we were previously vexed.
IV. So marry as to gratify, not one, nor a few only, but all
of your faculties. This harmonious exercise of them all, con
stitutes the pinnacle of human enjoyment. And if you cannot
secure this harmonious exercise and gratification of them all—
which might perhaps be too sweet a cup for erring mortals to
drink, unmingled with any bitter—then gratify the largest
number, or rather the largest amount of brain, possible. If
you are prevented from attaining this very acme of human
bliss, ascencLashigh as you can, to do which, mind how you
start. Let no one quality of body or of mind, nor even a few,
determine your choice. It is to the character as a whole that
you should mainly attend.
And let it be borne in mind, that our tastes vary much
between youth and old age. The animal feelings are much
more vigorous in youth than in mature life or advanced age.
By far the greatest portion of our lives is to be passed under the
dominion of the moral sentiments. Hence, although the young,
in whom Amativeness especially is strong and ardent, are
inclined to seek personal beauty in marriage, they should
remember that this is not to be always the case ; and hence in
selecting companions for life, should cater, not for their animal
nature, but for their higher, moral, and intellectual powers.
These fountains dry up last ; their waters are always pure, and
sweet, and wholesome, and abundant.
♦Solomon, tlb.
CHOOSING COMPANIONS INTELLECTUALLY. 29
But another direction to the unmarried, more important than
either of the preceding rules, more intimately associated with
the virtue and happiness of mankind than any yet given, if not
than any within the whole range of morals, is,—
V. Do not allow the domestic faculties to fasten upon any
object until, in accordance with the principles already given,
you have made your choice. One of the greatest evils of the day
is this courting by the quarter—this loving "here a little, and
there a little"—this flirting and coquetry of both sexes. This
getting a little in love with Julia, and then a little with Eliza,
and a little more with Mary, is ruinous to the domestic affec
tions, and effectually prevents the formation of true connubial
love. I do not urge this point on the ground that this fashion
able flirtation, this dissipation of the affections, is morally
wrong, although I consider it one of the greatest sins against
Heaven, ourselves, and our fellow men, that can be committed,
because a direct and palpable violation of the most important
law of our being, the law of love, but I urge it solely from
selfish considerations, from its influences upon your own hap
piness.
It has already been shown, pp. 9 to 18, that upon the condition
of these social faculties, depends the main part of man's hap
piness or misery, and that the former is to be secured by
obedience to the laws of their constitution ; the latter is the
inevitable consequence of their infraction. To this we add
that love is the most sacred element of man's nature, and the
most dangerous to be tampered with—a very delicately and
beautifully contrived machine, but easily thrown out of repair.
It is easily seared ; its delicate fibres, by which it inseparably
enffwines itself around the heart of its loved one, and "unites
two willing hearts" by a thousand tender ties, making " of
twain, one flesh," are easily broken, and then, adieu to the joys
of connubial love, but prepare to meet the impending penalties
attached to the violation of the laws that govern the domestic
relations. It is with them as with seared Conscientiousness, or
Benevolence, or Approbativeness, or Veneration. How pun
gent, how overwhelming are the first compunctions of a guilty
conscience ? but every new violation of it, wears off the edge,
blunts the moral sensibilities, and, if persisted in, soon silences
30 SEABINO THE DOMESTIC FEELINGS.
and sears it. So when a child's, and especially a little girl's,
Approbativeness is first wounded by reproof or reproach, her
feelings of shame, and mortification, and self-reproach, are
insupportable. She knows not where to hide her face, crim
soned with the blush of shame, and sense of disgrace. But
reproaches and blame administered but a few times only, ena
ble her to hold up her bold and brazen face to all the reproaches
that can be heaped upon her, being comparatively lost to the
feeling of shame and regard for character. So if a heart all
alive with pity for the miseries of sentient beings, sees an animal
killed for the first time, or a fellow mortal racked with pain,
his reversed Benevolence gives him even greater pain than is
endured by the object pitied. But a few such sights effectually
harden the heart, drown the voice of pity, and even prepare
him to take a part in causing them. Benevolence is seared,
never again to experience the exquisiteness of pity which
accompanies its primitive tenderness. So with Veneration,
when the name of the Supreme Being is profaned ; with Ideal
ity, in regard to vulgarity ; with Cautiousness and danger ; so
with each of the faculties.* And as the organs of the social
faculties are very large, the evils attendant upon their being
seared, are proportionably great. How often have I been
pained in view of the improper, if not the immodest, conver
sation and conduct of older people before the young, calculated
to wear off that natural delicacy of feeling, that maiden purity
and bashfulness which forms their great barrier against the
influx of depraved Amativene.ss How often do those whose
modesty has been worn smooth, take pleasure in saying and
doing things to raise the blush on the cheek of youth, just to
see the effects of vulgarity upon them, little realizing that
they are thereby weakening the barriers of their virtue, and
searing their social faculties.
Young men also start out on their courting expeditions long
before they think of marrying. They fritter away their own
affections, and pride themselves on their conquests over the
female heart, laughing to themselves to think how nicely they
* Parents and teachers cannot be too careful in reference to hardening
the tender feelings of children and youth. Never should this be done
unless imperiously demanded, yet how often and wantonly are their feel
ings violated ?
FASHIONABLE COURTING. 31
have fooled them. Young ladies retaliate in the same way, and
these mutual wrongs awaken in each a desire to be revenged
on the opposite sex. Hence the origin of coquetry. They often
pursue this course so far as to drive their pitiable victims,
one afteranother, from respectable society,* who, becoming har
lots, retaliate byheaping upon them all the indignities and impo
sitions which the fertile imagination of woman can invent or
execute. Nearly all ot this wide-spread evil has its origin in
unmeaning courtships, in premature love, and consequent
blighting of the affections. And most of the blame rests upon
young men. True, young ladies sometimes "set their caps;"
sometimes court very hard by bewitching smiles and affection
ate manners, the reclining and backward roll of the head,
which constitutes the natural language of Amativeness and
Adhesiveness, by her dress, her soft and persuasive accents,
her artificial form, and the ten thousand natural and artificial
ways and means of attracting attention and exciting love ; but
a woman never courts until she has been in love and experi
enced its interruption ; till her first and tenderest fibres of love
have been snapped or frost-bitten by disappointment. But man
is a self-privileged character; he may not only violate the laws
of his own social being, but even trifle with and trample upon
the affections of woman, with impunity. He may evencarrythis
sinful indulgence to almost any length, and yet be caressed and
smiled tenderly upon by woman, yes, even by virtuous woman.
A gentleman surely is at perfect liberty to pay his addresses
not only to a lady, but to the ladies, even though he does not
once entertain the thought of marrying his sweetheart, or rather
his victim. He may call out, only to blast, the glowing affec
tions of one young lady after another, and yet his visits be again
r *Man it never drives. Do what he may, woman, aye virtuous
woman, and pious woman at that, never excludes him from her list of
visitors, if of suitors. And then where is the proper point of propriety,
this Rubicon of virtue, the transgression of which should drive either
sex from out the pale of respectable society ? Is it that one false step
which now constitutes the boundary between virtue and vice ? or, rather
its discovery? Certainly not, but it is all that leads to, and precedes,
and induces it—this courting without intending to marry—this begin
ning of the evil, and not its end merely.
32 CHOOSING FIRST, AND LOVING AFTERWARDS.
welcomed by others. Strange that man is so depraved and
woman so blind to her own self-protection! Ah, little does he
know that he is planting thorns in his own side, and taking
into his bosom a Promethean vulture to gnaw forever at his
own heart's core. No; he cannot thus violate these most
sacred relations without thereby bringing down upon his own
head all the righteous retributions which his depraved nature
can bear. He has sown the wind, and he must now reap the
whirlwind. He has seared his social faculties so deeply, so
effectually, that when, at last, he wishes to marry, he is inca
pable of loving. He marries, but is necessarily cold-hearted
towards his wife, which renders her wretched if not jealous,
and reverses the faculties of both towards each other. This
induces contention and mutual recrimination if not unfaithful
ness, and embitters their marriage relations for life. And well
it may. If the evil consequences were confined to the princi
ple offender, all would be right, for every voluntary agent has
an undoubted right to do by himself as he pleases, yet he
should abide the consequences ; but he certainly has no "divine
right" to plant thorns of anguish under the pillow of his wife,
or rather of his victim, (for a wife he cannot have,) not to
include the evils brought upon his children by this state of feel
ing between their parents.
We say emphatically that no man should ever pay his
addresses to any woman until he has made his selection, not
even to aid him in making that choice. He should first make
his selection intellectually, and love afterwards. He should
go about this matter coolly, and with judgment, just as he
would undertake any other important matter. No man or wo
man, when blinded by love, is in a fit state to employjudgment
to advantage, in deciding what they require, or who is adapted
to their wants. I know indeed that this doctrine of choosing
first and loving afterwards, and of excluding love from the
counsels, of choosing "by and with the consent of the" intel
lect and moral sentiments, is entirely at variance with the
feelings of the young and the customs of society, but for its
correctness, I appeal to the common sense—I cannot appear to
their experience, for so few try this plan—of every reader,
whether it is not the correct method, and the one likely to result
PREMATURE DEVELOPEMENT OF AMATIVENESS. 33
most happily. .Yet why need I appeal at all? I know that I
am on phrenological ground; what more need I care to know?
This science requires as a "sine qua non" of virtue and
happiness, that the propensities should be governed by the
moral sentiments and intellect. The more momentous the
matter concerned, the more imperious this requisition. Shall
we then, in this the most momentous transaction of our whole
- lives, be governed by a blind animal instinct? Phrenology
forbids. Follow its advice, by holding a tight rein upon your
love, until intellect shall have appointed a suitable time, and
selected the proper object on whom it may rest forever, and
the full fruition of all those blessings designed to accompany a
happy marriage, will be your reward for this temporary self-
denial. And especially let no young lady ever once think of
bestowing her affections till she is morally certain that they
will not be broken off—that is, until "the match" is fully agreed
upon. Let them keep their hearts whole till they bestow them
for life. This requisition is as much more important to woman
than to man, and its violation as much more disastrous, as her
social faculties are much stronger than his. As "a burnt child
dreads the fire," so your affections, once seared, recoil from a
second attachment. You cannot be too choice of your love—
that pivot on which is balanced your destinies for life.
And here, an apparently insurmountable difficulty presents
itself. These matrimonial instincts often develope themselves
early, before the judgment is matured, and rage to a degree
well nigh ungovernable ; refusing to wait till tardy intellect has
made its choice, and all things are ready. In such cases, what
is to be done ? Kind reader, listen ; moralists and philanthro
pists attend whilst I strike the very root of this Bohan Upas
of domestic bitterness; whilst I expose the main cause and
fountain of that moral impurity, that unblushing licentiousness
which constitutes the sin of this sinful age; this nucleus
of all the vices ; this hell upon earth, whose fierce flames are
continually consuming the very life and soul of millions, by
inflicting upon them all the mental and physical agony our
nature can bear. I allude to those causes kept in constant
operation by nearly all classes of the community, which bring
E
34 AMATIVENESS EXCITED IN CHILDREN,
forward prematurely, and then keep highly inlkuncd, the pas
sion of love. I will expose a few of them.
1. The conduct and conversation of adults before children
and youth. How often have I blushed with shame, and
kindled with indignation, at the conversation of parents, and
even of mothers, to their children, not yet four years old !
"John, go and kiss Harriet. Why don't you hug and kiss
her?" Well may shame make him hesitate and hang his head.
She retorts, " Why, John, I did not think you so great a coward.
Afraid of the girls, are you? That will never do. You will
never make a beau in the world. Come, go along and hug
and kiss her. There, that's a man. I guess you will love the
girls yet. You must hug and kiss Harriet because she is your
sweet-heart?" Continually is he teased about the girls, and
about being in love, till his head is full of such things, and he
really selects a sweet-heart. I will not lift the veil, nor tell
what I know of the conduct of children among themselves.
And all because adults have filled their heads with those
impurities which fill their own. As puberty approaches, the
evil magnifies. The already kindled embers how burst forth
into unextinguishable flames of premature love, self-pollution,
or unbridled licentiousness. More than half the conversation
of young people is upon love matters, and their different kinds
of plays abound with kissing, and mock marriages. The
whole machinery of balls and parties, of dances and other
amusements, tends to inflame this passion. Thinking it a fine
thing to get in love, they form attachments before either their
physical or mental powers are matured. These early loves,
these green-house exotics, must of course be broken off, and
the miserable subjects of these green loves, are left burning
up in body and mind with the fierce fires of a passion which,
if left alone, would have slumbered on for years.
Nor is it the conversation alone of adults that does all this
mischief; their manners also increase it. Young men take the
hands of girls from 8 to 13 years old, kiss them, perhaps press
them, and play with them so as in a variety of ways to excite
this feeling, combined, I grant, with Adhesiveness and Ideality,
for all this genteelly done. They intend no harm; parents
dream of none, yet their embryo love is awakened to be again
BY READING NOVELS, TALES, &C. 35
still more easily excited. Maiden ladies, and even married
women, often express similar feelings towards lads, not
improper in themselves, but injurious in their ultimate effects.
2. Still more objectionable is the fashionable reading of the
day. As to its amount, let publishers and editorsof familynews
papers bear witness. Whose sales are the largest? Whose
patronage the greatest? Those who publish the most novels,
and the best (?) love-tales. Take those weeklies who boast of
their "30,000 subscribers," that claim to have "the largest
circulation in the world," including " Ladies' Books, "Annuals,"
&c, &c, and cross every column that contains a story, the sub
stance and seasoning of which is love, and more than half their
entire contents will be crimsoned with this sign of Amative-
ness. This experiment is well wdrth trying. These love-stories,
children are allowed and encouraged to read. How often have
I seen girls 12 years old, as hungry for a novel as they should be
for their dinners. Thus is a sickly sentimentalism formed, and
their minds sullied with impure desires. Young ladies must
of course read every new novel, although nearly every one
contains exceptionable allusions, perhaps delicately covered
with a thin gauze of fashionable refinement, but on that very
account the more objectionable. If this essay contained one
improper allusion to their ten, many of those very ladies who
devour the delicately vulgar allusions of Marryatt, or the insin
uations of Bulwer, and converse with gentlemen about their
contents, would think themselves called upon to discountenance
it. Shame to every novel-reading woman ! They cannot have
pure minds and unsullied feelings. Cupid, and the beaux, and
waking dreams of love, are fast consuming their health and
morals.
I do not impute the least blame to those worthy editors and
publishers who make their money by feasting this diseased
public appetite, especially of the ladies, even though they
thereby increase the worst vice of our vicious age, any more
than I blame the grog-sellers for making money out of another
diseased appetite, (see pp. 28 to 30 of my Temperance Address,)
because both are aiming mainly at dollars and cents, though
they are stabbing public virtue to the heart. Their money will
curse them, and their readers curse themselves by such reading.
36 DIET, DRINK, AND PHYSIOLOGY.
3. The diet and fond of the young, prematurely develope
Amativeness. That there exists a reciprocal relation between
the body and the animalpropensities, there can be no question.
This point will be found demonstrated in my Lecture on Tem
perance, founded on Phrenology and Physiology, pp. 13 to 23.
The proof of this principle is indispensable in order to enforce
the inference that tea, coffee, tobacco, snuff, candies, flesh, &c,
stimulate the animal propensities and excite Amativeness, but
our limits forbid its introduction. The position, however, is
undeniable, that whatever excites the body, thereby stimulates
the animal propensities more than the intellectual and moral
faculties. Tea, coffee, flesh, spices, &c, are unquestionably
highly stimulating, much more so than cold water, breadstuffs,
vegetables, &c, and therefore' kindle the animal propensities ;
and as the relation between the body, and especially the stom
ach, and Amativeness, is more direct and powerful than between
any other parts, the inference is inevitable that they proportion-
ably kindle impure desires. Children, therefore, should never
be allowed to indulge in them; nor are they exactly proper for
young ladies. And if you desire to know how to subdue this
feeling, avoid these kinds of food and drink, and employ cold
water, breadstuffs, and vegetables. The cold bath is excellent.
4. Want of exercise is another means of exciting improper
desires, and labor, of subduing them. The principle just alluded
to, applies here with increased force. As the energies of the
system are constantly accumulating, they must have some door
of escape. Labor carries them off through the muscles, but
when this avenue is closed by fashionable idleness, their next
avenue is through the animal propensities. Who are the most
virtuous classes of society ? The laboring. Who are the most
licentious? Loafers, "soap-locks," idlers, and those who are
too good (?) to work. When the laborer retires, he falls asleep
at once, whilst those who are too delicate, too fashionable to
work, retire to indulge the nightly reveries of their fancies,
mingled with unclean thoughts, and stained with impure desires.
Envy them not. Labor, or at least vigorous exercise, is as
indispensable to moral purity, as breath is to life. Whoever
breaks this law, even if they are fashionable ladies, must abide
the consequences, one of which is a depraved imagination, full
A "WANT OF EXERCISE EXCITES AMATIVENESS. 37
of unclean desires.* But whoever obeys the law, thereby
promotes his own happiness, and reaps a rich reward.
A young man who heard this lecture delivered, afterwards
informed me that his parents sent him to sea, before the mast,
to curethis passion, and so effectuallydid his labor and exposures
subdue it, that it seemed to be buried, and he has since been
able to govern it.
To children, this principle applies with increased power.
Keeping them in doors, and from play or labor, prevents the
free circulation of their blood throughout their bodies, and of
course sends it up to the brain, and especially to its base, to
ripen this feeling prematurely. Hence it appears two or three
years earlier in the city than in the country, and there five years
younger than nature ever designed it should. Were these and
other causes of its premature developement cut off, it would not
probably appear till from the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year,
and then be five years more in ripening up to a maturity suffi
cient for marriage. The judgment would then be sufficiently
matured to make a proper selection.
To other similar causes, such as theatres and theatre dancing,
balls, parties, fashionable boarding schools, fashionable music,
especially the verses set to it, being mostly love-sick songs, and
many other like causes, all directly calculated to awaken these
feelings, we have barely room to allude. When I prepare
this essay for re-publication in the Journal, I shall expose some
of these evils, especially the modern method of educating (?)
young ladies. I consider most of our fashionable boarding
schools for young ladies, as a public curse. They make parlor
toys and senseless chatterers, but miserably poor wives and
mothers. Not a thousand miles from Troy, N. Y., is a mother
school of this class, the baneful influences of which will long
remain to curse, not its own sex merely, but the other also with
fashionable wives and weakly mothers. These schools teach
the graces and accomplishments mainly, which are only polite
names for beau-catching, and "cap-setting," and coquetry, and
such like fashionable attainments ! t
VI. Marry yourfirst love. This isthe most important direc
tion of all. On pp. 29 and 30, will be found one cogent
reason for this direction, namely, that interruptions in love sear
*Erery laborer will bear me witness that these feelings are more active
when they do not labor than when they do—on Sabbath evenings than
on any other evenings. Hence, doubtless, the custom of selecting
Sabbath evenings for courtship.
t We are gratified to be able to mention Mr. Avery's school at Danvers,
Mass., and Mrs. BurrilPs, of South Boston, as exceptions. There
may be others, but they are "far between."
38 MARRYING THE FIRST LOVE.
the social feelings. I do not say that you cannot love a
second time, and love devotedly; nor that you should not marry
any one but your first love1"; but I do s;iy that there is in it a
tenderness, a purity, a poetry, an unrcscrvedness, an exquisite-
ness which no subsequent love ever experiences. When the
Bible, that book of human nature as well as good morals, would
compare God's love for his children to the strongest and tender
est of human emotions, why does it employ the term first
love? Because love is the strongest of human passions, and
first love the purest, strongest kind of love. There is a fresh
ness, a disinterestedness, a devotedness in first love that apper
tains to no subsequent attachment. It is more Platonic, and
less animal. In it, Amativeness, as such, is not once thought
of. Personal charms appear as nothing compared with the
superior beauties of mind and feeling. It unites with it a feel
ing of sacredness which appertains to no after love. Perfectly
satisfied with each other, they bestow not one iota of their love
upon another. It is only after this first love has been inter
rupted, that either party can once entertain even an impure
thought towards another. That young man is safe in the midst
of the strongest temptations, whose love is plighted and recip
rocated. As long as his heart is bound up in its first bundle of
love and devotedness, as long as his affections remain reciproca
ted and uninterrupted, so long temptation cannot reach him.
His heart is callous to the charms of others, and the very idea
of bestowing his affections upon another, is abhorrent to him.
Much more so is animal indulgence. The thing is morally
impossible.
But let his first love be broken off, and the flood-gates of
passion are raised. Temptations flow in upon him. He casts
an amative eye upon every passing female, and although his
Conscientiousness or Intellect may prevent indulgence, yet
temptation now takes effect, whereas before it had no power to
awaken improper feelings.
2. Love constitutes matrimony. Marriage does not consist
in its legal ceremony, nor in any sanction thrown around it by
law. No ; it derives its sacred sanctions from on high. They
are written on the tablets of the human heart. Their obliga
tions can never be increased nor decreased by any human
legislation or tribunal. If so, the sacredness of the marriage
relations would vanish, because they would then be of man,
* First love, as employed here and elsewhere in this work, has no
reference to that green love, that boys-and-girls' love which children
just entering their teens sometimes experience, especially when the
causes specified in the text have prematurely excited this faculty, but it
refers to the first attachment formed after the parties become young
men and women.
MUTUAL LOVE CONSTITUTES MATRIMONY. 39
whereas now they are of God. Should a man and woman,
actuated hy motives of property, or honor, or any feeling other
than pure love, be legally married, would their assenting to the
outward ceremony make them man and wife? Would the
mere ceremony constitute marriage? It would he only a
legalized violation of the seventh commandment. It would
be licensed licentiousness. They do not love each other, and
are therefore no more man and wife than as though they had
not sworn falsely by assenting to the marriage ceremony.
So on the other hand, if two kindred spirits are really united
in the bands of true love, they are, to all intents and purposes,
man and wife. If they have reciprocated the pledge of love,
and are pledged to love each other, they are manned. And for
selfish parents from motives of property or family distinction,
to "break off the match," is as criminal as to separate man and
wife. Ambitious mothers, selfish fathers, and young men
seeking to marry a fortune, may bolt at this, but any other view
of marriage makes it a human institution, which divests it of
all its high and holy sanctions.
"What," says one, "would you' nullify the law of marriage,
and leave mankind to their own unbridled desires ? This is
Owenism and Fanny Wrightism with a vengeance." We shall
soon see that Phrenology and Physiology take ground the
opposite to this by inculcating the doctrine of one love, one
marriage, but we say that human law can neither make or .
break marriage. It cannot touch the point any more than it
can regulate the appetite. If law required us to be hungry at
particular times or not at all, would it affect our appetites in
the least ? No more does its requirement that legalized hus
bands and wives should love each other, have the least influence
in promoting love. Nor should we rely upon law to effect
what law never can reach. We should rely solely upon the
affections of the heart. Their very nature is self-perpetuating.
They need no law, and are above all law. If properly located
at first, they would never once dream of changing their object.
The more we love an object, the more we wish to. Love
increases itself. Hence, we no more need a law requiring
husbands and wives to love each other, than one requiring that
we should eat or sleep, and for the same reason. We are
a law unto ovrselves. Love shrinks from a change of objects,
as the nerves do from a scorching fire. If mankind only relied
upon the law of love to secure domestic affection, instead of
upon the laws of the land, we should certainly have more
connubial happiness. Nor should the law ever compel two to
live together who do not love each other, for it thereby only
compels them to violate the seventh commandment. I wish
to be distinctly understood as maintaining, 1st, that love con
stitutes marriage ; 2d, that to break off these affections, is a
4
40 SECOND MARRIAGES OBJECTIONABLE.
breach of matrimony; 3d, that the first love is purer and
stronger, tenderer and more Platonic, than any subsequent
attachment can be, and therefore pre-eminently constitutes
matrimony; 4th, that interruptions in love constitute the main
cause and origin of licentiousness, by being a breach of matri
mony; and, 5th, that the order of nature, as pointed out by
Phrenology, is to love and marry once, and but once. On6
proof that second marriages are contrary to the laws of our
social nature, is the fact that step-parents and step-children
almost always disagree. What law has been broken to induce
this penalty? The law of marriage; and this is one way in
which the breach punishes itself. If a companion dies, marry
ing a second time may be a less evil than to live unmarried, and
therefore preferable. But, I maintain that their death need not
occur. Our proofs of this startling declaration, are, 1st, that
every physiological law of man's nature, every physical con
trivance and adaptation, inevitably establishes the conclusion
that if the laws of life, and health, and Physiology were known
and obeyed, sickness would be unknown, and death occur only
after the body was literally worn out by old ago ; and, 2d, that
sickness and health are causes and effects, governed by fixed
laws, and, therefore, within our control. Any other view
institutes disorder by substituting chance for fixed laws. Now
if sickness and death are governed by the laws of cause and
effect, then by applying the appropriate means, which are
mainly in our own hands, we can all be healthy; all live to a
good old age, so that husbands and wives never need to be
separated by death.* And every married person is under the
most sacred obligations to his companion and children, to take
every possible care of his health, and avoid every exposure
calculated to shorten life.
In regard to matrimouy, the order of nature as pointed out
by Phrenology, is unquestionably this: 1st, that these feelings
should not appear till from the twentieth to the thirtieth year ;
2d, that they should be restrained till intellect and the moral
sentiments have selected the proper object ; 3d, that true love
requires from three to five years to ripen into a preparation for
married life ; and, 4th, that then the happy pair, hand in hand,
should ascend and descend the declivities of life till too late for
either to marry again, and that both should pay the common
debt of nature nearly together, loving once, and but once, and
that for ever. This will combine all the intellectuality of a
mature mind, with all the poetry of first love. ,
* rf this doctrine is called heretical or infidel, I have to reply, 1st, that the Rev. C.
(J. Finney has advocated it; 2d, that Physiology establishes it to a demonstration ;
and, 3d, that any other view substitutes chance for cause and effect. Mankind should
know that sickness and death in the prime of life, are only the penalties of violated
physical laws, and therefore mvrally wrong.
