{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__lewis___rosicrucian_manual.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Manual","mylang":"de"}
Eosricructan
jfflanual
Prepared under the supervision of
H. SPENCER LEWIS, Ph. D., F. R. C.
Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order
For North America
Rosicrucian Library
Volume No. 8
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
Printing and Publishing Department
Amorc College
San Jose, California
First Edition, Copyrighted 1918
Second Edition, Copyrighted 1927
Third Edition, Copyrighted 1929
Fourth Edition, Copyrighted 1930
• Fifth Edition, Copyrighted 1932
ByAMORC
(Note: The entire system of tables,
charts and diagrams is an original pos-
tulation, protected by copyright and
strictly reserved by AMORC. Any in
fringement, in part or whole, urill be
legally dealt with.)
Printed in the U. S. A.
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
San Jose, Califoria
Dedication
V V V
To English- speaking Rosicrucians living in every part of the world
who have offered suggestions for the compilation of a Manual in
the English language to serve the same purpose as the many
Manuals which have been issued in the past in foreign
tongues, this book is dedicated with the hope that
it will become a silent though ever-present
companion and guide in the work
of our honored organization.
v
832677
The Rosicrucian Library
V V V
Volume
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In Preparation.)
V. "Unto Thee I Grant ..."
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Story of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In Preparation.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul; The Cosmic Conception.
(A complete outline of the Doctrines of Reincarnation.)
XII. Lemuria—The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The Technique of the Master; The Way of Cosmic
Preparation.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
vi
TABLE OF CONTENTS
V V V
PAGE
Imperator's Greetings 1
What This Manual Contains. 2
Preliminary Instructions 3
Forms of Membership in AMORC 3
PART ONE:
AMORC and Its Organization 5
Portrait of Sir Francis Bacon 9
Portrait of Michael Maier 10
Portrait of Raymund VI — 1 1
Portrait of Dr. H. Spencer Lewis 12
Portrait of May Banks-Stacey. 13
Portrait of Kut-Hu-Mi, The Illustrious. 14
A Modern Alchemist in His Laboratory 1 5
Photograph of French Pronunziamento 16
The Great American Manifesto. 17
PART TWO:
Extracts from National Constitution of the Order 18
PART THREE:
Complete Operating Manual of the Order 24
PART FOUR:
General Instructions to All Members 47
PARTFrVE:
Special Instructions for National Lodge (Correspondence)
Members 51
PART SIX:
Outline of the National Lodge System of Instruction (with
Synopsis of Subjects) 53
PART SEVEN:
Mystic Symbols and Their Meanings 59
vii
Table of Contents —Continued
PART EIGHT: page
Temple Lectures, Methods of Instruction (with Synopsis
of the Nine Grades) 69
Temple Lecture Diagrams and Explanations 75
Special Subjects and Charts _ 79
Crystallography 81
The Charter Granted to the National Rosicrucian Lodge.... 83
The Magnet 85
The Evolution of the Cross.. .„ 87
Sixth Grade Healing Charts and Explanations 91
PART NINE:
The Mystery of Dr. John Dalton and His Alchemical Laws
(Laws of Proportion) _ 109
Sir Francis Bacon, F. R. C. (Biographical) 127
Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C. (Biographical) 129
Numerology and the Real System. 131
PART TEN:
THE GREAT WHITE LODGE; Attaining Psychic Illumi
nation; The Rosicrucian Code of Life (A Special Article) 135
Interesting Facts for Our Members to Explain to Inquirers
About AMORC _ 153
PART ELEVEN:
Complete Rosicrucian Dictionary 155
Interesting Questions Answered 185
viii
The
IMPERATOR'S GREEliNCS . :"
v v v "•' "m '''" "'
I am delighted that the Rosicrucian Press, Printing and Publishing
Department of the Supreme Grand Lodge of the A. M. O. R. C., has
again decided to publish another edition of the official Manual. I
know that it is greatly needed and will be sincerely appreciated.
Years ago we issued a small, private Manual for our Lodges but
the issue soon became exhausted. The new Manual will take the
place of the older ones and" will contain so much additional matter
that it will be truly a Guide to the Work and Studies of the Order.
Naturally such a book as this must be limited in its contents and
carefully worded.
I know that many benefits will come through this book to our
members as well as to general readers. It should be a weekly guide
to the lectures and lessons for every member, and a help to every
officer of our hundreds of branches throughout the North American
Jurisdiction. The many diagrams and plates have been carefully
prepared so as to make plain many points in the lectures of the
various grades.
Members and Officers will do well to recommend the use of this
Manual to all members, for it will help in many ways to promote a
better understanding of the Order and its teachings, and bring about
a better agreement in regard to the terms, rules, regulations, and
practices of all our work.
Therefore, through the pages of this Manual, I again greet our
members and the student reader and wish them every success and joy
in the Glorious Search for Light, Life, and Love.
In Peace Profound,
H. SPENCER LEWIS, F. R. C.
Imperator.
October 1, 1932.
[1]
WHAT THIS MANUAL CONTAINS
This1 Manual contains, many helps for the members as outlined
hergwitlu . •
.
- ,
.
1st. 'A Manual of .the Order generally, its purposes, formation,
arrangement of Lodges, description of Officers, their duties, etc., and
the various regulations of membership. This is of unusual value to
every member and officer.
2nd. The plates and diagrams used in the various lectures of all
grades. Some of these diagrams are intended for the members in the
grades of the National studies (as described previously) and others
for members in the higher grades of the Temple lectures or the Postu-
lant studies. Explanations of the diagrams are given in the proper
places, in the weekly lectures, and cannot be given to members in
advance of the particular lectures to which they refer.
3rd. Diagrams and illustrations of many of the symbols used in
our Order and in the ancient teachings of the Rosicrucians and other
mystics. These illustrations are for all members.
4th. A Glossary of the principal terms and words used in the
Teachings throughout all the grades. It is not a complete dictionary
of all the terms used, for this would require a very large volume and
would be unnecessary. Such words as "Alchemy" are not included,
for the definition given in any standard dictionary is identical with
the sense in which we use the term. Only where terms have special
meanings have we included them in the Glossary.
5th. General instructions which should be carefully read by our
members from time to time until they are very familiar with them.
This will help all of us to give you greater service in the work.
6th. Other matter of help to all members.
HOW TO USE THE MANUAL
National Lodge Members should have this Manual early in their
studies, preferably with the first or second lesson of the First Grade.
They should read it through and note what matter is indicated for
"National Lodge Members." This will aid them in their lectures.
And matter marked for "All Members" will be of help to them.
But matter marked for "Temple Lodge Members" or "Postulants"
will be of little help until they reach the proper grades of study.
Temple Lodge Members will find many plates and diagrams indi-
cated for them in addition to the general matter. For them this
Manual will serve in place of the many diagrams they have had to
make in their note books in the past. (National Lodge Members will
receive identically the same lectures as those given in the temple or
lodge, after they have completed the three National Grades and met
certain requirements.)
[2]
PRELIMINARY INSTRUCTIONS
This Manual is divided into several sections and a proper under
standing of its plan will greatly help in deriving the utmost benefit
from it.
THE FORMS OF MEMBERSHIP
There are two distinct forms of membership in the AMORC of
North America, as there are in some foreign Jurisdictions of the
Order.
NATIONAL LODGE MEMBERSHIP: This form of membership
is for those who live in small towns or sections of the country where
we have no TEMPLE LODGES, or for those who, because of certain
forms of employment or other conditions, cannot attend a TEMPLE
LODGE in their locality.
National Lodge membership means correspondence membership. By
a vote at the National Convention of Rosicrucian Delegates in Pitts-
burgh, Penna., in the summer of 1917, the National Lodge was estab
lished to provide correspondence instruction to those who could not
attend the Temple Lodges. Such instruction, sent in weekly lectures
and lessons, was especially prepared and contains a summary of the
Rosicrucian principles with a wealth of personal experiments, exer
cises, and tests as will make each member highly proficient in the
attainment of certain degrees of mastership. These correspondence
lessons and exercises compose three GRADES and cover a period of
practically ten months. Each grade has its own initiation ritual, to
be performed by the member at home in his own Sanctum and before
his own altar. Such rituals are not like the elaborate rituals used in
the Temple Lodges and conducted by the staff of fifteen Officers in
Egyptian form.
National Lodge members pay their dues directly to the National
Lodge, located at the Supreme Lodge Headquarters. They constitute
a very large body of members with their own signs, grips, pass-words,
and benefits. However, they have the privilege of visiting any Temple
Lodge on special occasions or whenever there is a Feast or General
Ceremony. Members of the National Lodge and the Temple Lodges
alike hold official membership cards, have many signs and symbols in
common, and in every possible way are related in membership.
Furthermore, National Lodge members who complete the prelimi
nary three grades, covering ten months, may be permitted to receive
the lessons of the higher teachings of the Temple Lodges through
out the nine grades in the same manner that they received the
preliminary instructions, with the provision that they have passed
all of the requirements, satisfactorily.
[3]
TEMPLE LODGE MEMBERS are those who attend the regular
Lodges in the many cities of the North American Continent (and
Dependencies) and receive the higher teachings from the Masters
thereof, after having been initiated in such Lodges. They pay their
dues directly to such Lodges and receive no instructions by corre
spondence unless they also join the National Lodge. The benefits of
Temple Lodge Membership, and association with other members in
the study and discussion of the lessons, are many and important. The
monthly magazine contains a list of the important Temple Lodges,
and others can be located by addressing the Grand Secretary.
CHAPTER MEMBERSHIP consists of membership in the small
study groups which are established conveniently in all parts of the
country. New Chapters are occasionally organized, and if you do not
find one listed in our monthly magazine which is convenient to you,
write to the Grand Secretary. Members in these Chapters are usually
National Lodge Members paying their monthly dues direct to the
National Lodge and have no additional dues to pay to the Chapter.
Chapters carry on special discussions and have special lectures and
other benefits truly worth while to the Correspondence Members of
the National Lodge. The Chapters throughout the United States,
Canada, and Mexico, constitute a chain of active centers covering
almost every large county of every State or Province.
[4]
Part One
THE AMORC AND ITS ORGANIZATION
Every member of the AMORC should be familiar with the facts
of the establishment of the organization, its Constitution, and its
secret or private system of operation.
The widespread confusion in the United States because of the
popular use of the word Rosicrucian by so many movements, pub-
lishers, and small research societies —a condition not permitted in for-
eign lands—makes necessary the understanding of the following facts;
and we trust that every member will refer to these pages in any
discussion of the authority and rights of AMORC:
*The history of the Rosicrucian ORDER in foreign lands has
been well covered in many books of recent years, though all are
warned against giving any credence to the statements made in most
of the encyclopedias wherein it is said that the Order started in
Germany in the eighteenth century and ended there. Such a story
has been copied and recopied without investigation and is without
foundation. But the real facts, as we have said, have been published
in many books and we need not take space here to repeat the Euro-
pean and Oriental origin and history of this very old Order.
We are more concerned with its introduction into the New World.
We find here, too, many books and records which give reliable and
precise details of the coming to America of the first Rosicrucian colony
from Europe, under Sir Francis Bacon's original plan, in the year
1694, and its establishment for many years, first at Philadelphia, then
at Ephrata, Pennsylvania, where many of the original buildings still
stand.
The first foundation here in America in 1694 (which left Europe
in 1693) grew into a large and potent power of considerable impor-
tance in the affairs of the birth of the American nation, as can be
seen by records in Philadelphia and Washington. But the ancient law
that each 108 years was a cycle of rebirth, activity, rest, and waiting,
made the great work in America come to a close, so far as public
activities were concerned, in 1801 (108 years after the founders left
Europe). Then for another 108 years the Order in this country was
•See: "Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with History of the Order," published by the
Rosicrucian Publishing Department (AMORC) San Jose, Calif., U. S. A.
in
in its rest period with only certain descendants of the last initiates
passing to one another the rare records and official documents.
Then came 1909 — 108 years after the year 1801 —and the time
for rebirth and reorganization in a public form was at hand. The
story of how our present Imperator, H. Spencer Lewis, was chosen
to bear the burden of reorganization, has often been told, investigated,
verified, and acknowledged by the highest Rosicrucian authorities of
Europe and other lands.
Having had passed to him in the proper way certain knowledge
preserved by the descendants of the first foundation in America, he
prepared himself, through various courses of study and association
with scientific and metaphysical bodies, for the work he was to under
take in 1909. Then in the month of July of that year he went to
France, where he was introduced to the right authorities and inducted
into the mysteries and the methods of carrying out his life mission.
Returning to America, he held many secret sessions with men and
women who had been initiated into the Order in France and India
and other lands, who formed with him the first foundation committee.
Together they labored for six years so that in the seventh year of
preparation they could announce to the American public the re-
establishment of the Rosicrucian Order. The first official Manifesto
was warmly greeted by a gathering of over three hundred prominent
students of the ancient Rosicrucian teachings who examined the offi
cial papers, seals, and warrants possessed by Imperator Lewis, and
formed the first American Council of the Order. A report of that
session was sent to France, to the body of men who undertook the
burden of supporting the foundation work in America, and a few
months later the Grand Council of the Ordre Rose Croix of France
recognized the Imperator for the Order in America.
Thereafter further organization meetings were held until a point
was reached when two officials of the International Council of the
Order visited America, approved of the organization as established
here, and, upon their report to the International Convention in Eu
rope, the American Order was made an independent Jurisdiction
coming directly under the guidance of the International Council of
the Order instead of under the sponsorship of the French Jurisdiction.
And this gave the Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Cruris
(AMORC) of North America a representation in the International
Council, in its National and International Conventions and Con
gresses, and made the American AMORC a part of the AMORC of
die world. Therefore, the AMORC is today the ONLY Rosicrucian
movement in America having such authority and connections.
But, there are other Rosicrucian movements here. They use the
term or word Rosicrucian. But none of these Rosicrucian movements
or publishing companies or societies uses the term ROSICRUCIAN
ORDER, nor do they use the title Ancient and Mystical ORDER
Rosae Crucis.
Ever since the AMORC was organized in America it has made its
definite and unequivocal claim of genuineness. Its Supreme Lodge was
[6]
duly incorporated, not as a society or fellowship of Rosicrucians, but
as "The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis of the Great
White Brotherhood." Please note the word Order and the Latin term
Rosae Crucis in the title. Its Colleges and Universities were also
incorporated, and a Patent was secured from the United States Gov
ernment protecting the name and symbols of the Order in the United
States and Dependencies. AMORC is the only Rosicrucian move
ment in North America having a patent on the symbol of the Cross
with ONE rose in its center, which is the true ancient symbol of the
Order in all lands.
Therefore, AMORC repeats again its statement: It is a part of
the international Rosicrucian Order, most Jurisdictions of which use
the same name except for slight variations due to translation in for
eign languages. It is a part of the ONE and ONLY Rosicrucian
ORDER that is truly international. It is the only Rosicrucian move
ment, society, or body in North America having membership and
representation in the "Conseil Internationale, Antiqum Arcanum Or-
dinis Rubeae Rosae et Aureae Crucis" with its international "siege
social and secretariat general" in Europe and its sacred Sanctums and
monasteries in India and other lands in the Orient, with the Holy
Assembly of Masters in Tibet. The AMORC of America, therefore,
is duly represented in the International Congresses and Conventions
held at stated periods in Europe and adheres to the ancient traditions
and customs in all of its standards and practices. This means that it
does NOT publish books claiming to contain the private Rosicrucian
fundamentals, rituals, secrets, rites, or TEACHINGS; does not deal
with sex problems, sex practices, or indulgences under the guise of
higher occult teachings; is strictly non-religious, non-commercial, and
not affiliated with any secret society, fraternity, fellowship, or move
ment except the international Rosicrucian ORDER.
If our members will read the foregoing statements again they will
see that AMORC has never claimed and could not claim to be con
nected with the honorable fraternity of Freemasons, even though that
body has in one of its higher degrees one grade named in honor of
the Ancient Rosicrucians; and AMORC is not connected in any way
with any publishing firm, group, or movement using the word Rosi
crucian unless it is also using the word AMORC and the true pat
ented symbols of the Order.
Nothing said herein is intended to cast any aspersions on the work
being done by any group of students using the word Rosicrucian to
indicate the sincerity of their search for Truth. The AMORC always
maintains the attitude of broadmindedness and tolerance toward every
person or group of persons seeking to contribute to the uplift of man.
And this attitude we desire to have expressed by every member of
the Order.
[7]
AN ANCIENT KNIGHT ROSAE CRUCIS
[8]
SIR FRANCIS BACON, K. R. t: °'' ;" ''■>'
IMPERATOR OF THE ROSICRUCIANS IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
(Modern Symbolical Drawing)
[9]
TRES 5CHOLA,TRti COESAR TITVLOSj DE<
HIT;HA.C Mint RESTANT.
POS5EBENE1N CHRI.STO V1VEKE. POSSE MORI £v
MrCHAEL MAIERV5 COMES IMPERIALS CON.
lJ$
5I5TORH etc. PHILO.SOPH. £T MEDICINAKVM
DOCTOR.
P.
CC NOJML. EXEMPTVS FOROLIM
MEDIC VS CA.S ck
FRA. MICHAEL MAIER
GRAND MASTER OF ROSICRUCIANS IN GERMANY IN THE
SEVENTEENTH CENTURY, AND SIR FRANCIS BACON'S
DEPUTY ON THE CONTINENT
[10]
L.ORD RAYMUND VI. ;
WHO, AS COUNT OF TOULOUSE, REFUSED TO PROSECUTE THE MYSTICS
WHO LAID THE FOUNDATION FOR ROSICRUCIANISM IN SOUTHERN FRANCE
IN THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY. AS A MYSTIC MARTYR, HIS BODY WAR
REFUSED BURIAL IN "HOLY GROUND," BUT WAS PR7.SFHVED FOR 00t<
YEARS IN THE KNIGHTS TEMPLAR BUILDING, BUILT BY HIS FOREFATHERS.
Copyright, 1917, by the Supreme Grand Lodge, A. M. O. R. C.
[11]
II. SPENCER LEWIS, PH. D., F. R. C.
IMPERATOR. A. M. (). I?. C. OF NORTH AMERICA MEMBER OF THE
SUPREME COUNCIL R. C. OF THE WORLD LEGATE OF THE ORDER IN
FRANCE MINISTER OF THE FOREIGN LEGATION ORDAINED PRIEST
OF THE ASHRAMA IN INDIA HONORARY COUNSULAR OF THE "CORDA
FRATRES," ITALY SRI SOBHITA. GREAT WHITE LODGE, TIBET
• - REX, UNIVERSITATIS ILLUM1NATI.
[12]
MRS. MAY BANKS -STACEY
CO-FOUNDER AND FIRST GRAND MATRE IN U. S. A.
(See Biographical Reference on Page 129)
[13]
MASTER KUT-HU-MI, THE ILLUSTRIOUS
D... G... M... OF TIBET (BOD-TUT.)
BELOVED HIEROPHANT OF THE R. C.
(See Brief Biographical Reference on Page 137)
Painting and Photograph Copyrighted by AMORC
[14]
• i'hotoqraspil 0>-the original document of french sponsorship
'of the amohc in a.m'krica. "pronunziamento number r.. f.. r.. c
,J)S*S,;-<;ig*,» W>rf.'M^lf.ED IN A special metal container, it was
• JiVAl.TH) AJrtj VlGNED BY THE PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE ROSE CROIX
OF FRANCE. STOLEN TWICE. COPIED AND FORGED ONCE, THE ORIGI
NAL HAS BEEN AN AMERICAN
,
PRIZE" EVER SINCE THE FIRST AMERI
CAN SUPREME R. C. COUNCIL EXAMINED AND VERIFIED IT. IT IS
ADDRESSED TO OUR IMPERATOR, FRATRE H. SPENCER LEWIS, F. R. C.
[16]
Great American Manifesto
Issued by the Charter Members of the Supreme Grand Lodge as
Founders of the Order in America
The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis in the United
States of America, its Territories and Dependencies, shall be an inde-
pendent organization operating under its Constitution.
Its purpose shall be the same as that of the "Order Rosae Crucis"
throughout the world, and its Constitution shall be identical in spirit
with that which guides and directs this Order in other lands. The
Order in America shall, however, retain its fraternal and spiritual
relation with this Order in other countries, regardless of its inde
pendent jurisdiction, and shall maintain its adherence to the tradi
tional principles and laws of the ancient Rosicrucians.
Since both the ancient and modern form of government of the
Order are autocratic in nature, the government of the Order in
America shall adopt strictly autocratic principles of government, but
because of the necessary division of America into many jurisdictions
operating under one American Constitution, the said Constitution
shall embody such changes or modifications as will properly meet the
requirements of this jurisdiction.
Therefore it is declared that the attached Constitution, of which
this Pronunziamento is a part, was prepared after consultation with
all possible authorities and with proper discussion by all the Founders
of the Order in America, and was finally approved and adopted by
the Charter Members of the Supreme Grand Lodge in America and
shall be adopted and ratified by all Lodges now organized or hereafter
to be organized and Chartered by the Supreme Grand Lodge or the
Imperator of the Order in America.
Decreed and Issued June, 1915, at a meeting of the First American
Supreme Council held in the City of New York, N. Y.
[17]
Part Two
EXTRACTS FROM THE CONSTITUTION
of the GRAND LODGE of the
AHCIEW, MYSTIC ORDER ROSAE CRUCIS
North American Jurisdiction
Obedient to the edict of the Imperator and in pursuance of the
will of the members, as was expressed by their vote during the Con
vention of 1930 A. D., duly assembled July 23-30, the special com
mittee, which was appointed for the purpose, submitted for the ap
proval of the Trustees of the Grand Lodge the New Constitution
and Statutes of the Grand Lodge of AMORC, jurisdiction of North
America, on the date of January 15, 1931. The Trustees, in turn,
on February 9, 1931, submitted for the Imperator 's approval and
promulgation the New Constitution and Statutes.
On the date of March 18, 1931, in a communication addressed to
the members of AMORC and duly published, the Imperator expressed
his approval and put it into effect as of March 21, 1931, for the
governance of the Grand Lodge and all members of the North Amer
ican Jurisdiction until altered or amended by duly constituted au
thority.
Members of the Rosicrucian organization can procure a copy of
the complete Constitution and Statutes of the Grand Lodge by writing
the Grand Lodge at San Jose, California, and enclosing ten cents to
cover cost of same. It is advised that every member procure a com
plete copy.
ARTICLE I.
Section 1
This Lodge shall be known as THE GRAND LODGE OF THE
ANCIENT AND MYSTIC ORDER ROSAE CRUCIS, or, in its
abbreviated form, as THE GRAND LODGE OF A. M. O. R. C.
Section 2
This Grand Lodge is subordinate to and derives its existence and
powers from the Imperator and the Supreme Grand Lodge of
A. M. O. R. C.
Section S
This Grand Lodge shall be located at the Adytum of the Imperator
unless otherwise directed by the Supreme Grand Lodge.
Section 4
The members are known as ROSICRUCIANS and the Order may
also be known as THE ROSICRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD.
[18]
Section 5
All members within the jurisdiction of this Supreme Grand Lodge
are members of this Grand Lodge, and membership in this Grand
Lodge is prerequisite to membership or participation in any Subor
dinate Body.
ARTICLE BL
Section 6
All matters within the Official cognizance and concern of this
Order are divided into two classes, namely: Doctrinal-Ritualistic and
Administrative. The administrative work is classified as: Legislative,
Executive, and Judicial.
ARTICLE III.
Section 7
The Imperator is the Supreme Doctrinal-Ritualistic Officer of this
Order. This work of the Order shall be directed by him through such
officers as he may designate from time to time, together with their
respective duties, functions, obligations, privileges, and tenure of
office. He has sole, complete, and exclusive jurisdiction over the Doc
trinal and Ritualistic work of the Order and all Ritualistic Officers.
He may function through the Supreme Grand Lodge or other Sub
ordinate Bodies or Officers. All communications, directions, and acts
of the Imperator or of the Supreme Grand Lodge under the hand
and seal of the Supreme Secretary shall be binding, conclusive, and
final on this Grand Lodge, its Subordinate Bodies and all Ritualistic
Officers and Members.
Section 8
In the direction of the Doctrinal and Ritualistic work of this
Order the Imperator exercises Supreme Autocratic Power, limited
only by adherence to the Ancient Landmarks and the Unwritten
Laws of this Order as recognized by the International Council of this
Brotherhood. All provisions of this Constitution and all laws and
regulations are subject and subordinate to the Doctrinal and Ritual
istic Power and jurisdiction of the Imperator.
ARTICLE IV.
Section 9
Subject to the Supreme Authority and Power of the Imperator
and of the Supreme Grand Lodge as herein defined and limited by
it,
this Grand Lodge
is
the Authority and Power of this Order —Legis
lative, Executive, and Judicial.
[19]
ARTICLE V.
Section 10
Its Legislative Powers extend to every case of legislation not
expressly delegated by itself to the Subordinate Bodies or withheld
from it by the Imperator or the Supreme Grand Lodge; and this
Constitution, the Statutes, and General Regulations for the Subor-
dinate Bodies which it may promulgate from time to time under the
limitations herein imposed, shall be final and binding upon all Sub-
ordinate Bodies within its jurisdiction until modified, amended, or
repealed.
ARTICLE VL
Section 11
Its Executive Powers include the granting of Charters to establish
and perpetuate Subordinate Bodies within this jurisdiction and in
other territories where no Supreme Grand Lodge exists; the revoca
tion or suspension thereof; and the exercise, generally, of all such
administrative authority on all members and Subordinate Bodies neces
sary to carry all orders and commands of the Imperator and of the
Supreme Grand Lodge and its own legislation into complete effect.
ARTICLE VII.
Section 12
Its Judicial Powers are of two kinds:
A. Original, including the decision of all controversy between:
(a) Any of the Subordinate Bodies.
(b) One or more of the Subordinate Bodies and a member
or members of another.
(c) One or more Subordinate Bodies and one or more Na
tional members.
(d) Between members of two or more Subordinate Bodies.
(e) National Members.
B. Appellate, embracing the revision of all matters of contro
versy or discipline proper for investigation by the laws of
the Order, which may have arisen in any of its Subordinate
Bodies and over which it has not retained original juris
diction.
Section IS
All disciplinary matters, together with the establishment of neces
sary judicial forums and the procedure thereof, shall be prescribed by
the Supreme Grand Lodge, and it shall be put into effect by this
Grand Lodge.
[20]
Section 14
Any controversy to which the Grand Lodge or any of its officers,
and any controversy to which the Grand Council or any of its mem-
bers in their official capacity, are a party, shall be referred to the
Supreme Grand Lodge.
ARTICLE VIII.
Section 15
The officers of this Grand Lodge are:
1. The Grand Master.
2. Deputy Grand Masters.
3. The Grand Counsellors.
4. The Grand Secretary.
5. The Grand Treasurer.
6. The Doctrinal and Ritualistic Officers.
Section 16
The Grand Master, Grand Secretary, and Grand Treasurer shall
be appointed by the Supreme Grand Lodge, with the advice of the
Grand Council, and shall serve during the pleasure of the Supreme
Grand Lodge and until their successors are appointed.
Section 17
Deputy Grand Masters shall be appointed by the Grand Master
by and with the consent of the Imperator. The number of the Deputy
Grand Masters shall be such as the interests of the Order may re
quire as determined by the Grand Master from time to time. They
shall serve and hold office during the pleasure of the Grand Master
and until their successors are appointed.
Section 18
The Doctrinal and Ritualistic Officers of this Order, their appoint
ments, tenure of office, and their duties, are prescribed under Sections
7 and 8 of this Constitution.
ANNUAL CELEBRATION DAYS
There may be held two special assemblies each year in North
America. One shall be the New Year Feast and the other the Out
door Fete.
A
The New Year Feast will occur about the 21st of each March, the
exact date being proclaimed by a Pronunziamento issued by the Im
perator every February. It is to celebrate the New Rosicrucian Year
which begins on the minute when the sign "Aries" rises on the
horizon on that day in March when the "Sun" just enters the sign
[21]
of "Aries." (The year 1916 A. D. corresponds to the Rosicrucian
year of 3269, which began on March 21, 1916, at 1 :06 A. M. Eastern
Time.) Such New Year Celebrations shall be held in the Temple of
all lodges and attended by the Council, Officers, and members of the
Lodge and such especially invited guests or visiting members of the
Order and whose presence the Master desires for reasons good and
sufficient unto himself. There shall be a symbolical feast consisting
principally of corn, or its products; salt, or that which tastes most
strongly of
it,
and wine, in the form of unfermented grape juice,
and any other delicacies or refreshments suitable to the occasion. All
Officers shall wear their full regalia and all others their aprons or
other insignia. There shall be only sacred music, symbolical addresses,
and sincere rejoicing for the New Year.
B
At this New Year Feast
it
has been customary for the Master to
bestow such honorary titles on his members as he may contemplate,
to make new appointments to fill vacancies, etc., and to turn his
control over to any newly elected Master and Officers.
O
All other regular or special Convocations or meetings of each
Lodge are to be postponed in order that the New Year Feast may
be held on the day decreed by the Imperator.
D
The Annual Outdoor Fete may be held at the discretion of the
Master of each Lodge, on or about the 23rd day of September of each
year.
It
shall be that day when the Sun enters the sign of Libra.
This Annual Outdoor Fete should be held by each Lodge inde-
pendently, to celebrate the laying of the foundation stones of the
Great Pyramid in America. Each Lodge shall arrange to go on this
day (or the following one, should
it
rain or be stormy) to an open
space in the suburbs near such Lodge, and with prayer and addresses,
have each member of the Lodge deposit in one small pile
a
simple
little stone or pebble, symbolical of "placing a stone for the foun
dation of the Great Pyramid in America." Full regalia and insignia
must be worn by all Officers and members. Secrecy of the Fete need
not be maintained, but the public or the uninitiated must not be given,
in the prayers or addresses, any of the secret "work," signs, or sym
bols of the Order. Such
a
Fete may be held at sundown,
if
desired.
CHAPTER VIII.
PUBLICITY AND PUBLICATIONS
Section 146
The general propaganda work of the Order shall be officially con
ducted by the Supreme Grand Lodge exclusively, assisted by such
[22]
other subordinate bodies or committees as the Supreme Grand Lodge
may indicate from time to time.
Section 147
Local propaganda work may be conducted by a subordinate Lodge
or by the Grand Lodge, provided that no propaganda work or pub
licity of any nature whatsoever shall be undertaken or attempted by
any body subordinate to the Supreme Grand Lodge, except by its
express approval and consent given in writing, and, in that event,
only in accordance with the instructions given by the Supreme Grand
Lodge, and at all times under its supervision and not otherwise.
Section 148
No body subordinate to the Supreme Grand Lodge shall issue or
cause to be issued or tolerate the issuance or utterance of any book,
pamphlet, treatise, lecture, exposition, or interpretation concerning
this Order or its ideals, principles, laws, rituals, teachings, symbols,
statutes, or any other phase of the work of this Order, unless same
shall have been first submitted to the Supreme Grand Lodge for ap
proval. All authorized publicity, publication, or propaganda matter
shall state on its face that it is issued under the authority of the
Supreme Grand Lodge of A. M. O. R. C.
[23]
Part Three
OPERATING MANUAL
We present to our members a complete Manual regarding the
Work, Symbols, and other matters pertaining to our Order. This
Manual will answer many questions continually asked, and will be a
guide for officers and members in promptly and more efficiently ad-
vancing in the principles of the Order.
The matter has been prepared under the direction of the Imperator
and must conform with the National Constitution of the Order as
well as the unwritten laws used by the American Supreme Council
in its procedures. Wherever the following may differ from the
Constitution, the Constitution is binding.
This Manual should have a careful reading and study, and should
be consulted often.
PURPOSES AND WORK OF THE ORDER
All Applicants for Admission —and, in fact, all serious inquirers
regarding the Order—should be correctly informed as to the Purposes
and Work of our Order.
The only correct way of so informing the inquirer is to adhere to
the following statements:
The Order is primarily a Humanitarian Movement, making for
greater Health, Happiness, and Peace in the earthly lives of all man
kind. Note particularly that we say in the earthly lives of men, for
we have naught to do with any doctrine devoted to the interests of
individuals living in an unknown, future state. The Work of Rosi-
crucians is to be done here and now, not that we have neither hope
nor expectation of another life after this but we \now that the hap-
piness of the future depends upon what we do today for others as
well as for ourselves.
Also, our purposes are to enable men and women to live clean,
normal, natural lives, as Nature intended, enjoying all the privileges
of Nature, and all benefits and gifts equally with all of Mankind; and
to be free from the shackles of superstition, the limits of ignorance,
and the sufferings of avoidable \arma.
The Work of the Order—using the word "Work" in an official
6ense —consists of teaching, studying, and testing such laws of God
and Nature as make our members Masters in the Holy Temple (the
[24]
physical body), and Workers in the Divine Laboratory (Nature's
domains). This is to enable the Brothers and Sisters to render more
efficient help to those who do not know, and who need or require
help and assistance.
Therefore, the Order is a School, a College, a Fraternity, with a
laboratory. The members are students and workers. The graduates
are unselfish servants of God to Mankind, efficiently educated, trained,
and experienced, attuned with the mighty forces of the Cosmic or
Divine Mind, and Masters of matter, space, and time. This makes
them essentially Mystics, Adepts, and Magi—creators of their own
Destiny.
There are no other benefits or rights. All members are pledged to
give unselfish Service, without other hope or expectation or remunera-
tion than to Evolve the Self and prepare it for a greater work.
JURISDICTION
Masters of Subordinate Lodges, in all Jurisdictions, have autocratic
power within their individual Lodges, limited by the Constitution of
the Order, the Grand Master of the Jurisdiction, and the By-Laws of
the individual Lodges.
Members, belonging to one Jurisdiction, but visiting Lodges in
another Jurisdiction, must be subject to the rulings and laws of the
Jurisdiction in which they are visiting.
Masters, visiting any Jurisdiction, will likewise submit to the rules
and laws of the Jurisdiction visited, except when honorary exceptions
are made by the Grand Master of such Jurisdiction.
Men and women may become members of our Order through being
invited to make Application for Admission, and then having such
application passed upon.
The Applicants must, therefore, bear the burden of Supplication.
They may be invited to make application, but having been invited,
and having accepted the invitation to make application, each applicant
makes plea for admission, and must humbly seek and pray for admis
sion, as though he or she had not been invited to do so. In other
words, the invitation to make application does not indicate that the
Applicant is desired to such an extent that supplication for admission
is not necessary.
When an application blank is given to a man or woman, with the
invitation to make plea for admission, the Member thus inviting
another must advise the prospective Applicant that admission to the
Order depends upon the Applicant's plea and his or her qualifications;
and the members must also make it plain that a Membership Com
mittee will pass upon the application in a formal and regular way.
Applications which pass the Membership Committee and seem
worthy of further consideration will be handed to the Secretary and
the Master shall appoint some Member or Members to call upon
such Applicants (or have them call upon the Members), and inter-
view them.
[25]
The said Application blanks are then voted upon by the Lodge or
the Lodge Council (see Constitution of the Order), and if there are
not two or more reasonable objections against the admission of the
Applicant (two black balls cast upon reasonable and sufficient
grounds) the said Applicant is elected to Membership and must be
so notified; he shall then call upon the Secretary and advance the
proper Initiation Fee and be informed of the date of Initiation.
ENTERING THE LODGE— (Guardian's Examination)
In order to enter one of our regular Lodges, each Applicant for
Admission, claiming to be a Member, must submit to an Examination
by the Guardian, at the door of the Lodge. This is an ancient custom,
and should be rigidly adhered to by all Guardians, as a matter of
form. In fact, it will be proper for the Guardian not only to demand
the proper Password from each applicant for admission, as well as a
Membership Card, but to test the Members occasionally, as regards
the rightful possession of the Password.
The possession of either a Membership Card or the Password of
any Degree, or both, does not constitute a benefit or right by which
the possessor can demand admittance into one of our Lodge Temples.
Both, or either of these possessions, may be unlawfully known or
owned by a man or woman. It is the duty of the Guardian to learn
whether this is so or not.
A legitimate Member, properly possessing a Membership Card,
may present a Password of some higher degree than that in which he
or she may be properly registered. Therefore, the mere possession or
knowledge of a Password is not sufficient evidence of a Member's
standing in the Order. This point must be determined by each
Guardian, to his or her own thorough satisfaction.
Naturally, the question arises —and perhaps will never be thor-
oughly settled —as to what constitutes thorough satisfaction, in some
cases. All that each Guardian can do, and MUST DO, is to make
himself or herself feel that every fair test has been applied, when there
is any doubt, and, if still doubtful, leave the matter to the Master of
the Lodge, who will make the final test and decide.
The Guardian and Master cannot be too exact in the questions
asked, and the answers returned. In other words, the Member should
PROVE his or her Initiation into the Degree where admission is now
sought, regardless of the possession of the Password or Membership
Card or even Demit,
All such tests should be given in private, where the Member cannot
be coached by any other person. Likewise, the Guardian should be
sure, in testing or asking a Member for the Password at the Temple
door, that no one else hears such Password given. The Password
should always be whispered to the Guardian at the door.
Vouching for Visitors. A visiting Member may be vouched for
by another Member of a Lodge, if the Member so vouching can assure
the Guardian that he or she has actually seen the visiting Member in
[26]
one of our Lodges, at some time when a regular convocation or lecture
was in session; or if the Member so vouching can assure the Guardian
that the visiting Member has passed every test as to the rightful pos
session of a Password, and the vouching Member further knows, by
lawful or satisfactory evidence, that the visitor is a duly and properly
Initiated Member of some Degree of our Order. In such a case, the
Guardian can demand the Password in the usual way, ask for the
Membership Card, and then admit the visitor to the Lodge.
Membership Cards must be shown, upon demand, by all Members,
and the Card must show that all dues of the Lodge to which the
Member belongs have been paid up to within three months. No one
shall be admitted to any Lodge (their own or another), unless dues
are paid up to within three months. In some Lodges or Jurisdictions,
if dues are in arrears three months (more or less) , the Member cannot
enjoy the privileges of Active Membership. The only guide for
Guardians, in the case of visiting Members, is to set four months as
the limit for arrears. Naturally, Members presenting Demits should
have a Membership Card, showing all dues paid up to the time of
Demit. New dues in the Lodge to which transferred, must begin at
the time of admission to such Lodge.
Responsibility for Admission to Lodges. The Guardians as well as
the Masters are responsible to the Order and the Supreme Grand
Lodge for the admission into any Lodge of any one who is not a
properly Initiated Member in good standing.
If a visitor wishes to attend one full Degree, or take an Initiation,
he should secure a Demit from his own Lodge for the time of his visit.
VISITORS
Visitors to a Lodge must submit to the rules and laws of such
Lodge and the Constitution of the Order. Visits to a Lodge cannot
extend over a period of more than three months, after which time
a visitor must be transferred to such Lodge. During the time of
visiting a Lodge, whether in the same city or another city than that
in which the Member's own Lodge is located, a visitor must pay his
or her regular dues to the Lodge to which he or she belongs. By
showing a Membership Card to the Secretary of a Lodge, indicating
that the dues have been paid to one's parent Lodge, one may visit
any Lodge without paying dues to such Lodge. Arrears in dues to
any parent Lodge of more than three months (including the present
month), will prohibit a Member from visiting a Lodge.
Visitors to a Lodge are to be considered as guests of the Lodge,
and, if officers of another Lodge, are to occupy seats in the East with
the Master of the Lodge visited.
Visitors may attend only those sessions of such Degree as they were
in during their regular attendance at the parent Lodge. If a visit is
made to a Lodge during any other Degree session, the Master may, if
deemed advisable, suspend all Degree Work for a half hour, open the
[27]
Lodge in the First Degree, and permit the visitor to be introduced to
his Lodge.
National Lodge Members, or those in the Postulant Grades (Cor
respondence Grades) of the Supreme Lodge, may visit or attend only
general sessions or Feast Ceremonies of a regular Temple.
TRANSFERS
Members may be transferred from one Lodge to another only when
the Member intends or expects to be a Member of the Lodge to which
he is transferred, for three months or more. If a Member wishes to
attend another Lodge for less than three months, he or she must be
classed as a visitor to that Lodge, and be subject to the hospitality of
such Lodge.
Continued visits to any Lodge should be made only when a Member
is in another city than that in which his own Lodge is located.
When a Member is transferred to a Lodge, and presents to that
Lodge a properly signed demit, the Secretary of such Lodge should
give precedence to such transferred Member over all other Applicants
for admission to that Lodge, should there be a waiting list for ad-
mission.
Upon transfer, the Member must assume all the obligations and
dues of the Lodge to which he is transferred, regardless of what they
may have been in a former Lodge.
DEMITS
Section 136
A member in good standing in a subordinate Lodge may affiliate
with another subordinate Lodge. He shall apply to the Secretary of
his Lodge in writing stating the name of the Lodge with which he
seeks affiliation. The Secretary shall forward the letter to the Grand
Secretary who shall send a certificate to the Secretary of the Lodge
wherein membership is desired, showing that the applicant is a mem
ber in good standing, and the subordinate Lodge shall admit him to
membership without further proceedings or initiation.
Section 137
No certificate of good standing issued by the Grand Lodge shall
be valid or recognized by any subordinate Lodge after thirty days of
its issuance. If the member cannot or does not complete his transfer
within thirty days, he must, in the interim, maintain good standing in
the Grand Lodge or his former subordinate Lodge, as the case may be.
Section 138
A member who has paid or offers to pay all his dues in a sub
ordinate Lodge may apply to the Secretary for a demit from such
subordinate Lodge. The Secretary shall issue the demit and inform
the Grand Secretary of that fact. Such demit shall not affect Grand
[28]
Lodge standing of the member who shall thereafter have the status
of Grand Lodge National Member.
Section 139
A member who has paid or offers to pay all his dues in the
Grand Lodge may apply to the Grand Secretary for a demit and
the Grand Secretary shall issue same. The member receiving such
demit shall have the status of inactive membership in the Grand Lodge.
He may resume active membership at any time
if,
during inactive
status, his life and conduct has been such as required of active mem
bers in good standing.
THE ANTE-CHAMBER OF A TEMPLE
This
is
the room in which the Initiates are first prepared for Initia
tion in the various Degrees. On such occasions
it
shall be guarded by
the Guardian of the Temple, assisted by the Deputy Master. In the
First Degree Initiation, this room
is
in charge of the Conductor of the
Lodge, and no one may enter
it
without the permission of the Con
ductor, unless so decreed by the Master.
THE CHAMBER OF A TEMPLE
This
is
a
Secret Room, wherein the first part of the First Initiation
is
conducted.
It
is
the Chamber of the Cross, the Abiding Place of
Life and "Death," the Tomb of Silence, and the Place of Terror. All
these names have been applied to
it
in the past, and each expresses
to the mind of the Initiate its function in the First Degree Initiation.
This Chamber
is
guarded, at First Degree Initiations, first by the
Conductor in the Ante-Chamber, then by the Herald, and then by
the Torch Bearer.
When not used for Ceremonies,
it
should be reverenced and kept
undefiled by the uninitiated. Nothing should ever occur in
it
to pro
fane
it
(such as levity, unbecoming conduct, or profane labor) .
THE THRESHOLD OF THE TEMPLE
This
is
the Most Beloved place in each Lodge to the Initiated, for
it
represents the Doorway to Light and Knowledge.
It
is
the Entrance from the Chamber to the Lodge, and, in the First
Degree Initiation,
is
guarded by the Guardian of the Temple, while
any other entrance to the Lodge
is
guarded by the Secretary or
Deputy Master.
The Threshold should never be crossed after or between convoca
tions or lectures, without due reverence being shown by the trespasser,
standing upon the Threshold and making the Sign of the Cross, while
facing the interior of the Lodge.
It
represents the Passage from Darkness to Light, and from finite
life to infinite life.
[29]
THE TEMPLE
The word is derived from the Latin tempos —time. To us, the true
Temple of which we hope to be Masters, is the body of man, finding
its counterpart in the Universe, which is the Temple of God.
The term Temple is applied to our buildings, devoted to the wor
ship of God and God's laws, wherein are Chambers for study, work,
and meditation. Because of the sacredness of such study, work, and
meditation, our Temples are sacred, and must be so considered and
regarded, passively and actively, by all Members. "As above, so be
low." The Temple of God is universal, non-sectarian, charged with
Cosmic powers and vibrating forces, and designed by the Master
Architect to continue His creative work in love, goodness, and justice;
so our Temples should represent a place where universal minds, re
gardless of creeds or dogmas, may abide, attuned with such vibratory
forces within as make for love, goodness, justice, and peace, that
Nature may continue her creation without interruption or inter
ference.
THE LODGE
Within our sacred Temples there are many Chambers, the principal
one being the Lodge. The Lodge is the Central Chamber of all Tem
ples, devoted to the general convocations and formal study of God's
Works. It is, therefore, the "inner" or "middle" Chamber, the Soul
of the Temple, the first circle within the great circle—the Holy
Sanctum, the "abiding place of the Presence of God."
Our Lodges also represent the surface of the earth, with four
cardinal points or horizons—East, South, West, and North, with
earth, fire, and water beneath our feet, and air and "Nous" overhead,
beyond which are the "stars and sky" —the immaterial world.
The Lodge is arranged so that it serves its purpose and performs
its functions symbolically and practically. Its appointments are such
as make for efficiency in the Work to be done, and regularity in
practices performed therein. These arrangements and appointments
are explained hereinafter.
The Furnishings of a Lodge of our Order are standardized, and
serve the excellent purpose of providing the necessary articles and
means for Work and Worship. These, too, are explained hereinafter.
THE "EAST"
The "East" of the Lodge is the first point on the horizon, and,
therefore, the most important point of direction in the Lodge to all
Rosicrucians. It was in the East that man first saw the "Symbol of
Life," and knew, by what he saw, that God's Laws were mechanically
and mathematically perfect. The diurnal rising of the Sun, with such
infinite exactness, after a period of transition from ebbing life at the
West, to its dismal darkness of the North, likewise teaches man that
life is continuous and immortal, rising again and again in the East,
the South, and the West.
[30]
In the East is the new life begun. From the East comes forth the
Glory of God, "which is of God." Therefore, in our Lodges, the East
is the point in which all Brothers and Sisters seek that Dawn of Illu
mination and Divine Resurrection, from the "dismal darkness of the
West," as will make them free from the superstitions of darkness
(ignorance) and the fears of night (evil).
For this reason, the East is always respected and saluted, as the
"place of Divine Illumination and Resurrection." It must be so
regarded at all times, and must never be occupied by the profane (un-
illuminated, uninitiated) or the unworthy.
THE "SOUTH"
The "South," in our Lodges, is that point where the Sun (source
of illumination) shines in the greatest glory and strength, and finds
the culmination of its ascendency in the realm of Heaven (spiritU-
ality). Therefore, this point is where the Divine Mind finds fullest
(spiritual) expression, and is occupied in all Lodges by the Chaplain,
the spiritual representative of God in His Temple.
From the "South" shall come words of prayer and holy blessings,
in all matters of our Work and Service for God and Man.
THE "WEST"
In the "West," the Sun of life slowly resigns itself to the close of
its journey, and, in radiant splendor, goes to rest in the "arms of the
Mother" (peace and quiet).
The "West" in our Lodges is that point where the Brothers and
Sisters seek peace, rest, and attunement with the Cosmic, through
silent prayer and meditation. It is where the Matre (mother) of the
Lodge awaits the coming of her children, and welcomes them ever to
"rest awhile and tarry in Communion with God."
THE "NORTH"
The place of "dismal darkness," where the Sun sheds not its glorious
light. It is the abyss of evil, the valley of death (stagnation), the
realm of darkness (ignorance), the hours of night (evil).
It is "the place from whence cometh naught but desire to come
hither," hence it is the place or point in the Lodge, where the Seeker
for Light (applicant) dwelleth, and the Neophyte (now Initiate)
enters the Lodge in search of more light.
THE ALTAR
In the East of the Lodge is situated the Altar of the Master, who
represents the Greater Light, and is, in fact, the Lesser Light in all
Lodge convocations, except when the "Vestal Light may more symbols
cally represent the rising of the Greater Light in all its glory."
Sacred and Holy shall the Altar be, that from its bosom may
come Intellectual and Spiritual Illumination, equal to the physical
illumination given by the Sun.
[31]
THE SHEKINAH
In the center of the Lodge, where lines from the four points of the
horizon would meet, is the Heart of the Soul of the Temple.
This point —the fifth point of the Lodge—is occupied by the
Sacred Triangle, called the Shekinah (pronounced she-ky-nah, with
accent on the middle syllable).
The Shekinah is the Symbolical Place, representing "the Presence
of God in our Midst."
It is "the point within the inner circle." (The outer circle is the
Temple; the inner circle is the Lodge.)
Thus, it is "the triangle within the two circles."
It indicates, therefore, that God is in all places (Lodges—meeting
places) , in all times (Temple —time) ; therefore, He is omnipresent.
The Shekinah is illuminated at all convocations, to symbolize the
"fire and fervor, flame and light" of the Divine Presence.
Three candles are used upon the Shekinah, to remind us of the
law that with no less than three "points" can perfect manifestations
exist.
The Shekinah is placed with its third point (having the shortest
candle) toward the West, so that the "Presence of God" may mani
fest in the West, where dwell the Children of Light in peace, love,
and meditation.
The outer two points of the Shekinah are toward the North and
South.
The Shekinah receives its power through the Sacred, Mystical
Vibrations generated in the East of the Lodge, and which radiate
through the Sanctum toward the Shekinah, which is the focal point
for such Vibrations. Thus, the "Presence of God" is carried in Vibra-
tions from the East to the "Heart of the Soul of the Temple."
THE SANCTUM
In each Lodge there is a place, a condition, called the Sanctum.
It is located between the Shekinah and the Altar. The Holy Place
occupies all the space between the Eastern edge of the Shekinah and
the Western line of the Altar, but does not reach to both sides of the
Lodge. The Southern and Northern boundaries of this space are
determined by leaving on each side of the Lodge sufficient walking
space —about two and one-half to three feet —for reaching either the
Northern or Southern sides of the Altar. The remainder of the space
between the Altar and the Shekinah forms the Holy Sanctum.
In the Sanctum, at its Easterly end, in front of the Altar, is the
Vestal Stand, and the "station" of Colombe.
The Sanctum is kept holy, and reserved exclusively for certain
points or parts of sacred Ceremonies or Convocations held in the
Lodge, and must not be used for other purposes.
It is also the place where Neophytes and Members stand for the
taking of Sacred Oaths and Obligations, and where Brothers and
Sisters are Knighted or Titled.
[32]
Trespassing between the Altar and the Shekinah, or in other words,
"crossing the Sanctum," is not only forbidden to all but the Master
or Colombe, but is a "serious and grievous error, bringing a lesson
from the Cosmic upon the Lodge, and more especially upon the
trespasser."
The foundation for such a solemn warning is in the statement
previously made (see Shekinah), wherein it is explained, that from
the Altar comes forth
" Life, Light, and Love," and the Shekinah
receives its power (the Presence of God) from the Vibrations passing
from the Altar to the Shekinah. This would make the Sanctum a
place always charged with sacred Vibrations, and trespassing between
the Altar and the Shekinah would interrupt the flow of such Vibra
tions, and disturb the Harmony established there.
The Master has the authority, in fact, command, to reprimand one
who will defile the Sanctum by trespassing upon it from North to
South or South to North. When the Sanctum is entered for any
legitimate purpose, he who enters it may pass only to the center of
it,
and must leave
it
from the same point by which he entered it. Like-
wise must each who enters
it
immediately face the East, from the
center of
it,
and make the "Sign of the Cross" before doing that
act or performing that function which necessitated entrance into the
Sanctum.
In leaving the Sanctum, he who entered
it
must not only leave by
the same point of entrance, but the exit must be made by stepping
backward, and always facing the East.
THE MASTER
"For he who
is
greatest among you, shall be the greatest Servant
unto all."
The Master of every Lodge
is
the Master-Servant. That title and
position has been bestowed upon one because of ability, character,
worthiness, and willingness to serve.
The Master of each Lodge
is,
by virtue of the Constitution, the
autocratic executive of the Lodge, limited in his acts only by the
Constitution and the Decrees of the Imperator, the Supreme Grand
Master, or the American Supreme Council.
Symbolically, he
is
the Greatest Light of each Temple and each
Lodge. He
is
the Imperator
s
representative in each Temple, and the
Supreme Grand Master's representative in each Lodge.
His place
is
in the East, from whence all Knowledge comes. He
stands in the East at all convocations and lectures, to act as
a
medium
—the Master Messenger —for the Radiation of Light and the Dis
semination of Knowledge.
[33]
The Supreme Grand Master shall be addressed as: The Most Wor-
shipful Supreme Grand Master. During all convocations he shall be
saluted as hereinafter explained (see Salutations), and in all ways
shown that respect, consideration, and honor due his noble, unselfish,
and autocratic position.
In Subordinate Lodges the Master shall be addressed as: The
'Worthy Master. He shall be saluted and respected like unto a Grand
Master, so far as form and ceremony are concerned, although amc
nable to the Grand Master of his Jurisdiction and its Grand Council.
THE MATRE
The mother of each Lodge holds therein a position akin to that of
the Master. Her station is in the West, where the Sun retires in glory,
and life closes its material activities and finds sweet repose.
She is Mother in a material and spiritual sense to the children of
each Lodge (the Brothers and Sisters) , and to her should be confided
those intimate personal problems of life which none but a mother can
understand. Then she, in turn, may secretly and in strict confidence
seek the help of the Master of her Lodge and such Brothers and Sisters
as can render the material or spiritual help necessary.
How often are there small problems, delicate and intimate affairs
which burden our hearts and tax our greatest endeavors to overcome.
And —how many of these often roll away into insignificance or become
nil, when once we confide them to Mother! Mother who understands,
mother who sympathizes, mother who \nows and trusts and loves and
sacrifices that we may be happy.
Let us ever keep the name, the spirit, the holy God-purpose of
Mother sacred and sweet; and never may we be too proud to kneel
before the warm heart and kind smile of our Matre, and find in her
sweet repose and Peace Profound at any time.
THE VESTAL FIRE
This Symbolical furnishing of all Lodges of our Order occupies a
place directly in front of the Altar in the East. The stand, on which
the Vestal's Urn is placed, should be at least two feet from the edge
of the Altar, to permit room for the Vestal (Colombe) to stand be
tween it and the Altar.
In the days of old, every Lodge was furnished with a Vestal Altar,
on which a Holy Fire burned continuously day and night and was
attended by a caretaker, or a blue light, burning during all convo-
cations in Lodges.
In our Lodges of today, the Vestal Altar may be replaced by a
Stand of some kind, appropriate in design, and surmounted by a
metal Urn, in which Incense is burned to represent the ancient "Vestal
Fire," and wherein the "Lesser Light" is demonstrated at Initiations.
The soft "blue light" of medieval times may be used also, by having
a light with a blue globe burning on the Vestal Stand in the Lodge.
[34]
THE VESTAL COLOMBE
The Vestal of each Lodge is the ritualistic "Colombe." Aside
from her ritualistic work, she should see that the "blue light" or
incense fire, or both, on the Vestal Stand are lighted for each
convocation.
She should have a permanent seat, at the right side of the Vestal
Stand, and this must never be occupied by any other Officer or
Member of the Order. A visiting Vestal should be seated at the
left side of the Vestal Stand.
The Colombe of each Lodge represents "Life, Light, and Love,"
also the Conscience of each Brother and Sister of the Lodge.
In all convocations, ceremonies, lectures, Council hearings, or dis
cussions, she should have precedence over all others, excepting the
Master, in voicing any sentiment or directing any act of Ceremony
or Rite. "When Colombe speaks, all shall be silent!" says an old
law of the Temple; for from the Mouth of a Child comes Wisdom,
and from the Bosom of Conscience comes Truth.
Colombes must be less than 18 years of age, when appointed to
their office, and not younger than 13 years of age. Each must serve
until 21 years of age, during which time they must retain their virtue
(remaining unmarried). They are retired with honor on their 21st
birthday, when a successor is installed with fitting Ceremony.
Colombes are, in fact, "Brides of the Order" during their term of
office. They shall be initiated and attend one of the regular classes
for instruction.
TO THE VESTAL COLOMBE
By Charles Cline Hubbard
Beautiful Character, True Herald of the Cycle's New Progression—
The New, Pure Womanhood of a Newer, Purer Race—before
Thy Heart s Most Holy Shrine in solemn-toned Confession
My thoughts, true-homaged all attend, Thy Pureness to adore!
Sweet Vestal, the worldly masters scoffed at Thee, Thy garments
sought to mar,
Jeered at Thee, and laughed at Thee; but with forgiving sweetness,
Ensconced with Rose and Cross, Thou sought that ever Perfect Land,
Wherein Thy God awaited Thee with the Crown of His Com
pleteness!
And now, Sweet Dove of Purest Womanhood, the Temple Bells
soft ringing
Their mellow tones of Holy Gladness, pause, whilst there surround
Thee
Friends whose faces all familiar are, Thy entrance gladly singing,
For thou art, Thyself, the Cycles Evolution —its own Eternity!
[35]
•a 13"
enr-
u □«
THE
SANCTUM
J «d
UU /»
0
HULL
RECEPTION HALL.
DIAGRAM OF Rv Cv TEMPLE AND LODGE
[36]
EXPLANATION OF THE DIAGRAM
V V V
The diagram represents a typical Rosicrucian Temple with its sta-
tions and appointments. When Lodges plan their own Temples this
diagram should be as closely adhered to as possible.
The figures on the diagram have the following indications:
1. The Masters Chair on the triangular dais in the East—with
triangular lectern in front of his chair.
2 and 3. Seats for Visiting Masters.
4. The Vestal Chair.
5. The Vestal Stand.
6. The Deputy Master's Chair.
7. The Secretary's Chair at a desk.
8. The Treasurer's Chair at a desk.
9. The Precentor's Chair.
10. The Organist's Chair.
(Note: If the organ is placed on the opposite side of the Lodge,
then the chairs numbered 6, 9, and 10 should be changed likewise.)
11. The Conductor's Chair.
12. The Chaplain's Station and Chair.
13. The Herald's Chair.
14. The Shekinah with Candles.
15. The Stool.
16. The Medalist's Chair.
17. The High Priestess' Station and Chair.
18. The Torch Bearer's Chair.
19. The Threshold.
20. The Guardian's Chair at Temple Entrance.
21. The Matre's Station and Chair.
22. The Rosy Cross in the Chamber.
23 and 24. Seats for Visiting Officers.
For a description of the other parts of the Temple and Lodge read
the definition of various terms in the Manual herewith.
[37]
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS
Reference has been made many times in the preceding pages to
the sign of the Cross. An explanation of this term and Sign is
necessary.
Briefly written, in ancient manuscript and in Official papers, the
term is expressed or indicated by "S. C." Again, the term and sign
is expressed by a cross (+), while often words, "Sign of the +,"
are used.
The Sign itself is made as follows: Starting with the left hand
at the side of the body, hanging in a natural position, the right hand
is brought up to a place on a level with the chest, but about six to ten
inches in front of the body. The fingers of the right hand are closed,
except the thumb and first and second fingers, which are extended
and brought together at the finger tips, the fingers pointing outward
from the body.
Then the right hand, with fingers held as described, starts to make
the Sign, by moving the hand upward, in a perfectly perpendicular
line, until the hand is about opposite the throat. Then the hand is
brought downward in a curved line, to a place about opposite the left
breast; then straight across in a horizontal line at right angles to the
perpendicular line, to a place opposite the right breast; then, on a
curved line like an arc, to a level with the throat, where the Sign
began, and downward on another perpendicular line to the navel.
Then drop the right hand to the side.
These perpendicular and horizontal lines cross each other opposite
the heart, at which place on the Cross the Rose is placed. At no
time should the hand and fingers come nearer the body than six
inches. The Sign is not made toward one's body, but from
it,
and
away from the person making the Sign.
It
should be made slowly and with dignity and sincere reverence.
It
represents the Obligation and Oath, taken by all Initiates at the
time of the First Degree Initiation, and at other times in Ceremonies
and Convocations. The various lines formed in making this sign con-
tain many ancient symbols and signs.
It
is
used by Masters, Officers, and Members, when taking or in-
dicating
a
solemn Obligation to the Order or its Members.
It
should
never be supplanted by any form of pledge. Even in courts of law,
and elsewhere, when one
is
called upon to pledge to an oath or state
ment, by placing the hands upon the Holy Bible, or by raising the
hand, the Sign of the Cross should be used in preference. In Amer-
ica, one
is
privileged to use whatever form, for taking an oath, that
is
the most sacred to the maker of the oath; this permits the Rosi-
crucians to vow their allegiance to an obligation or swear to any
statement, in court or out of
it,
by making the Sign of the Cross, in
preference to any other form. And this preference should always
be shown, explaining,
if
called upon to do so, that to you "The Sign
thus made
is
the most sacred and binding of any." FOR IT CALLS
[38]
UPON THE MAKER TO TELL THE TRUTH REGARDLESS
OF ALL COSTS AND ALL CONSEQUENCES, mindful of the
Terror of the Threshold and warning of your Conscience.
SALUTATIONS
The following Salutations shall be used by all Members, under the
circumstances indicated:
Entering the Lodge. Whenever a convocation is being held in
a Lodge or a lecture is to begin, and the Lodge is open to Members,
all Members must approach the door of the Lodge, and, in a whisper,
give the regular Password for such Degree as may be working in the
Lodge, to the Guardian at the door. If demanded, the Member must
submit to an examination (see Examination hereinafter). Unless
the Password can be given, admission to the Lodge will be denied
by the Guardian.
After entering the Lodge, the Member must make a Salutation
to the East. This is done by the Member walking quietly to a
point just West of the Shekinah, facing the East, and, with the left
forefinger, making that Sign which was made in the First Degree
Initiation, when all Initiates faced thusly in the First Solemn Ob
ligation of Service. The purpose of such Salutation, when first en-
tering a Lodge, is to indicate that the Member renews, or signifies his
remembrance of, the Obligation taken in the First Degree Initiation.
After such Salutory Sign the Member may take his seat. This is
the general Sign of Salutation in all Jurisdictions.
Saluting the Master. If, during any convocation or lecture, a
Member shall await the first opportunity to interrupt the Master,
and then shall rise in front of his or her seat and face the East, then,
when the Master observes this, make the Sign of the Cross. The
Master will then say: "How may I serve my Brother?" (or Sister).
Then the Member shall say: "Most Worshipful Grand Master,"
or "Worshipful Grand Master," or "Worthy Master," and proceed
to ask the question, make a plea, ask for permission to leave the
Lodge, etc. While thus speaking, the Member must face the East,
and speak with dignity. When finished speaking, the Member must
take his or her seat quietly, or do that thing which was desired,
without interrupting the convocation or lecture.
THE OBLIGATION OF SERVICE
All Initiates in the First Degree Initiation are called upon to
stand in the Holy Sanctum of the Lodge, and, facing the East, make
a certain Sign and at the same time repeat after the Master the
following sacred Obligation, which is voluntarily taken, and is forever
binding upon all Members:
"Before the Sign of the Cross, and in the name of our God, I
promise to forever do my utmost to restore to the world the light
which is gone and the Secrets which are best for Man to know."
This Obligation of Service makes it imperative for the Members
to study and practice, to test and try the secret Laws taught in our
[39]
Order, and TO APPLY THEM AT EVERY OPPORTUNE TIME,
so that the LIGHT which is gone may be restored and darkness
(ignorance and evil) dispelled.
LODGE DECORUM
It should not be necessary to speak on this subject to a Rosicrucian;
for all appreciate the Sanctity and goodness of the Temple and the
Lodge.
Once within the Lodge Room, the Members must refrain from
loud conversation or unnecessary walking about. Bear in mind that
some within the Lodge may be in deep meditation, requiring silence;
others may be conducting silent and sacred convocations. Entrance
into the Lodge should not disturb these silent workers.
LEAVING THE LODGE
At the close of all convocations or lectures, after the Master has
properly closed the Work and bid the Members depart, they shall
remain standing before their seats, facing the East, until the Master
has stepped from the Altar in the East and slowly proceeded down
the Lodge and out of the door, into the Ante-Chamber. Then the
Members may quietly move toward the door, or hold their informal
meeting until the Lodge is finally closed by the Guardian, by an-
nouncing that all must leave, and the Lodge room be closed for
the time.
LECTURES
The principal teachings of the Order are given to the Members
in the form of lectures, either orally at the regular convocations
of each degree in the Temple Lodge, or, in the instance of the
National student, in manuscript form. In fact, each Degree of our
Order consists of an Initiation and from twelve to fifty or more
lectures. In the Higher Degrees the lectures for each Degree in
crease in number.
These lectures are given by the Master to the Members, by read-
ing and illustrating the definite lesson for the day. These lectures
are prepared by the Imperator's Staff at the Supreme Grand Lodge,
and sent in typewritten form, sealed and protected, to the Masters
of all Lodges of our North American Jurisdiction.
All Lodges receive identically the same lectures. In the West
Indies, the lessons are translated (after being received) into Spanish
and so given. In New York, in an Italian and a French Lodge, the
lessons are translated by the Masters into Italian and French, and
so given. Nothing is added to the Work or Teachings by the Masters,
as personal opinion, unless so stated to the Members at the time.
The teachings given to the Members at the Supreme Grand
Lodge are likewise the same as those given to other Lodges. The
Imperator instructs only one Degree at the Supreme Grand Lodge—
the highest Degree. The other three or four degrees meeting there
weekly, on different nights, receive instructions from Brothers who
[40]
have been selected for such work and who are Members of a special
class in Oratory and Reading, preparing themselves, under very
competent instructors, to become excellent speakers and readers for
National Work in our Order.
The teachings are modified or added to, from time to time, ac
cording to new findings here or abroad. Such changes or additions
will be sent to each Lodge, to be given to the Members.
There is no particular advantage in attending the lectures in the
Supreme Lodge in preference to other Lodges. In all Lodges there
are those who do Research Work between lectures and are prepared
at each lecture to ask intelligent questions or enter into the discussion
of the lecture. Therefore, it behooves every Master to encourage
the asking of questions and the discussion of points contained in
the lectures.
When questions are asked of the Master which he cannot an
swer from our point of view, he will frankly state so, and may
then write to the Supreme Grand Lodge for the answer.
When questions are asked which the Master believes call for
answers pertaining to Work covered in higher Degrees, the Master
shall properly refrain from answering the question and defer it to
a later Degree.
"ROSAE CRUCIS"
This is the Latin form of the name, and is generally used in all
countries because it lends itself very readily to use in all languages
and at the same time is a complete explanation of the true meaning.
The words, translated into English, mean: "Of the Rosy Cross."
Therefore, the words "of the" should never precede the words "Rosae
Crucis." The name of our Order is Ancient and Mystical Order
Rosae Crucis. Order Rosae Crucis is a shorter way of writing the
name, and it means: Order of the Rosy Cross. The Official abbre
viation of the name, however, is, as given in the American Con
stitution, A. M. O. R. C.
The words Rosae Crucis are never translated when used in other
languages. For instance: Our Grand Lodge in West India, con
ducted in the Spanish tongue, translates the name Ancient and
Mystical Order Rosae Crucis as follows: Antigua, y Mistica Orden
Rosae Crucis.
ROSY CROSS
This term is not used officially by our Order, except as an ex
planation of the term Rosae Crucis. The reason for this is two-fold.
By using Rosae Crucis instead, we adhere to the foreign custom.
And we likewise keep from identifying ourselves with any of the
commercial propositions in America, using the term Rosy Cross as
titles for written*to-sell books which have nothing to do with our
work, or as the name for colonization schemes, classes, etc.
[41]
THE ROSE AND THE CROSS
A book might be written upon the subject of the Symbology or
Mystical meaning of the Rose and the Cross. The most popular
explanation of these two symbols —the one which writers in encyclo
pedias love to use with great show of seeming authority —is that the
Cross and the Rose have much to do with dew and other alchemical
terms. This is simply a fanciful, though satisfactory, explanation
for the casual reader. It is not the Truth, however.
So far as legend is concerned, we are informed in our own records
that man first used the Symbol of the Cross when, in Egypt, or pos-
sibly Atlantis, a Mystic stood at sunrise upon a plane, and, looking
toward the East, he raised his arms to a level with his shoulders
in adoration of the Sun—the giver of life. Then, turning to face the
West to salute the place where life ended, symbolically, he found
that his arms and body, while in the act of salutation, formed a
shadow on the ground before him, cast by the rising sun. The
shadow was in the form of the Cross, and to him it meant that life
was but a shadow—the shadow of the Cross.
An explanation, often offered by the wise, is that the origin of
the Cross was in the crux ansata of the Egyptians —the cross with
the oval opening at top, often seen in Egyptian designs and used
symbolically in Egyptian and mystical Eastern writings. The crux
ansata, called the cross of life, was designed by the Egyptians' and
Mystics to represent the continuity or immortality of life. The
statement that in time the oval, or upper part of the crux ansata was
closed into one perpendicular piece, thereby giving the original of
the Cross we use, is a mistake, for in our records we find, as will
others find, on the oldest Egyptian records of Mysticism and history,
both crosses used in the same period. They seemed to come into
existence about the same time—at that time when the Master Minds
of the Orient were originating and creating symbols which would
have definite meanings in the minds of the learned students. If the
Cross and other symbols confuse and perplex the wise today, it is
not to be wondered at that in the days gone by there were many
who saw naught in these symbols but arbitrary marks of indefinite
character.
The Rose, on the other hand, offers little trouble to the student
of Symbology. Its fragrance, its cycle of budding into life, maturing
into full bloom and sweetness and then dropping to decay and dust,
represent the Cycle of Life—even human life. That the seed of the
disintegrating Rose should drop to earth and in earth find again the
opportunity to be reborn, typifies the Mystic's understanding of the
continuity of life, or reincarnation.
In our Work, the Cross represents many things esoterically; like
wise the Rose. But exoterically, the Rose represents Secrecy and
Evolution, while the Cross represents the Labors and Burdens of Life
and the karma which we must endure in our earthly existence.
[42]
In our ritual of the First Degree Initiation, there is this reference
to the Cross and the Rose : "Life is represented by Light, Aspiration
by the Rose and the Cross, and Death by Darkness." From this
we would learn that Aspiration—the desire to do, to serve, to ac
complish, and to Master and finally attain—is possible through the
\arma (cross) we must endure and the evolution (rose) we attain
thereby.
THE TRIANGLES
There has been much discussion as to why we use as a Symbol
the Inverted Triangle. Just why the triangle with point downward
is called inverted, has not been explained to us. There is no reason,
except Mystically, why a triangle, such as ours, should have any
definite position. A triangle is always a triangle, regardless of posi
tion, and to use the word inverted is to presume that the triangle
has a proper position of some kind which can be inverted
We are not unaware of the fact that certain organizations in
America have used the triangle with the point upward as a Mystical
Sign, but this did not give to that position of the triangle any proper
or just position which should not be varied.
But the very best—and truthful— explanation for our use of the
triangle in this fashion is the fact that it was used by the old Mystics
of Egypt and possibly Atlantis, to represent the Divine (or so-called
spiritual) creations of the Universe, while the triangle with the point
upward was used to represent the material creations of the world.
(The pyramids of Egypt typify the material triangle.)
The doctrine of the trinity is an after-creation of the old Mystical
law of the triangle. By comparing the laws given in our Temple
lectures regarding the two triangles (in the First Degree Temple
Lectures) with this doctrine, one will find at once the similarity,
as well as an explanation of why the triangle with the point down
ward represents Divine or Spiritual Creations.
Throughout the Work of the higher Degrees, the triangle or the
"law of three points," helps to solve many problems. In fact, in
the work being done at the Supreme Grand Lodge in the laboratory
or out of
it,
in chemistry, electricity, healing, music, and even in
the more subtle manifestations of nature's laws, the triangle in one
of its two positions
is
used and always becomes the final or grand
Universal Solvent.
The Cross within the Spiritual Triangle
is
one of the Official
Symbols of our Order and
is
a
very sacred Symbol. In one form or
another
it
is
to be found on every seal of every Lodge.
It
is
an
identifying mark not used by any other organization or society in
the world.
SECRECY
There seems to be some doubt in the minds of many of our Mem
bers, as to what
is
Secret in our Work and what
is
not. This doubt
may be removed by the following explanation:
The principal object of Secrecy in our Order,
is
to prevent those
who do not belong to our Order (those who have not been examined,
[43]
tested, tried, initiated, and instructed), from entering our sessions
and convocations, and enjoying those privileges or rights which our
Members enjoy, by virtue of their Obligations and Service.
Therefore, the Principles of Secrecy are associated with all that
transpires in each Initiation Ceremony, or immediately preceding or
following. In other words, those things which every Member is
bound by Oath to keep Secret are: The features of each Initiation
Ceremony, including what was said by the Master and each Officer,
as well as the Member, in the Temple Ceremony; and what was
done by the Master, Officers, and Member during, preceding or fol
lowing the Ceremony. This includes the methods of opening and
closing such Ceremonies, the terms, words, phrases, signs, symbols,
etc., used in the Temple, Lodge, or Outer Chambers on the evening
or day of such Initiations, as well as the Grips, Passwords, Saluta
tions, and Signs of Recognition.
The foregoing things are to be held sacredly Secret by the mem
bers. The first Oath, taken by every Initiate, taken before being
Initiated and signed by the Initiate's name in the Official Black Book
of each Lodge, is as follows: "Before the Sign of the Cross, I promise,
upon my honor, not to reveal to any one but a known Brother or
Sister of this Order, the Signs, Secrets, or Words which I may learn
prior to, during, or after passing through the First Degree." This
Oath, being taken prior to Membership, is considered binding upon
the Member for all Degrees. However, each Degree has its own
Oath, similar in substance to the foregoing, so far as Secrecy of Signs,
Words, and Symbols are concerned.
WHAT IS NOT SECRET
There is no obligation upon the Members of the Order, however,
to keep Secret all the laws and principles which they learn in our
lectures and teachings. It is not the purpose of the Order to educate
men and women in vital fundamental laws which they can never effi
ciently and properly use for the benefit of others. To say that none
of our laws or principles should be given or used outside of our Mem
bership, would defeat the very purpose of our Order.
Discretion must be used, however. Our Members are taught certain
vital laws, so that they may USE and apply them for the avowed
purposes of the Order. It will not generally help a man or woman
outside of our Order, who needs help, to explain to him or her the
workings of Natures laws. What is needed most in the average case
is to set into operation such laws and principles as will bring about
the results desired. Therefore, explanations which convey our laws
and principles are unnecessary, and sometimes defeat the purposes in
mind, and may, in other cases, cause trouble, worry, or ill effects.
But, there are cases where one will find it advisable, if not abso
lutely necessary, to explain to one outside of our Order the working
of some of Nature's laws; for such an understanding may do all that
is necessary to relieve a condition, or enable a troubled heart or sick
body to find Health, Happiness, and Peace Profound.
[44]
Certainly, no Member will find in this privilege a reason to take
all the lectures or teachings of our Order, or even part of them, and
use them for a basis of another school or system, and either sell the
instruction or publicly publish or teach it. The privilege which each
Member enjoys, in giving some principles or laws to those who need
them, makes discretion necessary, and when discretion is not used,
and wilfully cast aside, the Member violates sacred Obligations, and
will be forever cast outside the pale of the Great White Lodge. This
is why the true teachings have never been published in books.
Those who are sincerely interested, and worthy of Membership, at
some time, are easily recognized. To them the Order should be
spoken of carefully, and only casually, until they are discovered to be
anxious to unite in the Wor^ and Purposes of the Order. Then, and
only then, should they be invited by a Member to ma\e application,
as described herein.
In all ways, and in all things, maintain the dignity and austerity of
the Order, and always be watchful for the seeker for knowledge who
will greatly appreciate your bringing to his attention the existence of
the Order and the means of entering it.
[45]
per
V
Part Four
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
FOR ALL MEMBERS
The real benefits of membership in the AMORC—whether in the
regular Temple Lodges or in the National Lodge—are many, and the
most important are:
(1) Association with a body of men and women of like
mind and purpose, ever ready to assist and cooperate, as true
Brothers and Sisters;
(2) Association with a national and international staff of
Officers and Directors controlling an organization of wide
spread interests, unusual facilities, and distinct powers for the
carrying on of personal and practical work in behalf of man
kind generally and the Brothers and Sisters especially;
(3) The privilege of direct and immediate advice in per
sonal problems relating to health, business, social, financial, and
ethical matters;
(4) The very special benefit that comes through the grad
ual and proper change of one's view-point of all the essential
things of life, thereby eliminating the mysterious and perplex
ing matters which hold many in poverty, ill-health, and dis
content;
(5) The awakening and development of certain latent or
dormant faculties within each of us which will enable us to
improve our position in life, increase our ability to do and
accomplish, and bring greater success;
(6) The Cosmic and spiritual attunement with the Uni
versal Mind and Master Minds so that we may live in co
operation with the constructive Divine Laws and Loving
Divine Mind;
(7) The careful instruction and guidance in the attain
ment of such knowledge as will make us mighty and keen in
the understanding and mastering of life's duties and obliga
tions; also the complete instruction in the fundamentals of
those arts and sciences which will make each student, each
Member, strong in intellect, masterful in his daily occupation,
perfect in his understanding, broad in his comprehension, and
magnetic in his influence over the lesser minds of the world.
[47]
Our members will see, therefore, that of the seven points of benefits,
outlined above, only one, the SEVENTH, pertains to the course of
instruction, and that, therefore, to look upon membership in AMORC
as being simply a student of a school, is to ignore many of the more
important benefits.
And, it is a fact that the average member, or fully seventy- five out
of every hundred, have need every month for many of the other six
points of benefit, and in times of emergency, sorrow, distress, per-
plexity, or serious complications in personal affairs, the members find
more need for the first six benefits than for the seventh.
In many foreign lands where the members have been students for
ten to twenty years, and where they have long since completed the
regular courses of study included in the seventh benefit, they retain
active membership in the fraternity solely because of the other six
benefits.
The GREAT AIM of the Rosicrucians has ever been to assist all
mankind in evolving to the highest degree of earthly perfection, and
to render aid to every living being "to the Glory of God and the
Benefit of Mankind." This is covered in point number two in the
above list. But, to do this, the organization INCLUDES the very
complete courses of study.
Therefore, our members will see that the payment of their monthly
dues is not for the purpose of supporting the COURSE OF STUDY
or the WEEKLY LESSONS, but for the entire list of benefits, and
many others which are of such a personal nature and so diverse that
they could not be listed here without consuming many pages. The real
SECRET BENEFITS of association with the Rosicrucians have al-
ways been the outstanding LIGHTS which have brought thousands
to the portals of each branch of the Order yearly, humbly seeking
permission to make the acquaintance of those who would invite them
to unite with the Order.
The course of study may be set aside at times through changes in
one's daily routine of living, or through temporary changes in envi
ronment, and for other reasons, but the other benefits of membership
continue at all times, so long as a member remains in active mem
bership.
On the other hand, as we have said, the mere payment of the
monthly dues, without giving any thought to the studies, without
attempting to render service to others, and live the progressive, con
structive life of a true Rosicrucian, WILL NOT CONSTITUTE
GOOD STANDING IN THE ORDER.
For this reason, members of the Order are urged to make regular
reports of their studies, their experiences, or their activities in con
nection with their membership. These reports, whether from the Cor
respondence Members of the National Lodge or the members of the
Temple Lodges, should be sent to their Lodge Secretaries at least once
a month. And, to make progress from one grade of study to another,
certain examinations are to be sent in by each student after each of
the lower grades are completed.
[48]
One important point should be perfectly plain to all who read
this Manual : The AMORC will NOT accept into membership those
who wish to enjoy its benefits but DO NOT want to pursue its course
of study and become trained to assist in the general advancement of
mankind. Hundreds of inquiries are received each year from men
and women who believe they have sufficient knowledge of the occult
and mystical sciences and who want, therefore, only the benefits of
association with the Rosicrucians. Regardless of the fact that these
persons offer to pay their yearly dues in advance or make other finan
cial inducements, they are never invited to join the AMORC and
cannot become members.
SOME OF THE OFFICIAL SEALS OF THE AMORC OF
NORTH AMERICA
[49]
Part Five
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR NATIONAL
LODGE MEMBERS
The following pages contain information for members who receive
the PRELIMINARY GRADES OF STUDY, later followed by the
higher Temple Lectures, through the National Lodge, by mail.
The work of the National Lodge is unique. It consists of the most ,
complete course of home-study of metaphysics and occultism ever
offered, in addition to the other benefits of membership.
Members of the National Lodge do not pay for the instruction.
The lessons are not sold, and membership in the National Lodge
does not consist of simply reading the weekly lessons and trying the
experiments. Nor does the mere payment of the monthly dues consti
tute good membership.
To be in good standing in the National Lodge the members must
not only meet their monthly obligations—which are nominal—but they
must live up to the rules and standards of Rosicrucian adeptship —and
the careful study and practice of the teachings are but two points of
the system.
The lectures, lessons, and experimental work of the National Lodge
were especially designed to meet the requirements of members of the
AMORC who cannot attend regular Temple Lodges or who wish to
pursue the special study in the privacy of the home.
The lessons are arranged in two divisions, one division containing
seven preliminary lectures and the other division containing three
grades, with twelve lectures each. Additional talks, many experiments,
and a number of practical systems, are included in each grade. Each
grade also has an Initiation Ritual for a simple ceremony to be per
formed by the candidate at home, which illustrates and demonstrates
some of the important teachings.
The Preliminary Division and Three Grades are outlined in the
next few pages. The lessons of these Grades are constantly being im
proved, amended, and extended, and members receive additional in
struction in accordance with their personal requirements, advance
ment, and psychic development. The lessons and lectures are NOT
made in quantities for use for several years, as with correspondence
courses, but made only in such groups of classifications as will meet
the special needs of the various grades of standing of the members.
The instructions, therefore, are practically PERSONAL and DI
RECT, and when coupled with the advice and instruction sent sepa
rate from the lessons in letters, form a very personal system of
instruction.
Furthermore, these lessons and lectures, rituals, and experiments of
the National Lodge are different from the graded Temple lectures of
[51]
the work conducted by the Temple Lodge. They are NOT ELE
MENTARY, but are preliminary to the higher Temple Lectures,
which you may receive, if you qualify in these first three grades.
[52]
Part Six
OUTLINE of the SYSTEM of INSTRUCTION
OF THE NATIONAL LODGE
For six weeks the new members receive personal, private com-
munications from an especially assigned Master of the highest work
in the organization, who carefully analyzes the needs and require
ments of the new member and instructs him in those fundamental
principles and laws of nature which will enable the student to
qualify himself in the most rapid time and perfect manner possible.
These instructions are in the form of Secret Mandamus lectures,
discourses, and other matter sent under seal by mail to the member.
The member studies these preliminary instructions and tries certain
experiments of a fundamental nature which are highly illuminating
and intensely interesting, and reports to the Masters at the Supreme
Lodge his comments, results of the experiments, and understanding
of the points involved. In this way for six weeks the new member
and an officer of the organization are in intimate contact by corre
spondence and in psychic contact through the Rosicrucian methods.
At the end of the sixth week, if the member is properly prepared, he
is admitted into the First Grade of the Neophyte studies and is given
other confidential instructions. If the member is not properly quali
fied, further and more complete instructions are given by a special
department of instruction so that the member may became prepared
and ready for the First Grade work in the shortest time possible.
The instructions, lessons, laws, and principles given to the member
in these preliminary lessons contain many astonishing ideas and do
more to inculcate the true Rosicrucian art in the consciousness of
the member than any preliminary steps that have ever been devised.
First Grade:
After the proper preparation and the development of certain
psychic faculties and functions during the six weeks or more of pre
liminary preparation the member is ready for the personal initiation
of a psychic and spiritual nature whereby he becomes acquainted
with some of the highest principles in his own home.
The first papers sent to the new member after his admission into
the First Grade include not only the beautiful and symbolical initia
tion ceremony which he or she is able to perform easily and quietly
in the privacy of some part of the home, but many other papers of
important instruction and guidance are also sent to the member.
Thereafter, the member receives twelve weekly sealed envelopes
of a large size containing the secret and private lectures, lessons, and
instructions of the First Grade, including many fascinating tests of
Cosmic laws, many experiments of astonishing principles and scores
of practical, helpful principles which the member can demonstrate
[53]
and apply in his daily life for his own benefit and self-evolution.
The lessons and lectures of the First Grade covering twelve weeks
include complete information on the following subjects:
Objective and Cosmic Consciousness, The Brain and Mind, Mystic
Symbolism, The Triangle, The Meaning of Numbers, Spirit Force,
Soul, Experiments in Developing Psychic Consciousness, Breathing
Exercises, Manifestations of Spirit, Manifestations of Vibrations, The
Law of the Triangle, Mental Vibrations, Universal Force, The Mortal
Existence of Matter, The Form of Matter, The Existence of Evil, The
Positive Existence of Good, True Knowledge, The Changes in Matter,
Delusions and Illusions, Experiments to Prove the Difference, Psychic
and Material Seeing, Dreams, Mystical Comprehension, Protection
Against Error, False Theories, The Cosmos, Man's Relation to the
Cosmos, The Strange Nervous System in Man, The Secret Work
ings of this Nervous System, The Effects of Light, Color, Music, and
Temperature, Mystic Vibrations, The Danger of Untrue Books,
Some Mystical Experiments, Health Vibrations, The Nature of Life,
The Life Force, Demonstrations With Thought Vibrations, Mystical
Demonstration with Thought Vibrations, How to Direct Thought
Vibrations, Demonstrations with Colors, Mystical Centers of the
Brain, The Secret of Concentration, Concentrated Thought Waves,
Meditation Experiments, Producing Manifestations, How the Blind
Can See, Mystical Sight, Experiments with Seeing, The Mystery of
Sleep, Demonstrating Cures Through Normal Sleep, Bible Miracles,
Mental Treatments During Sleep, Self Treatment, False Terms,
Mystical Consciousness, The Conscience, The Akashic Records, In
tuition, Cosmic Attunement, Attunement with the Masters, Attune-
ment with Others in Distant Places, and General Review of Rosi-
crucian Laws.
Second Grade:
Initiation Ritual, including demonstration of some Laws. Then
twelve weekly lessons, including personal talks and lectures on the
following subjects:
The Ego, The Elimination of the Ego, The Elevation of the
Psychic Self, Divine Rights, Divine Blessings, Cosmic Gifts, The
Oriental Secrets of These Principles, Nirvana, Personal Psychic De
velopment, Help from Visible and Invisible Masters, The Holy As
sembly, Jesus and His Work, The Work of Other Great Teachers,
The Development of Psychic Aura, Interesting Experiments, Practical
Methods of Cosmic Attunement, New Breathing Exercises, Mystical
Sounds, The Law of Incantation, Experiments with Vocal Sounds,
Developing Increased Life Force, The Mystical Meaning of Letters
and Sounds, The Mystery of the Lost Word, How to Seek For It,
The Purpose of Other Secret Organizations, The Good Points in
Many Schools, Why Mankind Needs Help and Instruction, The
Relation of Body, Mind, and Soul, The Divine Trinity, The Earthly
Trinity in Man, Experiments to Prove the Statements, Man a Won
derful Organization, The Secret Parts of His Organization, Nature's
[54]
Secret Forces in Man, The One Mystical Force in Man's Body, The
Control of This by the Mind, The Nature of Pain, The True Way
to Relieve It, Several Mystic Methods for "Curing" Pains in Various
Parts of the Body, Giving Treatments to Others, The Oriental
Methods, American Methods Including Christian Science, Health
and Hygiene, The Oriental Rosicrucian Health Principles, The
Occidental Race and Its Special Needs, Demonstrating the Mystic
Currents of Life Force in the Body, Many Experiments to Increase
This Life Force, The Eye and Its Abnormal Conditions, Secret
Methods for Treating the Eyes, Various Forms of Diseases, The Real
Cause of Diseases, Experiments for Treating Some Diseases, How to
Establish Harmony in the Human Body, The Duality of Life and
Disease, The Two Secret Elements for Obtaining Health and Pro-
longing Life, Simple Methods for Attracting These Elements to the
Body, Classification of Simple Diseases, Treating Oneself and Others
with Simple Methods, The Secret of Life Cells, The Effect of
Thought and Action on the Body, The Constructive and Destructive
Periods of Life, Simple Laws About Eating, Rosicrucian Dietetics,
The Use of Affirmations, The Use of Medicine, Experiments for
Increasing Mental and Physical Strength, The Truth About Vege-
tarian Diet, The Relation of Spiritual and Mental Development to
Diet, Important Instructions in Regard to Food Values, Methods
for Preventing Disease, Practical Experiments and Demonstrations,
What Prominent Scientists Say, Experiments with Water, Further
Rules for Treating Others, Treatment at a Distance, Contact Treat-
ments, Rosicrucian Secret Method, the Rhythm and Cycles of Life,
Mystical Period of Years, The Cycles of Incarnations, The Law of
Reincarnation, Old Age and Death, Rebirth and Regeneration, A
Summary of New Rosicrucian Principles, and Important Personal
Reading Matter and Instructions.
Third Grade:
Initiation Ritual covering three weeks, during which the Students
prepare for Cosmic Attunement and Psychic Demonstrations before
proceeding with the Lessons which include the subjects of :
The Four Principal Manifestations of Matter, The Mystery of
Alchemy and Chemistry, Experiments with the Mental Control of
Matter, Directing Mind Vibrations Into Matter, Mental Alchemy,
The Mystic Magnetism of Man's Body, The Source of this Mag
netism, Its Rapid Development, Rosicrucian Metaphysical Laws,
Affecting the Blood of the Human System, Personal Advice in
Regard to Health of Each Member, The Solar Plexus, Demonstrations
With It, The Psychic Centers of the Human Body, Exercises for
Developing Them, Controlling the Nervous System, Controlling the
Organs of the Body, Improving Their Functioning, The Psychic
Body of Man, Experiments for Proving Its Existence, What the An-
cients Taught, What the Modern Rosicrucians Know, The Mystery
of Fire, Its Place in the Universe and the Human Body, Some
Mystical Experiments with Fire, Some Simple Alchemical Experi
[55]
ments, Experiments with Vibrations, Affecting Matter with
Thoughts, The True Nature of the Soul, Its Relation to the Mind,
Manifestations of the Soul, Higher Mystical Symbolism, Symbolism
in Christianity and Oriental Philosophy, The Use of Symbols in
Mental Experiments, Symbolism in the Human Body, Symbolism in
the Cosmic, The Development of Religion, Religious Consciousness,
God Manifesting Through Man, Proof of the Existence of God,
God's Mysterious Ways, God's Methods of Creation and Evolu
tion, The Truth About Spontaneous Generation and Artificial Crea-
tion, The Creative Powers in Man's Mind and Body, Man's Ability
to Create Mentally, The Control of Natural Forces, Directing Desires
to be Fulfilled, Making Thought Forms Become Realities, Experiments
Which Show How Thought Forms are Materialized, The Develop
ment of God's Creative Powers in Each Member, The Value of Sug
gestions, Mistaken Ideas About Hypnotism, The False Beliefs About
Black Magic, The Real Power of White Magic, Experiments to Test
These Principles, Exercises for the Development of Personal Mag
netism, The Development of Harmony in the Human Body, The
Establishment of Harmony Between the Human Body and the Cosmic,
The Rosicrucian Methods of Diagnosing Inharmony and Disease,
Contacting Personal Masters, Receiving Illumination and Instruction
from Cosmic Masters, Transmitting Cosmic Pictures and Thoughts,
Telepathy and Universal Attunement, Methods for Contacting the
Secret Chambers of the Cosmic and the Higher Chambers of the
Order, Exercises for Perfecting the Psychic Development of the
Individual Member, Special Instructions for Reaching the Higher
Teachings, and General Summary of the Three Grades, followed by
a series of Personal Letters from the Masters of the Order and the
Imperator to assist the Individual Members to be qualified for any
higher work offered by the Order.
AT THE END OF THE THIRD GRADE
It requires practically from nine months to one year to complete
the foregoing three Grades of National Lodge study. But as one
can see, the lessons are so arranged that after the first few weeks the
Student is able to experiment and demonstrate a great many prin
ciples, and after the first twelve lessons is capable of extracting from
the lessons such principles and exercises as should enable him or her
to make many important changes in business and social affairs and
improve in health and mind while being able to help others also.
The average Student who has studied and read from many books
in the past finds that these weekly lessons and lectures and personal
letters of these three Grades supply all the information that a sincere
Student can properly take care of in each week, and very few are
ever anxious to go any faster in the work than our system provides for.
Bear in mind that with this Manual the lectures contain everything
that is required for study except the use of a common dictionary,
at times, or an encyclopedia when a student is anxious to hunt up
some subjects that are of special interest to him. There are no text
[56]
books of any kind that must be purchased and the Student will find
in "The Rosicrucian Digest" (our own Monthly Magazine) many
articles of help and practical application in his material worldly affairs.
"THE ROSICRUCIAN DIGEST MAGAZINE"
I mention also, at this time, that besides your interesting weekly
lessons, lectures, the charts and diagrams, and other services, you
receive a copy of the publication, issued by the organization, called
"The Rosicrurian Digest." This magazine is sent to you free, and
is very helpful, because it contains interesting articles of a construe
tive nature on subjects in which you are interested. It is really the
leading metaphysical and occult magazine of this country. "The
Rosicrucian Digest" contains no outside advertising and every page
is filled with helpful information. This you receive as part of your
membership.
ADVANCING TO HIGHER TEACHINGS
When members have completed the three Grades outlined above
and have been found fully qualified by the Masters of the Order
and the Imperator, they have two Paths open to them. The first
is to unite with some Temple Lodge near them and, at the hands of
Masters and Assistant Teachers, receive the Higher Teachings of the
twelve Temple Grades after Initiation with Egyptian Ceremony in';
such Temples, and enjoy the association with hundreds of other sin
cere Students and Workers. The Second Path is open only to those
who, for various reasons, and under certain circumstances, find it
impossible to attend a Temple Lodge with regularity, or who live
where there is no Temple Lodge within convenient distance.
Such Members may, by special dispensation, receive the discourses
of the Teachings, beginning with the first Temple Grade, by corrc
spondence; also there is induded, in modified form, the Initiations
and Rituals of the Temple Lodges or the Temple demonstrations.
Furthermore, they will find all necessary charts and diagrams sent
to them, and will find it possible to conduct many of the experiments
and demonstrations equally as well in the privacy of their own homes.
V V V
A FEW SPECIMENS OF THE MANY LODGE SEALS.
EVERT LODGE MUST ADOPT A SEAL COMPOSED
OF TRIANGLE, CIRCLE, AND CROSS.
[58]
Part Seven
Mystic Symbols
And Their Meanings
ESPECIALLY PREPARED FOR THIS MANUAL
[59]
The Evolution of the Primitive Cross
[61]
MBtf
J(q
pJJttpOJt/'HOlVNKY&OVXlll
9%/
pjtfPJ
'suprs
[vnfo
2
foalom^i
<?yj
svm
jsim
siij}
lii
puy
*
\
c
«n
i»n
mix
40
fiot»uaj.«a
»hj.
(it)
iitnu
out
uotiM
,0OU
V
■Ml
Bill
>c
(KJ
Q
til
Mrxn<ttM
OWUUJO
3Hj(^
i*3
>»J
S5M3H
(«)
o
o
•OVUM
'
loo
MUOp
-VIS
OJ.
C03»0»4
•inN
mm)
a«i
e c
EZ9]
-•at-aj
OJ.
TJ3WO<i
3«i
Hj.lWj.s3JIM«t«J
3QVW
MOIX*3*3
JOHJ.*V3
S
J.
W
3S
3MJ
3.*)
3-M3M
J.W3da»3S
3HJ,
.\
3WJ
NO
(fcl)
W*»*?«*ia
0«*»
J
391*4
WO
(<})
U)V»9<0IO
Ml
"MfDUSAW
J.ff3IT«**3
3*U
JO
3«9
JO
Nt9mO
OWV
3(011100
»HJ.
336
JAA
3B'H
Further DeirecoPMewTs of rue TrjAnglc:
[64]
C«9]
PCAft OF KABACISTIC OOCTRtNE
nan
- nee
cxCaitrotn.
THE (NrCKCHAMGC OfViaCROCOSOi" ArtO
MlCROC06<vr(fROI1,MI 010 GERMAN
Soor)
Pass rnom 341* focio or rue Kosicroc/an
t-ec ru*es,useo by the Rosicrucian School
ESTABLISHED HEAft PHIL AOELPHIO.US.A l<94
The MvsticalDia6ram; Solomon's Temple
(Useoiw
symbolism ev- The K nights Templar)
Notc Cross with Rose at Tor and bottom
[66}
[68]
Part Eight
THE TEMPLE LECTURES
The Higher Teachings of the Order are those which were especially
designed and compiled by the Higher Masters of the Order for
delivery in the Secret Temples of our Ordef by the appointed Masters
and Officers in Tiled Lodge Rooms and under the Seal of Secrecy
and Sincerity. Such lectures contain the most complete presentation
of all the occult Laws and Principles handed down through the Ages
and amended by the modern Masters in all countries, so that today
they are of practical value in these modern times. Naturally, they
cover all of the points, Laws, and Principles touched upon in the
three correspondence grades of the National Lodge, but present each
Law and Principle in more complete and demonstrable form, and
include hundreds of subjects and mystical Laws which could not be
put into the three grades of the preliminary National Lodge work; but,
as explained before, they can be received by National Lodge Members
after they have made certain preparations, which are not difficult if
they are sincere students. In addition to the lectures given in the
Temple Lodges the Members have the benefit of Temple demonstra
tions performed by the Masters and most advanced Members, and
the valuable discussions with questions and answers which, follow
each Convocation.
Those members who cannot attend Temple Lodges and who are
carefully selected and deemed worthy of receiving the discourses of
the Temple Lectures by correspondence under Oaths of Allegiance
and Secrecy will receive the same private lectures by mail each week
as the Masters of the Temple use in their Lodges in delivering the
teachings to the Members assembled. These lessons and lectures are
the same throughout the AMORC of North America, and the only
difference between the lecture work as given in the Temples and the
study of the lessons at home by correspondence is the absence of the
discussions and the modified form of Rituals.
The correspondence Members are able to make their own demon-
strations at home, in most cases, and, therefore, do not miss the
important part of this phase of the Temple work; and, of course,
all of the exercises and demonstrations to be made in their personal
affairs are the same and just as efficient with the correspondence
Members as with the Temple Members.
[69]
Nevertheless, all National Lodge Members are urged, at some time
or another, to visit one of the Temples of the Order throughout the
country, and especially to attempt to attend some special session at
the Grand Lodge in San Jose, California. They will not be incon
venienced because they cannot attend the sessions regularly; their
studies will be found to be complete, in the manner in which they
are especially prepared by the Imperator's staff.
OUTLINE OF THE TEMPLE LECTURES AND SYSTEM
First Grade-
Initiation Ritual, constituting the famous "Crossing of the
Threshold" ceremony, which is ever the goal of all Seekers for Rosi-
crucian Illumination. The initiation is followed by a series of weekly
or semi-monthly Temple lectures and lessons covering the following
subjects:
The Ethics of Rosicrucianism, The Meaning of Initiation, The
Search of Ancient Mystics for the Portals, The Secrecy of Its Higher
Teachings, The Mystery of Mysticism, The Law of Symbolism, An-
cient Secret Alphabets, Numerals and Symbols, The Meanings of
Numbers, Matter and Its Existence, The Law of the Triangle, Crys-
tallography, The Laws of the Universe, The Material World and Its
Composition, The Physical Composition of Man and All Animal
Life, First Laws of the Rosicrucian Ontology, The Difference Between
Living and Non-Living Matter, What Makes Man a Living Being,
The Elements of Physiology, The Place of Spirit in Man, Distinction
Between Spirit and Soul, The Manifestations of Spirit Energy, Spirit
Vibrations, Electrons and Atoms, The Natural Law of the Composi
tion of Matter, The Law of Motion and Rhythm, Polarity and Mag
netism, Demonstrations of the Action of Electrons in Forming Matter,
The Hidden Principles Regarding the Nature of Matter and Its Mani
festation, The Law of Vibrations and the Cosmic Keyboard, A Sum
mary of the Principal Laws of the Universe Regarding Matter, and
Mans Material Body and All Forms of Existing Things.
Second Grade:
Initiation Ritual illustrating the Members advancement in the
work and mental development. Series of lectures covering the fol
lowing subjects in detail:
The Rosicrucian Alphabet of Mystical Subjects Covered by the
Future Lectures, The Mind of Man and Its Faculties and Functionings,
Its Objective and Subjective Divisions, The Scale of Operation, The
Mind's Relation to Cosmic and Mundane Consciousness, The Volun
tary and Involuntary Functions in Man, An Analysis of the Mind
and Brain in Action, The Dual Consciousness in Man, Disorders of
the Mind and Brain, Various Forms of Reasoning, The Improvement
of Reasoning, Will Power, Its Development, Its Relation to Health
and Disease, The Memory, Its Origin, Location, and Development,
[70]
Using the Memory, The Purpose of the Memory with the Soul and
Cosmic, The Secret Inner Chief Engineer of Each Being, Subjective
Conditions of the Body, Objective Functionings^ of the Body, The
Nature of Habits, How they Are Formed and Suspended, The Power
of the Subjective Mind Over the Human Body, Mental Suggestion,
The Art and Science of Suggestion, The Living Soul Within the
Body and Its Reason for Being Incarnated in the Human Body,
Whence IT Came and Whither IT Goeth, and a Review of the
Mental and Psychic Parts of Man.
Third Grade:
Initiation Ritual, including demonstration of Alchemical principles
and mental phenomena, followed by a series of lectures covering the
following subjects in detail.
The Laws of Motion and Change Throughout the Universe, The
Laws of Devolution, Evolution and Involution, The Evolution of
Consciousness in Life, The Nature of Consciousness and Its Attri
butes, The Reason for Life, The Purpose of Living Organisms, Sensa
tions of Consciousness, The Coming and Going of Consciousness,
Individual and Group Consciousness, Intelligence, Intellect, Imagina
tion, Imaging and Mental Creating, The Perfection of Mental Ac
tion, Ideality, Mystical Alchemy, Rosicrucian Mental Methods, Ob
jective Sensing, Psychic Sensing, The Actuality of Things and Our
Realization of Them, Realities Created, Actualities Made to Disap
pear, Actualities May Not Exist, Demonstrations of Actuality and
Reality, Psychic Products, Mental Products, Illusions, The Effect of
Environment, The Effect of Thoughts, Soul Memories, Exercises for
Awakening the Memory and Developing Psychic Consciousness,
Man's Association with the Cosmic, The God and Master Within,
Contacting the Psychic Minds of Others, The Psychic Man Separate
from the Physical Man, How They Can be Made Visible at the Same
Time, and General Review of the Mental and Psychic Duality of
Man's Consciousness.
Fourth Grade:
Very elaborate Initiation Ceremony introducing the Member into
the next stage of the Higher Teachings and illustrating to him the
mysteries of Life; followed by a long series of lectures covering the
following important subjects:
The Origin and Nature of the Life Force in Man, Its Source, Its
Form of Manifestation, The Secret Knowledge of the Rosicrucians
Regarding the Life Force, How the Life Force Enters the Human
Body, How to Control It in the Human Body, How to Direct It to
All Living Matter, The Rosicrucian Method for Increasing the Life
Force, The Prevention of the Breaking Down Process in the Human
Body, The Complete Presentation of the Ancient Secret Manuscript
Written by Nodin Explaining the Nature of the Life Force in All
[71]
Living Cells and How It May be Directed and Controlled, Methods
of Directing This Life Force from the Human Body for Treating
Others, The Development of a Strong Aura and the Secrets of Long
Life and Perfect Health, and General Review of the most important
knowledge regarding Life Force ever given to Man.
Fifth Grade:
Interesting Initiation Ritual followed by a series of lectures intro
duced at this stage of the Student's progress so that he may have time
for Psychic development through the many experiments he is con-
ducting night and morning, and at other spare times, without taking
up any new metaphysical or psychic subjects. Therefore, the lectures
of this Grade include a complete review of all the Ancient Philoso
phies showing the development of mystical and philosophic thought
and leading up to the modern philosophies and religious doctrines so
that the Student will be well versed in Philosophy, Religion, and
Ethics.
Sixth Grade:
A very impressive Ritualistic Ceremony conferring honors upon
those who have progressed properly to this degree, followed by a long
series of lectures and lessons with charts, diagrams, illustrations, and
exercises explaining, in the most simple and fascinating manner, the
secret methods of the human body in the digestion of food, the prin
ciples of dietetics, the making of blood, the entering of the vital Life
Force into the blood, the real purpose of Rosicrucian breathing exer
cises, the true cause of all disease and suffering, the diagnosis of dis
ease, and the secret Rosicrucian methods of directing the healing
Forces of the Universe to the different parts of the Body to those who
may be suffering; including quick methods of bringing about rapid
changes in serious conditions and explaining all of the functions of
the organs, nerves, and plexuses of the Human Body in their relation
to the Psychic and Cosmic Forces of the Universe. This is the most
'
complete course of study in metaphysical healing ever given to stu
dents of mysticism and is exclusively Rosicrucian.
Seventh Grade:
Very impressive Psychic Initiation illustrating some of the highest
mystical teachings of the Order, followed by a series of lectures and
lessons dealing with the metaphysical and psychic existence of Man,
and leaving aside the material and earthly matters covered in the first
six Grades. This Grade fully explains the real purpose and nature of
the psychic body of Man within the physical body and contains exer
cises for strengthening the vitality and power of the Psychic Body
with its Psychic Consciousness; and then proceeds to explain how the
Psychic Body may be temporarily separated from the Physical Body
and both be made visible at the same time. After these experiments
[72]
are completed the Student is instructed in the Rosicrucian methods of
projecting the Psychic Body out into space to any point or place and
there made visible to others without affecting the continuous func
tioning of the Physical Body. Other exercises assist in the develop
ment of the Aura, so that it may be made very visible in a darkened
room and sufficiently strong to cause illumination and to make the
hands magnetic. Also other exercises are given in connection with
the highest mystical vowel sounds with methods for pronouncing them
so as to produce psychic manifestations at will. Also the Lost Word, J
sought for by the ancients, is further explained in this Grade and the
Student begins to realize that he has been gradually acquiring the
Lost Word and gaining very unusual occult powers. This is the most
mystical Grade of study in the principles of Rosicrucian Teachings
ever given in the Occidental World.
Eighth Grade:
Another impressive Ritualistic Ceremony or Initiation for those
who have succeeded in the work of the previous Grade, followed by
twenty-nine lectures in the higher metaphysical principles whereby
the Student is gradually revealed in his proper incarnation as related
to God and the Cosmic, and is instructed with definite lessons and
exercises in the possibility of projecting his psychic body through all
matter and space to any person or place and there making himself
visible as he is in this incarnation, or as he was in a previous incar
nation, with the further ability to cause certain material things to
move or respond as he directs, including the production of sounds
from musical instruments, from his own voice, or from things he may
psychically touch. He is also instructed in the principles taught by the
old Rosicrucians whereby he can give treatments to others during
such projections or carry on humanitarian activities without revealing
himself, and attend sessions or convocations or branches of the Order
in foreign places by projection and attunement, and in other ways,
carry on the experiments described by the Masters of the Far East;
and heretofore only taught by Rosicrucians in the Temples of Tibet,
where the Masters of the Great White Lodge hold their Sacred Con
vocations. This Grade also reveals the Laws regarding the real per
sonality in each of us and many facts about our past incarnations.
True facts regarding so-called spiritualistic principles and phenomena
are revealed, and many other important Rosicrucian Teachings, in
cluding the Keys to the Ninth Grade.
K[mth Grade:
Another highly impressive Temple Ritual whereby the Members
who have properly reached this Grade and duly qualified for it are
given titles and honors of the highest standing in the Order, so far as
Temple Ceremonies are concerned. Serious obligations of Secrecy and
devotion to Rosicrucianism are required of those who take this Initia
[73]
tion in the Temple and receive the highest Passwords and methods of
recognition in the Temple Grades.
This is followed by a series of forty very complete lectures and
lessons dealing with subjects, many of which cannot be described in
a Manual of this kind, that include revelations regarding Mans rela
tion to God and the higher Forces of the Cosmic and the development
of the highest metaphysical powers within his own body. He is en-
abled to use some of these forces of Nature to blot out and make
hidden material things as well as eliminate mental and psychic things
which may be obstacles in his life, or direct or change the course of
natural events in their relation to him so as to bring about certain
results in his own affairs or in the affairs of others. This is the last
Grade in which the Student receives Initiation on the Material Plane
in Material Temples, and from this point he receives further instruc-
tion and Psychic Initiation as he is ready for them. In this Grade,
also, the Student receives the last vowel sound of the Lost Word and
learns how to use this word for instantly affecting Laws, Principles,
and Manifestations throughout Nature.
Tenth Grade:
Eleventh Grade:
Twelfth Grade:
The Initiations into these Grades are given Psychically to the
Worthy Members who have advanced to the preceding Grades and
very often these Initiations occur Psychically in the Temples of the
Order in the Orient. The lessons and lectures of these Grades will
be received by the Members and Students in a mystical manner which
cannot be explained here, and they will, from time to time, assemble
with others in the same Grades for the exchange of knowledge and
experiences while carrying on their mystical activities in all parts of
the world without interference with their regular business and social
routine. No Master or Officer of the Order determines when Mem-
bers of these Grades are ready for advancement into the next, for
this information is received by each Member psychically when he
is ready.
AT THE CLOSE OF THE NINTH GRADE
Members who attain and complete the psychic instruction of the
Ninth Grade or those above it may enter the ILLUMINATI, which
is a higher organization of the Order wherein the worthy Members
continue to carry on specialized work and studies under the direction
of the Imperator of their Jurisdiction and the personal Cosmic
Masters. Members cannot ask for admission to the Illuminati but must
wait until they have been found ready and invited to share in this
additional work.
[74]
Practical Rosi crucian Symbous/v\
1. 2.
(rtriNire finite
9. 10.
The Amorc Alphabet
A A^L^irZz-xlJkL
/TVPvQ
n n- o p Q r * 6 u/ v tv P f f
12.
THE KEY
Symbolic Lumbers
i c r □ n i □ rq
I i_ ~L ~r _i □ n □
lj lj
+
13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18.
19. 19a. 20. 20 A. 21. 21ft.
[75]
[76]
Science's Hvpothsticac Stuucturc of r«e RADIUM .ATO<n
£77]
Part Eight
(Continued)
CHARTS, EXPLANATIONS,
and SPECIAL SUBJECTS
for Students of
Temple Lectures
Ml
Prepared Especially for This Manual
[79]
Creative Principles (a)
Mineral Crv«ta<~s Acta Crystals
[80]
CRYSTALLOGRAPHY
In various parts of our lectures reference is made to the law
of the triangle in the composition of matter, the manifestation of
matter and the manifestation of spirit energy and psychic energy.
And in other places reference is made to crystallography, or the law
of crystal formation in matter.
Crystallography so beautifully illustrates the law of the triangle
in all nature that we urge the student to hunt up the subject in en
cyclopedias or other reference books. For those who cannot do this,
we append here a short article on this subject. Before reading that
article, however, let us call your attention to the chart shown on
the opposite page.
Illustration No. 1 shows some of the typical forms of crystals
as known to science. These are but a few of a very great many,
and attention is called not only to the very evident working of the
law of the triangle, but also to the beautiful grace in form.
In illustration No. 2 we see how the law of the triangle shows
itself in connection with a demonstration of vibrations. By placing
a piece of glass on a pedestal and sprinkling sand on the glass, one can
manifest the vibrations by drawing a violin bow on the edge of the
glass and cause the vibrations to flow across the surface of the glass
and thereby arrange the sand in various forms, as shown in the
seven black squares of illustration No. 2. In the lessons of our higher
grades where the metaphysical principles are taught, we learn that
thought vibrations can be directed into designs and "forms" just as
with the sand and the physical vibrations on the glass.
The rest of the chart shows how nature adheres to the law of
the triangle in the formation of snow crystals, ice crystals, mineral
crystals, and acid crystals. Nature is truly an artist in her great
work, but solely because she uses SYSTEM and Order.
A crystal is a portion of inorganic matter with a definite molecular
structure and an outward form bounded by plane surfaces called
"crystal faces," and conforming to the angles of a triangle. These
crystal faces result from the regular arrangement of the particles of
the substance undergoing solidification, every addition of matter to
the crystal in the process of formation being piled upon the particles
already solidified as cannon balls or oranges are built up into a pile.
All of which reveals the "Law of the Triangle." The reason for this
CRYSTALLOGRAPHY
The Science Which Treats of Crystals
[81]
is that every minute particle of a crystallizing substance, which we
call a "crystal molecule," has certain lines of attractive force by which
it gathers to itself other crystal molecules of the same substance, in
the same way that a magnet attaches itself to a piece of iron or to
another magnet. Crystal molecules of different substances generally
have different lines of attraction, some being of different intensity;
hence it follows that in most cases the solid formed by the piling
together of the crystal molecules of a certain chemical compound
has an outward shape characteristic of that compound. We also
assume that the direction of attraction of the unit of crystal accretion
(the crystal molecule) is dependent upon the structure of the chemi
cal molecule of the substance crystallizing; that
is,
made up of
a
number of chemical molecules grouped together. Hence only ele-
mentary chemical substances and definite chemical compounds form
crystals. So that the crystal molecules of
a
substance may come into
sufficiently close proximity to admit of their being mutually attracted
along their lines of crystallizing force,
it
is
necessary that they should
be crowded together by reason of the contraction of the space in
which they are confined. This happens where
a
mass solidifies by
cooling, Or when by evaporation the amount of
a
substance dissolved
in
a
liquid (such as water) exceeds in quantity the amount which
the solvent can retain in solution under the conditions obtaining.
Either condition results in the formation of crystals. A condition
of formation more rarely met with
is
that in which crystals form
directly from vapors, as in the case of iodine or chloride of ammonia.
The best means of studying the formation of crystals
is
afforded
by the evaporation of
a
solution of some soluble compound, such as
salt or blue vitriol, until
it
is
supersaturated, when crystals of the
dissolved substance will be thrown down.
If
two substances, such
as salt and borax, are dissolved in the same solution, the result of
evaporation will be crystals of both substances, each set of molecules
building themselves up in distinctive forms. Solutions show con
siderable inertness, and
it
is
often necessary to start the process of
crystallization by introducing some solid substance
(a
crystal of the
substance) to form
a
nucleus for the growing crystal. The outward
form (the solid bounded by plane faces)
is
only an expression of the
regular grouping of molecules which takes place when
a
substance
crystallizes; consequently we may expect other evidences of the
molecular arrangement. These evidences become apparent when
we consider the physical properties, such as the transmission of light,
heat, and electricity through crystals. A sphere cut from
a
quartz
crystal does not expand equally in all directions when heated, as does
a
sphere of an uncrystallized substance, such as glass or amber;
neither does
a
piece of beryl transmit polarized light in the same
way as does
a
piece of glass of the same shape. This latter property
of crystals
is
of great use in the detection of imitation gems. In the
sphere of quartz we find that the action of heat pulls the molecules
apart in one direction more than in other directions and the sphere
becomes an ellipsoid. Substances like glass, showing no evidences
[82]
of crystallization, are said to be amorphous. A substance in which
the molecules have responded to crystallization but in which crystal
faces have not been developed is said to be crystalline. Crystalline
masses are often the result of the close crowding of crystals to the
exclusion of the development of crystal outlines.
THE CHARTER GRANTED TO THE
NATIONAL. ROSICRUCIAN LODGE
[83]
Magnetic Chart
THE MAGNET
(In connection with the lessons of the First
Grade of Temple Lectures)
In a number of lectures reference is made to the magnet, and
the laws and principles demonstrated by the magnet are used to
illustrate other laws.
Certain simple points about the magnet will be of interest to our
members, and for this we will refer to the illustrations shown on the
opposite page.
The magnet with which we are most familiar is shaped like a horse
shoe, but it may be shaped like No. 2 on the opposite page. The
purpose of such forms is to bring the two poles of the magnet close
together; for every piece of steel or other mineral having magnetic
qualities must have two poles or points of distinct polarity —the
north pole and the south pole, marked N and S on the chart.
When the two poles come within a certain distance of each other,
a magnetic effect is made manifest. This is because each pole has
an aura or field of magnetic attraction around it. If we say that
the north pole is negative, and the south pole positive, in polarity,
then the north pole has a space around it in which negative mag-
netism radiates, and around the south pole is a field or space in
which positive magnetism radiates.
We cannot see this magnetic radiation —any more than we can
see any form of electric energy; but we can demonstrate it. By
holding one end or pole of the magnet under a piece of paper and
then sprinkling very fine steel powder on top of the paper, we will
see the powder moving in certain lines, which plainly show the lines
of magnetic attraction and repulsion.
In illustration No. 3 we see a small, straight magnet under a
piece of tissue paper and the powder or grains of steel sprinkled
over the paper. This enables us to see the radiations of magnetism
from each pole.
When the north and south poles of a magnet are brought so close
together that their fields of magnetism or auras begin to contact each
other, there is a stressed condition set up which is greatest in the center
of the space between the two poles. This magnetic field and stressed
condition is used in many wonderful electrical inventions, and the
same principle in nature is responsible for much startling, natural
phenomena. Even in the most minute forms of cell life in animal
bodies, the principles of magnetism are responsible for the contin
uance and reproduction of life. Illustration No. 4 shows the stressed
field between the north (negative) and south (positive) poles. The
negative is attracted to the positive and the positive reaches out to
take the negative; combining, they form a magnetic field of dual,
[85]
active potentiality. The greater the magnets, the larger this field
and the more powerful the force.
If two north or two south poles are brought together or near each
other, their lines of magnetism repulse each other. This shows the
principle that "like repels like and attracts unlike."
In illustration No. 5 we have another interesting principle illus
trated. If we take the piece of steel bar shown in illustration No. 3,
which has its north and south poles and its neutral part in the center
of the bar, and saw it into four short pieces, we find that we have four
perfect magnets, each having a north and south pole like the longer
In illustration No. 6 we see the peculiar, yet strictly logical effects
of the magnetic fields when two bar magnets are brought into relation
to each other at right angles.
In illustration No. 7 a short magnetic bar is held under the paper
and turned around rapidly. We see that the revolving magnetic field
pulls the steel powder around with it.
Even a steel ball or piece of pipe may be magnetized, in which case
the inside of the ball may have one pole and the outside another,
or the opposite sides of the pipe may be of different polarities. This
is indicated by illustration No. 8.
Bear in mind that when we speak of polarities in our lectures
we are referring to the magnetic polarities, such as are shown in
these illustrations. All living, vital bodies, whether mineral, plant,
or animal, have magnetic polarities, and all such living things are
therefore magnets, with both positive (south) and negative (north)
poles or polarities; but in one sense or another each of these has one
of the polarities predominating through greater strength. Thus we
apeak of a body being of a positive polarity or negative polarity,
referring to the predominating magnetism of its two poles.
[86]
EVOLUTION OF THE CROSS
Many who see the symbol of the Rosy Cross for the first time
believe it to be a Christian symbol or very likely a Roman Catholic
symbol, and most surely a religious symbol. We have found that
we are called upon daily to make some explanation, not only about
the Rosy Cross, but the Cross in any form, in our correspondence.
We trust, therefore, that this explanation will anticipate many ques
tions. N •
First of all, let us say that the Cross was not originally a religious
symbol and is used by many organizations, in some form or another,
as a symbol without any religious significance. Nor was there any
such thing as a Christian cross during the time of the birth of the
Christian doctrines as taught by the Master Jesus. It is a coincidence
in religious matters that Jesus, like many others for centuries before
Him, was crucified on a Cross—and not even on a Cross like that
now used as the Christian symbol; and it was due to another coin
cidence that the Cross was adopted by the Christian Fathers, centuries
after the Crucifixion, as a symbol of the Christian Faith. They
might have adopted the exclusive use of a Golden Crown (which
they do at times) or the Crown of Thorns, or many other symbols
typical of some event in His life and works.
Those who are of the Hebrew race or Jewish religion justly feel
that the Cross is a symbol to them of suffering in the form of per
secution. One need only read the real history of the Hebrew race
to note how it suffered needlessly and continuously through campaigns
conducted by those who ever cried aloud: "Via Crucis!" By way
of the Cross the Jew was ever made to be an outcast and a persecuted
victim of the ancient systems which merely used the sacred symbol
to hide their real purposes. For, truly, the Christian principles have
naught in them to justify that which has been perpetrated in their
name; but the same may be said of many other religious movements
during their early stages.
However, we wish to assure Jews and Gentiles, Roman Catholics,
and Protestants alike, that to the Orientals —who belong to none of
these four classifications —the Rosy Cross symbol is sacred, not as a
religious symbol, but as a Divine Symbol, because it represents the
(true Divinity in Man and all Nature.
^ The origin of the Cross is lost in antiquity —it is so old! Perhaps
the first use of it was in drawing lines from the four cardinal points,
North, South, East, and West. Such lines from such points—
important indeed to the ancients —would form a cross. The first
definite form of the Cross, however, as a mystical or secret symbol
was that often called the TAU CROSS and used by the ancient
Phoenicians. This Cross is shown in the first illustration on the
chart of Crosses.
[87]
The next important development was the addition of a loop to the
top of the Tau Cross. This formed what is often called the Egyptian
Cross, because it became a very important symbol of their rituals.
By them it was called the Crux Ansata, or Cross of Life, and was
their symbol of Immortality or the continuity of life. It is often
found in the hands of their Kings, Queens, Gods, and Goddesses as
the "Key of Life." By some, who are entirely ignorant of the facts,
it is claimed that the Crux Ansata was a sex symbol. That is due
to the fact that to the early Egyptians the reproductive process
throughout all nature, in all plants and animal life, was a great mys-
tery. That the seed in the ground, or any cell of living matter, could
reproduce its like and assist in maintaining a continuous line of its
own specie, proved the continuity of all life, or in other words,
demonstrated the principle of immortality, through birth, transition,
and rebirth. This led them to the doctrine of reincarnation, and the
Crux Ansata became the symbol of that belief in immortality. One
will see at once that the relation to sex matters was remote and purely
incidental, as must be the study of such physical processes in relation
to the whole scheme of the continuity of life.
The Rosicrucians today use the Crux Ansata as a symbol of Im- ■
mortality and Reincarnation exclusively. To them it has no other
meaning.
In a study of some of the other Crosses we see arbitrary changes
and additions so as to form unique symbols, and we find the Cross
was common to nearly all ancient races, antedating the Christian era.
The Rosy Cross of the Rosicrucians is always a gold cross with
the distinctive looped ends as shown in the illustration. There is
always ONE red rose in the center of the Cross, and sometimes for
purely decorative purposes a green stem may be attached to the
rose; but there is never more than the one rose, and symbols com-
posed of a Cross with seven, or three, or four roses in the form of a
wreath around the Cross or over the Cross, is not a true Rosicrucian
symbol, but a personal adaptation, counterfeit, or a deceiving imita-
tion. The most ancient of all pictures of the Rosicrucian symbol, and
all references to it in the most ancient manuscripts, describe it as a
gold cross with a "ruby red rose." The symbol described herein as
the true Rosy Cross is registered in the United States Patent Office
as the official Rosicrucian Symbol, and such patent registration is held
exclusively by AMORC.
[88]
[06]
SIXTH GRADE TEMPLE REFERENCES
EXPLANATION OF CHART 1
DIGESTION AND NUTRITION
The chart shown herewith is not to be considered as an anatomical
drawing of the internal parts of the human body. The various
organs and connections shown in the diagram herewith are arranged
so that the mechanical action will be plain and understandable, and
not in accordance with the true relations found in the human body.
For instance, the position of the liver and gall bladder is not in
keeping with the true condition. The same may be said of the spleen.
And the connections from the intestines to the liver at the lower
part of the page indicate where the liver should be located if we
were going to be partly correct so far as the diagram is concerned.
However, this mechanical drawing will serve a better purpose than
any anatomical diagram you may find in any book.
It is well for our members to understand the mechanical process
of eating and digesting food. We must keep in mind that food,
whether in liquid or solid form, supplies the negative elements for the
human body, just as breathing supplies the positive elements. It is
when the positive elements in the breath of life come in contact with
the negative elements of 'the physical body that there is a unit formed
of the negative and positive polarities that constitutes life through the
chemical action as well as the psychic action. This diagram and chart
will help you to understand how the food is turned into the negative
elements which release their negative electricity, or power, and thereby
form one-half of the necessary vitality for life.
Food—and liquids —is taken into the mouth where, while being
crushed, masticated, and rendered small in particles—like in a crush-
ing device at the bottom of a grinder —a certain amount of saliva
mixes with it to prepare it for digestion. It passes the pharynx in
swallowing and goes down the esophagus (or throat) to the stomach.
In the stomach the work of churning takes place. The little valve
or opening from the stomach to the intestines, called the "Pylorus,"
remains partly closed during the churning process. After the stomach
has expanded and turned the food from side to side and mixed it well,
the "Pylorus" automatically opens (and only when the proper time has
come!) and the food passes into the beginning of the small intestines.
On the way down the intestines there flows into the mixed food some
bile from the gall bladder (through the bile duct) and also some
"Pancreatic fluid" from the pancreas.
These two fluids, mixing with the food, help to "cut" the food
and dissolve it into its primary "negative elements."
[91]
Chart 2
[92]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 2
NUTRITION AND BLOOD CIRCULATION
The purpose of this diagram is two-fold. It is unusually clear and
explanatory —especially for our work.
First of all, we see how the nutrition from food is taken into the
circulatory system. At the side of the chart we see the vessels which
lead from the intestines. These connect with the liver. In this way
all nutrition from the food we eat passes to the liver. Here it is
filtered, purified, and formed into what we call "Negative Elements"
of the blood. From the liver these "Negative Elements" pass into the
principal vein carrying the blood to the heart.
However, all fatty elements —which are separated from food in die
process of digestion and assimilation in the intestines—do not enter
the liver but pass through the so-called "Thoracic Duct" and go
directly to the heart to form "Lymph Elements." This is plainly
shown on the chart.
Now the "Negative Elements," forming negative blood, enter the
right side of the heart and from there they are sent through the two
"pulmonary arteries" to the lungs, to be made positive. That is, each
negative blood cell is sent to the lungs to receive a Positive Polarity;
and from the lungs this vitalized blood returns to the left side of the
heart and there it is pumped out through the arteries to all parts of
the body. As this Positive blood, vitalized, travels through the system
it uses up its vitality or Positive Polarity and again becomes only
Negative cells or Negative blood. Where it changes from Positive to
Negative it does its greatest work in what are called "capillaries."
The Negative blood must, therefore, return once more to the heart
and from there be sent again to the lungs to be vitalized with a new
Positive Polarity. This is a continuous process.
In our various breathing exercises we attempt to take more of the
positive elements into our body than in the normal process of
breathing. All the negative elements in the body will absorb, through
the blood, as much positive vitality as we take in through breathing.
In normal breathing, or what we should call subnormal breathing,
we merely take in a small amount of the positive, which reaches the
negative cells of the blood and charges only a small portion of the
negative with the positive. By deeper breathing, or by holding the
breath, as explained in our lectures, we cause more of the negative
cells of the blood to become charged with the positive vitality of
the air and thereby make our blood stronger or greater in its vitality.
Other breathing exercises show us in our lectures how we can take
on an additional amount of positive energy for psychic experiments and
for special healing work. All of this, of course, is explained in detail
in the lectures.
[93]
Chart 3
[94]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 3
PRINCIPAL ARTERIES
In our use of the blood for healing purposes, as well as for all
mystic or psychic purposes, we deal with the vitalized or Positive
blood. This is the blood which travels through the Arteries of the
human body. Arteries carry the blood, the vitalized blood, from the
heart to every part of the body to carry on the constructive work
of nature. Veins, on the other hand, return the devitalized blood to
the heart, and do not concern us so greatly.
The diagram on Chart 3 shows the principal arteries. From the
upper part of the heart rises the great Aortic Arch (indicated by the
figure 1. See also diagram on Chart 2). From this Arch, or large
vessel, branch all the arteries supplying the great amount of vitalized
blood to the body.
Every artery carrying blood to the most minute part of the body
joins one of the principal arteries shown on this diagram. In our
work, whenever it is necessary to know the source of blood for any
small artery, one need only refer to any medical or anatomical book,
or dictionary, and see what principal artery it connects with, and
then trace it to the principal artery on this diagram.
The arteries throughout the body carry the positive blood of the
system. Therefore, the arteries radiate the utmost vitality in a physi
cal and also in a psychic sense. For that reason all healing work,
where the hands are used, take advantage of the natural radiation of
power from these arteries. In the hands of each person there are
arteries as well as veins, and it is from the arteries that the hands
receive their vitality as used in all healing work. Part of this vitality
is the natural health and life of the physical body and part of it is
the psychic power which is also in the blood and generated by the
blood.
In the lectures and lessons of the Sixth Grade many references
are made to methods whereby the blood can be stimulated or increased
in vitality in certain parts of the body through certain secret methods
known only to Rosicrucians. That is why this chart becomes very
interesting and helpful in the Sixth Grade work. It is easy to under-
stand how the vitalized blood in these arteries becomes weakened and
less vitalized as it circulates around through the body and finally
passes into the veins. But in some human processes it is necessary
to keep the blood in these arteries weakened and less vitalized as it
reaches the part or the section of the body which is diseased. Our
methods show the members how this can be accomplished. It is one
of the important secret methods of healing work known only to the
Rosicrucians.
[95]
rue VERTcegft oftms sp(t»e.
THE reiBS OW CftCK sioc
of r«e vefiTeBRft.
TMC Tw.
cofinecri
6M1&UO
(MS THE
ftciort with txc
SPINAL NERVES.
J'
xe spinal nerve
RANCHING from rxe
SPINAL coro;ow either
Jioe
optke vcereeiiA
rrwEe« THE RIBS.
SPINA!. NERVE
THROU8X TMC
VERTEBRAE OfTKE
SP(ME.
TYPICAL PLEXUS ON
A VCSSCL AT THE ECHO
OP A NERVE.
TME sympathetic nervous cord
OR "TfeONK'tHV BACH SlOEC OF
THE VERTEBRAE, WITH THE
GANGLIA AND THEIR NERVES.
weaves awo their branches
\ extending fropicacm canglioh.
THE JfirvAl NSRVS tVINg BETWEEN
THE R75s on cach sias Sr the
SPINAL COLUMN
the toRae awtwL
cord in cento r or
VERTEBRAE.
THE SPINAL OHOLIOM WM«»« THE
AnTUUOK MID POSTERIOR ROOT* or TMC
spiNHL Corp unite at each veatccaa.
THE AHTER.IOR AMB POtreRIQA ROOTR OP
THE SPINAL COAD COM lft*<iOUT PROP!
BETWEEN EACH VERTEBRA.
Chart 4
[96]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 4
GENERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
The purpose of this chart is to show, in a mechanical fashion, the
arrangement of the vertebrae of the spine and the location of the
nervous systems.
In the upper diagram five vertebrae, with their ribs, are drawn
mechanically as though they were sections of some metal frame
work of a piece of machinery. The center squares represent the ver
tebrae, while attached to either side of these vertebrae are the ribs.
The vertebrae represent the sections of a spinal column (See Chart 6) .
Through the center of the vertebrae passes the spinal nerve cord—
a heavy cord consisting of nerves —the top of which is the Medulla
Oblongata (as shown in the upper diagram on Chart 8) and is con-
nected with the brain. This cord is the center of the general nervous
system.
Branching out from this cord, between each vertebrae, are smaller
nerves, called spinal nerves, which connect on each side with the
Sympathetic Trunks.
There are two Sympathetic Trunks, one on each side of the vertc
brae of the spinal column (on the inside of the ribs) and running
parallel with the middle spinal cord, as shown in the diagram.
Each Sympathetic Trunk consists of a heavy cord of many nerves
with "Ganglia" opposite nearly every rib. From each Ganglion are
two nerves, called "Rami," connecting the signal nerves to the Sym-
pathetic System. And from each "Ganglion" are Sympathetic nerves
going to various plexuses of organs, muscles, or vessels of the body.
The reader's attention is called to the fact that man has two
nervous systems —the Spinal Nervous System and the Sympathetic
Nervous System. Both of these systems are shown in the diagrams
on the opposite page, which of course are not true to life so far as
anatomy is concerned. Please note that the Sympathetic Nervous
System is dual or double; a part of it is on each side of the vertebrae
of the spine. The Rosicrucians were the first to realize the wonderful
work of the Sympathetic Nervous System and its connection with the
psychic body of man. Many systems of modern treatments deal with
the Spinal Nervous System and any injury or pressure upon it; but
the Rosicrucians alone give great attention to the Sympathetic, and
point out in the easy, simple lessons of the Sixth Grade how the
Sympathetic Nervous System can be used to cure disease or relieve
conditions that cannot be treated in any other way. For this reason
the student is asked to keep in mind the fact that he is dealing with
new principles in our work and that he will find many revelations
and startling laws not generally known.
[97]
roowiori c»«qri«>
MTtlT^
Miooce
■cot.
teBsm gaagg! "e««e
"""" "-r""-l°"
THORACIC OAWGIIOH
KIOHT BROWCMUS
RICMT «AflU. tlltg W OeSQPH AOUJ
FROM »Yr») PATHETIC T RUNK
flfjatgg prom e a*w<n.ioi» cove«-
IN4 THE AORTA, ro«mi«& a pierM.
Tug oeaoPHAcm
THC THORACIC GAWaCION OH THC
Sf MPATXETIC MERVC TRUKK
thc "<tftW>* which connect eftCK
QAN&LION TO TKE SPINAI. NERVES
THE SPINAL, NERVES WHICH LIS UWBEIt
CACHRIB KnOCONNCCT WITH THE "RftPlI
SECTION OF SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM
GANGLIA OF THE SrWPATHCTIC TftUfVK
THE COUP OP TKC TW.UNK
the vswTaeKAg orTxetHtft
Chart 5
[98]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 5
DETAILS OF SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM
In the upper drawing we see a section of the human body opened
and the organs and muscles removed to show the Sympathetic Trunk
Cord on the right side of the vertebrae.
Just beneath each rib we see the spinal nerve running parallel with
the rib. From these spinal nerves we also see the two "Rami" uniting
with the Ganglia of the heavy Sympathetic Trunk.
A few vessels are also shown, and it will be noticed how the
Sympathetic Nerves from the various Ganglia branch out over the
wall of the esophagus, the right bronchus, and the aorta artery. This
shows that a "plexus" covers the wall of a vessel or organ (as also
shown on Chart 4).
The lower diagram shows an enlarged view of a section of the
Sympathetic Trunk giving an exact picture of the Ganglia, their si?e,
form, and location.
(It will prove interesting to the deep student to read in various
text books on the "Nervous System" the diversified explanations and
theories of the purposes and formation of "Ganglia" and "Neurones.")
The reason for the two forms of nervous systems in the human
body will be easily understood when we say that the Spinal Nervous
System conveys energy and power that is of a gross nature, to take
care of the physical actions and functions of the human body. The
Sympathetic Nervous System, however, belongs to the psychic part
of man, and there is a place in the human body shown in our lectures
and thoroughly explained, where the psychic power and energy is
generated and sent into the Sympathetic Nervous System. This
system, therefore, uses a higher rate of energy, which is almost a
Cosmic energy, and this energy can be used for the healing of diseases
and curing of conditions because its real purpose in the human body
is to carry on the reconstructive actions in the human body. This
function of the Sympathetic Nervous System was not known until
the Rosicrucians explained it and even today it is only thoroughly
understood by those who have the lectures and^lesspns of our.wqrk.
It makes healing and the prevention of disease: treSJersfandable. and
gives every one of our members a wonderful, power not .possessed, by.
those who do not know the laws and principles./.^ :
^
'. '•• : ': ••; •••• •/•'•,
[99]
9
WHO
msMiiM
jo
Aoog
-y
J.I
oat
3
a
9
V
■
0
9
V
9
4
1
M
I*
ii
3 m
a
9
noairt
•
3
a
y
fl
9
i 9 M
V
9
a
i
u
H
9 a m
0
3
•
n
3 V
M
i '9
«
.9 i m
V a m
a a m
3 3 n
9
3 V
i*
9
3
9
V
a a M
a
V
•
p
*
MWOTO3
->VNi4S
JO
f**IA
30)S
09
as
»s
Cooi
]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 6
NAMES OF VERTEBRAE AND NERVES
The Spinal Column consists of 25 or 26 pieces, in the average
body. The 25th piece —at the bottom of the column—may have
the 26th section loosely attached to the end of
it,
or this 26th
section may form part
of
the 25th. However, originally, at some time,
the large 25th section consisted of nine definite divisions, each having
the same purpose as each of the separate vertebrae above. Therefore,
we continue to look upon the Spinal Column as consisting of 33
sections (that is, counting the sccalled "Atlas" as the first section).
Upon the first section —the "Atlas" —rests the skull, which, from one
view-point, forms another section of the Spine, and would, therefore,
make
a
34th section.
However, using the plan or diagram of the Spine as usually adopted
by all text books on Anatomy, we have, as shown in the two diagrams
opposite, 33 or 34 sections or divisions. Through this Spine runs the
Spinal Cord of the general or central nervous system. And branch-
ing out from between each vertebra, or section of the Spine, are two
Spinal Nerves. These come from the Spinal Cord running down
through the center of the Vertebrae, and pass right and left from the
Spine. Joining to these spinal nerves are the two "Rami" on each
side. (Refer to the lower diagram on Chart 4.)
In our work we have
a
"Nerve Note" and
a
"Music Note" for
each of the Spinal Nerves between the Vertebrae. These are plainly
shown on the diagram opposite, as well as the universally adopted
name of each vertebra.
In the lectures of the Sixth Grade there are complete instructions
as to how members may easily take advantage of the relationship
between the various nerves and their association with colors, music
sounds, and nerve energy. We show our members that music notes
will arouse certain connections of the Sympathetic Nervous System
into special activity and thereby cause the energy of these nerves
to function more freely and completely. The same
is
true in regard
to colors. And we show our members how even the mind, or thought
waves, can reach the sympathetic connections and help in curing or
relieving conditions. All of this
is
part of the; wonderful secj?et
;
sys
tem of the Rosicrucian teachings, laws, and principles/
.-
.
[101]
ft
it u id
So
5 P
o o
£2
c.
rafcov. c
t« n. B.
•t E. A.
H
F G.
M 0. F.
H A. E.
Mi B. D.
km. r C. C.
v»MtV
0. a
*#
E. A
n
F. e.
it
G. F.
H
A. E
rt
B. 0.
N
C c
2* bflew
nMlf "C"
0. t.
'."'.•' E .'A
1
•F.
-'
G
!
M
G.
F.
E
o
J
r
BRANCHES Af* o COMNeCTTOMS. PteXUS.
£
$8
/A"
(Pt*Tt OC")
Chart
7
(Plate
1)
[102]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 7
Plate 1
FUNCTIONS OF THE GANGLIA
(Study first the Explanation of Symbols given at bottom of Plate 2
on next page.)
"A" is the Sympathetic Trunk running to the Brain and down
through the body.
Connected to the first four Rami is the Superior Cervical Ganglion.
Branching from this Ganglion are six Sympathetic Nerves with their
extensions leading to Plexuses numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9,
and to two other Ganglia numbered 1A and 11, and to one Spinal
Nerve numbered 10. We also note that from the second Rami one
Sympathetic Nerve reaches out independent of the Ganglion and
connects with the nerve ending at lA.
The 4th, 5 th, and 6th Rami connect with the Middle Cervical
Ganglion and this Ganglion has two nerves extending from it leading
to Plexuses Nos. 12 and 13.
The 7th and 8th Rami connect with the Inferior Cervical Ganglion
from which 5 nerves extend leading to Plexuses Nos. 13, 18, and
to Spinal Nerves Nos. 17, 19, and 20, and indirectly to spinal nerve
No. 22, which connects with Plexus No. 23.
Between the Middle Cervical Ganglion and the Inferior Cervical
Ganglion there is a nerve acting as a "loop" and connecting the two
Ganglia as shown on the diagram. From this "loop" there are three
Sympathetic Nerves leading to Plexus No. 14, and Spinal Nerves
15A and 15B.
From the 6th and from the 7th Rami we see Sympathetic Nerves
extending independent of the Ganglia to Spinal Nerve No. 16, and
Spinal Nerve No. 20.
The connections through the various parts of the body indicated
by charts seven and eight form the most complete outline of this
subject ever presented to any student. These charts and the refer-
ences to them in the Sixth Grade constitute the work of many years
of scientific research by the greatest authorities of Europe and
America. The Rosicrucians were the first to have a complete outline
of this system and to know exactly what part of the human body was
connected with every other part. Therefore, our members will find
in these charts and in the lectures of the Sixth Grade a complete
system that is not the personal opinion of any one man or the result
of some discovery. It means that thousands of experiments had to
be made to test the principle of each idea as it was revealed through
experimentation, and that only after tests and trials by many thousands
of our members in many lands for many years were we ready to put
this matter into the teachings for practical application. The subject
[103]
,s3A2*3«j
jo
n»inw*ii,
aoi
<u
Mini
mMUMi
jnoHJIWv
9U)SSO»3
3U3HJ.WJ««A.S
<"•!
'
S0X3TU
SU0UO3WW03
OW
-a.
«ipf!»i
M0I»S
fJ V •3
m
•9 a
m j
.9-
'Iff!"
Me,.q
n£ *a a
n
a V
■
4 9
**
9 ,J
1* y 3
•
fl a
D a
4
•fl
H •3
V
ft
j
it •3
[*0!
]
may look difficult when examining it from these charts, but the lee
tures in the Sixth Grade are so simply worded and so intensely in
teresting that long before the student realizes that he has been study-
ing he is really absorbing knowledge that would take many years to
acquire through any regular school of medicine or physiology. The
many lectures of the Sixth Grade arranged in even steps gradually
give the student a power of knowledge that cannot be measured in
any way except from the Rosicrucian standard, and that means the
highest standard of efficiency and power. Hundreds of our students
every month tell us that they have learned more about their own body,
and how to prevent disease and how to be strong and healthy, than
they ever learned in any of the colleges or schools to which they have
gone. Even physicians and scientists highly endorse the unusual
knowledge contained in this Sixth Grade.
EXPLANATION OF CHART 7
Plate 2
FUNCTIONS OF GANGLIA
(Continued)
From the 9th Rami (which is located between the 1st and 2nd
Thoracic Vertebrae) we have the First Thoracic Ganglion. From
this extends three Sympathetic Nerves connecting with Spinal Nerves
Nos. 19 and 20, and leading to Spinal Nerve No. 21.
The 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th Rami have separate Ganglia, but
these are connected by four Sympathetic Nerves which lead to Plexus
No. 24, and connect indirectly by way of Nerve No. 25 with the
Plexus No. 5. Connection is also made with Sympathetic Nerves
leading to Plexus No. 30.
By studying the charts in this way one can easily figure the con
nections made by each Rami and each Ganglion.
The "Plate Two" of this chart continues "Plate One" and shows
all the connections made by the other Rami.
Please note that each Plexus and Nerve ending is numbered. In
the lectures given by the Masters in the work of the Seventh Grade,
and higher, reference is made to the numbers given on these two
plates. The numbers will refer to muscles, organs, tissues, and ves
sels affected by the Plexuses, so that by reference to these charts you
can easily locate which Nerve and Ganglia affect every part of the
body.
[105]
Chart 8
[106]
EXPLANATION OF CHART 8
DETAILS OF HEAD AND NECK
Reference to the upper drawing on the opposite page will help
the student to understand the location of the Vertebrae in the Neck.
One should note that in the neck the vertebrae lie far from the surface
and cannot be felt as is possible in the thorax of the body. The
7th and 8th Cervical Vertebrae are usually the first to come near
the surface of the body. The one most prominent in its projection
in the neck or just below the neck is the 1st Thoracic Vertebra.
1. The Oral Vestibule, between teeth and lip;
2. Oral Cavity;
3. Hyoid bone;
4. The Epiglottis;
5. Thyroid Cartilage;
6. Cricoid Cartilage;
7. Tracheal Cartilage;
8. The Larynx;
9. The Vertebrae of the Spine with the Spinal Cord running
from the Medulla Oblongata down through the center of each
Vertebra.
The lower drawing shows the principal arteries of the head con
necting on each side of the neck with the Common Carotid Artery
(see Chart 3). It also shows location of the beginning of the Sympa-
thetic Trunk on each side of the neck.
10. The Superior Cervical Ganglion of the Sympathetic Trunk.
(Just back of the ear, on a line with the mouth.)
11. The Middle Cervical Ganglion. (On a line beneath the Su-
perior Ganglion, and level with the "Adam's Apple" of the throat) .
[107]
Part Nine
The Mystery of
DR. JOHN DALTON
and his
ALCHEMICAL
LAWS
Reprinted from the
American Rosae Crucis
of November, 1916
[109]
DALTON'S LAW OF PROPORTIONS
THE STORY OF THE ATOM
(Especially Prepared for All Members of the Order)
By The Imperator
(Copyrighted and Fully Protected)
Brothers and Sisters, permit me to introduce Dr. John Dalton, the
public expounder of the atomic laws, the mystic of his day, and the
scientific puzzle of the scientific world.
And with this, Dr. Dalton steps upon these pages to give you
those facts and those laws which prejudiced science and skeptical
human nature have kept in the dark to decay and obliterate the
name of one who has done much for chemistry, but now receives
such belittling comments as: "crude and unpractical worker in sci
ence," "careless and indifferent observer of facts," "unskilled meddler
in fields too profound for him," and "unscientific dreamer and pro-
pounder of alchemists' fallacies."
For several years I have had in mind an attempt to revive a serious
interest in Dalton and Dalton's work. It has seemed to me that
not only do the reference works slight him and chemistry now ignores
him, but that, when chemistry continues to use his laws—and cannot
do without them —and then wilfully, consistently, and with real, selfish
purposes sees to it that his laws are kept from the searcher for
truth, it is time to have the searchlight thrown stronger than ever
upon those things which Dalton spent a lifetime in evolving from
theory into fact and demonstrated.
And Dalton has a special interest for us, because he WAS a mem
ber of the Order and DID attend the lectures and worked in the
laboratory of the Lodges in two different cities where he pursued his
experiments and observations. The principles upon which he worked,
and which formed the foundation of his Philosophy of Chemistry,
he learned in our Lodges in the first three grades and in the 8th, 9th,
and 10th grades. Every member of our Order today, who has passed
through the First Grade and then through the Fourth, knows that
Dalton's principles (as they are outlined here in his own words) are
a logical result of the regular study of our teachings. The great
mystery, which puzzles the scientists today, as to "where did Dalton
get his first ideas, and did they come from Newton?" is easily answered
by those who are in our Order; for Dalton and every other member
MUST receive such principles in order to understand even the ele
mentary work of our grades.
But let us consider the value of Dalton's work. Soon after he
had made some important discoveries he was called upon to address
certain scientific bodies, the most important in the country at the
time, and so great became the interest in his work that he decided,
like many an optimistic disciple of truth, to help the science of chem
[110]
istry and physics by publishing some of his theories in such form as
would be available to those very scientists who later condemned his
work as "crude." Because Dalton was not one of their colleagues;
because he was not of their school nor of their narrow view-point and
narrow materialistic training, he was considered a "heretic" in science
and unfit to enter their domain and show them that which they did
not know. With the zeal of wanderers seeking for a guide they seized
his theories, which are now admitted to be laws, and after having
made them a stepping stone to the accomplishment of many greater
discoveries, they ignored Dalton, and, up to the present hour, have
succeeded in keeping his original papers and actual statements from
the eyes of the true seeker for light.
Dalton's papers, as published by him in 1805 to 1808, contained
not all the laws he had formulated by his researches and experiments.
He knew well enough that to give all the laws, to explain all the
workings of the R. C. Triangle in the composition of matter, as now
explained to all our members of the First and Fourth Grades, would
be to reveal that which would never be understood by the uninitiated
and always misunderstood by his critics. But Dalton did refer to
the triangle in some places of his manuscript and in some of his
public speeches. In fact, the triangle was the key to his work, the
use of it becoming an obsession with him. All in all, Dalton made
many thousands—not hundreds —of observations of the workings of
nature and kept them well tabulated and classified. He made many
hundreds of laboratory experiments, and he had students and friends
cooperating with him in making other experiments. He climbed
mountains almost daily to register effects; he had certain instruments
in his home and outside of it constantly attuned to register various
manifestations and demonstrations of nature. He lived the life of a
hermit in many ways; isolated from all pleasure, building his own
instruments, devising his own methods, and accumulating facts which
would take a dozen volumes to record. And all this because he
searched for the triangle and its law in everything that was or seemed
to be. And among all these trials he made 200,000 meteorological
observations which are still preserved in records owned by a foreign
scientific society.
In a letter to Jonathan Otley in 1796 (six years before he made
public much of his discoveries) he said: "I may answer that my
head is too full of triangles, chemical processes, and electrical experi
ments to think much of marriage."
In the matter which follows, I will attempt to make plain to our
members the laws which Dalton evolved, based upon the working
of the triangle. I will make plain to them that which may not be so
plain to those not initiated into our Order. Furthermore, I have
added to Dalton's original charts, reproduced herewith, those points
and illustrations regarding Atoms which he did not make public.
The charts, themselves, have not been published in this form, or
complete in any form, since his transition, and no doubt students
[111]
of chemistry generally, as well as research workers in the field of
physics, will appreciate this rare treat.
The life of Dalton may be learned from almost any good reference
book or encyclopedia. But what follows is taken from his own
writings and from my own Rosicrucian manuscripts and Secret Man
damuses. It gives a fair example of how complete and replete with
valuable, unpublished, and little known information are the papers
possessed by the Masters of our Order.
Passing then from the generalities to the specific points of Dalton's
work, we must make reference to the charts from time to time.
I will quote Dalton's own words whenever his language is plain
enough for our members (for it is often robed with symbolism
which requires interpretation). But I shall use my own methods of
presenting the facts more often and when statements are not directly
quoted they are in my own words, giving the facts as I KNOW
them and have had them demonstrated to me in the Order's work
and in my own experiments in a typical R. C. laboratory.
It is difficult to approach a subject like this, for so much leads up
to it which must be passed in a short magazine article. But, essen
tially, the first two lectures of the First Grade of our Order show that
matter is composed of those particles which manifest the first dis
tinction of material expression.
In other words, the particular things which make a book are the
pages in size and number, the cover, and the title page. The pages
alone do not constitute a book; the cover alone, regardless of its ap
pearance as a book and having the distinction of being a book, does not
constitute a book; nor does the title page of a book, alone and inde
pendent, constitute a book. Yet each of these things is necessary to a
book; without them a book is not possible, and each must have certain
qualities of its own in order to make it assist in composing a book.
Thus it is with matter. Matter as a whole is a composite thing. But
the elements which compose it may have the natural distinctions or
qualities necessary to make matter, without being matter themselves.
Therefore, the Rosicrucians start their study of matter with the
nature and quality of that which enters into the composition of
matter, and one of the particles thus studied is the ATOM.
Dalton did not discover the Atom, nor did he ever publicly or
privately claim to have discovered it. But he did find that the Atom
was subject to some wonderful laws, and these laws are unchangeable
and universal in their application.
Starting, then, with the premise, the FACT, that matter in all
its expressions, in all its classifications, is composed of molecules, and
that these molecules are only a collection of Atoms united and held
together by some force or power, we are at once ready to study
the Atoms themselves. And our first conclusion is that there must
be different kinds of Atoms in order to make different kinds of
molecules of matter.
This conclusion is sometimes disputed by those scientists who have
a different theory of the composition of matter, or by those who
[112]
have no theory and will accept none. But we will waste no time in
arguing the FACT in this case.
Dalton proceeded with the fact and determined that there was
not only a definite quality to each Atom, but also a definite weight
to each Atom, as he called the other distinctive feature of each
Atom. And —right here I find myself in a quandary. I must ex-
plain what is meant by "weight," and to do so I would have to
refer to terms which I do not care to put into public print. Mem-
bers of our First Grade will recall that matter is made manifest by
a certain condition, a certain attribute, which distinguishes one kind
of matter from another. This feature of matter is according to
numbers—and the difference in numbers makes a difference in the
manifestation of matter. The particles which compose Atoms —as
explained in the lectures of the First Grade —are a result of this
distinctive condition which has different numbers of expression. Now,
when Dalton referred to the "weight of Atoms" he did not refer
to "weight" as it is usually understood by the world. Chemistry
has always supposed he did mean "weight" in its physical and com-
mon sense, and gradually they have found that there is a difference
between their observations and what they thought he meant. That
has occasioned considerable criticism of Dalton's theories, and I do
not suppose that chemists will give any credence to my explanations,
so I will not explain to them but to our own members.
So Dalton began to classify Atoms according to their inner nature.
When I say inner nature, I mean that nature which they have and
which is the result of the smaller particles composing them. Our
members will remember that matter is expressed by the triangle in
our work, and that the three corners of the triangle are certain
steps in the evolution or composition of matter. The Atom is at
the second point. So I will call Atoms point TWO of the triangle,
and the particles which compose them, point ONE of the triangle.
Now point one is a result of certain numbers and these numbers
assist in composing the Atoms. Therefore, Dalton worked to dis-
cover the NUMBERS COMPOSING EACH ATOM. He avoided
the large figures and used a scale by calling one thousand, one; two
thousand, two, etc., up to 200,000, which he called 200, etc. That
made it easy to write brief notes.
The result of his years of work produced what is to be found on
the upper part of PLATE ONE.
PLATE ONE
Here we have Dalton's division of Atoms into Elements. Let us
consider first the "simple Elements," numbered from 1 to 37. These
numbers do not refer to "weights," size, or nature. All numbers
on the plates refer only to the matter in the text.
Dalton invented a series of symbols to represent the Atoms, each
symbol based upon a circle with a definite mark or letter inside.
Many of these symbols he took from the Rosicrucian work, especially
[113]
that which pertains to Astrology, Alchemy, and the Triangle and
Cross. (Note, for instance, symbols numbered I, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 20,
32, 34, 35, 36, and 37.)
These first 37 symbols show that there are 37 definite forms of
matter which show their nature clearly and accurately WHEN
COMPOSED OF ONLY ONE ATOM. Some forms of matter are
not definite in nature until two, or three, or four, or possibly seven
Atoms are united. But these first 37, or the "Simple Elements,"
are composed of only ONE ATOM EACH. Naturally the Atoms
are different, different in size, in
"
weight," and in constitution, or
there would be no difference in the matter they manifest. So Dalton
listed these Elements as shown below and at the same time gave the
weight of each Atom. Remember the "weight" is the number of the
particles of "point one of the triangle," which composes the Atom,
but each number should be read in thousands. Thus, the first Atom
has 1 as its weight. It should be read 1,000. Number 4, Oxygen,
has 7 as its "weight;" that should be read 7,000.
LIST OF SIMPLE ELEMENTS
No. Nature "Weight'
1. 1
2. 5
3. Carbon or Charcoal 5
4. Oxygen 7
5. 9
6. 13
7. 20
8. 23
9. 28
10. 42
11. 46
12. 68
13. 38
14. Zinc 56
15. 56
16. Lead 95
17. Silver 100
18. 100
19. Gold 140
20. 167
21. 25 or 50
22. Tin 50
23. 68
24. 40
25. 42
26. Cobalt 55
27. 40
28. 60?
[114]
~— ii —ii . , ,
PLATE OWe
Dalfan's Laur ofProportionsforc)
Elements
(Simple)
©®#o®©@©
J. t. 9 « 5. 6. X 0.
©©oo®®©©
9. (* tt. f2 t3. /4, 1S /&
®©©o©©®©
>7. 13 13 20 21 22 23. 2*.
©©©©©©©©
25 26, 27 28, 29. M 3' 32.
© © © © ©
33 34 35- 36. 37.
Sinary
©0 ©CD „ (DO ©ii
45. (l><l) Ternary 46. 47
©O© OCDO 0#0 ©#0
Q Q {*) Quaternary
Q
cPo OFT)
4A Jin Jtorth America. Supreme ,
a *9-
Cnand Lodge, f S°
SJ_
Plate
1
[115]
29. Tungsten 40?
30. Titanium 40?
31. Cerium 45?
32. Magnesia? 17
33. Alumine 15
34. Silex 45
35. Yttria _ 53
36. Glucine 30
37. Scone 45
The foregoing, as stated, are the simplest elements. Dalton's work
was to demonstrate and prove that from these and a few other ele
ments came all the known forms of matter. At the present time we
have enlarged Dalton's number of simple elements to 92. But from
the foregoing 37 a very great number of the best known forms of
matter are evolved, so to speak, by combining several of the above
simple elements.
DALTON'S LAW OF PROPORTIONS
It is in the combining of two or more Atoms to make another form
of matter, another manifestation of matter, that Dalton discovered
the workings of the triangle. He did not express it in the terms of
the triangle as we do in our own Temple lectures, for his lectures
were for the public, but he did express it in this wise: "One added
to two to make one is equivalent to two added to one to make one;
and in adding two to two to make one, or one to three to make one,
the same law in its square is maintained by its conformity to the law
of three; and every other multiple is a duplication of the original
law."
This is beautifully illustrated in the charts herewith and as we
come to each example I will call attention to this law.
BINARY ELEMENTS
One added to one to make one, is illustrated here with five ex-
amples. No. 38 represents "one Atom of water or steam, composed
of one Atom of Oxygen and one of Hydrogen, retained in physical
contact by a strong afiinity and supposed to be surrounded by a
common atmosphere of heat; relative weight is 8."
The above are Dalton's own words, and they mean just this:
that water or steam, in its molecule, is composed of one Atom of
Hydrogen and one Atom of Oxygen. The "weight" of Hydrogen
is 1; the "weight" of Oxygen is 7; therefore, the combined weight
of the two, making the molecule of water or steam, is 8. The two
Atoms are held together by the strong affinity of ,
which is the quality referred to by Dalton when he uses the word
"weight" to symbolically represent this quality as explained in the
18th paragraph of this article. This strong affinity, or quality, or
power, is explained further on by chart and words.
When Atoms unite as do Hydrogen and Oxygen and others, they
do so according to a law. That law is the basis of the so-called
[116]
affinity between certain elements. Briefly put, it is that LIKE
ATTRACTS UNLIKE AND REPELS LIKE. In other words, two
Atoms of a like nature repel each other and will not unite according
to this law; but two or more Atoms of an unlike nature will attract
each other. Therefore, if the Atoms on Plate No. 1 were marbles
and were thrown together on a table, they would move toward each
other and form into as close and solid a unit as possible. But if
you added a few more marbles which were duplicates of those already
on the table, they would be pushed away by those which were like
them and pulled toward those which were unlike.
Another feature of this law is that when three, four, five, or six
or more of these Atoms are put near each other, again like marbles
on the table, they will unite and form, and these forms are based on
the triangle, square, and circle, or a combination of them. Note these
two features of the law in the following examples of atomic com
binations:
No. 39. 1 Atom of Ammonia, composed of 1 of Azote and 1
of Hydrogen _ 6
No. 41. 1 Atom of Nitrous Gas, composed of 1 of Azote and 1
of Oxygen _ 12
No. 42. 1 Atom of Olefiant Gas, composed of 1 of Carbon
and 1 of Hydrogen 6
No. 43. 1 Atom of Carbonic Oxide, composed of 1 of Carbon
and 1 of Oxygen 12
The above five examples are of two Atoms united to form an
other element. Each thus formed has an Atomic "weight" equal to
the total of the two Atoms composing
it,
as shown by the number at
the end of the line.
You will note that the two Atoms in these examples hug each
other closely. Whether one
is
above the other or beside the other
in
a
diagram
is
unimportant; but always will two unlike Atoms
touch each other in some relative position.
TERNARY ELEMENTS
Now we come to another form of elements —that composed of
two Atoms of one kind and one of another kind. In such form, three
Atoms composing an element, the three Atoms cannot be of the
same nature, because in that case they would not unite, but would
repel each other according to the law of like repelling like. There
fore, when an element
is
composed of three Atoms, two of them
are alike and one
is
unlike, and THE UNLIKE ATOM IS AL
WAYS IN THE CENTER. The reason
is
easily explained in this
way. In the first place, the two similar Atoms, in their repulsion
of each other, will separate as far as possible. That permits the dis
similar Atom to come in between them, for both of the similar ones
are attracted to this single Atom, which, in turn,
is
attracted to
[117]
them. Therefore, the single dissimilar Atom pulls the other two
closely to it, while they try to push each other away. In this manner
the two similar Atoms would be on the opposite sides. This is
plainly shown in the diagrams Nos. 44, 45, 46, and 47 of Plate 1.
The diagrams represent elements as follows:
No. 44. 1 Atom of Nitrous Oxide, composed of 2 of Azote
and 1 of Oxygen. 17
No. 45. 1 Atom of Nitric Acid, composed of 1 of Azote and
2 of Oxygen 19
No. 46. 1 Atom of Carbonic Acid, composed of 1 of Carbon
and 2 of Oxygen 19
No. 47. 1 Atom of Carburetted Hydrogen, composed of 1 of
Carbon and 2 of Hydrogen 7
In each case of the above four Ternary elements, the "weight"
of the element is given at the end of the line. It will be noticed
that two of them, while totally different in nature, have the same
"weight." Such an inconsistency may be difficult for science to
understand or explain.
QUATERNARY ELEMENTS
Now we come to those elements composed of four primary Atoms.
In fact, the four examples of quaternary elements given on Plate 1
are molecules composed of several Atoms.
First, note the manner in which these Atoms unite when there
are three of one kind and one of an unlike kind. Here is another
beautiful example of like attracting unlike and repelling like. Take
No. 48, for instance: the unlike Atom remains in the center while
the other three Atoms arrange themselves in perfect order around the
unlike Atom. Each of the three outside Atoms is attracted equally
by the unlike Atom in the center. That makes them hug, so to
speak, the centre Atom as closely as possible, all the while pushing
the other like Atoms away. Because each of the three outside Atoms
pushes the other away from it, they keep equidistant, and the space
between each of these three is always as mathematically equal as
though it had been placed in its position by some carefully adjusted
instrument —in fact more perfectly posited in this regard than any
system of measurement we know of could do it.
Another law, demonstrated by this attraction and repulsion be-
tween Atoms, is that when there are more of one kind than of an
other, as in Nos. 48, 49, 50, and 51, the greater number of like Atoms
will be on the outside.
Also, please note that four Atoms arranged in this way make the
form of a triangle; thus the triangle on the "material plane, is used to
indicate quaternary elements as shown before the word "quaternary"
on Plate 1. Some of the most interesting and profound problems of
chemistry are solved through a study of the composition of the
quaternary elements, and this is what Dalton referred to many times
[118]
when he said, as do many Rosicrucians in their works in chemistry,
that he was "busy with triangles."
No. 48 is a molecule of Oxynitric Acid, composed of 1 Atom
of Azote and 3 of Oxygen 26
No. 49 is a molecule of Sulphuric Acid, composed of 1 Atom
of Sulphur and 3 of Oxygen 34
No. 50 is a molecule of Sulphuretted Hydrogen, composed of
1 Atom of Sulphur and 3 of Hydrogen 16
No. 51 is a molecule of Alcohol, composed of 1 Atom of Hy-
drogen and 3 of Carbon. 16
PLATE TWO
Let us examine now two other forms of elements, called Quuv
quenary and Sextenary. These are illustrated as Nos. 52 and 53.
In No. 52 we have a very different arrangement of five atoms.
Three of them are alike and two of them are unlike. In this element,
called Nitrous Acid, we have a combination of Nitric Acid and
Nitrous Gas. By referring to No. 41 on Plate 1, you will find that
Nitrous Gas is composed of one Atom of Azote and one Atom of
Oxygen. The two combined make Nitrous Gas. By referring to
No. 45 on Plate 1, you will also see that Nitric Acid is composed of
one Atom of Azote and two Atoms of Oxygen. In other words, the
difference between Nitric Acid and Nitrous Gas is a difference of one
more Atom of Oxygen in the Acid. But to turn these into a Nitrous
ACID we must combine the Nitric Acid and the Nitrous Gas. That
means combining the five Atoms. Illustration No. 52 shows the only
possible way in which these five Atoms of two different natures would
combine. Four would unite, as shown, with the fifth Atom clinging
to one side of the Azote Atom as far away from its companion Azote
Atoms as it could be without severing the attraction that exists be
tween it and the Oxygen Atom. The relation of these five Atoms to
each other and the form they thus take illustrates one of Dalton's
principles in his law of proportions —that in combining, the Atoms
adhere to the law of the triangle, the square, or a combination of
them. For in No. 52 we can see both the triangle and the square.
Its "weight" is 31.
In No. 53 a different problem is presented. Here we have six
Atoms of three different natures. It represents a molecule of Acetous
Acid and is composed of two Atoms of Carbon and two of Water.
But whereas Carbon is composed of only one simple element, water
is composed of two Atoms (one of Hydrogen and one of Oxygen).
The manner in which these six Atoms arrange is interesting, yet in
no other way could these six be placed and still maintain their attrac
tion and repulsion. The relative "weight" of this is 26.
And now we come to Septenary elements. No. 54 represents
Nitrate of Ammonia. It is composed of one Atom of Nitric Acid,
one of Ammonia, and one of Water, as will be seen by referring to
Nos. 45, 39, and 38 of Plate 1. Its relative "weight" is 33. No. 55
[119]
pl a re r wo.
Elements fcontinuet/J
Fig. G.
Thi'sChjrt copyn'slrfrj f9/J fy J -Of R:-C:-afA&rt/iJmrriea. Supreme Gmnd
'
Lodge,
fi-
Plate
2
[120]
represents Sugar and is composed of one of Alcohol and one of Car
bonic Acid as shown in Nos. 51 and 46 of Plate I. Its relative
"weight" is 35.
Both of these elements are composed of seven Atoms and in form
they present the outline of a circle inside of which are three triangles,
the center Atom being the vertex of each of the three triangles. Thus
again we find the law of the triangle, square, and circle being demon-
strated.
For the purpose of diagrammatic illustration the Atoms will be con-
sidered as perfect spheres. That they may at times be of different
shapes is due to the fact that they may be compressed or flattened in
places by contact with other Atoms. Of late, science has considered
the Atom as like unto a rubber ball, which may be pressed so that
it loses its perfectly spherical shape, but always retains a certain re
semblance to a sphere.
The spherical shapec of atoms accounts for much that could not be
accounted for in any otl^er way, and the shape also makes for many
conditions and phenomena in chemistry and physics of a very inter
esting nature. In fact, the spherical form of Atoms, as well as their
chemical nature, enables them to manifest in many different ways.
This latter fact Dalton illustrated?' by the diagrams shown on
Plate 2.
;
Here we have in Figure A nine Atoms placed within a square so
that we may study th&r relation one to another. We notice that
by having the Atoms touch-" each other, as they do in this diagram,
Atom No. 5 makes contact only with four other Atoms —Nos. 2, 4,
6, and 8. We note also that there is a considerable space between
these nine Atoms.
If we consider each layer of Atoms in this square space as being
a stratum, we have three strata in Figure A. Between these layers or
strata we have the large opening or "air" space. This means that in
any such arrangement of Atoms there will be a great amount of space
between the Atoms, and this space is occupied by what we shall
simply call "air."
Now if we take these nine Atoms and arrange them as shown in
Figure D, we change the square to a rhomboidal form. By arranging
the Atoms in this wise we do several things of considerable import
ance. Dr. Dalton, in his papers to the scientific bodies of his day,
spoke only of one or two results attained by this arrangement of
the Atoms, but I will speak of another result which he knew well
but did not fully illustrate.
First of all it will be seen, as Dr. Dalton pointed out, that this
arrangement of the Atoms causes Atom No. 5 to contact SIX other
Atoms instead of only four as shown in Figure A. Thus, Atom
No. 5 is in contact with Atoms Nos. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8. Further
more, Atoms Nos. 2, 4, 6, and 8 now touch one another, whereas
they did not in the arrangement in Figure A.
This different arrangement makes every Atom in the composition
of anything a center of a mystic group, so to speak. For every such
[121]
center Atom will have six other Atoms surrounding
it,
each making
contact with the other. Thus each group consists of seven Atoms —
the center one and its six companions. This
is
why such
a
group
is
called
a
mystic group. And the true power of such
a
group
is
usually
determined by the nature of the center Atom. The result of such
grouping, in
a
truly mystical way,
is
explained later on.
But the principal point which Dr. Dalton wished to bring forth
by such an illustration of grouping was this: That when the Atoms
were so arranged the amount of air space between the Atoms was
reduced. By examining the grouping in Figure D one will see that
there
is
considerably less air space between the Atoms than between
those in Figure A. He held, and
it
has been demonstrated as true,
that when the air is extracted from the matter by
a
rearrangement of
its Atoms, the change or new condition
is
brought about by this law.
The most interesting point, however, which Dr. Dalton touched
upon, though did not fully explain in his lifetime,
is
illustrated in
Figures
B,
C,
E,
and
F.
y
By changing the arrangement of Atom? as shown in Figure D, the
strata of the Atoms are altered in
j
manner clearly shown by the
diagrams. By taking any three .Atoms in Figure
A
and grouping
them in the same relation to^ach other as shown in Figure
B,
we
discover another law. For example, we show Atoms numbered
6,
8,
and
9
of Figure A. In Figure
B
we see these three Atoms in precisely
the same relation to each other as they occupied in Figure A.
Now by drawing
a
line from the center of each of these three
Atoms to the center of the others we have
a
triangle.
If
we consider
the one Atom (No.
9)
as resting upon two others, as constitutes
a
building of layers, or strata, we find in Figure
E
that the triangle has
a
certain height indicated by the dotted lines. We also note that
the triangle
is
not an equilateral triangle. (And this
is
important
to all Rosicrucians.)
If, on the other hand, we take three Atoms from the grouping in
Figure D, we find another law. By taking any three Atoms, or in
this example by taking Atoms numbered
4,
5,
and
7,
and placing
them in the same relation to each other as they are in Figure D,
we find that
a
triangle can be formed by drawing
a
line from the
centers of the Atoms. But in this case the triangle
is
an equilateral
triangle.
By comparing these two triangles as shown in Figures
E
and
F
we
see that they have different heights (indicated by the dotted lines)
and the height
is
shown by the two heavy lines in the center of the
diagram.
This, says Dr. Dalton, shows the height of the strata of each group
of Atoms.
He also calls attention to the fact that in the grouping shown in
Figure D, the angles are always 60 or 120 degrees —a fact to be
kept in mind by all Rosicrucians.
Therefore, we see that when the law of the triangle (the
equilateral triangle) demonstrates or manifests itself in the composi
[122]
tion of matter or the arrangement of Atoms, we have an entirely
different and important demonstration of the Atomic laws.
The grouping in Figure D represents the grouping of Atoms in
the formation of ice. By this arrangement of the Atoms the air
space or "air" is eliminated to a great extent and thereby the liquid
becomes more solid. This is accounted for by the two facts that
since the Atoms fit more closely together the matter becomes more
solid, and that the elimination of air takes from the water a great
amount of its elasticity.
To further demonstrate the grouping of Atoms in this fashion in
the formation of ice, Dr. Dalton points to another interesting fact.
He calls your attention to the formation of ice. He asks you to
note that when water freezes by sudden congelation (that
is,
when
water
is
brought into an atmosphere below the freezing point and
is
suddenly chilled) certain forms of crystals or spiculae can be seen
upon the surface of the water. Figure
G
shows one of these spiculae
and
it
illustrates two points: That the Atoms are ccrelated to one
another as shown in Figures
C
and D, and that the angles are very
significant.
An examination of the designs shown in snowflakes will teach
one many interesting facts regarding the laws embraced in the fore
going statements.
COMBINING ATOMS
Plate Three
Let us turn our attention to Plate Three. Here Dr. Dalton iUW
trates many other laws of the Atoms.
To understand what Dr. Dalton meant to convey—and to make
plain to our Rosicrucian readers the laws they have been studying
—we must bear in mind that all Atoms have a certain aura around
them due to their vibrations. Considering the nature of an Atom
and its composition from the Rosicrucian point of view,
it
is
not
surprising that we should speak of an aura surrounding an Atom.
This aura of influence or magnetic quality has been recognized
by scientists many years. David A. Wells wrote in his book issued
in 1863 that Atoms possessed
a
certain polarity which gave them
a
certain magnetic force, and he said that "the action of these forces
compels the Atom, in assuming its place in
a
crystal (of matter)
to maintain
a
certain direction as respects the contiguous particles"
(or atoms).
In Figures
1,
2,
and
3,
of Plate Three, Dalton shows Atoms in
groups to form certain elastic fluids. Figure
1
shows Atoms forming
Hydrogen. Figure
2
shows Nitrous Gas. Figure
3
shows Carbonic
Acid. What he intends to show
is
that the aura from the Atoms
composing these three causes the atmosphere around the Atoms to
be charged with certain emanations from the Atoms, and that this
atmosphere and the vibrations in
it
cause the composition or element
[123]
jAtOTtlic LaWS (continued/
pi * re rHffsE
0 0
lo o
^V<S. 3.
(DO
(DO (DO
(DO (DO
(DO (DO
7»/j fart co/,yryAf/-o;w/7iy PJ', of
Jkrtt America.Supreme Grand
'
£<xfye.
FIG. 6
Plate 3
[124]
formed by the Atoms to be "elastic." In this way, he says, are elastic
fluids or gases formed.
In Figure 4, however, we come to one of the most interesting dia
grams and illustrations of the Atomic law. In fact, the point which
Dalton tried to present in a veiled way has not been fully offered
to the workers in chemistry before; and it is only with the hope that
some chemists or workers in chemistry may find in my more or less
veiled explanations some help for their problems that I venture to
elucidate one of our Rosicrucian laws.
Assuming (and this may not be an assumption at all) that the
Atoms do have certain rays emanating from them, we can best
illustrate these emanations by making them diagrammatic. There
fore, we will consider that the rays issue from the center of each
Atom and go outward from the Atom in straight lines. For a very
good reason we will assume that these rays from an aura around
each Atom, and that this aura is in the form of a square. (I must
repeat that this MAY NOT BE an assumption at all.) We find,
however, that there are four emanations from each Atom which form
diagonal lines in the square aura surrounding each atom. In other
words, there are four definite rays from each Atom, stronger than
the others, which leave the Atom at equidistant points, and these rays
are called the POTENTIAL RAYS.
Another point to be remembered is that all Atoms are not of
the same size. Figure 5 on Plate 2 shows a number of Atoms rep-
resenting sixteen different elastic fluids, from A to P. The Atoms
are drawn in their proportion to one another, and the square of
aura surrounding each Atom is drawn in proportion to the size of
the Atoms. Thus we can plainly see by the size of the square aura
the difference in the aura of each of these sixteen Atoms.
Behind all the laws known to chemistry for the combining of
certain Atoms, or the mixing of certain elements, is this law: That
the rays from each Atom must meet and find harmony with the
rays of other Atoms if they would blend or unite. This law is
illustrated in Figure 4 on Plate 3. There are four Atoms of Azote
(Nitrogen) in their square auras at the top of Figure 4. You will
,
note that the rays from these four Atoms, forming the square auras
around each Atom, unite or meet.
Because these rays join in this manner the four Atoms form a
united element. You will further note that the POTENTIAL RAYS
of each of the four Atoms meet and thereby form diagonals in
the large square composed of the four smaller squares. At the
bottom of the four squares of Azote there are two squares con
taining Atoms of Hydrogen. These latter squares are larger than
the others above them, because the Atoms and auras of Hydrogen
are larger than the Atoms and auras of Azote, as shown in the dia
grams G and P in Figure 5.
However, the Atoms of Hydrogen unite well with the Atoms of
Azote because the diagonal rays, or the POTENTIAL RAYS of
[125]
all the Atoms in the combination of Figure 4, meet and unite per-
fectly. This is shown in Figure 4 by the HEAVY DARK diagonal
lines running through four squares and which represent the Paten-
tial Rays.
To make this more clear, Figure 6 has three different Atoms and
their auras enlarged. Here we find that because of the difference
of the rays forming the auras of those Atoms, not one of the rays
in one of those Atoms or auras meets with others. No matter how
you may place or try to unite those three Atoms —whatever they
may be—they will not make the perfect association desired.
By this we learn that when the potential rays of Atoms unite
there is one form of mixture; and that when all the rays meet (as
in the upper four squares of Figure 4) there is another mixture of
a purer and unmodified nature. And —when none of the rays unite
we find that the Atoms do not give a true mixture of any kind.
Thus we see that theoretically, at least, there is a great deal to
study and learn about the potentiality of Atoms and the emanations
of Atoms; for in the potentiality and in the rays lie the secret of
the combination of Atoms and the formation of matter.
This, then, is the great work of Rosicrucian chemistry, and in our
Order, as in no other teaching, are laws found making all those things
plain which I have been able to refer to only in a veiled way in this
interpretation of the work and discoveries of Dr. John Dalton.
Members are urged to study this carefully. Reference to any
standard text book on chemistry will be helpful, but where contra
dictions appear, that
is,
where there are contradictions in the text
books in regard to what
is
published in this article, you will naturally
remember that such contradictions are errors which we are striving
to overcome by establishing certain truths.
CONCLUSION
[126]
SIR FRANCIS LORD BACON
Baron Verulam, Viscount St. Albans, Eminent
Imperator of the Rosicrucians
Because of the increasing interest in the life and works of Francis
Bacon, we introduce his portrait (on page 9) and a few brief remarks
about him.
He was born in London on January 22, 1561. He attained very
high positions in the British government, and was a secret representa
tive of many high officials, and was often forced to assume the
responsibility and guilt of those whose reputations he would save.
For years those unfriendly to him believed the evil that was said of
him, and which he cared not to deny in order to save further ex-
planations. But within the past fifty years certain unquestioned rec
ords have proved the Rosicrucian contention that he was one of
England's noble men —in heart, soul, and deed.
As a pioneer in the revolution of methods of education he stands
without a peer, and the effect of his "secret society" upon mankind
in Europe was ever a puzzle to the multitude until it Was discovered
that the secret society to which much of his correspondence seemed
to refer, was the Rosicrucian Order. Then it was found that some
of his literary co-workers were his official emissaries or deputies of
the Rosicrucian Order, making periodical journeys to foreign juris
dictions.
It was Bacon, who, as Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order, wrote
the now internationally famous book called the Fama Fraternitatis,
and to which the fictitious name of Christian Rosenkreutz was signed
—meaning Rosy Cross. Through the discovery of the secret Code
in this manuscript, and the several acknowledged writings on secret
codes, it was further discovered that Bacon wrote the famous plays
attributed to the one who produced them, Shakespeare. An exam
ination of the pages of the original plays shows not only the name
and titles of Bacon concealed in the strangely arranged lines of text,
but the Rosicrucian and Bacon symbols are found as water-marks
in the paper. The writing and production of plays at that time was
considered a low, mean, and sordid occupation, and while the "Shakes
peare Plays" were of a very high type and quite different from all
previous plays, the very nature of their intimate revelations would
forbid the author from admitting his connection with them under
penalty of having them destroyed. It was a most fortunate circum
stance for civilization that Bacon conceived his wonderful plan of
writing and issuing the plays under the name of the principal actor,
yet preserving within their text the name of the real author.
It was Bacon who first planned the Rosicrucian invasion of America.
He published a book called the New Atlantis (often referred to as
"The House of Solomon") in which the whole scheme is given in
fascinating symbolism. Many years later, in 1693, a specially selected
[127]
army of Rosicrucians, with their families, gathered from all parts of
Europe at one port, and set sail for America in their own chartered
boat. They arrived at what is now Philadelphia in the early part of
1694, and established many of the first educational institutions in the
United States. Their record, well preserved in the archives of this
country, testifies to the magnificent influence of the Rosicrucians in
the foundation of this great Republic.
Bacon's transition occurred April 9, 1626, in the very height of
his Rosicrucian work and while he was making some important
scientific tests.
The full-page illustration of Bacon, shown elsewhere, accompanied
by many of the symbols used in reference to him, was made by our
Imperator, Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, in 1919, as a frontispiece to a
book he was compiling on Bacon's Mystic Symbolism. It has been
reproduced a number of times and is drawn from the best known
portrait of Bacon, with other decorations and features known so well
to Rosicrucians. It is unlike any page to be found in any of Bacon's
books in entire composition, but duplicating parts of many. Thus our
members have an excellent souvenir of the eminent Rosicrucian Im
perator of the seventeenth century.
[128]
DR. H. SPENCER LEWIS, F. R. C.
Imperator for 7<[orth America, A. M. O. R. C.
The following brief biography is compiled from facts gathered
from our various official publications and from official records.
Harve Spencer Lewis was born in Frenchtown, New Jersey, on
November 25, 1883, at 12:38 noon (corrected, astrological time).
His parents were engaged in educational work at the time and he
was given a good schooling, and later brought to New York with
his two brothers. He is of Welch extraction, descending from the
family of Lewis whose great forbear was Sir Robert Lewis and whose
other descendants included Merriweather Lewis of the famous Lewis
and Clark expedition, and many others prominent in early American
history.
Educated in New York City schools he united with the Methodist
Church and was one of the early members of the well-known Meth
odist "Metropolitan Temple," of which Dr. S. Parks Cadman was
the first clergyman and marvelous promoter of great good.
Devoting himself to scientific studies he also entered the art world
as a profession, and in many parts of America today are paintings
in oil, pastel, and water-color, as well as hundreds of pen drawings
from his prolific pen. Many of these have become nationally known.
Before his twenty-first year he was in charge of special art features
of the New York Herald.
At about this same time he was elected President of the New
York Institute for Psychical Research, and among the many able
associates in his work were Ella Wheeler Wilcox and "Fra" Hub
bard, founder of the Roycrofters. Both of these later assisted in
the establishment of the Rosicrucian Order in America and were
on the first American Council of the Order when Dr. Lewis was
elected Supreme Grand Master of America.
After many years of continuous scientific and psychic research,
even in the fields of wireless (radio) when this science was little
known, he made his first contact with the work of the Rosicrucians
through obtaining copies of the secret manuscripts of the first Ameri
can Rosicrucians, who established their headquarters near Philadel
phia in 1694. A member of the English Branch which sponsored
the first movement in America, Mrs. Colonel May Banks Stacey,*
descendant of Oliver Cromwell and the DArcy's of France, placed
in his hands such papers as had been officially transmitted to her by
the last of the first American Rosicrucians, with the Jewel and Key
of authority received by her from the Grand Master of the Order
in India, while an officer of the work in that country.
*See Portrait on Page 12.
[129]
For several years correspondence was maintained with different
representatives of the foreign Jurisdictions until proper investiga-
tion could be made establishing the worthiness of Dr. Lewis to carry
out the warrants then in his possession. Finally in 1909 he was
directed to make his appearance before certain high officials in France.
He visited Toulouse, the ancient center of the Rosicrucian interna-
tional conclave, and returned from that country in possession of
further authority. This, and the papers possessed by Sro. Stacey,
were presented to a Committee of over a hundred American citizens
and the foundation for the decreed revival of the work in America
was laid, with Sro. Stacey as Grand Matre of the Order, and Dr.
Lewis as Supreme Grand Master.
Since then many high honors have been conferred upon him by
foreign and American societies, academies, scientific institutions and
learned bodies.
His wife, Martha Morfier Lewis, a descendant of the famous French
General, Morphier, was the first lady in America to cross the
Threshold of the Order in the new regime, and his four children
have been raised in the work; his son, Ralph M. Lewis, being the
Supreme Secretary of the Order for North America.
[130)
NUMEROLOGY AND THE REAL SYSTEM
Thousands of our members inquire of us each year in regard to
the various systems of Numerology, or NAME NUMBERS, now
on the market in book form, and being supplemented with new and
contradictory systems each month. Many of these believe that because
our studies cover so many subjects we should include JsJumeroJogy.
The more serious letters tell us that these persons have changed
their names or are about to go to some considerable expense in order
to change their names in accordance with the advice of some number
system; others say that after having changed names for a number
of years, and having experienced much confusion thereby, they find
no radical change in their personal affairs. All want some helpful
advice from us.
We believe that a presentation of the facts about these systems
will save much trouble, time, and expense. Therefore, read care-
fully the following logical statements:
It is claimed that the continued pronunciation of certain names by
ourselves, or by others in our presence, will affect our careers, our
health, our psychic development, etc. It is also claimed that each
letter of the alphabet has a certain number, or vibration rate, and
that these vibrations affect us.
It is a mystical fact that the continued, or occasional, and proper
pronunciation of certain vowel sounds, such as "Oom" or "Aum,"
will produce certain psychic effects, but it is stretching the point
to say that because a boy bears the name Harry, the sound of that
name, used by him or others, will cause good or bad conditions in
his life.
Let us look at the matter critically. Granted that sounds of the
letters, when pronounced by us or others, affect us, it becomes ap-
parent at once that it is not due to the vibrations of the letters or
their numbers, but to the vowel sounds. In other words, the sounds
are important, but the letters composing the sounds are not; for the
letters are not the true guide to the sounds.
Let us illustrate: If a person born on a certain date should now
have a name that "vibrates to 12" but should have one that vibrates
to 13, how will you determine the proper name?. By the numbers
given to each letter? That will not do, for how can you assign the
name Harry, and give 4 to the letter a in the name Harvey? They
do not have the same vowel sound; how then can the number be
alike? How will you sound the two letters Vi in Violet and Vin
cent? The two sounds are quite different, yet, so far as the two
letters are concerned, they would have the same numbers in the
Numerology systems.
[131]
All of the systems on the market today give one number to each
letter of the alphabet. Let us say that the letter o is given the num-
ber 6 in the system we are examining. It will have to be measured
by that number in all cases, whether the o appears in the name
John or Oliver, Oscar, Otis, Orville, Dora, Doris, Louis, or Howe.
And yet there are a number of distinctly different sounds to the
one o in these names.
So we maintain that a number system based upon the assignment
of numbers to the letters of the alphabet is not true and correct.
If the vowel sounds have any effect, then the sounds, and not the
letters should be numbered. There is no such system popularly
distributed, and only the Rosicrucians have carefully tabulated the
real numerical value of vowel sounds. But such knowledge is not
published and sold for the pastime of changing names, with the con-
sequent confusion and expense.
And what would you do with the foreign names? You may figure
out the vibration numbers of the name Madeliene as you use it
in America, but let a Frenchman pronounce it for you and you will
note that the vibrations are different from those resulting from pre
nouncing the word in English.
We advise, on excellent grounds, that you do not change your —-
name, but make it serve you, and at the same time bring honor and
esteem to it. If there is nothing more serious afflicting your rise
and progress in life than the numerical value of the letters of your
Christian, or given name, then thank God that you have an un-
usually free and clean Path to great success and happiness.
Whatever may be your birthday, whatever may be the configura--.
tion of the aspects between the planets in your horoscope, whatever \
may be your hereditary traits, your Karmic debts, your given name, \
your phrenological bumps, you still have within you the creative, J
corrective power of God's consciousness, to which all these other
J
things are slaves and over which YOUR OWN WILL has domi-
nance. Use your Divine Heritage, direct
it,
give
it
greater expression,
and make all the material handicaps stepping stones to success and
power.
fl32
3
The Rosy Cross
Mechanically and Symbolically Formed
[133]
[135]
4*
ATTAINING PSYCHIC ILLUMINATION
V V V
"WHEN THE STUDENT IS READY"
The question may be asked: "What is the ultimate goal of Rosi-
crucian study and preparation?" It is an old question that has been
answered thousands of times in each country by the attainment that
has come into the lives of the most devoted students.
It is well that the Neophyte and the Adept alike should be re
minded again of the real purpose of the work we are engaged in and
the reward that may be theirs when found ready and worthy.
There is a very old and well-founded injunction that "when the
student is ready the Master will appear!" This has been very greatly
misunderstood and is used by thousands for refusing to unite with
any school or organization, preferring to "wait until the personal
teacher manifests."
The injunction distinctly says: "When the student is ready, the
Master will appear!" What is meant by being ready? Surely it is
not merely a matter of time! It must mean precisely what thousands
have found it to mean: When the student is ready through prepara-
tion and worthiness.
This leaves the matter very clearly in the hands of each student.
He may prepare slowly through selected reading, through long hours
of meditation covering many hours, or through the occasional atten-
dance at lectures and discourses. If time is of no consequence, then
a student may wait until the close of this incarnation or even another,
for the appearance of that Master who is to be his personal teacher.
. - Here again we may ask: What Master, what teacher? Surely
not an earthly Master, for such do not require the preparation and
development necessary for Cosmic illumination. The sincere student
who truly prepares himself and becomes worthy of the personal
instruction from a Master soon develops beyond the point where
any earthly Master would satisfy. Only a Cosmic Master would
meet the requirements of one who is ready.
HOW TO PREPARE
How, then, shall the student prepare most efficiently and with the
utmost economy of time? This, too, is an age-old question, asked in
the mystery schools of Egypt, as it is asked in the arcane schools of
our Order today.
[136]
There is but one answer: By taking the preliminary and graded
steps in the earthly schools of the Masters and attaining the degrees
of readiness through directed preparation. Hence the establishment
of the arcane schools in all lands; hence the Great Work allotted to
them by the Masters.
Where are the Great Masters and how are they contacted? Here
we find more difficulty in answering, not because our knowledge is
meager, but because language is inadequate to express the sublime
facts. There are some conditions of Cosmic life which even the
language of the Shakespeare gems could not describe. We may com-
prehend, we may apprehend, and there may come to us, through
words, some faint conception of the beauty, magnificence, and divin-
ity of the Cosmic scheme, but never a complete realization until we
have made the personal contact and found Cosmic Illumination.
Know, then, that there is a wonderful union or assembly of Master
Minds, Master Personalities, which constitute the Holy Assembly
of the Cosmic. One of these masterful characters, Kut-Hu-Mi, the
Illustrious, is shown in a portrait in another part of the Manual.
He was one of the two Masters referred to by the ancient mystics
and made somewhat known to advanced Theosophists by the late
Mme. Helen P. Blavatsky, who was one of the personal students
of die Master.
The Master K-H-M is Deputy Grand Master of the Great White
Lodge of the Great White Brotherhood. He was at one time known
on earth as Thutmose III of Egypt, and at one time resided at Lake
Moeris (Morias). He was referred to in the Zend-Avesta as the
Illuminator and was also known in Egypt as the Kroomata (Kai-Ra-
Au-Meta) from which comes our Rosicrucian word used in our
rituals and salutations: CROMAAT. (It is interesting to note that if
we take the initials of the title of our Order: The Ancient and Mystt-
col Order Rosae Crucis, and reverse them, we have CROMAAT.)
The Master K-H-M (often called "K-ff') passed through a number
of reincarnations and was an important character on this earth many
times, and has lived for over a hundred and forty years in each
incarnation. At the present time he abides on the earth plane again
and is at a secret monastery and temple near Kichingargha, called
variously Kichinjirgha, Kichi-jirg-jargha, or Parcha-jarg-hatba by the
Tibetans and Sikinese.
There are a number of others, twelve in all, who compose the
Holy Assembly of the Great White Lodge; some are on the Cosmic
Plane, carrying on their great work while awaiting their next incar
nation, and some are on this earth plane directing the physical work
while developing for the Cosmic Plane period.
THE GREAT MASTERS
THE GREAT WHITE LODGE
t
[137]
Under their care a certain group of high Initiates are prepared
in each incarnation for still higher work in a next incarnation, and
some of these are assigned the duty, the service, and the real labor,
of maintaining the positions of Imperators, Magi, and Hierophants
in the several branches of the Great White Brotherhood organi-
zations, of which the Rosicrucian Order is the highest. These Imper-
ators, Magi, and Hierophants in various lands compose the Great
White Lodge under the personal direction of the twelve Masters
referred to above.
The Great White Brotherhood, on the other hand, is the school,
or Fraternity, of the Great White Lodge, and into this invisible
Brotherhood of visible members every true student on the Path
prepares for admission.
COSMIC INITIATION
Hence, the real preparation of which we were speaking is for the
purpose of ultimately being admitted, by Cosmic Initiation, into
the Great White Brotherhood, that herein the Master will appear
to the student who is ready, take him under personal instruction, and
lead him (or her) on to higher development, where, some day, Mas-
tership in the Great White Brotherhood is certain, and assignment to
service as Imperator, Magi, or Hierophant in some phase of the work
on earth will then bring affiliation with the Great White Lodge.
How is such instruction given by the personal Master? It
is,
truly,
personal, and
is
given through the media of the Cosmic. In other
words,
it
becomes what
is
generally referred to as Cosmic Illumina
tion, or Cosmic Consciousness, for at certain hours, days, or weeks
of one's life one becomes conscious of some new and astounding
knowledge, often with, and sometimes without, being aware of the
presence or contact of the personal teacher.
In other words, the student, who attains membership in the Great
White Brotherhood, after due preparation and real worthiness, first
discovers this by becoming conscious of having passed through
a
series of events constituting
a
true Initiation. Often these occur
during the night, or while on periods of rest and meditation in the
mountains or valleys, away from active worldly affairs. This con-
sciousness
is
accompanied by an influx of Divine Apprehension and
Spiritual Awakening, affecting even the physical body to such an
extent as to bring about a real re-birth of the body with rejuvenation,
increased vigor, restored functioning in organs and parts that were
tired, depleted, or subnormal.
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
This
is
followed by
a
sudden increase in the functioning of
a
sense
which
is
mistakenly called intuition at the time, for
it
seems to be like
unto the intuitive faculty that was being highly developed during the
earlier stages of preparation leading up to the original Initiation into
the Great White Brotherhood.
It
is
not intuition, however, but
[138]
Cosmic Consciousness of events now occurring and decreed to occur
in the near future. It is \nowledge, and not a prophetic impression.
Then follows guiding instructions and definite knowledge of laws and
principles, facts, and actualities, in accordance with the needs and
desires of the member. From then on the member attends the earthly
Lodge as a worker to help others who are on the Path, and to assist
in the Great Work; but he receives no instruction through an earthly
Master by means of books, lectures, papers, or diagrams.
This is why we urge those who have gone fairly high in the
development of their psychic bodies, and have attained certain knowl
edge and powers in our Order, to maintain a close contact with the
Order, with its Masters, and its Imperator, for through such contact
these members may find at any time, unannounced and unexpected,
the Initiation that will take them into the Great White Brotherhood.
The last three grades of study and preparation in the Rosicrucian
Order are designed especially to prepare the members, in the most
minute and varied details, for the ultimate goal.
What, then, do we suggest to our members to aid them in attain-
ing this ultimate goal?
That, above all else, they be loyal and devoted to the ideals of
Rosicrucianism, and maintain every physical contact with the physi
cal organization known as AMORC in North America and by simi
lar names in other lands.
BENEFITS OF OUR LESSONS
The mere intellectual study and comprehension of the specialized
lectures and lessons issued to student members is not sufficient. Of
and by itself, such study is but a third of the work of preparation
leading to readiness and worthiness. The lessons are designed to
accomplish two things:
(a) Train the brain and augment the knowledge of the mind
in regard to fundamental laws and principles leading up
to a comprehension of the higher laws;
(b) Give and suggest certain experiments and tests which will
consciously and unconsciously develop certain psychic cen
ters in the member that will quicken his psychic powers
and abilities for more complete Mastership and control of
natural forces.
Many members look upon the lectures and lessons as if they were
intended to cover only the first of the above purposes. To them the
lessons in all the grades are like unto discourses in philosophy or
metaphysics, often seeming to be simple and inconsequential. It is
difficult, indeed, to make them appreciate the fact that unless the
various exercises and tests are performed each week, or even each
day, for a few minutes, there will be very little psychic development
accompanying the comprehension of the lessons, and, of course, no
real progress made.
[139]
PSYCHIC AWAKENING
On the other hand, another most difficult point to make plain
to many members and students is that not all of the psychic develop
ment and awakening of psychic centers will be manifest or objec-
tively conscious to the student. To think that it should be is to believe
that all of the functioning of the psychic body should make itself
continuously or periodically known to the objective mind. This will
appear unreasonable when one stops to consider that not one-thou
sandth of the functioning of the parts of the objective, physical body
is realized by the objective mind. Is one conscious of the functioning
of the kidneys, the spleen, the pancreas, the brain, the air chambers
of the lungs, or of the solar plexus, or the plexus around the aortic
arch of the heart, or a thousand other places?
Very often the most devoted student and the most regular appli-
cant of the tests and experiments feels that he is making little progress
because he senses no particular development from within. He is apt
to become discouraged, knowing that he is familiar with each law
and principle he has studied, with no apparent manifestation of
unusual abilities. But if he is persistent, as well as patient, there
comes a time when, having need of the laws in a truly practical way,
and not merely in a test, he finds a sudden impulse to power, a sud
den quickening of a faculty —and there is a marvelous demonstration!
Or he may go back over some experiment that puzzled him for weeks
and find, now, a manifestation that was impossible before.
Such students are always urged to continue their studies and
diligently test each principle, try each experiment, and apply each
law in the way described in the weekly lesson. They should give
each lesson a full week's trial, and then if no success has been at-
tained—or not such success as was expected —go on with the next
lesson as though success had been attained. Try the new lesson
diligently, and then the next lesson, and so on. After several months
have passed, if the student goes back and reviews some of the ex
periments which were not successful, he will find that he has some
slight or large degree of success. Such reviewing does not interfere
with the study and practice of the new lesson and does not delay,
but assists, the progress.
PSYCHIC DEVELOPMENT
The lessons are all arranged so that the exercises lap over one
another in affecting certain psychic centers. Three different exercises
in three successive weekly lessons may appear to be unrelated, yet
each of them may pertain to the same end in view; and by going
on to the second or third one, when the others did not show any
success, it will aid in continuing the development started by the first.
For it must be kept in mind that the exercises and experiments
DO start certain degrees of development each time they are tried,
whether a successful issue to the experiment is manifest or not. Once
a serious application of a law is made, an awakening of some center
[140]
results, and four or five applications in one week for the same purpose
will start a process of development that may not be realized by the
outer-self, but will continue for weeks and months.
Therefore, to repeat, the mere study of the lessons, as one would
read a book of law to memorize the principles, is not sufficient for
psychic development. And —psychic development requires TIME in
each human being, more or less according to the stage of development
when the study is started. We come into each incarnation at a point
in psychic development where we left off in the process at the time
of transition in the previous incarnation. While the soul and psychic
self are on the Psychic Plane awaiting reincarnation, certain work
is being accomplished and certain knowledge attained; but that phase
of psychic development which is capable of manifestation while in
the human body must be developed on the earth plane; and this
ceases, to some degree, while on the Cosmic Plane. Therefore, not
all of us are born alike in Psychic Development; some will have
certain experiences early in the lesson work, and some will have them
a little later. But when those who have had to wait begin to mani- 1
fest, the process is rapid and wonderfully satisfactory. (Right here,
to anticipate any questions which may be sent to us by members,
let us say that it is impossible for the Officers of the Order to tell
any member when she or he may expect to have certain manifesta-
tions, or to what degree a member is developed psychically before
being able to make any manifestation of his development. After
development has started to manifest and the member can apply the
development, it is a simple matter for the member, and others equally
developed, to sense the development and its degree.)
PROGRESS AND DELAYS
The most rapid development is made by the student who is least
concerned, during the first few grades of study, about his or her psy
chic status. Careful study of the lecture for an hour on the night of
the weekly lesson, and a few minutes' meditation on it each day, at
a convenient time, plus an occasional test of any exercise, will do
more for the new student (or the old student who is starting over)
than anything else.
Previous studies and beliefs are the greatest source of trouble.
Members who have studied Theosophy, New Thought, Christian
Science, Yogi Philosophy, or Practical Psychology for one year, two
years, or five years —as is often the case —believe that they should
see some special good coming from the Rosicrucian teachings after
ten weeks of study. They attempt to compare the knowledge gained
through our teachings in ten weeks with what they have learned in
five years from other systems —always deciding that they are receiving
very little from us in comparison to what they \now. In truth, they
should compare what we give them with what they believe. It is
necessary to take all these beliefs out of their minds before we can
have them start on our work, unhampered by previous doctrines,
theories, and speculative dogmas.
[141]
Attainment of some success in psychic matters through the teach-
ings in other systems does not indicate any special preparedness for
the Rosicrucian work. Very often we hear the remark made : "Before
I took up your Rosicrucian teachings and exercises I had visions that
were prophetic, could at times see other persons at a distance, and
make them sense me, and could even heed by laying my hands on
others; but now all of these things have stopped, and I find I have
gone backward in my development. What is wrong?" Without
being unkind in our intentions we say to these persons: "Yes, and
you may be able to play several pieces of music quite well on the
piano without knowing anything of music, and after taking up the
study of music for a while you will find you cannot play the old
pieces at all. But would this indicate that you had gone backward
in your talent?"
CONTROLLING PSYCHIC MANIFESTATIONS
Many persons do have unusual experiences of a psychic nature
before they ever take up any course of practical, psychic development.
This is because they attained some degree of development in a pre-
vious incarnation and those faculties are striving to manifest, and
DO MANIFEST AT TIMES, but without control and direction by
the person. What must be done is to learn how to control and direct
the faculties and develop them to a more perfect state of functioning.
To do this, the spasmodic action of these faculties must cease for a
time; and nature stops them until the time comes to use them UNDER
CONTROL after the laws and principles have been learned.
So our members are guided and directed in their individual dc
velopment. And, in addition to the study and practice of the lessons,
the one who is truly on the Path will give the utmost of devotion
to the Order, to assist it and its other members, that the Masters may
be helped by the very ones who will later on seek help and guidance
from the Masters.
SPECIAL HELP IN DEVELOPMENT
Always ready to render some service to the Order, through the
Order, or because of the Order, is a form of devotion that pays each
member the greatest dividends in development; for by such service
he obligates the Order and the Cosmic to him, and from the Cosmic
he can expect compensation. That is why the Keynote of the Rosi
crucian Order is SERVICE. All through the graded work in the
Temples of our Order the student is impressed with the fact that
SERVICE is the duty he owes to it and all mankind.
Few new members realize, of course, the many ramifications of
the Rosicrucian Order, and in its public literature it says very little
of this phase of its Great Work. But it is a fact that not only has
AMORC in North America, for instance, three or four very definite
associate organizations under its direction, but it has twelve definite
avenues of service and labor in behalf of its members, and about the
[142]
same number in behalf of mankind generally. All of these activities—
often carried on to a high degree without being known except to a
few hundred of America's foremost newspaper editors, scientists,
judges, lawyers, physicians, and educators —require trained experts
to do the work in secret, funds to meet emergencies, secretaries to
keep records, and space for the preservation of the work in our
national organization.
Perhaps one of the greatest services rendered to our members is
through the personal correspondence to and from Headquarters. Do
our members ever think of the nature of that correspondence and
the cost —the tremendous cost—to maintain such a service depart-
ment? Take, for instance, the students of a law course issued by a
correspondence school of law or by a college in personal instruction.
The students of such a course must confine their written or oral
questions to points of study in their LAW lessons, and cannot expect
answers and detailed help on other subjects. Or take students of an
engineering course; they must confine their questions and appeals
for help to matters strictly limited to the subject of the phase of
engineering they are studying at the time.
But take the students of our work! They are not studying any
one definite course of instruction, nor are they striving to attain
mastership in just one direction. And we, as directors of their
studies, friends of their interests, Brothers of the whole membership,
and officers of a very broad and inclusive system of humanitarian
activity, must be prepared to assist in thousands of ways. The in-
terests of our members are our interests; their personal problems are
our problems; their success and failures are ours also. The father
of a family may be the only one in that family who is a member of
our Order, but the problems of that family and each member in it
become of vital interest to us as to him. Were he a student of a law
or engineering course, the school from which he receives his instruc
tion could not be expected to show any interest in the members of
his family. Not so with us! Likewise his business affairs, his health,
his social affairs—all these are of importance to him in his progress
through life and MUST, therefore, be of interest to us.
Here is where the correspondence department, the welfare de
partment, and the specialized directors of certain branches of our
work render the great SERVICE which has made the Rosicrucian
Order famous as a practical institution of real benefit to its members.
LOSING PSYCHIC CONTACT
When a member, for any reason, voluntarily closes his contact
with the Order, or suspends his affiliation for a short period, through
a mistaken idea that he has gone far enough in the work for the time
being, he automatically closes the door to the most important part
of the Order's benefits. He may suspend his studies for a time be-
cause of traveling, but such circumstances make the average member
[143]
realize the need for close contact with the Order, and they never
permit their membership in the Order to lapse for one hour.
It may be true with some organizations that "once a member,
always a member." That may be so in the sense that once initiated
and in possession of the secret passwords, grips, and signs, these
things cannot be taken away by the lapsing of membership. But in
the Rosicrucian Order, membership means CONTACT, active
affiliation.
We have said that the simple study of the lessons, without proper
practice of the exercises and tests, does not constitute proper student-
ship. We may add that the mere payment of the dues, or the pos-
session of a membersip card, does not constitute good membership,
either. "Honorary Membership" is conferred upon the high members
of other jurisdictions of our Order, but it is not conferred upon
those who are not active, affiliated members of some branch of our
work. There would be no honor, indeed, in such a compliment. The
greatest honor the Rosicrucian Order can bestow upon any man or
woman is active membership in its rank and file of working members.
Therefore, to make progress toward the ultimate goal, each mem
ber should be jealous of his contact, his devotion, his active partici-
pation, with the others of the Order. No member ever really knows
the loss he will sustain in a sudden emergency in his own affairs, or
those of his family, by severing the contact, the affiliation, for a day,
a week, or a month.
DIVINE ILLUMINATION
The Great Goal of the Great White Brotherhood is ever before
the vision of all sincere Rosicrucians. The sublime joy of Cosmic
Consciousness, Divine Illumination, can be known only through ex-
perience; and those who have made the contact have written in hun
dreds of books in the past ages such alluring descriptions as were
calculated to tempt the seeker on the Path to be patient and per
sistent in his journey toward that Goal.
'
You will realize, of course, that the Great White Brotherhood
and the Great White Lodge have no visible organization. They never
come together in one united session; their members are never as
sembled in any one meeting; they have no Temple known by their
names; and they have no earthly rituals, physical organization laws,
or material form as a Brotherhood or Lodge. That is why it is often
said, in mystical writings, that the "real Rosicrucian Brotherhood is
an invisible organization." The Rosicrucian ORDER is truly visible,
but the Great Brotherhood back of it is not visible as a body.
THE WORK OF THE GREAT MASTERS
As we have said, Mme. Helen P. Blavatsky was the first to popu
larly introduce one of the Masters of the Great White Brotherhood
to mystic students. She had the permission of her Master to do this,
[144]
and it was well, for it helped to remove some of the misconception
prevalent at that time. We have read in her private correspondence
with her trusted initiates, and in some of her rare manuscripts, how
her Master would change and correct statements she had written,
even though HE was many hundreds of miles distant; and how HE
would intercept some of her letters in transit and change words
written therein to conform to HIS better knowledge. She gave
many interesting descriptions of manifestations of her Master and
the Associate Master. But what she explained and revealed were
but the simple manifestations which were safe to give to the public.
We, who have contacted her Master and others, and who are work
ing under their direction, know what marvelous things are done by
and through them daily, although we are often directed in strange
ways and unknown methods to carry out their plans, the end of
which we \now not until they are completed.
Therefore, our members will realize that statements they see in
print, or hear, to the effect that a "branch" of the Great White
Lodge is located in some city and is issuing secret boo\s of instruction,
etc., are not only untrue, but impossible. And when we read or
hear that some prominent character, connected with some psychical
society or association, is conducting a line of work that brings dis-
grace, sorrow, or scandal to its members, claims that he was "initiated"
into the Great White Lodge, we know at once that it is not so; for
no such person could ever attain such initiation. In one prominent
case the claim is made that the character "fell from grace into sin
and error after having been initiated in the Great White Lodge."
That explanation may save the face of the leaders of the movement,
who sponsored and endorsed the statement of his high initiation for
their own good purposes, but it is an impossible claim; FOR THE
MASTERS OF THE GREAT WHITE LODGE ALWAYS
KNOW WHAT YOU WILL DO IN THE FUTURE AS WELL
AS WHAT YOU HAVE DONE IN THE PAST, and they would
not initiate anyone who would be capable of "falling from grace."
If the great Masters did not have such knowledge they would not
be infallible in their judgment, and if they were not infallible in
Cosmic knowledge they would not be the GREAT MASTERS.
INDICATIONS OF PROGRESS
How will a student know that he is truly progressing toward the
Goal? By many indications that will come to him as he maintains
his active interest in the Order. First of all he will receive, from
time to time, slight indications that the Master of his Lodge, then
the higher officers, and finally the Imperator of his country, are
showing some personal interest in his progress.
Such indications may be in the form of a call for a personal inter-
view at the Lodge or offices of the Order, or by a personal note
commenting on some experiment, or a letter verifying some psychic
experiment. There may be no reference to the Goal, none to what
[145]
is in the mind of each (the student and the Master), or anything
else that another could understand as being a reference to a personal
interest.
THE INNER URGE
Then, there will be a consciousness of a desire to assist the Order
or one of its Lodges; this will be the result of a growing desire to
become a part of the Order, more closely allied with its activities.
The desire for more Light, more lessons, more knowledge, is not the
only indication of progress toward the Goal, for even the beginners
on the Path are most anxious in this regard. Members often volun-
tarily plan to review the old lessons, and the Masters of the Lodges
know that this is a very serious indication; it spells magic to the heart
of every officer who is anxious to see his members make real progress.
There also comes to such members the continued urge to SERVE;
they want to go out and become disciples —lecture, promulgate the
great principles, spread Light where there is darkness. They seek
for opportunities to assist their Lodge with real physical labor—in
accordance with their trade, their profession, their art. Artists seek
to decorate, and paint, and beautify their Lodge Temple with sym
bolical pictures and ornaments; carpenters, electricians, and mechanics
offer to build, repair, and improve the material structures; physicians
and scientists ask for means of assisting, and so on. It is a notable
fact that all of the Egyptian and other Oriental temples of our
Order in North America, as in Europe, have been built and decorated
by the voluntary services, as far as possible, of the members. All a
work of Love! And what wonderful rewards have come to "The
Builders" in most cases!
Also, those who cannot serve contribute in some way, perhaps
financially, or by gifts that will help in research, in mechanical pro
cesses. They are anxious to make some sacrifice, contribute some
part of their blessings, and thereby become a part of the ORDER
other than a student member.
Naturally there is no thought of reward, special advancement, or
sureness of progress because of their offers. No officer of the Order
can assure that; none will accept any help or gift on that basis; and
the one who is truly on the Path, making real progress, knows that
his "gift" is inspired by the inner impulse to want to be a more
intimate worker in the Order, and by that sign or token he proves
his worthiness to advance.
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITIES TO PROGRESS
As soon as the higher officers of the Order learn of the progress
of those who are headed in the right way for the Goal, they diplo
matically offer them further opportunities for study, for service, and
for personal test. We have said that there are a number of special
[146]
avenues of work connected with the Order and that there are several
allied organizations under the direction of AMORC. Into these the
progressing members are directed from time to time without any
thing being said as to why. Some members are suddenly called upon
to do certain things. They may refuse, they may hesitate, they may
impulsively and enthusiastically accept. And thereby hangs the fate
of their progress; whether it shall be rapid or regular. Not that any
officer of the Order can deter or accelerate a member's psychic de-
velopment, but the Cosmic is ever mindful of the intents and motives
that actuate all mystic students who seek its blessings. The more
impulsively and whole-heartedly one responds to an inner impulse
or urge, the more definitely it is registered in the Cosmic records.
Various ways are used by the Order to assist its progressive mem
bers of the higher degrees to attain greater mastership of the laws
and principles. In the early Grades a close and sincere application
to the studies and the practices is all that is required or necessary.
But after advancement through the first five or six grades there comes
a time in the journey of each member when he may safely rest a
while in his progress and dwell at the "Houses" of special prepara
tion. These Houses will be pointed out to him diplomatically, and
he may not even suspect that he is pursuing some study or branch of
work that is not shared by others. Petitioning on the part of the
member for such special opportunities when he is not ready will
mean nothing to the Officers, who are guided by no ulterior motive
and can profit nothing personally by the delay or advancement of
any member. Nor does the Order exact any financial or material
compensation through its special interests in any member, for there
are no special fees or dues to be paid by those who are given
opportunities to advance their own interests.
All of this may be difficult of comprehension for our members,
for it is difficult to explain, as we explained in our opening para
graphs. Nevertheless, the discerning student of our Order will read
between the lines and find encouragement.
THE LENGTH OF TIME FOR MASTERSHIP
Always arises the question of TIME. New members, who have
been studying with various schools and systems for years, and frankly
state in their application blanks that they have been seekers for five,
ten, or fifteen years, wish to know HOW SOON they may expect
to manifest occult or mystic powers. When they read that it re
quires a year to complete the preliminary work (which enables them
from the very start to apply many important laws) they feel that
it is a long time. Not until a member reaches the higher Grades in
his second or third year does he begin to realize that time is of little
consequence, SINCE EVEN A WHOLE LIFETIME WOULD
NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO LEARN ALL THAT THERE IS
TO LEARN, and with much already accomplished, great things are
possible.
[H7]
What are five years or three years compared with the twenty-five,
thirty, and forty years you have lived WITHOUT SPECIAL
KNOWLEDGE, and the twenty, thirty, fifty, or sixty years, or more
you will live WITH THE NEW KNOWLEDGE? Why, then, be
impatient? Looking at it broadly, the five or six years required to
bring the average member to the very threshold of Mastership, as
compared to one's whole cycle of incarnations, is like a pencil dot on
a line a mile in length. But how we can magnify that dot and lose
sight of the line!
THE ATTAINMENT OF DESIRES
The full attainment of our desires is almost impossible at best.
That which we desire today, and will go far to attain, becomes small
in importance after we have it, and discover through it what else
we may attain—and our desires are at once increased and made
more difficult of attainment. Members just admitted into the Order
often frankly state that it has been their desire for many years
MERELY TO CONTACT THE ORDER and now they feel they
have attained their greatest desire. Ah, how that sense of attain-
ment is forgotten in the first weeks of study!
Each lesson, each lecture, each experiment and test of the early
Grades arouses new and stronger desires. In their anxiety to get
into the next grade, and the next, the great desires of the heart
before admission into the Order are forgotten. With each lesson
the definite benefits therefrom simply accelerate the desire to progress.
Each member will find, however, that not a single lesson, from
the first one of the First Grade, is without some special benefit that
empowers, strengthens, augments his abilites, his faculties, and his
special psychic functionings. This, provided, as we have said, the
member practices the exercises as well as reads the lectures and les-
sons, and does not become impatient because such development of
certain faculties is not made manifest at once.
EVOLVING INSTRUCTION
The work of the Rosicrucians is not an arbitrary plan or scheme
developed by some individual or discovered by some leader of a
cult. It is an evolved plan, worked out by the Master minds of
many ages and still being evolved. It is designed to give the utmost
help and advantage to every sincere student on the Path and every
devoted member of the Order. Nothing is left out of the teach-
ings that will help. No modern thought revealed by any Master
mind that is practical is ignored, but immediately added to our
teachings, so that our members will have all that is worth while.
To believe that some mystic of India, or Persia, or some other land,
possesses secret knowledge known only to his cult, which he has
offered to students for years at a commercial price, that is not to be
found in the Rosicrucian teachings, is to believe that the Order is
[148]
unmindful of its obligations to its members, unacquainted with all
sources of real wisdom, and inconsiderate of its own best interests.
If any real \nowledge of truly practical help to sincere students of
occultism and mysticism is known to any group of students any
where, it soon becomes a part of the Rosicrucian teachings, IF IT
IS NOT ALREADY A PART OF IT. It is this fact that makes
the Order the eminent repository of great wisdom. That is why
members are urged not to spend money and time in private lessons
from foreign or domestic teachers of personal systems, or in buying
new books as they are issued rapidly by firms and individuals solely
for the purpose of presenting in a new and pulling form some
of the ancient wisdom, or personal systems of discovered knowledge
—and often at high prices.
Therefore, be devoted in your work, be loyal to your promises
and the Great Oath of the Order, be sincere in your studies and
practices, and you will find yourself, sooner or later, at the very
Portal of the Great White Brotherhood, and ready for the Master
who is to appear when you ARE ready. The Order of AMORC
is happy to serve you, and through SERVICE, on the part of both
the Order and its Membership, is the ultimate Goal attained.
V V V
THE ROSICRUCIAN CODE OF LIFE
The following rules are taken from old and modern manuscripts
wherein certain regulations are set forth for the guidance of Rosi-
crucians, who are devoting their entire lives to an idealization of
the Order's principles.
Perhaps only in the Rosicrucian monasteries of India, or those in
Tibet, could one live strictly in accordance with all the ancient
regulations; but those selected for publication here can be adopted
by a great many of our members in the Occident. We know from
practical experience that most of these can be adhered to by any
man or woman without interference with the necessary duties and
obligations of present-day living; and we know, also, that most of
our Officers and advanced members are living the Rosicrucian life
in accordance with the rules suggested here, much to their own
great advancement, the joy of their associates in family and business,
and the betterment of mankind generally.
It will profit you greatly to try to adopt as many of these rules
as possible.
1. Upon arising in the morning start the day with a prayer
of thankfulness to God for the return of consciousness, because
of the opportunities it affords to continue the Great Work and Mis
[149]
sion of your life. Face the geographical East, inhale fresh air with
seven deep breaths, exhale them slowly with mind concentrated upon
the vitality going to each part of the body to awaken the psychic
centers. Then bathe, and drink a glass of cold water before eating.
2. Upon retiring, and after conducting all psychic experiments
scheduled for the night, or attending to any special psychic or Rosi-
crucian work contained in your weekly lesson or program, give
thanks to God for the day and its fruits; ask the Cosmic Hosts to
accept your psychic services while you sleep, to use your conscious
ness as they desire, and, if it please God and the Masters to have
you live another day on earth, So Mote It Be! Then, with thoughts
of love for all living beings, and a sense of Peace and Harmony with
all the universe, close your eyes and fall asleep, visualizing your
inner-self in the consciousness of God.
3. Before each meal wash the hands clean and hold them, palms
downward over the plate of food for a fraction of a minute, then
mentally pray that the benediction of God be granted to the food you
eat that it may be magnetized with the spiritual radiations from your
hands and thus greatly supply the needs of the body. Then, before
eating the first morsel, say, mentally: "May all who need food share
with me what I enjoy, and may God show me how I may share
with others what they have not."
4. Before accepting any blessing from the material world (whether
purchased by money, labor, or exchange, or whether received as a
gift) , say, mentally : "By the privilege of God I receive this and pray
that it may help me to better fulfill my mission in life." This applies
to even such things as clothing, personal requisites, periods of pleasure
at the theatre, church, musicals, etc., or even to such small things
as books, helpful reading matter, etc., and of course includes the
receipt of money as salary, commission, gifts, or otherwise.
5. Whenever any special blessing is received, such as long desired
things from the material world of any nature, or a small or large
luxury, or an unexpected piece of goodness, do not use or apply it to
your own personal use in any way until you have retired to the
silence somewhere for a few minutes to meditate and ask this question :
"Have I truly deserved this blessing and is there any way in which
I can share the benefit of it—directly or indirectly —with others or
for the benefit of man?" Then wait for an answer from the Cosmic.
If you receive no word that it is undeserved or should be shared, or
passed on to another, then say: "I thank God, the Cosmic, and the
Masters for this blessing; may I use it to the Glory of my Soul."
6. If any special honor—military, governmental, political, social,
or otherwise—is being conferred upon you, always act with the utmost
humility, proclaim your unworthiness (for who is truly worthy of all
things?) and with a mental resolution that it must not make you
proud or selfish, accept the blessing with a prayer of thankfulness
and assert that, in the name of those whom you can serve better
with such blessing, you receive it.
[150]
7. If, in giving testimony, in court or elsewhere, you are asked
to take an oath, or to swear or promise upon some sacred book or
emblem, bear in mind that to you there is no symbol or emblem
more holy or sacred than the Rosy Cross. (In most courts of the
world individual selection of such sacred symbol for such purpose is
permissible.) Then say that as a Rosicrucian you prefer to make
your statement "before the Sign of the Cross," and make the Sign
(as directed elsewhere in this Manual) . After making the sign, make
your statement, and remember that if an untruth is knowingly stated
at such time it will create a Karmic condition that can never be set
aside except by the fullest compensation, according to the Law of
Compensation.
8. Never permit yourself to enter discussions of other persons'
religious beliefs, except to point out the soundness, goodness, or pos-
sible benefits of certain doctrines and thereby show them the good
that exists in all religions. Hold not your religious thoughts as
superior. Speak well of them if need be, point out how they serve
you, but do not create in the mind of others the thought that they
are in sin or error because of their beliefs, That religion is best for
each which enables one to understand God and God's mysterious ways.
9. Be tolerant on all subjects and bear in mind that destructive
criticism creates naught but sorrow. Unless you can constructively
comment on matters, refrain from speaking:
10. Attempt no direct reforms in the lives of others. Discover
in yourself what needs correction and improve yourself, that by the
Light of your Life you may point the way to others.
11. Flaunt not your attainments, nor boast of your Rosicrucian
knowledge. You may be a Rosicrucian as a member of the Brother-
'
hood, but as a Rosicrucian in knowledge and power, the greatest
and highest among us is but a child of the studies and unworthy
of Rosicrucian recognition. Proclaim yourself, not as a Master, but
as a Rosicrucian student—ever a student—eternally.
12. Seek to share what you can spare, daily, even if in small
ways and meager amounts. Go out of your way to find where that
which you can give or do will be a blessing to someone or many,
and while performing this duty shun all personal glory and let it
be known that you are simply "about the Masters' work."
13. Accept no personal thanks for any blessings you bestow,
any gift you give, or any help you render. When "thanks" are
expressed it is customary to say: "Please thank me not, for it is
I who am grateful. I seek, and must seek, to serve and labor for
the Masters; you have afforded me an opportunity. But, now the
obligation to pass it on rests with you; may you, too, find an oppor-
tunity to serve someone else."
14. Accept no gifts of a material nature for any good you do
unless you agree with yourself in the moment of accepting, and so
state to the giver, that you will divide the blessing with someone
where it will continue to carry on its mission of relief and help.
[151]
This is essentially necessary when the material gift is of a nature—
like money, food, clothing, etc.—that can be divided and is a common
necessity on the part of many.
15. Bear in mind that through your Rosicrucian Order you always
have an open portal to help many, and that by sharing with them
any blessings you pass on to others, who are Brothers and Sisters
of the Order in need, the blessings which come to you, perhaps as
a trustee of the Cosmic
16. As you give so shall you receive! As each opportunity to
give is seized upon with utmost impulsiveness, so will future bless
ings, sought or required, be granted to you by the Cosmic. The
greater the impulsiveness —with little thought as to personal sacrifice
—the greater will be the compensation credited in the Cosmic.
17. Let not a day pass by without speaking to someone of the
work of the Masters through the portal of the Rosy Cross Order.
Each day makes someone more familiar with its Great Work, not
always by soliciting, not always by preachments, but by simple state
ments of facts, simple demonstrations, and the kind words of recom
mendation.
18. Respect all women; honor thy father and mother; be sym
pathetic to the sinful, helpful to the afflicted, and serving to the
Masters. He is greatest among you who is the greatest servant unto
all. Hence the Master of a Lodge, the Supreme Master, and the
Imperator, are greatest, because they may be the greatest servants.
19. Provide now, while consciousness can assist you, to take care
of those who may be dependent after your transition; and if you
have no one who will require a share of your earthly possessions
after your transition —or you have sufficient to more than do for
them —be certain that you grant, in proper and legal manner, a
disposition of some of your worldly blessings to the superior body
of your Rosicrucian Order —the Supreme Grand Lodge—that it may
be helped in the work it is doing for others.
20. Go to the assistance of any living being, regardless of race,
creed, or color, when you can render direct or indirect aid in any
emergency; if you cannot give aid in person, but can call or solicit
aid, this, too, is imperative; in quiet and peace perform your work,
render your service, and retire with as little recognition as possible.
21. Maintain one place in your home that is sacred to you and
your Order. In it find Peace and time for meditation daily. Profane
it not with pleasures of the flesh, but sanctify it with your higher
thoughts.
22. Give your support, moral or physical, to some church in your
community, that it may have your help in carrying on the great
work in its Light.
23. Assume no political office without properly and duly notify
ing all who may sponsor or support your attainment of your definite
views and principles toward humanity at large, that they may not
[152]
expect or depend upon your submission to principles of a lesser
degree.
24. Judge not, unless you are so placed that those to be judged
come legally and formally before you as an accredited servant of the
multitude; then in sympathy understand, in mercy comprehend, in
leniency estimate, and with love be fair. For the Law of Com
pensation will make adequate demands, and the God of all is alone
a truly competent Judge of all facts.
25. Repeat no slander, tell no tales, and support no reports that
injure or condemn unless accompanied by more than the same degree
of constructive criticism and comment, and only after you have com-
pletely investigated and learned all the facts.
26. Seek the good in all beings and give public praise to what
you find. Look not upon the changing character of the outer-self,
but discover the real self within. Learn to know all beings and
love them.
27. Gamble not with the lot of another who in ignorance may
lose and suffer what you gain.
28. Avoid all extremes in thought and act; be moderate in all
desires, and subdue your passions in all directions.
29. Attempt no radical or sudden changes in the natural scheme
of things; remember the Rosicrucian injunction: Not by revolution,
but through evolution, are all things accomplished in permanency.
30. Hold sacred and above all criticism the ideals of the Rosicru-
cians; permit no slander to affect the good name of your Order;
live that life which will prove the goodness of your principles; and
be ready to defend the emblem of the Rosy Cross with the might of
your life and the light of your being.
Members may procure a very handsome, printed card in several
colors containing the Rosicrucian creed which differs from the above
code in brevity and nature. It may be procured from the Rosicni-
cian Supply Bureau, San Jose, California, at very small cost.
V V V
INTERESTING FACTS FOR OUR MEMBERS
TO EXPLAIN TO INQUIRERS
ABOUT AMORC
The following facts are based upon an examination of 1,000
application blanks taken at random from our files. They are typical,
therefore, of the entire membership.
GENERALITIES
Males, 64 % ; females, 36 % ; average age of all members, forty-
four; average age of males, forty-three; average of females is forty-
five, in regard to marriage, 62% are married. These figures show
[153]
that the average member is a serious person with certain responsi
bilities and problems, and not an esthetic dreamer.
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL
All living within the United States must pledge allegiance to
the American Flag. Of these we find that 81 % were born in America
and only 19% were born in foreign lands, and are naturalized. This
is a high standard of Americanism in a national organization. We
also find that 42% of our members have college, academic, or hon
orary degrees, 47 % of the females have such degrees. This is another
high percentage for a national organization.
PREVIOUS OCCULT STUDIES
The records show that 98% of our members have studied along
similar lines for over four years before uniting with us; 68% have
studied for over ten years before joining with us, and 52 % have been
students of these subjects for over twenty years. They came into
AMORC because they had not found the Light they sought.
OCCUPATIONS
Eleven per cent are physicians of various schools; 9% are prac
ticing lawyers and judges; 12% are teachers and professors in schools
and colleges; 42% are in the trades and arts requiring a skilled
education; 14% call themselves "just housewives;" 12% are retired
from business or are students of specialized courses.
V V V
[154]
Part Eleven
ROSICRUCIAN DICTIONARY
A
Absolute —That which includes all; hence the Consciousness of
God, perfect, complete, embracing every Divine Law, working in
harmony, constructive, positive.
Actual—That which comes within the positive domain of the ob-
jective and is in conformity with the standards of the objective senses,
having weight, breadth, length, bulk, etc. Any phenomena which
the objective mind accepts as sensible to
it,
is
actual, whether
it
be
a
delusion (mental creation of the objective mind) or not. Actualities
need not be realities. (See the term Reality.)
Alden (Pronounced Awlden) —Sometimes spelled Ahldain; A'ldain;
the name of
a
former Master of the Great White Brotherhood, who
gave jurisdiction over the establishment of mystical centers on the
North American Continent during the fifteenth century, and after
whom the first Temple in this country was named in 1603. His
personality still affects much of the work in this country.
Amen—A Hebrew word introduced into the Egyptian mystic rites
at an early date as
a
term used to express the hidden and invisible
God, or
a
truly inspired representative of God. In this latter sense
the term
is
used in the Christian Bible just once; in Rev. iii, 14,
Jesus
is
called "The Amen." But at a much earlier date the same
word, with the same mystic vowel sounds was used to designate the
name of the God of Thebes, and the term Amen-Ra came to express
the name and hierarchy of
a
powerful God among the Egyptians.
Amenhotep IV changed his name to Khuen-Aten because of the
significance of the term Amen. As used in modern religious practices,
the term, Amen, means verily. The origin of the word
is
found in
the Sanskrit awn and also in om.
Arcane —That which
is
not hidden, but visible only to those who
attune to
it
or are ready for its revelation; mystical, Divine, Cosmic.
Astrology —An ancient science based upon close observance of the
coincidence of human characteristics with the date and hour of birth;
time and careful analysis have proved the coincidences to be based
upon fundamental laws regardless of whether the planets have any
effect upon birth or upon the nature of man after birth. Only the
fanatical extremist makes —or believes —the claim that we are ruled
by planets; at the utmost, planetary influences can inspire and urge
or tempt; the influences may indicate, but not control. All mystics
should have
a
knowledge of the fundamentals of this old and evolving
science.
Astral Plane —The Cosmic, ethereal, Divine plane. Rosicrucians
recognize but two planes of existence; that which
is
the worldly or
[155]
material plane where we live in both objective and subjective con-
sciousness, and another plane, which is beyond the material—call that
other plane the Astral, Psychic, Cosmic, or whatever best expresses
your idea; it is that plane where the Soul of man functions free
from the limitations of the body and where the subjective mind of
man functions at times independent of the objective.
A ten—A name for the symbol of the "sole God" made under-
standable by Amenhotep IV after he established a monotheistic re
ligion in Egypt. Aten was represented by the sun disc, the sun being
the symbol of the life-giving radiance of the invisible God. Not as
God or even as a sacred symbol is the sun disc used by modern Rosi-
crucians, but as an objective symbol of the creative mind and Divine
Essence of God.
Atlantis—The name of the continent once occupying a considerable
portion of the space occupied now by the Atlantic Ocean. Atlantis
was well advanced in civilization in parts and was the ancient home
of mystic culture. Mt. Pico, which still rises above the ocean among
the group of Azores Islands, was a sacred mountain for mystic initia
tion (see ritual of Fourth Grade) . The story of the lost Atlantis was
first told by Plato; another story of mystic peoples using the name
Atlantis is told by Sir Francis Bacon (read The T^ew Atlantis).
Recent investigations by France and America have proved that there
is the contour of a continent at the floor of the Atlantic Ocean.
(Read also The Lost Atlantis, by Ignatius Donnelly.)
Atom—The smallest division of any definite nature of matter; the
first distinctive character that electrons form after perfect unity.
Divisions of matter smaller than atoms are electrons (see electrons),
and such smaller divisions have no characteristic nature. (Refer to
Dalton's Atomic Laws in our grade lectures.)
Aura —That magnetic or electrified field which surrounds the animal
body particularly, and which contains colors due to the vibratory
rate of the energy in the field. The energy is a result of the psychic
development and the vital forces of the body. The aura changes
color as psychic development proceeds, reaching a brilliant violet and
then pure white in the highest states. The aura is visible under many
conditions and has been photographed, and will affect certain instru
ments balanced to receptivity. Every living cell has its aura as well
as groups of cells.
B
Belief —Considered from the mystical point of view belief implies
lack of knowledge; it is like unto hope without foundation. A mystic
should have no beliefs, but should supplant them with knowledge
or a frank admittance that he does not know. (See Knowledge.)
Birth—Mystically, birth occurs when the animal body takes its first
Breath of Life. Then the body becomes a conscious being. Birth is
the opposite phrase of the passing of the Breath (and consciousness)
which is falsely called death. (See Death.)
[156]
Blac\ Magic—A term used, anciently, to indicate mysterious prac
tices or secret methods —methods and practices which today we unl
derstand and know to have been strictly scientific though little knowiu
Today, however, the term is used in some philosophies and by some
ignorant minds (and sometimes used wilfully to frighten) and is
meant to convey the idea that one mind can call into play certain
forces of nature to work injury upon another mind or body at a
distance. It is assumed that the Cosmic space existing between two
minds or persons can be utilized by one of them to transmit evil and
destructive thoughts to the other. In fact, however, the Cosmic space
will not transmit such destructive thoughts and the person who tries
to direct them into space suffers from the attempt and from the
creation of such thoughts, which remain in the consciousness. The
only power there is to Black Magic for others is the fear of it.
Brain —The physical organ for the objective functioning of the
mind. Mind can, however, make many manifestations without the
use of the brain.
Breath of Life—In Rosicrucian teachings this term is used to refer
to Nous. It is a combination, so to speak, of both the Vital Life
Force and Cosmic Consciousness. (See Jvfous and Vital Life Force.)
Borderline State —This term is used to designate that mental and
psychic condition where the objective consciousness and objective
mental functioning of man is merging into the subjective. This state
can be induced through concentration, or occurs naturally on going
to sleep, or when awakening, or through suggestion it may be ex-
terhally induced (but not without the cooperation or willingness
of the self). A similar state exists where the objective mind or the
objective functioning of the brain is made abnormal through drug,
fever, injury, fright, or strain; in such cases, however, the benefits
derived from a proper borderline state are lost, for there is not an
intelligent and comprehensive exchange of ideas or communication
between the objective and subjective faculties. Often, just prior to
so-called death, the first stage of transition is a borderline state which
is remarkable for its Cosmic touch.
C
Cell—Where this term is used in the Rosicrucian teachings, re
gardless of whether in connection with physiology, physics, chemis
try, or electricity and magnetism, it means a body of spherical or
other shape having a wall with negative polarity and a nucleus of
positive polarity.
Concentration —A mental (and physical) state where the whole
objective attention and comprehension is focused upon one definite
or indefinite point, place, condition, or principle. Perfect concen
tration of this kind results in complete inactivity of four of the five
objective faculties at one time. When concentrated upon seeing, then
seeing must be the only faculty not inactive. It is impossible to
completely concentrate when two or more of the faculties are active
[157]
at the same time. Two faculties, such as seeing and hearing, may
rapidly alternate in their concentration so that it may seem as though
both were concentrated at one time, but this is not so. We can be
conscious of only one objective impression at one time. All else is
rapid alternation. (See Borderline State.)
Conception —In our Rosicrucian teachings we are told that our
concept of anything we comprehend through the five objective facul-
ties depends, for its accuracy and its effect on us, upon our knowledge
and beliefs. Our concept of material things changes as we grow
older, more experienced, and more illuminated. Not the actuality
of any thing but our reality of it and our interpretation of it form
our concept. By conceiving and giving our conception the power
and reality of an actuality do we tend to create. In the beginning
of all creation there was—and always will be—conception. (See
Reality, also Actuality.)
Cosmic—The Universe as a harmonious relation of all natural and
spiritual laws. As used in a Rosicrucian sense, the Divine, Infinite
Intelligence of the Supreme Being permeating everything. The crea-
tive forces of God. It is an intangible, unlimited source from which
radiates the immutable, constructive powers of Divinity. The Cos-
mic, therefore, is not a place, but a state or condition of order and
regulation.
Cosmic Consciousness —That consciousness, radiating from God,
which pervades all space (and hence all things) , having vitality, mind,
constructive power, Divine Intelligence. Into this consciousness is
projected all the psychic consciousness of all Masters, and all Adepts
may attune with it. It knows all, past, present, and future, for it is
all. (See Absolute.) After preparation through study and meditation,
after deserving through serving, after attuning through practice and
with nobility of desire, there comes to all Adepts an influx of illumi-
nation and inspiration which maintains a continued connection with
Cosmic Consciousness. This is called illumination by the Mystics.
This is one of the gifts desired by all Adepts.
Cosmic Mind —Referring more specifically to the mind or intelli
gence that forms a part of the Cosmic Consciousness. It is also called
the Divine Mind. (Compare with universal mind).
Conscience—The term in our ritual and teachings to indicate the
"still, small voice" of the Master Within; the Cosmic Mind with
its inspiration and urge; the Mind of the Psychic Self, knowing all
truth, all law, all principle, ever constructive in desire, dependable,
"ever present when the tempter tempts."
Cremation —Mystically this is a process of reducing the material
elements of the body to the primary elements through fire, as though
an alchemical process were being used with crucible and fire. It carries
out the ancient law that the body shall return to the dust of the
earth from whence it came. Cremation simply hastens the natural
process in a most sanitary way. The custom of burying the dead
in the ground to decay was always considered a barbarous and unclean
[158]
practice by the ancient mystics, and cremation is not a modern
method and will in time become universal among civilized people.
The Rosicrucian burial service and ritual call for cremation of the
body and the scattering of most of the ashes upon running water in
brooks or rivers or in the opened soil within seven days after transi
tion. (See Death and Funeral Service.)
Cromaat —The word Maat is an Egyptian word meaning truth.
When combined with Cro, it means as in truth. It is a salutation
quite frequently used in the rituals of the organization, both in the
Temple Lodges and in the National Lodge rituals. Peculiar to note,
if you reverse the letters of the word, Cromaat, they constitute the
abbreviation of the words: The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae
Crucis.
Cycle —A period of time, evolution, process, method, or manifes
tation. Mystically every progressive action is in cycles, definite and
important. The cycle of human life is divided into periods of seven
years, each of which is a cycle in the growth and development of
the mind and body in the being; even the prenatal period is divided
into cycles. The evolution of the universe, the evolution of man
from a primitive being into the present can be divided into cycles.
The twenty-four hours constituting a day is divisible into planetary
cycles. The consciousness of man is at present in the early part of
the Aquarian Cycle. Cycles form an easily understandable and sig
nificant method of measuring time and progress.
D
Death —The mystic not only looks upon death as inevitable, but as
a necessary element in the cycle of life. Death and birth are
synonymous in this sense, for so-called death is birth into another
plane, while birth is likewise a transition. The transition of soul into
a body is considered just as strange and fraught with unknown pos
sibilities by the mystic as the transition of soul from a body. Both
constitute the Great Experience. Both are a form of Initiation afford
ing an opportunity for greater advancement. Therefore, both are
looked forward to by the soul without grief or fear. On the other
hand there is no death, whether we consider the transition from
a material or spiritual view-point. Matter is indestructible; that is a
fundamental law of matter; it can only change its form or nature of
manifestation, and matter is in constant change —another fundamental
law. The soul is immortal and cannot be destroyed, lessened, in
creased, or otherwise modified, except in growth of experience. After
transition the material part of man, the body, does not cease to live,
but is in fact still vibrant with spirit energy, even to the most minute
cell. Hence neither body nor soul ever dies, and there is no death.
(See Birth and Cremation.)
Deduction —A process of reasoning. The objective mind can reason
by all processes, inductively, deductively, syllogistically, etc. The
subjective mind, on the other hand, tends to reason deductively all
[159]
the time. Starting with a true and understandable premise or basic
fact, reasoning by deduction therefrom, one will come to a logical
conclusion, if the deductive reasoning has been logical in accordance
with law. It is the excellent reasoning ability of the subjective mind
that brings about the correct conclusions through deductive reasoning.
Bringing about a Borderline State of Mind will enable one to take
advantage of the subjective reasoning.
Disease —A local or general disturbance of the harmonious con
structive process of the living, creative cells. Regardless of the cause,
the condition
is,
fundamentally, the same. The disturbing, breaking-
down process among the diseased cells
is
being strongly or weakly
fought by the healthy, normal cells, according to the general con
stitutional state of the body. Through the creative, constructive
powers of the healthy cells, nature attempts to end the destruction
and renew the disease cells and restore health. The battle calls for
concentration of energy and robs the general system of its normal
status, while the disease
is
also disqualifying many cells, organs, tissues,
and parts of the body for normal, constructive work; hence fevers,
weakness, mental and physical disturbances, and pains, The logical
procedure
is
to help nature, mostly by not interfering and by ending
the cause of the disturbance when it
is
known. Proper breathing,
proper eating, proper exercise, sleep, and thinking are the first essen
tials in helping nature and removing the cause of interference. Giving
to the blood, the nerves, and the general system that which was
lacking (and which caused the disturbance) or
is
now lacking in
helping to restore normalcy,
is
the next essential. Hence the various
schools of therapeutics may assist and contribute to the restoration
of health, but solely through assisting nature. While so-called death
or transition
is
inevitable, disease
is
not necessary. The physical body
can reach
a
state of age and exhaustion where the breaking-down
process of cells and parts of the body
is
more rapid than the recon
struction, and as
a
principle of economy the Soul will cast off or
vacate the body and await another and more useful one; but such
breaking-down and gradual weakening of the whole system need not
be accompanied by any specific disease and can be free from any pain
or suffering.
Dreams—Dreams always occur just as one
is
passing from the com
plete sleep state to
a
waking condition; this transition
is
a
state where
the subjective condition
is
gradually merging into the objective. (See
Borderline State.) Such
a
state
is
very short in duration, usually, and
in the brief period of two or three seconds one may "dream"
a
long
story or experience. This
is
because the experience
is
simply realized
by the mind as one realizes a picture after
a
glance of two seconds,
but must use hundreds of words many minutes in explaining or
describing. After one awakens one cannot be sure just when the
dream was experienced, except in such cases where the awakening
interrupts the dream. The causes of dreams are many. The most com
mon cause
is
that the first objective thought or idea that passes from
the objective to the subjective mind, at the beginning of the Borderline
[160]
State, starts a train of deductive reasoning on the part of the subjec-
tive mind; or some long-forgotten picture or idea lingering in the
memory storehouse of the subjective mind is sensed by the objective
mind at the beginning of the Borderline State, and the objective
mind, not keenly and logically awake in its reasoning functioning,
distorts or adds to and creates a story based on the first idea. Other
causes are: External suggestions from cold air blowing over the face
or partly uncovered body; slight noises not properly interpreted by
the waking mind, a movement of the body as consciousness starts
its return; a mental impression received by the subjective mind from
some other person who is concentrating upon the one who is at that
time dreaming, thereby consciously or unconsciously sending an im
pression. Of course, such a Borderline State may occur at any time
during sleep.
E
Ego—The Subjective Self as distinguished from the Objective Self.
This term is not used often in Rosicrucian teachings for the term
Psychic Self or Psychic Mind expresses more correctly what is meant.
Electron —The first form into which spirit essence concentrates
preparatory to material manifestation. The essence when stressed
under certain conditions gathers into very minute magnetic cells
which we call electrons. They are both positive and negative. Elec
trons do not manifest any definite chemical or material nature until
they unite in certain combinations to form atoms. (See Atoms and
Molecules.) Single electrons are invisible, but streams of them may
be seen and measured.
Electricity —Current electricity is a vibratory force in action; static
electricity is a potential vibratory power inactive and under stress
ready to manifest itself under certain conditions. These terms and
definitions are not as one finds them explained in scientific works but
will make plain the terms as we use them. Electricity is a vibratory
energy; natural electricity is the result of the radiations of the sun
(therefore, one of the manifestations of spirit essence and Nous) ; all
other electricity is artificially made through chemical and mechanical
action.
Element—One of the many different natures expressed through
combinations of electrons into atoms. There are 144 elements com
posing all material creation. Of these, 81 are definitely known to
science in perfect form; others are known through analysis of the
vacant places in the periodic table of elements. Some can be sensed
in a psychic manner only so far as their nature and purposes are
concerned.
Elementals—Sometimes called Salamanders and other terms used
by early philosophers and by some modern schools of strange thought.
In this sense an elemental is supposed to be—"nature-spirit presiding
over the elements of fire, air, etc." A superstitious belief exists that
these elementals or beings can cause good or evil, or that they can
[161]
fill a room and cause disturbances or manifestations, or influence our
thinking, hearing, and seeing. It is needless to say that there are no
elementals in this sense.
Emanations—The radiations or projections from all material and
psychic forms. The emanations are extensions of the vibrations within
the form—the vibrations of the spirit essence composing the form.
It is through the emanations reaching us from all things that we
sense, either subjectively or objectively, the existence of all things.
Evolution —The progressive growth and perfecting of all that is
manifest or in the conception of the Cosmic Mind. Even so-called
devolution or disintegration is a part of evolution, is one of its phases.
Evolution implies onward and forward. It is the fundamental law of
nature and every element in nature is tending toward perfection
and becoming higher in its rates of vibrations and more evolved in
its manifestations.
F
Faith —-We find the term faith often defined as "active" belief, or
a belief which amounts to a basis for action upon the accepted
premises. From the mystical view-point, however, this is not exact.
A distinction must be made between faith, belief, and knowledge.
The mystic should have no beliefs, but knowledge; his knowledge
may create faith or give him faith in certain laws and principles, but
it would supplant belief. Therefore, we may say that faith is an
expression of confidence, and confidence is born only from experience
—knowledge. (See Knowledge.)
Fourth Dimension —From the Rosicrucian teachings there is nothing
mysterious about the fourth dimension. Two points should be re
membered: It is a dimension and it is the fourth. The other three
dimensions are length, breadth, and thickness Each of these is ex
pressible by numbers —whole, fractions, or decimals. Each of these
three dimensions, when expressed in numbers, helps us to have an
objective realization of some attribute of the things referred to. We
may write on paper these figures, 2"x4'x3". At once we know that
whatever the thing may be it is four feet long, three inches wide,
and two inches thick. Regardless of how irregular in form the thing
may be we can mentally picture it or express its form with numerals,
and from these actually draw upon paper a diagram of its form.
(Note the complicated yet exact designs and diagrams of parts of
machinery, architectural elements, etc., expressible with numbers.)
Intelligently as do these three dimensions express a thing to our con
sciousness there are still essential elements missing in the expression —
one or more attributes or qualities lacking. What is the nature of the
above thing that is 2"x4'x3"? Is it wood, or iron, or stone? What
is its weight, its color? Is it hard or soft? We say that all these ques
tions can be answered by expressing the fourth dimension, and ex
pressing it in numerals as the other three are expressed. In this case,
[162]
as an example, the figures 2"x4'x3"/12,0147 would mean that the
thing referred to was a piece of South American (not any other
kind) mahogany, with a color equivalent to a certain line in the
sun's spectrum, and having a specific gravity, a certain degree of
hardness, tensil strength, etc. With the first three dimensions, and
knowing the specific gravity, one could figure the exact weight of
the piece of wood to within a dram, if the first three dimensions
were exact. On the other hand, these figures: 6'x7'x?/12006.042
would mean that the thing referred to was a misty light blue-gray
cloud of a certain density or opaqueness, but unknown thickness,
covering an area of six by seven feet and formed of Cosmic energy
in a very high rate of vibration, so balanced in space as to 'be easily
controlled (moved) by mental power. (Members in the Eighth and
Ninth Grades will appreciate this.) By means of the fourth dimen
sion (and a dictionary of all the figures) one could easily express
the nature and attributes of all things made manifest on the objective
plane. Likewise one would be able to determine what fourth dimen-
sion would neutralize or combine with another. The fourth dimen-
sion is nothing more or less than the rate of electronic vibration. All
qualities and attributes manifested by all material things result from
this rate. From another point of view the fourth dimension should
really be the first. It is the projection from Cosmic space, into the
worldly, material plane of manifestation, of all material things.
Such projection is the first phase of manifestation. The coming to
gether of electrons into atoms, and from this into molecular forma
tion, constitutes the first phase of creation into the material world
of objectivity. The next step or phase is that of limitation, or form,
caused by natural laws or by man's desires and handiwork. Hence
the three dimensions of length, breadth, and thickness should follow
the dimensions of objective proportion, which is a more correct term
for the fourth dimension. Mystics will see, now, why the fourth
dimension, in its true nature, has always interested the philosophers
and was one of the laws carefully studied and utilized by the
alchemists of old, and the advanced mystics of today use the law in
many strange manifestations.
Funeral Service—The Rosicrucian funeral service is a ceremony of
celebration in its spirit, at which time those assembled around the
body of the Brother or Sister take part in a ritual significant of the
passing through a Higher Initiation of the one who is no longer
limited by the work of the Order in its material form on this plane.
Purple, rather than black, is used to express the sacredness of the
occasion (that
is,
wherever decorations or drapings are used in the
Temple or home). Flowers are used to express the beauties of life.
Sorrow
is
expressed only because of the absence of the members
from such personal contact as had been enjoyed in the past. The
time for the Temple Ceremony
is
late in the evening so that the
service may end about midnight and the body remain in the Temple
(before the Altar in the East) until after sunrise the next morning,
when
it
may be taken to
a
vault, but preferably to
a
place for
[163]
cremation (See Cremation). Those not members of the Order may
be invited to the service and such friends and members of the family
should be seated on special seats at the Northeast of the Temple.
The rule is that the R. C. ceremony must be the last ceremony per-
formed; if there is any other religious or fraternal organization
ceremony, it must precede the R. C. service. One of the most
beautiful parts in the ceremony is when, after the opening of the
service, a special prayer, and some other points, the Master of the
Temple permits the Guardian of the Temple where the Brother or
Sister had attended, to stand beside the body and remove from the
Lodge apron (which is on the body) the Rose, while speaking these
words: "From our midst has departed one expression of Soul we
have loved. Across the Cosmic Threshold has passed another Initiate
into the Temple of God. In that Temple there are degrees of under-
standing, grades of advancement, cycles of progression, and then the
Sublime Degree of Perfection wherein thou, oh, departed one, shall
be one of the Divine Illuminati and enter again the School of Ex-
perience where we shall once more enjoy thy noble, loving com-
panionship. In this earthly initiation, the Rose and the Cross were
given unto thee in the form of this apron to wear as a symbol of
your readiness to serve humanity. Thy body and personality were
ensconced by the Rose and Cross. In thy Divine initiation thou
shalt have no need of the Cross, for thou hast borne thy Cross well
and God hath laid it aside; but the Rose in all its sweetness and per
fect development shall remain with thee as a symbol of the unfolding
of thy soul experience. To symbolize this, I, Guardian of the earthly
Temple of thy work, do now remove from thy apron the Rose and
in the hand of thy earthly body I place another Rose, fresh from Life,
Fragrance, and Purity, that
it,
too, may return unto the dust of the
earth to rise again and through resurrection become manifest in all
its glory."
G
Ganglion —A mass of cells organized into one body, which body
serves or functions as
a
center for various nerve impulses, the ex
change, translation, or transmutation of such impulses, and
a
co
ordination of the influences passing into or through such body. A
ganglion
is,
therefore, like
a
central station of
a
telephone system or
a switchboard for certain electric trunk lines. The ganglia of the
Sympathetic Nervous System are intensely interesting in their func
tioning and intended purposes. The nervous system and the physio
logical and psychic functioning of ganglia are explicitly and inter
estingly presented in the work of the Sixth Grade of the Order.
God —To Rosicrucians there
is
but one God, ever living, ever
present, without limiting attributes or definite form of manifestation
—
it
is
the God
of
our hearts,
a
phrase found throughout our ritual
and meditation practices. The God which we conceive, which we
can be conscious of, which sooner or later manifests in that strange
intimacy within us, becomes the God
of
our hearts. Rosicrucians
[164]
are of many creeds and religious faiths in all parts of the world,
but there is absolute unity in this one idea of God, the Supreme
Intelligence, the Divine Mind. In ancient rituals we find this as
part of the Rosicrucian pledge: "Man is God and Son of God, and
there is no other God but Man." But this has a mystical meaning
and is not to 'be taken literally. We repeat the famous statement
of Max Muller: "There never was a false God, nor was there ever
really a false religion, unless you call a child a false man." When
the so-called heathen prays to or worships an idol he is not wor-
shipping a false God, but rather a false interpretation of the one true
living God, the God that he is trying to idealize, attempting to
interpret —the God of his heart.
Gravitation —In the earliest lectures of the lower Grades of our
work as given in America many years ago, the statement was made
many times that the force of gravitation is not a pull but a push.
The postulations of science in the last few years tend to prove that
the Rosicrucian contention in this regard is correct. While in the
ultimate manifestation the results are the same, in the fundamental
laws involved there is considerable importance in the difference be
tween a push and pull action, especially as regards gravitation. It
is impossible to overcome the force of gravitation; at best it can be
lessened in its actions; its best application is in being utilized. If
it could be overcome it would not solve any of the great problems
now confronting scientists, but would bring about greater problems
than man could cope with.
H
Habit—In the early Grades of the Order habit is carefully analyzed
and studied. There is a short, too short, definition given to the
effect that habit is an unconscious law of the subjective mind. This
brief explanation, following the long explanations and presentment
of laws, is quite understandable to the student, but of and by itself
it may give a wrong impression. A better form for the brief defini-
tion would be that habit is a law of the subjective mind, which law
has become unconscious to the objective mind. Habits are usually, if
not always, formed consciously by the objective self; such acts are
not habits at the time, regardless of how systematically they may be
performed, nor are such acts intended to become habits unless one
is striving to make the acts or series of acts a subjective or uncon
scious practice, such as maintaining rhythm in music, the formation
of letters in writing, etc. It is only when the act becomes subjectively
performed that it is a habit, a law of the subjective self, unconscious
to the objective self.
Health — (See Disease.)
Hallucination —Imaging of the mind. Such imaging may become
fixed in intensity and interest and limited in regard to subject, or
unlimited, and is then an hallucination. On the other hand, imaging
may be rational, intense, not fixed, but under control, in which case
[165]
it is creative thinking. A definite hallucination, such as that which
characterizes the unsound mind, is a fixed idea born of illogical or
purely deductive reasoning and which becomes the obsessing thought
of the subjective mind, while the objective thinking may be caused
by injury to the mind or any other cause of unsoundness. Such
hallucinations are of the subjective entirely; they can be removed
or modified only by dealing with and through the subjective; for
the objective, being incapable of sound reasoning, cannot be utilized
to assist; but once the objective is due to physiological causes, these
should be remedied first, but thereafter the subjective should be
reached and enlisted in the work of curing the mind. This calls
for psychic processes applied by those well experienced and knowing
all the laws.
Hypnotism —A subject it is well to approach carefully and in
detail. There are two distinct methods of inducing a hypnotic con
dition —by the use of drugs or by means of mental processes. In
either case a condition of sleep need not result nor is the condition
of sleep an indication that the person is under control mentally or
physically. Whether hypnosis is produced by drug or by any mental
(or mind) process there must be certain cooperation on the part of
the subject; in the case of mental induction such cooperation is not
only essential but fundamental, and without it hypnosis cannot be
induced. Hence the process of induction is not a contest between
minds, the stronger overcoming the weaker, but a case of the stronger
mind concentrating its whole attention upon the idea of passivity.
Unless this is the attitude and the ability of the subject a small degree
of success will be attained, no matter how competent the operator.
Only certain classes of minds cannot yield to some degree of hypnosis
—the infant mind, the unsound mind, and the drugged and in-
toxicated. A weak mind can rarely exercise sufficient concentration
to assist in bringing about hypnosis by any mental process. Occa
sionally hypnosis is not dangerous to either the mental or physical
organization of the body; continued experiments with one subject
makes that subject enter states more readily as long as the same
operator conducts the experiments. No one was ever placed in the
state against his or her will and cooperation, for it is impossible
(except in some rare cases where drugs are used, and then the state
will more nearly approach a heavy or deep sleep as when choral,
sulphonal, hypnal, ether, and similar drugs are used; in this state
the subject is not under the mental control of the operator or
physician, and the mind of the subject is not inhibited as when a
mental process is used) . But while all this is true and is intended
to dispel the fear and false statements about hypnotism, there is seldom
any need for its use (especially that which is induced by mental
processes) and the practice should be limited exclusively to phy
sicians or scientists who have made a careful study of the laws and
principles, and who have naught but the highest ethical and sci
entific reason for inducing the state. Psychically, it is a state where
the objective mind is at least four-fifths passive or dormant in
[166]
functioning and the subjective mind is consequently and propor-
tionately active or superactive. For psychic experience of the average
and desirable nature the Borderline State is more efficient and calls
for no assistance from any operator. (See Borderline State.)
K
Knowledge —The Rosicrucians ever held that one could not know
of anything except through personal experience. For this reason a
distinction was made between belief and knowledge. The experience,
which is thus necessary, may be through objective realization or
psychic reality, but there must be the personal realism. It is cus
tomary for a mystic to say that he either knows or does not know
when speaking of the experiences, problems, or . facts of life and
nature; nothing is accepted by him on faith and he has no beliefs.
Karma —A term used by us to mean the working of the law of
compensation. Rosicrucians do not contend, however, that the ex
actions of the law of compensation will result in any reversal of the
law of evolution, as is claimed by some modern schools. That a
human being may be reincarnated in the form or body of a lower
animal as a punishment is inconsistent with the law of reincarnation
and evolution, both of which teach us that each stage is progressive
and we shall never descend in the scale of physical expression regard
less of the Karmic debt to be paid. One of the fundamental principles
of the law of compensation is that for each sorrow or pain we cause
another, we shall suffer in like degree and manner and at a time
when the lesson to be gained thereby will be the most impressive.
On the other hand, this principle does not exact an eye for an eye
or a life for a life, for there is no vengeance in the process, and no
intention to cause suffering; the sole purpose of compensation is to
teach us the lesson, to make us realize the error and to evolve the
understanding thereby.
For these reasons one cannot be sure just when or how the law
of compensation will exact its requirements. Of this we can be
sure, however: we will not suffer through any requirements of
Karma and be unconscious of the fact that it is a Karmic debt we
are paying. Such suffering, without a keen realization of why it is
so and what we are compensating for, would be inconsistent with
the fundamental principles of Karma —that we will learn a lesson
through it and advance in our understanding.
L
Life and Life Force—The mystery of all ages. Two methods of
examining its nature lead to false conclusions; the chemical method
would reduce all life to chemical action; the spiritual would reduce
all to divine essence and ignore the material elements or actions.
Rosicrucians insist that due consideration be given to all parts and
all actions, realizing that in its pristine essence all life emanates from
[167]
God through Cosmic forces, but animal life-force, as it expresses
and manifests on this earth plane, is not solely a spiritual essence
devoid of chemical action.
M
Magnetism —Every electrified body has its aura, and when that
aura is active it constitutes a magnetic field and the aura is sometimes
called magnetism. Magnetism, from a purely electrical point of view,
is described somewhat differently; but even so, the fundamental law
involved in the foregoing definition remains. The fact that some
minerals are "naturally" magnetic, as iron of a certain nature, while
others can be made magnetic, indicates that magnetism is not a
result of the atomic or molecular structure of matter, but rather of
an electrical action that is taking place within the substance or
which can be set up in the substance. In electrical science we are
instructed how to induce magnetism in a metallic body by surround
ing it with an electrical charge; but this further illustrates the law
that magnetism results from action in the aura that surrounds all
matter. This aura is fundamentally an essential part of the electron,
and the molecule, therefore, has an aura which is a mixture of the
auras of the electrons composing it. Some auras are passive, some
are receptive or repulsive, and some are alternating in their action.
Those, which are not passive, cause a manifestation which we term,
in physical science, magnetism, with either an attractive or repulsive
tendency or positive or negative polarity.
The cells composing the human body are surrounded by an aura
and the body of man also has an aura. This aura can be made active,
radiating its magnetic energy, or passive, or even repulsive or re
ceptive. The human mind, with its control of the electrical energy
in the body, is the guiding factor in the process of exciting the elec
trical charge that arouses the aura of the human body to its fullest
power. The word mind is used here in the psychical sense.
Master —The term is used in several ways in our work, but we
will not touch upon the use of the word to indicate one who is an
officer of a Lodge or director of a grade of the work. Otherwise
the term is used to represent one who has attained some degree of
perfection in evolution or a high sense of mastership of laws and
principles. In this sense we have visible and invisible Masters. Those
classified as visible are Masters living in the flesh on the earth
plane and seen by us with our objective, physical senses; and those
living in the flesh on this plane, who are able to project their psychic
bodies, thoughts, and impressions, irrespective of distance, so that
such psychic bodies become visible under certain conditions, and the
thoughts and impressions become sensible to our psychic or objective
comprehension. Invisible Masters, on the other hand, are those who
have passed from this plane to the Cosmic plane and from thence
project their personality to the psychic plane and never function or
express upon the earth plane until reincarnated. In order that
[168]
we may sense these Masters—not see them with the objective eye-
sight—we must attune ourselves to the psychic plane to such a
degree that, for the time being, we are psychically functioning on
the psychic plane completely (that
is,
with our psychic bodies, while
our physical bodies are dormant or inactive in all functioning except
that of
a
purely physical nature, as when sleep in
a
passive state
or in deep and profound meditation), and at such time contact the
personality, mind, thoughts, and messages of the invisible Masters.
These Masters may be "seen" at such times, but not with the objective
eye; in fact, it
is
not seeing at all, but
a
Cosmic state of sensing
which we interpret as seeing, after we have returned to consciousness
on the objective plane, for want of a better term to describe our
sensing.
Complete functioning on the psychic plane for
a
few minutes or
hours at
a
time, as desired, and there contacting the personality of
the invisible Masters,
is
a
condition much desired by all mystics and
is
attained by careful study and preparation, many preliminary ex-
periments, and
a
pureness of purpose.
It
is
in this way that Cosmic
Illumination or Cosmic Consciousness
is
realized.
Matter—Rosicrucians view matter from almost the same viewpoint
as physical science. Differing from some schools of metaphysics, we
know that matter
is
essential to expression or existence on this plane,
has its place in the scheme of things, and should not be negated,
ignored, humiliated, or—aggrandized. We know that matter has
no consciousness or mind independent of that consciousness or mind
which resides in all living forms; and we know, further, that matter
does not exist independent of the spirit energy that animates it. This
knowledge enables us to place matter in its right category and
shows us how to make
it
serve us rather than rule us. The fun
damental laws regarding the composition of matter are fully covered
in the lectures of the First, Second, and Fourth Grades.
Mind —The mystic makes the important distinction between brain
and mind. The brain
is
a
physical organ for some of the function-
ing of mind, just as the lungs are organs for the functioning of
breathing. Mind works through the brain to
a
great extent, but not
exclusively through that organ.
It
is
possible for the mind to func
tion in many ways after the brain
is
removed. This has been proved
with tests on lower animals. Mind
is
divided into two domains of
functioning —subjective and objective; while
it
is
common to speak
of these two domains as two minds,
it
is
not correct in
a
broad sense.
The mind of man
is
immortal, because
it
is
a
part of the soul
and personality, while on the other hand, the brain, like all the
physical organs,
is
mortal. Mind and personality persist after transi
tion from the physical body, and retain, as part of their attributes
or equipment, the complete storehouse of memory. The psychic body
utilizes the subjective functioning of the mind as its essential con
sciousness; hence in all psychic work and projections of the psychic
body the subjective mind
is
keenly active. (See Borderline State.)
Molecule — (See Atom and Electron.)
[169]
Teaming (Christening) —The Rosicrucians have a ceremony for
the naming of children, to be performed in their Temple. No re
striction is placed on the age of the child, but one or both of the
parents must be members of the Order and certain promises are ex
acted from the parents; such as that the child will be properly
educated, during its youth, in non-sectarian schools, that it will be
taught to know and love obedience to God's laws, that the child will
be given every opportunity to enter the Order at the proper age
without interference or unnecessary urge. Such Christening may
take the place of any other ceremony or may supplant it. The cere
mony
is,
of course, non-sectarian.
Natural Law —
Is
that law or set of laws decreed in The Beginning
by Divine Mind as the working basis of all creation and without
which no manifestation can occur and exist. Such laws are universal
as to scope and manner of operation. Natural law operates alike on
all planes and in all kingdoms. Natural laws are extremely simple
and direct, as all such fundamental laws must be. Their mission
is
to insure progressive gradations or cycles of evolution in spite of all
the obstacles placed by man to thwart their operation. Therefore,
natural law establishes such powers, functions, attributes, and phases
in the various kingdoms of the universe as will unswervingly impose
strict adherence to them in the search after the ideal in each plane,
kingdom, class, etc. The idea, the motive, back of natural law
is
the preserving of life for the attaining of the ideal of expression;
such preservation for such purpose recognizes no man-made ideal,
no man-made law, no dictates of civilization where these are con
trary to the best purposes as decreed by Divine Mind.
Natural law
is
always constructive, constructive even when
it
seems indisputably destructive. In this
it
follows the method sym
bolized by the "law of the triangle." Natural law
is
that basic prin
ciple which, while demanding, commanding, and insisting on strict
obedience to its dictates throughout,
is
elastic enough in one sense
to allow for much and frequent blending of the entities of any plane
so long as such blending harmonizes with its purposes. Thus
is
it
seen that there can be no such thing as super-natural law,
a
term
which not only
is
a
misnomer but grossly misleading. Miracles are
not the result of so-called super-natural law; they are the result
of obedience to the demand of natural law. Miracles as such are
so only to those who do not understand what
is
meant by natural
law.
T^egative —That phase of polarity which
is
the compliment of the
positive.
It
is
that phase or condition which receives the positive ele
ments and nurtures them to fruition when the result will manifest the
blending of the two phases of polarity. The negative
is
passive, static,
receptive, and nurturing in contradistinction to the positive, which
is
active, creative, and dynamic. The negative registers
a
hunger for
[170]
the positive, while the positive registers an urge, an impulse toward
union with the negative in order that it may, with the cooperation
of the negative, cause a manifestation or creation. Neither can, of
itself, produce any result, for one complements the other, supplies
what the other lacks. The coming together of the negative and
positive under proper conditions allows for the perfect blending of
the two when a third element, the product of die two, is created,
revealing in better manner the characteristics of both negative and
positive.
T^erves—These may be likened to the wires in an electric circuit.
They are the channels through which power is carried, both to and
from the central station, the brain. Power sent out from the brain
to all parts of the body, manifesting as growth and action, is sent
along the efferent nerves while the afferent nerves are used in re-
ceiving such impressions and information of the world outside the
brain as will cause the brain to make use of in guiding and protecting
the body for its preservation.
The function of the nerves is a simple one; merely to serve as
channels for the dissemination of power, whatever the nature of that
power may be, just as the electrical current is sent over wires from
the source of production to the point where it is to be manifested
in furnishing light, heat, motive power, etc.
Klervous System —Still making use of the analogy existing be
tween an electrical circuit and the nervous system, it can be said that
this system, like unto any electrical circuit, consists of a central sta-
tion, the brain, and the nerves functioning as do the wires, while the
ends of the nerves are the termination at which the manifestations
are produced. Just as an electrical circuit requires two wires or sets
of wires in order that it may function properly, so does the living
organism require two sets. This is due to the fact that the living
organism is dual in nature, requiring one set for each phase, yet
each set being also dual, afferent and efferent.
Therefore, the nervous system in a living organism consists of a
Spinal Nervous System for the material aspect, and a Sympathetic
Nervous System placed at the disposal of the immaterial, invisible
aspect. It is the function of the Spinal Nervous System to provide
that power of the grosser and more material nature as will care for
the needs of the earthly body, while the Sympathetic Nervous System
cares for the more subtle requirements of the immaterial one.
Since, according to Divine Decree, the soul makes use of a physical
body for expressing its mission on this plane, provision is made
for affording to each phase or expression that set of nerves which
will best cater to its requirements. The soul, immaterial and invisible
though it
is,
while functioning through
a
physical body, requires the
use of such tools as will allow
it
to do its work normally and with
the least interruption. So that system known as the Sympathetic
7*iervous System
is
allowed to the immaterial side of
a
living organ-
ism, the side that functions psychically, that
is
in constant contact
[171]
with the Cosmic and allows the soul to function through a material
body. Such system is naturally more sensitive, and so created that
it can receive more subtle vibrations and transmit them into power
than can the Spinal Nervous System, which is created solely to pro
vide for the maintenance and preservation of an earthly body.
The Spinal Nervous System finds its central station located in the
cerebrum; the Sympathetic Nervous one in the cerebellum; and over
all is the brain proper as a whole. The points of intercommunica
tion, the points where the two nervous systems unite to found a
perfect, harmonious plan of cooperation and collaboration, are in
the two small glands in the brain about which so little is known
generally.
To recapitulate, the brain may be said to be found everywhere
in the living organism, taking into consideration that the two nervous
systems, each with its afferent and efferent nerves and nerve centers
or substations, according to the analogy of the electrical circuit, may
be said to be a brain that is elongated and made use of by mind, the
earthly, material, objective mind making use of the Spinal Nervous
System and the immaterial, subjective mind making use of the Sympa
thetic Nervous System in order that the soul may function normally
on the earth plane through a physical body and so fulfill the de
mands of the evolutionary plan.
T^ous
—is that energy, power, and force emanating from the Source
of all Life, possessing positive and negative polarity, manifesting it in
vibrations of various rates of speeds which, under certain conditions
and obeying the dictates of natural law, establish the world of form,
be that form visible or invisible.
Nous possesses within itself all potentialities; that
is,
all manifes
tations of any kind are within
it,
uncreated, awaiting the right mo
ment, the precise time, the exact locality for manifesting as entities.
Nous
is
the essence out of which all creation comes. While
it
is
the substance, the Divine Substance, out of which things are made,
yet
it
is
amenable to natural law.
Nous
is
vibratory in character, dual in nature, triune in mani
festation.
It
operates through
a
system of harmonies by means of
a
Cosmic Keyboard of sixty octaves of twelve groups or periods,
each period consisting of five octaves of twelve notes each. An
interesting and significant point in this regard
is
that each period
is
related to
a
sign of the Zodiac, the first octave beginning with the
Sign of Aries.
Each note represents
a
definite number of vibrations of Nous, be
ginning with one vibration per second for the first key, and ending
with trillions of vibrations per second for the last key.
Octaves constitute not only groups of twelve notes but groups of
manifestations. Thus, the first ten octaves produce the sensation of
feeling and hearing— manifestations of action which may be felt and
even seen, and those of Sound. The next octaves give different
[172]
manifestations, and so on throughout the sixty octaves of the Cosmic
Keyboard.
Nous, in more understandable language, may be said to be a com-
bination of Vital Life Force and Cosmic Consciousness moving from
the Source toward earth in an undulating manner, in an infinity of
waves, traveling at different rates of speed, each rate characteristic
of a special phase of manifestation. Within these waves, traveling
with the same speed as the waves themselves, are to be found those
particles of Nous essence, which, grouped together according to
specific number combinations, make cognizable all manner of crea
tion. It is due to the vibratory rate of each Nous wave that the
created masses themselves are able to send forth the vibrations by
which they are known and recognized.
Nucleus —This term is used to denote the focal point, the center
of action, the source of aggregational manifestation. This point is
the heart of any creation possessing, latent within itself, all the
potentialities of development commonly used in connection with a
cell. But what applies to it in a cell applies equally as well in
larger masses of matter. The nucleus is endowed with a polarity
complementary to that of the rest of the mass of which it is the
nucleus.
On the earth plane the nucleus of a cell is positive in polarity
while the retaining wall and the space between the two are negative.
It is due to the dynamic, creative quality of the positive polarity
that search is made by the nucleus for its complementary negative
in order that the business of life may be started. In this manner
is the law of attraction observed (as well as it was established in the
beginning of time) and it is according to its dictates that there is
formed between the nucleus and periphery the field of operation in
which the stressed condition existing between the two polarities may be
eased in creating. This field is known as the magnetic field and is in
actuality the meeting or mating place of the two polarities.
On the immaterial plane the elements are in reverse order; that
is,
the nucleus will have the negative polarity and the outer wall and
environs will have the positive polarity, but the modus operandi will
be the same for cells, whether single or collective, on both planes.
The nucleus possesses, within itself, all the elements lying in
a
dormant state awaiting the proper conditions for awakening that
are necessary for the growth, assimilation, and reproduction of the
cell.
It
has crystallized within itself all the characteristics of former
unions in previous generations and in each successive manifestation
blends in the additional characteristics of the present union, thereby
establishing the conditions and qualities of heredity. This union of
the nucleus with the complementary polarity in the field of mani-
festation, each with its inherent and acquired traits and with their
inevitable blending,
is
what makes evolution possible.
[173]
o
Objective Mind —is the Mundane Mind, the mind that operates
in a material world, through a physical body, and in a selfish manner
for the main purpose of preserving the physical vehicle or tool of
the soul as it manifests on the earth plane. The objective mind must
necessarily be selfish in purpose, but that selfishness should be con-
structive in purpose and principle. As it commonly
is,
the objective
mind is destructively selfish. By constructively selfish
is
meant that
selfishness which tends to preserve the body, and all its powers and
functions, at its best in order that the soul within the body be not
hampered in its mission here on earth. Being constructively selfish
means that an individual seeks to better himself in every direction
in order that he may serve and make the world
a
better place to
live in. Such selfishness has divine sanction. To attain its purpose
and end
it
was given an objective mind that could and would cope
with the purely worldly or carnal conditions and problems. But
to be destructively selfish means that the objective mind, in such
case,
is
seeking benefits to be used not in service for others but for
the one and only self primarily.
The purpose and function of the objective mind, as has been said
before,
is
essentially
a
worldly one. Its scope
is
looking well-
nourished, in normal condition, and ready at an instant's notice to
obey the demands of the soul as they manifest through the subjective
mind. The objective mind, like the physical body
is
subservient to
the subjective. Its province
is
to tell the subjective of existing mun
dane conditions in order that the subjective may be guided as to how
it
is
to express Divine Cosmic ideals in
a
material world. The
province of the objective mind
is
over the five physical senses and
their functions, over the voluntary acts, over recollection, inductive
reasoning, and finally complete reasoning, all of which will easily
demonstrate how important
is
the objective mind functioning through
a
physical body and brain in the Divine Scheme of Things.
Omnipotent —having illimitable power. A term used in referring
to the powers of God and the Cosmic. But such power, illimitable
as
it
is,
is
amendable to Cosmic or universal law as established in The
Beginning. While
it
may seem that omnipotence
is,
therefore, les
sened,
it
is,
on the contrary, increased or strengthened, for by ad
hering to its own laws nothing
is
impossible. Adherence to these
laws insures that system and harmony, that plan of number, that
peace that establishes omnipotence. So
it
may appropriately be said
that God
is
omnipotent because in His Wisdom He established those
laws and principles, not only for His Creation, but for Himself,
adherence to which gives omnipotence.
Ontology —according to Rosicrucians,
is
the TRUE science of ALL
being. And in perfect accord with this definition and the standard
which
it
involves are the teachings of Rosicrucianism. Those laws
and principles alone can help humanity solve every problem that
is
universal in character and application. Such must, perforce, be based
[174]
on divine truths and ideals, not with the idea or purpose of making
goody-goodies out of humanity but of making it NORMAL. Such
laws and principles, because they are simple and direct, are easily
demonstrable to the entire satisfaction of anyone willing to take
the time to prove them. They are operative in the daily life of every
creature. When observed they bring happiness, success, and ecstasy.
When they are ignored, intentionally, or through ignorance, they
allow unhappiness, failure, and despair to manifest, not for the
purpose of punishing in a retaliative spirit, but solely for the purpose
of teaching through fixed laws and principles and fulfilling their
decrees.
It may seem strange to the unthinking reader that the study of
the law of vibration, with its seemingly endless ramifications, should
give us the knowledge whereby we learn to solve economical, social,
ethical, and religious problems, yet it does do precisely that. For
universal laws are operative in like manner and degree through all
the planes of creation, in all conditions.
It may seem stranger yet that by studying the universal and
natural laws, as they manifest and apply in the purely material
world, mankind should know how they operate and manifest on
the immaterial, spiritual world, yet each study does just that. By
studying all about the SEEN world by recognizing the laws that apply
to them, by learning how to make use of those laws and putting them
into operation, if altruism is the motive actuating the purpose, the
UNSEEN world becomes not only intelligible but as intimately
known, contacted, and associated with as the SEEN. By learning
how to use natural, universal laws in transmuting material, physical
conditions and things can mankind learn to transmute unfavorable
conditions of whatever kind. Ontology teaches what are the uni-
versal and natural laws. It teaches how to use them in transmuting
destructive conditions into constructive ones. It teaches, further, that
what is mastered in regard to purely material things can be used,
if the purpose is in accordance with Divine Ethics, for spiritualizing
the purely mundane and raise such to the higher plane of manifesta-
tion. Ontology teaches, moreover, not only mastery of physical and
Cosmic forces, but teaches that more difficult subject, the mastery
of the self, giving each individual the right blending of the humble,
the noble, the magnetic traits that characterize MASTERSHIP
wherever it may be found. It gives these through KNOWLEDGE.
P
Perception —is that faculty of the objective mind which obtains
knowledge through the five objective senses and faculties. It is the
process of getting that infinity of facts of a material or mundane
nature which goes to make up the sum total of our objective knowl-
edge after such facts have been classified by another process of mental
functioning.
Personality —to the Rosicrucian, in contradistinction to individu-
ality, is that distinctive manifestation of character, with its peculiar
[175]
and innate qualities, which reveals or establishes the identity of
any entity. Personality pertains to the Inner Man, the Soul, the
Psychic, or Divine Being who resides within the physical body and
expresses the character which the soul has evolved through the cycles
of time from the hour of the creation as a soul. The personality
reveals all that has been garnered up through numberless experiences
and absorbed as part of its very essence of expression. It demon
strates all the qualities which have been adopted by the soul as its
own peculiar characteristics or earmarks, so to speak. And so there
are all kinds of personalities according to each soul's evolution. It
is due to the personality of the soul that certain acts or deeds are
performed which we recognize as being those performed by any
particular personality. Personality reveals the true psychic identity
of each individual of the human race.
Individuality, on the other hand, refers to the transient and mortal
objective side of man. While it is true that individuality signifies
that which may not and cannot be separated, this term applies not
to the soul, which is not separable from its Creator, but to the ob-
jective individual, who possesses a body composed of units which
cannot and may not be divided or separated one from another without
destroying the objective manifestation. The individuality is essen
tially worldly and material because its purpose in life is to function
on the mundane plane. The personality is essentially unworldly and
immaterial because its purpose is to function on the immaterial plane.
The two, personality and individuality, or the psychic and mundane,
the immaterial and material working in unison reveal an entity recog
nized both through its individuality and personality as it expresses
itself in daily life. (See Reincarnation.)
Pineal and Pituitary glands, in their physiological purpose, have
to do with the regulating of various functions of the body like the
circulation of the blood, the growth of the bones and tissues, and
the development of the sex and emotional functions. They act in
this sense as governors essentially. In the psychic sense, they are
transformers, stepping down for objective sensing those exceedingly
rapid vibrations which come from the spiritual or psychic planes or
stepping up the slower vibrations of a material nature that they
may be sensed on the immaterial plane. By a series of exercises these
glands may be brought up to that standard of functioning decreed
by the Creator and which has not been generally in evidence for
many ages. It is one phase of the work of mysticism to afford the
sincere, earnest seeker after Light, Knowledge, and Power the
privilege and means of bringing up to normal these most essentially
important glands in the human body. Such a one will have, among
other faculties, the powers of seer and prophet. Any standard work
on physiology or anatomy will give the description of these glands,
together with their function and place in the physiological economy.
This may be found under the heading of ENDOCRINE Glands.
But the description of these same glands, together with their place
and function in the psychic economy of man, is NOT to be found
[176]
in any book nor is the knowledge given to the idle seeker for the
mere asking. These glands have to do so greatly with the spiritual
side of life that they must be developed slowly so that their pristine
normalcy be regained.
Plastic —refers to that which is endowed with all manner of pos
sibilities but which lacks form or definite and characteristic expression.
That is plastic which allows of being moulded or shaped according
to the ideas of the moulder.
Polarity —is the predominance of one or the other phase of elec
trical or magnetic force possessed by any manifestation of creation,
and which gives it its distinguished character of positive or negative.
This is contrary to the commonly accepted understanding of the term
polarity, which is defined as that which has two poles. In actuality
it is more than the quality of having two poles. It is the quality
of having in addition more of one phase or the other of that which
is found at the poles. This applies to all forms and kinds of creation,
for each has its individual and characteristic polarity by which it is
distinguished from the other manifestations of its own class and of
other classes. Here may be found a key to the explanation of per
sonality, its power of attraction and repulsion when thinking of
polarity as applied to mankind.
Potential —refers to that state or condition of anything which is
not in an active state. It is a static condition and not a kinetic one.
It is dormant, awaiting that touch which will change it from its
inactive condition to an active or dynamic one. Any potential con
dition has crystalized within itself all the qualities and essentials
needed in the kinetic or active state of manifestation. The potential
state lacks nothing which it would not have in the active state. Its
inactivity is all that characterizes this condition. This is in contra
distinction to that condition which lacks that which is essential to
its active state.
Prayer —a petition, a supplication or entreaty, addressed usually
to the Creator, for the granting of some special request. In many
cases, the Divine Laws and Principles involved in the granting of
prayer are completely ignored or overlooked by the petitioner. Yet
neither negligence, nor ignorance, nor wilfulness will abrogate them
nor diminish by an iota their efficacy or reduce their operation.
God, in His Wisdom, decreed and established certain laws of universal
operation in order that there might be system and order in the
world. Such laws are applicable to all and infrangible —therefore,
any prayer which does not meet the requirements of such laws will
not be answered, for, could or would God answer all prayer, irre
spective of its motive and purpose, chaos would result.
The mystic well knows that should he petition for any purpose he
must base his prayer on that which concords with Divine Ideals.
Therefore, he asks, first, not that his prayer be granted, that his plea,
out of a world full of pleas, be singled for fulfillment, but that he
[177]
be given Light and understanding of the Laws involved in the grant-
ing of the prayer and of the consequences to accrue from its fulfill-
ment. Next, the mystic assures himself that his prayer is altruistic.
It is not necessary that it be wholly altruistic but it must be over
fifty per cent so, as in the case of asking benefits and blessings for
ourselves. It is right to ask for these when we desire them in order
that we become better fitted to serve others.
Having asked for understanding of Divine Decrees and Laws, hav-
ing asked that it be shown us if it is right that our petition should
be expressed, having assured ourselves that our prayer
is,
in the final
analysis, altruistic in nature and purpose, we proceed to give ex-
pression to the prayer with
a
feeling of confidence. This feeling of
confidence
is
not an impossible one, for as our prayer
is
formed in
harmony with the Divine Scheme, meets the requirements of the
Laws, and
is
based on altruism, we find that there
is
nothing to pre
vent us from having the feeling that we will obtain the object of
our petition since we are doing all that
is
possible in fulfilling the
requisites imposed. And so, having achieved our feeling of con-
fidence, and knowing that our prayer will be fulfilled, we express our
thanks for the fulfillment, for spiritually
it
is
ALREADY granted
under these circumstances.
From the foregoing
it
may now be apparent why prayer
is
so
often unanswered. God, in His mercy, refuses to answer our en-
treaties knowing how great the penalties for us would be could He
and would He abrogate His own laws to grant our prayers, however
agonizing the need from our human point of view. But that prayer
is
answered which meets the requirements and standard of the
Creator, because
it
is
a
prayer, which the granting of, will add to
the general betterment, not only of the individual, but of the greatest
number. One other wonderful feature to be noted, as a result of
basing prayer according to the Divine Principles,
is
that the manner,
ways and means of fulfilling the prayer are indicated to us and we
proceed to demonstrate that God helps those who help themselves.
Projection —
is
not only the act of releasing at will, on the psychic
plane, of the psychic body of man with all its consciousness, mind,
powers, and functions, but
it
is
also the psychic body freed from the
limitations of time and space and other hampering and confining con-
ditions. Projections are made for the purpose of contacting such as
we wish to aid or by whom we wish to be assisted and inspired.
Projections are endowed with all the distinguishing traits, charac
teristics, and mannerisms that distinguished the personality of any
entity. Projections carry with them these earmarks: Traits developed
through the incarnations making the projections recognizable any-
where at any time through these very characteristics, because the soul
and psychic body are immortal.
Projections are endowed with five psychic senses and faculties,
allowing for their sensing and expressing psychically in the same
manner as the five objective senses and faculties allow the physical
and objective individuality to become conscious of conditions and
[178]
circumstances. Projections are guided and directed by the soul and
impregnated by the soul's ideals and hopes. Naturally, in commun-
ing with other psychic bodies and subjective minds, a projection will
act in full accord with the ethical code characteristics of its soul.
So strong are the powers of the soul, and so forceful its ways of
making itself felt, that to those who can see and hear and feel
psychically the soul is recognized by its projection as easily and com
pletely as is one physical body or manifestation recognized by another
physical one. This is most commonly done during sleep. But it can
be done at will by those trained to do so, trained to release the psychic
body, manifesting at any specific place at any definite time for a very
particular purpose. Sensing the psychic body in a projection and
recognizing it as the personality of any entity is also a matter of
training. Both these privileges and powers are part of the birthright
of man.
Psychic Plane —is that plane or condition in the Divine Economy
which has been provided by Divine Mind as the meeting place and
field of action for the psychic bodies of the dwellers of the Cosmic
(where dwell only those freed from functioning in physical bodies)
and earth planes, wherein they may meet to their mutual benefit.
It is here that our loved ones, who have cast off their earthly bodies,
may be contacted. It is here that our thoughts, hopes, plans and
requests are projected along with our personalities. It is here that
in response we receive the inspiration, guidance, direction, and illu-
mination we are in search of when appealing to those whom we
feel are better fitted and ready to give. It is here that we, too,
carry on our psychic work as our share in the uplift of mankind.
And this plane may be reached at any time provided the purpose
is pure and noble.
Psychology —from the common point of view is the science of
mind, or the science which treats of the analysis of the laws of con-
nection and condition of mental phenomena. From the Rosicrucian
point of view it is more than this: It is the science which treats
of the soul, its attributes, mind, and consciousness and its purpose,
place, and function, as well as its influence in our lives as regards
habits, their formation, their adoption, rejection, or transmutation,
the action and interaction of the two phases of mind, the objec
tive and subjective, and many other forms of psychic and mental
existence.
R
Reality —The Rosicrucians make a very definite distinction between
realities and actualities. As stated under the term ACTUALITY,
the actualities of life are those things which conform to the laws
of sensibility of the objective mind. On the other hand, realities are
real things to the subjective or psychic consciousness, regardless of
the lack of actuality. We may easily select, from our own experi
ences, many instances of realization of realities which had no actuality
[179]
in the purely objective world, and there are thousands of actualities
in this strange world which to date have brought no realization, or
created no reality, in our consciousness. The important point with
true mystics,
is,
however, that we are affected, as living organisms,
by both actualities, and realities. So far as our consciousness
is
concerned,
it
is
our reality that affects us—our realization of things
—whether actual or not. Therefore, mystically, we live in the
world of realities, or realization, and anything or any stimuli, impulse,
urge, or inspiration which causes
a
realization in our consciousness
is
affecting us.
It
may not affect all,
it
may affect only one of us,
but, to the one affected,
a
reality of the consciousness
is
as actual
as
a
material thing of the objective world. (See Actual.)
Reincarnation —The Rosicrucian doctrine of reincarnation
is
unique in some respects, yet
it
represents the one religious or ethical
doctrine more universally held in the world today than any other,
because
it
is
non-sectarian, just, understandable, and revealing. In
brief,
it
is
that the soul of man,
a
Divine Essence, has as an attribute
a
memory and consciousness which constitutes the personality of
the individual ego. This personality
is
immortal, as the Soul Es
sence
is
immortal. The Soul Essence
is
unseparated from the uni
versal Cosmic or Divine Essence, only
a
part of which resides in each
being during an earthly incarnation. The personality
is,
however,
distinct and unique with each being. This personality manifests in
the human body during its earthly life as the ego or character of the
person, and at transition moves on and into the Cosmic Plane along
with the Soul Essence. There
it
remains until the right time for
another incarnation with the Soul Essence in another physical body,
for more and different earthly experiences, which are added to the
Personality memory and remain intact there as the accumulating
knowledge and wisdom of the inner-self. The Personality remains
conscious of itself on the Cosmic Plane, as
it
was conscious of itself
on the earth plane, and can carry on the Psychic manifestations of
itself more easily from the Cosmic Plane than
it
could from the
earth plane. Each personality may incarnate many times, the limit
being unknown. Rosicrucians know that the Personality never retro
grades or enters the bodies of lower animals, and only occasionally
enters
a
body of
a
different sex.
Religion —The knowledge of God and Gods ways lead to
a
real
religious devotion on the part of Rosicrucians, and the Mystic
is
always
a
true student of essential theology. But, aside from uniting
with sectarian churches in order to assist in the great work they
are doing, the Rosicrucian
is
broad and tolerant in his religion and
finds God in everything and for everyone of His creatures.
S
She\inah (pronounced usually in the Occident as sheh-ky'-na) —
It
is
from an old Egyptian word, though for centuries believed to
be
a
Hebrew word because
it
is
found, in the Hebrew religion, to
mean the same symbol. In the Rosicrucian Temples
it
is
a
triangular
[180]
altar, thirty-six inches high and thirty-six inches wide on each of
its three sides. The sides are covered with black satin, the top with
blood-red satin, with a gold cord binding the red to the black at the
edge. On each of the three sides there is a gold cross attached to
the black satin, formed of gold braid or ribbon (four inches wide).
Such crosses are about eighteen inches high and twelve inches wide;
in the centre of each is a red velvet rose. On the Shekinah, which
may have a glass top to protect the red satin, three candle sticks are
placed, one at each corner of the triangle. A vessel of incense may
burn in the centre of the triangle. The Shekinah is usually placed
for all convocations with its points as follows: (1) toward the West;
(2) toward the South, the Chaplain's station; (3) toward the North,
the station of the High Priestess. A small footstool is also placed
before point 1. It may be covered with red and black satin. The
Shekinah represents the presence of the Concentrated Power of the
Holy Assembly of the Cosmic in the centre of the Temple. The
Sanctum of each Temple is that area between the Shekinah and the
East platform of the Temple.
Solar Plexus —One of the most important groups of a number of
small plexuses forming the largest plexus in the human body, located
in the centre of the abdomen. Its objective or physical functioning
is very important, but far more important is its psychic or sympathetic
functioning. It was believed by the ancients that this plexus was the
centre of the Soul in man, as the sun is the centre of the solar world;
hence its name. Many systems of so-called mystical instruction pre
tend to tell how to use the Solar Plexus for attaining certain results,
but it requires many years of careful development of this plexus to
make it a real value in true mystical work.
Soul—We wrongly speak of the Soul in man, or man's Soul, as
though each human being —or each conscious organism—had within
its body on this earth plane a separate and distinct something which
we call Soul; and, therefore, in one hundred beings there would be
one hundred Souls. This is wrong, indeed. There is but one Soul
in the universe; the Soul of God, the Living, Vital Consciousness
of God. Within each living being there is an unseparated segment
of that universal Soul, and this is the Soul of man. It never ceases
to be a part of the universal Soul, any more than the electricity in
a series of electric lamps on one circuit is a separate amount of elec
tricity, unconnected with the current flowing in all the lamps. The
Soul in man is the God in man, and makes all mankind a part of
God —Brothers and Sisters under the Fatherhood of God. (See
Personality.)
Spirit—Rosicrucians were the first mystics to make a distinct dif
ference between Spirit and Soul. Spirit is a universal essence per
vading all nature, even unconscious matter, and manifesting in many
ways, such as cohesions, adhesions, etc. It is a divine, universal,
essence-like Soul, but of a lower rate. Spirit essence makes its first
material manifestation in the formation of electrons, which enter
[181]
into the composition of atoms. Soul, as an essence, can manifest
only psychically, because of its very high rate of vibrations.
Spiritualism —A religious doctrine attempting to use some of the
psychic manifestations of Soul, some of Spirit, and some of Per-
sonality, to sustain a theoretical scheme of the Soul's activities here
on earth, or in the Cosmic, after the change called transition.
Spiritualism as a system or a "science" is taboo with Rosicrucians,
for they know that the spiritualistic explanation of much phenomena
is wrong, that most So-called mediums are unaware of the facts,
know little or nothing of the laws and principles which they are
attempting to demonstrate, and often bring serious situations and
sorrows into the lives of those who are being guided by them. Fur-
thermore, Rosicrucians KNOW that departed "souls" do not return
to earth in a material form, and that departed "spirits" do not make
materialized demonstrations as entities, and that communications re-
ceived from the Cosmic, or through the psychic bodies of living per-
sons, are not always what they seem to be to the spiritualists.
Subjective Mind —The mind in man may not be dual—it may be
but one mind, manifesting in two distinct domains at times, or in
two phases, but since the manifestations group themselves into two
distinct classes, called objective and subjective, it has become common
in psychology, and especially mysticism, to speak of the mind as being
dual—subjective and objective. For the functionings of these sec
tions of one mind, the student must refer to the many lectures of our
studies, where all the details are carefully given.
T
Therapeutics —Generally used to mean any system of healing or
method for the alleviation of pain and physical suffering. The
ancients, however, used the word in a mystical sense and a branch
of the Rosicrucians in Egypt was known as the Therapeuti. This
was a branch of the ancient Order, which at that time used various
names in different lands so as to conceal the mystical part of its
work. The same organization was known as the Essenes in the Holy
Land, and researches in the past century have revealed the fact
that the Therapeuti, Essenes and other similar organizations were a
part of the Egyptian mystery schools, or arcane schools, in which the
Rosicrucian organization had its birth.
Transition —This term is generally used to indicate the condition
called death in modern times, but since there is no death in natural
law, any more than there is in the spiritual or so-called supernatural,
the term is not only erroneous, but absolutely contradictory. The
great change that takes place at the time when death is supposed
to occur
is,
after all,
a
mere transition and transposition of the various
component parts which, being united, constitute
a
living human be
ing or
a
living entity of conscious matter. This transition consists
of separation of the dual parts of man (soul and body) and also
changes the constructive processes of the physical body which have
[182]
been holding together, to some degree, the material elements conv
posing
it,
permitting
a
new condition to exist whereby these elements
begin to separate and return to their primary form of living matter.
Therefore,
it
is
truly
a
transition with no indication of death to
any part of the former physical and spiritual expression.
Transmutation —This
is
not merely an alchemical term but
a
mystical term, and transmutation may be mental, as well as physical,
and can be spiritual in
a
broad sense. Transmutation means the
changing of the vibratory nature of
a
material element or the vibratory
expression of
a
spiritual manifestation so that the manifestation or
expression
is
different after the change. The ancient Rosicrucians
claimed that
it
was possible to transmute the baser material into the
more refined and they demonstrated this in their day, as we do in
our day, in
a
material or chemical world, by the transmutation of
gross metals into gold or platinum, both of which represent
a
higher
and more refined expression, but they also claim, as we demonstrate
today, that the highest demonstration of transmutation and the more
ideal, profitable, and noble demonstration
is
that which occupies our
greatest attention in the world today as Rosicrucians: This
is
to
transmute the baser elements of our physical natures into the highest
ideal expressions and to transmute our desires and thoughts into living
spiritual ideals. Thus all of us are striving to become true alchemists
and demonstrate the real art of transmutation.
U
Universe—This word
is
significant to
a
mystic because
it
in-
dicates the Cosmogony of one cell, and
if
the word
is
worthy of
being used at all
it
should be used to indicate that all that exists
is
a
universe or within one great cell, the Macrocosm,
a
replica of the
smallest cell, the Microcosm. The ancients taught that there was but
one earth, one cellular world, one sun, the sun that
is
visible to us,
and that
it
is
the centre of the universe. This would indicate that
the universe
is
a
limited cell of enormous size, and the idea that space
is
limited and in the form of
a
cell
is
not more difficult of compre
hension than the idea of limitless space, and the mystics of the Orient
today point to the fact that nothing that has been discovered through
astronomy, or any of the sciences, disputes this contention. Mystically,
the idea of one universe as
a
cell, with God and all of His human
expressions within
it,
gives the foundation for the general idea of
one God and Father of one Brotherhood of mankind.
Universal Mind —This term
is
often used to indicate the Cosmic
mind or the mind which
is
the consciousness of God and which per-
vades all space in the universe.
It
is
not only the mind of God but
the consciousness and mind of all living men, of all living beings
on the earth plane so united as to be
a
consensus of mind and
thought in which every inspiration, idea, and impression of universal
importance
is
registered and may be contacted through proper attune
ment with this Universal Mind.
[183]
V
Vestal Virgin —This is another term that has often been used in
the place of the word Colombe (see explanation regarding Colombes
in the forepart of the Manual regarding Officers of Lodges) . It was
believed for many years that the Vestal Virgins were an institution
of Roman origin, but research has shown that in the arcane schools
of Egypt, and in the earlier Rosicrucian Temples, there were one
or more Vestal Virgins, who not only kept the important symbolical
and holy fire in the Vestal Stand ever burning, but served in the
ritualistic work and in the mystical exercises as a symbol of fire,
light, life, and love, as well as the dove of consciousness. Hence the
word Colombe, which means dove, and which symbol has always had
an important place in the mystical and religious ceremonies of ancient
and modern times.
Vital Life Force—This term is fully explained in the lectures and
teachings of the various Grades and refers exclusively to that form
of energy which vitalizes the human body at the moment of birth
and which leaves the human body at the moment of transition. It
has naught to do with spirit energy, which prevades all space and
which does remain in the human body and is active after transition,
and which also exists in all living matter, whether conscious or not.
The vital life force is from the same source as all energy, but is of a
distinct and different rate from that which constitutes spirit energy
and soul energy.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE
If you have enjoyed reading this
book you will be interested in know
ing that there is available in this
public library the monthly periodi
cal of the Rosicrucians entitled the
"ROSICRUCIAN DIGEST .. Ask
your librarian for this magazine.
It appears here each month. If
there is no copy available, ask them
to secure it as it will be presented
free to your library. Be sure and
say
,
ROSICRUCIAN DIGEST".
Rosicrucian Brotherhood
(amorc)
San Jose, California, U. S. A
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
SOME INTERESTING QUESTIONS
OFFICIALLY ANSWERED
To save much correspondence and at the same time arm our
members and readers with official answers to questions often asked,
we publish the following list, taken from our records as typical of
those asked hundreds of times each week in the correspondence:
Q. What does A. M. O. R. C. mean?
A. It is the abbreviation of the term: Ancient and Mystical
Order Rosae Cruris (Ancient and Mystical Order of the Rosy
Cross).
Q. Has the Order any other name?
A. Yes, the complete Latin name as used in some foreign juris-
dictions. See introduction to the Constitution in the forepart of this
Manual. The Order is often briefly referred to as the Rosicrurian
Brotherhood.
Q. Has the A. M. O. R. C. any relation to other American Rosi-
crucian societies?
A. No. The A. M. O. R. C. has no connection with any society,
fraternity, or movement using the name Rosicrurian unless it uses
the title A. M. O. R. C. or its equivalent in Latin or some other-
language. The A. M. O. R. C. is an ORDER and always uses the
word ORDER and not society or fraternity.
Q. How can there be a number of Rosicrurian Societies without
being related?
A. Because die word Rosicrucian has become a general term to
mean arcane, mystical, metaphysical, etc. There is no law prohibiting
its use, unfortunately, except in the Cosmic, by those who seek to
attract attention through its use. The term ROSICRUCIAN
ORDER, however, is protected and is never used except by the real
organization.
One will find in the city directory of New York a very large
number of organizations, movements, groups, and commercial propo-
sitions using die word Columbia. There is the Columbia Academy,
the Columbia School, die Columbia Society, the Columbia Laundry,
and the Columbia Meat Market. But there is only one Columbia
UNIVERSITY. No other educational movement or institute would
think of using the term Columbia University, though they might use
Columbia School or College, for various reasons, much to the confu-
sion of casual readers.
Q. Has the A. M. O. R. C. any relation of the past or present
to the Roman Catholic Church or the Jesuits?
A. Absolutely no. There was a time in the ancient periods of the
Order when some Jesuits were greatly interested in the teachings
and some even joined the Order; but today no Jesuit or official
[185]
representative of the Roman Catholic Church is in any wa/ con
nected with the Rosicrucian Order in this country or foreign lands.
Q. What relation has the A. M. O. R. C. with other meta-
physical or mystical societies including Theosophy?
A. No relation at all, although the Order does look with brotherly
kindness on every movement promoting good will and arcane knowl
edge. The A. M. O. R. C. in every land is connected with no
other movement or society or Order than its own. It is absolutely
independent.
Q. What attitude do you take in regard to the Rosicrucian
Fellowship and the work of the late Max Heindel?
A. We say over and over that Mr. Heindel was a keen student
of the Theosophical teachings under a private teacher, and after
years of careful thought wrote and published a few books which
contain his interpretation of a philosophy essentially Christian and
Theosophical. We have said that these books are inspiring and
profitable. The work of his movement is devoted to the sale of ,
these books and the formation of groups to promote the study of his\
books, but does not consist of TEMPLES, LODGES, and COLLEGES
like the Rosicrucian Order, and the teachings are NOT those of the
Rosicrucian Order of international affiliation. The ORDER never
has and never will issue and sell to the public the real teachings and
instructions in book form, and they cannot be found in book form
in any country. We have naught but the kindest feelings for the
Fellowship, but it is not a part of the International Rosicrucian
Order, and the German Rosicrucian Order in which Mr. Heindel
says he was initiated has officially denied that he was ever an initiate
or student.
Q. In what way is the A. M. O. R. C. distinctive from other
mystical or scientific, occult schools?
A. In the first place the A. M. O. R. C. is NOT primarily a
school or publishing house, nor is it simply a brotherhood. It is an
international fraternity with its schools or secret teachings as an
adjunct to help the members master such laws and principles in life
as will enable them to help themselves and help others. The object,
therefore, is the practical demonstration of humanitarian principles
and mutual cooperation in the evolution of the races of man. It is
not a theoretical or speculative school, but a practical organization.
Its teachings are given to members only, in carefully graded sequence,
covering various periods of development from one year to ten years.
Q. Is it not commercial since it charges dues?
A It charges dues like any other society or order, and these dues
are not for instruction, but to cover the operating expenses of an
enormous SCHEME which embraces many features of co-operation
and practical demonstration of real help. Only twenty-five per cent
of its national and international activities is in the form of educa
tional work; the remainder of the activities have to do with solving
the personal problems of its members, healing, directing important
[186]
moves in the lives and progress of its members, scientific and medical
research, archaeological discoveries, promotion of national welfare
plans, contributions to better citizenship, the correction of evil sys-
tems affecting the happiness of many, and similar lines of activities.
The regular monthly dues of the members DO NOT and CANNOT
meet all of the operating expenses of such an institution as A. M.
O. R. C. in any land; and the large deficits in its monthly and yearly
budgets have to be met with private donations on the part of the
supreme officers, including the Imperator, and those high-grade mem
bers who, as of old, would sacrifice all they possess to maintain the
integrity and good work of the Order. The Order is incorporated
as a - non-commercial, non-profit body, and all who are acquainted
with the Order for more than a year learn of the truth of these
statements. It is this fact of non-commercialism that has made the
Rosicrucian Order what it is today.
Q. Has the A. M. O. R. C. in America ever experienced any legal
difficulty or unkind criticism or exposure?
A. No. The Order has carried on its work publicly for many
1
years and has never had other thar£»very high and kind praises in
newspapers, magazines, books, and pamphlets. It has never had any
so-called exposure or uncomplimentary attack. It has naught to do
with politics, attacks on religion or Church, deals with no impolite
or immoral subjects, has no under-cover practices and is not likely,
therefore, to be entangled in any unpleasant notoriety. It has had
more newspaper publicity of a kindly nature in the past ten years
than any other metaphysical secret school in the world.
Q. Do the Rosicrucians have any "coming world master" as do
other mystical schools?
A. No. The Rosicrucians know better than this. They know
that the next great Master to come to each being will be the Master
Within, and not some foreign person of one tongue, affiliated with
one school and limiting his redemption to those who are within a
certain fold. And the Rosicrucians have never solicited funds for
the support or propaganda of such Masters.
Q. What are the religious convictions of Rosicrucians?
A. Since the Rosicrucian Order is a universal movement, with
Brothers and Sisters living in all lands and of every creed and tongue,
its religious principles must be non-sectarian. Universally, all Rosi
crucians are convinced of the existence of God, and the Divine Ruler,
Architect, Mind and Father of all men, regardless of creed or doctrine.
In Christian countries Rosicrucians acknowledge the Divine Selection
of the Master Jesus as a special Messenger and Representative of
the God-head. In non-Christian countries a very similar attitude
is held by the Rosicrucians, except that the Son-ship of Jesus is con
sidered as having been attained through worthiness and preparation
as an Avatar of God. In America you will find Rosicrucians in
every denomination, often as Ministers, Clergymen, Rabbis, etc
[187]
There is nothing in the Rosicrucian teachings which will affect your
religious beliefs except to strengthen them.
Members of the Rosicrucian Order may procure a copy of the
booklet entitled, "Rosicrucian Catechism," which sets forth definite
answers relative to the nature, purposes and activities of the organ
ization, which the members may use for his own information and
also to furnish information to inquirers. This may be procured by
writing to the Rosicrucian Supply Bureau and enclosing a three cent
postage stamp.
ARE ALL SEEKERS WORTHY?
This is the big question which every organization such as AMORC
must solve. Most organizations attempt to find an answer to the
questions through investigation before admitting the applicant.
AMORC makes its preliminary investigation through the usual chan
nels, then investigates along its own psychic lines. After this a cer-
tain number of inquiries are rejected. The others are admitted into
the three preliminary TEST grades, which cover nine months of
close examination and preparation. After that those found worthy
are admitted into the regular work for one year or fifteen months,
during which more tests are applied while preparing the seeker for
further advancement. Then, those finally adjudged worthy are ad-
mitted into various branches of the work not generally known to
those who are uninitiated.
Our statistics show that out of ever thousand persons who answer
our public notices —
Only 402 are admitted into the preliminary test grades;
Only 329 are admitted into the higher wor\;
Only 260 pass the second tests;
Only 248 are permitted to continue;
Only 239 reach the Seventh Grade;
Only 224 reach the T^inth Grade;
Only 199 reach the Twelfth Grade;
Only 101 reach beyond the general wor\ of the Order.
Every possible encouragement is given to the worthy and sincere,
and it is our ambition to make every one who enters the first grades
truly prepared to continue. We regret each loss and seek ever to
change these figures so that more will reach the top. But, certain
standards must be maintained and we cannot alter the Cosmic,
Psychic, and Mundane rules that apply to all things.
[188]
Volume I.
ROSICRUCIAN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH
COMPLETE HISTORY OF THE ORDER
This volume contains the first complete, authentic history of the
Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present day. The
history is divided into two sections, dealing with the traditional facts
and die established historical facts, and is replete with interesting
stories of romance, mystery, and fascinating incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference and
guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding many
mystical and occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosi-
crucians were closed against any eyes but the high initiates. Even
editors of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the weird, fas-
cinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts of the world.
Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like a story from the
land of the "Arabian Nights."
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions dealing
with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes of the Rosi-
crucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound in silk cloth,
and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
Volume II.
ROSICRUCIAN PRINCIPLES FOR THE
HOME AND BUSINESS
This volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian
teachings as are applicable to the solution of the every-day problems
of life in business and in the affairs of the home. It deals exhaustively
with the prevention of ill health, the curing of many of the common
ailments, and the attainment of peace and happiness as well as the
building up of the affairs of life that deal with financial conditions.
The book is filled with hundreds of practical points dealing especially
with the problems of the average business man or person in business
employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the use of
metaphysical and mystical principles in attracting business, increasing
one's income, promoting business propositions, starting and bringing
into realization new plans and ideas, and the attainment of the
higher ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business" is not theoreti
cal but strictly practical, and is in its fourth edition, having had a
wide circulation and universal endorsement not only among members
of the organization, who have voluntarily stated that they have greatly
[189]
improved their lives through the application of its suggestions, but
among thousands of persons outside of the organization. It has
also been endorsed by business organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk cloth, and
stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
Volume III.
MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
This is the book that thousands have been waiting for—the real
Jesus revealed at last! It has been in preparation for a number of
years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a verifica-
tion of the strange facts contained in the ancient Rosicrucian and
Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities in
the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts relating
to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion, resurrection, and
ascension will astound and inspire you. The book contains many
mystic symbols, fully explained, original photographs, and a new
portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large chapters,
beautifully printed, bound in purple silk and stamped in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every student
of mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talked-about books
ever written on the subject. Read it and be prepared for the discus-
sions of it that you will hear among men and women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.25.
Volume V.
UNTO THEE I GRANT
This is one of the rarest, Oriental, mystery books known. It is
translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and Disciples
of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago, and was
hidden in manuscript form from the eyes of the world and given
only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to study priyately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book containing
the rarest writings and teachings known to man with the exception
of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been written about the teach
ings and practices of the Masters of the Far East and the Adepts of
Tibet, but none of them has ever contained the secret teachings found
[190]
in this book. This book is divided into many parts, each part con-
taining a large number of sections or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weaknesses, sins,
strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are treated in detail
with illuminating implicity. The book is beautifully printed and
bound in stiff cover, and contains also the strange mystic story of
the expedition into Tibet to secure this marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
Volume VI.
A THOUSAND YEARS OF YESTERDAYS
Here is a book that will tell you about the real facts of reincarna-
tion. It is a story of the Soul, and explains in detail how the Soul
enters the body and how it leaves, where it goes to and when it comes
back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far East and
Orient for many centuries, and never put into book form as a story
before this book was printed. That is why the book has been trans
lated into so many foreign languages and endorsed by the mystics
and adepts of India, Persia, Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating —Alluring —Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave it
without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic
principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to reincarnation as
well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the incarnation of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound, and worthy of a place in anyone's
library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 85 cents.
Volume VII.
SELF MASTERY AND FATE WITH THE
CYCLES OF LIFE
This book is entirely different from any ever issued in America
dealing with the secret periods in the life of each man and woman
wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain periods
to bring success, happiness, health and prosperity into our lives, and
it likewise points out those periods which are not favorable for many
of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal with astrology
or any system of fortune telling, but presents a system long used by
the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and which is strictly scientific
[191]
and demonstrable. One reading of the book with its charts and
tables will enable the reader to see the course of his life at a glance.
It helps everyone to eliminate "chance" and "luck," to cast aside
"fate" and replace these with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs throughout
the years. There is no magic in its system, but it opens a vista of
the cycle of the life of each being in a remarkable manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to match
other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage paid, $2.00.
Volume IX.
MYSTICS AT PRAYER
The first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the re
nowned mystics and adepts of all ages. By MANY CIHLAR, F.
R. C., Austrian Philosopher and Mystic.
The book, "Mystics at Prayer," explains in simple language the
reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved. You
come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its full beauty dawns
upon you. Whatever your religious beliefs, this book makes your
prayers the application not of words, but of helpful, divine pruv
ciples. You will learn the infinite power of prayer. Prayer is man's
rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man's communion with
the infinite force of divinity.
"Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed on
art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages, sent
anywhere, postpaid, $1.00.
Volume XI.
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
The Cosmic Conception
The Doctrines of Reincarnation Fully Explained
Here is the most complete presentation of the doctrines of birth
and rebirth of the soul ever compiled by one who has spent the greater
part of his life studying and analyzing all that the ancient teachings
and philosophies have said on this subject, and all that modern science
has discovered as a verification of these doctrines.
The book deals with the nature of the human Soul, its source and
origin, and its purposes in earthly incarnations. It reveals the fact
that all of the ancient religions, including the Jewish and Christian,
accepted the doctrines of reincarnation as fundamental, scientific laws.
Quotations from the Holy Bible and other sacred writings show that
the doctrines of reincarnation are not contrary to the teachings ex-
pounded by Jesus the Christ and His Disciples, and an explanation
is given as to why these doctrines have been partially stifled in the
[192]
Christian religion in the Western world. The periods of birth and
rebirth of the human soul are explained, and the strange references
in die Bible and other sacred literature to the Mansions of the Soul
in the heavens are explained. The nature of character, personality,
individuality, and ego are also revealed, and hundreds of questions
regarding the mysterious principles of reincarnation are answered in
detail and in a convincing manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Contains
over 300 pages. Price, postage paid, $2.20
Volume XII.
LEMURIA— THE LOST CONTINENT
OF THE PACIFIC
Beneath the rolling, restless seas he the mysteries of forgotten
civilisations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands, worn
away by terrific pressure are the remnants of a culture little known
to our age of today. Where the mighty Pacific now rolls in a majes
tic sweep of thousands of miles, there was once a vast continent.
This land was known as Lemuria, and its people as Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and devel
opment of today. We call them modern, but these ancients and long-
forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as future possi
bilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science has gradually
pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and in this book you
will find the most astounding, enthralling chapters you have ever
read. How these people came to be swept from the face of the earth,
except for survivors who have living descendants today, is explained.
Illustrations and explanations of their mystic symbols, maps of the
continent, and many ancient truths and laws are contained in this
unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird —read
this book—remember, however, this book is not fiction, but based on
facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization reach a cer
tain height, and then retrograde? Is the culture and progress of
mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then returns to start
over again? These questions and many more are answered in this
intriguing volume. Read of the living descendants of these people,
whose expansive nation now lies at the bottom of the Pacific In
the minds of these descendants is the knowledge of the principles
which in by-gone centuries made their forbears builders of an astound
ing civilization.
The book, "Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is beauti
fully bound, well printed, and contains many, many illustrations.
It is priced economically at $2.20, postpaid.
[193]
Volume XIII.
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
The Way of Cosmic Preparation
A guide to inner unfoldment! The newest and simplest explanation
for attaining the state of Cosmic Consciousness. To those who have
felt the throb of a vital power within, and whose inner vision has
at times glimpsed infinite peace and happiness, this book is offered.
It converts the intangible whispers of self into forceful actions that
bring real joys and accomplishments in life. It is a masterful work
on psychic unfoldment.
It is well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edged paper.
Secure this treasure for yourself. Economically priced, postage paid,
at $1.85.
HOW TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in stock,
and you do not care to wait until he secures them for you, you may
save time by sending your order direct, with remittance or C. O. D.,
postage prepaid by us.
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
Rosicrucian Park San Jose, California
[194]
