{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__drouet___station_astral.pdf","mytitle":"Station Astral","mylang":"de"}
STATION ASTRAL
by
BESSIE CLARKE DROUET
Illustrated
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS
NEW YORK :: LONDON
1932
COPYRIGHT, 1932, BY BESSIE CLARKE DROUET
Br All rights reserved. This book, or parts thereof, must
not be reproduced in any form without permission.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BESSIE CLARKE DROUET
Portrait by Frank O. Salisbury, R.A.
1928
DEDICATED TO
MY FATHER AND MOTHER
WITH APPRECIATION
FOR THEIR CONTINUED
LOVE AND PROTECTION,
WHICH IS
DEMONSTRATED
TO ME DAILY
My Dear Mrs. Drouet:
It is a great source of satisfaction to me to see what
has resulted from our first casual meeting, four years
ago.
This is a beautiful book, and will certainly bring
happiness to many people.
You have compiled your material in a clear and
interesting manner. So many people approach Spiritu
alism as though it were a problem to be solved —you
have demonstrated rather that it is the solution of all
other problems.
Cordially yours,
CONTENTS
CHAPTEK PAGE
Prologue 3
I. Why and How? 11
II. When? 30
III. Dr. Clarke's Development .... 51
IV. A Dream. Combined Communications
from My Mother 74
V. Our Second Season 84
VI. Planning a Change 104
VII. Interlude 113
VIII. Dedication of "The Temple in the
Sky" 118
IX. Seances in "The Temple in the Sky" 127
X. A Special Seance 144
XI. Automatic Messages from Mother . 148
XII. Maina Tafe's Return 153
XIII. More Interesting Experiences . . 180
XIV. Another Great Sculptor Speaks . . 207
XV. Dr. Sperry Greets Some Old Friends 219
XVI. Making Records at Our Directors'
Meeting 227
ix
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
XVII. May Fifth. A Day of Memories . . 236
XVIII. Mr. Edison and Dr. Sperry Make a
Record 243
XIX. A Special Seance with Houdon . . 259
XX. The Rev. Dr. Floyd Tomkins Speaks
Again 262
XXI. Good-by to Mrs. Lloyd 272
XXII. Station Astral Signs Off .... 278
Epilogue 285
A Word from Maina Tafe .... 289
ILLUSTRATIONS
Bessie Clarke Drouet Frontispiece
Portrait by Frank O. Salisbury, R.A.— 1928.
FACING FAGC
Dr. Henry F. Clarke —Father of the author . . 56
Photograph taken at the age of fifty-five.
Mrs. Mary Emma Davison Clarke —Mother of
the author 76
Photograph taken at the age of fifty-five.
Statue of Diana 108
By Bessie Clarke Drouet. Exhibited at the Forty-first
Annual Exhibition of the National Association of
Women Painters and Sculptors, 1932.
Portrait Bust of Rev. Arthur Ford .... 136
By Bessie Clarke Drouet. Exhibited at the Forty-first
Annual Exhibition of the National Association of
Women Painters and Sculptors, 1932.
Anne Field Everitt 182
Aged five and a half years— 1926-1932.
Portrait Bust of Maina Tafe 260
By Bessie Clarke Drouet — 1932.
Picture of the Unfinished Plasterlin Por
trait Bust of the Rev. Dr. Floyd W.
Tomkins 268
By Bessie Clarke Drouet. Taken in "Skyward Studio"
by Dr. Miller Reese Hutchison.
xi
STATION ASTRAL
PROLOGUE
ABOOK should have the same reason for existence
as an after dinner speech, be apropos, amusing,
an answer to some important question, or filled with
constructive ideas which can be easily applied.
Perhaps this resume of my psychic experiences may
contain all the essentials, perhaps only a few, perhaps
only one. If one, I shall be amply repaid.
This, I do know, it contains the best answers that
I can give to the questions which have been asked of
me, hundreds of times, during the past four years,
"When and why did you first become interested in
Spiritism?" "How were you convinced?" "Will
you tell us about your experiences?" So, to save con
stant repetition, and enable all interested friends to use
the material I find so helpful and necessary for per
sonal equilibrium, general peace and happiness, I am
assembling in this book those experiences which have
proved to me that there is no death.
In order that my readers may realize, as I do, that
my convictions concerning the spirit communications
which have come to me in recent years, are partly due
3
STATION ASTRAL
to the establishment of faith within me during my
childhood, and that my background, in other respects,
was no different from millions of others, let me intro
duce a short recital of my conservative and seemingly
uneventful environment; uneventful, except as in every
life, moments, people, and happenings stand out from
the humdrum as points of development.
The daughter of an ambitious young physician and
an ideally poetic mother. The granddaughter, on the
maternal side, of a Protestant minister, of the old
school, preaching all which that entailed. With a grand
mother, on the paternal side, who was the first woman
physician in Worcester County, Massachusetts, by re
ligion a Seventh Day Adventist, with a faith which
would move mountains; my childhood was filled with
births and deaths, religion, and all the joys and horrors
of such. You can, no doubt, easily visualize what I
mean, as your days were probably the same.
When I was about the age of seven, the first great
event, which I can remember, happened; I experienced
my first lesson in faith and prayer, a lesson which has
remained with me through the years, proving of more
spiritual value than all my Sunday school lessons,
because it was a practical demonstration and I under
stood it.
4
PROLOGUE
In the historic old town of Portsmouth, New Hamp
shire, my birthplace, lived a lovely little girl, the pos
sessor of an old-fashioned wooden tricycle. Then, at
the age of seven, a tricycle was to be desired above all
else and her generosity made it more and more desir
able. The natural consequence was that my always
generous and loving father was importuned, by me,
morning, noon, and night, that I might have one like my
chum's; but father, though kind, was poor, and tri
cycles in those days were luxuries. So dad said, "As
I cannot give you this present, why don't you ask your
grandmother for it ? I would like to give it to you, but
I cannot afford it."
Happily, grandmother was coming soon for a visit,
and when she arrived my enthusiasm and descriptions
of the enchanting tricycle so interested her that we
visited the small town's, to me extensive, hardware
store, and there stood a tricycle, the desire of my heart.
Imagine my grief when grandmother failed to be as
excited as I was, and we left the store without the gift.
Upon our arrival at home, my precious grandmother
took me upon her knee and explained to me that neither
she nor my father could afford to buy this toy for me ;
that if it was right for me to have
it,
my Heavenly
5
STATION ASTRAL
Father would give it to me, but I must ask Him with
love and faith in my soul.
Then she confided to me all the wonderful experi
ences which she had had through faith and prayer, how
God, in His love and mercy, had answered her petitions,
how His love protected and guided us through all life's
difficulties, that there were no problems too small to
bring to His notice, that He was, in reality, my Heav
enly Father. As my earthly father was close to me, so
was my Spiritual Father. She also emphasized the joy
we were able to give this Heavenly Father by our
gratitude and appreciation of His everlasting kindness
and interest in us. I must never forget to always give
thanks in my prayers, for that was of the greatest
importance. Today I know she was teaching me one of
Nature's greatest laws, the law of appreciation.
Have you ever heard a child pray ? How many have
seen faith in their children's eyes ?
For months I prayed, never doubting, knowing I
should eventually receive. Always, when my mother
sent me for my afternoon nap, I would push my lounge
close to the window, that I might see the expressman,
should he bring the tricycle during my rest period, so
sure was I of its coming.
Some months later, returning home from school one
6
PROLOGUE
afternoon, my brother said, "Come out into the stable
a moment." And there, dear reader, stood the desire
of my heart, not the old-fashioned tricycle of the hard
ware store, but a beautiful, shining, rubber-tired, wire-
wheeled, red velvet-cushioned tricycle!
This was the first fundamental lesson of my life, the
direct answer to a child's prayer. I knew who had sent
this beautiful gift to me, and no one ever tried to
change my belief, in fact, they encouraged it by telling
me it was through God's love for little children that
He had made it possible for father to get this for me,
that He had heard my prayers, and it had made Him
very happy to see me so persistent in my faith.
Through all the years which have followed, many
strong indications of the great Intelligence which
dominates creation have demonstrated to me the power
of prayer and faith. For now, we know that thoughts
are things, positive things, which work for good or
evil; that prayer is one of the strongest vibrations
filling this universe, a universe pulsating with vibra
tions, and that faith brings certainty.
Many of my readers, I feel, can trace the founda
tions of their years of development and happiness to an
event similar to this, or even a simpler lesson.
Nothing, through all these years, has made so lasting
7
STATION ASTRAL
an impression upon me, until recently; and, as my
grandmother, after forty-one years upon the astral
plane, told me, "It has brought you all your blessings."
I have made mention of this incident that you may re
alize that faith in God, and in my beloved parents, was
so rooted within me, that when, in later years, they
came back speaking great truths, I believed it was the
eternal truth they brought to me. Their undying love
made it impossible to withhold from me the surprise,
comfort, and hope they had experienced. They could
not let me face, as they had, so-called death, without
the new knowledge which had come to them, in their
transition, that there is no death. What was more
natural ? Was it not simply a continuation of their pro
tection and affection?
There were many lessons and events following my
childish experience, but that was my first practical,
definite experiment with prayer, and it was answered.
What more proof was necessary for me that God was
good? It did not matter whether God personified a
glorified man, or an Intelligence. To me He was a lov
ing, understanding Personality.
There followed years of happy times, girlhood, art
school, marriage, friends, lots of work, more play, a
perfectly normal mental and physical development, a
8
PROLOGUE
few griefs, and a few separations, but the latter so
early in life that understanding was limited. There re
mained the horror of the grave, the vision of a dead
face in a casket, the hollow sound of earth on a wooden
box, the tender assurance of parents that there was a
day of resurrection, that the graves would give up their
dead, that I should see again the beloved faces of
grandmother and grandfather, but that they must lie
sleeping until that day. And my faith carried me on
again, trusting it was all so, for surely God, in His
goodness, would let me hear once more those loved
voices. Does not the Bible say we shall all be reunited
on the Resurrection Morn?
And so I journeyed on, and fate held only pleasant
paths before me, and unconsciously I rejoiced, refus
ing to think of the time when I might be without the
dear ones still so close to me, but growing daily older,
and more dependent upon our strength.
All the happiness accorded to me in childhood found
its outlet in my maturity ; the love, with which my par
ents had surrounded my baby days and youth,
bloomed radiantly for their evening of life; and, al
though there are for all of us regrets for the omis
sions, there is still great comfort in the thought that
there were also the commissions.
9
STATION ASTRAL
There is no over-developed sense of duty in any one.
There is never too much that we can do for those who
have suffered for us, especially, "She," who goes down
into the shadow that we may be born.
It was not duty which bound me to my parents, it
was, and still
is,
affection, love without price or re
striction.
It
is
in the vibrations of love that memory lives on.
It
is
that vibration of love and sympathetic understand
ing which brings into our lives all hope, all inspiration,
all peace.
My reason for speaking so emphatically
is
because
I
have been given the proof of the power of love, its
unending interest and its untiring strength in helping
us to understand what we have considered the great
mystery of life, here on this planet, and the life which
continues beyond the grave. And this
is
where
Icome
to the point of answering the questions so often asked
of me.
id
CHAPTER I
WHY AND HOW?
LTHOUGH my mother had been an invalid for
J. A. several years, her passing in June, 1928, came as
a great shock to us, especially to me, as I was alone
with her when she passed away. My helplessness to
aid her, together with the definiteness of death, over
came me emotionally, rocking me to my very founda
tions.
I felt I could not let her go, but strange to say, she
seemed to be continually near me. I sensed her presence
so clearly.
The protective spirit within us is aroused at the
sight of another's grief as these devastating separations
wring our hearts ; consequently, my one thought was to
keep my aged father from dwelling too much upon his
loss. Before I had time to indulge my own grief, some
thing happened which interested me so intensely, that
the energies which I might have expended in grieving
memories, were directed into channels which eventually
proved of constructive value to the dear one so re
cently departed from our sight.
II
STATION ASTRAL
As I was returning home one afternoon, with my
father, I remarked, "I feel I want to write something."
"What do you mean, write something?" he asked. "I
do not know, but we shall see," I replied. Then, just
as if I were being instructed, I took a piece of writing
paper and a pencil, and seating myself at a small table,
held the pencil firmly in my hand, letting my hand rest
lightly upon the paper, without allowing my arm or
elbow to touch it.
Dad said, "What are you trying to do, automatic
writing?" "What is automatic writing?" I inquired in
surprise. "Well," he continued, "I used to hear people
say they could do
it,
they imagined that the spirits
of dead people came back to this earth and wrote
letters for them, but
I
knew better then, and
I
know bet
ter now. Dead people do not come back until the Judg
ment Day. Once you are dead, you are dead. Haven't
I
been
a
doctor all my life? Wouldn't
I
know whether or
not there was any life left after death? There
is
not,
and
I
think you had better not bother your head about
these things."
Nevertheless,
I
continued to sit very quietly, and,
to my amazement, after a few moments, my hand began
to move, making circles faster and faster upon the
paper, and when,
a
few seconds later the movement
12
WHY AND HOW?
stopped, I found what purported to be a message from
my darling mother. The message was not in her hand
writing, but the signature, "Mother," was.
This, her first message to us, said, "I am alive.
Grandma Clarke is helping me to understand that I am
alive. It is all so strange. I did not know that we do
not die. Everything seems like a dream. I will try to
write for you again. Pray for me. Mother."
What could this be ? It seemed to me as if there was
some power or force concentrated upon my forearm,
for when the message had been signed, that power
seemed released, and nothing more came. Needless to
say, I was intensely interested, and made up my mind
I would try it again, when father was not around.
Although I was impressed, father was not. He ex
plained that it was all the result of the nervous ten
sion that I had been under for the past few years,
and that my very recent grief tended to cause just such
an expression. He strongly advised against continuing
the experiment.
Even if I had wanted to please father, and think no
more of this message, something kept it in my mind,
for every few days I would have the strongest desire
to try writing, which I did, and said nothing for quite
a while.
13
STATION ASTRAL
But I was getting such vital messages. Mother was
telling me of the people she was seeing, of those who
were helping her to develop, so she could function.
Then she would write of people of whom I had never
heard, so I would say, casually to father, "Who was
Mrs. S. ?" and he would say, "Oh, she lived in Ports
mouth, but she died before you were born. How did you
happen to ask about her?" I would simply smile, and
say, "Oh, nothing, never mind now."
Mother would send messages through me to my
brother; one day she wrote, "Your brother has been
trying to hear from me directly. He calls me all the
time, but as yet I have not spoken to him." My brother,
by the way, for several years had claimed to be clair-
audient, that means, hearing interiorily, communications
inaudible to any one else. We had never taken his asser
tions seriously, in fact, we seldom mentioned them;
father and mother and I had been rather sorry for
him, and had tried not to let him see how we felt about
it. Now, when mother wrote that my brother was try
ing to talk with her, I thought, "I wonder if he was
right, and we were wrong?" So, after mother's writ
ing was finished, I went to the telephone and called
my brother, saying, "Have you had any communica
tions from mother, clairaudiently ?" "No," said he,
14
WHY AND HOW?
"but I have been calling her to come and talk to me,
but as yet she has not spoken."
One morning, I remember so well, she was writing,
and suddenly the words came, "Your father will be
with me before the flowers bloom again." It was Oc
tober, and father seemed very well and strong, and of
course I could not believe it. I did not believe anything
I had received. I couldn't. I was sure it had some
thing to do with myself, although it seemed not. It
was too good to be true, and I was very loath to believe
anything that was contrary to what I had been taught
all my life.
Nevertheless, I continued to receive these messages
and they were growing more and more interesting.
Sometimes they would come from other people; I re
member how surprised I was when grandma wrote
telling me about my mother, and saying they would
eventually prove to me the truth of these communica
tions.
One day a strange lady controlled my hand. After
writing some personal things, she wrote trying to prove
her identity, by saying, "You have never been in my
town house. If you ever dine there, look under the
dining room table. There are two foot stools there; I
placed them there twenty-five years ago." Some months
15
STATION ASTRAL
later we dined at her husband's home in the city. Mr.
Drouet, seated at the wife's place at table, remarked
to me, "There is a hassock under my foot." Looking at
my host, I asked, "Have you a hassock under your
foot?" and he said, "Yes, my wife placed these foot
stools here twenty-five years ago." There were many
remarks which seemed evidential, but somehow I
could not accept them as conclusive proof.
During this period, there was a great deal of kind
ness shown to me by my father and Mr. Drouet;
although they rather laughed at me. I think they were
worried about my sense of values, but thought, in time,
my interest would lessen.
However, this state of affairs continued through
the summer. During that period I had another peculiar
desire to do some new work. Although I had been a
painter a good many years, I had never felt the desire
to model in clay, but now I wanted to do that very
thing. Consequently, I purchased some material and
did a bas-relief of father's head.
Perhaps we can skip lightly over the summer, nothing
especially new developed. I continued to receive descrip
tions of the life around my mother, but I didn't take
much stock in what I was receiving. Probably I should
have dropped the matter right there, if, upon my re
16
WHY AND HOW?
turn to the city, I had not mentioned the fact of these
writings to Mrs. Ellen Dunlap Hopkins, who became
instantly interested. Right here I wish to say, because
of Mrs. Hopkins' interest, and guidance into the right
channels of investigation, not only I, but many others
have reached the position of certainty concerning spirit
communication, and the fact that there is no death. I
can never sufficiently express my loving appreciation
for her understanding and interest.
It was Mrs. Hopkins who first brought to our home
Arthur Ford, known throughout the world as the most
evidential, message-bearing platform medium, and he
was the first to give to me a message that was inde
pendent of my own writings. Although Mr. Ford does
not enter trance in his platform work, he does for an
individual sitting. Having persuaded Dad to sit with
Mr. Ford and myself, one afternoon, in our own home,
we held our first seance. It is still fresh in my memory,
after three and a half years; sitting there in front of
an open fire, with the sun streaming in at the windows,
father and I had our first experience in psychic matters.
In case people who read this book are as ignorant as
I was at that time, I wish to speak for just one moment
about the control of a trance medium. The spirit guide
who is attached to the medium controls the power of
17
STATION ASTRAL
the speech of the medium, and the words you hear
come from the mouth of the medium, but they are the
words of the control.
In Mr. Ford's case the control is a young college
friend, who passed out of the body several years ago ;
he evidently returned and took control of his friend.
When Mr. Ford goes into trance this control speaks.
His name is Fletcher, a French Canadian, and he speaks
with a broken accent, very different from Mr. Ford's
natural voice.
Now on with our experience. Fletcher spoke to us,
greeting us and mentioning that he had never been
with us before. Then he proceeded to describe people
that were, as he said, close beside father and myself.
He described mother most accurately, saying that she
was very happy to get a message through to me as she
felt that I did not believe she had written the letters
I had been receiving all summer. She also said that she
liked the portrait which had been painted of me since
her passing. She then mentioned two of her dresses
which I had put away in her memory, and spoke of
other things which I had given away. She urged me to
take a trip to Europe, requesting me to go to some
medium while there when she would try to speak to me
again. Father received some personal messages, and one
18
WHY AND HOW?
or two other personalities were supposed to have sent
messages. I thought it was a wonderful sitting, and
wished I had asked a lot more questions, but father,
after Mr. Ford had left us, said that it was all mind
reading. He thought probably some one had told Mr.
Ford about the portrait and the proposed trip, so that
spoiled all my faith in the sitting. I knew also that noth
ing had come through which was over-powering. But
now I realize that it was a good sitting. When we first
start out on this track we are so anxious to get so much
immediately that we are often disappointed, and then
again we are too excited to ask many questions of im
portance.
I am sure the fact that mother had spoken about the
trip influenced me, for after she had written, "Your
father will be with me before the flowers bloom again,"
I was hesitating, but now I made up my mind to go.
And Dad was telling me to go, thinking, I presume, I
would forget all about this psychic matter. So, bearing
some introductions to several psychically interested peo
ple in London, among them Mrs. Philip Champion De
Crespigny, President of the British College of Psychic
Science, and Mrs. St. Clair Stobart, author of "Torch
Bearers of Spiritualism," I started for England.
Upon my arrival in London, I immediately arranged
19
STATION ASTRAL
for an appointment with these two ladies, inviting them
for luncheon with me at the Berkeley. Mrs. De Cres-
pigny later invited the lady traveling with me and
myself to a luncheon at the Lyceum Club, to meet Sir
Arthur and Lady Conan Doyle, a luncheon which proved
most enlightening to me. My immediate impressions of
Sir Arthur were his poise and a certainty of what he
was discussing. He spoke of his writings of Sherlock
Holmes, and their success, feeling that he had been
given the power to write all those works, thereby es
tablishing himself before the public, so that when he
came forward with his beliefs and experiences about
Spiritualism, the world, at large, knew him, and had
confidence in him and his words.
I remember wishing I could be just like Sir Arthur,
he seemed so secure and happy, and when he had shown
us, at a later day, his wonderful collection of the evi
dences of human survival, letters, pictures, and apports,
I think for the first time I fully realized that there
was more to all this than I had thought possible. I
could see at once what it would mean in one's life
to hold this truth.
One day, at the suggestion of Sir Arthur, and of
Mrs. De Crespigny, I secured appointments at the Brit
ish College of Psychic Science for sittings with the
20
WHY AND HOW?
well-known medium, Mrs. Eileen Garrett, who has
passed through all the known tests that science can de
vise. Fortunately I wrote down all the communications
realizing how easy it is to forget what comes, to add
to, or detract from these messages.
On the morning of my first sitting we also sat in a
bright, sunny room, in front of an open fire. I remem
ber how pleasantly I was impressed with Mrs. Garrett's
personality; she seemed to exude sincerity. But if I
was impressed with her appearance, I was much more
strongly impressed with her spirit control "Uvani."
This Uvani is an Arab, very serious, deferential and
intelligent. His English is broken and tinged with the
accent of the Orient. Before Mrs. Garrett enters deep
trance she yawns a few times, stretches her arms, then
comfortably settling herself in her chair, sinks into the
deepest trance, knowing absolutely nothing that is being
said in the room.
When she is completely in trance, Uvani takes con
trol. He greets you, saying, "My peace be with you."
Then he proceeds to tell you who is there. He described
my mother perfectly. When I asked, "Has my mother a
birthmark upon her neck?" he replied, "No, she has a
birthmark like a strawberry upon her left arm, between
the elbow and the wrist upon the upper side of the
21
STATION ASTRAL
arm." Which was perfectly accurate. He continued,
"Your mother is speaking of the letters she has written
to you automatically and asks you to believe there is
no death. She says she has found all her family here
on the astral plane, that no one ever dies, not even the
flowers, and she speaks of the flowers you placed on her
casket, the white peonies, and the flowers that she sees
in her present surroundings." There followed several
personal messages through Uvani and also messages
for other members of the family. Uvani then stated,
"There is a very beautiful young woman here, with
large dark eyes and beautiful hair, who has been out of
the flesh about a month. Her name is Lillian. She
wants to send a message to her husband, saying how
much she appreciated all his love and tenderness during
the period of her sickness." Uvani mentioned the cause
of her passing. Following this, Uvani said that a sec
ond cousin of mine was present who wished to send in
a message, and he called a pet name that I did not rec
ognize, but afterwards verified. Then Uvani said,
"There is a lady here who says she did not know you
during her earth life. She seems to be standing in a
great light, as if light was being thrown upon her. She
says she was an actress, and she wishes to tell you
something which happened forty odd years ago. She is
22
WHY AND HOW?
speaking of a bouquet of flowers, she is speaking of a
little child who passed from earth life at the age of
six, she is speaking of Venice and a great happiness
which came to her there and she is calling the name
Do you know this person?" I answered, "Yes,
I know , but I did not know this lady or any
of the things you have mentioned about her." Later I
verified these things.
Uvani's descriptions of personalities are very accu
rate and vivid, and he is very sure of himself, which, of
course, gives you confidence. I came to like Uvani, he
was like a friend bringing you a letter or word from
some one you had not seen for a long time; conse
quently my three sittings with Mrs. Garrett were both
successful and pleasing. This made me feel very
much more sure, as it was the best proof I had had
up to this time. In the successive sittings with Uvani,
he brought through many evidential family messages,
but things of so personal a nature that they fail to be of
any great value to an outsider. The only messages that
came which were unknown to me previously, came
through the lady who had been on the other side some
years, and whom I had never known, and the pet name
given to me by a cousin. I never felt satisfied when
the messages which came were something I already
23
STATION ASTRAL
knew, but this person had called names and given dates
and the names of places unknown to me, so that really
proved they were something entirely separate from my
own mentality. Now I felt that I was progressing. If
it was possible to give to me, in a message, one truth
unknown to me, other truths were possible. And I was
beginning to feel that I must keep on in this seeking,
for eventually I would find that which Sir Arthur and
others had found, that which made them all so radiant.
Before I left England, Mrs. St. Clair Stobart enter
tained us at luncheon, in her home at Turner's Wood,
Hampstead Garden Suburb. She had as another guest
a lady who had been taking ordinary Kodak pictures,
which, when developed, showed extras; I still have the
picture of a dog with a kitten sitting between his front
paws. The kitten had been dead some time, but there
it
is,
as real as ever.
It
did me
a
world of good to make contact with
these people who had passed through all the elemental
stages, and were now at the stage of the application
of this truth, "There
is
no death."
On May 4, 1929, my plans took me back to Paris.
I
recall so well the following day was Sunday, and
such
a
glorious morning that
I
proposed we motor out
to Fontainebleau for the day. As we were motoring
24
WHY AND HOW?
through the woods toward Barbizon, I remarked,
"This has been the most beautiful day of the entire
trip." I have never seen the spring foliage more lacy
or vibrant than it was in the forest between Fontaine-
bleau and Barbizon ; the sunlight flickering through the
leafage and the rapid vibrations of the light gave us
the impression of driving under water. But there is
another reason why this day will always live in my
memory, for a much more important event than that
drive occurred on May fifth.
As I look back upon the following Monday morn
ing, May sixth, I feel very sorry for the person who
was myself. At that time, as I see myself from this
perspective, I seemed partially mentally or psychically
blind. Still, I thought at the time I had a full apprecia
tion of the mercy of God. But it is hard to overcome
the established beliefs and customs of many lifetimes —>
that
is,
our own and our antecedents
!
That Monday morning brought to me a delayed
cablegram, "Doctor passed away this morning (May
5), no pain, no sickness, passed in sleep, do not change
plans, love and sympathy," signed by my husband.
As that blow was handed to me, my first reaction
was, "How wonderful for father
!"
But the next mo
ment the full realization of what
it
meant, never to see
25
STATION ASTRAL
him again, came over me and I broke down. As I re
call
it,
it
was probably several hours before
I
had
my grief under control. As
I
look back
I
realize
I
was heartbroken because
I
had not been close to father
during his last moments.
I
loved him so very dearly,
I
felt
I
had neglected him in his great time of need.
Trying to comfort me, Mrs. W. said, "Why, Betty,
don't you realize that your mother said your father
would be with her before the flowers bloomed again,
and the flowers are just starting to bloom? Why
don't you try and see
if
your mother will write some
thing for you
?
She may tell you something about your
father." As
I
think of
it
now,
I
am sure Mrs. W. was
impressed to speak as she did.
It
was a comforting
thought. Before she mentioned
it,
I
had felt so alone,
but now
I
was eager to try my automatic writing. We
waited
a
few minutes, after
I
had the pencil in my
hand, and then the writing started. This
is
the mes
sage
I
received
:
"Call us together now. Can you imagine
my surprise waking up in
a
strange place? But your
mother and my mother were both there to meet me,
and help me, and all you told me, dear,
is
true. There
is
no death.
I
am alive. The transition was immediate.
Do not grieve,
it
makes me sad.
I
wish you could see
your mother, she
is
young and beautiful."
26
WHY AND HOW?
Now what impressed me instantly and more than all
the rest was that father said, "Call us together now."
He knew that I had always called mother when I wanted
her to write for me, and when he said, "Call us to
gether," I was sure he did it for evidence.
Following father's message, mother immediately
wrote, "Don't grieve so for your father, he sees you
and it makes him very sad. He says 'Now is the time
for you to believe.' He was surprised when he found
himself alive, but not as surprised as he would have
been, if you had never told him of your experiences."
After a moment, she continued writing, as follows :
"Mrs. W. is going to be married." Mrs. W. said, "No,
Mrs. Clarke, you are mistaken." Mother wrote, "You
think not at present, but you will be just the same." And
Mrs. W. was married about thirteen months later,
having met the man upon a world cruise she took after
my return to New York.
Waiting for cables caused me to become impatient.
So the following day I tried to see if mother would
write more information about things going on in New
York, with this result. She wrote, "The same flames
have consumed your father's body that consumed mine
(cremated). The services were held about the middle
of the day. We know no time here. A blanket of
27
STATION ASTRAL
lavender lilacs covered the casket. There were several
old friends gathered with the family, (naming them),
and Dr. Tomkins conducted the service as he had for
my funeral."
As you will readily see, this gave me something defi
nite to check up on. So I put in a New York telephone
call for midnight of that night, and later, when the con
nection was made, before allowing Mr. Drouet to tell
me anything, I asked him all the questions pertaining
to what mother had written, and to our great satisfac
tion, he verified everything we had received, even to
the blanket of lavender lilacs.
Perhaps you will say, "Well that ought to have con
vinced her that her mother knew what was going on."
But as you are passing through this experience of
proving to yourself a great truth, you are conscious
of waiting for a certain moment, when conviction will
come to you. It does not always come through your
reason. It seems to be something spiritual within one
that acknowledges the truth, and then we know.
All these wonderful communications seemed to prove
to me that there was no death, and I should have been
satisfied. But, knowing my own consciousness, I knew
I was still waiting for something even more evidential,
which would come to me eventually, and when that time
28
WHY AND HOW?
came there would never be any more doubt, because
I should know the truth.
That I was right in my intuitions, you will see, as the
review proceeds.
In two weeks I was back again in New York. Natu
rally I recounted all my messages to Mr. Drouet, and
although he was kind and sympathetic, I could see that
he was not deeply interested. And I am positive that he
did not believe that the messages which I had received
had come from my supposedly dead parents.
29
CHAPTER II
WHEN?
TO
continue this resume of my development, it will
be necessary to tell you about the experiences which
came to me during this period, seemingly apart from the
psychic communications. You will understand later, as
I do now, that the spirit forces were trying to reach me
from different angles. We are so unconscious of it
all until we finally see the light, the light of perfect
understanding !
We come now to the Fall of the year 1929. One morn
ing, my telephone rang, and a friend asked me if I could
use a studio which she had rented, as she had been
called out of town on some work. Without a moment's
hesitation, I said that I would take
it,
for
I
realized
instantly that
I
wanted to do some serious work, model
ing. So that was the way
I
started my sculpture. Se
curing
a
model,
I
entered into the work with
a
great
deal of enthusiasm and enjoyment. Every day found
me steadily progressing with something which was
surprising me, and
I
am sure Mr. Drouet was aston
ished at the long hours
I
was putting in at the studio.
30
WHEN?
But it was bringing me great happiness and content
ment. I couldn't explain
it,
but
I
knew that
I
was ex
ceptionally happy in the work.
As
I
write this
it
all comes back to me, how, one day,
Mr. Francis Fast—St. Francis, as
I
have found him to
be, with his untiring work for others—telephoned to me
saying, "Mrs. Ceil Stewart, of Detroit,
is
in town. Mrs.
Stewart
is
a
direct voice medium and
I
thought you
might like to have
a
sitting in your own house."
I
remember how
I
asked, "A direct voice medium, what
do you mean by that?" Then he said, "Why a direct
voice medium
is
a
person who has the power that
the spirit forces use in producing their own voices.
It
is
the voice of the personality speaking, not Mrs.
Stewart. She
is
merely an instrument like the antenna
of the radio.
It
will be an interesting experience, Mrs.
Drouet. Do you want to try
it
?" Did
I
!
Well,
I
rather
think
I
did
!
Suddenly something began to sing within
me. Perhaps hear again the voices of my loved ones!
What could be more wonderful
?
You see, by now,
I
was
not as skeptical as
I
had been
a
few months previously.
Just
a
line here to tell you that Mrs. Stewart was in
New York under the auspices of the American Society
for Psychical Research. She was endorsed by this so
ciety, so
it
was not for me to question, only be receptive.
31
STATION ASTRAL
Perhaps, because I had been constantly longing for
more direct contact than I was getting through my
writings, Mrs. Stewart was brought to my home. I real
ize today that our great needs are filled, if we are sincere
and unselfish in the desire.
Now let me come to the interesting sitting with this
remarkable medium. Mrs. Stewart came to my house a
complete stranger. She presented a card with my name
and address upon
it,
saying
it
had been handed to her,
and she had been asked to fill the appointment. She had
not seen Mr. Fast, or heard anything about me.
I
thought
it
would be very sacred to hold this seance
in the bedroom in which my mother and father had died,
so we went out into this room and pulled down the
curtains, excluding all light. Perhaps you will notice that
this proceeding was different from my other experiences,
those being in a light room. But Mrs. Stewart said,
al
though some mediums had enough power in the light
for
a
few voices, the darkness was more satisfactory.
As you develop
a
film in the dark, so this power de
velops in darkness.
My interest has always been so keen that
I
have no
ticed every little happening. So, before the lights were
out, when she placed
a
long aluminum horn or trumpet
upon the floor, between us,
I
naturally asked what that
32
WHEN?
was for, and she said it was used as an amplifier for the
voices. Sometimes voices speaking for the first time
were very weak and this made it possible for us to hear
them better. She also told me that if I should feel myself
touched by the trumpet not to be alarmed. The forces
that were able to raise the trumpet off the floor were
securing more power from the one they touched, or
sometimes showed their love by a gentle touch.
As I wish everything that I mention in this book
clearly understood and visualized by my readers, right
here I will explain the trumpet. These trumpets which
are used in seances are made of a light aluminum metal,
about three feet long. They are made in three sections of
twelve inches each, each section fitted upon the next sec
tion. In other words, the three sections telescope each
other. The opening at the largest end is about five
inches, and at the smallest end one and a half inches. It
is just a long collapsible horn.
For a long time we used an illuminated paint band on
the trumpet, and we could see, in the darkness, this
bright band floating all around the room. It would pass
close to us, and then move up to the ceiling. Sometimes
it moved swiftly, sometimes slowly.
The trumpet is moved by the spirit forces. No one in
the room would dare to touch the trumpets while they
33
STATION ASTRAL
are in motion, for fear of the reaction upon the medium.
I have seen pictures, taken by Dr. Glenn Hamilton, of
the ectoplastic rods, or strings, which emanate from the
person of the medium, and these rods are used by the
spirit force to carry the trumpet, or any other article
they wish to move about in the room. Every one has
more or less of these ectoplastic strings emanating from
their persons, but a medium has them developed to a
high degree.
When the forces touch us with the trumpet, they do
it to collect a little more power, probably electrical
power, from us.
Please keep this thought in your minds, and when I
speak of the trumpets, from now on, remember they are
just a part of the chemical demonstrations which you
will learn about, later, in the book.
In order to understand this book, and feel as I do,
during these experiences, please treat all the communi
cations merely as the working of natural laws. Just be
cause you have never known, or experienced them, is no
reason for their non-existence. When you come to
realize the power of thought, moving a trumpet is a
very simple matter.
To make this sitting as real to you as it was to me, I
want you to start with me at this point. I had just put
34
WHEN?
out the light by my side and the room was in complete
darkness. Mrs. Stewart began to speak with me about
every day occurrences. To my surprise she did not go
into a trance. She said, "Oh no, I never go into trance.
I do not do anything differently from what you do. This
power the spirit forces use from me is something I have
always had. When I was a child I heard the voices, and
I have heard them ever since. Sometimes, when my maid
is in the room with me, she will hear a voice speaking
and is startled, and they come to me often when I am
alone."
You will notice there was constant conversation and
the room did not seem so dark to me now. Suddenly
Mrs. Stewart said, "Do you know any one by the name
of Dr. Betsy Russell?" "Why, yes," I said, "that is my
Grandmother Clarke, but I didn't hear any name." "But
you will in a moment," she continued. "I often get the
vibration before the voice is heard." And then, directly
in front of me, about on a level with my face, I heard :
"This is Dr. Betsy Russell Clarke speaking. Can you
hear me, Bessie ? This is the first time I have made di
rect contact through the voice with the earthplane since
I came here." I said, "Grandmother dearest, I do hear
you. Do you know how long a time it is since you passed
away?" "A very long time," came the answer. I said,
■
35
STATION ASTRAL
"It is forty-one years, Grandma, but there has never
been a day that you have not been a living example
to me of the power of faith and prayer." Then she re
plied, "It has brought you all your blessings."
Presently the voice spoke again, and I heard, "Henry,
your father, and Emma, your mother, are both here. I
took care of them when they came over, as I have taken
care of you all, all your lives. I have always been close
to you, when you lived in Portsmouth and Boston, and
everywhere. Do you remember that I was the first woman
physician in Worcester County, Mass.? I loved my
work, and it makes me so happy to see you working in
your studio. Keep on. I will speak to you again. Good-
by." I was just ten when my grandma passed away, and
it seemed a very long time to me, evidently to her, also.
But there were more voices coming. I heard a small,
but very sweet voice say, "It's mother, Bessie." "Oh,
Mother, darling, is this really you, speaking to me ?" I
said. "Yes, dear, it is your mother." Then she gave me
her full name, "Mary Emma Davison Clarke. Your
father wishes to try and speak to you. He has been rest
ing since his arrival here, but we are all helping him to
adjust himself. It is all a new thought for us, for we
are living a mental life now. No more pains of the body,
no limitations of the flesh. I do not want you to doubt
36
WHEN?
the genuineness of the letters you receive from me, for
they are truly from me. Sometimes I am strong enough
to push the pencil you are using, at other times I can
only impress you with my thoughts."
By this time I was sitting on the edge of my chair,
but strange to say it seemed as natural to me as listening
over the radio. For the moment my grandmother spoke,
there came over me the sense of peace and certainty
that had been lacking up to this time. The something for
which I had been waiting. From that moment there
has never been a single doubt that it was grandmother
speaking, that "There is no death," and that communi
cation is possible.
But to resume the communications. I was anxious to
see if father could speak, and suddenly I heard a voice
saying, "This is father speaking. Can you hear me,
Bessie ? I tried to write to you and give you a little com
fort when I passed over, when you were in Paris. You
were right about all this, but I could not believe it when
you told me. I was surprised, but every one here has
been so kind and shown me what to do, that I am get
ting on all right. Your mother looks so lovely, and
young. I wish you could see her. Give my love to Fred,
and tell him he is right."
Do I have to write about my feelings? How would
37
STATION ASTRAL
any one feel who received such assurances ? I had been
seeking so earnestly for just this surety. How like my
grandmother to come in first and open the way for the
others ! She knew how she had impressed me in my
childhood, and no doubt that was why she had come and
spoken first, with the same intonations I had heard
while sitting on her knee years ago. She knew that I
knew she would never countenance anything that was
not true. If it was not my own dear people speaking to
me, what were those voices, so full of expression and
knowledge of me? As Mrs. Stewart said afterwards,
"Skeptics have been able to explain away all kinds of
supposed spirit communications, but no one has ever
been able to explain away the voices. It is not up to the
believers to prove them, it is up to the unbelievers to dis
prove them." That struck me as very well put.
Unless I am mistaken, you will all know what my
next step was—I arranged a sitting for Mr. Drouet.
And when he came home that night I was so enthused,
that he has often said since, "I knew that something
unusual and beautiful had happened, for I had never
seen such an expression of joy upon her face."
Of course I had to repeat many times just what had
happened, and he plied me with all kinds of questions.
The one he asked most often was, "Did Mrs. Stewart
38
WHEN?
hear your mother and father speak? Could I have
heard them speak, or did you only hear them ?" I told
him that any one in the room could hear, perfectly, every
word, and that Mrs. Stewart spoke to me while there
was a voice speaking to me from the spirit world. This
is a question that is often asked. People seem to think
the voices come either through the medium, or that only
one person at a time can hear the voice. It is a perfectly
normal question, for the fact which makes it so won
derful,
is,
that you can converse as distinctly with the
spirit forces as you can with each other on this plane.
I
am able to give you these messages as they came, for
I
made many notes, not only at the start, but through the
three years which followed. Please bear in mind, in order
that you may enjoy them completely, and that they may
bring their sincere message to you,
I
shall use the au
thentic names of many sitters in the circle, which met in
my home during the next three years, and that
I
have the
permission to use their names, and that
I
have the per
mission, from the personalities communicating with us
from the spirit world, to use their names and messages.
I
do not always know all the relatives of the personalities
who have spoken here, but when their communications
are constructive or interesting, then
I
ask them
if
they
want me to put their words into the book,
if
they want
39
STATION ASTRAL
to help make it an authentic document. And they are
always very anxious to help get the great truth over. So,
dear readers, if you should find, within these pages, the
name of a loved one, I trust you will bear in mind the
object of this book, and be proud that some one belong
ing to you was sufficiently interested in their fellow men
to send back to this earth a message which they hoped
might save some one else the sorrow they had experi
enced in not realizing the continuance of life, or the pos
sibilities of continued communications.
The motive of this little volume is not for sensation.
It is written in the spirit of helpfulness, and in such a
spirit I hope you will receive it. If one person's burden
has been lightened, or one mother's grief relieved, you
also have helped.
If you are anxious to hear the report of Mr.
Drouet's first sitting, really his first sitting, I feel I
must get on with the review.
We had asked Francis Fast to join Mr. Drouet and
me in this sitting, and so the four of us, Mrs. Stewart
making the fourth, repeated the process of darkening
the room and seating ourselves, perhaps three to four
feet apart.
We did not have to sit very long without some activity
from the trumpet. It seemed to be floating about, passing
40
WHEN?
us. We could not see
it,
but we heard
it
rattling and
as we were talking to each other, we heard
a
voice say,
"This is mother, Francis." "Oh, hello, Mother! Wel
come
!
It
is
good to hear from you again. Who
is
with
you ?" This was Mr. Fast asking, and the reply, again,
in such
a
sweet and soft voice, "Tillie
is
here and she
is
going to speak with you
if
she can." We sat
a
little
while without hearing anything, and Mrs. Stewart ex
plained that the people who spoke from the spirit world
were people attracted to us by ties of love, or people
interested in work we were doing, creative work for in
stance, or people who were in our vibration through
friendship. We could never tell who was coming in to
speak to us, but
it
was some one who could work in our
vibration.
Suddenly we heard, "This
is
Bobby, Bobby Wardlaw,
Uncle Francis," "Why, Bobby,
I
certainly am glad to
hear from you again.
I
told your mother that you had
spoken to me in Chicago. Have you any message to send
to your father and mother?" Then we heard Bobby's
little lisp, as he said, "I want my mamma and papa to
know
I
can send my love, and
I
want to send my love
to Jane, too, Uncle Francis.
I
play with her every day
and go to school with her." Coming closer to me he
said, "I am Bobby Wardlaw, do you know my Daddy
41
STATION ASTRAL
and my mamma ? Jane is my sister. This is Bobby. I am
all right." Replying, I asked, "How old are you,
Bobby?" He replied, "I am seven years old." Then
Francis said, "How many people are there in this room,
Bobby?" "Ten," said the child. "Ten, why there are
only four of us," said Francis. "I see ten," said the
child. "There is Tillie, and Uncle Jack, Dr. Clarke and
Mrs. Clarke, Lillian and me." That, if you will count
us four, made ten. It did not seem to make any differ
ence to Bobby whether people were in the flesh or in the
spirit, they were people to him. This was Bobby's first
appearance in our circle. He asked Mr. Drouet if he
would be his Uncle Harry, and if I would be his Aunt
Betty, and Uncle Harry and Aunt Betty we have been
for the three years that this lovely little boy has been
coming to us, for there is hardly a sitting that Bobby
is not heard from.
This Uncle Jack, whom he mentioned, was the next
personality heard from. A heavy booming voice broke
the stillness, with, "This is Uncle Jack, Francis." "Oh,
Uncle Jack, well, how are you? I am so glad to hear
from you." "I am fine," continued Uncle Jack. "I want
to speak to this lady here. You know, Mrs. Drouet, that
I did not know you in life, but I could not live in the
same house for five years and not know who you were.
42
WHEN?
And you remember your father and I passed out of
earth life the same day. We did not know each other
before, but we know each other now. I am very glad that
you are interested in this truth. I was not fully unpre
pared for
it,
because
I
had sat with Francis and Mr.
Ford several times."
While we were speaking about these remarks, we
heard a low voice saying, "Mother. Harry, this
is
Mother." Mr. Drouet said, "Yes, yes, Mother, speak to
me." She continued, "I want to send my love to your
father. Tell him
I
am close to him all the time.
I
am so
happy to be able to speak to you after all these years.
How long have
I
been away, Harry ?" "It must be over
twenty-five years, Mother dear.
It
seems very long to
me," replied Mr. Drouet. Then his mother said, "Yes,
but now
I
have found this way to speak to you. You will
let me talk often, won't you
?
Lillian
is
here and she will
speak to you. Bessie dear,
I
want to speak to you,
I
love
you too."
My mother's voice was heard next, saying, "It
is
so
wonderful to be able to speak to you this way.
I
think,
as
I
speak,
I
shall grow stronger and you will be able to
hear me better.
I
hear your prayers for us, dear, and they
help us very much."
I
said, "How do my prayers help
you, Mother darling?" and she replied, "I rise upon
43
STATION ASTRAL
your prayers, for you give me the energy to develop.
You show me the light. Your prayers build for us a sus
taining power which helps us to progress. Your
father is resting now, but later he will be able to work
as I do." "What are you doing, Mother?" "I am teach
ing little children to understand the life here. As it is
purely mental, it is necessary to understand concentra
tion." A few minutes' silence, and then this followed :
"Lillian, Lillian, Harry, this is Lillian." "Oh, Lillian,
dear, I do so want to hear your voice. Have you any
messages for your loved ones ?" asked Mr. Drouet. "I
am well now, Harry. I spoke to Betty in London,
through Uvani. I felt she was not quite sure, it is so
hard to accept this great truth at once. When I died, as
you call
it,
Harry,
it
was just like going to sleep. As
I
had done hundreds of times,
I
fell asleep, and when
I
awakened
I
was with mother.
I
seemed just the same,
the same hands and face, and
I
looked just the same.
Isn't
it
beautiful that there
is
no death?
I
would like
G
to know that
I
am still alive, but he will not
believe
it,
as
it
is
contrary to his theories."
Lillian Drouet, while at Wellesley College, was the
leading woman in her class plays. She had a very beauti
ful speaking voice, with
a
most distinctive way of pro
nouncing her name, Lillian. This peculiarity was most
44
WHEN?
noticeable in her spirit voice, and instantly impressed
us. Mr. Drouet said that no one could say Lillian as she
did, with such individual intonations.
A chap named Thomas Miller spoke next. He was
very slow of speech, as in life, and announced himself
as follows : "Tom, Tom, speaking, Harry, Tom Miller."
"Hello, Tom ! I didn't expect to hear from you. Have
you any message for C ?" "Yes. Tell her I have
no more pain, and I can see again, and I am very pleased
with what she has done with the pictures." Some weeks
later, when we were in Boston, C told us what
Tom had meant about the "pictures."
At this time I was anticipating hearing from father,
and he was the next to speak, still in a weak voice, "I am
glad you are giving us these opportunities for speaking,
because we do it ourselves. It is not relayed, and that
/ makes it more evidential for you. I am resting most of
the time, dear. Your mother is teaching me many things
and ways." "Resting, Father !" I said. "Now is the time
for you to get busy ! You rested here for a good many
years. Get busy there, and do something worth while."
At the time I did not realize that I was giving him a
direct, positive thought to work on, but you will see later
what it did for him. Since that time, I have learned that
it is very necessary, when we think of them, to send
45
STATION ASTRAL
positive thoughts for them to work on. Do not say, help
me, say, impress me with the way to do this or that, or
impress so and so to do such and such, naming specifi
cally what you desire accomplished. I find they gather
force, and direction, and understanding through these
prayers, when I pray for them that they may have the
desire to use the energy all about them for service,
thereby finding their happiness through service ; trying
to give to them, with the love I send out to them, the
power to work. Mother often repeats, in our meetings,
my prayers for her development and understanding. She
says, "Bessie thinks of things which are helpful that
we never even think of ourselves, so earnest is she for
our progression."
Mrs. Stewart was in New York for only a short time.
But while she was here, we availed ourselves of her
talents, not only for our own happiness, but invited many
of our friends to sit and hear again the loved voices of
their dear ones. Many of the communications were of a
personal nature, and consequently of no more interest to
the general public than listening in over a private tele
phone wire, but they contained many assuring words
of great value to the sitters, for to the individual it
is the simple communication which is evidential, some
thing which may have happened in their relations with
46
WHEN?
each other that was so trivial, that one would think it
would be forgotten.
I was especially impressed, in my own case, with the
fact that every one who had known me before my mar
riage called me "Bessie," but those who knew me after
wards called me "Betty," as Mr. Drouet always called
me.
I would like to introduce one remark that my father
made during a sitting with Mrs. Stewart. He said, "Tell
all the world the fact, that life continues beyond the
grave, regardless of race or creed, has nothing to do
with religion—it is purely a science—it is evolution.
But how one exists after their transition depends spe
cifically upon the life they led before. The act of spirit
communication is just as scientific an operation as
speaking over your telephone, or turning on your radio.
No one is conscious of religion entering into those acts.
But remember, as it is through God-given intelligence
that man is able to have and use these instruments, so
it is with direct voice communication between the two
worlds."
While father was speaking I heard Mr. Drouet ex
claim, "Some one just stuck their finger in my eye!"
and instantly mother said, "That was I, Harry. Don't
you remember how I used to poke you in the eye, at
47
STATION ASTRAL
times, for fun?" And she often had, just to tease him.
I said, "Oh, Father, couldn't you touch me?" and he
said, "Wait a moment, and I will see what I can do."
It was about two minutes later when we heard, and I
felt, a kiss upon my forehead. It sounded like the little
electric snap one hears when one touches the brass pull
of an electric light, after walking over the carpet. The
light was seen as well as the snap heard, and father
asked, "How was that for a kiss, did you feel it ?"
This was our first experience with this sort of demon
stration. Although we had been touched by the trumpet,
this seemed to be independent of the trumpet, the finger
seemed to be like a finger and the kiss like a pressure.
Perhaps you do not realize that mediums who have
the quality which gives the spirit forces the correct
amount of power to transmit their thought into audible
words, are very scarce. While there are hundreds of
trance mediums, there is only one here and there who
has this other capacity. We did not realize, at the time,
that the spirit forces would be as disappointed to be with
out Mrs. Stewart as we were, but we realized it later
when brought in touch with Maina Tafe.
There is no doubt, in my mind, that we were forced
to attend a party one evening. I say forced, because I
had said I thought we would be unable to be present,
48
WHEN?
as we were going earlier to some other gathering. But
at the last moment we changed our plans, and dropped
in, late, at this other place. There were a number of
people there whom I knew were interested in psychic
things, and I was interested to hear Nancy Fulwood re
peat some very marvelous experiences. Dr. Carrington
also spoKe. A gentleman sitting next to Mr. Drouet said,
"Why, there is Maina Tafe over there, she is a direct
voice medium, do you know her?" "Where," exclaimed
Mr. Drouet, immediately realizing what it woula mean
to us, to have again in our nome a direct voice medium.
And so we met Maina Tafe, who for the last three
seasons has brought us the greatest joy and comfort.
By wnose psychic powers we have receivea and given
hundreds of messages to loved ones, to interested ones.
She has become so much a part of our existence, so
much a part of our routine, that we coula not, nor
would not, let anything interfere with the regularity of
our sitting, every Thursday night. The fact that we hold
a regular time for these sittings means a great deal in
this work ; although the spirit forces have no clocks or
even seasons there, they are aware of distinct time, and
they can space events.
These Thursday seances are always held in our own
home, the only preparation being to darken the room.
49
STATION ASTRAL
There are some mediums who can bring the voices in
the light, but the guides tell us the voices are stronger
in the dark.
Let me carry you along now to more interesting re
citals of what came to us. The messages received while
Mrs. Stewart was with us were very evidential, but I
feel that after we started our regular sittings, then
things of even greater import came to us.
SO
CHAPTER III
dr. clarke's development
IT
may be opportune to say right here, for the benefit
of the readers who have never known anything about
voice communication, that I wish every one to keep in
mind the fact that the voices which we hear and con
verse with are as audible as our own, and as individual
as our own. Often the beginners' voices are husky and
low, but when a spirit has been conversing a length of
time, there is often more power and vibration in their
tones than in mine. They have the full power of raising
and lowering their voices and speaking entirely inde
pendent of the trumpet ; neither is the voice stationary.
As it moves about the room, it speaks to different peo
ple, seeming to be in front of the person addressed.
Though it may seem an almost impossible thing to you,
I know that it is possible, for I hear these voices every
week, and have for three years, and my friends hear
exactly what I hear.
Please bear this great truth in mind as you read on,
for it will make the communications more plausible to
you, and you will feel, as we do, that the only difference
51
STATION ASTRAL
in our gatherings from the old times is that now we can
not see our friends, although they can see us.
When you hear an announcement over the radio that
Walter Winchell is speaking, do you need to see him to
be sure that it is he? Do you race to the telephone and
call up Station WEAF and ask for proof of it ? Or do
you settle down and listen, knowing from the intonation
and characteristics of the voice you hear that it is Win
chell ? That is just the way we sit and enjoy the com
munications which come to us from Station Astral. But
we have an advantage over the radio, because we can
reply to the voices, and carry on an intelligent con
versation.
One morning, a friend, whom I had not seen for sev
eral months, dropped in to see me. She said she had
just returned to the city, but she did not have to tell
me she was feeling forlorn, she looked
it,
and
I
was not
surprised to hear her say, "As
I
was over at the bank
I
had
a
very strong impression to run in and see you.
You know
I
have recently lost my only son, and, Betty,
I
am so broken up over
it,
I
have never felt like this
before.
I
don't seem to have anything to hold to." She
was very sorrowful, and
I
realized, instantly, that she
had been directed to my door, and so
I
said, "My dear,
you have come to the right place for comfort.
It
is
pos
52
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
sible to hear again the dear voice of your son which you
believe stilled forever. There is happiness and peace for
those who will open the door and let the loved ones in.
Then I told her of our experiences.
"I am having Maina Tafe here tomorrow for the first
sitting. She is a direct voice medium. Would you like to
come and sit with us ?" She said, "I have known of spirit
communications all my life, but I have never received a
personal message, and I have never heard of a direct
voice medium, but I should love to come."
At this time we were living at the "Osborne," West
57th Street, and the following day my friend and Maina
Tafe came, and, as I had done with Mrs. Stewart, we
went out into father's and mother's room, drew down
the curtains, and waited.
Let me explain here that when I sat with Mrs. Stewart
the voices came in without any previous introductory re
marks from a spirit guide, acting as doorkeeper. Now
Miss Tafe informed us that the first voice we would
hear would be that of "Sunshine," a little girl who acted
as a protection from the many souls wishing to come in
and talk, but spirits not acquainted with the sitters, who
would use all the force, and our friends from the spirit
world might not get an opportunity to speak at all.
Thus, "Sunshine."
53
STATION ASTRAL
Although we have been told by different personalities
from the Astral plane that these demonstrations, in
themselves, are not of a religious nature, but are in ac
cordance with a natural, scientific law, still we feel it is
through the mercy of God that we have been brought
to this demonstration of these natural laws. And we like
to approach these reunions with a feeling of reverence
and thanksgiving for the blessings bestowed upon us,
so we repeat the Lord's prayer, often recite the twenty-
third psalm, and always close the sittings with the
Doxology
After the light was out, Maina said, "Let us repeat
the Lord's Prayer," then we sang softly, "In the
sweet bye and bye." This singing, she informed us,
was to take our minds from the people we were hoping
would speak to us, for when we concentrate too
strongly upon those from whom we are hoping to hear,
it is harder for them to demonstrate. When we hold
them close to us in mental thought they come within
our auras, and when they are within our auras they lose
their electrical power,—it is absorbed or diluted by our
electrical emanations. This eliminates the thought or
possibility of telepathy, as concentration upon an object
or person is necessary in telepathy, while in spirit com
54
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
munications a relaxed mind on the part of the sitter is
necessary.
This singing also helps to put us all in the same vibra
tion,—a vibration of harmony with each other and the
spirit forces. It was not long before we heard, "Sun
shine, this is Sunshine, hello, Maina, this is Sunshine."
We said, "Hello, Sunshine, how are you today?" She
replied, "I'm pretty good, I want to work hard and bring
you lots of happiness, you know I was an unwanted baby
and I passed over before they named me, so the spirit
forces called me Sunshine, and send me back to earth as
a missionary to help sorrowing souls, to bring light and
joy to them." Then she seemed to pass toward each of
us and speak to us individually. I remember she said to
me, "Would you like me to call you Aunt Betty?" I
couldn't help wondering how she knew my name. When
she said, "Your father is here, Dr. Clarke, I know Dr.
Clarke and I love him."
I want you to understand Sunshine, she is such a
dear, helpful little spirit. If she finds the sitters are get
ting tense, she tells some funny joke and gets every one
laughing, for a joyous vibration on the part of the
sitters helps to bring good results. It seems to me to be
the same attitude which you extend to earthly visitors ;
55
STATION ASTRAL
if you greet your guests with expressions of love and
joyous welcome, they immediately respond in the same
manner, and vice versa. So it is with the spirit friends,
the happier you are the easier it is for them to demon
strate.
To me these are the most joyous occasions in my life.
There is no room for gloom, and there is no reason for
sadness, but every reason for great happiness and real
joy, for "There is no death."
I hope this will give you a little idea of Sunshine, for
the following pages include her very often, and I wish
you to know and love her as we do, and realize what an
important factor she is in our reception of authentic
communications.
Now back to the first sitting. Sunshine has introduced
herself and spoken of Dr. Clarke, and following that,
Dr. Clarke (my father) came in and spoke to me. But
you should have heard his voice today! Not the weak
little voice that I had heard the last time, but a strong,
clear voice, with a tone peculiar to his earth voice. I
would have recognized it anywhere. "Why, Dad," I
said, "what has happened to your voice, you were rest
ing the last time I spoke with you and your voice was
pretty weak?" He said, "Didn't you give me the positive
thought to get busy and work? Well, I am working
56
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
and I am very busy. Hello, Mrs. L "
speaking to
my friend, "I am glad to see you here. Your son is
standing beside you, and is going to try and speak to
you." Father then made a few personal remarks to me,
and presently we heard a voice say, "Mother, this is
Forrest." As the messages which came to my friend
were personal I will not repeat them. I will only say,
they were satisfactory, and helped her. Soon another
voice spoke, saying, "This is J , I am so happy
that I can come and speak to you today, it is as if the
Heavens have opened up today for joy, speaking to
you again means just that to me, and I want to send
my love to the children." My friend said that the
trumpet was passing over her, caressing her shoul
ders, and she could feel the nearness of the personality
speaking. There was some more intimate conversation
between them, then finally she said to me, "You know,
Betty, I had two husbands, both named J , which
one do you suppose spoke to me just now?" I replied,
"It must have been the father of your children as he
sends his love to them." Instantly the voice came again
saying, "No, I am J L , why shouldn't
I send my love to your children, I always loved them as
my very own?"
My mother spoke to me as follows, "Your father is
57
STATION ASTRAL
developing very fast. He is going to take full charge of
our sittings. He has been looking on at some other
seances and learning how they direct them, and from
now on he and Sunshine will control all the demonstra
tions here. I am busy trying to care for many little
children who come over here without any parents to
care for them. Oh, yes, children go to school, and every
one tries to do something helpful when they have de
veloped sufficiently to understand how to work. It is
like everything else, perfectly natural and easy after you
have adjusted yourself to conditions here."
"We are living in a thought world, I can best describe
it to you as your dreams, for in your dreams you see
people, you do things, and yet you do not use your
physical body or brain at all. Here we operate and dem
onstrate through thought, with an astral body, which
seems to be a duplicate of the physical body, both in
form and color." As I asked, "Are people still old there,
or do they grow younger?" She replied, "We can be at
any age we wish. Your father is quite a young man
now. People generally wish to be at the age when they
were at their best, that
is,
old people wish to be at the
age when they were most efficient, and children seem to
grow up to an age of understanding."
Bobby came and spoke to us, sending his love to his
58
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
father and mother and Jane, and several other spirit
friends spoke to my friend. So in all we had a very in
teresting sitting of about an hour and a half.
Naturally, I wanted Mr. Drouet to have a similar ex
perience, so I arranged a sitting for him in the following
week, which proved equally satisfactory. I will review
a part of it.
After we had repeated the Lord's Prayer, and sung
"In the Sweet Bye and Bye," Sunshine's voice was heard
saying, "This is Sunshine, Aunt Betty," and I said, "Do
you know who is sitting with us today, Sunshine?" She
replied, "Yes, it is my Uncle Harry, you will be my
Uncle Harry, won't you?" As Sunshine likes to claim
relationship with people whose vibrations synchronize
with hers, she often asks people sitting with us if she
may call them Uncle or Aunt, and so Mr. Drouet has
been Uncle Harry to Sunshine ever since that first
meeting.
She continued speaking until she had Mr. Drouet in
a very happy mood. He was so amused with her conver
sation, I think she told him some funny jokes, keeping
us all laughing, and then we heard a voice, saying, "This
is Annie, Annie Drouet. You are my Brother Harry.
Do you remember me?" This voice was speaking so
rapidly that we had difficulty in following the words,
59
STATION ASTRAL
although the intonations were exceptionally clear. She
told us that she was on a rapid vibration and could not
help speaking so fast. In all her communications since,
she has always spoken just as rapidly, but we had be
come accustomed to it now, as it is very different from
all the other voices,—no one ever mistakes Annie
Drouet.
Annie passed over when she was five years old, mak
ing her now about fifty-five. When we asked Lillian, her
sister, who is about forty-four, if Annie seemed older
than she, Lillian replied, "Annie seems much younger
than I, because she has not had the earth experience
which I had." Bobby once said, "Annie is a big woman."
Thinking about Annie, we heard a very strong voice
say, "This is John R. Hegeman. I want you to tell your
father, Drouet, that I am over there with him a great
deal. I was very fond of him, and I think it was mutual,
so I enjoy being with him." Coming closer to me, he
said, "Good evening, Mrs. Drouet. Tonight I have my
coat on." He was laughing as he said this, and I im
mediately asked him, "Have you the same big hat you
used to wear here?" He replied, "Yes, I have the
same big hat, the same big hands and feet." Then I
added, "And the same big heart ?" He resumed, "Well,
I don't know about the heart." Turning again towards
60
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
Mr. Drouet, he continued, "Be sure to tell your father
I spoke to you. I wish him to know I am close to him.
Say the Mrs. is with me, —she is always with me."
Mr. John R. Hegeman, as you probably know, was,
for a great many years, the President of The Metro
politan Life Insurance Co. When he spoke of having
his coat on, he was referring to the following incident :
One morning, about thirty years ago, I went into Mr.
Hegeman's office, with Mr. Haley Fiske. Mr. Hegeman
was sitting at his desk in his shirt-sleeves, as it was an
exceedingly warm morning. I did not think anything
about
it,
until he remarked, rising from his chair to
greet me, "You don't mind my shirt sleeves, do you?"
When
I
replied, "No, not
if
you do not," he immedi
ately put his coat on, giving me, at the same time, one
of his amused glances. So
it
was very interesting to
hear him mention this incident. Mr. Hegeman has
spoken several times since then, always sending his re
gards to Mr. E. Charles Drouet, in Somerville, Mass.
Lillian Drouet came and talked again with Mr.
Drouet, speaking of her father and husband and her
sister still on the earth plane. Mr. Drouet's Uncle
George spoke to him, telling him that he had joined our
band, and that Dr. Clarke had helped him speak to us.
He spoke of another brother and of his sister, Mr.
61
STATION ASTRAL
Drouet's mother, and then Mr. Drouet's mother spoke,
saying, "This is mother, Harry. I want to send my love
to your father. Tell him I am close beside him, and at
night I sit by his bed and smooth his head. I would like
to talk with him as I do with you." Then a grand
mother of Mr. Drouet's was heard speaking. She said,
"I gave your father a ring years ago with a ruby stone.
The stone was given to me as an apport. You know I
was interested in these psychic matters when I lived on
earth. In fact, I possessed some powers myself. But such
things were not thought very highly of in my day, and
I didn't speak about them very often."
My father was the next to speak, and after greeting
us all, he said, "I wish to impress upon you that it is
wiser to listen to new ideas and thoughts, rather than
close your minds. If I had listened while I was on earth,
I could have helped my wife more from the earth plane,
when she came over here. It is so easy to be mistaken. It
is much wiser not to say things are impossible, when we
know nothing of the subject. Fred was right, I was
wrong. He knew more than all of us about life beyond
the grave." He spoke of the radio, and how readily it
had been accepted by those who knew nothing of its
technicalities.
62
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
Father stressed his desire to help any of our sitters,
and there are many instances where he has helped them
in sickness and trouble, of which I will speak later. He
has told us that there are many healing bands in his
world, who devote themselves in aiding the sick, and he
was learning how they did it through the power of
concentration.
When I asked father if he could see me, he replied,
"Yes, perfectly. You are sitting in my chair, and Harry
is sitting in Mother's rocking chair."
My Grandmother Clarke spoke to me again, at this
time, and also to Mr. Drouet, telling us to keep on with
the sittings, because we would develop our friends on
the astral plane, and they would be able to demonstrate
many things which would surprise us. She spoke again
of the work that I was doing in the studio, and urged
me to keep on.
There were several other communications, but I want
to make a few remarks, right here, about Maina Tafe.
Maina Tafe, well-known trumpet and direct voice
medium, has the power of clairvoyance and clair-audi-
ence as well. She was born in Canton, Ohio.
Thousands of people from different parts of the coun
try are familiar with her work, which is always main
63
STATION ASTRAL
tained at a high standard. She has been a public worker
for fifteen years, and is a familiar figure at the different
Spiritualist camps during the summer season.
Again I wish to emphasize that the spirit voices we
hear in the seance do not emanate from the medium. She
does not do the talking. The voices come directly from
other entities than those visible in the room. Maina Tafe
speaks only the English language, and we have received
communications, in these seances, in the French lan
guage, the German, the Italian, and the Japanese.
Mr. Ford's guide, Fletcher, has said in these seances,
"All communications that come with Maina Tafe as
medium, are authentic. They are uncolored by the per
sonality of the medium. They are direct communica
tions from the persons giving their names. There are
no impersonations here."
There is another thing I wish to make clear,—when
you hear me speak of the "band," I am referring to a
group of our spirit friends, who have banded themselves
together to increase their power through concentration,
to enable them to assist us here on our earth, and to
protect us from undesirable forces which might attempt
to enter our sittings, as it is very necessary to have pro
tection against entities who are always looking for an
entrance back into this world, who, when they see an
64
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
open door, or a receptive mind, are apt to force their
personalities in. So our band has been formed by our
spirit friends, and we feel their protection and assistance
continually.
I wish all my readers to get these few facts firmly
established in their consciousness, so they may enjoy,
unrestrictedly, the communications.
After one has sat a few times in a seance, and the
amazement of it has lessened a bit, one is able to collect
one's thoughts and ask worth while questions. At first it
is like meeting an old friend unexpectedly on the street.
You generally speak of the most trivial matters, after
wards wishing you had spoken of more important
things.
When some people come to sit for the first time, they
know before hand the questions they intend to ask. But
when they hear a voice, they are so surprised they seem
to forget everything they had planned to say. I have
noticed this quite often, so I ask people to tell me what
questions they wish answered, if any one speaks with
them, and at the proper time, if I also do not forget, I
remind them.
After we had had a few sittings in the afternoons and
evenings, I suggested to Maina that it would be a good
idea if we set aside a regular night for these seances.
65
STATION ASTRAL
There were so many people asking if they might come,
and every one had a friend whom they wanted to bring,
or send.
So our regular Thursday night seances started, and
they soon developed into both stimulating and instruc
tive gatherings. We limited the number of sitters to
seven or eight, although we have had as many as sixteen
on special occasions.
There is only one thing I stipulate,—each sitter must
come seeking the comforts the great truth, "There is no
death," gives. Skeptics, or curiosity seekers, weaken the
forces. They are like a poor valve in a motor. Some
people unconsciously freeze the spirit power. At times
we have had people with us whose real motive was un
known to us, and the evening was turned into a perfect
blank, father telling us at the next meeting what caused
it,
naming some person who had been with us, and tell
ing us why they injured the power. Naturally that per
son was not admitted again.
Then there have been sittings when Sunshine would
come in and try to say
a
few words, but her voice would
be very weak, and so she would have to close the meet
ing. So you see
it
is
very important that any one seek
ing this eternal truth must come in the spirit of seek
ing and ye shall find.
66
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
If the person who comes to our house for a seance
has an interesting mind and character, and does con
structive work in this world, they are pretty sure to at
tract interesting personalities on the astral plane, and
these personalities come to them here, and try to assist
them in whatever work they are doing on this earth. If
one has an affectionate nature, that love attracts to one's
self great affection from the other side. The greatest
attraction, in my mind, for the spirit forces, is a genu
ine spirit of love and helpfulness on the part of the
person sitting for communication.
Our first few weeks with Maina Tafe were largely
filled with personal conversations between families and
friends. My personal family often stepped aside, in
order that all newcomers might receive a word from
some loved one. But father always spoke to us, giving
a word of advice about our attitudes in the sitting, or
telling some stranger about their relatives who could not
always speak. "It is," he would often remark, "like
learning to play the violin or piano,—you cannot do it
well the first time you try, nor the next time, but if you
keep at
it,
eventually you will be able to do something."
Speaking from the astral plane always seems to me to
be done much easier by the men than by the women.
Children seem to speak louder and easier than many
67
STATION ASTRAL
older people, perhaps, because they have no prejudices.
They tell us that so many who wish to speak from the
spirit world do not believe it possible, and so they try
with doubt in their minds, and doubt diminishes the
power of concentration.
As Bobby had been speaking to us at nearly every
sitting, saying how much he would like to speak to his
daddy and mamma, we invited Mr. and Mrs. Ward-
law to a Thursday evening seance, and that was the way
we first met them. It made Bobby very, very happy. Mr.
and Mrs. Wardlaw had spoken to him previous to
this time, at a seance held at a friend's house with Mrs.
Stewart as the medium, so this was not their first ex
perience.
At this time, I remember asking mother about re
incarnation, and she said that she heard it discussed in
the spirit world along the same lines as she had heard it
discussed on earth, —some people believed in
it,
and
others did not. Personally she had had no evidence of it.
It was also at this time that an old friend of ours,
Charles Greene, spoke to us, telling us that he still en
joyed his beautiful horses. He said, "There
is
an ani
mal kingdom here, and we can still enjoy our animal
pets, as they are all here."
I
asked him
if
the fourth of
March meant anything to him, and he replied, "How
68
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
did you remember March fourth? That is my birthday !
I am surprised that you should remember that day, but
I am pleased you do."
Perhaps at this point I may refer again to the work in
my studio. Everything was progressing so easily and
well, that I was amazed. I knew perfectly well how hard
sculpture was to execute, and I realized the difficulties
that I would ordinarily encounter. So I wondered how
the work that I was doing could develop as it did.
It was about this time I started, for my first figure, a
Diana. Then one day I felt the desire to set up the figure
of a diving girl, and a little later I began a recumbent
figure. As I was using the same model for all the figures,
I was really working on the same figure, only in different
positions.
During March, I began the portrait bust of Mr.
Drouet. This progressed exceedingly well,—I seemed to
have hardly any difficulty, either in the construction, or
in reproducing exactly the expression I wanted. Before
that head was finished, I began to model the head of my
brother. This head had three or four sittings, of an hour
each,—it seemed to develop as though some one was
working through me, and I was beginning to think
there was something strange about it all.
I remember I was especially impressed, one day, with
69
STATION ASTRAL
this fact, as I was working on Mr. Drouet's head, when
he said to me, "Do you realize that you are using both
hands with the same dexterity? Are you aware of it?"
Up to that moment I had not been conscious of doing
this, but ever since that time it has amazed me to find
one hand just as efficient as the other.
When I mentioned these things to several sculptors,
one said, "You may be psychic enough to use the power
in the air about you." That made me think I would ask
father who was assisting me with my work.
As the family had often spoken about my work, and
seemed so interested, they would surely know if any one
from the spirit world was helping me, guiding me.
When I first started the figure of Diana, I had planned
to have her holding the leash of a pulling dog,—that
would bring her right shoulder forward, and throw the
left shoulder back ; but, as time went on, I decided I did
not want a dog in the composition, so I was at a loss to
know just what to do about that outstretched right arm.
Consequently, I let the Diana stand for several weeks,
while I finished the portraits which I had started.
It was some time later, at a seance, that I thought to
ask father, "Is any one helping me with my modeling?"
He said, "Yes, some one is helping you in your studio, —
70
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
in fact, there are many sculptors there. I am going to let
them speak to you themselves, sometime."
Several Thursdays passed without my receiving any
light on this subject, but one evening, I suddenly asked,
"Who is helping me with my work?" And just as un
expectedly we heard a voice say, "Bourdelle, Bourdelle."
I exclaimed, "Bourdelle, give me some proof that you
are Bourdelle !" And again the same voice replied, "You
know my daughter-in-law." I asked, "Whom do you
mean, give me her name?" "Katharine," came the
answer.
The next morning I called Katharine on the phone and
asked her if her father-in-law spoke English during his
life-time, and she replied, "Why, yes, he spoke several
languages fluently, why do you ask?" Then I repeated
the experiences of the night before.
Bourdelle was a notable French sculptor, a con
temporary of Rodin's. After the passing of Rodin,
Bourdelle finished many of his works, —they are now
in the Rodin Museum, in Paris. Bourdelle passed into
the beyond some years later.
I made a note that Bourdelle did not mention any
specific piece of work with which he was assisting me,,
but as I was finishing the head of Mr. Drouet, at that
71
STATION ASTRAL
moment, I concluded that it was on that work I was
receiving impressions. For, just as I had received auto
matic writing, so I believed I could receive impressions
about my sculpture, and I also felt because of Mr.
Drouet, being of French descent, some connection of
his might have brought Bourdelle into our vibrations.
Perhaps this didn't make me ambitious, and perhaps
it did, what do you think ?
To have the inspiration of such a marvelous creative
mind, and the assurance of
it,
gave me great courage
and strength to proceed, so under these conditions
I
fin
ished the bust of Mr. Drouet, and the one of my brother.
Again, during one of our sittings,
a
voice spoke to me
in response to
a
question
I
had asked in regard to my
work, and this time we heard the name, spoken in Ger
man, "Peter Bruer, Peter Bruer, Peter Bruer, Berlin."
He spoke for
a
few seconds, but as
it
was in the German
language, and none of us spoke, or understood German,
we could not make out what he was saying, so
I
said,
"Can any one tell us who that was speaking, we do not
know Peter Bruer, can you tell me, Sunshine?" But
Sunshine did not answer,
it
was Lillian, who came, say
ing, "That was an old German Sculptor, named Peter
Bruer. He lived in Berlin, and died there about three
years ago." That
is
all the information that
I
have ever
72
DR. CLARKE'S DEVELOPMENT
had about him, as he has never spoken to us again,
and I had no way of looking him up.
As it was nearing the late spring, and Maina was
going away for the summer, we arranged to close our
seances.
During the time we had been holding these seances,
probably seventy-five different people had sat in our
circle, and every one had received messages, so we were
very well pleased with our first season, and closed it with
the anticipation of renewed efforts in the fall.
73
CHAPTER IV
A DREAM
COMBINED COMMUNICATIONS FROM MY MOTHER
~"V NE night a year or so after my mother's passing,
had a dream which I remember in detail. I
told it to my husband, and he said, "Why don't you
ask your mother about it?"
Let me repeat the dream. "I was at a party in a
house which was unfamiliar to me, and when the
time came for me to go, I went upstairs to get my
wraps. As I entered the room at the top of the stairs,
I noticed that there were no wraps in sight, so, think
ing the maid had removed them into another room, I
passed on into the next room. I remember that I no
ticed all the colors and furnishings of that room, and
realized I had never been there before. I walked to
ward the bed, but still there were no wraps in sight.
But, as I stood for a moment, hesitating, I noticed that
something was taking place upon the bed. There seemed
to be a form developing beneath the covers. I was
fascinated, and held to the spot, although my natural
impulse was to scream and run away. This form was
74
A DREAM
growing until it assumed the entire shape of a body.
I wanted to see who it was, and yet, I didn't dare.
But finally I found the courage to move up closer to
the head of the bed and actually forced myself to look
down at the face upon the pillow. It was the face of
my mother, rosy and warm, and she was looking di
rectly at me. I began to reason this thing out. I said
to myself, how can this woman be here in the flesh,
warm and breathing, when we have cremated this body,
and it is ashes ?
I remembered all that in this dream, it forced itself
in upon my consciousness. "Lift me up, dear, that I
may see the stars," mother said, and, bending over
her, as I had hundreds of times, I raised her upon one
arm, while with the other hand, I raised the window
shade. "How beautiful are the stars," she said. And
indeed, I had never seen such stars, they were magic.
Still that thought was in my mind, how could this thing
be?
As I laid her gently upon the bed, I noticed her
weight. At that moment, Mr. Drouet and my father
entered the room. Looking at them, I said to my hus
band, "Do you see mother here on the bed?" Mr.
Drouet looked casually at the bed and said, "No, I do
not see anything." I continued, "But mother is here on
75
STATION ASTRAL
this bed, look again and see if you can see her." The
same answer came, and just then father stepped up
close to the bed, and I asked him the same question. He
replied, "No, I do not see any one." And then he
stopped, held up his head, and as you have seen a horse
dilate its nostrils at some tense moment, so father's did,
and his eyes opened wide as he said, "Yes, yes, I see
your mother !"
That broke the dream, but it stayed with me. for a
long time. At my first opportunity I asked mother,
"Did you come to me in a dream and materialize,
for I saw you in the flesh?" I could hear her laugh
as she said, "No, I did not come to you, you came
to me and found me alive and warm. You know,
dear, that in sleep, people often leave their bodies, as
they do in seeming death. Some go out into the universe
and gather energy, others come out into the infinite and
travel so far, that when they return into their bodies
again, they feel tired, and when they awaken in the
morning they wonder why they are so weary."
I have heard people speak about the sensation of
leaving the body in dreams, and I have also heard them
tell how hard it was to get back into their bodies.
Mother has developed the power of touching me, and
I have developed the sense of feeling her touch. It
76
MRS. MARY EMMA DAVISON CLARKE
Mother of the author
Photograph taken at the age of fifty-five
A DREAM
comes like a sharp electric prickle, like the violet ray
they use on one's head at the hairdressers. It is gener
ally upon my forehead, and there is never a night that I
do not feel the loved hand upon my head as I am going
to sleep.
There have been so many helpful talks with mother
during these many seances which we have held, that
I should like to group a few of them for you. They
have come through a little at a time, because no one
speaks for more than three or four minutes at a time,
more often much less.
She has said, "The conditions here on the astral
plane are so beyond human expression that I am afraid
I cannot make you see them as I do." "The most beau
tiful music that you hear on earth, is as the chirp
of the sparrow compared to the music here." "The
flowers which you throw away, bloom again here,
there is nothing lost." "Still born babies live on, any
thing which has the spark of life once created within
it,
lives on." "Whether you wish
it
or not, you must con
tinue to live,
it
is
evolution." "Earth life
is
the prep
aratory school, and
if
you learn your lesson there of
usefulness, and kindness, and the power of concentra
tion,
it
will be much easier for you to function here."
"If you have an imagination and can visualize finished
77
STATION ASTRAL
work, here you will need to go no further, for what
the mind can create in perfection, lives forever." "We
find all the reality on our side of the veil." "There is
no happiness here for people unless they deserve it."
"When people come into this life and find that they
can reveiw their entire past, they have many regrets,
and it is these regrets which hinder their progress, for
there certainly is progression here." "We know that
there are planes of understanding so far in advance
of us that we are kept wondering, as you are there,
about what is ahead of us." "We are still wondering
about God." "We know no more of Him than we did
on earth." "There are personalities here who say that
they lived on other planets than the earth planet, but
they seem similar to ourselves." "We build our homes
with our thoughts, and everybody's home is a picture
of their thoughts." "We make our own environment."
"You ask me if there is heat and cold? When we
come close to you and you are sincerely fond of us
and keep us in your thoughts, we feel what you call a
glow, but, if you are indifferent, we have what you
designate a chill." "There is no direct light here, as
you see the sun, but a bright glow like the reflection
of the sun on snow." "I want to speak about the light
which surrounds each of you. You call it an aura. It
78
A DREAM
indicates the state of your mind to us. When you are
happy you are surrounded with luminous light blue
or yellow light; when you are angry, or even cross,
the light becomes very dark and muddy; when you are
sad, your lights are dim and purplish. That is the way
we know how you are feeling when we come close to
you." "When we cannot see you distinctly, we can
still see your auras." "There are times when I can
see every detail of your face, and things about you,
again I can only sense you and get your thoughts."
"You have no idea how much happiness you are giving
us holding these regular seances." "Time means noth
ing to us, but we know regular occurrences and look
forward to them." "I can see the preparations going
on for this occasion, we know when Christmas time
is at hand, for we see you arrange the greens, and we
realize it must be Easter time because the lilies are
so abundant." "If all the world could only understand
that there is no death, how much easier everything
would be for them." "You remember we would never
discuss
it,
it
was such
a
sad thought." "Now
it
holds
no sadness, because we are always together." "Why
do you go to the cemetery ?" "We all dread to see our
friends going there,
it
brings back to us all the earth
conditions which were so painful." "We see the loved
79
STATION ASTRAL
ones grieving, and we are right there with them, talk
ing to them, and trying by every way we know to
demonstrate our presence to them." "Do you realize
that we can look right into the graves and see those earth
bodies in all their hideousness ?" "Fortunately, you
saved father and me that horror." "There is so much
you do not understand, and customs are very domi
nant." "Tell your friends that they can make their loved
ones happier and their development faster, if they will
not hold them back with tears." "If you could see the
souls over here, when their families are all crying and
mourning, when these spirits realize that they have not
died but are still very much alive, they are fairly
crazy because when they cannot get this fact through
to their grieving relatives, their first thought is to get
back and help the suffering ones they left behind." "I
do not know which suffers the most, that is why we tell
them we will show them how we are comforted by talk
ing again to the earth plane." "They come and look on
when we are speaking with you, hoping some one
whom they love will find their way to either your
door, or have the desire to seek a medium somewhere."
"This explains many of the new contacts you have
made during the past four years." "The friends here
have maneuvered to bring into your life their loved
80
A DREAM
ones, and you have brought them to the Thursday
seances and comfort has come to many hearts." "The
appreciation here for these benefits is beyond words,
and the band which has formed on this side not only
serves you, but we are at the call of all who partici
pate." "We want to impress upon you that there are
as many harmful forces at work in the spirit world,
as good." "One has to be protected from them. You
can protect yourself largely by governing your thoughts.
When you think of things which are destructive, eject
them immediately, and ask for the strength, and the
protection of the good forces." "That is where our
band plays an important part, there are many of us,
all people who are accustomed to speaking with you,
and we are constantly adding to it." "You often hear
some one say, I have joined the band. Your father
is in control of
it,
and when people wish to join with us
in the thought of helping and protecting their loved
ones, we welcome them. This band builds
a
wall,
a
mental wall, around you, and keeps out all undesirables.
That
is
why you are able to create all the things you do.
There
is
no interference, you are surrounded by great
creative forces, who find happiness in demonstrating
through you, because you are so eager to help the peo
ple here
;
that
is
the law of compensation." "There are
81
STATION ASTRAL
many little children coming over all the time, and they
cry so hard for their mothers. It makes it difficult for
us, at times, to distract their little minds. If mothers
only knew that their darlings were still close to their
arms, and would not let the child feel that they thought
it was any different in spirit form than in earth form,
the child would not realize its transition." "A mother
could mentally hold her baby to her heart and keep up
the little customs of reading aloud the bedtime stories,
and talk to the child, and it would be such a blessing to
the child. For children run right back to mothers, and
sisters, and brothers, and play as usual, but when they
see they are not noticed they are hurt, and then they
cry and are forlorn." "There are many of us here who
spend a great deal of our efforts on children." "Many
women who were not blessed there with babies find them
here, and that is a great joy to them." "There is no
birth or marriage here in the physical sense, but we get
beautiful thrills as you speak of them, we call them
vibrations, being with those we love. There is great joy
here when people who truly loved on earth are reunited,
—all Heaven seems to rejoice." "If only there could be
a little more rejoicing there for the good fortune of the
one passing, perhaps some of the selfish grief would
be abolished." "If people could realize that when a
82
A DREAM
loved one passes over, the opportunities of those left
upon earth to help those loved ones develop, are in
creased. Instead of putting people out of your minds
and trying to smother your own grief, realize you can
still be of service in keeping those precious to you ac
tive and contented, by giving them strength through
your prayers for the full use of all the faculties they
possessed there." "When a friend passes out in a
cloudy mental state, clear up that condition for them
with understanding prayers for the clarification of their
minds, in other words, try to do as much for them after
seeming death, as you would if you could still see and
hear them as you did when they were on earth."
Perhaps, my reader, you can imagine a little of what
has helped me the past few years through these com
munications.
83
CHAPTER V
OUR SECOND SEASON
THE
fall of 1930 arrived after a happy summer,
happy because of the knowledge that had come
into our lives. We were continually seeing and feel
ing the evidences of the protection and love of our
dear ones. I remember how happy it made us realizing
they were close to us, and that we could still serve
them, through our prayers, and keeping them in our
thoughts and conversation.
Wherever we went some one would say, "I have
heard about your experiences, won't you tell me about
them ? I have always thought people continued to exist,
but I have never had any evidential communications
from them." And so I have tried to tell them what I am
trying to tell you, feeling I must not withhold any com
fort from any one who asked for it. And besides, isn't
it perfectly natural to talk about the things in which we
are interested?
We resumed our seances about the last of October. It
seemed as if every one who had sat with us the pre
vious spring had some one they wanted to bring, or
84
OUR SECOND SEASON
send. Whenever I read in the paper, or heard, of the
loss to a friend of some one, I would write to them or
telephone asking them to come to our house to a seance.
I always bore in mind the great joy of the one who
had passed over, when they found that I had brought
to them the ones they had to leave behind. My experi
ence was teaching me how I could be of service to peo
ple on the spiritual plane, as well as to those on the
earth plane.
It was at the beginning of this season that father
became most emphatic in his remarks about skepticism.
Many of us can recall hearing him say, "When I lived
on earth, I did not believe it was possible that the sup
posed dead lived on. I had dissected too many dead
bodies to believe there was anything which survived,
and I tried very hard to dissuade my daughter from her
interest in psychic things, thinking it might affect her
general health. Can you realize what my thoughts were
when I arrived upon the astral plane, and found that
she was right, and I was wrong?" "If she had heeded
me I should have closed the door upon myself and
deprived her and many others of this great knowledge.
That would have been a veritable Hell for me, because
I should have known that it was all my own fault, my
ignorance, my unwillingness, to listen and learn. For
85
STATION ASTRAL
tunately, she was just as positive in seeking as I was
in hindering, and I thank God that she had the de
termination to find out for herself this eternal truth,
"There is no death."
Father never tires of repeating these words, and he
urges people at almost every sitting to open their minds
to new thoughts.
I remember asking him if he had ever seen God,
and he replied, "No, we have not seen God, we only
see evidences all about us of his love and intelligence,
as you do there."
One evening we had an inquiring young doctor sit
ting with us, and he asked, "Dr. Clarke, will you tell
me what is the soul?" And we were pleased to hear
father say, "The soul is like the perfume of the flower.
It is intangible, still very real to our senses. You cannot
understand all this at first, any more than I could, for
your work brings you in contact with the physical, but
profit by my experience and investigate."
Once in a while, when my brother was in the seance,
some old school mates, from the time when we had
lived in Portsmouth, would speak. One night one of
them said, "This is Billy Ashe, Fred. The old crowd is
all here. I see Ned Jones, and Billy Cotton, and Eddie
Kimball, very often. We get together and talk over old
86
OUR SECOND SEASON
times and often speak of you. They want to speak to
you, here, sometime." Then passing closer to me, I
heard him ask, "Hello, Bessie ! Do you remember me ?"
I replied, "Why, yes, of course ! You lived up on State
Street on the corner of Cabot, and I also remember that
you were very fond of riding a bicycle, —you could ride
faster than all the boys in town. How is your speed
now?" He laughed, as he said, "You should see my
speed now ! Oh my ! It is some speed !"
Whenever my brother Fred was with us, his little
son, Richard, would speak. Richard passed out of
earth life at the age of nine months, and could never
speak. Now he speaks as clearly and correctly as any
one could wish. He always says, "Oh Daddy, I wish
Mother and Constance, and Donald and Phyllis would
come here to Aunt Betty's so that I could speak to them.
I want to talk to my Mamma." Coming over to me, he
said, "My hair is red, Aunt Betty, and I have blue
eyes. Grandma says I look like Donald." One night,
when his father was absent, he came and said to me,
"Aunt Betty, this is Richard. Will you tell Constance
that I was there at her birthday dinner? I sat at the
table with them all. I saw the ice cream and birthday
cake." I had forgotten that Constance's birthday came
at that time, and so knew nothing about the ice cream
87
STATION ASTRAL
or cake, but later, when I telephoned his mother, she
confirmed his remarks.
It may interest you to know how some spirit people
feel about the conditions on their plane. I had a cousin,
who in earth life was George D. Leavens, Vice Presi
dent of the Coe, Mortimer Co. He also gave lectures
at Columbia University, and at the present time is
very anxious to find some one to take his writings
from the astral plane, —but to go on. George often
comes and speaks of the situation of the farmer, and
the pity that the farmer gets the small end of the bar
gain. He said that there should be some arrangement
whereby the farmer would receive more profit and the
middleman less. Once I asked him if he still had the
same beautiful black eyes, and he laughingly replied,
"Yes, but if you think my eyes big and beautiful, you
should see Lillian's eyes, they are so large and such a
beautiful brown." Now, George never knew Lillian dur
ing earth life, he has only known her in spirit life.
"Do you have hills and valleys, in your country,
George, and can every one see what you see at the same
time?" I asked. "We have everything here which you
have there, hills and vales, trees and flowers, and ani
mals, but people standing close beside can see them as
we do, only if they are in the same vibrations as we
88
OUR SECOND SEASON
are. That is one good thing about this world, we do
not have to be bored with a lot of people who are not
interested in the same things that we are. You see
everything here is on different thought planes, planes
of understanding. I hear you speaking of planes, well,
remember they are merely planes of understanding."
As George had been very fond of certain kinds of
food in his life time here, I asked, "Do you still like
baked potatoes, George?" He replied, "I like to be
close to people who are eating the things I enjoy. I
receive the same sensation, but you must know, that,
although We are apparently the same shape and appear
ance now, as before, we do not have digestive organs,
because we do not need them."
What George said about, "Receiving the same sensa
tion," made me pause and think, how, if a man who
was addicted to drink during his earth life returned,
through the laws of attraction, to some one on earth
who was over-fond of drink, to continue the pleasure
of that sensation, how much stronger would become
the desire within the man here, because of the desire
of the spirit force about him. In other words, how
do we know but that drink obsessions are due to these
very conditions, and the inability to resist because of
the strength and desire of the spirit insistence?
89
STATION ASTRAL
When I asked about sleep or rest, George gave me
this answer, "We rest, we all have our own places for
rest, but we do not sleep as you perceive it."
A very interesting conversation took place between
Mr. Drouet and Dr. John W. Draper, who had not been
over very long at that time. I will repeat the conversa
tion. "I want to speak to Drouet. This is Draper speak
ing, John W. Draper. I want to speak to Henry
Drouet. Is this Henry Drouet, the insurance man?"
"Yes, this is Drouet speaking to you, Doctor. What
can I do to help you? I have taken care of all your
policies and everything is all right here." The spirit
voice continued, "Thanks, but what I want to know
is, am I dreaming? I am sure I am dreaming. Tell me
I am dreaming. The people around me are trying to tell
me I have passed over, and I know it is not so. I must
be dreaming, because I seem to be doing things, and I
know I could not be doing things if I were dead." Mr.
Drouet spoke, saying, "No, you are not dreaming,
Doctor, but you are in need of assistance to make you
realize it. I will send Dr. Clarke to help you, and you
will find out that you are not dreaming, that you are
still alive, though you think you died."
When father spoke to us later, we asked him to try
90
OUR SECOND SEASON
to do something for Dr. Draper, and in about a month
we had another conversation with Dr. Draper, as fol
lows: "This is Draper speaking, yes, Dr. Draper.
Thanks, Drouet, for the help your father-in-law has
given to me. You know I thought I was dreaming. I
could not believe that I had died and was still alive. I
never had any proof of continued existence, and I have
operated on many. What is the use of surgeons operat
ing on people and never discovering this? Now I am
stronger than any x-ray I have ever used. I can pass
through stone walls. I can pass under water. Nothing
can stop me." I spoke to him at that point, saying,
"Now that you realize your powers, why don't you try
to work and help others, as my father is doing?" He
replied, "I do not wish to do anything until I under
stand all about it. It is all right for your father, he
seems to understand what he is doing." Mr. Drouet
asked him, "Is there any message you would like to
send to your family?" "No," said he, "I will reach
them myself."
Please remember this conversation, for a year later
he came back, with a different point of view.
One day, during the middle of the winter, a friend
of ours, from Philadelphia, came up for a special sit
91
STATION ASTRAL
ting. Her mother had been on the other side only a
short time, having passed on Nov. 3rd, and our friend
was hoping to receive a message from her.
The mother of my friend had been a firm believer in
this truth, during her earth life, and had often talked
about it with me.
This day there were four of us, my brother, my
friend, Maina, and myself.
After Sunshine had made her usuai remarks, and
greeted the stranger, my friend's mother spoke. Her
voice was not very strong, but it was perfectly clear,
and she was delighted to talk again with her daughter.
She also spoke to me about our past conversations on
this subject, of my mother and other friends.
After a moment we heard a splendid voice speak
ing, and this name, "Bishop Brent, I want to send a
message to Floyd Tomkins." Then he gave us the
message. Bishop Brent was a very dear friend of Dr.
Floyd Tomkins, a friend of many years' standing,
and he sent him a beautiful message.
Following him some of our family spoke to us,
when suddenly the room seemed to grow very light.
Let me mention at this point, before I forget
it,
that
some spirit forces exhibit
a
very strong light, —some
times
it
looks like
a
floating star, sometimes like a
92
OUR SECOND SEASON
haze,—but at this moment the entire room seemed to be
illuminated with a flickering light, the same as we
used to see in the first moving pictures, and we could
hear something like a wind blowing around the room,
around and around, and eventually we heard, in a tre
mendous voice, "I am the Bard of Avon, and I wish
to speak to this man." Stopping in front of my brother,
he continued, "You are the man who carried on for
me, and I want to thank you."
My brother, some time in the past, had written, hear
ing clairaudiently, some things which Shakespeare nad
dictated. These articles were printed at the time in the
"Progressive Thinker." You can well imagine the thrill
we all received. It was a memorable afternoon.
Later in the season, Bishop Brent came in again,
asking me to send this message to Dr. Tomkins, "Tell
Floyd Tomkins there is nothing sweeter than the com
munion of Saints."
I am always receiving messages to forward to the
friends of the voices which come to us in the seance.
It is a happiness for me to call some one up and say,
"Your father spoke to us last night, and asked me to
call you and deliver this message," and then I deliver it.
Just about this time the Reverend Doctor Floyd W.
Tomkins, Rector of the Church of Holy Trinity,
93 »
STATION ASTRAL
Philadelphia, came up to New York and gave me two
sittings for his portrait bust. During these times I tried
to talk to him about my experiences, but it is very hard
to change one's views of a lifetime, and you must know
by now that it is quite necessary to completely alter
your whole scheme of things, that
is,
if
you are getting
any working hypothesis out of this truth.
The Doctor told me some very interesting psychic
things which had been told to him, and experienced,
by his parishoners, so
I
knew he was thinking about
this subject.
I
tell you of this because Dr. Tomkins
passed over before
I
had finished his portrait bust, and
it
will be interesting for you to see how
it
was finished,
and also to learn what the Doctor said to me one week
after his passing.
I
have an aunt in the spirit world who delights to
come and sing
a
song called, "The Ivy Green." Some
times, when
I
am singing this song, we often hear her
voice joining in with us. My mother also has sung for
us. Both of their voices are very like their natural voices.
Let me tell you of an unusual character who comes
and talks to us in French. He
is
the great, great grand
father of Mr. Drouet, Jean Baptiste Drouet, Count
D'Erlon, Marshal under Napoleon. He comes to us in
all the glories of the past.
•94
OUR SECOND SEASON
Father has described his costume and his gestures.
We hear only his voice in rhythmical French. Father
has told us that this man is dressed in a gorgeous
uniform, with sword, and he stands before Mr. Drouet,
and bows ; holding in his right hand a goblet, he drinks
the health of this his great, great grandson.
To show you how probable this is. For instance, if
I am talking with mother, I often say, "What is
father doing at this moment?" And she has said,
"Your father is standing in the corner of this room,
with his hand in his pocket, watching all that is going
on. He directs everything, and every one who wishes
to speak goes to him first for instructions about how
to do it. You must realize that your father has de
veloped into a great force over here, and is doing a
beautiful work."
I cannot begin to speak of all the interesting conver
sations taking place, or the many different people par
ticipating from both sides. Some people want advice
and help about their personal affairs. If the spirit forces
are able to give
it,
they do, but they cannot always see
ahead any more than we can, and they always stress
the truth.
One night we heard the beating of
a
drum.
It
marched around and around the room, then stopped in
95
STATION ASTRAL
front of my brother. It was an uncle who had served
in the Civil War. After speaking to my brother, he came
over to me and said, "Do you remember me, this is
Sumner?" I said, "Yes, do you want me to pray for
you?" "No," said he, "I don't need it." So that's, that,
showing the difference in people.
We seemed to have more or less of physical phenom
ena when my brother was present. Once we heard the
sound of a gong, it sounded like a ship's gong, and
immediately following the sound we heard a voice say
ing, "This is George Dewey, did you hear the gong
of my flagship, the Olympia?" Admiral Dewey was
a resident of Portsmouth, and my brother had been a
playmate of his son, George. My brother recalled to
the Admiral's memory that he had been the first man
to give him a penny.
We were quite taken back when we heard an ex
tremely loud voice ask one evening, "Is there any
reason why I cannot speak here, tonight?" When Mr.
Drouet answered, "No, won't you speak?" we heard:
"This is Theodore Roosevelt," pronounced as he was
so particular to do it. He continued thus, "I go down to
Washington and keep in touch with everything that
is going on there, but it makes me sad. There are no
more Statesmen, there are only Politicians. Longworth
96
OUR SECOND SEASON
is with me. We are interested in the coming election."
Then he proceeded to say what he thought about the
different candidates, but as I cannot play favorites in
this book, it would not be right for me to reveal his
views. But you may be assured they were of moment.
I said, "If you feel that way, Colonel, I think I will
place all my bets on. . . ." He gave a hearty laugh, and
said, "I am not infallible, I am not infallible."
The Colonel has been here to speak with us several
times, and is always hail and hearty. His is one of the
strongest voices that comes.
Can you imagine sitting in a living room and sud
denly hearing an aeroplane whirling around the ceiling,
and then make a landing right in front of you ? Well,
we have heard this at least four times, and three times,
it was none other than Quentin Roosevelt. This may be
where truth seems stranger than fiction, but once when
he came there were sixteen people in the room and
his voice was very clear and distinct as he said, in
reply to my question, "Do you wish to send any mes
sage?" "What is the use. I have sent messages, but
I am afraid no one believes they are from me."
One evening we heard three planes in the room,
and when they had made a landing we heard a voice,
saying, "This is John Purroy Mitchel. This is the first
97
STATION ASTRAL
time I have made earth contact through the direct voice.
I am with Lawrence Sperry, and Quentin Roosevelt."
Then Lawrence Sperry and Quentin Roosevelt spoke
to us.
Father is often asked, by my sitters, to assist some
one. I felt that perhaps it was taking him into the
depths too much, and asked mother about it. She an
swered, "No dear, he loves to help people. He is at
work all the time doing it."
To illustrate this, I recall the night when he said
to Mrs. Harry Smith, "Did you notice how peaceful
Mrs. H looked in her casket, Mrs. Smith? She
was dying of cancer. Your husband and I heard you
call us to help her, and we were able to ease her pain,
and so make her passing less painful, thanks to you."
After the sitting, Mrs. Smith told us that she had been
at her friend's house, where the mother was dying
of cancer. Mrs. H. was suffering so intensely, that Mrs.
Smith, knowing what she did, called Dr. Clarke and her
own husband, Dr. Smith, to relieve this sick woman.
Several weeks later, we heard, during the sitting,
a very weak voice say, "Ella, this is Mrs. H , I
wish to thank you for sending Dr. Clarke and Dr.
Smith to me when I was suffering so much at the time
of my death. They were able to help me and make my
98
OUR SECOND SEASON
passing much easier." She then came over to me, say
ing, "I want to thank you also, for it is through you
that Ella has the knowledge of this beautiful truth."
Then passing back close to Mrs. Smith, she added,
"I see you have my earrings on. I impressed my daugh
ter to give them to you. I wanted you to have them."
And there they were on Mrs. Smith's ears.
I shall never forget the first time Mrs. Smith sat
in our circle. We were all humming a little and feeling
very happy, when suddenly came a voice, saying, "Sit
up straight, Ella." Ella, evidently, was leaning forward
in her eagerness. Sitting up straight in her chair, she
asked, "Who is speaking to me?" And then we heard,
"It's Harry, Ella dear. The first thing I want to say
is that I release you from the promise I made you
make to me those many years ago, when I passed on.
I have known for a long time that it was pure selfish
ness on my part, asking for such a sacrifice on your part.
But this is the first opportunity I have had to get into
direct touch with you."
Mrs. Smith has received many beautiful messages,
and held many happy conversations full of tenderness
and help from her husband, her father, her mother and
other loved ones. She has such a lovely soul, and is so
filled with affection, that it is very easy for her loved
99
STATION ASTRAL
ones to contact. Dr. Harry Smith has been away for
fourteen years. In all that time he has watched over his
family here on earth and kept them in perfect health.
He has been a great inspiration to our circle, bringing
love and cheer and conviction to all who have had the
happiness of hearing him speak.
About this time we had just returned from spend
ing a few days at Buck Hills Falls. While there, I had
been riding horseback every day over the trails, which
were very rough. On our return, I remember, during
the next Thursday seance, Lillian spoke to me as fol
lows, "Betty, it makes me so nervous to see you riding
horseback. You know what happened to me. I do not
want anything to happen to you. I watched every step
your horse took over those rough trails." I interrupted
with, "Do you see any trouble ahead for me Lillian,
any accident?" She replied, "No, I do not see any trou
ble, but we cannot always see, and it makes me very
nervous." So I said, "Well dear, if you feel that
way I will never ride again, as much as I enjoy it.
I enjoy more making things easier for you in your
mind, at least I can do this for you." So I have never
ridden since.
Sometimes we had with us, on a Thursday evening,
Madame Fausta Mengerini, the Italian sculptress. Her
100
OUR SECOND SEASON
people come and speak to her in Italian. Her father
shows great interest in her work. He advises and en
courages her, and her mother comes with great love
and interest for her.
An uncle of mine, Marvin H. Leavens, speaks to
us quite often. Once he said, "Say, Bessie, this is just
like old times, when we used to come to your house.
Those were good old times, when the family all got to
gether. George speaks to you often, Julia also speaks
to you. Julia likes to sing that old song, 'The Ivy
Green.' Hello, Harry ! Do you remember our luncheons
at the Hardware Club ?"
Mr. Drouet's mother often says, "It is so nice to
visit here in your home."
In speaking of other seances father has told us of
what he sees being done. One night he said to us, "I
want to find out why it is that you can only hear us
speak to you when Miss Tafe is in the room, or some
other medium? Every one has the potentialities of a
medium, the same as every one can learn to play a
piano. It is an undeveloped faculty. I don't see why
you people sitting here so regularly cannot develop the
power within yourselves. Children are natural mediums
until they reach the age when they become conscious
of being laughed at or rebuked. You have heard chil
101
STATION ASTRAL
dren conversing with unseen people, that is unseen to
you. People think it is imaginary, when really it is
psychic."
Some one asked him if this wasn't a form of radio,
only a faster vibration than we use. He replied, "It
seems to me as if a medium was like an antenna, you
do not know what happens to your earth radio mes
sages between the time they leave the broadcast and
their reception on your radio, neither do we know
what happens when we speak. Can you see me? No?
That is because I am vibrating so much faster than you
are. Take an electric fan, when it is slowed down you
can see all the blades, but when it is going at full
speed you cannot distinguish them, and that is the
way with us. I can see you all very plainly, there is no
darkness in this room for us, and I can see colors,—
this lady has blue eyes." Father had never seen the
person before, proving that he could see plainly.
Sometimes when we have had strangers, dad would
say, "This is my room you are sitting in, and the lady
with the gray hair is sitting in my chair. You know
this is the room I passed out in, as did mother."
These voices are so natural, so like the person we
loved or knew, that if the voices themselves were mere
whispers, we would know who it was by their charac
102
OUR SECOND SEASON
teristics, for after all, it is what people say that counts,
not merely the tone; if one had a cold the voice would
become very changed. I wonder that the voices come
to us with an intonation at all, but they are as individ
ual from the astral plane as they were when speaking
on the earth plane, and the laughter from them is the
same as ours, only I think a lot more genuine.
103
CHAPTER VI
PLANNING A CHANGE
ONE
day, about the last of January, thirty-one, I
was trying to find some way of amusing Mr.
Drouet, who was at home with a bad cold, —you all
know what it means to have a man home, sick,—when
I happened to think of a set of plans of a penthouse
apartment, recently sent to me. I had not looked them
over, in fact was about to throw them out, when I
thought they might take his mind from his bad tonsil.
They evidently did, for when he had carefully ex
amined them, he found, not only a suitable living space,
but a glorious terrace, and best of all, a studio for me
in the tower.
As this building was in construction, we were not
able to visit the apartment in which we were interested,
we could only view the building from the ground. But
when we spoke of it at the next Thursday sitting, the
family was so enthusiastic about
it,
we were surprised.
They, of course, could see what we were not able to
see. They told us of the wonderful view, the sun and air
up there, and how good
it
would be for me, and how in
104
PLANNING A CHANGE
spirational for all the forces to work there, as the
vibrations would be new and created by them and us, —
especially they stressed the value of the studio.
Now, on the strength of all this, and being pleased
with it ourselves, we naturally signed the lease for the
place. It was not until some time in May that we were
able to go up on the top floor and see what we had
leased, but we were not disappointed, for it was just as
our spirit friends had described it to us. I must not for
get to tell you that our spirit friends named the new
home for us,—they called
it,
"The Temple in the Sky."
They have called
it
that ever since. The name may be
suitable for them, but
I
found
it
a
little too suggestive
for note paper, so
I
call
it,
"Skyward Studio."
Lately we heard
a
man say in one of the seances,
speaking from the spirit world, "This Temple in the
Sky
is
as well known to the people in the spirit world, as
Carnegie Hall
is
known to the people in New York
City."
We are often amused, when we are speaking of the
"spirits," to hear Dr. Clarke say, "Why do you call us
spirits
?
You are just as much spirits as we are, in fact
more so. You are the ghosts to us. We walk right
through you."
But in writing this book,
I
think
it
is
easier for you
105
STATION ASTRAL
to differentiate between the natural body and the spirit
ual body, if I refer to those who have passed over as
spirits.
One night some one asked Dr. Clarke how the spirit
people knew when we were going to hold a seance? In
replying, he said, "When you gather here for this pur
pose, it is as if a great flare was sent up into the sky,
and it is seen for great distances, not distances as you
judge them, but as we commute them, and all the souls
know there is going to be a door opened, and they gather
around. It is just as if they were in a huge stadium look
ing down a long funnel at you sitting there in your
room. There are thousands of souls gathered about us
here tonight, hoping some one who loves them has come
to this place to hear from them. You have no idea how
disappointed they are when they realize no one seeks
them. That is why, when our power is gone, you must
close your meeting, for these souls are so anxious to get
through that they will push in and use your medium.
The wall we build about you is not strong enough to
hold them back after the power has been used. As these
people are not always desirable, it is unwise to permit
them in."
As I continue looking through my note book I see a
few interesting notations. One afternoon I was holding
1 06
PLANNING A CHANGE
a seance for several ladies, who could not come in the
evening, and as one of them had recently lost her mother,
I was hoping she might receive a message. But nothing
came to her until we heard a voice say, "This is .
Your mother has been trying to talk, but she can't seem
to do
it,
so
I
said, 'Here, give me that horn, and
I
will
see what
I
can do.'
" This was the voice of my friend's
father-in-law. He then continued with some remarks
of
a
personal nature. There was another lady present
who had lost
a
daughter, and she had been so un
happy wondering, "Where
is
she," that
I
had asked
her to come and find out. And the daughter came and
spoke both to her mother and to me, mentioning names
of relatives and friends sufficiently evidential to prove
her knowledge of many previous happenings. We had at
another sitting
a
lady who was very anxious to have her
husband help her with some business difficulties. She
kept asking him about various things, finally he told
her, "Tell me exactly what you want me to do, that will
be
a
positive thought for me to work upon, and
I
may
be able to help you, but
I
cannot do much for you until
you give me this positive thought."
Mr. Drouet had
a
birthday about this time and
it
happened to fall on
a
Thursday, but we did not mention
it
to any one and waited to see what would happen.
107
STATION ASTRAL
Hardly had Sunshine opened the meeting before she
began calling to her Uncle Harry, "Pretty birthday
wishes, Uncle Harry, happy birthday." Following her,
each one wished him happy returns of the day and the
entire sitting developed into a birthday party.
You can readily understand how a mother, or sister,
or daughter, desiring to hear again from a loved one,
but having a husband or father who is not a believer in
psychic things, want to come and see if she will get
any message. And the same with husbands, when their
wives are opposed to it. It seems such a pity that there
is not enough tolerance between man and wife to allow
a perfect freedom in these matters. One of the things I
have learned from these communications
is,
get the
other fellow's perspective on life, then perhaps you can
be of service to him.
I
would like to speak again about the work continuing
in my studio.
It
was now April.
I
had had only two sit
tings for the bust of Dr. Tomkins, so while
I
was waiting
for him to give me more,
I
was trying to finish the
three figures on which
I
had been working during this
time.
One day, when
I
was working on the diving girl,
I
suddenly left that work, and walking over to the Diana,
1
08
PORTRAIT BUST OF REV. ARTHUR FORD
By Bessie Clarke Drouet
Exhibited at the Forty-first Annual Exhibition of the National
Association of Women Painters and Sculptors, 1932
SEANCES IN "TEMPLE IN THE SKY"
many a night I rolled myself up in a blanket and slept
on the ground ; but things are different now."
There was a lady with us that evening who had lived
at Appomattox, and she mentioned it to the General,
who instantly said: "Is that so? I certainly remember
Appomattox very well."
In speaking of this communication from General
Grant, later, to a friend, he said, "Don't you know it is
a historical fact that 'Yankee Doodle' was the only tune
General Grant could carry?"
If I remember correctly, Madame Mengarini was
with us that same night. Although her father generally
speaks in Italian to her, he is able to speak in the Eng
lish language; he was interested in advising her about
personal matters. His voice was followed by a voice
which none of us could understand. Several times the
spirit voice tried to identify itself. Finally we heard a
terrific voice exclaim, "Christo." I suppose he had be
come as impatient with us, as we sometimes get when
we are not understood, and he did not hesitate to
show it.
We are coming now to the time when Mrs. Anne
Lloyd joined our group. She was just back from her
summer home at Bellport, and very anxious to come
137
STATION ASTRAL
and hear, for herself, the communications I had re
ported to her during the summer.
She was so intensely interested that first night of
her sitting with us, for she had never had any experi
ence whatever along psychic lines ; but her affectionate
nature and enthusiasm brought to her many loving
friends and relatives.
It always pleases us, when we find a new sitter is
filled with love and understanding, for it means that
many souls on the astral plane will have great joy ; they
are going to be able to speak, and speak well. And so it
was with Mrs. Lloyd, —the voices began coming in im
mediately.
Charles Field, her first husband, was one of the first
to speak. Can you imagine his emotion and joy? Since
then, he has proved of great help in the circle, with his
words of kindness and helpfulness. Then her present
husband's first wife came and told Mrs. Lloyd how
happy she (Grace) was that Tom was so happy; and
she also has become a frequent speaker here, especially
when her husband is present.
We were all surprised and interested, at this point, to
hear a man's voice say, "Elmer A Sperry; this is the
greatest moment of my life, touching earth plane
again. All my experiments are as nothing compared to
138
SEANCES IN "TEMPLE IN THE SKY"
this great experience." Mrs. Lloyd said, "Why, Mr.
Sperry, this is so lovely to have you speak to us; is
Mrs. Sperry with you ?" Mr. Sperry replied, "Yes, Zula
and Lawrence are both here with me." Then as Mr.
Drouet said, "Are you Mr. Sperry, the Gyroscope
man?" "I am, the same Sperry," he answered. It wasn't
long before we heard a lady's voice saying, "This is
Mrs. Sperry, Mrs. Lloyd ; we are so glad to speak to
you. Lawrence is here ; perhaps he may speak to you."
Later in the meeting, Lawrence Sperry did speak to
us. Mr. Sperry has become one of our most interesting
and powerful speakers since that time. His voice was
strong and firm, and has continued to have a great deal
of power. I remember how pleased Mrs. Lloyd was that
evening, because Mr. Sperry spoke of a token which
she had given him at the hospital before he passed over,
which was very evidential. As Mrs. Lloyd has written
an unusual tribute in Mr. Sperry's honor, I will enclose
it in this book :
ELMER AMBROSE SPERRY
"Bring your homage and heap it high over the quiet grave
Of this mighty man of science, whom science has failed
to save.
139
STATION ASTRAL
Stand bareheaded beside him now and murmur a thank
ful prayer
To the Greatest-of-all-Inventors who fashioned him out
of the air !
Now he's developing searchlights longer than comets'
tails !
Turning them one day earthward to learn if our zeal
prevails —
Now he's absorbed in the "gyro" that balances Venus
and Mars!
Studying compasses steering infinite course of stars !
Now he's designing detectors for flaws in the path of
the sun!
Riding the sky-rails with caution lest he should miss the
least one!
Now he has found the horizon that steadies celestial
wings !
At last he is taking dimensions of far, mysterious
things !
His memory blossoms like flowers in air, on land, at sea !
Indelibly stamped upon nations the seal of his wizardry !
And who are we to withhold him from mastering heav
enly love
Concerning the swing of a planet, or flight of a meteor !"
At this point, let me speak of hearing the voice of
Daniel Chester French. The night he came to us and
140
SEANCES IN "TEMPLE IN THE SKY"
identified himself, saying: "This is Daniel Chester
French," his dead body was reposing in his studio at
Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Immediately following his
remarks, mother came in saying, "I brought Mr.
French here tonight, to show him it was possible to
speak to earth again ; he will speak to you later."
Mr. Drouet and I were in Lenox and Stockbridge
the day of Mr. French's funeral. On our way from Bos
ton to Lenox, we had stopped for a moment in Con
cord, to view anew Daniel Chester French's "Minute
Man." While I was gazing at that figure, I was thinking
of Mr. French, and how he had spoken to us, when
we were in New York, while his natural body still re
posed far away in Massachusetts. My mother had writ
ten a martial poem, taking as a subject this statue of
the "Minute Man," and Mr. French had autographed
a picture of his "Minute Man," and this picture is used
among the illustrations of mother's book of poems.
At the last sitting for Mr. Ford's head, Fletcher
said: "There is a sculptor here, who says his name is
Daniel French; he tells me you were in Stockbridge
the day of his funeral ; he wants to tell you that he was
very pleased with his funeral, it was so artistic. He
tells me he passed over while at work, and when he
saw himself lying there, he thought he looked like a
141
STATION ASTRAL
piece of his own sculpture, and he wanted to go over
and pat himself on the forehead."
At this same sitting, Fletcher told me his own fam
ily history. He said he belonged to a family in Quebec.
His uncle, giving me his name, was a priest in a church
at Quebec, naming the church. As his family objected
to his use of the family name, he used his middle name,
Fletcher. "Have you ever been in Quebec?" he asked
me. "When you go there, please go and see my uncle,
and tell him I sent you."
Houdon gave me a final criticism on Mr. Ford's
head, which I followed.
It does not seem strange to me to know and converse
with these people, whom I did not know when they lived
on earth. I certainly feel as well acquainted with
Fletcher, or Bobby, or Sunshine, or Dr. Harry Smith,
or Forrest Goodhue, as I do with any friends I know
here. I know the real characters of these spirit friends.
I know their hopes and their sorrows. I know what
brings a great deal of happiness into their spiritual life,
and what depresses them. I know that they are most
appreciative of the slightest act of thoughtfulness on
our part, and that they are anxious to assist us, to cheer
us, and to protect us. To me there is no difference in
the friendship I give to John B., or to Forrest, his
142
SEANCES IN "TEMPLE IN THE SKY"
father; to me they are both souls seeking light, and
companionship, and love.
We are coming now to the time when Maina Tafe
was taken with acute appendicitis, and while she was
in the hospital, and for several weeks afterward, we
were without our happy gatherings on Thursday nights.
Some of us tried to keep the nights for the loved ones
by sitting by ourselves, and doing everything as usual ;
that is, reciting the Lord's Prayer, singing, and hoping,
of course, that the dear ones could see and know we
were there to greet them as usual.
143
CHAPTER X
A SPECIAL SEANCE
DURING
the period of Maina's illness, there were
many people, not aware of
it,
who were asking
if
they might come to us for
a
Thursday seance.
One day, Mr. Francis Fast, as thoughtful as ever,
telephoned to me, saying that Mr. William E. Hart,
and his working companion, Mr. Clark, were down at
the American Society for Psychical Research, and
if
I
wanted to hold
a
sitting with him, he could arrange
it
for me at my house. Francis knows
I
prefer all my
experiences, as far as possible, to take place within
our own home.
This Mr. Hart
is
a
very powerful direct voice
medium from Indianapolis, Indiana, and was in town
for only
a
short time.
I
gathered together fourteen people, mostly strangers
to psychic matters, some here in New York from other
cities, but all hoping to get some comfort and evidence.
When Mr. Hart came to our house,
I
asked him
about his Guides and his way of working, and he said
one of his Guides was Professor Rush. "Professor
Rush always closes my sittings," he remarked.
I
said,
144
A SPECIAL SEANCE
"I wonder if he will in this house. You know my father,
Dr. Clarke, always closes the meetings here."
Mr. Hart was very positive that it would make no
difference where he was holding a seance, his condi
tions remained the same. I laughed, saying, "Wait and
see who will close the meeting here. You do not know
my father."
We darkened the room, as usual, and in the center
of the circle, we stood a small table, and on this placed
a block of paper, a pencil, and a bell.
After the lights were out, we began to notice very
strong lights floating about the room. There was one
light exactly like a large illuminated ruby. It floated
about for several seconds, and I think nearly every one
could see it. A little later, the bell was taken from
the table and vigorously rung. Then we began to hear
voices, three or four speaking at once; but this condi
tion was cleared up presently, as we could not carry
on a satisfactory conversation with so many.
Nearly every one received some message from a rela
tive or friend. I remember so well, we all nearly
jumped out of our chairs, when a huge voice ex
claimed, "Hello, hello, hello !" It was so loud it blasted
on our ears. It continued with, "This is Smith talking.
I have been talking through these horns for the past
145
STATION ASTRAL
sixty years. I come from the West. Say, Mr. Drouet,
I heard you talking with Mr. Wood; you are in the
insurance business. Well, I don't know much about
the insurance business. In my time, out where I came
from, we didn't think much of insurance. Say, Mrs.
Drouet, would you like me to come in here some time
and speak at your regular meetings, or am I too crude ?"
I replied, "You had better ask Dr. Clarke about that,
as he is in charge of our sittings. Any one he admits
is welcome." Then he said : "Good-by, good-by, good-
by," starting with a full, loud tone, and easing down
to a soft tone.
Mr. Wood spoke, again, to Mr. Drouet, telling him
that this man Smith had told him that he was a tramp
spirit, who went around to many seances.
Dr. Clarke spoke to us, telling about Maina Tafe's
condition. He said that all the healing bands were
at her side, and that she was doing exceptionally
well. He also said that they were able to assist in the
healing of the wound, as well as in the operation itself,
and for us not to worry; she would be all right, and
back with us before very long.
I recall, distinctly, how an elderly man's voice spoke
to a young musician present, saying, "This is your
uncle." The young man replied, "I do not wish to talk
146
A SPECIAL SEANCE
to you; I want to talk with my maestro." The uncle
was so hurt, because he was not welcome, that we heard
him say: "Oh, dear, dear, dear, he does not want to
speak to me, and this is the first time I have ever had
a chance to speak to earth." A very strong voice was
then heard directly in front of this young man, saying :
"Your maestro will not speak with you to-night; you
do not deserve it."
Dr. Harry Smith was the next one heard, with his
great love permeating the entire conversation. He is
such a sympathetic spirit that we look forward to his
messages.
Suddenly, we all heard the rustling of paper, then
a noise like a pencil writing upon
it,
when presently
Mr. Drouet exclaimed, "Some one has just put
a
sheet
of paper in my lap."
When the seance was over, Mr. Drouet read for us
these words which had been written upon the paper
placed in his lap
:
"Success
is
right at hand. Ed Wood."
This seance had given us an opportunity to talk
with our friends, after the weeks without Maina, and
it
helped
;
so we were sorry when
it
was over.
It
made
us all the more anxious to begin our regular sittings
again.
I
just wish to add that Dr. Clarke closed the
meeting in his customary way.
147
CHAPTER XI
AUTOMATIC MESSAGES FROM MOTHER
HILE we were without the happiness and stimu-
T T ation of our regular Thursday seances, I often
felt the urge to take up my pencil and let mother write
for me. It was a great comfort, getting these lines from
the spirit world, through myself, for now I was sure
that they came directly from my mother. They were
so like her in expression, and her love permeated every
word she wrote.
My experience with automatic writing makes me
wish every one would try to cultivate this mode of
receiving spirit messages. I think it is quite possible
for almost any one to accomplish this, if they are filled
with an unselfish desire to assist the ones beyond their
sight, and have sufficient patience to sit quietly, and
give the spirit forces plenty of time to get within their
vibration, so they can demonstrate.
In the beginning of the book, I explained just how
automatic writing is received, the position of the
hand and arm, and how to hold the pencil. Sometimes
it takes quite a long period to develop this power,
148
AUTOMATIC MESSAGES FROM MOTHER
other times it comes when a person first tries; you
never know until you try what will happen.
There are so many of my readers who have no op
portunities of sitting with developed mediums, that I
am stressing this method for reception of messages.
Remember, your spirit friends are close to you, and
only waiting for you to open the door.
I will copy one little letter, from mother, so you
can see the thoughts she sends to me. These letters are
very simple, and natural, the same one would receive
if a mother was only in the next town.
"Bessie, darling, just a special word to tell you, dear,
I love you now even more than I did while I was on
earth, because I understand you better now, and be
cause you send me so much love and helpful thought.
Your father and I are trying to be of use here, and
we are so proud of you and Harry, and Fred, for
opening the door, not only for us, but for so many
others. Oh, Bessie, if you could see the poor souls as
they come in here, it is pitiable. We understand, now,
so much more about assisting them to help themselves.
Your prayers help us wonderfully in this assistance,
which we render; always keep on praying. We will
await your coming with great love and hope. But you
must work there until that time comes, and we will
149
STATION ASTRAL
help here, it is the only thing to do, work and wait for
others. I love you dearly, my daughter, very dearly.
Mother, Mary Emma Davison Clarke."
Just before Christmas time, mother said she wished
to write a Christmas Greeting, and asked me to get
ready to take it. So one day I felt she was urging me,
and this is what I received, automatically :
"Bessie darling, will you take my Christmas Greet
ings to you and Harry, and Fred, and dear Dr.
Tomkins and all my dear friends who sit with you so
often?"
CHRISTMAS GREETINGS
"Now that Xmas joy is near
Do try to think of us, so dear,
To you; we try to speak, we hear
You ask us questions of the 'Here,'
And always do we hope to be
Of joy and comfort, give you free
The truth, that God is near,
Is good, is full of cheer
For everyone who knows the truth.
In after life come joyful days,
Days so full of peace and hope,
To us, so full of joy and peace,
150
AUTOMATIC MESSAGES FROM MOTHER
I long to tell each and all
About the life in spheres above.
We find the greatest joy in work,
So strong are we, through prayers of yours,
Life is full of earnest thought,
And needs, that bring great mercy through
To souls, whose birth on planes above
Is strange, and they in darkness move,
While other souls bring into light
Their conscious mind, which tells them all
That life keeps on, as did before,
It only finds a greater scope.
To motivate their idle hours
We find some active service here,
Place them at some especial work.
Oh Friends, so dear, so true, so close,
We tell you oft how near we come,
Trusting you feel our nearness, too,
For love is such a powerful thing
It makes us vibrate at a pace
That dims the radiance of the stars.
When we hear you speak our names,
And feel the love you send abroad,
We live again in joy and peace,
Knowing from loved ones we're not barred.
151
STATION ASTRAL
Good cheer, sweet thoughts for Xmas time,
Sweet peace unto you all we send.
Earth is a sphere on which you've learned
That death is not the end."
Mary Emma Davison Clarke.
152
CHAPTER XII
MAINA TAFE's RETURN
BUT
it was not until January 7th that Maina came
back to us, feeling rather weak but anxious for
us to resume our Thursdays, as she understood how
much we had missed those wonderful evenings with
out our astral friends.
Not only had Maina been through the misfortune of
an operation, but during that period her mother passed
into the beyond.
We gathered this night, our first after several weeks,
with great thankfulness in our hearts that our medium
had been spared to us. All the astral forces came in and
welcomed her back, also, expressing their happiness for
her recovery, and telling her about her mother's present
condition.
I see in my notes that it was at this meeting that Mr.
Wood explained to us how he came to be in our vibra
tion, and so became a regular visitor at our home.
After Mr. Wood had announced himself, Mr. Drouet
asked, "How did you happen to find me, Mr. Wood?
I knew you by sight, and of course by reputation, but
153
STATION ASTRAL
you did not know me. I have seen you at our conven
tions, but I don't remember ever having met you per
sonally, so you couldn't remember me."
It was intensely interesting to hear the reply, as fol
lows : "Don't you remember that last spring you and
Mrs. Drouet went down to Atlantic City to attend the
Managers' Convention? Well, Mrs. Wood, as you
know, was there also. You all attended a dinner at the
country club given by Mr. Homans, and during the
evening Mrs. Wood seated herself beside you and Mrs.
Drouet and began talking to both of you. I was stand
ing right beside Mrs. Wood, and your sister Lillian was
standing beside you. She said to me, 'Have you ever
talked back to the earth plane?' Surprised, I replied,
'No, have you?' Then she said, 'Why, yes, many
times. You don't think it is possible, but it is. If you
will come with me some time to my brother's home I
will show you how it is done, and perhaps you can
speak to him yourself.' I was very much interested,
especially as you were in the same business as myself.
I felt perhaps I would be more in your vibrations than
in those of a person who was not interested in the same
things as myself. So I told her I would like to come and
try, and that is how I met you."
Ever since Mr. Sperry first spoke to us he has
154
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
never lost an opportunity to give some helpful thoughts.
Tonight, after a few personal remarks, some one asked
him about his activities, to which he replied, "The scope
of our activity is the universe, and our time to plan is
eternity."
John B. was sitting with us this evening and his
father, Forrest, spoke to him in his usual helpful way.
It seems John was trying to open his mind in order to
receive impressions from his father. He said, "Father,
I ask you questions, when I am alone, do you hear
me?" Forrest replied, "Yes, I get your thoughts, but
it is hard for you to clear your mind sufficiently for me
to get my answers through to you. I think it will be a
good idea if you will plan to ask me your questions
just as you are going to sleep, then forget them, and
go to sleep. While you are asleep I may be able to im
press your mind with my thoughts, and when you
waken you will be conscious of my answers."
Forrest is always interested in everything his son is
doing. They discuss their everyday affairs the same as
any earthly father tries to direct his son. But in the case
of Forrest he has a greater perspective than any earthly
father. He never tells John to do this or that. In fact,
he insists that John live his life, and make all his own
155
STATION ASTRAL
decisions about things. But he is always ready with any
help for which John may ask.
This is what happens in the case of Madame Men-
garini. Although her father is eager to assure her of
his nearness, and love and interest, for fear of weaken
ing her powers of decision he never urges her to act
according to his ideas, so he is often greatly concerned
about her decisions.
Dr. Clarke, always speaks at these meetings, as you
already know, but this evening he addressed most of his
conversation directly to Maina, speaking about the de
tails of her operation, how the forces attended that
operation, and the part they played, and he also spoke
of her mother, whom he had met recently, in the spirit
world. Following father's voice, we were greatly puz
zled at hearing, what was evidently a child's voice,
speaking in a language unknown to us. Finally, I
made out a word which sounded like "Shohe." This
name was repeated several times, when suddenly, it
dawned upon me, that "Shohe" was the name of a little
Japanese boy, the child of some very dear Japanese
friends of ours, who had died several years ago. So I
said "Papa, Mamma," and the child said, "Hideshigi,
Hideshigi, Kyota," and following this the voice re
peated, "Yusuke, Ichiro, Ichiro."
156
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
I recognized the family names of the father and
mother and the two brothers, but could not understand
anything else. After the voice stopped speaking, father
returned, saying, "That was Mrs. Kashiwagi's little
baby boy, the baby who died while they were living in
New York. He has been here several times before,
but this is the first time he has been able to speak. I
hope you will tell the Kashiwagis that their dear little
boy is well and happy, and is very close to them, and
knows what Yusuke and Ichiro are doing at school."
One evening as I was drawing the curtains in the
different rooms in the house, preparatory to our sitting,
I said to Mr. Drouet, "Why don't we sit in the living
room some time? That room is larger, more open, and
easier to darken." I had noticed that the room was per
fectly dark when I had drawn the curtains, while in
the library it was necessary to pin up an extra shade to
obtain complete darkness.
That evening we asked Sunshine what she thought
about
it,
and she said, "I think
it
will be just delicious,"
a
word she was in the habit of using at times when she
was especially pleased about something.
From now on, let me group
a
few sittings, giving
you only the things of especial interest.
We arranged our living room for the next seance,
157
STATION ASTRAL
and I shall never forget how much stronger the voices
sounded. When father spoke to us he said, "That Sun
shine is a foxy little girl. She asked me if I wanted
to hold the seances in the living room, and I said, 'No,
I like the library, and all the arrangements there. We
are accustomed to those vibrations, and why change?'
Then she said, 'Oh, Doctor, won't you try just once
and see if it is any better?' And now that I have tried
it I see at once that this room is much better. In the
first place, the room is larger, and as you are all sur
rounded by your own auras, extending out about two
feet away from your bodies, and as we, the spirit
forces, are also surrounded by atmospheric conditions,
we need a greater space to work in. So you see, Sun
shine knew, if she persuaded me to try it once, I would
see the advantages. She is pretty cute."
From that time on we continued in the living room,
and it is quite noticeable, that even if a voice is low, it
is generally distinct.
Mr. Wood's voice is so very loud that he can be heard
out in the entrance hall, and one evening, when Uncle
Jack Reilly visited us anew, his voice was tremendous.
He was very humorous, for when some one asked him
if he would like to be back here on earth with us in the
flesh, he replied, "Goodness no, back there to bills, and
158
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
troubles of the flesh ? Never ! Say, I like this 'Temple in
the Sky' so much better than your old place. Not so
many people jumping out of the windows here, are
there, or other suicides? Mrs. Drouet, your father is
kept pretty busy with the suicides you send to him for
his care." This was true about the suicides, for when
we were living at 57th Street, there were several sui
cides in the house. I recall vividly having an experi
ence.
One morning, as I was going out of the front en
trance of the house, the huge body of a man fell upon
the pavement, directly in front of me. Although un
known to me, this person was a resident in my apart
ment building. My first reaction was, "Come quickly,
Father, and care for this soul in distress !" I then
passed on about my own business, leaving the curious
to stare and wonder.
Upon my return to the house, the elevator boy asked,
"Did you know J W jumped out of his win
dow?" I said, "I saw the accident, but I didn't know
who it was."
Later in the day a friend of mine living in the house,
and knowing my experiences in spiritism, asked me
if I would go upstairs and see the suicide's widow. I
was not surprised to find her prostrate, but she was very
159
STATION ASTRAL
receptive of my help. She told me that, as her husband
leaped from the window, he had said, "I am going to my
mother."
Two weeks later, in a seance, father remarked,
"You know that man, J W , (calling him
by name), is not with his mother, as he thought he
would be, but is in a sorry state. However, we will try
to help him. You have learned when a person breaks a
natural law, he has to pay for it. Suicide is the
breaking of a natural law. If people only realized this
they would hesitate, because they get themselves into
greater depths than they had ever dreamed possible."
Several months later, father spoke again of this sui
cide, saying, "J W is getting on better than we
had hoped, but he is not with his mother, as he desired.
You know who I mean —the man who jumped from a
window in your house last November."
As I had no remembrance of the month, I had to
verify it later.
While I am on this subject of suicide, I will mention
another man in the same house, who committed suicide
after we had moved away. I knew this man, and as I
considered his act an unselfish one, I hoped his fate
would be less sad. When I asked father to help him,
he said, "You should see him now, he is not the jolly,
160
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
handsome fellow you knew. The corners of his eyes and
mouth are drooping. He is a sorry sight. But we are
trying to help him. If you see his wife tell her we are
caring for him, and ask her to pray for his enlighten
ment."
As we proceed, you, my reader, will realize how futile
is suicide. The one thing our friends from the astral
plane wish to impress upon their friends here, is the
fact that nothing is gained through suicide. There is no
oblivion ; there is no release from responsibilities ; every
one must continue. If they throw themselves into the
depths of the utter darkness of remorse, and regrets,
how can they release themselves without help ? On this
side, that
is,
the earth plane, we must try to keep our
friends from thinking of suicide; in other words, try
to keep their minds normal, but
if
they will not listen,
we must help them afterwards with constructive
prayers.
Along this line I'll repeat
a
message which came to
me one evening from
a
man who has spoken several
times at our seances, "Mrs. Drouet, this
is
,
will
you do something for me?
I
am very much worried
about my wife. She has thoughts of suicide in her
mind. You realize what
a
calamity
it
would be
if
she
carried out her plans. She and
I
would not be together,
161
STATION ASTRAL
as she hopes. It might be eons before we could see each
other again, and she would wreck all of our happi
ness, as well as that of many others. Will you go to her
and impress upon her the futility of this act ? I beg you
to for my sake,—for all our sakes — Don't let her know
I am speaking to you of her, but tell her I told you how
terrible a thing is suicide."
I delivered this message, and some months afterwards
the wife told me that she had planned, in detail, to do this
very thing.
Speaking about these unpleasant matters reminds me
of the evening we heard for the first time from my
grandfather. This man, during his earth life, was a
minister. Tonight his voice came through like a
preacher, loud and strong, saying, "Bessie, this is
Grandpa Davison. I only wish I had known during my
lifetime on earth what I know now. The Judgment Day
is the day you pass into this life; then you are your own
judge of all your past acts. There is not a throne where
you stand and confess your sins, you see a memory pic
ture of them, and this picture is what makes your
Heaven or Hell. We have not interpreted the Scriptures
aright. Our transition is immediate. We are the same
people here as we were there until we learn the lesson
of a selfless life."
162
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
Then one night we were given about the same impres
sions from a Rabbi. His experiences were so different
from what he had expected, that he wanted to tell us
about them in a helpful way.
This reminds me that when the Reverend Lyman
Rollins was speaking to us, he tried to emphasize the
fact that when a man passes over, he is, at that mo
ment, the same man in every respect that he was before
he died. The fact that a man continues with the same
opinions, and the same desires, should emphasize the
point that here on this plane we should be very careful
both in our thoughts and desires.
Another point often impressed upon us, is this : "It is
necessary that one should have desire, because, in the
spirit world, progression depends entirely upon the indi
vidual desire. Without desire for development, the
spiritual man stagnates, and there are millions of souls
here on the astral plane who are simply floating about,
because of that very lack of desire, to do, to be."
I would like to speak now of the time when Mrs.
Goodhue first joined our circle. I think it was on Janu
ary twenty-first that she held her first interesting, con
structive conversation with her husband, Forrest. Her
Aunt Alpha, her father and others also spoke to her that
night, and these people have added much to the interest
163
STATION ASTRAL
of the circle. As she has written a letter to me containing
her reactions to her experiences, I am going to include
it in the book, just as she has written
it,
since
it
tells her
story much better than
I
could ever hope to do
:
My dear Mrs. Drouet
:
You were very kind to ask me to tell my experiences
and reactions to the seances which
I
have had the happy
privilege of attending in your home.
I
will try to tell
you all, from the very beginning, and
if
there
is
anything
which you think will help others to understand, you are
free to use
it.
When a friend told me last summer of having been
to
a
direct voice seance at your house, she could have
been speaking Greek for all that
it
conveyed to me.
I
had
almost never heard of Spiritualism, and the little
I
had
heard had caused me to associate
it
in my mind with
fortune-telling and such things that most women feel
a
sort of curiosity about, without really attaching much
importance to them. But when
I
was told in the utmost
earnestness that one heard the voices of the family
and friends who had departed from our human sight,
I
could hardly believe it. And when
I
really understood
that not only could you hear them, but any one else in
the room could also,
I
was more than ever pushed to the
164
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
point of unbelief. Was it really possible that by any
means whatsoever one could actually converse with those
who had passed through the experience we call death?
In October, when my son John B. came here to
school, his friend took him to your house. Afterward
he told me in the greatest excitement, his experiences.
I could very easily understand his interest, for to me it
was the most intensely interesting thing of which I had
ever heard. But he was also emotionally upset and
frankly, I did not quite understand that. What I did
not realize at the moment was that he had never really
known just what he did think of death. He had surely
hoped that his father was somewhere, in some sort of
state of consciousness, but he had never been sure. And
the certainty, after nearly three years, was a relief.
As matters stood at that time I had no opportunity to
go with him to a seance, and for a number of months
I had it all relayed to me through him. He fell into the
habit of telling me in the most minute detail what was
said each time. Naturally, I watched him very closely to
see just what effect this interest was having on him. For
I think any one will agree with me that if they knew as
little as I of this subject, they would be a little concerned
for it's effect on an eighteen-year-old boy. But let me
say right here that the only way he was influenced by
165
STATION ASTRAL
the experiences was so decidedly beneficial that I became
ever more curious to go and see for myself what I
thought of it.
My opportunity came on the twenty-first of January.
Even though John B. had told me so much, I found my
self quite unprepared for the experience. I am sure that
I had never fully grasped the fact that the voices were
as loud and distinct as they are, making it not only pos
sible for you to carry on a conversation with the person
who was there to speak to you personally, but also
that you could hear all of them, no matter to whom
they were talking.
Unlike many people, I had a very fair idea of the
next state of consciousness that one passes to after
death. And I was in no way skeptical as to the pos
sibility of communication with them, although my
own belief had never included that possibility until I
had heard so much from John B. of his talks with his
father, brother and other members of the family, as
well as friends.
But as one may believe that Rome is a beautiful city
from having heard travelers describe
it,
one never fully
realizes its beauty until they have had the experience
of going there themselves. And not once, but many
times. So
it
was with me.
It
is
quite impossible for me
1
66
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
to describe the way I felt. The things I had believed
all my life and tried so hard to understand, were sud
denly made so clear.
Ever since the loss of my youngest child, the boy
that you know as "Little Forrest," I had been con
vinced that those whom we lose are never very far
away from us, except as we put them away in our own
thought. It is nothing but our own deafness and blind
ness that make us lose them. This conviction came to
me in two ways. First I have always had the utmost
faith in the goodness of God, and I could not believe
that He would let us have a sweet baby, who had never
been anything but a joy, and then let us lose him. So if
God could not be blamed then surely it was our own
fault that we did not still realize his presence. Then
there were times when I very distinctly felt his near
ness. This latter is not an unusual experience, but is
common to all who have lost one near and dear. So my
first reaction to the evening's experience was one of
confirmation. My faith was proven! Not only were
they near, but very conscious of their nearness. We are
really the dead ones !
Let me quote from a diary that I keep at irregular
intervals. "Jan. 24th. On Thursday I went to the
Drouets with John B. and that really proved an ex
167
STATION ASTRAL
perience ! I do not know what I think of
it,
but
I
have
been trying to decide every moment since. That life
is
continuous,
I
am certain. That we lose people through
death
is
our own fault, due to our lack of understanding,
I
am certain. That we know enough to communicate
with them
Iam not perfectly certain of. But my whole
desire
is
to believe it. However, of this
I
am certain.
Truth can be proven and
if
this
is
true,
I
can prove
it." And
I
have been proving
it
ever since.
I
told of my reactions the first time, and then the
feeling of vague doubt after
a
few days. This
is,
I
believe,
a
very usual procedure. One may feel abso
lutely convinced the first time and yet after
a
day or
two the belief we have entertained all our lives (that
communication
is
impossible) will argue against it.
This
I
know, no one
is
in
a
position to say what they
think of the subject until they have been to numbers
of seances as well as read and thought very seriously
on it.
You understand that where
I
speak above of prov
ing the truth of this thing
I
had no feeling of doubting
Miss Tafe's honesty or earnestness. Nothing could
have been further from my thought. My feeling was
one of proving an abstract truth. That what
is
true
168
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
for one is true for all, the only difference being in
degree. Just as you understand the truth of harmony
in music. It is true because it can be demonstrated by
any one, though one may be able to make the demon
stration far more perfectly than another.
At this writing I have sat with your group sixteen
times. I have been to five or six lectures on the subject
by different people (Miss Tafe's class, Mr. Ford's
lectures and demonstrations, Dr. Glen Hamilton's lec
ture and Dr. Crandon's), and I have read numbers of
books on the subject. Long since I have proven the
truth of it to my own satisfaction. And the kind of
proof that my particular type of mind demanded was
to hear an audible voice when I was away from a
person who possesses that strange gift we call medium-
ship. Not that I was aware that I demanded that kind
of proof, but when, in February, I was busying myself
with some household duties one morning and a voice
spoke aloud to me in my own house with no medium
within miles, so far as I know, I knew that for me
it was proven true. True, the voice only called my
name and I was too startled to answer, but since then
I have known it to be so. The next time I was at
your house Forrest said to me, "I have made you hear
169
STATION ASTRAL
me at last. I have tried so often without success but
I knew you heard me that time because your eyes got
as big as saucers."
I hope no one asks me how I would have explained
the personalities and voices that I have heard if I had
not had this proof. For I assure you I can think of no
explanation that is not a thousand times more impos
sible to accept than the simple truth that the voices
are the personalities they claim to be. I, for one, have
arrived at that faith which was so perfectly expressed
by Mr. Wood recently when asked if that had really
been Michelangelo who had just spoken. He answered,
"He said he was." And there was no doubt in Mr.
Wood's feeling about the matter. He accepted it on
the man's word.
Of all the things that have impressed me about
those returning to us through the marvelous medium-
ship of Miss Tafe I feel most aware of the loving
kindness that is expressed. Each one comes with a
loving thought that we would do well to cultivate.
From Sunshine on down, it is our happiness of which
they are all thinking. I say "From Sunshine on down"
with reason. For her eagerness to help every one is the
most beautiful thing I have ever known. She is the per
170
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
feet example of unselfishness and love for all. A truly
radiant lttle being.
My communications with Forrest features more
prominently with me than any of the others for the
reason that so much misunderstanding has been over
come. It is always deplorable when people allow a home
to be broken up by petty differences and selfishness.
This is a very personal matter and I mention it only
in the hope that it will encourage others to be a little
more sympathetic and understanding in their home
lives. But since we did not know enough to overcome
our differences while we were within easy reach of one
another, I am at least very grateful to have had the
opportunity to come to a better understanding through
this means.
The first time I went to your house Forrest spoke to
me so lovingly that the last vestige of resentment was
wiped away. That probably accounts in some measure
for my emotional upset at that time. It was really
such a relief to have only pleasant and loving thoughts
for him again. That night he and Aunt Alpha were
both so sweet. She was always a great favorite of mine,
and it was such joy to talk to her again after more
than eighteen years.
171
STATION ASTRAL
One of the most interesting things that has ever come
to me from any one I have known here was what
"Little Forrest" said to John B. He said that he had
been skating with him. I tried to recall if he had been
able to skate before his passing twelve years ago. It
did not seem possible as he was so young at the time.
Then he said that it was on ice. That meant nothing
to me and I could not understand what he was talking
about, and John B. was as much in the dark as I was.
Then it deveoped that he was speaking of the last
Christmas holidays. There was such absolute proof
that the ones we think we have lost are not unaware of
us as we are of them. He had been as much with John
B. on that skating party as the other boys and girls
that John B. saw there.
This experience has caused me to watch my think
ing on that score many times, for I am convinced that
we make loss real to ourselves by thinking it. The
sooner we all realize that they are as near us after
the change as before, the sooner the world will be rid
of the awful grief we now suffer when one passes.
To recount the exact messages that have come to
me, personally, would be a bore to any one who had not
known the people, as they are all of a more or less
172
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
personal nature. But the thoughts they have awakened
in me might be of more interest to others.
I must say that early in my experiences I was some
what inclined to look on the state we passed to, after
our earth experience, as so much superior to this that
it seemed highly desirable to arrive there as soon as
possible. But that idea was shown to be wrong by later
developments. In the beginning I happened to hear only
from those who had lived this part well, and at least,
to the best of their ability. Having satisfactorily com
pleted this job, they were prepared to go on to better
things or rather, to greater understanding. It was
natural that they should find things better. But those,
who had not made the most of their chances here, were
in a state of confusion and doubt no better than most
of us suffer from here.
So I was finally forced to the understanding that
our conditions here or hereafter depend entirely on
ourselves. And that the only means we each and every
one have of influencing them is by thought. "Nothing
is either good or bad but thinking makes it so" has
been proven true for each of us at some time in our
experience. Every one has seen where the same posi
tion is good for one and very undesirable for another.
173
STATION ASTRAL
That shows that the way the individual thinks about
it is the whole thing. The actual position or experience
has nothing to do with it.
This reasoning has naturally led me to a more care
ful watching of my own thinking, to be sure that I
was entertaining as good thoughts on every subject
as my understanding made possible. Not just a super
ficial kind of cheer that was used as a cloak to hide
fear, but good thoughts based on reason. And by lis
tening to those who have passed on I am daily learn
ing to hold more helpful thoughts for myself and fel-
lowman. Not that I mean to say that I have arrived at
any noticeable state of perfection in so short a time.
Probably few would notice any change at all, but I do.
And I am assured that constantly holding any thought
in our consciousness causes it to materialize in our
experience.
It has constantly interested me that in the next state
all tend toward full maturity. My grandfather made this
very clear to me the first time he spoke to me. He
mentioned that Little Forrest was as grown up as John
B. And of course he passed over before he was six.
Later in the conversation my grandfather said some
thing about how active and young my grandmother
was now. And she was well over eighty when she went.
174
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
Children who pass over grow up and those who were
old "advance backwards." Surely, then, our own de
sire here is justified for we all hold as ideal the full
activity of maturity. Why will we not make more
effort to realize that ideal here and now? Thought
never aged one. Worry (which so often masquerades
as thought) does, but never good, wholesome, construc
tive thought. So they have helped me to live a bit more
sanely here. And that is a thing we are all most earnestly
seeking.
It was recently said to me, "What good is all this to
you? They can only prove to you that life is eternal."
But if every one of us could really know that, and
understand it even in the slightest degree, it would
revolutionize the world! I do not refer to hoping it
or just believing
it,
I
mean really understanding it.
What we understand we can use, and the least use of
this knowledge gives meaning to one's every thought
and act.
Many people seem to think there
is
something mor
bid or depressing about these meetings. To me they
are just the most joyful occasions.
I
think
I
can best
explain my feeling by likening them to an ideal school
that one had the rare privilege of attending. That
some of the "instructors" are ones very near and dear
175
STATION ASTRAL
just makes it all the more charming. In using this simile
I would not have any one think for a moment that
they are in the least inclined to teach or preach in the
sense we are inclined to use those words so often. It
is more in the sense of an exchange of ideas. But I must
say that I feel they have been able to give me much
more than I have had to return. The only thing I see
for me to do about that is to keep trying to be ever
more thoughtful and loving to others here.
The first time my father spoke to me he said some
thing which I think is very interesting. He was trying
to express his great gratitude and appreciation to you
and Mr. Drouet for providing a means for so many
on his plane to reach their dear ones on this. And he
said there were always greater crowds there on his side
than we would find at our finest concerts here. Then
he said to me "You know, here it is called The Temple
in the Sky." At that time I had never heard how your
home had been christened and given that name.
Perhaps others would be interested in knowing how
I feel about so many whom I have met at your house,
whom I never knew in earth life. Your father and
mother and Mr. Drouet's sisters, Lillian and Annie,
for instance. They have become my friends just as
much as you have. And the last time I was at your
176
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
house I was more pleased than you can imagine when
both your father and Annie called me Geraldine. It
showed that they felt the same way towards me. And
I have come to like Mr. Wood's gay and happy per
sonality so much that I always think of him as "Ed.
Wood" and really have to remind myself not to address
him in so familiar a manner. But he radiates such
friendliness that one can't help feeling that way about
him. Every one feels gayer the instant we hear his
strong voice say "Ed. Wood speaking."
Truths which we have always been taught have
taken on a deeper meaning for me with these experi
ences. For instance, humility has always been a rather
hard thing for me to see as a virtue. But it was that
I had not had the proper angle on the meaning until
Mr. Edison spoke there, after Mrs. Lloyd had recited
her beautiful poem about him. Instantly I saw humility
in its true light and knew why it was counted a virtue.
He had used his gifts for the glory of God and the
benefit of mankind, and he felt rather embarrassed at
being given personal credit for doing it. Not that he
said anything of the kind, but that it was so eloquently
expressed in the manner he had of saying his gracious
words of thanks.
Some little time ago a friend and I were discussing
177
STATION ASTRAL
this subject. Her experiences had been limited (she
had never sat in a direct voice seance) and she asked
if I found these communications as satisfactory as
talking to a person here, as she and I were talking then,
for instance. I would like to repeat here what I told
her, as others may ask the same thing. I am separated
from my family here by some twelve hundred miles.
Communication with them by letter is surely not as
satisfactory as talking would be, but I most certainly
do not scorn letters for that reason. And how much
more thrilled I would be to talk to them on the phone !
Though even that would not be as satisfactory as the
sustained conversation which would be possible were
we in the same room. And the talks I have had with
those who have passed beyond our sight seem compar
able to telephone conversations to me. Circumstances
over which we seem to have no control at present limit
their duration.
However, I am forced to the belief that just as the
telephone was in the early days of its use, this means
of communication is now. With acceptance and use it
will develop beyond our wildest hopes at present. Can
any one doubt it when they think of the telephone,
wireless and the radio ? A hundred years ago how many
believed that communication with our fellow-man would
178
MAINA TAFE'S RETURN
ever be so swift and simple as we know it today? Each
and every person who earnestly desires contact with
some one who has left this plane of existence helps
establish it. And each time the contact is established,
it helps the whole world to come a bit nearer to the
truth that, "There Is No Death !"
To you and Mr. Drouet I am forever indebted for
your great kindness and generosity in allowing me to
come to your home to these meetings.
Sincerely yours,
179
CHAPTER XIII
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
ON
the eighteenth of February I have a notation
in my notebook that Arthur Ford, Francis Fast,
Mrs. Lloyd, Mrs. Goodhue, my brother and several
others were present.
When Mr. Ford, Maina and my brother are to
gether, we seem to have a great deal of power for
the forces, and naturally the voices come in louder and
they can speak for a longer time. Don't forget, as we
proceed, that at nearly every sitting Mr. Wood was giv
ing Mr. Drouet splendid advice about his work. Houdon
was speaking to me. Mr. Sperry was telling us inter
esting things that he was doing. Forrest was having
a great experience with Geraldine and John B., and
many strangers were receiving their first direct voice
communications.
Mrs. Lloyd was sitting regularly with us, and was
receiving many messages from friends and relatives,
who were grateful to her for opening the door. This
evening, I remember how delightful her former hus
band, Mr. Charles Field, was to her present husband,
180
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
Dr. Lloyd, when he said, "This is Charles Field, Tom,
I am so glad you and Anne are together. I want to thank
you for all your goodness to her." And when Dr.
Lloyd's former wife, Grace, spoke, she thanked the
present Mrs. Lloyd for the love and care she had be
stowed on "Tom."
It seemed providential that Mrs. Lloyd had all these
experiences during the early part of the winter, for
it was just after this time that she was called upon to
undergo a terrific grief, the loss of a greatly beloved
granddaughter, a child so close to her heart, that she
seemed to be a part of her very self.
The passing of this child, Anne, placed a great test
upon Mrs. Lloyd, and it gave me the greatest joy to
see how she passed through it.
With the knowledge which she had gained, that
"There is no death," her first thought was for the child,
and that the child might not realize any change in her
relation to her grandmother, Mrs. Lloyd continued to
speak and mentally cuddle that little one. Never for one
moment, although her heart seemed as if it would break
from the physical separation, did she let either the
parents or the child feel there was any difference in their
relations.
With the result, that in one week, Anne, was speak
181
STATION ASTRAL
ing here, in our circle, to her grandmother. We heard,
"Garmie, Garmie, I love you, I love my Marmie." And
then we heard sweet childish kisses thrown upon the
air.
Every time Mrs. Lloyd has been with us since Anne's
passing, Anne has come to her. Such comfort, such
love from a child to her grandparent is a very inspiring
moment for us all. "A little child shall lead them,"
is indeed a great truth.
Upon the anniversary of Anne's birthday, which
happened on a Thursday, we planned a little party for
her, placing in the center of the circle on the floor, a
big doll, some flowers, etc.
While we were waiting, singing softly, for Sun
shine to open the seance, we were all surprised to hear,
"Garmie, Garmie, this is my birthday; I see the big
doll, my doll. I see the flowers, Garmie. I love you,
Marmie, I love you." Then she sent kisses to the mother,
who was present, and her grandmother.
After Anne, Sunshine spoke, saying, "As it was
Anne's birthday tonight, we made her the guest of
honor, and allowed her to speak first and open the
meeting." That was the first time such a thing had
happened at any of our sittings.
After the sitting was finished, we celebrated with a
182
ANNE FIELD EVERITT
Aged five and a half years
1926-1932
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
birthday cake, with seven candles, in Anne's honor,
knowing she could see and enjoy it as much as we did.
At a later meeting, we had a new sitter with us, a
person not only exceedingly fond of music, but equipped
with a fundamental understanding of
it,
also pos
sessing
a
beautiful voice which she used successfully.
Mrs.
S
received
a
few personal remarks from her
recently departed mother, when Sunshine said to her,
"There
is
some one here who says her name
is
Adelaide,
she wants to speak to you,"—meaning the musical
member of the circle—"Do you know any one by that
name?" Mrs.
S
replied, "No,
Ido not recognize
the name, but
I
will speak to her
if
she wishes." Then
Sunshine said, "She has such
a
beautiful light that
I
am going to let her in anyway."
Perhaps
a
minute or so elapsed, when we all heard,
"This
is
Adelina Patti speaking.
I
have been close to
you for years. You have such
a
great love for music
and understanding of
it
that you have attracted me to
you."
I
said to my friend, as Patti stopped speaking,
"Sing something." And she sang
a
very brilliant French
song. Immediately we heard the high bird-like tones
of Parti's voice singing with Mrs.
S
. She sang the
entire song, and when
it
was finished, Patti said, "Sing
it
again," and Mrs.
S
sang
it
with the same re
183
STATION ASTRAL
suits. Then Patti said, "I hope you will come often, I
want to sing again for the earth friends."
Following Patti, mother came saying, "That was
Patti, she looks so young, so beautiful and so happy.
Mrs. S you have made her very happy. Come
again so that she can sing with you."
Another singer came in to speak with Mrs. S
giving us her name, "I am Lucille Weston, a singer;
I lived before your time. You do not know of me, but
I will tell you more about myself some other time."
None of us had ever heard of Lucille Weston, and
although one of my group tried to look up her name
at the Public Library, she could find no record of it.
It was only about the last of April, when we were dining
one night at the Arthur B. Chapins, that I happened
to mention this incident, and Mrs. Chapin, a noted
singer herself, said, "Oh I knew of Lucille Weston the
singer. She was not a Patti, but she was a public
singer."
I remember, during this meeting, that I asked Ed
Wood if he could see any one in the room, and he an
swered, "Now wait a minute, what is that you have on
the sleeves of your dress, Mrs. S ? It looks to
me like feathers or fur, I think it is fur, and your dress
184
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
is the color of the sky, and your eyes are the same
color."
This proved to us that Mr. Wood could see plainly,
because Mrs. S had on a light blue gown with
fur trimmed sleeves, and her eyes are blue.
From these incidents you will realize the laws of at
traction, of which I have spoken earlier in the book.
Another example proved this one night when we heard
a loud voice say, "I am Andrew Jackson Davis. I
heard this lady here reading the story of my life aloud
to her husband last night, and that has attracted me
here tonight."
Mrs. Lloyd had been reading the "Life of Andrew
Jackson Davis," the greatest medium of his time, to
Dr. Lloyd, at the time mentioned.
Another interesting character, well known in the lit
erary world, is Vachel Lindsay, the poet, who passed
on not so very long ago. As Mrs. Lloyd is also a
prominent poet, he was attracted to her, speaking of
her work and how he would like to demonstrate
through her at some future time.
Mrs. S then said to him, "I met you at Gulf-
port one summer, do you remember me, Mr. Lindsay ?"
He replied, "Gulfport, where am I now?" And when
185
STATION ASTRAL
she replied, "You are in New York," he seemed much
surprised. We have heard from him several times since.
Mrs. Garrett's guide, Uvani, paid us the honor of
a visit one evening, greeting us and speaking about
dear little Anne. It was so unexpected, this visit, that
he was in and gone before we realized it.
Several times there has been a man speaking in our
circle, who lived next door to Mr. Drouet and me, when
we were first married, and living in Montclair, New
Jersey. He first came when a mutual friend was
sitting with us. Since then he has spoken to me directly.
He is strong in voice and very desirous of getting
his messages through to the earth plane. The last time
he spoke to us, he said, "This is Jack Wilson, do
you remember me? I wish Ralph would believe this
fact of communication, I would like to speak to him."
I said, "Yes, I remember you, do you remember the
dogwood tree between our houses? Do you want to
send a message to your wife?" He replied, "Certainly,
I remember the pink dogwood tree. I have my youngest
boy here with me. My wife doesn't know about these
things, but I would like her to know that I have com
municated with you."
At another time, there was a young chap sitting with
186
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
us who asked father the following, "Dr. Clarke, can
you tell me what the business conditions are going to
be in 1935?" Father seemed much surprised as he
replied, "What year is it now? You know we have no
calendars here. As for 1935, I'm not a business man,
and I am not especially interested in such matters. I
am a physician, and my work is caring for sick souls."
Dr. Walter A. Sherwood, formerly the head of the
Surgical Department of the Brooklyn Hospital, and his
wife, Anne, have both spoken here several times, show
ing great interest in the fact that they can still com
municate with their dear friend Anne Lloyd.
If I may digress for a few moments, I will relate
the circumstances preceding a very interesting com
munication received here in our circle.
It was just after my marriage, that a very dear and
close friend of mine eloped and married another dear
friend. The father of the girl, being such a wealthy
man, and very selfish, felt his daughter had deceived
him by marrying without his knowledge. It did not
interest him that the girl was sincerely and deeply in
love with a worthy man, neither did he realize that it
was his selfishness which kept him from sympathizing
with the romance. They were married, and the father
proceeded to disown his daughter. Fortunately, the
187
STATION ASTRAL
daughter was provided for by her husband with as
much as she had received from her father, so there
was no reason for her ever seeking him for aid.
My experience with my own people, so filled with
love and affection, made me realize that the time would
come when my friend might have regrets for not hav
ing approached her father with the desire for a recon
ciliation. For after all, it was not his state of mind
which should interest her, it would be her own actions
which would later bring regrets.
Consequently, one day, I persuaded her to go to her
father's office, and at her request I accompanied her.
She went with the hope of convincing him of her con
tinued love, despite his unkindness, and that this separa
tion, because of her great love for him, had hurt her
beyond words.
When we were finally ushered into this man's pri
vate office, I hoped for a happy result. Imagine our
amazement when he said, "Put these women out of my
office ! Put them out !" With such anger that I thought
he would have a shock.
As he meant nothing in my life, walking up to him
and shaking my finger in his face, I told him what
I thought of his actions, and ended by saying, "The
time may come when you may need me."
188
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
This estrangement continued for fifteen years, when
the father died. There had never been a moment dur
ing these years that the daughter had not grieved
over the separation, and when her father passed away
she seemed more heart-broken than ever.
It was during a seance this March, twenty-five years
since the elopement of my friend, that we all heard a
strong, steady voice, directly in front of me, saying,
"May I be permitted to speak here tonight?" I asked,
"Are you speaking to me?" The reply came, "Yes,
this is J D ." "Well," I said, "this is a sur
prise," recognizing the name of the father of my friend.
"What do you wish to say to me?" He continued,
"You are the only person in all the world whom I can
ask to help me in this matter, and you must realize
how humiliating it is for me to have to come to you.
Do you remember how you came to my office and shook
your finger in my face, saying, 'The time may come
when you may need me'? Well, the time has come.
I beg you to bring my daughter to me in a sitting, that
I may ask her forgiveness for what I did to her."
I said to him, "I will try. But you know she does not
believe in this truth, as she has had no experience. But
I will bring her if it is possible. Now, you must realize
how much she has loved you all these years, as she
189
STATION ASTRAL
has suffered so much." Immediately came the words,
"Yes, that is why I have been in Hell all these years,
since I passed over, knowing that I had misjudged her
and caused her to suffer. It was not until your father
came into the spirit world, that I found my first ray
of hope. He told me it was possible for me to redeem
myself, but he has not allowed me to speak here until
I developed a true spirit of humility."
I was both happy and anxious, as I said to him, "Be
at peace; I will bring your daughter to you in a few
days. I will write every word to her you have said here
tonight, and I am sure she will wish to speak to you,
as much as you desire it."
The next day I wrote a letter to this friend stating
exactly what had happened, asking her, for the sake
of her father's future, to come.
Maina Tafe made an appointment for us on the
following Tuesday, at one o'clock, and my friend came
and had luncheon with me, at which time I repeated
to her every detail, also preparing her for the sitting,
knowing so well, how much depended upon her attitude
in the seance. I hoped she would not break down with
emotion as that would lessen the power for the spirit
voices speaking.
We arrived at Maina's on time. Seating ourselves,
190
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
we put out the light and waited for Sunshine. Hardly
two minutes had elapsed before we heard, "Sunshine.
Aunt Betty, I know who is here. We will have a beau
tiful time today." I said, "Who is here, Sunshine, and
how do you know ?" "Oh, I have been out to her-house.
Your father is here," she said, speaking to my friend.
Then came the great moment. The father was speak
ing. Never before had I realized the torment the mind
might suffer from the sins of omission.
This man's soul was overflowing with the desire
for forgiveness, and my friend's attitude was perfect,
for she, in her great joy and relief, responded in the
same spirit, and there was a perfect understanding ar
rived at between these two souls who had lived apart
in great longing for each other, during the past twenty-
five years.
Mr. D said to me, "What right had I to try
to dictate my daughter's happiness? What did I
know about her feelings? It was all a selfish desire
to keep her for my own happiness which prompted
my actions, and they are unforgiveable." "Oh that is
all forgotten now," I said, "I want you both to be
happy, it is not too late, for now you can always speak
to each other." He continued, "There are so many
ways in which I want to help her, at this time. She and
191
STATION ASTRAL
her husband need my help, things have not been so
well for them lately, and when I think how easily I
could have made her life free from financial worry,
it drives me insane." "But," I said, "there are much
more important angles to this than the financial side.
The emotional feature interests me mostly." "Yes, but
I am a business man and I want to help along the
lines I understand, and you, Mrs. Drouet, have made
it possible for me to start working constructively, by
giving me the opportunity of relieving my soul. As
long as I was hampered with those terrible regrets, I
was helpless to develop. I shall be eternally grateful to
you, and I can never tell you how I appreciate what
you have done for me. And to think it had to be you !"
Turning to his daughter, he asked, "How long have
I been in the spirit world?" She replied, "Ten years,
father." My friend's mother then spoke to her, telling
how she had tried to influence her father to relent
during his lifetime, but he was too stubborn. She also
spoke about how happy this reunion with her daughter
made her. The grandfather also spoke, telling of the
part he had played in trying to persuade her father to act
differently. But it was useless. This man was so set in
his selfishness, that he could not see the light, until it
was, as he thought, too late. Many people spoke to my
192
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
friend. Her little boy was overjoyed at being able to
talk again with his mamma, and an uncle, only a week
in spirit, also spoke to her.
Some of my friends spoke to me. I remember Hou-
don came with a few words. I introduced him to my
friend. And Lillian came telling me as follows : "Betty,
when you pass through the valley of the shadow, there
will be no shadow."
Since this experience of my friend, much happiness
has permeated her home. For the spirit of peace reigns
and the realization that no longer can misunderstand
ings exist between loved ones, no more torments
of regrets, only the knowledge that love is a power
which helps on through eternity. No separation can
again mar the passing of any member of that family,
for they all know there can be no separations. The chil
dren realize this new happiness of their mother's, and
they understand the reason for
it,
and all their lives
through there will never be any fear of death, for
it
has
been proven to them, that, "There
is
no death."
I
remember all this happened on the twenty-second
day of March, because of the message which
I
received
after Lillian's. We heard
a
low voice say, "Bessie, this
is
Mrs. Tomkins. Will you tell Sallie that
I
am close to
her father?
I
am right there with all of them. The Doc
193
STATION ASTRAL
tor is very low." I asked, much surprised, "Is Dr. Tom-
kins sick, Mrs. Tomkins ? I didn't know anything about
it. I have not heard anything trom them since Christ
mas. Do you think it is serious, that he will pass over ?"
She replied, "We think so, but I am with him and
will care for him."
When I returned home later that evening, Mr.
Drouet greeted me with this remark, "Sally Tomkins
has just phoned here saying that her father was passing.
She requested me to ask you to send your father to
help him." I said, "Why, I received a message only this
afternoon, from Mrs. Tomkins, while I was sitting with
Mrs. C and Maina."
And dear Dr. Tomkins passed the following Thurs
day, March twenty-fourth.
There is something interesting to record here about
the Thursday on which Dr. Tomkins passed over.
If you will note this passing happened at two-forty
o'clock Thursday afternoon. As usual, we sat on Thurs
day evening. I was anxious to hear from father or
mother something about his condition. Can you
imagine our surprise when nothing happened during
the entire evening. We started as usual, repeating the
Lord's Prayer, then singing softly, and we kept sing
ing and singing, and still no movement of the trumpets
194
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
or the sound of any voice, except once we thought we
heard a tiny voice like Sunshine's, but there was noth
ing definite.
Of course we were all greatly disappointed, espe
cially as Miller Reese Hutchison, Ph.D., chief en
gineer for and personal representative of Edison for
many years, was present for the first time.
Speaking of Edison, we had been told that he was
present several times in our circle, but he had never
spoken to us. Mrs. Lloyd had written a very inspira
tional poem in honor of Edison, and at a previous meet
ing she had been impressed to recite
it,
after which,
Mr. Sperry had told us that Edison was present, listen
ing to his tribute, and Sunshine had said, "Mr. Edison
says that he will make
a
great light for you here some
time."
The following Thursday evening we sat again, and
at this sitting we again had Dr. Hutchison with us.
Now everything started as usual and Sunshine seemed
happy, as she said, "Dr. Clarke will tell you about last
time." So when
it
was father's turn to speak he said,
"We did not wish to hold a meeting last Thursday,
as Dr. Tomkins had just come over. We felt
it
was
better not, in deference to his passing."
I
asked, "How
is
Dr. Tomkins?" And father replied, "At present, he
195
STATION ASTRAL
thinks he is dreaming, but he will be all right. Perhaps
he will speak to you tonight, he is here. Your mother
has brought him here to show him it is possible to
speak to earth, and prove to him that he is not dream-
ing."
Later in the evening we heard a voice saying faintly,
"Floyd Tomkins. Tell Sally her mother met me. Every
thing is as you told me it would be." This, if you will
notice, was exactly one week after he was supposed to
have died.
As I had sat the week previous in "The Church of the
Holy Trinity," in Philadelphia, and had seen the face
of our dearly beloved Dr. Floyd Tomkins, covered from
the eyes of mortal man, knowing my eyes should not
behold that noble face again, until I too, had passed
through the valley, my heart gave a great bound of joy,
for I knew I had only to be patient for a few days and
then my ears would hear again the voice of him whom
I honor. His voice would come again in all its throbbing
intensity —its modulations would never be hushed.
I thanked God, while sitting there, for permitting
me to know and experience this great truth, "There is
no death." And God in his goodness did not fail me,
for I and others have heard this individual voice,
plainly. I have a record of it made on the ediphone.
196
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
I have already heard it several times, and all my life I
shall be able to hold audible communion with this great
spirit of Floyd Tomkins. Is it any wonder that I have
peace in my heart, and a song in my soul ?
Of course, this evening, Dr. Hutchison was anxious
to hear if Mr. Edison would speak to him, so Mrs.
Lloyd recited her poem.
"Skywrite the name of Edison ! Span it from sea to sea,
The name that's like a meteor flashed through Im
mensity —
Brand it on every human heart as long as hearts shall be !
Recount the tale of Edison ! Lay bare the noble blend
Of greatness and simplicity—so men may comprehend
That he who bridled thunderbolts was glad to be a
friend !
Bow to the brain of Edison ! Its quick and curious beam
Pierced the cold fogs of mystery to find truth in a dream,
And caused a filament to glow that hemispheres might
gleam !
Hail the magican Edison ! "Wizard of Menlo Park !"
Who, with a frail, transparent pen, tipped with the
lightning's spark,
Blazoned across a universe —there shall be no more
dark!
197
STATION ASTRAL
Lit with the zeal of Edison, that shines for low and
high
This world became a firmament more starry than the
sky,
More lustrous than the lambent moon revolving slowly
Prometheus lived on earth again, unbound, with snow
drift hair,
Because of him this planet swings all golden in the air,
So beautiful, well might a comet pause to stare and
stare."
This poem was so descriptive that we were not sur
prised when we heard a soft, moderate voice, directly
in front of Dr. Hutchison, say, "This is Edison,
Thomas A. Edison." "Yes, Mr. Edison, I hear you,"
said Dr. Hutchison, and Edison continued, "This is
not a religious matter with which we are dealing, it is
an unlimited force. It is purely a matter of chemistry
and physics. I feel greatly honored, Anne, by your
beautiful poem. My appreciation is beyond human ex-
by....
Courtesy Association of Edison Illuminating Companies
198
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
pression." Since then Mr. Edison has spoken to us
several times, generally at the conclusion of the reading
of the poem. I recall that Mr. Edison also made men
tion, at one time, of the short wave, in which he
was interested.
It was during a meeting, following this, that Mr.
Field made a remark about the twenty-third psalm. He
said, "I love to hear you recite the twenty-third psalm,
do it again, and think of those lines, 'Thy rod and thy
staff,' it is such a wonderful thought, 'Thy rod and
thy staff.'
"
After Dr. Hutchison's experience with the direct
voice, he sent his ediphone up to our house, so that the
forces might try to make some records. If they were
successful in recording on the ediphone, later, we would
let them make some victrola records.
I think it was the next Thursday that we first tried
this experiment. I had connected the ediphone, and had
everything ready, and was waiting for Professor Laun-
derville to give me the word to start the machine, which
he did right after Sunshine had opened the meeting.
He said, "Mrs. Drouet, now you may start the edi
phone, and we will see what we can do."
I immediately started the machine, while Maina held
199
STATION ASTRAL
the speaking tube as high up in the air as she could
reach. Pretty soon we heard some one trying to fasten
the trumpet on to the speaking tube. This spirit force
placed the large end of the trumpet on the speaking
tube. We knew it was the large end because we heard
Maina say, "Oh! the trumpet comes down over my
hand. I am holding the speaking tube as high as I
can." Then we heard a voice speaking into the tube.
We could hear almost all of what was being said, but
as I was excited and did not write it down at the
time, I am entirely dependent in making this report,
upon what we heard when we reversed the ediphone,
and heard the voices thereon. I'll report these messages
later.
After a few minutes' wait, we again heard the racket
of the aluminum trumpet being connected. This time
it was Sunshine making a record. After this the same
thing happened again, and we could hear Dr. Clarke
speaking into the ediphone. They all took great pains
to speak clearly and slowly, and we should have had a
good record. But when we tried it after the meeting,
we could get no response, there seemed to be nothing
on the record. Can you imagine our disappointment ?
The next morning I called up Dr. Hutchison and
reported to him just what had happened, so he sent
200
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
an ediphone man up to my house to see what the mat
ter was with the machine. The inspector found that
the needle was poor, and that it had an old style motor,
so that was why the voices were not recorded, appar
ently. The next day the Ediphone people brought a new
motor, and when, after installing
it,
we placed the
record on
it,
we found to our surprise that some words
had been recorded by the spirit voices the previous
Thursday.
I
will repeat here just what was recorded. First, we
could hear the sound of the trumpet rattling against
the side of the speaking tube, then this followed, "Ed
Wood, what shall
I
talk about
?
Well, insurance
business all right. Ed Wood, good-by."
This was all we could distinguish. The blanks represent
words not distinct enough for us to decipher.
The second voice recorded was as follows, "Hello!
hello
!
Sunshine speaking. Dr. Clarke
is
going to make
a
record." The third voice, "Dr. Clarke, Dr. Clarke,
speaking, you believe that death
is
the end, but
when you know
it
is
not no one can die
we live in the good-night, Dr. Clarke."
You can see from this that we did not get very
much. But we planned to try again. However, before
we had an opportunity to try once more, Dr. Hutchi
201
STATION ASTRAL
son being very much interested, asked the Edison Edi-
phone Company to send me a brand new, sensitive
machine. Then we were ready to try in earnest.
I wish to refer for a moment to what Professor
Launderville told us at the meeting on the night we
made these records, "I think, Mrs. Drouet, it would
be a good idea if you and Mr. Drouet, and Miss Tafe
held a special seance once a month, so we from our
side can discuss matters of importance with you about
the sittings you hold every Thursday night." I inter
rupted him saying, "We might call it a directors'
meeting?" "Why yes, that is a good idea," he replied.
"We know you want us to make some records of our
voices, and I think it will be better to try to do this
when there are not too many friends present who ex
pect messages. The recording takes quite a lot of power,
and perhaps it will be better to devote an evening to it."
So we decided to sit the first Monday, in each month,
for instructions.
The following Thursday, our spirit friends expressed
their disappointment about the records. They seemed
to know as much about what had happened as we did.
Annie said, "It's too bad you didn't get more on the
records, Betty," and Professor Launderville told us
202
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
to try again sometime, as they were always willing
to cooperate with us.
I think it was at this meeting that a voice spoke
to Mr. DeWitt Fessenden, saying, "I am Churchill,
Churchill of England. I have been helping you during
the past few years, with your magazine. I am very much
interested in your work."
As Mr. Fessenden is the Editor of "The Sketch
Book," he was very curious about this communi
cation. His father also spoke to him, that evening.
Following Churchill, Lillian came to us, saying, "I
am very much depressed. I am having such a hard
time with George E . You know he did not believe
in any life beyond the grave, and now he thinks he is
dreaming. Although he sees me and speaks to me, he
thinks he is dreaming, and I cannot convince him that
he is still alive. You see, when he committed suicide,
he broke a natural law, and he has to pay the penalty.
He had had the thought of suicide in his mind twice
before he really did it. Both times, we were able, from
this side, to keep him from doing it. But finally, we
could not impress him."
Lillian continued, "I heard you and Harry talking
about W . I did not know that anything had hap
pened, until I heard you both speaking about it. You
203
STATION ASTRAL
remember, she was a college mate of mine. As soon
as I realized what had happened, I looked for her,
and I have found her. But it is very pitiable.
She has broken two natural laws, and she cannot have
her children with her. She will have to work out her
salvation through a long period. I am doing all I can
for her, but, what can you do for people who do not
wish to be helped ?"
As Mr. Wood's voice was heard next, I asked him
if he couldn't help Lillian assist George E., but he
said, "Don't ask me to help Mr. E . I feel sorry
for him, but ask your father, Dr. Qarke, to aid him.
Your father is a soul Doctor and I am a business man."
This evening, in the seance, it amused us to hear my
mother say, "You know, I would never have sanctioned
a seance in my own home during my earth life, I was
so narrow about those things." It seemed to amuse
mother, also, from her present perspective.
Mr. Ford's guide, Fletcher, spoke to me as follows,
"Will you tell Arthur to sign contracts at once, etc. ?"
The following morning, I called Mr. Ford, and de
livered the message, and he said, "I have two contracts
which came yesterday, here upon my desk. I have not
seen or heard from you, Mrs. Drouet, in two or three
weeks."
204
MORE INTERESTING EXPERIENCES
Since the passing of Dr. Tomkins, I had been work
ing, on and off, on his portrait bust, hoping, shortly,
to finish it. Fortunately, during the two sittings he
had given me, I had been impressed to take many meas
urements, and a few snapshots of his head, something
I had never done before. I seemed to feel something
might happen to him, as he was nearing eighty-three
years of age.
One evening father said, "The Doctor thinks you
are making him too old in his bust, he wants to look
younger." Mother also told me the same thing. So
when Houdon spoke to me, I said, "I was wondering,
Houdon, how you could help me with Dr. Tomkins'
head, for I think of him as an old man, and you see
him now as a young man." Houdon replied, "Yes,
you are in a fix. Dr. Tomkins sits up there in your
studio, as you work, and he is a young man, and he
is impressing you to depict him as a young man. He
wants that merry boyish twinkle in his eye. But I am
impressing you to make him as you remember him,
an elderly man. So first you put in the wrinkles, and
then you take them out. Now we must do something
about this. I think it will be a good idea if I ask Mrs.
Clarke to take the Doctor for a walk while you are
working, and so keep him out of the studio, and your
205
STATION ASTRAL
vibration." I said, "That is a good idea, Houdon, for I
must make him as people remember him. I will try to put
the merry twinkle in the old eyes, and not make him as
heavy about the jaws as he was, for I remember him
very well when his face was thinner." Later you will
read what Dr. Tomkins told me about the bust.
206
CHAPTER XIV
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
E come now to the evening of April twenty-first.
▼ ▼ This evening there were eight of us in the circle,
including Mrs. Lloyd, Mrs. Goodhue, Madame Men-
garini, Mr. Drouet, and myself, regular sitters, Miss
Constance Clarke and Mr. Arthur Scherr, new sitters,
and Maina.
Constance, a niece of mine, had been writing auto
matically for some time. Mr. Scherr had no knowl
edge of psychic things whatever, but was seeking some
assurance from a brother, who had recently met his
death in an automobile accident.
After we had settled ourselves, and put out the
light, repeated the Lord's Prayer, and had sung our
theme song, almost immediately we heard the voice of
Sunshine saying, "Hello, Uncle Harry and Aunt Betty !
Hello, Auntie Lloyd! Hello, Fausta! Hello, Constance!
Hello, Geraldine ! Hello, stranger ! and lastly she greeted
Maina." When I said, "How did you know this was
Constance, Sunshine?" She replied, "Oh I know Con
stance, and Phyllis, I go up to their house with Uncle
207
STATION ASTRAL
Fred" (their father). Father was the next one who
spoke, saying, "Good evening Constance, it is very nice
to see you here. This is the first time I have spoken to
you, but grandma has written for you. Your Grand
father D is here and will try to speak to you. This
young man's brother, Frank, is here and he will try and
speak to him." (Meaning Mr. Scherr's brother.)
Father greeted all the others, saying the conditions were
very fine and we would have a good meeting.
He gave us some advice about making the voice
records, and spoke of some people who had previously
sat with us, telling us something which we did not
understand about them. Presently we heard, "Elmer,
Elmer Sperry." Addressing Mrs. Lloyd, he continued
as follows, "I saw you buying the bracelet, yesterday. I
went right into the store with you. I also saw you
buy the locket, into which you put little Anne's pic
ture. Were you not surprised to get the impression to
go into that store?"
As Mrs. Lloyd was returning home, the previous
day, she had stopped and looked into a window con-
taining some antique jewelry; without knowing why,
she walked into the store, and asked the woman in
charge, if she had a Normandy wedding bracelet? As
Mrs. Lloyd had never heard of a Normandy wedding
208
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
bracelet, she was amazed to hear herself asking for
such a thing. But if she was surprised, the shopkeeper
was still more so, for she said, "This is a very strange
thing, that you are asking for that bracelet! It was
only yesterday that a man came in here with one, and
asked me to take it in exchange for a piece of jewelry,
which he saw in the window. We have never done such
a thing before, but this time we did make the ex
change, and here it is," showing Mrs. Lloyd a thin
silver band with two clasped hands carved upon it.
Mrs. Lloyd, at the same time, was also impressed to
purchase a very small, round, gold locket, into which
she placed the picture of baby Anne. Mrs. Lloyd was
wearing both the bracelet and the locket at this seance.
While we were digesting this, we heard a sweet voice
say, "This is Grossma Scherr." This voice was for Ar
thur Scherr, and she told him about Frank, his brother,
and sent messages to the family. Turning to Mr.
Drouet, she said, "I want to thank you, Mr. Drouet, for
bringing Artie here tonight, I'm going to help him, and
I want to help you also."
At this moment Mrs. Lloyd said, "I feel impressed
to recite Mr. Edison's poem." When she had finished
it,
I
remarked, "Now, Mr. Edison, you ought to speak."
209
STATION ASTRAL
Instantly, the slow, soft voice of Mr. Edison came to
us, saying, "Edison, Thomas A. Edison speaking. The
poem is too complimentary. I feel unworthy of such
a noble tribute." With one accord we all said, "Oh
no, do not say that! You are indeed worthy of her
beautiful poem."
We were all thinking how descriptive of Edison
Mrs. Lloyd's poem was, when Bobby bounced in, for
that is just the way he comes. He said, "I was at
your lecture, Miss Tafe." "Why didn't you speak,
Bobby?" asked Maina. "My mamma and daddy were
not there," he said. Then he came over to me and sent
his love to his daddy and mamma, and told Constance
that Richard was standing beside her.
There were no lulls tonight. The spirit voices were
coming as fast as they could find an opportunity. The
next voice was my mother's, saying, "We are all so
interested in the book, which you have started to write,
and we all wish to be quoted in it. I stand beside you all
the time when you are typing it. I'm also trying to help
Dr. Tomkins. Oh good evening, Constance. I have
written for you, very often, at your home," and mov
ing toward Mrs. Lloyd, she said, "I also come down
to your house and visit with you, and I enjoy your
poetry so much, it is beautiful." I said, "Mother, you
2IO
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
have said so many times that my praying for you helps
you. How does it help you?" And she replied, "When
you pray that I may have more power and understand
ing, it is the same as when you have sympathy for a
friend. It helps them to feel you are helping them, for
you could not help them if your vibrations did not syn
chronize. It is also a direct thought, and you know the
power of direct thought. It gives us something with
which to work."
Hardly had mother finished speaking, when we
heard the voice of Forrest. Tonight he was deeply
concerned with the work he was trying to do with
Geraldine. He was learning all about the power of
direct thought, and was anxious to bring to his wife
all the assistance, possible, and so this was broadly
discussed between Forrest and the others. Forrest ex
pressed his desire to have his experiences recorded in
the coming book, hoping it would be helpful. Suddenly
we heard the voice of dear little Anne calling, "Gar-
mie, I see the locket, my picture is in it. Marmie saw
it too. I love you, Garmie, I love you."
We have become so accustomed to the regular voices,
that, when a strange one comes, we are very anxious
to get the messages. Sometimes the voices are very
strong. Tonight, however, when Constance's maternal
211
STATION ASTRAL
grandfather spoke to her, his voice was rather weak.
But as she responded quickly to him, his voice grew
fairly loud and clear, as he said, "It makes me so
happy to talk to you, Constance. When I think of all
the years that I never knew you, it makes me very
sad." Constance replied, "I have always wanted to talk
to you, Grandfather. I have thought of you so often,
and all my life mother has been telling me about you,
and she has always spoken so lovingly of you, for she
loves you very dearly." He continued, "I, as well as
your grandmother Clarke, have written for you, auto
matically. I want you to continue to write."
Following this, we heard a rather indistinct voice,
say, "Frank, this is Frank." "Frank?" said Mr.
Scherr. "Yes, Frank. I am all right, Artie, I want
mother to know. I would like to talk with her." Al
though his voice was not very strong or clear, he re
turned twice during the evening to try his power for
speaking, and his voice grew stronger, and the mes
sages clearer. An Uncle Harry, of Mr. Scherr's, whom
he had never seen in life, spoke to him also, saying,
"This is your Uncle Harry, you remember your Aunt
Carrie, I am her husband. I guess you didn't expect
to hear from me. Frank is here, and is so happy that
he is able to speak to you."
212
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
The next voice that we heard was speaking in Italian.
It was the father of Madame Mengarini. After speak
ing in his native tongue, he continued in English, telling
her he wanted her to remain in New York ; he also spoke
of her mother. When she asked him who was help
ing her in her sculpture, he said, "There is a man here
who has been helping you for a long time. He will
speak to you himself."
Father evidently thought it was time for him to
make a few remarks for he spoke next, saying, "I went
out to your lecture, Miss Tafe. It was most interesting
and instructive. I wish all these people could have heard
it. You know this little woman has a lot in her head. At
her lecture she explained about ectoplasms and vibra
tions, and voices and trances, and gave some lantern
slides which interested me very much." Ap father
tries to tell us about the things which he has been
doing, between Thursdays, this was very evidential,
as Miss Tafe, during the previous week, had given a
lecture on psychic matters over in New Jersey. He
said to me, "There are going to be many more inter
esting things for you to put in your new book."
I asked father, "Has Dr. Tomkins been sleeping,
since he passed over?" To which father replied, "No,
213
STATION ASTRAL
Dr. Tomkins has been very active about his home and
the church."
No evening is complete without Mr. Wood, and so
when his big, pleasant voice breaks the silence, every
body calls, "Good evening, Mr. Wood," and he re
sponds just as heartily. Tonight he was interested in
discussing some important business with Mr. Drouet,
but when Mr. Drouet introduced him to Mr. Scherr,
he said, "Young man, you need to learn some funda
mental truths, and then apply them in your work."
Mr. Scherr said, "I met you once, Mr. Wood, but you
probably do not remember me." Mr. Wood then re
sumed his talk with Mr. Drouet, and asked if we were
going to let them try again to make some more records.
You, my readers, who have never had this experi
ence, cannot imagine what a thrill we receive when
some new power demonstrates. Imagine our surprise
when we heard, "This is Maltbie Babcock." "Oh, Dr.
Babcock, this is wonderful," said Mrs. Lloyd. "Do
speak to us." And he did in such a positive manner that
I wish every one to receive the benefit of his message.
This is the message :
"It is a great privilege to speak here tonight. I wish
I could preach from every pulpit in every land, the
truth as I now know it. I am convinced that the door
214
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
is open to all who knock, regardless of race, creed or
color. Every man has his opportunity. That man shall
be born again is true. I interpret the Scriptures here
very differently from what I did there. He who seeks
shall truly find."
As he finished, Lillian spoke to us, saying, "I'm still
sorrowful, worrying about George and Winifred.
What am I to do when people will not be helped ? It is
so hard to do anything for them. George is having
regrets." Lillian then spoke to Constance, telling her
how glad she was to see her there, and hoped she
would call her "Aunt Lillian."
About this time there was a voice speaking which
no one could understand. It seemed to be speaking in
Italian, and was very close to Madame Mengarini.
We kept asking, "Who is it?" but although it came
at two different times, we could not get the name.
Sunshine came in and said, "That man wanted to speak
to you, Fausta, I'll try to help him in again."
But before he was heard again, little Richard spoke
to his sister Constance, saying, "I'm so happy, Con
stance. Tell Mamma and Phyllis I send my love, and
tell Donald I was in the car with him, last night, and
I like the kittens and the puppies. Why don't you call
one of the puppies Richard? What are you going to
215
STATION ASTRAL
do with the other puppy?" Constance then asked him
some questions, which he answered accurately.
Everything was very quiet, when suddenly a voice
was heard, so loud, that we were all startled. We heard
the name, "Michelangelo, Buonorotti, Michelangelo."
Sunshine spoke, directly following this, saying, "That's
the man who is trying to talk to you, Fausta, but his
name is too long. Let's call him Mike." Can you get our
reaction to the visit of this great spirit?
You will see that the people in the spirit world
are not always as impressed as we are, for Mr. Wood
spoke saying, "What you need, Madame Mengarini, is
a good business manager, you have plenty of inspira
tion." I interrupted with, "Mr. Wood, was that Michel
angelo?" He replied, "He said he was, I never saw
him before, but I suppose he is who he said he was."
At that moment Houdon spoke to us, saying, "Yes,
that was Michelangelo. He is helping your friend—here.
He has been trying for a long time to tell her." I said,
"Do you wonder that we were overpowered when he
spoke to us?" "Well, you shouldn't be overpowered,"
said Houdon, then he continued, "I feel that you will
not have shown the proper appreciation of Miss Tafe,
if you do not make a bust of her, and put the picture
of it in your new book. You are putting a picture of
216
ANOTHER GREAT SCULPTOR SPEAKS
Mr. Ford's bust in the book, and I think one of Miss
Tafe should be there also."
I said, "All right, I will do
it,
but
it
will take
some time, and
I
have Dr. Tomkins' head to finish."
"You will be surprised to see how quickly we can do
Maina's head," said Houdon.
Another voice was speaking now. At first
I
could
not make out the name, but
I
finally succeeded in hear
ing the name, "Dr. Floyd Tomkins." However, by the
time we had learned his name, his power was gone, and
we did not receive any message. But, the next morning,
Constance took, automatically,
a
letter from Dr. Tom
kins, which
I
am enclosing.
"My dear Constance and Mrs. Drouet: Last night
I
tried to come in and talk to you and the others, but
you did not recognize me until
I
was too weak to con
tinue.
I
wanted to say that
I
am still
a
little uncertain
as to whether you or anybody else could hear me. You
see,
I
get the impression of a dream. All
is
so differ
ent from what
I
expected
it
would be, in spite of what
Mrs. Drouet and Fred had told me.
I
shall try to come
in again next Thursday evening. They told me
I
should
have tried harder, but
I
don't seem to be able to get
any better results.
I
am so glad, Constance, that you
could talk to your Grandfather D
,
it
was
a
bless
217
STATION ASTRAL
ing for him, and he wants to talk to Donald and Phyl
lis, and to you again. May God's blessing be upon you,
and remain with you always, your loving friend, Floyd
W. Tomkins."
-
218
CHAPTER XV
DR. SPERRY GREETS SOME OLD FRIENDS
EVERY
meeting is almost like a first time, because
there are always people sitting with us for their
first experience, and that means we must build up
the power, anew. Let me tell you about the meeting
on April twenty-eighth.
There were nine in the group that night. One was a
new sitter, one had sat once, and two had been with
us twice before. We were rather slow starting because
of this. But finally Sunshine came in, told a few
stories, making every one laugh, and quickly the con
ditions became more propitious, for we heard Annie
Drouet say, "You know, Betty, why it is difficult for us
tonight, strangers always make it harder, but I think
a little later it will be better." Then she told the strangers
who she was, and made a few personal remarks to Mr.
Drouet.
Dr. Clarke was the next one to speak. He talked with
Mr. Drouet about a kodak picture that Mr. Drouet
had taken, out on the terrace. There was a faint picture
of the Doctor back of my head. He said, as we had
219
STATION ASTRAL
asked him to try to show himself in a picture, he had
done the best he could. I said to him, "Eleanor Drouet,
Harry's niece, is here tonight, can you see her?" And
he replied, "No, where is she, I cannot see her. Oh yes,
now I hear her speaking." You probably understand
by now, my readers, that unless the Doctor was in
Eleanor's vibration he could not see her. He then pro
ceeded to give me some advice about the records we
were hoping to have them make.
Little Anne was the next one to speak. She was quite
excited tonight, as her mother and her aunt were pres
ent, as well as her grandmother. She kept sending kisses
and referring to things which had happened at her
earth home. Her aunt said, "Do you remember how I
used to scold you for saying yop instead of yes?"
And instantly came the reply, "Yop."
Some one was trying to communicate with Eleanor
Drouet, and we finally received the name, "Mason,
Aunt Nell." Eleanor asked her how she was, and if
she was happy, and Miss Mason said, "I am all right.
Don't worry about me, I'm glad to come here and speak
to you and Harry," and then she came over to me and
said, "This is my first experience in communicating."
About this time, Mrs. Lloyd suggested we sing,
"Moonlight and Roses." This song seems to be a fa
220
DR. SPERRY GREETS SOME OLD FRIENDS
vorite with many on the other side; but as no one
responded, Mr. Drouet said, "Let's sing, 'In the Good
Old Summer Time.' "
That brought Elmer Sperry's
voice to us, saying, "What is nicer than 'Moonlight
and Roses' in the good old summertime?" and he
laughed.
Three of the ladies present had known Mr. Sperry
during his earth life, and as this was their first oppor
tunity of speaking with him, since his passing over, he
greeted them very cordially, and then they proceeded to
ask him questions. We were very much amused, hearing
one lady ask, "How's your golf, Mr. Sperry? Do you
walk as fast there, as you did here?" He replied, "My
golf is fine. Yes, I still walk very fast, but the trouble
here, is, everybody can walk as fast as I can. But I try
to keep ahead the same as I did there. What's the use
of doing anything if you can't be ahead? If you are not
ahead you might as well drop out."
Another lady then asked him if he remembered the
Bellport Choral. And laughing heartily, he said, "How
could I forget it?"
Mr. Sperry continued speaking for five or six min
utes. He told Anne's mother, that little Anne was, in
truth, a little angel, and that she was developing play
ing with the other children.
221
STATION ASTRAL
The voices were coming faster now, and presently,
two young men spoke to the new sitters sitting with
us. One said, "Do not let anything or anybody turn
you from this great truth. I think, at times, your hus
band laughs at you, but do not let any one persuade
you that this is not so."
As we were discussing that, Mrs. Lloyd suddenly
said, "I feel impressed to sing, 'O That I May Grow,'
by Maltbie Babcock." So we all joined in. While we
were singing we heard a voice, from the spirit world,
singing with us. When we stopped the voice said, "Don't
stop singing," so we continued. When the song was
finished the Reverend Dr. Maltbie Babcock turned to
Mrs. Lloyd's daughter, saying, "My child, I am so
happy to speak with you." She said, "Your book has
been such a comfort to me." He continued, "Seek and
you shall find that if you knock the door will be opened
unto you, and the truth shall make you free."
Directly after Dr. Babcock had finished, Mr. Charles
Field was heard speaking. Being the grandfather of
Anne, he was anxious to assure his daughter of Anne's
continued happiness. He told us, "Anne goes to school
on the earth plane, still. She attaches herself to some
earth child, of whom she is fond, and in that way she
has an earth experience. There are many people here
222
DR. SPERRY GREETS SOME OLD FRIENDS
who care for these children, who have no parents in
spirit. But the children like to be with the children
they knew upon your earth. The earth is the elementary
school for them, and, later, they learn their spiritual
development over here."
If I am not mistaken, grandma Gerald came to Mrs.
Goodhue, tonight, for the first time. She was so de
lighted to speak, telling us about little Forrest and
other members of the family and speaking of Mrs.
Goodhue's mother, who was coming up to New York,
and how much she wanted to speak to her.
This is one thing I want you to remember, all the
people who communicate with us here, always speak
of other members of their family, to whom they would
like to speak. They never forget any one who was close
to them, and they are continually asking if we cannot
bring some relative to talk with them.
Forrest had some interesting things to say to his
wife about her psychic developments. She was doing
automatic writing at this period, but was not quite
sure whether it was her own subconsciousness, or
whether it was inspirational? So Forrest told her to
blindfold her eyes, relax her mind, and just let her
hand do what it would. He was also much interested
in his mother-in-law's proposed visit to the city, and
223
STATION ASTRAL
expressed his desire to speak with her. Then he told
me that he would try to make a better record the next
time he had an opportunity. I asked Forrest if he
would like to have me telephone a message to his
mother. And he replied, "I don't like to trouble you,
but it would make me very happy to send my love to her,
and I think it would make her very happy to receive
it. She's going through trying times just now." The
next day I delivered his message.
I must not forget to mention Mr. Drouet' s mother.
She tries to speak as often as she can, and tonight she
was delighted to see her granddaughter, Eleanor, there,
and she mentioned the brother-in-law of Mr. Drouet,
and said that he was going to speak to us. Just then
we heard a man's voice asking, "Will you take a
message for me, Mr. Drouet? I would like to send a
word to my son. This is DeWitt Fessenden's father
speaking. Tell him I am with him constantly, trying
to assist him. Say, a man is never licked until he licks
himself."
When Mr. Wood spoke to us, I told him he had
recorded a few words on the ediphone, which pleased
him. Then I said, "When you make the next record,
Mr. Wood, state that you are the Ed Wood of Pitts
224
DR. SPERRY GREETS SOME OLD FRIENDS
burgh," and he said, "The Ed Wood! All right, I'll
say I am The Ed Wood," and laughed.
I felt the trumpet touching me gently on both shoul
ders, and then we heard, "This is mother, Bessie dear ;
I touched you on both shoulders." As I wanted to find
out who had been helping Constance Clarke in her
writings I said, "Do you know, mother, who is helping
Constance with her writing?" She replied, "There are
many writers about her. Sometimes Lucy Larcom is
there. Doesn't she realize that I am helping her more
than any one?" "But mother," I said, "she is writing
fiction, and as you didn't write fiction here, she didn't
think you would be interested in fiction now." Mother
returned, "Well, is that any reason why I can't write
fiction now, if I wish to ?"
After mother had finished talking with me we
started to sing, "Onward Christian Soldiers," when
we were interrupted by, "This is Floyd Tomkins, I
am still marching on in the Army of Christ." I asked,
"Tell me, Doctor, did you find conditions there as I
had told you?" He replied, "Yes, only much more
wonderful." Before Dr. Tomkins had spoken, I had
seen a very strong light directly in front of me, and
had called the others' attention to it. Some could see
225
STATION ASTRAL
it,
and some could not.
It
seemed as
if
a
very strong
light was flickering before my eyes, so close to me that
Ihad covered my eyes with my hand.
There was so little power left after this that Sun
shine came in and said the sitting would be closed by
Dr. Clarke. Father said, "Sing the Doxology, good
night."
226
CHAPTER XVI
MAKING RECORDS AT OUR DIRECTORS' MEETING
S Houdon was eager for me to begin modeling
/ A-the head of Maina Tafe, I made an appointment
with her for Monday afternoon, May second. That was
the night we had arranged, following the advice of
Professor Launderville, to hold our directors' meeting.
So I thought that if I worked in the afternoon, Houdon
would have an opportunity, at the evening seance, to
give me a criticism.
We started the work on Maina's head, (I say, "we,"
because I felt that Houdon was working with me,) at
about four o'clock and everything went well and easily.
I was surprised to find how the head developed under my
hands. I kept speaking of Houdon, feeling him close to
me. I also remarked that Maina's face was so distinct
in line and modeling, that it looked like a map.
At eight-thirty we were all ready for the seance, and
I am going to try and tell you exactly what happened.
This will be very easy because I took notes on every
thing that occurred.
After the meeting was opened, Sunshine said, "Oh
227
STATION ASTRAL
Maina, isn't the head beautiful. Too pretty, eh? Aren't
you glad you had your hair especially waved ? I think it
is beautiful."
Almost immediately we heard the voice of Houdon
saying, "Houdon, this is Houdon, I cannot tell you how
happy I am about the head which you are doing. You
know I have had this head in my mind for a long time.
I have been intending to ask you to do it. Do you notice
how easily you are modeling ? I heard you say Maina's
face was just like a map, and so it is. Everything is so
very distinct. Now, I want you to take just a little bit
off the upper lip, it is too heavy. The lower lip and
jaw are all right. I was glad to see you blunt the nose
a little. I was impressing you to do it for some time.
Now blunt up the chin more to go with the nose. I want
you to take a full sitting for the eyes, they must be wide
open and full. Sunshine seems to be more interested in
Maina's hair than in her features. I think the head of
Dr. Tomkins is about finished. Just a little more work
on the clothes and hair. Dr. Tomkins likes it now, and
I also like it. Do you remember I told you we could do
Miss Tafe's head in a very short time. I heard you say
you were going to repaint the studio. Why not paint it
blue? You know I like the vibrations in this studio so
228
MAKING RECORDS AT MEETING
much better than those in the old studio. We will do
some good work here."
All of this was very inspiring. I was sure that
Houdon was really doing most of the work, that I was
only serving.
Mr. Wood's voice was the next one heard, saying,
"Houdon is very happy about your head, Miss Tafe. He
keeps running up into the studio, looking at the bust,
and then he comes down here arte looks at you. I guess
he is getting ready for the next time you pose." Then
Mr. Wood said to me, "The Professor here says you
can start the ediphone, Mrs. Drouet, and we will try to
make some records."
So I started the ediphone, and Maina held the speak
ing tube as high in the air as she could. We could hear
Mr. Wood speaking into the ediphone, as he was speak
ing very loudly, and then we knew that Dr. Clarke was
recording, and then we heard Mr. Sperry say, "This
is Elmer Ambrose Sperry. Yes, Sperry, the Gyroscope
man. Tell Anne Lloyd that I hope to speak to her this
summer, at Bellport." After which Sunshine said a
few things, then mother, and finally Lillian made a
lovely speech. Now at that moment I had the most
dreadful thought, "Had I lowered the needle for
229
STATION ASTRAL
recording?" I was excited and tired, from my after
noon's work, and I had arranged the ediphone before
putting out the lights. So with many misgivings, I
reached to feel if the needle was down, and to my dis
may I found that I had neglected to lower
it,
and so
not a word of our friends had been recorded.
I
said,
"Oh Sunshine, what do you think of me,
I
was so care
less, that
I
forgot to lower the needle, and we have not
received
a
word of
tho^e
lovely messages?" Sunshine,
bless her, said, "Oh that
is
all right, Aunt Betty. We
will try again, perhaps they will do better this time."
And so we started all over again. But, of course, they
had used
a
great deal of the power and every one
could not repeat, though Dr. Clarke, Mr. Wood, mother
and Dr. Tomkins recorded some words which were
heard, when, after the sitting, we reversed the switch
and listened.
Before giving you the records, let me speak just
a
moment about Miss Tafe's mother. She had never
spoken to us here. We were both surprised and delighted
when we heard a voice say, "This
is
mother, Maina."
Maina said, "Why, mother,
it
is
very nice to hear from
you here at Mrs. Drouet's." Then
I
said, "Good evening,
we are very glad to welcome you. You should come in
often and speak to us. We are very fond of Maina, and
230
MAKING RECORDS AT MEETING
we have heard so often about you, that we are delighted
to have you speak to us." She replied, "I do come over
here quite often. I heard Maina speak of you, be
fore I passed over. I go up into your studio, Mrs.
Drouet, but as I was not a college woman, I do not know
what to say to all the learned men there." Surprised, I
asked, "Learned men, what do you mean ?" And she re
plied, "Why, there are many learned men up there all
the time. When you are working they sit and watch
you, and discuss your work."
This was interesting to me. I wasn't quite sure
whether I liked it or not. But I know they are trying
to help me, so I welcome them, and if it amuses, or
gives them any happiness, I am content.
Lillian spoke again to us, saying, "I am still feeling
depressed because I am unable to help my friends in
the spirit world, who are in such a deplorable mental
condition, they do not want to be helped, and that dis
tresses me. But I do love to come here to you, Harry,
and Betty, because it strengthens me." I told Lillian that
I would pray that she might have the strength to counter
act the influence of these depressing mentalities, which
she was trying to assist.
Annie then spoke to Mr. Drouet. During her talk to
him, Maina and I passed a few words with each other.
23 1
STATION ASTRAL
Immediately Annie came over to us, asking, "What were
you two girls talking about?" It is evident that curiosity
does not die, either.
Now Professor Launderville said a few words, hoping
the records were successful, and when I asked him,
"Don't you feel, Professor, that the law of appreciation
is a very important one?" he replied, "Yes, very, but
don't forget there is also a law of compensation, and
so few people understand either law."
At this point, Sunshine said that the power was going,
they had used so much for the recording, so Dr. Clarke
came in, wishing us good luck with the records and
saying, "I will stick around to hear what you have on the
records. Now sing the Doxology and close the meeting."
After the seance was over, we reversed the switch
on the ediphone and listened. I will give you exactly what
is possible for any one to hear on the record. The blanks
indicate the words not discernible. Dr. Clarke's voice
registered very clear and well. Ed Wood's blasted a bit
at the beginning, but cleared up later. Mother's voice
was so low we could not make out many words. Dr.
Tomkins' voice, though low, what we heard of it was
very distinct.
Father's was the first voice we heard on the record,
as follows: "Dr. Clarke, I'm speaking from Station
232
MAKING RECORDS AT MEETING
Astral; yes, this is Dr. Clarke, I am speaking from
Station Astral. I am living in what you call the spirit
world. Do you see my light ! Do you see my light ! what
light can you see? Yes, you know every spirit carries
a light, as each individual man carries his shadow with
him, or his astral counterpart, and as the Bible says,
'Ye shall know them by their lights.' Yes, that is true,
yes, all right, I am glad that I can speak. This is not the
first time, I hope you will be able to hear me. Tell Fred
I made a record for you. I do not know how many of
us will be able to talk to you. All right, good-by."
Following this, we heard on the record, the sound of
the trumpet being fastened on again, and this time the
voice was so loud, that, at first, it blasted. "Ed Wood,
Ed Wood, of Pittsburgh. I was an insurance man. I
always thought it was the best business in the world,
because, as I have said before, as long as there is life,
there is death, and where there is death, there is need
of insurance." I had interrupted him at this point of
his recording, by saying, "I am surprised to hear you
use the word death." The record went on from this
point, "When I used the word death, I had to do that
because most people wouldn't understand anything else.
We talk in a man's language when we say death, be
cause they know what you mean. But of course, we
233
STATION ASTRAL
know there is no death, that
is,
no death for the soul."
Mr. Drouet had interrupted Mr. Wood at this
point, saying, "The insurance people do not know that
there
is
no death," Mr. Wood's voice continued as
follows on the record, "Thank God, for that. If many
of your clients knew that, they'd think they didn't need
any insurance. It
is
just as well they do not know."
The third voice on the record was Sunshine's, as
follows, "This
is
Sunshine, Sunshine.
I
want to talk to
my Aunt Betty and Uncle Harry, and Maina, too.
I
am
talking from Station (come on in Dr. Clarke and tell
me the name of this station) Astral, good-by." Sunshine
evidently couldn't think of the name Astral, as she called
on father to help her out, not realizing
it
would all be
on the record. But she was back in
a
moment, for the
record continued, "This
is
Sunshine again.
I want to
ask my Uncle Harry, why doesn't the Scotchman wear
rubber heels
?'
He doesn't because they give too much.
Good-by."
Immediately following this on the record came,
"Mother, this
is
mother. No this
is
mother talking. Dr.
Tomkins
is
going to try to speak here. We are all try
ing to get our names in the book
."
As mother's voice was so low, we could not hear many
234
MAKING RECORDS AT MEETING
words, but I have given you all that we could under
stand.
The last words on the record are as follows, "Floyd
Tomkins, yes, yes, remember me to all —
I want to thank you for your prayers for me
. Tell Sallie I am satisfied with the way things
are going in Philadelphia. Yes, I am also pleased with
my head. No, I said, I am pleased with my head. Yes, I
think it is beautiful. Are you going to send it to the
church or keep it in your own collection ?" I remember
that we had kept calling to him to speak louder, which
accounts for his "yes, and no."
I think it will be interesting to include, in this review,
the following note :
"I have heard the first records made on the Ediphone
of the voices of Dr. Clarke, Ed Wood, Dr. Tomkins,
and Sunshine."
Signed,
Representative Edison Ediphone Co.
235
CHAPTER XVII
A DAY OF MEMORIES
PERHAPS
you will remember what happened on
May fifth, in 1929. This year that date fell on a
Thursday, and I was very happy, as I hoped to talk with
father and wish him a happy anniversary. Three years
on the astral plane.
Mr. Cyril Tolley, a former British Amateur Golf
Champion, who had sat many times in seances, in his
native land, England, and had had most interesting and
evidential experiences, was sitting with us, this evening,
as well as one or two other strangers to our circle.
After Sunshine had opened the seance, father spied
Mrs. L , and said, "Good evening, Mrs. L , it is
nice to see you here. Your father is close to you, and
there are other members of your family here tonight."
Father was then introduced to Mr. Tolley, and the other
new sitter. Father told Mr. Tolley that his brother
would try to speak to him. He then spoke of the good
conditions existing, and said that we would have a very
successful evening.
I asked father if he knew what this day was, and ne
236
A DAY OF MEMORIES
said, "Yes," then I said, "I wish to congratulate you,
would you wish to be back here ?" He replied, "Not for
everything in your world, would I come back. You say
it is three years I have been on this side ? It seems a very
short time to me."
A rather interesting thing happened this evening,
showing how very important it is for us to continue
with our prayers for our unseen loved ones. You re
member in the last few seances, that Lillian had come
and spoken of her depression. Tonight when she spoke,
she seemed very much brighter, as she said, "I'm feel
ing better now, Harry, I seem to be able to throw
off that depression which was bearing me down from
the association with my friends who had broken natural
laws." I interrupted with, "What has helped you, Lil
lian, to throw off this depression?" Her reply was,
"Your prayers for me, Betty. You prayed that I might
have the desire to use the energy about me for strength
to overcome the influence of the people whom I was
trying to help. You asked that I might become more
buoyant."
Mr. Tolley had a brother, who had passed over into
the spirit world before Mr. Tolley was born. Tonight
this brother came, and identified himself. When Mr.
237
STATION ASTRAL
Tolley asked him if he had been close to him during his
period of capture by the Germans, in the late war, and
what he had done for him at that time, we heard this
reply, "I heard you calling for some one to take a mes
sage to your mother. I came and received your message
that you were a prisoner, but well and safe, and I car
ried it to our mother in England. She was impressed
with the thought I was giving her, to the extent that
I heard her continually telling our father that you were
safe, although she heard nothing from you."
Mr. Tolley told us that his mother had told him, after
his return from the war, that she was so strongly im
pressed with his safety, in spite of no word from him,
that she held to the idea, although his father was sure
he had been killed.
Then the brother continued, "Tell mother I spoke to
you, Cyril. Tell mother not to miss me when she sees
me face to face."
There was another lady sitting with us this evening,
who had had one previous experience with direct voice,
and she was very anxious to hear from her mother. So
when her mother spoke to her, she asked her many in
timate questions, finally saying, "Give me some proof,
mother, that it is you speaking to me. Tell me where I
238
A DAY OF MEMORIES
was born, or give me my first name. No one here knows
my first name."
The mother seemed hurt that the daughter should
question the validity of her voice, and she lost her
power. But later a voice was heard calling, "Floice,
Floice," and this lady answered, "Yes, yes, that is my
name, who wishes to speak to me ?" and a voice spoke,
saying, "This is Grandmother, I called your name to
prove that we are really your own people. Your mother
thought you would surely know it was she from her
reference to your sister, and your own child named
after that sister, who is here in the spirit world. You
were not expecting me to speak to you tonight, and
this is proof that this is a real communication."
About this time, Houdon spoke to me again. His
interest in Maina's head was making me very anxious
to please him, and as I had made the corrections which
he had advised, I was wondering if he had more
criticisms to give to me. He said, "I saw you change
the chin, as I advised, and you saw for yourself that
her cheekbones should be a little wider. Now they are
correct. When are we going to have another pose?"
I said, "Tomorrow morning at eleven o'clock." He
continued, "I will be there, we can finish this head in
one or two sittings, I cannot tell you how happy you
239
STATION ASTRAL
are making me." I said, "You remember, Houdon, I
asked you about a head which I thought you had done,
and you didn't seem to remember it. I looked it up
after our last conversation, and found it was a head
done by Carpeaux." He replied, "Well, I couldn't
place any head of mine that was like your descriptions.
I remember all the heads I ever did. There's a good
reason why I didn't recognize that head, and I am glad
you learned it was not mine, for I certainly know my
own work." I asked, "Shall I put your name on Maina's
bust?" He said, "Put your own name on the outside,
and put mine under the left-hand shoulder. I shall be
most happy if this is done."
I certainly wouldn't dare to do such a thing as use
his name without his consent, and proof that he had
been working on the composition. But when I have
several friends hearing, as I do, his desires and per
mission, I feel justified in so doing. Another little bit
of conversation between us seemed to amuse every one
in the room. When I said, "I think you must think I am
a glutton for work, Houdon, for you do not hesitate
to give me plenty to do," he replied, "No, you are not
a glutton, you are a willing instrument." Which made
me feel that all my efforts were well worth while.
240
A DAY OF MEMORIES
While Dr. Sperry was talking to Mrs. Lloyd, I took
the liberty of interrupting him, asking, "Dr. Sperry,
what do you think about capital punishment ?" And this
is what he gave us :
"Capital punishment is the most terrible and dan
gerous act possible. In the first place, you are releasing
a soul, and the soul of a criminal that is filled with
vicious thoughts, and thoughts are things. This vicious
mind, through the law of attraction, fastens itself upon
the mind of some earth personality, who has the same
desire within himself. And the astral mind is so strong
that it obsesses the earth mind, and crime continues.
It is the same as releasing an atom. Nobody there
knows where that atom goes, or what happens. As long
as it is controlled, it can be managed, but once you
release
it,
you are powerless to direct it. And so, that
is
what happens to the mind of man."
I
continued, with this question, "In what state of
mind do criminals come over there ?" He replied, "They
come over here in many different states of mind. Some
come with
a
great indifference, some come with ven
geance, some come cursing and damning, some come
sorrowfully, some come praying."
Forrest followed Dr. Sperry, speaking to his wife,
241
STATION ASTRAL
and in reply to a remark she had made about his being,
"over there," he said, "I am not 'over there,' I am
right here with all of you. I enjoy these meetings, oh
so much. They are like pleasant dreams, pleasant mem
ories."
242
CHAPTER XVIII
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY MAKE A RECORD
SINCE
the last attempt of our spirit friends to
record their voices, we had been waiting for Pro
fessor Launderville to tell us when we might give them
another opportunity. On the night of May twelfth, as
several friends had telephoned they could not be with
us, I thought, "Tonight will be propitious for making
records," so I placed the ediphone ready for use.
Although our circle was small, only Mrs. Lloyd,
Mrs. Goodhue, Mr. Drouet, Maina and myself, the
power was strong. After Sunshine had opened the
meeting, I was not surprised to hear her say, "Hello,
Uncle Harry ! we are going to make records tonight. I
have a surprise for all of you. Maina, I am going to
make the first record."
Following Sunshine's remarks, we heard Professor
Launderville speaking, as follows, "We will try to
make some clearer records for you tonight. The condi
tions are very harmonious, and the vibrations strong,
so we will start right away and make the record, and
afterwards, we will give you some more messages.
You may start the machine, Mrs. Drouet."
243
STATION ASTRAL
As I had placed the ediphone machine between Maina
and myself, I was prepared to turn on the power. Maina,
as before, held the speaking tube as high in the air
as she could, and then we waited.
Sunshine spoke to us again saying, "Sing a little to
start the vibrations, and I will make the first record."
In a moment or two we heard the sound of the
trumpet being attached to the speaking tube. At first she
could not connect
it,
and we could hear her fumbling
with it.
I
had separated the parts of the trumpet, leav
ing the two smaller sections together, as the end of this
second section,
I
found, just fitted the end of the speak
ing tube of the ediphone. You remember the last time
they tried, they used the complete trumpet, and the end
was so large most of the words escaped the speaking
tube. Now Maina said, "Sunshine has the trumpet
on.
I
think, Mrs. Drouet, that
it
was a good idea of
yours for them to use the smaller end of the trumpet
as
I
can feel
a
firmness in their hold." Now the voice
was speaking, and we heard no rattling of the trumpet.
So Sunshine made a record.
I
will read from the
transcription, which
I
made after the sitting was over,
everything that was made on the record. We could
not hear the words tonight, when they were spoken
into the ediphone, as the connection was so close.
244
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
After Sunshine had finished recording, we thought
we should have to wait awhile. But no, immediately we
heard the trumpet being again attached and a voice
speaking. As we could not make out distinctly whose
voice it was, one of us asked, "Is it Edison? Is it Dr.
Clarke?" You will understand the "yes and no" on the
record, because of this question.
We were all amused to hear the voice of Baby Anne
calling to Mrs. Lloyd, "Garmie, Garmie, I want to talk
on the machine." And when Mrs. Lloyd said, "Yes
darling, you try," we heard her trying. Evidently
some one helped her get the trumpet up, for in a second
we knew she was talking into the ediphone. Immedi
ately following this, we heard another voice at the
machine. This time there was no doubt about whose
voice we were hearing. It was Ed Wood's, and Mr.
Drouet called, "Don't blast, take it easy." You will
notice in the transcription there seemed to be an inter
ruption during Mr. Wood's recording. This interrup
tion came from Mr. Drouet, who had repeated what he
thought he heard Mr. Wood say, and Mr. Wood had
picked up the trumpet, and recorded his correction on
the ediphone.
Professor Launderville was heard from at this time,
saying, "Keep the vibrations going, sing a little more."
245
STATION ASTRAL
So Mr. Drouet started, "I can't get them up, I can't get
them up." You remember the tune. We were con
scious all this time that some one was speaking into the
trumpet. Later you will read how it was Lawrence
Sperry whistling into the ediphone, whistling the same
tune that we were singing.
All of which was proving most interesting. As
we were not able to hear very much of what they were
saying, we were hoping, through their close connec
tions, that their voices were being well recorded.
Before the next attempt was made, Dr. Clarke told
us that he would make a record for some man in the
spirit world with him, who couldn't make his own, and
then we heard father speaking into the machine.
Just as we never know who is going to speak to us,
giving us messages, so, we did not know who would
be the next to make a record, but we were delighted
when we heard Forrest at the machine. He continued
speaking for quite some time, and we were very anxious
that it should all be recorded.
Every one was wondering if Mr. Sperry was going
to desert us. We were talking about it when he spoke,
saying, "This is Elmer." I exclaimed, "Oh, Mr. Sperry,
will you, record something for us? Tell us, what
is the relative position of your world to ours?" Then
246
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
he fastened the trumpet on to the machine, and what
he said, I will give to you later with the others.
I was feeling of the record to see if they were near-
ing the end, but there seemed to be about two inches
left, maybe a little less, so I thought I would let one
more voice on, and then I would change the record,
when along came Bobby, Bobby Wardlaw. Bobby made
a little fuss getting his connection. We could all hear
him shouting into the trumpet, and we couldn't help
laughing, for he is such a darling kiddie.
As he finished, I started to remove the record, when
we heard Professor Launderville, say,"That will be all
of the recording tonight, Mrs. Drouet. I hope you will
find good results when you listen after the meeting."
I replied, "Thanks so much, Professor Launderville,
but I am disappointed, you didn't record anything
for us."
He spoke again saying, "Now sing some more, as
the power has been diminished from making the record.
We want to build it up, and then we will come in and
talk to you for a while."
So we started singing, "Pack Up Your Troubles,"
which always seems to please them, both the words
and the vibrations of the tune. From that we slipped
into "Moonlight and Roses," another favorite of our
247
STATION ASTRAL
spirit friends, when we heard a voice speaking. It was
Mr. Drouet's mother, saying, "Good evening, Harry.
Every one is so interested in the making of these
records. We are all trying to do something for Betty's
book, 'Station Astral.' Miss Tafe, I think your head is
beautiful. It is too bad Betty cannot show the lights
around you. We all love you for the good work you
are doing for every one."
I said, "Yes, it is too bad, Maina, that I cannot do
as she suggests, but I'll try to make your eyes shine."
We were all laughing and talking as usual when the
delightful voice of Geraldine's Aunt Alpha was heard,
"This is Aunt Alpha, Geraldine. You were not thinking
of me. You were thinking about John B. He is all right,
having a good time on that ranch. I'll take care of him,
don't worry. When is your mother coming? I want to
talk to her so badly I can hardly wait. I hope I shall not
forget the things I want to say to her. I think of so
much I want to say, and then I forget. I am afraid I
shall forget something when she comes."
All this shows us how similar to ours are their
thoughts and words. I know I often think of some
thing I wish to speak about in a meeting, but when I
become interested in the things coming through, I for
get about what I wanted to say. So I told Aunt
248
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
Alpha, "Don't worry, we will give you plenty of oppor
tunities when Mrs. Richardson comes."
We kept up the singing, trying to help them in, when
a voice was heard saying, "I want to send a word to
Louise, Louise Goddard." Both Mrs. Lloyd and I re
marked, "She is not here tonight." Then the voice con
tinued, "This is Gus, Gus Holly. I want you to tell her
not to worry about me, for I am all right, I want her to
come more often to these meetings. She always enjoys
coming, and I want her to know that I wish to talk
with her frequently." Turning to Mr. Drouet, he con
tinued, "Did you know me during my earth life? I knew
S. H. Is he still playing football?" And Mr. Drouet
answered, "No, you did not know me. S. H. is playing
golf now." Mr. Holly then remarked, "That is an old
man's game."
We were laughing over this, when another voice
hushed us, and we heard, "This is Eddie, Eddie Kiam,
yes Kiam. I came in here today with a letter which
my wife sent to Mrs. Drouet, and I have been hanging
around all day waiting for this meeting. What are you
trying to do here, broadcast? Dr. Clarke, your father,
Mrs. Drouet, said he would broadcast for me, and he
did. Could you hear what he said? I hope he made a
good record." This was quite a long speech, and Mr.
249
STATION ASTRAL
Drouet spoke to him saying, "We certainly are glad to
hear from you again, Eddie. It must be two years since
you have spoken to us in this circle, and at that time
your wife said it could not be you because you said
Kiam, with a long 'a,' while in life you always pro-
announced it as with no 'a,' like Kime." Instantly, Mr.
Kiam was speaking again, "Kiam, or Kime, it is Eddie
Kiam." Then Mr. Drouet continued his conversation
as follows, "Say, Eddie, are you as good looking, now,
as you were here ?" He replied, "Better, I have on my
button shoes and my trousers are better creased than
ever. I think, Drouet, I am dressier than ever. I'm
glad to talk to you and Mrs. Drouet. Thanks for let
ting me, I'll come in again. Good-by."
We had known Mr. Kiam very well in life. He was
very handsome and most fastidious in his dress. It is
quite evident that he is the same natty personality we
knew. That morning I had received a letter from his
wife, with some papers, on psychic matters, which I
had given her to read, but Mr. Drouet knew nothing
of this.
The power was very strong now, and the voices were
coming without any long waits. We were all thinking
about the pleasant personality who had just communi
cated, when we were aroused by hearing, "This is
250
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
Salter Storrs, Richard Salter Storrs." Mrs. Lloyd
greeted him with great enthusiasm, and he continued
with, "It is a pleasure to speak here tonight, and a great
privilege to be able to speak again to the earth plane,
after you have passed through the stage called death.
I come to confirm a message and tell my appreciation."
Not knowing the gentleman, and as he evidently had
come in on Mrs. Lloyd's vibration, I asked her, "Who
is Mr. Storrs?" She told us, "I received a message
from Dr. Storrs this week, through my daughter's
automatic writing. That is what he is confirming. Dr.
Richard Salter Storrs celebrated his fiftieth anniversary
as the Pastor of the Church of the Pilgrims, in Brook
lyn. He was a contemporary of Henry Ward Beecher,
and incidentally, he married me to Charles Field." I
asked, "How long has he been over ?" And Mrs. Lloyd
replied, "I think about twenty years."
As mother had not spoken to me for one or two sit
tings, I was very glad to hear her voice next, saying,
"This is Mother, I cannot wait until the new book is
out and on the bookshelves." I hastened to interrupt
with, "I don't want it on the shelves, Mother, I want it
in people's hands." And she replied, "But it must be
on the shelf first. We are all so interested in
it,
and so
happy to see you doing
it,
for
it
is
different from
al
251
STATION ASTRAL
most any other book ever written, because you are
using both the authentic names of the sitters in your
circle, and the names of the spirit friends communicat
ing, and any one can write or telephone to any earth
person named therein and confirm all these reports."
I am quoting this exactly from my notes. I think
mother meant there were more people mentioned in my
book than in other books. I am sure any of my friends
named within this book will always try to help any
one seeking more confirmation.
It is always a pleasant surprise when one realizes
that their friends remember one's expressed wishes.
You will recall that I was disappointed when Professor
Launderville did not record, so when his was the next
voice heard, I knew he had realized this disappointment
and was going to tell us something of interest. Let me
quote his remarks, "Mrs. Drouet, I know you wish me
to give you something of usefulness for the book, so I
will give you a few words about cremation.
"In my own case my wishes were not carried out, as
my wife did not think as I did about
it,
and my body
was buried. But
I
was, and
I
still am, a firm believer in
cremation.
"Perhaps you do not realize that the mind of man
demonstrating through his physical body so long, still
252
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
feels a great attraction for that body; all his pleasures
and experiences have come through that body, and he
still feels the desire for the things of the body. When
that body is left to decay in the ground, the mind of its
owner frequently returns to
it,
and the sight of
it
de
presses the spirit, and
it
becomes morbid. Fortunately,
for your father and mother, you eliminated all that.
I
cannot tell you how fortunate
it
is
for them, for they
are not hindered by any hideousness of their former
habitations, their bodies.
"The custom of keeping the body three or four days
before burial,
is
a
very old one, going back to the time
of the Egyptians. They felt that time must be given the
soul to free itself from the body. Now in cremation
the astral cord
is
severed instantly, and there
is
nothing
for the soul to return to through sympathetic vibrations.
"I feel
it
is
a great pity that one's personal wishes
are not adhered to after their passing. The least others
can do
is
to carry out the desires of the one they loved.
So
I
want you to know that cremation
is
the only way
to clear the soul of unhappy returns to unpleasant
sights and remembrances."
This certainly gave us something to think about, and
made us doubly glad we had cremated the bodies of our
loved ones.
It
reassured us in our judgment.
253
STATION ASTRAL
No one was thinking about Arthur Ford's guide,
"Fletcher," so we were taken wholly by surprise when
we heard him say, "Good evening, Mr. and Mrs.
Drouet, I bring you greetings from Arthur. He told
me to come here to you tonight. He knew it was
your night to sit, and he is thinking of you all. He is
very fond of you both. I want you always to help my
boy in this great work he is doing. You know how I
appreciate your help. Beyond words, I am gratified."
Turning to Maina, he continued, "You have your head
now, I like it. I like the expression. I am bringing
Arthur back to New York soon."
I had a feeling we were about at the end of the
seance, and so was not surprised when we heard Sun
shine say, "The power is going, we used so much for
the recording. Dr. Clarke will close the meeting. Good
night, good night, Maina."
After a moment, father spoke, saying, "I hope
the records will be better than last time. I will wait
around after the close of the meeting and listen to them.
Sing the Doxology and close. Good night, good night."
I hope you are as interested to hear what we heard
on the record as we were. We were delighted and hap
pily surprised, and I want you to feel the same way.
Just as soon as the lights were on again, I reversed
254
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
the machine, and this is what came to us, clearly and
loud enough for every one in the room to hear. All
the voices, with the exception of Mr. Wood's, which
blasted a little at first, came very distinctly and indi
vidually.
As you will remember, Sunshine was the first to
speak into the ediphone machine, and this is what she
recorded : "Sunshine, we are going to make records
from Station Astral, The Temple in the Sky, and Sky
ward Studio."
The second voice on the record proved to be that of
Thomas A. Edison. This is his exact message. "Yes, no.
This is Thomas A. Edison. Yes. It gives me unbounded
pleasure to know that there is a continued existence of
mortal life, that I am able to witness one of my inven
tions being used to communicate with the two worlds.
Good-by."
The third voice was that of Baby Anne, saying,
"Garmie, Garmie, I love you and Marmie." And there
were many kisses recorded.
The fourth voice was that of Ed Wood. "Hello,
friends, Ed Wood, I want to say a word from Station
Astral. Yes, I am talking from Station Astral. There
are two things that everybody should have : insurance,
and assurance that their existence goes on after they
255
STATION ASTRAL
have left the worn-out body." Mr. Wood returned,
recording, "I didn't say after you had left the world,
I said, after you had left that worn-out body. I don't
want you to misquote me, for I can't get back at you.
Good-by."
The fifth voice belonged to Lawrence Sperry,
whistling the tune "I can't get them up," Lawrence,
no, Lawrence, yes Lawrence Sperry." Then more
whistling.
The sixth voice was that of Dr. Qarke. "Dr. Qarke.
Yes. I want you to know there is a gentleman here
whose voice, I think, is not loud enough to be heard
from Station Astral. He couldn't talk on the machine,
so I will broadcast for him. Eddie is here ; I said Eddie
is here. No, not Lillian; Eddie Kiam. He says he fol
lowed his wife's letter here. I will be in again later.
Good-by."
The seventh voice was Forrest Goodhue's. "Hello,
Geraldine! this is Forrest. Little Forrest is here with
me. You are going to have me here on this broadcast,
too, from Station Astral. Dr. Clarke has been training
us for a long time so we should be able to record so
you can hear us. I just wish I could have the record
preserved. Dr. Clarke says the more you run the record
the fainter it gets. Dr. Clarke said you couldn't keep
256
MR. EDISON AND DR. SPERRY
these records. Geraldine, when is your mother coming?
Oh, that's fine. Well, tell her I want to talk to her.
Won't you give my love to mother too, when you see
her? And I certainly cannot tell Mr. and Mrs. Drouet
how much I appreciate what they have done for both
of us, for they certainly bridged the deep gulf between
the two worlds, and they certainly bridged the gulf of
understanding for both of us, dear. Good night, good
night."
The eighth voice was an answer to my question,
"What is the relative position of our world to yours ?"
Given by Dr. Sperry, "Elmer Sperry. Yes. How do
you do? Good evening. Well, I don't know if I can
give you the exact location, because we seem to be
vibrating in every place that is space ; and as space is
everywhere, it is difficult for me to answer that ques
tion, and give you any fixed location, any more than it
is possible to give you some fixed position in the uni
verse of your earth.
"You can only give its relative position in regard to
its relative position with other planets known to men.
"There are many planets unknown to the earth's
vibration.
"All I can say is, we vibrate around and about you all
the time, except that our rate of vibration is so much
257
STATION ASTRAL
more rapid than yours, you cannot see us with normal
sight. That's all. Now I will try to talk to you again,
for I want to leave space here for others to tell their
experiences. It has been a great honor for me to come
in and talk to you from Station Astral. Good-by."
The ninth voice was that of little Bobby Wardlaw.
"This is Bobby, Bobby. Bobby Wardlaw. I want to send
love to my Mamma and Daddy. Tell Daddy that half
back Bobby sends love to him. Good-by."
We were quite overwhelmed with the concrete evi
dence these records gave us. I could not help but re
mark how evidential it was of the true natures of Edi
son and Sperry, speaking on the same record with two
little children, still the simple spirit of unconscious
greatness.
This record has been transcribed and will eventually
be made into a permanent record.
258
CHAPTER XIX
A SPECIAL SEANCE WITH HOUDON
S I needed one more pose from Maina to finish her
1 X head, we chose Tuesday, May seventeenth, at
ten-thirty. She arrived on time and we worked until
about twelve o'clock. Then I felt a few more touches
and smoothing down and the bust would be finished.
I have never done anything as easily, or perhaps as well
as this head of our medium. But I was anxious for
Houdon to give me a final criticism.
At about twelve o'clock Mrs. Harry Smith came in,
and we three came down from the studio, darkened the
room, and held a seance. Sunshine immediately spoke
to us. She has been having a lot of fun over this head
of Maina's, joking about it being prettier than Maina,
and trying to tease her. We were laughing at her re
marks, when we heard the voice of Houdon speaking,
"I'm very well pleased with Miss Tafe's head. In fact,
I'm satisfied. Now all that is necessary is to treat the
texture a little." When I asked, "How?" he said, "Why,
use your thumb the same way as I do. You move
it with a rolling movement, and that gives you my
259
STATION ASTRAL
texture." I then said to him, "I think I have made
Dr. Tomkins' nose a trifle too long. What do you
think?" He replied: "Just wait a moment." We did,
and in two or three moments he was speaking again, as
follows : "I've just been up in the studio looking at Dr.
Tomkins' head. I don't think the nose looks too long,
but he is not there today, and so I cannot say. Have you
the measurement of his nose? If you have, measure it
and see whether or not you are right. Make it exactly
like your measurements."
I asked Houdon if he had ever done a portrait bust
of himself, because I would like to find either a picture
of
it,
or
a
replica, to put in the studio as my patron
saint. Houdon said
:
"Yes,
I
did
a
self-portrait
;
I'll see
if
I
can locate it. Wait and
I
will tell you where you
can get
a
picture or
a
small reproduction of it."
I
then
asked Houdon
if
there was any head, that he was in
terested in, which he would like to work upon with me
during the summer, and he replied, "Yes, there
is
one
I
should very much like to do, your head."
To this
I
said: "That would be very interesting.
Letting you impress me,
I
will work without looking
in the mirror, and see what you can do." Houdon con
tinued, saying, "That's
a
good idea; don't look in the
260
PORTRAIT BUST OF MAINA TAFE
By Bessie Clarke Drouet
1932
r
A SPECIAL SEANCE WITH HOUDON
mirror, unless I tell you to. I am sure we can make a
very fine portrait head."
I asked Houdon if he could give me my criticisms
through my own automatic writing, and he replied,
"Yes, I will do that."
Dr. Harry Smith spoke to Mrs. Smith, seemingly
very happy for the opportunity. And her mother also
spoke, telling her that she was impressing her with
patience, and saying, "Pray, Ella, that I may be
able to give you more patience."
As this seance was solely for the purpose of giving
Houdon an opportunity for an immediate criticism,
after Maina's last pose, father came in and said to us,
"This will be all for today. Ella, I am glad you are
identified with this book ; I want to say, all the people
identified with this book of Betty's, 'Station Astral,'
are under the protection of the forces demonstrating
through it."
So we sang the Doxology and closed the seance.
While we were having lunch, Mrs. Smith said,
"Betty, I wish you would quote me, as saying, 'The
one thing which has annoyed me most in my life has
been intolerance,' but my experiences in these seances
have taught me to be tolerant even of intolerance."
261
CHAPTER XX
THE REV. DR. FLOYD TOM KINS SPEAKS AGAIN
.T our seance on May nineteenth, we were anxious
i V to tell our spirit friends about the successful
records they had made on May twelfth, and hear what
they had to say about them.
This evening we had two new sitters with us, a
young Doctor and his wife, and of course we did not
know just how receptive their minds would be. So
much depends upon the attitude of the sitter. But just
as soon as we had repeated the Lord's Prayer, we
heard the voice of Sunshine, very strong and clear,
which fact told us that we were going to have a good
evening. And we were right. For our new young friends
proved to be wonderfully sympathetic sitters.
Sunshine was full of fun, telling the strangers some
funny stories, and every one seemed in a jolly mood, so
much so that when the next voice spoke, our friends,
sitting for the first time, felt no hesitancy in speaking
to the spirit voice. As it was father's voice, I intro
duced him to Dr. and Mrs. H , and he welcomed
them into our circle, saying to me, "We are rounding
262
REV. DR. FLOYD TOMKINS SPEAKS AGAIN
up all the doctors, Bessie, are we not?" Then father
proceeded to speak with Dr. H about a case in
which Dr. H was at that moment interested, but
as father had never seen this young man before, he
told him this, "Let me work in your vibrations awhile.
When you go to this case tomorrow, think of me, and
I will come and see what the matter is with the child."
I then asked father a question, which is often asked
of me. "Tell me, Father, does this earth communication
keep you earthbound ?" And he replied, "Certainly not.
We do not have to come here and communicate. We
come because it helps us to develop, and it comforts
you. You know many souls have come into these meet
ings here, from the spirit world, and unburdened their
souls of regrets, and that has freed them, and they are
now happier and better able to progress. These com
munications are of the greatest value to us. Do you
suppose Dr. Tomkins, Dr. Babcock, Bishop Brent, or
Edison would come here and speak if there was any
thing harmful about it to their development?"
The Reverend Maltbie Babcock of the Brick Church,
New York, was the next speaker. He greeted Mrs.
Lloyd, saying, "My blessings be upon you and the
daughter who is away. May she realize and know our
presence is ever near. Not a lamb is lost. Except as ye
263
STATION ASTRAL
suffer, shall ye know, and it is the truth which shall
set men free. We are watching over her and also the
little one, who is with us." Dr. Babcock was referring
to Mrs. Lloyd's daughter who had just gone away for
the summer, and later, to Little Anne. After this a voice
was heard saying, "This is Donald." This proved to be
a communication for Mrs. Lloyd. Then Annie Drouet,
with her rapid vibrations, saying that she had been try
ing to get into the pictures we had been taking on the
terrace, and she spoke to Maina Tafe also.
After a moment or two of singing, we heard Forrest,
saying, "When is your mother coming, Geraldine? I
have been waiting so long for her. I hope she comes
soon." I then introduced Forrest to Dr. H , and he
said to him, "You will be much impressed with your
experience here tonight, and it will give you much food
for thought. Who was it that said, 'The impossibilities
of yesterday are the possibilities of today?'
"
Our new friends were the next to receive a message.
A brother came and spoke to Dr. H , saying: "I
have tried very hard to reach you. I am always near
you, and I am helping you both."
Sunshine followed, speaking about the baby, which
belonged to the strangers in our circle, mentioning the
color of its eyes, and that it was sleeping at the present
264
REV. DR. FLOYD TOMKINS SPEAKS AGAIN
moment. She said that she had just taken a look at it.
The voice of my Aunt Julia was heard, saying, "This is
Aunt Julia ; I haven't had a chance for a long time to
speak to you. Dorothy and George and Henry are here
tonight. They have all given you something for the
book. You have no idea how interested we are in that
book. So many souls wish they might have their names
appear in 'Station Astral.'
"
We did not know that today was Mrs. Lloyd's birth
day, until we heard little Anne saying to her grand
mother, "Garmie, Garmie, I love you. Today is your
birthday. I love you." Mrs. Lloyd was very happy to
know that Anne realized it was her birthday. She was
also happy when she heard Mr. Sperry say, "I wouldn't
miss speaking to you today either, especially as it is
your birthday. When are you going to Bellport? I'll
be down there; Anne and I will be with you as much
as we ever were." I asked him what he thought his
family would say when they read about him in "Sta
tion Astral," and he replied: "I don't know. As they
have had no experience, they probably won't believe it.
But I am honored to be in this book, and I want to be
quoted." Then Mrs. Lloyd said, "I think they will be
lieve, Mr. Sperry. I have talked to one member of your
family about
it,
and she
is
interested." Mr. Sperry re
265
STATION ASTRAL
joined, "Take it easy, a little at a time, and then they
can digest it."
Mr. Ed Wood's was the next voice speaking. He
amused us all by saying to Dr. H , "Say, young
man, do you carry any insurance? You'd better carry
more. Not that you are going to die, but if you are
covered you will not worry whatever happens, and
people do have accidents." Mr. Wood never loses a
chance for business. As I was laughing at his remarks,
he continued, "Nobody has enough insurance." Then
Dr. H asked him a few questions, to which he re
plied, "The only thing you can do, is search out the
truth for yourself, and stick to it."
Mr. Wood and Mr. Drouet then proceeded to discuss
in detail Mr. Drouet's business, and we were amazed to
hear Mr. Wood speak of things of which we did not
realize he could even know, or remember. For instance,
he said, "What did you do about that $25,000 policy
for , and did you know, Drouet, they have cut the
salaries again down at the T Company?"
Mr. Wood seems to have the same analytical busi
ness sense he must of had here on earth, and his enjoy
ment about business is very keen. When I asked him
what he thought about making some victrola records,
he said, "Say, it's a long way from the insurance busi
266
REV. DR. FLOYD TOMKINS SPEAKS AGAIN
ness to the recording business. I think there is more in
the insurance business for me."
Laughing, I said, "I wasn't referring to any business
about the records, Mr. Wood. We want our spirit
friends to make them, because they will be concrete
facts, and every one can understand them." But Ed
Wood is all business.
At this moment Mr. Drouet said to Mrs. Lloyd, "I
feel impressed to ask you to repeat your poem to Edi
son," which she did. Then I said, "Now, Mr. Edison,
we should love to hear your voice." In a moment we
heard : "Thomas A. Edison speaking. I am compli
mented beyond all human expression." And turning to
Mr. Drouet, he continued: "You received the impres
sion of my nearness, when you asked for the poem."
A grandmother of Mrs. H was the next to
speak, saying, "This is grandma G ; you look very
much like me, dear. Your father is here, and he
wishes to talk with you." And then the father spoke to
Mrs. H about the baby, saying, "The baby sees
me and laughs at me. I am close to you, and often
talk to you, but you do not hear me. Tell mother I am
all right, and I would like to talk to her." When he was
asked about various members of his family, he said,
"I am very proud of them," and speaking of one person,
267
STATION ASTRAL
especially, he said, "She is well, that I know, because
when I am close to her, I am happy, and take on her
vibrations. That is all I know."
Presently we heard a voice, and finally made out the
name, "Bertie Fessenden, I want to send word to De-
Witt, I am with him all the time. Tell him not to
worry."
Dr. H recognized the voice of a person who de
clared himself to be "Charlie G . I knew you were
coming to some place like this, so I stayed close to you
and came along. I thought I could speak to you."
When Aunt Alpha spoke to Geraldine, she was so
excited and full of inquiry about the intended visit of
Geraldine's mother that I will quote her, as follows,
"When is your mother coming, Geraldine? I am so
excited about it. I want to talk with her so much that I
can hardly wait." Then Geraldine's father spoke,
saying, "I am also excited about
it,
Geraldine.
I
am still
looking for your mother. Every time
I
go close to her
I
hear her talking about coming. She
is
looking forward
also to talking to me. Say, she'll be surprised, won't she
?
It
will be the happiest moment of my life, but
it
seems
so long waiting for her coming."
At this moment
I
saw
a
very brilliant light in front
of me, and sensing the presence of Dr. Tomkins,
I
268
PICTURE OF THE UNFINISHED PLASTERLIN PORTRAIT BUST
OF THE REV. DR. FLOYD W. TOMKINS
By Bessie Clarke Drouet
Taken in "Skyward Studio" by Dr. Miller Reese Hutchison
REV. DR. FLOYD TOMKINS SPEAKS AGAIN
said: "Come in, Dr. Tomkins; I feel you are here."
And directly we heard, "Is it possible that you can see
me?" I asked, "Who is speaking?" And the voice re
plied, "Why, Floyd Tomkins; didn't you know? I
like my head very much, but I am sure I haven't as
many wrinkles in my face as Houdon wants you to put
there. Houdon is very much interested in this head you
are doing of me. He is especially interested in Miss
Tafe's head." I then asked, "Do you remember, Doc
tor, how you used to say my interest and speech about
these psychic matters, that
is,
spirit communication,
was blasphemous?" And he returned, "Yes, but
I
did
not understand about
it
then. When
I
found myself still
living,
I
came here with Mrs. Clarke, to see
if this was
what you had spoken about to me, and
I
find you
were right.
I
thought we should not try to tear aside
the veil, but things look differently to me now.
I
am
down in the church most of the time. The church seems
filled with my vibrations, for
I
lived there so long. Tell
Sallie
I
am there in the church and house all the time,
as busy as ever. Let me say, no man should ever be
ashamed of his religion, no matter what
it
is."
The Doctor's voice has become firm and strong, and
the intonations are very familiar to us.
Following Dr. Tomkins, Lillian Drouet spoke to
269
STATION ASTRAL
us, saying, "I want to give you something special for
the book. During the past few weeks I have been feel
ing, as you know, very depressed because of the help I
have been trying to give to George E , and Wini
fred. Over here when you help a person who is in
the depths, it is the same as helping a drowning person
there. They cling to you so desperately that unless you
are very strong, they drag you down to their depths. But
I am feeling, through the prayers you, Harry and Betty,
have been sending out for me, greater strength of re
sistance. Thanks, dears, for your help."
Two or three other personalities spoke with us, and
of course, there was more in the conversations than
I have recounted. If I tried to repeat everything that
has been said in our seances, there would be enough to
fill three or four books the size of this one.
As I said before, Sunshine was feeling, as she put
it,
"Delicious," tonight. She spoke again, answering some
questions which Mrs. Dr. H asked of her. When
I
inquired about Dr. Clarke, she said, "Oh, Dr.
Clarke,
I
just love him. Tonight he
is
dressed in
a
coat
with long tails. He has his hand in his pocket. He
al
ways stands that way, Aunt Betty. Sometimes he has
wickers (meaning whiskers), and sometimes he shaves
them off."
270
REV. DR. FLOYD TOMKINS SPEAKS AGAIN
As the power was about gone, father spoke a word
or two, and then said : "Now close the meeting with
the Doxology, good night."
As we are nearing the time when "Station Astral"
will be signing off, I am giving you many details, hop
ing they will interest you, although most personal re
marks are a bore to a stranger. Still, I have repeated
many, during the last few reviews of the seances, be
cause I am anxious to give you as much as possible
within this book.
271
CHAPTER XXI
GOOD-BY TO MRS. LLOYD
WE
had fully expected Geraldine's mother here
for Mrs. Lloyd's last sitting with us before she
left for Bellport, and we were all very disappointed to
learn, at the last moment, that the boat, on which she
was coming, had been delayed.
After the meeting was open, we realized how dis
appointed the spirit relatives were, also. Aunt Alpha
was getting positively excited about
it,
and was
beginning to worry whether her sister would arrive
before our season was over, so
I
told her,
" 'Station
Astral' will keep on the air until she comes, don't
worry."
Geraldine's father said, "Oh,
I
am so excited,
it
seems as
if
she would never get here. Are you going
back to Beaumont with her, Geraldine?"
By this time
I
am sure all my readers are expecting
to hear from Forrest, and he spoke, saying, "You look
so lovely tonight, Geraldine. What have you done to
your hair, cut it?" As Geraldine had not removed her
hat until after the light was out, none of us knew that
272
GOOD-BY TO MRS. LLOYD
her hair had been bobbed, but Forrest spotted it at
once.
He continued, telling his wife, "I hope you are going
home for the summer with your mother. I will be with
you, and I think it would be a good idea if you studied
short hand, so you can take the notes, next year, in these
sittings. I certainly hope your mother arrives soon,
for your father is so anxious to speak with her."
Many of Mrs. Lloyd's relatives spoke to her, telling
how sorry they were that she was going away. Mr.
Field said, "I am right here in front of you, Anne,
can you see me? I am trying to show myself to you.
When you are in Bellport this summer, pay attention
to us, and you will find yourself developing. Your vi
sion will be adjusted, and you will see us out here in
space, for we are here. Give my love to the children.
We are all going to Bellport with you."
Little Anne was very generous with her kisses to
night, throwing them to all of us, and saying to Mrs.
Lloyd, "Garmie, dear Garmie, I'll take care of Garmie.
Garmie has my picture, and my marmie has it too. I see
Luckie, Garmie, I put my hand on Luckie's head."
Luckie was Anne's dog, that had recently been killed
in an accident, so Mrs. Lloyd said, "Is Luckie with you
273
STATION ASTRAL
all the time, Anne?" and Anne replied, "No, Garmie,
sometimes I see him."
Mr. Sperry also spoke to Mrs. Lloyd, and as usual
he gave a helpful word for the book, as follows, "This
is Elmer, I want to impress upon you one point. In
spiration does not deprive a man of his individuality.
A man's heredity and experiences create a back
ground through which the spirit forces are able to
demonstrate. Everything that every inventor has in
vented he has gotten out of the air. He does not always
realize this, and it is not necessary that he should. But
when he does, his receptivity becomes greater. A man
cannot lose his individuality, because it is the man him
self. Personality is another thing."
My mother was the next person speaking, and I had
made up my mind to ask her, tonight, what she meant
by "Progression," and where they were progressing.
She answered me, when I had asked this question, say
ing, "We progress mentally. It is understanding. Things
which we saw from one side only, when we were on
earth, we see now from many sides. We progress in
tellectually. That is all."
Mother, as usual, had many things to say about this
book. She said: "There are thousands of souls who
274
GOOD-BY TO MRS. LLOYD
wish their names might appear in Station Astral, so
their earth friends will know that they are close, but you
have now many names, and the book will help many
souls, both here and there."
Houdon spoke to me, and Ed Wood spoke to Mr.
Drouet, and little Bobby was heard from, asking, "Am I
in the book, Aunt Betty?" Then Professor Launder-
ville spoke to me as follows : "Have you decided upon
the cover of the book, Mrs. Drouet?" And when I said,
"Yes, I am planning a sky-blue cover, with 'Sta
tion Astral' in gold," he said, "Have you been talking
to your father about this?" and I replied, "No." Then
he continued, "That is funny ; your father and I decided
those were the right colors to use, as blue is the vibra
tion of truth, and gold is the vibration of knowledge;
so you see, as you have truth and knowledge within that
book, the colors are appropriate." Then the Professor
proceeded to instruct me in the business of producing
a book, and told me not to sign any contract
until I had consulted with him again. He said, "I shall
be with you when you are talking to the publisher, and
I will tell you what to sign."
I feel as long as this is really the book of our Spirit
Friends, we, at least should do all we can to please
275
STATION ASTRAL
them, so I shall follow Professor Launderville's advice
to the letter.
When Dr. John W. Draper was heard speaking to
Mr. Drouet, I was intensely interested in his words,
which were as follows : "This is Dr. Draper, Drouet. I
wish to talk again to you, and say how much you have
helped me. And now I want to help you in your work.
You know that case on which you are working, the
disability case ? Well I am very much interested in it."
Then he proceeded to give Mr. Drouet his opinions
about it. When Mr. Drouet said to him, "I am so glad,
Dr., that you have the desire to work, and be helpful.
You know there are many times when our friends here
need assistance. There was that young Dr. who
was here last time, he would like to have you give him
some advice." Dr. Draper said, "I want to help you,
Drouet. I want to work with you on your cases. I under
stand the work, and as you have been so patient and
kind to me, through the law of compensation, I come
back to work in your vibration."
I was so happy to know the Doctor was ready and
anxious to work, that I said, "That is all right, Dr.
Draper, I am delighted you have the desire to help.
When I first suggested it to you, you had no desire
276
GOOD-BY TO MRS. LLOYD
to work. It shows development, this desire for work."
There was a great deal of personal conversation
this evening, so I am giving you just a few impor
tant remarks. We cannot expect every meeting to be of
equal interest to the stranger, although it is to us,
for we enjoy the sweet personal communion with our
loved ones.
We shall sit once more for this book, and then we
separate for the summer. "Station Astral" will sign off,
and we shall have to be patient until the fall.
277
CHAPTER XXII
STATION ASTRAL SIGNS OFF
TONIGHT
we were all very happy for our spirit
friends, for at last Geraldine's mother was here
with us, and we realized just what that was going to
mean to the souls who had been waiting so long for
this moment.
Even Sunshine seemed to be excited. She welcomed
our new sitter with enthusiasm, and when father spoke,
he, also, welcomed her into our circle, saying, "I am
very happy to meet you, and I hope you will enjoy
every moment of your visit, and when you return to
Texas I trust you will remember all this."
When Mr. Wood came to us, he said, "This is a
pleasure," which was as natural as if we were all
of flesh and blood. I remember Sunshine remarked,
"Geraldine's mother has a beautiful soul, Aunt Betty."
As Aunt Alpha's remarks, and Mr. Richardson's,
were strictly personal, I will not repeat, only say, they
showed great delight, and great excitement while speak
ing to the dear one, who had come from so far to talk
with them.
272,
STATION ASTRAL SIGNS OFF
Forrest was very deeply affected when his mother-
in-law asked him about his belief before his passing.
He said : "I always hoped, but I cannot say I believed.
But what a revelation this is! It has broadened my
understanding of life, and it is the great truth which
has brought me to Geraldine, and you to me. It is more
wonderful than words can express. If ever there were
miracles, this is one."
Following Forrest's remarks we heard a voice say,
"This is grandma, Harriet Amanda Taft." After a
few words to me, I heard another voice, saying, "This
is also your grandma, Susan. I have been helping you
with the book. As I was a school teacher when I was
young, I enjoy it." I said, "You have spoken just in
time to have your name in the book," and she replied,
"Yes, I want to be in Station Astral."
Both of these ladies were the wives of my mother's
father, and Susan was the only near relative who had
not spoken to me.
Mr. Wood was quite concerned over the depression
in business, but he told us that he felt the tide was
slowly turning upward. From his perspective, it seemed
as if the general trend was upward.
Annie, as usual, made herself heard by saying, "We
are all so happy for Geraldine's people here tonight. Oh,
279
STATION ASTRAL
they are so happy! And Lillian is feeling better now.
You know, George E realizes at last that he didn't
do the right thing. He knows he did not have the right,
and he is working out his salvation, and that makes
Lillian happier. She has tried so hard to assist him."
We are always glad when Mr. Cyril Tolley sits with
us in the circle. He attracts very happy and helpful
ispirits and tonight his great-great-grandfather, "Prince
Barclay de Tolley," spoke to him.
This great-great-grandfather was a General in the
Russian Army which defeated Napoleon at Moscow.
There were other communications for Mr. Tolley,
interesting, but personal.
When Ed Wood spoke again to us, we were very
much interested to hear him say, "You know, Drouet, I
listened the other night when you were running the
ediphone, and I heard myself talking. It was really
weird. It sounded so queer to hear myself talking there
when every one thinks I am dead. If only every one
could know the truth, 'There is no death,' how much
easier it would be for them all. I want you to send this
book to my wife, Mrs. Drouet, with my compliments.
If I said anything flowery, it wouldn't be me, as I did
not do it there. Say, Drouet, who do you think has
just come in here? It is Hegeman; you know, John R.
280
STATION ASTRAL SIGNS OFF
Hegeman. I saw him over at your father's the other
day. I sensed you were thinking of your father, so I
went over to see him, and Hegeman was there. Tell
your father of this, will you ?"
We are always happy when Dr. Floyd Tomkins
speaks to us, and tonight we heard him say, "Floyd
Tomkins, speaking. I am so anxious for all my people
to know I am there in the church with them. Oh, if only
they could see me in my pulpit, for I am there at every
service. I am there in the church and the house. The
place is filled with my vibrations, and I want them
to know this. I hope I am in the book. Say all this in
the book." I hope those who have loved him, will feel
his presence near, as they sit in the church he loves so
dearly. Hearing him speak made us all realize how
deeply he still loves his flock and his church.
Mother spoke to us, saying, "I am always glad when
Dr. Tomkins speaks to you. It is helping him, and
making him happy." When I asked her if her world
was as beautiful as ours, she replied, "Our world is
more beautiful than yours. We have everything here
you have there, but in a finer degree. This is the real
world, the world we are living in. Your world is a
reflection of ours, and I would not want to be back
there, oh, not for anything. This is so wonderful."
281
STATION ASTRAL
When my Aunt Julia spoke to me, I asked her about
the same question, and she replied, as follows, "When
we realize that we must continue to exist, it is wise to
try to see the best of everything, for things are as you
visualize them here, and we all want to be happy."
When I asked her if she was heavy as ever, she said,
"Yes, I think so, I do not mind being large. Your
mother is thinner than she was there, because she never
liked being stout. She still has her white hair. She thinks
it gives her dignity."
Several times during the evening we had heard a
voice saying, in a very husky tone, "George, George." It
called another name but no one was able to recognize it.
I asked my aunt if that was my cousin George trying to
speak, and she said, "No, my George speaks very well.
There are several Georges here tonight. This man is
with Lillian, she is trying to help him to speak."
When a little later we heard the dear voice of Lillian
we knew that she was feeling better, because her voice
was strong and happy. She said, "Oh, Harry, I am feel
ing so much happier tonight. You know how I have
tried to help George Eastman. Well, he is beginning to
understand things. That was his voice you heard calling
'George.' He tried to speak. He wanted his name to
appear in the book, and he was so disappointed you did
282
STATION ASTRAL SIGNS OFF
not recognize the name Eastman. I thought I should
never be able to repay Mr. Eastman for the wonderful
things he did for me during our earth life, but now I
realize that I am doing a great deal for him. He will
get stronger, and then he will talk to you all here again."
As almost all the time and power was taken for long
personal conversations, we were not surprised when
Professor Launderville was heard saying: "There is
not very much power left, and as this is the last chapter
in the book, let me speak about the present condition of
depression.
"There is only one solution, people must change their
view-point. People have a fear complex. They are un
happy, and they make others unhappy by going about
telling how depressed they are, and how worried they
are, and those thoughts have a depressing influence out
here in space. Until you are willing to change your
thoughts, we, on our plane, are helpless to aid you, as
our only way to touch earth, or help any one, is by
thought, and when your minds are so saturated with
the fear complex, our thoughts do not register with you.
"As soon as the individuals right about face, and
have faith, then we can work, and help them.
"This depression is not local, it affects the entire
world. It is universal in scope. Each country depends
283
STATION ASTRAL
upon the other. The keynote to the whole situation is
a change of mind.
"A great dynamic personality, filled with enthusiasm,
is needed to start a fever of optimism. During the last
great war men stood on the street corners and excited
a spirit of war. Today men should stand and excite, not
a few, but fives and tens of thousands of men into a
fever of optimism, and then the pendulum of circum
stance will swing back, and prosperity will again be
over the land."
At this point Dr. Clarke took up the conversation,
saying, "That seems to be a very encouraging thought
with which to leave you. I bid you all good-by for a
while. Now sing the Doxology, and 'Station Astral' will
sign off for the summer."
284
EPILOGUE
"of what use is it talking with the dead?"
SOMETIMES
this question is asked, of either Mr.
Drouet or me, and so I wish to tell you, in a few
words, just what these spirit communications have
proved to me.
Personally, unless a belief or theory will give me a
concrete working hypothesis, which I can apply in my
every-day life, to me it is absolutely valueless.
These few years of continued communications with
my family, my friends, and many personalities whom
I did not know during their earth life, have impressed
me, anew, with the importance of some very vital
principles.
In the first place, I must continue to exist, and the
state of that existence depends upon my development
upon this earth. Consequently, I realize that it is most
essential, during this elementary stage, for me to ac
quire all the necessary attributes for an unhampered
progression in the next form of existence.
That we do not jump from the usual into the un
usual, is very evident to me. I know that I shall func
285
STATION ASTRAL
tion mentally in the spiritual body, the same as I have
functioned in the natural body. Knowing this, I wish
to arrive at a point, here, from which the continuance
will be a steady advancement.
To accomplish this, I must be free from regrets, free
from the impression of the possessiveness of material
things, free from the hindrance of neglected duties.
My time and my energies, during this earth life,
must be employed constructively, no obligation slighted,
and if possible, obligations should be considered privi
leges.
When I can see my neighbor's viewpoint with toler
ance, when I assist in the furtherance of others' happi
ness, when I fulfill my daily duties, with a song in my
heart, then I shall be living each hour with the blessings
of peace filling my entire being.
My constant prayer has become:
May I never be found lacking in sympathy, nor in
the desire to use my understanding for the benefit of
those who are upon this plane, or any other plane.
May I fully realize the true interpretation of service.
To be worthy of this great truth, "There is no
death," which has been give to me, with an appreciation
unstintingly acknowledged.
That I may be so imbued with the true values of
286
EPILOGUE
life eternal, that I may be impervious to things which
are trivial.
No doubt, many of my readers also feel exactly the
same as I do, but during this period of revelations,
I have daily spent a few moments in self- analysis, and
have found myself to be very lacking in the fulfillment
of these requirements. These Astral associations have
impressed me so forcibly with the necessity for the
renewed cultivation of these characteristics, that I have
come to a fuller realization of their importance, and
the fact that my future depends entirely upon myself.
"Although of myself, I can do nothing," still, I must be
"The Master of my soul, the Captain of my Fate."
287
A WORD FROM MAINA TAFE.
Perhaps you will notice that, although my name has
appeared constantly in this book, I have had very little
to say. So I would like to remark here that the evenings
spent at Mr. and Mrs. Drouet's home, during the past
three years, have been very pleasant experiences for me.
I trust the readers of this book, "Station Astral," will
derive as much comfort and constructive help from the
reading as Mrs. Drouet and her friends have received
from the direct communications. I would also like to
say that the spirit of kindness and service which per
meates these meetings has much to do with the won
derfully loving and helpful conversations which have
taken place there, as sympathetic understanding, on the
part of the sitters, has everything to do with spirit
communication.
289
After participating in several of the sittings at Mrs.
Drouet's home, I am glad to testify to the truth of her
recording.
290
