{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__dingle___lifes_elixier_discovered.pdf","mytitle":"Lifes Elixier Discovered","mylang":"de"}
3DtecoK>ere&
SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN REGIME FOR
RADIANT HEALTH — BEAUTY — YOUTH
AND PERSONAL CHARM
BT
Edwin J. Dingle, F.R.G.S.
Founder of the Science of Mentalpbysics
INVALUABLE SECRET BEAUTY FORMULAS
1. Lure and Law of Individuality—■Ftili Vkjlj -
Regime for Men; Full Daily Regime for Women.
2. The Breath of Your Life—Secret Methods
Disclosed.
3. Mystery of Charm —Food and Beauty; What
To Eat and Why.
4. Attainment of Beauty—Formulas and Recipes.
4RentsIp$p*ic0
Trinity Building, Ninth and Grand
Los Angela, California, U. S. A.
12 5i
First Printing December, 1932
Lilt UA< f
1
I
Copyright by
EDWIN JOHN DINGLE
1932
For information regarding Class Work or any of the
outer activities of the Science of Mentalphysics, write —
The Secretary, The Science of Mentalphysics
Trinity Bldg., 9th and Grand
Los Angeles, California
On personal matters, address Edwin J. Dingle, F.R.G.S., at the same
address
Los Angeles, Calif.
May 26, 1933
University of California
Library
Mr. J. C. Howell:
I am very sorry to have kept you
waiting for this book, but Mr. Dingle
is out of town and has not yet returned.
I am sure that if he is ever in
Berkeley, he will stop in your library
and gladly give you his autograph at
that time.
Sincerely,
Secy to
Mr. Edwin J. Dingle
(f.H.C.S.,R.A.S.)
Author's Preface
This is not merely a boo\ of words . . . it is a boo\
designed to lead the reader into immediate and positive
conquest of the good things of life that he or she desires.
We have all read boohj; we have all taken classes; we
have all listened to teachers and lecturers . . . now we will
LEARN THE WAY.
The cry of the age—among men as well as women—is
for beauty and charm and personality and individuality —
all vital foundation stones in the structure of life's success
and happiness. Beauty is beyond all price. Charm is a
thing divine, much to be sought after. Through personality
and individuality are portrayed the spirit, the verve, the
feeling and the highest aims and aspirations of a human
being.
This volume will teach you how to attain to all these
priceless treasures of that which is worth calling life. It
will prove to you that, with a few minutes devoted daily to
your own best interests, you will become master of a body
of beauty and charm, pulsating with vigor and health and
youth.
These blessings cannot be measured.
In these pages are uncovered for you the secrets, princi
ples, laws and practices which all may learn. You
are shown and taught what to do and how to do it. Cer
tain Yoga breathing exercises, so mystical in their beauty,
are described in a manner enabling you to practise
immediately to wor\ them out in your own life. No need
for you to languish while others revel in a charm appar-
341698
ently beyond your reach. No need to sit endlessly aloof—
all beauty is yours for the asking.
Do as you are as\ed and shown and YOU MUST SUC
CEED. Beauty is yours. Charm is yours. Health is yours.
Success is yours. All that nature has locked up within her
bosom are yours. Here and now all you have to learn is
the way to cooperate with nature, and this bpo\ has no
claim other than to teach you the way.
I desire gratefully to acknowledge the assistance extended
to me by Monsieur La de LongS, the famous French cos
metologist resident in Hollywood, California, and to ex
perts in his laboratories, for reading the proofs of this vol
ume and assisting me in experimentation. Moreover, Mon
sieur La de LongS has assured me of his co-operation with
the Mentalphysies Institute of Beauty and Youth in the
future, thus enabling readers of this volume and aspiring
students of the later courses of instruction the good fortune
of the personal advice and direction of a gentleman so
prominent in his profession.
Yours for Beauty and Youth,
EDWIN J. DINGLE.
The Science of Mentalphysics,
Los Angeles, California,
Nineteen Thirty-two. ,
Contents of This Volume
AUTHOR'S PREFACE 3-4
FIRST SECTION: THE LURE AND LAW OF INDI
VIDUALITY —BLESSINGS OF THE COSMETIC ART . 7-21
Synopsis —The Episode.. (1) Beauty Is Law. (2) The
Dreamer and His Dream. (3) You May Learn the Law.
(4) Inspire Yourself Into Action. (5) The Alluring Path
way to Beauty. (6) Youth, Your Helpmate.
DAILY BEAUTY REGIME FOR WOMEN (Complete
Instructions) 14-18
DAILY REGIME FOR MEN (Complete Instructions)
.'.
18-21
SECOND SECTION: THE MYSTERY OF YOUR
BREATH 23-28
Synopsis —Relaxation Exercise for Night. (1) The Uni
versal Substance. (2) Breath the Great Regulator. (3)
Beauty Will Come Back. (4) Exercising the Internal
Organs. (5) More Advanced Breathings.
COPYRIGHTED SCIENTIFIC BREATHINGS 29-3
5
(1) The Harmonic Breath. (2) The Vibratory Breath.
(3) The Revitalizing Breath. (4) The Inspirational
Breath. (5) Physical Perfection Breath. (6) Vibro-
Magnetic Breath. (7) Cleansing Breath. (8) Grand
Rejuvenation Breath.
THIRD SECTION: THE SECRET OF A WOMAN'S
CHARM. A Chapter on the Science of Food* 37-Sti
Synopsis — (1) Initial Instructions. (2) Way To Stop
Constipation —a Three-weeks' Regime. (3) The Rational
Way to Eat. (4) Causes of Constipation —Three-weeks'
Diet. (5) Groups of Foods —Carbohydrates, Proteins,
Acids. (6) Correct Pood Combinations. (7) Acid and
Alkaline Foods. (8) Cereals, Milk and Dairy Products,
Fruits, Legumes, Nuts, Sugars and Candies, Vegetables.
(9) Vitamins in Foods. (10) The Highest of All Force.
FOURTH SECTION: SECRETS AND FORMULAS FOR
BEAUTY 57-«2
CARE OF HAIR: Parsley Rinse— Egg Shampoo.
CARE OF FACE: Good Astringent —Good Facial Pack
— Simple Honey Pack —Almond Meal.
CARE OF HANDS: Good Hand Softener—Brittle Nails,
a Little Secret —Hand Bleacher— Cucumber Hand and
Arm Pack.
CARE OF FEET: Epsom Salts Bath — For Sweaty Feet
—or Cracked Skin Between Toes.
LIST OF EDWIN
J.
DINGLE'S PUBLICATIONS 63
The Author of This Volume
Edwin John Dingle, Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society
of England, and other kindred societies, was born in England;
trained as printer, writer and geographer; an orphan at nine.
Leaving England, became managing editor of "Straits Times,"
Singapore; traveled in East Indies, studying philosophy and re
ligion; went to China, walked across the country, met with
many accidents and illnesses; probably only white man who
lived for nine months in Tibetan Monastery and emerged again
to mingle actively in professional life; lived, traveled, practised
his profession for 21 years in Asia—India, China and Tibet;
authority on Oriental economics and philosophy.
He penetrated mysteries of the Inscrutable East, and in
temple life acquired valuable knowledge regarding verities of
life, which partly form basis of his scientific teaching in class
work and home study courses.
Author of: Across China On Foot, China's Revolution,
Breathing Your Way to Youth, Your Mind and Its Mysteries,
How to Meditate and much other literary work upon the
Higher Philosophy and Science of Living. Editor of: New
Atlas and Commercial Gazetteer of China, Bi-Lingual Map of
China, China and Far East Finance and Commerce, F. & C.
Year Book, Far Eastern Products Manual and other economic
publications.
Founder (in 1927) of Science of Mentalphysics —philosoph
ical, inspirational, practical, spiritual; teaches the science of
food, of breath, etc.; schools in New York, Los Angeles, San
Francisco and other places; growing interest among people who
wish to defy old age and acquire perfect technique of the Art
of Living; discloses laws and secrets, principles and practices
which insure perfect physical youth and beauty, success and
natural rejuvenation of body and mind; taught in many Ameri
can cities; very rapidly growing movement.
6
first Section
The Lure and haw of
Individuality
(Blessings of the Cosmetic Art.)
THE EPISODE
Scene: A Person . . . any person, a man, a woman, YOU
or anyone else . . . gazing wraptly into a mirror.
Place: Any place. Time: Any time.
THE PERSON (aghast at the disappointing picture): So
this is what life must come to. So different from
what it used to be. My life is grey and dull. Old
age approaches me—the specter is about me now.
(Examines face—turns head, listening) . . . Look, my
skin is wrinkled and sallow, my face is dull and with
out expression, lines are hardening my face and neck,
youth has already left me . . . and I used to be so
beautiful. (Listens again; then buries face in hands)
. . . Oh, what's the use—my youth, my youth is al
ready gone —
(Senses something within, and looks uneasily about the
room, listening —to what The Person hardly knows; re
sumes attitude; then speaks on, with face buried in hands.)
My lips have lost their color . . . the light from my
eyes is gone ... I am no longer beautiful. No won
der that I have lost my hold—on love, on my friends,
on business, on Life. (Suddenly moves, frightened.)
Well, such is life ... I shall soon be relegated by
Time to the limbo of things forgotten. (Starts again.)
But WHO ARE YOU, you whom I know are there,
but whom I cannot see. . . . SPEAK!
7
A VOICE: I, ... I am the truth of your life. You are
still a thing of beauty. What you contend with is
that which you have made yourself. You have still
to find the secrets of human beauty and charm. You
can find them, but . . . perhaps—
THE PERSON: Perhaps what?
THE VOICE: Perhaps you do not wish to know these
secrets that I speak of.
THE PERSON: I swear it. Naught in this world do I
desire more than to know these secrets and to ex
press myself in personal beauty and charm and grace
and love.
THE VOICE (with infinite emphasis, gradually dying
away): Then herein read, mark, learn the truth of
beauty and of youth. Truly thou art fair —all humans
are beautiful if they will use the secrets of Nature.
Lo, the spirit speaks —Take heed! Take heed! From
this moment henceforward will ye mount the heights
to the blessings of life which beauty and youth in
terpret. Peace! . . . Rejoice! . . . WHO AM I? . . .
I am the Voice of the Truth of Thine Own Spirit.
(The Person moves —the eyes bright with hope, and
countenance lit up with determination.)
S I sit happily and dynamically prepared to
x/X. start this chapter on "The Lure and Law of
Individuality," I pray that you may be ready to
absorb this vital message.
I imagine you to be just as I was for many years
of my life . . . life grey, old age in the offing, youth
departing, your looks withered, your skin sallow,
the old light and luster of the eyes gone, the mag
netic feeling of personal conquest gone, realizing
that you, too, like The Person above, will "soon be
relegated by Time to the limbo of things forgotten."
8
This is the story of hundreds of thousands of men
and women in this wonderful country today—and
in every other country.
I.—BEAUTY IS A LAW
And yet as you look within yourself—these are
the thoughts you are thinking as you read—you
KNOW that this is all wrong.
"I KNOW that I am still handsome," you say, the
more vigorously as you gradually lose yourself in the
thought. "In my mind's eye I can see a being full of
power and vigor and beauty, the eyes bright, the
face unlined and radiantly happy, the skin glowingly
pink-and-white with Nature's beauty, the hair lus
trous and abundant ... I see my Real, Handsome,
Wondrous Self a radiant personality, a leader in my
own circle, living a life brimful of purpose and
beauty and youth and hope and action. . . . This is
life, life as it should be."
Then you turn to yourself, looking at your face
in the mirror. You tell yourself that you are dream
ing—it cannot be true, you say.
And just at this point I want my message to come
powerfully into your mind, as The Voice came into
The Episode above. Let my message waft into your
mind on the wings of truth.
II.—THE DREAMER AND HIS DREAM
I assert, with knowledge born of experience:
"Yes, you dream, but you do not dream m vain.
In the picture that you have drawn in your own
mind, all that you are doing is to tell yourself the
truth of your own being . . . the truth of your own
9
beauty, your own grace, your own charm, your own
ability and personality . . . the truth of your own
beauty of health and strength and joy abounding
. . . the truth of your own beauty of knowledge that
comes when we know that others look upon us and
admire that radiating magnetism of which we are
ourselves the author."
Categorically, I say IT CAN BE DONE . . . and
YOU can do it; and if you TRULY desire to do it
—to make of your beautiful body and your mind
whatever you desire, you may learn the way through
the simple methods and secrets to which this book
is the sure introduction.
III.—YOU MAY LEARN THE LAW
You may learn the way, and I will teach you—
that is all I can do—teach you.
You will not, however —you cannot —get it for
nothing. We, no more than anyone else can give
something for nothing —for that is not the Law of
Life. You are very highly privileged to learn the
priceless secrets that will be disclosed to you, show
ing you actually what to do—and the unutterably
rich recompense and reward will be rapidly seen in
a beauty of body and mind that at the present mo
ment can hardly be imagined.
I write here the truth —it is, I say, almost unim
aginable.
This small book contains laws and secrets, prin
ciples and practices which, if you will faithfully
follow them, will work miracles on the physical
plane of your life. When you come, however,
10
into the courses of true instruction, either through
the mail or in the special classes which I conduct
wherever I happen to be, the teaching will be of a
secret and totally different nature.
IV.—INSPIRE YOURSELF INTO ACTION
This morning you look into the mirror and see a
person so very different from what you would like
to see.
"My feet are soiled and bleeding," you seem to
cry. ... "I desire beauty and youth and health and
happiness." Yea, but the message comes from me to
you. . . . "All this is true, but though thy feet are
soiled and bleeding with the toil and struggle for
what thou seekest, thy brow is crowned with the
eternal stars."
Heed this message, then! Declare with all your
might that you will succeed, no matter how often
you have failed.
What is made available to you| in the Science of
Mentalphysics |are age-old secrets; that in the Orient
have always been taught in secret by master to dis
ciple—and usually by word of mouthj—secrets of
breathing and food . . . secrets that banish disease,
sluggishness, doubt, indifference . . . secrets that
bring out through the face, the eyes, the neck, the
voice, the skin, the hands that majesty of charm and
grace and personality and beauty that we all crave'
—whether we be man or woman. But particularly
will YOU be interested in those secrets which assure
you of the rapid pathway to personality and physical
beauty.
11
V.—THE ALLURING PATHWAY TO BEAUTY
And it is an alluring pathway.
After but a day or two changes are seen —the skin
will become purified and glowingly clear—the eyes
so bright that your friends will remark upon the
change —your voice softer and more alluringly musi
cal—the skin of the hands and arms and bust vel
vety and smooth —the step elastic and full of pep—
the senses keen and refreshed —the lips red and full
—the hair soft and with a glorious sheen . . . the
whole body throwing off radiations of beauty and
power and personality that a multi-millionaire might
envy.
This, indeed, is your very birthright —YOUR
BIRTHRIGHT: claim it!
It is not my intention to endeavor in this single
chapter to explain how this can be done. These
secrets simply cannot be taught this way, and even
if I could teach this way I would not . . . for the
reason that only those who can sense the exquisite
value in these secrets will make an effort to get
them —otherwise it would be the old, old story of
casting pearls where they should not be cast.. These
secrets and practices and exercises simply are beyond
all monetary value.
VI.—YOUTH YOUR HELPMEET
THINK!
What would any woman —or any man, for that
matter —give for a simple daily regime ... of proper
eating—as much as you wish to eat when you desire
to eat; of proper breathing —the pleasure of which
12
cannot be expressed; of proper beauty and cosmeto-
logical practices, which are in themselves a veritable
joy . . . what, I ask you, would any man or woman
give for all this if he or she were absolutely sure
that it would keep age away, that disease could not
possibly again make any attacks, that a quarter of
a century more of life would be assured. Obviously,
the answer is that there is nothing of a material
value that could possibly afford any semblance of
recompense.
YET IT IS PRECISELY THIS THAT WE ASK
YOU TO CONSIDER.
It will take courage even to contemplate its pos
sibility. But if you have the courage to think such
thoughts, it will be self-evident to you that you have
the power and will to learn the way. But, even
putting things down to a point every woman in the
country can understand, even to learn the correct
way to use and enjoy the blessings of the cosmetol
ogist's art is of immense value . . . so, reader, realize
if you can that you have met something in this book
which may prove to be of inestimable good for you.
I shall be happy to send to any reader details as
to how enrollment for the Mentalphysics Institute of
Beauty and Youth may be effected, and to answer
any questions relating to the subject.
What follows here in the regime for women
and men respectively shows you WHAT TO DO
—carry out the regime, and you will benefit
immediately.
13
The Short Road to Strength,
Beauty and Success
Daily Regime for Women
Ever so many so-called "scientific" toilet prepara
tions, some of even national reputation through ex
pensive advertising campaigns, are absolutely worth
less and harmful. They are compounded from very
cheap ingredients, though, due to modern machinery
methods, they "look well." Special emulsions and
creams, advertised as specific skin feeders and reju-
venators, are valueless. For example: I happen to
know of a certain "turtle-oil" cream. My analysis
showed soap, stearic acid and vaseline, a cheap grade
of paraffin and oil with a trace of kerosene, no regis
tration whatever of the much-advertised turtle oil.
This "junk" was covered with a cheap perfume, and
the five-dollar jar-—so beautiful in external appear
ance and so highly advertised for its "rejuvenative
powers" —was not only not a decent cream but dis
tinctly harmful to those unfortunate enough to use
it. Organic chemistry requires many years of experi
ence and research, and yet preparations are now on
the market whose makers have no knowledge of skin
reactions. (I can only add that I shall be happy to
recommend to anyone the names of manufacturers
whose products I can whole-heartedly endorse. Any
one who has had bitter experience through the- use of
these worthless toiletries is invited to communicate
with me.)
(a) Drink a glass of fairly warm water, with juice of half a
lemon.
(b) Wash nostrils.
14
Wash eyes. (A good eye wash such as that produced by
the Prescription Cosmetic Laboratories, Inc., of Los An
geles, California, is essential to all women who constantly
use their eyes. Use a saturated wad of cotton placed
close to lids of eyes—then wash and blink.)
Bowel Action: Be SURE that your bowels move, and if
there is any constipation follow out rigidly the instruc
tions given in Food Section. (Read "Causes of Consti
pation," p. 41.)
Ed-win J. Dingle's Scientific Breathings: (Refer to sec
tion in this volume, "The Breath of Life," and follow out
exercises given therein—pp. 29-35.)
The Bath: Take warm shower, followed with quick cold
shower. A vigorous rub-down, first with coarse towel,
then with the palms of the hands, holding breath while
rubbing.
Semi-facial: During the night secretions are thrown off
through the pores and there are also surface accumu
lations of dust; these must be carefully removed in the
following manner: ( 1 ) For oily skin—apply Tissue
Emulsion, followed with wiping of Orange Flower Fresh
ener—pat face and neck with Special Astringent —allow
face to dry before make-up. (2) For dry skin—apply
COLLOYDATONE ROYAL, a Martha Helene prepara
tion—follow with Orange Flower Freshener—pat well
with Astringent Toner — allow face to dry — then
make-up.
The Hair: (1) Brushing the hair: Do not be afraid to
brush the hair; brush by strands, lifting hair from scalp
and brushing upwards (this type of brushing does not
destroy the wave—it makes your hair more wavy, pli
able and glossy). (2) Massage: This is essential. The
following exercises will be found of great value for
stimulating growth of hair, when hair is thin, scalp dry
or when hair is gray and lifeless: (a) Run comb through
hair, brush evenly (use brush with soft, long bristles,
for hard bristles irritate scalp) —place four fingers of
each hand on either side of head and move scalp cross
wise about a dozen times, followed by up and down
movement, (b) Comb the hair backward. (Important
note: In Dingle's Ten Commandments Course instruc
tion there are disclosed many secrets and laws of health,
success and youth, compiled for women only.) (J)
Dress: If hair requires dressing, use brilliantine that is
15
not of paraffin base, as this clogs the follicles of the hair;
also no preparation of high alcoholic content, as this dries
scalp and is a forerunner of dandruff —brush hair night
and morning. (4) Combing: Do net use a sharp comb
or one made of galalith, as this tends to make the hair
unruly.
Morning Make-Up: The most important make-up of
the day. Choose your colors according to your dress —
for example, if dressed for golf, apply heavier make-up,
such as generous application of foundation cream to pre
vent sunburn and wind, and also heavy application of
patting powder. (J) General routine: With face pre
pared for make-up, apply foundation cream —then cream
rouge —then pat lightly with good powder free from any
trace of lead, zinc or chalk. (2) If skin is oily, use dry
rouge, applied in same manner (and before powder). If
skin is dry, use cream rouge. There is not one woman
in a thousand who has much idea of the correct appli
cation of rouge as to position according to her individual
characteristic. This is in itself a veritable art and many
women make themselves literally unsightly because of
ignorance in this direction (you are urged to learn once
and for all your own needs in this respect of natural
make-up, and instructions are available to you through
the Ten Commandments Course for women only). (3)
Eye Shadow: (a) Here again be sure of your correct
shade, as to depth, and lightness according to face and
placement of your eyes. It is so easy to err in this di
rection, and many a woman minimizes her personal mag
netism through her ignorance or indolence of application
of eye shadow. (This writer has seen many cases of
acne, blackheads, loss of eyelashes and other serious ail
ments through the constant use of cheap and inferior
make-up. No women should "skimp" on what is obvi
ously THE vital necessities of her life, for her personal
beauty can be soon and irrevocably ruined by cheap
preparations.) Use only the best powders, rouges, lip
sticks and creams. Blindness is commonly the result of
cheap mascaras. BEWARE, therefore, of cheap and nasty
"beauty" preparations. (4) The Lips: The lips are the
life of a woman's expression. Choose color of lipstick
according to time of day and at the same time keep in
color harmony with your own complexion. Efficient lip
treatment will readily bring a thin and expressionless
pair of lips to an even, full and shapely contour. On the
other hand, a heavy overhanging or underhanging lip
can be made to look normally beautiful. (Beware of
16
"permanent" lipsticks containing permanent dyes, as
when constantly used, lips become dry and wrinkled,
losing their natural color, becoming bluish and lifeless. I
advocate lipsticks —for there are not many of them on
the market —which are made from pure vegetable oils
and vegetable colors, which can also be of permanent
color. It is impossible to indicate here in detail cor
rect lipstick use and shading; this has to be taught and
in the Ten Commandments Course the subject is fully
dealt with. Write for information.
(j) Breakfast: Omit carbonaceous foods. Take freely of
fresh fruits and fruit juices. (See detailed information
in section of this volume dealing with foods.)
(k) During Morning: If possible, give yourself a semi-
facial; if at home and special attention to the skin is
necessary, apply Feeding Cream, and finally make-up
before lunch.
(I) Dress: Never allow yourself to become slovenly or in
harmonious in your dress any more than you would in
your make-up.
(m) Luncheon: Eat lightly if evening meal is to be a heavy
one. Take largely of salads —above-the-ground vegeta
bles—little bread (in fact, omit starches as much as
possible).
(See Food Section for detailed information regarding
Correct Combinations of Foods.)
Men and women in business who are engaged in brain
work or filling responsible positions where decisions have
to be made quickly and, conferences are frequent should
on no account indulge in heavy mid-day meals, as vital
forces of the body are diminished by excessive digestive
activity.
(n) Afternoon: 1. Rest and relax (if only for a few min
utes). (2) Change make-up as occasion or time de
mands.
(o) Before Dinner and Evening Make-Up: (1) Spend a few
minutes in deep breathing. Indulge in some form of out
door exercise if only for a few minute*— such as walk
ing, swimming, tennis, golf, gardening, etc (2) Make
up with great care; feel happy and look happy; laugh
much; enjoy your food; take pride in your personal ap
pearance and charm.
17
(p) Dinner: (1) Avoid wrong combination! of foods (this
is vital). More than half the battle is won if the
reader understands what foods properly combine chem
ically with other foods and what foods do not combine.
(See pp. 46-48, Food Section.) (2) Drink little liquid at
meals. (J) Do not use hot and ice-cold solid or liquid
foods together; this is the sure forerunner of various
stomachic and intestinal troubles. (4) No desserts (this
is the hardest thing, usually, for a person to break from,
but it is essential if you are to regain Youth, Strength
and Vigor). No candies. If you must eat something
sweet, then do so between meals. (S) If hot drink is
desired, take very weak tea with lemon. If you must
have coffee, be sure that it is freshly made and in a
glass percolator.
(q) Before Retiring: (1) Hold hair back with band—
cleanse face and neck with good cleansing cream. (2)
Remove with cleansing tissue, being sure to wipe both
face and neck with upward and outward movement, as
the impurities in the pores can only be removed in this
way. Wipe lightly with Astringent Toner —pat face well
for a few minutes with good tissue cream or any pure
emolient. (3) If suffering from any skin disorder, such
as acne or undernourished skin, wrinkles, hard lines,
tired or saggy muscles, use corrector suitable to your
particular condition —for example, if acne condition ex
ists, after cleansing face as above use good Acne Cream
or Lotion, alternating with good tissue cream.
(r) Care of the Hair: Comb and brush hair according to
instructions; do not confine hair during rest. (See Sec
tion on Formulas.)
($) Care of the Hands: Massage hands, beginning with fin
gertips, working backwards, using same movement as
when applying gloves. A good hand lotion is essential.
(See Section on Formulas.)
Memorize end repeat at frequent intervals:
"I AM YOUTH— radiant, glorious Youth!
"I AM BEAUTY— wondrous, vibrant Beauty!"
18
Daily Regime for Men
The following is suggested as the Daily Regime
which all men —in all walks of life—may carry out i
with great benefit to themselves, physically and men
tally, insuring a feeling of confidence and belief in
their own success.
UPON RISING: Train yourself to wake with the
feeling of gratitude and joy—with the very first
breath feel that you are happy and that you have
much to be grateful for.
(a) Drink a gla»» of fairly warm water, with juice of half
a lemon.
(b) Wash nostrils.
(c) Wash eyes. (A good eye wail sack as that produced
by the Prescription Cosmetic Laboratories, Inc., of Los
Angeles, California, is essential to all men who con
stantly nse their eyes. Use a saturated wad of cotton
placed close to the lids of eyes—then bathe and blink.)
(d) Bowel Action: Be SURE that your bowels move, and if
there is any constipation follow out rigidly the instruc
tions given in Food Section. Read "Causes of Constipa
tion,' p. 41.)
(e) Edwin J. Dingle's Scientific Breathings: (Refer to sec
tion in this volume, "The Breath of Life" and follow out
exercises given therein—pp. 29-35.)
(f) The Bath: Take warm shower, followed with quick
cold shower. A vigorous rub-down, first with coarse
towel, then with the palms of the hands, holding breath
while rubbing.
(g) Shaving: 1. Use finest quality of Shaving Cream, be
cause many soaps contain caustic and other ingredients
used for the purpose of softening the beard, which are
harmful to the skin. Poor shaving creams shrivel the
fine tissue and absorb the natural oils from the sebace
ous glands. The skin becomes dry and undernourished.
2. Always shave in the same direction (if shaved by
a barber, insist on similarity of razor action as you em
ploy in shaving yourself).
19
3. Dash cold water over face and neck, dry with up
ward and outward motion.
4. Apply FYRMATONE (the finest after-shaving lo
tion known to this writer); apply liberally to face —
stand facing mirror, take breath and retain same—pat
face and neck not too vigorously —gently massage
glands behind ears —firmly massage forehead upward and
downward without lifting fingers.
5. Allow face to dry.
6. Apply after-shaving cream (must be good). This
is specially recommended on account of its proven purity,
and because, though leaving no visible trace, is an effi
cacious protector against dirt and grit from the atmos
phere and assures a natural elasticity of the skin
throughout the day.
7. Finally, apply good face powder. Be sure it is
not a plain talc. Because talc will be absorbed by the
sweat glands, causing clogging of the pores, coarse black
heads and acne condition.
(b) Dress: Take pride in your appearance. Study color —
not too many bright colors; in business be conservative
rather than flashy in your dress.
(i) Breakfast: Omit carbonaceous foods. Take freely of
fresh fruits and fruit juices. (See detailed information
in section dealing with foods.)
(j) During Morning: 1. Drink freely of distilled water.
2. If skin is oily, make application of FYRMATONE.
Also in case of flabby muscles, pat FYRMATONE well
into the skin; you may make as many applications as
you desire during the day.
(k) Luncheon: Eat lightly if evening meal is to be a heavy
one. Take largely of salads —above-the-ground vegeta
bles—little bread (in fact, omit starches as much as
possible) .
(See food section for detailed information regarding
Correct Combinations of Foods.)
Men in business who are engaged in brain work or
filling responsible positions where decisions have to be
made quickly and conferences are frequent, should on
no account indulge in heavy mid-day meals, as vital
forces of the body are diminished by excessive digestive
activity.
20
(I) After Office Hours: 1. Spend a few minutes in deep
breathing.
2. Indulge in sone form of oat-door exercise, if only
for a few minutes—such as walking, swimming, tennis,
golf, gardening, etc.
(m) Dinner: 1. Avoid wrong combinations of foods (this
is vital). More than half the battle is won if the
reader understands what foods properly combine chem
ically with other foods and what foods do not combine.
2. Drink little liquid at meals.
3. Do not use hot and ice-cold solid or liquid foods
together; this is the sure forerunner of various stomachic
and intestinal troubles.
4. No desserts (this is the hardest thing, usually, for
a man to break from, but it is essential if he is to re
gain Youth, Strength and Vigor). No candies. If you
must eat something sweet, then do so between meals.
5. If hot drink is desired, take very weak tea with
lemon. If you must have coffee, be sure that it is freshly
made and in a glass percolator.
(n) Before Retiring: 1. A warm bath (if that is the habit).
2. Wash face with good toilet soap; take wad of
cotton saturated with FYRMATONE and give yourself
a systematic face massage in the following manner: (a)
Start from chin—wipe face upwards, changing cotton
if you see any trace of dirt—wipe nose upwards —wipe
forehead upwards. This upward motion is necessary to
remove all dirt and dust accumulated during the day
which clog the pores. (Dermatologists claim that it re
quires two hours to scientifically cleanse the skin, so that
you can see how important it is that you spend a few
minutes every night and morning in cleansing your own
face.) A few days of this treatment will give emi
nently satisfactory results in a clearer skin, a more
youthful contour to the face and neck, which is the first
place where men begin to show their age.
3. Rub FYRMATONE into neck at back and quickly
and lightly massage with finger tips behind ears and
back of neck.
(o) Care of Hair: The following exercises will be found of
great value for stimulating growth of hair, especially for
men whose hair is thin, whose scalp is dry or whose hair
is gray and lifeless:
21
1. Run comb through hair, brush evenly (use brush
with soft, long bristles, for hard bristles irritate scalp),
place the four fingers of each hand on either side of
head and move scalp crosswise about a dozen times, fol
lowed by up and down movement.
. 2. Comb hair backward. (Important note: In the
Ten Commandments Course — a course of instruction
which discloses many secrets and laws of health, success
and youth, compiled for men only, much more detailed
information and guidance are given for the care of the
hair.) Nothing shows the age of a man more than the
condition of his hair. There is no reason why premature
baldness should make many young men look old long
before their time, and if you are troubled in this man
ner ... or indeed, in any way affecting your hair . . .
you are urged to at once enroll for this men's Ten
Commandments Course.
The same remarks apply to other matters such as care
of feet, hands, ears, etc. The Ten Commandments Course
is the original scientific course for men who desire to re
gain youth of body, virility of mind and full glandular
power —indeed, all those things which thinking profes
sional and business men desire regarding their own
physical and mental condition, but which they so un
thinkingly neglect. Write for information at once to
Edwin J. Dingle, F.R.G.S., Founder of the Science of
Mentalphysics, Trinity Building, 9th and Grand, Los
Angeles, California.
Memorize and repeat at frequent intervals:
"I AM STRENGTH — wonderful, glorious
Strength!
"I AM YOUTH— -dynamic, vibrant Youth!"
22
Second Section
The Mystery of Your
Breath
HEATH is Life! We have all heard this before,
but the sentence has lost its true meaning for
us. All life is expressed in forms, in embodiments
. . . men and women, trees, flowers, the earth, the
heavenly bodies, in all things in the mineral, vege
table and animal kingdoms. You are a human being.
You are a live human being, of grace and beauty or
homely and dejected, because of your Breath, which
IS YOUR LIFE.
What is true of you is true of Every Living Thing.
Its Breath is its Life.
Throughout all time the philosopher has declared
. . . "As a man thinketh, so IS he." This, too, is true.
It ever has been true. You feel it to be true even
as you read these words. You feel that you know
you are, or that you become, what you think ... in
other words, that your life—your body beautiful
and full of strength and health and vigor, or entirely
the reverse—is actually the result of your own
thought. While this is beyond dispute, it has only to
be pointed out to be realized that as a man breathes,
so he thinks. Which is another way of saying that
as a man breathes, so he lives, for Breath is life!
23
I.—THE UNIVERSAL SUBSTANCE
Life, then, is the one universal substance . . . and
all things, from the atom to the sun, from the
amoeba to man, are made of this substance and are
sustained in all beauty and power in this substance.
When we breathe we are taking in this substance
from a universal supply; . . . when we take food into
our bodies we are taking in this universal substance,
though in multifarious chemical forms. Indeed, this
may appear to be a far-fetched statement, but it is
none the less true: "There is no substance found
anywhere in the material universe, the basis of which
does not exist in your body and in mine." Whatever
form the substance is, its basis is Breath.
Did Man understand this, there would be no dis
ease today—no disharmony —no poverty . . . nothing
but the reflection of that immutable balance and
beauty which form the unchanging scepter of
Nature.
n.—BREATH IS THE GREAT REGULATOR
In this small volume, I can only briefly refer to
this transcending truth. Breath is life—and beauty,
and charm, and poise, and grace, and loveliness; as
we breathe we think; as we think we are. Through
right breathing we place ourselves in harmony with
the very force that propels the Universe. The chem
ical substances of food are important; but though
we may eat never more carefully and correctly and
the combinations of what we eat be never more per
fect, breathing will finally be found to be the center
of life from which everything springs, and by which
24
everything in the Universe . . . everything in your
life ...» regulated. Because you exclaim, "Oh,
but I don't believe it" or "I had never thought about
it in this way!" does not change the truth.
The purpose of this volume being in your hands
at the present moment is that you may have dis
closed to you, so far as it is possible, the beauty and
power of the secret of age-old breathings that are
taught in the Science of Mentalphysics —to learn to
live by breath, to develop and preserve personal
beauty and charm and poise and grace . . . success!
If you are disappointed with your physical ap
pearance, your state of mind ... if you feel that you
are growing old and faded ... if your skin is
wrinkled and your complexion sallow, ... if, indeed,
Beauty is leaving you cold and forlorn, seek to at
tain to that teaching which is given in this glorious
science of life. Beauty is yours if you will allow us
to teach you to seek it intelligently.
Learn the exercises found in this Section of this
book, practice them faithfully for a couple of weeks,
do the other things that you are urged to do to im
prove your own physical and mental well-being . . .
and you will bless the day that "Life's Elixir Discov
ered" ever came your way.
HI.—BEAUTY WILL COME BACK
Let us pass on to
(a) What and why you breathe;
(b) The influence of correct breathing on the
health of your body and mind.
25
We all know that the organs of respiration com
prise the lungs and air passages leading to them.
Any doctor will tell' you that unless fresh air in suf
ficient quantities reaches the lungs the foul stream
of venous blood cannot be purified, and, not only is
your body robbed by the waste that should have
been eliminated but which is returned to the circu
lation and poisons the whole system, but death ap
pears on the horizon.
This can be remedied.
Let me say that if there is any disbalance of what
soever nature in your physical body, or in your mind,
any unhappiness or failure in any channel of life's
activities, you may now commence the infallible
means by which you may be relieved of your
burdens, and regain beauty and charm.
Proper breathing gives good circulation; good cir
culation gives you a mental concept of abounding
health and vigor and beauty, a clear complexion and
a manly and womanly attitude towards all demands
of every-day life.
With proper breathing your physical appearance
changes. Lines leave the face and beauty comes bach. I
The body takes on a new buoyancy. Men and
women who are good breathers give off the domi
nating notes of health and physical beauty. Reju
venation takes place. Beauty shines through. But
99 people out of 100 need to assist nature —and the
assistance is embraced in a scientific knowldge of the
art of cosmetology.
The result is a serene happiness, a consciousness
of physical and mental well-being.
26'
IV —EXERCISING THE INTERNAL ORGANS
Good breathers are always strong and beautiful in
face and form. Correct breathing, which is given
such importance in physical culture in the Western
world, is the channel through which physical per
fection and beauty come to us. Occultists, more
over, have always regarded correct breathing as
vitally important, as it is the only method by which
the internal organs can be exercised. In these initial
Breathings, which are (as the reader may surmise)
quite early Yoga Breathings, you are taught the basis
of a system which is inestimably valuable. In our
later courses of instruction, if you are a woman,
you may learn breathings for keeping the hair lovely,
the lips red, the cheeks smooth and firm and free
from lines, the eyes lustrously bright, the whole of
the glands of the body functioning perfectly—in
deed, a condition of health, magnetic youth, a beauty
which is every woman's birthright. And, if you
are a man, a similar condition may be attained.*
As a student, you will rapidly find this out as soon
as you begin the method taught herein for the at
tainment of health and beauty.
Occultists in all ages and in all lands have always
taught their disciples (usually in secret and by word
of mouth) that there was to be found in the air a
substance from which all life is derived. It is called
Prana—the Absolute Energy, the Vital Force, the
•"Breathing Your Way to Youth" (Edwin J. Dingle) is a work
which will present a definite system for you. It is fully illus
trated, heavily bound—five dollars in price—published by The
Science of Mentalphysics, 9th and Grand, Los Angeles, California.
27
Essence, that from which all life is derived. We find
in Christian philosophy, also, and in the teachings
of the scriptures, that "God made man and breathed
into him an immortal soul"—"breathed into his nos
trils the Breath of Life."
V.—MORE ADVANCED BREATHINGS
You are constantly inhaling the air charged with
Life Force, constantly extracting the latter from it. It
is for thinking men and women, people who want to
be and do something in life, to learn how they may,
through their breathing, consciously store it up and
control it.
Prana —this invisible substance from which all life
is derived —is found in its freest state in the atmos
pheric air. In ordinary breathing, the human being
absorbs a normal supply, and this Prana is stored
away in the brain and nerve centers to be used when
necessary. But when we know the way we can and
do store up much greater quantities of Prana just
as a storage battery stores up its power. The many
and strange powers accredited to Tibetans and
Hindu Yogis and to those in other countries ad
vanced in occult philosophy are largely due to this
knowledge and the intelligent use of this stored-up
Life Force. This absolutely insures physical beauty
in every way.
You, too, may confidently look forward to the
time when you may be able to do the same thing, if
you will learn the way, making of your life whatso
ever you will—Your body young and beautiful,
your mind happy, your life successful.
28
Copyrighted Breathings**
As Taught by Edwin J. Dingle in the
Science of Mentalphysics
THESE BREATHINGS WILL NOT TAKE MORE THAN
A FEW MINUTES EVERY MORNING. THE SECRET
OF THEIR SUCCESS IS REGULARITY. THEY ARE NOT
DIFFICULT TO DO, THEY ARE INFINITELY VALU
ABLE, BUT MUST BE PRACTISED FAITHFULLY AT
THE START.
HOUGH what follows may be considered by
the uninitiated as quite elementary teaching,
there is something hidden in these Breathings of so
powerful a nature that you must practice them to
discover this truth. You wish to be beautiful—
breathe your way to Beauty, for in the final analy
sis your breath is the secret door through which you
may march onward to the inner chamber of Beauty
and Youth. There is something mystical here . . .
mystical because it is hidden, and your practice alone
will enable you to uncover the secret for yourself.
When you have tried these Breathings for a day or
**A very elaborate and handsome photographically-illustrated
Chart of Edwin J. Dingle's Scientific Breathings is published by
the Science of Mentalphysics, Trinity Bldg., Ninth and Grand,
Los Angeles, California, and is available to all students who
enter for the Home Study Courses in that Science. Thousands
of his private and Home Study Course students testify to the
efficacy of these Breathings. If you are in any way afflicted,
you should write for information. —The Publisher.
29
two, make application by letter at the Science of
Mentalphysics, Trinity Bldg., Ninth and Grand, Los
Angeles, for a little more advanced work—for eyes
and ears and lips and chest and various phases of
physical and mental development. This tuition is
usually given in secret. To you it will be sent in a
manner which you may thoroughly understand.
You will be charged a fee for tuition, which is right
—for you nor I can never get anything for nothing,
and should not try. But the tuition fees are so small
that, compared with the benefits that will immedi
ately accrue to you, they will fade into insignifi
cance. Do not delay—make up your mind to be a
human being of grace—and charm —and loveliness —
and strength —and power and unchanging Youth.
(a) AT NIGHT
Prepare yourself for bed carefully. Important: —
See that your nose is clean and free from mucus.
Relaxation Exercise: —Lying on your back, place
your right hand over your heart and your left hand
over your abdomen. No pillow. Close the eyes.
Fancy that you are watching your breath coming in
and out—it is even and quiet and rhythmic—it
seems to get longer and longer as you watch it.
When you feel relaxed and "heavy," say audibly the
word "Peace—Peace —Peace." Keep repeating this,
letting the sound go on with your breath.
You will slowly sense that the body scarcely exists
—the vibration will be that of perfect balance.
When you are in this state, declare with considerable
vigor of mind:
30
"I AM HEALTH— BEAUTY— HEALTH— PERFECT
HEALTH OF BODY AND MIND.
I AM WHOLE—I AM PERFECT—I AM STRONG— I
AM POWERFUL—I AM LOVING—I AM HAR
MONIOUS—I AM RICH— I AM HAPPY.
I AM HEALTH— I AM FREE, FREE, FREE FROM
THE RAVAGES OF DISEASE.
I AM NOW PREPARING MYSELF FOR PERFECT
REST."
(b) IN THE MORNING ON RISING
(These Breathings should always be entered into
with a feeling of joy and verve. Their importance
cannot possibly be appreciated until after a day or
two of faithful practice. Never breathe on a full
stomach. Never strain. Breathe every morning
regularly.)
Breath Number One: THE HARMONIC BREATH.
(a) Stand or sit erect, see that spine is straight.
(b) Close right nostril with the right thumb;
breathe steadily (not too slow) through the left
or negative nostril, counting FOUR during the
inhalation, (c) Hold the breath without any strain
anywhere, and while doing so count SIXTEEN, (d)
Exhale steadily through the RIGHT nostril, while
you count EIGHT, (e) Close left nostril with the
left thumb; breathe steadily (not too slow) through
the right or positive nostril, with the same count as
above.
Note. —No strain at all; snap the lips; allow no breath to
escape. Do this exercise FOUR times —twice through the left
nostril and twice through the right, and go into the exercise
four times a day—immediately upon rising, at noon, at dusk,
and when you retire at night; as you progress increase the
counts by 50 per cent., namely, six for inhalation, 24 for hold
ing, 16 for exhalation. In this Breath, as in all the Breaths,
imagine that you are gaining Youth every time you breathe in
the Life Force. Try mentally to imagine the current going all
over your body—cleansing, revivifying, strengthening, reju
31
venating. This practice purifies the body through the impetus
it gives to the expulsion of all wastes. It greatly increases the
flow of the true Life Forces, which bring us harmony and
strength and clear the nervous system of all negative vibrations.
Breath Number Two: THE VIBRATORY
BREATH. — (Practice preferably before an open
window.) (a) Sit in straight-backed chair, with
spine perfectly erect. Take time to see that every
part of the spine is straight, (b) Place hands oppo
site chest, with fingers pointing outward, fingers of
the left hand nearly touching fingers of right hand,
elbows at about 45 degrees from sides of the body
and hands about four inches from the body (or hands
on knees, palms downward). (c) Feet together,
with the toes at an angle of 45 degrees, (d) Now
take a deep breath steadily without any strain, and
as you do so pull the abdomen upwards, the chest
outwards as it fills with air, raising the hands, and
allowing the head to go backwards (but not bend
ing the back) until every lung space is filled with air.
(e) Then exhale, allowing the head to move back to
original position and the hands to move downwards
rhythmically, when you again inhale, follow out the
movement, and continue to breathe in this manner
for forty-nine times.
Note. —The best way to do this Vibratory Breath is to count
"seven" mentally, doing seven breaths; then pause a minute,
without moving the position; then do another seven, and an
other, and so on until you have done the ''Seven-sevens."
Breathe as if you really mean business. Inhale through the
nostrils, not too quickly, but steadily and with vigor, filling the
body with as much air as possible. Exhale through the mouth,
and see that each breath expels every bit of air before you
again inhale. Be sure that the nose is perfectly clear. Do not
try to breathe if air passages are in any way clogged.
Breath Number Three: THE REVITALIZING
BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths, increase
gradually to seven.) Stand or sit erect, spine
straight, (a) First breathe through nostrils, inhal
ing steadily but not too slowly. Commence breath
32
ing down deep in abdomen (as in singing), filling
lower part of lungs, then middle part, then upper
part. You will find that if you inhale properly the
abdomen will be drawn in slightly. (b) Retain
breath for about thirty seconds, (c) Now, exhale
vigorously. Chest must not be changed—hold it
firm. As breath escapes, draw in abdomen tight
and lift it upwards, lips being placed as if you were
going to whistle. Let out every bit of air, pressing
the abdomen in. (d) Then inhale and relax chest
and whole body, breathing in and out as rhythmic
ally as possible until ready for next exercise.
(In Tibet this is called "The Complete Breath,"
and forms the basis for the intricate system of
breathing which has for centuries been such a com
plicated science among the Yogis.)
Breath Number Four: THE INSPIRATIONAL
BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths; increase
gradually to seven.) Stand or sit erect, and see that
spine is straight, (a) Inhale a Complete Breath; be
rigid; buttocks tight; feet firm on ground. (b)
Raise arms (rigid) slowly until hands touch above
head, palms outwards, with thumbs crossed and
forefinger tips touching. See that you are rigid, and
that you are reaching as high as possible, but with
out disturbance to your feet, not "tip-toeing"; backs
of hands touching, (c) Retain breath a few seconds
—two or three, (d) Now lower hands to 45 de
grees from shoulders, exhaling a little air vigorously
through your puckered lips. Then lower arms level
with shoulders, and vigorously exhale a little more.
Then lower again a little, and let out more breath,
but with chest as firm as a rock all the time. Then
lower to sides and thoroughly empty lungs, pressing
in hard with abdomen, (e) Inhale and relax.
Breath Number Five: PHYSICAL PERFECTION
BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths; increase
gradually to seven.) Stand erect, with the heels to
33
gether and the toes apart. See that your spine is
straight; buttocks tight; feet firm on ground, (a)
Extend arms straight in front, with palms of hands
together (or with fists clenched), and arms comfort
ably firm but not too rigid; see that you are stand
ing firmly on your feet, with a sense that you are
gripping floor; have body perfectly straight and
firm. (b) Inhale a Complete Breath; retain your
breath, (c) Standing very firmly, buttocks tight,
swing arms back as far as they will go, not bending
them, so that you "stretch" chest, arms gradually
getting more and more rigid as you swing them back.
Bring them to the front again, seeing that you allow
no breath to escape. Do this three times. Then
bring arms quickly to your sides, exhale vigorously.
Breath Number Six: VIBRO-MAGNETIC
BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths; increase
gradually to seven.) Stand erect as before, with
arms at sides. See that spine is straight; buttocks
tight; feet firm on ground, (a) Inhale a Complete
Breath —a full big breath; retain breath, (b) With
body gently rigid from soles of feet to top of head,
swing arms and hands in a complete circle three
times, retaining the breath, (c) At third swing drop
arms to sides, exhaling vigorously through mouth,
but not relaxing chest. Then inhale and relax.
Breath Number Seven: THE CLEANSING
BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths; increase
gradually to seven.) Stand erect as before. This
is a "difficult" exercise, and care must be taken to
do it properly to gain full benefit; buttocks tight;
feet firm on ground. (a) With body perfectly
straight, place arms (stiff) behind back as far as
possible, with thumbs crossed; inhale a Complete
Breath (you will have the feeling that the expand
ing chest is "pulling" arms apart) ; hold buttocks
and legs firm, (b) Now, slowly bring arms (stiff)
to sides, palms downward; raise arms and hands
34
firmly in front, with a sense of pulling from shoul
ders; take them straight up over head and around
again to original position—do this three times, not
allowing any breath to escape, and having body
rigid, (c) Then bring arms to sides, standing firm,
and exhale vigorously through mouth. Inhale and
relax.
Breath Number Eight: GRAND REJUVENA
TION BREATH. — (Commence with two breaths;
increase gradually to seven.) Stand erect as before.
See that spine is perfectly straight; buttocks tight;
feet firm on ground, (a) Place hands on hips, grip
ping tightly; inhale a Complete Breath; elbows for
ward, (b) See that legs and buttocks are stiff; then
bend body as far forward as you can without re
laxing in any way. There will be a pulling feeling
from the neck and bottom of spine. Then come back
to your original position. Do this three times, (c)
Then stand erect and exhale vigorously through the
mouth (as in all these exercises), thoroughly empty
ing the chest of air. DO NOT INHALE, but bend
forward, then backward as far as possible, forward
again and backwards, forward again and back
wards. Then, quite rigid and still, inhale and relax.
35
Third Section
The Secret Source of a
Woman9s Charm
(A Chapter on the Science of Foods)
EVERY
man—and, infinitely more so, every
woman —has a right to express to the full that
charm and beauty and grace which make the deeper
character of a human soul. But you and I, and
none other, build our bodies. Your body is yours,
to do with what you will. Beautify it . . . and glorify
it in the truest sense, and you may, through it as the
instrument of your own creative power, reform your
world.
I.—THE ELIXIR OF LIFE
Every person desires to be happy . . . healthy . . .
beautiful. This desire inheres in each of us. And
each of us possesses the power to build a body of
beauty and youth, personality and charm.
There is no mystery about this ... it is the result
of the Laws of Nature, and it has ever been so since
the dawn of time.
And YOU can do it—if YOU wish to do so.
But knowledge does not apply itself. You as an
individual must make the application, and the ap
plication consists of fertilizing the thought into the
37
living purpose. ... "J have the power within my
own being to build a body beautiful—I will learn
what this power is . . . and then I will apply it!"
With this thought firmly established in the mind, the
battle is half won.
The time and thought which most women waste
in aimless effort to gain magnetic beauty would ac
complish wonders if properly directed towards the
specified objective.
I wish here to point you to the way.
We are spiritual as well as physical beings. The
Spirit is within, the manifestation is without; . . .
the within determines the without. Spirit, moreover,
is one and indivisible ... a part cannot be where the
whole is not.
Spirit is all life, strength and power.
You and I, then, are spirit, and I am constantly
creating my body—my beautiful skin, my sparkling
eyes, my happy and unlined face, my beautiful teeth
—my environment . . . everything that makes the
"ME" . . . by what I think, for the thought of me is
the Spirit of me. Indeed, it is the real ELIXIR of
Life, the philosopher's stone, the fountain of life, the
transforming force which brings out into manifesta
tion in my body that creative power which we all
have . . . but which only the rare few use.
II.—THE SCIENCE OF FOOD
In a very real sense, therefore, the body of me is
the spirit of me, and my body is obviously what my
food (and my thought) make it. . . . The science of
food is just beginning to claim attention of many
38
thinking people, and in this Section of this small
book I hope to portray certain elementary rules *
which will solve the diet problems of most people.
The science of food as taught in Mentalphysics is
from the Chemicalanalysis point of view—the only
scientific way of determining the general dietary
needs of the individual.
But that can only be for later work, as it is ut
terly impossible to cover the subject in a single small
volume—it requires scientific teaching as given in my
Home Study Courses . . . and that, if the reader is
really in earnest regarding this subject of youth and
beauty, will come later if he wishes it.
in.—"STOP CONSTIPATION!"
Thus writes Sir Arbuthnot Lane, physician to King
George of England and President of the New Health
Society.
In this Section, then, are shown:
1. Way to Stop Constipation.
2. A Three- Weeks' Regime.
3. The Rational Way to Eat.
It is a hard thing to say that practically the
whole American nation is constipated, but it is none-
In the Science of Mentalphysics I advocate entirely NAT
URAL FOODS, which contain all the life-giving forces which the
Creator has given to man wherewith to build into his body
beauty and strength. This means foods in their natural state.
One has only to fuel the body with natural foods in proper
combination for a very short time to find lines leaving the face,
a suppleness and roundness of form returning, and a happy,
smiling disposition that no money in the world can buy. A
companion publication to this volume is the Mentalphysics Guide
to Correct Diet —it costs a dollar. Write for it!
39
theless true. Constipation seems to be something
that has come with our civilization, and despite all
the "progress" being made by medical science in un
covering disease and all the varied effects of "dis
ease" of the human body, practically no thought
(except in the case of forward-looking medical men,
and we must admit that they are in the minority) is
given to the CAUSE of Dis-ease, loss of youth and
early old age—CONSTIPATION. It would be liter
ally laughable if it were not so tragic. Here we have
a condition of affairs in the most scientific country
the world has ever known, where the people, while
having come practically to the conquest of the ma
terial world, know practically nothing about the
world of their own bodies.
Yet, we are highly "educated," everyone goes to
universities —learns all about the sciences of the
body, biology, anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, and
so forth —talks glibly about the body and what it is
and how important it is; but somehow the average
human being DOES NOT KNOW, or if he knows,
IGNORES the needs of the body.
'Women, who desire beauty above all riches, suffer
from constipation more than men, and constipation
is the cause of their fading glory. A truly healthy
woman is hard to find. Constipation is easily cor-
rectible —it only requires patient, persistent, rever
ent effort in properly eating and exercising the body,
interiorly and exteriorly. But the inactivity of
women, through wrong eating of various constipat
ing combinations, such as meats and rich and fatty
foods —their abhorence of properly using their bodies,
40
their ignorance of the need of real breathing, and
silly methods of walking, sitting, lying and in other
ways throwing their spines out of alignment —all
these contribute to establish and maintain CONSTI
PATION—the one cause of Disease and the loss of
vibrant beauty and youth.
Most men are nearly as bad as women. You find
nine-tenths of office workers, for example, who never
have a natural action of the bowels, being eternally
at the mercy of some unnatural and harmful lax
ative.
IV.—CAUSES OF CONSTIPATION
In point of importance, causes of constipation may
be enumerated as follows:
(a) IMPROPER DIET— Lack of proper combina
tions and mixture of foods.
(b) IRREGULAR HABITS—Instead of going to
stool at regular times of the day—such as im
mediately on waking and the last thing be
fore going to bed—some people only realize
that an action of the bowels is imminent when
they suffer stomachic discomfort —and then
wonder why they lose their beauty!
(c) INSUFFICIENT EXERCISE— The great ma
jority of people never exercise their bodies.
They may stretch in bed in the morning on
waking, but this is principally a subconscious
affair. It is easy to exercise the body, but if
you will use the Breathings which are de
scribed and outlined in the second section, fol
lowing instructions to the letter, I challenge
you that it will not be possible for you to
be constipated after two or three weeks of
practice. The Breath is the only method
which enables us to exercise the body inte
41
riorly —and this inward activity means out
ward beauty.
(d) LONG USE OF MEDICINES— So long as you
take laxatives regularly, you are inviting
constipation to remain with you, ultimately
to bring about your own destruction. Give
up the physics, start with the enema and
exercise.
(e) USE OF STRICTLY CONSTIPATING
FOODS—Such as cheese, milk, starches, can
dies; cut them out, substitute green vege
tables.
(f) LACK OF GREEN VEGETABLES IN THE
DIET. Eat raw green vegetables every day.
(g) "BOLTING" YOUR FOOD—Watch people in
restaurants. See how little they masticate.
Great chunks of potatoes and white bread
and meat go down unchewed —and instead of
engaging in even decent mastication they
wash down their throats the unchewed food
with gulps of water.
My Own Experience: The man who is writing
suffered for many years from constipation. This is
what I did—hundreds and thousands of students
have done it, and are now permanently free from
constipation.
FIRST WEEK— 1. On rising— (a) One glass of
fairly hot water, with the juice of a lemon; gulp it
down, drinking as quickly as possible;
(b) Do your Breathings for Beauty and Youth;
(c) Drink one or two glasses of cold water;
(d) Go to stool and "nurse" the action;
(e) Take enema of olive oil once a day.
2. Breakfast —Twelve ounces (at least) of grape
fruit juice.
42
3. Lunch—More grapefruit juice.
4. Dinner—More grapefruit juice (with copious
draughts of water between meals).
5. Going to bed—Take my "Number Nine" (as
directed on the package) , the unequaled neutral veg
etable eliminator.
SPECIAL PHYSICAL EXERCISES
(a) Lie on your back and "knead" the abdomen.
(b) Lie on your back; place hands, with fingers
locked, over abdomen; knees drawn up, with right
foot over left, and knees as near to floor as possible;
now force the spine flat on the floor—hold it a mo
ment, then relax; do it seven times, holding spine
straight on floor, for slightly longer periods each
time. Do this morning and night.
(c) On going to bed and immediately before go
ing to sleep, in a relaxed state, audibly declare: "I
am now preparing my body to be cleansed —I AM
CLEAN—CLEAN—CLEAN IN MIND AND
BODY." (This mental exercise may seem to be of
no importance, yet its importance cannot be over
emphasized. It is vital that the student should so
train his mind, for by making this declaration be
fore going to sleep the subconscious mind is im
pressed and the work is then carried on subcon
sciously in your sleep.)
SECOND WEEK
(1) Breakfast —Raw apples; skins and all; as
many as you wish to eat.
43
(2) Luncb—Small salad of lettuce leaves, a small
ripe tomato, olive oil dressing.
(3) Dinner—Fruits (watery fruits, such as ap
ples, ripe figs, pears, persimmons, peaches, apricots,
plums, etc.).
(4) Before Retiring—Eight ounces of grapefruit
juice.
General Instructions:
WATER: —Drink ten glasses of good water (dis
tilled preferably) each day, but not with meals.
IRRIGATION: —Use olive oil enema for first two
weeks—best at night before going to bed, but discon
tinue as soon as natural movements begin; trust
more to breathing and abdominal exercises.
EXERCISE: —Walk much; make yourself walk
regularly and so bring order into your life.
Avoid fountain drinks. Take a spoonful of good
olive oil after each meal.
THIRD WEEK— AND ALL THE WEEKS
THEREAFTER
I used common sense. After constipation has dis
appeared, learn about the best diet that is necessary
for your chemical type. Use "Number Nine" once
a week.
AND REMEMBER— NEVER FORGET ITU
"STOP CONSTIPATION and you STOP DIS
EASE!"
Never again entertain a single thought that con
stipation will return, and live and fuel the body in
the knowledge that your body is clean—a fit Temple
of the Living God.
44
IV.—THE RATIONAL WAY TO EAT
(1) If you must eat three meals a day, make
Once a day—FRUIT MEAL (or twice a day)—
fruits for Beauty all the time!
Once a day—STARCH MEAL (best to omit en
tirely).
Once a day—VEGETABLE MEAL (better twice
a day).
(2) If you have fruit juice and starch meal for
breakfast, be sure to allow at least one hour between
the fruit and the starch; otherwise your face will
soon begin to tell the tale.
(3) If you have starch for lunch or dinner, com
bine it with a raw vegetable salad without an acid
dressing.
(Two ounces of nut meats may be substituted for
meat should one desire to discontinue eating meat.
Nuts should be unsalted.)
V.—GROUPS OF FOODS
The main groups of human foods are below; and
if one is experiencing trouble in digestion, is suffer
ing from blotchy skin or sallow complexion, it will
probably be found that combinations of the foods
taken are wrong:
(i) CARBOHYDRATES:
Starches and Sugars, Breads and all products made
from grains, Cereals, all Breakfast Foods, Cakes,
Cane Sugar, Syrup, Condensed Milk, Malted Milk,
Macaroni, Spaghetti, Noodles, All Pastry, Sweet Po
45
tatoes, White Potatoes, Rice, Rye Crisp, Whole Wheat
Products.
All Animal Foods, All Sea Foods, Bacon, Cheese
(factory), Clams, Eggs (except Yolk), Gelatine,
Jello, Nuts (except Almonds), Lobsters, Oysters.
Tomatoes, Grapefruit, Pineapple, Oranges, Rhu
barb, Apricots, and all fruits. (Tomatoes are Fruit).
Group No. 1 should not be combined with Groups
No. 2 or 3. Excess of Group No. 1 causes Catarrh,
Acidity of the Stomach, Dropsy, Pneumonia, Tuber
culosis, Diabetes, Anemia. Excess of Group No. 2
causes Acidosis, Biliousness, Cancers, Tumors, Intes
tinal Putrefaction, Reabsorption, Rheumatism,
Bright's Disease, Anemia, Teeth Decay. Group No. 3
can be combined with No. 2. Vegetables can be
combined with Group 1 and 2. It is not good to mix
both Fruit and Vegetables in the same salad.
FOODS THAT WILL NOT COMBINE WITH
OTHER FOODS.— The following foods marked "A"
WILL NOT COMBINE, and, therefore, must not be
used with those marked "B" at the same meal:
(ii) PROTEINS:
(iii) ACIDS:
IMPORTANT!
VI.—FOOD COMBINATIONS
"A" «B"
Apples
Apricots
Bananas
Artichokes
Asparagus
Beets
46
Blackberries Brussel Sprouts
Cranberries Cabbage
Cherries Carrots
Currants Cauliflower
Dates Celery
Gooseberries Cucumbers
Grapefruit Green Peppers
Grapes Kohl-Rabi
Lemons* Leeks
Limes Onions
Loganberries Parsnips
Oranges Potatoes
Peaches Radishes
Pears Rutabagas
Persimmons Spinach
Pineapples String Beans
Plums Sweet Potatoes
Prunes Turnips
Raisins
Raspberries (In some conditions, Milk,
Strawberries Lentils, Dried Beans and
Tangerines Peas)
FOODS THAT WILL COMBINE WELL WITH
EITHER SIDE — Eggs, Cheese, Cottage Cheese,
Cream Nuts, Olives, Tomatoes, Melons of all kinds,
Pumpkin, Squash, Eggplant, Green Peas, Green Corn
and Green Shelled Beans.
All starches as Bread, Crackers, Macaroni, Break
fast Foods, etc., may be used but should not be sat-
(*) The small amount of lemon juice used on salads is not
objectionable, as it is diluted and neutralized.
47
urated with acid fruits, either in the dish or in the
mouth, as the acid has a, tendency to render inactive
the "ptyalin," the alkaline saliva juice, which digests
starch.
VII.— ACID AND ALKALINE FOODS
Your blood should be 80 per cent alkaline and 20
per cent acid. See to it that you take an abundance
of the alkaline foods listed. The principal salts that
hold the balance of the blood stream are calcium,
magnesium, potassium and sodium. Alkalinize your
blood stream, and you change that pale, flabby face
into one of beauty and radiance!
In this small book I cannot go deeply into the har
mony of foods, but I strongly advise the reader to
enroll for the Science of Mentalphysics Home Study
Course on Foods; and, having found your chemical
type, live upon the true chemical needs of your own
body.
ACID FOODS
Barley (pearled) Custard
Blackberries Egg (white)
Bread (all kinds) Egg (yolk)
Brown Sugar Flour
Buckwheat Gooseberries
Butter Honey
Cheese Jello
Chocolate Lentils
Cocoa Maple Sugar
Corn (Green) Maple Syrup
Cornmeal Mayonnaise
Crackers and Cookies Oatmeal
48
Olive Oil
Peanuts
Pecans
Pine Nuts
Rice
Rhubarb
Shredded Wheat
Strawberries
Tomatoes
Walnuts
Wheat
(All meats and fish are acid.)
ALKALINE FOODS
Almonds Cantaloupe
Apples, Raw Cream
Apricots, Raw Cucumbers
Artichokes Currants
Asparagus Dates
Bananas Figs (Dried)
Beans, Dried Grapes
Beans, Lima (Dried) Grape Juice
Beans, Lima (Fresh) Grapefruit
Beans, String (Canned) Lemons
Beans, String (Fresh) Lemon Juice
Beans, Soya Lettuce
Beets Milk, Condensed
Buttermilk Milk
Bran Molasses
Cabbage Melons
Carrots Okra
Cauliflower Olives
Celery Onions
Celery Root Oranges
Chard Orange Juice
Chestnuts Parsley
Cocoanuts Parsnips
49
Peaches, Canned
Peaches, Raw
Pears, Canned
Pears, Raw
Peas, Canned
Peas, Dried
Peas, Raw
Pineapple
Plums
Potatoes Watercress
Prunes
Pumpkin
Radishes
Raisins
Raspberries
Spinach
Squash
Turnips
Potatoes, Sweet
(Care must be taken in determining right combinations:
the correct way is to take the chemical food necessary for
your particular chemical type. Write me for information.
In this way you begin the sure road to beauty.)
VIII.—NOTES ON GROUPS OF FOODS
CEREALS:—Eat cereals in their dry form, if pos
sible, and masticate thoroughly. Never eat cereals
with acid food (if you do, you'll get indigestion and
lose the luster of your eye; there will be fermenta
tion, and you lose the value of the food, and then
beauty will rapidly desert you.)
MILK:—Sip milk—or, better, chew it! This ap
plies to both sweet milk and buttermilk. The value
of milk as a food is gained only through slow diges
tion. Assist in digestion before it leaves your mouth.
(Milk is not a good food, though generally believed
OTHER DAIRY PRODUCTS:— Cheese and eggs
should be taken with salads. Never eat the white
of the egg (it is merely the afterbirth), raw yolks of
eggs are better taken with orange juice, honey or
to be.)
50
olive oil. A delicious drink and an ideal food is 2
yolks of eggs, a small pitcher of olive oil, a teaspoon-
ful of honey—that is real food, and a beauty builder.
FRUITS: —Sip fruit juices—the mixture of the
saliva with the juices aids digestion. Fruits may be
combined with nuts—strength and beauty combined.
LEGUMES: —Some people find it difficult to digest
legumes, but if properly prepared, slowly eaten and
properly masticated, they are a good food. Eat them
with leafy vegetables.
NUTS: —Some food scientists declare nuts to be
harmful as foods, but this is because they themselves
are "knuts." Kernels and seeds form one of the
finest foods that God has supplied for man. You
should eat nuts with breakfast and with the evening
meal. They aid digestion and supply important fats
and oils —beauticians know what these mean to true
magnetism and a beautiful skin.
SUGARS AND CANDY:— Don't eat them. If you
do, see that you have not had a meal for several
hours.
VEGETABLES: —Let us give thanks for vegeta
bles. Live on vegetables and you live happily and
long. Eat vegetables raw, in their natural state.
Every vegetable known contains practically all the
elements necessary for the building of the human
body. Boiling (and even steaming) vegetables is a
foolish habit; the life of the vegetable is broken
down by heat, and boiled vegetables, because they
have lost much of the value which God put into
them, require much longer time to digest. Many of
51
the more delicate vegetables lose practically all of
their food value when boiled, and are not food at all
but merely substances which cause fermentation and
auto-intoxication, gastritis and other trouble. EAT
VEGETABLES RAW for beauty of skin, for bright
ness of eye, for charm and grace.
IX.—VITAMINS IN FOODS
While it is not necessary for the student to follow
what is called The Vitamin Theory, it is advisable
to know what science has so far uncovered in this
direction. So far there are five principal Vitamins
discovered, and some foods contain more Vitamins
than others. The student of correct diet who finds
his own chemical type, however, and fuels his body
according to its chemical needs, will automatically
take foods containing all the Vitamins in the balance
that his body needs.
If you are really interested in your own best phys
ical and mental development, seek information re
garding the true Vitamin Creams advocated by
Mentalphysics —feed vitamins into the body, by food
within and food without.
The following is a list of the Vitamins so far
known:
VITAMIN "A" (Fat-soluble: antiophthalmic):—
Increases growth of the body by vitalizing the Duct
less Glands; promotes growth of bone and muscle.
Found in:—Alfalfa, beans (soya), butter, cab
bage, carrot tops, carrots (raw), cauliflower, chard,
clover, cocoanut meal, cod liver oil, corn (yellow),
cotton seed, cream, egg yolk, lettuce, milk, oat ker
52
nel, orange juice, peas (green and yellow), pota
toes, rice (brown), spinach, squash, tomatoes, tur
nips, wheat, wheat bran.
Physical Troubles Due to Lack of VITAMIN "A."
Slow and stunted growth of the body; dwarfs, ane
mia; low vitality.
VITAMIN "B" (water-soluble, antineuritic) :
Stimulates metabolism: rejuvenates the nervous sys
tem; prevents tuberculosis and wasting disease.
Found in: Alfalfa, apples, artichokes, barley,
beans (kidney, navy), beets, cabbage, carrots, cauli
flower, celery, chestnuts, clover, chard, corn, cucum
bers, dandelions, egg plant, egg yolk, lettuce, lentils,
milk, nuts, oats, okra, onions, orange juice, parsley,
peanuts, peas, potatoes, prunes, rice (brown), ruta
baga, rye, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, wheat. Vita
min "B" is not found in appreciable quantities in
fats or oils of either animal or vegetable origin. It
is abundant in tomatoes, carrots, turnips and all
fresh leafy vegetables.
Physical Troubles Due to Lack of Vitamin "B."
Paralysis of the nerves and general nerve ailments;
colitis and intestinal trouble; anemia, acidosis; loss
of appetjte; malnutrition; constipation.
VITAMIN "C" (water-soluble; antiscorbutic):
Recreates new blood cells, prevents mental disorders,
etc.
Pound in: Apples, bananas, cabbage, carrots,
cauliflower, dandelions, endive, grapefruit, lemons,
lettuce, limes, milk, onions, orange juice, potatoes,
respberries, rhubarb, string beans, tomatoes, turnips
(Swede), watercress.
53
Physical Troubles Due to Lack of Vitamin "C."
Scurvy, acidosis, pyorrhea and teeth troubles; ex
treme inertia; sallow skin; rheumatism; infantile
diseases, mental disorders.
VITAMIN '"D" (fat-soluble; antirachitic): Brings
physical fitness generally, prevents rickets, and sim
ilar disorders; its effect is similar to that of sunshine.
Works indirectly with calcium and phosphorus.
Eighty per cent of the children in the United
States suffer from rickets —lack of Vitamin "D." If
the bone structure is not healthy, the whole body
suffers. Many so-called "foods" put up commer
cially do not contain this important Vitamin.
Found in: Almonds, butter, cabbage, carrots,
chard, cocoanut oil, cod liver oil, egg yolk, lettuce,
tomatoes, turnips.
Physical Troubles Due to Lack of Vitamin "D."
Bone malformation; rickets, and general debility.
VITAMIN "E" (also known as "X") (fat-soluble;
antisterility) : Aids reproduction and promotes fer
tility in all animals. Men and women who sense the
approach of "old age" through the lessening of the
sex desire should take plenty of this Vitamin. There
is no need for men to become impotent. With proper
exercises —through our copyrighted breathings —and
with the proper fueling of the body, sex power will
return, and as sex energy is all energy it follows that
when a man loses his sex energy he has come to that
state where Death is in the offing. It is the same with
women. Female troubles are due, very largely, to a
deficiency in the food of Vitamin "E."
Found in: Alfalfa (dried), asparagus, butter,
54
cabbage, chard, corn, cream, lettuce, leaves of most
plants, milk, rolled oats, whole wheat.
Physical Trouble Due to Lack of Vitamin "E."
Infertility; degeneration of sex glands in both men
and women—with all the resulting ailments.
X.—THE HIGHEST OF ALL FORCE
Everything that the body can possibly need and
possibly use is available to us in the air we breathe
and the foods that we take into the body. The
science of food is largely a matter of balanced chem
istry, which I teach in classes and by home instruc
tion. This is not to say that a person can build a
perfect body by taking into that body perfect com
binations and weights of food. That is vital. But
there is something beyond that. If that alone were
the secret, then the chemist would be able to take
all the chemical constituents found in, say, an orange
and make the orange. But this he cannot do. Nor
can you, the human being, merely by taking the
right chemicals into your body, make a perfect body.
There is a higher force —and that is YOUR
THOUGHT.
By gaining knowledge regarding our wondrously
beautiful bodies we go far on the way. By applying
that knowledge we go farther. But the human ideal
—"A perfect Mind in a perfect Body"—can only be
attained when we have mastered the laws of Nature
on all planes of life.
This is what is taught in Mentalphysics, and t
trust that every thinking person who reads this
small book will bestir himself or herself by going
55
farther and enrolling for the higher knowledge
awaiting you in the courses of instruction on health,
beauty, youth and success which are rapidly gaining
adherents to this new science of living. Do it now!
You owe it to yourself, now that you have begun,
to stride forward in confidence to conquest.
I would like the reader to believe that what is
brought to his attention here is not "just another"
system. It is but natural that the person who has
been for long seeking health and happiness —and who
has consistently failed in the search—should hesitate
and be inclined to regard what this book contains
as only some more sales talk. This, however, is not
so. The Science of Mentalphysics is what every
human being is looking for, though it is true that he
may not know it. We have literally thousands of
letters on file from people all over the world who
have transformed their own lives through what they
have learned in Mentalphysics. As a teacher, I have
been told hundreds of times by students, "Mr.
Dingle, you do what the others talk about!"
No matter what branch of the teaching, it teaches
the student how to demonstrate what he is learning
—that is all. What is the use of learning anything
whatever if you cannot demonstrate it in your own
life.
You have never met and you will never again
meet anything more entirely satisfying than Men
talphysics —perfect health and physical beauty, suc
cess in all walks of life, rejuvenation of the body
and the mind, and then . . . The Art of Living.
Happy are you if you awake to your opportunity.
Fourth Section
Formulas for Beauty
This section purports only to supply a very few
simple formulas. It is obvious that the preparation
of more complex formulas would entail the necessity
of a considerable laboratory equipment, in addition
to waxes, essential oils, and important compounds.
Care of Hair
A woman's hair is still her greatest pride. Even
the best hair requires constant attention and a good
tonic from time to time. Though many simple hair
preparations could be made at home, it is always
advisable to seek a scientifically prepared product,
and I advise, above all, that you use only the very
finest brilliantines and hair lotions as dressing.
The same remark applies to a shampoo —use only
the best. Be sure it is of vegetable base.
I shall be happy to answer questions regarding the
care of the hair—baldness, dandruff, eczema, falling
and greying hair, etc. In many cases, unhealthy
hair has its origin in dysfunction of the ductless
glands.
57
PARSLEY RINSE
If used consistently after every shampoo this
Parsley Rinse will tend to restore natural color, will
bring a healthy, brilliant sheen to the hair, and gen
erally improve it by intensifying its natural hues.
After shampooing hair (taking care to use a non-
acid shampoo), rinse off soap with soft water; lastly,
use parsley rinse, allowing to remain on hair and
dry naturally.
EGG SHAMPOO
(This is a wonderful shampoo for all types of hair)
Take yolks of two eggs—mix slightly, massage
well into scalp (use no soap). Follow with Parsley
Rinse.
Care of Face
A GOOD ASTRINGENT
Take 8 ounces witch hazel—8 ounces distilled
water—quarter ounce powdered alum. Shake well
before using. Pat well with absorbent cotton.
(A really good astringent, however, must be prop
erly aged, and requires a different compound; but
the above is a simple home astringent which any one
can make.)
GOOD FACIAL PACK
One table*poonful of Fuller's earth —half table-
spoonful of glycerine —the white of one egg, un
58
beaten —mix ingredients with enough soft water to
make a paste.
After cleansing face thoroughly with good cleans
ing cream, apply pack all over face and neck, lying
in relaxed position until pack begins to dry. Then
remove with cloth dipped in tepid water—the water
boiled with few drops of lemon juice.
For tender skin do not leave on too long or until
too dry.
SIMPLE HONEY PACK
Apply good honey (preferably sage honey) all
over the face—pat into skin —remove after three or
four minutes with water and witch hazel. Then
apply white of egg—leave until reaction occurs —
then wash off with soft luke warm water.
ALMOND MEAL WASH
5 parts Almond Meal.
1 part imported castile soap, shredded.
3 parts ground oatmeal.
1 part benzoin.
Mix dry ingredients, adding benzoin last, gradually
mixing constantly so as to prevent caking.
Use once a week. Remove make-up with cleansing
cream—then mix meal with enough warm water to
make paste —massage well over face and neck until
skin is stimulated —then rinse with cold water and
pat lightly with astringent toner. This is an excel
lent face tonic.
'
59
Care of Hands
No woman —or man for that matter —needs to
have pointed, out to him the importance of clean and
well-kept hands. Many a woman's beauty is spoiled
by "kitchen hands." Manicure often —use good
bleacher and softener often —take pride in the hands.
GOOD HAND SOFTENER
Take half -spoonful of Hydrous Lanoline —massage
well into hands, commencing with fingertips and
working upwards. Over the Lanoline apply a few
drops of Lemon Juice, massage into hands for five or
ten minutes —then remove by taking small cloth
saturated with Witch Hazel—thoroughly wipe off,
and shake hands vigorously for half a minute, after
which relax hands.
The reason for putting Lemon Juice with Lanoline
is because Lemon Juice is powerful in hydrogen
qualities, penetrating pores and allowing absorption
of the Lanoline. It also prevents stimulation of hair,
whereas Lanoline used alone is a hair stimulant.
BRITTLE NAILS—A LITTLE SECRET
Once or twice a week, dip finger nails into pure
vinegar —rinse in soft water—then rub olive oil
around cuticle.
The ascetic acid in vinegar replaces the natural
acid of the finger nails, which, when lacking, causes
brittleness; the olive oil naturally softens and pre
serves cuticle.
60
HAND BLEACHER
Moisten hands with soft water—rub hands with
Zinc Oxide and massage well—take half a lemon and
rub well into the skin —wash hands in soft water
and dry—again rub in Lemon Juice.
This is not only a good bleacher, but it sterilizes
the hands. Use it often.
CUCUMBER HAND AND ARM PACK
Take cucumber, skin and all—grate fine. Take
one part of the grated vegetable—add one part of
glycerine —add enough Almond meal to make paste.
Massage well into hands; leave on until dry; rinse
hands and dry.
Care of Feet
EPSOM SALTS BATH
This is excellent for tired feet, for bunions, swollen
joints.
One cupful to basin of water—soak feet fifteen
minutes—allow feet to dry without rinsing or using
a towel—massage feet with^ lemon juice—follow
with massage of olive oil rubbing until oil is ab
sorbed.
FOR SWEATY FEET— OR CRACKED SKIN
BETWEEN TOES
Massage feet until good circulation is apparent —
dampen feet with kerosene oil—again massage, start
ing at tips of toes and working upwards until feet
61
begin to tingle —wait few minutes, then soak feet in
lukewarm Epsom salts bath (two tablespoonfuls to
two quarts of luke warm water) —wipe feet thor
oughly —dry with soft towel, especially between the
toes.
If feet perspire extremely, dust lightly with corn
starch; this will absorb all moisture and at the same
time has healing effect.
62
Other Publications by Edwin J. Dingle
BREATHING YOUR WAY TO YOUTH— A Complete
Course in Scientific and Spiritual Breathing* —Mastery
on the Physical, Mental and Spiritual Planes of Life. A
beautiful volume $5.00
GUIDE TO HEALTH, HAPPINESS AND BEAUTY—
Revelation of Your Body, Mind, Characteristics, Tal
ents and Dietary Needs (unique) 1.50
MANHOOD — WOMANHOOD — MARRIAGE: Sexology,
Parenthood and Divorce (The Art of Love-making) . . . .SO
INFORMATION ON DIET—The Proper Fueling of the
Human Body JO
HOW TO MEDITATE—A Scientific Secret 25
YOUR MIND AND ITS MYSTERIES— A Scientific Treat
ise on the Method of Discovery and Direction of the
Great Subconscious 25
BREATH: THE FLYWHEEL OF LIFE—Dealing with the
Power of the Breath from the Physical, Mental and
Spiritual point of view 25
YOUR IMMORTAL PARTNER— A Treatise on the Cre
ative and Imaginative Faculty, with an Allegory 25
(Complete Set of above, $7.50)
SPECIAL COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
Dept. A. Ten Commandments Course for Women Only.
Ten Commandments Course for Men Only.
(Scientific Diet, Beauty, Health, Charm.)
Dept. B. Science of Food and Chemicalanalysis Course.
(The Foods of the Body, Mind, and Spirit.)
Dept. . C. Master Course: Mentalphysics —The Art of Living.
(Inspirational, Philosophical and Spiritual.)
For Information apply to: Secretary of the Science of Men
talphysics.
For Personal Interviews and Private Instruction: Phone or
write the Secretary of Edwin J. Dingle.
THE SCIENCE OF MENTALPHYSICS
The Dome, Trinity Bldg. (10th Floor)
Ninth and Grand, Los Angeles (VA. 0101)
63
