{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__estep___super_mind_science_magi_cosmology.pdf","mytitle":"Super Mind Science Magi Cosmology","mylang":"de"}
B F 1 9 9 9
.E 7 1 4
C o p y 1
=5é= =3
«
=
SUPER MIND SCIEN CE
MAGI
COSMOLOGY
A Science of Periodicity and Equation
Solving the Relationship of Mathematics to Life
1 NOT ASTROLOGY, NUM EROLOGY OR FORTUNE TELLING :
PROF. WM. ESTEP, Author
V ---------------If... i f — K
SEP -9 1
9
3
2
©ClA A 1040 36
33fw f
, EJt>î
MAGI COSMOLOGY
By Prof. Wm. Estep
The influence of mathematics on life is easily dis­
cernable by anyone with a studious mind. For centuries
Mystic Orders of the Far East have been the custodians
of secrets regarding nature, which the rest of the
world knew little about. Their members founded the
arts and sciences of civilization, known today as: As­
tronomy, Geometry, Astrology, Medicine and Chemistry,
as well as primitive Botany. Most of the aforemen­
tioned arts were born in India, Arabia and Egypt.
Their founders were Magis who understood Mental and
Natural processes, as well as the deepest spiritual
mysteries. These physical sciences are but crude re­
flections of a profound and perfect Cosmic Science,
whose mysteries are soon to be universally known.
This science reveals astounding truth regarding
the laws of Mentation and the universal principles of
life ; so one possessing the true keys may understand
perfectly the most inner processes of life and wrest
from nature her most profound secrets. Cosmogony and
Cosmology become simplified so the ordinary mind can
demonstrate the demonstrations heretofore called mir­
acles by those uninitiated mortals, who cannot under­
stand that life is composed of vibratory friction,
whose processes are governed by Divine All-seeing
Mind.
Biblical events give a hint of this science by the
prevalance of certain numbers in connection with Cos­
mic events. These are known, however, only by those
who have illumined consciousness. Some Numerical Mys­
teries are as follows:—
- 2 -
The Seven Days of Creation.
The Seven Thrones In Heaven.
The Seven Heavens of the Hebrews.
The Seven Golden Candlesticks of Revelations.
The Seven Churches of Asia in Revelations.
The Seven Messengers or Angels.
Then in other religions you find the three applies
to God, in practically every bible of the world, as
follows:
Christianity.Father......S o n .......... Holy Ghost ..
Hinduism . . . . B r a h m a ......S h i v a ....... V i s h n u .... ..
Egypt ....... Osiris ...... Isis .........Horos .......
Thus numbers have always been a mystic influence
in religion, science and the laws of deduction. This
truth has always existed long before creeds were born,
therefore it may b said to indicate a hidden science
whose creed is Universal Nature. Even the seven days of
the week are related to seven planets whose influ­
ences were known only to the ancient order of Magi,
whose members welcomed Jesus to earth in the form of
the Mystic Wise Men of "the East".
— 3 —
SCIENTIFIC SYMBOLISM OF NUMBERS
No.-l.
This is the first principle: Infinite Spirit or
God, the source of light, life and creation. All cal­
culation begins with the unit 1 ; likewise all life came
from the First Principle God, meaning Creation, origi­
nation and the power of Generation. From this number
all principles of mathematics were born-and from this
principle all life was born— it is self existant and
stands alone, therefore it denotes independence from
all other numbers as it is complete in itself. In this
sense it represents the one universal mind, as well as
the principle of regeneration in man which causes him
to return to the first cause. This is also the Number
of Saturn, the planet of mind power and of death. In
Astrology it is Aries the Ram, named for the Ram or
Lamb of God of the anicent mysteries. Number 1 is both
the number of birth and of destiny, as well as the num­
ber of originality. This number also represents iden­
tity, which some express when they say "I look after
number one", therefore it is the number of individ­
uality; one body, one consciousness and one soul,
which came from one God.
Symbolism of Number 2.
Symbol of the pair—positive and negative ; male and
female; good and evil, darkness and light, the number
of a creative nature. This number in ancient Astrology
stood for Jupiter, the planet of contending powers or
opposition; in the formation of human beings it is the
number of the sun and moon— shown by two eyes, two hands
two feet, two lungs— while in the Zodiac it is the
number of the sign "Taurus the bull", which means
creation on the physical plane. It also symbolizes
two natures in man— high and low, which constantly
struggle for supremacy. This number calls to mind
. 4 -
the fact that there are two pathways in life ; one
leading to darkness, the other to light, and each
must choose his path. This also is the number of brain
lobes which strive one against the other, in dual con­
trol of opposite sides of the body. It is the number
of achievement and creation, of harmonious vibration
of an opposing nature. It also symbolizes the two
phases of life, Mortality and Immortality. It is the
number of choice, change, decision, romance, art,
beauty and learning intellectually.
Symbolism of Number 3.
This is the number pertaining to consciousness;
the conscious, sub-conscious, and super-conscious
mind. It is also the number of Divinity in all reli­
gions.
In Christianity, Father, Son and Holy Ghost.
The three heavens seen by St. Paul.
The three illumined beings of the transfiguration,
Christ, Moses, and Elias. Also of the three chosen
disciples who were present at the transfiguration.
In Hinduism it symbolizes Brahma, Shiva and
Vishnu, the threefold Godhead. Brahma-Permanence;
Shiva— destruction ; Vishnu— production.
In ancient Egypt the three dieties: Osiris, Isis,
and Horos. It is also the number of Mars, in ancient
Astrology, meaning Physical life, or the gods come to
earth; while in modern Astrology it is the sign of
Gemini, third sign of the Zodiac (the twins), or the
sustainer of life, through laws of creation. This num­
ber is related to 6 and 9, through the laws of mathe­
matics or multiplication, the 6 being intuition and 9
the number of man. This then indicates that man is one
third divine, one third physical, one third mental,
therefore it is the number of the whole being or three
thirds which when added give 3 again or the number of
- 5 -
completeness ;perfection being Divinity and God.
Symbolism of Number 4.
This is the number of the elements of life,-earth,
air, fire and water, in Astrology the sign of Cancer
the Crab, the number of combination and alchemistry.
It is the double of two therefore showing creative
power on two planes—Visible and Invisible. This num­
ber indicates the Sun, creator of life in ancient As­
trology, because the Sun combines the elements forming
all types and degrees of life. It is creative and con­
structive, because it is the number of the sides of a
square, which is a proper foundation for a building.
It is also the number of physical growth, intelligence
and development. Also it is the number of geopraphi-
cal equation, north, south, east and west. The means
of measurements, direction and judgments, meaning ac­
curacy. Its symbolism refers to all planes of being-
earth, body; air, mind; fire, spirit; water, soul;
which fact makes it possible for man to become a master
through control of elements. It also indicates the
four Gospels, pillars of Christianity, Matthew, Mark,
Luke and John. And the four heavens of Astrology:
Oriental, Occidental, Mid-heaven, and Lower heaven.
Also it indicates the four trinities of earth, air,
fire and water of the houses of Astrology, each con­
taining three signs of the Zodiac, called a triplicity.
Four, therefore, is the number of Visible, invisible,
and creation.
Symbolism of Number 5.
This number indicates our five senses, called the
physical senses. Also it is the number of human forma­
tion and beauty, indicated by five fingers, five toes,
five brain ventricles, which give form to the head
through the laws of vibration and cosmic equation. In
ancient Astrology it is the number of Venus, goddess
of beauty, art and the sciences. It especially refers
to culture and self-improvement, dispensing gifts, de­
signing of forms and foundations. This number in an­
cient Egypt was known as the Pyramidial number, since
all courses of masonry in the Great Pyramid are ar­
ranged in five courses or layers of each type of stone.
In modern Astrology it is the number of the sign of Leo
the Lion, denoting strength and power. Also a sign of
the Sun. This number indicates a changing conscious­
ness, which develops from the low planes of being to
the highest. It signifys cognition. This number in a
cabalistic way indicates adaptability, congeniality,
and the progressive urge in the mind of man, giving him
the power to overcome all types of difficulty. It is
the number of difficulty in personal affairs, and all
difficulties have solution through spiritual force.
Symbolism of Number 6 .
This number is related to the sixth sense, intui­
tion, which informs one of the correct course to pursue
in life. It is the number of guidance and accomplish­
ments, "Six days shalt thou labor, and on the seventh
rest". This indicates the influence of accomplishment
accompanying number six. In ancient astrology it
corresponds to the planet Mercury, God of impulse and
intelligence, which is opposed to the physical force of
Mars. While in the Zodiac it is the sign of Virgo the
Virgin, which gives the quality of purity to mind force.
This number also symbolizes righteousness opposing
evil, which brings about the battle of Armageddon, pre­
ceding the Millennium. Also in the Sacred Triangles
of the mysteries always interlaced, there are six prin­
ciples of which three are of man and three of God, as
follows
- 7 -
Symbolizing man's unity with the godhead, or Mes-
siahship, emblem of spiritual mastery. In personal
and national affairs it is symbol of opposing forces.
Symbolism of Number 7.
Seven is known as the number of the mysteries of
life, perfection and inspiration because of its ap­
pearance in all of the world's religious systems, as
follows:
CHRISTIANITY
The seven heavens of the Hebrews.
The seven Thrones.
The book of seven seals.
The seven churches of Asia.
The seven Golden Candlesticks.
HINDU
The seven cycles of time called Yugas.
The seven ages of Brahma.
The seven incarnations of the human soul.
The seven forms of life of Vishnu.
- 8 -
EGYPTIAN
The seven glorious ones or planets.
The seven gods in Thoth or heaven.
The seven transmigrations of the soul.
PERSIAN FAITH
The seven Amschaspands or bibles.
The seven stages of progress.
CHALDEAN
The seven angels of the invisible world.
The seven Sephirath, adopted by the Hebrews.
ASTROLOGY
The seven days of the week.
The seven planets ruling all forms of life.
In ancient Astrology it is the Moon number. Thus
we see that seven concerns the deep abstract mysteries
of the Unseen World. It has a mystical influence over
nature, and in every occult practice it produces mys­
teries related to the mystery of the Soul, while on the
material plane it symbolizes wealth and the complete
enjoyment of life, therefore it contains deep mysteries
for the speculation of those enterprising students of
nature, known as Neophytes of the mysteries of life.
The seventh day of our present week is Saturday, named
for the Saturn, planet of rest for the mind, and every
day it becomes more and more a day of rest and recrea­
tion. This number figured in ancient ceremonial magic
and was always used in controlling the mystic invisible
forces. The seventh son of a seventh son was always
believed to be a prophet by Egyptians, because seven
times seven completes a grand cycle of perfection in
- 9 -
the univers. In Astrology the 7th sign is Libra, the
sign of the mystic and prophet, the writer, teacher
and one inspired. In personal affairs it is the number
of wealth, inspiration and spiritual guidance.
Symbolism of Number 8 .
This is the number of infinity. Since beyond the
seven planes of mind there is but infinite spirit. It
is a double of four, the number of uncertainty and ill
fortune, meaning that if one follows life downward
they would find it contains all forces of destruction
and changeable elements. While if you follow it upward
you find infinite wisdom. This is the number of Mys­
ticism and mis-understanding, since no one can com­
pletely know the infinite, it is the limit of man's
domain of knowledge, the eight layers of bark on a
tree usually indicate great age. While in astrology
it is the sign Scorpio, the Scorpion. In ancient magic
this was the taboo number. They believed it had the
power to destroy or to create—when one desired to place
a curse on an enemy they secretly marked 8 and an "X" on
their doorway or gatepost. Therefore it has always
been the number of the unseen, unlimited incomprehen­
sible, uncertainty, yet containing infinite power
capable of reforming the world. The mystery of eight
is the complete mystery of life, there is nothing be­
yond infinity ; therefore, it is beyond mortal mind. In
personal affairs it means work and health conditions.
Symbolism of Number 9.— The physical number.
This number includes all numbers upon which all
calculations can be built. It is the Sumum Bonum of
numerical equation, representing physical complete­
ness, because it is the number of the birth of man,
requiring nine months for physical formation. It is
directly related to physical birth, or the beginning
- 10 -
of growth, on the physical plane. There is nothing
beyond it except the "o", meaning eternity, because it
is without beginning or end. But it has not material
numerical value, therefore the nine equals the physi­
cal universe and all things physical are counted by the
single numbers from one to nine. For instance, 11 is
two ones ; 12 is 1 and 2 ; twenty is 2 and 0 , the 0 is not
added in figures only as a cipher, the 2 only carries a
real numerical value. For that reason the 0 is never
used in "Cabalistic science of equation". In astrol­
ogy the ninth sign is Saggittarius the Archer, denoting
cleverness and accuracy. This number is also related
to nine bones at the end of the spine and nine months
for birth, which denotes the physical development of
man. Also his changing form throughout the ages. When
the number 9 is multiplied by any number it reproduces
itself just like the human race. The number 666 from
Revelation produces 18 whose total is 9 and refers to
worship of a physical man.
Correlation of Numbers and Ruling Planets
From ancient astrology and magiism.
Days of month 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th.
No. 1— Saturn, denoting mind power and rest from physi­
cal labor.
This planet casts an influence over man, which
causes him to contemplate immortality, God, creation
and all those things related to the first cause or God.
While it draws man's attention away from matter it has
an influence over all mental processes. It is related
to all mental progress, and affects all who were born
on the 1st day of the month, or the 10th, 19th, or 28th,
since the total of all these numbers is 10 ; when the 0
is cancelled it becomes 1, the number of Saturn. All
number 1 people are mental types, executives, and mana­
gers who despise being ruled by others. When in execu­
tive positions they are wonderful people, but in a sub-
- 11 -
ordinate position they are miserable and very dis­
agreeable. They make wonderful mental healers and
metaphysicians, mathematicians and calculators. They
have the inventive power of a genius if they use it in
a way to get the most out of life. They love companion­
ship but insist on being the advisor of their compan­
ions. They are creative mentally and can use their
powers for either good or evil, therefore they need
spiritual development very much as a guide in life. The
days of harmony are 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of every
month for these people.
No. 2 Jupiter.—People born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th and
29th of any month.
This ruling planet affecting all born in any month
on the above dates, vibrates the principle of conten­
tion or the influence which demands that one receive
their own. This influence effects the organs of re­
generation; number 2 being the symbol of the pairs-male
and female; positive and negative. Therefore, this is
a number of romance and art and desire for the compan­
ionship of the opposite sex. This planet reflects the
rays of the moon more than the sun, therefore people
who are born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of any month
are often negative and lovers of pleasure. They must
guard against improper thinking otherwise they will
constantly have to strugggle between right and wrong,
good and bad, like and dislike. Mind concentration is
the remedy to stabilize the changing mental conditions
of Jupiter No. 2 people. They always need a spiritual
teacher and cannot learn from books as their mental
powers are unstable. They are often abused by the one
they love, because they display their motions en­
tirely too much. Yet they make good parents. They
should be teachers, salesmen or artists, but when un­
developed many are mechanically inclined. Restless­
ness and changeableness affect these people very much.
- 12 -
Through a study of mental science they can correct this
condition.
No. 3—Mars—People born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th
of any month.
This planet is related to physical power as it is
the number of consciousness or the conscious, sub­
conscious, and super-conscious mind, which rules mat­
ter through intelligence and impulse. People who are
born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of any month are
related to this influence, therefore they are dicta­
torial, full of pride often arrogant and the type who
insist upon being ruler. They obey orders from supe­
riors and carry them out to a letter, but can give
orders as well. This planetary influence produces
many nurses, doctors, healers and anatomical experts,
who govern physical conditions very well. These
people lack kindness and should therefore practice it,
since if they do not they are liable to go through life
a very lonely person. They are equal to almost any
mental task. They love to dress well and are very neat
and clean. Usually they excel in outdoor sports and
physical prowess of all kinds. They are good in march­
ing or any type of physical formation. Many are ath­
letes. They are good in thought transmission and many
types of mental and physical phenomena. They are
careful and scientific minded, and excel in educa­
tional fields of endeavor.
No. 4-Sun-People born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st
of any month.
The Sun is the physical creative force and is the
warming force of life or animating force in every
branch of nature ; illuminator of the physical world,
symbolizing God. Those who are born on the 4th, 13th,
22nd, and 31st of any month partake of this power. They
- 13 -
excel in creative work, are good public people teach­
ers and dramatists, as well as musicians, but the sun
opposes spiritual inspiration, therefore these people
sometimes lack that comforting power for this reason
they are usually unfortunate in human relationship, in
home life and in friendship. The number 4 is a square
therefore it does not harmonize with a circle. This
symbol denotes why sun number 4 people are constantly
being disappointed with domestic life and suffer un­
fortunate circumstances in life. Yet they attain
fame, wealth and great power, but often misuse their
money and success in a way which impoverishes them.
They need the companionship of an intuitive person to
assist them, yet this is the one thing they seem to fail
to find. They are very positive, aggressive and domi­
nant minded, hard to convince or change, but dynamic in
that work which they love. They can become great
writers and inventors. In personal affairs they are
unfortunate. Many are orphans ; and they are often left
alone in business enterprises.
No. 5—Venus—People born on the 5th, 14th, and 23rd of
any month.
The Planet of poise, beauty and art, governing the
vibration of No. 5. People born on these dates above­
show they are high strung, tempermental and make
friends easily. Wonderful artists, and beauty cul-
turists are of the No. 5 type. They are dramatic by
nature and love to make good impressions on others.
Their greatest obstacle is false pride and modesty.
These people, like the Physical Senses, are changeable
and need concentration power very much. They are very
easy to become discouraged; and given to quick temper,
they lack will power and are often swayed by others.
They love to appear wealthy. In home life they are neat
and usually have nice homes. They are, however, lacking
- 1A —
in the seriousness of mind ; often they are fickle and
think that looks are the greatest thing in life. They
are usually very attractive personally. When properly
trained, they excell in occult work, making wonderful
platform people. They are sensitive and very prone to
take offense easily; yet they are clever and quick to
perceive advantages, having selling and financial
ability in public enterprises.
Wo. 6-Mercury, born on 6th, 15th, and 24th of any month.
This is an impulsive divine influence denoting
intuition, inspiration, and Spiritual power. Great
adepts, writers and divine healers are of the No. 6
people. These people make friends easily and love to
contact with people. They love to do for others and
make them happy. They are inclined to be generous;
with a great love for art, philosophy and history.
They are very romantic and ideal in nature.
They are good in speculation; can forsee values
and improvement in commodities. They love the mys­
terious and are often students of the Occult, Religion,
etc. They sacrifice their own ideals for others; are
often persecuted, and seldom appreciated. Their pre­
sence is a comfort to others, because they offer good
advice. Many Saints and Holy Men are of the No. 6 type.
While they are intuitive, they lack a positive nature
which they should have. They excel as teachers,
writers, speakers and artists. In lesser development
they are designers, salesmen and mechanics. The
No. 6 denotes the 6th sense. Therefore, these people
should trust their intuition. They are always clashing
with physical force and conditions. For this reason
they are unfortunate.
No. 7-Moon—Days of month of birth, 7th, 16th, and 25th
of any month.
- 15 -
The moon gives forth motherhood, Psychic and Spir­
itual powers. This being the reason why it corresponds
to the Mystic 7 which appears in all of the world's
religions. No. 7 people never follow the Creeds of
their parents. They love originality and seek the
Occult as a means of developing their own powers. They
often have a religion of their own. Usually that being
the "Golden Rule". They make good writers, poets,
musicians, teachers, lecturers and designers, and in­
ventors, and are very versatile in talents.
They perceive the needs of others and through
inspiration often help others. They dislike restraint,
but have great sympathy for others almost to a fault.
They are natural born seers, and are very inspirational.
In matters Spiritual they demand perfection and will
not accept half explanations.
They make wonderful mind readers, Kabalists and
Prophets, being of a receptive planetary influence and
mystic Numerical Vibration, they are usually univer­
sally minded. They love deep study and see beyond
matter and illusion. They are fortunate people usual­
ly, become wealthy or are in a comfortable position in
life. In personal affairs, No. 7 indicates wealth.
NOTICE TO READER
There are but seven ruling planets, so you have
studied their numerical co-relation. Beyond the 7th
planet, the moon, there are but watery signs which
influence the soul of man. While they are not ruling
powers, they correspond to the numbers of 8 and 9 which
go beyond 7 numerically. They are Neptune and Uranus,
which equal 8 and 9, respectively, whose influence
reaches man only through the Infinite Spirit.
No. 8—Neptune.
- 16 -
This influence applys to all born on the 8th, 17th,
and 26th of any month. The No. 8 people, from a plane­
tary standpoint, are adepts, mystics and great meta­
physicians. 8 , being a double of 4, indicates a
Creator on the visible and invisible planes of life.
Many No. 8 people work all their lives for a cause,
yet they are opposed by enemies, whom they hurt by com­
petition in intelligence, education and religious
views. They are adept also in spiritual matters, de­
manding utmost truth in everything. They are critical
and see the vital point in all problems. They live in
the sky, so to speak, and need some one to assist them
in earthly problems, as they can make money but cannot
save it. They are born business executives and
originators.
No. 9—Uranus, 9th, 18th, and 27th of any month.
This Planetary influence is the last of the influ­
ences on Numerical Values. It gives forth Psychic
Soul Vibrations, governing reproduction. Under this
influence we find Sculptors, agriculturists and land­
scape artists, doctors and physical culturists.
They originate physical systems and love to dis­
play their talents to the world. Great charity workers
are among No. 9 people, yet they are not always pros­
perous themselves. Also they are often founders of
systems for physical improvements. They love physical
perfection, home life, and are domestic minded. Their
business always spreads out and develops under their
own guidance.
This ends Numerical co-relationship of ruling
planetary influence based on Kabalistic Equation, not
on Astrology. When a student desires to read charac­
ter, he should refer to this planetary co-relation for
correct scientific information about one's talents
- 17
and character so as to become familiar with the unseen
forces which influence consciousness. This system is
based on the principles of the ancient Hebrew, Kabala,
the method of co-relation used by the author are
original and inspired.
- 18
A . .
SOUL RISES
- 19 -
The chart opposite shows the origin of life in the
Infinite Spirit ; its decent into matter ; its develop­
ment into being ; the taking of a planetary body. Birth
of Physical body No. 9. Then the soul rises after death
of body and returns to God, making the complete evolu­
tion of man. This is the grand Kabalaistic mystery of
Septoth and Ensoph explained Scientifically.
MAGI COSMOLOGY..
Chart of the Birth of Sciences and Arts
The circle, symbol of Infinity, used in measure­
ments of spheres has no beginning and no end.
The square, symbol of elements earth, air, fire and
water, used to form a cube and in all measurements.
Symbol of chemistry, alchemistry and combinations.
The triangle, symbol of the pyramids and divine
Trinities, used in geometry and in building arts and in
measurements.
o
- 20 -
io '
A straight line, symbol of life, used in all arts
and sciences.
The above chart shows the Kabalistic symbols which
form a basis of all the arts and sciences. These sym­
bols, with the single numbers 1 to 9, comprise the
basic principles of all arts and sciences. When
Kabalistically understood they solve all problems re­
lating to life. For instance: a line, meaning life,
drawn two parallel to each other forms a square, symbol
of elements and Creation; therefore, male and female
are symbolically two parallel lines.
This shows the Kabalistic relationship of Positive
and negative. While the other lines || horizontal,
symbolize the rise of the soul through positive and
negative spiritual power toward God and immortality.
Thus the square solves the problem of Creation, co­
hesion and spiritual progression; while the triangle
is related to God— Father, Son and Holy Ghost— also
man, meaning— mind, body, soul— proving his sonship.
The circle O in numbers has no value in itself, while,
when added to a number, it increases its value ; such as :
0 added to 6 forms sixty; 0 taken away from the six it
is nothing. The 0 is a symbol of infinity which gives
man his divine quality which, if taken from man, his
existence or the existence of infinity would be value­
less. It is round without either bginning or end, de­
noting eternity; while the straight line has both
beginning and end, denoting physical life, matter and
the temporal world.
- 21 -
KABALISTIC CHART
of
PLANES OF LIFE AND VIBRATION
MENTAL PHYSICAL
1 - 8 4 - 5 - 9
PSYCHIC SPIRITUAL
3 - 6 7 - 2
The above chart showing the numbers co-related to
the planes of life will reveal what type a person is
mentally; for instance; No. 1 or people born on the 1st
or 10th of any month are mental types— No. 8 people
also. This shows what type of calling they usually
prefer, also it defines the plane of activity of the
types.
MAGI COSMOLOGY
Chart of Mind Problems
Common to the types indicated by the number to be
used in analysis of character suitable for audience
work to prove that all secrets of the mind are known
by the trained Kabalist Magi. Reading of Psyiginomy
is necessary as well as number for success.
Number 1. People born on the 1st, 10th, 19th or 28th of
any month.
- 22 -
They are creative, mental type, inventive and
original, usually executives in a business. Their
problem would be to find a new means of earning money;
also, health is a factor. They need concentration
power and Super Mind Science training.
Number 2. People born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th or 29th of
any month.
They are too emotional and their mind is divided
between two ideas. They are usually nervous and tem-
permental. Their problem deals with two things: suc­
cess and human relationship. They succeed better
through their own plans.
Number 3. People born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st or 30th of
any month.
These people are Psychic types, but also business
types. They are hard to instruct because of a roving
mind. They love companionship. The problem is usually
a business problem in the way of adjustment. They must
have a settled mind for greater success.
Number 4. People born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd or 51st of
any month.
These people are usually unfortunate. Relatives
and friends pass on leaving them many cares. They are
physical types with a dislike for the physical labors ;
therefore, they are discontented almost always. Their
problem is usually to get money coming to them from a
distance or an inheritance. They need self-confidence.
Number 5. People born on the 5th, 14th or 23rd of any
month.
These people are material minded; hard to con­
vince; critical and demand perfection in others. They
desire home life very much but usually have difficulty
maintaining a home. They have too much pride. The
problem on their mind is one regarding happiness and
- 23 -
finding the correct vocation. They need mind control.
Number 6 . People born on the 6th, 15th and 24th of any
month.
These people are psychic, imaginative, nervous and
worry entirely too much. They are always imposed upon
by others because they are usually negative. Their
problem is on a home change condition and on finances.
They need to learn to live their own life and overcome
fear.
Number 7. People born on th 7th, 16th or 25th of any
month.
They are original in ideas, inventive and crea­
tive; natural mystics, very sensitive and have great
perception. Their problem concerns gain or wealth.
They need a manager for their material affairs. They
are spiritual types.
Number 8 . People born on the 8th, 17th or 26th oi any
month.
These people are mental types who do mental labor,
usually being leaders, founders and originators, desig­
ners, salesmen and executives. Their problem is one of
desiring contentment and better business conditions.
They use their unusual talents to succeed in life.
They fear poverty and disease and can overcome them
quickly. People turn against them after they have
assisted them.
Number 9. People born on the 9th, 18th or 27th of any
month.
Physical types with ambitions to be artists.
These people are hard to teach; very changeable and
quick to be discouraged. They are believers in physi­
cal force usually. Their problem is one of human rela­
tionship. They desire usually either partnership or
marriage, or some one to put over their ideas. They
- 24 -
are creative mentally.
NOTE
When a platform worker desires to use this chart,
a good way is to have people in the audience add up
their day of birth; like: 22 equals 4; 12 equals 3;
etc., then concentrate on their problem. They then
tell the lecturer their number of birth date added up;
like: 1-3-6-etc. The lecturer then reads their number
as in this chart, reading their character in their face
also. This is so accurate that an audience is thrilled
with results. After the test reading, give the scien­
tific reason why the Kabalistic equation cannot fail,
from the chart of life, spirit's descent into matter
and its return to God. Use miniature copy of chart on
platform.
NOTICE
This work is copyright and cannot be used in public
without consent of the author. All violations will be
promptly prosecuted.
MAGI COSMOLOGY
Kabalistic Chart of years and events revealing
cause of events in past and future
1914 = 1 + 5 = 6 .
This is a No. 6 year of emotions, hatred, and con­
stant change. Throughout the world people will
lose their reasoning power and wars and revolu­
tions will be common. This year, however, will
contribute to art, music and psychic development,
a tendency toward occult science, liberalism and
mental development.
1920 = 1 + 2 = 3.
This is a No. 3 year and indicates good business
conditions because 3 is a number of balanced con-
- 25 -
sciousness and offspring or the product of labor ;
therefore, prosperity will be common in a No. 3
year, while spiritual values will go wanting.
Many become wealthy, but at the expense of spiritu­
ality. This is a year of new ideas, inventions and
commercial agreement. Many treaties pertaining
to trade are signed in a No. 3 year.
1932 = 1 + 5 = 6 .
This is a No. 6 year. Physical forces are rampant
and revolutions common. Physical poverty and
strife are unusual. Nations lack leadership and
spiritual forces seem absent from all governmental
affairs. Dishonesty, on a large scale, manifests;
but an improvement in trade comes the last part of
a No. 6 year. However, intelligence and stability
will not rule during these years, yet strides in
physical science mark these years as historical;
while projects will be launched on a large scale
to better the morale of a people without proper
leadership. This is a bad world condition.
1933 = 1 + 6 = 7.
This year shows intuitive leadership for the
world, more harmony and through mysterious forces,
finance will improve ; while great exposures of
corruption in high places will manifest. New in­
dustrial enterprises will be started all over the
world. Governments will fight the unemployment ;
in many places they will succeed; while religions
will go down in many countries unless they are of
a true spiritual nature.
The forecast of the year is in accordance with its
number from 1 to 9. The year being the sum total of the
equation of the number in events and conditions. The
following table will show how a student can forecast
the years applying the numerical principles to govern­
ment, business, science, religion, invention, and
- 26 -
social questions. At the end of 9, a physical cycle
repeats itself. Therefore, in all No. 1 years or No.
6 years, similar conditions exist; because if you
multiply 9, it reproduces itself like: 3 x 9 = 27,
which, added, is 9 ; 5 X 9 = 4 5 , which, added, is 9.
Therefore, 9 is the end of a physical cycle and the
numbers from one to nine produce th same conditions
each time they appear; such as: 2 X 2 = 4, no matter
where you see it or how you see it. Likewise every nine
years there is a complete evolution in every individual
life on the physical plane of existence. No matter
if calendars are correct or not, when you begin at one
and count 9 years from the 1 to the 9, there is a com­
plete evolution of physical life, according to Kaba-
listic equation, for God numbers "even the hair of the
head" so the Bible tells us. The following is a table
of years and their meaning by numbers which is the total
of the year in common addition.
A No. 1 year—
In these years, like 1900 whose Kabalistic value
is 1 , great inventions are made for man's convenience;
business is progressive and creative; great enter­
prises are born; new systems of learning founded and
great evolutionary progress manifests in business,
government, social life and religion. This number,
being the number of God, the world is peaceable and
people progress spiritually.
By applying this principle to all events you can
predict just what will happen in number 1 years. Yet
in these years there are often earthquakes and great
physical catastrophes because the ruling influence is
centered in the God head and physical forces oppose
divinity. Saturn is the ruling planetary power, which
is an influence of physical chaos.
No. 2 years, like 1901, which added is 2 or 1919
- 27 -
which, when added, is 2 0 , its Kabalistic value being 2 .
These years are times of combinations and trusts in the
business world; agreement between governments; crea­
tion of new States ; new inventions and new plans of life
made by people in general. They are prosperous years,
but full of contention. As the ruling force is centered
in positive and negative— male and female-therefore,
there will be progress in social life, chemistry, art,
and science, as well as in industry. However people
will be very emotional and easy to anger. In the
underworld many sex crimes are committed in this year.
Clashing of the elements produce floods and storms
which destroy large areas in these years. Apply this
principle to all events and you will be able to foretell
many things about No. 2 years. Jupiter rules.
No. 3 years, like 1929 = 21 which equals 3, are
years of change and business spreads out. All com­
mercial activity is for the better and all enterprises
manifest success; for the Trinity of man— mind, body
and soul— works with the Divine Trinity. Through this
harmony, conditions are good in general. The minds
of people are on industrial problems. This accounts
for progress in that field. While individuals of the
mental type are very successful. Health problems will
arise in life and generally passions will be well con­
trolled, and in these years there is seldom war. This
is the year of Mars. Physical forces are ruling.
No. 4. Years whose total is 4; like: 1930— is a
time of great change because this is a number pertain­
ing to the changing elements of life. It is also the
number of the Sun whose rays bring physical upheaval in
the elements. Many unfortunate conditions happen all
over the world during this year. Spiritual projects
fail and the physical world seems to overpower the
spiritual forces. This is a good year for inventions
- 28 -
and a bad year for culture of any type or kind.
No. 5. Years, like 1931, whose total is 5, are
years of art and science. These years are representa­
tive of Venus, god of beauty. However, great industrial
disputes, strikes and strife happen during No. 5 years.
Revolutions in tropical countries usually arise. Many
nations do foolish things in regard to trade as there
is no balance in the financial world. This number indi­
cates solving of difficulties which beset man. There­
fore, the industrial disturbance and revolutions will
be of short duration. The number indicates also de­
velopment through hardship. Therefore, adjustment of
many troubles in individual like takes place during
No. 5 years.
No. 6 Years like 1932 which totals 6 .
These are years of strife all over the entire
world. Wars usually happen and nations disagree.
Plotting of nation against nation takes place. There
is no leadership for the common people ; they are left
to care for themselves. Great dishonest projects make
a success and exposures seldom come during these years
of unstability. There has been recent proof of these
statements during 1914, a No. 6 year, we had a world war
and in 1932, a No. 6 year, a world panic and war between
Japan and China. Also, secret agreements between
France and Japan are reported. The next No. 6 year is
1941, when it is prophesyed that a world war will be in
progress, unless the common people take over their
governments through wise use of voting privileges and
refuse to support destruction of this entire civiliza­
tion. Mercury is the ruling planet.
No. 7. Years like 1933 or 1942 or any years whose total
is 7. Number of the Moon.
They are years of spiritual growth and influence
- 29 -
people to seek peace and learning. Nations try to
reconstruct damages done during a No. 6 year. Business
is much improved; great inventions are made; great
leaders arise ; a period of growth and completion
happens in all lines.
No. 8 Years like 1934, and 1943 whose total is 8 are
years of the influence of Neptune, a watery
soul sign next to the last period in a physical
cycle.
This year will see little of real progress except
the finish of many projects launched in the preceding
year. People mentally will be abstract and dreamy,
having great expectations which are not fulfilled dur­
ing the No. 8 year. However, there are no real obstacles
to progress in business and art, while great spiritual
events will take place. This year generally is a year
of uncertainty in governments and great corporations
because of unsettled stock markets.
No. 9. Years such as 1935 or 1953 whose total is 9
are years of completion, the end of the physical cycle ;
the birth of many new ideas ; great strides forward in
science ; a year of physical prosperity. Religions suf­
fer while the people seek physical pleasure. Mortality
is high, and a lack of spiritual force in governments
causes duplicity in high places. This year is a year of
influence of Uranus, a weak planetary, watery sign,
which, however, is creative, denoting time of birth.
The numbers of Revelation 666 total 18, which,
added, is 9, the number of man. This number in the next
cycle ends materialism and worship of a physical god
according to prophecy.
NOTE
When using this Science to forecast, apply the
principle of the number governing the year to, first,
- 30 -
one's success in l i f e ; second: home life ; third: spiri­
tual progress ; fourth: to conditions prevalent in the
world in general. Build your forecast step by step such
as: 1. Success in all lines. 2. Home conditions.
3. Spiritual progress.
Chart of human progress according
to the nine types and numbers.
First, the best days for a person in each month are
the ones equivalent to their number of birth, such as
No. 1 people are most successful on the first and tenth
of each month, etc., etc., as follows:
Success days each month
No. 1 People— 1st, 10th 19th and 28th.
No. 2 People— 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th.
No. 3 People— 3rd, 12th, 21st and 50th.
No. 4 People— 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st.
No. 5 People— 5th, 14th and 23rd.
No. 6 People— 6th, 15th and 24th.
No. 7 People— 7th, 16th and 25th.
No. 8 People— 8th, 17th and 26th.
No. 9 People— 9th, 18th and 27th.
In forecasting, include these good days as out­
lined in the chart for the most fortunate days and
numbers of each type.
Forecasting yearly for the 9 types
In order to find the forces which oppose one, you
subtract their number from the number of the year ; such
as: a No. 2 person subtracted from 1933— or No. 7—
leaves 5, which is the number of vibrations and planets
which will oppose them. A No. 1 person subtracted from
a No. 7 year leaves a six, therefore, to get their year
forecast you turn to their number in the years and read
same, fitting it to their type.
- 31 -
EXAMPLE NO. 1
A person born on the first, tenth, 19th, 28th or a
number 1 person— subtracted from 1933— a No. 7 year—
leaves six. This will be a year of strife for a No. 1
person. Their affairs will be unsettled ; law suits and
quarrels will be common, unless they understand self-
control and the laws of the mind as taught in Super Mind
Science. They may lose heavily financially. They
will also argue with superiors, employers, partners,
etc. Even domestic difficulties arise.
EXAMPLE NO. 2
A No. 3 person born on the third, twelfth, 21st or
30th of any month, subtracted from 1933, a No. 7 year,
leaves No. 4.
Therefore, 1933 will be a year of constant change for
a No. 3 person. Physical obstacles will be encoun­
tered, such as ill health, both of themselves and
others unless they are skilled in the science of mind
and life, like Super Mind Science, because they are
influenced during this year with many changing condi­
tions. The spiritual understanding will be tested
severely; their mind will be unsettled. In their
personal affairs their year is a No. 4 year. While
universally this year is a No. 7 year and good times
generally are predicted; but No. 3 people are not
benefitted very much by these conditions unless they
are masters of self.
EXAMPLE NO. 3
A No. 1 person born on the first, tenth, 19th or
28th of any month, subtracted from 1934— a No. 8 year—
leaves seven, giving one and seven as ruling numbers.
Their affairs will prosper and they will be benefitted
by a No. 1 year in all their affairs; gain great in­
spiration and lay solid plans for the future.
- 32 -
Chart of number of birth and years
No. 1 People— 1933 subtract 1 from 7 = 6.
No. 2 People— 1933 subtract 2 from 7 = 5.
No. 3 People— 1933 subtract 3 from 7 = 4.
No. 1 People— 1934 subtract 1 from 8 = 7.
No. 2 People— 1934 subtract 2 from 8 = 6.
Apply this same rule to all of the years and types,
using the information found in numbers of the years as
the forecast, fitting it to the persons affairs. This
gives unusually accurate predictions. If the number
of the person is larger than the number of the year, as
a No. 9 person being forecast for a No. 7 year, you take
the smaller from the larger, reading their affairs as a
No. 2 year— a year of creative forces. This may be said
to be adding up and subtracting forces of life, mind
and God, and finding the results through equation.
This is a hitherto unknown science, therefore, you must
experiment with the rules outlined before you can
demonstrate it perfectly.
MONTHLY FORECAST
To forecast each month for the 9 types, you find
the numbers in each month which harmonize with the
persons number; such as: a No. 1 person will succeed
better in a No. 1 month— 1st or 10th day— better than
any other. However, their success is influenced by
universal conditions and these numbers must be read in
light of the year forecast which should precede the
month by month forecast. Also, No. 1 and 10th, 19th
and 28th days of each month will be harmonious for a No.
1 person, because these numbers added together make
10, which equals a No. 1.
The following table shows months and days harmonious
to the different types, but must be interpreted in
light of the year, using the year as the general prin-
- 33 -
ciple. When one's number corresponds to the month,
day and year, these are climax days in one's life
according to the meaning of the numbers— very
fortunate.
Chart of fortunate days and months:
No. 1 persons, Fortunate days: 1st, 10th and 28th—
Months 1, 10.
No. 2 persons, Fortunate days: 2nd, 11th, 20th,
29th— Months 2, 11.
No. 3 persons, Fortunate days: 3rd, 12th, 21st,
30th— Months 3, 12.
No. 4 persons, Fortunate days: 4th, 13th, 22nd,
31st— Months 4.
No. 5 persons, Fortunate days: 5th, 14th 23rd
— Months 5.
No. 6 persons, Fortunate days: 6th, 15th, 24th—
Months 6.
No. 7 persons, Fortunate days: 7th, 16th, 25th,—
Months 7.
No. 8 person, Fortunate days: 8th, 17th, 26th—
Months 8.
No. 9 persons, Fortunate days: 9th, 18th 27th—
Months 9.
To find one's forecasting number add the number of
the person, then add the number of the month and year.
Example :
No. 1 person ; 1 month, 1933 ; A No. 7 year— total 9,
which is the forecasting number for the month of
January for a No. 1 person, 1933. Now, February will
be a No. 2 month, so the forecasting number will be No.
1 person, No. 2 month, No. 7 year, which, added, gives
10, which equals No. 1, which is the forecasting number
for February, 1933. Apply this rule to all the months
of the year. The following table of the meaning of
- 34 -
forecasting numbers represents principles to be applied
to all conditions in the month forecasted except the
fortunate days of the month corresponding to the number
of the person.
Table of Forecasting
No. 1 forecasting number indicates good conditions
in business, home and all walks of life. This is a
strong, creative, vibratory force for creative good.
No. 2 forecasting number indicates a month of much
action in financial affairs. It is a month of accom­
plishment and results. If a person is positive, many
of their dreams are realized in this month. This is a
good month, also, for plans.
No. 3 forecasting number.
The number of consciousness ; good business condi­
tions ; many debts are paid ; good results come from past
plans.
No. 4 forecasting number.
Affairs unsettled; beware of changes; discontent;
and malicious enemies in business and socially. A
month of schemes and dishonesty. Don't make hasty
moves. Be conservative all this month.
No. 5 forecasting number.
A month of difficulties but they can be solved.
Good for art, music and education. Business unsettled ;
world conditions changing and lack of stability.
No. 6 forecasting number.
A time of great intuition and spiritual power but
a lack of physical force to carry out plans. People
are lazy mentally; business is not good. However,
there is not a complete collapse. This is the end of
the working cycle.
N o. 7 f orecasting number.
This is a month of success, inspiration and
opportunity, preparation for great strides in all
affairs should be made. Favorable mystic influence
gives the world needed inspiration.
- 35 -
No. 8 forecasting number.
Unfortunate influence govern human affairs.
However, this month favors justice and art and educa­
tion.
No. 9 forecasting number.
Nine is the number of man, the physical world,
etc., the end of a cycle. Therefore, it is a month of
birth, new ideas, and results in physical affairs; a
month when investments pay dividends. Read all
affairs accordingly.
FORECAST EXAMPLE
Person No. 2 add to No. 7 year add No. 1 month— 10
which gives a No. 1 forecasting number for this month.
You now predict as follows:
The month of January, 1933 will be a fortunate month
for all persons born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th or 29th of
any month because it is of a strong vibratory power in
their favor. They will plan new deals and extension of
business. Also they will contact new friends, have
financial assistance and decided advantages will come
during this month provided they use good judgment.
World conditions are favorable to success, since No. 7,
the number of power and wealth is ruling the year favor­
able to No. 2 people who represent the creative power
in nature. Their unfortunate days are 4th, 13th, 22nd
and 31st; therefore, be conservative and careful on
these days because they total No. 4, the number of the
changing elements.
Forcast of February for No. 2 people, 1933
NOTE:
Add No. 2 of person to No. 2 month and 7 year = ll
which equals No. 2, the forecasting number for Feb­
ruary. This is a No. 2 forecasting number for a No. 2
person. A climax for good in all their affairs.
Forecast as follows:
During February, 1933, No. 2 people born on the
2nd, 11th, 20th or 29th of any month will be successful.
- 36 -
iheir past plans will bring forth results favorable to
them; friends will assist them in large projects; and,
if they use good judgment, finance will be good, 'iheir
fortunate days are tne 2nd, 11th, 20th and 2Sth. They
will have opposition on the 4th, 13th and 22nd, 17th,
8th and 26th. These days they should be conservative
and not make agreements. Other days are very favorable.
You will need to study mental science so as to take
proper advantage of your opportunity to lay plans for
your future during this month. A No. ,
7 year is favor­
able to your type, therefore, this month, the second
of the year, is one of your golden opportunity times of
your life. But remember success is always the result
of hard work and not something which comes unless you do
your part. Don't wait, but create. This month is a
good vibration for you, but you are the one to take ad­
vantage of it and use it. Follow this same rule to read
or forecast for any of the nine types, but remember
that the tenth month is a No. 1 and the eleventh, a No.
2; and the twelfth, a No. 3. When the physical cycles
revert to a No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 forecasting number,
which you use remembering it is the last part of the
year and not the first, this system is far more ac­
curate than astrology, provided it is used correctly.
As the number of the year changes you can go on fore­
casting forever. This is not fortune telling. It is the
working of the laws of the Cosmos in nature, for all
nature works in cycles ; this being the reason that the
year is divided into seasons, four in number, and nine
months is required for physical birth and twenty-one
years, or No. 3, is the number of God and responsi­
bility. This system extends to the end of God's domain
end is according to His laws. Much of it was revealed
to the author while his spiritual consciousness was
absent from the body. As the Magi of the East say, Om,
Sat, Tat. God is all— and many blessings to the reader.
The Author
