{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__estep___eternal_wisdom_and_health.pdf","mytitle":"Eternal Wisdom And Health","mylang":"de"}
ETERNAL
WISDOM AND HEALTH
With
Light on the Scriptures
By
PROFESSOR WM. ESTEP
11
PHILOSOPHER - LECTURER - TEACHER - AUTHOR
Founder of
Super Mind Science Churches, U. S. A.
Published by
SUPER MIND SCIENCE PUBLICATIONS
Excelsior Springs, Mo.
&
• ° f t
Copyrighted 1932, by
WM. ESTEP
All Rights Reserved
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1
ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Chapter Page
I Divine Mind .................................................................. 13
II Supplication .................................................................... 23
III Sacrament and Salvation.............................................. 38
IV The Holy Eucharist and DivineScience.................... 52
V Soul Deliverance............................................................ 60
VI Renunciation .................................................................. 72
VII Laws of Life and M in d ................................................ 80
VIII Beyond the Veil of Mortal Mind ..............................104
IX Doctrine and Truth .......................................................117
X Science of Mind and B eing.............................. 130
XI Magnetism and the Science ofB eing..........................145
XII Cosmic Genesis of C reation.........................................151
XIII Mind Healing Versus Remediesand Theology . . . . 164
XIV Practice of Science and Truth .....................................173
XV Teaching Super Mind Science .....................................189
XVJ Interrogations ................................................................ 203
XVII Objections Disproved.....................................................221
XVIII The Science of Life .......................................................243
PART 2
LIGHT ON THE SCRIPTURES
Old Testament: ^a§e
The Book of Genesis...........................................................^53
The Book of Psalms ...........................................................283
The Book of the Prophet Esekiel.................................... 307
The Book of Daniel ..........................................................
New Testament:
The Book of St. Matthew .................................................420
The Book of the Revelation of St. John .....................532
APOCRYPHA (the Rejected) SCRIPTU RE........................589
GLOSSARY .................................................................................725
TESTIMONIES OF POWER . .................................................743
PREFACE
To all sincere souls who desire to demonstrate the powers
of the Christ, this volume is lovingly and sincerely dedicated.
It will reveal to all who have an unbiased mind the sunlight of
Eternal Wisdom and the healing power of Infinite Spirit. The
star of the Wise Men of all ages will light the way of the
seeker of Truth to primal Christianity which “healed the sick,
raised the dead and gave victory over the grave1
' to Christ Jesus.
All who can comprehend His message and live the life Divine
can likewise gain victory over the grave.
The author is the founder of Super Mind Science, a Science
of self mastery, healing and soul realization. He discovered the
laws of life and the power of the mind while in bodily distress
and in need of healing. Since that time, he has labored to
establish Schools and Churches based upon facts and demonstra­
tions of the Godly powers inherent in man, not on beliefs. This
volume of philosophy and Truth concerning God, man, and the
Scriptures has been in demand for over ten years, and it was
this demand which partially inspired the author to write.
Previous to this writing, Super Mind Scien.ce has only been
explained in private classes and through experienced teachers
especially trained by the author. This is still the policy where
the keys to power are concerned, with the exception of the
simplified keys contained herein, which can be understood and
used by every reader of this unusual book of facts, Truth and
power.
The author studied most of the world’s Bibles and religions
and traveled for years in order to contact the world’s greatest
metaphysicians and Mind Scientists. He is indeed indebted to
India and her great Teachers for his own first enlightenment
regarding Divine power, which was the stepping stone to the
discovery of Super Mind Science.
Notwithstanding the great persecutions which have been
directed against the author by those opposed to the enlighten-
ment of humanity, thousands have been healed and helped
during his career as a Teacher and Divine Healer.
Criticism naturally comes from those who cannot compre­
hend the vastness of this Science or from those who have not
studied it. However, personal opinions and beliefs matter very
little, for only those who can demonstrate the Science are quali­
fied to judge. The author only asks that the reader have an open
and unbiased mind and that he use reason when he peruses this
volume. Then the profound Truths revealed herein will unfold
to his consciousness just as light comes after darkness.
The teaching of Super Mind Science is based on the
paramount principle of reproduction in Nature. Growth and
development depend upon the laws of gender as applied to
mind or the Divine laws of progression. Positive and negative
or male and female elements are Nature’s ways and means of
originating life, likewise it is her way of preserving the human
and animal existence. The power of mind determines the growth
and completion of life, and the Science of Mind is the explana­
tion of that power. The noble mission of the power of mind
and the Science of Mind is to reveal God as manifesting in man.
The demonstration of this Truth is the only infallible guide to
life.
At the publishing of this volume, Super Mind Science is
nationally established, having Churches, Schools, Reading Rooms
and Colleges in many leading cities of America. Many wonder­
ful people have entered this field under the leadership of the
author and are devoting their lives to serving humanity by doing
the works which the Master Jesus commanded all to do.
This movement is fast growing, and the most gratifying
part of its success is the thousands of testimonies received telling
of astounding demonstrations, which fulfills the Scripture, “they
shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover . . . the blind
see, the deaf hear and the lame walk”. Super Mind Science is
the only Science or Religion which demonstrates the work
of Divinity, proving it to be the restored message of Jesus Christ.
The author proved every statement in this book before
writing it, and hopes that every reader will likewise endeavor to
prove them that they may be convinced that this is indeed true
"Know the Truth and the Truth shall make you free” is the
Divine promise, meaning to be free from disease, poverty, sin
and sorrow. The Science of Mind is the “light of the world”
coming into full manifestation in a world harassed by sin, disease
and sorrow, just as the sun rises after a night of storm.
The author taught the first Super Mind Science class in
America. He is also author of all the literature published to
date on Super Mind Science. However, there have been attempts
to plagiarize his writings, but these works have met with little
or no success. The reason for this is the fact that the teachings
have been so distorted that they have lost all of their scientific
value.
That the blessings of Truth, Love and Light be with the
reader who is patient enough to read and mentally assimilate this
this unusual revelation of the Science of Life, is the sincere wish
of the author
March 1, 1932
PROF. WM. ESTEP
CHAPTER I
DIVINE MIND
Divine
Mind
Mind is universal, a power which alone
manifests God. The Will to do good is the
highest power of mind, it regenerates the
world, lifts up the fallen, heals the sick and raises the dead.
Sacrifice and self immolation with high aspirations is the golden
key to contact with the Divine Mind, which is Alhpervading,
blissful Infinite Spirit.
Genders This Divine Mind has two aspects, positive
of and negative. It is natural that the positive
Mind should lead the negative in every manifes­
tation of life because it represents the Fatherhood principle
inherent in life. Where the negative principle of mind over­
comes the positive we find sin, sorrow, sickness and distress.
Super Mind Science teaches the Christ way of mastering these
negative conditions of mind; in it the student is taught to mani­
fest his positive Will, united with the Will of God, against all
disease, sin and sorrow. This Will of God or the Father, as
Jesus called it, controls vital energies in the body. These ener­
gies are also positive and negative; no pain can exist where they
flow freely and no sorrow can exist where one has control of
them, for they are the basic principle of existence. Each and
every Super Mind Scientist can control them at Will and can
heal others as well as themselves. This power is the power
demonstrated by Jesus, and to which He referred when He
said (Mark 16; verse 17-18) “And these signs shall follow them
that believe; in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall
speak with new tongues. They shall take up serpents; and if
they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover.”
Alleviation When one controls the positive and negative
of life energies, these seeming miracles become
Pains easy to perform. In Super Mind Science
these wonders take place daily, the blind receive their sight, the
deaf hear and the lame walk, which is proof that we believe in
Jesus; for if we fail to do these things we become as “empty
14 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Thought
Manifestation
brass and tinkling cymbal”. Prayer and belief alone cannot do
these wonders; only a scientific knowledge of the life energies
in the body, and a knowledge of the various states of mind and
man’s relation to the Divine Mind can accomplish these won­
ders. Jesus was the greatest of Mind Scientists and He com­
manded His disciples to do His Works.
Every thought, no matter how secret, is
known to Divine Mind and weaves the dra­
pery which clothes our spiritual self. In
Super Mind Science we regulate the entry and manifestation
of thoughts by controlling the thought center in the Solar
Plexus, thus excluding the low negative thoughts and developing
only the positive thoughts. This brings us in contact with
Divine Mind which is All Good, Truth, Love and Light.
Fourth Prayer is thought, and the result of prayer
Dimensional is the product of mind concentration — for
Law does God have to be informed or does He
know your wants before you ask them? Thought sent out in
earnest prayer sets in motion life currents and energies which
control conditions and bring forth results. Direct concentration
is far better than negative prayers, for in concentration we
suspend thinking except on one subject, then by controlling the
life currents in a positive state of mind, our thought travels in
waves through the fourth dimension bringing us the results of
our thought. Super Mind Scientists soon become master of this
art. Do not praise God, for He needs no praise* but concentrate
your mind on good, knowing that “I and my Father are One”,
and great powers will come to aid you in conquering the battle
of life.
Spiritual Goodness alone demonstrates the power of
Regeneration Truth’ which is God. Love is the golden
key to Divine Universal Mind; it sets in
motion the regenerative power of God. “Love Ye One An­
other is the Divine command, love means to regard your
fellow-man with tolerance, kindness and brotherly feeling. This
is one of the greatest manifestations of Divine Mind, which is
All-Good, Life, Truth and Love.
Reciprocation The fount of creation is the ever present
Divine Mind; you need but to accept its
power. As it pours forth its bénéficient
of
Good
DIVINE MIND 15
energies, man is uplifted toward the supreme light and wisdom!
Contact this Divine Mind with understanding, and darkness be'
comes light, sickness becomes health and man is lifted to a plane
of mastery, revealing his Divine Sonship of God.
Indulgence All weakness of the flesh originates in the
of sin of the carnal mind, it is not inflicted by
Weakness God, for can God and power bring forth
disease? No, only the opposite which is ignorance and negative
thoughts produces these manifestations. The cause lies in carnal
mind with all its selfishness and arrogance; the effect only is in the
body, so why doctor the effect and ignore the cause which is a
negative mind? Super Mind Science gives to the sincere student
the keys which open the secret doors of life, the energy centers,
making one positive and mentally powerful. Thus man can reflect
the Divine Being, for unless he is master of matter he fails to re­
flect the image and likeness of God. This can be accomplished by
concentration of energy, thought and desire. When one can per­
form this, they can stop pain instantly, heal any disease in their
body, control their mind, and contact Divine Mind at will. All
Super Mind Scientists who study the keys to the Science by sin­
cere application can perform these things, if they say they cannot,
they are not true followers of the Science, or they lack in their
knowledge of its principles and powers.
If we are grateful in our minds for the past
blessings we have received, then we will
epen ence silently concentrate on God and Good, and
ever be ready to help others, even as God would ever be ready
to help us, remembering that evil is negation, the absence of
good, and not a power. If we are truly grateful to God we
will do good and not continually thank God for blessings re­
ceived. W e will realize that only doing good deeds can save
our soul and bring about immortality. Impress upon your mind
by concentration the vision of the Master as He healed the
sick and preached the Truth even in the face of physical death,
then emulate Him in the chambers of your mind. Do not be
a hypocrite who says that he is saved by believing, and yet
refuses to do the Divine Works of the Great Master, for such
hypocrites are the curse of the world.
16 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Inexorable
Laws
Mind
Indestructible
The cries of those deceived by false doc-
trines are the fires in the mental torment
which will plague their deceivers. Inner
fervent desire to contact God face to face brings one in rapport
with Divine Mind, but only a knowledge of the Science of
Mind will bring practical results. Super Mind Science supplants
faith with techniques and correct methods to control the powers
producing life. First, one masters the positive and negative states
and energies, then Solar Energy imbued with Infinite Spirit which
flows through our bodies and brain. When these powers áre
controlled by the Will to overcome disease, they become the
power and Will of God, overcoming all bodily congestion and
making the mind positive and free.
“Know the Truth, and the Truth shall make
you free” is the promise given to every
seeker who enters Super Mind Science. Not
one enters who can say they failed if they are sincere, for these
energies are the life and the light of the world. The intelli'
gence of Divine Mind functions within these energies, and where
they flow freely pain is impossible, for would Godly energy and
power create pain, or would Infinite Mind fail to heal the sick,
or can man devise a plan of healing and helping which would
be superior to the one originated by Almighty God whose fixed
laws in Nature bring forth all creation? Divine Mind alone
provides the universal remedy and cures all ills, and brings man
in contact with God. Jesus called it the “Will of Him who
sent Him into this world”. Many Christians try to save their
soul but neglect their body and mind, thinking that the hospital
is superior to God’s laboratory of Nature. They cannot see
that their soul is in the body and that the body is the “Temple
of the living God. ’ Would God save one’s soul who mistrusts
Him in saving and healing the body, or would God acknowledge
one who denies the very importance of the body, which is His
Holy Temple?
Matter People who say matter does not exist, fail
Sanctified t0 ^now t^at matter is energy, a moving
force, that it is a manifestation of mind and
is itself a Divine creation, sanctified by the presence of Divine
Mind within it. Mind is powerless to create without energy
and matter as an instrument, even as matter is powerless to
«
DIVINE MIND 17
create its kind without Divine Mind. No one can cease sin
without understanding mind control, for sin is a mental violation
of the laws of Nature. The physical aspect of sin is not the
entire sin, the mental purpose back of it constitutes the real sin,
for mind will never forget, and man must answer for deeds
done while in the body. Sin is destroyed when knowledge
of Divine Mind begins. Negative influences cannot control one
who is positive no more than darkness can control the light.
No one who is positive mentally will continue to sin, for he
will be about His Father’s business.
Impunity Positiveness creates, while negation destroys.
From Super Mind Science makes all who apply
Temptation its methods positive. This develops con'
structive mental principles and does away with doubts, beliefs,
dis'beliefs and ignorance and causes the mind to be illuminated,
casting out its effulgent rays on the problems of life. This
wisdom is contained in the keys to Super Mind Science; it
demonstrates Truth, Love and Light through positive mental
control and understanding of Divine Mind. Temptation is of
the negative state of mind, not the positive; one who can con-
trol himself will not be receptive to negative and low tempta­
tions. When one contacts Divine Mind they become immune
to sin and temptation because these ldw manifestations of carnal
mind are the lack of this positive state and Divine contact.
Destruction God is Love, then to be Godly we must love
of one another. Sectarianism divides people,
Evil whereas the science of Divine Mind unites
them. You cannot place old wine (Sectarianism) in new bottles
(Mental Science) for they (beliefs) will expand and break,
“seek ye therefore the kingdom of God (good) and all things
shall be added unto you”—Prosperity, Health, Power, Truth,
Light and Love, providing you know how to concentrate your
mind on good. Generate the positive healing energies and
direct them against disease, and destroy evil (disease), for all
disease is the adversary of good. Can God be creator of pain,
or would God punish innocent babes? No, only sin of carnal
mind, void of understanding could cause pain and sorrow to
manifest. If your soul is saved, then your body is healthy and
your mind is free from malice, hatred and envy, otherwise you
are lost in illusion believing that God wills you to be sick.
18 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
There can be no evil in Divine Will no more than sunshine
can be in darkness, nor can there be weakness or disease in a
body full of life energy, for pain is contraction and ease is
expansion. Evil is mental congestion of a negative type and
when positiveness of thought is manifest, it ceases to be, for
the mind cannot manifest both light and darkness at the same
moment—only one of the two is possible at the same instant.
Inalienable The scientific explanation of mind is, first,
Science and Divine Mind is positive, creative, construe'
Truth tive; second, carnal mind is mind misused,
negative, destructive, changeable and illusive. The flesh is neg'
ative, a low manifestation of mind; spirit, soul and ego are a
manifestation of higher mind. “Super Mind” is the higher,
All-knowing or the true mind, knowing all Truth. “Science”
is the methods of demonstrating this higher and more perfect
Truth, Love and Light. Unhappiness is the result of carnal
mind deceiving the individual; happiness is the result of the
individual knowing immortal mind and its powers, or the Su­
preme Divine Infinite Spiritual Mind of the universe which
knows no failures. When one attains to Truth, sin, sickness
and mortal illusion disappear into nothingness, pain ceases
and sorrow ends. God and misery do not agree; where one is
the other is not, for God is Love, and disease is sin. As soon
as one principle controls, the other is controlled; if sin and
disease control then God is not manifesting, for will God sub­
mit to being controlled by evil, or can God be overcome by
the adversary? The so-called devil has no power when God
speaks through the Sonship of man, his greatest creation, when
man is positive and possesses wisdom.
Omnipotent
Will Energy
Super Mind Science demonstrates first, the
control of life energy, next the power of
mind control, and third, the Divine Spiritual
Will which, united with individual Will overcomes all conges­
tion. This unity of Will demonstrates over all negation. Human
theories of this Will matter very little, for only demonstrations
are a reality, therefore we seek to prove all things and hold fast
to that which is good. Human senses and carnal mind, with­
out the sustaining power of a spiritualized Will, are inadequate
in solving life’s mysteries. This spiritualized Will power alone
DIVINE MIND 19
can give man spiritual realization, it is contacted by concentra­
tion and meditation, not by belief.
Proof The desire for wisdom is man’s greatest
of means of soul progression and Divine Mind
Divinity performs wonders through the Will of man
and the laws of Nature. Supernaturalism belongs to an age
of superstition and has no place in Divine Mind Science, for
since we know how to control physical and mental energies,
we can account for all phenomena. The mind governs the
body, this is proven every time one thinks preceding a move
of the body. This same energy which moves the limbs, when
concentrated, removes disease, then Divine Mind seals the case,
making it permanent. The author has proven that Super Mind
Science has the one and only key known to man today which
controls this energy and has demonstrated on many disbelievers
successfully when all else had failed.
Subjugation Super Mind Science heals one disease as
of easy as another, for all disease is congestion,
Disease while energy is expansion; the energy which
heals comes from the sun, while the power which causes the
healing is of God or Supreme Infinite Mind. The physical is
but an extension of the Divine and one is as real as the other.
All powers are subservient to man when he learns the Truth,
the Light and the Way. The blind have received their sight
in Super Mind Science, as has the Author who was at one time
blind; the deaf hear, and the lame walk. Students successfully
heal their own families, and Physicians use it in their office with
great success, because it is not a belief, but is a science. The
proof of Mind Science is when it heals unbelievers, for Jesus
often healed those whom He saw for the first time. Other
so-called meta-physical healing systems using hypnosis and call­
ing it Divine Mind Science have failed to meet this test. Sug­
gestions or affirmations are the first step toward self hypnosis—
these practices are used in many systems of healing today.
Super Mind Science is opposite to these negative systems, for
every Super Mind Scientist can heal and stop pain instantly
without the use of any belief, whereas these other systems have
Healers and Practitioners to heal their own members—if they
are Divine in all their practices, then why do they require a
Healer—why are they not their own Healer?
20 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Mental
Negation
Only a negative sick person needs a Prac-
titioner or Healer. In some of these healing
methods one will notice that passes are
usually made over the patient’s face, these passes are the same
used by hypnotists, they spread magnetism over the patient,
then make them believe the pain is gone. The treatment lasts
as long as the delusion remains; it is no wonder that their mem­
bers are sick and need to be healed. In Super Mind Science,
each student can heal and stop pain, and demonstrates in the
Classes and Church the doctrine “they shall lay hands on
the sick, and the sick shall recover”. Many who have used
suggestions, have become poverty stricken and cannot manage
their own affairs, and it is not to be wondered at, since every
suggestion used weakens the body and makes the person more
susceptible to disease and poverty.
Superposition Super Mind Science is a positive science, it
of teaches how to use the united Will of man
Mind Science and God, demonstrating “I and My Father
are One”. Its principles will sometime in the future become
the leading healing Science of the world. Many patients think
they are healed in negative metaphysics, but in reality Nature
has healed them while suggestions had them deluded into be­
lieving disease does not exist. If the premise that disease has
no existence is true, then why do the negative Metaphysical
Schools have Healers and Practitioners to heal disease? Also,
if matter is a non-reality, then one asks, how could you heal it?
Their form of reasoning is as defective as their understanding,
for they say, “if God is real, then matter is illusion, if it is
illusion, it does not exist”. The abstract can never prove or
dis-prove the concrete, the truth is that God is in matter and
also in mind, only ignorance of the power of God, such as
affirmations and auto-suggestions used over the mental faculties
produce illusion. For instance, a suggestion that you cannot
hear will cause deafness and a suggestion that your body does
not exist will cause death of the body. No one is permitted
by the laws of mind to mock God and His Divine laws of
Nature, for no one can be wiser than their Creator.
Mental ^ evidence at hand proves that God cre-
Illumination ate<^ t^
le material universe through the laws
of positive and negative vibration. The
positive is the leading power and the first to be applied in bring-
DIVINE MIND 21
ing about a creation, the receptive or negative is the germinating
power; both forces are necessary for a creation. Super Mind
Science teaches the means and proper way to control the positive
and negative powers of the body, mind and soul. These laws
were revealed to the Founder while suffering with a terrible
disease, and the reader may be assured that none of the knowl­
edge was received from mortal mind, but was communicated
.to the writer through the voice of cosmic mind, while he was
in the Spirit, or absent from the body. Some of the world’s
greatest revelations have come while the revelator was suffering.
Super Mind Science was revealed so as to furnish the individual
with a Science which would be a surcease for pain, also methods
to overcome the evil and negative tendency of carnal mind,
bringing about a spiritual state of mind.
Light W hen Truth, Love and Light predominate
and in one’s life, they will succeed, and they will
Power know something of these laws regardless of
whether they become a Super Mind Scientist or not. All intel­
ligence is the result of mind action and power. The physical
is only an instrument played by the master musician (mind), it
responds to the planes of vibration of the consciousness of the
individual. Positive, Divine mental activity brings about ease,
prosperity and happiness. All other opposite conditions such
as disease, sin, sorrow, failure and unhappiness are produced as
a result of the negative force ruling.
. “Know the Truth and the Truth shall make
Ye free”—the Truth makes one free only
when the power which demonstrates mental
freedom is revealed. Super Mind Science demonstrates all posi­
tive powers and teaches that all Truth is three-fold, Physical,
Mental and Spiritual. In Super Mind Science one finds the
following rules in all demonstrations, first, physical energy, is in­
creased; second, energy is directed by Will and concentration
toward mastery of any condition—physical, mental or spiritual;
third, Divine Mind is controlled within, which is the source of
all health, happiness and power; this seals all demonstrations
with permanent results. Other and more negative teachings
operate on one plane only, this makes it impossible to consider
them a Science, for Science demonstrates each and every time,
while methods only physical, only mental or only spiritual are
22 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
inadequate to reach most of one’s troubles. There are many
temporary relief cases and seeming healings through these in­
complete systems, because all negative patients secure temporary
relief, but in Super Mind Science the cause of disease, which
is congestion, is permanently overcome. The keys to this power
which are the increasing of physical and mental energy and
Divine power must be given by a competent teacher who has
observed the methods discovered by the Founder and is duly
authorized to teach the same.
, Super Mind Science methods are directly
Mental . . . . . ,
. opposite in principle to the negative suggest-
® ive methods usually used in mental healing.
Each and every method is based on the immutable laws of
Nature and makes the student stronger mentally, physically and
spiritually. The following questions are asked by a Super Mind
Scientist in order that you may use your reasoning power:
1st. Can light overcome darkness?
2nd. Is it natural that darkness dispels light?
3rd. Is disease (congestion) more powerful than God and
energy, or can it overcome the one who uses these powers?
4th. Is it natural that energy and God be overpowered by
negation, disease, sin and failure?
5th. Can a method perfect and positive within itself fail to
help one and yet control energy and Divine power?
If these powers should fail, God would be a failure, conse­
quently all life would be in danger of complete extinction.
These pillars of Truth support Super Mind Science and cannot
be disproven by any type of Science, nor can the demonstrations
be equalled in any Religion, Science or Belief. Super Mind
Science is the greatest Physician, Teacher and Philosopher and
interprets the Bible scientifically. Its wisdom is as perfect as
Infinite Spirit, and was revealed to the Founder while suffering
and concentrating on Infinite Spirit for a revelation, as taught by
the Eastern Saints in the fastness of the Himalaya Mountains
where the Prophets of India wrote the Vedas, man’s first Divine
revelation of Truth and power.
CHAPTER II
SUPPLICATION
“Jesus answered, and said unto them, ‘Verily I
say unto you, if Ye have faith and doubt not,
Ye shall not only do this which is done unto the
fig tree, but also if Ye shall say unto this moun­
tain, be Thou removed and be Thou cast into
the sea, it shall be done.’ ”
Saying
Prayers
The true supplication which regenerates the
sinner, also heals the sick, for it is the inner
consciousness of the absolute power of God.
This consciousness is developed through an inner understanding
of God, as spiritual principle beyond personality and limitation,
Omnipotent and Omniscient beyond cognition of mortal mind.
This intelligence manifests through spiritual energy and power,
it heals the sick and brings ease to the mind. Intense prayer
is intense mental concentration which accounts for the results
obtained by praying to the Deity. One must approach in the
spirit of self immolation through meekness of mind, seeking a
spiritualization of their life and consciousness, in order to benefit
by earnest prayer and desire.
Our silent desires of the heart set in motion
energies and powers which bring them into
reality if we trust God and have a worthy
desire. The All-seeing Divine Mind has so constituted the
powers of life that every just desire produces its own reward
A true prayer is a constant silent desire with an unselfish motive
In order that our desire be unselfish we must have perfect mind
control, for carnal mind manifests strongest in the consciousness
of one whose lower nature is uncontrolled. Super Mind Sci­
ence teaches the proper way to attain this desired mind control,
for it teaches the genders of mind. Low desires are but negative
thoughts, while positive thoughts develop high exalted desires:
prayer based upon a desire created from a positive thought
brings forth its own answer. Justice, Love, Light and Truth
are positive principles and prayers should be in harmony with
these spiritual ideals.
Silent
Desires
24 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
God
Is
Power
Prayers of weakness from the mentality of
an admitted sinner are a poor remedy for
one’s ills, for God being of positive, Divine
principles does not harmonize with such prayers; weakness must
be overcome, not tolerated and encouraged. God is Good and
all prayers should conform to His Infinite Goodness. The one
offering the supplication should remember also that God is a
Creator, not a destroyer, therefore all prayers should be of a
creative nature. Those who request God to save them should
attempt first to save themselves, letting goodness overpower all
evil in their life. Positive action of the mind regenerates man;
negation, suggestions and affirmations break down the positive
mental structure, therefore it is very important that the Will to
do good be controlled in the silent supplication to God.
God The Supreme Infinite Mind whom we call
individual. God does not conform to the boundaries and limi­
tations of creeds and dogmas, the laws of Nature do not work
by the permission of any certain religious creed, nor can any
stay the hand of death when one has used up all their energy
or violated Nature’s immutable laws. However, man can change
his destiny by a study of natural laws—for Nature is one with
and manifests through Divine power.
c Pleas for power are unnecessary until we
r.frrm
p
o
iK J
spoken, Divine communion arouses this power to action, and God
functioning through mind produces the results. Those negative
mortals who ask God to change the laws of Nature will find
that God does not violate His own immutable laws. The safest
truth to depend on is ‘
’’when mind concentrates, God operates”,
for every true power which is good for man is useless until it
is concentrated. No power while scattered abroad in the uni­
verse takes definite effect on other powers, only when it is con­
centrated does it produce effect.
laws is necessary in every prayer if one would seek a
Is
Universal
God is universal in manifestation, His divine
% t
laws, like His Being, are also universal, not
Erroneous
Pleas
use the power at hand; Jesus said “the king­
dom of heaven is at hand”. Sincere, un-
The laws of God and Nature work in per­
fect harmony, there can be no separation
between these powers if success is achieved.
s immut-
\
SUPPLICATION 25
demonstration of perfect results. The prayers of Jesus were
answered immediately because He was in tune with the Infinite;
His Will and the Will of the Father were one. In order that
this co-ordination of man and God be established, each indivi-
dual should work out their own salvation. Man must not sit
idle and pray that God do his work for him, he must ever be
alert and willing to do his own part. Spiritual illumination
develops from one using their faculties as they should and from
an intense desire to know God.
Theory Many admit in theory that God is AIL
and powerful, but deny it in pratice; when they
Ignorance are sick they seek drugs or other material
remedies, yet theoretically they claim to believe that God is
All-powerful. When all material remedies have failed which
they usually place before God, then they begin fervent prayers
for Divine aid. If God can aid them, then why wait until all
man-made remedies have been tried in vain? Such theoretical
religious ideas may serve as a moral restraint but their spiritual
value is indeed small. Vain repetitions of belief do not sway
God from Justice, Love, Mercy or Truth, they only serve as a
power to delude those who are so negative mentally as to use
them. The more ungrateful one is for Truth, Light and Love,
the more they will be punished by the Law of Compensation
and will suffer until they learn that “God is not to be mocked”.
Those who exhibit their selfishness by say­
ing long prayers to be seen of men, would
do better to remain silent, for they set in
motion forces which destroy them or which later may be the
cause of their undoing. Every one should remember to do
Divine works and thereby glorify their Father in heaven. Di­
vine Mind knows every deed which we commit while in the
body, therefore there is no secret; let everyone be conscious of
the All-seeing eye of Spirit.
Constant petitions to God for help are un­
necessary if man is doing his part. When
one becomes spiritually illuminated their life
will be well ordered; the fact that a life is always in difficulty,
proves the lack of spiritual power in that life. Each good deed
assists the spiritual energy to flow into our life, bringing us
countless blessings and the desire to do more good. Health and
Selfish
Pride
Divine
Petitions
26 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
happiness are natural attributes of a spiritual life. We should
serve God in our fellowman as well as in the universe. Jesus
commanded those who love Him to do His works; if belief and
affirmations were all that is necessary to save a soul, would He
have taught other than that to His disciples? Seek therefore
to emulate Him by doing the works which He did.
Engrave the image of Christ in your heart,
picture in your mind how He healed the
Image sick, walked on the water, overcame death
and taught the Truth in the face of physical death. Then go
on to accomplish His message, knowing God is Good but is no
respector of personalities or beliefs. Our Goodness or Godliness
equals our mind control, therefore the Science of Christ is the
Science of Mind. When one utters a silent prayer they should
also silently take inventory of their own mentality and soul,
seeing to what degree they merit reward.
Sup Learn to go inward to the very heart of
with your being and close out all the manifesta-
Him tions of earth, and sup with Christ. He
awaits you in the silence of your own heart and soul, forget
the world and focus your mind on His Infinite Power within.
In the Divine recesses of your being, there exists Truth, Love
and Divine Consciousness, seek to know this through intense
devotion to Him, to His cause and to His purpose on earth.
Learn to heal the sick, speak the Truth and do the Divine Works,
then He will come into your being and sup with you. W e meet
Him on the plane of Infinite, impersonal love when we learn
to know God and Christ as one supreme power, manifesting
the human and Divine in one. You may be persecuted by the
worldly, but bear your cross and let your road in life be one
of gladness and not one of sadness, retain a constant prayer
of devotion to good.
Mortal The outward mortal devotion, consisting of
long prayers and formal ceremonies is far
removed from Him “who seeth in secret and
rewardeth openly”. They deceive the poor deluded mortals who
are unfortunate enough to believe them, but they are powerless
before the Throne of Grace. Only the silent prayers, clothed
in good intentions given from the heart are recognized by
Divine Mind. These prayers enable one to follow in the foot'
steps of Christ, while audible prayers, ceremonies and beliefs
SUPPLICATION 27
Spiritual
Truth
tion of God.
Man’s
Influence
of mortal man cause one to tarry on the road of life. They
cover hidden animal emotions with respectability and are the
producers of hypocrisy.
True regeneration comes from a renewing
of the mind, not from matter; this reforms
the character and develops the inner percep-
A constant cognition of God constitutes true
conversion, while outward formal conversion is far from reality.
One should remember “as Ye sow, so shall Ye reap” and con-
version does not change that law. The most conversion does
is to renew the mind and change one’s mental outlook on life,
for God is no respector of personalities or ceremonies. Sowing
spiritual seeds is the doing of good deeds, for “good seeds
bringeth forth good fruit, while corrupt seeds bringeth forth
corrupt fruit”.
God continually influences matter, but mat'
ter cannot and does not influence God. The
realization of this Godly influence brings
man in harmony with Divine Love, his unawareness of it causes
most of his troubles in life. Realization of the power of this
influence over one’s life is mental, not physical, therefore Men­
tal Science comprehends it far better than formal theoretical
religion. Every good deed is either compensated in this world
or the next, no good goes unrewarded and no evil goes unpun­
ished; the idea of one escaping just punishment through prayer
would make God a partner of evil and crime. God is Love,
therefore only prayers of love and power are answered, for
who could induce a just God to be unjust, or a loving Father
to do evil to His child? Carnal mind with all of its excuses has
no power in the presence of one single ray of the Supreme
Infinite Spirit, God.
Evil Good deeds destroy sin and make one’s
Overcome being the true “temple of the living God”.
By Good Evil is non-existent when good manifests,
therefore it is not a power, but is mere negation. When one
begins to know Truth, Love and Light their consciousness be­
comes spiritually illuminated and they lose interest in sin and
worldly pleasures. One who asks God to forgive their sins and
then goes on sinning does not deserve forgiveness. A constant
inner communion with God destroys sin and disease for these
negative conditions are the absence of good and cannot exist in
28 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the presence of one single ray of God. The Science of Mind
teaches one how to become positive and thereby destroy sin,
disease and finally overcome death, and we should always be
thankful for it.
When one commits sin the conscience reg'
c*
isters guilt regardless of how many prayers
Forgiveness one saySj ancj the guilt will remain as long
as the conscience registers remorse for the deed. The theologi­
cal myth that man can forgive sin is contrary to reason, for
matter cannot dictate to Spirit, nor can man rule, direct or advise
God. If man with his poor judgment was given the power to
remove guilt and to forgive sin, there would be a complete re­
versal of justice. Earthly hierarchies of political minded men
may be a moral force but they have no spiritual power. They
may write prayer books, but God has written all true prayer
in the sincerity of purpose in the hearts of men. Earnest sup­
plication expresses the love God has concealed in the heart,
it is far superior to mortal man’s repetition of unreasonable
Pater Nosters. What the world needs is mind control in order
to understand the nature of God.
Un ardonable ta^ nS human life is an unpardonable
sin, and there can be no forgiveness later.
Jesus said “he who lives by the sword, shall
die by the sword”, meaning a spiritual death. It matters little
what excuse man has for shedding blood, he may call it capital
punishment, war or self-defense which are only mortal terms.
So-called Christians who endorse the killing of their fellow-man
are poor examples of the Christ principle.
Other The other sin which most people overlook
is the wholesale killing of animals for food.
This type of food brings disease and death
to those who eat it, for no one can kill God’s creatures without
the laws of life sentencing them to an early death. Super Mind
Science deplores the killing of any of God’s creatures and
teaches its followers to be vegetarians, for man can live a
healthier and cleaner life through abstaining from eating flesh.
Prayers are useless as long as man disobeys the commandment
Thou shalt not kill”. This commandment is a law forbidding
the killing of every living creature, murder is only one aspect
of its meaning. Jesus said “fear not those who would kill your
SUPPLICATION 29
body, but fear those who would kill you unto the second death”,
for the freedom of the conscience is the life of the soul.
God God is Truth, Love and Life, therefore a
Is prayer that He give these qualities is a fooh
Love ish request, for how can He give other than
Love and Truth? “As Ye sow, so shall Ye reap”, whatsoever
man merits he will receive, for “a good tree bringeth forth
good fruit”. Those who think God is unjust are thinking about
God the way their own soul judges them, if they were just,
they would see that God is just. Arrogance is related to conceit,
while humility is a virtue related to Love. One should learn to
be master and overcome disease and sin, and not continually
seek pardon.
Sickness Sin is a violation of the laws of Nature and
Is a producer of disease. Jesus said to the sick
Sin “go and sin no more”, knowing that if they
obeyed Him they would be healthy and happy in the future.
No one should expect God to stay the hand of Nature, for God
is the author of natural laws, and no laws have been written by
mortal man which are as complete as the laws of Nature. If
one adopts the policy of non-participation in killing of any kind,
their prayers will be more effective, for will"God forgive one
whose habit is to destroy life, or will He lengthen a life which
is undeserving of His notice? One should study Nature and
harmonise with the principles of Truth, Love and Light in every
venture of life.
„ . , Emotional prayers are like emotional conver-
Emotional , , . . ,
sion, they produce physical sensation and
r rsycrs
’ mental hallucinations. They do not impress
God and their answer is temporary like their quality. Emotions
are of the lower planes of matter, therefore emotional prayers
are of a low order, and usually embody a selfish plea that God
do something which would be unlike His divine, eternal prin­
ciple. Prayers of the opposite type carry with them an uplifting
appeal and therefore produce results. One must learn to say
to the Tempter, “get thee behind me, Satan”. Evil thoughts,
which are the angels of Satan (adversary) must be overcome,
then only correct prayers will be uttered.
Divine When one becomes a habitual sinner, asking
j . forgiveness through prayer while not yet
overcoming sin, they soon develop into
30 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
hypocrites. They are theoretical Christians but deny the prac­
ticality of Christ's teachings, they think that the entire human
family is as lacking in courage as they are and they use Divine
consolation as an aid to sin. How ungodly this practice is, for
would God who is all Love be a party to their willful sins?
Pureness of heart is the greatest virtue of man, next to
that is honesty and sincerity of purpose. Many prayers are
already answered before the mind of the supplicant gives them
formation, for Divine Mind is All-knowing, therefore cognizant
of all good. On the plane of Divinity, neither tenses or time
exist, as the fourth dimension is immeasurable by mortal man,
because it is God’s domain. All temporal things are subject to
decay and change because they exist only within the confines
of the three dimensions—space, place and time. Earnest prayer
manifested through a constant desire in the heart is fourth
dimensional while selfish prayers are of the three dimensional
world, this being the cause of them going unanswered. There­
fore purge your consciousness of selfishness and do not utter
selfish prayers, for God seeth in secret and knows your every
purpose. Do not be deceived by thinking you can possess a
secret, for all mind is Infinite Spirit; mind is not corporeal,
therefore is spiritual. One must learn that God is in mind and
must cease thinking of a material heaven.
Self justification constitutes one of the most
common of mortal errors, for one is prone
to criticise others and overlook their own
shortcomings. They should “find the beam in their own eye
before searching for the mote in another’s eye’’. Inner prayer
for wisdom will bring forth meekness, for arrogance is in itself
ignorance and sin. Weakness of character is the result of sordid
negative thinking on the part of man. Man should develop
character by exercising his mind in the right direction, rather
than trying to attain it through requesting God to make the
changes for him. A prayer which pictures the lowness of one’s
character and acknowledges mental negation will do more harm
than good, for one should express the unselfishness and perfec­
tion of God in all prayers.
Lofty Lofty praying is useless unless a lofty effort
Prayer ls Put f°rward, for we are compensated for
our deeds and not for our opinions. If be­
lief could build character, then the entire world would be filled
Self
Justification
SUPPLICATION
with wonderful people. When one can see the guidance of the
Unseen Hand in Nature and in all life, they will know the
Nature of God, this, however, requires study and inner under­
standing, which is a quality of the soul.
Honest endeavor is always rewarded, whereas many peti­
tions go unrewarded. The overcoming of selfishness is a spi­
ritual necessity, whereas the ideas of personality over Spirit pro­
duce inharmony in our being. Unless the overcoming methods
are applied to master this mortal condition of mind, lofty pray­
ing will be useless, for will God help those who refuse to help
themselves? When one’s being is attuned with the Infinite, this
philosophy will be found to be the greatest light on the Path
of Life. One becomes grateful for Truth through suffering;
materiality is the cause of suffering while its remedy lies in true
spirituality. To follow in the footsteps of Jesus is one thing,
while asserting you believe in Him is quite another. Cruci­
fixion comes to the flesh ideas in one’s life if they persistently
follow Him.
center of our being. If our introspection is for the purpose of
self enlightenment, it is Godly, for while in this state of con­
sciousness one may send forth intense prayer and contact the
God-head in the universe. However, if the motive is selfish the
contact will not be made, but if it is right, one will find that
this contact is the contact Jesus spoke of when He said, “I and
My Father are One”. It seals all vows and sets free a captive
and deluded soul whose imprisonment in the body of matter
confines it to the realm of the shadows of life. This at-one-
ment is supreme peace manifest, and everyone should seek it
that they may come to know the nature of Divine Mind. The
Over-soul beckons to those who desire to overcome the sorrow
of the physical world to come into Divine realization of Truth,
Love and Light.
site doctrine. They teach and quote the Disciple, John, who
Inner
Introspection
Inner contemplation where one takes stock
of their own mental condition is the golden
key to Divine realization, for God is in the
The highest understanding comes from di­
rect contact with the Infinite, not from a
belief in vicarious atonement. Jesus taught
that the door to life was “straight and narrow, and few there
be who enter therein”, while the creeds teach an entirely oppo-
32 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
says “for God so loved the world that He gave His only begot'
ten Son, that all who believe in Him may have eternal life”.
Which is better, that we follow the Master or should we follow
the Disciple? In this case you cannot follow both, for one
teaches that few attain to life, while the other says that all who
believe in Christ shall attain to life eternal. The condition of
attaining rest and peace, in the teaching of Christ Jesus is ”1 am
the Way and the Life, come unto Me all Ye that are weary and
I will give you rest”. The “coming” is mental, for we cannot
go unto Him physically, the “rest” is a mental state of mental
peace, therefore we must seek mentally in deep contemplation
to see God within, overcome all disturbing material desires and
God will be revealed within the center of our being.
Altar Each seeker for Truth should find an altar
of of sacrifice within to be used when the mind
Sacrifice desires to sin, mentally placing the desire
on this altar, realizing that God is All in All, remembering the
old commandment “Thou shalt have no other Gods before me”.
The giving up of a sinful desire should be accompanied by
action of the will and concentration of the mind to overcome it,
rather than with long emotional prayers. Jesus said “if thy
right hand offend thee, cut it off”, meaning if you are tempted
by relative or friend to do sinful deeds, sever the friendship;
inner prayer will give one the mental power to accomplish this.
Mental Science gives one strength of character and the power
of resistance. Christianity is a science, not a belief, therefore
one needs to study the mental aspect of self control and mental
discipline to become a Christian.
Walking When we walk in the Path of Light we
in the learn to extend a helping hand to our feh
Light lowman, for the healing of the sick and the
doing of good deeds are the brightest pictures which will remain
in memory. We must learn to give physically, mentally and
spiritually for, ‘Give Ye and Ye shall receive”. The law of
giving is one of the greatest aids to prosperity. Many fail to
receive in life because they pray for more favors from God,
yet they are too selfish to give. Materialism is the basis of
most of human misery, while spirituality is an aid to success
and happiness. Mental suggestion of success creates a delusion
and fails to produce because it is negative, therefore not crea-
tive; only positive mental effort is truly productive of results.
SUPPLICATION 33
Negative affirmations of belief or disbelief break down the men'
tal structure. God is not to blame for one’s failures, they are
the result of one violating the immutable laws of mind, for
mind being master of matter one must obey its laws. An
understanding of the laws of gender of the mind reveals the true
source of man’s creative ability and the power within or his
“Sonship of God”.
Punishment If sins were to go unpunished, the upward
for trend of human progress would soon stop,
Transgression for only the consciousness that every sin
shall cause punishment is the incentive for one to become better.
A constant remission of sins on the part of God or Christ would
encourage violation of the Divine laws and Commandments,
therefore one should pray for power to master themselves and
overcome the desire for sinning, rather than for forgiveness.
Restitution is more important than confession of sins because it
frees the consciousness from self condemnation. Everyone
should strive to know God as Absolute Good. The reward for
prayers equal their mental value, the emotional desire of the
supplicant is not taken into consideration by the All-seeing Di­
vine Mind of the universe. Prayer only sets in motion Divine
Mind energies, it is not heard by a personality in the sky as
some carnal minded people believe.
Reward The reward for sincere petitions is always
for measured by the pureness of heart of the
Petitions supplicant, it never exceeds their own good­
ness. The concept that God aids evil or those with evil inten­
tions is erroneous. A constant effort to develop spirituality
will make prayers more effective and give one peace of mind;
to attain mental bliss, unselfishness is a necessary quality. The
farther away one draws their consciousness from matter, giving
up material aims and desires the closer it approaches God, for
materialism is the power behind the throne in the world of sin
and strife.
Silent prayer is the prayer of wisdom ex-
Si l ent . . . . .
pressing silently, its essence is sincerity.
There is no element of conceit or false pride
in silent prayer, however, the prayer when intensified, becomes
positive mental concentration of mind powers. False or selfish
prayers harm the sensitiveness of conscience while unselfish
prayers draw one close to the Infinite. Every recess of the
34 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
inner being is illuminated when one expresses unselfish thoughts
or does a good deed. This inner illumination is the at-one-ment
with God to be desired.
Healing
Prayer
The greatest healing prayer is to know that
pure Infinite Spirit is present in every cell
of our being, and that disease cannot exist in •
the presence of this Divine power. When one can control all
healing powers as taught in Super Mind Science, disease cannot
be stronger than God, nor can disease overpower the life healing
energy which is directed by the super will force of one who
knows the keys to its control. The good effect of prayer for
the sick is in the fact that the positive energy in the person sick
is aroused into action by the positive thoughts which are ex­
pressed by the one offering the prayer. Blind faith in God has
some power to relieve disease, but is a negative, unscientific
way of attaining results. The prayer of wisdom was the type
uttered by Jesus. Every disease is the product of sin, either
willful or in the form of ignorance, therefore one must seek to
cast out disease, rather than heal the effect and let the cause
remain.
Divine
Methods
Jesus had a Divine method of healing disease.
He usually laid His hands on the sick, which
caused a circulation of life energy. After
this application He uttered deep sincere commands to the Divine
powers within to heal the person in accordance with their faith,
which is one's mental concept of healing and of God: it is not
an emotional excited state of consciousness. Those who are
seemingly benefitted by prayers to a personal God are really
benefitted by the power of suggestion to their mortal faculties,
this type of healing is like mortal life, it is temporal and of an
impermanent, transitory nature. Permanent help may be realized
by the concentration of the consciousness in a devoted state on
Infinite Spirit. This is easy to accomplish when one learns the
laws of gender of the mind as taught in Super Mind Science.
Love and power are of a universal nature and are revealed to
those whose concept of life is broad and Universal. God is not
influenced by the boundaries of creed, such limitation is physical,
not spiritual.
SUPPLICATION 35
Spiritual
Concept
The spiritual concept of life, is the idea of
the All-ness of God and the transitory con-
ditions of matter. This consciousness of
spiritual values purifies the mental purposes of life and brings
one close to the true reality of God. This realization is beyond
all dogmatic assertion and creedalistic affirmation, it gives one
comfort when in sorrow and heals the body through proper
adjustment of life energies and powers. Mental consciousness of
the Infinite in every cell of the body is the highest type of meta-
physical realization, while a denial of matter is the greatest
mental sin. It transgresses the law of God who created
matter as the “Temple of the Living God”; denial of disease is
mental ignorance. The refusal of man to admit his imperfection
does away with opportunity to develop his spiritual faculties
and is not a Christian doctrine. The true source of such teach'
ings is a mis'concept of Buddhaism. Christ taught in His state-
ment of Divine at-one-ment that “I and My Father are One”,
which included His whole being—-mind, body and soul. This is
also a metaphysical concept not understood by the materialists.
consciouness that man is master and not a slave is the true idea
of the spiritual man, not of the carnal minded, willful sinner
who ignores God until he is convinced he is about to make the
transition from the visible to the invisible. While in a mental
quandary he prays to a God whom previous to that time he had
ignored and even detested for “sin hateth the way of righteous­
ness”. That which is spiritual is foolish unto the carnal minded
while that which is carnal is foolish to those who have attained
to the wisdom of Life Divine. The war between matter and
Spirit is but the lawof gender of the mind misunderstood by
misguided mortals.
illumined soul. Usually such prayers are
temporary outbursts of emotion from those who live so negative
Infinite
Man transgresses the Divine Law and yet
often goes with less punishment than he
deserves. Infinite Love is merciful whereas
carnal mind is sinful, if this were not true man would destroy
himself before he learned the lesson that “sin never pays”. The
36 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
that their consciousness condemns their deeds. Many times
public prayers are but vain repetitions of words which have
only external meaning, many times they have been learned from
a prayer book whose purpose is to instruct those who read it
in what to say. Such books are written by mortal man with the
premise in mind that they furnish quick words and formation of
sentences to those who cannot express the conviction of their
heart. These may be termed stereotyped formal prayers without
spiritual realization on the part of the supplicant. Anyone who
uses them trains their mind to be insincere, for all true prayers
are written in the desires of the heart by the AlLseeing Divine
Mind. Can man improve on what God has done, or write words
to express spiritual ideas fitting to each individual’s spiritual
needs? No, only the power of inner perception can reveal the
thoughts needed for such spiritual upliftment. Material beauty
is only an outward manifestation of a more perfect beauty. An
oral prayer is only a crude reflection of the inner goodness and
power of an inner prayer, uttered by the consciousness of one
who has proved the utter lack of power in matter to give one
health, peace or power. The fragrance of a flower and its beauty
of color has no permanency. The flower is soon wafted away on
the wings of the wind in the form of a powder invisible to mate'
rial sight, the only lasting thing about it is its symbolical meaning,
which is the unfoldment of the powers of the soul. The higher
aspirations of a seeker of light is the greatest promise of good in
this carnal minded world. Mental consciousness of God should
extend into every cell in our body, bringing Infinite Spirit from a
realm of obscurity to a prominent place in our lives, then we
will really know “Mind over Matter”.
Mortal ^ *
S aPParent t0 eveiy careful observer that
^ . formal rites and ceremonies are failing as a
Consciousness , r , , , ,
remedy tor sin and crime, also that they have
failed for the last two thousand years, therefore a spiritualization
of the consciousness of man is the only remedy for the present
ills of life. Inner prayer which contacts God not only gives man
a reassurance of the Divine presence but also heals the sick and
brings spiritual power into manifestation. The prayer which
Jesus prayed is a complete realization of the power of mind as
taught in Super Mind Science. One should say it with the under­
standing that it is the key to mastery or Lord's Prayer, when
scientifically interpreted. It is an ideal spiritual prayer when
SUPPLICATION 37
Super Mind Science gives its meaning, however, this meaning
is given in all sense of humility and is not intended to be con­
strued as adding to the Lord’s Prayer or taking anything away,
it is only a brief analysis of the scientific philosophy it contains.
“Our Father which art in Heaven”
Oh, Infinite Spirit of Love invisible,
“Hallowed be Thy Name”
Thy sacredness be made known to man,
“Thy Kingdom come”
Thy goodness and power is now manifest,
“Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven”
Enable us to realize Thy Infinite Will in body and sold in
the form of unlimited power,
“Give us this day our daily bread”
Provide us with earthly supply through Thy power,
“And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors”
Mete out to us our just reward,
“And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil"
Raise our consciousness to a knowledge of mastery of sin,
“For Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever”
For all things belong to Infinite Spirit and manifest
through Love.
Amen.
CHAPTER III
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION
‘‘Enter Ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the
gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to
destruction, and many there be which go in there­
at, because strait is the gate, and narrow is
the way which leadeth unto life, and few there
be that find it”—Jesus.
. Attaining immortality does not depend upon
»vine a creec]) ritual, or a belief, for only a unity
onsciousness q£ man an(j God can accomplish this. Jesus
taught conditional immortality, He did not teach that all who
believe in a certain religion would attain to that sublime state
of Divine Consciousness. This Divine state must be attained
while one is on earth if they would be one of the few "who
enters the straight gate to life” referred to by Jesus. Regardless
of what one may believe, this is the truth about salvation as
taught by Christ Jesus. No man-made ceremony can change the
Divine law which governs soul salvation; no clerical pronounce­
ment can alter the decision of a Just God of Love, Light and
Truth. Jesus taught placing the responsibility on the individual,
while His disciple, John, taught an opposite doctrine, or accord­
ing to John there is an opposite statement made by Jesus concern­
ing salvation, for it is written in John (Chapter 3, verse 16): "For
God so loved the world that He gave His only Begotten Son,
that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have
everlasting life.” This teaching is salvation for the vast multi­
tudes who affirm their belief in Christ, but does not coincide
with the doctrine that "straight is the gate and narrow is the
way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it”. The
contrast is between salvation by good deeds, and salvation by
belief alone. Jesus gave a test for those who believed in Him,
the signs which were to follow them are namely, healing the
sick, casting out demons and raising the dead”.
Worldly worldly minded say that belief is
Concept sufficient and that faith will save the soul,
yet we are told in the Scripture that “faith
without works is dead . Are we to continue to accept the empty
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 39
belief void of works, which has failed during the past two thou­
sand years to give humanity health, mind control and peace of
mind? Is it not better that we do the “works” and also possess the
faith? Which is the safest road? One leads to light, health and
happiness through Super Mind Science, the other is the path of
darkness. The first requirement is a knowledge of the laws of
mind, body and soul, demonstrated by Jesus. These laws are the
genders of the mind which give the key to unlimited mental
powers, and were used by the Master in creating the “food for
the multitudes” and the “walking on water” and “raising from
the dead”. They are the positive laws of mental creation oper­
ated by the concentrated will of man and God unlimited, which
also controls the subjective powers of mind as manifest in Nature.
Science The operation of the positive law of mental
of creation which gives man the power to
Mind “overcome the world” is the highest tech­
nique of “The Science of Mind”. Through this law man
becomes one with God and is reconciled to the first principle of
Life and Truth through the harmonious blending of the
powers of mind. Super Mind Science overcomes matter and
gives the individual a glimpse of the “kingdom of God at hand”.
Disease, sorrow and sin are mastered through overcoming their
cause, which is negation of the mind and an uncontrolled physi­
cal nature. Demonstration is the proof of power, and those not
able to demonstrate the Divine powers of the Master have a
poor concept of the reality of God. One will have to answer for
deeds committed while in the body, not for the correctness of
his belief, for reality is recognized by God while speculation is
but a mental shadow. Materialism is the curse of this world
while spirituality is the leaven in the bread of life. All who
would overcome the flesh must set aside material beliefs and
dependence on the physical senses, then spiritual healing accom­
panied by a permanent realization of the Divine Mind will
manifest without interference.
Immortal principles govern the laws of life,
otherwise reproduction would cease. That
which will remain of the individual repre­
sents the eternal principle of being, and upon dissolution of this
body the inner self takes on another body of a more subtle
nature. The good deeds of one’s life are the lights of life in this
Immortal
Principles
40 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
spiritual body, Paul says "for this mortal shall put on immor-
tality". The identity remains the same as the earth identity in
a sense but the changed condition causes the necessity of spiritual
faculties of cognition. Human life is like a flame of fire, it is
lighted in the morning, it burns all day, and while it may be
called the same flame at night because it has continued to burn
.all day, its essence is continually changing as the fire consumes
its fuel. The principle of the flame is eternal while the substance
or fuel is temporal, thus man continues to change, at childhood
he is one being, while in manhood he is the same identity, yet
every cell in his body has changed since he was a child. The
identity being of a permanent principle and nature, it does not
change continually as matter does, but grows and develops
and if one has the understanding of Divine Life and Truth it
takes on permanent qualities. The identity must renounce the
pomp and show of material change, and through a knowledge
of mind become immortal. The sinless life of Jesus gave Him
power over life and disease, and also made Him immortal. He
lived and had His being on the plane of His Heavenly Father,
and His attainment was reached by inward prayer, fasting and
mental concentration on overcoming the world of matter, sin
and disease.
At-one-ment At-one-ment in Christ gives one the power
in to heal the sick and live a life of unselfish
Christ love, it draws one away from the changing
delusion of the corporeal world. The firmness of our resolve to
reach the inner reality of Spirit will bear fruit according to our
effort in overcoming the flesh. "Seek the kingdom of God or
Good and all else shall be added unto you" is the Divine promise.
If the student of life is sincere in seeking the kingdom within
he will ever turn away from the babble of the unlearned, away
from material sensation to dependence upon the Christ Spirit
which is stronger than the flesh. One who knows the Truth will
be willing to work out their own salvation", while mental
weaklings desire the prayers of others to attain salvation for
them.
j_j0ly Holy Sacraments are only symbols, and are
Sacraments wort^ on^y t^
le mental value of truth which
they suggest to the mind. God did not design
them or ordain them, they were written by man, and however
good they may seem, they are of mortal significance only. Only
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 41
the desires of the heart which manifest in those who partake
of them are Godly, if their desires are unselfish and of
the Christ Spirit. Those who believe they can sin and escape
payment of their debt to God’s laws through the remission
powers of a Sacrament or the application of so'called Holy
Sacrament are deluded by a belief that God condones their evil
deed. Super Mind Science places the responsibility of deeds
upon the one who commits them because every day we see
suffering caused by sins against the laws of Nature. The only
true remedy for suffering is to break the attachment of the mind
to material pleasure and all things temporal, desiring only
spiritual power and Divine wisdom from the “kingdom of God
within’’. Final deliverance is reached through mental effort, and
no amount of vicarious effort on the part of another can change
the necessity for this mental effort, for all sin is mental, likewise
all atonement.
Lost
Souls
Those who are so unfortunate as to believe
that they can wait until they are ready to
lay this mortal body down before seeking
spiritual deliverance from sin and then attain salvation im-
mediately, are the ones who comprise the legion of “Lost Souls”.
Inertia is death—action is life, therefore effort represents accom­
plishment while postponement represents failure. Those whose
faith is for death alone will find life a hard master for “the way
of the transgressor is hard”. Inner illumination through self
control is the remedy for the ills of this world and an assurance
of eternal life in the invisible world or “our Father’s house of
many mansions”.
Self development comes from self reliance,
weakness comes from depending on others.
Super Mind Science instructs more than it
sympathizes. The fact that one is willing to fight the battles of
life is good cause to believe that they will win, only quitters and
doubters are among those listed in the book of life as failures.
Mental Science gives one the strength of mind to resist becoming
one of the vast multitude who are the sufferers of this world.
Divine law and justice demand the reformation of the sinful
mind, not a re-statement of a dogmatic belief. The process by
which man is made a new creature is the “renewing of the
mind”, a development of that “mind of mastership which was
in Christ Jesus”. The laws of Divine Mind demand that man
seek the Truth for the Truth will never seek man. If the
Self
Development
42 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Theological
Speculation
reader would become master of life’s problems then he must
decide first to be an open minded seeker. The true salvation of
man is to withdraw from the world of physical senses and enter
into that Divine peace within. Those who pray to God to help
them in their unbelief demonstrates the truth that no one can
govern their mind until they learn the laws of mind. As faith
is mental, it is acquired by a form of concentration, therefore
those faithless mortals need to understand concentration.
The ruination of lives on every hand is
being witnessed because of the erroneous
theological speculations which favor the
weakness of the flesh. Theology speculates on the crucifixion as
a ready means of forgiveness for weak mortals who live for
pleasure only, but when misery overtakes them they appeal to
God. This speculation fails to understand the philosophy of self
mastery which was unfolded to the world through the cruci­
fixion. The cross is a lesson in “spirit over flesh”, “mind over
matter”, it teaches to the intelligent the lesson of overcoming a
world of misery, sin and lust, also the glory of a spiritualized
being who lives independent of matter, and shows the unreality
of death to those who are truly enlightened. The appearing of
Jesus after death proves the eternal reality in the principle of
spiritual identity manifest in all who “doeth the Will of the
Father . The ideal of God manifest in Jesus resides in all, but
the proper way to bring it forth has been misconstrued due to
the theological tendency to teach the remission of sin more than
the mastery of the cause of sin, the flesh. The idea that the
material blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sins is extremely
lacking in spiritual ideality, it resembles the Pagan view rather
than the Christian. His life was the beginning of a new spiritual
understanding of God, therefore the shedding of blood would
denote His great self control and power which made it possible
for Him to challenge physical death and become its master. We
also learn the lesson that if one is “at one with the God Spirit’
it matters little what sinful minded men may do against us or
what happens to the physical body for, as Jesus said before
Pilate, “my kingdom is not of this world”. The demonstrations
of Jesus does not set aside the demonstrations of power others
are supposed to show the world in order that they may be “doers
of the Divine works”. Constant preaching without teaching is
not the remedy for the ills of man.
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 43
Proof The requirement of those who are the fol-
of lowers of Jesus is that they perform the
Divinity demonstrations He taught His disciples. He
did not lessen the necessity of one knowing the “laws of life"
or demonstrating over sin, disease and powers of the adversary
(flesh). Without complaint He carried His cross up the “road
of sorrow” to Calvary, for He knew how futile it was to try to
explain Divine laws of Being to a sinful world. The flesh seldom
hears the pleadings of Spirit, it more often persecutes those who
challenge its claims. The explanation of this inner foundation
of Truth is explained in Jesus’ statements “I and My Father are
One” and “No man cometh unto The Father, except by Me”,
meaning the universal Christ Spirit which He manifested. This
Spirit when realized, heals the sick, lifts up the fallen and gives
rest to the weary. His resurrection proved that He was Master
of the “Science of Life” for He raised Himself according to a
previous prediction. A belief in life would not have accomplished
this wonderful demonstration, only a knowledge of the “Science
of Life” could have given Him an accurate understanding of His
ability to survive death.
Spirit Jesus proved that matter and Spirit cooperate,
in because the same Jesus seen in the flesh was
Matter the one and same raised from the dead. He
did not deny matter, He overcame it with the power of Spirit.
In demonstrating the power of Spirit in those afflcted with
disease, He also healed them, which proves the truth of Pan'
theism, for He raised the flesh body to glory as well as the
spiritual body. He proved by demonstration that God operates
through the power of the consciousness and mind of man when
man has the correct understanding of “the power within”. This
proves the doctrine of “there is no mind in matter” to be false
and a lie, and disproves the auto-suggestion used by so-called
Christians which is only a denial of matter, therefore false and
contrary to the doctrines of Christ.
Numerous sects use the resurrection of Jesus
to prove the most impossible doctrines con­
ceivable by man. To the Spiritualist His
resurrection was a proof of spirit return, which of course was
not the case. To the Christian Scientist it proves that the entire
physical universe has no existence. If this premise is true then
the physical Jesus had no existence, which is a complete denial
Sectarian
Falsehoods
44 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
not only of the physical man Jesus, but also a denial of the reality
of the flesh existence of all people as well. To the Orthodox
Christian, Jesus is a blood sacrifice for the remission of sin and
His resurrection was to make it easy to obtain a pardon.
Super Mind To a Super Mind Scientist, Jesus' resurrec-
Scientist tion is an example of the highest form of
View mastership, given as practical proof before
the entire world, proving that each individual can master the
flesh, sin and disease. His healing was the best way to overcome
disease ever demonstrated on this earth and was practical, not
theoretical. It was to teach the world a method of overcoming
pain, sin and sorrow by the application of a power which was at
that time unheard of. The laying on of the hands was a means
of contact between healer and patient, and a means of con-
trolling healing energy or life currents, a method which all
Super Mind Scientists understand. Jesus placed healing in the
Church and demonstrated it in the Temples showing He pre­
ferred it to preaching and not doing, and for that reason it
• should be a practice in every Christian Church. Super Mind
Science gives as a part of its ritual a weekly service for the
benefit of all sick people where the Christ healing is performed
scientifically, using the forces of Nature as well as the Christ
power. Its aim is to re-establish Christianity in fact, not theory,
as it was demonstrated by Jesus Christ. Thousands of seekers
who have been healed is the proof that it succeeds.
. Students The system of performing healing and other
of demonstrations of power, including the relief
*
■ Jesus of mental obsessions, called “possessed of
demons was a part of the curriculum in the School of Disciples
taught by Jesus. There were seventy Disciples in all and only
eleven of them succeeded in learning His “Science of Life”, while
the rest soon forgot His instructions. This proves the doctrine
that the harvest is ripe, but the reapers few”, for there is
always suffering and disease in the world to be overcome. The
ones who were faithful became great teachers, healers and
demonstrators of Divine powers which proved His science to be
The light of the World”. The same is true of all faithful
Super Mind Scientists, they overcome disease, poverty and sin,
however, “many are called but few are chosen”. The few are
the ones who are sincere and desire to become a demonstrator
of the Christ powers, the many are the unfaithful. W hy are the
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 45
so-called Christians so opposed to the Christ healing? Do they
believe He can save the soul, but is powerless to even stop a
headache? Or is the God they worship weaker than man made
healing systems? The writer is inclined to believe that they lack
faith in the very doctrine they profess to believe. The Church
should be interested in a body and mind saving program for
“what profiteth a man if he should gain the whole world and
lose his soul”, or what can he give in exchange for his soul?
Soul If a ceremony can save one soul by direct
Saving influence with God, then why can it not save
Ceremonies all souls at the same instant, for we are told
that God is no respector of persons. The Science of Mind
teaches one that salvation is a mental process, therefore can be
better understood in Mental Science. No ceremony can take the
place of soul development, only the actual doing of good deeds
and the performing of Divine work is sufficient.
Authority The demonstrations of power which Jesus
of performed were the evidence of His Divine
Jesus authority. He challenged the Rabbis and
Priests alike to prove their doctrines through works like He
proved His. They met His challenge by falsely accusing Him of
being a “winebibber and instrument of evil Belzebub the
'Prince of devils’.” The narrow minded of today accuse Mental
Scientists of the same evil, which proves that there are few true
Christians. There are many modern Pharisees who masquerade
under the name of Christian, they have but changed their outer
form, like “white sepulchres, white without but corrupt within".
The Divine Mind Scientist knows that outer forms do not im­
press God, only the inner reality changes the results of acts and
deeds. Jesus came to prove how powerless the formal ceremony
of religion was, His idea was to establish a practical healing
science and to show mankind how to overcome the flesh, thereby
contacting the Heavenly Father. The idea that God sends suffer­
ing on mankind is contrary to all teachings and demonstrations
given by Jesus. Man will continue to suffer until he understands
the God which Jesus worshipped, the God of mastery over
disease. Sin, weakness and submission are mortal, while overcom­
ing is spiritual.
46 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Suffering
Predicted
Human relationship did not enter into the
uman picture of life which Jesus lived, for He
Re adons ip taught that a “Prophet was not without
honor, except in his own country, and his enemies were those of
his own household”. Many say “I would study and improve
my mind but my family objects”; these have failed to realize
that the all important issue is to possess knowledge and know
God or be lost spiritually, and they usually suffer with disease
while on earth. The living Christ is the spirit within, those
who celebrate His death and fail to find Him in life are to be
pitied for their lack of understanding and censured for their
ignorance. Super Mind Scientists should heal them and try to
cause them to see the error of their ways.
Jesus sent His disciples into the world with
the injunction, “Behold I send you forth as
sheep in the midst of wolves, be ye therefore
wise as serpents and harmless as doves”. The true disciples of
Christ of today would do well to observe this command, for they
face the same problems today which the disciples of the Master
faced then. When you suffer for the cause of righteousness,
remember it is “the cross to be borne” which Jesus described,
and never resent persecution because it helps to develop the
spiritual nature of those who must bear it.
Spiritual The spiritual birth of Jesus illustrates “mind
Birth of over matter” in the true sense of the word,
Jesus and proves God to be the Father of all.
Jesus said call no man on earth Father, for there is but one
Father of all, the Heavenly Father ’. Those religions who call
their Priests Father are severely rebuked by this Scripture.
They should remember the commandment “Thou shalt have no
Gods before Me . The Christ spirit has been forever as prin­
ciple Divine, the inner spark of Divinity in every individual.
The The Wise Men “from the East” were spirit-
Wise ual minded men who perceived the advent
Men of The Prince of Peace” through knowing
the meaning of His star. They knew that the star represented
individuality united to God, which was an old symbol even before
the birth of Jesus. They made their offering to the Christ-child in
the form of a Divine communion, while the material presents
they brought were of little significance.
■
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 47
Man a *Man as a “Son of God” is a truth, not a
Son of theory.* Jesus said “Ye are sons of God”,
God and “Ye and Me are brothers”, which
describes man as he is, spiritually. Super Mind Science has
proven by the demonstrations of power and the glorious at-one-
ment methods of mind power that His words were scientifically
correct.
Life Our lives should be a sacrament unto the
a Most High, continually observed in the
Sacrament chambers of the mind. This type of sacra'
ment makes life a pleasant journey and gives one peace of mind,
for every time we overcome as taught in Super Mind Scienc we
learn that delusion and the unwareness of God within has pro'
duced our trouble. All should learn to roll the materialistic
stone away from the body, which is the tomb of the soul, and
awaken to a life of Light and Truth through demonstration of
Divine Mind power.
His Cup W hen Jesus was about to be crucified by the
of ignorant multitude, He realized what was to
Sorrow come, saying “Father if it be Thy Will that
I shall drink this cup, let it not pass from Me, Thy Will not my
Will be done.” In that spirit He gave His life because the
religions of His day hated the demonstrations of power which
He gave, they were jealous of the spiritual reputation which He
enjoyed. So likewise today the religions of materialism dispute
the power and demonstrations of Divine Mind, but “children
of light be not weary in well doing, your reward will be either
in this world or the next”.
Christ, The The suffering on The Cross of Calvary was
Spiritual of the flesh, not once did the indwelling spirit
Being suffer. This suffering, however, was real as
far as mortal perception is concerned. How empty is the claim
of those mortals who say the flesh is an illusion and does not
exist. When compared with the supreme sacrifice of Christ
which was His “mortal body”, they should hide their face in
shame for trying to take away from Him the glory of “over-
coming the flesh”. They use the most unintelligent form of
hypnosis and the power of auto-suggestion, but would they
“drink His cup”? or would the Orthodox Christian drink it?
Have they shared the blood of “The New Covenant”, the perse­
cution which comes to those who do His Divine Works?
48 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Christ’s
Ascension
Instead of celebrating Christ’s death as is the
custom, Christians should celebrate His
“overcoming death”. His glorious ascension
after His final meeting with His disciples lets us know now that
“the Comforter has come”, and also the “Spirit of Truth” which
was promised by the Master, for the blind see, the deaf hear
and the lame walk.
Life
and
Light
hope was death
Super Mind Science was revealed to the
author while he was blind, and convalescing
on a bed of sickness where the only mortal
While the mortal darkness and helplessness
of matter seemed insurmountable, from the inner recess of his
being came Light and Life. His sight and health returned and
this wonderful Science was born from the demonstration of a
super power in Nature. Divine, Unconquerable Infinite Spirit
which controls the energy of life, heals mankind’s ills and lights
his way to “the throne of grace”.
With victory over disease and the flesh,
Illumination comes illumination and direct knowledge of
God, a permanent channel of communica­
tion between man and His Heavenly Father. The realization
that this power and light is universal reforms the sinner and
takes away the pleasure or illusion called pleasure, found in
violating the laws of life.
Material Material rituals are empty in comparison to
Ritual *^e *
nner illumination which purifies the
mind, cleanses the body and lifts the con­
sciousness to unknown heights of joy and peace. Every Super
Mind Scientist who has overcome disease and sin has experienced
that touch of Divinity which is a part of the demonstration of
mastery over the lower self. Our Baptism which is Wisdom, fol­
lows with a love for healing the sick; our Eucharist is
constant contact with God and the overpowering of evil or
lower self.
Spiritual When self mastery is attained through cor-
Contact of rect concentration and realization of the God
Christ principle, spiritual contact with Christ is
attained at Will. This Divine communion with Christ should be
practiced daily by every Super Mind Scientist, for in the dawn
of our scientific realization of “the power within” one needs
the actual contact with the Master. As followers of Jesus we
mmm
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 49
are to emulate Him and imitate His mighty works, for we have
the promise that “these works shall Ye do and even greater
works shall Ye also do”.
Comes Jesus said “I come as a sword”, meaning a
as a spiritual sword which cuts down the tower
Sword of the flesh or Carnal Will, substituting there'
for the Spiritual Will of a regenerated being, who having attained
self control is in contact with Infinite Spirit. The road to the
Calvary of the flesh is the parting of the ways with our worldly
associates and companions in sin; the light of the world is
attainment of spirituality. When one constantly contacts the
Christ spirit, He becomes their beacon on the sea of Life.
S lfish Those who are selfish minded, having no
time to do the Divine works, will awaken to
y a gray dawn in the final analysis from their
conscience within. Jesus said we should attend to Our Heavenly
Father’s business, “heal the sick, preach the Truth and do all
things which He has commanded us to do”. This shows how
empty is that selfish life where the Father’s business is neglected
and the fruits of Divine labor are lost. The record of suffering
of those who do the Divine Will is the strength of the church,
for it proves mastery over the flesh and complete reununciation
of the flesh world for the unselfish Life Divine. The author
long ago decided that a material life has nothing to offer except
misery, sin, sickness and death.
False
Doctrines
Jesus said to His Disciples “these signs shall
follow them that believe; they shall speak
with new tongues, and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not harm them, they shall lay hands on the
sick and they shall recover”. He did not say “My Disciples
shall do this but them (meaning believers) in all times to come
shall not possess this Divine power”. These negative teachers
of false doctrines who say that laying hands on the sick is mes'
meric should read the instructions of the Master-to His Disciples.
He did not say “give suggestions to the sick or deny the existence
of a disease, or pray for the sick”, He said “they shall lay
HANDS on the sick and they shall recover.” Any so-called
religions which deny this healing are, according to Jesus,
unbelievers.
50 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Many
Substitutes
Modern
Pharisees
False
Beliefs
Jesus spoke of the many substitutes which
would be offered for His demonstrations,
some saying I cast out demons in your name,
others claiming other rewards for services rendered in His name.
But to all substitutes for His genuine works of Spirit He said
“depart from Me Ye workers of iniquity, I know Ye not .
Those who say “I was healed by medicine
or “I take communion” and others who say
“I deny matter” will all be included in the
curses placed upon the Pharisee, “who hath ears but hears not,
and eyes but cannot see,” for only the Divine works will prove
the Christian Spirit of an individual. Super Mind Science
teaches that this work must be accomplished and there is no
other way of atonement or at-one-ment. The passing into
immortality should be done while living instead of waiting until
mortal death, for only such identity as we build will be all that
we can hope to possess after mortal death.
The false belief that the soul is not in the
body is mental suicide, for it tends to sep'
arate consciousness from mortal existence;
such false beliefs cause much suffering in the world. The soul
is the consciousness within of right and wrong, the soul center
is in the Solar Plexus where the soul judges every thought which
enters into our passageways of life energy and impulse.
Man’s ls but natural that if we are to save the
D . soul we must save the body, for man’s being
cannot be separated. Savings one s soul in
the church while their body is in the infirmary is impossible, and
premature death is the price paid for ignorance of this principle.
Man may walk a flowery path filled with sweet oratory while
here on earth but his soul will find him out and he shall pay the
price for neglecting his being. Sins of omission are as great as
sins of commission regardless of whether the sinner is ignorant
of the law of life violated or not.
Jesus overcame death because of His mental
and spiritual power; His victory was the
reward for healing the sick and doing the
Divine works, not because He believed in a certain sectarian
belief. Facts and demonstrations are scientific and mark the dir-
ference between Truth and false concept. When we say Mind
we mean all intelligence. Science of Mind is the power that
Death
Overcome
SACRAMENT AND SALVATION 51
comes from correct scientific demonstration of Divine Mind which
gave Jesus victory over sin, lust and the body. That Truth and
Science is the same today as then, we call it Super Mind Science
because it is the highest realization of the scientific demonstra-
tion of the power of Mind and God. This Science has proven
thousands of times that it overcomes disease and is mankind’s
Comforter, the spirit of Truth
CHAPTER IV
THE HOLY EUCHARIST AND DIVINE SCIENCE
“I and My Father are One” — Jesus.
At-one-ment is the mental contact of mortal
Atonement man with God—the complete purification of
the body, symbolized by bread, and the
mind symbolized by wine. The evidence of atonement is
at-one-ment with God. Through this Divine mental unity,
disease disappears and physical and mental harmony is established.
In Super Mind Science the student is taught how to attain
Divine unity through generating life energy and then how to
form a mental contact with bliss. While experiencing this bliss
God manifests, this establishes actual contact with the Infinite,
rights all wrongs and makes one strong spiritually.
Responsibility The Divine Sacrament in itself cannot purify
for one, it is only a symbol no matter how per-
Actions formed. Jesus did not intend to relieve one
of their responsibility and thus encourage weakness. He intended
to charge everyone with their duty and then He instituted the
Last Supper as a symbol of at-one-ment of Him, His Disciples
and His Father. When mentally contacting God, one should
remember “I and My Father are One” and “He who seeth Me
has also seen the Father”, “I am in you and you are in Me,
Christ Jesus”. The purification of mind comes from doing the
Divine Will of Him who sent us into this world. The act of
partaking of the Holy Sacrament or the Eucharist is not enough,
for Jesus urged His followers to do His Works, and to use the
communion only as a remembrance of Him, and to remember
Thou shalt worship no Gods before His Father who is in
"Heaven" (meaning invisible). The at-one-ment of Christ
with God overcame the world (death) for death is of the
world.
Jesus
Sinless
Jesus was sinless because He overcame the
influence of His body over His conscious­
ness by fasting forty days in the wilderness.
In doing this, He rejected the materialism of a temporal kingdom
presented to His spiritual consciousness or His highest nature, by
thoughts or adversaries. His power to rebuke the adversary
THE HOLY EUCHARIST AND DIVINE SCIENCE 53
demonstrated the sinless nature of the Divine Mind fully mani-
festing through Him. The overcoming is mental, therefore no
physical ceremony can take its place.
Renounce the physical world and all it stands
for, as all power belongs to God. Return
blessings for curses, and do good unto those
who use you ill, overcome evil with good, disease with power
(energy) and darkness with light, then you will know the nature
of God. Submission to disease or evil demonstrates a lack of
wisdom and leads one to destruction, regardless of how many
ceremonies he may indulge in. Jesus disregarded all formal
religion and taught by demonstration, offering that as His
authority, without asking endorsement from anyone on the
mortal plane. He was fearless and positive, never taking a
negative position. He taught by symbol and parable so that
there would be many interpretations which are necessary to
satisfy the different degrees of intelligence in the world. The
universality of His teaching may be seen in the meaning of the
parables. •
Victory Ceremonies will not result in deliverance
Over from mortality, for “faith without works is
Death dead” and “works without wisdom are
dead”. Those who believe that Jesus came to deliver dishonest
persons from punishment by providing a means of escape, and
that His suffering will earn them a heavenly reward are cer­
tainly ignorant of the true nature of God. True reformation is
a mental process, not a physical one. Can the body sin when the
mind is pure? Can the pure minded sin and transgress the
Divine law? Or can one who is positive and creative mentally
become a destroyer physically? All logic points to the fact that
evil is negation, and spirituality is mental positiveness. Reforma­
tion then, is to possess mind and body control by being a positive
master of creation. Super Mind Science teaches the proper way
to reach this Super Mental State—“seek and Ye shall find”.
Victory over death means a positive spiritual “eternal conscious­
ness” of God.
During years of suffering, the writer tried
many so-called healing remedies but most of
them proved worthless and many were a
detriment more than a help. Finally despairing of finding
material remedies of value in mastering the cause of disease, he
Material
Remedies
54 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
turned to the study of Divine Mind as a remedy. The methods
of study were concentration and meditation and a diligent search
of the Scriptures until finally the truth about disease was re-
vealed. Disease is congestion and is the result of sin or violation
of Nature’s laws. Material Sciences have given many fanciful
names to the numerous diseases which afflict mankind, yet all
of them are the result of congestion and lack of life energies
mentally, physically and spiritually. There is but one remedy,
expansion, this comes from applying energy. Super Mind
Science teaches how to demonstrate this healing energy after
only a few minutes practice. This method is the result of years
of study on the part of the Founder, for many theories of heal­
ing and auto-suggestion were tried before the tapping of this
energy became a reality. The only true means of healing the
body is through this energy and the mind, regardless of what
method is applied. Medicine arouses a little of this energy which
accounts for the healings through the use of medicine, the same
can also be said of other healing systems.
God When Jesus healed the sick He "taught “it
and is not I that doeth these things, but Him
Energy who sent me”; this is the highest truth about
healing. Medicine or Healers do not heal the sick, it is God in
Nature which alone heals. Every year hundreds die who have
relied on medical remedies yet Theology endorses the use of
medicine. The two, Theology and medicine work hand in hand
and the sick, the poor and demented are the victims. Super
Mind Science reveals to the seeker the direct way to control the
energy which performs all healing, therefore it is the most suc­
cessful way of energizing the body and overcoming the ills of
humanity. Materialists try all different types of remedies but
ignore the true remedy, the Christ energy and power, and they
suffer as the result of their ignorance. Would God create man
and make him a slave to drugs which man himself creates? No,
for God is Creative, Energy, Power, Truth, Love and Light, the
opposite of disease which is darkness, congestion, sin and ignor­
ance. When Divine energy and power is used, disease becomes
powerless, for all evil and disease is the result of negation.
Power Jesus demonstrations of healing stand out
like a star in a dark night, and are beyond
^’<
x^ all concepts of mortal man. Mortal reme­
dies are paled into insignificance when one considers the energy
ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH 55
and power of God which flowed through the hands of Jesus
and healed the blind, the deaf and the lame.
When we read the letters received from
grateful people who have been rescued from
disease of every kind and description
through Super Mind Science, we are impressed beyond words
with the greatness of Divine Mind and energy. It is this power
and not ceremonies which Jesus came to establish.
stration of Divine power alone proves at-one-ment with the
erroneous, for each and everyone must give up the flesh and
all it stands for.
If this were the purpose, then why did Jesus heal the sick, raise
the dead and pronounce all disease sin? W hy all of these
demonstrations to prove He was a sacrifice for the rest of the
world? Was His raising from the dead a means of proving He
alone masters the sins of man?
Life, that being the reason He selected seventy Disciples and
taught them the laws of mind over matter, Spirit over flesh and
character stronger than temptation.
man. When the inner man is fully unfolded he becomes
stronger than mortality; this is brought about by the Will of
man becoming as the Divine Will, one with the Father, or as
I Am is stronger than negation, congestion and all body
weakness.
Divine
Harmony
W hy should man take communion when his
mind and body are out of harmony with
God? One should remember that demon-
infinite Father. The view which some hold that the sacrifice
of Jesus is sufficient to atone for the sins of the whole woirld is
Blood
Jesus is not a receptacle for sins and mortal
weakness. He stands as a Divine Teacher,
a torchlight to suffering humanity and not
as a blood sacrifice for the propitiation of the sins of the world.
Spiritual
Laws
Jesus’ examples of power were to prove
that spirit (mind) is strong while the body
is weak. His teachings were the Science of
Raising Jesus’ raising after His crucifixion was to
from the prove that the body is not the man, that it
Dead is only a dwelling place of Spirit or inner
Jesus said “I and My Father are one”. The realization of the
56 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Reality Power is like electricity, until it is brought
of into action or demonstration it is unknown.
Power The works of Jesus were to make power
realized as objective as well as subjective. He showed the world
that the so-called laws of matter are inferior to spiritual power
and intelligence which actually rules the lower manifestations
of mind that we term matter. Super Mind Science goes on proving
and doing the Divine demonstrations, showing the science Jesus
taught to be infallible and the greatest science ever discovered
by man. Every day we prove it superior to all mortal remedies.
Christ Christ is a universal principle and Jesus, the
a Universal man, attained to Christhood through mastery
Spirit of the flesh. The Christ principle is the idea
of the Divine sonship of God revealed in man. Jesus said “even
before the world I was in the bosom of My Father”, showing
the eternal nature of the Christ Spirit. The virgin birth of Jesus
is to prove that the true fatherhood of man is God, the concep­
tion is to teach that God or Divinity is in every seed of life.
Man as Man as the Son of God overcomes the world
Divine Son of (flesh) and thus becomes the offspring of
God his Divine Father, the pure and changeless
Spirit of All-knowing, All-seeing Universal power. His work
of mastery over the elements, over disease and sin through
Divine power is “the light of the world”. Jesus commanded the
people to worship God, His Father, and not Him, for well He
knew that the flesh dims the brightness of Infinite Light, Truth
and Love which is the only reality and power.
Materiality The betrayal of Jesus symbolizes the decep-
Versus tion of matter which denies Spirit. When
Spirituality they came to arrest Him, He said “are Ye
i.ome out as against a thief with swords and with staves to take
Me? I was with you in the Temple teaching and Ye took me
not, but the Scriptures must be fulfilled”. Here carnal mind
used the forces of the material world to defeat the cause of
Spirit. Every day we see fulfilled the prophecy of “matter seek­
ing to overcome the Son of God . The Scriptures have many
prophecies of this type, for the lower mentality which is nega­
tive, rebels against the higher which is positive, but finally the
higher proves its power over the lower. Thus again we learn
the power of Spirit.
THE HOLY EUCHARIST AND DIVINE SCIENCE 57
Saving
Power
When Jesus said “for whosoever will save
his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall
lose his life for my sake and the gospels,
the same shall be saved”. This saying demonstrates that one who
overcomes the body and lives a true-life is very often likely to be
attacked and killed by the materialists who preach saving through
doctrine, instead of through Divine demonstration. When they
witness Divine power in action, they desire to obstruct it by sin
and the eliminating or destroying of the one who demonstrates
it. Those who demonstrate mind over matter, Spirit over the
worldly mind, cannot be destroyed, for they live on a plane of
eternal at-one-ment with the Divine Father. “The same shall
be saved” shows the permanence of the Divine Father-Mother
God Spirit, which Jesus referred to as “Him who sent me into
the world”.
Kingdom The Divine kingdom is here and now, not
of after death, and is proven in Mark 9:1, “and
God He said unto them, Verily I say unto you,
that there be some of them that stand here, which shall not
taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come
with power.” The doctrine that man must die and then await the
resurrection in order to realize God is the misconcept of carnal
mind. When at-one-ment becomes a reality one rises above the
limitations of the flesh while living on earth here and now. The
true power of atonement is at-one-ment mentally and spiritually
with the Divine Father. The demonstrations of healing the sick
and the giving of spiritual wisdom are the proofs of this Divine
attainment.
The
Passover
The Passover which Jesus ate with His
Disciples before His crucifixion was His last
farewell to the world of matter, His triumph
over the forces of darkness. Although a sad farewell to His
Disciples, it was the beginning of His greatest success, the mas­
tery of death, and victory over the grave. It was not a ritual
for the forgiveness or pardon of sins, it was a gesture of the
fearlessness and power of Spirit. It gave no cessions to mortal
laws, or any respect to the dead beliefs of the followers of Moses
who were to become the instrument of sin and kill Him for
His proof of the doctrine of the supremacy of Mind and Spirit
over matter, disease, and all the illusions of a sinful and negative
world.
58 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
A
Test
Jesus asked them “can Ye drink of the cup
that I drink of, and be baptized with the
baptism I am baptized with” and they said
unto Him, “we can”. This was their great test, for that cup
meant to stand the death of the physical body knowing, Ye
shall not be harmed, for you are not the body, but the Son of a
living God”. In Super Mind Science, the true Disciple will
learn the true meaning of taking this cup. We have proven
that man is not confined to his body but is a free agent in the
universe, that he can lay down his mortal cloak and travel the
heavenly way while his body rests in slumber, for death is only
a sleep to those who know this Divine power.
Truth Jesus looked upon them and said, “with men
and it is impossible but not with God, for with
God God all things are possible”. Here the flesh
and all of its negative doctrines of impossibility is rebuked and
we learn that nothing is impossible to God. This includes heal­
ing the body, controlling the elements, the power to raise from
the body with consciousness and power, and illuminating the
understanding with Infinite Mind. The “bitter cup” of Jesus
was His persecution. Are you as a Christian ready to be reviled
for doing His Works? If so you drink from the “cup of bitter­
ness ’ from your associates when you prove to them the Science
of Mind over body.
Carnal Most people seem to think that practicing
the science which Jesus demonstrated is a
disgrace. They forget that the Apostles
were stoned as they passed from city to city healing the sick,
which was works of the Church which Jesus founded. The
Apostles were not ashamed of His science, but the Elders
scoffed and said what fanatical work is this”, and declined to
have anything to do with such a new religion where the fol­
lowers were healers.
Orthodox ^or t^at reason the church of Jesus soon
Church ceased to be, and an Orthodox form of wor­
ship based on the letter was founded three
hundred years afterward. In it the sick were scorned and
placed in hospitals and yet the cup and bread were passed, using
it only as a symbol, rejecting it as a practice. Here and there
a healer and Christian would come into understanding and
THE HOLY EUCHARIST AND DIVINE SCIENCE 59
rebuke this form of hypocrisy and they would be burned at the
stake, the Church being the persecutor. The suffering of
martyrs was intense and the world witnessed the fulfilling of
the persecutions foretold by Jesus.
Power “Blessed are Ye when they revile you and
of persecute you for My name’s sake”—Jesus.
Spirit This should be the attitude of all who can
demonstrate Super Mind Science, take your persecution in
silence and enter Divine mental communion. The Comforter
that was to come is none other than the Truth and power as
demonstrated in Super Mind Science.
CHAPTER V
SOUL DELIVERANCE
“But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless
them that curse you, do good to them that hate
you, and pray for them which despitefully use
you, and persecute you; That ye may be the chil­
dren of your Father which is in heaven: for He
maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the
good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the
unjust. ” — Jesus.
Forbearance The doctrine of Soul Deliverance from suf-
and fering taught by Jesus Christ requires the
Self Mastery greatest mind control and spiritual wisdom,
for only with such understanding can one turn the other
cheek and invite the enemy to proceed with their idea of physi-
cally administering justice. Those who have known contact
with God within know that God manifests Love, therefore
regardless of what others do or say against us, we must never
lower our consciousness to their plane of thought. If we do, we
lose control of our mentality and sin against the All-knowing
Divine Spirit within.
Violation of Love No one who would kill his enemy can ever
Idea Is claim the right to soul salvation regardless
Unchristian of what anyone may say on this subject.
Those who use physical force and kill so-called criminals are
more criminal than the one they kill, for they deliberately vio­
late the idea and principle of Christ Love with full intention to
destroy a so-called "enemy of society”. Is society greater than
God, or can society forgive them for killing their enemy?
Regardless of whether the killing be personal or political they
are condemned by the law of Love. One may live down the sin
of being a party to the killing of a criminal if they fast, pray,
repent and demonstrate Divine Mind Science; otherwise their
souls are lost for they fall under the condemnation of the Ser­
mon on the Mount uttered by Jesus shortly before He was mur­
dered in the name of “legal capital punishment”. How anyone
who claims to be a Christian, hoping for immortality can become
a party to such gross violation of the law of Love, and hope for
u m n n a m B i
SOUL DELIVERANCE 61
War
Denounced
Christian
Hypocrisy
deliverance and salvation is indeed a great mystery, for it is
next to impossible for them to attain it.
Jesus said “Those who kill with the sword,
shall die by the sword”, meaning the spirit'
ual sword of guilt upon the conscience
which causes the second death, or loss of “eternal conscious'
ness”. Jesus did not say this law would be suspended in case
of war, for the Divine laws of Mind and Spirit are immutable
and no amount of praying or sacrificing can change the law.
One may change the conditions of their own mentality to con'
form with the Divine law, providing they know the Science
of the Mind. If they do not overcome their sin while on earth
it will overcome them in the next expression of life. If Jesus
were on earth He would say, “rather than kill your fellowman,
accept death of your body and save your soul for he who dieth
for My sake shall live again”. Upon these grounds of facts, Super
Mind Science denounces war and killing in any form.
Hypocrites who love the ways of sin and
spiritual darkness say that the doctrine of
Christ is not practical. This is because they
do not desire to give it a trial, they desire a life of sin, a death'
bed repentance and a heavenly reward for wrong doing, but
O, how foolish they are to think that God is deceived. Jesus
said “I am the Way and the Life, you cannot serve Mammon
and God at the same time”. If the teachings of Christ are not
practical to live by they will serve little benefit to die by. When
one attains mind control they find that the Life Divine is the
most satisfactory and the most practical to live by. Having
overcome their lower nature, ceased to eat of flesh and corrupt
food, they see how foolish it is to be attached to the things
which kill; they become clean mentally, physically and spirit'
ually and attain supreme happiness in the knowledge of “eternal
consciousness”. They become attached to God, and are lovers of
the Divine work, healers of the sick and helpers of humanity.
Unimportance Jesus said to His Disciples “no man can
of serve two Masters, for either he will hate
Physical Comfort the one and love the other or else he will
hold to the one and despise the other; Ye cannot serve God and
Mammon, therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your
life, what Ye shall eat, or what Ye shall drink nor yet for your
body what Ye shall put on; is not the life more than meat and
62 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the body more than raiment”. This doctrine requires the giv-
ing up of earthly ties and ideas in preference for the Divine life
of Truth and Love. It shows the unimportance of all our
earthly cares and teaches the doctrine of attachment to God
through the understanding of “eternal consciousness”. Seek not
the things which create material attachment, but break down
the barriers of flesh by the power of Will and Mind.
Whited Those who call themselves Ministers of God,
Sepulchres claiming the power to “save souls”, yet
of Today endorse killing in law and war are denounced
by Jesus who says “for Ye are like unto whited sepulchres which
indeed appear beautiful outward but are within full of dead
mens bones and of all uncleanliness, even so Ye also outwardly
appear righteous unto men but within Ye are full of hypocrisy
and uncleanliness”. These modern Pharisees endorse war, cap­
ital punishment, physical torture of the so-called “enemies of
society”, imprisonment of children whose mentalities are nega­
tive; they persecute Divine healers and then utter long prayers
in public to impress a sin loving world.
Selling They sell their soul for political advantage,
the not knowing that “eternal consciousness” is
Soul the only reality in human existence. They
should be able to read the Scripture with the pure eye of Spirit
and see how millions daily lose their soul in exchange for
worldly misery, woe, sin and disease. Eternal consciousness
would reveal this to them should they seek.
overcomes disease and sin, lifts up the fallen and rights all
wrongs. The soul desires this harmony while the body seeks
darkness, the battle between these forces is but a manifestation
o the laws of gender of the mind. Super Mind Science teaches
t e methods which is the keyboard that produces the music of
the soul, demonstrating the absolute power of creative Infinite
Spirit, All-knowing, Eternal Universal Mind.
Soul Those who desire Soul Deliverance will have
Deliverance t0 ^°^ow 'n the footsteps of the Master and
form to the teachings of the Master are also in Super Mind
Science; they can be briefly stated as follows:
Heavenly
Harmony
Which is best, to sing a hymn to the physical
senses or to attain to heavenly harmony?
Heavenly harmony adjusts one’s entire life,
bear their Cross. The precepts which con-
B m a n n sK sra
SOUL DELIVERANCE 63
First. Non co-operation or participation in any type of killing
or committing of a destructive deed.
Second. Mind and body control, attainment of the knowledge
of the universal principle of Love, which is spiritual illumina­
tion through doing unselfish deeds.
Third. Becoming master of the art of concentration of the mind
in order to attain mental purification, meditation in order
that the soul wisdom may manifest, subduing of the flesh
influence over the consciousness, ceasing to desire to sin;
learning the art of passing beyond matter mentally at Will,
or attainment of the eternal consciousness which Jesus
demonstrated on the forty day fast “before overcoming the
body’’.
Plan This is the plan of salvation of Super Mind
of Science and is the safe road to immortality,
Salvation it may seem difficult, but sweet is the nectar
of life to those who live in “Life Divine”. Every battle with
the flesh makes the individual stronger to resist temptation and
sin, for Mind is Master.
Other Roads The idea that everyone who prays a prayer
to of belief is saved from sin is preposterous
Spirituality and can easily be disproven. Many who
think they are saved by such a simple process are often later
found in misery, attacked by disease, courage gone and the “tur­
bulent waters of life” or mortal consciousness disturbed to the
extent that life seems not worth living. The cause lies in the
fact that the lower nature and carnal mind still rule in that per­
son’s life, if they were on the correct road to spirituality they
would be masters of health, doers of the Divine works, healers
of the sick and would possess a calm Mind. Those who have at­
tained to a little understanding of the great Light of Life “eternal
consciousness”, pass beyond this state of woe forever for they
become master of self and cease to submit to matter.
Enlightenment is a mental process, not phy­
sical. One may possess great secular knowl­
edge and yet be lacking in soul enlightenment,
for the road to such mental illumination is the path of mental
humility. Regardless of how great the wisdom of man may be,
it is limited while its Creator is Universal and Unlimited.
Supreme soul enlightenment comes to those who attain a well
controlled Mind, it is the result of understanding the state of
Supreme
Enlightenment
64 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
“eternal consciousness”. Those who are unwilling to overcome
the flesh and all of its false promises will fail to understand
Super Mind Science or apprehend its true impoortance.
Work
of
Love
ing of humanity
the program of
The spiritually minded take pleasure in lay­
ing hands on the sick, controlling the healing
energies and stopping the pain and suffer-
This willingness to help others is a part of
Soul Deliverance as taught in Super Mind
Science. “Give unto the world that which you would have God
give unto you” is the motto of all Super Mind Scientists.
Light The Master said to His true Disciples “Ye
of the are the light of the world”, “a city that is
World set on a hill cannot be hid”, this was
because He had taught them how to heal the sick and teach
people the Truth, it was not because they believed in a sect or
preached certain precepts. His reference to a city set on a hill
refers to those who demonstrate the powers of Spirit over matter,
or who are conspicuous because of the good they do. Super
Mind Scientists instructed in the keys of power contained in the
methods of the Science and who live the life, are able to perform
the spiritual demonstrations which made the Disciples of Christ
outstanding.
Human ills can easily be classified in Mind
Science. Through understanding the nature
of disease and sin one can overcome the
cause. Mind manifestation is of the two genders of mind,
one creates through Divine harmony, while the other gender
can become out of harmony with Divine laws and cause, almost
any kind of trouble. Positive mind force which is the Father­
hood principle represents health, success, wisdom, mastership,
truth, love, endurance, creative life and light. Negative mind
force, the feminine gender of mind represents the Motherhood
principle so long as it harmonizes with the Fatherhood principle
or masculine gender of mind. When it leads and overpowers
the positive gender, inharmony in mentation is the result which
in turn produces sin, disease, sorrow, suffering of many kinds,
ignorance, superstition, lack of self control and mortal delusion.
True goodness requires a positive mentality,
which gives one the power to overcome evil.
By becoming positive and overcoming the
negative state of mortal consciousness one
Goodness
Attained
leadership of the
Evil
Classified
SOUL DELIVERANCE 65
attains liberation from flesh influence, becomes an excellent
healer, a wonderful teacher of others as well as the most com'
mendable example of the Christ Wisdom. This is the reason
every method in Super Mind Science is positive.
Overcome Evil Jesus taught that if someone smites you on
with the cheek you should turn the other, by this
Good He meant one cannot correct an evil act by
committing an evil themselves, the proper way being to over­
come evil with good. W hen one is tried in the fires of life it
requires great mental power in order to obey that law since the
impulse is to strike back at the one who strikes you. This
instruction shows the necessity of self control in order to make
it possible for one to live a Christian life.
Denouncers Those unfortunate mortals who denounce
of the Science of the Mind have yet to offer
Mind Science any other way by which man can attain the
self control which Jesus possessed and taught His Disciples.
Every year larger hospitals and insane institutions are constructed
to take care of the vast army of suffering mortals who have
followed those who preach that mind control and Mind Science
is unnecessary. You never find a true “Mind Scientist” in such
places for inner knowledge of God overcomes all such calamities.
“The spirit is strong but the flesh is weak”, yet many would tell
you that the flesh is strong and the spirit is weak. They lay
traps for themselves, dig ditches in the field of life then fall into
them, for these is none so blind as him who will not see.
The Law The higher law of life beckons the sincere
of student of life onward and upward toward
Spirit Divine realization and “eternal conscious­
ness”. The price of victory may seem great, but there is no
hope in mortality. The law of the Spirit is opposite and away
from the desires of the flesh. Every day the two roads appear
on the horizon of life and the question to decide is, will the
pleasures of the flesh which produce misery be sacrified for the
pleasure of the Spirit which produces “eternal consciousness”?
Super Mind Science says, “still the restlessness of the physical
senses and listen to the music of the soul; reach inward and
upward and attain to reality.”
66 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Mental Ascension The law governing mental ascension above
to the sins of the world is one of dominating
Higher Life the lower and harmonizing with the higher.
The physical body continually suggests countless necessities
which in truth no one needs. The voice of the tempter is the
impulse of the carnal mind, but the student of the Science of
Life must learn to say “get thee behind me, Satan” and overcome
the wants of the flesh and develop the higher spiritual desires.
This is the path of mastership. The less attachments one has
to the mortal world the sooner they will attain to “eternal con-
sciousness”, because the attachments to earthly things are
opposite to the Spirit.
Oneness When the Master was told His mother and
of brethren desired to speak with Him, He
Life stretched forth His hand toward His Dis­
ciples and said “behold My mother and My brethren, for who­
soever shall do the Will of My Father which is in heaven the
same is My brother and sister and mother”. He had attained to
“eternal consciousness” and knew the oneness of life, and also
that the “me” and “mine” phase of consciousness is mortal, not
eternal because it contains a selfish element. W e must rise
above relationship, possession and limitations, to the reality of
the unlimited eternal spirit of Life, Light, Truth and Love.
Breaking The author broke many mortal barriers in
of the pathway of life before the sunlight of
Barriers Truth was revealed to him, showing him the
cause of suffering and the way to peace. Finally the false show
of the senses and their false concept were overcome and the
obstructions were removed one by one. After a struggle with
disease and lower self he stilled the waves of flesh sensations and
was lifted up mentally beyond the veil of mortal life where
heavenly harmony and eternal light were revealed as the only
Eternal Reality. Since then it has been his desire to show the
way to Soul Deliverance to all who are willing to learn the
Science of Mastery.
A Glimpse When all mortal sensation had ceased and
of the the organs of sense perception had been
^Real stilled through the art of mind control, the
author’s consciousness entered the eternal state where the life
of all creatures was revealed to him as the life of God, where
the celestial music of Divine harmony sang the song of peace
SOUL DELIVERANCE 67
before the Throne of Grace, The Infinite Mind. During this
period a glimpse of the reality flashed through the author’s con­
sciousness and then and there he knew the claims of the flesh
to he false, the identity to possess an eternal quality, and God
as the “Father of Life”. This revelation followed a long fast
and intense meditation on the Infinite Spirit. The experience
cannot be described by ordinary speech, but—“seek and Ye shall
find”, “knock and the door shall be opened unto Ye”. This is
the attainment of “eternal consciousness”.
Health Following the attainment of enlightenment,
and health and peace came as a natural conse-
Peace quence. After the author’s enlightenment,
the passageways of “the energy of life” were revealed to him
and also the secrets of “the laws of life”. Since that time
thousands have been healed through these laws and powers;
many students of the Science have attained to “eternal con­
sciousness”, and even children of tender years have gained a
knowledge of self control, and a glimpse of the reality of life
and God. Super Mind Science continues in its message of
power and mastery, it has endured its cross and is rising from
obscurity to a prominent place in many communities. Some day
it will be recognized for what it is, “The Science which Jesus
demonstrated”, restored to a suffering world who are in need of
a surcease from pain. It is not a new belief, but is a Science
which all can demonstrate who are willing to overcome the flesh
and know the Spirit. If you would aspire to become one of us,
you must learn to know, for knowledge is power while
ignorance is sin; illumination is Soul Deliverance.
Cleanliness It is useless to observe only the laws of
of physical hygiene without also observing the
Mind and Body law of mental hygiene, which is to keep low
thoughts from disturbing the growth of the soul consciousness.
If we do not we come under the rebuke of Jesus who said,
“hypocrites observe merely the cleanliness of the outside of the
platter, while they neglect the inside”. Many habits of
ignorance keep one from attaining Soul Deliverance. The habit
of earthly attachment and the wasting of time are among the
foremost of destructive habits, for low thoughts usually enter
idle minds since they find fertile field for expression in the con­
sciousness of those who find time only for selfish lusts and
enjoyment.
68 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Our If we would be “about our Father’s business”
Father’s as Jesus was, we must apply ourselves to
Business mastering the carnal impulses. Many loving
mothers take up all their time teaching their children how to
play, neglecting to teach them anything about the mind or how
to think and later when they grow up and become criminal
they are at a loss to understand the reason why. The world is
full of misery because man has yet to learn how to enjoy life and
how to distinguish the real from the false. Jesus said “he that
soweth the good seed is the Son of Man”, meaning that good
thoughts and mental training make man a ruler of his destiny.
Positive Never submit to sin or disease, remember
Mind Jesus taught “be it acording to thy will”,
Power meaning you should mentally rebel against
all destructive forces, never saying that you cannot overcome.
Know that the kingdom of God is within, however it may
require positive mental determination to cause it to manifest
without. To be Super Minded you must learn to conquer evil
and all forms of negation, knowing that none of these can equal
the power of Infinite Mind. Your mind casts an image of your
beliefs and influences your life accordingly, therefore let your
mentality dwell only on facts and avoid negative influences.
Carnal mind consists of the consciousness of
matter, it is not permanent or immortal in
quality. In order to understand Divine Mind
one must be able to overcome the consciousness of carnal mind.
Divine Mind consists of the knowledge of facts concerning life
and God and has nothing to do with beliefs, for would Divine
All-knowing Mind need to form a speculation regarding life?
In order to demonstrate the power of Divine Mind one must
overcome the delusions and conceited suggestions of carnal
mind. Whenever you have a disbelief or a doubt, that is carnal
mind making known its ignorance, when you have learned and
know a definite fact, Divine Mind has spoken. When the con­
sciousness dwells in carnal mind the result is sin.
Living In order to live in Truth one must cease tell-
*
n lng others their beliefs or disbeliefs, for Truth
Truth begins only where beliefs end. A wise per­
son always states what they know, a foolish mortal spends much
time discussing what they believe or disbelieve. God is the
creator of Truth, Truth being real it is easy to explain. Not so
Carnal
Mind
SOUL DELIVERANCE 69
many years ago this modern civilized world witnessed the whole­
sale slaughter of human beings, so-called Christians busy killing
other so-called Christians. The reason was a false belief that
the other nation was bad and therefore it was a blessing to
humanity to kill them. Such ignorance is the curse of the world
for one nation is no worse or no better than the others, only
belief makes them seem so.
All Nations All nations have sinned and fallen short of
Have the glory of God because ignorant people
Sinned were mis-instructed by an ignorant clergy.
Just so long as the clergy denounces Divine Mind Science and
stands for war and killing, that long will they fail to comprehend
Jesus Christ, and the world will continue to bow down to a false
soul saving doctrine. Each individual must become his own
Saviour in a sense and take up his cross and follow Jesus.
The Path Mortal beings will cease to suffer only when
of they have learned the falsehood of beliefs
Peace and have attained to an understanding of
facts. Creeds were written by man, they may infer many
things, but they fall short in demonstrations. How many Chris­
tians can utter a prayer and cause an answer to be forthcoming?
The author has proven that when prayer is accompanied with a
knowledge of Divine Mind it is answered. When one learns
the technique of demonstration they walk in the path of peace.
Mental
Reflection
While mentally reflecting on life, we per­
ceive that all greatness is due to the forming
of a powerful character. In order to bring
such character development forward one must think positive
thoughts, for negative and carnal thoughts are the seeds that
bring forth corrupt fruit. Exertion of the Will assists one in this
direction, while the constant suggestion of-an idea slows down
the process of action. Action is life, inaction is death, therefore
the doing of good deeds should be continuous. One should be
careful what type of deeds reflect in their consciousness, for
science has proven that the subconscious mind of man is very
active every second during the day and night, it is performing
subjectively the deeds one has reflected mentally, therefore life
is a reflection of our mental action.
70 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
The immortal principles which should be
Immorta mentally reflected in one’s mentality are
Principles thoughts of Power, Truth, Love, Good deeds
and the liberation from flesh limitations. By so doing we build
a Divine personality and attain to “eternal consciousness quickly.
Every Super Mind Scientist should remember to reflect only
good, speak only of good, and not visualize or reflect the things
that destroy, for our thoughts change the whole aspect of
our life.
Soul
Powers
The power of the soul is the Divine All in
All of Spirit, All-knowing, All-seeing, the
same Infinite Spirit which is the ruling, cre­
ating and animating force in the entire universe. Man's illu­
sion that his soul is other than this Divine influence is the cause
of much of the world’s misery. Super Mind Science demon­
strates the Divine at-one-ment of man and God. Mind is the
creator as well as illuminator of matter; everything in our life is
the result of the influence of mind over matter.
Constitution Man, like the universe, is created according
of the to the laws of gender of the mind, he is a
Universe universe within himself — a microcosm.
When he awakens to the soul consciousness of Life, Light and
Love he will find himself to be a manifestation of God, a Creator
mentally more than physically. The Universal Being whom we
term God represents all the positive good in the universe, while
the carnal individual produces all the negative results of life
which we term evil. God is the absence of evil and evil is the
absence of good.
Scientific The soul, in reality judges every thought,
Understanding condemning the bad and commending the
of Soul good, which proves soul to be a Divine
Mind function. After physical life, the soul becomes the con­
sciousness, providing it is surrounded by a record of good
deeds, for the soul with an evil environment must either over­
come the environment or lose its identity. This is the reason
that one should overcome earthly attachments while on earth.
In this manner they can attain to mastery of environment, over­
coming evil with good, and knowing God through “eternal con­
sciousness’’. The path of soul liberation leads away from selfish­
ness toward this universal “eternal consciousness” which is the
highest pinnacle reached through understanding of Divine Mind.
SOUL DELIVERANCE 71
The student of this Metaphysical Science should remember the
essentials of Soul Liberation.
Translation In Super Mind Science the following mean'
of ings are attached to the terms we use in
Terms expression:
Soul—The inner consciousness of man, his eternal quality.
Consciousness—The sum total of individual understanding.
Infinite Spirit—The Universal Creator of all things, called God.
Infinite Mind—The sum total of understanding and intelligence
of the Infinite Spirit, the All in All in the universe, the Uni-
versal God Spirit or all pervading intelligence.
Matter—The agency through which mind expresses itself, three
dimensional.
Divine Mind—The Universal consciousness of good only.
Science—That which can be demonstrated or proven.
Belief—A state of mortal mind, speculative—a supposition.
Eternal Reality—The Truth which changes not.
Teacher A teacher of the laws of life can only point
and the way to Soul Deliverance, the student
Student must tread the path, having confidence in the
teacher and knowing God is Good. This Science will only be
comprehended by those who desire to see beyond a changing
world; selfishness and personal beliefs can never change the laws
of life described in this Science. The change will be made in
the sincere student, for they will master disease and sin and learn
to know the eternal reality through overcoming the flesh senses
and unloading their consciousness. Then the consciousness may
soar beyond matter through the mental process of Soul Deliv'
erance until it cognizes the “eternal consciousness” or the posh
tive understanding of soul immortality. Now that the way has
been shown, the student should begin today to control the lower
nature, set the Will and concentration against low desires, control
the thought power, generate life energy, then go on to accom'
plishment for “the vineyard is large but the reapers are few”.
CHAPTER VI
RENUNCIATION
" T h e L o r d s a i d u n t o m y L o r d , s i t T h o u a t m y
r i g h t h a n d , u n t i l I m a k e T h i n e e n e m i e s T h y
f o o t s t o o l .”—Psalm 110.
Know, Oh Disciples of Super Mind Science
Eternal that .f thou iivest ln the Infinite Spirit, every
Victory enemy including disease, sorrow, sin, nega­
tion of mind, personal feelings, attachments and earthly desires
shall indeed become thy footstool. If you will renounce creeds
made by men, personal vanity, and pursuit of the fleeting
pleasures, you can know God. Learn the power which comes
from exercising justice, kindness, gentleness and soft speech
which reflect the quality of the soul, practice mental content­
ment and mildness of temper, keeping a firm control over pas­
sions. In this way cause the soul to grow toward freedom and
away from the bondage of the flesh, overcome low desires by
loving your fellowman as yourself, but do all of these things
without thought of compensation. The hypocrites appear out­
wardly to be good, but inwardly they are corrupt, only those
who practice the arts of self control and gentleness are really
good. Seek to be the inner reality of Infinite Love, Wisdom
and Truth, renounce the selfishness of a man made heaven, the
folly of your forefathers, the low desires of your associates,
and become a Light on the pathway of life. Avoid outer actions
which will cause others to call you pious, remember only one
is perfect and good, that one is God, man may imitate God but
he can never equal Him.
Meditation Renounce false claims of saintliness, exhibit
and your good qualities as natural attributes of
Introspection your inner “I Am” consciousness. Renounce
all outward forms of worship designed to be seen of men,
acquire inner introspective spiritual vision through mentally
beholding God in every living cell. In the beginning before
Bibles were written, the Infinite Spirit appointed the teachers to
this world and each teacher appears when the evolution of man
demands his message. At the appointed time each teaches the
Truth suited to his day and age. The Truth is reasonable and
RENUNCIATION 73
easy to understand, while falsehood is complicated and often
spoken in an unknown tongue. The teacher whose spiritual
vision is opened always teaches a provable philosophy, this Truth
leads to freedom of the soul. Super Mind Science is an
appointed teaching and is also a Super Soul Science, it reveals
Truth and illuminates the path of life for all who are sincere
seekers of reality. Dear reader, stop and think, is your soul in
bondage of fear, have you erected barriers between yourself
and the Infinite Mind by giving negative suggestions to your
own mentality? Let egotism and creedalistic hatred disappear
from your mental horizon, break the fetters of negation, do not
let anyone tell you they can save your soul, for the absolute
truth is that you alone can save it. Accept only the reality of
God, reject dead beliefs.
Inner devotion means inner contemplation,
. for God is enthroned in the center of your
y being, if you seek Him there you will find
that “peace that passeth understanding". The mentality must
be purged and analyzed in order that one may understand right
from wrong, love from hate, ease from disease. This mental
analysis must precede “soul freedom”. W hen your soul is free,
it will become the vehicle of your consciousness and you, Dear
Reader, can explore the realm of soul even as you have explored
the physical realm, for through the illumination of the soul, and
mind analysis, we reach all planes of mind and also all planes
of soul.
The The author’s vision, undimmed by flesh con-
Heavenly tact, has been able to explore that unseen
Realm realm where all spiritual life manifests in
its true radiance, for only freedom of soul and renunciation of
sin permit one to behold the heavenly hierarchy while yet in the
flesh. Jesus said “the kingdom of heaven is at hand", “know
ye not that the Father dwelleth within”, “He who hath seen Me
hath seen the Father, for He is in Me and I in Him”. Jesus had
renounced the flesh and all of its false show and had attained
soul freedom". This freedom will come to all who break down
their small creedalistic consciousness, it is not a special gift; the
price of this freedom is true spirituality. Will you Dear Reader
attain it? It is for you if you desire it enough to attain the con-
trol of the body and calmness of mind. You must see beyond
74 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the clouds of worldly sense reports into the clear blue spiritual
ether where Infinite Spirit is All in All.
Angelic
H ost
The Angelic Host is but the purified con­
sciousness of those who passed beyond mor­
tal delusion into spiritual reality. Your inner
qualities are the gateway to freedom, providing you see the light
of Truth and Love. In the progress of a soul, one must learn
that overcoming is a natural attribute of the spiritual self, it is
designed to deliver man from egotism, tyranny, vain glory, lust,
anger, avarice, covetousness and low selfish deeds. All of those
dark principles must not only be renounced but overcome, that
the principle of Light, Truth and Love may shine forth. In
Super Mind Science the keys to concentration and spiritual
energy will solve this problem.
Spiritual
Birth
The idea of Super Mind Science is to over­
come sin, we do not seek a pardon or other
mental crutches, for man is now too depend­
ent on others. We teach a positive method of mental regenera­
tion, this new regeneration brings about the spiritual birth of
man, cleanses his mind, his body and his soul. Intellectuality with­
out accomplishment is like faith without works, it is dead. A
living faith needs to be accompanied by a living works,
(healing).
Inner worship consists of doing good deeds
without thought of gain, seeing reality and
keeping the mind clean, above all gossip and
low ideas. Inner zeal is a desire to serve the master “I Am”
consciousness within which leads one on to the supreme under­
standing. As for those misguided mortals who seek others to
save their soul, they are unfortunates produced by hypocritical
religious systems which have no spiritual merits. Their ignor­
ance and conceit follows them into their Church and Temples,
they pollute holy places with their evil minds and low
mentalities.
Inner
Light
Whited
Sepulchres
Jesus called these mortals “whited sepul­
chres, clean without but corrupt within”, for
being filled with false pride, power, ostenta­
tion and lust, they are consumed in the fire of hate and greed.
Nature will not preserve them, they are destroyed by a fire
RENUNCIATION 75
kindled within themselves. Their hell of low desires kindles
spiritual consuming fires, and annihilation awaits them after this
life, for the law of compensation never forgets. The fires of this
mental torment are fed by three powers, they are lust, anger
and hatred, and regardless if they are ignorant or not they will
stand before the judgment bar of life. At least their soul shall
be judged by the “I Am” consciousness within its own self, for
man is made in the “image of God” within, but not without.
The part of man which can be lost is his identity, his memory
or the mortal “me” consciousness. The “me” consciousness
should be merged with the soul through spiritual unfoldment as
taught in Super Mind Science. Those who renounce the lower
nature will never know death, and if they understand the laws
of life as revealed in Super Mind Science they will never need
to suffer pain or sorrow.
Soul
Salvation
Soul salvation begins with this renouncing
and self mastery, and those who follow this
path are safe and will never taste of death.
Beware, however, that you do not go back to ignorance after
you have reformed, for if you do your progress will become
slower when you attempt self control again. Seek ever to attain
the Divine union, and remain ever steadfast, for sincerity is the
price of success. The soul desires contact with Infinite Spirit,
but only the delusive faculties prevent this happy and blissful
state from becoming a permanent reality in everyone's life. The
spiritual illumination of man is according to this Divine union,
each one reflects their own nature. Everyone’s concept of God
and Good decides their lot as well as governs their deeds, there
fore seek to possess the highest good by having a high regard
for Good and God.
Devils Man’s concept of the Deity is only himself
in One’s magnified to Infinity, likewise his devils and
Self hells are but himself at his worst, or express-
ing his lower nature, for every mortal can conceive only that
which is within himseif. Every thought their conception
may suggest as a far away place or state is within themselves
only. Those who worship personal Gods, worship only that
which consists of their own personality, their delusion of a per­
sonal God in the sky is only a mirage on the horizon of their
desert within.
*
76 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
God The true God of Infinity is beyond attri-
Is butes, powers, features and personality. One
Love who performs meditations on reaching the
domain of Infinity can best realize God by exerting strong devo-
tional love of the Infinite Spirit. The only true sacrifice is that
of selfishness, all other sacrifices are vain. God is Love and spirit-
ual love is an unselfish principle. Let those who desire to be
spiritual become unselfish, then the methods of self control and
analysis as taught in Super Mind Science will demonstrate as
perfect as the laws of Nature, for they are based on the laws of
Nature and God.
Renounce
Darkness
To know Love one must overcome hate, to
know power one must overcome weakness,
to know immortal mind one must overcome
mortal mind. Renounce darkness and cease to sin, for “this
mortal must take on immortality” as Paul expressed it. Mortal­
ity thrives in darkness while immortality is gained through light.
Lack of knowledge and understanding is but groping in the dark,
while having knowledge and understanding is the Light that
leads to wisdom.
Truth Truth cannot abide in one who lets their
and animal nature rule them, for light never
Light abides in darkness. When light enters, dark­
ness leaves, when Truth is known, ignorance is overcome. Seek,
therefore more light on the problems of life and more truth con­
cerning Infinite Spirit if you desire to overcome ignorance. You
are instructed to be ever calm in the face of adversity, overcome
like and dislike, remain unchanged in the face of criticism or
praise so that your consciousness may enter into Truth in its
fullness with the Light of God ever manifesting.
Knowing God is Love, treat friend and foe
kindly, seeing God in both, however, do not
let your foe lower your thoughts to a lower
plane, but rather inspire them to do good by being an example
of goodness yourself. Be ever the same in honor or disgrace,
only know that within your conscience is light. When you give
light to the world you will receive more light from God, give
health to others you will receive health from the universe.
If one opposes the Truth in you, become a greater light of Truth
to them, willingly accepting your cross when it is the Will of
the Divine Father.
Inspire
Others
RENUNCIATION 77
Persecution If someone persecutes you because of Super
by Mind Science, remember that Christ with all
Others His power and glory was persecuted before
you. Overcome your attachment to the world and most of your
troubles will be over. Those who follow this doctrine will be
many times blessed, they will be more fitted to enter the realm
of immortality in a body of light and power. This Truth was
revealed to the author through Divine revelation, after the
opening of the clear eye of Spirit within. Nothing can be added
to this Truth nor taken away, for it comes from the realm of
eternity. Renunciation of the lower self and all its delusion is
far better than meditation at periods on spiritual power. Those
who imbibe this living water of Truth must seek always to be in
constant communion with Infinite Spirit and become more and
more unaware of the glamour and false show of carnal mind.
Growing By adopting this attitude one grows in grace,
in and life becomes like a sweet nectar, always
Grace pleasant, serene, calm and blissful. Jesus
called this “that peace which passeth understanding”. Those
who abandon seeking for gain and glory, and who love their
fellowman are dear to the Infinite Intelligence. The author
would like to lead all to that Throne of Grace that they may
glimpse the beauty of that changeless realm which he was fortu­
nate enough to glimpse. “If thine eye be single, thy body shall
be full of light” is the Divine promise of the ages. Those who
have such illumination are ever at home, contented and calm
in Infinite Spirit.
Constant Devotion should be a constant mental state,
Devotional not a spasmodic outburst of false enthusiasm.
Mental State A seeker for light should be a seeker of the
calmness of mind first so Divine power can manifest uncongested.
It is difficult for finite mind to understand Infinite Mind, the
seen to understand the unseen, only intense devotion to good
opens the spiritual vision of mankind. Austerities and fasting
are worth only the value that is placed on them by the mental
intention of the one who fasts. The subduing of the lower
nature is a mental process, not a physical one, the physical aspect
of the battle with lower nature is the least important. Matter
argues with the consciousness and when one begins self-control
it asserts its goodness, but only God is Good. In many lan­
guages God and Good are words which proceeded from a com-
78 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
mon origin. Godly thoughts are high, noble and perfect; flesh
ideas are horned in the lower reproductive system of man.
Divine thoughts are eternal reality while carnal thoughts are
low manifestations of a higher power which have transmuted
in the wrong direction.
The Doctrine The doctrine of transubstantiation as taught
of Trans- in Catholicism is false. The bread and wine
Substantiation in the communion could not transmute and
become the flesh and blood of Christ after one partakes of it.
It is merely a symbol of the transmuting of life’s energies, but
ignorant theologians cannot distinguish between a symbol and
the reality. All of the literal views of the Bible are incorrect
speculations of mortal mind, only one with spiritual vision can
discern the Truth which is the reality, and distinguish it from
its symbol.
Parables Jesus often spoke in parables or symbols so
and the wise would receive the real meaning,
Symbols while the followers of dogmas would be
given only the wisdom of the outer form. One should not throw
pearls before swine or give holy things to the dogs (meaning
low minded) lest they turn and rend the one who befriends
them. Only those who live a spiritual life will ever know the
beauty and power of Super Mind Science, for it is not wise that
the insincere should receive the inner knowledge the same as those
who are sincere. Sin, sickness and death are the lot of those
who live on the carnal plane of unreality, they do not belong
to Divine Mind or to those who have renounced the outer forms
of religion and have found the inner science of Truth. The
lower nature stimulates the creations of Truth by calling atten­
tion to the wonders of a transitory and illusive world, which in
comparison with Infinite Mind is but the shadow picture of a
realm of reality, power, Truth, Love and Light. The soul of
man seeks to escape from the outer by reaching the inner. The
oneness of God disputes the permanence of the material uni'
verse, therefore, reality consists in the unchanging realm of
Truth.
Find the There is a master key to the door of life,
Master this key is in Super Mind Science and if
Key you desire it you must study the keys
to the Science. Once you have found it, delusion will lose its hold
upon you, and reality will become a permanent power within.
RENUNCIATION 79
The meaning of the Divine symbology is herein given to show
the reality as compared with its symbol.
FATHER, The Divine, All-pervading Infinite Spirit.
SON, The emanation of the Infinite called finite.
HOLY GHOST, The power of reproduction and regeneration.
The true emanation from the Infinite Spirit is the Christ which
represents Love, Truth and Life. This emanation can become
as the Infinite, thus overcoming the world, it is accomplished
by The Holy Ghost or regeneration. This process requires a
knowledge of Super Mind Science which demonstrates the
power that is used by the individual to regenerate one’s self.
Mind All motion is due to mind, not matter, and
and no regeneration is possible without change-
Motion Change is motion, motion is mind, there'
therefore generation or regeneration is entirely of mind. Mind
ever moves onward and upward, only matter and mortal retard
development, therefore become as mind continually changing
for the better.
CHAPTER VII
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND
“ T h e s e a r e t h e s t a t u t e s a n d j u d g e m e n t s w h i c h
y e s h a l l o b s e r v e t o d o i n t h e l a n d , w h i c h t h e
L o r d G o d o f t h y F a t h e r ’s g i v e t h t h e e t o p o s s e s s
i t a l l t h e d a y s t h a t y e l i v e u p o n t h e e a r t h . ”
—Deuteronomy.
Supreme
Law
All life from the remotest insect to the
largest mammal is governed by the law and
order of Mind. All things are governed by
the supreme law of Infinite Spirit according to intelligence and
the laws of gender. The author herein sets forth the facts con­
cerning the supreme law and the lesser statutes of life, according
to truth and fact as revealed in the study of the Scriptures and
Super Mind Science.
Laws The positive state of mind represents God
of manifesting as the supreme Infinite Father.
Gender This creative state of mind brings forth all
life by its power of penetration. Anyone who desires success
in life must learn to enter this state mentally so as to bring their
desires into reality. This state being the one and same as the
Infinite spiritual state, is unlimited in its power to create. It
has unlimited power to create health, harmony and spiritual
wisdom because in this state mind controls the positive life cur­
rents which in turn control the law of life and birth. In addition
to controlling these positive life currents this state of mind can
overcome all negative conditions.
Violation Those who become negative mentally, vio-
of the late the positive law of mind. The negative
Law which represents illusion, disease and death
sets in motion decaying energies and powers which react on the
violator of the law of positive life. It causes them to be open
to germs, microbes and all manner of disease. These diseases
weaken the mental structure of the one who becomes negative,
producing hallucinations, illusions, uncertainty, lack of self con­
fidence, dishonesty, criminal ideas and all types of destructive
mental forces. These powers if allowed to rule, develop
spiritual negation, torment of the consciousness, and loss of
immortality through oblivion.
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 81
To Obey In order that one may avoid the penalty of
the disobeying the law of positive fatherhood
Law mind, it is well for them to know what they
must do to prevent that violation. In order to obey the law,
one must learn to concentrate the mind, control the life ener­
gies, overcome speaking evil or doing evil, study life as a positive
and negative manifestation, accept the good things in life and
reject the practice of indulging in destructive habits. Super
Mind Science teaches the proper way to generate life currents,
concentrate the mind and attain perfect mental poise.
Evil Those who practice the following methods
Mental called “Mental Science” by undeveloped
Practice mortals are violating the positive laws of
mind and life. Repeating affirmations, such as “mortal mind is
evil”, “matter is illusion”, “disease has no existence”, “I am
power supreme”, “there is no truth nor substance in matter”,
“God is all there is”, “I am pure and holy” before they have
learned the positive mental state and power are untrue, exag­
gerated formulas which reduce one’s mentality to absolute nega­
tion, inducing falsehood, dishonesty and lack of positive moral
principles. Many of the unfortunate mortals following these
systems “sit in the silence” and give selfish suggestions to some­
one's mind in order to attain personal gain.
Good Super Mind Science teaches the following
Mental methods which represent good mental prac-
Practice tice. They are, concentration on becoming
positive and creative mentally, healing the sick by silent thought
power or the laying on of hands, concentrating to help those
who desire it. It does not teach affirming that you are perfect
until you have attained perfection. Rule the body and do not
deny its existence because such denial makes the body negative
and opens it to forces of death and disease. Further, such
negative practices open the mind to obsessions and abnormal
hallucinations. Acknowledge all the good you see, and more
than that, all the good in the universe, seen and unseen for God
is Good, Truth and Love.
Motherhood The receptive motherhood principle or state
Principle of mind was never intended to precede the
of Mind positive, and it serves a good purpose only
when ruled by the positive. When the mind concentrates in a
positive state, it controls the positive and negative energies and
82 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Positive
Healers
regulates their flow. The visualization state which follows the
concentrated state is termed “the motherhood principle of mind”.
Unless this state is preceded by the fatherhood or positive state,
no mental creation can take place, whereas, if it is so preceded a
certain demonstration can be assured.
Jesus controlled the life energies and through
them healed the sick and raised the dead.
Energies jn §Uper Mind Science we have discovered
how these positive and negative life energies enter the Solar
Plexus, and thence travel to the brain, carrying with them every
thought which reaches the brain. When the mind is positive,
only thoughts which produce success and health reach the brain
through this channel. This fact explains the power of a positive
mentality to rule those who are negative and thus succeed in
great tasks, for the positive minded person is a manifestation of
the Infinite, Creative Spirit. When one is positive and yet
meek and expresses Universal Love, they are a manifestation of
the Christ Spirit.
Positive healers who are trained in the laws
of mind and life as in Super Mind Science,
express mentally and physically only the
positive constructive thoughts which create health in the patient.
They never express negation or the negative law previous to the
positive because this type of expression would do harm rather
than good. They first show the health seeker how to increase
the life energy, then the healer assists the sick who are negative
mentally to direct the positive life energy into the diseased part
of the body. This starts the expansion processes in operation,
then by the application of Divine power the body which was
negative becomes positive and healthy. Then like Jesus we say
“be it according to thy will”.
Harmony Super Mind Science brings about complete
tn harmony between the positive and negative
Mental Laws laws of mind and life, proving that man can
control these Divine creative energies and prolong his life. The
student who keeps his body uncongested by daily generating
these energies will not have body or mental poisons which con-
gest the passageways of energy and power. No one can be
successful in Mental Science without a knowledge of this law,
for it is the basis of all creation. The methods of complete
mental mastery of positive and negative life energy were discov
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 83
ered by the author. As a result of this discovery thousands of
successful healing demonstrations have been performed in Super
Mind Science. God, being positive harmonizes with health,
which accounts for the positive type individual being healthy
and successful. Disease is negative and harmonizes with sin,
plainly showing the failure, sickness and premature death of
the negative type.
Lamb’s Around the body there is an astral light, this
Book of light registers the impressions of deeds done
Life in the flesh. The negative deeds are con'
demned by the conscience as sin, while the positive represent
the good and are sanctioned by the conscience. This record is
the “Lamb’s Book of Life”. The negative deeds stand to con-
demn the life of the soul, because they are evil and do not con­
form to positive creative Divine law and heavenly harmony.
When the soul is called upon to view the record of these deeds
registered, it is called the “day of Judgment”. If the positive
outweighs the negative, one rises to “eternal consciousness”, if
the negative outweighs the positive, the result is oblivion.
Mind, for all life here and hereafter has its existence in Mind and
no temporal belief can change either the record of life or the
judgment of God. No amount of prayer can persuade nega­
tive to be positive, sin to become righteous or God to be evil.
tion which emanates from the sun. When positive control of
magnetism is demonstrated, one will observe that “like attracts
like”, sinful thoughts attract sinful companions, thoughts of pov­
erty attract poverty, thoughts of weakness attract sickness. This
same law when understood can be operated in one’s favor by
learning how to create the magnetic vibration through concen­
tration of the mind, and breath control as taught in Super Mind
Science. This law then begins to attract the things in life we
desire, such as health, harmony, happiness and spiritual power.
The magnetic impulse can be felt by any apt student in a few
moments after compliance with the law.
Nature changes the form of all beings that
violate her immutable laws, which calls to
mind the judgment of the flesh “dust thou
art and to dust thou returneth”. The law of life is the law of
Magnetic
Law
The law of magnetic attraction as taught in
Super Mind Science causes the mind to
vibrate in harmony with the magnetic pulsa-
84 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Theory Theory is one thing, but practice is quite
and another. In Super Mind Science the life
Practice energy can be controlled and the student can
feel it by mentally conforming to the laws and mental states.
No blind faith is required. The Science stands upon demon­
stration, not belief, for belief without positive demonstration to
prove its contention is negative in itself. Super Mind Science
demonstrates its teachings, while many systems give the student
speculation and theory only.
Positive
Sowing
The sowing of positive mental seeds by posh
tive mental methods is sure to produce
results, for the law of sowing and reaping is
a reality and produces its results. Super Mind Science con'
forms to this law by providing the proper means for the student
to make the necessary mental effort to succeed. No amount of
negative affirmations can take the place of this law. Theoretical
disagreement with Super Mind Science will not alter the law of
reaping according to what one has sown mentally, physically and
spiritually. Theological speculation is no better than meatphysi'
cal speculation, it may sound more sacred to those unilluminated
mortals but it cannot change the laws of mind. Those negative
souls who confess sin without trying to overcome sin are tying
mental millstones around their neck which will later draw them
under the tide in the sea of life. Super Mind Science warns
them, but cannot change them unless they express a desire to
know the Truth, and learn the laws of mind and life and then
conform to them, for God is no respector of persons or religious
beliefs.
Law of Man posseses five physical senses, however
Sense all sense perception is solely dependent on
Perception one sense, the sense of feeling. When feel'
ing is removed from any sense organ it becomes powerless to
function as an organ of correct perception. The feelings register
bliss when one thinks of God, and register disturbance when one
thinks evil or selfish thoughts. When the mind is correctly
trained all sense perception becomes spiritual which changes
one’s outlook on life, revealing the Divine presence in every cell
of the body and the eternal reality of soul perception. Then
the two senses, intuition and intelligence, common to immor'
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 85
tality unfold and through them man cognises the world unknown
to mortal sense.
Laws of The laws of the Divine Kingdom are univer-
the sal, functioning independent of the bounds
Kingdom of all sectarian religion, creeds and classes.
Those who do the “will of the heavenly Father” as Jesus expressed
it, obey the laws of His Kingdom. The laws consist of serving
humanity unselfishly, healing the sick and comforting those in
sorrow. A Super Mind Scientist being able to demonstrate the
powers of life energies and conform to the laws of mind, has an
excellent opportunity to conform to these Divine laws.
Laws When one becomes mentally negative
Governing through selfishness and greed, they worry
Sin over attachments, personal gain and desires.
In doing so, they violate the laws of the Divine Kingdom, reap­
ing disease, premature old age, many forms of misery, poverty
and all manner of misfortune, for the laws governing sin mete
out a punishment to all who violate the Divine laws of Truth,
Love and Light. This same law applies to those who eat flesh,
they are punished with body congestions and ailments all because
they violate the Divine laws. Likewise, those who commit
crime, though it may seem profitable are sure to lose, for the
law of compensation metes out an exacting reward.
Laws Many believe that they can gain or profit
of from evil, but that is only a great illusion of
Conduct the flesh existence, for good alone is profit­
able. According to the laws of conduct, when one slanders
another, their words set into motion evil powers which later
return to them in diverse ways and injure them many fold, for
“as ye sow, so shall ye reap”. Violation of the laws of good
behavior bring upon one the ridicule of those present besides
making them subject to the fines and punishment meted out by
the laws of man. There are other laws such as, hate begets
hate, and thousands of conditions and unlimited forces which
chastise man when he violates the laws of conduct. Those who
take even an obscure part in killing another, such as a vote for
death on a jury, set the laws of life against themselves, which
brings sorrow and premature death, for “those who kill with the
sword die by the sword”. No one can escape the penalty of the
laws of life, or by a prayer to God cause them to be changed.
86 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Mind and The laws of positive and negative mind
Universal force produce all the opposites, such as like
Love and dislike, pleasure and pain, evil and good,
low temperature and high temperature, anger and love, malice
and kindness, ignorance and wisdom. The positive controls all
the favorable sides of the opposites such as pleasure, good, love,
etc. The manifestations of the negative or misdirected mind
produce dislike, pain, evil, etc., however these principles exist
only in the absence of Good or God.
Jesus Jesus said “I came not to destroy the law
and the and the prophets, but to fulfill them”, mean-
Law ing He was born as an example of complete
obedience to the laws of life. Through His strict obedience
“He overcame the world” and overcame death. The law has
never changed, it is the same today as it was then. It will be
the same forever, for perfection changeth not, therefore those
who obey the law now, can overcome disease, sin and death.
This is proven in Super Mind Science by the demonstrations
performed by students and “the healing of all manner of disease".
Mind Mind controls matter. This law is as
Over unchangeable as life itself, it has always been
Matter and always will be. Mind either builds one
physically, mentally and spiritually or it tears them down. In
order to comply with the law of mind over matter, one must
learn body control and thought control, and develop the ability
to rule the negative side of their nature through positive mind
power. First, teach the mind that the Will is sovereign, then
overcome all weaknesses, sinful tendencies, earthly attachments
and uncertainties. Know that Infinite Spirit operates through
the Will of man, and that the Will of man when used for good is
a law unto itself. No law of mortal man can govern the acts
of the Will, it is subject only to the law of God. Jesus said
regarding the wonders He demonstrated, “it is not I that doeth
these things, but Him who sent me”.
Law Super Mind Science says regarding its won'
ders, “it is not the Will of mortal man that
Science doeth these things, but it is the Will of God
working through man which performs these remarkable heal'
ings . As proof of the Divinity of this power, we offer testimony
that “the lame walk, the deaf hear, and the blind see”. The Will
of mortal man in itself cannot perform such wonders, only the
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 87
Divine Will of Infinite Spirit can do so. The only accurate and
Divine Science is one which shows the methods of demonstrat'
ing this Infinite Will.
Laws All suffering comes from following the laws
of of matter and depending on them as reliable
Matter to solve the problems of life. Where mind
is not considered, the so-called laws of matter are so imperfect
they do not even alleviate suffering humanity. In most
instances, the laws of man which are supposed to be just, imprison
a man without money, but set those free who have the price to
deposit for security, therefore making it criminal for a man to
be poor. Man’s law is based upon value from a material stand­
point, with the idea of revenge and punishment as a means of
reforming weak minded mortals who think it is profitable to sin.
Such concept shows the imperfect idea of law and order
entertained by materialists.
The Law The Law of Periodicity is, that all things
of temporal, which includes sectarian religion,
Periodicity have an appointed time to function. After
its period, it must give way to higher ideals and more exalted
Truth, therefore the churches which claim to be the outcome of
the ministry of Christ, yet endorse war and the killing of human
beings under the name of capital punishment, have about served
their purpose. They must now step aside for a scientific religion
which teaches the presence of God in every human being, and
also teaches the sacredness of life of every creature, and the
training of the mentality to demonstrate Christianity in every
day life. Creedalism will be destroyed through violence and
possible bloodshed by those of their own rank, for those who
kill with the sword shall die by the sword.
Signs ’’The signs of the times” indicate that even
of the in the most orthodox Christian countries the
Times intelligent people regard the Church as an
institution of moral and physical good, but having no spiritual
value, a political machine which favors the rich but ignores the
poor. W hat a spectacle there would be if Christ returned to
earth physically today! How far removed from His teachings
He would find His so-called ministers of spirituality sitting on
thrones, wearing crowns on their head! He would scorn their
palaces of gold surrounded by soldiers with fixed bayonets who
guard the supposed ’’holy man” in order to keep his own sub-
88 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
jects from assassinating him. What an upheaval there would
be! How He would turn from these vicars who live in luxury
like a king, while millions of the poor contribute their earnings
to support them.
Law When the law of compensation begins to
of collect from these false teachers, woe be unto
Compensation them, for they shall perish beneath the fire
of materialism, which they themselves kindled. They will be
killed by those whom they have not taught that it is a sin to kill
an enemy. They Will say “we are persecuted”, yes, because they
have persecuted the “saints of God” in the past, for “as a
man soweth, that shall he also reap”. This law applies to church
organizations as well as to individuals—none are exempt from
this immutable law.
Condemn The modern Pharisees of orthodox belief
Christ condemn the Christ healing by the laying
Healing on of hands and directing power, just as the
Pharisees of old condemned the Master. They claim that drugs
and remedies are superior to His way of healing. They teach
that although the teachings of Jesus are not practical to live by,
they are ideal to die by. We ask, that if Jesus was the Son of
God and had perfect wisdom, how could His healing be other
than the most perfect healing method? If His teachings can-
not stop pain, then by what power can they save a soul? Can
one lose their body through ignorance and sin, and yet save the
soul? These are the questions that should be answered by
those who oppose the establishment of Super Mind Science both
as a Science and a Religion.
Law of Those who oppose the re-establishment of
Cause the works of Christ in the church, claim that
and Effect His healing was for Himself and Disciples
alone, yet Jesus said “these works shall ye also do, and even
greater works shall ye do . He did not say “these works shall
my first disciples do, but no one else shall do them”. The law
of cause and effect causes the premature death of millions of
victims of such teachings every year. Millions enter eternity
unprepared, lacking in the understanding of spiritual laws.
Law The law of Love is, that all sincere Christians
°f must heal the sick and do good deeds, “be
^°ve UP ar>d care for the living, while the dead
bury the dead". Those who obey the law of Love become as
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 89
the Son of God, “the light of this world”. Super Mind Science
stands firmly upon the laws of Spirit as demonstrated by Jesus,
it rejects all empty beliefs which do not demonstrate the powers.
One belief is as worthless as another as a means of salvation.
Anyone who can stop pain, heal themselves and others, and
perform other demonstrations taught by Jesus, we accept them
as brothers emulating the same Truth, fruit of the same vine.
Those who do the Divine works, the same are our brothers,
and we work hand in hand.
The Law The law of Moses which was supposed to
of have Divine origin, gave the commandment
Moses “Thou shalt not kill”, yet a little later we
fund the “God of Israel” very interested in war, advising how
an enemy should be captured and all his goods taken away from
him, and in some cases killing him. We notice that the Hebrews
actually believed God blessed them for killing Gentiles. Either
Moses had no Divine revelation or he communicated with a
righteous God one day and a Satanic God the next, for the
Infinite Universal Spirit of Love would not give such evil advice.
It would never contradict Divine orders. Because of this evil
aspect of the Law of Moses, Jesus came to fulfill and end that
law, establishing in its stead the spiritual law of Love and Good'
ness. The only fault they could find with Jesus was His Divine
Goodness.
Truth Many adversaries of the truth of Super Mind
Ever Science have found the same fault with it.
the Same Even though their body was healed through
it, they deserted it and returned to their mental idols of weak'
ness, because of its teachings of goodness and its condemnation
of evil. Truth has ever been so received, for it is written “the
world loveth darkness”, but the beautiful light shed upon mind
and Spirit in this Science will do away with much suffering.
Many have been and will continue to be touched with the heal'
ing power of Truth, which alone is sufficient compensation for
all the years of study on the part of the author, whose sole
desire is to redeem mankind from the wages of sin and error.
Laws Man’s being is composed of mind or intelli'
of gence; body, a physical expression; soul, the
Being inner reality or being of righteousness.
When the inner self manifests, Divine demonstrations of power
take place which are condemned by the materialist who says as
90 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
he did of old, “crucify him”, yet he calls himself equal with
God. Everywhere that the soul power comes forward, it is met
with opposition from those who dwell in darkness mentally.
However, the Law of Being is that Spirit will triumph, Truth will
down falsehood and power will overcome weakness.
Fall Dogmas and man made creeds cannot give
of one soul satisfaction, which has resulted in
Dogmas millions seeking Truth outside of the
churches. Materialistic creeds made by councils of politicians
who robbed Christianity of its greatest power, that of Christ
healing have now begun to wan. No amount of financial aid
can save them, because they removed the most beautiful jewel
in the spiritual crown of “Jesus, the Christ”, namely the effi­
ciency of His healing art. They delivered the sick unto the
hands of materialist systems which completely ignore mind, God
and Truth as a healing power.
Laws Science consists of facts which are provable.
of If Christianity can be demonstrated, it is a
Science Science, if it cannot be demonstrated, it is
a myth. If Super Mind Science which is based on the truth of
Christianity is wrong, then Christianity could not be scientific
or true. Some may say why call it Super Mind Science? The
author answers that there are other lower or negative “Mind
Science ’ systems which are directly opposite to this Science,
therefore we explain, “Super” means higher, above, beyond.
This is the truth of what Super Mind Science actually is, it
is a much higher Science than any of those lesser Sciences which
the public is wont to compare it with. It gives instructions in
Truth, above and beyond any of the other sciences, our methods
are positive and creative where theirs are efficient only when
used by negative people.
Healing Super Mind Science heals those who do not
Without believe in it equally as well as those who
Belief believe in it. A disbeliever in our Science,
an atheist, believer or follower in any other sect or creed, if
he uses our method will be healed, because Science does not
depend on belief. ^Me consider those disbelievers with occult
ideas the same as those who follow different ideas and creeds,
for anyone can see even with material reasoning the logic of
Super Mind Science, which teaches that disease is but conges­
tion, and expansion which is ease is mental first and physical
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 91
last. Super Mind Science having the best expanding process,
also the most perfect concentration method, heals the quickest.
Science of If all children were trained in Divine Mind
keys of Super Mind Science as taught by the founder, there
would be little use for hospitals, prisons or institutions for “fee'
does not mold character is doomed to failure. Only the institU'
tions which attempt to save the entire man, and teach all of
Christ’s work can endure in the future. Super Mind Science,
being scientific and logical meets that requirement.
cause man to sin, which brings upon him the results of sins of
omission and commission. W hat use is it to teach the young
generation about the miracles of the past and deny the miracles
of the present? The young say, “if God did wonders then, why
can He not do them now, why should the world be left in dark'
ness now’’? Such teachings which imply that the laws of God
change and that once He condoned healing and other wonders,
but now turns a deaf ear to suffering humanity are untrue and
will go down to destruction.
learn the scientific Truth that matter can never be the father of
a soul, only God is the Father of all souls. Spiritually we are
all “Sons of God” made in His image, or in His spiritual like'
ness. All Masters of the physical nature discover that they can
leave the body and also return to it at Will, therefore the body
is not the real being at all, but is only a means to an end. True
Divine Mind Scientists control their body, treat it well, then
when they have attained spiritual wisdom, they will cast it aside
as they would an old cloak. Those who master Super Mind
Science will be able to perform this demonstration, for when
mind is master, the flesh must obey.
Mind Science there would be no morons or imbe'
Needed ciles. If every church taught a class in the
ble minded”. The idea that the church should not teach scien­
tific Truth is the greatest error of this age, for the church which
Untruthful
Teachings
When the young people are taught that God
sends suffering upon them, they are taught
falsely. Only ignorance of the laws of life
Those who attach such great importance to
the physical virgin birth of Jesus regarding
His body as being the real Jesus should be
more concerned about His glorious life and works. They should
92 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Human When the truth regarding the Fatherhood
Will of God, not only in the case of Jesus, but
Divine of every human soul is understood, then
people will grasp the meaning of the saying of Jesus “ye are a^
s0
sons of God”. Then will human Will be understood as Divine
Will, Truth as the power back of Will or the Will of God, and
Science, the truth about being. Then also will the truth be
revealed about mental quackery which denies that human Will
is Divine, for can the soul which was created by Almighty God
be ruled by human Will, or, how could there be other than
Divine Will? The power that kills which seems to some to be
the Will is simply the absence of Divine Will, a false force which
exists only because of the absence of good or Divine Will. Evil
has no power, it is negation, good alone has power.
. . , There is no such thing as “animal magnet'
Animal „ „ r ^ j
. ism as an evil power , ror uoa
s does not create powers opposite to His
Divine principles. Animal magnetism as evil is but mental delusion
believed in by those unilluminated mortals who want an excuse
for doing evil, like the orthodox Christian lays his faults at the
feet of satan. Such mental crutches are only an excuse for
mental weakness, for can a Son of God, a soul, possess an evil
power common to animals? The answer is “no”. All mag­
netism is good, otherwise God would not, nor could not be its
creator. Super Mind Science receives all such negative beliefs
as mortal hallucination, false concept, and the absence of good.
With the passing of beliefs in devils that
carry pitchforks comes the teachings of
others that are just as bad. Teachings that
consist of animal magnetism”, teachings that deny mortal
existence, teachings that one does not need to improve them­
selves while here, but need only to wait until they reincarnate
seven times before they attain wisdom. Systems that teach of
the return of dead spirits to guide one, teachings of “black
magic or using the mind for evil; different types of teachings
that attempt to hide under the name of “Occultist” or “Truth”
teachings that evil spirits follow them or that some one is work­
ing evil powers on them, etc. All of these theories show the
mental weakness and lack of mastership of the founders of the
system who should have discovered that there are no evil
powers. Evil manifests only in the absence of good, and when
Mental
Devils
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 93
one is shrouded in good no evil can harm them. Destruction
comes from failure to do good, more than from doing evil.
Wisdom To attain wisdom is the greatest accom-
Is plishment and only lasting gift of this life.
Priceless W e read in the Proverbs the ancient saying,
"For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may
be desired are not to be compared to it”. Wisdom comes from
understanding the mental values in life. Physical knowledge
is good and has its values, but wisdom is priceless. Super Mind
Science overcomes the materialistic view of life and brings into
operation the spiritual, in this manner wisdom is acquired by all
who adhere to its principles. Wisdom is a law unto itself, it
has no part in foolish speculation or the vague beliefs of mortal
man.
Wise
Men
Keeping
Instruction
Wise men say only what to them is knowb
edge or what they definitely know, but the
foolish person wastes his time telling others
his beliefs and disbeliefs. These uncontrolled minds and tongues
many times disturb and confuse those seeking wisdom because
of the untruths they state. A wise man says, "I know” when
he speaks, a foolish man says, “I believe”; “by these signs ye
shall know them”. “A good tree bringeth forth good fruit,
while a corrupt tree bringeth forth corrupt fruit”, for wisdom
is Law Divine, likened unto the Infinite Spiritual Intelligence.
It is written, "He is in the way of life that
keepeth instruction, but he that refuseth
reproof erreth”, which is a true law. When
one believes they are perfect and wise, arrogance and sin become
a part of their mental delusion. The wisdom of Solomon says
“Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness deliv-
ereth from death, The Lord will not suffer the soul of the right­
eous to famish”. This is indeed the promise of Truth and wis­
dom, for health and prosperity come from obeying the Divine
laws of Life and Being.
The way of a fool seems righteous to him,
T ... . nevertheless he comes under the lash of the
Justification , T c . , . ,
law. ignorance of the law is no excuse, tor
knowledge is available to all. Ignorance is a sin of omission or
commission and those who say “I do not understand Mind
Science, therefore I will not be punished for violating the laws
of mind” err in their judgment for every day thousands die
94 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
because they are ignorant of the laws of life, they violate the
law of wisdom and must suffer the consequences.
Results of Deceit and evil negation cause one to
Mental imagine evil, this is the first violation of
Error mental laws. The effect of this violation is
that when once the evil has been imagined, it is soon accom*
plished. Although the cause was imaginery or purely mental,
the effect is physical, therefore the cause being mental, all evil
is of the carnal mind. Man punishes the body for what the
mental faculty commits instead of correcting the cause. One
who is merciful to others recognizes the mental weakness of
his fellowman, but the cruel at heart are evil minded and are
doomed to destruction through the law of compensation.
Truth Truth is eternal while lies are temporal,
Is therefore, no lie will destroy this Science, for
Eternal it is built on the solid rock of Truth, Love
and Light. That which is Truth is eternal goodness, as perma'
nent as God, and more accurate than time. Let every Super
Mind Scientist take refuge in the eternal principle of Truth,
and keep an open mind to Truth.
Preserving The righteous shall inherit the earth, but
the the wicked shall be consumed by the fire of
Righteous their own passion and lust. All good things
can be enjoyed by those who control their thoughts, bear up
under persecution, and yet exhibit the Godly qualities of Truth
and Love. “The light of the righteous shall be bright, but the
light of the wicked shall be put out”, or their sinful identity lost,
for the laws of the Divine kingdom preserve only the good.
Words The lips of the wise speak Truth, but the
°f heart of the wicked refuseth to hear until
Truth suffering causes them to harken. Some learn
by study, and others through misery and suffering. The wise
student learns and avoids trouble while one slow to learn is also
slow to be rescued from the consequences of their folly. Many
come to Super Mind Science only to overcome certain suffering,
then when they are relieved they return again to the fold of sin
and ignorance. Their state in the last instance is worse than
in the first.
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 95
Eternal
Consciousness
The doctrine of “eternal consciousness’’ and
the method of attaining it is the most
important philosophy in Super Mind Sci-
ence. Paul says, “For we know that if our earthly house of
this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an
house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens”. To attain
to this full knowledge of heavenly things while we yet live on
earth is indeed important. Super Mind Science in the teachings
of “the door of the soul” which leads to “eternal consciousness”
offers a method of attaining this wonderful knowledge.
Unreality In death there is no reality, for life is in
of mind. Paul instructing the Corinthians says,
Death “Always bearing about in the body the
dying of the Lord, Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be
made manifest in our body”. The meaning of this is that we
should be spiritually conscious in our body knowing that we
have an inner body which is not subject to death. Super Mind
Science demonstrates the actual existence of this body which is
not subject to death.
Stress the So many assert their belief in the death and
Life of resurrection of Jesus, yet they do not notice
Jesus His beautiful life or endeavor to live accord-
ing to His teachings. When one attains to correct knowledge
of Mind Science they will be able to see the necessity of know­
ing rather than believing. The facts concerning life is an attrac­
tive study, but the superstitious beliefs regarding life is a dead
study which leads to death. If all churches would teach people
how to live and how to think instead of what to think and how
to die, they would be more successful and their members more
happy.
Knowing The Scripture for the doctrine that one may
While know the immortal life while on earth is “I
Living knew a man in Christ above fourteen years
ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the
body, I cannot tell: God knoweth): such an one caught up
to the third heaven”. (2 Corinthians 12:2). This teaching
places the approval of Christ upon the practice of leaving the
body at will. The author has had this experience countless
times since the Immortal Life Divine was revealed to him.
96 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Persecution The persecution which Mental Science has
of endured is great proof of its Divine mission.
Mental Science Why religions oppose mind control yet
expect people to cease sinning is a mystery, for the most posi­
tive person fails to be able to follow the teachings of Christ
without a study of mind control. Even Christ required the
fast and solitude of the wilderness in order to follow the doc­
trine which He preached. The power of the Infinite Spirit is
strong and lifts up those whose consciousness is spiritual and
whose ideals are exalted above the flesh. Those who persecute
Mental Science will receive the reward of the flesh, which is
disease and death.
Law The great law of Christ is to “bear ye one
of another’s burdens” which means, heal the
Christ sick, restore sight to the blind, hearing to
the deaf, and teach the Truth to the poor. It means being will­
ing to fulfill the law by demonstrations of Divine power, fol­
lowing in the footsteps of Truth, Love and Light. The laws
of mind are the laws of life, therefore no one can understand
life unless they study and understand the mind.
Christ When the Master was on earth He continu-
a ally preached against the formal ceremonies
Mystic and ritualism of the Jews. The killing of
innocent lambs to appease a supposed angry God was repug­
nant to Him, for what God of Love would require the blood of
an innocent creature in order to buy His favor? Jesus called
these Pharisees and hypocrites who believed in outer cere­
monies whited sepulchres, white without but corrupt within’.
How little did He think that two thousand years later a so-called
Christian Church would compare Him with a slaughtered lamb
who had to be killed in order to satisfy a God who demanded
His innocent blood as a remission of the ¿ins of the world. God
would have to be a vicious evil demon to demand such an unrea­
sonable price for His favor. Christ’s victory over death was
the important demonstration to be considered, not the advantage
gained by willful sinners through His death.
The Wise The title of “the wise men” conferred on
Men of the Mystics of the Orient by translators of
the East the New Testament is indeed a fitting title.
They were wise in their knowledge of the “secret doctrine of
the East which was advanced Mental Science of that time,
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 97
however their true title was “Magi”. According to the original
Greek version, Magi means one who performs seeming wonders
or miracles through forces generally unknown or occult. These
Wise Men having a full understanding of the importance of the
birth of the Christ child came seeking Fiim to welcome Him
to this earth. While the Christian Church may desire to con'
ceal their personalities, it is well known in India, Persia and
Egypt that they were Mystic Astrologers, Mental Scientists and
Adepts.
Matthew’s
Record
The record attributed to Matthew concern'
ing the birth of Jesus was explicit in saying
they were Magi. However, the English
translators changed this term to “Wise Men” because they hated
mysticism and did not want it associated with the birth of Jesus
Christ, for the word Magi has always been accepted as mean­
ing “wonder worker”. The birth of the Master was expected
by the Masters of Eastern Spiritual wisdom, but was unknown
to the orthodox Jews. This plainly shows which school of
thought Jesus belonged to, for He became the greatest of all
Magi, or wonder workers.
The Wise Men announced “they were
searching for Him because they had seen
His star in the East". Now the star referred
to was the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter in the constellation
of Pisces which was later joined by Mars in the year 748. Kep­
ler’s records of astronomy calculated in the year of 1604 and
since verified, shows this to be a fact. This conjunction was
first calculated to be seven years before the birth of Christ, but
later was found that the correct date was the year of His birth.
When this conjunction appeared, there was a star formed from
the stars in the heavens, a “star of stars” making a six pointed
star or the symbol of the Master. The Wise Men knew because
of this great star formation that the “Master of Masters” had
been born.
His
Star
Astrology The sign of Pisces in Occult Astrology
of which is practically unknown to the western
Judah world was the star of Judah, therefore the
Wise Men observed that the Master was to be born in Judah
or near there. Knowing this, they began a journey which
required a year to reach Bethlehem, reaching there shortly after
the birth of Jesus. The orthodox idea of a traveling star is
98 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
unfounded, it is an unscientific invention, like many other of
their theories. This star of Judah was observed only by trailed
Masters of the astrological lore of India and Egypt. The star,
being an emblem of the Great White Lodge of Adepts, was
continually before them mentally until they found ‘ Jesus, the
babe”.
Denial The Christian church has denied the value
of of Oriental Astrology and classed it as base
Astrology superstition. They deny the association of
astrologers with the birth of Jesus. Super Mind Science teaches
that there is a true astrology, but also realizes that the system
now in use in the western world is not the genuine, it is but a
fragment of the original spiritual system.
Proof The author offers as material proof of his
of contention that the Wise Men were astrolo-
Assertion gers, the comment of the New International
Encyclopedia, which is a standard educational work. It states
that “some early Christians accepted astrology while many
rejected it”, it also states that “the Wise Men were Chaldean
Magi or astrologers”. The church has never successfully dis­
proved this teaching or disputed the Standard Encyclopedias
which all seem to agree on this point.
Eastern The author who traveled in the Far East
Brotherhoods learned many wonderful facts concerning
of Masters Life and Being from the Brotherhood of
Adepts and Eastern Ascetics. He learned much of the unknown
life of Jesus not recorded in the New Testament, some of which
he gives in this work in order to throw light on the true life of
Jesus. The Masters of the Far East never dispute Jesus, but
teach that all who believe in Him must do His works and in
doing so become like Him. They teach His glorious life as an
example for all to follow, they do not teach His death as a
means of excusing those who sin against the laws of Nature.
Version The Jews expected a Messiah to be born in
Bethlehem who was supposed to be a war-
Jews rior king and would bring back the glory of
Judah. However, the “king of peace” expected by the Masters
of the East was to be a spiritual Master, their prophecy was
written in the stars and was fulfilled. This proves Jesus to have
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 99
been the Master expected by the Brotherhood of Mystic Adepts.
The offerings of gold, symbol of the mind; frankincense, symbol
of the soul purified by Divine Godly union; myrrh, symbol of the
body, which were given to the babe by the Wise Men further
proves the truth of Jesus being welcomed symbolically as a great
spiritual Master.
Wise Men As soon as the Wise Men inquired for the
Guided “Great Master” the Jews thought they
in Dream meant the “King of the Jews” which the
prophets of Israel had foretold. They began to look diligently
for the supposed “new born King” which aroused the jealousy
of Herod who planned the death of the child through a ruse
worked to fool the Wise Men. However, while asleep, know-
ing as they did, the art of leaving the body, they were told in a
so-called “dream” of the evil intentions of Herod. This is mind
reading on the Astral Plane and is the same as is demonstrated in
the method of the door of the soul in Super Mind Science. This
art was communicated to the author by a Magi.
Watch After the visit of the Magi, the Brotherhood
Over sent other travelers who occasionally met
Jesus the Christ child and instructed Him in the
Eastern lore of mysticism. They knew that He was a pure soul
who had never lived in a body before, a direct incarnation of
God Spirit, and therefore was destined to raise the dead and
overcome death. While Jesus was growing up He was many
times instructed by “strange travelers” who came to Nazareth
where He made His home. W hen He was thirteen years old
He had been schooled in the Hebrew mysticism by Jewish
teachers and also in the occult mysteries of India, Persia and
Arabia.
Feast The feast of the Passover which occured in
of the April was one of the most sacred ceremonies
Passover of Judahism. It was in remembrance of
the angel of death which swept over all of Egypt's land smit­
ing the first born child of all the Egyptians, but sparing the
homes of the children of Israel who had marked their houses
with sacrificial blood, so the angel would not make a mistake
and kill their children. Jesus had just entered His thirteenth
year and was to attend the Passover where for the first time He
could sit at the feast table with the Elders of Israel.
100 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Jesus
Lost
Jesus At the Temple were assembled all of the
at the great Mystic Adepts of Judahism who were
Temple expert Kabalist or workers of prophecies
through the science of numbers. While Joseph and Mary were
saying their prayers Jesus searched out these great Seers, for
His interest was in wisdom, not in orthodox ceremonies. Soon
He found them discussing Hebrew mysteries, and became so
interested that He forgot His father, Joseph, and His mother,
Mary, who had attended the Passover with Him. Jesus was dis­
gusted with the sight of blood from the slaying of innocent
lambs who had been sacrificed in order to appease an unusual
God therefore, He engaged in an argument with the Doctors of
Theology against blood sacrifice, using the teachings of the
travelers from the East as a basis for His argument.
The parents of Jesus were so occupied with
the events of the Passover that they had
forgotten about Him until they were ready
to leave, when they were informed by pilgrims that He had
preceded them. They began their return journey home, but
found after a two day journey that the boy had not preceded
them. Quite anxious, they arose early one morning and
returned to Jerusalem where they searched for two days in the
Temple Courtyard. Finally they discovered Jesus teaching the
laws of life to men who were aged Philosophers, and they were
listening to Him, astonished at His sayings.
Expressing Jesus expounded truths of the mystic
Higher teachings of India, also the wisdom religion,
Mental Science or higher Mental Science, teaching the
sacredness of life and the law of Love. All were astounded at
the wisdom of the child. When His teaching ended, His mother
reproached Him, saying “we were distressed about you’’. Then
Jesus answered why sought ye me”, saying “knew ye not that
I must be in my Father s house, about my Father’s business’.
This was the birth of the great mastership of Jesus. From this
point until Jesus reaches thirty years of age the New Testament
is silent about His life, however, the Occult lore of the Mystic
Orient begins where it leaves off.
Magi Following the incident at the Passover a
Sent to Magi apeared in Nazareth on a mission from
Bring Jesus the Brotherhood. His mission was to per­
suade the parents of Jesus to let Him go with the Magi to India
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 101
to a Himalaya mountain religious retreat where He would be
prepared for His Divine mission to the world. This they con-
sented to, and Jesus left with the Magi to enter a school of the
“Secret Doctrine” of the Wise Men of the Far East.
Travels He remained with this Magi for three years.
in After this, desiring to travel and meet great
Orient Saints, He began to be a wanderer. He wan­
dered through India, Egypt and Persia, denouncing the rich and
befriending the poor. He meditated and came into great power
spiritually. He was ordered to leave some cities because He de­
nounced the priests and kings; He was regarded as a radical, a
socialist, a disturber of customs.
R .. . He was known in many places as a “religious
„ , renegade” who challenged all authority, and
hated the holy priest-craft. However, this
opposition was mild in comparison to what awaited Him when
He returned to Judah where as a “born Rabbi” He was to try to
overthrow blood sacrifice and Judah’s hypocrisy. He little
dreamed that death awaited Him for interfering with the priest­
craft business of Judah.
Returns When Jesus had visited all of the great
to religious retreats of India, Persia and Egypt,
Judah He decided to return to His homeland.
About one year before His baptism by John He returned to
Judah and spent all of His time with the mystic Brotherhood of
the Essences. Here He met His cousin, later known as “John,
the Baptist” who was studying the mystic arts of that Brother­
hood. Jesus was recognized by the Masters of the Order as
The coming Messiah”, and they ordered John, the Baptist, to
go and prepare the “way for the Master”. This he did by
preaching repent ye for the kingdom of heaven is at hand”,
“The Master cometh”, etc.
Jesus One day while John was preaching, Jesus
Baptized appeared suddenly without previous warning
and asked to be baptized by John, for He
felt that since He had been taught and helped by the greatest
Saints He should demonstrate the spirit of humility which was
one of their teachings. John at first refused to baptize Him on
the grounds that He was so much more spiritually advanced
than he (John) was.
102 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
John
Consents
Begins
Ministry
John finally consented, however, and bap­
tized Jesus, then followed the voice from
heaven pronouncing Jesus “The Son of God
in whom He is well pleased”. Jesus was startled by this un­
expected demonstration of power and later decided to find out
its true meaning. After meditation He decided to go down in
the wilderness, where alone with God He could fast, pray and
concentrate His mind until His soul received the revelation of
His future mission which the Magi had told Him about many
times. So began the forty-day fast which proved His mastership
and gave Him His Divine revelation. In this revelation the
prophecy of His death, His raising from the dead and ascension,
the betrayals of Judas and Peter passed before him like a pano­
ramic view. As the mental picture of these events flashed
before His mind, He was tempted but overcame the tempter.
After His trials were over He began His
ministry performing wonders as all Master
Magi do, healing the sick and curing mental
obsessions, using the Secret Doctrine of the East. While per­
forming these wonders He selected His students, establishing
centers of instruction and founding a Brotherhood of disciples,
preparing to be killed by those priests whose business He injured
through His teachings. The church-minded orthodox may say
that there is no proof of this mystic life of Jesus. The author
would remind them of the thousands of changes in the transla­
tion of the Bible, the rejection of hundreds of pages of doctrine
as unfit to be a part of the Bible, which included also a book
said to be written by Jesus, Himself. Much of the writings
attributed to Matthew were also rejected. While this doctrine
of Jesus is not in the New Testament, sufficient proof of it can
be found by a close observer. The rest is legend as known in
the Brotherhood Schools where the author received his Spiritual
enlightenment.
From The Jews thought that after their political
Death influences had killed Jesus by framing His
Unto Life death, that the end of His teachings would
soon come, but they misjudged His power, for He passed from
death unto life . His plans were so well laid that His death
remains as the greatest curse to Judahism, and because of it the
Jewish religion has suffered much, and the Jewish people more.
Not only did His death encourage His doctrines, but it gave Him
LAWS OF LIFE AND MIND 103
Missing
Testimony
the opportunity to overcome death with spirituality and prove
a doctrine far superior to the Law of Moses. The Brotherhood
of Adepts where the Magi came from was the place where the
author also studied Mind Science previous to the founding of
Super Mind Science. Let each Super Mind Scientist be true to
the teachings of Christ and great will be the succes of this
reinstatement of the True Christianity. All other views of
Christianity fail to account for its demonstrations of power.
The New Testament is not only silent re'
garding nearly eighteen years of the life of
Jesus, the Christ, but many of its statements
fail to harmonize. Some of those are in giving the genealogy of
our Lord, Jesus Christ. From David, they show Him to be the
son of Joseph, providing one counts Christ as the fourteenth
generation from David. Matthew speaks of Jesus as “the son of
the Holy Ghost”, Luke speaks of the visit of the Angel, Gabriel,
to inform Mary of her conception. Mark and John begin writing
the gospel with the events which happened in the time of the
young manhood of Jesus, disregarding His birth in their ac­
counts. The New Testament also relates that there are many
things concerning Jesus not recorded in the books thereof. The
author hopes he has thrown light upon those things which the
Divine Will has destined should be made known at this time.
The Truth is more wonderful than fiction,
it reveals the causes and effects. Super Mind
Science desires only to redeem mankind
through Truth, it does not wish to be a critic. Its methods of
controlling life energy enable everyone to demonstrate Christ­
ianity. The life currents of Super Mnid Science are the same
powers used by Jesus to raise the dead and heal the sick. The
author studied them while traveling in India, Egypt and Arabia
in the same surroundings where Jesus became a Master. While
there he witnessed a Magi drink three glasses of deadly poison,
fulfilling the prophecy “and if they drink any deadly thing, it
shall not hurt them”. The prophets of the Far East appeared to
the author from behind stone walls and talked to him, and fore­
told how Super Mind Science would re-establish the pure un-
defiled Christianity". This prophecy is now being fulfilled. May
the blessings of Infinite Spirit rest upon every true Super Mind
Scientist and may their works continue to glorify “Our Father
who art in heaven”.
The
Truth
CHAPTER Vili
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND
"I waited patiently for the Lord and He inclined
unto me, and heard my cry; He brought me up
also out of a pit, out of the miry clay, and set
my feet upon a rock, and established my goings."
— Psalms.
False
Mortal mind presents to the senses, doubts,
skepticism and the impossibility of the flesh
ors *P consciousness to know God. It never points
out the true reality for it lives in an unreal sphere. Seek to see
beyond its veil, tear away the obstruction of false show and
false pride. The Infinite Spirit dwells in the brain of man and he
should see beyond his wall of limitation; its impulses travel over
the nerves every second. This is the most comforting truth
which concerns mortal mind. The reality of Being is to know
this Infinite Spirit as the changeless eternal Father, not of this
world of change, but of the unchangeable realm of mind. What
could be stronger than the Supreme Spirit which created man?
Can you believe a drug is stronger? Or would you place a
system of health which fails to recognize this truth above the
Truth? Is a creation greater than its creator? No, do not let
mortal doubt deceive you. When you are in trouble should you
appeal to a limited mortal or to an unlimited God? When you
have a pain do you think it stronger than the Will of God within
you? Look, dear reader, beyond the mortal veil and see the
Truth and Light, know that nothing known to mortal mind is
stronger than the Infinite Spirit within. Do not worship God
externally, then when in trouble appeal to mortal man and mind,
forgetting God is Good, for this is serving two masters. Sit
down and master your trouble the Super Mind Science Way.
Infinite Enter into the closet of your soul, direct
Mind energy and power against your enemy,
Mastery trouble or pain, then realize the Infinite and
its power over your body, as the reality and the supreme. If
a Science cannot tell you how to conquer sickness, sin and
evil, it cannot save your soul, thus all religions which are not
scientific are inadequate to meet the necessities of life. Mortal
mind is carnal mind and is subject to being ruled by suggestion
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND 105
End
Discord
and environment, whereas Divine Mind cannot be ruled by
any other power than Infinite Spirit within itself. Con'
centration upon Divine Mind overcomes the limitation of mortal
mind and develops a transcendental state of constant bliss.
This ends all discord, brings about Divine
harmony and tears the wall of mortal limi­
tation in twain. All disease is discord in
the body, troubles are discord in the consciousness; doubt and
fear are spiritual discord. The remedy lies in attuning the con­
sciousness to the higher melodies in life, the meeting of mortal
and Divine Mind, the realization of the allness of mind back
of mortal mind, space, place and limitation which is the sub­
stantial reality of the All and All.
Those The complete essence of the All in All is only
Who revealed to “those who know”, never to
Know those who are content to believe. There is
nothing but change in matter and mental states, therefore bliss
and permanent peace is not in them. In a system of constant
change the element of ever becoming and being has no stability,
therefore we turn inward to the seat of power where changeless
reality in the form of intelligence resides. By the power of Will
we must concentrate the mind and make the body calm like the
reality we adore. The seer judges the future by knowing the
inflow and the outflow of mind, the building up and tearing
down of temporal structures. If the seer be spiritually awak­
ened, he will see all this as a constant change in outward
appearance only, for all things must move toward perfection.
The nature of the perfection in the universe is revealed only
to those whose spiritual eye is opened and “their body full of
light”.
Many Names This reality is called by many names, but no
For matter what the name may be, if man wor
Infinite Spirit ships the true God it is nothing less than
this Divine reality. All systems of religion must either evolve
toward perfection or be torn asunder, for that is the Law of
Periodicity. That which is beyond this law is the All in All of
the universe whose true nature is Truth, Love and Light, no
matter by what name known. Super Mind Science teaches the
student the keys to unlock the power of the Infinite within, and
thus live above the pairs of opposites, such as pleasure and pain,
sorrow and happiness, darkness and light. While the world is
106 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
in a quandry as to what is Truth, Super Mind Scientists
demonstrate it. What all religions teach is good, we demon'
strate; what all Metaphysical speculation represents, we attain
and produce. The most convincing demonstrations can be hac
in our Science. Men seeking Truth will eventually find Super
Mind Science in some form
^ If Infinite Spirit constitutes the cause of evo'
^ lution and being, it is the All in the universe,
there is nothing else outside of it. Man is a
miniature universe, therefore his central being is the All of
the inner reality. Super Mind Science leads one to the realiza'
tion of this All. Around the body is an etheric double of light;
this light casts no shadow because it emanates from the center
of the being.
The Great saints have developed this light so a
True halo could be seen around their head by a
Light disciple who was accustomed to meditation.
Matter and outer light is but the feeble manifestation of the
more subtle inner light, it is but the outer rim of a universal
circle. Seek therefore, dear reader, the True Light.
Creeds One who seeks reality must forget creeds and
and dogmas, knowing they are works of man
Dogmas and not works of God. If you serve mam'
mon your universe or being will be filled with darkness; if you
serve God then you cannot serve a creed, for God is universal
while creeds are sectarian. Can God, who loves man as a Son,
consent to sectarian division of mortals? The All is in All, its
Truth is written on he pages of the lamb’s book of life. No
mortal who has failed to reach the limits of sense perception
and gone beyond, can read those pages. Man cannot limit God,
even Jesus and His twelve apostles did not do that.
Seek the The universe goes on and on while man
Inner affirms his little creed. His affirmation in
Power the universe may be compared to the wind
blowing a grain of sand on the seashore. W hat may seem to
mortal mind to be Divine may be profane, for how can mortal
mind know what is Divine? Would God give mortal mind
power over Divine Mind, or could all Truth be written in one
Bible? Narrow minds are the type which light the torch for
the hypocritical inquisitor that he may kill his fellow man who
disagrees with him.
0
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND 107
The inner power is revealed only to those who merit the
reward of perfect health, happiness and a bountiful supply of
the earth’s goods. No selfish mortal will ever see through the
veil of life, for only those whose mind is pure can behold the
mystery.
Modern Those undeveloped mortals who sit and use
Mental affirmations on a sinful and lustful mind, are
Science doing themselves much harm. Their so'
called demonstrations are but hypnotic exhibitions, likewise
denial of matter is another phase of ignorance. Their teachings
have done untold harm to the “new Science of Life”, for many
judge all Mental Sciences by their low standard of demonstra­
tion. Super Mind Science has healed thousands without using
any of their negative methods, and those who were healed
became stronger, not weaker. The movement of Super Mind
Science is not just a healing movement, but is a way to reach
God, to know instead of believe; a way to the scientific under­
standing of life, for unless knowledge of life is taught to the
people this civilization will cease to be.
The mission of the writer is to present the facts, concerning
the great and glorious “Living Mind”, to mortals that they may
escape the sufferings of their own making. Jesus said, “if you
love me do my works”. His works are healing the sick and
doing good. If we love Him we will be doing His works, not
telling our beliefs which are illusions to others. Mind transmits
energy into health; it also produces health or disease in
accordance with the laws of positive and negative. The first
laws of life are these laws, they control the manifestations of
life energy and mind.
Seat The seat of the positive power in the brain is
of the Pineal gland, it is also the seat of intelli-
Intelligence gence in the body. This gland acts as a
receiving center for positive life energy, it articulates with the
pituitary gland which is the seat of negative life energy in the
brain. These energies produce the results of the concentration
of mind; if the body is well changed with them continuously,
health is the natural result, if it is not it is congested, or disease
is the result.
Super Mind Science reveals the centers of energy and the
proper method to control them. By applying these unlimited
powers as a means to overpower the lower conditions of life.
108 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
one attains mastership very quickly; any neophyte can feel them
vibrate in a few minutes from the time he receives his first
instruction. The more of these energies one possesses, the
greater will be the results in all their undertakings in life. Super
Mind Science has definite methods of generating and directing
them. Hundreds of students have experienced the stopping of
pain instantly while generating these currents in their first
lesson in this Science.
Developing a These energies are also used to awaken the
Strong Will dormant Will Power and mental faculties
Power which gives one greater power of resistance
and also the power to become a Master Healer. W hen the Will
is strong no disease will attack the body. Lack of will power
accounts for many of the failures and negative conditions of
life. Powerful Wills belong to great intellects who alone chart
the path of life for others. Weak Wills are the followers, not
the creators.
Executive
Power
After the Will comes the Executive power,
the next great brain power to be developed
by a study of Super Mind Science. The
Executive power causes one to become very positive mentally,
giving one powers which result in success in life. This power
when developed will raise one's consciousness from the subordi-
nate type to the positive, creative, executive type. Each Super
Mind Scientist who applies this method becomes successful and
happy, and by this sign we know a true demonstrator of the
powers of the Science. Mortal mind with its doubts and nega­
tive suggestions will never rule one who knows this method if
they will but use it occasionally.
Closing the When this is accomplished we next close
Lunar the Lunar Circle where the negative vibra-
Circle tion enters our being. We close this circle
to unsuccessful negative energy by using the Lunar powers to
produce our desire. In Super Mind Science this key is taught
so anyone can master it. We prove that Divine Mind is master
and that our Will can operate in harmony with the Will of the
Father. Such teachings will illumine the pathway of one’s life,
for, becoming immune to all negation we succeed in attaining
to mastership over all negative conditions. These high ideals
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND 109
of positive perfection can soon be proven by an investigating
mind who tests the powers with an open mind.
Im agination
Creates
Not only does a Super Mind Scientist con­
trol positive power, but he controls and
overcomes the negative mental faculties.
When the imagination is uncontrolled it pictures what is sug­
gested to it by mortals, regardless if it be true or false, while
Super Mind Science awakens positive cells to hold it under the
subjection of the Will so it ceases to create these mortal illusions.
Until one learns to control this negative faculty they will con­
tinue to receive false reports from their sense organs, false pic­
tures from the mental plane and low ideas from the animal
plane of mind. Every Super Mind Scientist is expected to master
the center of imagination so as to avoid this difficulty.
_„ , The more mortal suggestions one receives,
Mortal , , . . . ,
the less spiritual consciousness they possess.
uggestion Affirmations of any kind lower the mind
of consciousness to the negative mental states where disease
and trouble await the individual. Those who sit in dark rooms
to develop psychic power soon become mentally negative and
childish which leads to an unbalanced mental state sometimes
resulting in them going to institutions for the feeble minded.
So-called spirits which undeveloped mortals see are but vision
of a subject of hypnosis, they can see anything suggested either
by their mind or the mind of another. All of these negative
practices are opposed in Super Mind Science because they dis-
troy the one who indulges in them.
Beyond Only one who can leave the body and over-
Mortal come mortal consciousness can see spiritu-
Mind ally beyond suggestion and hallucination.
They must be able to pass beyond mortal mind to the plane of
inner reality to merge with the unknown. This development is
positive, not negative, suggestions may make you believe you
leave your body and yet you may simply have a vision of doing
so. The actual power to perform such wonders lies in Divine
Will and the ability to pass consciously beyond the limitation of
mortal mind. The first step in the direction of attaining posi­
tive mental control is to become independent of the world and
all it has to offer. Smile in the face of adversity, for God is
within; all seeming defeats are but stepping stones to success.
110 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Coming The Lotus, a beautiful flower is bom in
Up From stagnant water, it reaches maturity through
Adversity great adversity, but when it triumphs it has
in it most of the symbols of perfection of the entire universe.
Super Mind Science grew from the center of out of date creeds
which are symbolized by stagnant water, and was bom in the
mind of the founder during great adversity. W hen his body
was torn with disease and his mind turbulent, it gave healing to
him when all else failed, then it blossomed like the lotus as the
years passed by until it is now known to thousands as the
greatest Truth which mortal man can attain to. Do not be dis­
couraged, dear reader, if you are suffering, overpower the enemy
through mind over matter, Spirit over flesh and God over Spirit.
Every time you master you become stronger mentally, physically
and spiritually.
Overcome Do not be discouraged if some fights are long
the and hard fought, just remember Jesus said
World “I have overcome the world”. The waves
of lower thoughts are born in the body, they do not enter from
Divine Mind, they have the qualities of malice, hatred or envy.
In order to attain to spiritual consciousness, one must overcome
these lower mental waves. In Super Mind Science keys, a definite
method of overcoming them is given the student. Only the
summit of wisdom can give one the height of mind to see the
smallness of mortal mind and the greatness of Divine Mind.
This alone gives one courage, Truth, Life and Love. True
progress is a combination of a judicial attitude of mind with cor­
rect intuitive action, for action is life and inaction is death.
Seek the reality and notice how your troubles disappear, for
there is no spiritual reality in trouble or in sickness. True
spiritual reality comes from man’s permeability of the inflow and
outflow of Infinite Spirit. Consciousness of this fountain of
evolving life forms will co-ordinate the Will of mortal with
Infinite Will. Concentrate the mind that you may know this
great mystery.
True Meaning Jesus said “God is Spirit, and they that wor-
°f ship Him must worship Him in Spirit and
Worship in Truth”. To worship in Spirit means to
reach the inner self consciously, then know the All in All of
Infinite Spirit within everyone and the whole universe. No
one can worship in Spirit and at the same time be ruled by
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND III
carnal impulse. The lower the development mentally, the more
material the consciousness, therefore, to worship God one must
concentrate, think, introspect until they find the Divine energy
which cleanses the body, the mind and the soul, then the true
spirit of God is revealed. “Seek ye therefore the kingdom of
God and all things shall be added unto you” meaning health,
wisdom, prosperity, and knowing the Spirit of God within. These
evidences of true worship will be found where one has attained
to reality. Super Mind Science shows how to tear down the
walls of limitation of mortal mind and how to contact the power
of the Infinite; it shows how to lose the consciousness of “me”
and “mine”. This is the true way to life and the means of
avoiding death. Those who rise above mortality are given the
golden (mental) keys to immortality. W hen selfishness is gone
the Lord (Divine principle) will appear. “Enter into the closet”
(closed state) sayeth the Lord “and I will come in and sup with
you”. Super Mind Science teaches the key to this state.
Contacting If anyone desires to experiment in the wis-
the dom contained in this book, the writer gives
Infinite herein a simple method which will prove the
statements made:
First, sit quiet, close the eyes, become as quiet as possible,
send all thoughts into the center of the brain, forgetting all else
except God and Love.
Second, now fix the thought on contacting the Infinite, next
think of this power as supreme over all mortal mind.
Third, now picture your consciousness raising above your
body, and entering the Infinite Mind, until you forget your mor-
tal existence. Then cause your mind to move as one undivided
force in the Infinite state toward health, bliss, power, success-
and happiness.
Fourth, now realize that the Infinite Spirit is the All and
All, and exercise your most sincere devotion to it.
While the above is not the system of concentration taught
in the class of Super Mind Science, it will prove every statement
made in this book, provided one practices it often. “Seek and
ye shall find” is another way of saying concentrate, and it shall
be revealed unto you, for the true “I am” is awaiting your dis-
covery. A great field of light will open to your inner sight, your
Gennesaret (Garden of the Princes) is beyond the veil of mor­
tal mind, where sweet music and bliss predominate. Seek, O
112 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Body
Gender
Pilgrim of Truth this power revealed in Super Mind Science
which is “the light of the West’’.
Law The word gender means to beget, it does not
of mean sex, which is simply the distinction of
Gender male and female on the lowest plane of life.
A careful study of analysis of the term gender will reveal it as
an eternal principle manifest on the higher planes of mind. To
know positive and negative mental law is a ncessity because
the entire universe is constructed on the principle of gender,
which means giving and receiving, projection and reception.
Super Mind Science teaches that one can master the mental
powers to the extent that they can rule the gender principle in
mind, thus becoming a creator by the power of the mind, for
man is made in the image of God, “male and female created He
them”. The principle of gender therefore extends to the God­
head and man is the image of God only because he is both
genders in one, mentally.
In the body the cells, corpuscles and atoms
are of two types, male and female and con­
form to the law of gender. Science says
they revolve around a center in circles, clashing and consuming
each other. This process is the principle of gender in the body,
and should it cease an instant, life would be impossible. Back
of the principle of gender is the Infinite Mind which produces
both, yet it does not take part in this constant change, only
mortal mind is conscious of it, for the changeless mind cannot
become a part of the changing mind.
Creative In all branches of nature the positive pole
Law of or power is the real creator, the negative is
Gender simply an opposite pole to the positive or
real power. The negative receives one power and transfers it
into numerous manifestations, its chief function is to cause a
division of the atom which in itself contains a polarity. The
cathode or negative pole is a principle of the motherhood type
in the entire universe. It is the basis of varied electrical phe­
nomena in both the body electricity as controlled in Super Mind
Science and in elemental electricity as proven in physics. Super
Mind Science demonstrates both the positive and negative
energy, and the results from these two is the electro action in
nature called the creative law of gender ”. This law which
governs the activity of the atom according to mental modifica-
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND 113
tion of body heat, oxygen, air and light forms the basis of the
scientific demonstrations of Super Mind Science.
Divine Law In all forms of matter, organic and inorganic,
of are to be found these atoms and in every
Gender case they correspond to the law of gender.
"The Divine law of gender” is, that God being the reality is the
positive creative gender in the universe, and man the negative
pole or cathode of this positive power receives the creative power
and transforms it into many manifestations. When man knows
the secret of this law he can choose what he creates, thus mas-
tering his own destiny. His possibilities then become so vast
that he can see with the clear eye of science, beyond the limita'
tion of mortal mind.
Godliness Man must so govern himself as to become
Is a perfect pole of this positive power, for the
Positiveness more positive man becomes the more he
becomes like God or the true creative image. Super Mind
Science leads one to the very portals of this Divine doorway to
health and spiritual power. It shows all negation to be mis-
directed spiritual energy or an imperfect polarization of the posh
tive (Infinite) with the cathode (physical). This, dear reader,
is the truth concerning the “Divine law of gender” as revealed
in the teachings of Super Mind Science. The most ancient
masters known knew something of this law which is the master
key to life eternal as well as the key to mortal achievement.
Law of In all branches of Nature the positive pole
Mind positive which creates, is called the Super'
Duality conscious, the negative or the cathode of
mind is called the Subconscious mind. If the positive thinks
correctly, the negative creates the things desired by transmuting
energy according to one’s deeds. If the conscious or positive
mind which uses energy from the Super-conscious is attuned to
the Infinite, nothing but good can be created. The power of
positive concentration can so change the mental process that
it will cease to polarize with disease, sin, misery and negation.
The secret of this lies in raising the consciousness of man as
taught in the positive teachings of Super Mind Science. The
scientific way to demonstrate the laws of gender in Super Mind
Science follow:
First, make the body the cathode of Divine Mind by devel-
opening the positive, creative centers of power.
114 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Divine
Reflection
Second, make the Sub-conscious mind the cathode of the
Super-conscious mind which will polarize only with success,
health and power.
Third, make your entire life the negative pole or cathode of
the one and only Infinite Spirit, transmute its energies into the
most perfect reflection of its own Divine wisdom and nature.
Through Super Mind Science, knowing the
secret of being and becoming, you can
become the very Divine reflection. The
inner “I Am” is the positive being, the “me” consciousness is
the becoming. The “I Am” represents eternal reality, while the
“me” represents change. The “I Am” being positive, is the
true creator, the “me” is the transmuting cathode of personal
polarity. Both of the states of mind held firmly under the Will
reveal the power of positive concentration, which is the creative
energy of the real “I Am” consciousness. It governs future
creations, and by its power you can change all your mental crea­
tions. Super Mind Science teaches the world’s most perfect
method of intense mental concentration.
Proof The possession of knowledge alone will not
of be the salvation of anyone, only the use of
Power knowledge proves its utility. One may
know all laws of Being yet be ignorant because they cannot
demonstrate at Will, therefore, these questions will determine a
true Super Mind Scientist and a true Adept from a book read
but unintelligent person.
First, can you stop pain and heal your own body?
Second, can you demonstrate Infinite spiritual power?
Third, can you contact the Infinite and master trouble?
Fourth, can you rule your lower nature, heal others and do
the Divine works?
Fifth, can you separate your consciousness from your body
at Will and live about the flesh?
All true Super Mind Scientists can demonstrate the above
mentioned powers. Jesus gave most convincing demonstrations
which alone proved He really had Divine wisdom. One’s belief
cannot substitute for demonstration, it could not do so even in
the case of Jesus. If Orthodox belief could save souls, it could
surely save bodies. If it is good for the world, then why has it
not proven itself by making prisons and hospitals unnecessary,
for every effect has a cause. Vdhich do you desire to heal,
BEYOND THE VEIL OF MORTAL MIND 115
the effect only or the cause? Super Mind Science demonstrates
over the cause of disease, sorrow and death. Demonstrate and
know, do not let belief create a delusion of power; become the
receptive pole of the Infinite eternal light, and walk with the
Infinite up the pathway of Love.
Control W hen one can control the elements of their
of body, they can master the conditions of life,
Elements for one who can control the elements inter'
nally has only a step to go to control them externally. Then
the wonders of life will be revealed and they will say “O, Lord,
I cannot praise thee with words, thou art beyond all praise. I
cannot describe thee with thoughts for thou art beyond all mor'
tal mentation. O, thou Divine effulgence, help me to live as
thou art, to breathe thy Truth, seeing that all that is within is
also without, for thou art changeless”. Super Mind Science re'
veals the unity of God in the principles of life. It tears the veil of
false doctrines in twain which would separate man from man
and race from race, for all men would have been brothers had
there not been so many varied and changing beliefs.
Truth The truth in Christianity is no greater or
Is less than the truth in Buddahism, Truth is
Truth one and the same the world over, while
beliefs vary in accordance with the environment of life. One
should teach the mind or individual consciousness the Allness of
God, not what someone says about God. Think of God as bliss­
ful, pervading Infinite Truth, permeating every cell of the body,
try to feel this Presence, know that every nerve vibrates its
power. Jesus said, “I and My Father are one” for He had
found Truth, bliss and power within Himself. Know God is
within, without, above and below. To know God is to experi­
ence, to feel, to be conscious of God.
W hen we know God, then like David our
prayer will be one of confidence, as he says
in the tenth Psalm—-“W hy standest thou
W hy hidest thou thyself in times of trouble?
The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor; let them be
taken in the devices that they have imagined”. Here the con­
fidence of the presence of God in the mind is revealed. David
knew that the Divine presence would punish the sinful and
uphold the righteous, for the Law of Compensation never for­
gets. To live and become righteous one must learn to live above
David’s
Prayer
afar off, O Lord?
116 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the pairs of opposites, have a mind unattached to the changing
temporal world, being master of personal self. Material desires
kindle the sinful fires, therefore seek to destroy them, substitut­
ing the All in All spiritual state for all earthly pleasure. This,
Dear Student, is the path of “soul liberation”.
All Work for the good of the entire world with-
Pervading out thinking of reward, this is sowing heav-
Spirit enly seeds. One who does this will soon be
able to enter into the universal consciousness of Life, Light and
Love. Continually live in this consciousness and supreme peace
will be yours; attain to absolute, changeless, blissful conscious­
ness in every cell of your being, look within and see the light.
“Knock and the door (of consciousness) shall be opened unto
you” is the Divine eternal promise.
CHAPTER IX
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH
“And when he had called unto Him His twelve
disciples He gave them power against unclean
spirits to cast them out and to heal all manner
of sickness and all manner of disease.”
— Matt. 10-10.
. The teachings of the Master were not ortho-
. dox in a ceremonial sense, but were of self-
orgi eness mastery and the overcoming of disease through
Divine Power. His teachings consisted of casting out mental
obsessions and healing the mind. To those possessing such
powers He also gave the key to heal sin and forgive it, or to
unload the conscience. Forgiveness is a mental process, not a
.matter of ceremony or magic.
Priestcraft To forgive sins one must have self control
and and be able to overcome sin in their own
Blind Faith being first Theologians who cannot do
the works of the Master and who themselves are sinners cannot
forgive others, for how could one sinner pardon another? The
proof of their control lies only in their ability to perform the
Divine works. No ecclesiastical body or worldly organization
can confer this power on anyone. Only sincerity and spiritual
development, which reveals the Divine Will of God as manifest
in man, can do this.
Salvation There are three steps in attaining salvation
of the which Jesus observed and which all Masters
Soul have taught. They are, first, a consciousness
of the sins committed, and, second, contrition with a desire to
master the lower nature by fasting and concentration. Jesus
observed this when He fasted forty days in the wilderness and
overcame the tempter. After the overcoming is accomplishd,
the Will to do good must manifest a consciousness of the pres­
ence of God within. The third step then, is the ceasing of sin
and attaining of bliss and peace as a continuous mental state
which has been developed by the power of concentration of the
mind. Jesus said, “I doeth the Will of the Father”. The con­
sciousness of this Will was developed clearly during His forty
day fast. In Super Mind Science we overcome the flesh con-
118 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
sciousness by concentrating for the Divine unity of our con­
sciousness with that of Infinite Spirit, which then becomes an
ever present reality.
Evidence The evidence of one having reached attain­
ed ment is if they obey the injuction of the
Salvation Master in Matt. 10:8: "Heal the sick, cleanse
the lepers, raise the dead; freely ye have received, freely give”.
When we witness a Super Mind Scientist performing these won­
ders through their knowledge of the keys to the Science, we
know that the individual ego of that student is one with God
and that they have overcome the flesh. Their soul illuminates
the body, and supreme peace abides with them. For these there
will be no death if they continue the good works and help the
cause of doing good unto others. They will always be righteous
for the very sake of righteousness. Their soul gains control of
their conscious mind, they make restitution for wrongs of the
past, and their salvation is assured.
False “Faith without works is dead”, while power
Doctrines *
s t^e demonstration of the keys to power
over sin and disease, which one has learned.
False doctrine has blinded the world for so many centuries that
man has become spiritually asleep in the very presence of the
most terrible sins. Some of the false doctrines are herein explain­
ed that Super Mind Scientists may be aware of them. The church
of Rome bases its false doctrines of the powers to grant forgive­
ness of sins and send souls into purgatory, and then release them
for a consideration, on the following scripture:
Matt. 16:18-19 “And I say also unto thee, that
thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build
my church; and the gates of hell shall not pre­
vail against it. And I will give unto thee the
keys of the Kingdom of Heaven: and whatso­
ever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in
heaven: and whatsover thou shalt loose on earth
shall be loosed in Heaven.”
Peter was not the first Pope, neither did he found the
Catholic Church. Jesus said, “thou art Peter”, meaning “Thou
art an individual, a person; upon the rock of individuality I
build my church , or within the heart and consciousness of man
I build my church. “I will give unto thee the keys of the King­
dom of Heaven , means methods of overcoming the flesh and
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH 119
man’s last enemy, death. “The power to bind on earth”, is the
unity of the Will of man and the Will of God. Here Jesus gave
this power spiritually to Peter. “The keys” he gave are not
described in the Bible because they are secret keys to power
which Masters usually pass on to disciples by word of mouth,
instructing them to keep silent regarding the methods. Later
we learn that Peter fell short in understanding the keys which
Jesus gave him for he is rebuked by the Master as Satan, mean'
ing one who is an adversary of Truth.
Peter
Faithless
Matt. 16:22-23. “ T h e n P e t e r t o o k h i m ,
a n d b e g a n t o r e b u k e h i m , s a y i n g , B e i t f a r
f r o m t h e e , L o r d : t h i s s h a l l n o t b e u n t o t h e e .
B u t H e t u r n e d a n d s a i d u n t o P e t e r , G e t t h e e b e h i n d m e S a t c m :
T h o u a r t a n o f f e n s e u n t o m e : f o r t h o u s a v o u r e s t n o t t h e t h i n g s
t h a t b e o f G o d , b u t t h e t h i n g s t h a t b e o f m e n ’’ .
Here the spirit of worldliness is rebuked by Jesus in the
man whom he had a short while before instructed with the keys
to Heaven. This shows how sinful carnal mind can be regard'
less of the amount of Divine instruction received; also that even
the keys given to Peter did not overcome his selfishness. After
the crucifixion of Jesus and His ascension, it was a difficult task
for His disciples to teach His doctrine for they were unwelcome
in the Jewish communities, many times being persecuted and
stoned. Some of their converts were imprisoned and some
killed during this hardship, and the little church of Christ was
almost destroyed. A few of the disciples left the Holy Lands
to go to foreign countries, believing they could secure more fob
lowers. However, by the time the disciples passed away many
changes had been made in the original doctrines of Jesus, for they
preached instead of demonstrating the powers He taught.
Rituals They devised a formula to be repeated in
Instead the form of an affirmation. This included a
of Truth statement of belief in Jesus the Christ, as the
Son of God; baptism in water instead of the baptism of Spirit
which Jesus taught. Finally about two hundred and fifty years
after the last disciple passed away, their church ceased to exist
in organized form. Then pagan Rome, being ruled by a mur-
derous king who had been rejected by the Priests of Apollo as
an unfit subject of initiation, decided to found a new religion with
120 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the idea of being forgiven by God for murdering his relatives.
So, hearing of the Christians in the catacombs of Rome, he sent
for them and gave them political power and money in return
for forgiveness. At the time they were in the catacombs there
was no Christian Church and the ones who styled themselves
“The followers of Christ” were a few dissenters of the local
Mythriac Solar Cult who erected temples to Jupiter and Apollo,
worshipping according to legends of Greek Mythology. These
dissenters used a few written accounts of Jesus which some of
the apostles had left in Rome during the missionary work of
Peter and Paul. These manuscripts were not the original Gos­
pels but were writings based upon them or opinions of the
apostles.
Pope
Constantine
When they forgave Constantine his sins
which included murder and robbery, he
became “The Pope of Rome” and gave him­
self great titles such as “Vicar of Christ”, and “Successor of St.
Peter”. He then proceeded to gather all the writings on the
Gospels, even sending the members of his family to the Holy
Lands. After he secured all the manuscripts available, he
decreed that all who opposed the new religion should be killed,
and thousands were burned and killed by his orders. He appro­
priated all the rituals of the old mythology which he thought
the new church would need, they were the confessional, holy
water and giving of unction, celibacy of the priest, and marriage
of nuns to the new God. Thus Catholicism was born, which
spread over the earth with its false doctrines, rituals and hypoc-
racy. They continued their program of murder and robbery
until the Spanish Inquisition when they burned thousands of
innocent victims at the stake.
r, Those whose sense of decency and con-
Protestant , .
Reformation sclence forced them in later centuries to
acknowledge the impossibility of the claims
of infallibility of “The Pope of Rome”, so-called successor of
Peter, were the nucleus which formed the Protestant reforma­
tion. This movement was headed by “Martin Luther” who dis­
puted many points of doctrine, which included the infallibility
of the Pope, the selling of indulgence for forgiveness of sins,
and the praying of persons out of Purgatory for a stipulated
price, while the poor who had no money had to stay in Purga­
tory or the nether world. However, this Purgatory is not to be
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH 121
found anywhere in the New Testament, or even in the Old
Testament. Luther started his movement with the Augsburg
Confession; which was a great improvement over Romanism
but it lacked the exposure of the scheme of the Pope of Rome
to use Christ as a means of political power and as a means to
force kings to worship him as a God on earth, forcing everyone
to pay him tribute or their lives. The Augsburg Confession
started the movement to restore some of the original purity to
Christianity, but like Rome, it taught false doctrines such as
salvation by faith alone. In the year of 1555 the peace of
Augsburg was concluded and the Protestant movement became
a reality. However, the Protestants continued to teach that cere-
mony and faith alone could save one’s soul; that the healing of
the sick was not a part of the program of soul salvation; that
water baptism was sufficient to ensure salvation, and immortality.
Spiritual
Baptism
They even termed water baptism spiritual,
yet John said “I baptize you with water but
one cometh who will baptize you with the
Spirit and with Fire”. Thus the Protestants kept the same weak
and submissive doctrines which they received from Romanism,
making only a few outer changes in worship. One of their
teachings was that God inflicts punishment on His own chil­
dren in the form of disease and that He sends unbaptized infants
into hell fire in the next world. Many of these doctrines are
still in the church cannons and creeds to this day. The Protes­
tant Church, like its corrupt mother Catholicism, became a politi­
cal institution and killed those who were the true followers of
Christ. The followers of John Calvin were sometimes as cruel
as the torturers of the “Holy Office” in Spain who cut limbs off
of victims one at a time, finally strangling them. Many were
then burned alive in the name of Jesus Christ. Lutherism and
Calvinism lost all spirituality when they became political
machines and killed those who opposed them. Their rituals
are dead as far as power is concerned. The only truth they
teach in their doctrine is that those who follow Romanism will
be lost, while Rome teaches there is no salvation outside the
Church founded by Constantine. The doctrine of all these
churches is monotheistic, teaching one God, one Saviour, and one
heaven and hell for all people. This doctrine contradicts the
statement of Jesus that “in my father’s house are many man-
122 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
sions”. It also turns nation against nation because of its teach­
ing that all who do not accept it are pagans.
Judahism Judahism is a Monotheistic religion which is
is composed of rites and ceremonies denying
Monotheism all the Divine works of Moses as practical,
like the so-called Christians claim that the powers of Christ
were for Himself and His disciples alone. They teach seven
heavens and call themselves the “Chosen People of God , deny­
ing the authenticity of Christianity and all other religions. The
doctrines of falsehood in Judahism are as numerous as in Ortho­
dox Christianity and their claims as absurd. The book of Gene­
sis is symbolical, not historical. Science has proven this state­
ment, yet they and the Orthodox Christian churches continue
to teach that Genesis is the infallable Word of God, even though
God never has been known to write a book. The Orthodox
Christian accepts the absolute infallibility of the Bible and all
its contents just as readily as a Catholic accepts the infallibility
of the Pope, and the Jew believes in the infallibility of Moses
and the power of the Rabbi to make their food Kosher (clean).
All of these systems divide the people, causing each to claim a
superiority over the other; they violate the injunction of Christ,
“love ye one another”.
Mohammed Like Mohammed, one of the world's greatest
a sinners, who murdered thousands and taught
Sinner that if his followers killed those who fol­
lowed other religions they would go to heaven, they set a price
upon hatred and crime. All these systems teach that capital
punishment is justified or that it is right for one man to kill
another. They also take part as an organization in war or inter­
national murder, therefore their doctrines are false and their
ceremonies powerless to save souls. Their teachings retard the
progress of Universal harmony and Brotherly Love and because
of them, we need prisons, hospitals and insane asylums. A doc­
trine which kills the body could not save the soul for the soul
is in the body. The body is the “Temple of the Living God .
Divine Authority That which is Divine must also be Universal
of Super in Spirit, even as God is Universal. True
Mind Science Teachings teach the following Truths which
were in the Infinite Spiritual Mind in the beginning of this
ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH 123
creation, and have been sanctioned by all of the world’s Mes-
siahs:
1st. The sacredness of life of all creatures,
2nd. Brotherly love as opposed to war,
3rd. Healing the sick and doing good works,
4th. Self control and spiritual love of the self-sacrificing
type,
5th. Overcoming the flesh, which means mastery of death,
man’s last enemy; salvation of the soul through Divine deeds,
and the mastery of sin, followed by spiritual baptism.
This is attained through an intense desire to contact God, and
with the mind concentrated on bliss and the feelings and con­
sciousness of the flesh dormant. Later comes the realization of “I
and my Father are one”, the everlasting Divine consciousness. In
the process of this mastery, one becomes an excellent healer and
can stand in front of his own body, knowing that the body is
not the reality of being. He enters into Divine Mind at Will,
communes with God and corrects all of his mental illusions by
receiving Divine wisdom direct from the Infinite Spirit. He
ceases to ask God to do material things for him that he may
profit, knowing that God is Good, he does the Divine works,
and the law of compensation supplies his wants.
Truth He rises above the belief of one religion
Can Be being superior to another by knowing that
Proven God is the author of all things true, while
man invented sin and false doctrine. He only states that which
he has proven. His power of mind and good deeds speak for
themselves, he needs no Priest to get him out of purgatory or
save his soul, because he who knows this Truth is not lost.
He needs no water baptism for his Spirit abideth one with God.
His temper is controlled and his mind is serene. His life proves
his character, his light shineth in the dark recesses of existence.
By his wisdom and power he becomes his own healer and heals
others, he proves the works of the Master because his soul, being
saved by the Divine works, he is an excellent demonstrator of it
to the world. He becomes the very spirit of kindness, and
labors to spread Truth unselfishly; this mastery is attained in
Mental Science alone, it cannot be attained by believing in what
the clergy say about God. This is the only infallible doctrine,
it agrees perfectly with all the doctrines of Jesus, and needs no
creeds to support it or affirmation of faith to make it known.
The one who attains it is evidence of its Divine origin and there
124 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
is no need of a creed to make it official, nor the Augsburg Con-
fession to give it prominence. It requires no rejection or
acceptance by mortals, it is already accepted by the Infinite
Spirit. Man cannot improve on perfection, nor Divinity, nor
can he make holy doctrines when demonstrated, more holy.
Be An There are four stages in Super Mind
Example Science which demonstrate when one has
To Others attained to power. Later their life will
prove if they have retained mastership. The first of these is the
control of energy of life and mind, overcoming of selfishness
and attaining the state of perfect health. Second, the willing­
ness to heal others and do Divine works, the overcoming of a
lazy and false consciousness which suggests one cannot do heal­
ing and helping others. Third, the look of calmness on the
face, or blissful consciousness, kindness and perfect mind con­
trol as well as body control. Fourth, the speaking of positive
words-of power to weaker mortals and a consciousness of con­
tinued happiness in living. To one having ceased to sin, and who
demonstrates these principles, there will be no death or loss
of identity.
Law They live under the Law of Compensation
of which provides immortality for those whose
Compensation deeds are good, while the same Law provides
death spiritually for those whose deeds are evil. This Law begins
to operate when one has attained to a knowledge of right and
wrong. Before they come under the Law of Compensation
they are under the Law of Incarnation which provides a rebirth
in order that one may fulfill the Will of God by reaching
maturity, or the age of responsibility.
Mind The reality of all Life, Wisdom and Truth is
Is the mind; it is the mind which sees, the
Reality mind which hears, the mind which smells
and the mind that digests one’s food and also their thoughts.
No sense perception is possible where thought is not, therefore
all righteousness is of Divine Mind which is proven by correct
thinking on the part of an individual. All sin is the result of
wrong thinking or carnal mind. The mind when positive and
controlled thinks correctly, becomes sinless and illuminated;
when negative it destroys good and sins constantly. The
Super Mind Science doctrine is as follows: First, that one must
attain mind control or develop a constructive mind in order to
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH 125
save the soul. Second, that they must overcome selfishness
which is a negative mental condition. Third, that they must
develop spiritual perception in this life in order to exist in the
next; this can be accomplished only through a knowledge of
the Science of Life and Mind. Fourth, that the proof of all
things lies in the actual demonstration of the principle involved.
What man says about God is of little importance, only his
knowledge of God as a power is important. This knowledge is
acquired only through a correct understanding of “all power is
within”. No church directors, priest or preacher can confer it,
for God has already conferred it on all living beings. If man
could improve upon the Divine plan why would God not give
mortal man control of Heaven through ritual and ceremony?
If He did He would cease to be God. Some may argue that
God has earthly agents; why is that necessary when God Him'
self is the reality of both the agent and the one He represents?
If ecclesiastical bodies control Heaven, then why cannot they
control the Sun, the Moon, the wind and rain? If God favors
one church more than another, why doesn’t that church inter-
cede and send all souls to Heaven regardless of creed or color?
Jesus even assisted a thief on the cross beside Him saying, “today
shalt thou be with me in Paradise”.
Truth Churches which cannot demonstrate the
About Divine power are competitive corporations
Churches interested in political, instead of spiritual
victory. They desire man to believe they can save his soul even
though his body is full of disease and sin so as to have his
financial support; they have no Divine origin. Divinity is proven
by the healing of the sick and doing good deeds. All churches
are man-made institutions, not God made; the church God made
is the soul of man himself. Overcome the lower nature and find
the altar of Truth in your own soul, then indeed you have the
correct church. The church should be possessed by the people,
it has no right to usurp the power of God and try to possess the
people. Freedom is the key to growth, while bondage is the
condition of mental slavery. A church is entitled to exist only
as long as it serves the cause of healing the sick, defending the
poor, and teaching how man may reach his inner self and attain
to Divine reality. The religious program of Super Mind
Science is to develop man’s independence, and to abolish his
dependence on every mortal agency, depending only on God and
126 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Christ in the form of power to overcome the world. The
religious tenets of Super Mind Science are as follows:
First: The Bible is accepted as the inspired word of God,
delivered through mental laws to those ancients who were spirit'
ually developed. However, it is not infallible in its entirety.
Second: We adore God as Divine mind, All-seeing, Omnipo­
tent, and eternal life principle manifest in all living creatures.
Third: We believe in the sacredness of life of animals and
men; we deplore the killing of any of God’s creatures and con­
sider that sin unpardonable.
Fourth: We accept Jesus as the Son of God, but believe
those doing His works become like Him, the Son of God. We
accept His atonement as a symbol of Divine unity through over­
coming the flesh.
Fifth: We accept the resurrection as proof of His doctrine
of eternal life, attainable by all men applying their mind to
doing His divine works. We believe that only through the
application of His teaching to life, can there be salvation of the
soul and eternal life.
Sixth: We believe that “faith without works is dead”, and
those not doing the works will fail to attain immortality of the
soul, since one’s belief is only a reality when applied to the
problems of life.
Seventh: We believe in consciousness after death for all
those having “that mind which was also in Christ Jesus”, living
in their higher nature, doing the Will of the Father and Master,
being master of matter. These principles will not save one;
only the carrying out of the teaching therein can do so. Our
creed is love ye one another”. Do the Will of Him who sent
you into the world; “heal the sick and teach the Truth to the
poor , showing them the eternal reality, the spiritual self which
is made in the image of God. This must be an inner realiza­
tion, not an outward affirmation. Look within and know that
your body is the “temple of the living God” and that all power
comes from within, “seek and ye shall find”.
Super Mind The terms used in Super Mind Science are
Science Terms used to express ideas as follows: “DIVINE
of Speech MIND”, meaning the all inclusive intelligence
of the entire universe. “INFINITE SPIRIT”, the pure, All-seeing
All-knowing spiritual power beyond mortal consciousness.
“SOLAR ENERGY”, waves of heat from the Sun; the correct
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH 127
term would be “Soular Energy” since it enters the body at the
soul center. The word “Soul” came from “Sol”, meaning the
Sun, the supreme light of the world which was regarded by the
ancients as a Divine reflection of God. The circulation of Solar
Energy heals disease and stops pain at once. The demonstration
of Divine power is one’s ability to heal themselves and others.
This is performed by Solar Energy giving inward spiritual power
and realization which solves the problems of life. The “SUPER
MIND” is the conquering or positive mind which develops
power to cease sin. “SCIENCE” is the knowledge of the methods
used to demonstrate the power of Divine Mind, also Infinite
Spirit. This is the only true Science of Life, its origin is spiritual
and came through revelation and careful study on the part of the
founder while in contact with great Saints of the Far East.
“CONCENTRATION” is to make the mind one pointed, or to
focus it on one subject or object at a time which corrects the
thinking process. The term “REALITY” applies to the inner
manifestation of the Infinite Spirit, and power of Divine Mind.
The term “LIFE ENERGY” used in Super Mind Science refers
to positive and negative electrical vibrations. These travel over
the nerves and produce reflexes; they are healing agents of the
conscious mind. In the keys to the Science there is a method of
increasing them at Will, then by a method of direction they are
used in all types of thought projection and mental demonstrations.
The method of control was revealed to the Founder through
direct revelation as the result of concentration. These energies
are the ones which passed into the woman’s body who was
healed by touching the Master’s garment.
Door There is a teaching in Super Mind Science
of the of the “Door of Soul”. This is a brain
Soul center which is used by Divine Mind as a
means of entry and exit of consciousness, both in sleep and at
death of the body. W hen one controls the consciousness
through concentration on this center, they can remain conscious,
free from the body, and learn the secret of Heaven while they
live on earth. The key to this power was given to Peter by
Jesus, however, it was not included in the Gospels. Anyone
who masters this key can live in the visible and invisible, or that
which they bind on earth is bound in Heaven”. Many Super
Mind Scientists are proficient in using it as a means of attaining
Divine Wisdom. It cannot be taught in a book, one needs an
128 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
authorized teacher who can explain how to open and close the
door. Those who master this, attain to immortality while in the
flesh, and illumination of consciousness is the natural result.
Magnetic
Power
Super Mind Science teaches how to control
magnetism and increase it, enabling one to
also develop phenomenal mental powers.
Its method is perfect, the only one which is in tune with the
Infinite. This method gives one the power to control the
law of attraction; this makes one healthy, prosperous and
mentally powerful. We do not fear what is termed “animal
magnetism” for no harm can come to a good person.
The One learns in Super Mind Science how to
Ego awaken the Ego Current which destroys the
Current poisons in the body, making it pure and
healthy. This current is in a center in the spine; when it circu­
lates it also releases spiritual energy which develops great intui­
tive powers. This faculty gives one the ability and method of
doing the Divine Will. When it circulates properly life is pro­
longed and becomes more blissful, and full of pleasure. Disease
will not overcome the one who uses this key to body purification,
for when we were but infants Nature kept our body pure through
the agency of this current. This power can be felt as it passes
through the nerves of the body, it produces a blissful state which
demonstrates the truth of this teaching.
Crucifixion
Center
No one should be a slave to habits of the
carnal mind, therefore in order to demon­
strate complete mental freedom and inde­
pendence, Super Mind Science teaches a method of control of
life energy as a means of reversing the brain cells of attachment.
This changes the positive to negative and vice versa. This is
accomplished by one knowing where the positive and negative
life energies cross, then understanding how to reverse them; also
the mental processes so as to overcome the attachment. This
may be termed “mental crucifixion of habits and the flesh”, sym­
bolized in the crucifixion of Jesus when he overcame the world
and death. Hundreds of students of the Science have broken
habits of many years standing with this method. Mental inde­
pendence comes from breaking all habits and being attached to
Infinite Spirit only.
DOCTRINE AND TRUTH 129
Thought
Transmission
In the teaching of Super Mind Science there
is a method of Thought Transmission based
the positive and negative laws of the mind.
When one masters this method they can receive the thought
which passes through another person’s mind. Jesus demon'
strated this law when He read the woman’s mind who came to
draw water from a well, telling her how many husbands she had
been married to before and that the man she was then living
with was not her husband. Jesus defined His demonstration as
the “Water of life which, anyone drinking thereof would never
thirst again”. This reveals the Master as a Mental Scientist
who practiced mind reading, and regarded it of great spiritual
importance. In order for one to be a good mind reader they
must know the laws of mind, therefore Jesus was a Mental
Scientist of the phenomenal type.
Spiritual salvation can manifest perfectly
only by one knowing the laws of life. Dem-
onstration is of three planes which are: first,
and self-mastery; second, mind control and
third, spiritual realization or being in tune
with Infinite Spirit. No one with a diseased body, unable to
master the flesh, can know the powers of Divine Mind. Mental
control must precede spiritual realization since no one can be
spiritual and at the same time have a carnal and uncontrolled
mind. Spiritual realization comes after mind control and can­
not precede it. When one has attained to it, salvation of the
soul is the natural result. The goal of Super Mind Science is to
attain this soul power and spiritual realization.
Spiritual
Salvation
body perfection
mental mastery;
CHAPTER X
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING
“But who hath known the mind of the Lord
that he may instruct him, but we have the mind
of Christ.”
Mind “The mind of Christ” is the spiritual mind,
of knowing the secret of every power of life,
Christ and how it may be used to heal the sick and
raise the dead. Through an understanding of these mind powers
Jesus was able to say to the apparently dead daughter of Jarius,
“Maiden come forth”. Through His spiritualized Will, He sum'
moned the departing soul to return to the body, knowing as He
did that what He bound on earth, was also bound in heaven.
Such knowledge is the spiritual ideal of this Mind Science.
Super Super Mind Science teaches methods to con'
Mind trol these unlimited mind powers, the first
Science one being the life currents which were used
by Jesus to heal the sick and raise the dead. The method is
necessary to the beginner who desires to demonstrate the won-
derful works immediately, but as time goes on he will develop
that “mind which was in Christ Jesus” and discard the method.
Thus, generating of the positive and negative life currents is
the first step in the Science of Mind and Being.
Success
Noted
When the teacher of Super Mind Science
has imparted the key to this power, the
student learns how to concentrate mind, will,
energy and Divine power in one operation or technique. Soon
this power can be felt in the centers of pulsation and especially
in the hands. There is then born in the Super Mind Scientist
a consciousness of definite knowledge that they can increase this
power at Will, flooding every nerve with its vibrant energy.
Then the consciousness of power and a feeling that he is
master of a great conquering power dawns on the student. The
next step the student learns is that this power stops pain
instantly when it is directed where the pain manifests.
The very first pain which the student con-
quers proves the truth that all disease is
congestion and that the proper means of
expansion is through generation of life energy and directing it
Mastery
Begins
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 131
as taught in Super Mind Science. There is no need for blind
faith anymore, for knowledge and power take its placé. After
the student has learned how to heal themselves, they find that
they can generate this life energy until they have a surplus
supply vibrating through their body. Then by concentration
of the mind they can release it and send it through the fourth
dimension to anyone at a distance, producing the most wonder­
ful results. In Super Mind Science we call this “absent treat­
ment” and hundreds of letters from grateful seekers prove its
unusual value, which proves this Science to be “God’s greatest
gift to man”.
Positive
Brain
When the student understands this life
energy they will next be able to use it to
develop the positive power in the brain.
When this is accomplished, health, happiness and prosperity are
the natural results. The opposite dark conditions are all the
result of negative brain centers being over-developed, and the
positive lacking in controlling power in one’s life.
Centers Brain centers and their powers must be
of taught by a teacher or by special instruction,
Power therefore suffice it to say that these centers
are known in Super Mind Science, and thousands have become
positive, successful, magnetic and prosperous through its teach­
ings. When the student changes from a negative person to a
positive, most of their troubles in life ard' over. They become
masters of conditions and rulers of their destiny. All that is
needed is sincerity and loyalty on the part of the student, the
methods of the Science do the rest. Super Mind Science
acknowledges no weaknesses, it is a Science which masters.
Christ When a student has progressed in the Sci-
Healing ence and can control the powers of life
Powers energy, then they can send the powers
through others and demonstrate the Christ Healing. Flooding
their body and hands with this power, “they shall lay hands
on the sick and they shall recover”. The same energy which
stops pain in the student’s body can easily be transferred to the
body of another with astounding results, provided it is used as
the one and only Divine power and sustainer of life. This is
the power which Jesus said He felt pass from Him into the
woman who touched the hem of His garment.
132 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Founder’s
Success
Through the control of these life currents
the author has stopped pain instantly thous-
ands of times, and demonstrated permanent
healing in many cases, where all other methods had been applied
in vain. These currents not only heal, but keep the body full
of vigor, and retain the mental and physical condition of youth
indefinitely. The great Saint who taught the author this Truth
in far away India lived over two hundred years in a healthy
body. He also was an excellent Divine Healer.
When these life currents are congested
Congestion the natural result is first, nervousness, and
second, disease. There are many reasons
for one developing congestion, but only one quick way to over­
come it. This method is the Super Mind Science method of
power control. Some day in the near future, this system of
healing will take the place of many other slower systems, as is
now being done in the case of all Super Mind Scientists. The stu­
dents of the Science usually learn this wonderful method the
first day they study the Science under a competent teacher.
There is no need of waiting years for results in this Science for
it is practical, not theoretical.
Currents The life energy transmits thoughts from one
Transmit brain to another when controlled properly.
Thoughts Through this a Super Mind Scientist can
generate the currents, enter concentration, visualize a person at
a distance, then release these currents, also project a thought,
such as health, love, courage, strength and rest, to the party visu­
alized. The currents act as a radio wave, the Will of the sender
as a broadcasting station, while the thought center in the per­
son s body who receives them acts as a radio receiver. It is
most natural that this can be and is performed. Thousands of
Super Mind Scientists do this daily, and receive perfect proof
of results.
Jesus When Jesus read the woman's mind at the
Demonstrated well, He used this law. He also received the
Life Currents thought of Judas and Peter through these
currents and analyzed it, and He knew who would betray Him.
All Masters of the Science of Mind demonstrate this power,
it is a natural law, not super natural. When Jesus was a mere
boy He left His home and spent nearly eighteen years of His life
in company with the Masters of Mind Science known as the
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 133
Magi who were
energy.
Mental
Diagnosis
familiar with the art of controlling this life
Mental diagnosis of disease is not only pos­
sible, but is practical. In this Science each
student is taught how to locate weak cen­
ters in their body, by so doing they can direct life currents where
the congestion is and overcome it before it becomes a disease.
Every Scientist should remember the ancient command “Physi­
cian heal thyself”, therefore mental self-diagnosis is the proper
way to keep the physical body in order so that life is prolonged.
Long life gives the student ample time to develop spiritually
before they pass from this mortal plane of life.
Solar True to the teachings of mastership, this
Science does not stop at the control of the
life currents but passes on to the demonstra­
tion of Solar Energy. It is the greatest of all healing energies
controlled by, and a part of the Infinite Spirit of Truth, Light
and Love. This energy was known to the Ancients, but their
method of securing it was through exposing the body to the
sun’s rays. It is the power of animation emanating from the sun,
and those who completely master it can suspend animation and
demonstrate the famous “burial alive” of the Schools of Wisdom
in India. Anyone can master it sufficiently to use it to complete
their mastery of disease, and banish the possibility of diseases
getting sufficient hold upon them to overcome them. In this
manner all can demonstrate “perfect health”.
The difference between health and illness
may be said to be in the varying tempera­
ture. W hen the body heat is high, it over­
comes disease by causing the body to throw off poisons and the
decaying acids which otherwise assault the tissues and develop
disease. When one has a disease, by daily increasing Solar
Energy as taught in the Science, they raise the body tempera­
ture above normal. This breaks up the congestion at once and
makes the progress of disease impossible. Following this with
the application of Divine power, the healing becomes permanent
and the cause of the disease is eliminated.
Youth The difference physically, between the con-
and ditions which we call youth and age may be
Old Age simply said to be heat and cold. When one
ets the Solar Energy decrease in their body, they become “stiff
Varying
Temperature
134 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
jointed”, have poor eyesight, walk slow and unsteady, and take
on the symptoms known as “old age”. Their body accumulates
poisons and being short of this important life energy, it heals
slowly. If they had known Super Mind Science all of this
unnatural condition of age could have been prevented by rais­
ing the energy in the body, and keeping the circulation in good
order. This is termed “retaining youth”.
g ^ There may be scoffers who will say this
Science exaggerates that man should not die
n e sen at sixty years, then we refer them to Moses
who lived one hundred and twenty years, Methuselah who lived
over a thousand, and Enoch who lived to be old enough to
build a city. God is not the author of death, physically or
spiritually, only man’s lack of the mastery of life causes death.
The body is so constructed that it continually renews itself, and
if there is no congestion, this process would go on indefinitely.
Even materialists hold this view. Every aged person who
studies Super Mind Science under a competent teacher observes
that his joint stiffness leaves and the color of health returns to
his face, and disease vanishes. Is not this sufficient proof of
the power of the method?
Spiritual Aim When a person has rejuvenated their body
of the in the Science, they must also renew their
Science mind. They must cease giving negative sug­
gestions to their consciousness, such as “I am about to pass on”,
I am through with this life” and other negative suggestions, as
they impede the work of the Science. They should also remem­
ber that the aim of the Science is to spiritualise the mentality of
humanity, not merely to serve as a healing agent. It is the true
Christ Science, and the healing laws are only to demonstrate
that the body is the Temple of the living God” of action and
power.
Source Solar Energy emanates from the sun, this
of was discovered by the author while in a long
Energy period of silent meditation. He used it to
heal himself of a terrible disease, which had refused to yield to
all the other remedies tried, including many metaphysical
as well as physical remedies. This energy can be felt by any
Super Mind Scientist as they draw it into the body through the
Solar Plexus or the body’s “Solar System". The great Adepts of
the Ear East call this energy the Soul energy because it does only
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 135
good, healing the sick and rejuvenating man. The method of
control used in the Science is the original discovery of the
author.
Energy The existence of this energy was known to
Known Jesus, and through its power His disciples
to Jesus demonstrated the healing and other works
of the Master. When it is charged with the Divine power of.
God consciousness there is no doubt about it being capable of
performing seeming miracles. The author has flooded the limbs
of paralytic victims with this energy and with the aid of the
mental power of the afflicted seen them restored to use almost
immediately. A healer should also have the confidence of the
seeker, for he can perform wonders when he has no opposition.
Used This energy is first used in all Super Mind
in Science healing in order to produce physical
Healing ease, then mental power is applied, and last
spiritual power is applied. It is useless to expect the sick to
recover by denying their disease or through power of sugges-
tion, for unless this Solar Energy is increased there can be no
healing demonstrated, regardless of what healing system may be
employed. All healing quackery is based on the assumption
that God or drugs or some other system heal the patient. Dis­
ease is contraction and lack of this Solar Energy, and only by
correcting the cause or supplying the energy can the effect be
removed.
Increase The increase of Solar Energy can be demon'
at strated in a few minutes in Super Mind
Once Science sufficiently to prove that where
energy exists, pain is impossible. The good effects begin to
manifest with the demonstration. In this way, the Science dif-
fers from negative mental systems which require years to demon­
strate. One may ask a Super Mind Scientist, How does your
Science heal? They will answer at once, through the Science
of Mind which controls Solar Energy, first producing expansion
and body heat or Solar Energy, second by the application of
the concentrated Will power, third by the absolute power of
God. All of our healing is accomplished in this manner. Other
negative mental speculative systems will find it difficult to
answer the same question intelligently.
136 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Success
Explained
The powers which create success are defined
in Super Mind Science as the creative powers
of mind. The more positive a person con-
centrates on success, the greater they will succeed, while mental
submission is the road to failure. The mentality which finds
a way instead of giving up will eventually succeed, physically,
mentally and spiritually. There are seven types of thoughts
trouble, selfishness, spiritual submission, aimlessness and foolish
thinking, the thoughts mentioned are all negative types. By
closing the mentality to that type of thinking as taught in the
Science, one can learn to think in harmony with health, happi­
ness, prosperity and spiritual power. In this manner they can
eliminate lost mental motion, harness the consciousness to any
task and succeed therein.
Magnetic The Science teaches a magnetic method
Method which develops a powerful pulsating mag-
Explained netic force in the student. W hen this
power is in manifestation, one enters the magnetic mental state
where the entire consciousness is magnetized. During that state
the mind attracts what it concentrates upon. This power is soon
understood when one studies under a Super Mind Science
teacher. It gives the student the power to mentally attract
friends, success, health or phenomenal spiritual power according
to their desire. Some people possess this power naturally from
birth, they are termed prosperous or magnetic personalities.
Their power of attraction accounts for their wealth, and wherever
they go they are the center of attraction. Anyone can become
magnetic through a study of Super Mind Science and become
mentally like those who are a great success in life. They
can overcome the many obstacles in their way and attract
success. The method causes the mentality to enter the mag­
netic field of pulsation in the aura of the body and in a few
moments the student can feel and experience this great power.
them at Will and direct them as desired, using the physical
methods provided for the neophyte, their mental consciousness
of the body and mind develops. Soon the neophyte becomes
which create failure, they are thoughts of weakness, dishonor,
No other Mental Science today possesses this powerful key.
When a student has demonstrated the
powers of mind and life as unfolded in the
Science, and proven that he can increase
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 137
proficient in directing the powers, healing the sick, transmitting
thoughts and other demonstrations which come from a study
of the Science. As he progresses he will notice the increase in
the power of thought which soon takes the place of the physical
methods, making them unnecessary. The physical methods are
only a means to an end, namely, “mental mastership”. When
this is acquired he can then demonstrate like Jesus through the
power of thought and Divinity. Thus the Science leads to the
throne of Christ power.
Barriers Mental adversaries which form barriers to
to progress will be encountered by students of
Progress the Science of Mind and Life. Their mor-
tal imagination will give them false visions about using their
powers for evil, and it will cause them to fear their friends and
relatives. They must learn to say “Get thee behind me, Satan”
for even Jesus was tempted and ridiculed. Even today He is
misrepresented and hated by many, for the “world loves dark­
ness”. In this Science there is a method provided for the con­
trol of imagination. By generating the life energies, then
directing them into the center of imagination using the will
prevent that faculty from producing false
When the imaginative power of the men­
tality becomes positive, ceasing to picture
the negative, undesirable conditions of life,
a great step in mental mastery has been made. One becomes
the prototype of their own mental images, for when a mental
picture has been firmly stamped in the imagination, the power
of mind proceeds to use the subjective power to create it. This
is one of the reasons we must not let our mentality concentrate
on the opposite to that which we desire to attain. When men­
tality concentrates, the laws of mind create, therefore train your
imagination to picture only health, happiness, success and
spirituality.
power, we can
pictures.
Imagination
Controlled
138 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
The Way The way to power is the Path of Mastery of
to the powers of life through the Science of
Power Mind. Next in importance is the casting of
the mental image. If one will imagine themselves ruling their
powers of body, mind and soul perfectly, silently projecting that
image in a forceful way against the picture screen of conscious­
ness, they will find that they soon become the manifestation
of that image. In this manner we may become in the image
and likeness of God, even giving our words creative power.
Jesus possessed this power and demonstrated it.
A Demonstration While the author was conducting a Super
of Mind Science Healing Meeting, a lady came
Power forward and said, “For God’s sake help my
daughter, she lies at home and cannot sleep, her pains are terri­
ble”. She was told that by the time she returned home her
daughter would be asleep and all pains would have ceased. At
that moment, the author held an image of the sick girl in mind,
concentrated upon it, then charged it with life energy. He fol­
lowed the treatment with the mental command “Peace, rest in
the name of Christ”. The next day the lady returned and
reported that she had found her daughter.asleep as predicted,
and that she had experienced almost immediate healing.
e . . , After due practice in the Science one devel-
spiritual M . .
„ . ops ‘spiritual consciousness” of power. With
Consciousness , . . . , , ,
this comes a desire to do good, and one soon
discovers that worldly things hold no attraction, for there is so
much good to be done. They realize that there is only one type
of life worth while and that is the spiritual life, there is no
satisfaction in the attachments to evil. When a Super Mind
Scientist arrives at this view of life, the Science with all of its
powers opens before them as a beautiful rose opens after a rain.
Then with a firm resolve they should follow where it leads. If
they desire to become a worker, they should prepare carefully
and scientifically, then lay aside every other calling and become
as Jesus said “Fishers of men”.
Memory The soul like the body has its faculties, one
of the of the most important soul faculties being
Soul Spiritual Memory. This consists of the
memory of every movement of the consciousness while awake
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 139
and also while the body sleeps. In this Science there is a
method to improve this memory so as to overcome unconscious'
ness during sleep. When a student develops the spiritual mem­
ory cells, they will retain memory of all of their astral and
spiritual experiences. In that manner they can determine the
progression of the soul, for if the soul is conscious on the planes
of immortal being man preserves his identity and has not lived
in vain.
, Those who do not develop this immortal
Mental . , , , „ ,
Qkjj • consciousness are in danger of the second
death” referred to by Jesus, meaning mental
oblivion. The student should be well informed on this sub­
ject, for once one enters eternal oblivion there are no prayers
or ceremonies which can rescue them. Jesus expected His disci­
ples to develop spiritual consciousness for He told them “I go
unto My Father to prepare a place (state) that there ye may
be also”. Had He not prepared it there was a possibility of
them not reaching that state or going into mental oblivion.
Door of In Super Mind Science there is a method of
the Soul awakening the spiritual memory cells, and a
Method means of controlling the spiritual conscious­
ness as it leaves the body so as to have a full understanding of
the planes of mind it goes to, and also the type of existence it
is attracted to. By making a study of the consciousness in this
manner one can overcome unconsciousness, oblivion, mental
inertia, inaction and the negative traits of consciousness. They
can solve the mystery of “if a man dies shall he live again”.
Those who are mentally illuminated and spiritually conscious will
not experience death, for death belongs to the flesh. Man is
spiritual, not material, therefore he should not die or permit
himself to be drawn into mental oblivion. The key to this
development is in the method known as the Door of the Soul in
this Science.
Christ Many charge Mental Science with being
a mystical as if that were a crime, yet was
Mystic Christ other than a Mystic? Did He not
instruct His disciples in performing wonders or mysticism?
Therefore, if this Science seems mystical, it is because it is
spiritual and is following Christ. The materialism of the churches
which are creed bound is responsible for a large percentage of
the suffering of this world. If they desire to continue to exist,
140 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
they must become open minded and scientific, otherwise they
will decay as a moral force, just as they have decayed as a
spiritual force.
Lower Nature There is a lower nature and a higher nature
and in man. The churches try to spiritualize
Higher Nature th e lower nature while Mental Science
teaches how to overcome it, for night will never be day, nor
God become evil. In order to master the lower nature one must
connect the centers of spiritual consciousness. These Divine
centers articulate with Infinite Spirit, but as long as they are dis­
connected the lower nature rules at the expense of the higher,
for until man masters, he lives under the laws of the flesh. Those
who sow to the flesh reap death, while those who sow to the
Spirit reap life. Super Mind Science teaches with a definite
infallible method how to overcome the lower nature and con­
nect the centers of spiritual consciousness.
„ ,, Those who are converted to religion in a
Sudden , . , , c .
Conversion ':ew mlnutes without instruction in the Sci­
ence of Life, will lose it just as sudden.
Wherever the emotions prompt one’s actions, or rule their under­
standing, sin and disease are sure to follow, for one can over­
come the flesh, but cannot make it spiritual. Jesus said “I have
overcome the world”, He did not say “I have been converted to
a belief in God”. Conversion, if true, comes after reformation
and restitution, not from promises made by the flesh or adversary
of Spirit. Truth abides in the Soul, Spirit and God, it does
not manifest in the flesh; which Jesus said “was weak while
the spirit is strong”. Jesus did not say “I have reformed the
nature of the flesh”, so preachers who preach to the flesh, trying
to reform it without considering the mind, have before them a
hopeless task.
Crucify The crucifixion of the flesh gave Jesus
the power to overcome the world of material
Flesh sense. Super Mind Science asks no less
than the crucifixion of all bad habits and attachments of the
flesh. In the Science there is a method of reversing the mental
process of desire, thus changing the cell construction and liberat­
ing the mentality from the confines of error and sin. Super Mind
Scientists are instructed to use this method and overcome the
flesh, for overcoming is the only way to spirituality. The lower
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 141
nature can never be spiritualized, nor can the adversary be
changed into a being of light, therefore develop mastership over
all low conditions, then you will mentally see the “great light”.
Spiritual
Mastery
If you speak to the body and it refuses to
obey, silently form a mental image in the
consciousness of your desire, then firmly pro-
ject that image into every cell of your being until you mentally
subdue the body. After some practice you will succeed, then
spiritual mastery will begin to manifest. This is the beginning
of paradise on earth, the realization of “Thy kingdom come, thy
Will be done on earth as in heaven”.
Voice of There is an inner voice which speaks to us
the in times of trouble. The Prophets of Old
Silence who heard that inner voice called it the
“voice of the Lord”. Moses demanded of the voice, “who are
you that speak”, and the voice answered “tell them I Am that I
Am who sent you”. The “I Am” is the spiritual self, its expres-
sion is in the form of an inner impressive intelligence. By con­
centration and control of energy, the Voice of the Silence can
be so developed that it becomes a valuable source of informa­
tion. Our Science teaches a method which develops this won­
derful intuitive power. It was through this same voice that the
Father spoke to Jesus when He was baptized, it became audible,
saying “this is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased”. By
connecting the “I” and “Am” as the “I Am” within, the scien­
tific understanding of the voice becomes easy to analyze. Those
using the method taught in Super Mind Science will be surprised
to find that this voice manifests like that of a person speaking to
them when they meditate on spiritual wisdom. This is the
beginning of great Spiritual Divine Communion.
Higher In order to reach high mental planes one
Mental must become mentally active in the right
Planes direction. In order to become more active
mentally it is necessary to overcome the condition known as
fatigue, which is a mental condition, not a physical as some sup­
pose. Therefore, Super Mind Science teaches a method of con­
trolling the earth currents in the body, and training the mind to
overcome mental and physical fatigue as soon as it manifests,
which entirely eliminates fatigue.
142 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Fatigue
Mastery
The method is used each night before retir­
ing, until the subjective mental processes
relieve the condition without conscious effort
on the part of the student. Many letters of proof that this
method is successful have found their way to the author. It is
simple and easy to understand, however, it requires either a per­
sonal teacher or special instructions in order that the student
may understand the physiological laws used in the method.
While traveling in India, the author witnessed a Magian walk
on fire and never receive a burn. The reason is that they had
trained their mentality with a similar method, to resist fire.
These currents can remove all the feelings from the body at
the Will of the Adept.
Odie
Force
When one removes fatigue, then they are
prepared to learn of a greater power known
as Odic Force. This power causes the earth
to move on its axis, the heart to beat, and the sap to rise in a
tree, in fact it is the universal kinetic power which rules all
material growth. The method used in Super Mind Science can
either slow the pulse or stop it completely, while the mentality
has the power under control. Then by power of concentration
the force can be directed to any weak center in the body to build
it up. Hundreds of cases of heart trouble and vericose veins
have been reported healed by this powerful method. The author
was the discoverer of this power, and no other Science has ever
demonstrated it except Super Mind Science. This is the power
the Master used when He walked on the water.
Reward When one attains spiritual understanding
of they will soon notice the working of the
Understanding Law of Compensation which provides pun­
ishment for every wrong committed in the body. This law
which acts under Divine guidance rules destiny through the
astral powers controlling the germs of life. These life forces
punish the evil doer, while the Divine forces assist the righteous;
Mortals who are so busy with material affairs that they forget to
study this law complain loudly of the injustice of God when the
law metes out its reward to them. Super Mind Science trains
the mentality to think right and to know this law, thus prevent­
ing the sad consequences of coming in conflict with it.
SCIENCE OF MIND AND BEING 143
God Is When humanity learns the Truth, they will
in know that God and Mind are One. The
Mind belief in a God separate and apart from Mind
is of pagan origin. Christ taught “I and My Father are one”,
the Father could not be one with matter, therefore the at-one-
ment must be in Mind. Unless mortals learn this Truth and
develop their spiritual faculties, they will enter oblivion and
unconsciousness after this life. Beliefs about certain sects of
religious people going to heaven en masse are not only false doc-
trine but unreasonable, unscientific and without foundation in
Christian Truth.
Sectarian
Theology
Sectarian Theology which scoffs at the ideas
of Mental Science will some day be ashamed
of the fact that they did not see in it the
cause of Christ, and also the explanation of the powers He dem­
onstrated. The author realizes that he is a pioneer in the cause
of Truth, and also that Truth sounds strange to those people who
have so long lived according to the standards set up by a class
theological system, which is equal to the caste system of the
Orient. After all what good are unprovable beliefs? If they
could have benefitted humanity, such benefit could surely be
discerned now after five thousand years of their existence.
Mind The idea that the body possesses senses and
Alone receives sensation without mental modifica-
Cognizes tion is unscientific. Mind alone has the
power of cognition, and since all sense perception is in Mind, it
follows that there must be higher and lower organs and faculties
of perception. Super Mind Science recognizing the higher spirit­
ual organs of sense, directs the student toward development in
this direction. In this manner it becomes the greatest spiritual
guide. Sectarian religions do not understand these higher Mind
faculties, therefore all who follow after creeds are in danger of
eternal loss of identity, mental oblivion, or unconsciousness in
the next existence.
No one would desire to go to a foreign
country without a knowledge of the lan­
guage or an interpreter, or without maps of
that country, however, thousands enter eternity daily without
any knowledge of the world of invisibility. They trust com­
pletely to blind faith or to supposition about the greatest state
attainable by man, which is “soul immortality”. Many enter
Entering
Eternity
144 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the spiritual existence and never know when the dawn cometh,
“for death comes like a thief in the night” and bears man to a
realm which he admits he knows nothing about. Yet the ques­
tion remains, how many try to know about it?
The Jesus said “the way is narrow that leads to
Way life and few there be who find it”, yet the
Is Narrow creeds tell you that all of their followers
will find it. Which is correct, Jesus or the creeds? God had no
voice in the choosing of creeds, man with his smallness of mind,
petty animosity, and mental weakness fashioned them to suit his
own selfish purpose. By making immortality easy to obtain or
by teaching that it is easy to attain, lazy minded people will read­
ily accept the formula. Super Mind Science raises its voice in
protest against such misrepresentation of the Truth of Christ and
of God. All attainment and reward comes from sincere in­
telligent effort.
CHAPTER XI
MAGNETISM AND THE SCIENCE OF BEING
The Magnetism is the power of attraction in
Transfiguration Nature, a subtle influence which emanates
of Jesus from the sun. The personality consists of
the lowest body the physical, composed of flesh, and the mental
body composed of magnetism and light, also the spiritual body
composed of pure Infinite spiritual vibration, light and power.
A demonstration of the magnetic body was given by Jesus when
He demonstrated on the Mount before His chosen Disciples (as
recorded in Matthew 17:1, 2 and 3) “ a f t e r s i x d a y s J e s u s t a k e t h
P e t e r , J a m e s a n d J o h n h i s b r o t h e r , a n d b r i n g e t h t h e m u p i n t o
a n h i g h m o u n t a i n a p a r t , a n d w a s t r a n s f i g u r e d b e f o r e t h e m ,
a n d h i s f a c e d i d s h i n e a s t h e s u n , a n d h i s r a i m e n t w a s w h i t e
a s t h e l i g h t . A n d , b e h o l d , t h e r e a p p e a r e d u n t o t h e m M o s e s a n d
E l i a s t a l k i n g w i t h H i m ” . Here we learn how Jesus opened the
All-seeing Sight of His Disciples and revealed His illuminated
magnetic body, surrounded with the more subtle white light,
like unto the sun. This was to demonstrate to them the actual
existence of the magnetic mental body of light which can sur­
vive death of the physical, and also to prove that it is the vehicle
of the soul after death of the gross body. He caused Moses and
Elias to appear and converse with Him, this was a part of the
Science of Being He taught. In Super Mind Science one learns
the secret of the control of magnetism and how to use it to
demonstrate the Science of Being. It becomes a great power of
attraction and opposes poverty, sin and disease. Super Mind
Science also teaches a perfect method of opening the All-seeing
vision of the disciple, so they may behold the illuminated per­
sonalities of all who practice the Science of Mind.
Phenomena This power of magnetism is not to be used
of to converse with mental entities which
Magnetism inhabit the magnetic field of one’s astral
body, but should be used as a power of attraction and a means of
illumination. The more spiritual the person the brighter is this
illumination, which accounts for the halo around Jesus at the
transfiguration. Those possessing All-seeing Sight can observe
this magnetic body.
146 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Spiritual The magnetic waves around the body are
Phenomena capable of producing sounds, raps, etc.
Explained These sounds are produced by mental activ­
ity and the magnetic waves around the body of light, which can
also produce voices. These manifestations are mental and are
not the communication of discarnate spirits with the living.
However, only those who possess spiritual vision can discern
them, which accounts for so many persons who feel powers
operating not being able to explain them, many times attributing
them to spirits of the dead. Jesus desired that some of His
Disciples should know and understand this phenomena, so He
selected those who were ready for the Divine vision.
All The proof we have that Jesus opened the
Seeing All-seeing vision of His Disciples is to be
Sight found in the following passage of the
Scriptures: (Matthew 17:9) “and as they came down from
the mountain, Jesus charged them saying, tell the vision to no
man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead”. This
plainly shows that the demonstration concerned a future state
after death, and that one with All-seeing vision may witness it
while living in the body. Super Mind Science teaches how to
open the All-seeing Sight center, and hundreds have witnessed
the mental phenomena of the magnetic plane in the class
room. They have increased the magnetic power to such an
extent that those who were present have witnessed it. The
more negative one is, the less illumination there is around the
astral body and of course the less the ability to overcome the
world and survive death.
Instructs Jesus proved His positiveness by raising
His from the dead and appearing to His Disciples
Disciples in His astral magnetic body. Hundreds of
Super Mind Scientists have used the method of scientifically
charging the body with the magnetic wave. Through perform­
ing the method of opening the All-seeing Sight they have wit­
nessed some astounding demonstrations. They are instructed to
keep these demonstrations secret until they can prove the scien­
tific and spiritual foundation of each, then they can say “I have
beheld what mortal eye could not see, and heard what mortal
ear could not hear . After being able to prove the foundation
of these powers they may discuss it with the whole world.
MAGNETISM AND THE SCIENCE OF BEING 147
Illumination The power which illuminates is the Divine
of Mind as it masters mortal consciousness and
Magnetism shows to the world the truth of the Science
of Being. Magnetism is not intended to be used to move tables
and operate toys except as an example of its power. It is one
of the powers of Nature and Divine Mind and its purpose is to
illuminate and to attract. The mind and body energy should be
controlled and the thought centers should be very positive before
one attempts to control this subtle force. Many who declare they
have seen those who were dead appear to them, have only
experienced the contact of vision with the magnetic field of
impulse around the body. Even deeds of the past often reflect in
this field of light and in that reflection apparently may be seen
those who have passed beyond. This only proves the unlimited
power of Mind. When a Master like Jesus so desires, he can
use this power and impulse to present almost any type of phe-
nomena to the Disciple’s mind.
Persecution Those who demonstrate magnetic phenomena
of will be called hypnotists and accused of using
Adepts evil powers by those ignorant of the true
Science of Being. Magnetism will be called by the ignorant,
“animal magnetism”, yet it was Divine to the extent that Jesus
demonstrated it on the Mount of Transfiguration. There is no
evil power except illusion, neither would God create “animal
magnetism” harmful to His own son—man. The power of mag-
netism is not a healing agent in itself except that it acts to stim­
ulate Solar Energy, producing some results. The only healing
agent is Solar Energy and Divine Mind—there is no other.
Magnetic healers often take the disease of their patient because
they use a negative undependable healing method. Super Mind
Science does not use magnetic healing, auto-suggestions, negative
affirmations or denials of the human body. It is a positive
Science and recognizes all things and deals with them accord­
ingly. All Super Mind Scientists know that negation, disease
and evil exist only in negative persons whose mind is
undeveloped.
Every meta-physical teaching which denies
Illusion the power of God and Nature is doomed, for
for God will not be mocked by ignorance.
Ignorance itself is sin, while knowledge is power. When one
suggests that matter is non-existent they are commiting mental
148 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Divine
Protection
suicide and are creating a harmful illusion. Any teaching which
states that magnetism is harmful is untrue for our mental body
is held intact with magnetism. We will have a magnetic body
as a vehicle of the soul following dissolution of the physical, and
no suggestion or belief in evil can change that condition, for God
is no respector of persons. Negative meta-physical schools dis­
pute the existence of evil, yet say magnetism is evil. We are
told by Jesus that “a kingdom divided cannot stand”; if man,
who possesses a magnetic body, contains within his being an
entire body of evil power then good would soon cease to be.
The premise that evil is a power is erroneous, for only good is a
power. Persons who practice or try to practice black magic or
the casting of spells are not entirely sane, for their minds are so
negative that they believe good comes from an attempt to use an
evil force. The only ones harmed by such people are those who
are so negative as to take their suggestions.
Why did not the spell casters kill Jesus? It
was because they had no power over Him;
it was the materialists who succeeded in kill­
ing Him. Ignorance of that type is just as dangerous today as it
was in Jesus’ day. Mental Science today is opposed by the same
agents who would destroy those doing the works of Him who
sent us into the world. Magnetism is not hypnotism, it is a
Divine impulse of drawing power, while hypnosis is a combina­
tion of the affirmation made by the hypnotist and the belief of
the hypnotized. A good example of hypnosis is to sit quiet and
affirm, “I and God are one” or “I am God’s perfect child, no
harm can come to me”, over and over until the thought becomes
abstract. This type of hypnosis is the lowest negative type.
Super Mind Science teaches that science obliterates ignorance
and demonstrates man’s mastery over unseen forces. Man must
be positive and rule all powers and not submit to their rule, for
we have one Divine Mind and one God and evil has no power
in the presence of one ray of God. People who suggest that
spirits control them and then lose consciousness are hypnotized,
likewise those who suggest that mortal mind and Will do not
exist, then term carnal mind “mortal error” are hypnotized.
Human Will when used for evil is carnal and negative, but when
used for good it is Divine. Mental sins are negative and bring
punishment to the sinner because they make the sinner more
negative. A Mental Scientist who misuses his powers destroys
MAGNETISM AND THE SCIENCE OF BEING 149
himself by setting in motion negative mind energies which
destroy his life, for everyone reaps what they have sown.
Like Good attracts good, evil attracts negation.
Attracts No evil can come to a good person either on
Like the visible or invisible plane. Only those
who desire to do evil will be overcome with malicious mental
forces; they invite their trouble then desire to place the blame
on others. In some of the negative schools of Meta-physics
they blame all their evil and trouble on someone whom they
imagine is using “animal magnetism” on them. This type of
hallucination is common to those who are negative, having
become so by using affirmations or suggestions on their mental
faculties, or by denying the existence of concrete facts and their
bodies and mind; magnetism has nothing to do with these nega­
tive mental states. It is a wave or impulse which is neither posi­
tive or negative, and the mind may use it to great advantage
when a proper demonstration in its control has been given by
a competent teacher. A magnetic person is a successful person,
and one who does good in the world.
Demonstration Super Mind Science goes to the very bottom
of of forces, both mental and physical, which
Mind Science cause and control the manifestations of life.
We develop and control magnetism, and also subdue it, for the
Divine command to man was to subdue the earth. This
required mental power more than physical, and the more the
public leams regarding the subtle forces of life, the less
ignorance, sin, evil, disease and distress there will be in the
world. By getting the mind in harmony with the sun, and then
forming a magnetic circle through the power of positive concen­
tration, one can draw to them friends and all the elements of
success. The more perfect a Super Mind Scientist cojntrols this
magnetic power, the more prosperous and successful they become.
This is one of the most important things in life, for happiness
comes from success. Magnetism attracts our positive desires.
Power Some experiments of magnetism performed
of by the author have proven that a magnetized
Magnetism person can think of another person at a dis­
tance and receive their thought. A room or office can be mag­
netized and throw out the Divine influence of Truth, Peace,
Love and Light to all who enter therein. Magnetism can bring
about perfect harmony in the home and in business relations,
150 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
and by its correct use really perform unusual demonstrations of
“mind over matter”. The author has sat in a magnetized room
and concentrated on a person at a distance, and after a short
while he could see them and even hear them speak. He has also
magnetized an inanimate object, then selecting a subjective person
proved that magnetic power could move the objects even against
the subject's will; this was done without suggestion or use of
hypnosis. This power when used for Divine purpose can illu­
minate a dark room, and persons have been transfigured by the
astral light which illuminates the field of magnetism. Every
Super Mind Scientist knows the truth of every word stated
herein of the powers of magnetism. It can also be used to
produce rest and the magnetic sleep which demonstrates the true
vision of life after death, by contact with the first plane of
immortal existence. Learn the key to this remarkable power in
Super Mind Science.
CHAPTER XII
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION
“ F e a r t h e m n o t , t h e r e f o r e , f o r t h e r e i s n o t h i n g
c o v e r e d t h a t s h a l l n o t b e r e v e a l e d , a n d h i d t h a t
s h a l l n o t b e k n o w n .”—Jesus.
Planets The part of the Universe visible to scientists
and is called “The Solar System”. It is com-
Suns posed of planets and illuminated planetary
bodies; these we call stars of the heavenly firmament. Each
causing their illumination. They are the energy producing Sov­
ereign of a world, existing in an orbit in our unlimited space.
Such orbit is created by atomic attraction and planetary mag­
netism. Thus, the planet impelled by this moving force con­
tinues to revolve and travel through space. Planetary mag-
netis/n is the result of the attraction between groups of atoms
caused by the law of solar affinity between atoms, as proven in
chemistry.
atom in motion and bring about life on these globes. As yet, they
are unilluminated and are in the process of becoming suns. As
our sun moves closer to them to supply illumination and moves
their orbit of rotation are held in balance by the power of gravi­
tation, which is the manifestation of potential atomic energy.
versa. Until guided by an Unseen Hand, our organic intelli­
gence manifested in the fluid which produced us; hence a mold-
star visible to human observation is a white-hot sun, solar heat
Heavenly
Orbs
Our own sun is one of these planetary orbs
and is surrounded by a group of cold globes,
which await the heat of the sun to set the
farther away from our earth, these bodies revolving around it in
These planets, as they revolve, turn their sides toward the cen­
tral light, thus they receive the rays that gradually illuminate
them. The outer planets of this cosmic circle form the extent
of the sun’s domain. Infinite Mind directs this movement
through control of the laws of gravitation.
The animate bodies on this earth arose from
a fluid produced through atomic combustion,
which reduced solids to liquids and vice
152 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
ing process began. This fluid of life was called by ancients “the
water of life”. This world at that epoch was no more than a
floating cloud, a nebula and mist with fiery constituents. It
was composed of molecules and atoms, kept asunder by different
degrees of solar heat. This was the beginning of the different
bodies from the same origin. The more refined rays of heat
produced the human anatomy and thus became the vehicle of a
living soul.
Mind As the excessive heat declined under con-
and traction and expansion, the bodies or groups
Atoms of atoms rushed toward each other with all
the force of internal life caused by atoms seeking their affinities.
The illumination of the first, or parent, sun—which once filled
the entire solar world—was produced from this same force.
This was before our earth and moon and the stars had separated
from it; this separation was caused by an internal expansion of
life forces, which, by their nature, sought a more suitable atmos-
phere for the development of the moving groups of atoms which
now form our bodies. Concentration of mind can, and does
modify atoms.
_ j . , Ether was the force which developed
. . . through separation of the groups of atoms
or the solar planetary bodies. This came
from the drawing force of atoms which are in motion on dis­
tant planetary globes or the earth. The wave lengths of the
same now produce what we call “radio”. These wave lengths
travel millions of miles into space, because there is nothing to
impede their progress. While their terrestial manifestation is
more limited because of the interference of earthly atomic forces,
the ether produces the cold air which may be called potential
atomic force. Heat is the result of carbonic atom combustion,
which may be termed kinetic power or life in motion. When
the sun moved away from this earth, it became a cold ball
of ice. The sun set the atom in motion and melted the ice
when it came closer, however, these rays of heat from the sun
did not melt the ice at the poles, as life would be impossible if
that happened, since positive and negative force in atoms would
cease; for the atom is subject to polar magnetism, and also the
expanding heat forces. This produces modification of the atom,
and the combustion keeps the life forces in motion.
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 153
Primal
Bodies
Now, from this pulling process, bodies
sprang up and were kept in motion
during the birth of life on this planet.
Steam was generated in the center of the globe, and failing to
escape, caused earthquakes and volcanoes, which added to the
confusion. This produced a constant moving force of life—
and was the birth of evolution. This began when the sun was
of close proximity to our earth, and continues as it moves away
in its own orbit.
Earth
Rotation
During this process of growth the earth
went roaring through the sky and left a
fiery path as it rotated in its orbit, resembling
the tail of a comet. The combustion of the forces of atoms
produced a carbonic gas which enveloped the whole globe;
this caused the life of animate bodies to be measured by minutes
instead of years. After the birth of oxygen and nitrogen, these
primordial forces nurtured life and dispelled the gas, making
animated life longer. During this process chaos reigned on the
earth and intelligence was solely of the atom. No independent
knowledge was then possessed by any creature; the atom was
the sole means of life.
Solar This was the cycle of the sun; century
^ followed century and age followed age.
While animate bodies took definite form and
developed under the process of growth and expansion caused by
the action of atom, molecule and electron, the atom furnished
the strongest creative vibration, yet was the smallest physical
manifestation. All life up to this time existed in a cooling lava,
a liquid substance produced from gaseous vapor and steam
pressure. Soon this lava cooled, and flakes of more solid matter
floated on its surface. These flakes were the first solidified
bodies. They were drawn upward and downward by the action
of a benighted moon. Bodies clashed one against the other
without sense of separateness, until matter formed like a crust
over the earth. It was cracked and dispersed by a force like a
tidal wave from beneath by power of the atom. In time the
crust thickened and became firm, only to be torn asunder by
external explosion from an escaping force. Infinite Truth, Love
and Light guided the destinies of life during this condition of
constant change in the realm of matter.
154 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Dry The atom continued to refine matter which
Land was a part of this crust, making it a fit
Appears vehicle for intelligence, while the coarser
part of the crust became dry land. Overhead hung two great
clouds of vapor, waiting until the earth cooled enough for them
to descend, finally the crust formed into huge wrinkles
which became mountain ranges. Then the vapors settled upon
the crust and formed the oceans, seas and rivers. A coat of
salt also formed over the mountains and the more moist part of
the earth, wherein resided animate beings who lived short lives.
Their lives were measured by how long they could endure the
pressure of the expanding atom within them, which had one
movement only—that of growth and expansion. The sudden
mixture of land charged with heat and water, which was cold,
caused volcanic islands to appear. Thus islands, continents and
peninsulas also appeared to dot the landscape of a new world.
The sun rays now filtered through, warming the surface, while
the internal heat of the earth subsided, thus bringing about
layers of heat and layers of cold within; also a warm surface to
nurture the new bodies being born. Hence the earth became
as the atmosphere above, “as above, so below”, and atomic
force became atomic growth. The layers of heat and cold were
unequal, and so the different climates, the different poles, etc.,
were born. From this same condition was born the air current,
currents which sucked the water up, yet left the salt behind;
thus rains were born to nourish the land. These rains and tem­
peratures transformed the soils into crystalline structures, raising
rocks and altering the surface of the earth.
Meanwhile, bodies of no definite shape were
born, and died, until the seasons became
balanced and the rays of the sun intelli­
gently directed atrnoic growth, and the earth became with
young. Little specks of matter floating in liquid pools produced
their own likeness and formed in groups according to the chem­
ical composition. One group was vegetation, another was the
animals. The animals consumed the vegetable group by atomic
attraction, which gave birth to appetite, taste and culinary com­
position. The vegetable group furnished heat within the body
of the animal. As the atomic attraction increased between the
two groups, organs of digestion developed; likewise organs of
sex—which is solely atomic attraction developed in the animal
Body
Formation
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 155
group. Certain of the animal group absorbed most of the sun’s
rays, they developed faster, and their bodies were of a finer
texture. They became the vehicle of a living soul or a miniature
sun; thus mankind was first formed from the dust or crust of
the earth. Cells formed into groups of cells, whose foods were
first drawn into it by breath from the air above and water
beneath.
Organic
Formations
Later, they developed a food passage and a
stomach, a mouth and a hand. From this
time on, self defense, instinct and atomic
attraction, which were before sex, became the mother of man.
Passages such as nerves, blood, veins, etc., were born from neces-
sity; likewise two hands and two feet. There is in the human
today the same instinct which caused his growth, atomic attrac-
tion of the intelligence vested in the sun, which reflects the intel-
continue to harness atomic powers and band them together for
man’s benefit, continuing their expanding process under direc­
tion and self preservation; these are properties of the atom. They
ligence of a higher and grander sun, the Sun of God. The two
cells which brought man forth were the sperm, or masculine cell,
and the germ or feminine cell. The same applies to the vegetable
kingdom, except that the cells are of a different atomic construc­
tion. Reproduction of life from cell cohesion ended with the end
of the marine existence of man. Organic complication and
mental independence produced this change from cell cohesion to
group cell cohesion. However, cell cohesion still exists in the
world of plants, as is evidenced by the masculine and feminine
aspects of plants, whose sole means of attraction is atomic rela­
tionship. Carbonic gas absorbed by plants was the life of
beings in that early stage of creation. The decaying of the vege­
table life filled with carbon produced all of our mineral deposits
in the earth. The vegetables consumed all poisons of the air and
purified them in the cells of their being through atomic force and
rays from the sun. Now, all progression came from an instinct
produced from atoms when the atom produced a body perfect
enough to contain a living soul. On the earth man became a
Son of God in a sense; God’s intelligence produced man from
the dust or crust of the earth. His instruments were atoms,
molecules and electrons, but the intelligence of progression was
of the atom. The development of animal life from the homo­
geneous to the heterogeneous was brought about by temperature
156 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
and atomic energy, under the direction of Infinite Spirit func­
tioning from and through the sun. Different modifications of
these forces produced the different species; thus the ladder of
life is life’s modifications.
Natural
Co-ordination
The worm is on the bottom rung, the angel
on the top. Atomic energy is the instru­
ment of Divine Intelligence to produce bene­
ficial changes, which man profits by. This intelligence of the
atom is of the fourth dimension; consequently it is controlled by
Mind alone. No instrument can measure it, since it responds to
two powers only—mortal Will and Divine Will. Since matter
became a group of cells and consciousness a reality, man has been
lifted from dependence to independence, and now he becomes
master through mind development of the power that produced
him—the atom and its energy. He now lives in the sphere of the
Gods. Thus we learn the means by which man transcends the
law of physical organ construction and becomes immune to
destroying agencies, just as Infinite Intelligence through laws of
Nature, presided over the first marine production of life. When
man knows the higher laws of life he can preside over the forces
which create his destiny and change them according to his higher
ideals of life. The necessity of this change to higher ideals now
is as apparent as the necessity of physical change to meet the
modifications of nature was in the dawn of life on this planet.
Hence the hypothesis that necessity of feet to produce locomo­
tion produced feet; hands to handle food produced hands. A
necessity to change atomic structure to resist disease and make
one immune to decaying processes is just as logical now as that
development was then.
Atom Now, so far the author has proven that all
. , . life and change of the atom were caused by
Modification & , , . , ,
varying temperature. We have herein a key
to atomic energy, since one type of atom responds to this ex­
panding process quickly as another. As to what material science
knows about atoms, the author herein gives the views of chemists
whose laboratory work has given them the following demonstra­
tions of the chemical constituents of the atom:
1. One part or one atom of oxygen and one part or one
atom of carbon combined under heat will produce carbon oxide,
a poisonous gas.
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 157
2. The addition of another atom or part of oxygen will
produce carbonic dioxide, a harmless gas. This change is
caused simply from atomic modification according to air, heat
and light, and so a multitude of effects come from the same
cause. ,
3. While the physical effect of this is demonstrated in
science, atoms of the fourth dimension will only respond to
mental force which modifies temperature according to the condi-
tion under which the law is applied, especially where the atom
is confined to the heat of the human body. This is a working
hypothesis of atomic energy.
An The adherents of astronomy were hopelessly
Exact divided until Kepler discovered his laws of
Science deduction, and Newton expounded his laws
of gravitation. Thus astronomy was rescued from the domain of
empiricism and became an exact science. Metaphysics were also
in such a hopeless state until a system and theorem for the con'
trol of body temperature was promulgated in Super Mind
Science, yet it has been accepted by only a few. Atomic energy
and quality only make of chemistry a science, and that atomic
energy of a higher dimension can make of metaphysics a higher
and more accurate science. In each case the knowledge of the
atom guarantees certain results from practice. When the demon-
station begins, hypothesis ceases. In other words, when anything
becomes a science it is no longer a theory. Newton’s theory is
not demonstrable except from results, yet almost the entire
scientific world has accepted it, because with it astronomical
calculations can be made and each result can be predicted with
precision. For that same reason thousands have accepted Super
Mind Science, and this more advanced work will be received for
the same reason. Results of a science, rather than literal verifica­
tion by the layman, is the chief contributing factor to its
success. The abstract correctness of the atomic theory has not
been demonstrated by science, yet it is accepted because it is the
logical hypothesis for the results obtained in all chemical and
biological experiments performed by the world’s greatest
thinkers. While no one ever saw an atom, yet the results of its
existence have been clearly demonstrated in physical science. It
can be demonstrated in Mental Science, since it belongs by its
nature to that domain. Previous prediction of results is more of
a demonstration in science than a literal account of, or demon-
158 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
stration of its working hypothesis. Even electricity can be
demonstrated, but not fully explained, since its power is of an
invisible realm where senses cannot comprehend unless they be
especially educated to do so. In Metaphysical Science there has
never been a common hypothesis embracing all mental phenomena,
because there was not possible the prediction of a definite result
until the discovery of Super Mind Science. The same applies to
atomic energy as applied in Mental Science, this being the first
attempt to control this powerful force. The results will prove the
hypothesis herein set down in this thesis after years of study
by the author.
Raising Next, we consider how the atoms in the
the Dead brain contacting matter become vitamines,
Scientifically entering the blood stream and creating germs
of life, heat and the reproduction urge, which brings about re­
production, health and all things related to the progressive de­
velopment of life. When this process slows up, the result is the
loss of vital power on the part of the individual; by a control of
this power immediate stimulation of life forces is possible. Re­
markable healing can be performed, and there is no doubt but
the dead could be raised if one knew the secret of overcoming
the lack of proper body heat necessary to set the atom into mo­
tion. Now the ventricles of the brain are the atomic centers of
contact. The atoms vary in quality in accordance with the brain
substance of the different ventricles—the atom that produces
vitamines, the ones that produce the three types of gray matter
and the ones that produce Infinite Intelligence, etc.
Modifying Atoms Next, we enter into a study of the ventricles.
Through Mental their qualities and purpose, and their contact
Conditions with the atoms of different qualities. The
following explanation serves to explain the reason for different
results from mental activity, also the law of sowing and reaping:
Each thought contains its own atomic construction, which pro­
duces physical effect only when the thought vibrates through
cells, nerves and physical organs. When you think of a sick
sensation the atoms af a low ventricle operate on the brain
fibers, producing an effect on the body nerves which is the
likeness in quality of the thought—such as a sick feeling to
correspond with a sick thought, a glad feeling to correspond
with a glad thought. This action of atomic force upon the
body is almost instantaneous in its action and provides the ex-
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 159
planation of “Like attracts like”, and “As ye sow, so shall
ye reap”. Each thought modifies the mental condition of or
around the atom, making it possible to concentrate thought
directly on the atom and produce almost any condition. Previous
to man’s ability to concentrate his mind in order to utilize the
power of the atom, the varied forces of nature guided by a
super-intelligence within, directed the changing conditions
of life toward progress and away from destruction. However,
beings which did not conform to these changes were destroyed
by higher forces of nature with which they clashed. The
living animals on the earth seemed to progress toward complexity
rather than simplicity. This was seemingly caused by the fact
that complexity is an evidence of higher development through
the law of necessity. The genders came about by the attraction
between atoms and molecules which influenced the grouping of
the cells of the human antomy.
Organic Likewise, all our organs of appetite and
and Cell digestion were produced by the same law of
Attraction attraction, the intelligence in the atom being
a direct agent of Infinite Spirit. In order to understand life, one
must study the changes in nature, their causes and effects, their
importance in human progression as well as the progression of
all life, the cycles of time in accordance with the movement of
planets in their orbits and their distance from the parent sun.
Great scientists of ages past gave their lives to these studies of
Divine economy and Cosmic Science which included Geology.
They knew why oceans had been continents and why continents
had become oceans. Their literature was destroyed by greedy
Kings and, in many cases by a church whose doctrines were ex­
posed as false in the light of science. The fires lighted by
Popes and pious-looking priests, together with the burning of the
library at Alexandria and the fire of Constantinople, destroyed
what was known by ancients as the progress of human develop­
ment. This brought about the so-called Dark Age—dark only
until once again cosmic science comes from its place of obscurity
at the command of an adept who has attained cosmic vision.
The old maxim “that which is hidden shall be revealed” is a
challenge to those who would teach falsely about this life and
the life to come. The student is herein asked to study the
following propositions well, in preparation for control of atomic
160 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
energy in the brain by the power of concentration, to change the
modification of temperature, and thus direct the energy of the
atom. Mind control is absolutely necessary before this demon'
stration can be performed with definite pre-knowledge of results,
the following scientific propositions are offered for the con­
sideration of those advanced enough in Mental Science to apply
their efforts to its highest branch of study:
Science 1. That mind is composed of primary and
of advanced mental faculties. 2. That the
Thought brain is an organ of mind composed of
thought. 3. That the brain has one organ or ventricle or more
to correspond to all mental faculties, states and planes. 4. That
development of higher organs of power, s«ch as control of
energy in the atom, is by exercising the mind of the individual
in the direction of such mastership and creating a sense of the
necessity of understanding it, in order to control life’s greatest
powers, thus conforming to the law of necessity which has
developed all the lesser mental powers. 5. That the highest
organs of perception are little known, because few have tried to
develop them or exercise their powers. Jesus used higher organs
of perception than the people of His day, which He developed
by doing the will of “Him who sent Him”. This accounts for
His so-called miracles, which were the operation of life’s highest
natural forces, which control the source of all power, “Atomic
Energy”. 6. The atoms are constantly clashing in our brain in
accordance with the type of thought which becomes their en­
vironment, the thought gathering all physical force from the
atom, as is evidenced by external appearance— (a) red face color­
ing with thoughts of anger; (b) white coloring at cause of
fright; the atoms control the corpuscles in these cases, and (c)
change of breathing in excitement of any kind, caused by atomic
pressure the thought being the original center of such pressure
by control of the atom.
Atomic Combustion produces heat, without whi<
„ , . life would be impossible on this munda:
Combustion . _ , r ,
plane. Combustion is necessary in order
set free the heat combined in the atom, regardless if the combi
tion be from the formation of carbon within the body which pi
duces animal heat, or whether it be from the burning of t
carbon in wood or vegetable. Carbon is the basic substan
that contains the atom of heat which expands when greal
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 161
heat than is contained in its atom is applied. The different things
that burn, such as wood, cloth, vegetables, sweets, etc., are
simply the different combinations of heatacoms which we term
“carbon". The difference is caused by different modifications of
the surrounding elements attracted to the atom. For instance,
atoms modified by cell contact and the process of digestion pro­
duces body carbon, which when it contacts oxygen becomes body
heat; whereas the same group of atoms in a plant modified by
water and air and vegetable cells becomes the life giving heat in
the vegetable, making it food for our body, while the atom of
fire contained in water is the life thereof.
Atoms When the Atomic Energy in the atom of fire
and contained in water dissipates from some
Life cause, the water loses its life force, becoming
stagnant and poisonous. If atoms of the fire group of attrac­
tion in our bodies should suddenly lose their carbonic quality
and heat, death would be the inevitable result. Thus the life in
the atom is the life in the cell, and man is simply a group of cells
which contact mind and manifest consciousness. These cells are
awakening by the millions per second. They function as long as
they contain atoms which can release body energy. When this
energy is consumed these cells die. In a middle-aged person’s
body these cells die faster than they are born, however, if one
can change the condition of his body and mind so as to cause
it to produce more body carbon, life can be prolonged indefi­
nitely. This is the object of Super Mind Science.
Breath and Food The stomach eliminates carbon from our
Combustion or food. It sets it free and then empties it into
Modification the blood stream. Next, the lungs furnish it
with oxygen, which modifies it by a clashing of the two types of
atoms in these life forces. These two forces then (carbon and
oxygen co-mingling) are carried into the capillary blood vessels,
where they are pressed into contact by their proximity. Vital
force or body electricity called “life energy” in Super Mind
Science then contacts them. The carbon is ignited, thereby
producing more life energy and making intense the bodily igni­
tion process which manifests wherever the blood flows, thus pro­
ducing blood, heat and temperature. This heat in the atom of
carbon comes from the sun, and when modified by fast breathing,
the constant combustions of atoms produce Solar Energy, which
is the basic energy underlying the desire for human reproduction
162 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
and continuity. However, it is the atom’s contact with mind
which directs the result of this combustion.
Miracles The atom of carbon has as its natural
of affinity the atom of oxygen. This causes the
Yogis combustion when the atom of carbon is
food meets the atom of oxygen in the air, this being the cause
back of the effect. An inflammable substance—for instance,
waste—treated with oil will not bum until the atom of the
carbon in it meets its affinity of the -atom in oxygen in the air,
this being the reason fire is extinguished easily when air is
closed off from it. Without contact of the two atoms no com­
bustion is possible. When these two atoms meet in our blood
stream they cleave to each other, to the exclusion of all other
atoms; for instance, the atoms in iron are excluded and thus body
heat is generated. Suspended animation is performed by mind
separating these two atom affinities one from the other until a
given time, while mind and vibration cause the ceasing of all
motion until the time when they are released by the atomic
action of the subjective Will of the Adept. This explains the
seeming miracles of the Yogis, who suspend animation at Will-
Carbonic Gas— Smoke, ashes or any type of waste is the
Its Generation natural result of combustion of some type,
and Expulsion The ashes or coals of internal combustion
when analyzed are almost identical with charcoal in their chemi­
cal compounds, both being products of carbonic acid. Combus­
tion in the system in any form cannot take place without forming
this acid, and that combustion which produces our body heat
forms about ten ounces of carbonic acid daily. This acid is of
a decaying nature producing congestion in some of the body
organs; it is much like the fumes in a room where charcoal is
burning. Therefore, it becomes necessary to generate atomic
energy and cause it to consume this acid expulsion which can be
technically taught and is herein offered. The iron in the blood
became attracted to the oxygen in the lungs by some means un­
known to science. Its natural affinity, according to its chemical
composition, should be nitrogen of the air. The contact of these
two elements is not harmonious very long. Finally they meet in
the capillary blood vessel, the affinity of carbon of the blood
rushes toward the iron like steel is attracted to a magnet. Then
they literally consume each other, leaving the waste of carbonic
acid gas. After this gas forms, unless disposed of, it weakens
COSMIC GENESIS OF CREATION 163
body tissues through producing congestion. However, this acid
is then contacted by the iron in its original form, these two ele-
ments travel back to the lungs together finding there the nitrogen
of the air. It works through the gauze membrane of the lungs
into the eliminative channels, coming forth as waste. Its acid
when entering the delicate blood stream decays the body, while
its elements in pure form builds the body. Now, to prevent the
formation of carbonic gas and prevent the loss of energy in its
expulsion, a method of control of the atom in the iron and nitro­
gen will be provided by the mind uniting these two natural
affinities continually in the body, thereby completely eliminating
the cause of production of carbonic gas. This process would
not interrupt the natural processes of the body as some would
suppose, since mind is master of matter.
After this process of producing carbonic gas
is complete in the system, there then comes a
mutual exchange of elements in the blood
stream since the acid and iron have found oxygen. The nitrogen
of the air and carbon of the blood interchange affinities by a
modification of environment of the atom. This interchange pro­
duces the varying temperatures of our body, making it possible
to stand sudden and extreme changes in atmosphere from heat to
cold.
Varying
Temperature
Atmospheric The All-seeing Mind of the universe has
Laws of demonstrated supreme wisdom in creating
the Universe atmospheric laws to suit the condition of life
in strict conformance with atomic law of energy and ele­
ments, which are outlined herein for the reader’s information:
1. The colder the air, the more dense it is and the more oxygen
it contains, also the more nitrogen for its bulk. This produces
more carbonic combustion, thus generating more body heat.
2. The usual three pints of breath vary in oxygen production
according to the needs of the body under varying temperature
conditions. This is regulated by the mind controlling the
elements through influence over the atom. Both in the body and
the external elements the real carbonization goes on in the blood
stream. Our food furnishes the carbon, our breath the oxygen.
The way to increase Atomic Energy in the food process is by
eating carbon foods in cold weather. Some of them are, butter,
honey, various vegetable oils, nuts and the like. Meat contains
very little carbon and is unnecessary for food.
CHAPTER XIII
MIND HEALING VERSUS REMEDIES AND THEOLOGY
“ J e s u s a n s w e r e d a n d s a i d u n t o t h e m , ‘ G o a n d
s h e w J o h n a g a i n t h o s e t h i n g s w h i c h y e d o h e a r
a n d s e e : T h e b l i n d r e c e i v e t h e i r s i g h t , a n d t h e
l a m e w a l k , t h e l e p e r s a r e c l e a n s e d a n d t h e d e a f
h e a r , t h e d e a d a r e r a i s e d u p , a n d t h e p o o r h a v e
t h e g o s p e l p r e a c h e d t o t h e m . A n d b l e s s e d i s h e ,
w h o s o e v e r s h a l l n o t b e o f f e n d e d i n m e . ”
—Matthew 11:4, 5, 6.
Answer of The above answer to the Disciples of John
Jesus to was the credential of the Master, Jesus and
John the means He set forth as a test to distinguish
Christianity from the age old powerless creeds of the Hebrews.
It was also His challenge to materialism to prove their religions
to be genuine, by demonstrating the healing of the sick, and
doing the Divine works of the Christ. Arguments and beliefs
do not heal and raise the dead, only Divine power in mind
demonstrating over the weakness of the flesh does these things.
Jesus came to earth to establish such demonstrations, He did not
come to found beliefs which separate people and cause hatred for
one another. His methods were three-fold, physical for the ills
of the body, faith or confidence for the mental, and overcoming
or mastery for the spiritual. He knew the poor and the sick
needed knowledge and health and He gave liberally of His time
to that end.
The The Christians so-called, of today have com-
Soul pletely ignored Jesus’ healing mission and
Defined have placed drugs and surgery in its
stead. As a result the world is now almost completely faithless,
the sick are told that surgery and drugs can heal their body
but that Christ can save their soul, however can they answer:
1st. What is the soul?
2nd. Where is it?
3rd. When it is saved what is left of the individual?
4th. How do you know when it is saved?
These very important questions are not answered in the Bible,
and the followers of medicine and Theology do not seem inter­
ested in these very vital issues. Super Mind Science answers
MIND HEALING VS. REMEDIES AND THEOLOGY 165
them as it does all questions relating to life. They are herein
answered according to reason, logic and science: The soul is the
Divine center of consciousness in the Solar Plexus, this center
produces the sensation of guilt when one sins, and develops
remorse which brings about punishment on the mental plane for
sins committed while in the body. These sins are violations of
the laws of health, mind and Spirit. The soul holds each
one responsible for their deeds, and registers their sins in the
Aquasiac record or Lamb’s Book of Life. Those who ignore
God on earth will be ignored by Him in heaven, for if the body
dies a premature death the identity is lost because the immortal
spiritual faculties have not been developed. Thus the Science
of Health is the Science of the Soul, for “what profiteth a man
if he should gain the whole world and lose his soul”. If one is
bound by disease and sin on earth they will be bound in heaven
(invisible world), for it is written “that which is bound on earth
is bound in heaven”.
Super Mind Science teaches that all disease
Energy is congestion, and that ease is expansion. All
expansion is caused by Solar Energy, the
body heat. By increasing this energy in the body, expansion is
produced, this then is followed by the Will concentrated against
the disease, which is the mental power; next Divine power is
concentrated upon and set against the disease. Thus we comply
with the three-fold mainfestation of self mastery, Physical, Men­
tal and Spiritual. Old age is brought about by a decrease of
Solar Energy and body coldness. Super Mind Science practice
prevents this coldness and lack of energy from developing, thus
providing a means of longevity. The founder estimates that
those knowing this Science early in life would live one third
longer than if they neglected learning how to control this Divine
Solar Energy. When the mind is positive it keeps the body
energized and disease cannot manifest. This is the power of life
of which Jesus said “I come to bring you life that ye may have
it more abundantly”. Solar Energy is life and is demonstrated
perfectly in Super Mind Science. The founder discovered this
energy through direct revelation from the Christ plane of mind.
Since that time, in healing meetings conducted by teachers of
Super Mind Science, the blind have been made to see, the deaf
made to hear and the lame to walk. This fulfills the test of
belief as required in the Scriptures and proves Super Mind
166 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Science to be the re-established Science of primitive Christianity
which Christ came to establish. He said “those who love Me,
doeth My works”. What works? Not sending the sick away,
but healing them through the Science of Life and Being
originated in the healing system which He demonstrated while
on earth.
Unity Healing is true Christianity, no one can
of scorn it and yet save the soul. The Teachers
His Kingdom of Theology claim belief in Christ yet scorn
His healing mission to the sick, teaching that drugs and surgery
are superior to the Truth demonstrated by the Saviour while on
earth. Any teaching which divides the saving of the body from
that of the soul is a kingdom divided against itself and comes
under the condemnation of Jesus when He said (Mathew 12:25)
“and Jesus knew their thoughts and said unto them, “Every
kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every
city or house divided against itself shall not stand”. Thus the
Church teaching that its business is to save man’s soul, yet taking
no part in saving his body is a house divided against itself, for
the body is the Temple of the living God. Everyone should
know that the soul is in the body, therefore a part of it.
Proof If drugs are stronger than Life Energy and
of God, then all of the teachings of Jesus were
Truth in vain, however in Super Mind Science we
have proven that the theory of drugs healing is erroneous, for only
energy, mind and God heal. If drugs heal why do they not heal
all who take them—why do some die? Howbeit that the Son of
God did not use them, and yet His so-called followers say they
are the only means of attaining health. Theology teaches a God
for the dead, while Super Mind Science teaches a living God—
here and now. Our God manifests through the breath, the will,
the mind, and overpowers every enemy of man including death
and disease. Age old dogmas cannot substitute for Mental Science,
nor can they compete with it. There will come a time when
people will become more intellectual and will realize that Jesus
taught a Science of the Mind, then sin and disease will cease to
be, for man will study a Divine plan of salvation which will be
three-fold, mental, physical and spiritual.
MIND HEALING VS. REMEDIES AND THEOLOGY 167
Mental
Efficiency
Illumination Under the present system of teaching only a
of few attain to illumination because of ignor'
Love ance, sin and disease, for who can mediate
on God when their body is sick, or reach the Infinite with a
troubled mind, or who can know God and yet be ignorant of
spiritual laws of Truth, Love and Life? In viewing the records
of mind and spiritual healing of the past ages we behold a
record which tells of the healing of all manner of disease and the
raising of the dead. Can materialism and theology compare
medicine and surgery to that record? That is like comparing the
sun to darkness. Man’s illumination must come from Divine
works not from dead faith for “faith without works is dead”.
“Seek and Ye shall find”, “knock and the door shall be opened
unto you” means to live and learn, study and mediate, and
Divine powers will be revealed to you for “there is nothing
hidden which shall not be revealed”. Mind power unlocks the
door of spirituality, wisdom and consciousness.
All disease is negation of body, and negation
is of carnal mind. To become positive,
practice feeling positive, thinking all the time
of mastery instead of submission. Direct your Will and attention
toward success and away from failure, holding your body and
mind in a positive determined state, knowing that when you are
positive and mind concentrates, God operates. Believe only in
power and success for, power and success are the only realities;
failure, weakness and negation are illusions.
Theology tells us that God sends sickness
upon us, if that is true, then God is not Love,
for how could God be Good, and yet be
revengeful? God is Love, Truth and Light and therefore could
not become revengeful, jealous and evil and still remain God.
Only man’s ignorance of mind and life produce evil, sin and
death of identity. Jesus said “fear not those who kill your
body but fear those who kill your soul unto the second
death . This is a warning to those who would save their body
in an institution and their soul in a Church which is a divided
kingdom; the second death is a loss of memory through living a
negative life and dying in a negative state of mind. Super Mind
Science teaches the laws which produce a strong body, a healthy
mind and a developed soul. Know God and heaven while on
earth and avoid the second death. “Know the truth and the
Negative
Theology
168 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
truth (meaning facts) shall make free.” Truth is not Belief,
neither is Belief Truth, only proven facts are Truth. No one
can change the immutable laws of Nature, regardless of their
belief; the wise conform to Divine laws and forsake man made
theories.
Matter All dogmas and creeds are the works of man,
Is an even the Bible is the works of man inspired
Energy by God. Matter is porous, not solid, it is a
solidified energy continually changing, that being the cause of its
impermanence. Since it is a changing force it remains that it
must be energy, for energy alone is a force. W hen normal it is
positive, creative energy, and Divine power is within it. When
negative and misdirected it becomes full of lust, sin, disease and
misery. The Will of man is sovereign and a super power which
controls all less positive life energies and powers. This gives
mind power over matter, and Will, power over mind. The Will
to do good is a Divine Mind power, while the Will to do evil is a
misuse of the energy we term man. W hen man becomes
spiritually conscious he becomes mentally positive, this eliminates
sin, disease, failure and all the darker conditions of life. Master
the laws of life and you overcome the world. Do the Divine Will
or “the Will of Him who sent us” by doing good, for the
Infinite Spirit is in the soul and also in the brain.
The body should be filled with energy, and
the consciousness with light, for it is written
“if thine eye (mind) be single (concen­
trated) thy body shall be full of light (energy)”. In other
words if you can concentrate and use and control energy you
will become illumined with Divine Power, Wisdom, Love and
Truth. Since man-made theories have taken the place of Divine
healing, the ills of mankind have increased and more hospitals
have been erected, which proves the inefficiency of the material
rules of health. Hundreds have been inoculated to prevent
contacting a disease only to develop the disease later on. Chil­
dren should be taught to breathe correctly, correct mind control,
and to express love for all of God’s creatures, and not to eat
flesh, this is God and Nature’s best preventive for disease.
True All Super Scientists who are true followers
Followers t^
ie teac^lng teach their children to keep
their body energized, their mind positive,
and their thoughts on Divine Brotherly Love. They heal all the
Eye
Single
MIND HEALING VS. REMEDIES AND THEOLOGY 169
Other
Healing
members of their families through Super Mind Science alone.
They do not need drugs and other negative methods of treat'
ment, for there is nothing impossible with God. W hat can man
do that would be greater than His creator? When mind demon'
strates and asserts its true power, disease is powerless to harm
man, only when man is filled with fear and negation can he be
sick. The laws of Nature are immutable, this Truth can never
be changed. Only the temporal conditions of matters are change-
able, therefore seek to know Truth, Love and Light.
All healing is produced through mind and
Solar Energy, no matter what drug or mani­
pulation we may give credit for healing the
body. These remedies command a small amount of Solar Energy
while Super Mind Science commands it all. Which will you trust
the method which commands all, or the method which controls
only a small part? In addition to controlling all healing energies,
Super Mind Science applies perfectly, the power of Divine Mind
over the body, which is the true source of all healing, for all Life
Energies are a manifestation of Divine Mind, which is the fount
of Life, Truth, Love and Light. Every true Super Mind
Scientist can stop pain in an instant by controlling this energy
and mind power.
All meta-physical systems which do not teach
the control and direction of energy, we term
negative systems. They produce temporary
results but do not remove the cause of disease, negation and con­
gestion. Anyone who denies the existence of disease is ignorant
and not well balanced mentally, for all conditions in Nature
have their opposites. Super Mind Science establishes Divine
Harmony in mind, body and soul by and through the power of
Divine Mind. Jesus taught “be it according to Thy Will” regard­
ing health problems, in this He recognized the importance of a
positive Will and mind force. He did not deny the existence of
matter or disease and in no case did He teach affirmations or
suggestions. Super Mind Science places all such ideas in the
negative class and brands them hypnosis, for our Science is
positive and Divine, not negative and hypnotic. Learn the laws
of energy and health and master all disease, for the cause of
disease lies in ignorance of the laws of life. Knowldge is power,
only proven facts can be classed as knowledge; belief is not
knowledge until after it has been verified by proof. Super Mind
Mind
Systems
170 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Science can be proven by anyone, since its powers can be
experienced by anyone who is sincere and who truly desires
Divine Wisdom.
SOLAR ENERGY INTERPRETED
SOLAR ENERGY—Soul is taken from Sole — Sun. Energy
means natural force or power from the sun, it enters the body
in the Soul Center in the Solar Plexus. It may be termed Soul
Energy and is referred to in Revelations (22:1) as “a pure river
of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of
God and of the Lamb”.
Christ’s
Science
The Science which Christ demonstrated
controlled the Life Energies, otherwise His
demonstrations would have been undepend­
able. Since the time of the life of Christ on earth many
important discoveries regarding human nature have been made,
the most scientific being the contact of atoms in the blood stream,
and the state of mind of an individual governing these atomic
forces. Super Mind Science healing has utilized all such know­
ledge and found in it a means of restoring to humanity “the
Science which Christ demonstrated”.
Scientific The scientific way of healing disease is a two
Method of fold method, physical and spiritual because
Healing man lives on two planes of being. In Super
Mind Science we use the following key in public demonstrations
and the result is told in thousands of expressions of gratitude
received from grateful seekers of health who have regained their
health. However, it is not to be understood as the complete
healing method of the Science, it is given only as a test of Super
Mind Science, but with constant practice it will be found to be a
wonderful healing power. You must desire this healing and be
sincere in using the method; remember the saying of Jesus “be it
according to thy Will”. This method is the application of
Christianity scientifically to the physical as well as the mental
and spiritual needs. Observe the following rules carefully and
results will be forthcoming, proving the claims of our Science.
TEST KEY
First: Sit erect, raise chest high, close the eyes, go into thy
inner closet of being, mentally thinking of God there.
MIND HEALING VS. REMEDIES AND THEOLOGY 171
Second: Breathe deep, as you do so visualizing heat waves enter­
ing your body at the Solar Plexus with every breath you
take, for about fifteen minutes.
Third: Now, when body is warm, grip your hands and mentally
project energy into your body, willing to stop the pain and
heal the body.
Fourth: Concentrate on your conscious mind uniting with the
power of God within and overpowering the disease, knowing
that “I and my Father are one”. By treating yourself one-
half hour in this manner pain ceases and the mind clears
at once, proving that Super Mind Science is “the Science
which Jesus demonstrated". After a few minutes practice
you will feel the result of this energy which brings ease to the
body and power to the mind, then if you have not become a
student of the Science go at once and learn it from an
authorized teacher in your locality. The keys teach the body
centers and how to master the energy quickly and apply it to all
physical ills, but they must be learned from a teacher.
Beware Beware of the form of ignorance which sug-
of gests that you know this Science by using
Ignorance only one of the test keys, for it contains
many more wonderful methods to control the power of
life. Remember the old command, “be still and know that I am
God”. In silence visualize the Godly power and energy in every
cell of your body, observe the laws of hygiene and common
understanding and the laws of Truth, Love and Light, for God
will not be mocked. Every transgressor of the laws of life shall
pay to the utmost, for God is no respector of personalities. Every
disease has a mental origin, for mind is master of matter and if
you treat the body without considering the mind you only reach
the effect not the cause which is in mortal mind.
Nature Both Nature and mind are governed by
and positive and negative laws. Disease and
Mind negation are sin, for Jesus said to the sick
go and sin no more”.
Health is positive, and the command “as thou wilt, be it unto
thee demonstrates the positive mental force, therefore Jesus
observed the positive and negative laws of mind. We see Him
as the greatest of all Mind Scientists and in one case He sent a
man to the Pool of Siloam which shows He recognized the laws
of matter, mind and Spirit. The pool being physical, the faith
172 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
of the man going, mental, and the healing spiritual. In Super
Mind Science the breathing is physical because it arouses physical
energies, the setting of the Will in harmony with Divine Will
against the disease is mental, and the healing which invariably
brings results is spiritual, therefore scientifically it is “the Science
which Jesus demonstrated”. The heat waves which enter the
Solar Plexus raise the temperature, which increases the contacing
power between atoms of carbon and oxygen. This contact
caused from fast breathing causes the lymphatic glands and the
spleen to produce more lucocytes or white cells which fight
disease, this produces a permanent benefit to one’s health.
Proven The increase of lucocytes in the blood stream
by produced by the mental attitude has been
Science proven in material science, which proves
that Super Mind Science is truly a Science of demonstration and
not just another belief. Our teaching does not oppose the
good in other systems so far as they are scientifically correct, and
if administered according to the standards of Love and Justice as
taught by Christ. We have no argument with them, however
when one has tried all material systems and failed to recover
from disease and then they find that Energy, Will and Divine
Mind was their only means of being healed, they should take up
their cross and follow Jesus, “Heal the sick and preach the Truth
to the poor, for the Kingdom of God is at hand”. The kingdom
of God is the power within which Super Mind Scientists demon­
strate over disease. “Seek ye the kingdom of God and all else
shall be added unto you”, which includes health, Divine power,
prosperity and bliss.
CHAPTER XIV
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH
“ F o r v e r i l y I s a y u n t o y o u , ’ t i l l h e a v e n a n d e a r t h
p a s s , o n e j o t o r o n e t i t t l e s h a l l i n n o w i s e p a s s
f r o m t h e l a w , ’ t i l l a l l b e f u l f i l l e d .’’—Jesus.
Laws The laws of mind provide for abundance in
of health, happiness and mortal supply, how-
Life ever, these laws must be understood before
they can be demonstrated. Super Mind Science strikes at the
roots of human misery by showing that “Science and Truth”
demonstrates heavenly harmony and destroys illusion, disease,
poverty and sorrow. The first understanding of the Science
classifies all mortal woe under the heading of mental negation
which can be illustrated with the following teachings.
*m . First, when one thinks of weakness they are
Mental . . , ... . r ,
~ . setting the stage tor an illusion of weakness
which mars their vision of Life and Truth.
Weakness manifests in one’s life because they suggest it, believe
in it, accept it, fear it, and concentrate mentally on the type of
weakness which will develop. One should remember to practice
concentration on the principle of strength if they would become
strong. The maxim “as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he” is
well founded on scientific principles. Jesus said in regard to this
law “but, I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to
lust after her, hath committed adultery with her already in his
own heart”, therefore one cannot think of lust and be vurtuous,
or think poverty and disease, yet be prosperous and happy.
Passing Passing thoughts on these mental opposites
. do not always demonstrate the undesirable,
it is the power of concentration on them
which produces the evil effect. A few minutes silent opposition
to undesirable mental conditions daily is a positive way of over'
powering this mental negation which often uses a person’s men-
tal faculties against their best interest.
Facts The student desiring to know Truth should
and not indulge in negative speculation, letting
Fiction the mind dwell on fiction of any type or
kind. Assert facts and become mentally positive, never assert
vague beliefs, as that is the road to mental negation. The power
174 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
which destroys immortal consciousness has its existence on that
plane of mental unreality. Think of the thousands who trust to
belief to rescue them from a torment which their conscience says
they deserve as punishment for their evil deeds. If belief will
not save one from disease, it is much more powerless to save
them from loss of “eternal consciousness”.
A Those who think of facts and dwell mentally
Great upon facts will know Truth, and the Science
Light of Life will then be easy to demonstrate.
Then the prophecy “the people which sat in darkness saw a
great light, and to them which dwell in the region and shadow of
death, light is sprung up” will become a reality. “Darkness” is
mental negation and the mind dwelling on human theories; “the
great light” is science based on facts. “Them which dwell in the
shadow of death” is mental negation which produces deadly
diseases. “A light is sprung up” is the concentration of the mind
on health as a means of deliverance from disease, on immortality
as a means of overcoming mortality, on Light and Truth as a
means of overcoming mental negation in the form of useless
beliefs and theories.
Mental If one desires real communion with Infinite
Consciousness- Spirit they should concentrate on God per-
of God vading the Universe and their being, not on
the fact that they believe in God. Only by mental concentra­
tion and mind control can man attain to an actual demonstration
of the existence of God. Which is best, a belief or a reality?
One is based on experience, the other on supposition. Fact, not
fiction is the root of the “tree of life”; all development is
through consciousness of Truth. Those who concentrate on
death soon die, while those whose mind conceives the true
indwelling Spirit of Truth, live a long and useful life.
Infinite or(der that one may be Godly they must
possess Infinite Love for Truth. Only the
students who attain such love can behold the
great light . The Mind Scientist who practices only the mental
part of the Science for selfish interest will fail to find the
leaven for their bread of life”. Evil and ignorance produce the
ills which strike terror to the heart of mortal man. You cannot
cure the effect without illuminating the cause. When evil is no
more in the mentality, the soul will be serene, the life calm and
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 175
cannot accomplish it, because one negation is as bad as another.
Regardless of how religious one’s belief may be it does not train
the mind.
Helping
O thers
Those who would help others must be posh
tive in favor of good, not sympathetic or in
sympathy with negation and suggestions of
weakness. Can the blind lead the blind?—Can the negative help
the negative, or can sympathy and good wishes heal a wound?
Healing energy is abundant in everyone, but it is only applied by
use of a positive mental state. W hen a person is negative men-
tally their energy is lacking. The path of self-mastery is the
road to victory. All Super Mind Scientists know that the positive
mental powers are master, and should be cultivated, thus they
become efficient helpers or ministers to suffering humanity.
The The Infinite Will is positive, therefore it
Will of represents health and powers of good, while
God the Will of man when it violates the Divine
Law is negative. God never sends suffering on man, for God is;
Love and Love is Divine Goodness, therefore unselfish Love is
positive and represents the supreme Infinite Will, the cause of
creation. The more of this principle one harmonizes with, the
better they will succed in demonstrating Super Mind Science.
The Will of man when negative represents carnal mind, and in
this state commits sin. The positive Will of man is creative and
represents God, Love and Truth.
Passing
Styles
The true Super Mind Scientist never at'
taches any importance to the long drawn
out theories of life, nor the arguments of
those possessed of dead beliefs. They are but passing styles,
belonging to the world of change. The eternal Truth observ­
able on every hand is the important phase of life. The mastery
of problems confronting one leads to mastership, but the repeti­
tion of vague theories and saying of sterotyped prayers are
indulged in only by the ignorant. Can false show impress God,
°r hypocrisy fool Him? This Science demonstrates the All-
knowing, All-seeing presence of Infinite Spirit, therefore there
can be no secret or even the smallest intention which is un­
known to Infinite Spirit.
176 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Belief
Insufficient
Every day we observe the weakness of mere
belief and blind faith. Juveniles raised in
the best homes become criminals in their
adolescence, and the news of the day features stories of dis­
honesty. Sin receives all the notoriety while good goes
unnoticed. A story with morality of character or Christian
principle is poor amusement for a negative public, only murder
and stories of sin seemingly have the appeal to the young who
later in life imitate the desperate characters which were im­
pressed on their youthful minds. The character and deeds of
Jesus are either rebuked or detested by a hypocritical world
whose salvation is supposed to be through belief, instead of
through emulating Him.
Parents who are ignorant of Mental Science
give flesh food to their children which ruins
their health and develops animalistic traits in
them. They give their children the popular stories of killers,
such as “Jack the Giant Killer,” “David Killing Goliath”, and
the stories of killing Indians and taking their lands from them.
These desperate sinful stories become a part of the child’s mental
nature, stamped on his memory, and the reaction of the child’s
mind is to imitate these killing heroes. The child mind has been
molded by loving parents with the idea that sin and killing are
justified instead of being taught the sacredness of life and
brotherly love.
Sinful
Parents
Problems While millions of children are being raised
of under a criminal producng system, what are
Life the religious belief theorists doing about it,
or what have they done to prevent it? The child believing in a
forgiving God and in vicarious atonement and death bed conver­
sion feels it can over-ride the law and God will forgive the
crime This removes all mental barriers or restraint to crime,
producing countless thousands who commit crime and smile at
the idea of justice. Each year society is taxed hundreds of
millions of dollars to care for mental delinquents which the
present system has produced.
Mind Science If mothers and fathers would teach their
as a children to be positive, and to concentrate on
Remedy good, and the art of resisting sinful influ­
ences, they would soon improve conditions in society. If they
would teach their children stories like the Life of Christ instead
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 177
of the life of outlaws, they would soon find that hospitals and
prisons would be empty. All sincere Super Mind Scientists
should observe this instruction as a part of the practice of the
Science, for the mind of a child is fertile soil in which to sow
the seeds of Truth, Love and Light.
Sensations When mental consciousness retires from the
in field of matter there is no sensation left,
Mind Alone otherwise sleep would be impossible. This
proves that all sensation which is usually attributed to matter is
of the mind. The co-operation of mind and matter consist in
influence, not in sensation, therefore one can see how necessary
it is to train the mental faculties to tread the path of Truth and
liberation through the Science of Mind. Concentration for one
hour on Infinite Love is worth thousands of theoretical Bible
lessons. Why should one study that which carnal mind cannot
comprehend or live up to? Truth and demonstrable facts unite
mankind, whereas theories and vague beliefs cause hatred and
sectarian strife.
Matter The healing arts termed “Prophylactic” and
and “Therapeutic’ would be helpless without the
Remedies assistance of the power of thought and the
mental confidence of the one who is treated. They could be
dispensed with, while the mental condition necessary to healing
could not be. Super Mind Science uses physical as well as men­
tal methods which is one of the reasons it is very successful.
With the mental power of concentration applied in its favor al­
most any treatment of disease succeeds, without it none can suc­
ceed permanently. Health, happiness and prosperity represent
mental states and conditions, and therefore can be controlled by
Mental Science methods.
Drugs It is a noticeable fact that those who take the
and most medicine are the sickest people, while
Healing those who eat clean food and know how to
concentrate their mind on health are usually well. No one can
compare man-made remedies to the remedies created by God
who also created man. Should the Son of God be dependent on
his own creation, or has the Creator supplied all his needs?
Drugs only disturb and agitate the “life energies”, and then if
the Mind can set them right there is an apparent benefit received
from the drugs. Even then the drugs are left in the system for
the blood streams to carry away as best as possible. An example
178 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
of the uncertainty of materialistic remedies curing one is here
given; two people having the same disease both take the same
remedy, one recovers and the other does not. This is proof
enough that the Mind was the dominant factor as one must have
had more confidence in the drugs than the other. If the drugs
healed, both would have recovered. Only through Mind and
Mind power alone can the body be permanently healed. Mind
is the power house that increases and directs the life energies.
Only one who knows how to concentrate the Mind can govern
and control these life energies and in this way direct them.
Materialistic remedies are recommended for those who desire
temporary results, but are too lazy mentally to correct the cause
of their disease. As long as one has an uncontrolled mind they
will continue to have ill health, for as soon as they recover from
one ailment, their mind, being uncontrolled and negative, will
manufacture another. Super Mind Science produces physical
reaction without resorting to the use of any materialistic remedies.
Control When one understands Super Mind Science
of they will be able to demonstrate stopping
Body pain and the attainment of permanent health
through controlling the supply of healing energy. If this pro­
cess is followed by a realization of the power of mind and energy
and with a deep appreciation for the good received through the
control of this power, recovery will be rapid. The mental power
can cause the blood to circulate faster and bring about any
change in the body, for the body is ruled by the brain, while
the brain is ruled by mind. This realization will some day
change the entire mental construction of the laws of existence.
Mortal
Fear
Mortal fear of disease is a negative mental
state. When one has proven that their Will
united to the “Will of the Father” can cast
out disease, their fear is overcome. When the conscious­
ness ceases to expect disease to win over it, a state of health is
soon developed. One would do better to fear sin and its conse­
quences than to fear disease. The Law of Compensation metes
out its reward both to matter and mind. It collects for the viola­
tions of the laws of Truth and Love in the next life just as it col­
lects for each violation of the laws of Nature in this life. To
those who aid humanity and do the Divine works there is no
need of fear, for God is Love and Love is Good.
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 179
Nervous disorders usually represent a nega­
tive or evil mental condition, such as hate,
Diseases c
malice or envy whose reflexes are out of
harmony with the inner spirituality or true being. The surest
remedy is to overcome these mental conditions with Love. Treat
the nerve centers with life energy, concentrate the mind on
calmness, and a perfect cure will result. Nerve tonics without
complying with these laws of mind will never heal the disease,
only temporary mental diversion will be attained through such
uncertain remedies.
__ , Mental affirmation or denial of matter is a
M ental r * » , . . .
. form of hypnosis, it does not increase
Hypnosis energy, nor heal the sick, it is as uncertain as
drugs. Those who deny the body or the “Temple of the
Living God” hypnotize themselves by suggesting that matter
does not exist, and therefore is unreal. This may divert one’s
attention from a pain temporarily, but it does not heal it. Super
Mind Science first increases the life energy in the body of the
sick, them demonstrates the power of the Will of God to use the
energy and cause the congestion to disappear. The negative
speculative hypnotic systems try to argue with a disease which
they claim has no existence. If that is true why do they have
Practitioners to heal a disease which does not exist, in non­
existent bodies?
Imaginative The person who is ignorant of mental laws
Mental does not realize the power of imagination,
Images which is the photographic gallery of the
mortal consciousness. Mentally picturing disease and poverty
sets the machinery of life in motion to produce it. Concentra­
tion on how bad a disease or trouble is intensifies the mental
image until every organ is influenced by the mental picture. Sol­
diers have been known to die from fright when hearing the guns
of battle fire; it was their mental image that killed them. Others
have dreamed that they died and have brooded over the mental
image until the mental picture killed them. Some “Mental
Scientists” so-called having been attacked by disease, began to
suggest, “I am God, Good, Spirit, Love; my body is illusion, I as
matter do not exist”. After intense suggestion they have been
found dead, killed by the suggestion that their body did not exist
and that they were Spirit.
180 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Master of Many have written books on Mental Science
The Science claims, causing thousands of deaths because
of Life students could not discover the mistakes of
the writer of the spurious system. How can founders of systems
who cannot demonstrate their own works expect other than
negative results from their followers. Some of the examples of
this type of unscientific theories are Mesmer, Freud, Mary Baker
Eddy who instructed others, but could not master their own
body and diseases with their systems. The founder of Super
Mind Science has given public demonstrations of the powers he
teaches, in America, Europe, India and other parts of the world.
He has overcome total blindness and .other diseases with his
methods, therefore the system has been “tried and not found
wanting". Super Mind Science should not be compared with
negative metaphysical speculative systems of hypnosis and sug'
gestion which create an illusion instead of demonstrating a fact.
Unless one learns the distinction between these teachings they
are liable to become a victim of an unchristian system of mental
hypnosis which makes one negative instead of positive.
Man’s
Dominion
Body, brain and consciousness are man’s
dominion and he should rule over them.
Truth is the mighty weapon which destroys
fear and weakness. When man’s Will is positive, it is Godly and
therefore cannot be ruled and overpowered by sin or disease.
The difficult task for a positive Mental Science is to overcome the
hereditary weakness of mental negation, which is the result of
erroneous religious instruction. Immortal consciousness over-
comes death, while positive consciousness overcomes disease and
sin. Super Mind Science develops a positive fearless mentality.
Divine
Harmony
Divine harmony comes from the mental
realization that “I and my Father are one”.
What power can destroy one who is con'
scious of this Divine harmony? None, only separateness of man
from God in mental concept and deed breeds evil and produces
sin. When the Truth is known, science will find that the All'
powerful Infinite Spirit manifests as a part of our mentality,—
in and through it. Then the delusion of separateness will vanish
along with other obsolete and useless theories.
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 181
Corporeal
Law
Regardless of one’s beliefs or disbeliefs, the
laws of Nature must be obeyed or the
violator is punished, and no affirming of
reality or unreality can forestall the penalty. Good deeds are
seeds sown in the garden of life. No one should sow that which
they do not desire to reap. Sowing to the flesh we reap death,
sowing to the Spirit we reap immortality. God is Love, there­
fore we must serve Him by abiding in His Divine principles.
Those who become attached to spirituality rise above all mortal
limitation to the sublime realization of Divine life.
Spiritual
Law
Spiritual law demands overcoming the flesh
impulse, and the breaking of the power of
the subconscious mind over one’s life as well
hereditary weaknesses of many types and kinds. Super Mind
Science with its positive methods offers a way of escape
from these mental impulses which often become the creators of
illusion. The law of Spirit is progression, for only by progress
beyond the lesser things in life can the greater be attained. The
greatest thing in life is spiritual understanding of the Allness of
Infinite Spirit and mastery of the lower nature.
Climate Climatic conditions should not affect a Super
and Mind Scientist for when the weather is cold,
Temperature the student can increase the Solar Energy in
the body and remain warm, regardless of outer conditions. If it
is too warm, they can decrease the body energy and heat by
P<V/er of concentration, and remain cool. The author has
demonstrated this power before vast audiences and has selected
a committe who would witness the body become cold or warm
as desired. He has also controlled a circle of atmosphere ten
feet in diameter at the same time. Mental moods such as
sorrow, grief and despair are all easily controlled in the same
way.
A ttached If one is attached to God, there can be no
to sorrow, grief or despair in their life. At-
God tachment to the world, instead of to God
brings these conditions. As soon as this attachment is overcome
the result of which is illusion, death, disease and loss of goodness
is also overcome.
182 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Silent
Attitude
Science In practicing Super Mind Science it is well
and to remember that disease comes only to
Wisdom bodies which are negative and receptive to
microbes and germs. It never attacks a body which is always
charged with life currents and Solar Energy, neither can evil
suggestions enter a positive mind. The supply of energies is
governed by the way a Super Mind Scientist has trained his
mentality, if the mind is trained to be calm, blissful and spiritual
then it will surely take on these conditions. Mental development
is the environment of the soul, therefore the mentality should
be trained in eternal powers and qualities. One comes to good
by doing good deeds.
The silent masterful mental attitude creates
a mental environment of power and intelli­
gence which soon permeates one’s entire
being. Those who are masters of self, acquire this mastery
through knowledge and silence. Loud conversation on material
subjects is not conducive to this masterful condition, only con­
stant inner communion with God brings forth spiritual illumina­
tion and Divine mastership which overpowers all negation and
reveals the Sonship of God.
Finding One can find the way to reality through a
the study of Super Mind Science. By overcoming
Way all attachments to the world of sense, the per­
ception of the soul powers comes into manifestation. One learns
through sorrow, the futility of seeking pleasure in the field of
emotions and mortal pleasures. One who is wise is Just, and does
not judge others lest he be judged also”. The student of Mental
Science should remember that to see another’s faults is easy but
to see one’s own is difficult.
Mortal Mortal consciousness winnows the faults of
Consciousness ot^ers while it hides its own, like a wolf con­
ceals his loot. The attainment of Truth con­
sists also of knowing how to be Just. One does not become a
pillar of Divine law from much speaking, he only becomes such
through concentration and silent meditation on Truth, Love and
Life. Silent meditation on the Truth, Love and Life of man as
a reflection of God leads one from the noisy babble of the un­
learned who gossip when they should be trying to develop their
mentality.
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 183
Worry Worry over loss is negative and proves one
Over has not attained to spiritual understanding.
Losses Envy and the sense of possession disturbs
serene meditation and good thinking. This envious restless spirit
must be uprooted before one can hear the voice of Truth in the
silence. He who can balance his mind forces, taking the good in
life and rejecting the bad, becomes a true Christian. Evil is an
undisciplined mentality, given to vague theories and useless con­
versation, it is poor company for a righteous person who desires
to overcome the lust of lower self.
Anger One who practices Super Mind must learn
and that anger poisons the system, causing dis-
1
1
1 Will ease and discord. Use concentration and
determination to overcome anger, eschew mortal will, conquer
all bonds of earth and thus become mentally free from all
phenomenal existence. Take refuge in “eternal consciousness”
and ever be alert to goodness.
Guard Guard against doing evil deeds, control your
Against body, avoid evil and do good. Guard the
Evil tongue, do not let evil words come forth,
control your speech and speak only good words and those things
which you know to be true. Ever guard the thought chambers,
control your mental faculties and think only good. These are
the precepts and commands of Super Mind Science which
teaches correct self discipline.
Sin Rust decays iron when it is exposed to
and certain elements. Likewise, evil deeds de-
Decay stray those who take up all their time with
lust, greed and sense of gratification, having no time to practice
mind control. They are soon conquered by the Tempter. Men'
tal lawlessness is the path to ruin, all seeming victory through
evil deeds is but loss in disguise. Life seems easy for the dis'
honest and crafty, but even their deeds in this life will com-
pletely uproot their success. Super Mind Science if practiced
destroys the roots of sin.
j Those who shirk responsibility, seeking only
Freedom P^easant things in life, become mental
sluggards, and are bound to earthly desires,
but there is no bond for him who overcomes like and dislike for
possession and desire. To those desiring only the Eternal there
is nothing to lose. He who becomes free from lust attains com'
186 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
nothing to fear. They are not concerned with the evil words of
others, for they are busy taking mental stock of their own spir­
itual condition. Super Mind Science gives the key to healing
others through the Christ power, therefore all should learn this
Science and become doers of good.
Bear When others persecute you and say all man-
Your ners of evil against you falsely because you
Cross can demonstrate Super Mind Science, rejoice
and be exceedingly glad that you have the truths and under­
standing as taught in the Science. Go on your way doing good,
bearing your cross. Unless you do this you are not worthy of
the Truth. Those who let others change them, worship mam­
mon and go to sorrow and torment along with their friends.
The The wise student of the Science keeps the
Wise life currents under control, and keeps his
Student being magnetic. The eyes of such student
cast out an influence for good, and they are ever ready to over­
come evil with good, pain with energy and Will, and to give a
helping hand to others through their knowledge of the law of
concentration. Long drawn out words never help anyone, they
only confuse the mind of those who are listeners. Super Mind
Science should be used silently when you are with strangers or
those who oppose you, and discussed only when you are in com­
pany with intelligent persons.
Hi her Concentration and mental balance produce a
Wisdom serene mentality and through this art one
becomes aware of the inner quality of things.
By searching the Science, one will find many powerful methods
to subdue the outer sense of activity and to stimulate the inner
perception. These methods all lead to perfect concentration
which produces perfect mental equanimity. When the mind
substance is calm, the consciousness becomes illumined with the
light of the soul. Then one becomes aware of the circulation of
all the powers through the body, the effect of thoughts, and the
inner existence of God. This leads the student to self control
and higher wisdom.
Cause When the student has attained complete
of mental consciousness, they will apprehend
Sorrow the cause of sorrow, then by overcoming the
cause, they can attain to eternal consciousness”. This is the way
to mental freedom and soul realization. As long as the mentality
PRACTICE OF SCIENCE AND TRUTH 187
Belief
Illusive
is burdened down by sorrow, and the body by disease, the soul is
in bondage. Reflection on the cause of mortal life reveals the
soul’s entry into a body, its cause for so entering, also the con'
dition of its exit into a cosmic existence, with the complete
understanding of its permanent qualities.
This definite understanding which comes
from the practice of meditation and mental
reflection is not to be compared to orthodox
belief, which never proves the truth about life or disproves the
claim of the sinful consciousness. The sacredness of life, or the
Christ way of attaining spirituality is not taught by the so'called
Christian creeds, therefore they are not spiritual or sacred. They
are simply political institutions serving for the sake of personal
gain and for the benefit of the self appointed professional re-
formers who often condemn unfortunate mortals who are far
less guilty of sin than they themselves are. Super Mind Science
justly condemns the mixing of religion and politics, and the
autocratic union of Church and State, which is the cause of
many murders and crimes. These unfortunate limitations placed
upon the soul of man and his God could only result in disaster.
Super Mind Science is opposed to constant
preaching which in some cases usurps the
place of practice. It is useless to preach to
one with an uncontrolled mind, for they cannot understand the
language of Spirit. Only when the selfishness and lust of carnal
mind have been destroyed can preaching uplift. Workers in
the vineyard of this Science should be doers of the good deeds,
healers and helpers, teachers rather than preachers. Those who
followthe Science should be meek mentally, possess love of Truth
more than love of life, be silent where evil is discussed. They
should not eat any flesh food, co-operate in any type or kind of
killing, and speak only the truth, then will success in Super
Mind Science be complete.
When one forsakes evil they grow in good­
ness. Harmful appetites are controlled and
sin is removed from the life of one who is
sincere in the Science. W e do not desire to be Sunday Chris­
tians and week day knaves, as such hypocrisy brings death upon
the sinner, for unless all bonds of ignorance are cut down, full
success cannot be attained. The needy may practice the follow-
mg methods of spiritualizing their consciousness.
Useless
Preaching
Forsake
Evil
188 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
First: sitting quiet,—alone if possible, study the movement of
every organ, and also the breath, concentrating on the pres­
ence of God in every cell.
Second: Become mentally determined that the Divine Presence
will be revealed to you as a purifying, healing Infinite spir­
itual force which illuminates the body with the principles
of Truth, Love and Light.
This method is a test key and will demonstrate over many
troubles for the reader not having been trained in Super Mind
Science, however they will still need the services of an author­
ised teacher to show them the keys to the Science or the keys
to Truth and Life.
CHAPTER XV
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE
Instruction When seekers of health and spiritual under-
to standing come to the Founder of Super Mind
Seekers Science they are told that the first requisite
is a sincere mind, open to instruction. Next, a willingness to
give up beliefs of the mortal consciousness in exchange for
Truth, for our Science is based on demonstrable facts concerning
life. If they are seeking health, they must understand that every
disease has a mental origin. While the eflect is physical, to
overcome the effect is not sufficient, the cause must be treated
for permanent results. While disease comes from a negative
mental state, health comes from attaining a positive mental state.
Other W e do not oppose other healing systems
Healing except in the case where they do harm. If
Systems a seeker believes in medicine or any ma­
terialistic healing system we do not forbid them to use that sys­
tem. We hold the view that they are not ready for Super Mind
Science until they have more confidence in it than any other
system. Our teaching regarding disease is, first, all disease re­
gardless of the name or type is but congestion, likewise all ease
and healing is but expansion. Low body temperature correspond­
ing to mental negation permits germs and microbes to assault the
tissues, while high body temperature produced by Solar Energy
and controlled by positive mental power produces health.
Our healing is composed of three steps, first,
the generation of Solar Energy which is used
to expand the tissues, nerves and cells. Sec­
ond, mental concentration to direct the energy where it is needed.
Third, intense concentration on the part of the healer and patient
on perfect health, the Allness of God and Divine power.
Control While other healing systems control a little
of of Nature’s healing energy, the Super Mind
Healing Energy method controls it all. Which then is the
most logical way to be healed, by all or by part of the healing
energies which man possesses? When people find that they will
be sick as long as they remain mentally negative, trying many
remedies, perhaps it will open their eyes to the Truth, that the
only permanent healing is through increasing the healing ener­
gies, controlling the mind, and contacting God.
Regarding
Healing
190 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Physical
Resistance
Students of Super Mind Science are in'
structed to be tolerant, to always have great
forbearance, and not to engage in any
physical combat in order to convince those who are of other
schools of thought. Let all your judgments be tempered with
love, bearing persecution when necessary, knowing that God is.
Good and to be like Him you must not imitate evil.
Teachers Teachers should be an example of what they
Should Be teach, therefore Super Mind Scientists should
Examples keep their own body full of the life healing
energy at all times. Their hearts should pulsate with love for
"suffering humanity”, and every opportunity afforded the teacher
to demonstrate the Christ power should find him prepared. The
teacher who is also a healer should always be mentally positive,
never talking about impossibilities with one who is seeking. Dis­
cuss only power, health, and positiveness of mind, being careful
not to sympathize with weakness, or to concentrate on disease.
A teacher must be careful how they teach a student, since the
student becomes an example of both the teacher and the Science.
See that the student knows the centers of power and how to
control them to bring about harmony with the Divine Mind,
creating health, prosperity and happiness. Teach the student to
seek God mentally, not physically, then "all these things shall
be added unto you”, for this is the Divine promise.
Super The teacher who teaches that Super Mind
Mind Science masters the evils of mind and body
Science Masters through the three greatest weapons known
to human intellect will succeed. The weapons with which we
combat disease are, life energy, mortal and Divine Will united,
and eternal spiritual consciousness. There is no disease that can
exist when one continually floods the body with healing energy,
any more than a room can remain dark when flooded with light.
Our system of generating energy and directing it is based on the
positive and negative laws of Nature and God which in them­
selves are the Master of Life. We do not deny that disease
exists. We know that disease is but a congestion produced from
sinning against Nature. We also know that when one generates
Solar Energy and directs it against the disease, that expansion
is the natural result which produces ease of pain. Any honest
physician would say that this principle is scientifically sound.
Not only the physical and mental are important, but the realiza-
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 191
tion of eternal consciousness is the means of making the healing
permanent. This system has never failed to heal and help imme­
diately, and it never will because it is scientific and positive.
Sickness One must not continually suggest that they
and cannot recover, and then expect to get well.
Belief They must be willing and ready “to take up
their bed and walk”. One who expects to be overcome, is at
that time more than half overcome, because of the mental atti­
tude of weakness assumed. W hen a teacher treats a student it
is necessary to change their mental outlook on their condition as
well as teach them how to generate currents, Solar Energy and
Divine power. The seeker should be instructed that the positive
healing energy enters the Solar Plexus and goes up to the brain,
and that the flow of this energy is increased when his thoughts
are positive and breath is controlled. It is decreased by negative
suggestions and giving up, therefore if one desires health, they
must become positive.
Super Mind Science teaches obedience to the
laws of Mind and Nature. It not only
teaches the proper way to health, but also
teaches eternal consciousness and many other mind powers.
Health is not the only purpose of the Science. It has always
been the desire of the Founder to lead his students into a realiza­
tion of the Absolute power of God, the unfoldment of the spir­
itual faculties ,and a continuation of consciousness after the body
is asleep, as well as continuation of consciousness after physical
death. The Science is vast and attains to the sublime heights of
individual mastership when properly understood.
Other
Teachings
Spirit Those who try to demonstrate the mental
of powers of Super Mind Science yet retain
Christ their ignorance regarding the indwelling
Spirit of Christ, will never succeed. They may have apparent
success, but complete mental harmony with the teaching is neces­
sary in order that the laws of mind and Spirit be complied with.
No selfish minded person who seeks only healing of the body
can stand, nor can a house built on the sands of negative belief
withstand the storms of life. A student with divided loyalty,
half Super Mind Science and the other half of his mind imbued
with negative teachings of other religions will never meet
with success as a demonstrator in our sublime Science. They
192 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Anatomical
Powers
Results
Certain
must abide by the precepts laid down by the Founder if they
expect good results.
The power that operates every organ in
the human body is the “life energy” which
is both positive and negative. This power
also causes the explosion of atoms in the blood stream. When it
is increased and the mind properly trained, there is no body
waste, such as carbonic acid. Through it the mind powers are
also stimulated to quicker and more perfect action. Every func­
tion, mental and physical, can be controlled by concentration
power of the mind and directing of life energy. This same
power also prolongs the life of man.
When a student learns the Super Mind
Science method of energy control and prac­
tices it, the result is an increase of energy
regardless of his belief. This energy is beneficial to the health
and mental well being of any person, therefore it is impossible
to use the Super Mind Science methods as given by an author­
ized Teacher without getting wonderful results. The Author
regrets that it is impossible to teach these keys fully in this
book, without the aid of a teacher, however, the centers of
power in the human body are of such nature that one must
have a teacher to explain them, or receive a definite course of
instruction. One should remember that Jesus taught His Dis­
ciples away from the multitudes, the seekers had to be willing to
go where the teachings were being given and receive them from
the Master. Super Mind Science is not an abstract teaching,
and every power taught can be experienced by the student.
Power The power of concentration comes from a
of student being able to hold his mind on one
Concentration thought at a time. A teacher should see
that his students learn this art well, as their success in the
Science will be measured by their power of concentration, and
ability to direct their mental forces properly. In the Science, we
first generate the “life currents”, next we take control of them
with the Will power, third, with the mind in a positive creative
state, we direct the currents, ceasing to think of everything ex­
cept the idea concentrated upon. After a few seconds, the
mentality sets up or attains a positive attitude. This positive
attitude overpowers all resisting conditions, and is always fol­
lowed by a wonderful demonstration if the student is sincere and
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 193
honest at heart. This power of concentration can stop pains
instantly and suspend all body feeling. W hen pain attacks a
Super Mind Scientist he can apply this remedy, he will not need
to resort to deadening drugs or other materialistic processes.
They do not need to imitate the hypocrisy which is taught in
other healing systems, which teach people to resort to material'
istic methods when the crisis comes and the system which they
have supported fails them.
Proper Teachers of Super Mind Science will do well
Diet to remember that those negative systems who
Necessary endorse the killing of human beings, and fail
to teach their followers to eat only vegetables and such foods
as 'are conducive to their mental and spiritual growth are not
spiritual systems of religion. They strain at a “gnat and swallow
a camel”, usually they are mental “wolves in sheep’s clothing”.
Super Mind Science teaches against eating of flesh of any kind
because it develops animal propensities, destroys the gray matter
in the brain, makes those who indulge in eating it nervous, high
tempered, and develops various diseases. We hold all life sacred
and teach that man has no right to take the life of another be-
cause that other is of a lower degree of intelligence. There is
abundance and plenty for all and man should learn to eat, live
and think in harmony with the higher principles of life. The
food one eats creates the type of gray matter they possess, there'
fore when one is striving to overcome the animal nature it is
but natural that they must cease eating animal flesh.
Energy Medical Science admits that one who lacks
and vitality should eat carbon foods in order to
Mind Power increase body heat and energy, thus over'
coming anaemia and other diseases. It also stresses the need of
oxidation because the combustion processes of the body depend
on oxygen like fire depends on air, yet they have never discov'
ered the fact that deep breathing and intense concentration
completely control these processes. The Founder of Super Mind
Science discovered this fact in the early days of his studentship
in The Science of Life. No one can increase energy fast enough
through foods alone to take definite effect on pain or disease im­
mediately. The process of energy control and oxidation as
taught in Super Mind Science has proven that this system of
control is capable of demonstrating such results.
194 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Evidence As evidence of proof that we possess the
of most accurate Science of health, we not only
Results invite the public to have a demonstration in
our Centres of instruction, but ask any one who may be in doubt
to consult any of the thousands of Super Mind Scientists who
have had the teaching, as to their ability to stop pain in their
body or in the body of another. They are always ready to
demonstrate their powers for the purpose of aiding any sufferer
or instructing any sincere seeker. If a Super Mind Scientist is
true to their instructions they will be an example of the teach­
ings of Jesus Christ, whom we strive to emulate. The Author
gave years of his life during the founding of this Science to heal­
ing the sick of “all manner of disease”.
Every Student In addition to being taught self healing,
directing of energy and concentration of the mind. Every
student, when properly instructed, is an excellent healer and can
succeed healing members of their own family as well as their
own-self. The motto of our Science is “They shall lay hands
on the sick, and they shall recover”. Years of study and suf­
fering endured by the founder has made this part of the Science
a reality, for God is no respector of persons, His laws are im­
mutable and never change. The student who desires perfect suc­
cess with every one he treats should first explain to the one who
is to receive the treatment, how their breath and Will power
draw the waves of Solar Energy into the body with every
breath.
to overcome poverty and to attract opportunities for success to
seen influence which gives them great force of character, and
they are usually very successful. Super Mind Science teaches a
definite way of causing the mind to harmonize with this mag­
netic pulsation which gives one perfect control of this power.
When this is accomplished the student centers their mind on
prosperity, sending out these magnetic waves, these waves be­
come a power of attraction which act like loadstone, drawing
to the student “the desire of his heart”. Thousands of stu-
Healer
a every Super Mind Science student is taught
how to heal others by the laying on of hands,
In addition to the health teaching of the
Science there is a method for the control of
the magnetic influence. This method is used
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 195
Mental
Independence
dents of the Science demonstrate prosperity after learning this
method.
Jesus When the multitudes were hungry, Jesus
Taught multiplied “the loaves and the fishes” through
Prosperity Divine Power, which proves that material
prosperity and human supply were a part of the Science He
taught. He also turned the water into wine, demonstrating that
all material conditions can be altered by Divine understanding
and power of Divine, Infinite Mind. Therefore, the Author
believes that every Mental Scientist if they really know “The
Law of Magnetic Attraction” can become prosperous.
When a student is being instructed in the
rudiments of this Science, he is taught the
importance of overcoming all mental attach'
ment, becoming independent in every phase of existence, for
dependence is mental subordination. This Science teaches a
method of crucifying all bad habits and flesh desires, so as to
produce this desired mental state. Spirituality comes as a result
of mastership and overcoming all habits and attachments, at'
taching the mind only to the Infinite Mind. When one masters
all habits and becomes mentally positive, they become master of
life and control their own destiny, mentally and spiritually, and
their troubles in life are soon over.
Door When one becomes independent of all flesh
of the ties then they can succeed using the key to
Soul the “door of the soul” which liberates the
consciousness from the body during sleep. This method teaches
how one may explore the unseen realm of life previous to so'
called death. Those who practice it can completely overcome
death, thereby realising the saying of Jesus,” I have overcome
the world”. Paul says “it is better to be at home with the Lord
and be absent from the body than to be at home in the body
and absent from the Lord.” The “door of soul” is a brain suture,
called in medical science “the rolando suture”. In material
science there is apparently no reason for the sutures in the bones
of the cranium, but in Super Mind Science it is found that they
are centers of mental influence where negative, obsessing influ'
ences may be closed out, and positive, upbuilding influence
called in. The control of consciousness during sleep can be
demonstrated by projecting life currents into “the door of soul”,
then through Will power and concentration the consciousness
196 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
may be directed to any place the student desires it to go, re­
turning to the body with a clear mental picture as if they had
had the experience physically. Many Super Mind Scientists
demonstrate “the eternal consciousness” state through a knowl­
edge of this important mental center.
Harmful There are two types of thoughts, they are
Thought positive or good thoughts, and negative or
Waves harmful thoughts. The harmful thoughts
are created by a wave of influence which emanates from the flesh
body, being created by gland secretions from the Gonad region
and the region of the spleen. These waves of physical force
contain animal propensities and change the good thought which
enters the Solar Plexus into a harmful thought. When one is
angry these waves generate faster and transform good into evil.
Super Mind Science has a key for controlling these waves by
training the consciousness not to receive them. In this way
we are able to completely free our mentality from malice, hatred
and envy. Teachers of this Science should instruct their students
well in this noble art.
Nature and God have provided a way for
one to attain physical purification as well as
mental. In our Science we teach how to
stimulate the Ego Current in the sacral region of the spine. This
current when brought into action by mental concentration puri­
fies the entire physical organic system, eliminating poison forma­
tions from the body, increasing the sense perception and stimu­
lating the mental activity. This current is dormant in most
people not having been instructed in Super Mind Science. This
accounts for the presence of so many diseases which torment the
lives of the multitudes. Not only does the Ego Current give
physical purification, but it also unlocks the spiritual energy
center at the base of the spine. This bénéficient energy flows
upward to the brain, developing the spiritual faculties which per­
ceive the invisible. All true Super Mind Scientists having'awak-
ened this energy are spiritually illuminated, possessing great intui­
tion, inspiration, and psychic powers common to the soul's
“eternal consciousness”.
Overcome Before one can fully realise Super Mind
All Science they must cast out of their conscious-
Except Truth ness everything which is contrary, or which
fails to conform to its teaching. “Know the Truth and the T ruth
Physical
Purification
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 197
shall make you free”. Every student can immediately demonstrate
the major part of the teachings of Super Mind Science which
proves it to be the Truth. Therefore, those teachings which
warn against Super Mind Science are but illusion, falsehood and
sin. Any teaching which prohibits its followers from reading
or studying any works or literature outside of their own little
creedalistic or dogmatic system are assuming a great responsibil­
ity, for some day they will reap the reward for having kept
their fellow man in ignorance and bondage thus leading him to
oblivion. “The blind cannot lead the blind, and their reward will
be neither here nor there”. Truth is the same regardless of what
language it is spoken in, and regardless of what garment it
wears—its harvest is Light and Love which leads to immortality.
Sow the seeds of Truth, overcome all illusion and you will soon
apprehend this Science. Mental acceptance of this great Science
of Truth is very necessary for success in applying it. A student
must bear his cross, giving up anything which interferes with
his progress. All students meet with opposition, for spirit ever
wars with flesh. Annihilation of selfishness and mortal attach­
ment is the road to illumination and spiritual enlightenment.
Struggle Those who seek to live the Life Divine are
for usually persecuted by material minded rela-
Truth tives and so-called friends. Jesus said, “a
Prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and
his enemies shall be they of his own household”. Therefore, all
students of Super Mind Science should prepare for the “great
battle of Almighty God”, not only within, but without also.
Each one is responsible for his own actions and deeds, and there­
fore should be guided by his own reason and consciousness. No
one can live the life of another, and as there are many different
degrees of intelligenc in the world, each one should live in har­
mony with the Truth as it is revealed to them. If your friends
and relatives do not understand the Truth, do not let them hinder
you, but strive to enlighten them, then if they are not willing
to see the Light, you owe it to the higher consciousness within
you, to leave them by the wayside”. The Author has had to
sever many ties and break many attachments in his battle with
t e forces of illusion, contention and flesh conditions.
198 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
All students and teachers of Truth must
Forbearance develop patience, forbearance, and Brotherly
Love, and even though they be torn asunder
they must not do evil unto an enemy. In ruling their classes,
families and assemblies, they must rule in the spirit of Love, sea­
soned with Mercy, being ever mindful of the cause of Truth
more than personal satisfaction. Let all Super Mind Scientists
take their refuge in goodness, desiring above all else to escape
suffering through possessing a developed mind and “eternal
consciousness”.
Self
Control
If a Teacher desires obedient students, he
must possess self control, being an example
of kindness, patience and self mastery before
his students. A Teacher should be aware of the fact that his
students absorb, to a certain degree, his mental characteristics,
therefore he should ever be alert, and criticize himself in inner
contemplation, always striving to overcome the imperfections.
Self Control is the essence of successful human relationship—to
be always the same—never moved by anger, worry and other
upsetting conditions—to be always calm and self poised is indeed
an ideal to be desired by all. Jesus taught by example and
demonstration more than by precept; preaching is good but
doing is better, for the world is improved only by deeds, not by
opinions or abstract beliefs.
The only way to happiness is the at­
tainment of self control through methods of
contemplation and concentration. Those who
think they can overcome the lower self without these methods
of body and mind control will find they are but deluded mortals.
There can be no happiness where the mind is uncontrolled for
happiness is a mental state. Denying or affirming does not alter
facts, growth and development alone bring about all changes in
the world as is evidenced in the vegetable and animal kingdoms.
The way to eternal consciousness” is through the methods of
stilling the activity of the flesh sensations, controlling the breath,
energy and will power.
Spiritual When one attains self control they will ex-
Sight perience the unfoldment of spiritual sight,
which is like an Easter Lily blooming in the
spring. This sight is the actual perception or seeing power of
the eternal part of mind, it is Soul vision. The Super Mind
Attaining
Happiness
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 199
Science method of opening this vision has proven to be quick
and easy to understand. W hen a student uses this method they
soon see mentally and spiritually as readily as physically, if they
concentrate their mentality on such attainment. This calls to
mind the Scriptural saying “if thine eye be single thy body shall
be full of light”.
Solid Rock A student desiring to succeed must build on
of the solid rock of spirituality, as all compound
Spirituality things and things of form are eventually dis-
solved. Even though this world may constantly change and in-
vidualities may scatter, the Truth remains the same, unchange­
able, like the pure Infinite Spirit, therefore let all Super Mind
Scientists take refuge in the inner self which consists of an
“eternal consciousness”. Do not build your castle upon the sands
of time or on conditions of change lest a strong wave from the
sea of life sweep it away. Beyond the realm of flesh and lust
there abides the eternal Truth.
This The most absolute certainty in the world is
Body the coming dissolution of this temporal body.
Dissolved Life is but a cosmic hour, therefore I say
unto every Super Mind Scientist, take refuge in Eternal Mind,
abide in Truth, live the Truth, become the Truth, do the
Divine works that the record of the soul may be good and
eternal. The Founder of this Science does not teach death, but
teaches life. Clinging to selfishness and materiality is death,
while self mastery and Truth is Life.
Religious Truth consists of knowing how to
live, while religious myths consist of beliefs
about immortality without providing a means
Beliefs about health when the person who be­
lieves does not understand or know how to attain and maintain
health are useless. Super Mind Science places the powers used
in health, and mental as well as spiritual attainment in the hands
of every seeker. God alone controls life, and ecclesiastical argu­
ments can never change the least of His plans. If the keys to
Super Mind Science were taught in every home, there would
e very little disease, and possibly no crime, for humanity would
redeem itself.
Religious
Truth
of attaining it.
200 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Each One Those who desire the Truth must seek to
Their Own become their own physician and their own
Saviour saviour, for then this world will grow beyond
misery and Truth will reign supreme. Dependence leads to
death, while independence leads to Life, Truth, Love and Spir­
itual Consciousness. The Teacher of this Science who trains the
students in self reliance will later be pleased to note the prog­
ress made by the student; the Author has found this to always be
true. The more Truth a student learns the less he will say “I
can’t”, for once becoming independent he gains self confidence
and succeeds in life.
Desires As teachers of Super Mind Science, you will
of find that flesh desires wax great in him
Carnal Mind whose thoughts wander. Only concentration
on the part of a teacher will hold his mental forces steadfast.
Beware of lust and material greed, for they have ruined many
who could have become great teachers. Those who seek after
carnal pleasures make its fetters strong, for men are bound by
carnal desire to the illusions of the false sense concept. Cut
away these false attachments and abide in the Truth of Super
Mind Science, knowing that self mastery is the key to bliss,
power and a glorious attainment.
Spiritual discipline is necessary in order for
a teacher to teach correctly. Any Teacher
who varies from the discipline of Super Mind
Science and loses self control falls into the ways of error. True
enlightenment comes to the meek, not to the atrogant. Jesus
said those who enter heaven must become as a little child”,
meaning innocent and well disciplined. He gave certain instruc­
tions to His disciples which He expected them to follow, but
only eleven out of seventy succeeded, which shows that the
remainder did not abide by His instructions.
The Way Unless a teacher overcomes the lust of the
of the flesh and ceases to be influenced thereby, the
Flesh flesh will conquer him sooner or later, for all
are tempted. Be detached from evil, live for the spiritual good
which you can do in Super Mind Science, then will you become
sufficiently prosperous and fully independent of other callings.
All Teachers who obey this instruction will succeed, while those
who disobey it will find the old axim “the way of the trans­
gressor is hard” to be correct. All sinful desires should be over-
Discipline
Necessary
TEACHING SUPER MIND SCIENCE 201
W isdom
Reflected
come if a teacher is to succeed, for then the methods in the
“Keys to Christianity” will be demonstrated perfectly by one
so sincere and good. Goodness is power, evil is destructive sin.
Persecuted The Author labored for years overcoming the
for lower desires and has had a glimpse of soul
Truth freedom. Sometimes this Divine realization
came when severe persecution was directed against him by or'
ganizations who were opposed to Truth. However persecution
sometimes increases one’s faith and teaches him to conquer his
desire to strike back at an enemy. When this desire is con-
quered, Divine power comes to the rescue, opening a way to
victory, for “God will not be mocked”. So remember Teachers,
that when persecuted for Christ's teachings you must not fight
your enemy, defend yourself but do not harm anyone, for God
is Love, Good and Power.
False concepts of God and empty ritualistic
systems which hold the fear of “hell” over
mortal man will make deadly attacks on the
Super Mind Science Teacher, however if the Teacher reflects
wisdom and love of Christ they will be turned away as quickly
as perceived. He must prove to the world the correctness of
the Science by living up to the Christ principles, both as a
Teacher and a citizen. Demonstrations of Divine Power as e x ­
p e r i e n c e d by all Super Mind Scientists should cause all to turn
from evil, and face the light which opens their spiritual vision
like the “sun opens a morning glory”. Never try to use mental
powers for a person who is selfish and ignorant of the laws of
Divine Mind, except where they are willing to become a student
of spiritual laws and “eternal consciousness”.
Pearls “Cast not your pearls before swine". Pearls
Before are the Divine powers of the Science, swine
Swine are the selfish persons who desire others to
heal them, but refuse to learn the laws and heal themselves.
Teachers should not argue or try to reason with narrow minded
individuals, for they love the ways of darkness, and have no
desire to see the light. Their efforts would be more fruitful
when directed toward helping those who are sincere and have
expressed a desire to gain more knowledge. The success of our
Science cannot be measured by the number of schools and
churches that are operating today, nor can it be measured by the
number of followers, for these are only visible successes. When
202 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
one considers the new road it has had to carve or build through
opposing blind faith, ritualism, superstitution and all the ignor­
ance of the centuries, then they will realize some of the hard­
ships it has had to endure to reach its present pinnacle and will
say “well done thou good and faithful servant”.
Prove The Scripture teaches that we should “prove
the all things and hold fast to that which is
Science good”, therefore the Author provides in this
lowing a part of the laws of Science. These keys are
not the ones taught by the Teachers, they are provided
so one may experience a partial demonstration which should
convince any open minded seeker of the truth of our
teaching. Then if they desire the perfect keys of dem­
onstrations, they should apply to an authorized Teacher
for further instructions. In this manner they can understand
the principles of the Science even before enrolling as a student.
The Science has the following branches: Self-Mastery and
Health, which is rudimentary and elementary; “Super Mind
Science with Keys to Christianity”, which contains the highest
technical methods of Divine Power in metaphysical understand­
ing in the Science of Life. Next, comes the “Master Teachings
of Inner Mysteries”, which is a symbolical study of immortality,
then the “Master Course of Super Mind Science”, which is a
teaching of spiritual liberation and attainment. Then comes the
Master Adept’s Course of Instruction”, which contains the Arts
of the Ancient Magi and the Works of the World Teacher, the
world’s greatest spiritual teaching. Then last comes the Meta­
physical College which prepares Teachers and healers in the
Science. Therefore, one may see the vastnss of the Science. A
test key is herein given to prove the power of mental concentra­
tion to heal others.
First: Sit erect, close the eyes and visualize the party who needs
the silent treatment.
Second: Now become very determined mentally to heal them—
Will intensely in a positive state of mind that they will
recover. As you do this, mentally send them the thought
of perfection through Divine Power.
This method will prove very beneficial until you have
learned the powerful concentration methods of the Science.
CHAPTER XVI
INTERROGATIONS
Questions
Answered
The work of a teacher is to explain this
chapter which is provided for the benefit of
those earnest inquisitors who are seeking to
learn how to think, that they may grasp the fundamental prin­
ciples of Life, Truth, Science and God, for the keynote of success
is to attain wisdom. Knowledge is power, ignorance is sin.
Q. What is life?
A. Life is the manifestation of Godly intelligence which
manifests being. The life of man consists of a harmonious com­
bination of Divine Mind, energy and matter. The real being
exists in mind alone, while the body, composed of energy and
matter, is a vehicle of the soul or inner life principle, which is
an individualized manifestation of Divine Mind.
Q. What is the Supreme Being or God?
A. The Supreme Giver of life, All-knowing, Universal,
Infinite Spirit without limitation, begining or end, existing in
the fourth dimension of the Universe.
Q. What principles and how many of them compose God?
A. God is the one Supreme Infinite Mind, manifesting as
positive mind, negative mind, and neither positive or negative
mind, producing three effects, birth, death and eternal life. These
may be termed the Divine Trinity:^ Father, Universal, Divine
Mindj'Son, Divine Mind incarnate;^Holy Ghost, eternal life
principle. These principles correspond to the three states of con­
sciousness:*Father, super-conscious mirid;oon, sub-consciousness,
and noly Ghost, conscious mind. Super Mind Science teaches
the mastery of these three states.
Q. What is soul or spirit?
A. Soul is a word taken from the word “'solar”, meaning
sun or illuminator of the worlds, it consists of the inner Divine
intelligence or individuality. Spirit means the consciousness of
any being which breathes.
Q. What is life energy?
3. Life energy is of two types, first, electrical which flows
through the nerves. These may be termed mental currents, since
all commands from the brain to the nerves or muscles of the
body are carried by them. These currents also carry the
thoughts from the Solar Plexus where they enter the body
204 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
to the brain before they are acted upon by the brain. The
second type of energy is a heat wave called in Super Mind
Science “solar energy”, for it comes from the sun. This energy
gives warmth, healing and expansion to the body, while the elec­
trical currents increase the power of the brain over the body.
Solar Energy, like the electrical nervous life energy enters the
Solar Plexus where it travels in waves to the brain, and from
there flows over the body through the blood passages. These
two life energies are Nature’s healing powers and need but to
be quickened by the Will power. Jesus used them to heal the
body and to re-animate bodies after they had died, He controlled
them with His spiritual consciousness. They are controlled in
the same manner by a Super Mind Scientist. The methods of
energy control used in the Science are original discoveries of the
Founder.
Q. How can one learn to control these powers?
A. They should first study this book well, then either
secure an authorized Teacher of Super Mind Science to instruct
them or take the especially prepared course of instruction through
the mail, or apply to a Super Mind Science Reading Room for
information.
Q. What is intelligence?
A. Intelligence is Universal Mind expressing, it is Omnip­
otent, eternal and fourth dimensional, it is the manifestation of
God, the light of the world.
Q. What is Mind or Infinite Spirit?
A. Mind, or Infinite Spirit is the manifestation of the
power of thought, it is the eternal, Divine principle; as a ruling
force it creates all things. It consists of seven planes, three mor­
tal, a line of demarcation between mortality and immortality
called “transma”, and three planes which are immortal. These
three immortal planes govern all manifestation of eternal life
and the Supreme Infinite Mind, which is beyond human descrip­
tion, unlimited, Omnipotent, Omniscient, the source of life whose
qualities are Truth, Light and Love. This universal aspect of
Mind is an All-pervading Presence as there is but one Mind in
reality. These planes are but different rates of vibration within
the one mind, the planes of mortality are mortal because they
are of a continually moving force. Change is common to mor­
tality while permanence is common to immortality. Mind rules
all, there is no power beyond or below Mind, beliefs of such
INTERROGATIONS 205
powers are harmful to the intellect, for would God create any
being outside of His own domain? No human act is possible
without some type of thought preceding it, therefore, Mind rules
and matter obeys. When man manifests the eternal qualities of
Mind he becomes a Son of God. In this state of mastership he
overcomes sin, disease and death while he lives on the earth. If
he lives in the changing or mortal realm of mind mentally, he
becomes the victim of sorrow, sin, disease and death. Super
Mind Science teaches the techniques of Mind application and
raises one to this eternal reality and consciousness of Infinite,
Divine Mind, supplanting spiritual mastership for submission
to sin.
Q. Are creeds and dogmas necessary to salvation?
A. No, because God is not the author of creeds, dogmas
or social formulas, therefore, man is not bound by the'precepts
laid down by man. He is responsible only to the laws of Nature
and God. Creeds limit the mental development and teach a
false security, therefore, they are more harmful than good. The
true realization of God is possible only to those who seek Him
in the realm of mind. The belief in the material existence of
Jesus Christ as a physical man and His unfortunate death can­
not save one’s soul, only by living a good life can the soul
continue a conscious existence after death of the body. If creeds
and dogmas could save souls they could also heal disease, prevent
the development of criminals, and the legal murder of millions
of young men on the battle fields of a barbarous humanity.
Divine Mind Science reveals the brotherhood of man and the
Fatherhood of God as a concrete reality through the relationship
of the one Divine Mind, Father of all. This Divine Infinite
Mind knows no racial boundaries, no creeds, no limitations.
Q. What is sin?
A. Sin is a violation of natural laws, either physical, mental
or spiritual. Sin is of two types, omission and commission, both
types are punishable through the Law of Compensation or the
Law of Sowing and Reaping. Sin is punished in this world as
well as in the next. The law of life is that as soon as a sin is
committed the wheels of the law begin to turn against the sin­
ner, and no ceremony or belief can forestall this result, for it
is the Law of God.
Q. What is the difference between body, soul and spirit?
A. Body, soul and spirit are different manifestations of
206 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Mind. Soul is the highest manifestation, spirit a lower mani­
festation, and body the lowest manifestation. Body being the
lower and also the vehicle of the soul, and spirit and soul the
higher, the soul may be termed subjective spiritual intelligence;
spirit as conscious spiritual intelligence. The life of the body is
Godly regardless how it is used. Sin is the abuse of the power
of the freedom of the Will, it does not prove that the intellect is
ungodly. Man’s identity is in spirit not in matter, matter is but
the spiritual keyboard played by the Divine musician, man.
Man co-exists with God, therefore, he is a manifestation of God.
The true manifestation of man is in his indwelling spirit.
Harmony The harmony between matter and mind
Between Matter makes being possible, remove the harmony
and Mind and being ceases to be. The harmony be­
tween God and man, His image, makes Mind Science a reality,
remove this harmony and all Divine demonstrations cease. Es­
tablish perfect harmony between body and mind, and you have
self mastery; perfect harmony between mortal and Divine Mind
and you have Sonship of God. The way to harmony is to over­
come all of the opposing forces of matter. Acquire light men­
tally and darkness vanishes, for evil is not a power, good alone
creates. Fear no evil, be in constant contact with good, for one
ray of the Infinite light dispels all evil shadows. No evil can
harm a good person whose spirit has attained heavenly harmony
through Divine meditation, concentration and realization.
Q. How did Jesus heal the sick?
A. He healed through controlling Divine forces in the pa­
tient, exercising spiritual consciousness over matter, substituting
the Divine Will for the human Will. In all of His demonstra­
tions He controlled life energy, gave spiritual commands, over­
came mental obsessions, and instructed humanity in the use of
the Will. In no case did He demand that the seeker be con­
verted to his beliefs previous to the healing demonstration as
modern churches who believe in healing do. His work was first
a healing mission and second a spiritual realization and demon­
stration of God. He realized that to save a soul one must first
save the body, and in all of His healing He obeyed the laws of
Mind.
Q. How does Super Mind Science heal the sick?
A. It heals the sick through directing and controlling life
energy and sending it into the affected parts of the body, thereby
INTERROGATIONS 207
expanding the congested part. W e next overpower the human
Will with Divine Will, thus overcoming the cause of disease. We
teach people the correct use of the Will as Jesus did while on
earth, for with a strong Will all can control their destiny. We
lay hands on the sick for the purpose of directing energy, Jesus
did likewise. Our Science teaches the doctrine which Jesus
taught to His Disciples, but withheld from the multitudes be-
cause they were not ready for such Divine revelation. We glorify
God through the doing of mighty spiritual deeds which aid the
sick and encourage humanity to seek God in mind, body and
soul, not in outward pious acts alone. The Author has labored
unselfishly to establish the Christ healing as the proper way to
attain health, however he does not condemn other systems which
have merit. Jesus came to improve, not to destroy, we emulate
Him in this respect.
Q. Does Christian healing require the denial of disease as
is done in some forms of so-called Mind healing, or the use of
suggestions which hypnotize the patient?
A. No, because Jesus never denied a fact and those who
deny that disease exists when all proof is to the contrary, are
very much deluded and in need of enlightenment. Jesus was
their opposite, He asserted facts, He said, “Arise and sin no
more,” thereby recognizing sin, yet these supposed followers
say “there is no sin”. He said “Be thou clean” to the leper,
recognizing disease, while they say there is no disease. Affirma­
tions, such as are used in numerous systems do not heal, they
create a delusion of healing; Nature alone heals. These systems
using affirmations and suggestions are all pagan in character and
are outside the pale of Christianity. Christ demonstrated a posi­
tive Science, He did not seek to limit others or to exercise the
power of false suggestion over their subconscious mind. Jesus
said “I am the Way and the Life, he that seeketh to climb up
another way shall be lost”. Those systems without mastership
who attempt to heal as Christ healed are seeking to climb up
through a supposed science which has failed to demonstrate the
true Christ spirit. They bring misery to thousands of followers
who are sincere but whose mentality is so negative they cannot
reason. Super Mind Science teaches the uniting of the Will of
man and the Will of God as a power to control life energy, heal
the sick, the lame and the blind, which is a Christ like teaching.
It condemns all hypnotic systems which have departed from true
2Q8 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
primal Christianity; its methods are spiritual and complete in
themselves.
Q. Is faith without work sufficient to save the soul?
A. No. Since Jesus showed His faith by His works and
said “those who love Me, doeth My works” we can readily see
that “faith without works is dead”. Likewise those whose hopes
rest upon faith alone inherit eternal oblivion, for life is action,
inaction is death. Beliefs or disbeliefs have a mental effect only,
they must be carried into action in order to attain Divine immor­
tal importance. Deeds are the sowing of seeds, while the result
of the deeds is the reaping. Belief if incorrect is but mental
illusion, if correct it is but a shadow of the real, or condition
believed. Super Mind Science teaches reality through knowing,
therefore the true Scientist will demonstrate then believe later.
Facts are Truth, while supposition is very often error in disguise.
Q. Do the five senses constitute all of our organs of
perception?
A. No, the five senses are but lower manifestations of two
super spiritual senses which are Intelligence and Intuition. All
corporeal sense is inaccurate and undependable. Man being
spiritual he should depend solely on his spiritual sense perception
for correct knowledge. By becoming master of feeling through
concentration of mind and energy one can attain complete spir­
itual perception. This is accomplished by causing the conscious­
ness to pass beyond materiality into spirituality. Super Mind
Science teaches the proper method for such attainment. This
wisdom demonstrates the Life Divine here and now, doing away
with the uncertainty of waiting until after death in order to
find out regarding the soul’s power of cognition and perception,
—“Seek and ye shall find”.
Q. What is disease, and what is its cause?
A. Disease is congestion of life energies, caused by viola­
tion of natural laws, often—First, by wrong thinking; Second,
wrong eating; Third, by the sin of dissipation, or Fourth, by
overtaxing the muscles, nerves or organs; Fifth, by sudden
change of temperature. All of these causes revert back to one
primal cause, the lack of body energy and heat. These forces
are the life of man, their absence causes his death. Mind has
the only and absolute control of these life energies, ignorance
of their uses produces all the ills of mankind. Super Mind
Science teaches one how to flood the body with life giving
INTERROGATIONS 209
powers, then by invoking mind over matter, and Divine Will
over the human Will, the cause of disease is overcome. All heal'
ing systems depend on these energies for results obtained; but
our Science taps energy from the Universal supply through direct
action, while they depend upon reaction. The Super Mind
Scientists who keep their body energized will cease to have
disease, their body will also obey the Divine Will impulse.
Weakness of the Will power causes untold agony. Jesus said
unto the sick “be it according to thy Will” because He knew
that one becomes the prototype of their Will. The Will to
sin is negative moral weakness, the Will to eat unclean food or
destroy the body is negative physical weakness. The Will should
be positive for good only, then all disease, sorrow and sin will
be overcome, darkness shall turn to light, and evil to Divine
goodness.
Q. What is concentration and meditation?
A. Concentration of the mind is mental fixation, or the
focusing of the mind on one certain thing, holding it there
steadfast while the powers of mind operate to bring about one’s
desires. This is the positive creative state of mind which brings
about one’s desires. All opposing thoughts and negative sug'
gestions must be overcome before the power of concentration
operates. This is accomplished by overcoming the entering of
certain types of destructive thoughts into the thought centers by
a regulation of breath and concentration of the mental cur-
rents. However, one requires the personal instruction of a
Teacher in order to attain correct knowledge of concentration.
Meditation is the focusing of the attention on one subject, caus­
ing the mind to constantly think subconsciously on the one sub­
ject. This may be termed mental indentation. Meditation, on
God as All-powerful to overcome disease and sin soon over­
comes them, on God as the only reality overcomes falsehood
and establishes Truth, on God as the Supreme force of life over­
comes death. Meditation on strength overcomes weakness, on
the Will of the Father develops Sonship of God. These medi­
tations must be performed in the silence. Jesus said “enter into
your closet and pray”, which means meditate, “and I will come
in and sup with you”, this supping is the junction where the
Christ spirit joins the human spirit in the realm of mind during
meditation. While in this state the Author has learned the
transitory condition of mortal life with its unrealities, and the
210 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
permanence of the Life Divine with its eternal benefits.
Q. Why are Super Mind Scientists instructed to be
vegetarians?
A. Because every living creature is a manifestation of God,
therefore entitled to its life. No one should kill other creatures,
for God is Love, Truth, Life, and “those who worship Him
must worship Him in spirit and Truth”. The second reason is
that meat or flesh of any type contains germs which kill the
body, bringing about premature death, which is a great sin. Most
all serious diseases can be traced to meat eating. Vegetables are
the natural food for man therefore suitable to digest, for this
reason alone all true Super Mind Scientists will be vegetarians.
The command of Infinite Spirit is “Be thou clean”, therefore
clean, wholesome food makes one clean physically also keeps the
conscience light. Clean thinking makes one clean mentally, cor­
rect meditation causes one to be clean spiritually. Super Mind
Science demands this cleanliness of those who follow its teach­
ing desiring perfect results. Remember the saying of Christ,
“Be not like whited sepulchres, white without but corrupt
within”. The instinct to kill other creatures is primitive, cruel
and murderous in every respect, therefore, it destroys all spiritual­
ity. All so-called metaphysical systems which endorse killing of
animals are far from being spiritual, they are materialistic, not
spiritual in any way. Let all Super Mind Scientists be an
example of the highest Christ teachings, not hypocrites full of
churchianity.
Q. Was the healing which Jesus performed destined to
cease at His death?
A. No, He gave specific instructions for it to continue,
saying to His Disciples, “Go forth and heal the sick, cast out
demons and raise the dead”. In no wise did He intimate that
His healing was to be used only during His life on earth or
during the life of His Disciples. The church has falsely said
that there is no healing power today, they claim He has with­
drawn it to let the world suffer and die in misery. Such teaching
is unchristian, it is not of Christ who says “Come unto Me all
ye that be weary and heavy laden and I will give thee rest”.
Super Mind Science demonstrates the healing of the Master
proving it superior to all materialistic systems, it stands for prac­
tical Christianity. To the Scientist, Jesus the Christ is a Teacher,
not an idol to be set on a pedestal with garlands around its neck.
INTERROGATIONS 211
This Christ teacher is our ideal, we emulate Him in all our
works. To us He is as a loving Brother, we cannot see Him as
a fallen idol. Like we possess a living Christ, we also teach a
living God, capable of demonstrating His own presence and
power. Spiritual realisation is the keynote of bur Science, it is
superior to vague mental belief or imagining. We observe the
old commandment “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness and all things shall be added unto you”, happi-
ness, health, prosperity and actual knowledge of the Divine
Presence which pervades the whole universe. All Super Mind
Scientists who persist in the teaching will certainly attain to com'
plete understanding of the Divine Infinite All seeing Mind, for
the laws of the Science are the laws of Divine Mind.
Q. Are Super Mind Scientists to believe in any certain
type of life after death, if so, what type is it?
A. We teach that there is a state of mind beyond mortal
consciousness which constitutes immortal mind; those who
develop their spiritual senses and faculties attain to that state of
being. The number or percentage who attain is indeed small,
for like Jesus said, “The gateway to life everlasting is strait and
narrow and few there be who find it”, because most people are
unwilling to take the time to develop their spiritual powers, sac­
rificing all for personal gain, without thought of God or Good.
Super Mind Scientists are prepared through mental demonstra­
tion and scientific instruction to solve the mystery of life here on
earth. The Author and many students of the Science have at­
tained to the understanding of the immortal planes of mind.
This is demonstrated by being able to concentrate mind and
consciousness, then by mentally projecting the consciousness
beyond the conscious, subconscious, superconscious and plane of
transma into the plane of immortal life called the “spiritual plane
of mind”. There are only two planes beyond that plane, the
Christ plane” and “God plane” of Mind, this constitutes the
seven planes of Mind, which exist in the universe like seven
layers of bark exist on a tree. A master of Super Mind Science
®ay reach this state of spiritual knowing, which demonstrates
complete knowledge of Life Divine. This is the most glorious
attainment which man can attain to while living in his physical
body.
Q- What about future punishment or hell?
A. Those who sin by violating the laws of life will be
212 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
punished by the Law of Compensation both here and hereafter.
The punishment is mental, not physical, except that which mor­
tals suffer on this plane. On this plane it is sorrow, disease and
misery which is the lot of the transgressor. In the next life, if
one remains conscious, it is mental anguish, however when a
sinner sinks mentally to the level of the animal they enter
oblivion in the next life after a period of remorse on the astral
plane. Their astral bodies become obsessing influences, occa­
sionally becoming the power back of worldly crime. The idea
of departed souls entering an everlasting hell is a myth. The
Biblical word “hell” is taken from the Greek “Sheole” meaning
the grave. Due to the ignorance of the translators who were
mostly pagans, the idea of a hell for departed souls came into >
being. Anyone who understands God as a God of Love well
knows that punishment forever for sins committed in a life
whose average is but fifty-six years would be%
a monstrous cruelty
on the part of God, of whom Jesus spoke as “a loving heavenly
Father.” The only eternal punishment there is is mental oblivion
after physical death. It is possible that only a few mortals whose
spirituality is developed can escape such oblivion. Jesus said
“I am the Way and the Life”, therefore those who live the
Christ life will merit immortality of their souls, if they do not,
oblivion would be the natural result.
Q. Can metaphysical truth co-operate with Material
Science and one become the ally of the other?
A. Yes, because all strength and power manifest in the
human body is of mind not matter, and mind governs matter.
Material Science asserts that the power of cognition is in the
sense organs while Metaphysical Science reveals the truth that
all intelligence and sense perception is but different manifesta­
tions of Divine Mind. Body congestion produces pain, the pain
is mental while the congestion only is physical. When one sleeps
pain ceases because mind retires from matter, therefore all sen­
sation is of mind manifestation. This being true, the remedy
for the relief of pain could be but the action of mind power to
relieve congestion through a method of expansion, plus
mental concentration and spiritual realization. Material Science
seeks God separate from man while Divine Metaphysics prove
God to be within man, His power always ready for the command
of man when man has reached spiritual understanding and Son-
ship of God. The principles of Material Science in refusing to
INTERROGATIONS 213
recognize the power of God become the antipodes of Divine
Mind Science. Men who seek to measure the power of the
fourth dimension with material instruments fail to recognize the
Omnipotence of God and the smallness of the terrestial part of
the universe. Divine Mind Science, realizing the spiritual Truth
uttered by Jesus, “In my Father’s house are many mansions, if
it were not so I would not have told you” alone teaches the only
true Science of Life, Truth and Love which reaches Infinity, the
eternal realm of the soul.
Q. How can one progress rapidly in Super Mind Science?
A. Study the principles, learn the Allness of Infinite Spirit,
absorb its Divine effulgent light, see life as mind manifesting.
Imbibe the spirit of the Science, study the techniques of power
in the textbook “Super Mind Science with Keys to Christianity”,
apply them daily until you solve your problems of health, hap-
piness and prosperity. In practicing the Science learn to see
mentally beyond sin, sorrow and death. Develop your spiritual
faculties, prove all things and hold fast to that which is good.
Abide in mind, Truth, Love and Light, see God in every living
being. Learn mental calmness and peace, meditate on the beauty
of life, avoid evil companions. Soon you will discover that sin
cannot overpower good, that God is Love and that Divine power
flows from His Infinite Being, which heals all wounds and brings
bliss to those who sorrow. This Science of Life becomes the
Comforter, even the Spirit of Truth to all who sincerely apply its
principles knowing that good is all. Their consciousness passes
beyond death, for death is overcome by victory over the flesh.
This is the goal of Super Mind Science which teaches true spir­
ituality. When you reach the inner understanding which the
Author has discovered you will proclaim this Science the restored
Christianity, the greatest physician, the light of the world,—
your soul illumined by Divine Truth, Love and Light will sing
praise before the holy of holy within the temple of your being.
Every student should also know the meaning of the terms used
in the Science, since these terms are common to Super Mind
Science only and are not used in other metaphysical systems.
The following glossary is provided for correct instruction regard­
ing the terms used in Super Mind Science.
Q- What are negative and positive life currents? .
A. They are two electrical currents of nervous energy
which-enter the Solar Plexus and travel over the nerves to the
214 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
brain, thence to all parts of the body. These currents of power
are easily controlled through the methods used in the keys to
the Science called “techniques” which are taught only by per­
sonal contact with an authorized Teacher or through a special
course of lessons. They are used to increase the power of con­
centration, to awaken dormant mental powers and brain centers
and in the healing of others. They can be felt in the form of
pulsation as they vibrate through the body. They stop pain and
expand nerves, overcoming congestion, and are used to transmit
thoughts to others at a distance. They are fourth dimensional
and are used in demonstrations of spiritual phenomena, they
were used by Jesus to raise the dead, heal the sick and in the
“Transfiguration on the Mount”. The method of increasing
and controlling these powers as taught in Super Mind Science
is the original discovery of the Author. Demonstration alone
proves a Science, and all powers taught in Super Mind Science
can be experienced by any sincere student. Mind understands,
therefore all that is needed to grasp the Truth of this Science is
sincere mental application. This Science teaches the necessity of
knowing by experience which precludes the necessity of believ­
ing; belief becomes a scientific reality only when it is demon­
strated.
Q. What is the Will Power Center, and how is it devel­
oped through a study of Super Mind Science.
A. The Will Power Center is located above the temples,
it is the center which controls the negative and positive life
energy. In Super Mind Science we awaken it by sending the
life energy into the center, and by intense concentration of the
mind on a greater Will Power. This develops mastership over
the body, giving one perfect self control. It also increases the
positiveness of the mind which causes one to become successful
mentally, physically and spiritually. When the Will, of man is
used for good it becomes “the Will of the Heavenly Father .
The demonstrations of power given by Jesus were positive, He
said I do the Will of Him Who sent Me”; to the sick He said
Be it according to thy Will” emphasizing the necessity of the
proper use of Will power. Super Mind Scientists are taught the
correct way to awaken this power. No one should develop a
negative mentality since that type of consciousness suffers all
manner of sorrow, disease and misfortune.
INTERROGATIONS 215
Q. How can one who has been a subordinate person for
many years become a mental executive?
A. In this Science there is a method of awakening the
Executive Center in the brain by increasing the cell production.
This transforms the consciousness from the subordinate type to
the executive, causing one to think faster and to be able to solve
difficult problems quickly. This power also increases the spiritual
perception of the individual, and aids in attaining self mastery.
Q. Are all Super Mind Scientists capable healers?
A. Yes, all Super Mind Scientists who have studied under
an authorized teacher understand and know how to direct healing
energy, mental power and spiritual power against disease, thereby
overcoming congestion and the cause of disease. Our Science is
opposed to setting up a healing system which would require a
practitioner to heal members of our schools and churches, there'
fore all Super Mind Scientists receive the same instruction. The
science of Christ healing is Universal, one and all should prac­
tice it in order to serve God and develop spiritually. Jesus
demonstrated His faith by His works, we emulate Him and
must demonstrate our faith by our works. All Super Mind
Scientists receive training in healing others and perform this
Christ work in a Weekly Service provided for that purpose. In
this Service hundreds of lame, deaf and blind have been healed
by students of the Science, which proves the practicability of the
teaching. Our Science demonstrates the Truth of the Scriptures
more than it preaches them. The Author has healed thousands
through this system, it has been found to be more efficient than
other systems.
Q. What is magnetism?
A. Magnetism is a drawing impulse emanating from the
sun, it is beneficial in attracting friends and opportunities. In
Super Mind Science there is a method of increasing this power
so it can be used in many ways to benefit the student. All
powers of life are Divine, only evil minded mortals would believe
that magnetism is a harmful power.
Q. Can the imagination be controlled?
A. Yes, it can be controlled by developing the positive
creative imaginative power so the mind will imagine only good.
This is accomplished by sending the positive and negative life
energy into the Imagination Center. This process must be fol­
lowed by correct mental concentration in order to be successful.
216 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
The correct concentration method used in Super Mind Science
controls the mental faculties, bringing them under the subjec­
tion of the spiritual Will, transforming them into manifesta­
tions of Divine power.
Q. Can the consciousness be projected from the body?
A. Yes, the consciousness being of Infinite Spirit could
not be confined to the body, therefore it can be projected by
power of the Will to different places, states and planes. This art
was practiced by the Ancients and was usually spoken of as
“dreams of prophetic happenings”. Joseph was warned in such
a dream to take “the child Jesus to Egypt”. Super Mind Science
teaches the proper scientific method for projection of conscious­
ness through the Door of the Soul. Most Super Mind Scientists
have experienced a demonstration of projecting the consciousness,
or astral projection. The power of mental concentration is not
limited to the realm of mortal mind, but can penetrate even the
immortal spheres of being. When one can retain individuality
and yet pass consciously from mortal to immortal planes at Will,
they can solve the mystery of existence after death, also immortal
consciousness. It is far better to know these things while on
earth than to trust to belief or fate after passing from this life.
Q. What is the Ego Current and how is it used in Super
Mind Science?
A. The Ego Current is a life energy which manifests in the
body of a mortal even before physical birth. Its function is to
cause the body to resist disease, and to resist foods of poisonous
substances by causing them to pass from the body. In the body of
most persons this current becomes inactive after the age of seven
years, thus permitting disease to ravage the body. In Super Mind
Science there is a key to power which teaches the student how
to awaken the Ego Center and cause it to become active again.
This method purifies the body and awakens the spiritual facul­
ties, such as the dormant spiritual energy at the base of the
spine. These spiritual powers prolong life and rejuvenate the
body, they are one of life’s greatest possessions. Each student
should see that the Ego Current flows freely in their body.
Q. What is spiritual illumination?
A. Illumination means mental enlightenment, this comes
from developing the spiritual sense perception. All can attain
to illumination if they will forsake sin, culture their mind, and
do good, live in Truth, Love and Light ,and do the works of the
INTERROGATIONS 217
Divine Will. These practices have a tendency to awaken spirit­
ual understanding, causing one to pass from the consciousness of
death into the consciousness of life everlasting. Sincerity and
a fervent desire for spiritual attainment is the keynote of the
method which leads to supreme illumination. Outward showing
of saintliness is unnecessary, inward desire and good deeds are
the seeds which lead to the life Divine and spiritual illumination.
Q. What is spiritual sight and spiritual hearing?
A. Spiritual sight is to see through spiritual perception,
some express the idea by saying “I received an intuition that a
certain thing would happen and it did”. When Jesus told His
Disciples that in three days He would raise from the dead He
was telling them a truth which He could see spiritually. It is
also evident that He often contacted the Infinite Spirit or His
Father through spiritual hearing. All Super Mind Scientists are
instructed in these spiritual arts in order that they may be pre­
pared to continue their existence after death of the body. “Seek
and ye shall find” is the Divine promise, that all things hidden
shall be revealed. These mysteries of life are demonstrated in
this Science of Life, Truth and Love.
Q. What is Odic Force, spoken of in this Science?
A. Odic Force is the power which causes the earth to
move on its axis, the swells in the ocean and the pulsation in
the body. This power is centered in the vacuum center of the
heart. When controlled as demonstrated in Super Mind Science,
it is beneficial to heal circulatory disorders, and will assist in
overcoming general weakness of the body and brain. Many
Super Mind Scientists regard the Odic Force method of demon­
strating power greater than any revelation received in this age.
The great secret of the control of this force was revealed to the
Author during childhood when he was totally blind. This was
one of the powers he used in his battle to remain alive while
so-called incurable diseases were threatening his very existence.
Odic Force can be experienced when one uses the Super Mind
Science method of control as taught by competent teachers of
the Science. Odic Force was known to the Ancients who prob­
ably used it in the construction of the great Pyramid as a power
to raise the huge stones into their places in the structure.
Q. Does Super Mind Science teach communication with
those departed from this life, or as some term it, Spiritualism?
A. No, it does not; first, because if one exists in the after
218 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
life they cross the Transma plane and pass beyond the material
realm of sense perception, making it impossible for them to con­
tact the flesh consciousness without losing their immortal identity.
Therefore, a communication with those on earth and an immortal
being would be their destruction spiritually, furthermore no one
should be so selfish as to desire such communication. Second,
seeming communications are but mental illusion, or the result
of one becoming the victim of their own suggestion, often even
conversing with their own subconscious mind believing it to be
a spirit. Third, in order to attain to spiritual consciousness, one
must become spiritually pure. In that state a mortal may leave
their body consciously and visit the immortal realms of the soul.
When they do so they will discover that immortal beings are
not concerned with fortune telling of any kind, neither do they
give material prophecy, since all material consciousness must be
overcome before immortal consciousness begins. Spiritualists
should learn to answer their own questions and manage their
own business affairs before attempting to describe the condition
of immortal beings. They should remember that spirits which
serve selfish mortals are but obsessing astral influences in which
the soul quality has departed. They are not spiritual nor spirits,
they are but soulless shells which cast their influence upon the
Solar Plexus of undeveloped mortals.
Q. Does Super Mind Science teach Thought Transmission?
A. Yes, it teaches this art because all Masters and Prophets
who have given wonderful Truths to humanity have understood
and demonstrated this power. A Mental Scientist should be
proficient in all mental arts because they serve a valuable purpose
to humanity. Teachers who can divine the thought of the stu­
dent are far superior to those who can not. In Super Mind
Science one learns through a mental process to inhibit all
thoughts from the mind, then to receive the thought they desire
from the mind of another person. This is the perfected scientific
way to demonstrate Thought Transmission.
Q. What is the Voice of the Silence?
A. The Voice of the Silence is the prompting of the spirit
within one s self. The inner self reaches out into the ocean of
Life, Truth and Love and secures impressions of great profound
Truths, these in turn are translated by the consciousness into
what seems to be a Voice speaking in the Silence. The Author
had demonstrations of this inner voice years before the
INTERROGATIONS 219
writing of this book, making it possible to receive revelations re­
garding the truth about life. This voice manifests to all sincere
students who meditate sincerely to contact Infinite Spirit having
an unselfish motive in view, abiding in the Truth, manifesting
Love and Light. Every Super Mind Scientist should seek this
voice that they may be guided into the pathway of supreme
Infinite bliss.
Q. How may one attain to supreme spiritual bliss?
A. One may attain to spiritual bliss which gives the great­
est satisfaction in life by removing illusion in all its forms. Illu­
sion is belief in material gain and physical pleasure as life’s
reality, whereas the only reality is spiritual understanding and
knowledge of God. In order to escape from these material illu­
sions one must desire God and spirituality more than anything
else, concentrating their mind intensely until it is firmly set in
Divinity. Then by causing the consciousness to take on eternal
qualities, living and having one’s being in Truth, Love and Eight,
one may attain to the Life Divine. This is the supreme goal of
Super Mind Science. Those who have attained to the Divine
state live for good, their countenance is illuminated, they speak
kindly of others, heal the sick and are unselfish. They give
rather than take, and dedicate their life to the service of human­
ity. Such were the types Jesus desired as His followers, and to
that end He selected His disciples from among the multitude,
telling them to “go forth as sheep sent among wolves, and be
prepared to face Judges and Governors, but take no thought as
to what ye shall say for ,in the self same hour it shall be given
unto you.” The Author cannot improve upon these commands
of the Master to His disciples, and so sends forth the followers
of this Science of Life with the same admonition. Those who
have attained will adhere to it, for “The meek on earth are
exalted in heaven”, and “blessed are the pure in heart for they
shall see God”.
Q- In what way is man related to God?
A. Man is related to God, from a scientific analysis, as
follows: First, the body is ruled by the brain. Second, the
brain is an instrument of Universal, Omnipotent Infinite Mind.
Third, the Universal Infinite Mind is God in manifestation and
contains within itself the unlimited power of universal life energy
which producej all forms of life; therefore, the natural Master
of the body is the Infinite Mind. Since it is the master, it fol-
220 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
lows that man has his being within this ocean of Mind and Spirit,
therefore, he is of Divine origin, a Son of the Alhknowing, All-
seeing, Universal God. All seeming separateness from this Uni­
versal Mind is mental illusion, for without this power man could
not think, move, or manifest life. The body is a lower manifesta­
tion of this same Infinite Mind. Man possesses a low manifesta­
tion of the Divine Will which we term Mortal Will. When this
Will operates for good it becomes the God given Divine Will of
the Universe. Jesus said “It is not I that doeth these works but
Him that sent Me”, showing His spiritual conception of this
Universal Divine Will which healed the sick, cast out demons
and raised the dead. All evil is produced through mortals pos­
sessing a delusion that their Will is separate and apart from the
Divine Will. Likewise, all seeming miracles performed by man
are the result of his knowing the great Truth “I and My Father
are one”, and He who loveth the Father doeth His W ill”. Super
Mind Scientists should all strive to become conscious of this
Divine Will, knowing that its power is unlimited and its quality
Divine Love and Truth.
Q. What are the religious tenets of Super Mind Science?
A. The religious tenets of Super Mind Science are, first,
the Bible is accepted as the inspired Word of God, delivered
through mental laws to those Ancients who were spiritually de­
veloped. Second, we adore God as Divine Mind, All seeing,
All-knowing, Omnipotent and Eternal life principle, manifest in
all living creatures. Third, we believe in the sacredness of life,
both of man and animals. We deplore the killing of God’s crea­
tures, and consider it an unpardonable sin. Fourth, we accept
Jesus as the Son of God, but believe also that those doing His
works become like Him, and also the Son of God. W e accept
His atonement as a symbol of Divine unity through overcoming
the flesh. Fifth, we accept the resurrection as proof of His doc­
trine of eternal life, attainable by all who apply themselves
to doing His Divine works. We believe that only by apply'
ing His teachings to life can there be salvation of the soul
and eternal life. Sixth, we believe that “faith without works is
dead and those not doing the Divine works will fail to attain
immortality of the soul, since one’s belief is only a reality when
applied to the problems of life. Seventh, we believe in con­
sciousness after death for all those having that nind which was
also in Christ Jesus, living in their higher nature, doing the Will
of the Father'and being Master of matter.
CHAPTER XVII
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED
“ F o r I w i l l g i v e y o u a m o u t h a n d w i s d o m w h i c h
a l l y o u r a d v e r s a r i e s s h a l l n o t b e a b l e t o g a i n s a y
o r r e s i s t .”—Jesus.
Benefits
o f * .
Those who would gainsay the truth in this
book should first consider how the Science
Science has healed the blind, the deaf and the lame,
elevating mankind from a belief to a concrete evidence of the
power of Christ. Criticisms should be based on fact, not on
heresay. Helpful and honest criticisms are appreciated by any
intelligent person who is laboring for the redemption of man­
kind. In Super Mind Science, no beliefs be they religious or of
any other nature, are accepted until proven.
Proof When this Science is criticised in some op-
of posite teaching, or by those desiring to tear
Criticism it down for personal use, let every Super
Mind Scientist demand proof of their assertions. This Science
does not condemn anything which can be proven to be truth,
only beliefs, disbeliefs and the disputing of the reality of the cor­
poreal creation fall under its condemnation.
Jesus Jesus Christ, the healer, the teacher and the
Our challenger of orthodox ignorance is our ex-
Example ample. We look upon Him as a leader in
the “back to God” movement of humanity. We do not worship
Him as an idol, but strive to follow His beautiful life. The Di­
vine works performed by Jesus aroused the ire of the Rabbis and
politicians of His time more than the doctrine He preached.
They objected to taking the sick out of the hands of the doctors,
also the placing of Israel on a spiritual plane, where all personal
gain and hypocrisy would have been eliminated. Those who
object to Super Mind Science usually have some ulterior motive
or selfish interest in view.
Super Mind Science heals the sick more effi­
ciently than any other system, and without
cost. Each Super Mind Scientist is a healer,
not only able to heal himself, but also to heal others. We “teach
Truth to the poor”, “the blind see, the lame walk and the deaf
Scripture
Authority
222 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
hear” which should be sufficient proof of Scriptural authority.
Those who object to Super Mind Science are
p reminded, “by their fruits ye shall know
them”, “a good tree bringeth forth good
fruit”. Faith is proven by good works and there is no other
way to prove your belief in Jesus, except “ye do His works”.
Orthodox religions endorse medicine and even build hospitals
and profit financially through treating the sick. Many patients
die in these hospitals who no doubt could have been saved if
they knew Super Mind Science. The world never condemns
these systems for causing death, but demands that the system
of Christ be perfect. Jesus said, “only His Father in heaven
was Good” meaning perfect. There were many whom He
treated that did not recover because, through religious prejudice,
M ental
Exercises
they came condemning instead of accepting.
Many will say that because Super Mind
Science uses mental and physical methods, it
it is not spiritual, forgetting that the spiritual
law is the doing of good deeds physically, not believing the
way some mortal believes. One must comply with physical and
mental laws in order to heal. Spiritual methods, so-called, which
ignore the law of body and mind are but mental quackery, for
who can receive God’s favours, yet violate His laws?
Jesus Jesus said to the sick “be it according to
Taught thy Will”, because lack of a concentrated
Will Power Will means a negative mind, which is the
chief cause of all disease and sin. If all parents would teach their
children that their life is as they Will it, the whole world would
be Mental Scientists, for that is the crux of our teaching. Mental
concentration and Will overcomes the body, sin, disease, sorrow,
negation, and last of all, death and loss of identity. This is the
great Science of Life which Jesus demonstrated as “The Resur­
rection”, for to a spiritualized mentality there can be no death,
nor can the grave gain victory over it.
M aterialism There has ever been a struggle between ma-
and trialism and God, light and darkness. That
G od which is spiritual is foolish to the materialist
or the flesh, while that which is of the flesh is foolish to a spir­
itual man. Super Mind Science strikes the glorious note of
heavenly harmony in the realm of life, for it teaches the sub-
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 223
Unlimited
Healing
Power
duing of the body and developing of the spiritual consciousness
to harmonize with good. One must overcome evil; renunciation
in words only, void of deeds means little for “faith without
works is dead”. •
Super Mind Science teaches how to charge
the body nerves with power, and also
how to direct this unlimited power against
the citadel of disease or the congested area. This breaks up the
congestion, increasing the body heat and respiration, then by
applying the Divine unlimited power of God one can perma-
nently remove disease from the body. Is there any other logical
way to heal, if so, what is it? The success of Super Mind Science
in this field is unparalleled and has never been duplicated by any
science, mental or physical. Everyone should try this system on
at least ten sick people before attempting to criticise it.
Negative metaphysical healers and suggestive
therapeutics are ready to condemn this
Science, saying we recognize power in mat'
ter. This is not true, we rule matter by the power of mind. We
recognize congestion and so do they, otherwise why do they try
to heal the sick? If there is no disease in matter, why the need
of healers, practitioners and teachers? If ignorance is a belief,
it follows that knowledge, its opposite, would also be. When
knowledge is not present in one’s consciousness, ignorance mani-
fests, just as darkness is in the absence of light, however, when
light comes, darkness is no more. Super Mind Science is that
positive light. If our critics would try to compete with our
healing, they would soon see the power of Super Mind Science
over disease.
Negative
Metaphysicians
Investigate Let Physicians of the Homeopathy and Alio'
Then pathy schools give our Science a trial, using
Decide it on at least ten patients. After they have
used Solar Energy and applied Divine Mind concentration
against the disease, they will see the results themselves. They
will find that after their patients have learned this art they will
not need medicine and Super Mind Science will succeed as it
always does.
Higher Anyone who can understand that man has
and a higher or positive nature, and a lower or
Lower negative nature, and that the higher can rule
the lower, can understand Super Mind Science. It is Will over
224 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
mind, mind over matter, brain over body, God over flesh and
bliss over sorrow.
Worship Some orthodox persons say “we worship
of God as mind”. We say, can one conceive
Mind a God void of mind, or a mindless God?
Can God possess physical parts and passions and yet be holy?
No, He cannot. If he is not physical, He must certainly be
mental and spiritual which means one and the same thing. In
the sense that we know that God operates through mind by
actual demonstration, we can know God only as mind. However,
God is higher Divine Mind, and that mind which is ungodly is
negative mind of the lower animal planes of intelligence.
Man can choose between being spiritual, posi­
tive minded and masterful or he can be nega­
tive, physical minded and be a slave to his
senses, appetites, likes and dislikes. Super Minded means be­
coming spiritual minded or the state of Divine mastership. A
true Super Mind Scientist is one who lives continually in that
sublime state. How can anyone object to a teaching which
causes all who study it to rise to a higher spiritual plane of Life
and Being? You cannot reform the flesh, you can only overcome
it with Divinity. Most religions seek to reform it, while we
overcome it.
Man’s
Choice
Receptive
Mind
Before one can understand this Science they
must have a receptive mind, casting out all
old ideas of mortal weakness and impossibil­
ity in favor of confidence and power. No spiritual doctrine can
be measured by material standards. Material beliefs must be
emptied from the consciousness before spiritual Truth can enter.
Jesus said “seek ye and ye shall find”, He did not say “criticize
and ye shall find”, or “deny and ye shall find”. You cannot place
new wine in old bottles” nor can you place new Truh in minds
trained in sin and mortal belief. One must be reborn spiritually
by becoming as a child, being willing to learn, overcoming the
physical, striving to reach the spiritual.
God If God is power and sin is negation, then
Is why not apply God or power and overcome
Power sin? Why try to repent instead of overcome?
One needs to repent daily only until their mentality is strong
enough to resist sin. Only weak mentalities fail to overcome
sin, therefore the confessional is unnecessary except for those
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 225
whose mentality is weak. Criminal tendencies are produced from
diseased and weak minds, and unless the mind is corrected the
disease becomes a reality in the form of crime. Every year so-
ciety builds more prisons when it actually needs schools of men­
tal training. The money spent in reforming criminals where
Mental Science is not used is wasted, for nothing has been done
to correct the cause of crime. Punishment does not reform, it
only develops the lower nature of man.
Material sciences who may reject Super Mind
Science are reminded that Jesus healed the
sick and raised the dead, contrary to all Ma­
terial Science of that time and this. Therefore His works were
beyond the Scientist, not below them. Super Mind Science oc­
cupies the same position as the healing and works of Jesus. It
is the same work scientifically applied, a Super or higher Science
of Truth, Love and Light. In a later day it will become known
as “The light of the world” which delivers humanity from sin,
disease and death.
Material
Science
Pioneers Just as Jesus was a pioneer in Christian heal-
of ing and spiritual demonstration before “a
Truth generation of vipers”, so likewise is Super
Mind Science a pioneer in Science. Science today analyzes only
the effect but fails to reach the cause, the reason for this being
that Science does not give mind credit for forming the material
universe. It also fails to understand the Oversoul we term God.
One reason for this is that Science has never tried to demonstrate
the power of God at hand, it ever seeks to demonstrate Divinity
beyond its reach. Science has torn down many Biblical land
marks and found proof which apparently disproved many state­
ments in the Bible, yet apparently they have never tried to
scientifically prove any part of it.
Superstition In the last two decades many beliefs which
and were once regarded as sacred have been cast
Belief aside to make room for the expression of
higher intelligence. Numerous superstitions have been discarded
as relics of a by-gone era. Along with these relics was the belief
that man goes to heaven because he believes in the creed of a
church, regardless of how selfish he lives. Super Mind Science
now comes to declare that belief cannot save neither body, mind
°r soul, good deeds and the power of God are the only means of
salvation.
226 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Old
Customs
Old customs, sectarianism, and worn out
dogmas will be brought forward to condemn
this new religion. Selfish interests will be
the incentive for opposition from many sources, however, when
the argument is over, Super Mind Science will have won over
all, for “Truth even though crushed to earth will rise again”.
This Science is the unadulterated Truth which Pontius Pilate
crushed to earth on Mount Calvary nearly two thousand years
ago. It is now rising again, this time as a Science. Let all
Super Mind Scientists regard it as such.
Destroy To those who oppose Super Mind Science,
Without may we ask, do you heal and help humanity?
Rebuilding If so, then by what means can you accom-
plish success if you disregard the power of mind which is the
basis of this Science? No one should seek to destroy this Science
unless they can rebuild with a greater scientific structure. To
the degree that anyone can disprove its teachings by actual dem­
onstration they are advised to consider us their friends rather
than their enemies, for we are friends of Truth regardless of
what name it may be known by. The Author does not claim
perfection, however the Truth when proven is of course infal­
lible. In so far as Super Mind Science is provable, it is perfect,
therefore we aim to accept only proven facts.
Inner Opponents of Super Mind Science should re-
. member that it has an inner meaning as well
as an outer manifestation. However diligent
a student may be they will never understand this Science until
they realize the inner meaning. The Founder has concentrated
his mind on God so profoundly that all material things vanished
from the mental horizon, leaving only the consciousness of the
Divine Presence which rules this universe. After reaching this
state, his mind fully understood the inner meaning of Super
Mind Science.
Power
Within
This power within the universe called “God
is little understood by the masses, but there
are ways to test this power by concentration
and inward prayer. This test will prove conclusively that there
is an All-seeing, All-knowing Presence and after that there will
be little room for doubt left. No one can reach this inner state
unless they study mind over matter in its true sense, for just so
long as the flesh says that belief is sufficient, the mind will fail
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 227
to attain this absolute knowledge of God and Good, Truth, Love
and Light. Those who oppose this teaching will some day long
for this Divine contact which hundreds of Super Mind Scientists
have experienced.
Test Let any orthodox Pastor attempt to heal his
Our congregation by prayer as efficiently as the
Science Teachers of Super Mind Science do and he
will find that the Science has a great advantage over him. Let
any Practitioner who denies disease attempt to compete and they
will find that our healers can heal ten patients to their one, which
proves the superiority of Super Mind Science over lesser systems.
Knowledge While knowledge is power, it follows that
Is ignorance is sin. The wages of sin is death,
Power while the result of spiritual knowledge is life
immortal. Superstitious people believe that immortality is a gift
to those who believe in a certain creed, but since life on earth re­
quires growth, it is but natural that spiritual life would also
require spiritual growth and development.
Super Mind Our Science is a Divine Science and every
Science demonstration of its power can be verified
and Scripture as Christian by the Scripture. Those who
say our Science is not Christian state an untruth and will find
that their statement is not based on fact. The difference between
Super Mind Science and orthodox religion is this, our teaching
is practical, based on Truth, while their teaching is theoretical,
not practical, based on supposition or a vague belief.
Science Our Science is based on the glorious works
of of the Master, not on His death. We do
Truth not teach anyone to throw the responsibility
for overcoming their sins on someone else. We teach that “as
a man soweth, so shall he also reap”, and show him the way to
sow that which will reap for him a beautiful, well lived life on
this earth and “eternal consciousness” in the next. The Science
of Truth is the Science of Life; Super Mind Science being a
Science of Life cannot be classed as anything but scientific Truth.
Human opinions, beliefs and affirmations will change as they
always have, but Super Mind Science being the Science of Truth
can never change. Methods of application may be improved, but
the principles of positive and negative mind force which are the
pillars of our Science and also the pillars of the Universe will
228 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
never be changed. No amount of argument can ever change
this fact, for life itself depends upon it.
“Beelzebub, the prince of devils”. They can reply that if our
powers are evil, our critic should demonstrate the Powers Divine.
They will find that angels never associate with scoffers who scoff
at spiritual laws and powers, for God and evil cannot be present
in the same person at the same moment. Either one or the
other have the ruling power.
matter. However, we say as Jesus said “tear down this Temple,
i.e. (body) and in three days I will raise it up again” (in a
spiritual body). All evidence points to the fact that Christ, the
greatest spiritual Master, recognized His body and physical life
as much as He did His spiritual body and His Divine Sonship
of the Heavenly Father.
stition is very much alive in our land. Let the reader’s attention
dwell on this statement made by Jesus “Be it according to thy
Will”. Was the greatest Teacher on earth that used the power
of Will a metaphysical devil? No, he was not, a fact which the
reader knows. Super Mind Science in using the positive Will
does not use affirmations or suggestions, it is directly opposite to
those systems that the critic would want you to believe.
Science Those orthodox Christians who criticize our
and the teachings are reminded that we teach the
Bible Bible symbolically and scientifically which is
the most intelligent way to understand the Scripture. While
they may say our teachings are “far fetched” we remind them
of some of their “far fetched beliefs”. They profess to believe
in a world supposedly created in six days, an angel telling a father
angel of God killing a child in all Egyptian families, saving only
the life of the Hebrew children during the first Passover, and
other unexplained superstitions which their better judgment in'
Super Mind Scientists will be falsely accused
of using evil powers like Christ was also
accused of performing by the power of
Materialistic
Ideas
Those who use self hypnosis on their weak
brain structures will say that Super Mind
Science is not spiritual because it recognizes
Metaphysical
Devils
The fact that we use our Will over our body,
some will refer to our demonstrations as the
work of some metaphysical devil, for super-
to kill his own son, a woman turning into a pillar of salt, the
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 229
forms could not be true. All these incidents are explained as
symbols of Truth in our Science.
New
Testament
In the book of Hebrews we read of “Melche-
sidec, King of Salem, who was borned with'
out either mother or father, an High Priest
unto the Most High God”. Do the orthodox church goers know
the true explanation of this, or do they just believe or affirm it
like one in a trance? One thing is certain, it is rarely if ever
scientifically explained from their pulpit. Super Mind Science
will scientifically explain this mystery of Melchesidec as it always
explains all of its teachings.
Spiritual
Birth
It has always been the custom in the Orient
to give the rite of purification to one who
was to renounce the world and live for God
alone. When this was done he was given a name and a title
and from then on was known as the "homeless one, without
mother or father or relative, also without personal feelings”. His
former self was symbolically dead, while he wore new robes indi­
cating a new birth into an absolute spiritual existence. This was
how Melchesidec was borned without mother or father, and how
‘Jesus also became such an High Priest of the Most High God
forever”. In order to understand these Biblical mysteries, it is
necessary to study the customs of the Oriental people who have
practiced mysticism for countless centuries. The Author studied
these customs and also practical mysticism very extensively before
writing this book.
Jealousy Most opposition to Super Mind Science is
and based on jealousy and selfishness. Some being
Opposition interested in negative religions argue with
the Scientist, either defaming the character of the Founder by
false assertion or by saying that because we take physical or
mental exercise that our Science is non-Christian. However, this
is the scientific side of our philosophy, for nothing can grow
without proper exercise. Of course those who depend on beliefs
for a livelihood would be expected to oppose us because their
financial interest is often greater than their love for Truth, Love
snd Light as expounded in this wonderful philosophy of Mind
and Life.
230 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Jesus A Super Mind Scientist should not expect
a their orthodox relatives to agree with them,
Sword because the Science of Truth “comes as a
sword”. Jesus made this pronouncement in the beginning of His
demonstration of the Science of the Higher or Super Mind which
He practiced and demonstrated. He also said that “a Prophet
is not without honor save in his own country, and his enemies
shall be those of his own household”, therefore a true Scientist
must overlook the intolerance of those related to them but yet
should not condone their ignorance.
Bear Heal those who scorn the Science, and send
Their good thoughts to those who oppose your
Burdens spiritual growth is the advice of the Author,
for this is the correct attitude. Do not give up Truth for hypoc­
risy, but be tolerant of those whose mind is deluded into beliefs
of low mental values. The ruination of the Christian church
has been its policy of persecution and its readiness to kill those
who opposed it. Let us be true to Christ by tolerating all beliefs
yet laboring for the redemption of man, for the weakness of
those who follow error should not be the weakness of
those who have espoused the cause of “The Science of Life".
“Let your light so shine that you may glorify your heavenly
Father” and in this manner lift the Science beyond reproach.
Popes Our Science teaches mental as well as phys-
and ical freedom, therefore all corporations who
Lords maintain Popes and a hierarchy naturally
oppose Divine Mind Science because their fortunes depend upon
them keeping their people mentally bound to ignorance. Should
their mental slaves become free, they would loose their support
and would not be able to wear crowns, sit on gold thrones and
utter “great blasphemy” as explained in the Revelations of John,
the Divine. These systems will come to a sad end while this
Science is still in its infancy. “There is but one Father, the
Father in heaven was the doctrine of Jesus, yet many call their
human Kings of Religion, “Holy Father”. It is but natural that
they would not agree with the mental freedom of this Science
which is void of all beliefs, fears and superstitions, and worships
only the Father in heaven”, not a physical Deity.
Modern Modern Scribes and Pharisees are the same
Scribes aS t^ose of old, they try to measure God and
unlimited power by the standard of their
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 231
undeveloped mentality. They even go so far in their ignorance
of Truth and the highest of Sciences to assert that they are
not really Science. Their claims are groundless because the ac­
curate laws of mind never fail. They are demonstrated daily by
thousands with the same results. Those who know the Science
are able to predict results before their application of the method,
which proves it to be scientific. W hat more proof does one
need than demonstration? Can theory disprove facts, or prin­
ciples be greater than proofs which prove the principle either
correct or incorrect? Super Mind Science accepts and teaches
only provable facts, therefore, how then can it be wrong? Phys­
ical remedies depend upon reaction in their healing which brings
very uncertain results. Our Science depends upon action; action
is'positive, reaction is negative, therefore Super Mind Science is
the most scientific way to heal disease because it utilizes the
positive mental power.
God God being Spirit, those who would be Godly
Is must become spiritual, borne into a new un-
Spirit derstanding of Life, Light and Truth. This
is a mental state far different from the mere formal acceptance
of “the Apostle’s creed”. Science being demonstration instead
of theory, we look to one’s deeds as an index to their character
while most material minded people judge their fellowmen by
the standards of the belief they subscribe to. W e offer no
opposition to any Christian Truth which is scientific and can
be experienced or proven, our opposition is directed against
systems which inculcate formal ritualism as a means of salvation.
Beyond
Change
Beyond all changing ideals and systems, there
is a changeless One Divine. This is the
Science of Spirit in manifestation, it neither
acts or creates but as Intelligence pervades everywhere. This
changeless Godly Mind directs all growth and holds the grip of
power over every changing force. W hen in meditation the
writer has often contacted this Divine Presence which proves to
the intellect the existence of God. The Science of Life Divine
is to know this Presence. Anyone who is seeking to know God
which would supplant all belief in Him should study Super Mind
Science and make this spiritual contact.
232 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Knowledge The command of the spiritual Masters has
of always been—“Man know thyself”. The
Inner Self only way to comply with this command is
to study concentration, apply it to your being with a deep
prayerful desire to have the wonders of your inner self revealed.
After due time, one discovers that the Son of God or spiritual
reality is encased in this Temple of Flesh where also the voice of
the Most High speaks to the soul of the wonders of the Life Di­
vine. Super Mind Science is the narrow gateway to this path
of Life, Light, Truth, and Christ, and has always been revealed
to the seekers of this light.
Earnest Seekers The wonders of this Science are only re-
of vealed to those who approach it with the
Truth greatest reverence, its mysteries are perma­
nently hidden to the profane. Initiation into Truth is an experi­
ence of the soul, reserved for those who thirst after righteous­
ness. Therefore, the gateway to the inner life as a Super Mind
Scientist “is strait and narrow and few there be who enter in”,
yet the outer understanding and physical benefits will be enjoyed
by thousands. The inner understanding is spiritual illumination,
the outer is spiritual knowledge.
Few Who There are only a few Scientists who enter
Enter into complete or inner understanding. Most
In of these will be found to be teachers of the
work who have given up all foolish doctrines and are content
to abide in the Truth and work for humanity. They never mind
hardships or criticism but go on to the supreme accomplishment
of becoming unattached to the changing pleasures of the mortal
senses.
Seek the If a student of the Science has enjoyed the
Inner Life Currents, Solar Energy, and Ego Cur-
Power rent as powers of demonstration, they will
enjoy many times more the powers of inner mastership. Through
it they can enter into the reality of life and sup with Jesus and
all great Master Souls. This power raises the dead and makes
all things possible, it reveals the innermost secrets of the mind
of man. The command is “be still and know that I am God”.
With spiritual realization there comes also
Intuition, so that under any type of criticism
or adversary the one who has attained, will
of power placed in their mentality by Infinite
Spiritual
Realization
have the words
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 233
Spirit. These words of Truth destroy falsehood and ignorance
like the eruption of a volcano changes the surface of the earth.
Jesus taught His Disciples about this power when He prepared
them to be taken before Judges and Governors, for He said
“take no thought for what ye shall say, for in the self same hour
it shall be given unto you”. This was the result of spiritual
realization.
^ Jesus said “He came to give life that ye may
have it more abundantly” The scientific
meaning of this statement is that He came to
teach the control of life energies which is also the mission of
Super Mind Science. Those who scoff at the idea of controlling
the powers which produce life even though man’s greatness
consists of his ability to control these life energies, also dispute
the already provable facts of science. Mastership is the only
means of salvation, regardless of theories or beliefs on the
subject.
Consecration Only consecration to the works of Christ
to Truth proves one’s belief and faith. Affirmation
and Love alone is too weak as a means of proving
obedience to Divine law. Jesus did the works of His Father
which alone gave Him the right to the title of “Christ”, had
He simply preached as preachers do in this day, no one would
have taken His mission serious. If one is consecrated to Truth
they will not stand by and see humanity suffer, they will go
forth and assist them. Each and everyone knowing the Christ
Truth can overcome disease, sorrow, sin and suffering.
Proof Paul replied to those who said that the
of power Christ demonstrated had been with-
Power drawn, “I say, hath God cast away His
people? God forbid for I also am an Israelite of the seed of
Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin”. Even in His day those who
opposed the Divine works and followed after evil were often
saying, “the works of Christ may have been Divine, but this
man, Paul, is not doing the Divine works, he worketh evil”, just
as some do today. Human mortal concept cannot define what is
Divine or what is human, therefore we would ask any critic of
our Science by what power can they prove their contentions to
be Divine or human? W e offer proof of our teachings through
works which demonstrate our faith. Our would be critics offer no
234 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
better method of healing the sick and helping humanity, there'
fore Super Mind Science is ever victorious and stands above all
who oppose it.
Power Mind molds matter, and one’s life reflects
of their ideas of God and their fellowmen,
Mind therefore the righteous prosper while the evil
minded suffer, for God is not mocked. Divine harmony exists
in the principle of good which reflects peace, power, health and
plenty, while sordid ideas reflect misery, suffering and sin. Each
day one can choose which Master they shall serve, God or
mammon. Those who choose Good and God, let them be pre­
pared to bear their cross and follow Christ, heal the sick and
cast out demons.
Paul’s
Lamentation
Lest we forget the price of success, we should
remember Paul’s letter to the Romans in
which he stated, “Lord they have killed thy
Prophets and digged down thy altars, and I am left alone and
they seek my life”. Such has been the cry of those who do good
ever since the days of Christ, for the ways of the flesh are op­
posite to the way of the Spirit and the narrow gate to life im­
mortal. The light of Truth, the phenomena of life and mind
had to strike Paul blind physically in order to open his spiritual
vision. In this way suffering is many times the aid to enlighten­
ment.
Judging To those who would judge our doctrine, the
the writer says like Paul of old, “But why dost
Science thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou
set at naught thy brother, for we shall all stand before the
Judgment seat of Christ”. Different opinions about God, with­
out definite knowledge are but speculation. Super Mind Science
is understood only by Scientists themselves and their demon­
strations can be judged only by the demonstrator. The mental
condition of acceptance is necessary to the demonstrations of the
Science, especially those powers which operate on the spiritual
plane only. In order to fullfil the great law of Love we need
to love one another, correcting where correction is needed, never
destroying without rebuilding, exercising authority only when
authority is needed, remembering at all times, “Judge not, that
ye be not judged”. We should season our remarks with mercy
and leaven the bread of life with Brotherly Love.
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 235
Powers The lessons of life teach one that the powers
Are of man exercises unto himself are often unjust,
God such as inflicting punishment on his fellow-
man and judging great problems unwisely. Paul says, “Let every
soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power
but of God”. The powers that be, are ordained of God and no
group of ecclesiastical dignitaries have the right to claim that
power which belongs to God alone. They have no right to
formulate creeds and impose duties upon man or to set up stand'
ards to judge those things which are spiritual. If Christ over-
came the flesh and has risen unto His Father, then His kingdom
is beyond the concept or judgment of the flesh. Super Mind
Science operates on that plane to which He has ascended, there'
fore those whose minds are so elevated as to contact that plane
consciously are the only ones who can interpret its Divine mys'
teries of Mind, Life, Love and Truth.
Seeming Truth sounds impossible to those who dwell
Opposite in darkness, for they cannot comprehend the
Principles light that shineth in the soul of every man.
While it is impossible to move a limb of the body without the
power of the brain and the Will, many have yet to learn that the
body is a prototype of the Will, it exhibits what the Will reflects.
Divine Mind has even a stronger grip over the life of those who
do good, than the Will has over the movement of the limbs of
the body.
No
Death
Jesus taught that those who believeth in Him
doeth His Divine work, and they shall not
see death, but would pass from mortal life
to the kingdom of the Father. He taught conditional immortal'
ity which depended upon them doing His works. If there be
any teaching which can demonstrate greater Divine works than
our Science, we humbly salute such works as the works of Jesus
Christ, and those who prefer them are our brothers in Christ,
heirs to the same Divine kingdom, members of the same fellow-
ship. We judge all works by their fruits, not by the preachings
of adherents of theoretical dogmas.
Fear The element of fear of the hereafter
°f preached in most orthodox religions has pro-
Punishment duced millions of hypocrites, for fear is an
animal emotion, not a Divine power. In most cases they pre-
scribe to the church for fear of going to an everlasting hell.
236 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Those who actually know God, know that a God of Love would
never torture the souls of His children forever. Man needs
supreme trust in the Divine laws of God, plus a willingness to
learn the way of Life, Truth and Power. This learning is not
a study of books or Bibles, it is a study of God as a living foun­
tain of power within the human soul. The image of Christ
should be engraved in the mind as an example to follow, not
used as an amulet on a string of beads. Outward forms of re­
ligion impress the ignorant only, the wise search for Truth mani­
fest from within.
Spiritual
Courage
Absolute fearlessness of God is one of the
requirements of spiritual courage. Fear of
God does not develop either honesty or a
close relationship between man and God. Mutual confidence
even between mortals is necessary to a successful partnership,
therefore the concept of God as a Universal Intelligence, mani­
festing as a loving Father (universally) is the correct spiritual
idea. Those who possess this concept of the Deity will cease
seeking mortal sense gratification as a means of happiness. They
will seek Divine bliss and contact with the Divine Presence, and
each contact will develop greater love and spiritual courage.
Hell The word “Hell” as used in the Bible has
and the but one meaning, the grave, for it is taken
Grave from a Greek word which has no other Eng­
lish equivalent. However, the interpreters of the word saw fit
to use it to describe a terrible punishment for those who dis­
agreed with their religious views. The scientific meaning of
the grave is the loss of memory and consciousness of past exist­
ence, or the burial of self in the mortal illusions of materialism.
All critics of Super Mind Science should examine the mote in
their own spiritual or religious eye first, then they will see the
beam in ours more clearly. Sound doctrine must be based on
fact, not fiction.
Reason By exercising the mind spiritually, the faculty
and of reason will awaken, and man will see the
Will falsity of material pleasures based on the
cognition of the mortal senses. He will also find that the road
of mortality leads to death while the road of immortal wisdom
leads to life immortal . The sooner one forsakes evil and the
babble of those unlearned in the way of life the quicker they
will attain illumination. Doubts are negative, a resolute mind is
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 237
positive. Become a creator of good, and life’s pathway will be
a pleasant passage of beautiful accomplishment through power,
Love and Truth.
Overcome The pardoning of sin is a negative practice,
Evil for only by overcoming it with good is there
with Good permanent relief from the fruits of sin. When
one is assured of forgiveness they are more in danger of error
than they would be if forgiveness were hard to obtain. Weak-
ness is soon developed by leaning on a mental support. In our
Science, the human desire for forgiveness and the habit of obey-
ing the impulse of temptation to sin is classed as mental weak'
ness, while the mastery of mental weakness is proof of one being
a competent Scientist, capable of overcoming evil.
Weakness Mental weakness in any form is sin since it
of Mind is the direct cause of violation of the laws of
Is Sin Nature and God. It is therefore, important
that all mental weakness be overcome, not alone to guarantee
perfect health but as an assurance of immortality, for Divine
harmony is positive, while mortal weakness is negative. Like
Paul the great Mental Scientist, we should say “let love be with'
out dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which
is good”. This type of conduct develops the clear vision of
Spirit; such mental perfection is the ideal of our Science. It is
not good to criticise that which is of God, lest we overlook our
own imperfection. Charity in its true sense means the mental
Good Will extended to all alike, it does not only mean the giving
of alms. It is much better to give in spiritual values than to
give in material values, for that of the Spirit is eternal.
Theological Theology has always been the enemy of
Criticism of Divine Mind Science. The Theologian dis'
Mental Science putes the right of a Mind Scientist to inter-
pret the Scripture. They imply they have the right, but since
Christ was not a theological graduate, nor was He in harmony
with formal religion, one wonders how Theology acquired their
so-called exclusive right to interpret the Scripture. They repre­
sent the element in society who opposed the Divine works which
Jesus performed. While they claim to be believers in Christian­
ity, thy refuse to prove their belief either by living the Life
Divine or by doing Divine works. #
238 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Bearing
Infirmities
The condition of mind attained by the §cien-
e . ' tist who can heal their own body and the
pposite body of others is opposite to that of the
Theologian. One knows the power of God, while the other deals
only with the letter of the word. When the church is a heal­
ing center for bodies as well as souls it is Christian, if it is not
a healing center then it cannot be Christian, for Jesus “healed all
manner of disease” and commanded His followers to do likewise.
The proof of discipleship is in demonstration, not in speculation,
for “Faith without works is dead”.
It is written “we that are strong ought to
bear the infirmities of the weak and not to
please ourselves alone”, for even Christ
pleased not Himself, but “pleased His heavenly Father who sent
Him into the world”. Truth is often opposite to the desire of
the body, but it harmonises in perfect unison with the inclina­
tion of the soul. Super Mind Science develops the soul faculties
so the exalted ideals of soul become a mental urge. Then we
may glorify God with one Mind through being “about our
Father’s business” which consists of using mind power for Good,
Truth and Love.
Truth Truth is easy to perceive because it har-
Easy to monises with reason, science and demonstra-
Perceive tion. Theories without Modus Operandi are
long drawn out affairs requiring much oratory and explanation.
These theories never recognise the gender of life and mind, they
entice the mentality to travel in dark passageways of life, usually
promising great reward after death, while the rewards of our
Science come while one is full of life and conscious of existence.
Our proof consists of demonstrations of life energy and power,
while theoretical systems can never prove their benefits nor
demonstrate who receives them.
It has been written “Eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither have entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him”, therefore the complete subordination
of the flesh to Spirit and Love through mind control alone reveals
the true benefits of Christianity. In this there are no boun­
daries of denomination or creed which can affect the reward or
the condition of its being received; only the inner knowing of
God through Love and perfect mental and physical control of
Spiritual
Knowing
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 239
the self will reveal it. There are no two persons who re­
ceive the same reward, for even grains of sand on the seashore
differ one from the other, leaves on the same tree are different,
both in size and formation. The conditions of life which would
be heaven for one individuality would be torment for another,
therefore all must work out their salvation with fear of evil and
love of good.
... As the consciousness of man transcends the
Vanishes spheres and planes through wisdom and love,
misery vanishes into nothingness. There
can never be the smallest manifestation of pain, evil or disease
in the Absolute Presence of the Supreme, Infinite Mind which
knows only Love, Good and God. Just as sure as mental dark­
ness exists on the low planes of life, Light and Love exist on the
higher. Let any critic of Super Mind Science try to prove the
contrary and they will find that up and down exist on the planes
of vibration. Those who scoff at Mental Science will feel the
pangs of doubt, regret, and utter loneliness on some plane of
being, then they will cry in their soul for light, more light, but
only development and higher consciousness can manifest that
light. The deplorable condition of those ignorant of the power
of the mind should be a lesson to those who are fortunate enough
to have attained to an understanding. Mortals should learn how
to pass mentally beyond the planes of delusion or learn how to
become immortal.
Follow When humanity learns the supreme Truth, it
Jesus will be found to consist of looking beyond
Christ matter to find the source of health, happiness
and spiritual attainment. For this reason Jesus taught that “men
should deny the world and take up their cross and follow Him”.
The meaning of denying the world is to refuse to be a servant
of the physical senses, to deny the reality of so-called material
pleasure, in order that one may find pleasure in spiritual reality
and in serving their fellowman. Treat all evil and disease as
something beneath you, never give it power over you by sug­
gesting you cannot master it. Super Mind Science breaks the
gnp of evil, disease and negation upon the mind, which in turn
overcomes it in the body, for mind rules the body. Therefore,
when a condition is removed from the mind, the body improve­
ment will follow rapidly.
240 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Weakness
Every unpleasant condition in life has a men­
tal origin. Attune the mind to the spiritual
enta y melody of Truth and see the condition dis­
appear, for darkness and light never harmonize, neither do Spirit
and trouble. The mortal mind is delusive, always seeking a ma­
terial remedy for a mental condition, therefore it must be con­
trolled by the power of concentration and set aright. Only
Mental Science gives the key of concentration to the student.
Concentration on God produces good, while concentration on
evil produces disease, sorrow and misfortune.
The Path The Path of Peace and bliss leads beyond
of this plane of confusion to the pinnacle of
Peace Love. The key to this is Divine mental con­
centration which penetrates Divine Mind, revealing God within
the seeker and within the universe. The writer has closed the
door of consciousness to the outside world and internally supped
with the Master, this being how he knows this sublime Truth.
Growing Mental development causes one to “Grow in
in grace and to constantly contact God”. As
Grace the years go by the “sweet mystery of life
unfolds like the sun rising on a beautiful morning, to those whose
mind is consecrated to Good and to God. No sordid old age
comes to those who know that in the realm of reality only Good
or God is permanent. Like limitation, time ceases where eternity
begins. The pangs of regret never come to those who live life
scientifically correct. A life well lived is like a task well done,
and the reward follows which fulfills one’s fondest dreams.
It is apparent to the unbiased student of the
Christian Gospel that Jesus taught a secret
doctrine, as well as one for the multitudes.
In Mark he says, “Unto you it is given to know the mystery of
the Kingdom of God; but unto them that are without, all these
things are done in parables: That seeing they may see and
not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand •
Those without’ refers to those followers of formal religion who
are uninitiated into the mystery of Life and Mind, for as Jesus
said, there were many things they could not bear to know.
Revealed While the secret doctrine has never been
Now to taught in the formal Christian churches, it
All has always existed and is now available to
all seekers. It is the means of controlling the life energy and ^
Secret
Doctrine
OBJECTIONS DISPROVED 241
Divine
Revelation
mental power which demonstrates “God within”. How long will
man suffer seeking that which he already possesses? It is a
mystery why the Truth has so long been concealed from the
mass of humanity while disease and crime ravage the very struc-
ture of human civilization, for anyone who reads the words of
Jesus should be able to understand that His wisdom was a mis-
sion of practical demonstration, not a mission of theoretical
preaching. He healed the sick, He did not preach to them first.
One of the greatest promises of the Scripture
is that “all things hidden shall be revealed”.
Only the most unintelligent would suppose
that all things have been revealed in the past. Continued revela­
tion is necessary to meet the requirements of a civilization which
is developing mentally and spiritually faster in some cases than
its teachers. Super Mind Science endeavors to teach the stu­
dent how to think, rather than what to think, in order to meet
the demand of a growing consciousness.
Outside Those whose souls are dormant must stand
the outside the heavenly choir which sings the
Choir higher melodies of Divine Mind harmony,
for such is the decree of higher Divine Intelligence. “The pure
in heart shall see God”—Good, while the corrupt will continue
to be blinded by the effulgent light of Divine Godly Love, which
to them is only a mystery. The common falsehood asserted by
the mentally blind is, “I cannot understand Divine Science”.
Jesus said, “seek and ye shall find”.
. . . . . The hidden meaning of the Scriptures is re-
H idden , , , ,
. . . vealed only to those who are not easily satis-
® fied, while to the profane who accept beliefs
because they are afraid to reject them, it remains a mystery. This
was the reason Jesus demonstrated the higher Truth to His dis­
ciples only, while He taught the multitude in parables which they
could bend to their own beliefs. In the Sermon on the Mount
He taught “blessed are the pure in heart, the meek, the poor
in spirit and those who thirst for righteousness", this being the
scientific way of letting the Spirit master the flesh. When one
becomes obedient to the Spirit within they will soon find God.
In Super Mind Science this is attained by intense mental con­
centration on the leadership of the higher Divine or Super Mind
within man which is universal in principle and manifestation.
242 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Transcendent
Science
Individualism Individuality is well to develop to a certain
and point. When the limit in this direction has
Universality been reached, the next step becomes univer­
sality. In order to attain to that state one must see God in all
beings, realizing not only the brotherhood of man but the
brotherhood of life. This concept of life belongs to the formerly
Secret Doctrine of the East, for the great Adepts refuse to kill an
animal for food, holding that all life contains the soul element
of the Universal Godhead. Let all Super Mind Scientists emulate
these saintly men who have reached that universal state of mind
wherein all can see the Godly reality in all life.
Those powers which manifest to one having
attained self control, are mysteries to the
lower mentalities not having found the
transcendental in nature. Their soul “shall be borned again”
before they can advance to that concept. To those who have
found this pearl of great price, the author says, “ye are the light
of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid; bless those
who persecute you for His name-sake; pray for your enemies;
Light only with the power of the Spirit, and your reward shall
be heavenly”. No one can disprove this Truth or set aside the
doctrine in this book, for Scripture and God stand back of Truth.
The thousands of blind, deaf and lame who have been healed is
the greatest evidence to verify all teachings of the Science. No
one should require more proof than that to prove that Super
Mind Science is the pure unadulterated Christian Truth scien­
tifically applied to the problems of life.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE
‘‘I V o e u n t o t h e w o r l d b e c a u s e o f o f f e n s e s , f o r i t
m u s t n e e d s b e t h a t o f f e n s e s c o m e b u t w o e t o t h a t
m a n b y w h o m t h e o f f e n s e c o m e t h .”—Jesus.
The Divine order of the universe is governed by supreme
laws of Life and Being. These laws are of a spiritual nature,
they are immutable and do not change for they constitute in
themselves eternity. No one can break the laws, however they
can lose their life and salvation by violating them. The Science
of Life is to obey the Divine laws of Being. Uniting all mental
faculties to Divine mind, one becomes spiritualized and thinks
and acts in harmony with the laws. Paul said to the Corinthians,
“now I praise you brethren that ye remember me in all things,
and keep the ordinances as I delivered them to you, but I would
have you know that the head of every man is Christ and the
head of the woman is the man and the head of Christ is God”.
In the language of science of today we would say, “I would that
you remember the laws of Mind, how they can build you or
destroy you”.
Obey If you disobey the laws of mind you will
the lose your life and your soul will also be lost.
Laws The positive state must control the negative
state because back of the positive state is the Divine Mind.
Therefore, do not reverse the conditions of life by becoming
negative, full of doubts, suspicious, nervous and selfish, for these
powers are unnatural and destroy life. They bring about all sou
row, disease and death. Remember that the body is ruled by the
brain, the brain by mind, and mind is controlled by Infinite Spirit
or God; therefore, all intelligence is an indirect manifestation of
God, since mind consists of all intelligence.
Soul Spheres The manifestation of all intelligence is
or through the seven planes of mind which are
Life’s Ladder the variations of intelligent vibrations. They
are: First, the physical plane of mind which rules all conscious
cental activity, giving man physical consciousness and the mum
dane objective realization. 'Second, the subconscious plane which
governs all the memory faculties, the reflective powers and re-
flexes of the nerves; it also contains life’s record or the “Lamb’s
244 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
book of life”. This plane is also the astral plane where souls
released from the body see their past record and become con­
scious beyond the plane of physical consciousness.
Third, the superconscious plane, or plane of the future.
From this plane the consciousness draws all of its planning abil­
ity. Thoughts on this plane are seeds which later become deeds.
If man were developed mentally as he should be, he would be
super-conscious more than sub-conscious, therefore able to look
in to the future as far as he remembers in the past. The proph­
ets were conscious on this plane which accounts for the existence
of true prophecies. Super Mind Science teaches super-conscious­
ness.
• Fourth, is the “Transma conscious plane”. On this plane
souls victorious over the flesh pass on to the immortal eternal
identity, while souls flesh conscious are drawn downward into
mental torment caused from living an evil life while in the body,
for flesh is attracted to flesh and Spirit to Spirit. Only those
with spiritual faculties, completely unselfish, pass beyond this line
of demarcation. On the Transma Plane of mind consciousness of
guilt causes the “second death”, while innocence of guilt on this
plane caused from lack of earth plane growth causes that soul to
be held intact and to enter another body. All guiltless souls on
this plane are under the “Law of incarnation”; this includes in­
fants who pass from mortal existence before maturity and all
defectives who fail to reach mental responsibility. If this law did
not exist God would not be Just, for one living ten days could
not be judged under the same law as one living fifty years. This
plane divides carnal Mind from Divine Mind through a conflict
of vibration; this conflict is the same referred to by Jesus when
He said, the flesh is weak but the Spirit is strong”. Only those
living in the consciousness of Infinite Spirit will be able to with­
stand this conflict. Seek therefore Super Mind Scientists, to
attain Mind control and spiritual realization by expressing Truth,
Love and Light.
Fifth, is the “Spiritual plane of mind”, the realm in the
universe where immortals exist. There is no consciousness of
relationship or marriage or giving in marriage on this plane; all is
serene and calm, pure, blissful, Infinite Spirit. Only those who
give up flesh illusion of possession and carnal self reach this
plane. Bodies on this plane are composed of light and vibration
and the music of the spheres is the only constant manifestation.
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE 245
Thought, which is the language of the soul, prevails here. Once
a person crosses the Transma and enters this realm, no com-
munication with the earth is possible. All so-called messages are
delusions of the carnal mind or the contacting of astral entities
unconscious of their being, on the “sub-conscious plane of mind”.
These impinge their reflections upon the diaphragm of the Solar
plexus which acts as a sensitive photographic plate. These reflec­
tions are harmful and very dangerous to indulge in, for only the
Infinite Spirit should be reflected in that sensitive center.
Spiritualism has done a great deal of harm to humanity by
developing so-called mediums so they receive these imaginary
astral messages. Thousands have become insane or partially so
through this delusion. Trance mediums are completely controlled
by these mental-astral entities. This is mental suicide, as well as
spiritual death. We have been told never to converse with those
“familiar spirits” or so-called astral beings who seem to know
your material affairs. These messages are only what the mind
knew before the supposed communication took place. All so-
called physical phenomena, such as materialization, voices, etc.,
have no connection with the spiritual plane of mind, they are
either tricks or astral entities which are created by mind, imagi­
nation, suggestion and belief. Their existence will never be
proven to be real except as magnetic mental astral phenomena.
God does not play tricks, nor does He desire His angels to
meddle in mortal affairs—all arguments to the contrary are false.
Sixth The sixth plane of mind is the “Christ
or Christ plane”. On this plane all beings become as
Plane the Christ or take on the full armor of the
Sonship of God. These beings are the highest manifestation of
individuality, losing all separateness even in appearance. As
Christ said, it was not His to say who should sit on His right
or His left in the Kingdom of God, for there is no right or left,
no dimension, no space and no time on the Christ plane. Beings
can exist eternally on this plane or can merge and become one
with Infinite Spirit. Through Divine Mind, the writer’s spiritual
vision was opened, and as a result of this Divine meditation he
beheld the wonders of these planes of mind. Being able to leave
the body and travel through the planes of mind, he learned the
secret of the Science of Life which is, to become the image and
likeness of God, to live on the highest planes and commune with
Infinite, All-knowing, All-seeing Spirit.
246 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Seventh The last plane of mind in the ladder of life
or is the seventh or “God plane”. This plane
God Plane is beyond the three dimensions, it is self-
existent, changeless and composed of a universal energy, it is
the “seventh heaven” of the Hebrew faith”. Here all beings
become non-beings and new beings are rayed out by vibration
circulating through the spheres; they drift downward as sparks
of the Divine fire. They take on the condition of, first, the
“Christ plane”; second, the “Spiritual plane”, then crossing the
Transma they take on planetary influence. Next, coming under
the Law of Incarnation, they are born into the flesh, the astral
body being formed before the mundane birth. Thus beings are
rayed out, descending and drawn back or ascending continuously,
for “this mortal shall take on immortality”. The body is sown
a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. Along this ladder
of life are stationed teachers, or angels, who instruct beings in
the Divine mystery of life. Beings are also surrounded by Genii
and life germs as they climb the ladder of life or descend, as the
case may be. These are beneath the astral powers and serve
Divine Mind in a process of eliminating the weaker and preserv­
ing the stronger beings. Thus was the ladder of life, the supreme
mystery, the crown of wisdom, the Heavenly plane, revealed by
direct spiritual revelation to the writer. It is not a theory or
belief which was acquired by mortal man, but the pure Infinite
Spiritual vision of the plan of life, received while the flesh was
subdued and the mind controlled. This revelation was the il­
lumination of the mind of the writer, and was reached after
fasting and absorption into the Infinite Spirit.
All who desire the “Soul’s awakening” must
» k ' learn to control their body and mind, attain
to spiritual realization, and climb the revealed
ladder of life by the power of concentration. Then will their
mind be illumined, their soul awakened, and the realization of I
and my Father are one” will dawn upon them. Knowledge
comes to a seeker, never to a quitter. A real Super Mind Scien­
tist forgets the words “can’t” and “impossible” for they are bar-
riers to spiritual progress erected by mortal man. Live beyond
the confusion of the Transma and know that the Science of Life
is the Science of Trufh as applied to the problems of life, remem­
bering the admonition of Paul, “Though I speak with the
tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become
M L L g "— —
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE 247
as sounding brass or a tinkling cym bal”. C harity is to be char'
itable toward others and th e ir belief. M ost everyone adopts the
belief into w hich he w as born, how ever, in a kind w ay we
should try to show him the W a y and th e L ight; also tell him the
necessity of self control as a m eans of saving the soul, explaining
the knowledge of the pow ers of life and th e Science w hich gives
one the control of such powers.
Control This control gives one the power to climb
of the ladder of life, to create their own destiny,
Life and to visit the Christ plane at Will. Only
carnal selfishness and ignorance of the true spiritual laws will
prevent this. Therefore all should beware of the temptation to sin
and also of the lower astral impulse, for these are from the lowest
plane of vibration where the animal consciousness dwells. Live
above the lower and attain the higher. Super Mind Science leads
one up the ladder of life; in it one attains perfect health, perfect
control, and the highest spiritual realization. In Paul’s letters
to the Corinthians he declares the same type of resurrection as
taught in this epistle of “The ladder of life”. (1 Cor. 15:13-14).
“But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not
risen: and if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching in vain
and your faith also in vain”. This is a clear declaration of a
plane of mind where consciousness and being may be attained
beyond the physical plane of mind. We are also told by Paul,
over five hundred persons saw Christ after the death of his body.
This was to prove the existence of the sixth plane, or the Christ
plane of mind, however, that plane is not for each and every
person wfm enters the sleep of death. Jesus warned His dis­
ciples by saying, “fear not those who kill your body but fear
those who kill your soul unto the second death”, proving the
existence of the Transma where one’s deeds cause them to be
either lifted up or lost in oblivion with loss of memory of indi­
viduality or being. This however comes only to those whose
consciousness comes under the Law of compensation, for
having been found guilty by their own conscience they are
torn asunder by the soul’s remorse or evil deeds committed in
the body; therefore one’s sins shall find them out. Repent and
raise your consciousness to the Christ plane, do the good works
and know that God dwells within you, for even your body is His
holy temple of power.
248 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Forgive Super Mind Science offers no papal indul-
One gence or vicarious atonement, for such are
Another false doctrines. It offers the pure knowledge
o'f the Science of Life. All should cease to sin, and not ask Christ
to be a mental crutch and a ransom for their selfish sins, for
each will be forgiven only as freely as they forgive others.
Judgment will be meted out to you as you judge others. “As ye
sow so shall ye reap” is the age old maxim of Truth, ye cannot
sow to corruption and reap purity. No help will come from God
until you are willing to help others as well as yourself, love Christ
in others but not in the heaven, for if you give all love to Christ
away from the earth there will be none left for your neighbors.
Christ says, “if one of these little ones (fellow men) needs water
and ye give it to him, even so have ye done the same unto me.’
Door of Paul tells us of the opening of the Door of
Soul Soul when he says, “But I will tarry at
Opened Ephesus until Pentecost: For a great door
and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries
(1 Cor. 16:8-9). These astral carnal influences come from low
mortal thoughts and impinge upon the Door of the Soul. Only
a knowledge of the Science of Life as taught in Super Mind
Science can close this door, which will then overcome selfishness
and elevate the mind. Super Mind Science also teaches the key
to open the “great door”, or the Door of the Soul, so one may
have the experience of pentecost which was power from On
High flowing through the great door into the inner recesses of
being, cleansing the house (body) of all sin and disease. The
Science of Life lifts the veil from the mysteries of mind, and
reveals the master key of Truth. To those who believe in one
heaven and who may dispute the revelation of the seven planes
of mind, they are reminded of the teachings of Paul in
(1 Corinthians 15:39-40-41). “All flesh is not the same flesh: But
there is one kind of flesh of men, another of beast, another of
fishes and another of birds; there are also celestial bodies and
bodies terrestial, but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory
of the terrestial another: There is one glory of the Sun and
another of the Moon and another of the Stars, for one Star dif­
fered from another Star in glory”. This is the scriptural teach­
ing of the seven planes of mind, also of different individual
bodies beyond the fifth sphere of mind. Those so-called Meta­
physicians and Divine Mind Scientists of the negative type
SCIENCE OF LIFE 249
should see in this teaching that all is not God; that God sees fit
to create different bodies to correspond to different mental states
and planes, and also that matter does exist.
Every method of mind control in Super
cn” r€ Mind Science is in perfect accord with the
Authority Scripture, and every power taught will be
found in the descriptions written by Sears and Apostles ages
ago. This is the Divine authority of Super Mind Science. When
the Super Mind Science Church becomes a large organization,
the birth of a new society will be the result, for in it the mys­
teries of the Divine Kingdom are revealed as the powers of life
and mind. All of its teachings can be proven, it brings the
“New Jerusalem” into vivid reality, restores the Divine powers
to the people, unfolds the Science of Life, delivering mankind
from mental slavery. It is the “great Divine emancipator”;
Priestcraft cannot disprove it nor can Scripture dispute its claims,
for it is a Scripture unto itself. In this Science all men become
brothers; there is no creed, no sectarian theology, no preferred
class, no “chosen people”, for all men were created equal and
are entitled to perfect health, mind control and spiritual realiza­
tion. The walls of the prison of flesh shall be broken, the captive
soul released, the poor in spirit lifted up, the sick healed, the dead
raised to consciousness of immortality as a present, not past,
reality. Super Mind Science will be found to be the pillar which
supports the Universal Temple, for it can say to all the world,
“come unto me and I will give you ease from pain, a blissful
mind, a serene soul; cease your labors and rest awhile and learn
the Science of Life, know the Divine Kingdom of the Lord Jesus
Christ as a reality. We offer you proof, not an empty belief or
a promise of faith. Such proof as Jesus offered we also offer. If
this book speaks Truth to your weary soul, your reason will tell
you to seek to grasp its idea. Concentrate deeply on every ex­
planation of the Science ef Life, then shall we all sing praises to
the one God, Infinite Spirit, All-knowing, All-seeing, Omnipotent
everlasting bliss which abides in the center of man’s being and
in the entire universe. It is the foundation of Life, Truth, Love
and Light.
There is but one pleasure; that is the con­
stant mental state of bliss. All carnal pleas­
ures so-called are illusion, they only create
The sensation of pleasure in itself is pain un-
Mortal
Pleasure
an Illusion
pain and sorrow.
250 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
less it be of Infinite Spirit, for carnal m ind does n o t create any
m ental states other than destructive conditions, w hile Infinite
Spirit creates only constructive states of consciousness and mind.
M ind misused is called m ortal pleasure; w hen used correctly it
becomes D ivine pleasure. W h ich do you desire, correct use of
the mind or the misuse of the m ind? E very misuse of mind or
body constitutes sin, therefore seek self control in order to master
life.
Part II
Light on the Scriptures
THE BOOK OF GENESIS
‘‘B e h o l d , t h e L o r d ’s h a n d i s n o t s h o r t e n e d , t h a t i t
c a n n o t s a v e ; n e i t h e r h i s e a r h e a v y , t h a t i t c a n n o t
h e a r : b u t y o u r i n i q u i t i e s h a v e s e p a r a t e d b e t w e e n y o u
a n d y o u r G o d , a n d y o u r s i n s h a v e h i d h i s f a c e f r o n t
y o u , t h a t h e w i l l n o t h e a r ”.—Isaiah (59:1-2).
Science A scientific understanding of the above Scrip'
a ture reveals its true spiritual meaning, which
Truth the writer desired to convey. It is not col­
ored with sectarian prejudices which often place a material mean­
ing on a spiritual Truth. There are several meanings to the
Scriptures, the may be termed symbolical, literal, scientific and
esoteric. The literal, which explains the least is the one most
commonly used. The Old Testament is more symbolical than
literal, it was written at a period when there was very little un­
derstanding of either God or Science on earth. The New Testa­
ment reveals the incarnation of Truth, Love and Light in the
person of Jesus.
Two
Doctrines
There have always been two doctrines in
religion, one for the scholar, the other for
the layman. The one for the scholar has
always been the esoteric meaning of the Scriptures, while the
one for the layman has been the literal. In another volume titled
“Super Mind Science W ith Keys to Christianity”, the Author
has explained the esoteric meaning of much of the Scriptures,
since that work is intended for more advanced students than this
volume. The interpretations in this treatise are given to explain
the symbolic seeds of Truth found in the Holy Writ, and with
the idea in mind of interesting the reader to the extent that he
will continue to study and go on to higher attainment in the
Science until all Scriptural mysteries are revealed to him.
Other Genesis, spiritually and symbolically under-
Biblical stood, is the story of the evolution of crea-
Writers tion through the cycles of time. Many
authors who have written comments on the Bible were quick to
dispute those things which they did not understand, often set­
ting themselves up as critics of the Bible, commenting where
their theory was favored and disputing where it was not. The
Author wishes it understood that he is not taking away or adding
to the Scriptures, but is explaining them in the light of science
and reason. In the following chapters each text will be followed
254 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
by its symbolical and spiritual meaning according to the teach­
ings of rudimentary Super Mind Science.
Genesis (1 :1) — “ I n t h e b e g i n n i n g G o d c r e a t e d t h e h e a v e n a n d
t h e e a r t h ” .
Infinite Spirit manifesting as positive and negative creative
energy is symbolical of the Father of all life, without beginning
or end. All life proceeded from this Divine origin.
( 1 : 2 ) — “ A n d t h e e a r t h w a s w i t h o u t f o r m , a n d v o i d ; a n d
d a r k n e s s w a s u p o n t h e f a c e o f t h e d e e p . A n d t h e S p i r i t
o f G o d m o v e d u p o n t h e f a c e o f t h e w a t e r s ” .
The earth being dark symbolizes the nothingness of matter
before it is animated by intelligence and mind. “Darkness upon
the face of the deep” is symbolical of the waters of life before
the intelligent germs of mind manifested. “Spirit of God mov­
ing upon the waters” means the forces of life developed after
illumination, or after the sun light shone on the earth.
(1:3) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e r e b e l i g h t : a n d t h e r e w a s
l i g h t ” .
The Divine word first manifested as Light, symbolical of
spiritual wisdom. This Light contained Infinite Will, produced
by the eternal quality of Spirit, which is and was the Light of
the world.
(1:4) — “ A n d G o d s a w t h e l i g h t , t h a t i t w a s g o o d : a n d G o d
d i v i d e d t h e l i g h t f r o m t h e d a r k n e s s ” .
“And God saw the light” means Infinite All-knowing Spirit
cognized the Light. “Divided the light from the darkness”
means creating different degrees of light which to the physical
senses are, light and darkness. Light symbolizes positive mind
force, while darkness symbolizes negative mind force; the division
between the two are the different rates of vibration.
(1:5) — “ A n d G o d c a l l e d t h e l i g h t d a y , a n d t h e d a r k n e s s h e
c a l l e d n i g h t . A n d t h e e v e n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g w e r e t h e
f i r s t d a y ” .
First day” is symbolical of the beginning of light on this
planet, but does not refer to the universe. When the sun re­
turned to this planet after a cycle of frigid darkness, its rays
developed the germs of life, setting them in motion through the
power of Solar Energy. Infinite Spirit in its perfect wisdom
governs the evolution of life through the laws of positive and
negative, using light and life forces as creative agents to per'
petuate the existence of creatures.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 255
(1 ;6) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e r e b e a f i r m a m e n t i n t h e m i d s t
o f t h e w a t e r s , a n d l e t i t d i v i d e t h e w a t e r s f r o m t h e
■ w a t e r s ” .
The division in the waters symbolises the wisdom of Infinite
Spirit which divides the ocean from dry land, the positive from
the negative, yet contains all life within itself. The divisions are
only outward manifestations to the corporeal senses, while in-
wardly the Infinite spiritual unity leads all life to perfection.
(1:7) — “ A n d G o d m a d e t h e f i r m a m e n t , a n d d i v i d e d t h e w a t e r s
w h i c h w e r e u n d e r t h e f i r m a m e n t f r o m t h e w a t e r s w h i c h
w e r e a b o v e t h e f i r m a m e n t : a n d i t w a s s o ” .
All material conditions and substances evolved from Infinite
Spirit which raises consciousness from materiality to spirituality,
from mortality to immortality. Spiritual perception reveals
eternal good, unfolding the powers of mind, and the qualities of
Truth, Love and Light. Super Mind Science reveals this Infinite
Spirit as the light and life of man. True understanding of this
principle leads one to supreme spiritual attainment.
(1:8) — “ A n d G o d c a l l e d t h e f i r m a m e n t h e a v e n . A n d t h e e v e ­
n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g w e r e t h e s e c o n d d a y ” .
Each stage of spiritual progress demonstrates the absolute
certainty of Nature to obey God. Uniting elements evolve spir­
itual consciousness to higher ideals of wisdom, as the progress of
life and wisdom manifest under the guidance of an Unseen
Hand. Super Mind Science hastens spiritual progress by con­
forming to Infinite spiritual laws of life.
(1 ;9)-— “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e w a t e r s u n d e r t h e h e a v e n b e
g a t h e r e d t o g e t h e r u n t o o n e p l a c e , a n d l e t t h e d r y l a n d
a p p e a r : a n d i t w a s s o ” .
Like the sun unfolds the pedals of the Morning Glory, God
unfolds the powers of life, gathering together the harmonizing
powers, producing life according to His holy purpose, designed
for heavenly progress and harmony which manifests His eternal
Spirit.
(1:10) — “ A n d G o d c a l l e d t h e d r y l a n d e a r t h ; a n d t h e g a t h e r ­
i n g t o g e t h e r o f t h e w a t e r s c a l l e d h e s e a s : A n d G o d s a w
t h a t i t w a s g o o d ” .
Here God is represented as a human being who had to see
His own creation to see if it was good, then give it names to suit
!ts quality, which is an erroneous conception. Infinite Spirit
knows only good and originates through fixed laws. “God called
256 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
the dry land Earth” symbolizes human speech, and since man is
a manifestation of God, his speech is God’s words.
(1:11) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e e a r t h b r i n g f o r t h g r a s s , th e
h e r b y i e l d i n g s e e d , a n d t h e f r u i t t r e e y i e l d i n g f r u i t a f t e r
i t s k i n d , w h o s e s e e d i s i n i t s e l f , u p o n t h e e a r t h : A n d it
w a s s o ” .
The entire field of creation which is the earth, produces ac­
cording to the laws of Nature from germs and seeds. This dem­
onstrates the wisdom of Infinite Spirit in the laws of the mul­
tiplication of kind and species. Divine Mind guides the destiny
of each creature according to its intelligence. From the smallest
atom and electron to the mightiest mammal the beauty of life is
the art of creation. Creation retains its beauty as long as it is
animated by Divine Mind and functions according to Divine
harmony.
(1:12) — “ A n d t h e e a r t h b r o u g h t f o r t h g r a s s , a n d t h e h e r b
y i e l d i n g s e e d a f t e r i t s k i n d , a n d t h e t r e e y i e l d i n g f r u i t ,
w h o s e s e e d w a s i n i t s e l f , a f t e r h i s k i n d : A n d G o d s a w
t h a t i t w a s g o o d ” .
All creation manifests the quality of mind through the laws
of gender, the seeds receiving the qualities of reproduction. The
fertility of the earth is due also to mental gender which repre­
sents the positive or fatherhood, and negative or motherhood
quality of mind. The powers of Spirit give the force of evolu­
tion to all creation. Gender is the law of Divine progress.
(1:13) — “ A n d t h e e v e n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g w e r e t h e t h i r d
d a y ” .
The third day symbolizes the birth of complete conscious­
ness which progresses in the ascending scale toward the supreme
spiritual light. The three tenses represent the three stages of
Divine progress in material nature which manifest according to
time, while Infinite Spirit functions through cycles of progress
independent of time, space and place. Hence, the duality be­
tween inner and outer nature reflects the manifestation of spir­
itual gender.
(1 :14) A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e r e b e l i g h t s i n t h e f i r m a m e n t
o f t h e h e a v e n t o d i v i d e t h e d a y f r o m t h e n i g h t ; a n d l e t
t h e m b e f o r s i g n s , a n d f o r s e a s o n s , a n d f o r d a y s , a n d
y e a r s ” .
Here Infinite Spirit creates time which demonstrates that
Infinite Mind functions beyond time, because no creation can be
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 257
as great as its Creator. Spirit creates light which is its prototype,
also darkness which is its opposite, showing the all encompassing
power of Spirit. All material creations were first born in mind,
and later became material through germination. Since mind has
always ruled the forces of Nature it still functions as master of
Matter to all who knows the Truth. Let Mind, therefore, directed
by an intelligent Will and spiritual consciousness overcome sin
and imperfection in your life.
(1:15) — “ A n d l e t t h e m h e f o r l i g h t s i n t h e f i r m a m e n t o f t h e
h e a v e n t o g i v e l i g h t u p o n t h e e a r t h : A n d i t w a s s o ” .
The highest light in our mental firmament is Truth. The
source which is full of light is Love and Divine harmony, symbol'
ical of the fountain of Divine Grace. Walk, Dear Reader, in the
Light of the heavenly Light and know God.
(1:16) — “ A n d G o d m a d e t w o g r e a t l i g h t s ; t h e g r e a t e r l i g h t t o
r i d e t h e d a y , a n d t h e l e s s e r l i g h t t o r u l e t h e n i g h t : H e
m a d e t h e s t a r s a l s o ” .
Infinite Spirit creates the sun, symbol of positive creative
mind or the fatherhood principle, and the moon symbol of nega'
tive mind or the motherhood principle, showing how the Divine
order of creation conforms to the laws of gender of the mind.
The sun is a symbol of the soul of man, his illuminator, while the
moon symbolizes his body and negative nature. These forces of
positive and negative life should become one under the guid-
ance of Infinite Spirit, which divides and sub-divides Nature
according to life’s composition. Thus, Infinite Spirit functioning
through life’s energies replenishes the earth, the continual evolu­
tion of which symbolizes the unlimited infinitude of Spirit.
(1:17) — “ A n d G o d s e t t h e m i n t h e f i r m a m e n t o f t h e h e a v e n
t o g i v e l i g h t u p o n t h e e a r t h ” .
Divine order proceeds from Infinite Spirit, giving time and
place to all created bodies, celestial and terrestial, according to
their quality. “Giving light to earth” is a symbol of Infinite
Spirit illuminating matter.
(1:18) — “ A n d t o r u l e o v e r t h e d a y a n d o v e r t h e n i g h t , a i u l
t o d i v i d e t h e l i g h t f r o m t h e d a r k n e s s : A n d G o d s a w t h a t
i t w a s g o o d ” .
Infinite Spirit functioning as the guiding principle of life
continually gives the power of division and also of classification
to Nature, evolving the lower into the higher, for progress is
the quality of heavenly harmony.
258 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
(1:19) — “ A n d t h e e v e n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g w e r e t h e f o u r t h
d a y ” .
As time progresses man and life attain to higher wisdom,
manifesting the supreme spiritual light which is the source of
creation, and manifesting God’s perfect ideas through expressing
intelligence. In the realm of eternity there is no darkness or
negation.
(1 :20) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e w a t e r s b r i n g f o r t h a b u n d a n t l y
t h e m o v i n g c r e a t u r e t h a t h a t h l i f e , a n d f o w l t h a t m a y f l y
a b o v e t h e e a r t h i n t h e o p e n f i r m a m e n t o f h e a v e n ” .
The creation of higher and lower creatures both in the
water and on land symbolizes the advancing scales of thought
through the planes of mind. Flying fowl symbolizes released
thought, while creeping things and moving creatures under the
water symbolizes hidden thoughts of evil possessing little intelli­
gence. Infinite Spirit has created a material manifestation of all
the planes of mind, giving rise to the manifold varieties of crea­
tion taking form in feminine, masculine and neuter genders
which symbolize the manifestation of intelligence on all planes
of life and being, from the worm at the bottom of the ladder of
life to the angel at the top.
(1:21) — “ A n d G o d c r e a t e d g r e a t w h a l e s , a n d e v e r y l i v i n g
c r e a t u r e t h a t m o v e t h , w h i c h t h e w a t e r s b r o u g h t f o r t h
a b u n d a n t l y , a f t e r t h e i r k i n d , a n d e v e r y w i n g e d f o w l a f t e r
h i s k i n d : A n d G o d s a w t h a t i t w a s g o o d ” .
The germs of life under Divine guidance produces great
whales and every form of life, symbolizing the power of thought
to create conditions of strength, agility, and swiftness. In the
realm of mind, these creatures are the external manifestation of
mind, some representing positive creative mind, while others
being destructive, represent negative mental states which destroy
other creatures. Infinite Spirit has created all these forms of
life that man may learn to understand Divine Mind from study­
ing the external object lessons of life. Spiritually all life is
Divine regardless of its outward destructive character.
(1 :22) — “ A n d G o d b l e s s e d t h e m , s a y i n g , b e f r u i t f u l , a n d m u l ­
t i p l y , a n d f i l l t h e w a t e r s i n t h e s e a s , a n d l e t f o w l m u l t i p l y
i n t h e e a r t h ” .
Spirit being creator of positive and negative principles and
ideas blesses the manifestation of those principles which cause the
multiplication of life under the guidance of Love, Light and
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 259
Truth. Through them every creation manifests, causing life to
possess the qualities of self preservation.
(1:23) — “ A n d t h e e v e n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g w e r e t h e f i f t h
d a y ” .
As the Infinite plan of life unfolds, cycles of progress are
symbolized by the word “day”. The cycle of progress lead on to
the very portals of heavenly existence, leaving the darkness of
material life, and entering into the light of Spirit, Truth and
Love. Each cycle sees the birth of new life and beings, until
limitation is overcome and the transcendent quality of life is re­
vealed to the spiritual consciousness of those who Will to know
God. Thus is darkness turned to light.
(1:24) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t t h e e a r t h b r i n g f o r t h t h e l i v i n g
c r e a t u r e a f t e r h i s k i n d , c a t t l e , a n d c r e e p i n g t h i n g , a n d
b e a s t o f t h e e a r t h a f t e r h i s k i n d ; a n d i t w a s s o ” .
The divisions in creation demonstrate the mathematical cor­
rectness of Nature which classifies all beings, showing the birth
of all science in Infinite Mind. The decaying elements of life
are in matter, while the permanent remain as a principle in God.
When man learns to forsake the temporal illusions of life and
seeks reality in Infinite Spirit, he will withdraw from the world
of change into the heavenly eternal realm of Life, Truth and
Mind.
(1:25) “ A n d G o d m a d e t h e b e a s t o f t h e e a r t h a f t e r h i s k i n d ,
a n d c a t t l e a f t e r t h e i r k i n d , a n d e v e r y t h i n g t h a t c r e e p e t h
u p o n t h e e a r t h a f t e r h i s k i n d : A n d G o d s a w t h a t i t w a s
g o o d ” .
God creates all mortal bodies, they all evolve from His lim­
itless Kingdom. This Truth shows the falsehood of those who
claim matter has no Divine existence. All life is Divine, there­
fore, matter is as real as Mind but is realy only as a part of Mind;
considered separate from Mind it is but dust. Mind contains the
power of all intelligence, Life and Spirit.
(1:26) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , l e t u s m a k e m a n i n o u r i m a g e , a f t e r
o u r l i k e n e s s : A n d l e t t h e m h a v e d o m i n i o n o v e r t h e f i s h o f
t h e s e a , a n d o v e r t h e f o w l o f t h e a i r , a n d o v e r t h e c a t t l e ,
a n d o v e r a l l t h e e a r t h , a n d o v e r e v e r y c r e e p i n g t h i n g t h a t
c r e e p e t h u p o n t h e e a r t h ” .
Man reflects God in his power of mind which creates his
conditions of life and his destiny. In him is mirrored the heav­
enly Infinite Spirit and Divine hierarchy which sings around the
260 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Throne of Grace. Just as creatures lower than man typify
thoughts, man typifies God. He must learn to be a perfect re­
flector of His light in order to inherit the Divine Kingdom, re­
flecting the Divine trinity of Truth, Love and Light, doing the
Divine Will, establishing heavenly harmony within himself so
as to manifest as the Son of a Living God. Each move in har­
mony with intelligence should be regarded as a move of Infinite
Spirit, since it reflects Infinite Spirit in the form of life. When
man uses his intellect as an instrument of good, he reflects His
Divine, Creative Father, for man is His spiritual image.
(1 :27) — “ S o G o d c r e a t e d m a n i n ,h i s o w n i m a g e , i n t h e i m a g e
o f G o d c r e a t e d h e h i m ; m a l e a n d f e m a l e c r e a t e d h e t h e m ’’ .
The creation of man as male and female proves how God
conforms to the laws of positive and negative. Man possesses
some feminity, woman possesses some masculinity thereby bal­
ancing human nature between the polarities of creative power.
“Made in the Divine image” could mean but one thing, as God
is spiritually negative and positive, man made in His image is
also positive and negative. Since God is not a personality the
resemblance of man to His creator is in principle, therefore, the
underlying principle of creation is spiritual. Humanity should
reflect its Divinity through the principles of Love, Truth and
Light. Any other manifestation is but the result of evil negation
or the absence of intelligence in its true manifestation. This
spiritual creation is true inasmuch as it shows the descent of
pure Spirit into matter, it does not prove that God is a person­
ality or give proof of the anthropmorphic ideas which are often
expressed by orthodox Christians. God is Spirit and those who
worship Him must worship Him in Spirit and in Truth.
(1 :28) — “ A n d G o d b l e s s e d t h e m , a n d G o d s a i d u n t o t h e m , B e
f r u i t f u l , a n d m u l t i p l y , a n d r e p l e n i s h t h e e a r t h , a n d s u b d u e
i t : a n d h a v e d o m i n i o n o v e r t h e f i s h o f t h e s e a , a n d o v e r
t h e f o w l o f t h e a i r , a n d o v e r e v e r y l i v i n g t h i n g t h a t m o v -
e t h u p o n t h e e a r t h ” .
The dominion over the earth is symbolical of man’s natural
mastership of himself, which also gives him rulership over the
animals and lower beings of the earth. This guardianship does
not include the right to kill other creatures for food, since man
is so constituted that he lives better on the fruits of the trees and
the vegetables of the field. Divine Infinite Spirit blesses mortals
who obey spiritual laws. In his natural environment man is lord
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 261
of this world, he owes no submission to any earthly power, he
was destined by Nature to subdue, not to be subdued. This ex-
presses the idea of mind mastership as taught in Super Mind
Science, which is positive mastership.
(l :29) — “ A n d G o d s a i d , B e h o l d , I h a v e g i v e n y o u e v e r y h e r b
b e a r i n g s e e d , w h i c h i s u p o n t h e f a c e o f a l l t h e e a r t h , a n d
e v e r y t r e e , i n t h e w h i c h i s t h e f r u i t o f a t r e e y i e l d i n g s e e d ;
t o y o u i t s h a l l b e f o r m e a t ” .
Man was instructed in the beginning to live from the prod'
uct of the soil, eating such foods as grows on the trees, in the
earth, and the vegetation in the field. God prescribed this spir'
itual diet so man would receive all the blessings in store for him
by establishing a brotherhood of all creatures, becoming their
protector instead of their killer. Had man lived up to this in'
struction and shown due reverence for other creatures and held
all life sacred, the world would have been sinless, since the killing
of animals set the first example of crime which later invited the
killing of fellow human beings. All destruction of life is con'
trary to the ideas of Truth and Light which manifest Divine
Love.
(1:30) — “ A n d t o e v e r y b e a s t o f t h e e a r t h , a n d t o e v e r y f o w l
o f t h e a i r , a n d t o e v e r y t h i n g t h a t c r e e p e t h u p o n t h e e a r t h ,
w h e r e i n t h e r e i s l i f e , I h a v e g i v e n e v e r y g r e e n h e r b f o r
m e a t : A n d i t w a s s o ” .
Infinite spiritual intelligence in the beginning provided for
every form of life and its subsistence upon that which grows in
the earth, providing a bountiful supply of life’s necessities, show­
ing how Spirit cares for its own.
(1:31) — “ A n d G o d s a w e v e r y t h i n g t h a t h e h a d m a d e , a n d , b e ­
h o l d , i t w a s v e r y g o o d . A n d t h e e v e n i n g a n d t h e m o r n i n g
w e r e t h e s i x t h d a y . ”
Infinite Spirit created only good; all evil is created through
the manifestation of mortal mind contrary to Divine law. All
of the manifestations of God are good and reflect the growth
of all things in that principle, just as a tree is reflected in the
seed which brings it forth. The seed of Divinity is Truth tem­
pered with Love, Kindness and Goodness. Sin was originated
by man whose consciousness became his own adversary through
lowering his ideals of life. The “sixth day” symbolizes the com­
pletion of the corporeal universe or the beginning of spiritual
perfection.
262 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
( 2 :1 )— “T h u s the heavens and the earth w ere finished, and
all the host o f them ”.
Infinite M ind com pleted the creation of all things, leaving
nothing undone either visible or invisible, for perfection is the
N ature of God. T hose w ho progress tow ard perfection attain to
Godliness, goodness and im m ortal wisdom.
( 2 :2 )— “A n d on the seven th day G od ended his w o rk which
he had m ade; and he rested on the seven th day fro m all
his w o rk w hich he had m ade”.
“Resting on the seventh day” symbolizes perfection of all
mortal creations w hen Infinite Spirit w ithdraw s into th e invisible,
and governs all things through laws of m ind. It also symbolizes
the seventh or G od plane of mind, w here all individuality reaches
perfection and merges w ith the prim ordial cause of all Life, Light
and T ruth, w hich is pure motionless Infinite Spirit.
( 2 :3 )— “A n d God blessed the seven th day, and sanctified it:
because that in it H e had rested fr o m all H is w o rk which
God created and m ade”.
T he “seventh day” symbolizing the Infinite perfection of
life is made holy because of its D ivine significance, teaching mor-
tal man th at w hen all beings pass beyond th e realm of the sixth
sense perception the next step is tow ard com plete spiritual at-one-
m ent and absorption. M ortals can only know such perfection
w hen they live in the Science of T ruth.
(2 :4 , 5 )— “These are the generations o f the heavens and of
the earth w hen they w ere created, in the day that the Lord
God m ade the earth and the heavens. A n d every plant of
the field before it w as in the earth, and every herb o f the
field before it grew : fo Y the L o rd G od had n o t caused it
to rain upon the earth, and there w as not a m an to till
the ground”.
Immortal, Eternal Spirit is the source of all creation; the
generation of every form of life begins in its realm. A ll things
descended from Spirit and return thereto. Life is th e result of
the impulse to grow w hich is spiritual, the outw ard manifesta'
tion only proves the inw ard quality. T he Science of M ind ex'
plains the process of Divinity, because m ind is th e prim al cause
of matter, likewise it molds m atter in accordance w ith spiritual
form, T ru th and creative Love. All life progresses tow ard Infin-
itude and the one central ideal, creative, A ll-pervading Spirit
which manifests in man and the universe.
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 263
(2:6, 7)— “B u t there w e n t up a m ist fr o m the earth, and
watered the w hole fa ce o f the ground. A n d the L o rd God
form ed m an o f the d u st o f the ground, and breathed into
his nostrils the breath o f life ; and m an becam e a living
soul”.
One learns here th a t after m an was form ed perfect in Spirit
his identity was clothed w ith a physical body, w hich is a dwelling
place for his soul. T h is verse proves th e falsehoods of systems
which deny the D ivine creation of m atter, y et term them selves
Christians. Super M ind Science teaches this inner perfect self
as the reality of being, w hile it dem onstrates the subjection of
matter to mind as the Science of Being. T h is T ru th sets aside
all suggestion of w eakness m anifest in m ortal m ind and reveals
man the inner self as Spirit, w hile his abode, m atter, is b u t a
temporal house of clay to be laid aside w hen he finishes his sixth
day of existence and w ithdraw s into his interior soul spirit to
demonstrate the perfection and at-one-m ent of th e Infinite M ind.
Then he will find him self an heir of the kingdom of D ivine
Truth, Love and Light.
(2:8, 9 )— “A n d the L o rd G od planted a garden eastw ard in
E den; and there H e p u t the m an w h o m H e had fo rm ed .
A nd out o f the g ro u n d m ade the L o rd G od to g ro w every
tree that is pleasant to 'the sight, and good fo r fo o d ; the
Tree o f L ife also in the m id st o f the garden, and the Tree
o f K now ledge o f G ood and E v il”.
God placed m an in a garden, a fitting place for the spir­
itualization of H is D ivine im age, m an. T h e garden was alive
with plant life w hich explains th a t m an should live on vegetation
since the beginning of creation placed him am ongst it. In this
garden God caused trees to grow pleasant to the sight w hich
were to be m an’s food. T h e T ree of Life in the m idst of the
garden symbolizes man, w hile th e T ree of Knowledge of R ight
and W rong symbolizes living beings of consciousness know ing
good from evil or possessing th e faculty of discrim ination.
(2 :10-11-12-13-14-15)— “A n d a river w en t out o f E d en to
water the garden; and fr o m thence it w as parted, and
became into fo u r heads. T h e nam e o f the first is P ison:
that is it w hich com passeth the w hole land o f H avilah,
where there is gold: A n d the gold o f that land is good:
there is B dellium and the o n y x stone. A n d the nam e o f
264 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
the second river is G ihon: the sam e is it th a t compasseth
the w hole land o f E thiopia. A n d the nam e o f the third
river is H iddekel: that is it w h ich g oeth tow ard the east
o f A ssyria. A n d the fo u rth river is E uphrates. A n d the
L o rd God took the m an, and p u t h im into the Garden of
E den to dress it and to keep it”.
M an is the caretaker of the earth; all things belong to In­
finite Spirit and man has only a tem porary use of them. He
should care for the creations of G od w ith love and kindness since
he has by N ature a Divine guardianship over all form s of life.
H e should also care for his fellow creatures, th e animals, remem­
bering the com mand “T hou shalt not kill”.
(2 :1 6 -1 7 )— “A n d the L o rd God com m anded the m an, saying,
O f every tree o f the garden thou m a yest fre e ly eat: But
o f the Tree o f the K now ledge o f G ood and E vil, Thou
shalt n o t eat o f it: fo r in the day that thou eatest thereof
thou shalt surely die”.
G od com manded man to be a vegetarian and forbade him
to eat of flesh or (the tree of know ledge of rig h t and w rong) for
such eating required killing, therefore if m an sows to death he
reaps death, and the day w herein he killed his fellow creatures
he died spiritually. T h e theory of A dam and Eve eating of the
symbolic fruit of flesh attraction is absurd since this passage of
Scripture deals w ith the food man was intended to eat. Eden
symbolizes the earth and m an’s paradise, G od speaking to Adam
symbolizes the guidance of Infinite Spirit.
(2:18-19-20-21-22)— “A n d the L o rd G od said, I t is not good
that the m an should be alone; I w ill m ake h im an help
m eet fo r him . A n d out o f the gro u n d the L o rd God
fo rm ed every beast o f the field, and every fo w l o f the
air; and brought them unto A d a m to see w h a t he would
call them : and w hatsoever A d a m called every living crea­
ture, that w as the nam e thereof. A n d A d a m gave names
to all the cattle, and to the fo w l o f the air, and to every
beast o f the field; but fo r A d a m there w a s n o t fo u n d an
help m eet fo r him . A n d the L o rd G od caused a deep sleep
to fa ll upon A d a m , and he slept: and he took one o f his
ribs, and closed up the flesh instead th ereo f: A n d the
rib, w hich the L o rd God had taken fr o m m an, m ade He
a w om an, and brought her unto the m an”.
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 265
After man was form ed male and fem ale in the invisible
realm of Divine M ind as related in the first chapter, he is now
about to make his appearance in th e physical. T h e positive idea,
Adam, appears before the negative idea, Eve. H e m anifests in ­
telligence by calling all creation by its ow n nam e, b u t finds th a t
he needs a negative polarity or com panion in order to be m en­
tally contented and have a help m eet. T herefore, it is b u t n a­
tural that a being representing th e negative pole of m entation
should be created or be born. So A dam fell into a deep sleep,
and when he awoke he found ano th er person present w hom was
Eve. Asking Infinite Spirit from w hence she came he was in ­
formed that she was a p art of him self. T h en th e ignorant con­
clusion that this part of him self w as physical instead of spiritual
gave rise to the story of Eve being m ade from A d am ’s rib. A s
a scientific idea th at is preposterous. A s to N ature, such creation
would violate the laws w hich G od m ade to be obeyed. A ll
creation is borned in the spiritual as a perfect idea th en descends
into the physical, m anifesting th ro u g h th e laws of life governing
birth.
(2:23-24-25)— A n d A d a m said, th is is n o w bone o f m y bones,
and flesh o f m y flesh : she shall be called w om an, because
she was taken out o f m an. T h e re fo re shall a m an leave
his father and his m other, and shall cleave unto h is w ife :
and they shall be one flesh. A n d th ey w ere both naked,
the man and his w ife , and w ere not asham ed”.
Divine unity prevails in hum an existence w hen m ortals hear
the voice of the Infinite. T h ere is nothing w hich G od m ade to
be ashamed of, only ignorance and evil created by m ortal man
make it seem so. U nity and co-operation of the sexes aids crea­
tion and makes reproduction possible; m ental harm ony should
reign between the two. Loyalty to one another is a D ivine
attribute and a moral necessity.
(3 :l-2-3-4)— “N o w the serp en t w a s m ore subtil than any
beast o f the field w hich the L o rd G od had m ade. A n d
he said unto the w om an, yea, G od hath said, Y e shall not
eat o f every tree o f the garden? A n d the w o m a n said
unto the serpent, W e m ay eat o f the fr u it o f the trees
of the garden: but o f the fr u it o f the tree w hich is in the
midst o f the garden, G od hath said, Y e shall not eat o f it,
neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. A n d the serpent said
unto the w om an, Y e shall no t surely die”.
266 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
Evil is here symbolized by a talking serpent. T his serpent
is the killing instinct in man w hich tem pts him to disobey Divine
Love, arguing th at one may eat of flesh and n o t die, also con-
tradicting the advice of D ivine M ind. T h is serpent is the lower
planes of mortal mind, blinded by appetite, greed and selfishness
w hich look on evil and call it good. M an was commanded not
to touch (eat) flesh (the tree of know ledge of rig h t and wrong)
or touch (kill) beings because all serve a D ivine purpose, yet
the wom an (m ental negation) w ould dispute D ivine Mind’s
command. N egative mind gaining the leadership over positive
mind invariably produces sin and destruction. M ental negation
and illusion is the root of all evil, it caused th e first evil to
appear on earth and is still the m other of crim e and sorrow.
W here positive m ind retires to th e background negative mind
manifests evil. Super M ind Science develops th e positive traits
of m ind thereby overcoming evil, for evil is only the absence
of good.
( 3 :5-6-7)— “F or God doth kn o w that in the day ye eat thereof,
then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods,
know ing good and evil. A n d w h en the w om an saw that
the tree w as good fo r fo o d , and that it w as pleasant to
the eyes, and a tree to be desired to m ake one wise, she
took o f the fr u it thereof, and d id eat, and gave also unto
her husband w ith her; and he d id eat. A n d the eyes of
them both w ere opened, and th ey kn ew that they were
naked; and they sew ed fig leaves together, and made
them selves aprons’’.
T he first shame and deceit appeared on earth after Adam
had eaten the flesh or evil food, since this type of food feeds the
sex instinct and develops the anim al propensities of man. Had
he eaten the vegetation only, the base desires w ould have re­
mained dorm ant, perm itting the spiritual pow ers to develop as
they should. M an would now possess heavenly know ledge which
he does not possess because he acts as though he w ere a God,
taking life w hen he desires, to satisfy the flesh. T his may well
be term ed the “fall of m an” for he fell m entally to the level of a
killer w hen he was supposed to love all creatures and obey the
principles of T ruth, Love and Light. T h u s the m ystery of the
serpent is revealed as the carnal desire of flesh eating and killing,
which silently asserts that man m ust kill in order to live. This
is the basest sort of lie, because there is sufficient food bearing
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 267
the seed which grows on the trees and th e plants w hich is both
nourishing and clean and conducive to spirituality, health and
mental power. It is a noticeable fact th a t nations and individuals
who eat no flesh possess th e greatest spirituality.
(3:8-9-10)— “A n d th ey heard the voice o f the L o rd G od w alk-
in the garden in the cool o f the day: and A d a m and his
w ife hid them selves fr o m the presence o f the L o rd God
amongst the trees o f the garden. A n d the L o rd G od called
unto A dam , and said unto him , W h ere art thou? A n d he
said, I heard T h y V oice in the G arden, and I w as afraid,
because I w as n a ked ; and I hid m y se lf”.
The flesh commits sin, th en seeks m ercy from God. Being
filled with guilt it tries to hide from Spirit, b u t the voice of the
soul continues to call m an to repentance and aw ay from sin,
shame and sorrow. D ivine M ind speaks to m an and dem ands
where are you, w hy did you kill, w hy aw aken your baser de­
sires? The answer is often evasive of th e T ru th fo r th e flesh
despises the Spirit, each claim ing superiority over the other. Sin
produces its own rew ard w hich is sorrow , w hile th e rew ard of
following the Spirit is eternal life.
(3:11-12-13)— “A n d Fie said, W h o told thee that thou w ast
naked? H a st thou eaten o f the tr e e ,' w h e re o f I com ­
manded thee that th o u sh o u ld est n o t eat? A n d the m an
said, the w om an w h o m thou gavest to be w ith m e, she
gave me o f the tree, and I did eat. A n d the L o rd God
said unto the w om an w h a t is this that thou hast done?
A nd the w om an said, T he serp en t beguiled m e, and I
did eat.”
Here the baser instincts of N atu re plead their innocence in
the drama of life, asserting innocence in the presence of guilt,
denying the authority of the C reator and dem onstrating the
arrogance of the flesh consciousness. Positive m ind blames nega­
tive mind, as the allegory proceeds, saying “I was led by my
companion”, but Infinite Spirit will n o t forgive, and N ature
punishes the recalcitrant m ortals w ho sinned by eating flesh.
(3:14-15-16) — “A n d the L o rd G od said unto the serpent, B e­
cause thou hast done this, thou a rt cursed above all cattle,
and above every beast o f the field; upon th y belly shalt
thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days o f thy life.
And I w ill put en m ity betw een thee and the w om an, and
between thy seed and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head,
268 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and thou shalt bruise his heel. Unto the w o m a n he said, 1
w ill greatly m ultiply thy so rro w and th y conception; in
sorrow thou shalt bring fo r th ch ild ren ; and thy desire
shall be to thy husband, and he shall ride o ver thee.”
Infinite Spirit never condones evil. Ignorance, through the
law of com pensation, places a curse upon th e baser desires which
corrupt mankind. Infinite Spirit prophesies th a t the seed of the
wom an shall overcome them , this is only th e sym bolic redemp­
tion of man. It was later dem onstrated in th e b irth of Christ
w ho overcame evil w ith good and did good unto H is enemies,
showing the way of m astership over th e serpent of evil, “the
base desires of the flesh”. H is advice to those w ho would be
redeemed is “Love ye one another, do good u n to those who use
you ill, lift up the fallen, heal the sick, and raise th e dead”. The
serpent in the form of belief w hich endorses th e killing of God’s
creatures will rise up against this scientific interpretation of the
Scriptures, b u t T ru th will bruise the serpent. A ll mortals are
born w ith the baser desires to overcom e because of th e original
sin of flesh eating com m itted by man. L et all Super M ind Scien­
tists rem em ber the original com m and “T h o u shalt n o t eat of the
tree of knowledge of right and w rong,” b u t love, protect, and
care for all of G od’s creatures.
(3:17-18-19) — “A n d unto A d a m he said, B ecause thou hast
hearkened unto the voice o f th y w ife , and h a st eaten of
the tree, o f w hich I com m anded thee, saying, T hou shall
not eat o f it: cursed is the ground fo r th y sa ke; in sorrow
shalt thou eat o f it all the days o f th y life. T horns also
and thistles shall it bring fo r th to th ee; and thou shalt eat
the herb o f the field. In the sw eat o f th y fa ce shalt thou
eat bread, till thou return unto the g ro u n d ; fo r out of it
w ast thou taken: fo r dust thou art, and unto dust shalt
thou return”.
T he curse of evil produced in A dam the im purities of the
flesh, the result of sin. T h e thorns and thistles of disease with
death as a certainty as well as the necessity of m edicine (herb of
the field) were brought about by error. T h is curse is still with
man as is proven by the millions w ho suffer incurable diseases
born of flesh eating, while life has been shortened for millions
because of it. T he sins of mortal life also reduce millions to
dust, yet the Infinite M ind would have them inherit immortal
life and continued existence over the portals of invisibility.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 269
(3:20-21)— “A n d A d a m called his w ife ’s nam e E v e ; because
she w as the m o th er o f all living. U nto A d a m also and to
his w ife did the L o rd G od m ake coats o f skins, and
clothed them ”.
The law of supply is fulfilled by D ivine M ind, show ing the
source of all prosperity, health and happiness, also the utility of
life. It shows how th e rem ains of one creature contributes to
the life of another, dem onstrating th e brotherhood of life and
Fatherhood of D ivine Infinite Spirit.
(3:22-23-24)— “A n d the L o rd G od said, B ehold, the m an is
become as one o f us, to kn o w good and evil: and now ,
lest he p u t fo r th his hand, and take also o f the T ree o f
L ife, and eat, and live fo re v e r: T h e re fo re the L o rd God
sent him fo r th fr o m the G arden o f E den, to till the
ground fro m w hence he w a s taken. S o he drove out the
man; and he placed at the east o f the G arden o f E d en
Cherubins, and a flam ing sw o rd w hich turned every w ay,
to keep the w ay o f the T ree o f L ife ”.
The mysteries of th e Infinite K ingdom w ere closed to man
possessing a know ledge of rig h t from w rong after he violated
the laws of life by eating of th e food w hich was conscious flesh.
He was driven from th e spiritual kingdom o f T ru th on earth be-
cause he sinned against G od by violating th e principle of life.
The turning of the sw ords every w ay to keep th e w ay of “T h e
Tree of Life” is a sym bol of th e protection Infinite Spirit gives
living creatures. D riving m an from th e garden is a symbol of
detaching him spiritually from the spiritual kingdom of T ru th
until his redem ption, and he ceases to kill other creatures, for
God is Life, T ru th , Love and kindness m anifest.
(4:1-2)— “A n d A d a m k n e w E v e his w ife ; and she conceived,
and bare Cain, and said, I have g o tten a m an fr o m the
Lord. A n d she again bare his brother A bel. A n d A b el
was a keeper o f sheep, but C ain w as a tiller o f the
ground”.
W e learn th at man produces tw o offsprings, one Cain, sym- *
boliting mental negation, sin and jealousy as a result of the sin
of killing by his parents, w hile A bel symbolizes m ental positive-
ness and Divinity, representing th e pure state of m ind of his
parents before they killed and ate flesh, or ate of the fruits of
the tree of knowledge of rig h t and w ro n g / A bel is th e symbol
of spiritual goodness, C ain is th e sym bol of evil. T hese forces
270 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
have always been in conflict w ith each other, y et they are the
children of man made in the image of G od. T h eir difference lies
only in one obeying the flesh and th e o th er th e Spirit.
(4:3-4-5-6-7)— “A n d in process o f tim e it cam e to pass, that
Cain brought o f the fr u it o f the g ro u n d an offering unto
the Lord. A n d A bel, he also brought o f the firstlings of
his flock and o f the fa t thereof. A n d the L o rd had respect
unto A b el and to his offering. B u t unto C ain and to his
offering he had not respect. A n d Cain w as very zvrofh,
and h is countenance fell. A n d the L o rd said unto Cam,
W h y art thou w ro th ? A n d w h y is th y countenance fallen?
I f thou doest well, shalt thou n o t be accepted? A n d if
thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. A n d unto thee
shall be h is desire, and thou shalt ride over h im ’’.
t A ll mastership comes from righteousness and from obedi­
ence to the Divine law. Infinite Spirit, know ing th e future as
well as the past forsees every evil deed. C ain o r evil, is rebuked
because of a high tem per and for com ing to Infinite M ind with
a sinning conscience and evil intentions. T h e rebuke of the
flesh by the Spirit dem onstrates Eternal Love and Goodness. The
sacrifice of Abel, the first of the flock symbolizes giving the best
we possess to the cause of spirituality, G ood and G od. T h e sec­
ond best is not acceptable to D ivine M ind w hich is All-perfection.
(4 :8 -9 )— “A n d Cain talked w ith A b el his brother: A n d it
came to pass, w hen they w ere in the field, th a t Cain rose
up against A b el his brother, and slew him . A n d the Lord
said unto Cain, w here is A b el th y b ro th er? A n d he said,
I know not: A m I m y brother’s keeper?”
H ere the seeds of m urder and crim e sown by the evil desire
to kill in A dam , m anifest in Cain, w ho having learned to kill
animals w ithout thought of right, or pangs of regret now kills
his brother, Abel. W h en Infinite Love accuses him he makes a
mortal excuse w hich is “A m I my b ro th er’s keeper?”
(4:10-11-12) — “A n d he said, w hat hast thou done? The voice
o f thy brother’s blood crieth unto m e fr o m the ground.
A n d now art thou cursed fro m the earth, w hich hath
opened her m outh to receive thy brother's blood fro m thy
hand. W hen thou tillest the ground, it shall no t hence­
fo rth yield unto thee her stren g th ; a fu g itiv e and a vaga­
bond shalt thou be in the earth.”
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 271
The curse of sin collects its rew ard from all killers, both
those who kill other hum an beings directly or indirectly, in peace
or in war, or kill animals. It is sad to note th a t thousands of so-
called Christians com m it such sins yet they im plore G od to save
their soul. H ow ever, Infinite Love has spoken and all killers shall
be but vagabonds in the earth, spiritually rejected from the pres­
ence of God regardless of th e ir belief or the office they may hold
under the laws of m an, fo r th e law s of G od are exalted above
the laws of man, taking precedence in all phases of existence here
and in the life to come.
(4:13-14-15)— “A n d Cain said unto the L o rd , m y p u n ishm ent
is greater than I can hear. B ehold, th o u hast driven m e
out this day fr o m the fa ce o f the earth; and fr o m th y
face shall I he h id ; and I shall be a fu g itiv e and a vaga­
bond m the ea rth ; and it shall com e to pass, that every
one that findeth m e shall slay m e. A n d the L o rd said
unto him. T h erefo re w h o so ever slayeth Cain, vengeance
shall be taken on h im seven fo ld . A n d the L o rd set a m ark
upon Cain, lest any finding h im should kill him ”.
Here the carnal m ind w hich is a w illful killer of its brother
implores Divine Love fo r pardon, b u t does not receive it because
the consciousness has n o t been reform ed. G od being Love places
a mark (criminal expression) on C ain, and likewise his slayers
will suffer sevenfold. T his is to say G od forbids the killing of a
criminal or animal, therefore th e jury, the Judge, the hangm an,
the wardens of the prison, th e state, th e soldier and all w ho kill
regardless of social or legal position are w arned by Infinite Love
and shall be punished sevenfold th ro u g h th e Law of C om pensa­
tion. God giveth life and no m an has the rig h t to take it away,
for God will not be m ocked. A ll Super M ind Scientists should
stand ready to condem n killing of every type and kind in no
uncertain term s and die if necessary before becom ing a party
thereto, in that respect they shall differ from hypocrites w ho are
like whited sepulchres, w hite w ith o u t b u t corrupt w ithin”.
(4:16-17-18)— “A n d Cain w e n t out fr o m the presence o f the
Lord, and dw elt in the L a n d o f N o d , on the east o f E den.
A nd Cain kn ew his w ife ; and she conceived, and bare
Enoch; and he builded a city, and called the nam e o f the
city, a fter the nam e o f his son, E noch. A n d unto E noch
was born Irad: A n d I rad begat M eh u ja el: and M eh u ja el
272 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
begat M ethusael: A n d M ethusael begat L antech.”
T he fact th at Cain found a wife in the land of N od when
he left from the Divine presence shows th a t others w ere on earth
other than the generation of A dam . T his m eans th e first man,
A dam , represents a spiritual type of hum anity w ho had contact
w ith Infinite Spirit and lived in an earthly paradise until they
shed blood and fell from Grace. M an ’s redem ption can only come
w hen he exercizes the principle of D ivine Love. T his is the
prototype of the progressive m inded person w ho goes forth
w ith constructive plans and builds a city or accom plishes success.
T his type symbolizes the M ental Scientist.
(4 :1 9 -2 0 )— “A n d Lantech took unto h im tw o w ives: The
nam e o f the one w as A d a h , and the nam e o f the other
Zillah. A n d A dah bare Jabal: H e w as the fa th e r o f such
as dw ell in tents, and o f such as have cattle”.
T h e entire hum an race once practiced polygam y because
they lacked spiritual realization. T hey lived in tents, this life
symbolized their intelligence. N ow th a t m onogam y is the rule
of all intelligent beings the m ind pow er of th e individual has
developed, life is longer and m an thinks in m ore positive terms.
Polygamy and ignorance go hand in hand, producing a genera-
tion of m ental nomads w ho w ander to and fro, unable to con­
centrate their efforts or th eir m entalities. Super M ind Science
proves th a t the greater the pow er of concentration possessed by
a race or an individual the higher the intelligence.
(4:21-22-23) — “A n d his brother’s nam e w as Jubal: H e was
the fa th er o f all such as handle the harp and organ. A nd
Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an in stru cto r o f every
artificer in brass and iron: A n d the sister o f Tubalcain
w as N aam ah. A n d Lam ech said unto h is w ives, A d a h and
Zillah, H ear m y voice; ye w ives o f L am ech, hearken unto
m y speech: fo r I have slain a m an to m y w ounding, and
a young man to m y hurt.”
H ere we note the killing instinct passing from fath er to son,
down through the generation of men. Even to this day the curse
of Cain disposes of a vast m ultitude of souls, causing them to be
lost in the realm of mind, w ith the crim e of killing accusing
their consciousness for having violated the Laws of Life.
(4:24-25-26)— “I f Cain shall be avenged seven fo ld , truly
Lam ech seventy and sevenfold. A n d A d a m kn ew his w ife
again; and she bare a son, and called his nam e S e th : For
THE BOOK OF GENESIS 273
G o d , s a i d s h e , h a t h a p p o i n t e d m e a n o t h e r s e e d i n s t e a d o f
A b e l , w h o m C a i n s l e w . A n d t o S e t h , t o h i m a l s o t h e r e
w a s b o r n a s o n ; a n d h e c a l l e d h i s n a m e E n o s : T h e n
b e g a n m e n t o c a l l u p o n t h e n a m e o f t h e L o r d . ”
The generation of man began w ith a consciousness of God,
Truth was man’s first lesson, and the law of necessity m an’s first
teacher. The hum an fam ily advances in intelligence by stages,
God gives forth a life fo r everyone taken by sinful man, show ing
the Fatherhood of Infinite Spirit. A ll should strive to overcom e
evil with good, be kind to all living creatures, and exem plify the
spirit of Love in all th eir deeds. T h u s they will realize G od is
Good and that evil originated in th e consciousness of m ortal be'
ings.
(5 :l-2-3-4-5)— “ T h i s i s t h e b o o k o f t h e g e n e r a t i o n s o f A d a m .
I n t h e d a y t h a t G o d c r e a t e d m a n , m t h e l i k e n e s s o f G o d
m a d e H e h i m ; M a l e a n d f e m a l e c r e a t e d H e t h e m ; a n d
b l e s s e d t h e m , a n d c a l l e d t h e i r n a m e A d a m , i n t h e d a y
w h e n t h e y w e r e c r e a t e d . A n d A d a m l i v e d a n h u n d r e d
a n d t h i r t y y e a r s , a n d b e g a t a s o n i n h i s o w n l i k e n e s s , a f t e r
h i s i m a g e ; a n d c a l l e d h i s n a m e S e t h : A n d t h e d a y s o f
A d a m , a f t e r h e h a d b e g o t t e n S e t h , w e r e e i g h t h u n d r e d
y e a r s : a n d h e b e g a t s o n s a n d d a u g h t e r s , a n d a l l t h e d a y s
t h a t A d a m l i v e d w e r e n i n e h u n d r e d a n d t h i r t y y e a r s , a n d
h e d i e d ” .
Here we learn th a t it is b u t natural th a t man should live
hundreds of years, th e days of A dam being nine hundred and
thirty years. A dam symbolizes spiritual regeneration, man de'
monstrates longevity, show ing th e value of living in harm ony
with the laws of N ature. Even th o u g h A dam violated the com-
mand to abstain from unclean food and was driven from the
garden, he lived a very long life, w hich dem onstrates the mercy
of Infinite Spirit to tolerate th e sins of m ortal man. T h e idea
that God decrees how long one should live is a m yth, for man
decides his own destiny since it is in accordance w ith th e w ay
he lives. M ortals produce th eir ow n ills either th ro u g h ignor-
ance or willful sin. G od gives life w hich is an eternal principle
to man, and regardless of m an’s understanding, life proceeds
orderly, governed by laws fixed in th e eternal realm of the un-
iverse.
(5 :6-7-8)— “ A n d S e t h l i v e d a n h u n d r e d a n d f i v e y e a r s , a n d
b e g a t E n o s . A n d S e t h l i v e d , a f t e r h e b e g a t E n o s , e i g h t
274 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:
A n d all the days o f S eth w ere nine h u n d red and twelve
years: A n d he died.”
H ere is another example of long life w hich proves the teach­
ings of Super M ind Science to be correct. In the days when men
called upon the Lord and lived in harm ony w ith N ature, long
life was the result. T h e same is tru e today, if one controls life
energy and keeps their body in an uncongested condition and
their mind serene, they will find th a t life can be prolonged in­
definitely. M an came from mind, not m ind from m an, he is also
in constant com m unication w ith G od b u t know s it not. God is
in mind, all Goodness, Love and L ight is w ith G od; evil is the
product of m ortal consciousness, b u t has no pow er over Good or
God. Life is lengthened by good deeds.
(6 :1 -2 )— “A n d it came to pass, w h en m en began to multiply
on the face o f the earth, and d a u g h ters w ere born unto
them . That the sons o f God sa w the daughters o f men
that they w ere fa ir: A n d th ey took th em w ives o f all
w hich they chose.”
H ere is the descriptin of tw o races, one th e Sons of God
or those spiritually conscious, the o th er th e daughters of men
who were considered fair by th e Sons of G od. “T hey took
themselves wives of all w hich they chose’’. H ere negation and
m atter united, representing m ortality espouses th e Sons of God
or imm ortality, showing the positive and negative manifestation
of mind power. It shows also th a t the im m ortal consciousness is
ensnared by the apparent beauty of th e carnal w orld, which is
illusion, creating a pain to equal every pleasure. M an ’s refuge
is in Spirit, for “the flesh is weak, b u t th e Spirit is strong ■
Spiritual mastery of carnal desires leads to liberation of the soul
consciousness, while the sensations of the flesh leads to destruc­
tion. O ne cannot serve tw o m asters, they m ust choose between
God and mammon, evil and good. Super M ind Science demon­
strates the power of Spirit over the flesh, revealing G od as the
only power, denouncing the flesh and all of its so-called beauty.
Since beauty is Spirit, the dem onstration of G od in m ind reveals
the beauty of His Infinite kingdom of T ru th , Love and Light.
(6 :3 )— "A n d the L o rd said, M y spirit shall no t alw ays strive
w ith man, fo r that he also is flesh: Met his days shall be
an hundred and tw enty years.”
■
tT
U
. 1 n m m u u ; m tg'rsn .
"
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 275
This verse predicts the tim e or age to come w hen the w ar
between m atter and Spirit w ill cease. “T h e lion lay dow n w ith
the lamB”, is the age know n to E soteric M asters of W isdom
as the age of W isdom w hen all of th e spiritual faculties of man
will be opened, revealing a spiritual universe, independent of m at'
ter, the kingdom of th e F ath er or realm of G od. T his age is the
seventh cycle representing th e seventh seal as is tau g h t in the ap-
ocalypse of John, the Divine.
(6:4-5-6)— “There w ere giants in the earth in those d a ys; and
also a fter that, w h en the so n s o f G od cam e in unto the
daughters o f m en, and th ey bare children to them , the
same became m ig h ty m en w h ich w ere o f old, m en o f re­
nown. A n d G od sa w th a t the w icked n ess o f m an w as
great in the earth, and that every im agination o f the
thoughts o f his heart w a s only evil continually. A n d it
repented the L o rd th a t he h ad m ade m an on the earth,
and it grieved H im at H is heart.”
Here G od is represented as being sorry for H is ow n handi'
work because H is son w ent astray and follow ed after the carnal
desire of the flesh, instead of heeding the voice of the Spirit.
Man progressed m aterially at th e expense of his ow n spiritual'
ity. The Infinite Spirit desires m an to be spiritual and to rem em ­
ber he is a creator of good, fo r “ he was m ade in H is image, male
and female created H e him ” . H ow ever, the carnal m ind disputes
the existence of this spiritual im age, and decrees th a t it has no
real existence, w hile spirituality reveals th a t the w ay of the flesh
is sin and sin is death.
(6:7-8)— “A n d the L o rd said, I w ill d estro y m an w h o m I have
created fro m the fa ce o f the earth; both m an, and beast,
and the creeping thing, and the fo w ls o f the air; fo r it
repenteth m e that I have m ade them . B u t N o a h fo u n d
grace in the eyes o f the L o rd .”
This destruction was visioned by th e P rophet as the w ork
of God, but in tru th all destruction is the w ork of m ortal man.
Infinite Love w ould n o t destroy its ow n creation made in its
image, but the w riter of G enesis may possibly have believed in
a God of flesh and blood, not a G od of Infinite W isdom w ho
knows before a creation is created th e results w hich will be ob­
tained, for G od is A ll-know ing, All-seeing, O m nipotent Spirit.
The evil man did as related in this chapter and brought destruc­
tion upon the beings on earth, b u t m ankind can be redeem ed
276 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
from this error by following the exam ple of th e Cross of Cal­
vary. W h en Jesus proved D ivine Love as A ll-pow erful, He sub­
m itted to a crim inal’s death and overcam e th e flesh and arose
from the dead. Those w ho w ould avoid destruction through sin,
m ust likewise overcome th e flesh, do good to th e ir enemies and
rise above death. Such is th e teaching of our Science of Life.
No Divisions T h e O neness of M ind is dem onstrated in the
in universality of its principles. T h e seeming
Mind difference in m ind or individuality is but
higher and lower degrees of the one Infinite M ind. Identity is
the m entality and the m entation of an individual, it is composed
of D ivine M ind. T h e idea of G od inflicting punishm ent is as
unreal as to say God, or D ivine M ind w ould punish His own
beings w hich are divided into millions of corporealities or mortal
beings. T he part of man w hich suffers is his individual mental­
ity or consciousness, w hich he erroneously calls him self. His spir­
itual or inner self is beyond the realm of suffering since its being
exists in the realm of the M ost H igh. T h e m ental concept of man
w hich asserts th a t m ortality is true individuality is the parent
of sin, negation, disease and sorrow.
Creator T he idea of G od as a being w ith cor-
Superior to poreal presence robs the consciousness of
Creation true D ivine understanding, since a Creator
m ust be superior to its creation b o th in principle and power.
Super M ind Science throw s the search light of reason and Truth
on the Science of G od and G ood revealing th e tru e aspect of
man as the image of H is D ivine Father, having th e pow er while
on earth to m aster life and understand im m ortal existence. The
flood which destroyed sinful m ankind is a sym bol of carnal pas­
sion and lust, while the A rk symbolizes the Infinite Spiritual In­
telligence guiding man through his troubles and disasters, which
sin and the flesh bring upon him. T h e taking of the animals,
male and female, into the A rk illustrates th a t the protection of
Infinite Spirit is extended throughout all N ature. T h e A rk land­
ing on the m ountain is a symbol of Infinite Spirit guiding man
to a higher realization of the laws of life and creation in Divine
M ind.
Inspiration T he spiritual m eaning of th e Scripture dif-
and fers from the m ortal concept of the Holy
Understanding W rit because m ortal sinful m entalities cannot
see the true meaning of life and its powers. It accepts th e letter
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 277
but rejects the spirit. Inspiration and understanding come from
meditation and m ental effort. A cceptance of a theory as final
nullifys all investigation on a subject and makes it impossible
for one to know instead of believe. In no place does Super M ind
Science contradict itself or argue against tru e facts and existence,
it throws the beautiful rays of spiritual light on th e w ritings of
the Ancients, and lifts th e veil of m isconcept from the events of
history, life and T ru th .
. D octrines form ulated by m aterialists leave
Materialistic , , , , ,
. excuses to r th e w eakness of m ortal man,
Doctrines , . . . . , . . ,
teaching th a t it is natural to sin because they
cannot conceive the idea o f a spiritual creation. T h e Science of
Life which is foreign to creeds and dogm as reveals the inner
principles of life and controls th e outer. M astership is th e key
to life here and hereafter, it is m ind over m atter, Spirit over
flesh, imm ortality over m ortality.
Dawn S uper M ind Science raises the banner of
of T ru th in a m aterialistic age even though
T ruth th e ideas of life of the m ajority oppose its
principles. T hey declare th a t A dam w as th e first m an on earth,
not the first spiritual m an, th a t the earth is b u t six thousand
years old, and th a t G od w rote th e Scriptures. Such impossible
ideas are the flesh concept of G od, b u t spiritual wisdom demon-
strates creation in steps or ages, m ind in planes, and order in the
universe. W ould G od violate H is ow n universal laws, or would
He have revenge w hen H e is Love? T h e principles of life dem on­
strate the opposite to be true.
Man Since m an evolved from m ind, it follows th at
Evolved th e only Science of Life is th e Science of
from Mind M ind. R egardless of w hat anyone m ay say
Super M ind Science is th e one correct Science of th e M ind and
no one should criticize it unless th ey can dem onstrate it. Its laws
are the laws of N ature, its pow ers the pow er of D ivine Infinite
Spirit. In the early creation man w as condem ned to till the soil,
because he disobeyed these universal spiritual laws. Since pros­
perity, health and happiness depend upon one's obedience to
these laws it behooves us to learn th e m ethod of directing the
forces of life, m ind and God.
Flesh A dam sowed to flesh and reaped death,
and w hereas had he sown to Spirit he would
Death have reaped life. Super M ind Science teaches
278 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
Universal
Evolution
one to sow to Spirit and reap im m ortality. O utside of its mental
environm ent all is hypothetical, vague, uncertain and transitory,
for this is the highest T ru th and th e Science o f C hrist Jesus
w hich dem onstrates the w orks of the D ivine M ind.
U niversal D ivine M ind governs all things
th rough laws, including creation in cycles or
stages. T his evolution is continuous, its pow­
ers are of Spirit, not m atter. M aterial senses are delusive and con­
tinually suggest an impossible creation and spiritual manifestation,
because belief is m ortal, wisdom is im m ortal. O ne m ust rise above
dogmatic belief before they can w itness th e w orkings of spiritual
powers and understand the heavenly hierarchy w hich governs
man, otherwise they are ruled by uncertain astral pow ers which
are changeable and destructive. Seek therefore to know th at God
is Good, and T ru th is Love.
Mental ^ ° Ur t^ ouS^ts reflect in conditions of
Reflect! hfe, erroneous thinking produces evil deeds.
Those w ho regard life as corporeal cannot
rise above their lim ited circum stances and m ental sorrows. Life
is continuous making reproduction possible, w hile m atter is of a
changing nature. T h e eternal elem ent of M ind makes immortal­
ity possible and lifts man into spiritual environm ent. M atter is
embryonic while Spirit is eternal. T h e elem ents of m atter are
changed by planetary influence and astral conditions, while the
ever present reality, Spirit, in its inner principle rem ains the same.
M atter conform s to the Spirit’s form and beauty only to the ex­
tent that mortals obey D ivine laws of order. Species never pro­
duce other than their kind, or violate universal order. Amal­
gamation belongs to the vegetable kingdom , b u t ceases where
consciousness begins. Each life is produced from th e action of
Divine M ind upon first a cell then a group o f cells, finally a phy­
sical being forms from the group of cells.
Claims T he claims of evolution th a t souls progress
°f from one being to ano th er th ro u g h crossing
Evolution of the species sets aside th e D ivine laws of
order of the spiritual universe, for higher and low er beings are
but physical m anifestations of m ental states and planes. M ind is
not dependent on m atter, but m atter is dependent on M ind, as
is proven in Super M ind Science. A ll form s of m atter conform
to mental forms w hich existed before m atter. Jesus days, "before
the beginning of the world, I was in the bosom of m y Father",
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 279
so likewise was every living being, for G od is no respector of
persons. M ortal theories of m atter as m aster, and life mechanical,
are crude reflections of m atter’s erro r in judgm ent.
. , T h e deductions of scientists w ho explain em-
bryology are never accom panied w ith an ex­
planation as to w here m atter received its
intelligence. N either do th ey explain m athem atically correct, the
mystery of the action of Spirit in m olding form s of m atter. If
Spirit were not m aster of m atter, some bodies w ould possess no
limbs and some too m any. From spiritual intelligence only pro­
ceeds m atter and its various forms. N ativity belongs to the realm
of thought, likewise im m ortality and all progress in life. T h e in ­
ner self reflects G od, th e o u ter self can only im itate the in ­
ner. The outer self w as produced th ro u g h action of the inner
self or germs of life in m atter. T h is action may be term ed the
power of spiritual substance, w hile th e flesh product may be
termed the molded flesh substance. Spirit ever tries to make m at­
ter become more and m ore th e im age of Spirit, for “the flesh is
weak but the spirit is strong” . Jesus arose from the dead to prove
His inner self was the tru e reality and H is body was b u t a
vehicle of His Spiritual being, soul.
The Age G od will n o t always strive w ith th e flesh.
of Spirit w ill continue to mold flesh more and
Wisdom m ore perfect until the absurd and unnatural
disappears, leaving m an’s being as th e image of God. T h is will
bring about m ortal illum ination and th ro w aside the false claims
of theories w hich call life an accident. W h e n th e process of evo­
lution brings about this new era, th e A ge of W isdom will dawn,
and then like Paul says “ this m ortal (life) shall take on im m ort­
ality, this corruption shall take on incorruptibility”. T h e idea
of Adam being the first m an on earth, also th at Eve was made
of his rib is erroneous. T h is is symbolically correct b u t liter­
ally a myth for it only m eans th a t man is both masculine and
feminine in nature.
Mind
Radiation
T h e anim als of various types, likewise the
plants are b u t different degrees of the radi­
ated rays of mind. A study of th o u g h t forms
explains the sciences of Em bryology, O ntology, Botany and A n al­
ogy. Unless thoughts are studied these sciences can never explain
the infinite part of th e universe or infinitude of life and being
The cosmic planes of Being are indiscernible to our physical
280 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
vision, b u t m ind sees beyond the finest rays of light. T he xray
dem onstrates the pow er of concentration of light, while the Sci­
ence of M ind dem onstrates the pow er of m ind concentration.
Like the xray photographs objects invisible to th e physical organs
of sight, the m entality penetrates to planes beyond mortal con­
cept and impresses the consciousness w ith th e correct view of
immortal states and planes, also m ethods of attainm ent.
Mind of W h ere the th ree dim ensions of m atter end,
Fourth the fourth dim ension of Spirit or M ind be-
Dimension gins. T h e ultim ate of all things exists in this
eternal realm, making creation continuous. T h ere are seven cy­
cles of progression, symbolic or representative of the seven planes
of mind. T h e Infinite Spirit reflecting th ro u g h th e rays of the
sun governs the b irth of all creatures, w hile intelligence is gov­
erned by the distance of the sun from th e earth. A s the earth
passes through the seven cycles, the sun draw s first closer to pro­
duce the germ ination of life, then farth er aw ay th a t Spirit may
mold m atter, until finally the sun leaves th e earth entirely. When
life becomes spiritual, also invisible to corporeal senses, the rays
of mind which are now invisible and unknow n to mortal then
manifest, creating “a new heaven and a new ea rth ”. “T he new
Jersalem” will then descend from heaven, revealing creation as
spiritual and God as the F ather of life, m an as H is image, and
the universe as his kingdom.
Spiritual being is w ithin, b u t one can contact
their ow n soul essence w hen they merge with
the inner being or self. M entally they can
attain to spiritual selfhood or D ivine Sonship of G od. T his man,
or corporeality, knowing D ivinity does n o t im ply th a t G od must
develop in order to realize H is ow n presence, b u t man must
develop to know G od's presence w ithin. Physical germ s are nur­
tured by the friction of positive and negative energy and exoter­
ic law and order w ithin the ocean of m atter, w hile th e spiritual
being is nurtured by spiritual germs called electrons w hich exist
in the cosmic oceans of T ru th and Light.
Genus T he genus oflife is in spirituality, not mat-
° f eriality. T ru th exists in th e Spirit within,
Life b u t corporeal senses fail to register all the
spiritual impulses, therefore, its judgm ents are im perfect. By
concentration of the mind, the consciousness may pass beyond
the limitations of m atter w here all forces of creation exist, see-
Spiritual
Self-Hood
T H E B O O K O F G E N E SIS 281
ing therein the num erous species in th eir varied form s and shapes
moving dow nw ard tow ard the plane of m atter w hile m ind con-
trols the entry of such form s th ro u g h th e law of harm ony w ith
the seeds of life. H arm ony is the basis of existence, born through
spiritual unity w ith God.
Principle T h e principles of life govern th e fount of
of creation th ro u g h th e spiritual form s, elec-
Life trons and germ s of life. T h e Foetal O vum
is only incidental to th e creation of beings, it is by no means the
beginning of life. M an is m uch higher in th e scale of universal
spirituality than any o th er anim al. H e is th e Son of a living God,
All-knowing, O m nipotent and O m nscient, th e very eternal univ­
ersal principle of Life and Light. W h e n scientists arrive at this
view of man, they w ill m ake interesting discoveries w hich will
greatly benefit hum anity.
The Power Infinite Spirit is th e pow er w hich verifies,
of m ortals m ake th e condition. W h e n the con-
Life dition of life o r germ ination is met, the cos­
mic entity is draw n into m atter. T h e thoughts of the parents of
mortals decide th e type of child to be born, since th e entry into
life is from the spiritual th en m ental plane before th e ego is at­
tracted to the developing em bryonic seed. T herefore, each
mother and father should know th e proper m eans of m ind con­
trol before being receptive to th e idea of parenthood. T ru e love
and devotion to good on th e p art of parents w ould bring fo rth a
spiritual race, w hile malice and envy expressed in thoughts of
parents can produce a crim inal.
■pk T h e deluge w hich N oah foresaw was a sym-
Delu e k°l evd beings destroying them selves, for
as th e S cripture states, m an had become sin­
ful. However, the deluge only affected a small area of the earth,
that part w hich was the m ost sinful, fo r the com bined evil
thoughts of a race may becom e the seeds of disaster since all
creation is governed by th o u g h t attraction. Super M ind Science
demonstrates “th at as a m an th in k eth so is h e”, or his type of
thoughts mold the personality physically, m entally and spirit­
ually.
Theological
Error
tng him to fall.
T h e error in theology is in th a t it pictures
m an as created perfect on earth, th en his
sin, w hich they teach was im m orality, caus-
If Eve was his wife, given for th e purpose of
282 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
procreation, then according to reason his act had it been so im­
moral, could not have constituted a sin so grave as to send all of
hum anity to an unnatural death unless G od w ere unjust. The
sin of killing other creatures and eating them could have sown
the seeds of an evil appetite, and th e sin of killing could under
compensation equal death. T hus D ivine Science explains the sin.
N o punishm ent is greater than the sin unless G od would violate
the law of spiritual justice, w hich is n o t only improbable, but
owing to the Divine N ature of Infinite Spirit, is impossible.
The Fall T h e fall of m an was from th e state of the
of sinless m ortal to th a t of a carnivorous killer
Man w ho lived upon th e flesh of o th er creatures,
symbolized by the “tree of know ledge of rig h t and w rong”. This
sin caused man to become the fath er of m urderers as proven by
the story of Cain. Following this type of crim e th ere was bom
from the same sin, disease, unhappiness and death of the soul
consciousness w hich was originally so pronounced th a t man could
understand spiritual impulse and com m une w ith th e Infinite.
Redemption M an’s redem ption com es from abstaining
of from killing, doing th e D ivine w orks of the
Man M aster, m ental and physical control, the har­
monization of m ind and Spirit w ith cinsciousness of the Infinite.
T he ways of G od are higher than th e loftiest concept of mortal
man, therefore, one should elevate th eir consciousness to the
Christ plane, knowing th at all pow er is w ithin. T h is is the one
and only way to attain the redem ption of man. Jesus says ' He
who loveth me doeth M y w orks”, H e did n o t say “he who BE­
LIEVES as I do will go to heaven”. T h e creation of man as
viewed from a cosmic standpoint is a story of th e wisdom of
God, while the hypothesis of a m aterial creation would reveal
God as unjust and revengeful, w hich is contrary to His Divine
Nature. Super M ind Science throw s the illum ination of reason
on the subject of creation, interpreting the spirit and explaining
the letter. Knowledge is power, therefore one should endeavor
to know more and believe less.
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S
Psalms (1 :l-2 -3 -4 -5 -6 )— “B lessed is the m an that w alketh not
in the counsel o f the ungodly, nor standeth in the w ay o f
sinners, nor sitteth in the seat o f the scornful. B u t his de­
light is in the law o f the L o r d ; and in H is law doth he
m editate day and night. A n d he shall he like a tree planted
by the rivers o f w ater, th a t bringeth fo r th his fr u it in his
season; his lea f also shall not w ith e r; and w hatsoever he
doeth shall prosper. T h e u ngodly are no t so: hut are like
the chaff w hich the w in d d riveth aw ay. T h erefo re the u n ­
godly shall no t stand in the ju d g m en t, n o r sinners in the
congregation o f the righteous. F o r the L o rd kn o w eth the
way o f the righteous: bu t the w a y o f the ungodly shall
perish.”
The “ungodly” constitute those w ho are ignorant of D ivine
laws, M ind, T ru th , Love and Light, as well as the w illful sinner.
Mind purification th ro u g h self control develops G od conscious'
ness, revealing th e w onders of th e D ivine kingdom w hich is
beyond m ortal concept, belief o r ideas. T h e Science of M ind
unlocks the pow ers of Infinite Spirit, revealing th e Sonship of
God through heavenly harm ony.
(2 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7)— “W h y do the heathen rage, and the people
imagine a vain thing? T h e K in g s o f the earth se t th em ­
selves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the
Lord, and against his anointed, saying, L e t us break their
bands asunder, and cast aw ay their cords fro m us. H e
that sitteth m the heavens shall laugh; the L o rd shall have
them in derision. T h en shall H e speak unto them in H is
wrath, and v e x them in H is sore displeasure. Y e t have
1 set m y K in g upo n m y h o ly H ill o f Zion. I w ill declare
the decree: T h e L o rd hath said unto m e, T h o u art M y
son; this day have I begotten thee.”
Those begotten of th e L ord or D ivinity possess spiritual u n ­
derstanding w hich w hen exalted to heaven enters them into
the Divine Sonship of G od. T h en enemies cannot overcom e
them or false beliefs affect them . T h ey are loyal to the precepts
of Truth, and all efforts to destroy good m eet w ith the derision
of the All Good A lm ighty Spirit w hich protects its own. Spiritual
birth follows this m ental illum ination.
(2:8-9-10-11-12)— “A s k o f m e, and I shall give thee the
heathen fo r thine inheritance, and the u tterm o st parts o f
284 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
the earth fo r th y possession. T h o u shalt break them with
a rod o f iron; thou shalt dash th em in pieces like a pot­
ter’s vessel. B e w ise now , th erefo re, 0 ye K ings; Be
instructed, ye ju d g es o f the earth. S e rv e the Lord with
fea r, and rejoice w ith trem bling. K iss the son, lest he
be angry, and ye perish fr o m the w a y, w h en his wrath is
kindled but a little. B lessed are all th ey that put their
tru st in him .”
Follow after T ru th , exercise D ivine Love and all your en­
emies shall become your footstool. K eep conscious of Christ and
do not have false pride, ignorance and sin as your companions,
and D ivine law will cause you to prosper and be ever happy in
D ivine W isdom . Fear not the forces of evil, for they cannot
overcome G od and Good. T his consciousness of Good must be
ever present to com bat the conditions of darkness. M ortal sense
will never com prehend the A ll-good, only th ro u g h Love and si­
lent prayer can one approach this heavenly state.
(3 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)— ‘‘L o rd , h o w are th ey increased that
trouble m e! M a n y are they that rise up against me. Many
there be w hich say o f m y soul, T h ere is no help fo r him
in God. Selah. B u t T hou, O L o rd , a rt a shield fo r me;
m y glory, and the lifte r up o f m ine head. I cried unto
the L o rd w ith m y voice, and H e heard m e out of His
holy hall. Selah. I laid m e d o w n and slep t; I awaked:
fo r the L o rd sustained m e. I w ill n o t be afraid of ten
thousands o f people, that h ave set them selves against
m e round about. A rise, 0 L o r d ; save m e, 0 m y God:
fo r T h o u hast sm itten all m ine enem ies upon the cheek
bone; T hou hast broken the teeth o f the ungodly. Salva­
tion belongeth unto the L o rd : T h y blessing is upon thy
people. Selah.”
T he ungodly try to destroy the w orks of D ivine Science
b u t are repulsed through the saving pow er of Spirit which giveth
the righteous strength, pow er and wisdom . T h e Law of Com­
pensation will deal w ith them if you will leave it to Divine Love,
rights all wrongs, for those w ho follow righteousness. Do good
unto your fellowman, then see victory and the glory of Divine
M ind as it prepares the way. Lift up th y gaze beyond the carnal
passions, and overcome evil w ith good.
4 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8) — ‘‘H ear m e w h en I call, 0 m y God of my
righteousness: T hou hast enlarged m e w hen I was in
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 285
distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 0 ye
sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame?
How long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing?
Selah. But know that the Lord hath set apart him that
is godly for himself: the Lord will hear when I call unto
him. Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your
own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah. Offer the
sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the Lord.
There be many that say, Who will shew us any good?
Lord, lift Thou up the light of Thy countenance upon us.
Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time
that their corn and their wine increased. I will both lay
me down in peace, and sleep: For Thou, Lord, only
makest me dwell in safety.”
The Infinite M ind is au th o r of all G ood and lifts up the
standard of D ivinity before the eyes of man. T h e sons of man
turn Divine G lory into sham e th ro u g h follow ing vague beliefs
and theories, instead of th e T ru th and L ight of the Science of
Life. Divine W isdom forgives th e ir sins th a t the consciousness
may be lifted up, provided they will receive. T h e Lord or Divine
Intelligence hears every righteous plea of man but dem ands con­
structive deeds w hich m erit rew ard.
5:1-2-3-4-5-6-7)—"Give ear to my words, 0 Lord, consider
my meditation. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my
King, and My God: For unto Thee will / pray. My voice
shalt thou hear in the morning, 0 Lord; in the morning
will 1 direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up. For
Thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness;
neither shall evil dwell with thee. The foolish shall not
stand in Thy sight; Thou hatest all workers of iniquity.
Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing; the Lord
will abhor the bloody and deceitful man. But as for me,
I will come into Thy house in the multitude of Thy mercy;
and in Thy fear will I worship toward Thy Holy Temple.”
God is Good, therefore heareth only Good, evil is nega­
tion and has no p art in th e D ivine kingdom . T hose w ho worship
God as T ruth, Love and L ight see G od as Good in all creations.
The Divine Spirit never condones a bloody or evil deed, such
deeds are the destroying pow ers of carnal mind. O nly Divine
Love and eternal goodness can enter into His H oly Tem ple,
which is in the universe and in the eternal consciousness of man.
286 ETERNAL W ISD O M A N D HEALTH
(5:8-9-10-11-12)— “Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness
because of mine enemies; make Thy way straight before
my face. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their
inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open
sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue. Destroy Thou
them, 0 God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast
them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for
they have rebelled against Thee. But let all those that
put their trust in Thee rejoice; let them ever shout for
joy, because Thou defendest them: Let them also that
love Thy Name be joyful in Thee. For Thou, Lord, wilt
bless the righteous; with favour wilt Thou compass him
as with a shield.”
The Infinite M ind protects the righteous while the sins of
the wicked shorten the life of the wicked. Seek, Oh, Child of
Light to know that God is within, place your trust in Him that
you may be eternally conscious. Evil thoughts and evil deeds
destroy the doer, while the power of good prospers those who
are righteous. Sow seeds of Divine Love and reap the fruit of
eternal Spirit, which is immortal consciousness. Death is over­
come with life.
(6:1 -2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)-—
-'“0 Lord, rebuke me not vn Thine
anger, neither chasten me in Thy hot displeasure. Have
mercy upon me, 0 Lord; for I am weak: 0 Lord, heal
me; for my bones are vexed. My soul is also sore vexed:
But Thou, 0 Lord, how long? Return, 0 Lord, deliver
my soul: Oh save me for Thy mercies’ sake. For in
death there is no remembrance of Thee: In the grave
who shall give Thee thanks? I am weary with my groan­
ing: All the night make I my bed to swim; I water m y
couch with my tears. Mime eye is consumed because of
grief: It waxeth old because of all mine enemies. D e p a r t
from me, all ye workers of iniquity: For the Lord hath
heard the voice of my weeping. The Lord hath heard my
supplication; the Lord will receive my prayer. Let all
mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed; let them return
and be ashamed suddenly.”
Divine M ind rescues those in trouble and sorrow, showing
God is Good. The Science of M ind reveals the power to break
all earthly ties, overcome all woe, heal all wounds and bring man
in rapport with Supreme Infinite Love. The prayers of the right-
T H E BOOK OF PSALMS 287
cous never go unanswered because the righteous possess the In­
finite spiritual consciousness and W ill. Use Divine M ind power
to overcome mortal mind, absorb with the Infinite and enemies
become powerless.
(7:l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)— “O Lord my God, in Thee do I put my
trust: Save me from all them that persecute me, and
deliver me: Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it
in pieces, while there is none to deliver. 0 Lord my God,
If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands; If
I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me;
(yea, I have delivered him that without cause.is mine
enemy;) Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it;
yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay
mine honour in the dust. Selah. Arise, 0 Lord, in Thine
anger, lift up Thyself because of the rage of mine ene­
mies; and awake for me to the judgment that Thou hast
commanded. So shall the congregation of the people com­
pass thee about: For their sakes, therefore, return Thou
on high. The Lord shall judge the people: Judge \'me,
0 Lord, according to my righteousness, and according
to mine integrity that is in me.”
Infinite M ind is implored by selfish mortals to destroy. God
being Love, to him revenge is impossible. He may lift one’s con­
sciousness above evil, but He never commits evil so that evil may
be overcome. The ascending intelligence cognizes God when it
rises above fear, enmity and sorrow, realizing the unlimited
ocean of Spirit, which assists all who harmonize with Truth,
Love and Light.
(7 :9-10-l 1-12-13-14-15-16-17)— “Oh let the wickedness of the
wicked come to an end; but establish the just; For the
righteous God trieth the hearts and reins. My defence is
of God, which saveth the upright in heart. God judgeth
the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every
day. If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent
his bow, and made it ready. He hath also prepared for
him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows
against the persecutors. Behold, he travaileth the iniquity,
and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth false­
hood. He made a pit, and digged it, and is failed into
the ditch which he made. His mischief shall return upon
his own head and his violent dealing shall come down
288 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
upon his own pate. I will praise the Lord according to
his righteousness; and will sing praise to the name of the
Lord most high.”
The law of compensation metes out its own reward. The
forces of evil created by a delusive consciousness destroy those
who commit evil, while righteousness is rewarded by the same
law of the Infinite. Doers of sin become like sin, a force of de­
struction, but evil has no power over good. The illumination of
Spirit is the torchlight of life, and God is the refuge of the right­
eous. Divine M ind Science unites the consciousness of man with
God, forming the greatest protection from enemies and sealing
all vows.
( 8 :1-2-3-4-5)—“0 Lord our Lord, how excellent is Thy name
in all the earth! Who hast set Thy glory above the
heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast
Thou ordained strength, because of Thine enemies, that
Thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. When l
consider Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon
and the stars, which Thou hast ordained.: What is man,
that Thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that
Thou visitest him? For Thou hast made him a little lower
than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and
honour.”
The natural condition of man is spiritual mastery over all
earthly beings; Divine Love created him so. Great wisdom
cometh forth from the mouth of babes, and those who are the
least on earth are the greatest in heaven. M an having been
crowned with glory and w ith honor should manifest the Sonship
of Spirit and overcome the weakness of the flesh. These methods
of mastery are revealed in the Science of Life.
(8:6-7-8-9)—‘‘Thou modest him to have dominion over the
works of Thy hands: Thou hast put all things under his
feet: All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field:
The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and what­
soever passeth through the paths of the seas. 0 Lord, our
Lord, how excellent is Thy Name in all the earth!”
Man was created to possess plenty and to be happy; all mis­
ery, sorrow and poverty come from ignorance of the law of All
Good. All creation is the domain of man through spiritual law,
let all people find God within, love one another “and all things
shall be added unto them ”. “Seek and ye shall find”.
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 289
(9:l-2-3-4-5-6-7)— "I will praise thee, 0 Lord, with my whole
heart; I will shew forth all Thy marvelous works. I will
be glad and rejoice in Thee: I will sing praise to Thy
Name, O Thou most high. When mine enemies are turned
back, they shall fall and perish at Thy presence. For
Thou hast maintained my right and my cause: Thou
satest in the throne judging right. Thou hast rebuked the
heathen, Thou hast destroyed the wicked, Thou hast put
out their name for ever cmd ever. 0 Thou enemy! De­
structions are come to a perpetual end: And Thou hast
destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.
But the Lord shall endure for ever: He hath prepared
His throne for judgment.”
T he pow er of Spirit is th e judgm ent of men, each deed pro-
duces its own rew ard regardless of race or creed. D ivine Love is
the rem edy for all ills. R enouncing the flesh brings forth good,
power and peace. T h e light of this w orld is the light of man,
while the light of heaven is th e w isdom of God. A ll conditions of
life represent m ental planes w ith D ivine Love as the balancing
wheel of life.
(9:8-9-10-11-12-13)— ‘
"And He shall judge the world in right­
eousness, He shall minister judgment to the people in up­
rightness. The Lord also will be a refuge for the op­
pressed, a refuge in times of trouble. And they that know
Thy Name will put their trust in Thee: For Thou, Lord,
hast not forsaken them that seek thee. Sing praises to
the Lord, which dwelleth in Zion: Declare among the
people His doings. When he maketh inquisition for blood,
he remembereth them: He forgetteth not the cry of the
humble. Have mercy upon me, 0 Lord; consider my
trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, Thou that
liftest me up from the gates of death.”
Infinite Spirit sends fo rth pow er to those w ho are in distress,
death is overcome w ith life, evil w ith good, and hatred w ith love.
T he Divine Science of Life reveals the pow er of Good, and the
weakness of evil, malice, hatred and sin. T h e Love of G od is
sufficient, it com pensates all efforts of man. Let all w ho are G odly
look beyond this m ortal veil of tears and see D ivine Love, T ru th
and Light in the highest plane of life and Spirit, having perfect
confidence th a t good deeds lead to soul im m ortality.
290 ETERN A L W ISD O M A N D HEALTH
(9:14-15-16-17-18-19-20)— ‘‘That I may shew forth all Thy
praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice
in Thy salvation. The heathen are sunk down in the pit
that they made: In the net which they hid is their own
foot taken. The Lord is known by the judgment which
He executeth: The wicked is snared in the work of his
own hands. Higgaion. Selah. The wicked shall be turned
into hell, and all the nations that forget God. For the
needy shall not always be forgotten: The expectation of
the poor shall not perish for ever. Arise, 0 Lord; let
not man prevail; let the heathen be judged in Thy sight.
Put them in fear, 0 Lord; that the nations may know
themselves to be but men. Selah.”
Divine Love always prevails for God who is no respector
of races, creeds or beliefs. “T he evil preparest a pit and fall
therein.” T he pit is the abyss of ignorance, superstition and
fear where the forces developed through mental negation lead
to destruction. T he Science of Life is the torchlight of exist-
ence, let all who possess Divine W isdom rejoice!
(10:1-2-3-4-5-6)— “Why standest Thou afar off, 0 Lord?
Why hidcst Thou Thyself in times of trouble? The wicked
in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in
the devices that they have imagined. For the wicked
boasteth of his heart’s desire, and blesseth the covetous,
whom the Lord abhorreth. The wicked, through the
pride of His countenance, will not seek after God: God
is not in all his thoughts. His ways are always grievous;
Thy judgments are far above out of his sight: As for
all his enemies, he puffeth at them. He hath said in his
heart, I shall not be moved; for I shall never be in
adversity.”
Arrogance and conceit are pitfalls of danger belonging to
the lower depths of human mentation. Divine Love is the Bread
of Life, W isdom is the leaven thereof. W isdom develops meek­
ness of mind, while the sin of arrogance develops carnality of the
consciousness. God is Love, all who worship Him must worship
Him in the spirit'of love of fellowman, Light and Truth.
(10:7-8-9-10-11-12)—“His mouth is full of cursing and deceit
and fraud; under his tongue is mischief and vanity. He
sitteth in the lurking places of the villages; in the secret
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 291
places doth he murder the innocent: His eyes are privily
set against the poor. He lieth in wait secretly, as a lion
in his den: He lieth in wait to catch the poor: He doth
catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net. He
croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall
by his strong ones. He hath said in his heart, God hath
forgotten: He hideth his face; he will never see it. Arise,
0 Lord; 0 God, lift up thine hand: Forget not the
humble.”
Divine Infinite Spirit exalts th e hum ble in heart and rescues
the afflcted w hen they lift up th eir spiritual eyes, beholding
God as a great fortress and protector of th e needy.
(10:13-14-15-16-17-18)— “Wherefore doth the wicked con­
temn God? He hath said in his heart, thou wilt not re­
quire it. Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief
and spite, to require it with thy hand; the poor commit-
teth himself unto thee; thou are the helper of the father­
less. Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man:
Seek out his wickedness till thou find none. The Lord
is King for ever and ever: The heathen are perished out
of his land. Lord, Thou hast heard the desire of the
humble: Thou wilt prepare their heart, Thou wilt cause
thine ear to hear; to judge the fatherless and the op­
pressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.”
T he man of earth inflicts punishm ent upon the man of earth
through ignorance of D ivine Love and T ru th . O ne sinner pro­
claims he is holier th an an other sinner, w hile others claim they
are superior citizens of th eir country. D ivine M ind exalts the
pure in heart, w hile the Law of C om pensation punishes those
who punish others. “A s ye judge, so shall ye be judged” is the
Divine edict of the Law of M ind. L et all your judgm ents be
seasoned w ith M ercy lest ye fall beneath the burden of con­
science into soul oblivion.
(11 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7)— “In the Lord put I my trust: How say ye
to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain? For, lo, the
wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon
the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in
heart. If the foundations be destroyed, what can be
righteous do? The Lord is in His holy temple, the Lord’s
throne is in heaven: His eyes behold, His eyelids try, the
children of men. The Lord trieth the righteous: But the
292 ETER N A L W ISD O M A N D HEA LTH
wicked, and him that loveth violence. His soul hateth.
Upon the wicked He shall rain snares, fire and brimstone,
and an horrible tempest: This shall be the portion of their
cup. For the righteous Lord loveth righteousness; His
countenance doth behold the upright.”
T he righteous shall inherit the earth and the heavens, all
good shall be theirs, while the laws of life will destroy the
wicked. Good produces, evil destroys, God is power and there­
fore the one and only power in the universe. All other powers
are auxiliary to Him whose love shineth through mortal mind
like the rays of the morning star. T he immortal beings rejoice
in the presence of His eternal light. T he Science of Life is to
know His power, Love, Goodness and Grace.
(12:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)— ‘‘Help, Lord: For the godly man
ceaseth: For the faithful fail from among the children
of men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbour:
with flattering lips, and with a double heart, do they
speak. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the
tongue that speaketh proud things: Who have said, With
our tongue will we prevail: Our lips are our own: Who
is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the
sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord; l
will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The
words of the Lord are pure words; as silver tried in a
furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep
them, 0 Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this gen­
eration for ever. The wicked walk on every side, when
the vilest men are exalted.”
T he Divine promise is that the righteous shall prosper in
home, health and spirituality, while the unrighteous shall be in
poverty and distress. Let each M ind Scientist seek refuge in God
who seeth in secret and rewardeth openly, remembering that God
cares for His own, and that His love, like His spirit is limitless.
Sacrifice the sensations of flesh for the true pleasures of Spirit,
glorify the source of Divine Light, O ur Heavenly Father, go
within thy being and commune w ith Him in His holy temple.
(13:1-2-3-4-5-6)—‘‘How long wilt Thou forget me, 0 Lord.
for ever? How long wilt thou hide Thy face from me?
How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow
in my heart daily? How long shall mine enemy be exalted
over me? Consider and hear me, 0 Lord my God:
T H E BOOK OF PSALMS 293
Lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death; lest mine
enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that
trouble me rejoice when I am moved. But I have trusted
in Thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in Thy salvation. I
will sing unto the Lord, because He hath dealt bountifully
with me.”
The Infinite Spirit cares for its own, those who have been
tried in the fires of life and have trusted, know its power. Let
every mortal mind bow to the Infinite presence, and every tongue
confess eternal goodness that Love may reign supreme. As the
stars rise to light the night, so His Spirit illumines the days of
our life. Enter into the fullness of His Spirit, close out the
weighty problems of the flesh, be still and know that the “I A m ”
is Eternal Life, Love, T ruth and Spirit.
(14:1-2-3-4-5-6-7)— ‘‘The fool hath said in his heart, There is
no God. They are corrupt; they have done abominable
works: There is none that doeth good. The Lord looked
down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if
there were any that did understand, and seek God. They
are all gone aside, they are all together, become filthy:
There is none that doeth good, no, not one. Have all the
workers of iniquity no knowledge? Who eat up my
people as they eat bread, and call not upon the Lord.
There were they in great fear: For God is in the genera­
tion of the righteous. Ye have shamed the counsel of the
poor; because the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that the salva­
tion of Israel were come out of Zion! When the Lord
bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall re­
joice, and Israel shall be glad.”
Those who follow after the flesh knoweth not God, for He
abideth in Spirit and Spirit abideth in Mind. The flesh cannot
comprehend the laws of Spirit because of ignorance. The
natural man must put on spirituality through mind control and
inner supplication. Meekness of heart and devotion are the
golden keys of eternal consciousness. The wise in the flesh are
the foolish in Spirit, for the ways of God are higher than the
ways of men. Devotion leads to His kingdom.
(15:1-2-3-4-5)— ‘‘Lord, who shall abide in Thy tabernacle?
Who shall dwell in Thy holy hill? He that walketh up­
rightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the
truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue,
294 ETERN A L W ISD O M A N D H EA LTH
nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach
against his neighbour. In whose eyes a vile person is con­
temned: but he honoureth them that fear the Lord. He
that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not. He that
putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall
never be moved.”
Those who are diligent in the works of the Spirit, doing
all things well, expressing Charity, Love and Light are the chil­
dren of His Kingdom, and the light of this world. They are
“about their Father’s business”, citizens of the universe, and
torchlights of humanity. Divine M ind Science is the key which
unlocks the Divine and Infinite Mind.
(16:1-2-3-4-5)— ‘‘Preserve me, 0 God: For in Thee do I put
my trust. 0 my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou
art my Lord: My goodness extendeth not to thee; but to
the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in
whom is dll my delight. Their sorrows shall be multiplied
that hasten after another God; their drink offerings of
blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my
lips. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of
my cup: Thou maintainest my lot.”
T he Divine elixir of Spirit makes the cup of life sweet, while
the sorrows of the flesh is the bitter cup of being. Drink of the
Divine substance and thy life shall take on immortality, seek
T ruth in the Science of Being.
(16:6-7-8-9-10-11)—‘‘The lines are fallen upon me in pleas­
ant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the
Lord, who hath given me counsel; my reins also instruct
me in the night seasons. I have set the Lord always be­
fore me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be
moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory re-
joiceth: my flesh also shall rest in hope. For Thou wilt
not leave my soul in he'll; neither wilt thou suffer thine
Holy One to see corruption. Thou wilt shew me the path
of life: In Thy Presence is fulness of joy; at Thy right
hand there are pleasures for evermore.”
Infinite M ind purifies the flesh, overcoming the decaying
processes of mortal mind, prolonging life, and illuminating the
way for those who bear witness of the All-pervading presence
which preserves consciousness and demonstrates the eternal qual-
T H E BOOK OF PSALMS 295
ity of life and Divine Love. Divine protection against all evil
forces comes from unity of good. The works of inspired men
is the light of the eternal light which illumines the pathway to
spiritual attainment.
(17:1-2-3-4-5-6-7) — “H ea r the right, 0 L o rd , attend unto m y
cry; give ear unto m y prayer, that goeth not out o f
feigned lips. L e t m y sentence com e fo r th fr o m thy pres­
ence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal.
Thou hast pro ved m ine h ea rt; T h o u hast visited m e in the
night; T h o u hast tried m e, and shalt find nothing: I am
purposed that m y m o u th shall n o t transgress. C oncern­
ing the w o rks o f m en, by the w o rd o f T h y lips I h a ve
kept m e fr o m the p a th s o f the destroyer. H o ld up m y
goings m thy paths, that m y fo o tstep s slip not. I have
called upon T hee, fo r T h o u w ilt hear m e, 0 G od; incline
Thine ear unto m e, and hear m y speech. S h e w T h y m ar­
vellous loving kindness, 0 T h o u that savest by T h y right
hand them w hich pu t th eir tru st in T hee fr o m those that
rise up against them .”
The eternal principle of Love keeps one from all harm, and
trust in Spirit bringeth peace. Follow T ruth and forsake ignor­
ance then evil will fail to control thee. Spiritual progress is
toward the Infinite and away from the finite. The Science of
Mind liberates the consciousness from the bondage of desire,
causing it to attain eternal bliss.
(1 7 :8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15)— “K eep m e as the apple o f the
eye; hide m e u n d er the shadow o f T h y w ings. F rom the
w icked that oppress m e, fr o m m y deadly enem ies w ho
com pass m e about. T h e y are inclosed in their ow n fa t:
w ith their m outh th ey speak proudly. T h ey have now
com passed u s in our ste p s; th ey have set their eyes bow ­
ing dow n to the earth; L ik e as a lion that is greedy o f his
prey, and as it w ere a yo u n g lion lurking in secret places.
A rise, 0 L o rd , disappoint him , cast him dow n: deliver
m y so u l fr o m the w icked, w hich is T h y sw ords F rom
■m en w hich are T h y hand, 0 L o rd , fro m m en o f the w orld,
w hich have their portion in this life, and w hose belly Thou
fillest w ith T h y hid treasure: they are fu ll o f children,
and leave the rest o f their substance to their babes. A s
fo r me, I w ill behold T h y fa ce in righteousness: I shall
be satisfied, w hen I aw ake, w ith T h y likeness.”
296 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
See righteousness in all m en, never condem n personalities,
b u t overcom e m ental dem ons or low thoughts w ith Divine con­
sciousness. Rise above the sordid ideas of enm ity, behold the
D ivine presence of Godwin every living being, worship God
silently in Spirit and in T ru th , th en all enem ies become thy foot­
stool, for pow er of Spirit exists in D ivine harm ony. Overpower
evil w ith good, sickness w ith health energies and powers, flesh
w ith Spirit, and attain m ental harm ony w ith T ru th , Love and
Light.
(1 8 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 ) — " I w ill love thee , 0 L o rd , m y strength.
T h e L o rd is m y rock, and m y fo rtre ss, and by deliverer:
m y G od, m y stren g th , in w h o m I w ill tru st; m y buckler,
and the horn o f m y salvation, and m y hig h tower. I will
call upon the L o rd , w ho is w o rth y to be praised: so shall
I be saved fr o m m ine enem ies. T h e sorrow s o f death
com passed m e, and the floods o f u n godly m en made me
afraid. T h e so rro w s o f h ell com passed m e about; the
snares o f death p reven ted m e. In m y distress I called
upon the L o rd , and cried unto m y G od: H e heard my
voice out o f H is tem ple, and m y cry cam e before him,
even into h is ears."
T h ro u g h spiritual hearing th e voice of the Infinite reaches
man, telling of the w isdom of G od, Love and T ru th . All enemies
of righteousness are vanquished in th e presence of His Supreme
Love. T h e Science of Life reveals th e D ivine contact of man and
G od, show ing T h e W ay, T h e T ru th and T h e Life. Divine Mind
never fails to incline an ear to the sincere m ortal pleas for help
in th e presence of danger, fo r D ivine Love succors the needy.
T h e nectar of life flows freely to those w ho love good. The hid­
den m anna falls in th e w ilderness of th e flesh to satisfy the spirit­
ual hunger of th e seeker of Light, Life and Pow er. “Be still and
know th a t I am G od” sayeth th e silent voice w hich drifts on
o’er the waves of life.
(18:7-8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15-16)— '‘T h en the earth shook and
trem bled; the fo u n d a tio n s also o f the hills m oved and
w ere shaken, because he w as w roth. T here w ent up a
sm oke out o f his nostrils, and fire out o f his m outh de­
voured: coals w ere kindled b y it. H e bow ed the heavens
also, and cam e d o w n : and darkness w as under his feet.
A n d he rode upon a cherub, and did fly ; yea, he did fly
upon the w ings o f the w ind. H e m ade darkness his secret
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 297
place: his pavilion round, about h im w ere dark w aters and
thick clouds o f the skies. A t the brightness that w as be­
fore him h is thick clouds passed, hail stones and coals o f
fire. T he L o rd also th u n d ered in the heavens, and the
H ighest gave his voice; hail stones and coals o f fire. Yea,
H e sent out H is arrow s, and scattered th em ; and H e shot
■ out lightnings, and discom fited them . T h en the channels
o f w aters w ere seen, and the fo u n d a tio n s o f the w orld
were discovered at T h y rebuke, 0 L o rd , at the blast o f
the breath o f T h y nostrils. H e sent fr o m above, H e took
me, H e drew m e out o f m any w aters."
The elements of life are charged w ith the energy of mind.
Lightning is a symbol of spiritual energy ar^d power, while thun-
der is their m anifestation. M an comes from the elements of life
or the many w aters w hose sym bol is the soul. D ivine bliss brings
calm to the troubled w aters of m ortal life w hen souls obey the
voice of G od w hich m anifests in the silence of the night of
mundane life. Im m ortality is th e gift of G od, it is born from
obedience to D ivine T ru st th ro u g h the laws of M ind, w hich are
also the law s‘of life.
(18:17-18-19-20-21-22-23-24) — '"H e delivered m e fro m m y
strong enem y, and fr o m them w hich hated m e: fo r they
were too strong fo r m e. T h ey prevented m e in the day
o f m y calam ity: but the L o rd w as m y stay. H e brought
me fo rth also in to a large place: H e delivered m e, because
H e delighted in me. T h e L o rd rew arded m e according to
m y righteousness; according to the cleanness o f m y hands
hath H e recom pensed m e. F o r I have kept the w ays o f
the L ord, and have not w ickedly departed fro m m y God.
F or all H is ju d g m en ts w ere before m e, and I did n o t put
away H is sta tu tes fr o m m e. I w as also upright before
H im , and I kep t m y se lf fr o m m ine iniquity. T herefore
hath the L o rd recom pensed m e according to m y rig h t­
eousness, according to the cleanness o f m y hands in his
eyesight."
Spiritual purity is approved by Infinite Spirit, those w ho are
so approved rise to th e sublim e understanding of im m ortal life
where man m anifests th e Sonship of God. Lightness of consci­
ence causes one to rise in the ascending scale tow ard eternal light.
(1 8 :25-26-27-28-29-30-31-32)— ‘‘W ith the m erciful T h o u w ilt
shew T h y se lf m ercifu l; w ith an upright m an T hou w ilt
298 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
sh ew T h y s e lf u p rig h t; W ith the pure T hou wilt shew
T h y se lf p u re; and w ith the fro w a rd thou w ilt shew Thy­
s e lf fro w a rd . F o r T h o u w ilt save the afflicted people; but
w ilt bring do w n high looks. F o r T h o u w ilt light my can­
dle; the L o rd m y G od w ill enlighten m y darkness. For
by T hee I have ru n th ro ’ a tro o p ; and by m y God have
I leaped over a wall. A s fo r G od, his w ay is perfect: the
w o rd o f the L o rd is tried ; he is a buckler to all those that
tru st in him . F o r w h o is G od save the L o r d ? Or who is
a rock save our G od? I t is G od that girdeth m e with
strength, and m a keth m y w a y p e rfect.”
A ll strength and pow er is D ivine, G od is perfect in Wis­
dom, T ru th and Love. A s m an grow eth in perfection he ascends
tow ard the T h ro n e of G race, receiving the benediction of heav­
enly harm ony, contacting im m ortal beings im bued with power
from O n H igh, overcom ing all fear and sin through power ol
Infinite W isdom . T h e K ingdom receives all w hose strength and
pow er overcom es evil, w ho know all pow er to be good and that
evil has no pow er b u t is subject to good. N o D ivine spiritual
consciousness can be overcom e w ith evil, fo r one ray of God
illum inates every recess of being, revealing the glories of life
and the D ivine F atherhood of Infinite Spirit, T ru th , Love and
Light.
( 1 8 :33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40) — ‘‘H e m a keth m y fe e t like hinds’
fe e t, and setteth m e upon m y high places. H e teacheth
m y han d s to w ar, so that a bow o f steel is broken by mme
arm s. T h o u hast also g iven m e the shield o f T hy salva­
tions: and T h y rig h t hand hath holden m e up,and Thy
gentleness hath m ade m e great. T h o u hast enlarged my
step s u n d er m e, that m y fe e t did no t slip. I have pur­
sued m ine enem ies, and o verta ken th em : neither did I
tu rn again till th ey w ere consum ed. I have wounded
them that th ey w ere not able to rise: th ey are fallen under
m y feet. F o r T h o u hast girded m e w ith stren g th umto the
battle: T h o u hast subdued u n d er m e those that rose up
against me. T h o u hast also given m e the necks o f mme
enem ies, that I m ig h t d estro y them that hate m e.”
C ruelty is no part of th e D ivine plan w hich demonstrates
D ivine Love, G od never aids man to inflict punishm ent on his
brother. T h e carnal m ind seeking justification for inflicting tor­
tures on others fancies G od is assisting in these cruel practices.
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 299
This is mortal illusion fo r G od is Love and no respector of per-
sons or beliefs; only good deeds are w eights in the balances of
the Law of C om pensation. T h e tribulations of Israel are a re­
flection on the understanding of h er prophets w ho supposed God
to be selfish and unjust and to condone killing of other races.
Let all men be brothers and know the Science of Life, discard
prejudice and all the sham s of m ortal m ind w hich picture God
as evil. M an’s concept of the D eity changes as his intelligence
unfolds. A universal pow er m ust m eet universal conditions and
by attaining a universal understanding of G od the brotherhood
of man is established. Science is T ru th and T ru th is Life.
(18:41-42-43-44-45-46-47-48-49-50)— ''“T h ey cried, but there
was none to save th em : even unto the L o rd , but he
answ ered them not. T h en d id I beat them sm all as the
dust before the w in d ; I did cast them out as the d irt in
the streets. T h o u hast delivered m e fro m the strivings o f
the people; and T h o u hast m ade m e the head o f the
heathen: a people w h o m I have no t kn o w n shall serve
me. A s soon as they hear o f m e, they shall obey m e; the
strangers shall su b m it th em selves unto me. The strangers
shall fa d e aw ay, and be a fra id out o f their close places.
The L o rd liveth : and blessed be m y ro ck; and let the God
o f m y salvation be exalted. I t is God that avengeth m e,
and subdueth the people under me. H e delivereth m e
fro m m ine enem ies; yea, T h o u lifte st m e abov those that
rise up against m e; T h o u hast delivered m e fro m the
violent man. T h erefo re w ill I give thanks unto thee, 0
L ord, am ong the heathen, and sing praises unto T h y
name. G reat deliverance giveth he to his king; and
shew eth m ercy to his anointed, to D avid, and to his seed
fo r everm ore.”
Those w ho obey D ivine Law are delivered from danger also
from evil environm ent, proving the justice of D ivine M ind.
W hen in tribulation, man should look w ithin for deliverance, as
all pow er comes from w ithin. W h en one utters an appeal to
Divine M ind, the im pulse of D ivine Love is set in m otion w hich
then becomes th eir ark of safety. Confidence in G od dem on­
strates the law of D ivine unity. Seek T ru th beyond m atter, and
light from the Infinite, know ing th a t Justice, Love and T ru th
work in harm ony to liberate man from the false concepts of m or­
tal consciousness.
300 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(1 9 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 )— “T h e h ea ven s declare the glory of God:
and the firm a m en t sh ew eth h is h a n d yw o rk. D ay unto day
u ttereth speech, and n ig h t un to n ig h t shew eth knowledge.
T h ere is no speech nor language, w here their voice is not
heard. T h eir lime is gone ou t thro u g h all the earth, and
th eir w o rd s to the end o f the zvorld. I n them hath he set
a tabernacle fo r the s u n ; w hich is as a bridegroom com­
ing out o f his cham ber, and rejo iceth as a strong man to
ru n a race. H is going fo r th is fr o m the end of the
heaven, and h is circuit unto the ends o f it: and there is
nothing hid fr o m the heat th ereo f.”
T h e light of th e sun reflecting Infinite M ind and Solar En­
ergy nurtures th e germ s of life, bringing fo rth consciousness.
T h e C reator of th e universe functions th ro u g h this energy and
pow er, healing th e sick, bringing fo rth young, and replenishing
th e earth. T h e evolution of being is th ro u g h physical energy,
w hich is also th e pow er holding th e satellite to its heavenly
course, T h e innum erable choirs of G enus are given their
quality through th e influence of th e heavenly hierarchy which
exists above the laws of generic life and substance.
( 1 9 :7-8-9-10-l 1-12-13-14) — “T h e law o f the L o rd is perfect,
converting the so u l: the testim o n y o f the L o rd is sure,
m aking w ise the sim ple: T h e sta tu tes o f the Lord are
right, rejoicing the h ea rt; the co m m a n d m en t o f the Lord
is pure, enlightening the eyes: T h e fe a r o f the Lord is
clean, enduring fo r ever: the ju d g m e n ts o f the Lord are
true and righteous altogether. M o re to be desired are they
than gold, yea, than m uch fine gold: sw eeter also than
honey and the honeycom b. M o reo ver, by them is Thy
serva n t w arned: and in keeping o f them there is great
rew ard. W h o can u n derstand H is errors? cleanse Thou
m e fr o m secret fa u lts. K eep back T h y servant also from
presu m p tu o u s sin s; let them n o t have dom inion over me:
then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent fro m the
great transgression. L e t the w o rd s o f m y m outh, and the
m editation o f m y heart, be acceptable in T h y sight, 0
L o rd , m y stren g th and m y redeem er” .
D ivine guidance as long as m ortal obeys the laws of Being and
this purity of Spirit m anifests to m ortal m an giving forth the
Infinite quality to m ortal consciousness. Life is sustained through
D ivine guidance as long as m ortal abeys the laws of Being and
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 301
the Science of Life. D eath existeth n o t for those w ho obey the
law, but destruction is sure to those w ho violate the laws of Life
and Being, for perm anence belongs to the D ivine Kingdom while
all temporal creations w ill eventually cease to be.
(20:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9) — “T h e L o rd hear thee in the day o f
trouble: the nam e .o f the G od o f Jacob d efen d thee. S en d
thee help fr o m the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out o f
Zion. R em em b er all th y offerings, and accpt thy burnt
sacrifice. Selah. G rant thee according to thine ow n heart,
and fu lfil all th y counsel. W e w ill rejoice in thy salvation,
and in the nam e o f our G od w e w ill set up our banners:
the L o rd fu lfil all th y petitions. N o w kn o w I that the
L o rd saveth his anointed: he w ill hear h im fro m his holy
heaven w ith the saving stren g th o f h is right hand. S o m e
trust in chariots, and som e in horses: but w e w ill rem em ­
ber the nam e o f the L o r d our God. T h ey are brought
•dow n and fa lle n ; but w e are risen, and stand u p rig h t
Save, L o rd : let the kin g hear us w hen w e call.
T he inner recess of m ind is the sanctuary of God, it is
reached through D ivine m editation and realization. T he Science
of M ind teaches th e contact of the Infinite w hich brings the pur-
ity of the inner into outer m anifestation. Even though the outer
consciousness is disturbed, the inner is calm and serene. Seek,
therefore, to be like th e inner w hich is the source of pow er and
refuge of the qualities T ru th , Love and Light, becom ing an
illumined soul and a w orker for good. T h e Voice of the Silence
is the guidance of the Godly.
(21:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10) — “T h e K in g shall jo y in T h y
strength, 0 L o rd ; and in T h y salvation h o w greatly shall
he rejoice! T h o u hast g iven h im his heart’s desire, and
hast not w ithholden the request o f his lips. Selah. F o r
thou p reventest h im w ith the blessings o f goodness: T h o u .
settest a crow n o f pure gold on his head. H e asked life o f
Thee, and T h o u gavest it him , even length o f days fo r
ever and ever. H is glory is great in T h y salvation: h o nour
and m a jesty hast thou laid upon him . F or T h o u hath
m ade h im m o st blessed fo r ever: T h o u hast m ade h im
exceeding glad w ith T h y countenance. F or the king
trustetli in the L o rd , and, through the m ercy o f the M o st
H igh, he shall n o t be m oved. T hine hand shall find out
out all T hine enem ies; T h y right hand shall find out those
302 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
that hate Thee. T h o u sh a lt m ake them as a fiery oven in
the tim e o f thine anger: the L o rd shall sw allow them up
in his w ra th , and the fire shall d evo u r them . Their fruit
shalt T h o u d estro y fr o m the earth, and their seed from
am ong the children o f m en ”.
T h e deeds of the w icked are th e seeds of their own destruc­
tion. M astership over one’s self destroys sin, right triumphs over
w rong and good over evil, w hile m ental negation is the consum­
ing fire w hich destroys m ortal beings. T h e D ivine laws of God
destroy those w ho w ill n o t m aster them selves and harmonise
therew ith. M ortal excuses and concepts cannot change Divine
Laws, they are im m utable. M ercy com es to the wicked in the
form of oblivion b u t preservation is fo r the righteous who con­
form to th e D ivine quality of M ind.
( 2 1 :11-12-13) — ‘‘F o r th ey in ten d ed evil against Thee; they
im agined a m ischievous device, w h ich they are not able to
p erfo rm . T h e re fo re sh a lt T h o u m ake them turn their
back, w h en T h o u shalt m ake ready T h in e arrow s upon
T h y strin g s against the fa ce o f them . B e T hou exalted,
L o rd , in T h in e ow n stren g th : so w ill w e sing and praise
T h y pow er”.
M ortal plans to destroy D ivine w orks never succeed, but
the enem ies of good suffer from th eir ow n thoughts and actions.
R eform ation m ust precede atonem ent, otherw ise th e results will
be nom inal, for G od w orks th ro u g h principles and is no respector
of opinions. U niversal greatness is th e essence of Deity. Let
every m ortal confess his sins m entally and depart from the ways
of error and tu rn to th e ways of good, if they desire to atone.
(22 :1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12) — “M y G od, m y God, w hy hast
T h o u fo rsa ken m e? W h y art T h o u so fa r fro m helping
m e, and fr o m the w o rd s o f m y roaring? 0 m y God, l
cry in the da ytim e, but T h o u hea rest n o t; and in the night
season, and am no t silent. B u t T h o u art holy, 0 Thou
that inhabitest the praises o f Israel. O ur fa th ers trusted
in T h ee: they trusted, and T h o u d id st deliver them . They
cried un to T hee, and w ere not d elivered ; th ey trusted
T hee, and w ere not counfounded. B u t I am a w orm , and
no m a n ; a reproach o f m en, and despised o f the people.
A ll they that see m e laugh m e to scorn: th ey shoot out the
lip, they shake the head, saying, he tru sted on the Lord
that H e w o u ld deliver h im : let H im d eliver him , seeing he
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 303
delighted in H im . B u t T h o u art H e that took m e out o f
the w om b; T h o u d id st m ake m e hope w hen I w as upon
m y m other’s breasts. I w a s cast upon Thee fr o m the
w om b; T h o u art m y G od fr o m m y m other’s belly. Be
not fa r fr o m me,, fo r trouble is n ea r; fo r there is none to
help. M a n y bidls have com passed m e: strong bulls o f
Bashan have beset m e round”.
W hen m ortal is born, D ivine guidance begins w hich pro-
tects him from the foes of life. T h e pow ers of protection exist
in the inner self or spiritual identity. In the w orldly strife, the
hopelessness of the flesh is m agnified in sorrow w hen m an for­
gets the Infinite Spirit. A ll Super M ind Scientists should rem em ­
ber that bliss, peace and pow er belong to the spiritual planes of
life and m ind w hile all delusions are of the m ortal planes. Exist
on the higher and avoid the lower, attain spiritual m astership
and soul im m ortality, is the teaching of the Science of Life and
Being.
(22-.13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22-23 )— “T h ey gaped upon
me w ith their m ouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like w ater, and all m y bones are out o f
join t: m y heart is like w a x ; it is m elted in the m id st o f
m y bowels. M y stren g th is d ried up like a potsherd; and
m y tongue cleaveth to m y ja w s; and T hou hast brought
m e into the du st o f death. F o r dogs have com passed m e:
the assem bly o f the w icked have inclosed m e: they pierced
m y hands and m y fe e t. 1 m ay tell all m y bones: they look
and stare upon me. T h ey part m y garm ents am ong them ,
and cast lots upon m y vesture. B u t be not T hou fa r fro m
m e, 0 L o rd : O m y stren g th , haste T hee to help me. D e­
liver m y soul fro m the sw o rd ; m y darling fro m the pow er
o f the dog. S a ve m e fr o m the lion’s m o u th ; fo r T hou
hast heard m e fr o m the horns o f the unicorns. I w ill -
declare T h y nam e unto m y brethren: vn the m idst o f the
congregation w ill I praise Thee. Y e that fe a r the L ord,
praise H im : all ye the seed o f Jacob, g lo rify H im ; and
fe a r him , all ye the seed o f Israel”.
T he followers of evil dogm as in all ages have always sought
to crucify thé C hrist Spirit, casting lots upon the vestm ent,
symbolical of m ortal speculation, b u t spiritual consciousness alone
com prehends T ru th . W h ile th e forces of the flesh and Spirit
struggle adversely, the prophecies of D ivine Life and T ru th come
304 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
true, show ing the eternal principles of T ru th . Sacrifice is a mortal
w ay of recognising th e O m n ip o ten t pow er of G od but Infinite
W isdom delivers th e Sons of G od from sorrow and never re­
quires evil as a ransom fo r good.
(22:24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31) — “F o r H e hath not despised
nor abhorred the affliction o f the afflicted, neither hath He
h id h is fa ce fr o m h im ; but w h e n he cried unto Him, He
heard. M y praise shall be o f T h ee in 'th e great congrega­
tion: I w ill pay m y v o w s b efo re th em th a t fea r H im . The
m eek shall eat and be sa tisfied ; th ey shall praise the Lord
that seek H im : y o u r heart shall live fo r ever. A ll the ends
o f the w o rld shall rem em b er and tu rn un to the Lord; and
all the kin d red s o f the nations shall w orship before Thee.
F o r the kin g d o m is the L o rd ’s; and H e is the Governor
am ong the n a tio n s.. A ll th ey that be fa t upon the earth
shall eat and w o rsh ip : all th ey that go do w n to the dust
shall bow before h im : and none can keep alive his own
soul. A seed shall serve h im : it shall be accounted to the
L o rd fo r a generation. T h e y shall com e, and shall declare
h is righteousness un to a people that shall be born, that
H e ha th done this”.
W ith th e enlightenm ent of m an com es th e knowledge of
th e D ivine presence, revealing the T ru th of Spirit and the Light
of the world. “T h e meek shall inherit th e earth and the pure in
h eart shall know G od” is th e D ivine prom ise of the Master.
M ental preparation brings D ivine revelation of th e supremacy
of T ru th over falsehood, and Spirit over th e flesh. Good deeds
are good seeds w hich bear fru it in eternity.
(2 3 :1 )— “T h e L o rd is m y S h ep h erd ; I shall no t w ant”.
Infinite W isdom is my source of supply, I shall partake of
the bounties of the kingdom of Love, T ru th and Life.
(2 3 :2 )— “H e m a keth m e to lie d o w n in green pastures: He
leadeth m e beside the still w aters” .
T h e consciousness of G od leadeth me ever. In the sweet
calmness of m y soul I tru st H im ever; I am led by H im through
th e realm of soul beneath th e protecting influence of Love.
(2 3 :3 ) — “H e restoreth m y soul: H e leadeth m e in the paths
o f righteousness fo r H is N a m e ’s sake”.
D ivine Spirit restoreth, never destroyeth and ever leads me
in the w ay of spiritual at-one-m ent, away from evil toward
T H E B O O K O F PSA LM S 305
Divinity. Its pow er is beyond lim itation and its being above re'
proach.
(2 3 :4)— “Yea, though I w alk through the valley o f the shadow
o f death, I w ill fe a r no evil: fo r T h o u art w ith m e; T h y
rod and T h y sta ff th ey c o m fo rt m e”.
T hy D ivine W ill w hich is m y rod and th y T ru th w hich is
my staff protect me, I fear no evil pow er. K now ing th y D ivine
presence I take refuge in th y holy love w hich is my com fort.
No power is greater than T hine.
(2 3 :5 )— “T h o u preparest a table before m e in the presence o f
m ine enem ies: T h o u anointest m y head w ith oil; m y cup
runneth over”.
W hile facing adversity I am aw are of th y D ivine presence,
thy power w alketh before m e; as a light shineth in darkness it
illuminates my being. C orporeal sensation is over-powered
through th y D ivine Love, peace and bliss.
(2 3 :6)— “S u rely goodness and m ercy shall fo llo w m e all the
days o f m y life ; and I w ill dw ell in the house o f the L ord
fo r ever”.
Im m ortality is th y rew ard to the servants of the M ost High.
Goodness is D ivine and its rew ards are eternal; its fruits follow
those w ho are righteous as long as being lasts. T he light of
Spirit shineth on th e pathw ay of light.
Spiritual
Victory
M astery over sin overcomes the unpleasant
effect w hich results from disobeying the
spiritual laws of life. Spiritual self abnega­
tion unlocks the storehouse of D ivine energy and W ill, giving
one the strength to sacrifice all for T ru th or the C hrist ideal. In
Super M ind Science one m ust make this the rule. Spiritual vic­
tory over sin requires an understanding of mind, since all sins
are mental first. O u r Science interprets G od as creative positive
life principle w hich is represented by T ru th , the Father of life;
Son or Love, the m anifestation of life; and H oly G host as crea­
tive energy w hich reproduces life and heals the ills of man.
Every m ortal being m ust overcom e the idea th at G od punishes
forever or requires blood of innocent victims in order to con­
descend to forgive sin. Such ideas w ere the errors of the D is­
ciples of C hrist w ho w ere surrounded by pagan beliefs of blood
sacrifice.
306 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T eaching T h e teachings of th e M aster are, “Take up
of the th y cross (body) and follow M e”, or “con-
M aster trol thyself and follow my examples, heal
the sick, cast o u t dem ons, raise th e dead”. Evil is temporal, good­
ness is eternal, no pow er can overcom e G ood and God for there
is no greater pow er. Evil tries to accuse G od of Creating evil
spirits and forces w hich w ould forestall th e results of His handi­
w ork, b u t T ru th raises its head in th e form of the serpent of
D ivine w isdom and proclaim s G od is th e only C reator and could
not creat aught b u t G ood. A ll obsessing influences and entities
are the products of m ortal m an, for Life is produced through
the laws of heavenly harm ony.
V ictory “ Love ye one an o th er” is the great comman
O ver of th e M aster. W h e n m ind control over-
D eath com es hatred, th en is victory over death at­
tained. Since G od loves H is ow n creation this Spirit of brotherly
love harm onizes w ith H is Infinite Being. T h e control of life en­
ergy and perfect concentration of m ind dem onstrates the unlim­
ited pow er of Infinite Spirit to heal th e sick, overcom e sin and
rise above m ortal woe. Super M ind Science is the key to Divine
M ind Science w hich produces D ivine harm ony like the keyboard
of a piano governs th e harm onizing tones of music through the
quality of th e notes and the skill of th e musician.
O neness T h e O neness of Life and its principles of re-
of production reflect th e O neness of God which
Life is the source of all life. T h e O ne Supreme
M ind of th e universe is th e source of all progress. Individuali­
ties act th eir p art in the dram a of hum an existence, b u t the real
actor is D ivine U niversal M ind. A ll error is m ortal negation,
there is no spiritual negation since Spirit is one w ith God, Love,
T ru th and Life.
M ortal m ind accepts death as the result of
life and reaps destruction, w hile Immortal
M ind proclaim s “there is no d eath ” and con-
immortal
Mind
tinues to live and be. If m ind w ere not of an im m ortal nature
then life w ould cease to be. E ternal qualities of Spirit are perma­
n ent realities w hile frailties of the flesh are tem poral. One de­
stroys identity by rejecting spirituality and becom ing mentally
identified w ith m ateriality, sin and low aspirations. Rise up, Oh
Ye C hildren of G od, to the consciousness of Im m ortal Mind!
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL
Can the blind lead the blind? Sh a ll they n o t both
fa ll into a d itch ?— Jesus.
“F or a testam ent is o f fo rce a fte r m en are dead,
otherw ise it is o f no stren g th at all 'w hile the
testator liveth ”.■
— P aul.
T he following is a spiritual interpretation of the visions of
the Prophet Ezekiel in accordance w ith the laws of life and rea­
son as revealed to th e w riter th rough Infinite Spirit w hich im ­
bues man w ith A ll-seeing wisdom. T h e Spiritual light of Divine
M ind Science reveals the inner m eaning of the Scriptures and
clothes them w ith a scientific application to life, dem onstrating
“T hat all hidden things shall be revealed".
(Ezekiel 1 :1) — “N o w it cam e to pass in the thirtieth year, in
the fo u rth m onth, in the fifth day o f the m onth, as I w as
am ong the captives by the river o f Chebar, that the heav­
ens w ere opened, and I saw visions o f God”.
T he spiritual understanding of the soul unfolds the pano­
rama of life and being to th e m ortal senses th ro u g h spiritual
vision. It explains the source of Life, L ight and T ru th as Infin­
ite Spirit and heavenly harm ony.
(1 :2 )— “In the fifth day o f the m onth, w hich w as the fifth
year o f K in g Jehoiachin’s captivity”.
M ortal concept of tim e or place m atters little to the Sup­
reme Infinite M ind. W h en man is prepared to receive wisdom,
he is gripped by th e U nseen H and of Infinite L ight and Love
which revealeth all things.
( 1 :3)— “T h e W o rd o f the L o rd cam e expressly into E zekiel
the priest, the son o f B u zi, in the land o f the Chaldeans,
by the R iv e r C hebar; and the hand o f the L o rd w as there
upon h im ”.
“T he w ord of the L ord” is th e silent vioce of D ivinity, while
the “hand of the L ord” is the positive pow er of mind. Ezekiel
was raised to positive spirituality th rough w orship, devotion and
mental expectation.
(1 :4 )— “A n d I looked, and behold, a w hirlw in d came out o f
. the north, a great cloud, and a fire in fo ld in g itself, and a
brightness w as about it, and out o f the m idst th ereo f as
the colour o f am ber, out o f the m id st o f the fire”.
T h e “w hirlw ind from th e n o rth ” typifies m agnetic waves
308 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and m ental currents; “colour of am ber” symbolizes the mental
plane w hich penetrates to th e Soul Spirit, symbolized by “the
m idst of th e fire” w hich is th e tru e source of life.
( 1 :5 ) — “A lso out o f the m id st th e re o f cam e the likeness of
fo u r living'creatures. A n d this w as their appearance; they
had the liken ess o f a m an”.
Spiritual pow er evolves creatures from the m idst of The Fire
of Life, giving distinction and individuality to all creatures com'
posed of four elem ents, E arth (th e b o d y ), A ir (the mind), Fire
(the sp irit), W a te r (the soul). Infinite M ind divides identity
equally betw een im m ortal and m ortal elem ents w hich provides
for im m ortality th ro u g h D ivine harm ony. W h e n lower elements
of being are controlled, the hig h er m anifests th e eternal quali­
ties of Spirit, M ind and Life.
( 1 :6 )— “A n d every one had fo u r fa ces, and every one had
fo u r w in g s”.
V isibility and invisibility are a p art of m an’t existence. The
low er elem ents m anifest physical features, w hile th e higher mani­
fest Spirit-, sym bolized by “th e w ings”. M an has access to the un­
lim ited elem ents of Spirit and can soar to unknow n heights
th rough a spiritualized m ind.
( 1 :7 ) — “A n d their fe e t w ere stra ig h t fe e t: and the sole of
th eir fe e t w as like the sole o f a ca lf’s fo o t; and they
sparkled like the colour o f burnished brass”.
T h e physical personality is enfolded in a m ental power, sym­
bolized by “burnished brass”, th e m ental controls the physical
through m ind pow er and spiritual realization. M an is a mental
being made in th e im age of D ivine M ind, th e flesh is clothed
w ith m ind and m ind is clothed w ith Spirit, T ru th , Love and
D ivine Light.
( 1 :8)— “A n d they had the hands o f a m an u n d er their wings
on their fo u r sid es; and they had their fa ces and their
w ings”.
“H ands” symbolizes th e pow ers of m ind attained through
controlling the tw o states of consciousness and also concentra­
tion and m editation. T h e inner pow ers are symbolized by the
hands under the wings, th e outer by four faces or embodiments,
Physical, M ental A stral, Spiritual.
( 1 :9 )— “T h eir w in g s w ere jo ined one to another; they turned
not w hen th ey w e n t; they w en t every one straight for­
w a rd ”.
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 309
All life moves in th e D ivine unison of Infinite Spirit. T he
progress of life depends upon harm ony of M ind and Body, Soul
and God, w hich should all m ove or act in perfect harm ony.
( 1 :10)— “A s fo r the liken ess o f their faces, they had the face
o f a m an, and the fa ce o f a lion on the right side; and
they fo u r had the fa ce o f an o x on the le ft side; they fo u r
also had the fa ce o f an eagle”.
T he symbol is th e face of a man. W h ile man possesses the
human quality of intelligence, also the spiritual pow er of D ivin­
ity, symbolized by th e lion, he also possesses the negative animal
nature, symbolized by th e ox on the left, or negative side. T he
face of the Eagle is th e m ental nature w hich is of the invisible
realm of life. T h e purpose of life is self control and spiritual
realization through harm onizing th e consciousness w ith the
Divine M ind or God.
(1:11-12)— “T h u s w ere their fa ces: and their w ings w ere
stretched u p w a rd ; tw o w in g s o f every one w ere joined
one to another, and tw o covered their bodies. A n d they
w ent every one stra ig h t fo rw a rd : w h ith er the spirit w as
to go, they w e n t; and they turned not w h en they w en t”.
M atter is ruled by m ind, it is powerless to move until
thought commands. Spirit, th e inner principle of being, works
in harm ony w ith m ind, sym bolized by “w ings”. C oncentration of
mind produces changes in m atter. M ind is eternal, m atter is tem ­
poral. Eternal life means to live in one’s m ental nature, imbued
with Love, T ru th and L ight w hich are eternal.
( 1 :13)— “A s fo r the likeness o f the livin g creatures, their ap­
pearance w as like burning coals o f fire, and like the ap­
pearance o f lam ps: it w en t up and do w n am ong the living
creatures; and the fire w as bright, and out o f the fire w ent
fo rth lightning”.
M an’s body is illum inated w ith currents of life w hich travel
over the nervous system like lightening, while spiritual centers
appear to spiritual vision like coals of fire. Consciousness travels
over the centers and nerves like the m oving of lamps. T h e in ­
dividualized pow er of m ortal m ind flashes outw ard like bolts of
electricity, show ing the tru th in the statem ent th a t “we are w on­
derfully made, O h G od” and are given unlim ited pow ers and
dominion over L ight and Life.
(1 :1 4 )— “A n d the living creatures ran and returned as the ap­
pearance o f a flash o f lightning”.
310 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
A ll m ovem ent is due to pre-m ental action, making it pos­
sible for m an to create his ow n destiny th ro u g h the Science of
th e M ind and Life. Since m an is created in the image of God,
he can dem onstrate D ivine creative pow er.
(1 :1 5 )-—■
“N o w , as I beheld the livin g creatures, behold, one
w heel upon the earth by the livin g creatures, w ith his four
fa ces”.
D ivine energy circulates th ro u g h th e universe in a circular
or w heel m ovem ent, contacting living beings according to their
m ental states and planes. T h is D ivine pow er flows under the dir­
ection of D ivine M ind and eternal energy w hich perpetuates life
w ithin th e elem ents th a t com pose man.
(1:16)— “T h e appearance o f the w h eels and their work was
like unto the colour o f a b eryl; and they fo u r had one
likeness: and th eir appearance and th eir w o rk was as it
w ere a w heel in the m iddle o f a w h eel”.
D ivine M ind w ithin m an controls all m ovem ents of elements
and organs, w orking in perfect D ivine harm ony, harmonizing
w ith the w heels o r circles of pow er in the universe. It gives the
son of man unlim ited spiritual pow ers to overcom e disease, sin
and sorrow th ro u g h th e pow ers dem onstrated in the Science of
M ind.
( 1 :17 )— “W h e n th ey w en t, they w e n t upon their fo u r sides;
and they turned n o t w h en th ey w e n t”.
D ivine harm ony is dem onstrated in all creation, each move­
m ent fulfilling th e D ivine W ill w hich directs eternal energy.
(1 :18)— “A s fo r th eir rings, they w ere so hig h that they were
d rea d fu l; and th eir rings w ere fu ll o f eyes around about
them fo u r ”.
A ll-seeing pow er m anifests in th e universal circles of en­
ergy w ithin man. Consciousness of this D ivine W isdom lifts
one m entally above all weakness and sin into th e effulgent Light
and W isdom of Infinite Spirit.
(1 :1 9 )— “A n d w h en the living creatures w en t, the wheels
w e n t by th em ; and w h en the livin g creatures w ere lifted
up fro m the earth, the w heels w ere lifte d up”.
W h en m an raises above the flesh, his lifg and being are
brought into harm ony w ith heavenly powers. M an was destined
to attain to higher wisdom and D ivine unity, and should ever
struggle to overcom e the flesh.
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 311
(1:20-21)— “W h ith erso ever the spirit w as to go, they w ent,
thither w as their spirit to g o ; and the w heels w ere lifte d
up over against th em : fo r the spirit o f the living creature
w as in the w heels. W h e n those w en t, these w en t; and
w hen those stood, these sto o d ; and w hen those w ere lifted
up fro m the earth, the w heels w ere lifte d up over against,
them : fo r the sp irit o f the living creature w as in the
w heels”.
All life is in Spirit, n o t in m atter. M an, being the image
of His H eavenly Father, his every move is a move of G od like
a reflection in a m irror.
(1:22-23) — “A n d the likeness o f the firm am ent upon the
heads o f the living creature w as as the colour o f the ter­
rible crystal, stretch ed fo r th over their heads above. A n d
under the firm a m en t w ere their w ings straight, the one
tow ard the other: every one had tw o, w hich covered on
this side, and every one had tw o, w hich covered on that
side, their bodies”.
Each being is created according to positive and negative law,
having tw o sides to th eir nature, evil and good. T h e good is of
God while the evil is of the flesh. W h en man realizes his D ivine
Sonship, m ortality takes on im m ortality and harm onizes w ith
Divine T ru th , Love, U nity and Light.
( 1 :24-25)— “A n d w hen they w ent, I heard the noise o f their
w ings, like the noise o f great w aters, as the voice o f the
A lm ig h ty, the voice o f speech, as the noise o f an host:
w hen they stood, they let do w n their w ings. A n d there
w as a voice fr o m the firm a m en t that w as over their heads,
w hen they stood, and had let do w n their w ings”.
W h en man enters calm D ivine m editation, the powers of
positive and negative cease conflict in his being. T hen the cos'
mic voice of the Infinite speaks to his soul, for the voice of G od
like life, is w ithin the Son of M an.
(1:26-27)— “A n d above the firm am ent that w as over their
heads w as the likeness o f a throne, as the appearance o f
a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness o f the throne w as
the likeness as the appearance o f a m an above upon it.
A n d I saw as the colour o f am ber, as the appearance o f
fire round about w ith in it, fr o m the appearance o f his
loins even upw ard, and fr o m the appearance o f his loins
even dow nw ard, 1 saw as it w ere the appearance o f fire,
312 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and it had b rightness ro u n d about”.
H ig h er th an th e loftiest concepts of m ortal man is God •
w hose th ro n e is th e highest pinnacle of wisdom, ruling all life
in th e light of Infinite Love and T ru th . H is principle is the
D ivine fire of life w hich illum ines th e life of all creatures, for
all intelligence is of G od. T h ere is no intelligence higher or lower
th an th e boundaries of H is unlim ited kingdom of Light, Truth
and Love.
( 1 :28)— “A s the appearance o f the bow that is in the cloud
in the day o f rain, so w a s the appearance o f the bright­
ness round about. T h is w a s the appearance o f the like­
ness o f the g lory o f the L o rd . A n d w h en I saw it, I fell
u pon m y fa ce, and I heard a voice o f O ne that spake".
T h e presence of D ivinity in m an is his prom ise of immort­
ality w hich rises above his head in th e storm s of life like a rain­
bow appears after a storm . In th e center of m an’s being there
is a center of H is D ivine W ill.
(2 :1 -2 )— ‘‘A n d H e said unto m e, so n o f m an, stand upon thy
fe e t, and I w ill speak un to thee. A n d the spirit entered
into m e w h en he spake unto m e, and set m e upon m y feet,
that I heard h im that sp a ke unto m e”.
Infinite Spirit speaks th ro u g h m ortal consciousness advising
m an of his Sonship of G od, setting his feet in the path of
righteousness. It reveals th e glory of H is D ivine kingdom and
Infinite Being w hich is a universal pervading pow er and presence.
(2 :3 -4 -5 )— “A n d he said unto m e, son o f m an, I send thee to
the children o f Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath re­
belled against m e: th ey and th eir fa th e rs have trans­
gressed against M e, even unto this very day. F or they are
im p u d en t children, and s tiffhearted, I do send thee unto
th em : and thou shalt say un to them , th u s saith the Lord
God. A n d they, w h eth er th ey w ill hear, or w hether they
w ill fo rb ea r (fo r th ey are a rebellious h o u se), yet shall
kn o w that there hath been a p rophet am ong them ”.
Sinful flesh rebels against th e D ivine Spirit and does not
w ant to accept a prophet w ho is sent by D ivine M ind and Love
to teach T h e W ay, T h e T ru th and T h e Life. H ow ever, Divine
W isdom sends its M essengers.
(2 :6 -7 )— “A n d thou, son o f m an, be not a fra id o f them,
neither be a fra id o f their w ords, though briers and thorns
be w ith thee, and thou dost dw ell am ong scorpions: be not
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 313
afraid o f their w ords, nor be dism ayed at their looks,
though they be a rebellious house. A n d thou shalt speak
m y w ords unto them , w h eth er they w ill hear, or w hether
they w ill fo rb ea r; fo r th ey are m o st rebellious”.
Infinite Love gives courage and fearlessness to M essengers
of T ruth whose mission is to give L ight unto a Godless m inded
race. H ardships are m et w ith Infinite W ill and com fort is given
by Divine M ind. W h e n th e w orld persecutes the righteous, God
rescues H is own. T h e D ivine Shepherd cares for H is sheep
through the pow ers of D ivine M ind, W isdom and T ruth.
(2:8-9-10) — ‘‘B u t thou, son o f m an, hear w hat I say unto
thee; B e not thou rebellious like that rebellious house:
open thy m outh, and eat that I give thee. A n d w hen I
looked, behold, an hand w as sent unto m e; and, lo, a roll
o f a book w a s therein: A n d he spread it before m e; and
it w as w ritten w ith in and w ith o u t; and there w as w ritten
therein lam entations, and m ourning, and w oe”.
T he sorrows of those w ho rebel against good are the lam '
entations of life recorded in all histories of the races of men,
for who can oppose th e source of A ll pow er, or w ho can over-
come D ivine M ind and A lbgood? T h e records of the conflicts
between m atter and Spirit are w ritten indelibly w ithin the evolu-
tionized consciousness of man.
(3:1 -2-3)— “M o reo ver he said unto m e, son o f m an, eat that
thou fm d est: eat this roll, and go speak unto the house
o f Israel. S o I opened m y m outh, and he caused m e to
eat that roll. A n d he said unto m e, son o f m an, cause thy
belly to eat, and fill th y bow els w ith this roll that I give
thee. T h en did I eat it; and it w as in m y m outh as honey
fo r sw eetness”.
T he D ivinely inspired consum e the eternal wisdom w hich
has m anifested during the developm ent of man. W h en
mentally digested, this eternal wisdom becomes Infinite L ight
and pow er w hich inspires one to speak the T ru th and do the
Divine works, th e result of w hich is the sweetest experience
of life.
(3:4-5-6-7) — “A n d he said unto m e, son o f m an, go, get thee
unto the house o f Israel, and speak w ith m y w ords unto
them . F or thou art n o t sen t to a people o f a strange
speech and o f an hard language, but to the house o f Israel:
N o t to m any people o f a strange speech and o f an hard
314 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
language, w hose w o rd s th o u canst n o t understand; surely,
had I sent thee to th em , th ey w o u ld have hearkened unto
thee. B u t the house o f Isra el w ill no t hearken unto thee;
fo r they w ill n o t h earken unto M e : fo r all the house of
Israel are im p u d en t and hard h ea rted ”.
Infinite W isdom m anifests th ro u g h th e D ivine Messenger,
and each race receives its message in its ow n language from
the same Infinite Spirit w hich m anifests all T ru th . “ Israel” sym­
bolizes m aterialism w hich w ill n o t listen to Infinite Love and
T ru th , and always places a m aterial construction on things
spiritual, w orshipping a m aterial G od, teaching that God re­
quires th e death of H is ow n creatures in order to be persuaded
to forgive sin and do good. T h e Science of Life is universal
m onotheism , teaching th a t G od is G ood and never participates
in evil.
(3 :8 -9 -1 0 )— “B ehold, I h a ve m ade th y fa ce strong against
their faces, and th y fo reh ea d stro n g against their fore­
heads. A s an adam ant, harder than flin t, have 1 made thy
fo reh ea d : fe a r th em n o t, n eith er he dism ayed at their
looks, though they be a rebellious house. M oreover, He
said unto m e, son o f m an, all M y w o rd s that I shall
speak unto thee receive in thine heart, and hear with
thine ears”.
T h e Infinite M ind causes leaders to becom e positive and
prepares them for th e rebellion of m aterialism . It gives them
courage to stand persecution and suffering, inspiring their mind,
causing w ords of W isdom to be spoken by them . Such is the pro­
tection of the D ivine M ind. G od know eth H is own, His sheep
heareth the D ivine voice of th e cosmic realm of the soul.
(3 :11-12-13-14) — “A n d go, get thee to them o f the captivity,
unto the children o f th y people, and speak unto them , and
tell them , T h u s saith the L o rd G od, w h eth er they will
hear, or w h eth er th ey w ill forbear. T h en the spirit took
m e up, and I heard behind m e a voice o f a great rushing,
saying, B lessed be the glory o f the L o rd fr o m H is place.
I heard also the noise o f the w ings o f the living creatures
that touched one another, and the noise o f the wheels
over against th em , and a noise o f a great rushing. So the
sp irit lifte d m e up, and took m e aw ay, and I w ent in bit­
terness, in the heat o f m y spirit: but the han d o f the Lord
w as strong upon m e”.
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 315
The prophet is lifted from the environm ent of corporeal
sense into contact w ith th e C hrist plane, w here the senses record
the wonders of life Divine. Super M ind Science teaches the con'
tact of the Spirit th ro u g h control of th e consciousness th a t man
may know God, im m ortality, Love and Life.
(3:15-16-17-18)— “T h en I cam e to them o f the captivity at
Telabib, that d w elt by the river o f Chebar, and I sat w here
they sat, and rem ained there astonished am ong them seven
days. A n d it cam e to pass, at the end o f seven days, that
the w ord o f the L o rd cam e unto m e, saying, son o f
man, I have m ade thee a w atchm an unto the house o f
Israel: th erefo re hear the w o rd at m y m outh, and give
them w arning fr o m me. W h en I say unto the w icked,
thou shalt su rely die: and thou givest him not w arning,
nor speakest to w a rn the w icked fr o m his w icked w ay, to
save his life ; the sam e w icked m an shall die in h is in ­
iquity; but his blood w ill I require at thine hand”.
Those lifted up by th e pow er of spiritual consciousness pass
through seven planes of m ind, symbolical of seven days. T he
revelations of T ru th and Life astonish the corporeal senses by
proving the unlim ited pow er D ivine, revealing the tru th of the
present and future th rough the wisdom of eternal life.
(3:19-20-21)— “Y e t i f thou w arn the w icked, and he turn not
fro m his w ickedness, nor fr o m his w icked w ay, he shall
die in his in iq u ity; but thou hast delivered thy soul. A gain,
W h en a righteous m an doth turn fro m his righteousness,
and com m it iniquity, and I lay a stum bling block before
him , he shall die; because thou hast not given h im w a rn ­
ing, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness w hich
he hath done shall not be rem em bered; but h is blood w ill
I require at thine hand. N everth eless, i f thou w arn the
righteous m an, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not
sin, he shall surely live, because he is w arned; also thou
hast delivered th y soul”.
T he teacher of D ivine law is held responsible by the Law of
Com pensation for the T ru th he teaches. If he fails to w arn the
materialist and sinner of his dow nfall, the mistakes of the sinner
become the mistakes of the teacher. T hose teaching false doc'
trines destroy th eir followers and also them selves while T ru th
endureth forever. Seekers of eternal light will do well to heed the
message of Love Divine.
316 ETER N A L W IS D O M A N D HEALTH
(3:22-23-24-25)— “A n d the hand o f the L o rd w as there upon
m e; and H e said u n to m e, A rise , go fo r th into the plain,
and I w ill there talk w ith thee. T h en I arose, and went
fo r th into the p la in ; and, behold, the glory o f the Lord
sto o d there, as the glory w h ich I sa w by the river of
C hebar: and I fe ll on m y face. T h en the spirit entered
into m e, and set m e upo n m y fe e t, and spake w ith me, and
said unto m e, Go, sh u t th y s e lf w ith in thine house. But
thou, O so n o f m an, behold, th ey shall pu t bands upon
thee, and shall bind thee w ith them , and thou shalt not go
out am ong th em ”.
T he Divine Spirit in the form of intelligence grips the cor­
poreal senses of the M essenger of the law of life, entering into
the chambers of thought and showing the strife between flesh
and Spirit. Flesh is overcome and held tight by the grip of
Divinity until the M essenger of the T ru th is set free, for the Son
of M an shall take on the Sonship of God and become heir to His
kingdom, favored by the hierarchy of pure immortal souls.
(3:26-27)— “A n d I w ill m ake th y tongue cleave to the roof of
thy m o u th , th a t thou shalt be d u m b , and shalt not be to
them a rep ro ver; fo r th ey are a rebellious house. But
w h en I speak w ith thee, I w ill open th y m outh, and thou
shalt say unto them , T h u s said the L o rd God: H e that
heareth, let h im h ea r; and he that fo rb ea reth , let him
fo rb ea r: fo r th ey are a rebellious house”.
Those whose mind is trained to worship a physical being as
God rebel against the spiritual concept of Life, Light and Love,
for the ways of the Spirit are exalted to the highest planes of
mind, beyond the concept of mortal sense or understanding of
corporeality. T he Science of M ind unfolds the higher vista of
life, giving the correct understanding both to the mortal and im­
mortal mind. T ruth rises to its highest splendor when it takes
on the universal soul quality.
(4 :l-2 -3 -4 )— “T h o u also, son o f m an, take thee a tile, and lay
it before thee, and p ortray upo n it the city, even Jeru­
salem . A n d lay siege against it, and build a fo r t against
and cast a m o u n t against it; set the cam p also against
it, and set battering ram s against it rou n d about. M ore­
over, take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it fo r a wall
o f iron betw een thee and the city; and set thy fa ce against
it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against
THE BOOK. OF T H E PR O PH ET EZEKIEL 317
it. T his shall be a sign to the house o f Israel. L ie thou
also upon thy le ft side, and lay the iniquity o f the house
o f Israel upon it: according to the num ber o f the days
that thou shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their iniquity”.
A mental battle is here depicted where righteousness (or
Jerusalem) is on one side and the sins of Israel on the other.
The prophet is told to lay on the negative or left side that the
positive or right side of mind may “bear their iniquity”. The
positive side of Spirit suffers the negative sins of the mortal
mind until mental opposition or siege overcomes it. The sacri­
fice of self in the conflict is required, symbolized by laying of
the prophet on his left side. M astership plus abnegation is the
key to the sinless mental state.
(4:5-6-7-8)— “F o r I h a ve laid upon thee the years o f their
iniquity, according to the n u m b er o f the days, three h u n ­
dred and nin ety days: so shalt thou bear the iniquity o f
the house o f Israel. A n d w h en thou hast accom plished
them , lie again on th y right side, and thou shalt bear the
iniquity o f the house o f Judah fo r ty days: I have ap­
pointed thee each day fo r a year. T h erefo re thou shalt.
set thy fa ce tow ard the siege o f Jerusalem , and thine arm
shall be uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it.
A n d , behold, I w ill lay hands upon thee, and thou shall
not turn thee fr o m one side to another, till thou hast
ended the days o f th y siege”.
The siege of sin against Spirit endureth only a matter of
days. Concentration or not turning from one side to the other
is the key to overcoming. Steadfastly concentrate on Infinite
Love and T ruth and the spirit of prophecy shall fill every cell
in the mortal body, giving power to the Son of Man to overcome
his enemy, mortal selfhood.
(4:9-10-11-12-13)— “T a ke thou also unto thee w heat, and bar­
ley, and beans, and lentiles, and m illet, and fitches, and put
them in one vessel, and m ake thee bread thereof, accord­
ing to the n u m b er o f the days that thou shalt lie upon thy
side; three h u n d red and nin ety days shalt thou eat thereof,
A n d th y m eat w hich thou shalt eat shall be by w eight,
tw enty shekels a day: fr o m tim e to tim e shalt thou eat it.
T hou shalt d rin k also w a ter by m easure, the six th part o f
an him: fro m tim e to tim e shalt thou drink. A n d thou
shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it w ith
318 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
dun g th a t com eth out o f m an, in th eir sight. And the
L o rd said, even th u s shall the children o f Israel eat their
defiled bread am ong the G entiles, w h ith er I will drive
th em ”.
T h e C hildren of Israel typifies the m aterialistic sinful minded
w ho expect salvation th ro u g h sacrifice, instead of good deeds.
T h e “bread”, sym bolical of know ledge or m ental food shall be
defiled, and th e sins o f ignorance shall be visited upon them,
they shall be corrupted th ro u g h decaying germ s and diseases un­
til they repent of th eir errors. G od has never commanded man to
eat unclean food, this is only an exam ple of the imagination of
a prophet taking precedence over G ood and G od and picturing
to his m ind a virtue in uncleanliness, and forgiveness through
sinning. T h is is against reason and the laws of Life, for God
never violates H is ow n laws of G ood, only the mistaken mental
visions of m ortals m ake it seem so. T h e abstract, symbol of
m ental uncleanliness is m ore real here th an the seeming con­
crete object. G od is Love, A ll G ood and A ll wisdom and never
ordains sin.
(4:1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 )— “T h en said I, A h , L o rd G od! behold, my
soul ha th no t been p o llu ted ; fo r fr o m m y youth up even
till n o w have I not eaten o f that w h ich dieth o f itself, or
is torn in p ieces; neither cam e there abom inable flesh into
m y m outh. T h en he said un to m e, L o , I have given thee
cow ’s d ung fo r m an’s dung, and thou shalt prepare thy
bread therew ith. M o reo ver, he said unto m e, S on o f man,
behold, I w ill break the sta ff o f bread in Jerusalem ; and
th ey shall eat bread by w eight, and w ith care; and they
shall d rink w a ter by m easure, and w ith astonishment:
T h a t th ey m ay w a n t bread and w ater, and be astonied
one w ith another, and consum e aw ay fo r their iniquity ■
T h e sins of iniquity bring fo rth poverty and w ant, produc­
ing the unfulfilled desire. Israel here symbolizes those whose
m ortal consciousness destroys the pow er w hich produces plenty
reducing m an to poverty w hen th e difficulties of life become un­
bearable. T his is a punishm ent under the Law of Compensation
w here the w heels of justice tu rn against th e interest of mortal
man. Science of the M ind raises m an above his sin, causing him
to become prosperous.
(5 :l-2 -3 -4 )— “A n d thou, son o f m an, take thee a sharp knife,
take thee a barber’s razor, and cause it to pass upon thine
head, and upon thy beard; then take thee balances to
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 319
weigh, and divide the hair. T h o u shalt burn w ith fire a
third part in the m id st o f the city, w h en the days o f the
siege are fu lfilled ; and thou shalt take a third part, and
sm ite about it w ith a k n ife ; and a third part thou shalt
scatter in the w in d ; and I w ill d ra w out a sw ord a fter
them. T h o u shalt also take th ereo f a fe w in num ber, and
bind them in th y skirts. T h en take o f them again, and
cast them into the m id st o f the fire, and burn them in
the fire: fo r th e re o f shall a fire com e fo rth into all the
house o f Israel”.
A cts of faith are here dem anded from the prophet to prove
his loyalty to Infinite Spirit. T h e fire is a symbol of Spirit, cast­
ing of hair in the fire is symbolical of the sacrifice of the flesh to
the Spirit. Some rituals of this nature were employed in the
temples of Osiris, Isis and A m on R a in Egypt, they w ere called
Magical Seals to destroy enem ies or to invoke D ivine aid. T he
mental concept of the sacrificer sometim es produced certain re­
sults, while the ignorant believed in the virtue of the material
substance. M ind alone is Substance. W h ile faith and hope are also
mental states, they are n o t evidence of things unseen, as some
ancients believed evidence consists of concrete proof of a reality.
( 5 :5-6-7-8-9)— “T h u s saith the L o rd God, T h is is Jerusalem : I
have set it in the m id st o f the nations and countries that
are round about her. A n d she hath changed m y ju d g ­
m ents into w ickedness m ore than the nations, and m y
statutes m ore than the countries that are round about her:
fo r they have refu sed m y ju d g m en ts and m y statutes, they
have not w alked in them . T h erefo re thus saith the L o rd
G od; Because y e . m ultiplied m ore than the nations that
are round about you, and have no t w alked in m y statutes,
neither have kep t m y ju d g m en ts, neither have done
according to the ju d g m en ts o f the nations that are round
about yo u ; T h erefo re th u s saith the L o rd God: B ehold, I
even I, am against thee, and w ill execute ju d g m en ts in
the m id st o f thee, in the sig h t o f the nations. A n d I w ill
do in thee that w h ich I have no t done, and w hereunto I
w ill n o t do any m ore the like, because o f all thine abom ­
inations”.
Sin and abom inations against T ru th and Spirit caused m at­
erialistic Israel to have the D ivine W ill set against it, bringing
sorrow and privations upon the wicked. T h u s the great Law of
320 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
C om pensation m etes out its rew ard, m an is delivered in bondage
or the flesh, to his ignoble fate. Science of M ind overcomes the
desire to sin, and raises th e standard of T ru th to a higher spin
itual realm , unfolding th e D ivine vista of G od’s eternal domain.
T h e obstinate m inded w ho place theories before practice and who
oppose H is kingdom are destroyed th ro u g h the law of causation,
D ivine Love rescues all w ho will listen to th e voice of the Most
H igh. T hose know ing the Science of M ind are fully prepared to
escape from th e forces w hich destroy th e soul of man.
(5 :10)— “Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst
of thee, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will
execute judgments in thee, and the whole remnant of thee
will I scatter into all the winds”.
T h e curse of Israel becam e a m ental reality to the “Children
of Israel”, and m ind, having as it does the pow er to bind on
earth and in heaven, has caused the scattering of the forces of
Israel th ro u g h centuries. T h e w ickedness of th eir priests and their
belief in D ivine revenge have been th e sinful pow ers behind the
throne w hich caused the dow nfall of Israel as a nation and placed
them in captivity several tim es. Such forces have been carried
into orthodox C hristianity and th e sam e destruction and scat­
tering of its forces its now im pending. W h e n m an learns God
is Love and A ll-good and never kills H is ow n creatures or
blesses dark deeds, th en all hum anity will m anifest Brotherly
Love, fo r can th e servant be greater th an H is M aster, or can man
becom e greater th an th e type of D eity he w orships?
(5 :11-12)— “Wherefore, as I live, saitli the Lord God; Surely
because thou hast defiled my sanctuary with all thy de­
testable things, and with all thine abominations, therefore
will I also diminish thee; neither shall mine eye spare,
neither will I have any pity. A third part of thee shall die
with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be con­
sumed in the midst of thee; and a third part shall fall by
the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third part
into all the winds,, and I will draw out a sword after
them”.
T h e sacrifice of anim al flesh pollutes G od’s sanctuary, like­
wise eating of flesh pollutes th e body of m an w hich is “the tem­
ple of the living G od”. D ivine M ind scatters th e forces of evil
w hen it opposes good, aiding only the pow ers w hich uplift man­
kind, show ing the goodness of G od and the pow er of mind when
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 321
working through th e principles of D ivine T ru th and Love.
Divine M ind requires th e sacrifice of carnal passions and lust and
the development of th e “ G odly pow er w ithin”.
(5:13-14-15-16)— “Thus shall mine anger be accomplished,
and I will cause my fury to rest upon them, and I will
be comforted: and they shall know that I the Lord have
spoken it in my zeal, when I have accomplished my fury
in them. Moreover, I will make thee waste, and a re­
proach among the nations that are around about thee, in
the sight of all that pass by. So shall it be a reproach and
a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment unto the
nations that are round about thee, when I shall execute
judgments in thee, in anger and in fury, and in furious
rebukes. I the Lord have spoken it. When I shall send
upon them the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for
their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you:
and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break
your staff of bread”.
T he Lord, m eaning th e In n er V oice prophesies the im pend'
ing disaster of those w ith sinful minds, b u t D ivine Love never
sends famines or w ars upon people. In this case the visions of the
prophet were distorted by th e im pulse of revenge common to the
animal plane of m ind, therefore he attributes evil to G od w ho
is All-good. T his proves how m uch the inspired w riters of old
needed M ind Science.
( 5 :17 )— “So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and
they shall bereave thee; and pestilence and blood shall
pass through thee; and I will bring the sword upon thee.
I the Lord have spoken it”.
Those w ho overcom e evil w ith good, will also overcome
pestilence, fam ine and all th e effects of evil, for the cause of such
calamities is evil deeds and their fruits. T h e Law of Com pensa­
tion belongs to G od and no one ever reaps other than w hat they
have sown, nor sows w h at they do not reap. D ivine Justice rules
in all affairs of life. Belief in evil G ods or powers causes m ental
negation and brings about disastrous results, while concentration
on good forestalls evil in one’s life. Belief in G od as G ood is
constructive thinking; th e crux of M ind Science is in the cor­
rect philosophy of life. Some facts w hich are T ru th are as fol­
lows: God never kills, G od does not require to be bribed w ith
blood in order to forgive sins, H e has never sanctioned a w ar,
322 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
a killing, either legal o r on th e battle field; H e is All-good, All-
know ing, A ll Love, O m n ip o ten t and O m nipresent, combined in
a pervading D ivine M ind. M an creates all of the fruits of sin
th ro u g h sinning and low ideas. T h e teachings of Jesus Christ
are to “ overcom e th e flesh, th e w orld and death through doing
the W ill of H im w ho sent us into th e w orld”. Some doctrines
teach th e suprem acy of evil over good, b u t Super M ind Science
teaches th a t no evil can be victorious in th e presence of one sin­
gle ray of D ivine pow er of G od. T h is teaching is the light of
th e w orld. If your m entality is filled w ith good all the days of
your life you can never know death, only the effect of death
is seem ingly tru e w hen you change form to live in another body.
T h e presence of the pow er of good raises man to immortal life
and love, w hile th e sow ing of good deeds as m ental seeds reaps
eternal fru it or continuous life and victory over sin and death.
( 6 : 1-2-3-4-5-6-7)— “And the word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, set thy face toward the mountains
of Israel, and prophesy against them, And say, Ye moun­
tains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God: Thus
saith the Lord God to the mountains, and to the hills, to
the rivers, and to the valleys, Behold, I, even I, will bring
a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
And your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall
be broken: and I will cast down your slain men before
your idols. And I will lay the dead carcasses of the chil­
dren of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your
bones round about your altars. In all your dwelling places
the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be
desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and made
desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and
your images may be cut down, and your works may be
abolished. And the slain shall fall in the midst of you,
and ye shall know that I am the Lord”.
H ere G od is pictured as a physical being w ho tears down
altars in the spirit of carnal jealousy, taking on the attributes of
flesh, being com posed of bone, nerves and blood, prophesying
m urder and threatening to kill H is enemies. T h is is symbolical
o f the m aterial m inded person w ho w ould try to w orship a God
like them selves. T h e evidence th a t in this case Ezekiel was speak­
ing the thoughts of flesh instead of Spirit is in the quality of
th e message, w hich was a message of malice, hatred and envy.
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 323
No doubt he developed a m ental illusion th rough waves of lower
thoughts, while at o th er tim es having higher aspirations his
message came from Infinite Spirit. T h e correct idea of this meS'
sage is that sin and idolatry destroy those w ho participate in them
for their fruits are evil. G od being Love and tolerance, could not
take on physical ideas w ith o u t ceasing to be G od or Good. Divine
Mind Science xrays the facts at hand and reveals the T ru th both
in Scriptures and daily life, th e D ivine com m and is “be still and
know I am G od and G ood.”
(6:8-9)— “Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some
that shall escape the sword among the nations, when ye
shall be scattered through the countries. And they that
escape of you shall remember me among the nations
whither they shall be carried captives, because I am
broken with their whorist heart, which hath departed
from me, and with their eyes, which go a whoring after
their idols: and they shall loathe themselves for the evils
which they have committed in all their abominations”.
T he C hildren of Israel believed in the pow ers of G od to do
either evil or good and visioned H im as an invisible king w ho
spoke through inspired prophets. C oncentration on this idea
brought about the fulfilling of the prophecies, both as to evil
and good conditions. T h is shows the pow er of m ind to direct
the forces of N ature and produce the results of an idea. W e
become w hat w e think, while beliefs w hen concentrated upon,
become mental realities.
(6:10-11-12)— “And they shall know that I am the Lord, and
that I have not said in vain that I would do this evil unto
them. Thus saith the Lord God, Smite with thine hand,
and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil
abominations of the house of Israel! for they shall fall
by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence. He
that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that is
near shall fall by the sword; and he that remaineth and
is besieged shall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish
my fury upon them”.
Divine Love and T ru th never does evil or sends pestilence
on innocent people. Such concepts of G od are the ruination of
the world and feed the fires of hum an destruction. D ivine M ind
Science reveals the evil as flesh and G od as Good. T h e idea of
God as a killer is the incorrect vision of the carnal m inded
324 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
prophet w ho w ould have a G od of destruction to destroy all who
failed to believe his prophecies. T h is typifies the modern creeds
w ho w ould have G od destroy all w ho w ill not accept their ab­
surd doctrines of eternal dam nation. G ood never comes from evil
or life from death, G od cannot be a Loving Father and also a
destroying dem on. S uper M in d Science denounces all such ignor­
ant doctrines of evil and devils, and raises the banner of Truth,
Love and L ight to a suffering w orld now em erging from the
pow ers of carnal m ind w hich has always stated falsehoods about
G od and Good.
(6:13-14) — “ T h e n s h a l l y e k n o w t h a t I a m t h e L o r d , w h e n
t h e i r s l a m m e n s h a l l b e a m o n g t h e i r i d o l s r o u n d a b o u t
t h e i r a l t a r s , u p o n e v e r y h i g h h i l l , i n a l l t h e t o p s o f th e
m o u n t a i n s , a n d u n d e r e v e r y g r e e n t r e e , a n d u n d e r e v e r y
t h i c k o a k , t h e p l a c e w h e r e t h e y d i d o f f e r s w e e t s a v o u r to
a l l t h e i r i d o l s . S o w i l l I s t r e t c h o u t m y h a n d u p o n t h e m ,
a n d m a k e t h e l a n d d e s o l a t e , y e a , m o r e d e s o l a t e t h a n th e
w i l d e r n e s s t o w a r d D i b l a t h , i n a l l t h e i r h a b i t a t i o n s : a n d
t h e y s h a l l k n o w t h a t I a m t h e L o r d . ”
D estruction of life com es from ignorance, not from God,
if G od destroyed th e idol w orshippers w ho are ignorant He
w ould be evil and unjust. T h e dem on, flesh consciousness ever
gives its supposed spiritual vision to a susceptible prophet, pic­
tu rin g G od as flesh and evil, w orking in its subtle way for the
destruction of m ankind, frightening th e m inds of innocent chil­
dren w ith u n tru e visions of G od. D ivine Science unmasks evil
and proves it does n o t com e from G od or Good. Prophets are
m ortals and receive D ivine messages only w hen they conform
to G ood, Love and T ru th , no o th er idea is fitting to the Uni­
versal F ather of all souls.
(7 :l-2-3-4-5-6)—“ M o r e o v e r , t h e w o r d o f t h e L o r d c a m e u n t o
m e , s a y i n g , A l s o , t h o u s o n o f m a n , t h u s s a i t h t h e L o r d
G o d u n t o t h e l a n d o f I s r a e l : A n e n d , t h e e n d i s c o m e u p o n
t h e f o u r c o r n e r s o f t h e l a n d . N o w i s t h e e n d c o m e u p o n
t h e e , a n d I w i l l s e n d m i n e a n g e r u p o n t h e e , a n d w i l l j u d g e
t h e e a c c o r d i n g t o t h y w a y s , a n d w i l l r e c o m p e n s e u p o n t h e e
a l l t h i n e a b o m i n a t i o n s . A n d m i n e e y e s h a l l n o t s p a r e t h e e ,
n e i t h e r w i l l I h a v e p i t y : b u t I w i l l r e c o m p e n s e t h y
w a y s u p o n t h e e , a n d t h i n e a b o m i n a t i o n s s h a l l b e i n t h e
m i d s t o f t h e e : a n d y e s h a l l k n o w t h a t I a m t h e L o r d .
T h u s s a i t h t h e L o r d G o d , A n e v i l , a n o n l y e v i l , b e h o l d , rs
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 325
come. An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for
thee; behold it is come.”
T he Law of C om pensation is revealed as a pow er w hich re'
wards and punishes, how ever th e source of evil is th e flesh con­
sciousness w hich pronounces evil as G ood and God, and believes
that unjust decisions com e from a D ivine source. T his conscious­
ness holds out th e hem lock poison to the spiritual mind, pre­
dicting calamities and saying they are from God. N o one suffers
beyond the evil created by th eir ow n conscious m ind or their
carnal sins, the essence of corporeality is opposite to Good or
God. W hen one is filled w ith a spiritual concept of Love and
God, their ElD orado of faith is m anifest, faith in all th at is good
and opposition to all evil. T h e end of m ortal consciousness is
the beginning of G od consciousness if one m erits a higher plane
of existence. It is n o t necessarily th e end of existence unless one’s
life has been such as to m erit com plete destruction of all memory
and identity, then th e unconscious soul alone returns to G od
or the Oversoul.
( 7 :7-8-9-10)— “The morning is come unto thee, 0 thou that
dwellest in the land: the time is come, the day of trouble
is near, and not the sounding again of the mountains.
Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and ac­
complish mine anger upon thee; and I will judge thee ac­
cording to thy ways, and will recompense thee for all
thine abominations. And mine eyes shall not spare,
neither will I have pity: I will recompense thee according
to thy ways and thine abominations that are in the midst
of thee; and ye shall know that I am the Lord that
smitheth. Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morn­
ing is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed; pride hath
budded”.
C arnal pride and the idea of G od as evil produces m ind
power of destruction. Im pending danger brings forth cries and
grief from m ortality w hich even in the presence of evil denies
guilt. T he Spirit bringeth com fort in tim es of tribulation to all
who know G ood as G od and M ind as Divine. In Super M ind
Science one learns of th e pow er w hich destroys all evil and death,
producing m astership and eternal consciousness w hich is life’s
greatest rew ard. Let every Super M ind Scientist feel secure and
abide in the T ru th w hich is T h e W ay and T h e Life.
326 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
(7 :11-12-13-14-15) — “Violence is risen up into a rod of zvick-
edness: none of them shall remain, nor of their multitude,
nor of any of theirs; neither shall there be wailing for
them. The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the
buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon
all the multitude thereof. For the seller shall not return
to that which is sold, although they were yet alive: for the
vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, which shall
not return; neither shall any strengthen himself in the
iniquity of his life. They have blown the trumpet, even
to make all ready; but none goeth to the battle: for my
wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. The sword is
without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he
that is in the field shall die with the sword: and he that
is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him”.
The cruelty of the flesh in disobeying Divine law seems
to be the cruelty of God. This is mortal delusion for God is Good
and therefore would not visit a famine or war upon His crea­
tures for sins committed while in the body, otherwise many in­
nocents would be victims of punishment sent against the guilty.
Divine law compensates each person individually and does not
send curses on groups of mortals collectively. Each person must
reap the seeds sown, those who sow to thorns cannot reap roses,
those who sow to death and the flesh reap sorrow and loss of soul
identity. Only self control and knowledge of the Divine presence
of God can give one the power to overcome the lower self. The
sword is an instrument of the flesh to inflict death, while Good­
ness is an instrument of Spirit to overcome death.
(7 :16-17-18 -19-20)— “But they that escape of them shall es­
cape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the val­
leys, all of them mourning, every one for his iniquity. AH
hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as
water. They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth,
and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all
faces, and baldness upon all their heads. They shall cast
their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be removed,
their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver
them in the day of the wrath of the Lord: they shall not
satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels: because it
is; the stumbling block of their iniquity. As for the beauty
of his ornament, he set it in majesty: but they made the
T H E B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 327
images o f their abom inations and o f their detestable
things therein: th erefo re have I set it fa r fro m them ”.
T he majesty of th e jewel of Infinite W isdom has been set
in the being of man. If he will b u t see the light of the Divine
Science of Life and Being, th e rays from his jewel will radiate
an eternal light w hich will shine on his heavenly path leading
him onw ard and upw ard aw ay from the earth, into the realm of
the Infinite O versoul. Such is the glory of the highest creation,
man, the rays of the spiritual sun shine in the recesses of his soul.
Immortality is his to attain if he will obey the law, he possesses
Divine pow er to overcom e the w orld while yet on earth. Jesus
said “I am the T ru th , T h e W ay and T h e Life”, H e realized
His Divine Sonship, let all Sons of m an do likewise. “Take up
thy cross and follow m e” sayeth the Lord w ho overcame the
world.
( 7 :21-22-23-24-25-26-27)— “A n d I w ill give it into the hands
o f the strangers fo r a prey, and to the w icked o f the earth
fo r a spoil: and they shall pollute it. M y face w ill I turn
also fro m them , and they shall pollute m y secret place:
fo r the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it. M ake
a chain; fo r the land is fu ll o f bloody crim es, and the city
is fu ll o f violence. W h erefo re I w ill bring the w orst o f
the heathen, and they shall possess their houses: I w ill
also m ake the pom p o f the strong to cease, and their holy
places shall be defiled. D estruction com eth; and they shall
seek peace, and th eir shall be none. M isch ief shall com e
upon m isch ief, and ru m o u r shall be upon ru m o u r; then
shall they seek a vision o f the prophet: but the law shall
perish fro m the priest, and counsel fro m the ancients. The
king shall m ourn, and the prince shall be clothed w ith
desolation, and the hands o f the people o f the land shall
be troubled: I w ill do unto them a fte r their w ay, and ac­
cording to their d eserts w ill I ju d g e th em ; and they shall
kn o w that I am the L o rd ”.
Carnal m ind receiving spiritual inspiration from D ivine
M ind translates it in term s of flesh impulse. T his dem onstrates
the ignorance of the carnal consciousness w hich m isinterprets
the D ivine message and gives adverse m ental suggestions to the
mind of m an; it believes in the evil potentialities of God. T he
Light of W isdom as taught in the Science of Life gives one con'
fidence in the goodness of G od and His D ivine Fatherhood,
328 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
dem onstrating eternal pow er over corporeal faculties. It trans­
m utes physical energy into spiritual pow er and raises the consci­
ousness to the reality of eternal goodness, hope, T ru th and Love.
(8:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— “A n d it cam e to pass in the sixth
year, in the six th m o n th , in the fifth day o f the month,
as I sat in m ine house, and the elders o f Judah sat before
m e, th a t the han d o f the L o rd G od fe ll there upon me.
T h en I beheld, and, lo, a liken ess as the appearance of
fire: fr o m the appearance o f his loins even downward,
fire ; and fr o m his loins even u p w ard, as the appearance
o f brightness, as the colour o f am ber. A n d he put forth
the fo r m o f an hand, and took m e by a lock o f mine head;
and the sp irit lifte d m e up b etw een the earth and the
heaven, and brought m e in the visio n s o f God to Jeru­
salem , to the d o o r o f the in n er gate that looketh toward
the n o rth , w here w as the seat o f the im age o f jealousy,
w h ich p ro vo keth to jealousy. A n d , behold, the glory of
the G od o f Isra el w as there, according to the vision that
I sa w in the plain. T h en saith H e unto m e, So n o f man
lift up thine eyes n o w the w a y to w a rd the north. So I
lifte d up m ine eyes the w a y to w a rd the north, and behold
n o rth w a rd at the gate o f the altar th is im age o f jealousy
in the entry. H e said, fu rth e rm o re , un to m e, S o n o f man,
seest thou w h a t th ey do? E v e n the great abominations
that the house o f Isra el co m m itteth here, that I should go
fa r o ff fr o m m y sanctuary? B u t tu rn thee yet again, and
th o u shalt see greater obom inations. A n d he brought me
to the door o f the co u rt; and w h en I looked, behold, a
hole in the wall. T h en said H e unto m e, S o n o f man, dig
n o w in the w a ll; and w h en I had digged in the wall, be­
hold a door. A n d H e said un to m e, Go in, and behold the
w icked abom inations that th ey do here. S o I w en t in and
sa w ; and behold, every fo r m o f creeping thing, and abom­
inable beasts, and all the idols o f the house o f Israel,
pourtrayed upo n the w all rou n d about”.
Infinite Spirit grips the consciousness of th e Divine Mes­
senger of T ru th and L ight and lifts him into wisdom, revealing
the hidden things. It reveals to him th e m ental images of past
deeds engraved into the wall of consciousness, unveiling the
sinful w orship of those w ho believe in a far off G od and ignore
the D ivine pow er w ithin. T h e idols of the m ind reflect their
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 329
images in the pages of “T h e L am b’s Book of Life” w here som e'
day mortal man m ust face them . T h en like the prophet of Israel
they behold th e evil com m itted in the body, for only those w ith
controlled m inds can overcom e sin, as all flesh sinneth and fall-
eth short of th e glory of God. D ivine M ind Science lifts man
above these images of sin into th e suprem e effulgent light of the
supernal realm of Love, T ru th and L ight w here higher beings
on the im m ortal planes converse saying, “Holy, Holy, thou art
God, A lhglorious”, as th e celestal harm ony manifests in waves
of bliss and peace.
(8:11-12-13-14) — “A n d there sto o d before them seven ty m en
o f the ancients o f the house o f Israel, and in the m idst o f
them stood Jaazaniah the son o f Shaphan, w ith every man
his censer in his h a n d ; and a thick cloud o f incense w ent
up. T h en said he unto m e, S o n o f m an, hast thou seen
w hat the ancients o f the house o f Israel do in the dark,
every m an in the cham bers o f his im agery? F o r they say,
the L o rd seeth us n o t; the L o rd ha th fo rsa ken the earth.
H e said also unto m e, T u rn thee y e t again, and thou shalt
see greater abom inations that they do. T hen he brought
m e to the door o f the gate o f the L o rd ’s house w hich w as
tow ard the n o rth ; and behold, there sat w om en w eeping
fo r T a m m u z”.
Tam m uz was a Sun G od w hose rites w ere Phallic, and w ho
taught a m aterialistic doctrine. Infinite Spirit shows the faith'
lessness of Israel to the prophet, proving th at doctrines w hich
fail to teach m ind control are w eak and sinful. T h e idea of this
Sun G od was th a t he was slain by a wild boar, symbolical of
the Solar E nergy in m an being used for a degenerating purpose.
T he religion of Judah was always mixed w ith Phallic w orship
and taught a physical concept of m onotheism . M ind Science re-
veals the reason for this degeneration in w orship, it pronounces
it an evil w hich comes from em otional religion w here m ind con'
trol is unknow n. Form al C hristianity also has its Phallic worship.
In Romanism, it is th e supposed virtue of nuns w ho are p hy­
sically m arried to a supposed physical C hrist, w ho in tu rn be­
comes their husband, w hile th e C hurch itself is the bride of the
priest. In Protestantism , the virgin birth of C hrist is the para­
m ount issue, as th o u g h G od could not m anifest through the or­
gans of creation w hich H e created. T h e Science of Life teaches
a spiritual C hrist and a spiritual God, existing beyond all con-
330 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
sideration of sect or sex, the fountain of Truth, Love, Light,
the guiding hand of the universe, creator of all races and colors,
above all prejudices, malice, hatred and envy which are quali­
ties common to the lowest mortal plane of mind.
(8 :1 5 -1 6 -1 7 -1 8 ) — “T h en said H e unto m e, H ast thou seen this,
0 son o f m a n ? T u rn thee y e t again, and thou shalt see
greater abom inations than these. A n d he brought me into
the in n er court o f the L o rd ’s h o u se; and, behold, at the
do o r o f the tem ple o f the L o rd , betw een the porch and
the altar, w ere about five and tw en ty m en, w ith their
backs tow ard the tem ple o f the L o rd , and their faces
tow ard the east; and th ey w o rsh ip p ed the sun toward the
east. T h en he said unto m e, H a st thou seen this, 0 son
o f m a n ? Is it a light thing to the house o f Judah that
th ey co m m it the abom inations w h ich they com m it here?
F o r they have filled the land w ith violence, and have re­
tu rn ed to p ro vo ke m e to an g er; and, lo, they put the
branch to their nose. T h e re fo re w ill I also deal in fury:
m ine eyes shall no t spare, n eith er w ill I have pity: and
thou th ey cry in m ine ears w ith a loud voice, yet will I
no t hear them ".
The worship of the physical sun was idolatry, likewise the
worship of the physical man, Jesus, is also idolatry. The Son of
God could no more be confined to one physical body than all
the Divine power could be reflected through one sun. For this
reason Infinite Spirit rebukes mortal ignorance for bowing down
to any physical power, for God being spiritual must also be
universal. The Supreme Light of life is the light that shineth
unto every man, this light alone is the Light of the world. Jesus
said “Worship me not, but worship Him who sent me into the
world’’, yet despite this injunction, the Truth about the Father is
to be found in the Science of Mind alone, the only Christians
who worship the Father in Spirit are those whose mind is purified
through Divine Mind Science.
( 9 :l- 2 -3 )— “H e cried also in m ine ears w ith a loud voice, say­
ing, Cause them that have charge over the city to draw
near, even every m an w ith his destro yin g w eapon in his
hand. A n d , behold, six m en cam e fr o m the w ay o f the
higher gate, w hich lieth tow ard the north, and every man
a slaughter w eapon in his h and; and one m an am ong them
w as clothed w ith linen, w ith a w riter’s in kh o rn by his
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 331
side: A n d th ey w en t in, and stood beside the brazen altar.
A n d the glory o f the G od o f Israel w as gone up fro m the
cherub, w h ereu p o n he w as, to be threshold o f the house:
A n d he called to the m an clothed w ith line, w hich had the
w riter’s in kh o rn by his side”.
T he record of sins is w ritten in the reflection of m ind; soul
consciousness im presses th e Book o f Life w ith the deeds of man,
symbolized by th e “one clothed w ith linen w ith the w riter’s
inkhorn by his side”. C arnal passion bids man to slay, and the
six physical senses operating through magnetism, symbolized by
the north, finds excuse to slay wom en, children and helpless vie*
tims, and foolish m ortals th in k th a t G od is the author of war.
God being Just and Love could not consent to such evil deeds,
only mortal m ind believes it so.
(9:4-5-6-7) — “A n d the L o rd said unto him , Go through the
m idst o f the city, through the m id st o f Jerusalem , and set
a m ark upon the fo reh ea d s o f the m en that sigh, and that
cry, fo r all the abom inations that be done in the m idst
therof. A n d to the others, H e said in m ine hearing, Go ye
a fter h im through the city, and sm ite; let not yo u r eye
spare, neither have ye p ity : S la y utterly old and young,
both m aids, and little children, and w o m en ; but com e not
near any m an upo n w h o m is the m a rk; and begin at m y
sanctuary. T h en they began at the ancient m en w hich
w ere before the house. A n d H e said unto them , defile the
house, and fill the courts w ith the slain; go ye fo rth . A n d
they w e n t fo rth , and slew in the city”.
T he delusion of the senses acting under evil impulse causes
a mark to develop in th e forehead of the criminal, likewise an-
other in the forehead of the righteous. Infinite Spirit spares the
good and their life is prolonged, while those w ith the m ark of
the beast or ignorance and crim e are already sentenced to death
and destruction. N ature never excuses ignorance, b u t collects
every farthing. N o one can escape paying for their evil deeds,
for the law is th a t those w ho use the sword shall die by the
sword, evil begets evil, w hile good com pensates w ith good; good
is life, evil is death.
(9:8-9-10-11) — “A n d it cam e to pass, w hile they w ere slaying
them , and I w as le ft, that I fe ll upon m y face, and cried,
and said, A h L o rd G od! W ilt T hou destroy all the resi­
due o f Israel in T h y pouring out o f T h y fu r y upon Jerus-
332 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
a le m f T h en said H e un to m e, T h e iniquity o f the House
o f Isra el and Ju d a h is exceed in g great, and the land is
fu ll o f blood, and the city fu ll o f perverseness: fo r they
say, T h e L o rd hath fo rsa k e n the earth, and the Lord
seeth not. A n d as fo r m e also, m ine eye shall not spare,
neith er w ill I have p ity, bu t I w ill recom pense their way
upon th eir head. A n d , behold, the m an clothed w ith linen,
w hich had the in kh o rn by his side, reported the matter,
saying, I, have done as T h o u hast com m anded me”.
The soul consciousness under Divine law performs its duty
and replies to Infinite Mind “I have done as thou commanded”.
The soul, being obedient to Spirit ever inspires the flesh to take
wise council from within before acting, in order that the record
of the body will be approved by the voice of the Infinite. Super
Mind Science teaches the methods of soul contact which keeps
the mind evenly balanced and the consciousness under control.
Each Super Mind Scientist should remember to abide in this
Truth for it is “the light of the world.” Be as “a city sat upon
a high hill”, glorify your Heavenly Father through Divine works
that your light may shine before men. Assist Truth, demonstrate
the power of Spirit over the flesh through the Science of Divine
Mind.
(1 0 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 ) — “T h en I looked, and, behold, in the firma­
m en t that w as above the head o f the cherubim s there ap­
peared o ver th em as it w ere a sapphire stone, as the ap­
pearance o f the liken ess o f a throne. A n d he spake unto
the m an clothed w ith linen, and said, go in betw een the
w heels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hand with
coals o f fire fr o m betw een the cherubim s, and scatter
them, over the city. A n d he w en t in in m y sight. Now
the cherubim s stood on the rig h t side o f the house, when
the m an w en t in ; and the cloud filled the inner court.
T h en the g lory o f the L o rd w e n t up fr o m the cherub, and
stood over the threshold o f the ho u se; and the house was
filled w ith the cloud, and the court w as fu ll o f the bright­
ness o f the L o rd ’s glory. A n d the sou n d o f the cherubims’
w ings w as heard even to the o uter court, as the voice of
the A lm ig h ty G od w h en H e speaketh”.
The voice of the Infinite speaketh in the brain, the court­
yard of the Divine temple, the body. In the midst of the con­
fusion of life one hears the Divine Voice as it explains the
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 333
mysteries of the supernal w orld. It speaks w ords of pow er, T ru th
and Love, while the Spirit or Fire of Life w ithin m an is fanned
by the D ivine presence w hich pervades the w hole universe and
is reflected in m an in th e form of Infinite Intelligence, for G od
is Spirit, A ll-know ing, A ll-seeing and O m nipotent.
(10:6-7-8-9-10-11)— “A n d it cam e to pass, that w hen H e had
com m anded the m an clothed w ith linen, saying, Take fire
fro m betw een the w heels, fr o m betw een the cherubim s;
then he w e n t in, and sto o d beside the w heels. A n d one
cherub stretch ed fo r th his hand fr o m betw een the cher­
ubim s u n d er the fire th a t w as betw een the cherubim s,
and took th ereo f, and p u t it into the hands o f him
that w as clothed w ith linen; w ho took it, and w en t out.
A n d there appeared in the cherubim s the fo rm o f a m an’s
hand under their w ings. A n d w h en I looked, behold, the
fo u r w heels by the cherubim s, one w heel by one cherub,
and another w heel by another cherub; and the appearance
o f the w heels w as as the colour o f a beryl stone. A n d as
fo r their appearance, th ey fo u r had one likeness, as if a
w heel had been in the m id st o f a w heel. W h en they w en t,
thy w en t upon their fo u r sides; they turned not as th ey
w ent, but to the place w h ith er the head looked they fo l­
low ed it; they turned no t as they w en t”.
Divine harm ony is th e keynote of existence, while the anti-
phony of im m ortal souls is in cosmic unison w ith the U niversal
Spirit. T he pow er of Spirit w hich surrounds the universe also
surrounds th e being of m an, carrying the impulse of Infinite
Love. D ivine M ind Science ruled by positive and negative im ­
pulse or the cherubim s and cherub unites the consciousness to
this heavenly harm ony. T h e four elem ents of man, while consist­
ing of opposite principles respond to one likeness, the likeness
of God, for man is m ade in H is image, “ In H is image made H e
him.”
(10:12-13-14-15) — “A n d their w hole body, and their backs,
and their hands, and their w ings, and the w heels, w ere
fu ll o f eyes rou n d about, even the w heels that they fo u r
had. A s fo r the w heels, it w as cried unto them in m y
hearing, 0 w h eel! A n d every one had fo u r fa ces: the
first fa ce w as the fa ce o f a cherub, and the second fa ce
w as the fa ce o f a m an, and the third face the fa ce o f a
lion, and the fo u r th the fa ce o f an eagle. A n d the cher-
334 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
ub im s w ere lifte d up. T h is is the living creature that I
sa w by the river o f the C hcbar”.
The uniting of spiritual powers produces the harmony of
life. The antepaschal of the soul is to know this Divine harmony
as food, only inharmony destroys life and light. The wheels
of life turn in Divine harmony and each element is governed by
a law, while in man they respond to mental fixation, meditation,
and the desire to know and do good. The Science of Mind unites
consciousness to unity with all good.
(10:16-17-18-19-20-21-22) — “A n d w h en the cherubim s went,
the w heels w e n t by th e m ; and w h en the cherubim s lifted
up th eir w in g s to m o u n t up fr o m the earth, the same
w heels also tu rn ed n o t fr o m beside them . W hen they
stood, these sto o d ; and w h e n th ey w ere lifted up these
lifte d up them selves also: fo r the spirit o f the living
creature w as in them . T h en the g lo ry o f the Lord de­
parted fr o m o ff the threshold o f the house, and stood over
the cherubim s. A n d the ch eru b im s lifte d up their wings,
and m o u n ted up fr o m the earth in m y sig h t; when they
w en t out, the w h eels also w ere beside th em ; and every
one stood at the door o f the east gate o f the Lord’s
house; and the g lo ry o f the G od o f Isra el w as over them
above. T h is is the livin g creature that I saw under the
G od o f Israel by the river o f C hebar; and I knew that
th ey w ere the cherubim s. E v e ry one had fo u r faces
apiece, and every one fo u r w in g s; and the likeness of the
hands o f a m an w as u n d er th eir w ings. A n d the likeness
o f th eir fa c e s w a s the sam e fa c e s w h ich I sa w by the river
o f C hebar, th eir appearances and th em selves: they went
every one stra ig h t fo rw a rd ”.
The vision of the Prophet ascends to the spiritual realm of
life where the mind sees familiar sights, demonstrating the
unity of Light, Love and Truth. He sees the Lord’s house open,
or the door in the East, which lets in the Light of Eastern saints,
but the flesh consciousness of Israel refuses the Light, yet Divine
Love protects them from the destruction which results from
sinning against Life, Light and Truth. Such is always the love
of the Spirit and the tribulations of the flesh. Let all Super Mind
Scientists strive to live in Truth, Love and Light.
(11 :l-2 -3 -4 )— “M o reo ver, the sp irit lifte d m e up and brought
m e unto the east gate o f the L o rd ’s house, w hich looketh
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 335
eastw ard: and, behold, at the door o f the gate five and
tw enty m en ; am ong w h o m I sa w laazaniah the son o f
A zu r, and P elatiah the son o f B enaiah, princes o f the
people. T h en said H e unto m e, S o n o f m an, these are the
men that devise m isch ief, and give w icked counsel in this
city; W hich say, I t is n o t near; let us build houses: this
city is the caldron, and w e be the flesh. T h erefo re proph­
esy against them , prophesy, 0 son o f m an”.
W ickedness in h ig h places am ong earthly princes is com-
mon, for selfish man takes advantage of his brothers. These men
prevent the Eastern wisdom of self control from entering into
the religion of Israel because they love the ways of darkness.
The Divine V oice of consciousness com m ands the prophet to
prophesy against them . T h e fires of passion and lust feed the
flames of m ateriality, w hile D ivine love is cast aside; such is
carnal action. W h en destruction is pending, the carnal mind
prays for the wisdom previously rejected, b u t remorse cannot
be substituted for good deeds. G od consciousness reveals the
foolish ways of m ortality and th e wisdom of eternal Life, L ight
and Love. T hose w ho are wise seek the greater light while the
foolish are content w ith the glam our of the lesser lights in univ­
ersal creation. Blessed is he w ho abides in the T ru th for this is
The W ay, T h e Life and T h e Pow er forever.
(1 1 :5-6-7-8-9-10)— “A n d the S p irit o f the L o rd fe ll upon m e,
and said unto m e, S p e a k ; T h u s saith the L o rd , T h u s have
ye said, O house o f Israel: fo r I kn o w the things that
come into y o u r m ind, every one o f them . Y e have m ul­
tiplied yo u r slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets
th ereo f w ith the slain. T h erefo re thus saith the L o rd
God, Y o u r slain sham e ye have laid in the m idst o f it, they
are the flesh, and this city is the caldron; but I w ill bring
you fo r th out o f the m id st o f it. Y e have fea red the
sw o rd ; and I w ill bring a sw ord upon you, saith the L ord.
A n d I w ill bring yo u out o f the m idst thereof, and deliver
you into the hands o f strangers, and w ill execute ju d g ­
m ents am ong you. Y e shall fa ll by the sw ord: I w ill ju d g e
you in the border o f Isra e l; and ye shall kn o w that I am
the L o rd ”.
“Those w ho kill w ith the sword, die by the sw ord sayeth
the Lord, Jesus. T h e curse of evil is upon them and the soul
departs from them unconsciously. W hile their bodies continue
336 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
to live, o th er evil forces arise and take from them their last
possession, physical life. T h eir em pty m entality then drifts into
eternity, seeking w hom it m ay devour, for it is an evil self re­
leased from a sinful body shell. D ivine Love condemns all kill­
ing. Since G od is Love, it follow s th a t H e is opposite and op­
posed to destruction, therefore, Israel is delivered into bondage
and penal servitude u n d er strangers to extirpate the sin of kill­
ing by the sw ord, fo r all m en are brothers in Spirit, Truth and
Love.
(11:11-12-13-14-15-16-17) — “T h is city shall not be your cal­
dron, neith er shall ye be the flesh in the m idst thereof; but
I w ill ju d g e yo u in the border o f Israel: A n d ye shall
kn o w that I am the L o rd : fo r ye have n o t walked in my
sta tu tes, neith er execu ted m y ju d g m en ts, but have done
a fte r the m a n n ers o f the heathen th a t are round about
you. A n d it cam e to pass, w h e n I prophesied, that Pela-
tiah, the so n o f B enaiah, died : then fe ll I dow n upon my
face, and cried w ith a loud voice, and said, A h , Lord God!
w ilt thou m ake a fu ll end o f the rem n a n t o f Isra eli Again
the W o rd o f the L o rd cam e unto m e, saying, S on of man,
th y brethren, even th y brethren, the m en o f thy kindred,
and all the house o f Isra el w h o lly, are they unto whom the
inhabitants o f Jerusalem have said, g et you fa r from the
L o rd ; unto u s is th is land g iven in possession. Therefore
say, th u s saith the L o rd G od, although I have cast them
fa r o ff fro m am ong the heathen, and although I have scat­
tered them am ong the countries, y e t w ill I be to them as
a little sanctuary in the countries w here they shall come.
T h erefo re, say, T h u s saith the L o rd God, I will even
gather yo u fr o m the people, and assem ble you out of the
countries w h ere ye have ben scattered, and I will gwe
you the land o f Israel”.
A fter com m itting sin, m an finds solace in Spirit and an
ever protecting sanctuary in D ivinity. T h is is th e only real com­
fort in mortal existence, all o th er seem ing pleasures are poled
into insignificance in th e presence of the Love of the Heavenly
Father. Love abideth for th e sinner and the saint alike, as God
is no respector of persons. W h ile th e Law of Compensation pun­
ishes Israel, the D ivine Spirit rem aineth th e same, a protecting
Fatherly influence seeking to rescue creatures from destruction,
sorrow and sin. E ternal com passion supercedes all theories of
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 337
histology and hom eopathy to bind the w ounds of man and heal
the broken cords of D ivinity in his being w hich connect him
with Infinite T ru th , Love and D ivine M ind. It is N ature’s great
healing and helping principle w hich shines as a beacon light
along the pathw ay of life.
(11:18-19-20-21-22-23-24-25)— “A n d they shall com e thither,
and they shall take aw ay all the detestable things thereof,
and all the abom inations th ereo f, fro m thence. A n d I w ill
give them one heart, and I w ill p u t a n ew spirit w ithin
yo u ; and I w ill take the sto n y heart out o f their flesh
that they m ay w a lk in m y statutes, and keep m ine
ordinances, and do th em : and they shall be m y people, and
I w ill be their God. B u t as fo r them w hose heart w alketh
a fter the heart o f their detestable things and their abom ­
inations, I w ill recom pense their w ay upon their ow n
heads, saith the L o rd God. T h en did the cherubim s lift
up their w ings, and the w heels beside them : and thy glory
o f the G od o f Isra el w as over them above. A n d the glory
o f the L o rd w e n t up fr o m the m id st o f the city, and stood
upon the m ou n ta in w h ich is on the east side o f the city.
A fte rw a rd s the sp irit took m e up, and brought m e in a
vision by the S p irit o f G od into Chaldea, to them o f the
captivity: so the visio n that I had seen w en t up fro m me.
Then I spake unto them o f the captivity o f all the things
that the L o rd had sh ew ed m e”.
Divine M ind gives courage, love and a new heart to those
in tribulation, and reveals itself to those repentent of
sins and evil. T h e transgressions of th e laws of Life and Light
are forgotten w hen one enters th e D ivine sanctuary w ithin. All
wounds are healed and the Spirit is lifted to the high altitude of
understanding, w hile the princes of evil destroy themselves. Such
is Divine Love and th e m anifestation of D ivinity w ithin the
universe. O vercom e sin and see the glory of the Lord on the
mountain of your being w hile spiritual vision records the w on­
ders of Life, L ight and Love. Science of M ind and concentration
are the keys to being, revealing the Infinite Love of G od as All-
good and D ivine W isdom .
(12:1-2-3-4-5-6-7) — “T h e W o rd o f the L o rd also came unto
m e, saying, S o n o f m an, thou dw ellest in the m id st o f a
rebellious house, w hich have eyes to see, and see not ; they
have ears to hear, and hear not: fo r they are a rebellious
338 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
house. T h erefo re, thou son o f m an, prepare thee stuff for
rem oving, and rem ove by day in th eir sig h t; and thou
shalt rem ove fr o m th y place to a nother place in their
sig h t: it m ay be th ey w ill consider, though they be a re­
bellious house. T h en sh a lt th o u bring fo r th thy stuff by
day in their sight, as s tu ff fo r rem oving: and thou
shalt go fo r th at even in th eir sig h t, as they that go forth
into captivity. D ig th o u th ro u g h the w all in their
sight, and carry out thereby. In th eir sig h t shalt thou bear
it upon th y shoulders, and carry it fo r th in the twilight:
thou shalt cover th y fa ce, th a t th o u see n o t the ground;
fo r I have set thee fo r a sig n un to the house o f Israel.
A n d I did so as I w a s com m a n d ed : I brought fo rth my
s tu ff by day, as s tu ff fo r ca p tivity, and in the even I
digged through the w all w ith m ine h and; I brought it
fo r th in the tw ilight, and I bare it upon m y shoulder in
their sight”.
T h e Divinely inspired w ho hear th e universal voice are set
as a sign unto the people. C om m ands from Spirit to flesh are
transm itted th rough a silent voice w hich sepaketh to the soul of
the Son of M an. W h ile th e voice seems to be another personal­
ity, it is D ivine W isdom translated into w ords through the
agencies of consciousness and feeling. D ivine wisdom foretells
the pitfalls of m ortality before th ey happen. Since Infinite Mind
is superconscious, m an receives th e w arning and gives it to his
brothers w ho are supposed to believe the w ord of the prophet,
b u t often they accuse the p ro p h et of insincerity and tum from
him, bringing upon them selves the curses of ignorance, physical
bondage and the illness of m ortal sin.
(12:8-9-10-11-12-13 )— “A n d in the m o rning cam e the Word
o f the L o rd unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, hath not the
house o f Israel, the rebellious house, said unto thee, What
doest th o u ? S a y thou unto them , T h u s saith the Lord
God. T h is burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem,
and all the house o f Israel that are am ong them . Say, l
am yo u r sign: like as I have done, so it shall be done unto
them : they shall rem ove, and go into captivity. A n d the
prince that is am ong th em shall bear upon his shoulder m
the tw ilight, and shall go fo r th : th ey shall dig through the
w all to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, that he
see not the ground w ith h is eyes. M y net also will I
M l T " 1
"......... .
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 339
spread upon him , and he shall be taken in m y snare: and
I w ill bring h im to B abylon, to the land o f the C haldeans;
yet shall he no t see it, though he shall die there”.
Infinite Spirit sends a warning to mortal man and points
the way out of the snare of flesh ideas, toward a spiritual exist­
ence which would mean the ultimate death of the body but the
immortality of the soul. Examples or object lessons are given
through circumstances, but the flesh refuses to hear the Spirit
and goes on sinning until the results of evil make life unbear­
able. The Children of Israel typify the materialistic minded per­
sons of today who suffer the consequences of ignorance and sin
when they could overcome the influences of flesh with Spirit,
attain success, health, supreme peace and live in Truth and
Divine harmony.
(12:14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21 -22-23) — “A n d I w ill scatter
tow ard every w in d all that are about h im to help him , and
all his bands; and I w ill d ra w out the sw ord a fte r them.
A n d they shall k n o w that I am the L o rd , w hen I shall
scatter them am ong the nations, and disperse them in the
countries. B u t I w ill leave a fe w m en o f them fro m the
sw ord, fr o m the fa m in e, and fr o m the pestilence, that they
m ay declare all th eir abom inations am ong the heathen
w hither they co m e; and they shall kn o w that I am the
Lord. M oreover, the W o rd o f the L o rd came to m e, say­
ing, S o n o f m an, eat th y bread w ith quaking, and drink
thy w a ter w ith trem bling and w ith carefulness; A n d say
unto the people o f the land, T h u s saith the L o rd God o f
the inhabitants o f Jerusalem , and o f the land o f Israel,
shall eat their bread w ith carefulness, and drink their
w ater w ith a stonishm ent, that her land m ay be desolate
T hey shall eat th eir bread w ith carefulness, and drink
their w ater w ith astonishm ent, that her hand m ay be deso­
late fr o m all that is therein, because o f the violence o f all
them that dw ell therein. A n d the cities that are inhabited
shall be laid w aste, and the land shall be desolate, and ye
shall kn o w that I am the L o rd . A n d the W o rd o f the L o rd
came unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, w hat is that proverb
that ye have in the land o f Israel, saying, T he days are
prolonged, and every vision fa ile th ? Tell them therefore,
T h u s saith the L o rd God, I w ill m ake this proverb to
cease, and they shall no m ore use it as a proverb in Israel;
340 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
but say unto them , T h e d a ys are at hand, and the effect
o f every vision’’.
Infinite Spirit w orketh w onders here and now, showing the
pow er of a living G od of Love and T ru th . D ead theories and
bygone w onders do n o t affect th e present, only the experiences
of m ind lead m an to the realization of an ever present God.
G od w orking th ro u g h th e Law of C om pensation brings about
the evolution of m ankind and life in general, fo r the wisdom of
G od is beyond the consciousness of man. A G od of the present
is a living G od w hile a G od of th e past w hose wonders have
ceased is a dead G od and a th eo ry having no M odus Operandi.
T h e historiographers of old w rote events of their day, let
m odern m an open his m ind to th e D ivine revelations and pass
his wisdom on to posterity to inspire th e confidence of a coming
generation w hose environm ents are physical.
(12:24-25-26-27-28)— “F o r there shall be no m ore any vain
vision n o r flattering d ivin a tio n w ith in the house o f Israel.
• F o r I am the L o rd : I w ill speak, and the W ord that I
shall speak shall com e to pass: it shall be no more pro­
longed: fo r in y o u r days, 0 rebellious house, will I say
the W o rd , and w ill p e rfo rm it, saith the L o rd God. Again,
the W o rd o f the L o rd cam e to m e, saying, S o n o f man,
behold, they o f the house o f Isra el say, T he vision that
H e seeth is fo r m any d a ys to com e, and H e prophesieth
o f the tim es that are fa r off. T h e re fo re say unto them,
T h u s saith the L o rd G od, T h ere shall none o f m y words
be prolonged any m o re; but the W o rd w hich I have
spoken shall be done, saith the L o rd G od”.
T hose w ho postpone w isdom in v iteth death for life con­
sists of Spiritual L ight and T ru th . T h e Science of Life and Mind
dem ands the im m ediate attention of all intelligent seekers of
T ruth. A ge old superstitions m ust be broken down and God
made m anifest in the life of m an in order to save this civiliza­
tion from deterioration. Seek th e D ivine W isdom of Mind
Science and all else shall be added unto you. Concentrate in­
wardly as if seeing th ere th e Infinite light of this world, then
the revelations of Spirit w ill unfold to your soul.
(13:1-2-3-4-5-6-7 )— “A n d the W o rd o f the L o rd came unto
m e, saying S o n o f m an, p ro p h esy against the prophets of
Israel that prophesy, and say thou unto them that proph
esy out o f their ow n hearts, H ea r ye the w ord of the
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 341
L o rd ; T h u s saith the L o rd God, W o e unto the foolish
prophets, that fo llo w th eir ow n spirits, and have seen
nothing! 0 Israel, th y p rophets are like the fo x e s in the
deserts. Y e have n o t gone up into the gaps, neither m ade
up the hedge fo r the house o f Israel ,to stand in the battle
in the day o f the L o rd . T h ey have seen va n ity and lying
divination, saying, T h e L o rd saith: and the L o rd hath
not sent th em ; and they have m ade others to hope that
they w ould confirm the W o rd . H a ve ye not seen a vain
vision, and have ye no t sp o ken a lying divination, w hereas
ye say, T h e L o rd saith it; albeit I have not spoken?”
M any have said “ I heard th e L ord”, w hen the voice was
but their uncontrolled im agination m anifesting, others say, “it
is the Lord’s W ill”, w hen it is b u t carnal W ill and lust th at
speaketh. O nly those w ith controlled m inds hear the Infinite
Voice of W isdom . So long as m ind is attached to m atter, it is
as a cloud w hich obscures th e light of th e sun on this earth;
failing to com prehend G ood and G od, it believes in th e real­
ity of m atter and evil. T h e tru e M ind Scientist labors to break
this destructive attachm ent, controlling m atter w ith m ind by
the Infinite Spirit of T ru th , Love and Light.
(13:8-9-10-11-12) — “T h erefo re th u s saith the L o rd God, B e­
cause ye have sp o ken va n ity and seen lies, therefore, be­
hold, I am against you, saith the L o rd God. A n d m ine
hand shall be upon the prophets that see vanity and that
divine lies: th ey shall no t be in the assem bly o f m y people,
neither shall they be w ritte n in the w riting o f the house
o f Israel, neither shall they enter into the land o f Israel;
and ye shall kn o w that I am the L o rd God. Because, even
because they have seduced m y people, saying, Peace, and
there w as no peace; and one built up a w all, and, lo, others
daubed it w ith u n tem p ered m ortar: S a y unto them w hich
daub it w ith u n tem p ered m ortar, that it shall fa ll: there
shall be an overflow ing sh o w er; and ye, O great hail­
stones, shall fa ll; and a sto rm y w in d shall rend it. L o,
w hen the w all is fa llen , shall it not be said unto you,
w here is the daubing w h erew ith ye have daubted it?”
Falsifying prophets and so-called spiritual seers w ho pre­
tend to hear a voice w hich speaks things pleasing to th eir vanity
and mortal consciousness fool them selves, for every falsehood)
uttered will bring its retu rn in suifering. T hose w ho prophesy
342 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
m ust first attain to Love, L ight and self control, otherwise their
visions are false, th eir reports unreliable and their tongue maketh
m uch mischief. E nlightm ent comes only to the righteous minded.
(13:13-14-15-16-17-18-19) — “T h e re fo re th u s saith the Lord
God, I w ill even rend it w ith a sto rm y w ind in my fury;
and there shall be' an o verflo w in g sh o w er in mine anger,
and great hailstones, in m y fu r y , to consum e it. So will I
break d o w n the w all that ye have daubed w ith untem­
pered m ortar, and bring it d o w n to the ground, so that
the fo u n d a tio n th e re o f shall be discovered, and it shall
fa ll, and ye shall be con su m ed in the m idst thereof: and
ye shall kn o w that I am the L o rd . T h u s w ill I accom­
plish m y w ra th upon the w all, and upon them that have
daubed it w ith u n tem p ered m o rta r; and w ill say unto you,
T he w all is no m ore, n eith er th ey that daubed it; To wit,
the prophets o f Israel, w h ich pro p h esy concerning Jeru­
salem , and w hich see visio n s o f peace fo r her, and there
is no peace, saith the L o rd God. L ikew ise, thou son of
m an, set th y fa ce against the daughters o f thy people,
prophesy out o f th eir o w n hea rt; and prophesy thou
w hich prophesy ou t o f th eir o w n heart; and prophesy thou
to the w o m en that sew p illow s to all arm holes, and make
kerch iefs upon the head o f every stature, to hunt souls!
W ill ye h u n t the souls o f m y people, and w ill ye save
m e am ong m y people, fo r h a n d fu ls o f barley, and for
pieces o f bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and
to save the souls alive that sh o u ld not live, by your lying
to m y people that hear yo u r lies?”
“U ntem pered m ortar” is prophecy inspired by a selfish
motive, this type of prophecy is b o m in carnal lust not in Infinite
Spirit. T h e Law of C om pensation rew ards the hypocrites and
blasphem ers w ith a curse w hich they have placed upon them-
selves. W h en the m ortal feelings retire from the theatre of the
sense, then Infinite Spiritual W isdom m anifests. All prophecy of
the m ortal senses is untrue, only the message of T ru th which is
received through D ivine intelligence can predict or inform, this
cannot function w hen the m ortal im pulses are ruling the con­
sciousness. T h e superconscious m ind th ro u g h w hich Divine in­
telligence m anifests sees as far into the fu tu re as the subconscious
m ind retains m em ory of the past, how ever, one is unaware of
the superconscious m entation until they have attained to self
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 343
control and an understanding of the laws of M ind and the laws
of Being.
(13:20-21-22-23) — “W h e re fo re th u s saith the L o rd God, B e­
hold, I am against y o u r pillow s, w h erew ith ye there hunt
the souls to m ake them fly ; and I w ill tear them fro m
your arm s, and w ill let the souls go, even the souls that ye
hunt to m ake them fly. Y o u r kerch iefs also w ill I tear, and
deliver m y people out o f y o u r hand, and they shall be no
more in yo u r hand to be h u n te d ; and ye shall know that
1 am the L ord. B ecause w ith lies ye have m ade the heart
o f the righteous sad, w h o m I have no t m ade sad, and
strengthened the hands o f the w icked, that he should not
return fr o m his w icked w ay, by prom ising h im life ;
T herefore ye shall se no m ore va nity, nor divine divina­
tions: fo r I w ill d eliver m y people out o f yo u r h a n d ; and
ye shall kn o w that I am the L o rd ”.
Infinite Love delivers th e righteous out of the hand of those
who would m isrepresent D ivine pow ers, raising them to an un ­
derstanding of T ru th . D ivine Love never makes anyone sad but
fuses the influence of bliss to all whose souls are attuned to In ­
finite Love. T h e captive souls of those w ith good intentions are
released from the bondage of carnal desire while the Divine
Logos voices the positive laws of life. T hose w ho fail to accept
spiritual T ru th will find them selves groping in the darkness of
flesh concept w hile the D ivine divination is w ithdraw n from
them, leaving their souls in darkness and despair until the soul
leaves their being and returns to Infinite Spirit like steel is at­
tracted to a m agnet.
(14:1-2-3-4-5-6)— “T h en cam e certain o f the elders o f Israel
unto m e, and sat befo re me. A n d the W o rd o f the L ord
came unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, these m en have set
up their idols in th eir hearts, and put the stum bling block
o f their iniq u ity before their fa ce: should I be inquired o f
at all by th e m ? T h erefo re speak unto them , and say unto
them, T h u s saith the L o rd G od, E very m an o f the house
o f Israel that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth
the stum bling block o f h is iniquity before his face, and
com eth to the prophet, I the L o rd w ill answ er h im that
com eth according to the m u ltitu d e o f his idols; T h a t I
m ay take the h o u se o f Isra el in their ow n heart, because
they are all estranged fr o m m e through their idols. There-
344 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
fo re say unto the house o f Israel, T h u s saith the Lord
God, R ep en t, and tu rn yo u rselves fr o m your idols; and
tu rn aw ay yo u r fa c e s fr o m all yo u r abom inations”.
Physical instead of spiritual ideas of G od and Christ con­
stitute the present day idols of th e heart. T hose who worship
G od m ust w orship H im in Spirit and in T ru th , all physical idols
are tem poral w hile th e U niversal C reative principle is eternal.
W h en one addresses G od as a personality they have created
an idol, for a creator of personality m ust be superior to the
creation or personality w hich is created. Im personality is life in
principle, w hile personality is death in principle. Those who
w ould continue to live m ust becom e im personal even in the
image and likeness of the D ivine U niversal Infinite Spirit. The
Science of M ind and Life teaches th e overcom ing of all physical
concepts and personalities, thus rem oving the obstruction be­
tw een man and G od, revealing th e highest T ru th of the Father­
hood of God. O vercom e th e “ I”, “M e” and “M ine” conscious­
ness, learn to know th e all-in-all universal consciousness and the
brotherhood of man.
(14:7-8-9-10-11) — “F o r every one o f the house o f Israel, or
o f the stranger th a t so jo u rn eth in Israel, w hich separeteth
h im self fr o m m e, and setteth up h is idols in his heart, and
p u tteth the stum bling-block o f h is iniq u ity before his face,
and com eth to a p ro p h et to in quire h im o f M e ; I the Lord
w ill answ er h im by m y se lf: A n d I w ill set m y face against
that m an, and w ill m ake h im a sign and a proverb, and I
w ill cut h im o ff fr o m the m id st o f m y people; and ye
shall kn o w that I am the L o rd . A n d i f the prophet be
deceived w h en h e hath sp o ken a thing, I the Lord have
deceived that p ro p h et; and I w ill stretch out my hand
upon him , and w ill d estro y h im fr o m the m idst of my
people Israel. A n d th ey shall bear the punishment of
their in iq u ity: the p u n ish m en t o f the prophet shall be even
as the p u n ish m en t o f him that seeketh unto him ; that the
house o f Israel m ay go no m ore astray fro m me, neither
be polluted any m ore w ith all their transgressions; but
that they m ay be m y people, and I m ay be their God, saith
the L o rd G od”.
T h e regenerating pow er of Infinite Spirit continues to pur
ify man regardless of his transgressions of the Divine law, pr0
viding he has the W ill to im prove. T his shows the eternal Justice
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 345
and Love of Infinite Spirit. Divine Mind continually sets the face
of man toward the great light of spiritual understanding through
the Science of Life, which uplifts humanity and teaches the
highest Truth, which is the reality of Spirit and the power of
mind over matter. Those who seek shall find is the great law.
A sincere seeker is a student of Life, Light and Love, those who
wait until death for enlightment will be overcome with darkness,
and their soul will return to God without its spiritual embodi­
ment, therefore all should seek the Divine Light.
(14:12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — “T h e Word, o f the L o rd
came again to m e, saying, S o n o f m an, w hen the land sin-
neth against m e by trespassing greviously, then will I
stretch out m ine hand u pon it, and w ill break the sta ff o f
the bread th ereo f, and w ill send fa m in e upon it, and w ill
cut off m an and beast fr o m it: T hough these three m en,
N oah, D aniel and Job, w ere in it, they shoidd deliver but
their ow n souls by th eir righteousness, saith the L o rd God.
I f I cause noisom e beasts to pass through the land, and
they spoil it, so that it be desolate, that no m an m ay pass
through because o f the beasts: T hough these three m en
were in it, as I live, saith the L o rd God, they shall deliver
neither sons nor d a u g h ters; they only shall be delivered,
but the land shall be desolate. O r i f I bring a sw ord upon
that land, and say, S w o rd , go through the land; so that I
cut off m an and beast fr o m it: T hough these three m en
were in it as I live, saith the L o rd God, they shall deliver
neither sons n o r daughters, but th ey only shall be deliv­
ered them selves. O r i f I sen d a pestilence into that land,
and pour out m y fu r y upon it in blood, to cut o ff fro m it
man and beast: T h o u g h N o a h , D aniel, and Job w ere in it,
as I live, saith the L o rd God, they shall deliver neither
son nor da u g h ter; th ey shall but deliver their ow n souls
by their righteousness”.
Each person should become their own saviour, accepting
the responsibility for their own deeds. No one can save another,
they can only assist by giving good council and sound advice.
Sin must be overcome with good. A true follower of the Divine
Light will not remain a sinner, for sin leads to death and dark­
ness while good leads to light. The evil deeds of races of people
bring famine and pestilence as punishment, regardless of the
Messiahs of the world being there, for the Law of Com-
346 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
pensation metes out rew ards and punishm ents both to individuals
and com m unities in accordance w ith th e seeds sown. Therefore,
let all M ind Scientists abide in T ru th , do good deeds and earn
D ivine rew ard, and even th o u g h th ey be surrounded on all sides
by wars, panics, political and religious upheavals, and social un­
rest, they will find com fort and rest secure in the knowledge of
Infinite wisdom. “Love ye one an o th er” is th e command of the
M aster, elevate th e consciousness to a spiritual plane while on
earth, then there will be no death, and th e grave will not gain
victory over the soul.
(1 4 :2 1 -2 2 -2 3 )— “For thus saitli the Lord God, How much
more when I send my four sore judgments upon Jeru­
salem, the sword, and the famine, and the noisome beast,
and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast? Yet,
behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be
brought forth, both sons and daughters; behold, they shall
come forth unto you, and ye shall see their way and their
doings; and ye shall be comforted concerning the evil that
I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that
I have brought upon it. And they shall comfort you, when
ye see their ways and their doings: and ye shall know that
/ have not done without cause all that I have done in it,
saitli the Lord God”.
T he Logos D ivine never com m its an evil deed, if He did He
could not be Divine, only the low er consciousness of the prophet
makes it seem so. A ll the evil w hich appeared to Jerusalem was
brought upon it by the uncontrolled m entality of its inhabitants.
Divine Love sees sorrow as a lesson to m ankind. Sowing and
reaping is a D ivine law, the reaping is as m uch a law as the sow­
ing. M an should blam e him self fo r m isfortune, not God, for
G od being A ll-good does n o t send m isfortune upon a helpless
hum anity as a judgm ent against them . T h e Science of Mind
reveals the error of the ages as well as th e present.
(1 5 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 )— “A nd the w o rd of the L o rd came unto me,
• saying, Son of man. What is the vine tree more than any
tree, or than a branch which is among the trees of the,
forest? Shall wood be taken thereof to do any work?
or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?
Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel: the fire devoureth
both the etuis of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it
meet for any work? Behold, when it was whole it was
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 347
meet for no work: how much less shall it be meet yet for
any work, when the fire hath devoured it, and it is
burned”.
AH tem poral bodies decay, only spiritual life is eternal.
Symbolically, m an is fuel for decaying fires, he may postpone the
ultimate of this process, b u t it is sure to consume his physical
body in tim e because th e body is tem poral. H e has an oppor­
tunity to enter spiritual life conscious by attaining spiritual self­
hood, becoming unattached to the flesh and attached only to
God, thereby gaining spirituality and im m ortality of soul con­
sciousness. T his is the p ath of peace, bliss and satisfaction, for
when the physical is overcom e, bliss and also a knowledge of
the pervading D ivine presence of G od is attained. T he Science
of M ind leads to soul liberation, w hile the beliefs and dogmas
are inadequate to m eet our spiritual needs,— an ancient maxim
is “keep silent b u t know , all pow er comes from w ithin, not from
without”.
(15:6-7-8)—“Therefore thus saith the Lord God, As the vine
tree among the trees of the forest, which I have given to
the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of Jeru­
salem. And I will set my face against them; and they
shall go out from one fire, and another fire shall devour
them; and ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I set
my face against them. And I will make the land desolate,
because they have committed a trespass, saith the Lord
God”.
T he Law of Com pensation punishes the wicked, making the
land desolate and sentencing m an to poverty. T his is especially
true after m ankind indulges in war, shedding the blood of his
fellowman, or com m itting o th er form s of violence, for since God
is Love, it follows th a t th e opposite, hatred and malice are sins.
No one can entertain sinful impulses w ithout suffering and pay­
ing the price for th eir folly. T h e practice of hypocrisy and o u t­
ward piety w ithout proper regard for life constitutes a grievous
sin. Those w ho are destroyed by the Law of C om pensation have
only themselves to blam e, fo r they expected a pardon through
blind faith as a rew ard for doing evil, b u t God being G ood takes
no part in sin.
(16:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)—“Again the word of the Lord came unto
me, saying, Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her
abominations, and say, Thus saith the Lord God unto
348 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Jerusalem , T h y birth and th y n a tivity is o f the land of
C anaan; th y fa th e r w a s an A m o rite , and thy mother an
H ittite. A n d as fo r th y n a tivity, in the day thou wait
born, th y n a vel w a s n o t cut, n eith er w ast thou washed in
w a ter to supple thee: thou w a st not salted at all, nor
sw addled at all. N o n e eye p itied thee, to do any of these
unto thee, to have com passion upon thee; but thou
w ast cast out in the open field, to the loathing o f thy per­
son, in the day th a t th o u w a st born. A n d w hen I passed
by thee, and sa w thee p o llu ted in thine ow n blood, I said
unto thee w h en th o u w a st in th y blood; L ive, yea, I said
unto thee, w h en th o u w a st in th y blood, L ive. I have
caused thee to m u ltip ly as the bud o f the field, and thou
hast increased and w a x e n great, and thou art come to ex­
cellent o rn a m en ts; th y breasts are fashioned, and thine
hair is grow n, w hereas th o u w a st naked and bare. Now
w hen I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy
tim e w as the tim e o f lo v e ; and I spread m y skirt over thee,
and covered th y n a ked n ess; yea, I sw are unto thee, and
entered into a covenant w ith thee, saith the L o rd God, and
thou becam est m ine”.
Human agencies obeying the Divine Love impulse carry out
the order of the Logos, administering aid unto the helpless and
performing Divine deeds, fulfilling the law of supply to the
righteous. However, when the flesh mind has received all Good
from the Divine Creator, it soon forgets God and Good and goes
on sinning and committing vice. Such is the appreciation of the
carnal mind whose delusions are greater than its reasoning power.
The carnal mind must be overcome through mental fixation and
concentration on good. One should mentally dispute the power
of evil over them or their life, assert the Truth continually in
their soul and they will soon know God. Sing the praises men­
tally of God and Good and soon the soul will take up the chant,
then lift up thine eyes to Zion, that city of God and Good.
(1 6 :9-10-l 1-12-13-14-15)— “T h en w a sh ed I thee w ith water:
yea, I thoroughly w a sh ed aw ay th y blood fro m thee, and
I anionted thee w ith oil. I clothed thee also w ith broid-
ered w o rk, and shod thee w ith badger’s skin, and I girded
thee about w ith fine linen, and I covered thee with silk.
I decked thee also w ith ornam ents, and I put bracelets
upon thy hands, and a chain on th y neck. A n d I pat a
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 349
jew el on th y fo reh ea d , and earrings in thine ears, and a
beautiful crow n upon thine head. T h u s w ast thou decked
w ith gold and silver; and thy raim ent w as o f fine linen,
and silk, and broldered w o rk : thou didst eat fine flour,
and honey, and oil: and thou w a st exceeding beautiful, and
thou didst prosper into a kingdom . A n d thy renow n w ent
w orth am ong the heathen fo r thy beauty; fo r it w as per­
fect through M y com eliness, w hich I had p u t upon thee,
saith the L o rd God. B u t thou d id st trust in thine own
beauty, and p layedst the harlot because o f thy renow n,
and p o uredst out th y fo rn ica tio n s on every one that
passed b y; his it w as”.
Carnal lust seldom stops to thank D ivine M ind for its pros­
perity, b u t continues to dem and m ore until the sin of greed over­
takes it and brings carnal m ind and physical body to sorrow.
Divine m ental harm ony w ith G od and G ood serves as a surcease
for pain and sorrow . Supplication should be directed to the
source of A ll-good and should n o t be a fault finding attitude de­
manding help w hich one has n o t m erited. T h e carnal conscious­
ness should rem em ber its D ivine origin and strive to enter into
the Divine kingdom of Love. T h e baneful influence of sin on
one’s body and affairs soon disrupts D ivine harm ony and brings
mental desolation, despair and sorrow.
(16:16-17-18-19-20-21-22) — “A n d o f thy garm ents thou didst
take, and deckedest th y h ig h places w ith divers colours,
and playedst the ha rlo t thereupon: the like things shall
not com e, neith er shall it be so. T hou hast also taken thy
fa ir jew els o f m y gold and o f m y silver, w hich I had
given thee, and m odest to th y se lf im ages o f m en, and
didst co m m it w h o red o m w ith them : A n d tookest thy
broldered g a rm en ts and coveredst them : and thou hast set
m ine oil and m ine incense before them . M y m eat also
w hich I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey, w here­
w ith I fe d thee, thou hast even set it before them fo r a
sw eet savour: and th u s it w as, saith the L o rd God. M o re­
over, thou hast ta ken th y sons and thy daughters, w hom
thou hast born unto M e, and these hast thou sacrificed unto
them to be devoured. Is this o f thy w hore.dom s a sm all
m atter. T h a t thou hast slain m y children, and delivered
them to cause them to pass through the fire fo r th em ?
A n d in all thine abom inations and thy w horedom s thou
350 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
hast n o t not rem em bered the d a ys o f thy youth, when
thou w a st naked and bare, and w a st polluted in thy
blood”.
D ivine M ind challenges th e w ay of carnal m ind and lust,
accusing it of violating th e laws of its creator, calling attention
to the num erous good deeds D ivinity has perform ed for the ma-
terial m inded. T h is show s how all jewels and luxuries belong to
G od and should n o t be used fo r carnal purposes only. Divine
M ind also points out th e calam ity ahead w hich results from un­
gratefulness and sin, b u t carnal m ind, tru e to its lower environ­
m ent fails to believe th a t ruin is th e inevitable result of such sins.
Israel departing from th e tru e G od symbolizes the soul forsaking
the true G od and w orshipping a physical G od w hich is supposed
to perform physical m iracles o r “pass th ro u g h fire”. W hen the
true G od is forsaken, carnal m ind ever seeks the glamour and
excitem ent w hich com es from sense satisfaction. These pleas­
ures are false and th e satisfaction unreal, only Divine Wisdom,
bliss and peace are true pleasures. T hese are m anifested only to
the sincere and righteous.
(16:23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31-32) — “A n d it came to pass,
a fte r all th y w ickedness, (w o e, w oe unto thee! saith the
L o rd G od), T h a t th o u hast also built unto thee an emi­
nent place, and hast m ade thee an high place in every
street. T h o u hast built th y high place at every head of
o f the w ay, and hast m ade th y beauty to be abhorred, and
hast opened th y fe e t to every one that passed by, and
m ultiplied th y w horedom s. T h o u hast also committed
fo rnication w ith the E g yp tia n s th y neighbours, great of
flesh, and hast increased th y w h o red o m s, to provoke Me
to anger. B ehold, th erefo re, I have stretched out My
hand over thee, and have d im in ish ed thine ordinary food,
and delivered thee unto the w ill o f them that hate thee,
the daughters o f the P h ilistin es, w h ich are ashamed of
thy lew d w ay. T h o u hast played the w hore also with the
A ssyria n s, because thou w a st u n sa tia b le: yea, thou hast
played the harlot w ith th em , and y e t couldest not be satis­
fied. T h o u hast, m oreover, m u ltip lied th y fornication in
the land o f Canaan un to C haldea, and yet thou wast not
satisfied herew ith. H o w w ea k is thine heart, saith the
L o rd God, seeing thou d oest all these things, the work of
an im perious w h o rist w o m a n ; in that thou buildest thine
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 351
em inent place in the head o f every w ay, and m akest thine
high place in every stre e t; and hast n o t been as an harlot,
in that thou scornest hire; but as a w ife that com m itteth
adultery, w hich ta keth strangers instead o f her husband” !
The idea that carnal minded people can be saved spiritually
from sin and vice through belief alone has proven futile, since
the fornications of the flesh are but expressions of carnal desire.
The fornication is the effect while the desire is the cause. The
wisest process for overcoming such evil deeds is to remove the
cause or desire from the mind, where it originated. All religions
who have attempted to purify man through belief alone have
failed, for “faith without works is dead”; only the mental effort
of the individual can remove sin from the mind and raise the
consciousness above evil.
(16:33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40-41-42) — "T h e y give g ifts to all
w hores; but th o u g ivest th y g ifts to all thy lovers, and
hirest them that th ey m ay com e unto thee on every side
fo r thy w horedom . A n d the contrary is in thee fro m
other w o m en in th y w horedom s, w hereas none follow eth
thee to co m m it w h o red o m s: and in that thou givest a
rew ard, and no rew ard is g iven unto thee; therefore thou
art contrary. W h erefo re, 0 harlot, hear the w ord o f the
L o rd : T h u s saith the L o rd G od; because thy filthiness
w as poured out, and th y nakedness discovered through
thy w horedom s w ith th y lovers, and w ith all the idols o f
thy abom inations, and by the blood o f th y children, w hich
thou didst give unto th em ; behold, therefore, I w ill gather
all thy lovers, w ith w h o m thou hast taken pleasure, and all
them that thou ha st loved, w ith all them that thou hast
hated; I w ill even gather them round about against thee,
and w ill discover th y nakedness unto them , that they m ay
see all th y nakedness. A n d I w ill judge thee, as w om en
that break w edlock, and shed bloodfi are judged: and I
w ill give thee blood in fu r y and jealousy. A n d I w ill also
give thee into their hands, and they shall throw dow n
thine em inent place, and shall break dow n thy high places:
they shall strip thee also o f th y clothes, and shall take thy
fa ir jew els, and leave thee naked and bare^ T h ey shall
also bring up a com pany against thee, and they shall stone
thee w ith stones, and tru st thee through w ith their
sw ords. A n d th ey shall burn thine houses w ith fire, and
352 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
execute ju d g m e n ts upon thee in the sig h t o f m any women;
and I w ill cause thee to cease fr o m playing the harlot,
and thou also shalt give no hire any m ore. So will I make
m y fu r y tow ard thee to rest, and m y jealousy shall depart
fro m thee, and I w ill be quiet, and w ill be no m ore angry.”
Citadels constructed for evil purposes shall be destroyed and
those w ho profit from im m orality will lose tenfold w hat they ap­
parently gain. G ood alone profiteth a m an, seeming gain from
evil is b u t loss in disguise. For every day of carnal lost, there
shall be a day of pain, fo r th e D ivine law collects every farthing
from the debtor. T h e sin of Israel w as its ignorance of God’s
laws. T h e control of th e m ental faculties w ould have solved all
her problem s, b u t instead of lessons in self control, they were
taught sacrifice and forgiveness, w hich encourages weakness and
sin. H er fall from prom inence is due to trying to educate the
carnal m ind to spiritual T ru th w ith o u t th e technique to control
D ivine power. T hose w ho w ould abide in T ru th m ust overcome
evil, spiritualize their m ind and desires th ro u g h actual effort and
practice.
(16:43-44-45-46-47-48-49-50)— “B ecause thou hast not re­
m em bered the days o f th y y o u th , but h a st fretted me in
all these thin g s; behold, th erefo re, I also w ill recompense
th y w ay upon thine head, saith the L o rd G od; and thou
shalt not com m it this lew dness above all thine abomina­
tions. B ehold, every one that u seth p ro verb s shall use this
proverb against thee, saying, A s is the m other, so is her
daughter. T hou art th y m o th er’s daughter, that loatheth
h er husband and h er children; and thou art the sister of
thy sisters, w hich loathed their husb a n d s and their chil­
dren: yo u r m o th er w as an H ittite , and yo u r father an
A m o rite. A n d thine elder sister is Sam aria, she and her
daughters that dw ell at th y le ft h a n d : and thy younger
sister, that dw elleth at th y rig h t hand, is S o d o m and her
daughters. Y e t hast thou no t w a lked a fte r their ways,
nor done a fte r their a b om inations; but, as i f that were a
very little thing, thou w a st corrupted m ore than they in
all thy w ays. A s I live, saith the L o rd God, Sodom thy
sister hath no t done, she nor her daughters, as thou hast
done, thou and th y daughters. B ehold, this w as the in­
iquity o f thy sister S o d o m , pride, fu ln e ss o f bread, and
abundance o f idleness, w as in her and in her daughters,
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 353
A n d they w ere ha u g h ty, and com m itted abom inations
neither did she stren g th en the hand o f the poor and needy,
before m e: th erefo re I took them aw ay as I saw good”.
Carnal lust always tries to justify its deeds and deny spir'
itual T ruth, such is th e struggle betw een flesh and Spirit, mind
and matter, soul and sin. “T h y sins shall find thee o u t” is an in '
compatible truth, since every sin recorded by the memory brings
about the fall of man. P roud nations w ho despise other nations
calling them heathen, overlook th e corruption in their own re'
ligious systems and will eventually come to doom. Brotherly love
is the p rereq u isite to any spiritual understanding. Following
after the lust of sex and appetite leads to m ental destruction, for
such indulgence exemplifies abom ination for all spirituality. A ll
actions, both of individuals and nations, m ust harm onise w ith
God and Good in order to be perm anent.
(16:51-52-53-54-55-56-57-58) — / 'N e ith e r hath Sam aria com ­
m itted h a lf o f th y sin s; but thou hast m ultiplied thine
abom inations m ore than they, and hast justified thy sisters
in all thine abom inations w hich thou hast dpne. Thou
also, w hich hast ju d g ed th y sisters, bear thine ow n sham e,
fo r thy sins that thou ha st com m itted m ore abominable
than th ey: th ey are m ore righteous than thou; yea, be
thou co n fo u n d ed also, and bear thy sham e, in that thou
hast justified th y sisters. W h en I shall bring again their
captivity, the ca p tivity o f S o d o m and her daughters, and
the captivity o f Sam a ria and h er daughters, then w ill I
bring again the ca p tivity o f th y captives in the m idst o f
them ; T h a t thou m a yest bear thine ow n sham e, and m ayest
be confounded in all that thou hast done, in that thou art
a co m fo rt unto them . W h en thy sisters, S odom and her
daughters, shall retu rn to their fo rm e r estate, and Sam aria
and her d a ughters shall retu rn to their fo rm e r estate, then
thou and th y daughters shall return to yo u r fo rm e r estate.
F or th y sister S o d o m w as not m entioned by thy m outh in
the day o f th y pride, B e fo re thy w ickedness w as discov­
ered, as at the tim e o f th y reproach o f the daughqters o f
Syria, and all that are round about her, the daughters o f
the P hillistines w h ich despise thee round about. Thou
hast borne th y lew dness and thine abom inations, saith the
L o rd ”.
Divine M ind accuses th e flesh of its sins and tells of pun-
354 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ishm ent to come, yet the flesh consciousness heeds not the warn­
ing and disputes the w ord of th e Logos spoken by the prophet.
Racial prejudices are at the bottom of m any carnal sins, and the
selfishness of prophets reflects in th eir w ritings. They would
have saved m ore of th eir race had they know n th at God is uni­
versal and n o t the G od of Israel alone. M ankind are brothers
regardless of race, religion or belief, only sectarianism and carnal
m isconcept make them seem otherw ise. D ivine Infinite Mind
never consult carnal m ind as to th e operation of the law which
created man and will never consult carnal m ind as to where or in
w hat state one will enter after death. Evil deeds are evil deeds,
producing weeds in the garden of life; grow th and success come
from cultivation of life’s forces and powers, not from mere
affirmations.
(16:59-60-61-62-63)— " F o r th u s saith the L o rd God, I will
even deal w ith thee as thou hast done, w hich hast de­
spised the oath in breaking the covenant. Nevertheless,
I w ill rem em ber m y covenant w ith thee in the days of thy
yo u th , and I w ill establish un to thee an everlasting coven­
ant. T h en thou shalt rem em b er th y w a ys and be ashamed,
w h en thou shalt receive th y sisters, thine elder and thy
younger: and I w ill give th em unto thee fo r daughters,
but not by th y covenant. A n d I w ill establish m y covenant
w ith thee; and thou shalt k n o w th a t I am the Lord: That
thou m ayest rem em ber, and be confounded, and never
open th y m o u th any m ore because o f th y shame, when l
am pacified tow ard thee fo r all th a t thou hast done, saith
the L o rd G od”.
M ental rem orse follows evil deeds, b u t Divine Love and
L ight keeps its covenant w ith m an and is ever ready to extend
the pow er of Spirit to lift him up. A fter remorse comes the
penalty, w hich carnal m ind desires to make right through affirm­
ing a belief in the laws violated, b u t punishm ent is as certain as
the sin com m itted. Evasion or restitution can never right wrongs
wilfully com m itted, only the overcom ing of evil w ith good and
rising above sin can accom plish salvation fo r the sinner. There
is no opportunity in the next life to correct the wrongs com­
m itted in this life. T his life is th e field of sowing, the next life
is the reaping, how ever, one’s responsibility to the laws depends
upon their attaining a know ledge of rig h t and wrong, which
brings them under the Law of C om pensation.
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 355
(17 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— “A n d the w ord o f the L o rd came
unto me, saying, S o n o f m an, put fo r th a riddle, and
speak a parable unto the house o f Israel: A n d say, T hus
saith the L o rd G od, A great eagle w ith great w ings, long­
winged, fu ll o f fea th ers, w hich had divers colours, came
unto L ebanon and took the highest branch o f the cedar:
H e cropped o ff the top o f his young tw igs, and carried it
into a land o f traffic; h e set it in a city o f m erchants. H e
took also o f the seed o f the land, and planted it in a fr u it­
fu l field; he placed it by great w aters, and set it as a w il­
low tree. A n d it grew , and becam e a spreading vine o f
low stature, w hose branches turned tow ard him , and the
roots th ereo f w ere u n d er h im ; so it became a vine, and
brought fo r th branches, and shot fo r th sprigs. There w as
also another great eagle w ith great w ings and m any
feathers; and, behold, this vin e did bend her roots tow ard
him, and sh o t fo r th h er branches tow ard him , that he
m ight w ater it by the fu rro w s o f her plantation. I t w as
planted in a good soil by great w aters, that it m ight bring
fo rth branches, so that it m ig h t bear fru it, that it m ight be
a goodly vine. S a y thou, T h u s saith the L o rd God, Shall
it prosper? shall he n o t pull up the roots thereof, and cut
off the fr u its th ereo f, that it w ith e r? I t shall w ith er in all
the leaves o f h er spring, even w ith o u t great pow er, or
m any people to pluck it up by the roots thereof. Yea, be­
hold, being planted, shall it p rosper? shall it not utterly
w ither, w hen the east w in d toucheth i t f It shall w ither in
the fu rro w s w here it g rew ”.
T he Eagle symbolizes D ivine M ind w hich sows seeds from
many states and planes of m ind, viz: “colours rayed out from the
vastness of creative spirit, or Lebanon”. Those seeds of the
mortal plane grow in soil w hich is im perm anent, therefore, their
fruit (hum an life) bends tow ard the Infinite. W here mortal
being sows seeds, those sown to good grow and bear their fruit,
while those sown to evil are uprooted by Infinite Spiritual laws,
for the only perm anence is in G oodness and God, while the
wages of sin is death and spiritual oblivion.
(1 7 :11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20)— “M oreover, the w ord o f
the L o rd cam e unto m e, saying, S a y now to the rebellious
house, K n o w ye no t w h a t these things m e a n f Tell them ,
Behold, the king o f B abylon is com e to leru sa lem , and
356 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
hath taken the king th ereo f, and the princes thereof, and
led th em w ith h im to B a b ylo n ; and hath taken of the
king’s seed, and m ade a covenant w ith him , and hath
taken an oath o f h im ; he hath also taken the mighty of
the land: T h a t the kin g d o m m ig h t be base, that it might
no t lift itse lf up, but that by keeping o f his covenant it
m ig h t stand. B u t he rebelled against him , in sending his
am bassadors into E g yp t, th a t th ey m ig h t give him horses
and m uch people. S h a ll he p ro sp er? shall he escape that
doeth such things? or shall he break the covenant, and be
delivered? A s I live, saith the L o rd God, surely in the
place w here the kin g dw elleth th a t m ade him , whose oath
he despised, and w hose co venant he brake, even w ith him,
in the m id st o f B abylon, he shall die. N either shall
P haraoh, w ith his m ig h ty a rm y and great company, make
fo r h im in the w ar, by casting up m ounts, and building
fo rts, to cut o ff m a n y persons: S eein g he despised
the oath by breaking the covenant, w hen, low, he had
given his hand, and hath d o n e all these things, he shall not
escape. T h erefo re, th u s saith the L o rd God, A s I live,
surely m ine oath that he hath despised, and M y covenant
that he hath broken, even it w ill I recom pense upon his
ow n head. A n d I w ill spread m y n et upon him , and he
shall be taken in m y sn a re; and I w ill bring him to
B abylon, and w ill plead w ith h im there fo r his trespass
that he hath trespassed against m e”.
T hose w ho trespass against D ivine council and law shall not
prosper, since th eir deeds becom e th e m eans of their destruction.
T h e covenant th a t G od rescues th e righteous will not apply to
the w orkers of evil schemes and deeds. G ood alone merits spin
itual notice and the assistance of D ivine M ind, regardless of the
claims of corporeality w hich ever seeks to persuade God to do
evil to please the corrupt appetite o f th e flesh senses. Divine
M ind Science dem ands the view of G od as Eternal Good and
unmasks the hypocrisy of carnal m ind w hich would deceive the
world by offering a w ay out of th e results of sin other than the
D ivine ordinance of the Law of C om pensation. M an must learn
th a t he struggles w ith evil principalities erected by his own car'
nal m entality w hich ever seeks to ensnare G ood and God and
draw righteousness to the plane of evil sensation. Such powers
of created evil w ere th e destruction of Israel.
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEK IEL 357
(17:21-22-23-24)— “A n d all his fu g itiv e s w ith all his bands
shall fa ll by the sw ord, and th ey that rem ain shall be scat­
tered tow ard all w in d s; and ye shall know that I the
Lord have sp o ken it. T h u s saith the L o rd God, I w ill
also take o f the h ighest branch o f the high cedar, and
will set it; I w ill crop o ff fr o m the top o f h is young tw igs
a tender one, and w ill plant it upon an hig h m ountain and
em inent: In the m o u n ta in o f the h eight o f Israel w ill I
plant it; and it shall bring fo r th boughs, and bear fru it,
and be a goodly cedar; and under it shall dw ell all fo w l
o f every w in g ; in the shadow o f the branches thereof
shall they dw ell. A n d all the trees o f the field shall know
L ord have brought do w n the high trees, have exalted the
that I the L o rd have brought do w n the high trees, have
exalted the low tre, have dried up the green tree, and have
made the d ry tre to ourish: I the L o rd have spoken, and
have done it.”
T he pow er of Infinite Spirit cannot be disputed by m ortal
man, “the lowest on earth shall be exalted in heaven while the
highest on earth shall be th e low est in heaven”, for the ways of
Spirit are opposite to the w ays of the flesh. Sins w hich man
thinks justified are often condem ned by God, for the laws of
man are carnal while the laws of G od are Divine. In order that
one may become G odly, they m ust renounce much of the so'
called righteousness of m ortal m an, for materialism clothes evil
with high sounding nam es, sometim es calling it Justice and other
times Revenge, how ever, G od condem ns it because it containeth
not Divine Spirit, Love, T ru th , L ight and Righteousness.
(18:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9)— “T he w o rd o f the L o rd came unto
m e again, saying, W h a t m ean ye, that ye use this proverb
concerning the land o f Israel, saying, T he fa th ers have
eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on
edge? A s I live, saith the L o rd God, ye shall not have
occacion any m ore to use th is proverb in Israel. Behold,
all souls are m in e; as the soul o f the fa th er, so also the
soul o f the son is m in e: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.
B u t if a m an be ju st, and do that w hich.is la w f ul and right,
and hath not eaten upon the m ountains, neither hath lifted
up his eyes to the idols o f the house o f Israel, neither hath
defiled his neighbour’s w ife , neither hath come near to a
m enstrous w om an, and hath not oppressed any, but hath
358 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
restored to the d ebtor his pledge, hath spoiled none by
violence, hath given h is bread to the hungry, and hath
covered the naked w ith a g a rm en t: H e that hath not given
fo r th upon usury, neith er hath taken any increase, that
hath w ith d ra w n his hand fr o m in iq u ity, hath executed
true ju d g m en t betw een m an and m an. H a th walked in
M y statutes, and hath k ep t M y ju d g m en ts, to deal truly;
he is ju st, he shall su rely live, saith the L o rd God.”
"T h e Just shall have th eir D ivine rew ard", even though
th eir earthly lot may be suffering and persecution they shall
inherit good in earth and in heaven. T h e meek are blessed by
D ivine Love, th e charitable exalted unto th e highest heaven, and
those w ho walk after D ivine statutes and judgm ent are favored
by the highest G ood and G od. T h ey shall prosper and rule over
the wicked, and attain heavenly harm ony w ith the Divine king­
dom, for there is no pow er likened u n to Good. T ruth, Love
and L ight shall abide w ith them and G oodness, Love and Mercy
shall follow them all the days of th eir life. G od is their Divine
Shepherd and they H is sheep, th ey shall H ear H is voice and He
shall answ er th eir petitions even as a good ruler hears his sub­
jects. T h e fruit of righteousness is th e bounties of the Divine
kingdom.
(18:10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18)— “I f he beget a son that is a
robber, a shedder o f blood, and th a t d oeth the like to any
o f those things, A n d that doeth no t any o f those duties,
but even ha th eaten upon the m ountains, and defiled his
neighbour’s w ife , H a th oppressed the poor and needy,
hath spoiled by violence, h a th not restored the pledge, and
hath lifte d up h is eyes to the idols, ha th com m itted abom­
inations, H a th given fo r th upo n u su ry, and hath taken in­
crease: shall he then liv e ? he shall not live: he hath done
all these abom inations ; he shall su rely d ie; his blood shall
be upon him . N o w , lo, i f he beget a son that seeth all his
fa th e r’s sin s w hich he hath done, and considereth, and
doeth not such like, T h a t hath no t eaten upon the moun­
tains, neither hath lifte d up h is eyes to the idols of the
house o f Israel, hath not defiled h is neighbour’s wife,
N eith er hath oppressed any, hath no t w ithholden the
pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath given his
bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a
garm ent. T h a t hath taken o ff his hand fro m the poor,
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 359
that hath no t received, u su ry nor increase, hath executed
M y ju d g m en ts, hath w a lked in M y statutes; he shall not
die fo r the in iq u ity o f his fa th er, he shall surely live. A s
fo r his fa th er, because h e cruelly oppressed, spoiled his
brother by violence, and did that w hich is not good am ong
his people, lo, even he shall die in his iniquity”.
T he sins of carnality w eigh heavily upon the shedder of
blood and upon th e evil rulers of the people, for God is Love,
Light and Life. T his principle forbids killing, and any m anner of
sin against one’s fellowm an. T h e conscience is the mental faculty
of judgm ent, and he w hom it condem ns to oblivion and the
second death shall never escape, fo r G od is Just as well as Love.
Evil has no pow er in th e presence of one D ivine ray of Infinite
Mind, darkness can never overpow er light, or sin overpow er
righteousness. G od can never bow to carnality or condone its
sins, man m ust learn concentration on Spirit, away from flesh,
misery and evil deeds. T h is leads to peace, bliss and supreme
spiritual understanding.
(18:19-20-21-22-23-24-25) — “Y e t say ye, W h y ? D oth not the
son bear the in iq u ity o f the fa th e r ? W h en the son hath
done that w h ich w hich is la w fu l and right, and hath kept
all M y sta tu tes, and ha th done them , he shall surely live.
The soul that sinneth, it shall die. T he son shall not bear
the iniquity o f the fa th e r, neither shall the fa th er bear
the iniquity o f the so n ; the righteousness o f the righteous
shall be upon him , and the w ickedness o f the w icked shall
be upon him . B u t i f the w icked w ill turn fro m all his
sins that he hath co m m itted, and keep all M y statutes, and
do that w hich is la w fu l and right, he shall surely live, he
shall not die. A ll his transgressions that he hath com ­
m itted, they shall not be m entioned unto h im : in his
righteousness th a t he hath done he shall live. H ave
I any pleasure at all that the w icked should die? saith the
L o rd G od; and not that he should return fro m his w ays,
and liv e ? B u t w h en the righteous turneth aw ay fro m his
righteousness, and co m m itteth iniquity, and doeth accord­
ing to all the abom inations that the w icked m an doeth,
shall he live? A ll his righteousness that he hath done shall
not be m entioned: in his trespass that he hath trespassed,
and in his sin th a t he hath sinned, in them shall he die.
Y e t ye say, T he w ay o f the L o rd is not equal. H ea r now ,
360 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
0 house o f Isra el; I s n o t m y w a y equal? are not your
w ays unequal?”
T h e carnal m ind accuses Infinite Spirit of injustice when the
results of sin m anifest, declaring its innocence, yet it is secretly
aw are of its guilt. W h e n one becom es a seeker of Light and
forever turns aw ay from th e ir evil ways, evil is overcome with
good. T h e blessings of m astership aw ait th e pilgrim who over­
comes, w hile the loss of identity aw aits those w ho turn from
good to evil, such is D ivine com pensation. Israel or the flesh,
desiring th a t the flesh be excused of all of its iniquities, claims
this is unjust, b u t Infinite Spirit answ ers th a t the flesh compre-
hendeth not Justice, Love and T ru th since these are the Divine
attributes of G od w ho is A ll-good. C arnal injustice is the way
w hich leads to destruction and m any th ere be w ho are caught
in its snare, w hile Love, L ight and T ru th lead to life eternal and
conscious soul im m ortality.
(18:26-27-28-29-30-31-32) — “W h e n a righteous man turneth
aw ay fr o m his righteousness, and co m m itteth iniquity, and
dieth in th em ; fo r his in iq u ity that he ha th done shall he
die. A g a in , w h en the w icked m an tu rn eth aw ay from his
w ickedness that he hath co m m itted , and doeth that which
is la w fu l and right, he shall save h is soul alive. Because
he considereth, and tu rn eth aw ay fr o m all his transgres­
sions that he hath co m m itted , he shall surely live, he shall
not die. Y e t saith the house o f Israel, T he w ay of the
L o rd is not equal. 0 house o f Israel, are not M y ways
equal? are not yo u r w a ys unequal? T herefore I will
ju d g e you, 0 house o f Israel, every one according to his
w ays, saith the L o rd God. R ep en t, and turn yourselves
fro m all yo u r tra n sg ressio n s; so in iq u ity shall be not your
ruin. C ast aw ay fr o m all yo u r transgressions, whereby ye
have transgressed; and m ake yo u a n ew heart and a new
spirit: fo r w h y w ill ye die, 0 house o f Israel? For I
have no pleasure in the death o f h im that dieth, saith the
L o rd G od: w h erefo re tu rn yo urselves, and live ye”.
D ivine Love sends fo rth th e message of L ight which is,
salvation through deeds and the holding every man accountable
for deeds done in th e body. Infinite Love desires that all shall
live, since death is contrary to the laws of D ivine Being. Those
w ho turn from sin and overcom e th eir m ental transgressions shall
live is the D ivine message of th e Logos to the prophet. They
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 361
must put sin out of their mind in order to overcome it since all
sin is mental, likewise immortality is a state of the mind. Con'
centration on Divinity is the correct process of mental purification
and soul salvation.
(19:1 -2-3-4-5-6-Z-8-9-10) — “M o reo ver, take thou up a lam en­
tation fo r the princes o f Israel, A n d say, W h a t is thy
m other? A lioness: she lay dow n am ong lions, she nour­
ished h er w h elp s am ong yo u n g lions. A n d she brought up
one o f her w h elp s: it becam e a young lion, and it learned
to catch the p re y ; it d evoured m en. T he nations also
heard o f h im ; he w as taken in their pit, and they brought
him w ith chains unto the land o f E gypt. N o w , w hen she
saw that she had w aited, and her hope w as lost, then she
took another o f her w helps, and m ade him a young lion.
A n d he w en t up and d o w n am ong the lions, he became a
young lion, and learned to catch the prey, and devoured
men. A n d he kn e w their desolate palaces, and he laid
w aste their cities; and the land w as desolate, and the fu l­
ness th ereof, by the noise o f his roaring. T hen the nations
set against him on every side fr o m the provinces, and
spread their net over h im : he w as taken in their pit. A n d
they put h im in w a rd in chains, and brought him to the
king o f B a b ylo n ; th ey brought him into holds, that his
voice should no m ore be heard upon the m ountains o f
Israel. T h e m o th er is like a vine in thy blood, planted by
the w aters: she w as fr u itfu l, and fu ll o f branches, by
reason o f m any w a ters”.
The lion symbolizes physical strength which maketh a loud
roar. Born in misery, it seeketh whom it may devour, but is
soon captured by stronger carnal forces, symbolized by “the
king of Babylon”. The captive carnal mind is placed in darkness
by stronger carnal agencies, many “waters” or impulses con'
tribute to this downfalL Only Divine spiritual realization can
rescue man from his self constructed prison, otherwise his de-
struction is certain. An evil king arouses the enmity of other
kings and is soon sat upon and dethroned, which again proves
that all power is in Good, while all destruction comes from evil.
(19:11-12-13-14)— ‘‘A n d she had strong rods fo r the sceptres
o f them that bare ride, and her stature w as exalted am ong
the thick branches, and she appeared in her height w ith
the m u ltitu d e o f her branches. B u t she w as plucked up
362 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
in fu r y , she w as cast d o w n to the ground, and the east
w in d dried up her fr u it; h e r stro n g rods w ere broken
and w ith ered , the fire co n su m ed them . A n d now she is
planted in the w ilderness, in a d ry and thirsty ground.
A n d fire is gone out o f a rod o f her branches, which hath
devoured her fr u it, so th a t she hath no strong rod to be a
sceptre to rule. T h is is a lam entation, and shall be for a
lam entation".
Alas, the way of the transgressor is hard! Carnal lust
destroys Israel in its consuming fires, while good goes unnoticed.
Life is dried up in the body of wicked, and power is lost by the
evil nation. Such is lamentation.
(20:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— “A n d it cam e to pass in the sev-
enth year, in the fifth m o n th , the ten th day o f the month,
that certain o f the elders o f Isra el cam e to inquire o f the
L o rd , and sat befo re m e. T h en cam e the w ord o f the
L o rd unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, speak unto the elders
o f Israel, and say unto them , T h u s saith the Lord God,
A re ye com e to inquire o f m e? A s I live, saith the Lord
God, I w ill no t be in q u ired o f by you. W ilt thou judge
them , son o f m an, w ilt th o u ju d g e th e m ? cause them to
kn o w the abom inations o f th eir fa th e rs: A n d say unto
them , T h u s saith the L o rd G od, In the day w hen I chose
Israel, and lifte d up M in e hand unto the seed o f the house
o f Jacob, and m ade m y se lf kn o w n unto them in the lawl
o f E g yp t, w h en I lifte d up m ine han d unto them , saying,
I am the L o rd yo u r G od; I n the day that I lifted up mine
hand unto them , to bring th em fo r th o f the land o f Egypt
into a land that I had espied fo r th em , flow ing w ith milk
and honey, w h ich is the glory o f all lands; Then said I
unto them , C ast ye aw ay every m an the abom inations of
his eyes, and defile not yo u rselves w ith the idols o f Egypt;
I am the L o rd yo u r God. B u t th ey rebelled against me,
and w ould not hearken unto m e ; th ey d id not every man
cast aw ay the abom inations o f th eir eyes, neither did they
fo rsa ke the idols o f E g y p t: then I said, I w ill pour out
m y fu r y upon them , to accom plish m y anger against them
in the m id st o f the land o f E g yp t. B u t I w rought fo r my
nam e’s sake, that it should no t be polluted before the
heathen, am ong w h o m they w ere, in w hose sight I made
m yself know n unto them , in bringing them fo rth out of
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 363
the land o f E g yp t. W h e re fo re I cause them to go fo rth
out o f the land o f E g yp t, and brought them into the
w ilderness”.
Idolatry or the w orship of physical beings whom men call
God is forbidden by the U niversal Spirit of T ruth, Light and
Love. Those w ho are apparently aided by such false worship
will soon lose th e rew ard of prosperity and happiness w hich is
given forth by D ivine M ind, th eir G ods will prove to be dead
Gods who cannot hear th eir lam entations and complaints. T he
true God of G ood w ill desert them , leaving them to their pow er­
less self-appointed deities. Super M ind Science dem onstrates
that “God is w ith in ” and “the kingdom of heaven is at hand”.
This knowledge surpasses all belief in a so-called personal God
or mental idol and leads one from the wilderness of theories to
reality w hich is the solid rock of D ivine Sonship of God.
(20:11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — “A n d I gave them m y
statutes, and sh ew ed them m y ju d g m en ts, w hich if a man
do, he shall even live in them . M oreover also, I gave them
m y sabbaths, to be a sign betw een m e and them , that they
m ight kn o w that I am the L o rd that sa n ctify them . B u t
the house o f Israel rebelled against m e in the w ilderness;
they w alked not in m y statutes, and they despised m y
judgm ents, w hich i f a m an do, he shall even live in them ;
and m y sabbaths th ey greatly polluted: then I said, I
w oidd pour out M y fu r y upon them in the w ilderness, to
consum e them . B u t I w ro u g h t fo r m y nam e’s sake, that
it should not be polluted before the heathen, in w hose
sight I brought them out. Y e t also I lifte d up m y hand
unto them in the w ilderness, that I w ould not bring them
into the land w h ich I had given them , flow ing w ith m ilk
and honey, w h ich is the glory o f all lands; Because they
despised M y ju d g m en ts, and w alked not in M y statutes,
but polluted m y sabbaths: fo r their heart w en t a fter their
idols. N everth eless m ine eyes spared them fro m destroy­
ing them , neither did I m ake an end o f them in the w ilder­
ness. B u t I said unto their children in the w ilderness,
W alk ye not in the sta tu tes o f yo u r fa th ers, neither ob­
serve their ju d g m en ts, nor defile yo u rself w ith their idols.
I am the L o rd yo u r G od; w alk in M y statutes, and keep
M y ju d g m en ts, and do them : A n d hallow M y sabbaths;
and they shall be a sign betw een m e and you, that ye m ay
364 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
kn o w that I am the L o rd y o u r G od”.
O bservance of D ivine laws of life is a spiritual necessity, the
false show and idolatry of th e senses m ust be overcome and the
statutes of the laws of life observed faithfully in order that
m ortal man may possess life and possess it m ore abundantly. The
M ercy o f Infinite M ind is dem onstrated in th e fact th at a sinner
is allowed to violate these laws and continue to exist; the Love
of Infinite Spirit is dem onstrated in th e fact th at one can turn
from sin and overcom e it at any tim e, providing they overcome
the cause of it w hich is th e m ental desire. T h e Science of Life
teaches the m ethod of overcom ing th e cause, also the effect of
sin, or violation of th e D ivine laws and statutes of Life, Love
and Light.
( 2 0 :21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30) — ''‘N o tw ith sta n d in g t h e
children rebelled against M e : th ey w a lked not in M y sta­
tutes, n eith er kep t M y ju d g m e n ts to do them , which if a
m an do, he shall even live in th e m ; th ey polluted m y sab­
baths: then I said, I w o u ld p o u r out M y fu r y upon them,
to accom plish m y anger against th em in the wilderness.
N everth eless, I w ith d re w M in e hand, and w rought fo r My
nam e’s sake, that it should not be polluted in the sight of
the heathen, in w hose sig h t I bro u g h t them fo rth . I lifted
up M in e hand unto th em also in the w ilderness, that 1
w ould scatter them am ong the heathen, and disperse them
th ro u g h the countries; B ecause th ey had not executed My
ju d g m en ts, but had despised M y sta tu tes, and had pol­
luted M y sabbaths, and th eir eyes w ere a fte r their father’s
idols. W h erefo re I gave th em also sta tu tes that were not
good, and ju d g m e n ts w h ereb y th ey should not live: And
I polluted them in th eir ow n g ifts, in that they caused to
pass through the fire all th a t openeth the w om b, that 1
m ight m ake them desolate, to the end that they might
kn o w w h a t I am the L o rd . T h erefo re, son o f man, speak
unto the house o f Israel, and say unto them , Thus saith
the L o rd God, Y e t in this y o u r fa th e rs have blasphemed
m e, in that they have co m m itted a trespass against me.
F or w hen I had brought them into the land, fo r the which
I lifte d up M in e hand to give it to them , then they saw
every high hill, and all the thick trees, and they offered
there their sacrifices, and there th ey presented the provo­
cation o f their o ffering: there also th ey m ade their sweet
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 365
savour, and poured out th eir drink offerings. T hen I said
■unto them , W h a t is the high place w hereunto ye go? A n d
the nam e th ereo f is called B am ah unto this day. W h ere­
fore say unto the L o rd o f Israel, T h u s saith the L o rd
God, A re ye polluted a fte r the m anner o f yo u r fa th ers?
and com m it ye w h o red o m a fte r their abom inations?”
Even in the m idst of evil th e m ercy of Infinite Love manifests.
W hile carnal passions overcom e th e reason of man, Infinite Spirit
retires from the senses b u t th e soul grieves for the return of the
conscious m ind to reason. A n im pulse of D ivine Love con­
tinually travels over th e nerves of the body, this is the uplifting
Universal Infinite Spirit w hich rescues man from his lower
nature. T he voice of th e Infinite continues to speak regardless of
w hether m ortal m an hears it or not, dem onstrating D ivine T ru th ,
Justice and M ercy. M any becom es th e instrum ent of good the
moment he returns from evil, and it then has no further pow er
over him. M an m ay desert D ivine M ind, b u t D ivine M ind will
seek union w ith man. T h e weakness of the flesh is the strength
of the Spirit, for G od m anifests continually in the inner recess of
the souls of beings.
(20:31-32-33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40) — ‘‘F o r w hen ye offer yo u r
gifts, *when ye m ake yo u r sons to pass through the fire, ye
pollute you rselves w ith all yo u r idols, even unto this day;
and shall I be inquired o f by you, 0 house o f Israel? A s
I live, saith the L o rd God, 1 w ill not be inquired o f by
you. A n d that w h ich com eth into yo u r m ind shall not be
at all, that ye say, W e w ill be as the heathen, as the
fam ilies o f the countries, to serve w ood and stone. A s I
live, saith the L o rd God, surely w ith a m ighty hand, and
w ith a stretched out arm , and w ith fu r y poured out, w ill
I ride over yo u ; A n d I w ill bring you out fro m the people,
and w ill gather yo u out o f the countries w herein ye are
scattered, w ith a m ig h ty hand, and w ith a stretched out
arm, and w ith fu r y poured out. A n d I w ill bring you
into the w ilderness o f the people, and there w ill I plead
w ith you fa ce to face. L ik e as I pleaded w ith your fa th ers
in the w ilderness o f the land o f E g yp t, so w ill I plead
w ith you, saith the L o rd God. A n d I w ill cause yo u to
pass under the rod, and I w ill bring you into the bond o f
the covenant: A n d I w ill purge out fro m am ong yo u the
rebels, and them that transgress against m e: I w ill bring
366 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
them fo r th out o f the co u n try w h ere they sojourn, and
they shall no t enter into the land o f Isra el; and ye shall
kn o w that I am the L o rd . A s fo r you, 0 house o f Israel,
th u s saith the L o rd , Go ye, serve ye every one his idols,
and h erea fter also, i f ye w ill n o t hearken unto me: hut
pollute ye m y holy nam e no m ore w ith your gifts, and
w ith yo u r idols. F o r in m ine h oly m ountain, in the moun­
tain o f the height o f Isra el, saith the L o rd God, there
shall all the house o f Israel, all o f th em in the land, serve
m e: there w ill I accept them , and there w ill I require your
offerings, and the first fr u its o f y o u r oblations, with all
yo u r holy things”.
T h e arm of righteousness is th e Infinite W ill which opposes
idolatry in every form . T h e com m and is “T h o u shalt have no
G ods before m e”, m eaning th o u shalt have no Gods before or
in place of Infinite T ru th , Love and Light. M ental images or
physical Deities are as idolatrous as physical images, since mental
concept governs devotion and its m otive. W h en man learns the
unsatisfactory result of sin, th en th e D ivine kingdom will mani­
fest “on earth as in heaven” . T h e happiest person is the one
m ost devoted to good, th e m iserable person and nation are those
devoted to evil. Israel’s lessons should be the lessons of in­
dividuals until goodness and G od m anifest on earth.
(20:41-42-43-44-45-46-47-48-49)— '7 w ill accept you with
yo u r sw eet savour, w h en I bring yo u out fro m the people,
and gather yo u out o f the countries w herein ye have been
scattered; and I w ill be sanctified in, you before the
heathen. A n d ye shall kn o w that I am the Lord, when
I shall bring yo u into the land o f Israel, into the country
fo r the w h ich I lifte d up m ine hand to give it to your
fathers. A n d there shall ye rem em b er yo u r ways, and all
yo u r doings, w herein ye have been defiled; and ye shall
loathe yourselves in yo u r ow n sight, fo r all your evils
that ye have com m itted. A n d ye shall kn o w that I am
the L o rd , w hen I have w ro u g h t w ith yo u fo r m y names
sake, not according to yo u r w icked w ays, nor according
to yo u r corrupt doings, O ye house o f Israel, saith the
L o rd God. M o reo ver, the w o rd o f the L o rd came unto
m e, saying, S o n o f m an, set th y fa ce tow ard the south,
and drop thy w o rd tow ard the south, and prophesy
against the fo re st o f the so u th field; A n d say to the
saith the Lord God, Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee,
and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and every
dry tree; the flaming flame shall not he quenched, and
all faces from the south to the north shall be burned
therein. And all flesh shall see that I the Lord have
kindled it: it shall not be quenched. Then said I, Ah Lord
God! they say of me, Doth he not speak parables?
T he fire kindled by th e Lord G od is Solar heat in the body.
This energy builds th e righteous and consumes the wicked, for
the attitude of m ind governs its m anifestations. In Super M ind
Science one learns the correct w ay to build health and creative
power through the agency of the fires of life. Ignorance of this
power bring upon one sickness, sorrow and death. T he control
of Solar energy prolongs life and retains youth, through this
agency mind accom plishes victory over m atter, dem onstrating the
super powers of creation.
(21 :l-2-3-4-5-6)— “And the word of the Lord came unto me,
saying, Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and
drop thy word toward the holy places, and prophesy
against the land of Israel. And say to the land of Israel,
Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I am against thee, and wilt
draw forth my sword out of his sheath) and will cut off
from thee the righteous and the wicked. Seeing then
that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked,
therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath
against all flesh from the south to the north; That all
flesh may know that I the Lord have drawn forth my
sword out of his sheath: it shall not return any more.
Sigh, therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of
thy loins; and with bitterness sigh before their eyes”.
W hen m atter creates the instrum ents of its own destruction
Infinite Love is grieved. T h e flesh is obstinate and refuses to
listen to the V oice of Spirit w hich ever sends impulses of T ru th ,
Love and Light. T h e m aterial senses, unable to com prehend
the spiritual powers, go on sinning while the Voice of Silence
strives to convey th e prophecy of the im pending danger. T h e
war between m atter and Spirit is unceasing. Soul illum ination is
the only means of peace, this is followed by the attainm ent of
immortal soul consciousness and identitiy. T he sword of the
Infinite is D ivine W ill w hich controls the im m ortal planes of
mind and also the decaying energies w hich make m atter tern-
368 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
poral. O nly Spirit gives life its eternal m anifestation.
( 2 1 :7-8-9-10-11-12) — "A n d it shall be, w h en they say unto
thee, W h erefo re sig h est th o u ? that thou shalt answer,
F o r the tidings, because it co m eth : and every heart shall
m elt, and all hands shall be feeb le, and every spirit shall
fa in t, and all knees shall be w ea k as w ater: behold, it
com eth, and shall be bro u g h t to pass, saith the Lord God.
A gain, the w o rd o f the L o rd cam e unto me, saying, Son
o f m an, prophesy, and say, T h u s saith the L o rd : Say, A
sw ord, a sw o rd is sharpened, and also furbished: It is
sharpened to m ake a sore sla u g h ter: it is furbished that
it m ay g litter: should w e then m ake m irth ? it contemneth
the rod o f m y son, as every tree. A n d he hath given it
to be fu rb ish ed , T h a t it m ay be handled: this sword is
sharpened, and it is fu rb ish ed , to g ive it into the hand of
the slayer. C ry and how l, so n o f m a n ; fo r it shall be
upon m y people, it shall be upon all the princes o f Israel;
terrors by reason o f the sw o rd shall be upon m y people:
sm ite th erefo re upon th y thigh”.
T h e D ivine W ill shall be sharpened as a sword, its powers
increased or furnished to m ake desolate th e flesh which heareth
not the Spirit. Israel symbolizes the m aterial senses which violate
th e D ivine W ill and bring fo rth destruction; the voice of warn­
ing is the conscience. H ere w e learn th e certainty of punishment
w hich comes to th e flesh caused by selfishness and ignorance,
not sent on m an as a judgm ent from G od, for G od is Love and
abides in D ivine principles w hich never retaliate or seek revenge.
( 2 1 :13-14-15-16-17)— “B ecause it is a trial, and w hat if the
sw ord contem n even the ro d ? it shall be no more, saith
the L o rd God. T h o u , th erefo re, son o f m an, prophesy,
and sm ite thine hands together, and let the sword be
doubled the th ird tim e, the sw o rd o f the slain: it is the
sw ord o f the great m en that are slain, w hich entereth into
their p rivy cham bers. I have set the point o f the sword
against all their gates, that th eir h ea rt m ay faint, and
their ru in s be m ultiplied. A h ! it is m ade bright, it is
w rapped up fo r the slaughter. Go thee one w ay or other,
either on the right hand, or on the le ft, w hithersoever thy
face is set. I w ill also sm ite m ine hands together, and
I w ill cause m y fu r y to rest; I the L o rd have said i f ■
M an controls the m anifestation of D ivine W ill through
B O O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 369
harmony w ith th e positive and negative laws of mind, symbolized
by “clapping the h ands” . T h e operation of these laws bring
about birth also death of the greater and lesser personalities.
These laws are against the sinner, or “the sw ord point is set
against all their gates” for th ere is no escape from the fruits
which come from this law. M an can choose positive mastership
and life, or negation and death, explained by “go ye one way
or other”. Infinite M ind creates through these same laws, or
“smites mine hands to g eth er”. So are the laws of life
demonstrated in th e Science of M ind w hich directs man tow ard
happiness away from sorrow , and tow ard life away from death,
for the full Love of G od is beyond the understanding of men.
(2 1 :18-19-20-21-22-23-24) — “T h e w o rd o f the L o rd came
unto m e again, saying, A lso , thou son o f m an, appoint
thee tw o w ays, that the sw o rd o f the king o f Babylon
m ay com e: both tw ain shall com e fo rth out o f one land;
and choose thou a place, choose it at the head o f the w ay
to the city. A p p o in t a w ay, that the sw ord m ay come to
R abbath o f the A m m o n ites, and to Judah in Jerusalem
the defenced. F or the king o f B abylon stood at the part­
ing o f the w a y, at the head o f the tw o w ays, to use d ivi­
nation: he m ade his arrow s bright, he consulted w ith
images, he looked in the liver. A t h is right hand w as the
divination fo r Jerusalem , to appoint captains, to open the
m ount, and to build a fo rt. A n d it shall be unto them as
to appoint battering ram s against the gates, to cast a
m outh in the slaughter, to lift up the voice w ith shouting,
a false divination in their sight, to them that have sw orn
oaths: but he w ill call to rem em brance the iniquity, that
they m ay be taken. T h erefo re thus saith the L o rd God,
because ye have m ade yo u r iniquity to be rem em bered,
in that yo u r transgressions are discovered, so that in all
your doings yo u r sin s do appear: because, I say, that ye
are com e to rem em brance, ye shall be taken w ith the
hand”.
T he false divination of priests of Babylon, m eaning the
mystery w hich m aterialistic doctrines are clothed in, will serve
only as instrum ents of destruction, for they have no D ivine
power to dem onstrate. A ll ceremonies w hich display outw ard
piousness are powerless, only conform ing to D ivine laws will
cause man to attain. T h e consulting of false images and looking
370 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
into the liver, m eaning sacrificial blood, will prove false. The
forces of righteousness, sym bolized by kings of Jerusalem will
be used as battering ram s to overcom e th e evil caused by false
rituals and soul saving systems. G oodness is attained only
th rough self m astery, and th e key to th a t victory is the under­
standing of M ind, T ru th , Love and L ight through spiritual
intuition. Infinite Love takes flesh by th e hands after the over­
com ing of m ortal delusion and false divination has been accom­
plished and leads it to suprem e wisdom.
( 2 1 :25-26-27-28)— “A n d thou, p ro fa n e w icked prince of
Israel, w hose day is com e, w h en in iq u ity shall have an
end, T h u s saith the L o rd G od, R e m o v e the diadem, and
take o ff the cro w n ; this shall no t be the sam e: exalt him
that is low , and abase him that is high. I w ill overturn,
overturn, o vertu rn it; and it shall be no m ore, until he
com e w hose right it is; and I w ill give it him . A n d thou,
son o f m an, prophesy, and say, T h u s saith the Lord God
concerning the A m m o n ites, and concerning their reproach;
even say thou, T h e sw ord, the sw o rd is draw n; fo r the
slaughter it is fu rb ish ed , to consum e because of the
glittering”.
T h e crow n of D ivine w isdom never comes to the princes
of darkness w ho hold th eir follow ers in ignorance and bondage.
T he com m and to “exalt th e low and abase the high” shows how
the greatest on the physical plane becom e the least on the
spiritual plane. T h e diadem in th e crow n of wisdom is removed
until the great M essenger of L ight shall come and prove his
right to it. T he battle betw een m atter and Spirit is to go on until
death is conquered by the M ind Scientist w ho demonstrates the
All-seeing wisdom of the Infinite Spirit.
(21:29-30-31-32)— “W h iles they see v a n ity unto thee, whiles
they divine a lie unto thee, to bring thee upon the necks
o f them that are slain, o f the w icked , w hose day is come,
w hen their in q u ity shall have an end. Sh a ll I cause it to
return into their sh ea th ? I w ill ju d g e thee in the place
w here thou w ast created, in the land o f th y nativity. And
I w ill pour out m ine indignation upon th ee; I will blow
against thee in the fire o f m y w ra th , and deliver thee into
the hand o f brutish m en, and s k ilfu l to destroy. Thou
shalt be fo r fu e l to the fire; th y blood shall be in the
m idst o f the land; thou shalt be no m ore remembered;
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 371
fo r I the L o rd have sp o ken it”.
T he fires of sin are fuelled by evil thoughts and deeds w hich
consume the doer thereof. Flesh decays while Spirit continues
to exist in different forms. T h e fires of flesh consume the identity
of the wicked and they enter oblivion or unconscious eternal
darkness. T his they bring upon them selves because they refuse
to listen to the voice of Spirit w hich would guide them tow ard
Divinity away from darkness, for illum ination of the soul comes
from the eternal light of D ivine Love. A s man progresses tow ard
illumination the sw ord of light and pow er become his weapon
of defense. Leaving th e w orld of sin and lust behind, he enters
into that suprem e peace w hich passeth all understanding, the
supreme peace of eternal Spirit, the highest goal of attainm ent
beyond mortal mind.
(22:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— ‘‘M oreover, the w ord o f the L ord
came unto m e, saying, N o w , thou son o f m an, w ilt thou
judge, w ilt thou ju d g e the bloody city? yea, thou shalt
shew her all her abom inations. T h en say thou, Thus
saith the L o rd God, T h e C ity sheddeth blood in the m idst
o f it, that her tim e m ay com e; and m aketh idols against
herself to defile herself. T hou art become guilty in thy
blood that thou hast sh ed ; and hast defiled thy se lf in
thine idols w h ich thou hast m ade ; and thou hast caused
thy days to d ra w near, and art com e even unto thy years:
therefore have I m ade thee a reproach unto the heaven,
and a m ocking to all countries. Those that be near, and
those that be fa r fr o m thee, shall m ock thee, w hich art
in fa m o u s and m uch vexed . B ehold, the princes o f Israel,
every one w ere in thee to their pow er to shed blood. In
thee have th ey set light by fa th e r and m other; in the
m idst o f thee have they dealt by oppression w ith the
stranger; in thee have they vexed the fatherless and the
w idow . T h o u hast despised m ine holy things, and hast
profaned m y sabbaths. In thee are m en that carry tales
to shed blood; and in thee they eat upon the m ountains ;
in the m id st o f thee they com m it lew dness; In thee have
they discovered their fa th e r 's nakedness ; in thee have
they hum bled her that w as set apart fo r pollution".
Infinite Spirit never pardons the shedding of blood, that
being “the unpardonable sin”, for man is forbidden to take life
or that w hich he cannot restore. W h en restitution is impossible
372 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
it follows th a t forgiveness is also im possible for all receive in
accordance w ith th eir giving, “in the m easure that ye give shall
ye also receive” is the D ivine law of Life and Love. Those who
m ake excuses and kill saying “th a t was m y d u ty ” will experience
loss of identity, for “he w ho kills by th e sw ord shall die by the
sw ord” regardless of th e opinion of m ortal man, mortal laws
and statutes, for can m an dictate to G od, or will G od excuse one
in one country and destroy an o th er in another country who is
guilty of the same sin? G od is no respector of personalities or
the location w here sin is com m itted, th e sin itself destroys man,
G od pardons only those w hose deeds preserve them through
elevation of consciousness to a plane of eternal reality.
(22:11-12-13-14-15-16) — “A n d one hath com m itted abomina­
tions w ith his neighbour’s w ife ; and another hath lewdly
defiled his dau g h ter-in -la w ; and another in thee hath
hum bled his sister, his fa th e r ’s daughter. In thee have
they taken g ifts to shed blood; th o u hast taken usury and
increase, and thou hast greedily gained o f thy neighbours
by exto rtio n , and hast fo rg o tte n m e, saith the Lord God.
B ehold, th erefo re, I have sm itten M in e hand at thy dis­
honest gain w hich thou hast m ade, and at thy blood which
hath been in the m id st o f thee. Can thine heart endure,
or can thine hands be strong, in the days that 1 shall deal
w ith thee? I the L o rd have sp o ken it, and w ill do it.
A n d I w ill scatter thee am ong the heathen, and disperse
thee in the countries, and w ill consum e th y filthiness out
o f thee. A n d thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself
in the sig h t o f the heathen, and thou shalt know that I
am the L o rd ”.
T h e seeming pow ers of darkness are b u t th e absence of light.
T h e followers of negation and evil are scattered into many lands,
there is no particular place th ey can call hom e since Divine
harm ony does not prevail fo r them , only chaos exists. Infinite
Spirit scatters evil because evil has no concentrated point of
power, while G ood has all pow er and m anifests all Truth, all
Light and Life. T h e transform ing pow er is in good, degeneration
is b u t the retiring of good into the background of mortal mind
while evil holds sway. A ll th a t is required to banish evil and
bring forth good is the change of th o u g h t from negative to
positive, from low to high; this change brings forth Divine light.
BO O K O F T H E P R O P H E T EZEKIEL 373
(22:17-18-19-20-21-22) — “A n d the w o rd o f the L o rd came
unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, the house o f Israel is to M e
become dross: all th ey are brass, and tin, and iron, and
lead, in the m id st o f the fu rn a ce; they are even the dross
o f silver. T h erefo re th u s saith the L o rd God, Because ye
are all becom e dross, behold, therefore, I w ill gather you
into the m id st o f Jerusalem . A s they gather silver, and
brass, and iron, and lead, and tin, into the m idst o f the
furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to m elt it; so w ill I
gather yo u in m ine anger and in m y fu r y , and I w ill
leave you there, and m elt you. Y ea, I w ill gather you,
and blow upon yo u in the fire o f m y w rath, and ye shall
be m elted in the m id st thereof. A s silver is m elted in
the m idst o f the fu rn a ce, so shall ye be m elted in the
m idst th ereo f; and ye shall kn o w that I the L o rd have
poured out m y fu r y upon yo u ”.
Infinite Spirit never gets angry or pours fury upon man,
but the sins of the flesh produce decaying forces w hich consume
the body like brass in a furnace. T h is fire is fed by low animal
impulses common to the low er nature. M ind Science teaches the
method of overcom ing them , thus prolonging life. These decaying
forces are not actual pow ers b u t are energies form ed from evil
thinking and they destroy th e flesh. T herefore, let all abide in
the truth of th e Spirit and raise th eir consciousness tow ard
Divinity, thus overcom ing th e destructive energies created by
mental poison and body congestion.
(22:23-24-25-26-27-28) — “A n d the w o rd o f the L o rd came
unto m e, saying, S o n o f m an, say unto her, T hou art the
land that is n o t cleansed, nor rained upon in the day o f
indignation. T h ere is a conspiracy o f her prophets in the
m idst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they
have devoured souls; th ey have taken the treasure and
precious thin g s; they have m ade her m any w indow s in the
m idst thereof. H er p riests have violated M y law, and have
profaned M in e holy things: they have put no difference
betw een the holy and profane, neither have they shew ed
difference betw een th unclan and clean, and have hid their
eyes fro m M y sabbaths, and I am profaned am ong them.
H er princes in the m id st th ereo f are like w olves ravening
the prey to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dis­
honest gain. A n d her prophets have doubled them w ith
374 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
u n tem pered m ortar, seeing va n ity, and divining lies unto
them , T h u s saith the L o rd G od, w h en the L ord hath not
sp o ken ”.
M any negative persons develop illusions believing they con­
verse w ith the Lord of spirits of th e dead. T hey divine lies and
give fo rth falsehoods w hich they believe they have received from
a spiritual source or even a personality. T h e tru th is that one
m ust first attain spiritual understanding, self control, and over­
come selfishness, jealousy and lust, otherw ise their prophecies
are b u t lies and th eir com unications b u t m ental delusion pro­
duced from over use of th e im aginative faculties of mortal mind.
Unless these delusions are overcom e, they w ill lead one to physi­
cal, m ental and spiritual destruction. T h e only rem edy is to apply
positive concentration on G od and G ood until the evil and
misleading delusions cease to come, then will Light and Love
illum inate the being w ith tru e spirituality.
(22 :29-30-31)— “T he people o f the land have used oppression,
and exercised robbery, and have v exed the poor and
need y; yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully.
A n d I so u g h t fo r a m an am ong them , that should make
up the hedge, a nd sta n d in the gap before me fo r the
land, that I sh o u ld no t d estro y it; but I found none.
T h erefo re have I poured out m ine indignation upon them;
I have consum ed th em w ith the fire o f m y w rath; their
ow n w ay have I recom pensed upon their heads, saith the
L o rd G od”.
Infinite Spirit seeks one w ho understands T ru th to lead those
w ho are captives of the five senses to a realisation of Love and
Light. Finding none it foretells th e destruction of matter as
recom pense for evil deeds com m itted w hile in the body. The
com plaint against the priestcraft show s how em pty of truth and
pow er form al religion is. Super M ind Science develops the reason
and intellect of its adherents and reveals th e true spiritual mean­
ing of the Scriptures w hich have been m isinterpreted for cen­
turies. T h e discernm ent of T ru th is as holy as the original
inspiration w hich form ed the connecting link between man and
God. Every prophet gave his message according to his mental
developm ent and soul understanding, and while many misin­
terpreted their visions m any did not, this T ru th is mankinds
greatest blessing. T h e consciousness ascends to light as the mind
of m ortal becomes illum ined w ith the soul vision of spirituality,
BOOK OF THE PROPHET EZEKIEL 375
for as we change the mental concept we change the mental en­
vironment from low materiality to high spirituality.
Divine 1st—God is Love, Good and Light and never
Realization destroys. 2nd—God being eternal, exists
of T ru th only in mind. Since matter is temporal, God
could not be physical. 3rd—All seeming evil, anger and enmity
of God is but mortal delusion caused from erroneous thinking.
4th—Evil deeds develop the latent forces or germs of darkness
which destroy the doer of evil, but God never destroys.
5th—Good and God alone rule all true powers, all other mani­
festations which seem to be powers are but negation.
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L
“A fte r th is I looked, and behold, a door was
opened in heaven; and the first V oice w hich I
heard w as as it w ere o f a tru m p et talking w ith
m e; w hich said, C om e up hith er, and I will
sh ew thee things w h ich m u st be hereafter’’.
— Revelation.
(D an iel (l:2 - 3 -4 ) — “In the th ird yea r o f the reign o f Jehoi-
akim king o f Judah cam e N eb u ch a d n ezza r king of Bab­
ylon unto Jerusalem , and besieged it. A n d the Lord gave
Jehoiakim king o f Judah into his hand, w ith part o f the
vessels o f the house o f G od, w h ich he carried into the
land o f Sliinar, to the house o f his g o d ; and he brought
the vessels into the treasure house o f his god. A nd the
king spake unto A sh p en a z the m aster o f his eunuchs, that
he should bring certain o f the children o f Israel, and of
the king’s seed, and o f the p rin ces; C hildren in whom
there w as no blem ish, but w ell fa vo u red , and skilful in
all w isdom , and cunning in kn o w ledge and understand­
ing science, and such as had ability in them to stand in
the king’s palace, and w h o m th ey m ig h t teach the learning
and the tongue o f the C haldeans”.
T h e ancient mysteries of th e C haldeans w ere the Mental
Sciences of th at day, consisting of astrology and different forms
of m ental magic. A depts in the Sciences w ere highly respected,
and the kings w ere students of th e m ysteries. Some of their
Sciences w ere of a D ivine m etaphysical nature while others
w ere classed as black magic by th e sages of th a t time. Their
mysteries were taught in the form o f initiations to candidates
in Secret O rders. T he degrees w ere divided into three branches
of learning, consisting of N eophyte, A d ep t and M aster. The
king regarded this learning as the highest type of moral and
spiritual education.
( 1 :5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12)— “A n d the king appointed them a daily
provision o f the king’s m eat, and o f the w ine which he
drank; so nourishing them three years, that at the end
thereo f they m ight stand before the king. N o w among
these w ere o f the children o f Judah, D aniel, Hananiah,
M ishael and A za ria h ; In to w h o m the prince o f the
eunuchs gave nam es; fo r he gave un to D aniel the navi:
THE BOOK OF DANIEL 377
o f B elteshazzar; and to H ananiah o f Shadrach; and to
M ishael o f M esa ch ; and to A zariah, o f Abednego. B u t
Daniel purposed in h is heart that he w ould not defile
him self w ith the po rtio n o f the king’s m eat, nor w ith the
wine w hich he d ra n k: th erefo re he requested o f the
prince o f the eunuchs that he m ig h t not defile him self.
N o w God had brought D aniel into fa v o u r and tender love
w ith the prince o f the eunuchs. A n d the prince o f the
eunuchs said un to D aniel, I fe a r m y lord the king, who
hath appointed yo u r m eat and yo u r d rin k; fo r w hy
should he see yo u r fa ces w orse liking than the children
w hich are o f y o u r so rt? T h en shall ye m ake m e endanger
m y head to the king. T h en said D aniel to M elzar, w hom
the prince o f the eunuchs had set over D aniel, H ananiah,
M ishael, and A za ria h , P ro ve th y servants, I beseech thee,
ten days; and let th em give u s pulse to eat, and w ater to
drink”.
“Pulse” m eaning vegetables and seeds are spiritual foods,
while meat defiles the body. D aniel is revealed here as the T rue
Master of spiritual law w hich teaches th a t flesh is unclean food.
He offers a test to prove th e superiority of vegetables over meat
and wine as a diet, know ing th a t the test would reveal the
spirituality w hich radiates from those w ho abstain from eating
animal food. It congests th e brain cells and causes the lower
consciousness to control the m ental faculties, while clean light
diet is conducive to spiritual attainm ent.
(1:13-14-15-16-17) — “T h en let our countenance be looked
upon before thee, and the countenance o f the children
that eat o f the po rtio n o f the king’s m eat; and as thou
seest, deal w ith th y servants. S o he consented to them
in this m atter, and pro ved them ten days. A n d at the end
o f ten days th eir countenances appeared fa irer and fa tter
in flesh than all the children w hich did eat the portion o f
the king’s m eat. T h u s M elza r took aw ay the portion o f
their m eat, and the w ine that they should drink, and gave
them pulse. A s fo r these fo u r children, God gave them
know ledge and skill in all learning and w isdom : and
D aniel had understanding in all visions and dream s”.
The Science of Life is revealed to those w ho abstain from
eating flesh and take no p art in killing. Infinite W isdom m ani'
fests to them , revealing all tru th pertaining to m ind; they be-
378 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
come m etaphysicians possessing the ability to penetrate the
cosmic state of m ind. T h e pow ers of m ind m anifest in the being
of those w ho are conscious of Love and w ho eat light clean food.
C arnivorous appetite belongs to anim als, n o t to man, it feeds
the fires of low er passions and consum es th e flesh, bringing about
prem ature death. T h e Science of Life is the Science of Love for
all G od's creatures, “seek ye first th e kingdom of God (in all
life) and all these things shall be added unto you.”
(1 :18-19-20-21)— “N o w at the end o f the days that the king
had said that he should bring th em in then the prince of
eunuchs brought th em in befo re N ebuchadnezzar. And
the king co m m u n ed w ith th em ; and am ong them all was
fo u n d none like D aniel, H ananiah, M ishaael, and Azariah:
th erefo re sto o d th ey b efo re the king. A n d in all matters
o f w isd o m and u n d ersta n d in g , th a t the king inquired of
them , he fo u n d th em ten tim es better than all the magi­
cians and astrologers th a t w ere in all his realm. And
D aniel continued even unto the first yea r o f K ing Cyrus".
T he dem onstrations of Spirit and wisdom can be accom­
plished by those w ho live clean and have sincere hearts.
D em onstrations of astrology and black magic by carnal minded
adepts do more harm th an good, fo r th eir knowledge is far
inferior to those w ho live clean, eat proper and possess an
understanding m ind. T h e w ork of th e Scientist is to prove all
things and know , m eeting th e conditions of th e laws of wisdom.
In this w ay he may penetrate th e secrets of the astral dream
w orld and the heavens, ferreting out th e practical and doing
away w ith the obstructions to th e em piricism of accurate knowl­
edge, both of th e seen and the unseen w orld. D evotion to Truth
is the basis of T ru e Life Science regardless of beliefs, super­
stitions and unproven theories w hich hinder the unfolding of
the dem onstrable laws of being.
(2:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10) — “A n d in the second year of the
reign o f N ebuchadnezzar, N eb u ch a d n ezza r dreamed
dream s, w h erew ith his sp irit w as troubled, and his sleep
brake fr o m him . T h en the king com m anded to call the
m agicians, and the astrologers, and the sorcers, and the
children, fo r to sh ew the king his dream s. So they came
and stood before the king. A n d the king said unto them,
I have dream ed a dream , and m y sp irit w as troubled to
know the dream . T h en spake the C haldeans to the king
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 379
»
in Syriac, 0 king, live fo re v e r: tell thy servants the
dream, and w e w ill sh ew the interpretation. The king
answered and said to the C haldeans, T h e thing is gone
fro m m e: i f ye w ill not m ake kn o w n unto m e the dream ,
w ith the interpretation th ereo f, ye shall be cut in pieces,
and your houses shall be m ade a dunghill. B u t i f ye shew
the dream , and the in terp reta tio n th ereo f, ye shall receive
o f m e g ifts, and rew ards, and great honour: therefore
shew m e the dream and the interpretation thereof. They
answered again, and said, L e t the king tell his servants
the dream , and w e w ill sh ew the interpretation o f it. The
king answ ered and said, I kn o w o f certainty that ye
would gain the tim e, because ye see the thing is gone
know that ye can sh ew m e the interpretation thereof. The
dream, there is but one decree fo r yo u ; fo r ye have pre­
pared lying and co rru p t w o rd s to speak before m e till the
tim e be changed: th erefo re tell m e the dream , and I shall
know that ye can sh ew m e the interpretation thtreof. The
Chaldeans answ ered before the king, and said, There is
not a m an upon the earth that can sh ew the king’s m a t­
ter; therefore there is no king, lord, nor ruler, that asked
such things at any m agician, or astrologer, or Chaldean”.
The arts of the carnal minded Adepts who claim to know
the past, present and future are called in question by the king.
He demands that the astrologers and black magicians prove their
claims by demonstrations, but their arts are physical and do not
possess spiritual keys to power. Their excuses are common to
carnality and foreign to true Metaphysical Science, for the true
Seer can divine even the hidden thoughts of the mind. This
challenge should be given the modern sooth sayers and so'called
psychics who are assisted by strange spirits of the dead, for un-
less they can read the question on the person’s mind they can
never answer it. Spiritual minded prophets need no information
on the subjects which they receive inspiration on, the Infinite
Spirit supplies it, however, the Spirit does not answer the chal-
lenge of the flesh. Spirit makes the conditions under which
wisdom is received, flesh must abide by Divine law or no sign
shall be given unto it of Divine power.
( 2 :11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20)— “A n d it is a rare thing
that the king requireth: and there is none other that can
shew before the king, except the gods, w hose dw elling is
380 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
n o t w ith flesh. F o r this cause the king w as angry and
very fu rio u s, and com m anded to destroy all the wise men
o f B abylon. A n d the decree w e n t fo r th that the wise men
should be slain; and th ey so u g h t D aniel and his fellows
to be slain. T h en D aniel answ ered w ith counsel and wis­
dom to A rio ch the captain o f the king’s guard, which
w as gone fo r th to sla y the w ise m en o f Babylon: He
answ ered and said to A rio c h the king’s captain. W hy is
the decree so hasty fr o m the k in g ? T hen Arioch made
the thing kn o w n to D aniel. T h en D aniel w ent in, and
desired o f the king th a t he w o u ld give him time, and
th a t he w o u ld sh ew the kin g the interpretation. Then
D aniel w e n t to his house, and m ade the thing known to
H ananiah, M ishael, and A za ria h , his com panions: That
they w o u ld desire m ercies o f the G od o f heaven con­
cerning this secret, th a t D aniel and h is fellow s should
not perish w ith the rest o f the w ise m en o f Babylon.
T h en w as the secret revealed unto D aniel in a night
vision. T h en D aniel blessed the G od o f heaven. Daniel
answ ered and said, B lessed be the nam e o f God fo r ever
and ever; fo r w isd o m and m ig h t are his”.
D aniel concentrated his m ind on D ivinity and was con­
scious of astral vision. M ind and th e Laws of Life sent the
answ er to his consciousness, th u s fulfilling the inner spiritual
desire, and producing a perfect spiritual dem onstration. While
the flesh sleeps, th e m ind, freed from flesh bondage, solves the
m ystery, such is th e tru e Science of M ind. It demonstrates
th a t w hich seems im possible to th e five senses, but all things
are possible to those w ho are G odly and w ho know God. Such
know ledge comes from th e study of cosmic life and Divine Love.
( 2 :21-22-23-24) — “A n d H e changeth the tim es and the sea­
so n s; H e rem o veth kings, and setteth up kings; H e giveth
w isdom unto the w ise, and know ledge to them that know
understanding. H e revealeth the deep and secret things.
H e kn o w eth w h a t is in the darkness, and the light dwell-
eth w ith him . I thank T hee, and praise Thee, 0 Thou
G od o f m y fa th ers, W h o h a st g iven m e wisdom and
m ight, and hast m ade kn o w n unto m e n o w w hat was de­
sired o f thee: fo r T h o u hast n o w m ade kn o w n unto us the
king’s m atter. T h erefo re D aniel w e n t in unto Arioch, whom
the king had ordained to d estro y the w ise m en o f Bab-
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 381
lyon: he w en t and said th u s unto him , D estroy not the
wise m en o f B a b ylo n : bring m e in before the king, and I
will shew unto the king the interpretation”.
Here the D ivine M ind Scientist w ho understood the Science
of Being is rescued from danger th ro u g h a spiritual revelation
which solved the m ystery of th e king’s dream. T he true A dept
knowing th at All-seeing, A ll-know ing Infinite Spirit never makes
a mistake goes fo rth to prove to th e flesh conscious king that
the mystery has been solved th ro u g h D ivine Infinite spiritual
communion and concentration. T his is the greatest dem onstra­
tion of the Laws of M ind responding to a sincere disciple of
Truth w hen he is in trouble. T h e body being asleep, the five
senses did not interfere w ith th e revelation, proving Spirit over
matter, and consciousness to be of both the seen and unseen
world. T he Science of D ivine M etaphysics teaches one how to
dream at W ill or solve m ysteries in this m anner. M ind being
universal, it is also A ll-seeing and A ll-knowing.
(2:25-26-27-28-29-30) — “T h en A rio ch brought in D aniel be­
fore the king in haste, and said thus unto him , I have
fo u n d a m an o f the captives o f Judah that w ill m ake
know n unto the king the interpretation. The king an­
swered, and said to D aniel, w hose nam e w as Belteshazzar,
A r t thou able to m ake kn o w n unto m e the dream w hich
I have seen, and the interpretation th ereo f? D aniel an­
sw ered in the presence o f the king, and said, T he secret
w hich the king hath dem anded, cannot the w ise m en, the
astrologers, the m agicians, the soothsayers, shew unto the
kin g ; but there is a G od in heaven that revealeth secrets,
and m aketh kn o w n to the king N ebuchadnezzar w hat
shall be in the latter days. T h y dream , and the visions o f
thy head upon th y bed, are these: A s fo r thee, O king,
thy thoughts cam e into thy m in d upon thy bed, w hat
should com e to pass h ere a fte r; and he that revealeth
secrets m aketh kn o w n to thee w hat shall come to pass.
B u t as fo r m e, this secret is not revealed to m e fo r any
w isdom that I have m ore than any living, but fo r their
sakes that shall m ake kn o w n the interpretation to the
king, and that thou m ig h test know the thoughts o f thy
heart”.
T he M aster of M ind Science asserts th at he knows the
thoughts w hich entered the king’s mind. T his wisdom is not
382 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
supernatural fo r he possesses th e same pow ers as all others do-
this T ru th is tau g h t by all tru e M ind Scientists. Each seeming
miracle is b u t natural law operating, w hich is unknow n to the
uninitiated. Each th o u g h t passing th ro u g h the m ind is registered
in the astral light around the body and w hen one sees the im­
pressions in this light th ey can readily understand what has
passed through the m ind of an other person. T his makes secrets
of the m ind im possible and dem onstrates th e universality of
m ind and thought. T h ere is no intelligent pow er beyond mind,
for G od m anifests as D ivine O m nipotent M ind.
(2:31-32-33-34-35)— “Thou, 0 king, sawest, and, behold, a
great image. This great image, whose brightness was ex­
cellent, stood before thee, and the form thereof was ter­
rible. This image’s head was of fine gold, his breast and
his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass. His
legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay. Thou
sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which
smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and
clay, and brake them to pieces. Then was the iron, the
clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to pieces
together, and became like the chaff of the summer
threshingfloors; and the wind carried them away, that no
place was found for them: and the stone that smote the
image became a great mountain, and filled the whole
earth”.
T he vision of the king’s m ind is revealed, the Master of
M ind Science passes th e test, m ind is victorious over matter
and suprem e soul w isdom is attained in know ledge of mind.
T h e king is surprised to know th a t his thoughts received in
secret are know n to the m aster of Cosm ic Science. This is proof
of the wisdom th a t “th a t w hich is hidden shall be revealed
and “the darkness shall becom e light as day” . All secrets shall
be unfolded before th e spiritual sight of th e Scientist who
masters the laws of life.
(2:36-37-38-39-40-41-42-43)— '“This is the dream; and we
will tell the interpretation thereof before the king. Thou,
0 king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath
given thee a kingdom, power and strength, and glory.
And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts
of the field, and the fowls of the heaven, hath he given
into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler over them all.
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 383
Thou art this head o f gold. A n d a fte r thee shall arise
another kin g d o m in fe rio r to thee, and another third king­
dom o f brass, w h ich shall bear rule over all the earth.
A n d the fo u r th kin g d o m shall be strong as iron: fo ra s­
m uch as iro n breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things:
and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces
and bruise. A n d w hereas thou saw est the fe e t and toes
part o f p o tter’s clay and part o f iron, the kingdom shall
be divided; but there shall be in it o f the strength o f the
iron, fo rea sm u ch as th o u saw est the iron m ixed w ith
m iry clay. A n d as the toes o f the fe e t w ere part o f iron
and part o f clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong, and
partly broken. A n d w hereas thou saw est iron m ixed w ith
m iry clay, they shall m ingle them selves w ith the seed o f
m en; but they shall n o t cleave one to another, even as
iron is not m ix e d w ith clay”.
The symbol of th e kingdom s in the dream is also symbolical
of the kingdom of Spirit represented by gold, the m ind by iron
and the flesh by clay. T hese kingdom s m anifest on earth at
different periods of tim e, each bringing forth new forces into
manifestation, w hich produce th e evolution of Life, Love and
Truth. Flesh does n o t mix w ith Spirit or iron w ith clay, one
cannot serve “ G od and m am m on” therefore the flesh m ust be
overcome w ith Spirit.
(2:44-45-46-47-48-49) — “A n d in the days o f these kings shall
the God o f heaven set up a kingdom w hich shall never
be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be le ft to other
people, but it shall break in pieces and consum e all these
kingdom s, and it shall stand fo r ever. F orasm uch as
thou saw est that the stone w as cut out o f the m ountain
w ithout hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the
brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath
m ade kn o w n to the kin g w h a t shall come to pass here­
after: and the dream is certain, and the interpretation
thereof sure. T h en the king, N ebuchadnezzar fe ll upon
his face, and w o rsh ip p ed D aniel, and com m anded that
they should o ffer an oblation and sw eet odours unto him.
The king answ ered unto D aniel, and said, O f a truth it is,
that yo u r G od is a G od o f gods, and a L o rd o f kings,
and a revealer o f secrets, seeing thou couldest reveal this
secret. T hen the king m ade D aniel a great m an, and gave
384 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
him m any great g ifts, and m ade h im a ruler over the
w hole province o f B a b ylo n , and c h ie f o f the governors
over all the w ise m en o f B abylon. T h en D aniel requested
o f the king, and he set Sha d ra ch , M esach, and Abednego,
over the affairs o f the p rovince o f B abylon: but Daniel
sat in the gate o f the kin g ”.
T h e dem onstration of know ledge of th e m ind brings great
rew ard, revealing the w isdom of th e U niversal Infinite Spirit,
the tru e G od of Gods. T h e rew ard of G ood and wisdom is the
greatest w hich can be given or received. T h e mysteries of life
are reflected in th e m irror of m ind w here they can be read
and interpreted by th e students of life. T h e eternal kingdom
is the kingdom of righteousness.
(3 :1-2-3-4-5-6-7) — “N eb u ch a d n ezza r, the king made an image
o f gold, w hose h eight w a s threescore cubits, and the
breadth th e re o f s ix cubits: he set it up in the plain of
D ura, in the province o f B abylon. T h en Nebuchadnezzar
the king sent to gather tog eth er the princes, the governors,
and the captains, the ju d g es, the treasurers, the counsel­
lors, the sh eriffs, and all the ru lers o f the provinces, to
com e to the dedication o f the im age w h ich Nebuchadnez­
zar the king had set up. T h e n the princes, the governors,
and the captains, the ju d g es, the treasurers, the counsel
lors, the sheriffs, and all the ru lers o f the provinces, were
gathered together unto the dedication o f the image that
N eb u chadnezzar the king had set u p ; and they stood be­
fo re the im age that N eb u ch a d n ezza r had set up. Than
an herald cried aloud, T o yo u it is com m anded, 0 people,
nations, and languages, T h a t o f w h a t tim e ye hear the
sou n d o f the cornet, flu te, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dul­
cim er, and all kin d s o f m usic, ye fa ll d o w n and worship
the golden im age th a t N eb u ch a d n ezza r the king hath set
up: A n d w hoso fa lleth no t d o w n and w orshippeth, shall
the sam e h our be cast into the m id st o f a burning fiery
furnace. T h erefo re at that tim e, w hen all the people
heard the sound o f the cornet, ute, harp, sackbut,
psaltery, and all kin d s o f m usic, all the people, the na­
tions and the languages, fe ll d o w n and worshipped the
golden im age that N eb u ch a d n ezza r the king had set up ■
T he idolatry of the king becam e th e idolatry of the people
through the king using physical force to com m and worship of
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 385
an image of gold. T h e fostering of a belief upon an unwilling
populace is the type of sin w hich is th e ruination of kingdoms.
The supposed righteousness of kings and potentates is usually
hypocrisy and ignorance in disguise, each person who would
worship God m ust w orship H im in Spirit and in T ru th w ithin
their own consciousness. O utw ard w orship is a breeder of the
germs of ignorance; inner w orship w ith a knowledge of Divine
Mind is T ru th and Love m anifest, w hich are the principles of
God.
(3:8-9-10-11-12-13-14) — “W h e re fo re at that tim e certain
Chaldeans cam e near, and accused the Jew s. T hey spake
and said to the king N ebuchadnezzar, O king, live fo r
ever. Thou, 0 king, hast m ade a decree, that every m an
that shall hear the sou n d o f the cornet, flute, harp, sack-
but, psaltery and dulcim er, and all kinds o f m usic, shall
fall dow n and w orship the golden im age: A n d w hoso
falleth not dow n and w o rsh ip p eth that he should be cast
into the m id st o f a burning fiery furnace. There are cer­
tain Jew s, w h o m thou hast set over the affairs o f the
province o f B abylon, Shadrach, M esach, and A bednego;
these m en, 0 king, have not regarded thee; they serve
not thy gods, nor w orship the golden im age w hich thou
hast set up. T h en N ebuchadnezzar, in his rage and fu ry ,
com m anded to bring Shadrach, M esach, and Abednego.
Then they brought these m en before the king. N ebuchad-
nezzar spake and said unto them , Is it true, 0 Shadrach,
M eshach, and A b ed n eg o , do not ye serve m y gods, nor
w orship the golden im age w hich I have set up?”
Carnality in the form of th e king dem ands th e worship of
the image of gold. T h is correctly symbolizes the wicked kings
and princes of this earth w ho w ould force th eir views upon
others under the th reat of death if their false image were not
worshipped. T hey dem and n o t only the body and mind of
their subjects, b u t also th eir soul, dem onstrating the evil
tendency of the flesh conscious king w ho would destroy the
prophets and righteous ones because they dem anded their mental
and spiritual independence.
(3:15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22-23-24-25) — “N o w , if ye be ready,
that at w h a t tim e ye hear the sound o f the cornet, flute,
harp, sackbut, psalter, and dulcim er, and all kinds o f
music, ye fa ll do w n and w orship the im age w hich I have
386 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
m ade, w ell: but i f ye w o rsh ip not, ye shall be cast the
sam e ho u r into the m id st o f a burning fiery furnace: and
w ho is that G od th a t shall d eliver yo u out o f m y hands?
Shadrach, M eshach, and A b ed n eg o answ ered and said to
the king, 0 N eb u ch a d n ezza r, w e are not careful to answer
thee in this m atter. I f it be so, our G od, w hom we serve,
is able to d eliver us fr o m the burning fiery furnace; and
he w ill d eliver us out o f thine hand, 0 king. B ut if not,
be it kn o w n unto thee, 0 king, that w e w ill not serve thy
gods, nor w orship the golden im age w hich thou hast set
up. T h en w as N eb u ch a d n ezza r fu ll o f fu r y , and the form
o f his visage w a s changed against Shadrach, Meshach
and A b ed n eg o ; th erefo re, he spake, and commanded that
they should heat the fu rn a ce one seven tim es more than it
w as w o n t to be heated. A n d he com m anded the most
m ig h ty m en that w ere in h is a rm y to bind Shadrach,
M eshach, and A b e d n e g o ; and to cast them into the burn­
ing fiery fu rnace. T h en these m en w ere bound in their
coats, th eir hosen, and th eir hats, and their other gar­
m ents, and w ere cast into the m id st o f the burning fiery
furnace. T h erefo re because the kin g ’s commandment
w as urgent, and the fu rn a ce exceeding hot, the flame of
the fire slew those m en that took up Shadrach, Meshach,
and A bednego. A n d these three m en, Shadrach, Meshach,
and A bednego, fe ll d o w n bound into the m idst of the
burning fiery furnace. T h en N ebuchadnezzar the king
w as astonied, and rose up in haste, and spake, and said
unto his counsellors, D id n o t w e cast three men bound
into the m id st o f the fire? T h e y answ ered and said unto
the king, T rue, 0 K ing. H e answ ered and said, Lo, I see
fo u r m en loose, w a lkin g in the m id st o f the fire, and they
have no h u r t; and the fo r m o f the fo u r th is like the Son
o f G od”.
Infinite Spirit comes to rescue the righteous, the fires of
destruction become powerless and the king of carnal desires is
astonished to see that flesh cannot destroy Spirit or the ones
who are one with the Infinite. The Spirit of life manifests in the
form of a person to the king’s senses and delivers the sincere
prophets from danger, for mind and Spirit rule all matter. The
elements which produce fire, alchemy, or chemicallization of
elements, is a part of the Science of Life and Being, it is here
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 387
demonstrated to be stronger th an the physical pow er of a heated
furnace. Fearlessness on the p art of the three w ho challenged
the doctrine of idolatry elevated th eir consciousness to a positive
mental state w here m ind m ade the fire powerless. Every M ind
Scientist who abides in T ru th can dem onstrate over the physical
powers of destruction, providing they are fearless of the threats
and suggestions of m atter.
(3:26-27-28-29-30) — “T h en N eb u ch a d n ezza r came near to
the m outh o f the burning fiery fu rnace, and spake, and
said, Shadrach, M eshach, and A bednego, ye servants o f
the m ost high G od, com e fo r th , and com e hither. Then
Shadrach, M eshach, and A bednego came fo rth o f the
m idst o f the fire. A n d the princes, governors, and cap­
tains, and the king’s counsellors, being gathered together,
saw these m en, upon w hose bodies the fire had no pow er,
nor w as an hair o f their head singed, neither w ere their
coats changed, n o r the sm ell o f fire had passed on them.
Then N eb u ch a d n ezza r spake, and said, B lessed be the
God o f Shadrach, M eshach, and A bednego, w ho hath
sent his angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in-
him, and have changed the king’s w ord, and yielded their
bodies, that they m ig h t not serve nor w orship any god
except their ow n God. T h erefo re I m ake a decree, T hat
every people, nation, and language, w hich speak any
thing am iss against the G od o f Shadrach, M eshach, and
Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall
be m ade a du n g h ill; because there is no other god that
can deliver a fte r this sort. T hen the king prom oted
Shadrach, M eshach and A bednego, in the province o f
B abylon”.
The trials of life are m et and victory won, by those whose
God is a living G od of pow er. T h e enem y of Light, Love and
Truth bows to the unseen pow er dem onstrate^ by the righteous.
The reward of the righteous is to become greater rulers or mas-
ters of a larger and grander dom ain for their G od trium phs in
the test of the fiery furnace of life. Flesh learns to acknowledge
the power of Spirit w hich dem onstrates over beliefs, theories and
idols be they physical or m ental, for facts w hich are true are
demonstrated in the Science of M ind and Life, while false doc­
trines become powerless in the presence of Divinity. D ivine M ind
meets every test and comes forth victorious and w ith proof
388 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
of its D ivine pow er, “ O h death w here is th y sting?’’, “O grave
w here is th y victory” for life is eternal and G od is Love.
(4 :l-2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 )— ‘‘N eb u ch a d n ezza r the king, unto all people,
nations, and languages, that d w ell in all the earth; Peace
be m ultiplied unto you. I th o u g h t it good to shew the
signs and w o n d ers that the hig h G od hath wrought
tow ard me. H o w great are his sig n s! and how mighty
are his w o n d ers! his kin g d o m is an evarlasting kingdom,
and his dom inion is fr o m generation to generation. I
N eb u ch a d n ezza r w as at rest in m ine house, and flourish­
ing in m y palace: / saw a dream w h ich m ade me afraid,
and the thoughts upon m y bed and the visions o f m y head
troubled me. T h erefo re m ade I a decree to bring in all
the w ise m en o f B dbylon befo re m e, that they m ight make
kn o w n unto m e the in terp reta tio n o f the dream. Then
cam e in the m agicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and
the soothsayers: and / told the dream before them; but
th ey did not m ake kn o w n unto m e the interpretation
th ereo f”.
T h e carnal senses are perplexed at the wonders of the
m ental plane, and fearing evil is im pending, the wise are con'
stilted to solve the m ystery. T h e m ystery being mental, a knowl­
edge of symbolism and dream s or astral projection is required
to solve it. O nly a true M ind Scientist can solve such mysteries.
T h e sooth sayers and fortune tellers are mystified since their
dem onstrations have no D ivine significance, so the king finds
th a t one w ith spiritual sight is required to give him his interpre­
tation. T h e higher spiritual pow ers are often regarded as but
soothsaying by those w hose m ind is untrained in the wisdom
of Life, L ight and Love. T h e difference betw een the two types
of mysteries is th a t th e spiritual is reality w hile soothsaying is
haphazard and m ost tim es false. Super M ind Science teaches
the spiritual mysteries of Light, Life and Being and is opposed
to all form s of mysticism w hich lack spirituality since they are
m isleading to the m ortal m ind and give a sense of satisfaction to
carnal m inded and deluded mortals.
( 4 :8-9-10-l 1-12-13-14-15-16-17)— ‘‘B u t at the last Daniel
c a m e i n b e f o r e m e , w h o s e n a m e w a s B e l t e s h a z z a r , a c ­
c o r d i n g t o t h e n a m e o f m y g o d , a n d i n w h o m i s t h e s p i r i t
o f t h e h o l y g o d s ; a n d b e f o r e h i m I t o l d t h e d r e a m , s a y ­
i n g , 0 B e l t e s h a z z a r , m a s t e r o f t h e m a g i c i a n s , b e c a u s e I
THE BOOK OF DANIEL 389
know that the sp irit o f the h o ly gods is in thee, and no
secret troubleth thee, tell m e the visions o f m y dream that
I have seen, and the interpretation thereof. T h u s w ere
the visions o f m ine head in m y bed: I saw , and, behold,
a tree in the m id st o f the earth, and the height thereof
was great. T he tree grew , and w as strong, and the height
thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the
end o f all the earth. T h e leaves th ereo f w ere fa ir, and
th fr u it th ereo f m uch, and in it w as m eat fo r all; the
beasts o f the field had shadow under it, and the fo w ls o f
the heaven d w elt in the boughs th ereo f, and all flesh w as
fed o f it. I sa w in the visio n s o f m y head upon m y bed,
and, behold, a w atcher and an holy one cam e dow n fro m
heaven. H e cried aloud, and said thus, H e w dow n the
tree, and cut o ff his branches, shake o ff his leaves, and
scatter his fr u it: let the beasts get aw ay fro m under it,
and the fo w ls fr o m his branches. N evertheless, leave the
stum p o f his roots in the earth, even w ith a band o f iron
and brass, in the tender grass o f the field; and let it be
w et w ith the dew o f heaven, and let his portion be w ith
the beasts in the grass o f the earth: L e t his heart be
changed fr o m m an’s, and let a beast’s heart be given unto
h im ; and let seven tim es pass over him . T his m atter is by
the decree o f the w atchers, and the dem and by the w ord
o f the h oly ones; to the in ten t that the living m ay know
that the M o st H ig h ru leth in the kingdom o f m en, and
giveth it to w h o m so ever he w ill, and setteth up over it
the beasts o f m en ”.
The vision of the Spirit unfolds to mortal mind the fruit
of righteousness from the tree of virtue. Infinite Spirit
nourishes all form of life, from the beings in heaven or in­
visibility to the basest of mortals. Divine messengers are sent
to teach the Truth even while men commit the lowest of sins.
When Infinite Spirit which is All Truth is divided and sub­
divided within itself, the root of Love and Truth still remains
as the stump of the Tree of Life. Visions of the Spirit which
come to the consciousness when the flesh senses are asleep are
called by the uninitiated a dream, but by those of an illumined
understanding they are called spiritual revelations on the astral
plane of consciousness. As the soul consciousness awakens, the
spiritual faculties respond to Divine Wisdom, Love, Truth and
390 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
L ight beyond m ortal concept.
(4:18-19-20-21-22-23)— “T h is dream / king Nebuchadnezzar
have seen. N o w thou, 0 B eltesh a zza r, declare the inter­
pretation th ereo f, fo ra sm u ch as all the w ise m en of my
kingdom are no t able to m ake kn o w n unto m e the inter­
pretation: but thou art able; fo r the spirit o f the holy
gods is in thee. T h en D aniel, w hose nam e was Belte­
shazzar, w as astonied fo r one hour, and his thoughts
troubled him . T h e king spake and said, Belteshazzar, let
no t the dream , or the in terp reta tio n th ereof, trouble thee.
B elteshazzar answ ered and said, M y lord, the dream be
to them that hate thee, and in terp reta tio n thereof to thine
enem ies. T he tree that th o u saw est, w hich grew, and
w as srong, w hose height reached the heaven, and the
sight th ero f to all the earth; W h o se leaves w ere fair, and
the fr u it th ereo f m uch, and in it w a s m eat fo r all; under
w hich the beasts o f the field dw elt, and upon whose
branches the fo w ls o f the heaven had their habitation: It
is thou, 0 king, that art g ro w n and becom e strong; for
thy greatness is grow n, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy
dom inion to the end o f the earth. A n d w hereas the king
saw a w atcher and an holy one com ing do w n fro m heaven,
and saying, H e w the tree d ow n, and destroy it; yet leave
the stu m p o f the roots th e re o f in the earth, even with a
band o f iron and brass, in the ten d er grass o f the field;
and let it be w et w ith the d e w o f heaven, and let his
portion be w ith the beasts o f the field, till seven times
pass over h im ".
T h e D ivine M etaphysician is again called by the king to in­
terp ret the vision of the Spirit. H e has failed to find anyone
other than the spiritual m inded p ro p h et w ho can unveil the
m ystery of the vision. M ind, Life and Spirit are understood by
those devoted to the M ost H ig h G od, w hile they seem a mystery
to those w ho are unskilled in the dem onstrations of mind over
m atter and Spirit over flesh, w hich reveals G od as All-knowing,
All-seeing, U niversal, O m nipotent M ind.
(4:24-25-26—27-28)— “T h is is the interpretation, 0 king, and
this is the decree o f the M o st H ig h , w h ich is come upon
m y lord the king: T h a t they shall drive thee from men,
and thy dw elling shall be w ith the beasts o f the field, and
they shall m ake thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 391
w et thee w ith the d ew o f heaven, and seven tim es shall
pass over thee, till thou k n o w that the M o st H igh ruleth
in the kingdom o f m en, and giveth it to w hom soever H e
will. A n d zvhereas th ey com m anded to leave the stum p
o f the tree ro o ts; th y kin g d o m shall be sure unto thee,
after that th o u shalt have kn o w n that the heavens do
rule. W h erefo re, O king, let m y counsel be acceptable
unto thee, and break o ff th y sins by righteousness, and
thine iniquities by sh ew in g m ercy to the poor; if it may
be a lengthening o f th y tranquillity. A ll this came upon
the king N eb u ch a d n ezza r”.
Prophecy received from spiritual revelation always comes
true, dem onstrating Infinite W isdom . T h e king w ho is a
materialist is surprised to find his ow n m entality predicting his
doom, such is always true, the flesh fears the doom w hich awaits
it. By pow er of Spirit great kingdom s are made desolate and
kings are dethroned because of th eir sins and transgressing of
Divine law, for th ere is no pow er likened unto D ivine Spirit.
(4:29-30-31—32-33-34-35-36-37)— '‘A t the end o f tw elve
m onths he w a lked in the palace o f the kingdom o f B ab­
ylon. The king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon,
that I have built fo r the house o f the kingdom , by the
m ight o f m y pow er, and fo r the honour o f m y m a jesty?
W hile the w o rd w as in the king’s m outh, there fe ll a
voice fro m heaven, saying, 0 king N ebuchadnezzar, to
thee it is sp o ken ; the kingdom is departed fro m thee:
A n d they shall drive thee fr o m m en, and thy dw elling
shall be w ith the beasts o f the field: they shall m ake thee
to eat grass as oxen, and seven tim es shall pass over
thee, until thou kn o w that the M o st H igh ruleth in the
kingdom o f m en, and giveth it to w hom soever he will.
The sam e h our w as the thing fu lfilled upon N ebuchad-
nezzar; and he w as driven fr o m m en, and did eat grass
as oxen, and his body w as w et w ith the d ew o f heaven,
till his hairs w ere g ro w n like eagle’s feathers, and his
nails like bird’s claws. A n d at the end o f the days I
N ebuchadnezzar lifte d up m ine eyes unto heaven, and
mine understanding retu rn ed unto m e; and I blessed the
M ost H ig h ; and I praised and honoured H im that liveth
fo r ever, w hose dom inion is an everlasting dom inion,
and H is kingdom is fr o m generation to generation. A n d
392 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
all the inhabitants o f the earth are reputed as nothing;
and H e doeth according to H is w ill in the army of
heaven, and am ong the in h abitants o f the earth; and none
can stay his hand, or say unto him , W h a t doest thou?
A t the sam e tim e m y reason retu rn ed unto m e; and for
the glory o f m y kingdom , m ine h o nour and brightness re­
turned unto m e; and m y counsellors and m y lords sought
unto m e; and I w as established in m y kingdom , and ex­
cellent m a jesty w as added unto m e. N o w I Nebuchad­
nezzar praise and exto l and h o n o u r the K in g o f heaven,
all w hose w o rks are tru th , and his w a ys judgm ent; and
those that w alk in pride H e is able to abase”.
The Law of Compensation works against the selfish ideas of
the flesh, bringing the hardships of life upon doers of evil.
Lessons are learned in sorrow and they bring illumination, pro­
viding one heeds the lesson and learns that victory comes from
righteousness. W e should be as thankful for lessons learned in
sorrow as for lessons learned in gladness. False pride and
arrogance produce sins of carnality while meekness is heavenly
harmony. The king or flesh acknowledges the power of Infinite
Spirit after his sorrow. The lesson learned in sorrow is the
means of Spirit humbling the flesh. Divine T ruth is realized
by the flesh conscious person who has challenged the forces of
goodness and has received a demonstration of the Omnipotent
power of Spirit, Life, T ruth and Love.
(5 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)— “Belshazzar the king made a great feast
to a thousand o f his lords, and drank w ine before the
thousand. B elshazzar, w h iles he ta sted the wine, com­
m anded to bring the golden and silver vessels which his
fa th e r N ebuchadnezzar had taken out o f the temple
w hich w as in Jerusalem ; that the king and h is princes, his
w ives, and his concubines, m ig h t d rin k therein. Then
they brought the golden vessels that w ere taken out of
the tem ple o f the house o f G od, w h ich w as at Jerusalem;
and the king, and h is princes, his w ives, and his concu­
bines, drank in them . T h e y drank w ine, and praised the
gods o f gold, and o f silver, o f brass, o f iron, o f wood,
and o f stone. In the sam e h o u r cam e fo r th fingers of a
m an’s hand, and w ro te over against the candlestick upon
the plaister o f the w all o f the king’s palace; and the king
saw the part o f the hand that w rote. T h en the king s
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 393
countenance w as changed, and h is thoughts troubled him ,
so that the jo in ts o f his loins w ere loosed, and his knees
smote one against another. T h e king cried aloud to bring
in the astrologers, the C haldeans, and the soothsayers.
A nd the king spake, and said to the w ise m en o f Babylon,
w hosoever shall read this w ritin g , and sh ew m e the in­
terpretation th ereo f, shall be clothed w ith scarlet, and
have a chain o f gold about his neck, and shall be the third
ruler in the kingdom . T h en cam e in all the king’s wise
m en; but they could not read the. w riting, nor make,
know n to the king the interpretation thereof”.
In the m idst of sin and evil doing, “the handw riting on the
wall” appears, predicting the dow nfall of the sinner, for those
who profane things H oly bring th e pow ers of Spirit against
them. T he certainty of punishm ent is revealed to the conscious
mind. Fearfully, W ise M en are sought to foretell the coming
evil which is foreshadow ed in D ivine revelation, bu those whose
arts are materialistic cannot fathom the mystery, only those
whose spiritual vision is opened and w hose m ind is illumined
with Divine M ind pow er can interpret the m ystery of seeming
miracles. T he phenom ena of Spirit is but a chemicalization of
elements, or another m anifestation of the forces of mind and
life. These phenom enal dem onstrations are disputed and mis­
understood by all except th e M ind Scientist w ho has attained
to self control and m ental concentration. A biding in the T ru th
of All-knowing, All-seeing M ind, he interprets the mysteries
of Life and Being.
(5:9-10-11-12)— “T h en w as king B elshazzar greatly troubled,
and his countenance w as changed in him , and his lords
were astonied. N o w the queen, by reason o f the w ords
o f the king and his lords, cam e into the banquet house;
and the queen spake and said, 0 king, live fo r ever; let
not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy countenance
be changed: T here is a m an in thy kingdom , in w hom is
great the spirit o f the holy gods: and, in the days o f thy
father, light, and understanding, and w isdom , like the
w sidom o f the gods, w a s fo u n d in h im ; w hom the king
N ebucliadnezzar th y fa th e r, the king, I say, thy father,
made m aster o f the m agicians, astrologers, Chaldeans,
and soothsayers; F orasm uch as an excellent spirit, and
knowledge, and understa n d in g , interpreting o f dream s,
394 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and sh ew in g o f hard sentences, and dissolving o f doubts
w ere fo u n d in the sam e D aniel, w h o m the king named
B eltesh a zza r: n o w let D aniel be called, and he will shew
the in terp reta tio n ”.
Daniel, th e M etaphysician w ith spiritual wisdom, comes
recom m ended by the queen w ho knew of his abiilty in interpret­
ing dream s and symbols, to serve the son of Nebuchadnezzar.
T h e queen know ing of his spiritual understanding predicts his
success, fo r he had proven by dem onstration th a t he was Master
of the Science of Life and M ind. H e had read the thoughts of
the king’s father, and had foretold th e results of the king’s
wickedness. T h e true M etaphysician being superconscious, for-
sees th e result of th e Law of C om pensation in the mental
shadows of events w hich are to come. T ru th , Love and Light
revealeth all things, D ivine union of m ortal m ind and Infinite
Spirit is the keynote in th e m astery of Life and M ind.
(5:13-14-15-16-17) — ‘‘T h en w a s D aniel brought in before the
king. A n d the king spake and said unto D aniel, A rt thou
that D aniel, w h ich are o f the children o f the captivity of
Judah, w h o m the kin g m y fa th e r brought out o f Jewryf
1 have even heard o f thee, th a t the sp irit o f the gods is
in thee, and that light, and understanding, and excellent
w isdom , is fo u n d in thee. A n d n o w the w ise men, the
astrologers, have been brought in before m e, that they
should read this w ritin g , and m ake kn o w n unto me the
interpretation th ereo f: bu t th ey could not shew the in­
terpretation o f the th in g : A n d I h ave heard o f thee, that
thou canst m ake in terpretations, and dissolve doubts;
now , i f thou canst read the w ritin g , and m ake known to
m e the in terp reta tio n th ereo f, th o u shalt be clothed with
scarlet, and have a chain o f gold about thy neck, and
shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom . Then Daniel
answ ered and said befo re the king, L e t thy g ifts be to
th yself, and give th y rew ards to a n o th er; yet I will read
the w ritin g unto the king, and m ake kn o w n to him the
interpretation”.
T h e prophet w ho understands life never works for a
m aterial rew ard, w isdom in itself is his rew ard. T he material
gifts of the king are rejected yet th e M ind Scientist performs
the service for the king. Unselfish service is the evidence of
spiritual attainm ent. W h e n m ateriality w ith its illusion of good
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 395
is rejected, the spiritual m anifests, for m an cannot worship two
Gods, one of m ateriality and one of Spirit. H e m ust choose
between m ateriality and death, or spirituality and life, for the
ancient command is “ Seek ye first th e kingdom of G od and all
these things shall be added unto you”. G ood and G od add wis­
dom, bliss, peace, pow er and glory unto the servant of the M ost
High.
(5:18-19-20-21-22-23) — “0 thou king, the m ost high God gave
N ebuchadnezzar th y fa th e r a kingdom , and m ajesty, and
glory, and h onour: A n d , fo r the m a jesty that H e gave
him, all people, nations, and languages, trem bled and
feared before h im : w h o m he w ould he slew , and w hom
he w ould he kep t alive, and w h o m he w ould he set up,
and w hom he w o u ld he pu t dow n. B u t w hen his heart
was lifted up, and his m in d hardened in pride, he w as
deposed fr o m h is kin g ly throne, and they took his glory
fro m him : A n d he w as d riven fro m the sons o f m en;
and his heart w a s m ade like the beasts, and his dw elling
was w ith the w ild asses: they fe d him w ith grass like
oxen, and his body w as w et w ith the d ew o f heaven; till
he kn ew that the m o st high G od ruled in the kingdom o f
men, and that H e appointeth over it w hom soever H e will.
A n d thou his son, 0 B elshazzar, hast not hum bled thine
heart, though thou kn ew est all this; B u t hast lifte d up
thyself against the L o rd o f heaven; and they have
brought the vessels o f his house before thee, and thou,
and thy lords, th y w ives, and thy concubines, have
drunk w ine in th e m ; and thou hast praised the gods o f
silver, and gold, o f brass, iron, w ood, and stone, w hich
see not, nor hear, no r k n o w ; and the God in w hose hand
thy breath is, and w hose are all thy w ays, hast thou not
glorified”.
Those w ho fail to learn th at Spirit is A ll-pow erful and go
on sinning, bring the pow ers of M ind, Love and Life against
them and destruction is the inevitable result. Since m ind rules
matter, the sentence of death is already upon the wicked w ho
refuses to reform his evil conduct, while T ru th and Light m ani­
fest to those w ho do good, producing heavenly harm ony and
All-knowing, All-seeing G ood w hich is God.
(5 -.24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31) — “T hen w as the part o f the
hand sent fr o m h im ; and this w riting w as w ritten. A n d
396 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
this is the w ritin g that w as w ritten , M ene, M ene, Tekel,
U pharsin. T h is is the interp reta tio n o f the thing: Mene;
G od hath n u m bered th y kin g d o m , and finished it. Tekel;
T h o u art w eighed in the balances, and art found want­
ing. P eres; thy kin g d o m is d ivided, and given to the
M ed es and P ersians. T h en com m anded Belshazzar and
they clothed D aniel w ith scarlet, and p u t a chain of gold
about his neck, and m ade a proclam ation concerning him,
that he should be the th ird ru ler in the kingdom . In that
night w a s B elsh a zza r the kin g o f the Chaldeans slain.
A n d D arius the M ed ia n took the kingdom , being about
threescore and tw o years old”.
T h e D ivine inspiration to in terp ret symbols and fathom
mysteries is b u t th e functioning of th e sixth sense or intuition.
O nly those w hose lives are well ordered and w ho attain self
control are able to dem onstrate this pow er. Daniel observed
the laws of N ature, lived on a light vegetable diet and was
learned in the unknow n Sciences of his day. His knowledge
was not academic, b u t was spiritual revelation developed through
m ental com m union w ith th e Infinite. H is know ledge was of the
laws of Life, M ind and Being, and th e accuracy of his prophecies
dem onstrated th e T ru th of his Science. Super M ind Science
proves the same facts by actual dem onstration, showing the value
of wisdom and the pow er of Spirit. T h e M aster of this Science
can predict com ing events, in terp ret m ysteries and heal the sick,
for G od is in m ind and w hen m ind concentrates, God operates.
(6 :1 -2 -3 ) — “I t pleased D a riu s to set over the kingdom an
hundred and tw en ty princes, w h ich should be over the
w hole kin g d o m ; A n d over these three presidents, o f whom
D aniel w a s first; that the princes m ight give accounts
unto them , and the kin g should have no damage. Then
this D aniel w as p referred above the presidents and
princes, because an excellent sp irit w as in him ; and the
king thought to set him over the w hole realm ”.
T h e developed M etaphysician w ho has attained to Divine
enlightenm ent radiates m ental poise and goodness of Spirit. This
is his greatest asset and it produces success. H is powers of mind
are adm ired by great personages, b u t they arouse jealousies
among the carnal m inded w ho seek some m eans of discrediting
him in order to reap his rew ard and obtain his position. Divine
Justice, Love and T ru th is again them and the M aster of Mind
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 397
Science, through pow er of Spirit overcom es such petty sins of
others.
(6:4-5-6-7-8-9) — “T h en the p residents and princes sought to
find occasion against D aniel concerning the kingdom ; hut
they could find none occasion nor fa u lt; forasm uch as he
was fa ith fu l, neith er w as there any error or fa u lt fo u n d
in him. T h en said these m en, W e shall not find any oc­
casion against this D aniel, excep t w e find it against him
concerning the law o f his God. T hen these presidents
and princes assem bled together to the king, and said thus
unto him , K in g D arius, live fo r ever. A ll the presidents
o f the kingdom , the governors, and the princes, the coun­
sellors, and the captains, have consulted together to es­
tablish a royal sta tu te, and to m ake a firm decree, that
w hosoever shall ask a petition o f any god or m an fo r
thirty days, save o f thee, O king, he shall be cast into
the den o f lions. N o w , 0 king, establish the decree, and
sign the w ritin g , that it be no t changed, according to the
law o f the M ed es and P ersians, w hich altereth not.
W herefore king D arius signed the w riting and the
decree”.
U nreasonable laws and decrees signed by materialistic kings
and hierarchies are w eapons in the hands of persecutors of right'
eousness. Political conspiracies serve as a means to destroy
those who do good, for the nature of evil is destruction. Good
is a power, and evil is negation, therefore such plans bring de'
struction to the perpetrators of the evil deed. All seeming
triumph of evil over good is b u t a tem porary illusion, for the
power of good preserves the righteous while evil destroys the
sinner. Sinister plots against D ivine M essengers of T ru th are
the curse of every age, how ever, they result in the destruction
of the plotters, for G od shall not be mocked or His plans altered.
(6:10-11-12-13)— “N o w w h en D aniel kn ew that the w riting
was signed, he w en t into his house; and his w indow s
being open in his cham ber tow ard Jerusalem , he kneeled
upon his knees three tim es a day, and prayed, and gave
thanks before his G od, as he did aforetim e. T hen these
men assem bled, and fo u n d D aniel praying and m aking
supplication before his God. Then they came near, and
spake before the king concerning the king’s decree; H ast
thou not signed a decree, that every m an that shall ask
398 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
a petitio n o f any god or m an w ith in th irty days, save of
thee, O king, shall be cast into the den o f lions? The
king answ ered and said, T h e thing is true, according to
the law o f the M ed es and P ersia n s w hich altereth not.
T h en answ ered they, and said b efo re the king, That
D aniel w hich is o f the children o f the captivity o f Judah,
regardeth no t thee, 0 king, no r the decree that thou hast
signed, but m aketh his p etitio n three tim es a day”.
T h e plans to destroy th e p ro p h et w ere well laid by the
enem ies of the D ivine M essenger. T h ey took advantage of the
custom of the M edes and Persians and forced the king through
his obedience to tradition to obey them th a t they might carry
out the plan to slay the M essenger of T ru th . T his duplicity is
a prototype in principle of the m odern schemes against those
w ith D ivine messages fo r hum anity. T h ey are “wolves in
sheep’s clothing” b u t th eir sins shall destroy them , for “the
wages of sin is death” T h e gift of G od is eternal life to the
■doer of righteousness.
(6:14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22) — ‘‘T h en the king when he
he heard these w ords, w as sore displeased w ith himself,
and set his heart on D aniel to d eliver h im ; and he
laboured till the going d o w n o f the su n to deliver him.
T h en these m en assem bled unto the king, and said unto the
king, K n o w , 0 king, that the law o f the M edes and Per- '
sians is, T h a t no decree nor sta tu te w h ich the king estab-
lisheth m ay be changed. T h en the king com m anded, and
they brought D aniel, and cast h im into the den o f lions.
N o w the king spake and said unto D aniel, T h y God,
w h o m thou servest continually, he w ill deliver thee. And
a stone w as brought, and laid upon the m o u th o f the den;
and the king sealed it w ith his o w n signet, and w ith the
signet o f his lords, th a t the purpose m ight not be
changed concerning D aniel. T h en the king w en t to his
palace, and passed the. night fa stin g : neith er w ere instru­
m en ts o f m usic brought befo re h im ; and his sleep went
fro m him . T h en the king arose v ery early in the morning,
and w en t in haste unto the den o f lions. A n d when he
came to the den, he cried w ith a lam entable voice unto
D aniel; and the king spake and said to D aniel, 0 Daniel,
servant o f the living God, is th y G od, w h o m thou servest
continually, able to deliver thee fr o m the lions? Then
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 399
said D aniel unto the king, 0 king, live forever. M y God
hath sent his angel, and hath sh u t the lion’s m ouths, that
they have not h u rt m e; fo ra sm u ch as before him inno-
cency w as fo u n d in m e; and also before thee, 0 king,
have I done no h u rt”.
Here the pow er of good m eets th e challenge and delivers
the Messenger of T ru th from death. T h e Divine Infinite Spirit
sends angelic pow er to assist those w ho do good and refuses
to take part in slaying one w ho serves G od and Good, thus
demonstrating D ivine Love.
(6:23-24-25-26-27-28)— “T h en w as the king exceeding glad
fo r him , and com m anded that they should take D aniel up
out o f the den. S o D aniel w as taken up out o f the den,
and no m anner o f h u rt w as fo u n d upon him , because he
believed in his God. A n d th e 'k in g com m anded, and they
brought those m en w h ich had accused D aniel, and they
cast them into the den o f lions, them , their children, and
their w ives; and the lions had the m astery o f them , and
brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the
bottom o f the den. T h en king D arius w rote unto all
people, nations and languages, that dw ell in all the earth:
Peace be m ultiplied unto you. I m ake a decree, That in
every dom inion o f m y kingdom m en trem ble and fea r
before the G od o f D aniel; fo r he is the living God, and
steadfast fo r ever, and his kingdom that w hich shall not
be destroyed, and his dom inion shall be even unto the
end. H e deliveretli and rescuetli, and he w orketh
signs and w o n d ers in heaven and in earth, w ho hath de­
livered D aniel fr o m the p ow er o f the lions. So this
Daniel prospered in the reign o f D arius, and in the reign
o f C yrus the P ersian”.
The evil doers are cast into th eir ow n trap and are devoured
by the lions, th ere being no pow er to stay the lions. T his is a
prototype in principle of the rew ard of sin in every age, w hich
is death and destruction, w hile th e righteous are successful and
attain to positions of honor. “T h e w ay of the transgressor is
hard" regardless of any earthly pow er th at may condone his
sins. Spirit is m aster of m atter and G od is Good, therefore, the
demonstration of the pow er of evil deeds to destroy the doer is
as powerful as th e dem onstration of good to preserve the
400 ETERN A L W ISD O M A N D HEA LTH
righteous. Let all M ind Scientists abide in T ruth and avoid self
destruction and death.
(7 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8)— “I n the first yea r o f B elshazzar king of
B abylon, D aniel had a dream , and visions o f his head
upon his bed: then he w ro te the dream , and told the
su m o f the m atters. D aniel spake and said, I saw in my
vision by night, and, behold, the fo u r w inds of the
heaven stro ve upon the great sea. A n d fo u r great beasts
cam e up fr o m the sea, d iverse one fr o m another. The
first w as like a lion, and had eagle’s w in g s: I beheld till
the w in g s th ereo f w ere plucked, and it w as lifted up from
the earth, and m ade sta n d upon the fe e t as a man, and a
m an’s heart w as g iven to it. A n d , behold, another beast,
a second, like to a bear, and it raised up itse lf on one side,
and it had three ribs in the m o u th o f it between the
teeth o f it: and they said th u s un to it, A rise, devour much
flesh. A fte r this I beheld, and, lo, another, like a leopard,
w hich had upon the back o f it fo u r w in g s o f a fow l; the
beast had also fo u r heads; and do m in io n w as given to it.
A fte r this I saw in the n ig h t visions, and, behold, a
fo u r th beast, d rea d fu l and terrible, and strong exceed­
in g ly; and it had great iron teeth ; it devoured and brake
in pieces, and stam ped the residue w ith the feet o f it;
and it w as diverse fr o m all the beasts that w ere before
it; and it had ten horns. I considered the horns, and,
behold, there cam e up am ong them another little horn,
before w h o m there w ere three o f the first horns plucked
up by the ro o ts; and, behold, in this horn w ere eyes like
the eyes o f m an, and a m o u th speaking great things”.
The four elements of mind, body and souls are, earth, air,
fire and water, symbolized by the four great beasts which came
up from the sea or infinity. These elements manifest all of the
varied forms of temporal beings. T heir destructive qualities exist
ignorant of Spirit, and exist where physical force is used to settle
disputes, and in governments which govern w ithout considera­
tion of the absolute power of Infinite Spirit. The little horn
rising amidst the ten horns is symbolical of materialistic systems
of religion which represent the political interests of those who
rule over them, rising to heights of materialistic power. Speaking
great things is symbolical of giving noble and lofty titles to
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 401
those w ho possess no spiritual wisdom or culture, b u t are in ­
terested only from a personal gain standpoint. Such materialism
is the curse of this earth and will surely bring loss of im m ortality
to those hypocrites w ho low er D ivinity to the level of hypocrisy.
God is never deceived or D ivinity mocked, m ortality shall be •
judge and every sin com pensated according to Love, Justice,
Truth and Light.
(7:9T0-11-12)—
—
'“I beheld till the thrones w ere cast dow n and
the A n cien t o f days did sit, w hose garm ent w as w hite as
snow , and the hair o f h is head like the pure w ool; his
throne w as like the fiery flam e, and his w heels as burning
fire. A fiery stream issued and cam e fo rth fro m before
him ; thousand thousands m inistered unto him , and ten
thousand tim es ten thousand stood before h im : the ju d g ­
m ent w as set, and the books w ere opened. 1 beheld then,
because o f the voice o f the great w ords w hich the horn
spake; I beheld, even till the beast w as slain, and his
body destroyed, and g iven to the burning flam e. A s con­
cerning the rest o f the beasts, they had their dom inion
taken aw ay; yet their lives w ere prolonged fo r a season
and tim e”.
T he beast or he w ho w ould be w orshipped instead of God
is an example of all w ho seek sacred titles th at they may be
respected by all nations, regardless of w hether they m erit the
title or if in th eir preachings they preach the T ruth. Divine
Mind will destroy all these kingdom s of darkness and “the
greatest on earth shall be th e least in the Divine kingdom ”. Evil
may seemingly be successful and exist for a time because of
Divine M ercy and Love, b u t sooner or later it will be put down
by those w hom it educates in sin, hypocrisy and conceit. Sin is
death, goodness is life.
( 7 :13-14 -15-16-17-18)— “I saw in the night visions, and be­
hold, one like the S o n o f m an came w ith the clouds o f
heaven, and cam e to the A n cien t o f days, and they
brought him near before him . A n d there w as given him
dom inion, and glory, and a kingdom , and all people, na­
tions and languages, should serve him : his dom inion is
an everlasting dom inion, w hich shall not pass aw ay, and
his kingdom that w hich shall not be destroyed. I D aniel
w as grieved in m y sp irit in the m idst o f m y body, and
the visions o f m y head troubled me. I came near unto
402 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
one o f them that stood by, and asked him the truth of all
this. S o he told m e, and m ade m e kn o w the interpreta­
tion o f the things. T hese great beasts, w hich are four,
are fo u r kings, w h ich shall arise out o f the earth. But
the saints o f the M o st H ig h shall take the kingdom , and
possess the kin g d o m fo r ever, even fo r ever and ever'’.
R ighteousness trium phs over sin and hypocrisy, the Son
of M an or T ru th comes in th e m idst of th e clouds of misunder­
standing revealing T h e W ay , T h e T ru th and T h e Life. The
kingdom of the beast or superficial religion having been de­
stroyed, T ru th m anifests and m an learns th ro u g h sorrow that
G od is w ithin and H is kingdom is G ood, Love and Light. No
man should cast a m ental shadow betw een hum anity and God,
if he does, destruction is inevitable fo r sin destroys the sinner,
while goodness preserves th e righteous. T h e balance of power
comes from the record w ritten in “th e lam b's book of life”. Let
m an be prepared to face his ow n m ental 'record, knowing God
is Justice, Love, L ight and T ru th .
( 7 :19-20-21-22) — “T h en I w o u ld k n o w the truth o f the
fo u r th beast, w hich w as d iverse fr o m all the others, ex­
ceeding drea d fu l, w hose teeth w ere o f iron, and his m ils
o f brass; w hich devoured, brake in pieces, and stamped
the residue w ith his fe e t; and o f the ten horns that were
in his head, and o f the other w h ich cam e up, and before
w h o m three fe ll; even o f that horn that had eyes, and a
m outh that spake very great things, w hose look was more
sto u t than his fello w s. I beheld, and the sam e horn made
w ar w ith his saints, and prevailed against them : Until
the A n cien t o f the days cam e, and ju d g m en t was given
to the saints o f the M o st H ig h ; and the tim e came that
the saints possessed the kin g d o m ”.
T he kings w ho fight against Justice and Love shall lose
their kingdom , sayeth the voice of T ru th , fo r th e Law of Com­
pensation never forgets or gives the rew ard of righteousness to
those w ho sin against good. Justice is pow er w hile injustice is
destructive because it is sin. A ncient ignorance or modem lg'
norance is one and the same, it contributes to m ental darkness,
sin and negation w hile spiritual L ight is T ru th and power. The
saints are those w hose religion is to do good, they shall possess
the kingdom s w hile despots shall be deposed.
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 403
(7 23-24-25—26-27-28)— “T h u s he said, T he fo u rth beast shall
be the fo u rth kin g d o m upon earth, w hich shall be diverse
fro m all kingdom s, and shall d evo u r the w hole earth, and
shall tread it dow n, and break it in pieces. A n d the ten
horns out o f th is kin g d o m are ten kings that shall arise;
and another shall rise a fte r th em ; and he shall be diverse
fro m the first, and he shall subdue three kings. A n d he
shall speak great w o rd s against the M o st H igh, and shall
wear out the saints o f the M o st H igh, and think to change
tim es and la w s; and th ey shall be given into his hands,
until a tim e and tim es and the dividing o f time. B u t the
ju dgm ent shall sit, and they shall take aw ay his dom inion,
to consum e and to d estro y it unto the end. A n d the king­
dom and dom inion, and the greatness o f the kingdom
under the w hole heaven, shall be given to the people o f
the saints o f the M o st H ig h , w hose kingdom is an ever­
lasting kingdom , and all dom inions shall serve and obey
him. H ith erto is the end o f the m atter. A s fo r m e, D an­
iel, m y cogitations m uch troubled me, and m y countenance
changed in m e: bu t I kep t the m atter in m y heart”.
M aterialism is overcom e w ith spiritual T ru th and the saints
or those w ho do good in h erit the earth. A ll false records pur-
porting to prove th a t evil is good and th at saints founded false
beliefs will be disproved, revealing th a t goodness alone constitutes
Divine authority. A great w ar is to precede this change, for
the beast or physical religious systems will resort to killing on a
military basis before righteousness and mental independence
will be established. T h is prophecy predicts th at this great
struggle will take place in a tim e and tim es and the dividing
of the tim e w hich is about tw o thousand and some hundred
years after the death and resurrection of O ur Lord, Jesus Christ.
Divine M ind will be th e victor, and deeds^will become the means
of salvation in all tru e spiritual doctrines. T he light of wisdom
will manifest to a struggling w orld, racial prejudice will cease
and universal brotherhood will become a fact, for creedalism like
feudalism becomes obsolete as the era of science and education
progresses. A ge old theories w ithout proof of their contentions
are doomed for “ G od will not always strive w ith the flesh . Ig'
norance is w aging w ar against W isdom and Science, b u t it has
nothing to offer, since ignorance is sin and is the root of the
evils of m ankind. Just as the wisdom of the prophets of old
404 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
foretold th e doom of ideas of darkness, m odem inventions which
convey know ledge to all w ho desire to avail them selves of it are
to usher in the m ental m illennium . A s the death toll sounds
for all obsolete systems, th e w orks of Jesus C hrist will manifest
in scientifict form , as in S uper M ind Science. T here is no way
fo r those w ho love riches, crow ns and m aterialism to prevent
this. L et each M ind Scientist take up th eir cross and lead in
the m arch onw ard and G odw ard.
( 8 : 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8) — '“I n the th ird yea r o f the reign o f king
B elshazzar a visio n appeared unto m e, even unto me
D aniel, a fte r that w h ich appeared unto m e at the first.
A n d I saw in a visio n ; and it cam e to pass, w hen I saw,
that I w as at S h u sh a n , in the palace, w hich is the prov­
ince o f E la m ; and I sa w in a vision, and I was by the
river o f Ulai. T h en I lifte d up m ine eyes and saw, and,
behold, there stood befo re the river a ram , w hich had two
horns, and the tw o horns w ere h ig h ; but one was higher
than the other, and the h igher cam e up last. I saw the
ram pushing w estw a rd , and n o rth w a rd , and southward;
so that no beasts m ig h t sta n d befo re him , neither was
there any that could d eliver out o f his hand; but he did
according to his w ill, and becam e great. A n d as I was
considering, behold, an he goat cam e fro m the west, on
the fa ce o f the w hole earth, and touched not the ground:
and the goat had a notable horn betw een his eyes. And
he cam e to the ram that had tw o horns, w hich I had seen
standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury
o f his pow er. A n d I saw him com e close unto the ram,
and he w as m o ved w ith choler against him , and smote the
ram , and brake his tw o h o rn s; and there w as no power m
the ram to sta n d befo re h im , but he cast him dow n to the
ground, and stam ped upo n h im : and there w as none that
, could deliver the ram out o f his hand. T h erefo re the he
goat w a xed ve ry grea t; and w h en he w as strong, the
great horn w as b ro ken ; and fo r it cam e up fo u r notable
ones, tow ard the fo u r w in d s o f heaven”.
Two physical systems of religion rise, one against the other,
each claiming the same Truth, yet fighting for supremacy. The
ram symbolizes a religion whose symbols are based on Phallic
worship, while the goat from the W est is a rival system eim
bracing the same cremonies, ideas of sacrifice and rituals. These
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 405
systems failed to teach brotherly love to their adherents so an
inquisition or program of destruction of hum an life was planned.
This was the basis of th e m ost cruel w ar of conquest ever waged
on the earth, each side killing th e other w ithout mercy or
thought of the sacredness of life. T he com bat is symbolized
by the fight betw een the ram and th e he goat. T he “he goat”
waxed strong and the pow er of the ram was broken, this is a
symbol of the rise of th e tw o factions of C hristianity w hich are
well known to every student of religious history. T he Science
of Life and M ind deplores the idea of killing and considers it
unpardonable w hen com m itted in the nam e of Christianity. T he
fact that this vision of C hristianity was seen by a prophet of
Judah shows th e pow ers of Infinite M ind to dem onstrate the
power of foreseeing or prophecy. T his pow er is as potent today
as it ever was, and is explained in the teachings of the A ll See-
ing Eye in Super M ind Science. Each M ind Scientist who has
unfolded this pow er predicts the doom of evil and the combat
of physical systems of religion w hich cling to belief and yet
commit the m ost atrocious sins in the nam e of Christianity.
Truth shall be exalted above error and Spirit will overcome the
systems w hich follow after darkness.
(8:9-10-11-12-13-14) — “A n d out o f one o f them came fo rth
a little horn w h ich w a xed exceeding great, tow ard the
south, and tow ard the east, and tow ard the pleasant land.
A n d it w a xed great, even to the host o f heaven; and it
cast dow n som e o f the host and o f the stars to the ground,
and stam ped upon them . Y ea, he m agnified h im self even
to the prince o f the host, and by him the daily sacrifice
was taken aw ay, and the place o f his sanctuary w as cast
down. A n d an host w as given him against the daily sac­
rifice by reason o f transgression, and it cast dow n the
truth to the g ro u n d ; and it practiced, and prospered.
Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said
unto that certain saint w hich spake, H o w long shall be
the vision concerning the daily sacrifice, and the trans­
gression o f desolation, to give both the sanctuary and
the host to be trodden under fo o t? A n d he said unto
me, U nto tw o thousand and three hundred days; then
shall the sanctuary be cleansed”.
Ignorant and evil pow ers spring up in m any lands and for
a time spread th eir teachings as the T ru th , but seeming victory
406 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
of low er pow ers are soon proven to be tem porary, for only
D ivine w isdom conquers. “T ru th crushed to earth shall rise
again”,— the tw o thousand th ree h u n d red days refers to years
of a dark spiritual age w hen th e w isdom teachings were sup­
pressed. Super M ind Science heralds th e age of wisdom, self
control and spiritual realization.
(8:15-16-17-18-19-20)— " A n d it cam e to pass, w hen I, even I
D aniel, had seen the vision, and so u g h t fo r the meaning,
then, behold, there sto o d b efo re m e as the appearance of
a m an. A n d I heard a m an’s voice betw een the banks of
Ulai, w h ich called, and said, G abriel, m ake this man to
understand the vision. S o he cam e near w here I stood;
and w h en he cam e, I w as a fraid, and fe ll upon m y face;
but he said unto m e, U nderstand, O son o f m an; for at
the tim e o f the end shall be the vision. N o w , as he was
speaking w ith m e, I w a s in a deep sleep on m y face
tow ard the g ro u n d ; but he touched m e, and set me up­
right. A n d he said, B ehold, I w ill m ake thee know what
shall be in the last end o f the in d ig n a tio n ; fo r at the time
appointed the end shall be. T h è ram w hich thow sawest
having tw o horns are the kin g s o f M edia and Persia".
Spiritual symbols always have a double m eaning, the physi­
cal and m etaphysical. T h e voice of th e Infinite in the form of a
m an interprets the physical m eaning of the wisdom (the kings of
M edia and Persia) after th e p ro p h et had rem ained in a concen­
trated state of mind. T h e m etaphysical m eaning symbolizes a
struggle betw een rival religious bodies and the expression of
em otional forces in N atu re clashing w ith the spiritual powers
and ancient wisdom. It also symbolizes ignorance and dogma­
tism battling w ithin them selves, each seeking to destroy the
other. W h e n scientific education reveals th e hypocrisy of dog­
matism and the false assertions preached in the nam e of belief,
faith and C hristianity, then Peace, T ru th , Love and Light will
trium ph and this struggle will be overcom e.
(8:21-22-23-24-25-26-27 )— " A n d the rough goat is the king
o f G recia: and the great horn that is betw een his eyes is
the first king. N o w that being broken, whereas four
stood up fo r it, fo u r kin g d o m s shall stand up out of the
nation, but not in his pow er. A n d in the latter time of
their kingdom , w h en the 'transgressor are com e to the full,
a king o f fierce countenance, and understanding dark sen-
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 407
fences, shall sta n d up. A n d his p ow er shall he m ighty but
not by his ow n p o w er; and he shall destroy w onderfully,
and shall prosper and practise, and shall destroy the
m ighty and the holy people. A n d through his policy also
he shall cause cra ft to prosper in his hand; and he shall
m agnify h im self in his heart, and by peace shall destroy
m any; he shall also sta n d up against the Prince o f
princes; but he shall be broken w ith o u t hand. A n d the
vision o f the evening and the m orning w hich w as told is
true: w h erefo re sh u t thou up the vision; fo r it shall be
fo r m any days. A n d I D aniel fa in ted , and w as sick cer­
tain days: a fterw a rd I rose up, and did the king’s busi­
ness; and I w as astonished at the vision, but none under­
stood it.”
Divine wisdom reveals the inner m eaning of the vision as
applicable to the conditions of politics and religion working hand
in hand. Powers w ere given him to destroy m any by peace,
means destroying m any th ro u g h false teaching and peaceful
means. “T he Prince of princes” refer» to religious potentates
who hold a balance of pow er derived from keeping their subjects
in ignorance of D ivine law, thus destroying m any through loss
of immortality. G reat m aterial prosperity and many riches indb
cates the poverty in T ru th , fo r “ m an cannot serve G od and
mammon.” “H e shall be broken w ithout hand” means broken
by educational m eans and th e return of the ancient wisdom and
demonstrations Jesus C hrist perform ed through the Science of
the M ind w hich develops peace of the soul and spiritual
realization.
(9:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— “In the first year o f D arius, the son
o f A hasuerus, o f the seed o f the M edes, w hich w as made
king over the realm o f the C haldeans; In the first year
o f his reign, I D aniel understood by books the num ber
o f the years, w h e re o f the w o rd o f the L o rd came to Jere­
miah the prophet, that he w ould accomplish seventy years
in the desolations o f Jerusalem . A n d I set m y face unto
the L o rd God, to seek by prayer and supplications, w ith
fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes: A n d I prayed unto the
Lord m y God, and m ade m y confession, and said, 0
Lord, the great and d rea d fu l God, keeping the covenant
and m ercy to them that love him , and to them that keep
H is co m m a n d m en ts: W e have sinned, and have com -
408 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
m itte d iniq u ity, and have done w icked ly, and have re­
belled, even by departing fr o m th y precepts, and from
th y ju d g m e n ts: N e ith e r have w e hearkened unto thy
serva n ts the prophets, w h ich spake in thy name to our
kings, our princes, and our fa th e rs, and to all the people
o f the land. 0 L o rd , rig h teo u sn ess belongeth unto thee,
but unto u s co n fu sio n o f fa ces, as at this day: to the men
o f Judah, and to the in h a bitants o f Jerusalem , and unto
all Israel, that are near, and that are fa r off, through all
the countries w h ith er thou hast d riven them , because of
th eir trespass that th ey have trespassed against thee, 0
L o rd , to us belongeth co n fu sio n o f face, to our kings, to
our princes, and to our fa th ers, because w e have sinned
against Thee. To the L o rd , our G od belong mercies and
fo rg iven ess, though w e have rebelled against him : Neither
have w e obeyed the voice o f the L o rd our God, to walk
in his law s w h ich he set b efo re us by his servants thé
prophets”.
T hose w ho depart» from G ood and G od, refusing to hear
th e voice of the D ivine M essenger brings hardships upon them­
selves. Sitting in th e scorner’s seat, they refuse to consult the
D ivine prophetical w isdom and to tu rn from sin. Israel going
astray is a sym bol of the prototype of evil ram pant today
w hich diverts the m ind from goodness and heavenly harmony
into the passages of sin and sorrow , reaping poverty and the
scattering of forces. Regardless if m an does not heed the Divine
voice, goodness and righteousness rem ain as one with God.
T he D ivine law com pensates the righteous and the wicked des­
troy themselves.
(9:11-12-13-14-15-16)— “Y ea, all Isra el have transgressed thy
law , even by departing, th a t th ey m ig h t not obey Thy
voice; th erefo re the curse is poured upon us, and the
oath that is w ritte n in the law o f M o ses the servant of
God, because w e have sinned against him . A n d he hath
confirm ed his w ords, w hich he spake against us
and against our ju d g es that ju d g ed us, by bringing upon
us a great evil: fo r u n d er the w hole heaven hath not been
done as hath been done upon Jerusalem . A s it is written
in the law o f M oses, all th is evil is com e upon us: yet
m ade w e not our prayer b efo re the L o rd our God, that
w e m ight turn fr o m our iniquities, and understand Thy
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 409
Truth. T h erefo re hath the L o rd w atched upon the evil,
and brought it upon u s; fo r the L o rd our God is right­
eous in all his w o rk s w hich he doeth: fo r w e obeyed
not his voice. A n d now , 0 L o rd our God, that hast
brought T h y people fo r th out o f the land o f E g yp t w ith
a m ighty hand, and hast g o tten T hee renow n, as at this
day; w e have sinned, w e have done w ickedly. 0 L ord,
according to all T h y righteousness, I beseech Thee, let
Thine anger and T h y fu r y be turned aw ay fro m T h y city
Jerusalem , T h y holy m o u n ta in ; because fo r our sins, and
fo r the iniquities o f our fa th ers, Jerusalem and T hy
people are becom e a reproach to all that are about us”.
The carnal m ind, n o t com prehending the law “A s ye sow,
so shall ye also reap” desires to receive good in return for evil.
The evil ways of Israel results in the curse being placed upon
them, since every sin will produce its ow n means of punish'
ment. Israel refused to do good so reaped a curse, this happens
also in the lives of individuals w ho refuse to hear the Divine
voice of T ru th , W isdom , Love and Light.
(9:17-18-19-20-21-22)— “N o w , therefore, 0 our God, hear
the prayer o f T h y servant, and h is supplications, and
cause T h y fa ce to shine upon T h y sanctuary that is deso­
late, fo r the L o rd ’s sake. 0 m y God, incline Thine ear,
and hear; open T h in e eyes, and behold our desolations,
and the city w h ich is called by T h y nam e; fo r w e do not
present our supplications before Thee fo r our righteous­
ness, but fo r T h y great m ercies. 0 L ord, hear; 0 L ord,
fo rg ive; O L o rd , hearken, and d o ; d efer not, fo r Thine
own sake, 0 m y G od; fo r T h y city and T h y people are
called by T h y nam e. A n d w hiles I w as speaking, and
praying, and confessing m y sin and the sin o f m y people
Israel, and presenting m y supplication before the L o rd
m y God fo r the holy m ountain o f m y G od; Yea, w hiles
I w as speaking in prayer, even the m an Gabriel, w hom
I had seen in the visio n at the beginning, being caused to
fly sw iftly, touched m e about the tim e o f the evening obla­
tion. A n d he in fo rm e d m e, and talked w ith m e, and
said, 0 D aniel I am n o w com e fo rth to give thee skill
and understanding”.
H ere G abriel m anifests as a symbol of spiritual wisdom, for
in ancient times G abriel w ho know n as the ruler of the moon
410 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and spiritual powers. Infinite M ind prom ises skill and under­
standing to D aniel th ro u g h th e receptive spiritual powers, for
these pow ers are m an’s only source of D ivine understanding.
T h e prom ise is a revelation w hich will solve th e problem of the
prophet. T his is a dem onstration of m etaphysical revelation and
m ind over m atter, show ing th e eternal m anifestation of the
Science of Life and Love.
(9:23-24-25-26-27) — “A t the beginning o f th y supplications
the co m m a n d m en t cam e fo r th , and I am come to shew
thee; fo r thou art greatly beloved: th erefo re understand
the m atter, and consider the vision. S e v e n ty weeks are
determ ined upon th y people, and upon thy holy city, to
finish the transgression, and to m ake an end o f sins, and to
m ake reconciliation fo r iniq u ity, and to bring in everlast­
ing righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy,
and to anoint the M o st H o ly. K n o w , therefore, and un­
derstand, that fr o m the going fo r th o f the commandment
to restore and to build Jerusalem , unto the M essiah the
P rince, shall be seven w eeks and threescore and two
w eeks: the street shall be built again, and the wall, even
in troublous tim es. A n d a fte r threescore and two weeks
shall M essiah be cut off, but no t fo r h im self: and the
people o f the prince that shall com e shall destroy the
city and the sa n ctu a ry; and the end th ereo f shall be with a
flood, and unto the end o f the w a r desolations are de->
term ined. A n d he shall confirm the covenant w ith many
fo r one w e e k ; and in the m id st o f the w eek he shall cause
the sacrifice and the oblation to cease, and fo r the over­
spreading o f abom inations he shall m ake it desolate, even
until the consum m ation, and that determ ined shall be
poured upon the desolate”.
T h e Law of Com pensation m etes o u t its rew ard, regardless
of the prayer of the prophet, fo r Israel m ust learn from lessons
of sorrow until the tim e of evil doings and evil compensation
shall expire. T h e p ro p h et seeing th e result of Israel’s trans­
gressions, tries to plead th e cause of his people with Infinite
M ind, b u t is inform ed th a t G od M ind is never changed by
supplication, b u t all things are governed by the Law of Com­
pensation, therefore Israel m ust reap w h at it has sown. This
is a dem onstration of D ivine Justice, and the law of sowing
and reaping w hich changes not, even applying to individual life.
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 411
(10:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12) — “In the third year o f C yrus
king o f P ersia, a thing w as revealed unto Daniel, w hose
name w as called B eltesh a zza r; and the thing w as true,
hut the tim e appointed w as long: and he understood the
thing, and had understanding o f the vision. In those days
I D aniel w as m o urning three fu ll w eeks. I ate no pleas­
ant bread, neither cam e flesh nor w ine in m y m outh,
neither did I anoint m y se lf at all, till three w hole w eeks
were fulfilled. A n d in the fo u r and tw entieth day o f the
first m onth, as I w as by the side o f the great river, w hich
is H id d ekel; then I lifte n up m ine eyes, and looked, and,
beheld, a certain m an clothed in linen, w hose loins w ere
girded w ith fine gold o f U phaz. H is body also w as like
the beryl, and his fa ce as the appearance o f lightning,
and his eyes as lam ps o f fire, and his arm s and his fe e t
like in colour to polished brass, and the voice o f his
w ords like the voice o f a m idtitude. A n d I D aniel alone
saw the visio n ; fo r the m en that w ere w ith m e saw not
the vision; but a great quaking fe ll upon them , so that
they fled to hide them selves. T h erefo re I w as le ft alone,
and saw this great vision, and there rem ained no strength
in m e: fo r m y com eliness w as turned in m e into corrup­
tion, and I retained no strength. Y e t heard I the voice
o f his w o rd : and w h en I heard the voice o f H is w ords,
then w as I in a deep sleep on m y face, and m y face
tow ard the ground. A n d , behold, an hand touched me,
which set m e upon m y knees and upon the palm s o f m y
hands: A n d he said unto m e, 0 D aniel, a m an greatly
beloved, u n derstand the w o rd s that I speak unto thee,
and stand u p rig h t: fo r unto thee am I now sent. A n d
w hen he had spoken this w ord unto m e, I stood trem bling.
Then he said un to m e, F ear not, D aniel; fo r fro m the
first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand,
and to chasten th y se lf before thy God, thy w ords w ere
heard, and I am com e fo r thy w ords”.
Intense spiritual desire and m ental discipline is a great
virtue, it represents in n er m ental contem plation and concen­
tration on spirituality. T h is opens up the soul vision and reveals
the wonders of th e unseen w orld. T hese m anifestations being
mental and of D ivine M ind appear only to the one whose m ind
is prepared, show ing th e w isdom of m ental earnestness and con­
centration. T he vision of the prophet is the realization of Divine
412 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
M ind, W isdom , Pow er, T ru th , Love and understanding, which
comes to those w hose desires are G odly and whose mentality
is spiritualized.
(10:13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21)— '‘B u t the prince of the
kingdom o f P ersia w ith sto o d m e one and tw enty days:
but, L o , M ichael, one o f the ch ie f princes, came to help
m e; and I rem ained there w ith the kings o f Persia. Now I
am com e to m ake thee u n d ersta n d w h a t shall befall thy
people in the latter days: fo r y e t the vision is fo r many
days. A n d w h en H e had sp o ken such w o rd s unto me, I set
m y fa ce tow ard the ground, and becam e dum b. And, be­
hold, one like the sim ilitu d e o f the so n s o f m en touched
m y lips: th en I opened m y m o u th and spake, and said,
unto H im that sto o d befo re m e, 0 m y L o rd , by the vision
m y sorrow s are tu rn ed upo n m e, and I have retained no
strength. F o r h o w can the serva n t o f this m y Lord talk
w ith this m y L o r d ? F o r as fo r m e, straightw ay there
rem ained no stren g th in m e, n eith er is there breath left
in me. T h en there cam e again and touched m e one like
the appearance o f a m an, and he strengthened me. And
said, 0 m an greatly beloved, fe a r n o t; peace be unto you;
be strong, yea, be strong. A n d w h en H e had spoken unto
m e, I w as stren g th en ed , and said, L e t m y L ord speak;
fo r T h o u ha st stren g th en ed me. T h en said he, Knowest
thou w h erefo re I com e unto th ee? A n d now will I re­
tu rn to fig h t w ith the prince o f P ersia: and w hen I am
gone fo r th , lo, the prince o f G recia shall come. But I
w ill sh ew thee that w h ich is noted in the Scripture of
T ru th : and there is none that ho ld eth w ith m e in these
things, but M ichael yo u r prince’’.
T h e A d ep t of th e m ysteries of life enters into a Divine state
through intense m ental absorption w ith th e G odhead. When
his spiritual senses begin to cognize im m ortal beings and visions,
the desire fo r strength is expressed in th e depths of his men­
tality. H e receives th e answ er in th e fulfillm nt of his desire,
dem onstrating th a t all strn g th is of m ind, n o t m atter, and the
pow er of a silent th o u g h t to reach into the Infinite and bring
forth its ow n answ er in the form of the desired result. This
dem onstrating th a t all strength is of m ind, not matter, and the
through harm onizing w ith D ivine M ind.
(1 1 :1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10) — “A lso I, i n the first year o f D a r i u s
the M ede, even I, stood to confirm and to strengthen him•
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 413
A n d now w ill I sh ew thee the truth. Behold, there shall
stand up yet three kings in P ersia; and the fo u rth shall
be fa r richer than they all: and by his strength through
his riches he shall stir up all against the realm o f Grecia.
A n d a m ig h ty kin g shall stand up that shall rule w ith
great dom inion, and do according to his will. A n d w hen
he shall stand up, his kin g d o m shall be broken, and shall
be divided to w a rd the fo u r w in d s o f heaven; and not to
his posterity, n o r according to his dom inion w hich he
ruled: fo r his kin g d o m shall be plucked up, even fo r
others beside those. A n d the king o f the south shall be
strong, and o'ne o f his princes; and he shall be strong
above him , and have do m in io n ; his dom inion shall be a
great dom inion. A n d in the end o f years they shall join
them selves to g eth er; fo r the king’s daughter o f the south
shall com e to the king o f the north to m ake an agree­
m ent; but she shall n o t retain the pow er o f the arm ;
neither shall he stand, n o r his arm ; but she shall be
given up, and th ey that brought her, and he that begat
her, and he that stren g th en ed her in these tim es. B u t
out o f a branch o f her roots shall one stand up in his
estate, w hich shall com e w ith an arm y, and shall enter
into the fo rtre ss o f the king o f the north, and shall deal
against them , and shall prevail: A n d shall also carry cap­
tives into E g y p t their gods, w ith their princes, and w ith
their precious vessels o f silver and o f gold; and he shall
continue m ore years than the king o f the north. So, the
king o f the so u th shall com e into his kingdom , and shall
return into his ow n land. B u t his sons shall be stirred
up, and shall assem ble a m u ltitu d e o f great fo rces: and
one shall certainly com e, and overflow , and pass through;
then shall he return, and be stirred up, even to his fo r t­
ress”.
The north is a symbol of the place of darkness, while the
south is symbolical of the place of light. In the ancient mys'
teries, the home of Python, the polar serpent, was in the north,
while the south was a place of sunshine and the home of a great
queen. The true symbolical meaning is a struggle between under'
standing and ignorance— the union of the opposites or positive
and negative, when peace and power manifest in the form of
Divinity. Great struggles between flesh and Spirit are predicted,
while the fall of idolatry is also predicted. The result is a
414 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
tum ult of forces, th e natural consequence of w hich is the
trium ph of G od and G ood. T h e victory is always to the powers
of righteousness, since evil is n o t pow er, b u t is negation, the
absence of good.
(11:11-12-13-14-15-16) — “A n d the kin g o f the south shall be
m o ved w ith choler, and shall com e fo r th and fight with
him , even w ith the king o f the n o rth ; and he shall set
fo r th a great m u ltitu d e ; but the m u ltitu d e shall be given
into his hand. A n d w h en he hath taken away the mul­
titude, his heart shall be lifte d u p ; and he shall cast down
m any ten thousands: but he shall n o t be strengthened by
it. F o r the king o f the n o rth shall return, and shall set
fo r th a m u ltitu d e greater than the fo rm e r, and shall cer­
tainly com e a fte r certain yea rs w ith a great army and
w ith m uch riches. A n d in those tim es there shall many
sta n d up against the kin g o f the so u th : A lso the rob­
bers o f th y people shall exa lt th em selves to establish the
visio n ; but th ey shall fall. S o the king o f the north
shall com e, and cast up a m o u n t, and take the m ost fenced
cities; and the arm s o f the so u th shall not withstand,
neither his chosen people, n eith er shall there be any
strength to w ithstand. B u t he that com eth against him
shall do according to his ow n w ill, and none shall stand
before h im ; and he shall sta n d in the glorious land, which
by his hand shall be consum ed”.
T h e tem porary victory of darkness and the acquiring of
lands and riches by evil m eans is contrary to Divine Love,
T ru th and Justice. In th e end these principles will overcome the
seemingly overpow ering evil, fo r Infinite Spirit is no respector of
persons or excuses. G ood and G od are synonymous terms,
therefore all evil will be overcom e. T h e Science of M ind leads
to positive m ental m astership and harm onization of positive and
negative m ental forces w ith spiritualization of m ind and body.
(11:17-18-19-20-21 -22-23-24-25) — “H e shall also set his face
to enter w ith the stren g th o f his w hole kingdom , and up­
right ones w ith h im ; th u s shall he do: and he shall give
him the daughter o f w om en, corrupting her; but she shall
not stand on his side, neith er be fo r him . A fte r this shall
he turn his fa ce unto the isles, and shall take m any; but
a prince fo r his ow n b eh a lf shall cause the reproach of­
fe re d by him to cease; w ith o u t his ow n reproach he shall
cause it to turn upon him . T h en he shall turn his face
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 415
toward the fo r t o f his ow n land: hut he shall stum ble
and fall, and not he fo u n d . T hen shall stand up in his
estate a raiser o f ta xes in the glory o f the kingdom : hut
w ithin fe w days he shall he destroyed, neither in anger,
nor in battle. A n d in his estate shall stand up a vile per­
son, to w h o m th ey shall not give the honour o f the king­
dom ; but he shall com e in peaceably, and obtain the king­
dom by flatteries. A n d w ith the arm s o f a flood shall they
be overthrow n fr o m before him , and shall be broken;
yea, also the prince o f the covenant. A n d a fter the league
made w ith him he shall w o rk d eceitfu lly; fo r he shall
come up, and shall becom e stro n g w ith a sm all people.
H e shall enter peaceably even upon the fa tte st places o f
the province; and he shall do that w hich his fa th ers have
not done, nor his fa th e r ’s fa th e rs; he shall scatter am ong
them the prey, and spoil, and riches; yea, and he shall
forecast his devices against the strong holds, even fo r a
time. A n d he shall stir up his pow er and his courage
against the king o f the so u th w ith a great a rm y; and the
king o f the so u th shall be stirred up to battle w ith a very
great and m ig h ty a rm y ; but he shall not stand: fo r they
shall fo reca st devices against him ”.
T he opposite principles sym bolized by opposing individuals
continue to battle, one overpow ering the other until victory is
won either by positive goodness symbolized by the king of the
south, or negative evil sym bolized by the king of the north.
However, the final victory is attained by the king of light in
the south, then the Law of Com pensation and the covenant of
Jehovah w ith Israel or m ankind will be obeyed. T he Science
of Life is the equalizing of these opposing natural forces and the
attainment of illum ination in the planes of D ivinity beyond
mortal mind conflict.
(11:26-27-28-29-30-31-32-33-34-35)— '"Yea, they that feed o f
the portion o f his m eat shall destroy him , and his arm y
shall o verflo w ; and m any shall fa ll dow n slain. A n d both
these king’s hearts shall be to do m ischief, and they shall
speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: fo r yet
the end shall be at the tim e appointed. T hen shall he re­
turn into his land w ith great riches; and his heart shall
be against the h o ly covenant; and he shall do exploits,
and return to his ow n land. A t the tim e appointed he
shall return, and com e tow ard the south: but it shall not
416 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
be as the fo rm e r, or as the latter. F o r the ships of Chit-
tim shall com e against h im ; th erefo re he shall be grieved
and return, and have ind ig n a tio n against the holy cov­
enant: so shall he d o ; he shall even return, and have
intelligence w ith them th a t fo rsa k e the holy covenant.
A n d arm s shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute
the sanctuary o f stren g th , and shall take away the daily
sacrifice, and they shall place the abom inations that
m a keth desolate. A n d such as do w ickedly against the
covenant shall be co rru p t by fla tteries: but the people
that do kn o w th eir G od shall be strong, and do exploits.
A n d they that u n derstand am ong the people shall instruct
m a n y; y e t they shall fa ll by the sw ord, and by flame, by
captivity, and by spoil, m a n y days. N o w w hen they shall
fa ll, they shall be holpen w ith a little help: but many shall
cleave to th em w ith flatteries. A n d som e o f them of un­
derstanding shall fa ll, to try them , and to purge, and to
m ake them w h ite, even to the tim e o f the end: because it
is yet fo r a tim e appointed”.
T hose w ho are allied w ith T ru th and w orship the true
G od shall stand up and be positive to oppose evil, while the
doers of evil pollute th e sanctuary of D ivinity w ith hypocrisy
and flatteries. Such acts bring conflict betw een goodness and
evil and destroy th e sacred prom ises betw een G od and man,
thus interrupting D ivine heavenly harm ony. T h e righteous
oftim es fall in the battle of life, b u t they overcome evil and
attain im m ortal consciousness of G ood w hich is eternal, while
evil is tem poral. In the Science of M ind, D ivine harmony is
attained, w hich brings fo rth G od consciousness and Divinity,
thus balancing all forces and correcting all disorders. Such is
the higher realization of T ru th , Love, L ight and God, manifest
in man, His D ivine image.
( 1 1 :36-37-38-39-40)— “A n d the king shall do according to his
w ill; and he shall exa lt h im self, and m agnify himself
above every god, and shall speak m arvellous things against
the G od o f gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be
accom plished: fo r that th a t is d eterm in ed shall be done.
N eith er shall he regard the G od o f his fathers, nor the
desire o f w om en, nor regard any god: fo r he shall mag­
n ify h im self above all. B u t in his estate shall he honour
the G od o f fo rces; and a g od w h o m his fa th ers knew not
shall he honour w ith gold, and silver, and w ith precious
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 417
stones, and pleasant things. T h u s shall he do in the m ost
strong holds w ith a strange god, w h o m he shall acknow l­
edge and increase w ith g lo ry; and he shall cause them to
rule over m any, and shall divide the land fo r gain. A n d
at the tim e o f the end shall the king o f the south push
at him : and the king o f the north shall come against him
like a w h irlw in d , w ith chariots, and w ith horsem en, and
w ith m any sh ip s; and he shall enter into the countries,
and shall overflow and pass over”.
Materialism trium phs over Spirit for a season until the
fulfillment of the Law of C om pensation w hen the G od of T ruth
again replaces the G od of gold. T h is is another tem porary vie-
tory of the forces of evil w hich soon culminates in a Divine
manifestation th a t sets all things right and liberates the
righteous from the confinem ent of evil environm ent.
(11:41-42-43-44-45)— “H e shall enter also into the glorious
land, and m any countries shall be overthrow n; but these
shall escape out o f his hand, even E d o m and M oab, and
the chief o f the children o f A m m o n . H e shall stretch fo rth
his hand also upon the countries; and the land o f E g yp t
shall not escape. B u t he shall have pow er over the treas­
ures o f gold and o f silver, and over all the precious things
o f E g yp t; and the L ibyans, and the E thiopians shall be
at his steps. B u t tidings out o f the east and out o f the
north shall trouble h im : th erefo re he shall go fo rth w ith
great fu r y to d estro y, and utterly to m ake aw ay many.
A n d he shall plant the tabernacle o f his palace betw een
the seas in the glorious holy m ountain; yet he shall come
to his end, and none shall help h im ”.
The destruction of the victorious evil king is brought about
by tidings out of the east and out of the north w hich is, that
wisdom overpow ers ignorance, love overcomes hate, and D ivinity
overcomes evil. Even tho u g h he destroys the material tabernacle,
the prince of darkness and evil comes to his end, for such is the
Law of Com pensation.
(12:1-2-3-4-5-6-7)— “A n d at that tim e shall M ichael stand up,
the great prince w h ich standeth fo r the children o f thy
people; and there shall be a tim e o f trouble, such as never
was since there w as a nation, even to that sam e tim e: and
at that tim e th y people shall be delivered, every one that
shall be fo u n d w ritte n in the book. A n d m any o f them
that sleep in the d u st o f the earth shall aw ake, som e to
418 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
everlasting life, and som e to sham e and everlasting con­
tem pt. A n d th ey that be w ise shall shine as the bright­
ness o f the firm a m en t; and th ey that tu rn m any to right­
eousness, as the stars fo r ever and ever. B u t thou, 0
D aniel, sh u t up the w o rd s, and seal the book, even to the
tim e o f the en d ; m a n y shall ru n to and fro , and knowl­
edge shall be increased. T h e n I D aniel looked, and be­
hold, there sto o d o ther tw o, the one on this side of the
bank o f the river, and the o ther on that side o f the bank
o f the river. A n d one said to the m an clothed in linen,
w hich w as upon the w a ters o f the river, H o w long shall
it be to the end o f these w o n d ers? A n d I heard the man
clothed in linen, w h ich w a s upon the w aters o f the river,
w h en he held up his rig h t hand and his le ft hand unto
heaven, and sw are by H im th a t liveth fo r ever, that it
shall be fo r a tim e, and an h a lf; and w hen he shall
have accom plished to scatter the p o w er o f the holy people,
all these things shall be fin ish ed ”.
T h e righteous rise to eternal life w hich is the reward for
doing good deeds, w hile th e evil m inded being out of harmony
w ith G ood and G od, aw ake to eternal contem pt. “The man by
the river” symbolizes th e Infinite Spirit, “the river” meaning
life, “raising his hands to heaven” is to exalt the positive and
negative life forces th ro u g h spiritualization. Infinite Spirit pre­
dicts the events foreshadow ed by th e evil ways of the Children
of Israel, for sins are seeds w hich bare co rrupt fruit.
(12:8-9-10-11-12-13)— '" A n d I heard, bu t I understood not;
then said I, 0 m y L o rd , w h a t shall be the end of these
things? A n d H e said, Go th y w a y, D aniel; fo r the words
are closed up and sealed till the tim e o f the end. Many
shall be purified, and m ade w h ite, and tried; but the
w icked shall do w icked ly: and none o f the wicked shall
u n d ersta n d ; but the w ise shall understand. And from
the tim e that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and
the abom ination that m a keth desolate set up, there shall
be a thousand tw o hu n d red and n in ety days. Blessed w
he that w aiteth, and com eth to the thousand three hun­
dred and five and th irty days. B u t go thy way till the
end be; fo r thou slialt rest, and sta n d in thy lot at the
end o f the days?’.
A ll things happen according to pow ers evolved through the
fixed laws of the universe. D aniel, the prophet is told that evil
T H E B O O K O F D A N IE L 419
and wickedness m anifest th ro u g h ignorance of the Divine pres­
ence of God in man and th at “th e w icked shall not understand,
but the wise shall understand”, show ing th a t wisdom is acquired
through goodness and m ental control. T hose w ho w ait or have
patience will see th e w orking of this law to the very end of life
on this m undane sphere. D aniel possessed a knowledge of the
mystic Chaldean sciences and was beloved of G od and ex­
ceedingly wise. T h e sciences of the Chaldeans w ere meta­
physical m ethods of m ental purification and union w ith the
Infinite Spirit. W h ile th e K abala of the H ebrew s was also
known to Daniel, this system of mystical culture taught how
to explain the D ivine m ysteries and symbols of mind and life.
All of these ancient m ysteries w hich are scientifically correct are
embraced in the different branches of Super M ind Science, m ak­
ing it possible to understand the spiritual m eaning of the Scrip­
tures and apply th eir m eaning to the problem s of life. W e teach
a living God and a dem onstrable C hristianity, proving th a t God
is universal, therefore th e ancient dem onstrations are as possible
today as they w ere then, or has G od become deaf to the suppli­
cation of the spiritual m inded, or has H is arm shortened so th at
He cannot do the w orks of G ood? W e say no, only m an’s mis­
understanding has caused the silencing of the voice of prophecy,
likewise caused the healing of Jesus to be discarded in favor of
inferior systems. T h e same pow ers m anifest today as manifested
in ancient times, only m an has failed to com prehend them.
Many of the C hildren of Israel contacted ancient M asters of
cosmic science, w hich accounts for their unusual ability as
prophets and seers. H ow ever, th e m odem Judahism w hich can­
not boast even one p ro p h et is today suffering the results of
ignorance, belief and speculation. T h e book of the wisdom of
life is closed to all w ho fail to realize T ru th , for attainm ent
comes from effort, it is n o t a special gift, Daniel was a M ind
Scientist and a vegetarian w hich accounts for his visions of
prophecy. All M ind Scientists w ho study the arts of mind
control attain to great spiritual wisdom, the gateway to T ru th
opens wide to those sincere and desirous of actual contact w ith
God. Knowledge is proof, belief is speculation, therefore, let
every M ind Scientist abide in the T ru th and the L ight for this
is the way to spiritual understanding. M an does not need to
implore God in any case, all he needs is to observe the laws of
life and Spirit. M an ’s duty is to seek wisdom, God does not
need to be inform ed.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W
T h e spiritual interpretation of th e Scripture reveals the
inner m eaning of the sym bols and parables, fully explaining the
context, w ithout w hich there can be little understanding of the
T ru th . T h e au th o r endeavors to give herein th e scientific mean­
ing of the Scriptures. It is n o t his desire to dispute them, add to,
or take away from them ; he desires only to shed light on their
spirit rath er than to conform to th eir letter. Super M ind Science
is em pirical and desires to convey w isdom not belief, since "it
is by m an’s w ork ye shall know him ”. T h e Divine powers
dem onstrated by Jesus w ere eternal, therefore they can be
dem onstrated today, tom orrow and forever. Divine Love for
hum anity changeth not, therefore let all w ho study this possess
an open m ind and walk in th e L ight and th e T ruth, and God
and pow er shall be revealed to them , fo r “there is no secret
under heaven”, or “anything new u n d er th e sun” .
(St Matthew 1.1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17)—
‘‘ T h e h o o k o f t h e g e n e r a t i o n o f J e s u s C h r i s t , t h e s o n o f
D a v i d , t h e s o n o f A b r a h a m . A b r a h a m b e g a t I s a a c ; a n d
I s a a c b e g a t J a c o b ; a n d J a c o b b e g a t J u d a s a n d h i s b r e t h ­
r e n ; A n d J u d a s b e g a t P h a r e s a n d Z a r a o f T h a m a r ; a n d
P h a r e s b e g a t E s r o m ; a n d E s r o m b e g a t A r a m ; A n d A r a m
b e g a t A m i n a d a b ; a n d A m i n a d a b b e g a t N a a s s o n ; a n d
N a a s s o n b e g a t S a l m o n ; a n d S a l m o n b e g a t B o o z o f
R a c l x a b ; a n d B o o z b e g a t O b e d o f R u t h ; a n d O b e d b e g a t
J e s s e ; A n d J e s s e b e g a t D a v i d t h e k i n g ; a n d D a v i d t h e k in g
b e g a t S o l o m o n o f h e r t h a t h a d b e e n t h e w i f e o f U r i a s ;
a n d S o l o m o n b e g a t R o b o a m ; a n d R o b o a r n b e g a t A b i a ;
a n d A b i a b e g a t A s a ; A n d A s a b e g a t J o s a p h a t ; a n d J o s a -
p h a t b e g a t J o r a m ; a n d J o r a m b e g a t O z i a s ; A n d O z ia s
b e g a t J o a t h a m ; a n d J o a t h a m b e g a t A c h a z ; a n d A c h a z
b e g a t E z e k i a s ; A n d E z e k i a s b e g a t M a n a s s e s ; a n d M a n a s -
s e s b e g a t A m o n ; a n d A m o n b e g a t J o s i a s ; A n d J o s i a s b e -
t g a J e c h o n i a s a n d h i s b r e t h r e n , a b o u t t h e t i m e t h e y w e r e
c a r r i e d a w a y t o B a b y l o n ; a n d a f t e r t h e y w e r e b r o u g h t to
B a b y l o n , J e c h o n i a s b e g a t S a l a t h i e l ; a n d S a l a t h i e l b e g a t
Z o r o b a b e l ; a n d Z o r o b a b e l b e g a t A b i u d ; a n d A b i u d b e g a t
E l i a k i m ; a n d E l i a k i m b e g a t A z o r ; A n d A z o r b e g a t S a d o c ,
a n d S a d o c b e g a t A c h i m ; a n d A c h i m b e g a t E l i u d ; a n d
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 421
E l i u d b e g a t E l e a z a r a n d E l e a z a r b e g a t M a t t h a n ; a n d
M a t t h a n b e g a t J a c o b ; A n d J a c o b b e g a t J o s e p h t h e h u s ­
b a n d o f M a r y , o f w h o m w a s b o r n J e s u s , w h o i s c a l l e d
C h r i s t . S o a l l t h e g e n e r a t i o n s f r o m A b r a h a m t o D a v i d
a r e f o u r t e e n g e n e r a t i o n s ; a n d f r o m D a v i d u n t i l t h e c a r ­
r y i n g a w a y i n t o B a b y l o n a r e f o u r t e e n g e n e r a t i o n s ; a n d
f r o m t h e c a r r y i n g a w a y i n t o B a b y l o n u n t o C h r i s t a r e
f o u r t e e n g e n e r a t i o n s ” .
The physical genealogy of Jesus C hrist shows H im to be the
son of Joseph and M ary. T h is refers to the man, Jesus of N aza­
reth, while His D ivine mission and w orks prove His attaining
to Christhood and C h rist consciousness. Regardless of how He
came to earth H e m anifested the Sonship of G od and did good,
that alone is proof of H is D ivinity. A ttainm ent is not given at
birth, but is earned th ro u g h D ivine deeds and good works w hich
is the foundation of personal salvation and knowledge of God.
The Science of M ind is th e Science of C hrist and attainm ent.
(1:18-19-20)— ‘‘N o w t h e b i r t h o f J e s u s C h r i s t w a s o n t h i s
w i s e : W h e n a s h i s m o t h e r M a r y w a s e s p o u s e d t o J o s e p h ,
b e f o r e t h e y c a m e t o g e t h e r , s h e w a s f o u n d w i t h c h i l d o f
t h e H o l y G h o s t . T h e n J o s e p h h e r h u s b a n d , b e i n g a j u s t
m a n , a n d n o t w i l l i n g t o m a k e h e r a p u b l i c e x a m p l e , w a s
m i n d e d t o p u t h e r a w a y p r i v i l y . B u t w h i l e h e t h o u g h t o n
t h e s e t h i n g s , b e h o l d , t h e a n g e l o f t h e L o r d a p p e a r e d u n t o
h i m i n a d r e a m , s a y i n g , J o s e p h , t h o u s o n o f D a v i d , f e a r
n o t t o t a k e u n t o t h e e M a r y t h y w i f e : f o r t h a t w h i c h i s
c o n c e i v e d i n h e r i s o f t h e H o l y G h o s t ” .
The angel of th e L ord” signifies Divine im m ortal agencies
of intelligence w hich m anifested to Joseph and inform ed him
of the works of D ivinity and G od while his body was sleeping
and his consciousness was on the astral plane of mind. T he in ­
visible agencies of D ivine M ind m anifested in the form of an
angel, or personality and revealed th a t every secret thought
expressed in silence by m an is know n to Infinite Spirit.
(1:21-22-23-24-25)—‘‘A n d s h e s h a l l b r i n g f o r t h a s o n , a n d
t h o u s h a l t c a l l h i s n a m e J e s u s : f o r h e s h a l l s a v e h i s p e o p l e
f r o m t h e i r s i n s . N o w a l l t h i s w a s d o n e , t h a t i t m i g h t b e
f u l f i l l e d w h i c h w a s s p o k e n o f t h e L o r d b y t h e p r o p h e t ,
422 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
saying, B ehold, a virg in shall be w ith child, and shall
bring fo r th a son, and th ey shall call h is nam e Emmanuel;
w h ich being in terp reted is, G od w ith us. Then Joseph,
being raised fr o m sleep, did as the angel o f the Lord had
bidden him , and took unto h im his w ife : and knew her
not till she had brought fo r th h er firstborn son: and he
called his nam e Jesu s”.
D ivine Love enters the th o u g h ts of Joseph and prevents
him from w ronging his w ife w ho is selected by Supreme Infinite
M ind to bear a child w ho will dem onstrate “ G od with us".
Joseph was conscious outside th e realm of his body on the astral
planes of m ind, m aking it possible fo r him to receive spiritual
instruction. T hose w ho subdue the body and know the secret
of the D oor of th e Soul as tau g h t in S uper M ind Science can
also dem onstrate th e contact o f D ivine W isdom through mental
concentration and control of life energy.
(2 :l- 2 ) — "N o w w h en Jesus w as born in B ethlehem o f Judaea,
in the d a ys o f H ero d the kin g , behold, there came wise
m en fr o m the east to Jerusalem . S a yin g , W here is He
that is born K in g o f the J e w s? fo r w e have seen His
star in the east, and are com e to w o rsh ip h im ”.
T h e “wise m en from the east” w ere th e mystic astrologers
of th e schools of A ncient W isdom in India, Persia and Egypt.
T h ey knew th e Sciences of M ind and Life and had seen the
conjunction of M ars and Jupiter in th e constellation of Pisces
w hich was the Star of Judah in m ystic astrology. They knew
by th e form ation of th e “star of stars” th a t th e Prince of Peace
had been bom . T h ey came from th e retreats of their Holy
O rders to w orship the great M aster w ho was to become the
H igh Priest after the O rder of M elchesidec forever and forever,
the M aster w ho was to dem onstrate Spirit over flesh and mind
over m atter, and one w ho w ould establish a spiritual renaissance
of culture, changing th e theories of form al dogmatic religion,
through dem onstrations of th e actual presence of God, the
Father.
(2:3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10)— ‘‘W h e n H ero d the king had heard these
things, he w as troubled, and all Jerusalem w ith him. And
w hen he had gathered all the c h ie f p riests and scribes of
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 423
the people together, he dem anded o f them w here Christ
should be born. A n d th ey said unto him , In B ethlehem o f
Judaea: fo r th u s it is w ritten by the prophet: A n d thou
Bethlehem , in the land o f Juda, art not the least am ong
the princes o f Ju d a : fo r out o f these shall come a G ov­
ernor, that shall rule m y people Israel. T hen H erod,
w hen had p rivily called the w ise m en, inquired o f them
diligently w h a t tim e the sta r appeared. A n d he sent
them to B eth leh em ; and said, Go and search diligently
fo r the young child; and w h en ye have fo u n d him , bring
me w ord again, th a t I m ay com e and w orship him also.
W hen they had heard the king, they departed: and lo, the
star, w hich th ey sa w in the east, w ent before them , till
it came and sto o d over w h ere the yo u n g child was. W hen
they saw the star, th ey rejoiced w ith exceeding great jo y”.
“T he star” w hich is tw o equilateral triangles joined together,
is a symbol of the unity of m an and God. It was the established
emblem of the order of th e W ise M en or M agi, therefore when
it manifested to th eir m ind to guide them , they w ere glad w ith
“exceeding great joy” for it gave them great confidence in the
esoteric teachings of th e D ivine mysteries. It also fulfilled a
prophecy made by P rophets and M asters of the ancient wisdom.
This emblem of T ru th , Love and L ight rested over the place
where the young child was, and identified H im as a “M aster
of Light” in accordance w ith the ancient lore and predictions
of the O rder of th e M agi. T hese M agi were the first disciples
of Christ and w ere th e only persons on earth to fully compre-
hend His mission, th ey saw in the tiny babe, the Sonship of God
and Divinity.
(2:11)— ‘‘A n d w h en th ey w ere com e into the house, they saw
the young child w ith M a ry h is m other, and fe ll dow n,
and w orshipped h im : and w hen they had opened their
treasures, they presented unto him g ifts ; gold, and
frankincense, and m yrrh ”.
T he gifts of gold, symbol of the mind, frankincense the
soul, and m yrrh th e body, w ere appropriate gifts to offer to a
future M aster of m atter and m ateriality. T he gold was also
given so th at funds w ould be provided for a sudden journey of
His parents to Egypt in order to prevent His being killed by
Herod’s law w hile an infant. T he M agi foresaw this journey
424 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
in the vision of Spirit. T h ey w ere trained in the then secret
Sciences of M ind and prophecy as tau g h t by the Masters of
M ind in the F ar East. T h is w isdom comes to those who attain
spiritual illum ination.
( 2 :12-13-14) — “A n d being w a rn ed o f G od in a dream that
they should n o t retu rn to H ero d , th ey departed into their
ow n co u n try a n other w ay. A n d w h en they were departed,
behold, the angel o f the L o rd appeareth to Joseph in a
dream , saying, A rise , and ta ke the young child and his
m other, and flee un to E g y p t, and be thou there until I
bring thee w o rd ; fo r H e ro d w ill seek the young child,
to destroy H im . W h e n he arose, he took the young child
and his m o th er by n ight, and departed into Egypt”.
T h e W ise M en w ere from a supposed pagan country, yet
they could converse w ith G od in a dream . T h e followers of
all form al religious beliefs, including th e M onotheistic religion,
w ere forbidden to study th e ir religious teachings, however God
is not confined to the lim itations of dogm as and creeds, but
m anifests to the pure in heart th ro u g h universal principles. The
M agi had departed only a sh o rt w hile w hen Joseph was told in
a dream or th e astral m ental state to take th e babe to Egypt,
the hom e of one of th e W ise M en w ho had offered the gold
and predicted th e journey. E gypt at th a t tim e was regarded
as a place w here m en had great learning in th e mystic Sciences
of Life, a fitting place fo r th e M aster of th e future to begin life.
Since Joseph received his instruction in a dream , as did the
W ise M en, it follows th a t he had some know ledge of their Sci­
ence and received know ledge from th e ir H oly Orders while
absent from his body.
*
(2:15-16-17-18-19-20)— “A n d w a s there until the death of
H ero d , that it m ig h t be fu lfilled w h ich w as spoken of the
L o rd by the prophet, saying, O u t o f E g y p t have I called
m y Son. T h en H ero d , w h en he sa w that he was mocked
o f the w ise m en, w as exceeding w ro th , and sent forth,
and slew all the children that w ere in Bethlehem , and m
all the coasts th ereo f, fr o m tw o yea rs old and under, ac­
cording to the tim e w h ich he had diligently inquired of
the w ise m en. T h en w as fu lfilled that w hich was spoken
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 425
by Jerem y the prophet, saying, In R am a w as there a
voice heard, lam entation, and w eeping, and great m ourn­
ing, R achel w eeping fo r her children, and w ould not be
com forted, because th ey are not. B u t w hen H erod was
dead, behold, an angel o f the L o rd appeareth in a dream
to Joseph in E g yp t. S a yin g , A rise, and take the young
child and H is m other, and go into the land o f Israel: fo r
they are dead w hich so u g h t the young child’s life”.
The sins of H erod hastened his death, proving the pow er of
sin to destroy the sinner. T h e angel or invisible messenger ap-
pears in a dream to Joseph w ho had attained to a knowledge of
mind through m editation. H e is inform ed th a t those w ho sought
the child’s life are dead, dem onstrating the pow er of W isdom ,
Love and L ight over the evils of the flesh, for no one can oppose
Divine W isdom and G od w ith o u t bringing about their own
destruction and prem ature death. A n understanding of M ind,
Goodness and Love preserves life, likewise obedience to the voice
of Spirit leads one to Light.
(2:21-22-23)— “A n d he arose, and took the young child and
H is m other, and cam e into the land o f Israel. B u t w hen
he heard that A rch ela u s d id reign in Judaea in the room
o f his fa th e r H ero d , he w a s afraid to go thither: no t­
w ithstanding, being w arned o f God in a dream , he turned
aside into the parts o f G alilee: A n d he came and dw elt in
a city called N a za reth : that it m ight be fulfilled which
was spoken by the prophets, H e shall be called a
N azarene”.
Even though the D ivine voice spoke to Joseph, he changed
his plans, w hich dem onstrates the freedom of W ill of an indi­
vidual to either obey the D ivine voice or use their own reasoning
power. Joseph conscious of the D ivine mission of Jesus fulfills
the ancient prophecy.
(3 :l-2-3-4)— “In those days cam e John the B aptist preaching
in the w ilderness o f Judaea, and saying, R ep en t ye: fo r
the kingdom o f heaven is at hand. F or this is H e that w as
spoken o f by the prophet Esaias, saying, T he voice o f
one crying in the w ilderness, P repare ye the w ay o f the
426 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
L o rd , m ake H is pa th s straight. A n d the sam e John had
his ra im ent o f cam el’s hair, and a leathern girdle about
his loins; and his m eat w a s locusts and w ild honey’’.
John, the forerunner of th e M aster dw elt in the wilderness
living th e life of an ascetic, overcom ing his body. His diet was
“locusts and w ild honey”, a vegetarian’s diet. H is raiment of
cam el’s hair was th e sacred garb of one of th e O rder of Essenees,
a H ebrew O rd er of M agi, proclaim ing th e fulfillment of the
prophecies and th e advent of the Son of God. H e called upon
the people to “ repent ye fo r th e kingdom of heaven is at hand”,
m eaning the pow er to dem onstrate th e heavenly powers was
present at th a t tim e, for a M aster w as com ing to deliver his
people from sin th ro u g h enlightenm ent and understanding. John
is symbolical of th e voice of th e conscience w hich calls upon
men to repent of th e ir sins and tu rn m entally tow ard God and
Good, and prepare to m eet th e M aster in th e silence and bliss
of Infinite Spirit w hich m anifests in th e soul.
(3:5-6-7-8-9-10)— " T h e n w e n t out to h im Jerusalem , and all
Judaea, and all the region rou n d about Jordan. A nd were
baptized o f him in Jordan, co n fessin g their sins. But
w hen he saw m any o f the P h a risees and Sadducees come
to his baptism , he said unto them , 0 generation o f vipers,
w ho hath w arned yo u to flee fr o m the w rath to comef
B rin g fo r th th erefo re fr u its m eet fo r repentance: And
think n o t to say w ith in yo u rselves w e have Abraham to
our fa th e r: fo r I say un to yo u , th a t G od is able o f these
stones to raise up children un to A b ra h a m . A n d now also
the axe is laid un to the root o f the trees: therefore every
tree w hich bringeth no t fo r th good fr u it, is hew n down,
and cast into the fire”.
T h e m ultitudes come to receive th e blessings of a saint,
vhile the Pharisees come to scorn th e M essenger of Truth anc
Light. T hey are inform ed th a t “th e axe is laid unto the root ,
m eaning T ru th crushed to earth by religious systems will rise
again”. T h a t the axe shall hew dow n all trees w hich bringeth
forth corrupt fruit, means th a t the religious systems which teach
ignorance and falsehood will be com pletely destroyed; “cast into
the fire” means they will be erased from th e face of the earth.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 427
“The generation of vipers” are those w ho scorn the M essenger
of Divinity and cling to age w orn superstitions and ideas, and
who visited the baptism only to scoff at T ruth. These are a
prototype of m odern scoffers w ho desire to destroy Divine M ind
Science that the doctrines of darkness may live and thrive on
the ignorance of th e people. Super M ind Science has been
persecuted by such m odern Pharisees, b u t has risen trium phant
for it is the very essence of T ru th .
(3:11)— “I indeed baptize yo u w ith w ater unto repentance;
but H e that com eth a fte r m e is m ightier than I, whose
shoes I am n o t w o rth y to bear: he shall baptize you w ith
the H o ly G host, and w ith fire”.
Here John ends the baptism of w ater w hich was only “unti
repentance”, and predicts th a t the M aster will baptize w ith the
Holy G host and fire; H oly G host m eaning life energy and
power; Fire m eaning spiritual wisdom. O ne acquires true bap­
tism only by doing good deeds and receiving spiritual instruction
which causes them to change from a life of m ateriality to one
of spirituality, or they are “borned again” into a new spiritual
understanding and a heavenly concept of Life, Light and Being.
Such baptism cannot be conferred by man, but m ust come from
spiritual m editation and true spiritual enlightenm ent, an
experience w ithin. Super M ind Science teaches this form of
baptism and proclaim s th e end of materialism and w ater baptism,
and the beginning of th e era of D ivine illumination.
(3:12-13-14-15-16-17) — “W h o se fa n is in his hand, and he
will thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his w heat into
the garner; but he w ill burn up the chaff w ith unquench­
able fire. T h en com eth Jesu s fro m Galilee to Jordan, unto
John, to be baptized o f him . B u t John forbad him , say­
ing, I have need to be baptized o f thee, and com est thou
to m e? A n d Jesu s answ ering, said unto him , S u ffer it to
be so no w : fo r th u s it becom eth us to fu lfil all right­
eousness. T h en he su ffered him . A n d Jesus, w hen H e
was baptized, w en t up straightw ay out o f the w ater; and,
lo, the heavens w ere opened unto H im , and H e saw the
Spirit o f G od descending like a dove, and lighting upon
428 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
h im : A n d , lo, a voice fr o m heaven, saying, This is My
beloved S o n , in w h o m 1 am w ell pleased”.
T h e disciple baptizes the M aster as the end of material
baptism approaches and the D ivine heavenly voice proclaims
H im the Son of th e Infinite or G od, expressing satisfaction with
H im and approving H im as the M essenger of Light and Love
w ho had prepared H im self to becom e the incarnation of the
Spirit of the C hrist. John w hose perception of Divinity was
keen, realized th ro u g h Infinite M ind being pleased with the
deeds and life of the one w ho received th e D ivine sacrament,
the fulfillm ent of all righteousness in ending w ater baptism and
substituting the spiritual baptism . W h e n this baptism took place,
according to records of th e “ H oly O rd ers”, Jesus had returned
from seventeen years of w andering in India, Egypt and Persia.
H e was now ready to resist all tem ptation and begin His mission
as the D ivine M essiah to Israel and the w orld. H e had meditated
in the fastness of th e H im alayas and had conversed with the
M agi of T ibet, H e had lived in a B uddhaist monastery, had
practiced self control and m ind discipline. G uided by Infinite
Spirit, H e returned to Judah to fulfill the prophecies and
dem onstrate Spirit over flesh, m ind over m atter and Divinity
over disease. H is absence w as a period of study of all the
w orld’s religions, philosophies, arts and sciences, w ith a view of
suprem e attainm ent and M essiahship in th e future, in order to
prove T h e T ru th , T h e W a y and T h e L ife”. His inner desire
was to lead Judah out of its spiritual wilderness and mental
slavery into a true realization of G od and Love.
(4 :1 -2 ) — “T h en w as Jesu s led up o f the S p irit into the wil­
derness, to be tem p ted o f the devil. A n d w hen He had
fa ste d fo r ty days and fo r ty nights, H e w as afterward an
hungered”.
T h e Spirit led Jesus into th e w ilderness after His baptism.
T his is the custom of E astern H oly M en, w ho go into the
solitude and m editate follow ing th e acceptance of any grelt
spiritual responsibility. H e was to be tem pted mentally by the
devil whose literal m eaning is a slanderer or adversary of Good
and God. Scientifically, this is a low seductive mental faculty
w hich disputes D ivinity, Love and T ru th , called in Super Mind
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 429
Science “lower th o u g h t w ave’’. H e was to m aster this mental
faculty and declare H is spirituality and m astership w ithin H im '
self over the flesh. D uring this m ental and spiritual struggle, H e
fasted so H is m ental strength could be used to overcome the
adversary. A ll m ental pow ers w ere concentrated on this supreme
struggle w hich was to decide H is M astership and victory over
the flesh, after w hich H e hungered.
(4:3-4-5-6-7-8*9-10)— '" A n d w h en the tem pter came to H im ,
he said, I f T h o u be the S o n o f God, com m and that these
stones be m ade bread. B u t H e answ ered and said, I t is
W ritten, M a n shall not live by bread alone, but by every
w ord that proceedeth o u t o f the m outh o f God. T hen the
devil taketh H im up into the holy city, and setteth H im
on a pinnacle o f the tem ple. A n d saith unto H im , i f Thou
be the S o n o f G od, cast T h y se lf dow n: fo r it is w ritten,
H e shall give H is angels charge concerning thee; and in
their hands they shall bear T hee up, lest at any tim e Thou
dash T h y fo o t against a stone. le s u s said unto H im , I t is
w ritten again. T h o u shalt not tem pt the L o rd thy God.
A gain, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high
m ountain, and sh ew eth H im all the kingdom s o f the
w orld, and the glory o f th em ; and saith unto H im , A ll
these things w ill I give T hee, i f T h o u w ilt fa ll dow n and
w orship me. T h en saith le s u s unto H im , Get thee hence,
Satan: fo r it is w ritten , T h o u shalt w orship the L o rd thy
God, and H im only shalt thou serve”.
T he m ental slanderer or false faculty of carnal mind
challenges Spirit to do unreasonable things not in harm ony w ith
Divine law and order. H ow ever, the M aster having attained
complete self m astery, rebukes this mental entity which would
mislead even the Son of G od by presenting earthly glory to
His mental vision. T h e M aster proves His positive self control
by asserting D ivinity over th e seeming powers of evil, and
comanding H is adversary to w orship “the Lord thy G od . Years
of preparation and careful analysis made this dem onstration
possible; strength of character and W ill proved the greatest ally
of Spirit. M ind Science teaches how one may develop this
power of m ind to resist evil and fleshly influences.
430 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(4 :1 1 ) — “T h en the devil leaveth H im , and behold, angels
cam e and m in istered un to H im " .
W h en evil is overcom e th en D ivinity manifests, demon­
strating th e light of Spirit, Love and T ru th . Darkness remains
only until m astership is attained and asserted over the carnal
faculties of m ind, th en M essengers of Love m inister to him who
attains to spiritual illum ination, bliss, peace and mastership.
(4:12-13-14-15-16-17 ) — “N o w w h en Jesu s had heard that
Jo h n w a s cast into prison, H e departed into Galilee;
A n d leaving N a za reth , H e cam e and d w elt in Capernaum,
w hich is upon the sea coast, in the borders o f Zabulon
and N ep h th a lim : T h a t it m ig h t be fu lfilled which was
sp o ken by E saias the p ro p h et, saying, T he land o f Zabu­
lon, and the land o f N ep h th a lim , by the w ay o f the sea,
beyond Jordan, Galilee o f the G entiles: T he people which
sat in darkness sa w great lig h t: and to them which sat in
the region and sh a d o w o f death, lig h t is sprung up. From
th a t tim e Jesu s began to preach, and to say, Repent: for
the kin g d o m o f heaven is at hand".
T h e people w ho sat in darkness sym bolises those who are
content to rem ain in m ental darkness. T h e light which sprung
up was th e doctrine of m astership over flesh, a means of escape
from the “shadow of d eath ”. Jesus preached the doctrine of
spiritual liberation from sin on H is w ay to assist John whom
th e physical m inded R abbis had caused to be imprisoned to
prevent his preaching th e T ru th . •
(4:18-19-20-21-22)— “A n d Jesus, w a lkin g by the sea of
Galilee, sa w tw o brethren, S im o n called Peter, and An­
d rew his brother, casting a n et into the sea: fo r they were
fishers. A n d he saith un to th em , F o llo w m e, and / will
m ake yo u fishers o f m en. A n d th ey straightw ay left then
nets, and fo llo w ed him . A n d going on fro m thence, He
saw other tw o brethren, Jam es the son o f Zebedee, and
John, his brother, in a ship w ith Zebedee their father,
m ending their nets: and H e called them . A n d they im­
m ediately le ft the ship and their fa th er, and followed
h im ”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 431
A strange pow er of attraction is m anifest in the personality
of the M aster w hich causes spiritual types of people to follow
Him. He selected th e spiritual types to become His disciples so
they would be capable of understanding the deep spiritual
Truths of Being. T h e irresistible im pulse of Love was the motiv-
ating force w hich caused th e fisherm en of Galilee, draw n by the
magnet of Infinite W isdom , to leave all and follow after “T he
light of the w orld”.
(4:23-24-25)— "And. Jesu s w en t about all Galilee, teaching in
their synagogues, and preaching the gospel o f the king­
dom, and healing all m a n n er o f sickness, and all m anner
o f disease am ong the people. A n d H is fa m e w en t through­
out all S yria ; and th ey brought unto H im all sick people
that w ere taken w ith divers diseases and torm ents, and
those w hich w ere possessed w ith devils, and those w hich
were lunatic, and those that had the palsy; and he healed
them. A n d there fo llo w e d H im great m ultitudes o f
people fro m Galilee, and fr o m D ecapolis, and fro m Jeru­
salem, and fr o m Judaea, and fro m beyond Jordan”.
Healing the sick was th e first mission of Christ, for H e
realized that a doctrine m ust first dem onstrate th at it can save
the body before it can dem onstrate saving the sold. Jesus
founded a system of healing through Spirit and mind, and
selected receptive types fo r disciples so they could learn His
Science and dem onstrate it. A s H e proved the pow er of mind
over m atter and the w eakness of the flesh, His dem onstrations at­
tracted the m ultitudes because they had never heard of a religion
which could actually heal the sick, and the most of them were
also desirous of receiving a practical healing. T he first dem on­
stration of the mission of C hrist proves th at preaching was sec­
ondary to healing, y et th e m any systems of religion have ignored
the suffering of the sick and placed preaching first. Super M ind
Science dem onstrates this prim al C hristian healing. T he Founder
thereof and the thousands of followers have proven by healing
the blind, the deaf and the lame through control of life energy
and mind over m atter, th a t Jesus founded the only scientific
healing system th a t is dependable.
(5:1-2)— " A n d seeing the m ultitudes, he w ent up into a
432 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
m o untain: and w h en H e w a s set, H is disciples came unto
H im : A n d he opened his m o u th , and taught them , saying".
Spiritual M asters teach th eir disciples by w ord of mouth
and sit un d er the trees com m uning w ith N ature. Jesus as the
M aster of M asters follows this ancient custom , revealing the
deepest spiritual T ru th s th ro u g h w ord symbolism and the com­
posing of proverbs. Each sentence u ttered by the Master has
tw o m eanings, one esoteric and one exoteric, the inner meaning
being fo r disciples and th e o u ter m eaning for the multitude.
Each one interprets th e m eaning according to the light given
to them , w hile the inner m eaning is interpreted by initiates
only.
(5 :3 )— "B lessed are the po o r in sp irit: fo r their1s is the king­
dom o f heaven”.
T h e poor in spirit are those w ho have sacrificed the riches
of the w orld for the attainm ent of spirituality, thus manifesting
T ru th , Love, L ight and peace.
( 5 :4 )— "B lessed are th ey that m o u rn : fo r they shall be com­
fo rte d ”.
Infinite Spirit th ro u g h th e m anifestation of Divine Mind
and soul com m union com forts those w ho sorrow.
( 5 :5 )— “B lessed are the m eek: fo r th ey shall inherit the
earth”.
M eekness is a pre-requisite to m astership of the body, those
w ho possess it shall overcom e th e body or “inherit the earth”.
( 5 :6 )— "B lessed are th ey w h ich do hunger and thirst after
rig h teo u sn ess: fo r th ey shall be filled”.
A desire for righteousness produces its ow n reward, fulfill­
ing th e law “as ye sow, so shall ye also reap”.
( 5 :7 ) — "B lessed are the m ercifu l: fo r they shall obtain
m ercy”.
T hose w ho sow seeds of M ercy and Love receive the same
in return, such is th e D ivine Law of Com pensation.
( 5 :8 )— "B lessed are the pure in heart: fo r they shall see
G od”.
G od is pure, those w ho attain p u rity m erge with the In­
finite Spirit and see G od and G ood th ro u g h Infinite harmony.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 433
(5 :9 )— ‘‘Blessed, are the peacem akers: fo r they shall be called
the children o f G od”.
God is Peace, P u rity and Love, therefore the peacemakers
manifest a G odly quality, and are called “children of G od”.
(5:10)— ‘‘B lessed are th ey w hich are persecuted fo r right­
eousness sake: fo r their’s is the kingdom o f heaven”.
Those w ho are persecuted fo r righteousness’ sake attain to
heavenly bliss, harm ony and love; w ith their m ind firmly fixed
upon God they cannot go astray. T h ey shall attain supreme
spiritual understanding, w hile those w ho persecute them shall
destroy themselves.
(5:11)— ‘‘B lessed are ye, w h en m en shall revile you, and per­
secute you, and shall say all m anner o f evil against you
falsely, fo r m y sake”.
Divine goodness blesses those w ho are the victims of plot­
ters and schemers, it blesses th e persecuted D ivine M essenger
who is healing th e sick and doing the C hristly deeds.
(5:12)— “R ejoice, and be exceeding glad: fo r great is your
reward in heaven: fo r so persecuted they the prophets,
which w ere befo re yo u ”.
The prophets and m essengers of hum anity have always been
persecuted because the w orld loveth the ways of darkness, but
the Divine rew ard of the prophet is heavenly inspiration.
(5:13)— “Y e are the salt o f the earth: but if the salt have lost
his savour, w h erew ith shall it be salted? I t is thence­
fo rth good fo r nothing, but to be cast out, and to be
trodden u n d er fo o t o f m en”.
W hen the follow ers of th e M aster cease to be doers of
the Divine works, th ey lose th eir savour spiritually, for w hat
use is it to proclaim belief in C hrist, yet despise healing the
sick and teaching th e T ru th to th e poor?
(5:14)— “Y e are the light o f the w orld. A city that is set on
an hill cannot be hid”.
The one w ho dem onstrates over disease and sin is “the light
of the w orld” since they prove the goodness of God. T heir
works are outstanding, or they are “a city set on a high hill ,
symbolical of higher spiritual wisdom and power.
(5:15)— “N eith er do m en light a candle, and put it under a
bushel, but on a ca n dlestick; and it giveth light unto all
434 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
that are in the house’’.
W h e n one perform s D ivine deeds th eir light shines before
them , th eir light is not “u n d er a bushel” ; therefore, let your
dem onstrations prove your spiritual illum ination.
(5 :1 6 )— “L e t yo u r light so shine b efo re m en, that they may
see y o u r good w o rks, and g lo rify yo u r F ather which is in
heaven’’.
Salvation comes from deeds n o t belief. “ Letting your light
shine’ is to m anifest self m astery over sin, disease and sorrow
th rough the C hrist Spirit w ithin.
(5 :17 )— “T h in k not th a t I am com e to d estro y the law, or the
p ro p h ets; I am n o t com e to d estro y, but to fulfill’’.
Jesus came to fulfill all D ivine laws and prophecies, He did
n o t come to condem n. T herefore, those w ho follow Him must
fulfill all goodness and righteousness th ro u g h demonstration of
the D ivine W ill of the Father.
(5 :1 8 )— “F o r verily I say unto yo u , T ill heaven and earth
pass, one jo t or one tittle shall in no w ise pass from the
law , till all be fu lfilled ”.
T h e universe exists un d er fixed unchangeable laws, and
these laws shall be fulfilled, even Infinite Spirit will not change
them , for the C reator of the law is one w ith them . T he supreme
law is com pensation or sow ing and reaping, w hile the laws of
life are positive and negative m ind force, and through these
laws m astership over the flesh is m ade possible.
(5 :1 9 )— “W h o so ever th erefo re shall break one o f these least
com m andm ents, and shall teach m en so, he shall be called
the least in the kin g d o m o f h ea ven ; but w hosoever shall
do and teach them , the sam e shall be called great in the
kingdom o f heaven”.
W h en one becom es too positive or too negative, their mind
is n o n p ro d u ctiv e and therefore lacking self control. They never
attain im m ortality or “ they shall be the least in heaven \ while
those w ho teach th e laws of m ind and life shall be great in the
kingdom of heaven because they attain to self mastery.
(5 :2 0 )— “F o r I say unto you, T h a t excep t yo u r righteousness
shall exceed the righteousness o f the scribes and Phari­
sees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom o f heaven ■
T h e selfish or self righteousness of th e Pharisees was based
on belief in sacrificial atonem ent th ro u g h the blood of animals
as practiced in Judahism . T h eir doctrine w as void of teaching
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 435
the necessity of inner spiritual com m union and baptism, self
mastery or spiritual wisdom , therefore, Jesus the C hrist pro­
nounced such doctrines false and gave forth new precepts to be
followed by Christians.
(5:21-22)— “Y e have heard that it w as said by them o f old
time, T hou shalt n o t kill: and w h o ever shall kill shall be
in danger o f the ju d g m e n t: B u t I say unto you, That
w hosoever is angry w ith his brother w ith o u t a cause,
shall be in danger o f the ju d g m e n t; and w hosoever shall
say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger o f the council:
but w hosoever shall say, T h o u fo o l, shall be in danger
o f hell fire”.
Jesus here becom es th e cham pion of the falsely accused,
pronouncing a m ore drastic judgm ent on the accusers than was
contained in the law of M oses, H e includes the mental attitudes
as well as the sin of killing. “R aca” m eaning w orthless is for­
bidden to be used, w hile “hell fire” means destruction through
the lower nature, or fires of passion w hich produce carnalistic
mental m anifestations of tem per and uncontrolled thought and
speech.
(5:23-24)— “T h erefo re, i f thou bring thy g ift to the altar,
and there rem em berest that th y brother hath ought
against thee, leave there th y g ift before the altar, and go
thy w a y; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come
and offer thy g ift”.
It has long been th e custom in O riental countries to put
all malice out of th e m ind and then to approach the altar and
deposit a gift, w hich is usually a floral offering, casting aside all
sin and thoughts of evil. H ow ever, Jesus tells them here that
they must be first reconciled to th eir fellowman before this
mental process can be dem onstrated as a succesful means of
contacting Infinite Spirit, D ivine Love and spiritual harmony.
In India this is called th e D ivine Brahm anic Com munion and is
accompanied by th e burning of incense as a symbol of mental
and spiritual purification.
(5:25-26)— “A g ree w ith thine adversary quickly, w hiles thou
art in the w ay w ith h im ; lest at any tim e the adversary
deliver thee to the ju d g e, and the judge deliver thee to the
officer, and thou be cast into prison. V erily I say unto
thee, T hou shalt by no m eans come out thence, till thou
hast paid the u tterm o st fa rth in g ”.
436 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
M ental harm ony is the m astery of life, therefore mental
contention and argum ents are th e forerunners of trouble. One
should be able to control them selves w hen they come in contact
w ith those w ho oppose them , lest th e ir opponent’s temper and
uncontrolled em otions w ould arise, causing him to take advan­
tage of anyone w ho w ould oppose him . Disciples of the Truth
pay to the utm ost fo r the sm allest oifenses because the world
loveth darkness, and its w ays are unjust.
(5 :2 7 -2 8 )— “Y e have heard th a t it w as said by them of old
tim e, T h o u shalt n o t co m m it a d u ltery: B u t I say unto
yo u , T h a t w h o so ever lo o keth on a w om an to lust after
her, hath co m m itted ad u ltery w ith her already in his
heart”.
W h ile the law of M oses recognized and punished the sin­
ner according to his physical deeds, Jesus included the mental
desire, show ing it to be th e original sin. T h is proved He valued
thoughts as m uch as physical deeds, or revealed H e was a Divine
M ind Scientist w ith a know ledge of m ental intentions.
(5 :2 9 -3 0 )— “A n d i f th y rig h t eye o ffen d thee, pluck it out,
and cast it fr o m th ee; fo r it is profitable fo r thee that
one o f th y m em bers should perish, and not that thy whole
body should be cast into hell. A n d i f thy right hand
o ffend thee, cut it o ff, and cast it fr o m thee: for it is
profitable fo r thee th a t one o f th y m em bers should perish,
and not that th y w hole body sh o u ld be cast into hell”.
Body m em ber here symbolizes personalities who are at­
tached to m em bers of th eir fam ilies or th eir friends, to the ex­
ten t th a t they follow after evil to please them . T hey enter the
gate of destruction th ro u g h the path of friendship or human at­
tachm ent. T h ey are advised to break these attachments and
avoid destruction.
(5 :3 1 -3 2 )— “I t hath been said, W h o so ever shall put away his_
w ife , let him give her a w ritin g o f divorcem ent: But l
say unto you, T h a t w h o so ever shall p u t away his wife,
saving fo r the cause o f fo rn ica tio n , causeth her to com­
m it a d u ltery: and w h o so ever shall m arry her that is di­
vorced, co m m itteth adu ltery”.
T h e sin o f breaking fam ily ties is regarded as serious by
C hrist Jesus w ho condem ns it except on the grounds of fornica
tion and the follow ing of o th er evils to please one s relatives.
Since the purpose of m arriage should be com panionable and pro-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 437
creative in principle, it follows th a t this law is according to
Divine Justice. Sins of breaking hom e ties, like other sins, can
be overcome th ro u g h th e attainm ent of self control and mental
discipline.
(5:33-34-35-36-37)— “A g a in , ye have heard that it hath been
said by them o f old tim e, T h o u shalt not forsw ear thyself,
but shalt p erfo rm unto the L o rd thine oaths: B u t I say
unto you, sw ea r no t at all: neither by heaven; fo r it is
God’s throne: N o r by the earth; fo r it is his footstool:
neither by Jeru sa lem ; fo r it is the city o f the great King.
N either shalt thou sw ear by thy head, because thou canst
not m ake one hair w h ite or black. B u t let your com ­
m unication be, Y ea, yea ; N a y, nay, fo r w hatsoever is
more than these, com eth o f evil”.
Rash promises and useless oaths represent a negative m en'
tal attitude. A positive yea or nay is better than any negative
swearing, therefore one should control their conversation, mak­
ing it positive and to th e point and avoid binding statements
and gossip. T his is conducive to positive mental mastership and
high spiritual attainm ent.
(5:38-39-40-41-42)— “Y e have heard that it hath been said,
A n eye fo r an eye, and a tooth fo r a tooth: B u t I say
unto you, T h a t ye resist not evil; but w hosoever shall
sm ite thee on th y rig h t cheek, turn to him the other also.
A n d if any m an w ill sue thee at the law, and take away
thy coat, let h im have th y cloke also. A n d w hosoever
shall com pel thee to go a m ile, go w ith him twain. Give
to him that asketh thee, and fro m him that zvould borrow
o f thee turn no t th o u aw ay”.
Jesus, the C hrist proclaim ed the doctrine of non-resistance
and returning good fo r evil. H e condem ned the law of Moses
which taught one to punish th eir enemy, proving that Divine
Love overcomes evil. T h e reluctance of the world to apply this
law dem onstrates th eir unw illingness to apply the Christ prin­
ciples. Physical retaliation is a sin, and one cannot overcome
evil with evil. T h e State cannot overcome crimes by itself com­
mitting a crime, therefore, w hen m ankind learns to return good
for evil and overcom e sin w ith righteousness, the kingdom of
Good and G od will m anifest on earth.
(5:43-44-45-46-47-48) — '" Y e have heard that it hath been
said, T hou shalt love th y neighbour, and hate thine enem y:
438 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
B u t I say unto yo u , L o v e y o u r enem ies, bless them, that
curse you, do good to th em that hate you, and pray for
them w h ich d e sp itefu lly use yo u , and persecute you; That
ye m a y be the children o f y o u r F a th er w hich is in heaven:
fo r H e m a keth H is su n to rise on the evil and on the good,
and sendeth rain on the ju s t and on the unjust. For if ye
love them w h ich love you, w h a t rew ard have ye? do not
even the publicans the sam e? A n d i f ye salute your
brethren only, w h a t do ye m ore than o thers? do not even
the publicans so? B e ye th erefo re perfect, even as your
F a th er w h ich is in heaven is p e rfe c t”.
T h e doctrine of Love is th e teaching of Christ. Daily deeds
of Love are the seeds w hich bear th e ir fruit. Those who con­
tinually retu rn evil w ith good w ill sham e th eir enemy and will
becom e the m aster of th eir em otions, dem onstrating the power of
Infinite Spirit to reform and regenerate the sinner. Techniques
of pow er are needed to curb th e low er sensations, these are
tau g h t in the higher branches of S uper M ind Science, making
it possible fo r one to attain spiritual illum ination, heavenly per­
fection and D ivine M ind harm ony.
(6 :l-2 -3 -4 )— “T a ke heed that ye do not yo u r alm s before men,
to be seen o f th em ; o therw ise ye have no reward of your
F a th er w h ich is in heaven. T h e re fo re w hen thou doest
thine alm s, do n o t sou n d a tru m p et before thee, as the
h yp o crites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that
they m ay have glory o f m en. V erily I say unto you, They
have th eir rew ard. B u t w h e n th o u doest alms, let not
th y le ft hand k n o w w h a t th y rig h t hand doeth: That
thine alm s m ay be in secret; and th y F ather, which seeth
in secret, H im s e lf shall rew a rd thee openly”.
T hose w ho give to charity in order th a t men may praise
them , loose the heavenly rew ard w hich comes from sincere char­
ity in th e silence of th e soul. H ypocrites and those who love
m aterialism destroy th e m em ory of th e ir soul through earthly
attachm ents. D ivine blessings com e in secret or in the silence
to those w ho do good.
(6 :5 -6 -7 -8 )— “A n d w h en th o u prayest, thou shalt not be as
the hypocrites are: fo r th ey love to pray standing in the
synagogues and in the corners o f the streets, that they
m ay be seen o f them . V erily I say unto you, They have
their rew ard. B u t thou, w h en thou prayest, enter into
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 439
thy closet, and w h en th o u hast sh u t thy door, pray to thy
Father, w hich is in secret, and th y F ather, w hich seeth in
secret, shall rew ard thee openly. B u t w hen ye pray, use
not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: fo r they think
that they shall be heard fo r th eir m uch speaking. Be not
ye therefore like un to th em ; fo r yo u r F ather know eth
what things ye have need o f before ye ask H im ”.
Prayers in public, and audible repetitions from prayer books
of creeds have th eir rew ard, b u t tru e prayer is the prayer of
silence which know s th a t “ G od know eth your w ants before ye
ask them”. A silent m ental concentration coming from a sin'
cere heart receives its results or rew ard openly. G od is M ind
and true prayer is sincere th ought, therefore these bring results
or are answered, show ing the w isdom of Infinite M ind and the
value of sincerity.
(6 :9 -1 0 -ll-1 2 -1 3 )‘L 4 /fcr this m anner therefore pray ye; O ur
Father w hich are in heaven, H allow ed be T h y name. Thy
kingdom com e, T h y w ill be done in earth, as it is in
heaven. G ive u s this day our daily bread: A n d forgive
us our debts, as w e fo rg iv e our debtors. A n d lead us not
into tem ptation, but d eliver us fro m evil: F or thine is the
kingdom , and the pow er, and the glory fo r ever. A m en ”.
The prayer of O u r L ord is th e understanding and applica­
tion of the idea of m ental aw areness of G od in our daily life;
and the law of sow ing and reaping. It is a realization of Divine
Justice, Love, T ru th and L ight m anifest in m an’s consciousness.
(6:14-15-16-17-18)— “F o r i f ye fo rg ive m en their trespasses,
your heavenly F a th er w ill also fo rg ive you. B u t if ye
forgive not m en their trespasses, neither w ill your Father
forgive yo u r trespasses. M oreover, w hen ye fa st, be not,
as the hypocrites, o f a sad countenance: fo r they disfigure
their faces, that th ey m ay appear 'unto m en to fast.
Verily, I say unto yo u , T h e y have their reward. B u t
thou, w hen thou fa ste st, anoint thine head, and w ash thy
face; T h a t thou appear n o t unto m en to fa st, but unto
thy F ather w hich is in secret; and thy Father, w hich seest
in secret, shall rew ard thee openly”.
The mental attitude of happiness in doing good is required
of the true C hristian th a t he m ay appear as he really is unto
his fellowman. Special dress and m arks of distinction as to out­
ward appearance are th e m ark of the hypocrite, while inner
440 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
spiritual harm ony and sincerity is th e m ental attitude of the
follow er of C hrist w ho realizes harm ony w ith the “will of Him
w ho sent us into the w orld” . T h is W ill heals disease and pro­
duces happiness w hich radiates in th e personality of those who
attain.
(6 :1 9 -2 0 -2 1 ) — “L a y not up fo r yo u rselves treasures upon
earth, w h ere m o th and ru st do th corrupt, and where
thieves break through and steal: B u t lay up fo r your­
selves treasures in heaven, w h ere neith er m other nor rust
do th corrupt, and w h ere th ieves do n o t break through nor
steal; F o r w h ere y o u r treasure is, there w ill your heart
be also”.
Possession of w ealth fo r carnal purposes is a sin, the only
true w ealth is spiritual wisdom . T ru e happiness manifests in the
life of those w ho do good, th ey store up treasures in their own
record or “Lam b’s Book of L ife” w hich later becomes the illu­
m ination of th eir soul, guiding them onw ard and upward toward
im m ortal Love, L ight and T ru th .
(6 :2 2 )— “T h e light o f the body is the eye; i f therefore thine
eye be single, the w hole body shall be fu ll o f light”.
T h e single eye is concentrated spiritual vision, an eye for
G ood and D ivinity only, w hich fills one w ith bliss, light, peace
and spiritual understanding. R egardless of the pairs of oppo­
sites, there is b u t one G ood, one spiritual vision of Good and
Love. T h is is the D ivine Infinite spiritual vision which is at­
tained th rough practicing the m ethods of m ind control and spir­
itual realization in higher M ind Science, causing the mind to
harm onize w ith T ru th , Love and Justice.
(6 :2 3 -2 4 -2 5 ) — “B u t i f thine eye be evil, th y w hole body shall
be fu ll o f darkness. I f th erefo re the light that is in thee
be darkness, h o w great is that d a rkn ess! N o man can
serve tw o m asters: fo r either he w ill hate the one, and
love the o th e r; or else he w ill hold to the one, and despise
the other. Y e cannot serve G od and m am m on. Therefore
I say unto yo u , T a ke no th o u g h t fo r yo u r life, what ye
shall eat, or w h a t ye shall d r in k ; n o r y e t fo r your body,
w h a t ye shall p u t on. Is not the life m ore than meat, and
the body than ra im ent”?
T hose w ho possess no spiritual vision are lost on the sea
of life, behold how great is th eir darkness! If one is concen­
trated upon G od and G ood, all things such as prosperity and
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 441
success shall be added unto them , therefore they need no
thought of the future. T h eir m entality resting on Good is suf­
ficient to produce all of th e necessities of Life and Being, dem on­
strating all requirem ents for this life and continued existence in
the next. T he Science of Life teaches concentration of mind on
Good and away from evil, on Spirit aw ay from flesh, and on
mind away from m atter, w here Infinite unity in the principle of
Love becomes eternal light.
(6:26-27-28-29) — “B eh o ld the fo w ls o f the air: fo r they sow
not, neither do th ey reap, no r gather into barns; yet your
heavenly F a th er fe e d e th them . A re ye not m uch better
than th e y ? W h ich o f yo u by taking thought can add one
cubit unto h is sta tu re ? A n d w h y take ye thought fo r rai­
m ent? C onsider the lilies o f the field, how they grow ;
they toil not, n eith er do they spin. A n d yet I say unto
you, T h a t even S o lo m o n in all h is glory w as not arrayed
like one o f these’’.
N atural beauty is G odly, rew ard is from goodness, not
from toil. T h e intention in toiling is valued more than the
work done, therefore natural beauty comes from obedience to
the laws of life. G oodness is the true source of supply. Jesus
emphasized this conform ing to natural law through explaining
the beauty of the created universe.
(6:30-31-32-33-34)— “W h erefo re, if God so clothe the grass
o f the field, w hich today is, and tom orrow is cast into the
oven, shall he not m uch m ore clothe you, 0 ye o f little
fa ith ? T h erefo re ta ke no thought, saying, W hat shall we
eat? or, W h a t shall w e d rin k ? or, W herew ithal shall we
be clothed? F o r a fte r all these things do the Gentiles
seek; fo r yo u r heavenly F ather know eth that ye have
need o f all these things. B u t seek ye first the ikingdom
o f God, and his rig h teo u sn ess; and all these things shall
be added unto you. T a ke therefore no thought fo r the
m orrow ; fo r the m o rro w shall take thought fo r the
things o f itself. S u fficien t unto the day is the evil
thereof”.
W hen m ortal m ind seeks th e kingdom of Good all wants
Me provided for, and all vow s are sealed w hen mind unity is
established. A ll things required in life are produced by con­
centration on G ood w hich sets the wheels of life and the powers
of mind in m otion, dem onstrating the Infinite W ill in the prin-
442 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ciples of spiritual realization. T h erefore, w hen one thinks of their
G od w ithin them selves w hich m anifests as creative power and
supplies all w ants.
( 7 : 1-2-3-4-5) — “Ju d g e not, th a t ye be not judged. For with
w h a t ju d g m e n t ye ju d g e, ye shall be judged; and with
w h a t m easure ye m ete, it shall be m easured to you again.
A n d w h y beholdest thou the m ote that is in thy brother’s
eye, but considerest no t the beam that is in thine own eyet
O r h o w w ilt th o u say to th y brother, L e t m e pull out the
m o te out o f thine eye; and behold, a beam is in thine own
eye? T h o u h ypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine
ow n eye; and then shalt th o u see clearly to cast out the
m ote out o f th y brother’s eye”.
T h e tru th about one’s self is m anifested in their expression
of opinions of others. T hose w ho condem n others, judging
them u nw orthy of brotherly love, are expressing the faults of
th eir ow n self in th e ir criticism of th e ir fellowman. Self con­
trol is also speech control, those w hose consciousness is evil can­
n o t see good in others, w hile those w hose m entation is purified
see only good in everyone, fo r G od is Love and Love is a mental
attainm ent.
( 7 :6-7-8) — “G ive n o t th a t w h ich is holy unto the dogs, neither
cast ye yo u r pearls b efo re sw in e, lest they trample them
u n d er th eir fe e t, and tu rn again and rend you. Ask, and
it shall be g iven y o u ; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and
it shall be opened unto y o u ; F o r every one that asketh
receiveth ; and he that seeketh fin d eth ; and to him that
kn o cketh it shall be opened”.
H oly thoughts and high aspirations should not be expressed
to those w hose carnal m inded ideas rule them , since they invan-
ably ridicule all th a t is good and scorn those w ho are Messengers
of D ivine Light. A ll tru e seekers of w isdom find it in fulfilling
the law of sow ing and reaping, giving and receiving, for each
sincere th o u g h t opens th e doorw ay of D ivine consciousness, bliss
and love, flooding th e body w ith D ivine creative energy and
pow er. O ne is rew arded w ith D ivine pow er according to what
they m erit th ro u g h seeking and endeavoring to understand
D ivinity.
(7 :9 -1 0 -1 1 -1 2 ) — “O r w h a t m an is there o f you, whom if his
son ask bread, w ill he give h im a stone? O r if he ask a
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 443
fish, w ill he give h im a se rp e n tf I f ye then, being evil,
know how to give good g ifts unto yo u r children, how
much m ore shall yo u r F a th er w hich is in heaven give
good things to th em th a t ask h im ? T herefore all things
w hatsoever ye w o u ld that m en should do to you, do ye
even so to th em : fo r this is the law and the prophets”.
M ortal m ind cannot conceive D ivine Love except th at it be
measured by the golden rule of circum stances in life. Divine
Mind being universal functions as a Loving Father through the
law of giving and receiving. “A s ye give it shall be given unto
you, as you do unto others they will do unto you”, this is the
supreme law of all th e prophets, because m ind is creative and has
power to create either good or evil, according to the W ill. Those
who desire to attain spirituality m ust attain m ind control and
spiritual realization in th e Science of M ind. Belief cannot ac-
complish the w ork of th e W ill, since all laws of N ature are
positive and operate according to D ivine W ill.
(7:13-14)— ‘‘E n te r ye in at the stra it gate: fo r w ide is the
gate, and broad is the w a y that leadeth to destruction, and
many there be w h ich go in thereat; Because strait is the
gate, and narrow is the w ay, w hich leadeth unto life ; and
fe w there be that fin d it”.
Salvation is th ro u g h deeds, likewise remission of sins comes
only after the m ental attitude of atonem ent and reform ation.
The few w ho en ter th e strait gate are those w ho attain to good'
ness and spiritual illum ination. If all w ho affirm certain creeds
entered that gate of redem ption, this statem ent could not be true,
or it would be reversed. T h e self preservation instinct would
cause all to affirm the belief and yet go on doing evil deeds
which would make Jesus a c o p a rtn e r of sin, therefore, those
who desire to en ter th e strait gate should attain mind control,
do good deeds and learn to know G od is Good.
( 7 :15-16-17-18-19-20) — “B ew a re o f false prophets, w hich
come to yo u in sheep’s clothing, but inw ardly they are
ravening w olves. Y e shall kn o w them by their fru its. Do
men gather grapes o f thorns, or figs o f thistles? E ven
so every good tree bringeth fo r th good fr u it; but a cor­
rupt tree bringeth fo r th evil fru it. A good tree cannot
bring fo rth evil fr u it, neith er can a corrupt tree bring
forth good fru it. E v e ry tree that bringeth not fo rth good
fru it is hew n d ow n, and cast into the fire. W herefore by
444 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
their fr u its ye shall k n o w th em ”.
W e are to judge others by th e ir personal conduct, not by
their religious professions. If they are successful and do good
deeds w hich bear good fruit, th ey are to be accepted, if they
profess D ivinity and tell others how to save th eir souls yet their
fruits are corrupt, th ey are false prophets.
(7 :2 1 -2 2 -2 3 ) — “N o t every one th a t saith unto M e, Lord,
L o rd , shall en ter into the kin g d o m o f heaven; but he
that doeth the w ill o f M y F a th er w hich is in heaven.
M a n y w ill say to m e in th a t day, L o rd , L o rd , have we not
prophesied in T h y nam e ? and in T h y nam e have cast out
d evils? and in T h y nam e done m a n y w on d erfu l worksf
A n d then w ill 1 p ro fe ss unto th em , I never knew you:
depart fr o m m e, ye that w o rk in iq u ity”.
Long prayers and requests to G od and C hrist availeth little,
for only th e one w ho heals th e sick and doeth the Divine works
shall enter into im m ortality. T hose w ho pray for the sick may
cast out m ental obsessions, b u t unless they are good at heart
they are “w orkers of iniquity”. T h e affirming of a belief cannot
take the place of doing th e “will of th e F ath er”. Those depend­
ing on a belief to save th e ir soul w ill be told to “depart from
M e ye th a t w ork iniquity” .
( 7 :24-25-26-27-28-29)— “T h e re fo re , w h o so ever heareth these
things o f m ine, and d oeth th em , I w ill liken him unto a
w ise m an, w h ich built h is house upo n a rock: And the
rain descended, and the flo o d s cam e, and the winds blew,
and beat upon that ho u se; and it fe ll n ot; fo r it was
fo u n d e d upon a rock. A n d every one that heareth these
sayings o f M in e, and d oeth th em not, shall be likened
unto a fo o lish m an, w h ich built his house upon the sand:
A n d the rain descended, and the floods came, and the
w in d s blew , and beat upon th a t ho u se; and it fell; and
great w as the fa ll o f it. A n d it cam e to pass w hen Jesus
had ended these sayings, the people w ere astonished at His
doctrine: F o r H e taught them as one having authority,
and n o t as the scribes”.
T h e life founded upon good deeds exists on the solid rock
of spirituality and th e personality being positive withstands the
storm s of life, w hile those w ho depend upon a haphazard life,
throw ing the burdens of th eir sins upon Jesus, the Christ, build
their house upon the sands of changing corporeality. Good cor-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 445
responds to G od and heavenly harm ony, while evil and depend­
ence on remission of sins th ro u g h a sacrifice corresponds to
weakness of the flesh and destruction. A ll principles conform
to life according to th eir m ental values. Solving the problems
of life is attaining th e p roper m ental adjustm ent of G od and
Good.
(8:l-2-3-4)— “W h en H e w a s com e d o w n fro m the m ountain,
great m u ltitu d es fo llo w e d H im . A n d , behold, there came
a leper and w o rsh ip p ed H im , saying, L o rd , if Thou w ilt,
Thou canst m ake m e clean. A n d Jesus pu t fo rth H is
hand, and touched him , saying, I w ill: be thou clean. A n d
im m ediately his leprosy w a s cleansed. A n d Jesus saith
unto him , S ee thou tell no m a n ; but go thy w ay shew
thyself to the priest, and o ffer the g ift that M oses com ­
manded, fo r a testim o n y unto th em ”.
The W ill of Jesus being spiritualised through good deeds
and spiritual wisdom was ever ready to heal and help those who
came seeking the light. In Super M ind Science the W ill is de­
veloped and spiritualised so w e may carry on His healing mis­
sion, and thus by doing th e D ivine deeds we may attain mastery
of life and C hrist consciousness.
(8:5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12-13) — '“A n d w h en Jesus w as entered into
Capernaum, there cam e unto H im a centurion, beseeching
H im , A n d saying, L o rd , m y servant lieth at hom e sick o f
the palsy, grievously torm ented. A n d Jesus saith unto him ,
I w ill com e and heal him . T he centurion answ ered and
said, L ord, I am no t w o rth y that T h o u shouldest come
under m y ro o f; but speak the w ord only, and m y
servant shall be healed. F o r I am a m an under authority,
having soldiers u n d er m e; and I say to this m an, Go, and
he goeth; and to another, C om e, and he com eth; and to
m y servant, D o this, and he doeth it. W h en Jesus heard
it, he m arvelled, and said to them that follow ed, V erily
I say unto you, I have not fo u n d so great fa ith , no, not
in Israel. A n d I say unto you, T hat m any shall come
from the east and w est, and shall sit dow n w ith A bra­
ham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom o f heaven.
B ut the children o f the kingdom shall be cast out into
outer darkness; there shall be w eeping and gnashing o f
teeth. A n d Jesu s said unto the centurion, Go thy w ay;
and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. A n d
his servant w as healed in the selfsam e h o u /’.
446 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e Lord accepts th e deep confidence of the centurion and
sends a treatm en t th ro u g h the pow er of silent thought. The
sick one is healed th ro u g h H is pow er of concentration and the
m ental realization of th e seeker. T h is dem onstrates that Jesus was a
M ind Scientist and perform ed w onderful miracles through con­
centration of m ind, D ivine energy and spiritual wisdom. The
A u th o r has perform ed sim ilar dem onstrations and healed all
m anner of disease. Since disease has a m ental origin, the cor­
rect w ay to heal it is th ro u g h intense D ivine concentration. All
Super M ind Scientists understand th e scientific way to accom­
plish absent treatm ents, proving th e universality of the teachings
and dem onstrations of Jesus, th e C hrist, for H e taught “the
w orks th a t I do shall ye also do, and even greater works shall
ye do”.
(8:1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 ) — “A n d w h en Jesu s w a s com e into Peter’s
house, he sa w his w ife ’s m o th er laid, and sick o f a fever.
A n d he touched her hand, and the fe v e r le ft her; and she
arose, and m in istered unto them . W h en the even was
com e, th ey brought un to h im m a n y that w ere possessed
w ith d evils; and H e cast ou t the sp irits w ith H is word,
and healed all that w ere sick: T h a t it m ig h t be fulfilled
w hich w as sp o ken by E saias the prophet, saying, Himself
took our infirm ities, and bare our sicknesses”.
D ivine pow er m anifests in th e M aster first as a remedy for
relieving the infirm ities of H is people, fulfilling the prophecy
th a t the “great T eacher w ould take upon H im self the diseases
of the people” or be a w onderful healer. H e cast out evil spirits
or entities of delusion from th e m inds of all by rebuking them
through the W ill of th e F ather w ithin, for H e taught “it is not I
th a t doeth these things, b u t H im th a t sent M e; I do the
W ill of M y F ath er”. T h e W ill of the F ather being fourth di­
m ensional, it is n o t subject to tim e or lim itations, it is universal
and unlim ited, and can be dem onstrated today as well as in an­
cient times. T h e fact th a t Jesus cast o u t m ental obsessions proves
H im a M ind Scientist or physician to th e m ind and Spirit, a
M aster m etaphysician, T eacher and H ealer w ho traveled about
dem onstrating the pow er of Infinite M ind.
( 8 :18-19-20-21-22)— “N o w w h en Jesu s saw great multitudes
about H im , H e gave co m m a n d m en t to depart unto the
other side. A n d a certain scribe cam e, and said unto Him,
M aster, 1 w ill fo llo w thee w h ith erso ever Thou goest.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 447
A n d Jesus saith un to him , T h e fo x e s have holes, and the
birds o f the air have n ests; b u t the S o n o f m an hath not
where to lay H is head. A n d another o f H is disciples
said unto H im , L o rd , su ffe r m e first to go and bury m y
father. B u t Jesu s said unto him , F ollow M e and let the
dead bury their dead”.
“The Son of m an h ath n o t a place to lay His head” mean-
ing He must create H is ow n abode and conditions in life, since
Nature has not prepared H im to live like th e creatures of the
animal world. H is com m andm ent, “let the dead bury their
dead” reveals the fact th a t H e regarded all w ho lacked spiritual
wisdom as “dead” or th eir souls unm anifest until they followed
Him in perform ing D ivine deeds w hich glorified the Infinite
Father in heaven. In order to accom plish the Divine works, one
must study th e Science of Life and M ind, becoming master
of disease, sin and m ental obsession, realising at-one-m ent with
the Infinite through positive m ental and spiritual mastership.
(8:23-24-25-26) — ‘‘A n d w h en H e w as entered into a ship, H is
disciples fo llo w ed H im . A n d behold, there arose a great
tem pest in the sea, insom uch that the ship w as covered
• w ith the w a ves; but H e w as asleep. A n d H is disciples
came to H im , and aw oke H im , saying, L ord, save us; we
perish. A n d he saith unto them , W h y are ye fea rfu l, 0 ye
o f little fa ith ? T h en he arose, and rebuked the w inds
and the sea; and there w as a great calm”.
T he M aster rebukes th e atom in th e element, thus chang'
ing the polarization th ro u g h Infinite W ill, and the waves obey
His W ill, dem onstrating th e m astership of man and His Divine
Sonship of G od w hich gives th e unlim ited powers of Infinite
Spirit. H e rebuked those w ho w ere m entally negative saying,
O ye of little faith ”, proving wisdom superior to belief, posh
tiveness m aster of negation, and D ivinity the master of m aterial­
ity, the elements and th e atom s of force.
(8:27)— ‘‘B u t the m en m arvelled, saying, W h a t m anner o f
man is this, that even the w in d s and the sea obey H im !
Carnal m inded individuals cannot understand the dem on­
stration of D ivinity, therefore regard it as supernatural. God
manifesting through th e spiritualized will of man perform s the
wonders of spiritual pow er, dem onstrating the unlim ited univer­
sal wisdom of Light, Life and T ru th w hich unmasks the weak-
448 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
ness of the flesh and reveals th e superiority of one’s mentality
w ho is spiritually illum inated.
(8:28-29-30-31-32) — “A n d w h en H e w as come to the other
side, into the co u n try o f the G ergesenes, there met Him
tw o possessed w ith d evils, com ing out o f the tombs, ex­
ceeding fierce, so that no m an m ig h t pass by that way.
A n d , behold, th ey cried out, saying, W h a t have we to do
w ith thee, Jesus, T h o u S o n o f G od? A r t Thou come
h ith er to to rm en t us b efo re the tim e? A n d there was a
good w a y o ff fr o m th em , an herd o f m any swine, feeding.
S o the devils besought H im , saying, I f Thou cast us out,
su ffer us to go aw ay into the herd o f swine. And He
said unto them , Go. A n d w h en th ey w ere come out, they
w en t into the herd o f sw in e; and, behold, the whole herd
o f sw ine ran vio len tly d o w n a steep place into the sea,
and perished in the w a ters”.
M ental sin and negation develop the destructive forces of
N ature and they m anifest as dem ons, m eaning a slanderer or
devil. T hese superficial forces are given life w hen they contact
the ignorant m entality, becom ing so violent th at they destroy
any living organism w ith w hom they come in contact. Mani­
festing in the absence of G od and G ood, they upset all laws of
hum an m entation. W h e n they are bound by the will of the
M aster to com e fo rth they obey, entering the body of the swine
they destroy the sw ine as an everlasting example to mankind to
bew are of the uncontrolled m ental forces of negation which de­
stroy life. T hese obsessing dem ons exist in the realm of the
low er consciousness of being, seeking w hom they may devour;
positiveness and m ental m astership alone can cast them out. The
M aster dem onstrates H is super pow er as a metaphysician by con­
trolling invisible entities w ho obey H is D ivine Will.
( 8 :33-34) — “A n d th ey th a t k ep t th em fled, and went their
w a ys into the city, and told every thing, and what was
befallen to the possessed o f the devils. A n d , behold, the
w hole city cam e out to m eet Jesu s; and w hen they saw
H im , th ey besought H im th a t H e w ould depart out of
their coasts”.
T h e carnal m ind is afraid of one w ho controls invisible
forces, being fearful lest H e rebuke th e evil in them and cause
them to receive deserved punishm ent. T h ro u g h ignorance and
fear, they persecute th eir T eacher and D ivine Messenger, asking
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 449
Him t& depart from th eir coasts th a t they may rem ain in igno-
ranee of mental laws and spirituality. T his type of people are
the prototypes of those w ho scorn D ivine w orks perform ed by
Master metaphysicians of this day. T h ey are dead to all spir-
itual understanding and wisdom , th e type w hich Jesus referred
to when H e said “let th e dead bury th eir dead”.
(9:l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8) — “A n d H e entered into a ship, and passed
over, and cam e into H is ow n city. A n d , behold, they
brought to H im a m an sick o f the palsy, lying on a bed:
and Jesus seeing their fa ith , said unto the sick o f the
palsy, Son, be o f good cheer; th y sin s be fo rg iven thee.
A nd, behold, certain o f the scribes said w ith in them selves,
This m an blasphem eth. A n d Jesus know ing their
thoughts, said, W h e re fo re th in k ye evil in your hearts?
For w hether is easier, to say, T h y sins be fo rg iven thee;
or to say, A rise, and w a lk? B u t that ye m ay know that
the S on o f m an hath p o w er on earth to fo rg ive sins (then
saith H e to the sick o f the p alsy). A rise, take up thy
bed, and go unto thine house. A n d he arose, and departed
to his house. B u t w h en the m u ltitu d es saw it, they m ar­
velled, and glorified God, w hich had given such pow er
unto m en”.
Demonstrations of D ivine Pow er attract the curious who
are astonished to learn th a t Spirit rules flesh, m ind is master of
matter, and th a t disease is sin, and w hen a healer heals the
disease which is the result of sin the sin is overcome. So-called
righteous pedagogues w ho argue over w hat is right and w hat is
wrong are rem inded th a t w ords and term s mean little to a M as­
ter. His spiritual dem onstrations cause their petty understand­
ing to sink into insignificance as he shows the unreality of dis­
ease and the pow er of Spirit and m ind to rule m atter. T he m ul­
titude are astonished to find th a t the atom s in the m an’s body
respond to D ivine W ill and Pow er of Spirit. T hey glorify God
that man is made m aster of m atter and disease. These people
were searching for T ru th and G od and w ere surprised to w it­
ness a dem onstration of the practical application of spiritual
power to the problem s of life. In Super M ind Science this type
of demonstration is perform ed by all w ho sincerely apply them ­
selves to the scientific understanding of mind over matter.
(9:9-10-11-12-13)— “A n d as Jesus passed fo rth fro m thence,
H e saw a m an nam ed M a tth ew , sitting at the receipt o f
450 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
cu sto m : and H e saith un to him , F ollow M e. 'And he
arose, and fo llo w e d him . A n d it cam e to pass, as Jesus
sat at m eat in the house, behold, m any publicans and iin-
ners cam e and sat d o w n w ith H im and H is disciples.
A n d w h en the P harisees sa w it, th ey said unto His dis­
ciples, W h y eateth y o u r M a ster w ith publicans and sin­
n e rs? B u t w h en Jesu s heard that, H e said unto them,
T h ey that be w hole need n o t a physician, but they that
are sick. B u t go ye and learn w h a t that meaneth, l will
have m ercy, and no t sacrifice: fo r I am not come to call
the righteous, but sin n ers to repentance”.
T h e mission of th e M aster w as to the poor and needy.
Personal pride had been overcom e, and the fault finding Phari­
sees tried to discredit H im th ro u g h calling attention to the fact
th a t H e had violated the social customs. T hey are reminded
th a t H e came to those w ho needed H is assistance, not to those
w ho had no need of a “physician”. T hey are told to go and
learn w hat th a t m eant, show ing th ere was a hidden meaning.
T h is m eaning was, th at m en seek w isdom w hen in sorrow, not
w hen all is well w ith them . M any sinners needed instruction in
order to reform them . H is mission was as a Teacher of sinners
and the poor and needy.
(9:1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 ) — ‘‘T h en cam e to H im the disciples of John,
saying, W h y do w e and the P harisees fa st oft, but Thy
disciples fa s t no t? A n d Jesu s said unto them , Can the
children o f the bridecham ber m ourn, as long as the bride­
groom is w ith them ? but the d a ys w ill come, when the
bridegroom shall be taken fr o m them , and then shall they
fa st. N o m an p u tteth a piece o f n ew cloth into an old
g a rm en t; fo r that w h ich is p u t in to fill it up taketh from
the garm ent, and the rent is m ade w orse. N either do men
p u t new m ine into old bottles, else the bottles break, and
w ine runneth out, and the bottles p erish ; but they put
n ew w ine into old bottles, and both are preserved”.
T h e old custom of fasting was set aside by Jesus while He
was on earth. H e established a new religious T ru th which was
revolutionary and could not be accepted as a part of the older
systems, as it did not conform to their belief and custom. He
symbolized it as “new w ine”, so likewise, Super M ind Science
is the new wine of this generation. Its doctrine of salvation by
deeds, healing the sick, and actually perform ing the Christ work
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 451
does not conform to the present day beliefs in salvation through
blood sacrifice, heaven after death, creed affirmation, and jus­
tifiable killing of hum an beings. It teaches a G od of Love and
the sacredness of Life and the m ental liberty of the individual
to worship God and do good as they see fit. Its new wine of
spiritual wisdom flows freely to those w ho w ould drink from
the everlasting w aters of the fountain of Life, Light and Love.
(9:18-19-20-21-22) — “W h ile H e spake these things unto them ,
behold, there cam e a certain ruler, and w orshipped H im ,
saying, M y daughter is even n o w dead; but com e and lay
Thy hand upon her, and she shall live. A n d Jesus arose,
and follow ed him , and so did H is disciples. A n d , behold,
a woman, w hich w as diseased w ith an issue o f blood
twelve years, cam e behind H im , and touched the hem o f
H is garm ent: F o r she said w ith in h erself, if I m ay but
touch H is garm ent, I shall 'be w hole. B u t Jesus turned
H im about; and w h en H e sa w her, he said, D aughter, be
of good co m fo rt; th y fa ith hath m ade thee whole. A n d
the w om an w as m ade w hole fr o m that hour”.
Faith is a m ental state of concentration on desired results.
The woman touched D ivinity and h er concentration made her
whole. This same principle is operative here and now and w hen
the concentration of m ind contacts pure D ivinity, a dem onstra­
tion over sin and disease results. Jesus afforded an object les­
son on this subject, H e dem onstrated th a t H is disciples may
learn the T ruth, the W ay and the Life. A s G od is in M ind, it
follows that w hen M ind concentrates, D ivinity operates.
(9:23-24-25-26)— “A n d w h en Jesu s cam e into the rule/ s
house, and saw the m in strels and the people m aking a
noise, H e said unto th em , G ive place: fo r the m aid is not
dead, but sleepeth. A n d th ey laughed him to scorn. B u t
when the people w ere p u t fo r th , H e w en t in, and took her
by the hand, and the m aid arose. A n d the fa m e hereof
went abroad into all that land”.
Even death is a m ental sleep as proven by this example.
When Jesus announced this to those m ourning the death of the
maiden, they laughed H im to scorn”, b u t once again H e proves
Mind over death and m atter, and the m aiden arose. H is mind
functioned on the plane of D ivine reality w here death had no
power or the grave a victory over D ivine life, for G od being
All-powerful dem onstrates over all low er elem ents to those
452 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w hose consciousness of positive spirituality contacts the Divine
Infinite Presence. T h e ever conscious M aster conquers the sleep
of death and proves th a t G od m anifests as Pow er through the
Son of M an. H is prom ises th a t m an should do even greater
things th an H e did show s th a t H is prophecies are here and now
in the process of fulfillm ent. T h e au th o r traveled about the
w orld for years healing all m anner of disease, he was once blind
b u t can now see; in his dem onstrations th e blind had sight re­
stored, the lam e w alked and obsessions w ere cast out, showing
th e w orld th a t th e Science o f M ind dem onstrates “God with us”.
It is unscientific and unreasonable to ignore Divinity while we
live and expect it to m anifest after death, today is the time, for
“th e kingdom of G od is at h an d ” |
(9:27-28-29-30-31) — “A n d w h en Jesu s departed thence, two
blind m en fo llo w ed H im , crying, and saying, Thou Son
o f D avid, have m ercy o'n us. A n d w hen H e was come
into the house, the blind m en cam e to him ; and Jesus
saith unto them , B elieve ye that I am able to do this?
T h ey said unto H im , Y ea, L o rd . T h en touched He their
eyes, saying, A cco rd in g to y o u r fa ith be it unto you. And
their eyes w ere opened: and Jesu s stra itly charged them,
saying, S ee th a t no m an k n o w it. B u t they, when they
w ere departed, spread abroad H is fa m e in all that
co u n try”.
T h e blind receive th eir sight as Jesus shows the world the
w ay to heal disease; th ey are charged to keep it secret since
D ivinity needs no praise. H ow ever, H is fam e spread round about
as a w orld starving for spiritual w isdom aw akens to the fact that
G od is m anifesting H is Pow er th ro u g h a m ortal man who had
taken on th e full arm our of H is D ivinity and Power. Old be­
liefs fall and the doctrine o f sacrifice is replaced w ith the proof
of a living G od w hich w orks w onders th ro u g h man, His image,
dem onstrating health fo r th e sick and teaching and uplifting
those in sorrow. T h e establishm ent of th e D ivine kingdom on
earth is taking place as H e proves M ind and Spirit over matter
as the Science of Life.
(9:32-33-34-35) — “A s they w e n t out, behold, they brought to
H im a dum b m an possessed w ith a devil. A n d when the
devil w as cast out, the dum b spake: and the multitudes
m arvelled, saying, I t w as n ever so seen in Israel. But the
P harisees said, H e casteth out devils through the prince
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 453
o f the devils. A n d Jesus w en t about all the cities and
villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the
gospel o f the kingdom , and healing every sickness and
every disease am ong the people”.
The ¡enemies of T ru th accuse C hrist of using the powers of
the devil to cast out devils, show ing th eir m ental negation and
ignorance of D ivine law, for evil never produces good, neither
does good produce evil. T h ey are arguing over beliefs while H e
demonstrates facts. E very D ivine M essenger, including the
Author, has been accused of using black magic or evil powers to
do good, but their dem onstrations give the lie to their persecutors
who condemn righteousness, y et offer no substitute to take its
place. These persecutors defend darkness so they may live in
sin with a false m ental security, fo r they are afraid to face the
reality of a living G od w ho m anifests through the spiritualized
mentality of man. T h e teachings of Jesus w ere examples, like-
wise His dem onstrations, b u t the m odern scribes and Pharisees
would have you believe th a t Jesus was dem onstrating to prove
Himself superior to others, a G od to be w orshipped like a statue,
but Divine M ind Science proves H e dem onstrated the Science
of Mind and Life over disease, sin, death and poverty for the
benefit of hum anity.
( 9 :36-37-38)— '“B u t w h en H e saw the m ultitudes, H e w as
m oved w ith com passion on them , because they fainted,
and w ere scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.
Then saith H e unto H is disciples, T h e harvest truly is
plenteous, but the labourers are fe w ; P ray ye therefore
the L o rd o f the harvest, that H e w ill send fo rth labourers
into H is harvest”.
This teaching indicates th a t other “labourers” were to be
sent forth to carry on th e w ork of Jesus, th at the harvest of
misery was ripe b u t labourers few w ho could dem onstrate over
the sorrows of m ankind. T h e labourers were so few that He
asked His disciples to pray for D ivine w orkers or labourers other
than Himself, th a t the needs of hum anity such as healing, spin
ituality and wisdom m ay be supplied, yet the m odern theologian
would have you believe th a t H is w orks were limited to Himself
and His twelve disciples. O u r Science proves His teachings are
universal and unlim ited as to personality, for anyone who urn
derstands the control of life currents and energies can dem on'
strate over sickness, sin and obsessions. His Science like His
454 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
Love is universal and applicable to th e present day mode of exist­
ence. H is doctrine w as how to live, n o t how to die, His mes­
sage was to th e sick, th e needy and th e seekers of spiritual Light
and T ru th . W e should im itate H is D ivine life and think as
H is apostles.
(10:1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 )— “A n d w h en H e had called unto Him
H is tw elve disciples, H e gave them p o w er against unclean
spirits, to cast th em out, and to heal all m anner of sick­
ness and all m anner o f disease. N o w the names of the
tw elve apostles are these: T h e first, Sim on, who is
called P eter, and A n d r e w his brother; Jam es the son of
Z ebedee, and Jo h n his b ro th er; P h ilip, and Bartholomew;
T hom as, and M a tth e w the publican; Jam es the son of
A lp h a eu s, and L ebbaeus, w hose surnam e w as Thaddaeus;
S im o n the C anaanite, and Ju d a s Iscariot, who also be­
trayed him . T hese tw elve Jesu s sen t fo rth , and com­
m anded them , saying, Go no t into the w ay o f the Gen­
tiles, and into any city o f the S a m a rita n s enter ye not
B u t go rather to the lost sheep o f the house o f Israel,-
A n d , as ye go, preach, saying, T h e kingdom o f heaven
is at hand. H eal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise th■
■
dead, cast out d evils; fre e ly ye h a ve received, freely give”
Jesus sends fo rth H is disciples after H e had taught them
and given them pow er over all m anner of disease, mental nega­
tion and evil m ental entities. H e conveyed pow er through men­
tal laws w hich w ould prepare H is disciples to become metaphysi-
sians and healers, w ho could heal disease through the power of
M ind and Spirit over m atter. W h o of average intelligence could
read this and then dispute th e fact th a t H is teachings were a
Science? Belief alone cannot perform th e w onders of Divinity,
only an understanding of th e laws of life and powers of mind
can make one a m aster, therefore, Jesus tau g h t these laws to
H is disciples,-—they are control of life energy, concentration on
D ivinity and Spiritual at-one-m ent w ith th e Father. The dis­
ciples w ere sent o u t to convince Judah th ro u g h demonstrations
th at the tru e G od was a G od of pow er, n o t of sacrifice, that
G od is love of hum anity and life, th a t H e does not need blood­
shed as an inducem ent to forgive sins o r to perform His duty
as a loving Father. T h e A u th o r has sent fo rth his students with
a know ledge of life and m ind and th ey are perform ing these Di­
vine w orks daily, they should rem em ber th e injunction, freely
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 455
ye have received, freely give”, do the D ivine works and merit
the reward of soul im m ortality, for th a t w hich is good is eternal.
(10:9-10)— “P ro vid e neith er gold, nor silver, nor brass, in
your purses; nor scrip fo r yo u r journey, neither two
coats, neither shoes, no r y e t sta ves; fo r the w orkm an is
w orthy o f his m eat”.
The Spiritual M essenger depends on Divine law, not on
material preparation, for D ivinity needs no assistance from ma­
teriality, Spirit never asks favors of m atter. T he disciple is to
go without any preparation except instruction from the Divine
Master. T he Law of C om pensation for good will provide the
necessary requirem ents of life for the w orker. H e is to trust
in the Divine law and dem onstrate th e pow er of D ivinity over
disease, and m ind over m atter, taking no thought of tom orrow
materially, for every day shall be sufficient unto itself, and good
cares for its own.
(10:11-12-13-14-15) — “A n d into w hatsoever city or tow n ye
shall enter, inquire w ho in it is w o rth y; and there abide
till ye go thence. A n d zvhen ye com e into an house, salute
it. A n d i f the house be w o rth y, let yo u r peace come upon
it; but i f it be n o t w o rth y, let yo u r peace return to you.
A n d w hosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your
w ords, w h en ye d epart out o f that house or city, shake
off the du st o f y o u r feet. V erily I say untd you, I t shall
be m ore tolerable fo r the land o f S odom and Gomorrha
in the day o f ju d g m en t, than fo r that city”.
Those w ho refuse to hear the D ivine M essenger shall be in
violation of a spiritual law w hich makes them in contem pt of D i­
vine W ill and judgm ent. T h e curse of sin and ignorance shall
destroy them like Sodom and G om orrha were made desolate
through the result of sin and rejecting the teachings of the M as­
ter. The disciple is to shake th e dust of th at city from his feet,
or he is not to carry aw ay th eir m ental influence of sin.
(10:16-17-18-19-20)— “B ehold, I send you fo rth as sheep in
the m idst o f w o lves; be ye th erefo re w ise as serpents, and
harm less as doves. B u t bew are o f m en: fo r they w ill de­
liver you up to the councils, and they w ill scourge you in
their synagogues; A n d ye shall be brought before gov­
ernors and kin g s fo r M y sake, fo r a testim ony against
them and the G entiles. B u t w hen they deliver you up,
take no thought h o w or w h a t ye shall speak; fo r it shall
456 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
be g iven yo u in that sam e h our w h a t ye shall speak. For
it is n o t ye that speak, but the S p irit o f your Father
w hich sp ea keth in yo u ”.
T ru e M essengers and T eachers w ho dem onstrate the Di­
vine law are in conflict w ith m atter and evil. T hey overthrow
popular beliefs and theories, bringing upon themselves the pun­
ishm ents of corporeality, show ing th e w ar between matter and
Spirit. T h ey are to be arrested falsely, accused, imprisoned and
scourged in synagogues, b u t th e Spirit of the Father will speak
th rough them in th eir hour of need. T his is true to this day,
such persecutions are endured by th e m etaphysician who aids
hum anity. H e is accused of fakery and of being a low character,
the com m ercial kings w ho live off the ignorant masses seek to
destroy him. T h e A u th o r endured years of the most terrible
persecutions because he healed th e sick and taught the Truth
by actual spiritual dem onstrations. Likewise, his disciples have
suffered, b u t G ood will n o t be conquered, Spirit will never be
overcom e by m atter. O bsolete theology has lived its day, Truth
shall come fo rth and w oe be un to those w ho persecute it, for
th eir souls w ill cry o u t fo r m ercy, b u t th ere will be no mercy for
them . “Be ye wise as serpents and harm less as doves” is the
advice of the T eacher of T eachers, do good to those who spite­
fully use you, overcom e evil w ith good.
( 1 0 :21-22-23-24-25-26)— " A n d the brother shall deliver up
the brother to death, and the fa th e r the child: and the
children shall rise up against th eir parents, and cause
them to be p u t to death. A n d ye shall be hated o f all men
fo r M y nam e’s sa ke; but he that endureth to the end shall
be saved. B u t w h en th ey persecute yo u in this city, flee
ye into an o th er; fo r verily I say unto you, Ye shall not
have gone over the cities o f Israel, till the Son of man
be come. T h e disciple is not above his master, nor the
servant above his lord. I t is enough fo r the disciple that
he be as his m aster, and the serva n t as his lord. I f they
have called the m aster o f the house B eelzebub, how much
m ore shall they call them o f h is h o u seh o ld f Fear them
not th erefo re: fo r there is nothing covered, that shall not
be revealed; and hid, that shall no t be know n”.
W h en one m em ber of a fam ily learns to demonstrate the
T ru th even the m em bers of his ow n household will frequently
tu rn against him and deliver him up to his enemies because his
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 457
demonstrations have proved th eir belief groundless. Jesus com-
manded the disciples to leave a city after they had stood persecu­
tions, and go on w ith th eir D ivine w ork in other localities, and
that before they had visited all of th e cities of Israel, the Son of
Man cometh, or H e w ould be w ith them mentally. T hey are
reminded that even the pow erful M aster was accused of being
a devil and of using evil pow ers to do good, therefore they should
expect all m anner of falsehood to be said against them . These
instructions are still th e tru th concerning metaphysicians who
do not conform to popular beliefs and theories. T heir Science
and Truth proves the error of sin, and the authority of the phys­
ical law is used to discredit T ru th because the w ay of the world
is the way of darkness and of sin.
(10:27-28)— “W h a t I tell yo u in darkness, that speak ye in
light; and w hat he hear in the ear, that preach ye upon
the housetops. A n d fe a r not them w hich kill the body,
but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fe a r him
which is able to d estro y both soul and body in hell”.
“W hat I tell you in darkness” m eaning physically, “speak
in the light” or express in your m entality. “W h at ye hear in
the ear” or through the voice of the soul in silence “preach ye
from the housetops” or speak T ru th above the moral precepts of
men, revealing the highest w isdom of life. “Fear not those who
kill the body” m eaning fear n o t those w hose doctrines teach kill­
ing of human beings fo r they are unable to kill your soul, but
fear those who teach belief and salvation and blood atonem ent
without good needs, for th eir doctrine shall kill the memory and
identity of the hum an soul. O nly through knowing T ru th while
on earth can we becom e im m ortal and realize T ru th beyond this
plane of corporeality. Belief in the here and now is immortality,
while belief in death and postponem ent of Good, is death and
loss of im m ortality, therefore to attain im m ortality, one must
practice the Science and m astership of life.
(10:29-30-31-32-33-34)—-“A r e no t tw o sparrow s sold fo r a
fa rth in g f A n d one o f them shall not fa ll on the ground
w ithout yo u r F ather. B u t the very hairs o f your head
are all num bered. F ear ye n o t th erefo re; ye are o f more
value than m any sparrow s. W hosoever therefore shall
confess M e before m en, him w ill I confess also before M y
Father W h ich is in heaven. B u t w hosoever shall deny
M e before m en, h im w ill I also deny before M y Father
458 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w h ich is in heaven. T h in k not that I am come to send
peace on ea rth ; I cam e not to send peace, but a sword”.
A ll Seeing W isdom know s every move of life and being,
every hair is know n or num bered. Confessing C hrist before
men is to do H is D ivine w orks and proclaim it the light of the
w orld. T o say th a t it is o th er th an the w ork of Christ or that
it is b u t m ental o r th a t it is evil, is to deny C hrist before men,
H e in tu rn denies th a t person before H is Father in heaven.
W h e n C hrist is realized w ithin, the sw ord of righteousness is
brought fo rth to strike at the root of evil, cutting down the tree
of vice and sin. G oodness does n o t condone evil, neither does
it agree w ith th e sins of th e w orld, it dem ands a new spiritual
order.
(1 0 :3 5 -3 6 -3 7 )— ‘7 w / am com e to set a m an at variance
against his fa th e r, and the d aughter against her mother,
and the d a u ghter-in-law against her m other-in-law . And
a m an’s fo e s shall be th ey o f his ow n household. H e that
loveth fa th e r or m o th er m ore than M e, is not worthy of
M e : and he that loveth son or d aughter m ore than Me, is
not w o rth y o f M e”.
T hose w ho are so negative th a t fam ily attachm ents prevent
them from doing the D ivine w orks are disloyal to Christ and
H is mission of Love, Life and T ru th . T h ey violate the command­
m ent “T h o u shalt have no G ods before m e” (the Christ Spirit)
fo r no m ental attachm ent or shadow shall exist between the dis­
ciple and the T ru th , even tho u g h they be of his own household.
W h erev er T ru th is on one side and relationship on the other, the
disciple is to follow T ru th and renounce the relationship. This
dem onstrates suprem e loyalty to T ru th , Love and Light and
proves the Spirit of C hrist w ithin, fo r H e broke all attachments
to H is family, to H is nation and to the w orld. Standing firmly
upon H is foundation of T ru th H e challenged religous bigotry and
ignorance in the face of H is ow n death, know ing that soul im­
m ortality is life’s greatest rew ard.
(10:38-39-40-41-42) — ‘‘A n d he that taketh not his cross, and
fo llo w eth a fte r M e, is no t w o rth y o f M e. H e that findeth
his life, shall lose it: and he that loseth his life fo r My
sake, shall find it. H e that receiveth you, receiveth Me;
and he that receiveth M e, receiveth H im that sent me.
H e that receiveth a prophet in the nam e o f a prophet,
shall receive a p rophet’s rew a rd ; and he that receiveth a
THE BOOK OF ST. MATTHEW 459
righteous m an in the nam e o f a righteous m an, shall re­
ceive a righteous m an’s rew ard. A n d w hosoever shall
give to drink unto one o f these little ones a cup o f cold
w ater only in the nam e o f a disciple, verily I say unto
you, he shall in no w ise lose his rew ard”.
The Divine paradoxes of the Master reveal the Law of Com­
pensation, that one is rewarded in accordance with their mental
acceptance of a Teacher. If they consider him a prophet they
are rewarded accordingly. The prediction is that all who give
unto a true disciple shall not lose their reward, for the Law of
Compensation never forget, and Good is eternal.
(11:1-2-3-4-5-6)— “A n d it cam e to pass, w hen Jesus had
made an end o f com m anding H is tw elve disciples, H e de­
parted thence,to teach and to preach in their cities. N o w
w hen John had heard in the prison the w o rks o f Christ,
he sent tw o o f his disciples, A n d said unto H im , A r t
Thou H e that sh o u ld com e, or do w e look fo r another?
Jesus answ ered and said unto them , Go and shew John
again those things w h ich ye do hear and see: The blind
receive their sight, and the lam e w alk, the lepers are
cleansed, and the d e a f hear, the dead are raised up,
and the poor have the gospel preached to them. A n d
blessed is he, w h o so ever shall not be offended in m e”.
The proof of mastership is in demonstration not belief.
Jesus refers to the Divine works as proof of His Messiahship or
Mastership, blessing those who are not offended in Him or jeal­
ous of Him. He did not send word back to John about His
death and sacrifice supposedly for the sins of the world, but
sent word about His life, His deeds and demonstrations which
all should likewise do if they believe in Him.
(1 1 :7-8-9-10-l 1-12-13-14)— ‘'‘A n d , as they departed, Jesus
began to say unto the m u ltitudes, concerning John, W hat
w ent ye out into the w ilderness to see? A reed shaken
w ith the w in d ? B u t w h a t w en t ye out fo r to see? A m an
clothed in s o ft raim ent? B ehold, they that w ear so ft
clothing are in king’s houses. B u t w hat w en t ye out fo r
to see? A prophet? Y ea, I say unto you, and m ore than
a prophet. F o r this is H e o f w hom it is w ritten, Behold,
I send M y m essenger before thy face, w hich shall prepare
thy w ay before thee. V erily I say unto you, A m o n g them
that are born o f w o m en there hath not risen a greater
460 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
than Jo h n the B a p tist: n o tw ith sta n d in g , he that is least
in the kin g d o m o f heaven is greater than he. A nd from
the days o f J o h n the B a p tist u n til n o w the kingdom of
heaven su ffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.
F o r all the p ro p h ets and the law prophesied until John.
A n d i f ye w ill receive it, th is is E lias, w hich was for to
- com e”.
T h e dem onstrations of Jesus fulfilled the prophecies of the
prophets before H im ; th e beginning of this D ivine revelation
was at th e tim e Jesus was baptized by John. H e said the
prophecies w ere fulfilled by John b u t H e did not say there would
be no m ore revelations of D ivinity in th e future as is claimed by
theologians. O th er prophecies m ade after John have since been
fulfilled and will continue to be, fo r G ood is eternal. John the
incarnation of Elias th e p ro p h et proclaim ed the dawn of dem­
onstration of “ G od w ith us” instead of a vague belief in ex­
pecting to know G od after death. H e heralded a new spiritual
era w hen physical laws w ere to be fulfilled and a realization of
th e laws of M ind and Spirit w as to take place. Super Mind Sci­
ence is the m odern dem onstration of this new spiritual era pro­
claim ed by John, its w orks bear w itness of the presence of a
living G od and Good.
(11:15-16-17-18-19-20)— “H e that h a th ears to hear, let him
hear. B u t w h ereu n to shall I liken this generation? It is
like unto children sittin g in the m arkets, and calling unto
their fello w s. A n d saying, W e have piped unto you, and
ye have no t danced; w e have m o u rn ed unto you, and ye
have not lam ented. F o r Jo h n cam e neither eating nor
d rin kin g , and th ey say, H e ha th a devil. The son of
m an cam e eating and d rin kin g , and they say, Behold a
m an gluttonous, and a w inebibber, a frie n d o f publicans
and sinners. B u t w isd o m is ju stified o f her children. Then
began H e to upbraid the cities w h erein m ost of His
m ig h ty w o rk s w ere done, because they repented not .
John was im prisoned and accused of doing evil works or
using black magic because he preached the T ru th to a sinful
world. Jesus was also accused of eating and drinking with sin­
ners. All D ivine M essengers have been falsely accused, which
is one proof of their D ivinity, b u t Spirit overcomes the flesh
and scandal m ongers destroy them selves. T hose cities who
failed to appreciate the m ighty spiritual w orks of Jesus the
461
#
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W
Christ, violated the laws of D ivinity and brought destruction
and desolation unto them selves, just as individuals w ho violate
the same laws destroy th eir spiritual identity, life and being, for
such reward comes from th e Law of Com pensation w hich pro'
vides that each deed, w h eth er good or bad produces its own
reward.
(11:21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30)— 'W o e unto thee, Chora-
zin! W oe unto thee, B eth sa id a ! F o r i f the m ighty w orks
which w ere done in yo u had been done in T yre and
Sidon, they w o u ld have repented long ago in sackcloth
and ashes. B u t I say un to yo u , I t shall be m ore tolerable
fo r T yre and S id o n at the day o f ju d g m en t, than fo r
you. A n d thou, C apernaum , w hich art exalted unto
heaven, shall be brought do w n to hell: fo r if the m ighty
w orks w hich have been done in thee had been done in
Sodom., it w o u ld have rem ained u n til this day. B u t I say
unto you, T h a t it shall be m ore tolerable fo r the land o f
Sodom in the day o f ju d g m en t, than fo r thee. A t that
time Jesus answ ered and said, I thank Thee, 0 Father,
Lord o f heaven and earth, because T h o u hast hid these
things fro m the w ise and p ru d en t, and hast revealed them
unto babes. E ven so, F a th er: fo r so it seem ed good in
thy sight. A ll things are delivered unto m e o f m y F ather;
and no m an kn o w eth the S o n , but the F ather; neither
know eth any m an the F ather, save the Son, and he to
w hom soever the S o n w ill reveal him . Com e unto M e, all
ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I w ill give you
rest. Take M y yo ke upon you, and learn o f M e; fo r I
am m eek and low ly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto
your souls. F o r m y y o ke is easy, and m y burden is light”.
Sinfulness is rebuked and its doom foretold, while all Divine
Power is revealed as com ing th rough Sonship of God. T he
weary are invited to come unto this T ru th that it may give them
rest; the meekness of th e flesh is the Pow er of Spirit w hich gives
rest unto your soul. T h e w ay of D ivinity is easy and its “bur-
den is light”, b u t the “wages of sin is death” and the “way of
the transgressor of D ivine law is h ard ”. M astership is the
brightest hope of hum anity, spirituality its greatest reward. Let
all sorrow be forgotten and the m entality realize the Divine com
scious Infinite Spirit w ithin, w hich overcomes disease, sin and
sorrow through D ivinity.
462 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(1 2 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 )— “A t that tim e Jesus w ent on the sab­
bath day th ro u g h the co rn ; and H is disciples were an hun­
gered, and began to p lu ck the ears o f corn, and to eat.
B u t w h en the P h a risees sa w it, th ey said unto Him, Be­
hold, T h y disciples do that w hich is not la w ful to do upon
the sabbath day. B u t w h en he said unto them, Have ye
not read w h a t D a vid d id w h en he w as an hungered, and
th ey that w ere w ith h im ; H o w he entered into the house
o f G od, and did eat the shew bread, w hich was not lawful
fo r h im to eat, n eith er fo r th em w hich w ere w ith him, but
only fo r the p riests? O r have ye n o t read in the law,
ho w that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple
p ro fa n e the sabbath, and are blam eless? B u t I say unto
you, T h a t in this place is one greater than the temple. But
i f ye had kn o w n w h a t this m eaneth, I w ill have mercy,
and not sacrifice, ye w o u ld not have condemned the
guiltless. F o r the S o n o f m an is L o rd even o f the sab­
bath day”.
W h en one rises beyond the plane of illusion they will un­
derstand th a t intention, n o t tradition governs the deeds of
man. M asters w ho have overcom e the illusions of theories, dog­
mas and doctrines never observe th e w orldly ceremonies of dead
beliefs. If hungry they eat and are M aster of the sabbath or
tim e, as the sabbath was m ade fo r m an, not man for the sabbath.
T h e M aster reveals this T ru th for H is critics, but they fail to
com prehend H is inner m eaning. H e had H is mind fixed on the
“W ill of H is F ath er” and was therefore firmly concentrated on
inner reality w hile th eir m ind was im prisoned in the confines of
false concept and illusion. C arnal m inded, they rebuke Him, but
H e answers them w ith th e explanation th at D avid and their own
priest broke the same law, b u t th ey do not object because they
do not understand the inner reality of life and being.
( 1 2 :9-10-11-12-13-14) — “A n d w h en H e w as departed thence,
H e w e n t into th eir syn a g o g u e: A n d , behold, there was a
m an w hich had his hand w ithered. A n d they asked Him,
saying, Is it la w fu l to heal on the sabbath days? that they
m ig h t accuse H im . A n d H e said unto them . W hat man
shall be there am ong yo u th a t shall have one sheep, and
i f it fa ll into a p it on the sabbath day, w ill he not lay hold
on it, and lift it out? H o w m u ch then is a m an better than
a sheep? W h erefo re it is la w fu l to do w ell on the sab-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 463
bath days. T h en saith H e to the m an, Stretch fo rth thine
hand. A n d he stretch ed it fo r th ; and it w as restored
whole, like as the other. T h en the P harisees w ent out,
and held a council against H im , h o w they m ight destroy
H im ”.
Dem onstrations of D ivine Pow er are despised by those
whose m entality is evil. T h ey challenge D ivinity then when
they are proven to be w rong, they plot against the Divine M es­
senger that they may destroy H im . Since H e has proven their
sin wrong they desire to prevent H im from exposing their igno­
rance of the laws of Life and Being, know ing th at their system
of holding minds in bondage is about to be at an end. They
are a prototype of m odern sinners w ho visit a H ealing M eeting
and see the w orks of C hrist proven, then falsely accuse the healer,
saying he violated some corporeal law. T h e author has experi­
enced this same form of persecution as he traveled over the
world dem onstrating D ivine pow er over disease and sin. Like­
wise his true and loyal students may expect persecution, for
ignorance dies a hard death and m any buy and sell their fellow-
man for a price. T h ey desire to perpetuate the law of Moses
which is “A n eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth” and which
refuses to recognize the standard of judging according to the
sinlessness of the judge, as established by C hrist Jesus. They
recognize C hrist on Sunday and M oses six days each week, yet
they claim to be true follow ers of the lowly Nazarene. Let all
Super M ind Scientists avoid th e appearance of hypocrisy.
(12:15-16-17-18-19-20-21)— ‘‘B u t w hen Jesus kn ew it, H e
w ithdrew H im se lf fr o m thence; and great m ultitudes fo l­
lowed H im , and H e healed them all; and charged them
that they should not m ake H im know n: That it m ight be
fulfilled w hich w as sp o ken by E saias the prophet, saying,
Behold, M y servant, w h o m I have chosen; M y beloved,
in w hom m y soul is w ell pleased: I w ill put M y S p irit
upon H im , and H e shall sh ew ju d g m en t to the Gentiles.
H e shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any m an hear
H is Voice in the streets. A bruised reed shall H e not
break, and sm oking fla x shall H e no t quench, till H e send
fo rth ju d g m en t unto victory. A n d in H is nam e shall the
Gentiles trust".
His healing proved th e judgm ent against the Gentiles, and
His fulfilling of prophecy proved H is Divinity. T he fact th at
464 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
He restored all and destroyed none proved His wisdom in the
Science of Life, Light and Truth. The Gentiles of this day
have trusted in His name, yet they have condemned His works.
(12 :22-23-24-25-26-27-28)— “T h en w as brought unto Him, one
possessed w ith a devil, blind and dum b: and he healed
him , in so m u ch that the blind and d um b both spake and
saw. A n d all the people w ere am azed, and said, Is not
th is the son o f D a v id ? B u t w h en the Pharisees heard it,
th ey said, T h is fe llo w do th no t cast out devils, but by
B eelzebub the prince o f the devils. A n d Jesus knew their
th o ughts, and said un to them , E v e ry kingdom divided
against its e lf is bro.ught to desolation; and every city or
house d ivid ed against its e lf shall n o t stand. A n d if Satan
cast o u t S a ta n , he is d ivid ed against him self; how shall
then his kin g d o m sta n d ? A n d i f I by Beelzebub cast out
devils, by w h o m do y o u r children cast them out? there­
fo re th ey shall be y o u r ju d g es. B u t i f I cast out devils
by the S p ir it o f G od, then the kingdom o f God is come
unto you”.
The argument of doing good through an evil power is the
most ancient of anti-Christ doctrines. It is unscientific and un­
reasonable to believe that evil or Beelzebub ever does good,
therefore their claim is illogical. Evil will be overcome with
good, then those who would destroy good must enter his house
and bind a strong man and cast him out. Mind being the source
of all movement and power, it is unlimited when it operates in
heavenly harmony with good. The symbol of good is the circle
which has no end, while the symbol of evil is the straight line
which has both a beginning and an end. The line can harmonize
with other straight lines, but cannot become equal with the cir­
cle whose quality is eternal and without beginning or end. In
the same sense evil can never equal good or demonstrate Divine
works, therefore all Power is in good.
(12:29-30-31 )— “O r else h o w can one enter into a strong
m an’s house, and spoil his goods, excep t he first bind the
strong m an? and then he w ill spoil his house. H e that is
• n o t w ith M e, is against M e ; and he that gathereth not
w ith M e, scattereth abroad. W h e re fo re I say unto you,
A ll m anner o f sin and blasphem y shall be forgiven unto
. : m en;, but the blasphem y against the H o ly Ghost shall not
be fo rg iven unto m en”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 46.i
W hen men seek to destroy a D ivinely Inspired M essenger
direct from the fountain of living T ru th , through lies, plots and
schemes, they sin against the “H oly G host”, m eaning the prin­
ciple of Life and Light. T his sin is never forgiven them , re­
gardless of w hat they m ay th in k about the m atter. T he power
of evil thoughts destroys them , therefore all w ho scorn a D i­
vinely Inspired T eacher bring loss of im m ortality upon them ­
selves.
(12:32-33-34-35-36-37)-— “A n d w hosoever speaketli a w ord
against the S o n o f m an, it shall be fo rg iven h im ; but w ho­
soever speaketli against the H o ly G host, it shall not be
forgiven him , neith er in this w orld, neither in the w orld
to come. "'Either m ake the tree good, and his fr u it good;
or else m ake the tree corrupt, and h is fr u it corrupt: fo r
the tree is kn o w n by his fru it. 0 generation o f vipers!
how can ye, being evil, speak good things? fo r out o f
the abundance o f the heart the m o uth speaketli. A good
man out o f the good treasure o f the heart bringeth fo rth
good things; and an evil m an, out o f the evil treasure,
bringeth fo rth evil things. B u t I say unto you, That
every idle w o rd that m en shall speak, they shall give ac­
count th ereo f in the d a y o f ju d g m en t. F or by thy w ords
thou slialt be ju stified , and by thy w ords thou shalt be
condem ned”.
T he H oly G host or inner principle of Life and T ru th is to
be held sacred. T h e sinner w ho sins against it will have no
power w ithin to save him from u tte r spiritual destruction, for
Good and evil never harm onize. Some typical sins against the
'Holy G host” are to accuse a D ivine M essenger of using evil
powers, to plot against one w ho does good, to substitute false
doctrines for the practical dem onstrable T ru th regarding the
Spirit w ithin, to condem n those w hose religious view may differ
from yours and falsely accuse them , for a man shall be judged
by his own deeds and by his ow n w ords and thoughts. T he
Spirit of G od w ithin holds everyone accountable, and his judg­
ment rendered against others intensifies his conscience, there­
fore let every M ind Scientist refrain from saying evil, thinking
evil and doing evil. Som etim es you entertain a Divine M essen­
ger and are unaw are of his sacred mission.
(12:38-39-40-41) — “T h en certain o f the scribes and o f the
Pharisees answ ered, saying, M aster, w e w ould see a sign
466 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
fr o m T hee. B u t H e an sw ered and said unto them, An evil
and ad u ltero u s g eneration seeketh a fte r a sign; and there
shall no sign be g iven to it, bu t the sign o f the prophet
Jonas: F o r as Jonas w a s three days and three nights in
the w hale’s b elly; so shall the S o n o f m an be three days,
and three n ig h ts in the heart o f the earth. The men of
N in eveh shall rise in ju d g m e n t w ith this generation, and
shall co ndem n it; because th ey repented at the preaching
o f Jo n a s; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here”.
T h e evil m inded require a sign to prove th a t Good is Good
and G od is G od, b u t are rem inded th a t one m ust repent of evil
before a sign is given save the sign of Jonas, w hich is preaching
of T ru th . T h ey desire to m ake th e condition under which God
and D ivinity is to operate th a t they may have further oppor­
tunity to sin against the H oly G host of Spirit of Truth. How­
ever, Jesus know ing th eir th o u g h ts and being M aster of Mind,
rebukes them , because th e physical senses create an illusion and
will never prove a T ru th until th e one desiring a sign becomes
a seeker and lives th e life of T ru th , Love and Light. Then in
the m easure they are sincere and give to T ru th by doing the
D ivine w orks they receive wisdom.
(2 :42-43-44-45) — “T h e queen o f the so u th shall rise up in the
ju d g m en t w ith this generation, and shall condem n it: for
she cam e fr o m the u tte rm o st parts o f the earth to hear
the w isd o m o f 'S o lo m o n ; and, behold, a greater than Sol­
om on is here. W h e n the unclean sp irit is gone out of a
m an, he w a lketh th ro u g h d ry places, seeking rest, and
fin d eth none. T h en he saitli, I w ill return into m y house
fr o m w hence I cam e o u t; and w h en he is come, he findeth
it em pty, sw ep t and garnished. T h en goeth he, and taketh
w ith h im se lf seven other sp irits m ore w icked than him­
self, and th ey en ter in and d w ell there: and the last state
o f that m an is w orse than the first. E ven so shall it be
also unto this w icked generation”.
Evil deeds and sin, sym bolized by evil spirit, attract their
kind and thus m ultiply. T hese forces of evil lead man into
darkness and crim e w here he seeks rest, b u t soon his mentality is
surrounded by evil th o u g h t form com panions which destroy
him. T h e same applies to a generation.
( 2 :46-47-48-49-50) — “W h ile H e y e t talked to the people, be­
hold, H is m other and H is brethren stood w ithout, desir-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 467
ing to speak w ith him . T h en one said unto H im , Behold,
Thy m other and T h y brethren stand w ithout, desiring to
speak w ith Thee. B u t he answ ered and said unto him
that told H im . W h o is M y m o th er? and w ho are M y
brethren? A n d H e stretch ed fo r th H is hand tow ard H is
disciples, and said, B eh o ld M y m other, and m y brethren!
For w hosoever shall do the w ill o f M y F ather w hich is
in heaven, the sam e is M y brother, and sister, and
m other”.
The M aster had risen above personal relationship and re-
nounced the w orld of personality, becom ing one w ith the right'
eous minded w ho do the D ivine W ill, therefore H e was related
only to righteousness and th e D ivine kingdom . His disciples be-
came His family and those of the w orld w ho did good, one w ith
Him. This dem onstration show s the deep impersonal love of
humanity possessed by O u r Lord, w hose mission was to heal, to
teach and to m anifest G od on earth. It is His shining example
of impersonality, D ivine Love and T ru th w hich Super M ind
Scientists strive to glorify.
(13:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9) — “The sam e day w en t Jesus out o f the
house, and sat by the sea side. A n d great m ultitudes were
gathered together unto H im , sp that he w ent into a ship,
and sat; and the w hole m u ltitu d e stood on the shore. A n d
H e spake m any things unto them in parables, saying,
Behold, a so w er w e n t fo r th to sow : A n d w hen he sowed,
some seeds fe ll by the w a y side, and the fo w ls came and
devoured them up. S o m e fe ll upon stony places, w here
they had not m uch ea rth ; and fo rth w ith they sprung up,
because they had no deepness o f earth: A n d w hen the sun
w as up, th ey w ere scorched; and because they had no
root, they w ith ered aw ay. A n d som e fe ll am ong thorns;
and the thorns sprung up, and choked them . B u t others
fell into good ground, and brought fo rth fru it, som e an
hundredfold, som e six ty fo ld , som e thirtyfold. W ho hath
ears to hear, let h im hear”.
The M essenger of L ight sows seeds of T ru th and those w ith
receptive m entalities open to wisdom, receive the full message.
Others not fully aw are of D ivine Love receive only part of the
gems of wisdom, and still others blinded by misunderstanding
and belief receive none of the message. Those w ho receive,
468 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
th in k of it and in the recesses of th eir consciousness it develops
and bears good fruit, w hile others think evil of T ru th and there­
fore it cannot bear good fru it in th eir life. "W h o hath ears to
hear, let him h ear” refers to those w ho have spiritual under­
standing to in terp ret th e parables, show ing th at Jesus taught that
S cripture o r T ru th has an in n er or tru e m eaning and also an
outer superficial m eaning. T hose w ho have spiritual under­
standing are to teach th e true spiritual m eaning of the parables
and Scriptures so th a t th e less enlightened may profit by the
understanding of those w ho are spiritually illumined. The dem­
onstrations of T ru th and P ow er are the most wonderful lessons
m ankind can receive from a M aster.
(13:10-11-12-13-14-15-16) — “A n d the disciples came and said
unto H im , W h y sp ea kest T h o u unto them in parables?
H e answ ered and said unto th em , Because it is given unto
yo u to kn o w the m ysteries o f the kingdom o f heaven, but
to th em it is not given. F o r w h o so ever hath, to him shall
be g iven, and he shall have m ore abundance; but who­
so ever ha th not, fr o m him shall be taken away even that
he hath. T h e re fo re speak I to them in parables; because
they seeing, see n o t; and hearing, th ey hear not, neither
do they understand. A n d in th em is fu lfilled the prophecy
o f E saias, w h ich saith, B y hearing ye shall hear, and shall
no t u n d ersta n d ; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not
perceive: F o r th is people’s heart is w axed gross, and
their ears are dull o f hearing, and th e n eyes have closed;
lest at any tim e th ey sh o u ld see w ith their eyes, and hear
w ith their ears, and sh o u ld u n derstand w ith their heart,
and should be converted, and I should heal them. But
blessed are yo u r eyes, fo r th ey see; and your ears, for
th ey hear” .
T h ere w ere tw o types of C hristianity taught, the inner mys­
teries to the disciples and th e outer teaching and parables for the
m aterial m inded m ultitude. T h e inner teachings consisted of
m ethods to control life energy, concentration on the Divine Will,
of m astering th e flesh, and healing the sick. These teachings
w ere too spiritual to be understood by the m ultitude who inter­
preted every w ord saying to agree w ith th eir ignorance and mis­
understanding. T h ey are th e prototypes of the modern Phan
sees w ho claim belief in C hrist yet denounce C hrist healing, the>
repeat the letter, b u t scorn th e spirit because they love the sen-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 469
sations and lust of the flesh. T h ey desire to steal their way into
heaven through belief and negative afflrmation of faith, but
blessed are the m etaphysical m inded w ho can interpret the hid'
den meaning of C hristianity and see it as the pathw ay of mas'
tership and life im m ortal.
(13:17-18-19-20-21-22-23) — “F o r verily I say unto you, That
many prophets and rig h teo u s m en have desired to see
those things w h ich ye see, and have not seen them ; and
to hear those things w h ich ye hear, and have not heard
them. H ear ye th erefo re the parable o f the sower. W hen
any one heareth the w o rd o f the kingdom , and understand-
eth it not, then com eth the w icked one, and catcheth away
that w hich w as sow n in h is heart. T h is is he w hich re­
ceived seed by the w ay side. B u t he that received the seed
into stony places, the sam e is he that heareth the w ord,
and anon w ith jo y receiveth it; Y e t hath he not root in
him self, but duretli fo r a w h ile; fo r w hen tribulation or
persecution arisetli because o f the w ord, by and by he is
offended. H e also that received seed am ong the thorns,
is he that heareth the w o rd ; and the care o f this w orld,
and the d eceitfu ln ess o f riches, choke the w ord, and he
becometh u n fru itfu l. B u t he that received seed into the
good ground, is he th a t heareth the w ord, and under-
standeth it; w hich also beareth fr u it, and bringeth fo rth ,
some an hundred fo ld , som e six ty , som e thirty’’.
The M aster dem onstrates the interpretation of the parables
and their application to life so th a t H is disciples may learn to
reason and develop th eir intuition, for intuition is the voice of
the soul. H e also tau g h t the m ental condition necessary to re'
ceive wisdom, in order th a t they m ay bear the persecution th at
was to come from doing the D ivine works, illustrating the value
of wisdom and the fruits of Goodness.
(13:24-25-26-27-28-29-30)— “A n o th e r parable put H e fo rth
unto them , saying, T he kingdom o f heaven is likened unto
a man w hich sow ed good seed in his field: B u t w hile m en
slept, his enem y cam e and sow ed tares am ong the wheat,
and w ent his w ay. B u t w hen the blade w as sprung
up, and brought fo r th fr u it, then appeared the tares also.
So the serva n ts o f the householder came and said unto
him, Sir, didst not thou so w good seed in thy field? fro m
whence then hath it ta res? H e said unto them , A n enem y
470 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
hath done this. T h e serva n ts said unto him, Wilt thou
then that w e go and g a th er them u p ? B u t he said, Nay;
lest w h ile ye g a th er up the tares, ye root up also the wheat
w ith them . L e t both g ro w together until the harvest; and
in the tim e o f ha rvest / w ill say to the reapers, Gather
ye to g eth er first the tares, and bind them in bundles to
burn th em : but g a th er the w h ea t into m y barn”.
T h e evil m inded sinner sows th e seeds of evil in the mind
of innocent parties until finally they also become sinners or tares
in the field of life. T h ey do n o t know th at they must answer
for the sins w hich they are responsible for, and that they will
be com pensated fo r th e ir good deeds and condemned for their
evil deeds, b u t such is th e result of the record of life and the
w orking of the Law of C om pensation. Evil will never enter Di­
vinity, b u t like th e tares, w ill suffer destruction in the fire of
carnal lust and passion w hich b u rn eth forever on the plane of
corporeality. A ll pardons com e from reform not from remission
of sins for intentional sinners. A ll Love is of Spirit and no evil
can enter th e D ivine kingdom of Love, Life, T ruth and Light.
(1 3 :3 1 -3 2 )— “A n o th e r parable p u t H e fo rth unto them, say­
ing, T h e kin g d o m o f heaven is like to a grain o f mustard
seed, w h ich a m an took, and sow ed in his field: Which
indeed is the least o f all seed s; but w hen it is grown, it is
the greatest am ong herbs, and becom eth a tree, so that
the birds o f the air com e and lodge in the branches
th ereo f”.
T h e spiritual idea of heaven is D ivine harm ony and eternal
existence. T h e idea of heaven as G ood and H arm ony grows in
the consciousness like a seed grow s in th e ground. Nurtured by
the sunlight of scientific understanding, it comes forth and bears
fruit, w hich is first, health and peace, and second immortality-
T h e m ost ancient doctrine is, “ Seek ye the kingdom of God or
G ood and all things shall be added unto you”. As the idea of
D ivine harm ony m anifests in consciousness, m an’s entire being
is filled w ith the effulgent light of D ivine wisdom, peace, bliss
and universal love.
(13 '33-34-35-36) — " A n o th e r parable spake H e unto them.
T he kingdom o f heaven is like unto leaven, which a
w om an took, and h id in three m easures o f meal, till ^ u
w hole w as leavened. A ll these things spake Jesus unto
the m u ltitu d e in parables; and w ith o u t a parable spake Hi
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 471
not unto th em ; that it m ig h t be fu lfilled w hich w as spoken
by the prophet, saying, I w ill open m y m outh in parables;
I will utter things w h ich have been kept secret fro m the
foundation o f the w orld. T h en Jesus sent the m ultitude
away, and w en t into the house: and his disciples came
unto him , saying, D eclare unto u s the parable o f the tares
of the field”.
The T ruth unfolded in parables was to teach the m ultitude
to reason. Since th eir reason w as deficient as it usually is, they
were not ready for deeper wisdom . Likewise, one must meditate
and pray inw ardly for light in order to com prehend the inner
wisdom in Super M ind Science, fo r wisdom comes to the meek
and pure in heart, it is n o t acquired by materialistic education.
Being a soul quality, it m anifests th ro u g h the soul’s purity.
(13:37-38-39-40-41-42-43) — “H e answ ered and said unto
them, H e that so w eth the good seed is the S o n o f man:
The field is the w o rld : the good seed are the children o f
the kingdom ; but the tares are the children o f the w icked:
The enem y that sow ed them is the d evil; the harvest is
the end o f the w o rld ; and the reapers are the angels. A s
therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire;
so shall it be in the end o f this w orld. The So n o f man
shall send fo r th his angels, and they shall gather out o f
H is kingdom all things that offend, and them w hich do
iniquity; A n d shall cast them into a furnace o f fire; there
shall be w ailing and gnashing o f teeth. T hen shall the
righteous shine fo r th as the su n in the kingdom o f their
Father. W ho hath ears to hear, let h im hear”.
W hen the w icked bring destruction upon themselves they
lament and say th a t G od has misused them , but yet while a sin'
ner, they listened to the devil (or slanderer) and the low minded,
instead of seeking T ru th , Love and W isdom or God. A t the
end of the world, m eaning m aterial existence, they bemoan their
fate, but the fires of passion and the lake of lust consumes them.
God never destroys, only sin destroys. T he righteous are ib
luminated, therefore they shine forth after material existence as
the sun transcending plane after plane through spiritual power,
until they reach the plane of im m ortal reality w here all is Peace,
God, Good, T ru th , Love and Light.
(13:44-45-46-47-48)— “A g a in , the kingdom o f heaven is like
unto treasure hid in a field ; the w hich w hen a m an hath
472 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
fo u n d , he hidetli, and fo r jo y th ereo f goeth and selleth all
th a t he hath, and b u yeth that field. A gain, the kingdom
o f heaven is like un to a m erchantm an, seeking goodl\
pearls; W h o , w h en he had fo u n d one pearl o f great price,
w en t and sold all th a t he had, and bought it. Again, the
kin g d o m o f hea ven is like unto a net, that was cast into
the sea, and g a th ered o f every kin d : W hich, when it was
fu ll, th ey d rew to shore, and sat dow n, and gathered the
good into vessels, but cast the bad aw ay”.
Heaven and Good are synonymous terms. Divine harmony
is beyond price or material consideration since it embodies all
Divine power, wisdom and attainment which exists. God being
the Father of All-good is beyond human concept, except as Divin­
ity expressing in the many living embodiments. Life is Spirit
and Spirit is Love and Light manifest as inner self reality. This
principle reveals man as the Son of a living Omnipotent God,
eternal and beyond all mortal limitations. To attain heaven, one
must enter the Divine unlimited planes of mind consciously.
(13 :4 9 -5 0 -5 1 -5 2 -5 3 )— “S o shall it be at the end o f the world:
the angels shall com e fo r th , and sever the wicked from
am ong the ju s t; A n d shall cast them into the furnace of
fire: there shall be w ailing and gnashing o f teeth. Jesus
said un to them , H a ve ye understood all these thingst
T h ey say unto H im , Y ea, L o rd . T h en said H e unto them,
T h erefo re every scribe w h ich is in structed unto the king­
dom o f heaven, is like un to a m an that is an householder,
w h ich bringeth fo r th out o f his treasures things new and
th in g s old. A n d it cam e to pass, that w hen Jesus had
finished these parables, he departed thence”.
Life is a parable which only reason explains. All symbols
have an inner meaning, this inner meaning applies to the
Science of Life and Being as revealed in the higher mental con­
cept of God as all Good, and human Will as Divine Will, a
sovereign power in human life.
(13:54-55-56-57-58)— “A n d w hen H e w as com e into His own
country, H e taught them in th eir synagogue, insomuch,
that they w ere astonished, and said, W hence hath tins man
this w isd o m , and these m ig h ty zvorks? Is not this the
carpenter’s son? is not H is m o th er called M a ry? and His
brethren, Jam es, and Joses, and S im o n , and Judas? And
his sisters, arc they not all w ith us? W hence then hath
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 473
this M an all these th in g s? A n d they w ere offended in
him, B u t Jesus said unto them , A prophet is not w ithout
honour, save in his ow n co untry, and in h is ow n house.
A nd H e did n o t m any m ig h ty w o rk s there, because o f
their u n b e lie f’.
Those closely related to th e prophet fail to observe his D i'
vinity and will n o t believe in H is D ivine w orks because of selfish
pride. His wisdom astonishes those w ho have failed to realise
God in their lives, they refuse to hear the message and the M as'
ter does no miracles before them , since th eir m ental attitude is
against His spiritual doctrines. H e observed the mental states
of the people before H e did any of H is m ighty works, showing
He was a D ivine M ind Scientist, a M aster M etaphysician who
had realized the D ivine Sonship of G od and Good.
(14:1-2-3-4-5)— " A t that tim e H ero d the tetrarch heard o f
the fam e o f Jesu s; A n d said unto his servants, T his is
John the B a p tist; he is risen fro m the dead; and there­
fore m ighty w o rks do sh ew fo r th them selves in him. For
H erod had laid hold on John, and bound him , and put
him in prison fo r H erodias’ sake, his brother P hilip’s
w ife. F or John said unto him , I t is not la w fu l fo r thee
to have her. A n d w h en he w ould have p u t him to death,
he feared the m ultitu d e, because they counted him as a
prophet”.
The dem onstration of th e actual presence of God creates a
deep mystery in the m ind of th e curious w ho fear th a t some
prophet has reincarnated in th e body of another. T hey desire
to destroy the D ivine M essenger, for sin and hypocrisy always
fear exposure, and never hesitate at m urder unless they fear pop'
ular opinion or the uprising of an abused public. T he sinner is
later fearful lest the one th ey have m urdered returns for re-
venge: the guilty conscience of H erod here shows he was guilty
of crime. T he w orks of Jesus challenged evil ways and exposed
the hypocrisy of evil m inded rulers and Pharisees, for Good and
God shine forth as the brig h t sun to one doing good deeds and
demonstrating Spirit over flesh and mind over matter.
(14:6-7-8-9-10-11-12)— " B u t w hen H ero d ’s birthday w as
kept, the daughter o f H erodias danced before them , and
pleased H erod. W h ereu p o n he prom ised w ith an oath to
give her w h a tso ever she w o u ld ask. A n d she, being be­
fore instructed o f her m other, said, Give m e here John
474 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
B a p tist’s head in a charger. A n d the king was sorry
nevertheless, fo r the oath’s sake, and them which sat
w ith h im at m eat, he com m anded it to he given her. And
he sen t, and beheaded Jo h n in the prison. A nd his head
w a s b ro u g h t in a charger, and g iven to the damsel: and
she brought it to her m other. A n d H is disciples came and
took up the body, and buried it, and w ent and told Jesus".
T h e D ivine M essenger is m urdered through a plot, showing
th e evil m anifest in th e m entality of materialistic ruling classes,
how they com e on th e m ental level of criminals yet remain in
authority. T hese types of people are soon destroyed through
th e D ivine Law of C om pensation.
(14:13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — “W h e n Jesus heard of it, He
departed thence by sh ip into a desert place apart: and
w h en the people had heard th ereo f, they follow ed Him on
fo o t out o f the cities. A n d Jesu s w en t fo rth , and saw a
great m u ltitu d e, and w a s m o ved w ith compassion toward
them , and he healed th eir sick. A n d w hen it was evening,
H is disciples cam e to H im , saying, T h is is a desert place,
and the tim e is n o w p a st; send the m ultitude away, that
th ey m a y go into the villages, and buy them selves victuals.
B u t Jesu s said unto them , T h e y need not depart; give ye
them to eat. A n d th ey say unto him , W e have here but
five loaves and tzvo fishes. H e said, B ring them hither to
me. A n d H e com m anded the m u ltitu d e to sit down on the
grass; and took the five loaves and the two fishes, and
looking up to heaven, H e blessed, and brake; and gave
the loaves to H is disciples, and the disciples to the multi­
tude. A n d th ey did all eat, and w ere filled: and they
took up o f the fra g m e n ts that rem ained twelve baskets
fu ll”.
D ivine law supplies the righteous w ith life's necessities from
an invisible source, dem onstrating universal supply through Di­
vine Power. T h e pow er w hich created the extra loaves and
fishes still creates the necessities of life for all who understand
the Science of M ind and Life. Even more than one needs is
produced if they com ply w ith th e law. T h is demonstration per­
form ed by the M aster reveals the fact th at demonstrating
prosperity to supply the needs of the body is a vital part of tht
teaching of scientific C hristianity. S uper M ind Science provides
the keys to this Pow er and th e devout Scientist can use them
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 475
and never want, for G od is the same yesterday, today and for-
ever.
(14:21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31)— “A n d they that had
eaten were about five thousand m en, beside w om en and
children. A n d stra ig h tw a y Jesu s constrained H is dis­
ciples to get into a ship, and to go before H im unto the
other side, w hile H e sen t the m u ltitu d es away. A n d w hen
H e had sent the m u ltitu d es aw ay, H e w en t up into a
m ountain apart to p ra y ; and w h en the evening w as come,
H e was there alone. B u t the ship w as now in the m idst
o f the sea, tossed w ith w a ves: fo r the w in d w as contrary.
A nd in the fo u r th w a tch o f the night Jesus w ent unto
them, w alking on the sea. A n d w h en the disciples saw
H im w alking on the sea, th ey w ere troubled, saying, I t is
a spirit, and they cried out fo r fear. B u t straightw ay
Jesus spake unto them , saying, B e o f good cheer; I t is I ;
be not afraid. A n d P e te r answ ered H im and said, L ord
if it be T hou, bid m e com e unto Thee on the w ater. A n d
H e said, Come. A n d w h en P eter w as com e dow n out o f
the ship, he w a lked on the w ater, to go to Jesus. B u t
when he saw the w in d boisterous he w as afraid; and be­
ginning to sink, he cried, saying, L o rd , save m e! A n d
im m ediately Jesu s stretch ed fo r th H is hand, caught him ,
and said unto him , 0 th o u o f little fa ith w herefore didst
thou doubt’’.
Levitation of the body or w alking on w ater or air is a dem ­
onstration rarely w itnessed by any except the A ncient M agi who
understood overcom ing th e elem ents through spiritual pow er and
control of the atom and electron. P eter w as able to accomplish
this for a while th ro u g h m ind concentration, b u t w hen carnal
mind or doubts m anifested, he began to sink because he became
negative mentally and therefore subject to the law of gravity.
Material elements or conditions never stop a M aster from doing
as he W ills, dem onstrating th e absolute pow er of G od m anifest
in man when D ivine C hristhood has been attained.
(14:32-33-34-35-36)— “A n d w h en they w ere come into the
ship, the w in d ceased. T h en they that w ere in the ship
came and w orshipped H im , saying, O f a truth T hou art
the S o n o f God. A n d w hen they w ere gone over, they
came into the land o f G ennesaret. A n d w hen the m en
o f that place had know ledge o f H im , they sent out into
476 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
oil that co u n try ro u n d about, and brought unto Him all
th a t w ere diseased: A n d besought H im that they might
only touch the h em o f H is ga rm en t: and as many as
touched w ere m ade p e rfe c tly w hole”.
T h e touch of D ivinity w ith m ind concentrated on healing
dem onstrates over all m anner of disease, proving that Spirit is
unlim ited Pow er. T h e faith of the seekers made the receptive
m ental condition so th ey could receive healing, while the posi-
tivness of Jesus m anifested perfect health through Mind.
(1 5 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 )— “T h en cam e to Jesus scribes and
P harisees, w h ich w ere o f Jerusalem , saying, W hy do Thy
disciples transgress the tra dition o f the elders? for they
w ash n o t th eir hands w h en th ey eat bread. But he an­
sw ered and said un to th em , W h y do ye also transgress
the co m m a n d m en t o f G od by yo u r tradition? For God
com m anded, saying, H o n o u r th y fa th e r and mother: and,
H e that curseth fa th e r or m o th er, let him die the death.
B u t ye say, W h o so ever shall say to his father or his
m other, I t is a g ift, by w h a tso ever thou mightest be
profited by m e: A n d h o n o u r no t h is fa th e r or his mother,
he shall be free. T h u s have ye m ade the commandment
o f G od o f none effect by y o u r tradition. Ye hypocrites!
w ell did E saias p ro p h esy o f yo u , saying, This people
d ra w eth nigh un to M e w ith th eir m outh, and honoureth
M e w ith their lips: but th eir heart is fa r fro m Me. But
in vain th ey do w o rsh ip M e , teaching fo r doctrines, the
co m m a n d m en ts o f m en ”.
T raditions w hich relate to com m andm ents of men have no
D ivine significance, th ey are often b u t vain repetitions of mean­
ingless doctrines and dogmas. T hose w ho observe them follow
obsolete system s and neglect solving th e problem s of life. The
scribes and Pharisees represented an inefficient ancient system
w hich failed to teach th e people T ru th and Spiritual Power.
T h ey are represented today by a type w ho live a goodless life
grounded in dogm atic traditions and w orthless doctrines that
have no M odus O perandi. T h ey scorn th e demonstrations of Di­
vine m etaphysics w hich opens th e eyes of the blind, the ears of
the deaf and heals th e halt and lame. T h ey can only occupy the
scorner s seat for a brief period, fo r G od will not be mocked and
evil will never trium ph over Good. T h e w orks of Christ have
returned as Super M ind Science dem onstrates, it offers the proof
THE BOOK OF ST. MATTHEW 477
of its demonstrations in the form of letters from many who were
once diseased but are now healed, testifying to the scientific cor'
iectness of its Divine principles.
(1 5 :10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — “A n d H e called the
m ultitude, and said un to them , H ear, and understand:
N ot that w hich goeth into the m o u th defileth a m an; but
that w hich com eth out o f the m o u th , this defileth a man.
Then came H is disciples, and said unto H im , K n o w est
Thou that the P harisees w ere offended, a fte r they heard
this saying? B u t H e answ ered and said, E v e ry plant
which M y heavenly F a th er hath n o t planted, shall be
rooted up. L e t th em alone: they be blind leaders o f the
blind. A n d i f the blind lead the blind, both shall fa ll into
the ditch. T h en answ ered P eter, and said unto H im , D e­
clare unto us th is parable. A n d Jesu s said, A re ye also
yet w ithout u n d ersta n d in g ? D o n o t ye yet understand,
that w hatsoever entereth in at the m o uth goeth into the
belly, and is cast ou t into the d ra u g h t? B u t those things
which proceed out o f the m o u th com e fo r th fr o m the
heart; and they defile the m an. F o r out o f the heart pro­
ceed evil thoughts, m u rd ers, adulteries, fornications,
thefts, false w itness, blasphem ies: T hese are the things
which defile a m an: but to eat w ith unw ashen hands de­
fileth not a m an”.
“Every plant (symbolical of belief) not planted by My
heavenly Father shall be uprooted” was the challenge of Good to
evil. The Master illustrated how belief was void of power and
how the blind or physical minded leading the physical minded
fall into a ditch or sin and destroy themselves, because they lack
the spirituality of the heart or emotions. Internal cleanliness is
necessary to attain immortality, while eating without washing
hands was simply failing to observe a custom. The fault finding
Pharisees observed only physical mistakes, condemning Divinity,
yet they could not observe their own mistakes which lead to
destruction.
(15:21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28)— '"T h en Jesu s w en t thence,
and departed into the coasts o f T yre and Sidon. A n d ,
behold, a w om an o f Canaan cam e out o f the sam e coasts,
and cried unto H im , saying, H a ve m ercy on m e, 0 L o rd ,
Thou son o f D a vid ! m y daughter is grievously vexed
w ith a devil. B u t he answ ered her n o t a w ord. A n d H is
478 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
disciples cam e, and besought H im , saying, Send her
a w a y; fo r she crieth a fte r us. B u t he answered and said,
/ am n o t sen t but un to the lost sheep o f the House of
Israel. T h en cam e she, and w orshipped him., saying,
L o rd , help m e ! B u t he answ ered and said, It is not meet
to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to dogs. And
she said, T ru th , L o r d : y e t the dogs eat o f the crumbs
w h ich fa ll fr o m th eir m aster’s table. Then lesus an­
sw ered and said un to her, 0 w om an, great is thy faith:
be it unto thee even as th o u w ilt. A n d her daughter was
m ade w h o le fr o m th a t v e ry hour”.
T h e D ivine M aster is m oved to pity, and finding the woman
w orthy H e exerts H is spiritual W ill. T h e healing is performed
at th a t m om ent, dem onstrating th e pow er of thought and mind
over disease. T h e w om an's faith produced the necessary mental
receptivity w hich harm onized w ith the positive M ind Power of
the M aster, dem onstrating th e pow er of heavenly harmony and
D ivine M ind w hen the pairs of opposites operate under laws of
Spirit, T ru th , Love and L ight and m anifest God.
(1 5 :2 9 -3 0 -3 1 ) — ‘‘A n d le s u s departed fro m thence, and came
nigh un to the sea o f G alilee; and w en t up into a moun­
tain and sat d o w n there. A n d great m ultitudes came unto
him , having w ith them those that w ere lame, blind, dumb,
m aim ed, and m a n y others, and cast them down at lesus’
fe e t; and he healed th em : In so m u ch that the multitude
w o ndered, w h en th ey sa w the d um b to speak, the maimed
to be w hole, the lam e to w alk, and the blind to see: and
th ey glorified the G od o f Israel”.
Jesus, th e physician, has com passion and heals the multitude
of disease, dem onstrating a living G od and a supreme spiritual
Pow er over m atter. T h ey praised th e G od of Israel showing
th eir lack of spiritual w isdom regarding the universality of Di'
vinity and G od, and therefore little understood the true meaning
of the scenes they w itnessed. T h ey are likened unto the mod'
ern m ultitudes w ho see the w onders of Super M ind Science and
attribute its pow ers to some supernatural ancient God which has
no real existence. Jesus dem onstrated naturalism , not super-
naturalism , H is w orks explained the science underlying the
w orks of all th e prophets before H im . Even to this day He is un­
derstood by very few. Some refuse H is D ivine lessons but yet
w orship H im as an idol, regarding H im as beyond humanity
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 479
instead of regarding H im as a D ivine T eacher of the Laws of
Life and Being.
(15:32-33-34-35-36-37-38-39) — '‘T hen Jesus called H is dis­
ciples unto him , and said, 1 have com passion on the m ul­
titude, because th ey continue w ith m e now three days,
and have nothing to eat: and I w ill not send them away
fa stin g , lest th ey fa in t in the w ay. A n d H is disciples say
unto H im , W hence should w e have so m uch bread in the
w ilderness, as to fill so great a m u ltitu d e? A n d Jesus saith
unto them , H o w m any loaves have ye? A n d they said,
S even , and a fe w little fishes. A n d H e com m anded the
m ultitude sit do w n on the ground. A n d H e took the
seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake
them , and gave to H is disciples, and the disciples to the
m ultitude. A n d they did all eat and w ere filled: and they
took up the broken m eat that w as le ft seven baskets full.
A n d they that did eat w ere fo u r thousand m en, beside
w om en and children. A n d he sent aw ay the m ultitude,
and took ship, and cam e into the coasts o f M agdala”.
Once again Jesus dem onstrates the Divine law of supply
which dem onstrates th a t Spiritual Pow er can be used to over­
come the physical poverty of the m ultitude, proving Divine
Power unlim ited.
(16:1-2-3-4) — “T he P harisees also w ith the Sadducees came,
and tem pting, desired H im that H e w ould shew them a
sign fro m heaven. H e answ ered and said unto them ,
W h en it is evening, ye say, I t w ill be fa ir w eather; fo r
the sk y is red. A n d in the m orning, It w ill be fo u l
w eather to d a y; fo r the sk y is red and low ering. 0 ye
hypocrites! ye can discern the face o f the sk y ; but can
ye not discern the signs o f the tim es? A w icked and
adulterous generation seeketh a fter a sign; and there shall
no sign be given unto it, but the sign o f the prophet
Jonas. A n d H e le ft them , and departed”.
Curiosity seeking materialists tem pt the M aster to show a
sign from heaven so they can then turn and falsely accuse Him,
but He, know ing their thoughts refuses them , saying “there shall
be no sign except the sign of the prophet Jonas”, w hich was
preaching to w arn them of the consequence of sin. H ad they
been sincere seekers of T ru th they would have receivd the dem ­
onstration desired. T hey represent the type today w ho dem and
480 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
th e m etaphysician to perform seem ingly impossible feats through
D ivine P ow er fo r th e ir ow n am usem ent. W hen they see
th a t w hich th ey cannot explain, they plot destruction of the
m etaphysician, b u t evil’s subtle serpent cannot tempt Divinity.
(1 6 :5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -1 0 -1 1 -1 2 )— “A n d w h en H is disciples were come
to the o ther side, th ey had fo rg o tte n to take bread. Then
Jesu s said un to th em , T a ke heed, and beware of the
leaven o f the P h a risees and o f the Sadducees. And they
reasoned am ong them selves, saying, I t is because we have
ta ken no bread. W h ic h w h en Jesus perceived, He said
unto th em , 0 ye o f little fa ith , w h y reason ye among
yo u rselves, because ye have brought no bread? Do ye
not y e t understand, n eith er rem em ber the five loaves of
the five thousand, and h o w m any baskets ye took up:
N e ith e r the seven loaves o f the fo u r thousand, and how
m any baskets ye took up? H o w is it that ye do not un­
derstand, that I spake it no t to yo u concerning bread, that
ye should bew are o f the leaven o f the Pharisees and of
the Sadducees? T h en u n d ersto o d they how that he bade
th em n o t bew are o f the leaven o f bread, but o f the doc­
trine o f the P h a risees and o f the Sadducees”.
T h e doctrines of falsehood based on tradition instead of
dem onstration destroy the soul consciousness, therefore the dis-
ciples w ere w arned regarding “th e leaven of the Pharisees .
T h ey tau g h t salvation th ro u g h belief in the laws of Moses and
blood sacrifice, w hile Jesus tau g h t salvation through demonstra­
tion of D ivine Pow er, w hich consisted of healing the sick and
doing good deeds. T h e contrast betw een the two doctrines is
the same as the contrast today betw een Super M ind Science based
on dem onstration, and form al religion based on belief and re­
mission of sins th ro u g h the physical blood sacrifice of Jesus
C hrist, w hose mission they say was to bear their burdens. They
refuse to recognize H im as a D ivine T eacher of the laws of Life,
T ru th , health, m ind and being, and refuse to accept the fact that
H e taught a practical science w hich solves the problems of hu
m anity and points the w ay to spiritual illumination and soul
im m ortality.
(16:13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20)— '“W h e n Jesus came into the
coasts o f Caesarea P hilippi, H e asked H is disciples, say­
ing, W h o m do m en say that I, the S o n o f man, am? dnd
they said, S o m e say that T h o u are John the Baptist; some,
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 481
Elias; and others, Jerem ias, or one o f the prophets. H e
saith unto them , B u t w h o m say ye that I am? A n d Sim on
Peter answ ered and said, T h o u art the Christ, the S o n o f
the living God. A n d Jesus answ ered and said unto him ,
Blessed art thou, S im o n B arjona: fo r flesh and blood
hath not revealed it unto thee, but m y Father w hich is in
heaven. A n d I say also unto thee, That thou art P eter;
and upon this rock I w ill build m y church; and the gates
o f hell shall n o t prevail against it. A n d I w ill give unto
thee the keys o f the kingdom o f heaven; and w hatsoever
thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and
w hatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in
heaven. T h en charged H e H is disciples, that they should
tell no m an that H e w as Jesus the C hrist”.
Great M asters reveal th eir identity to disciples of T ru th but
do not seek fame as w orldly men do. T he disciples having spir'
itual vision could understand the Sonship of God manifest in
Jesus, while th e m ultitude considered Him ass a reincarnated
prophet. H e established H is church in hum an identity or being,
referring to it as “T h o u art P eter” (w herein manifests the Spirit
of God), predicting th a t the “gates of hell” or pathway of de'
struction “shall n o t prevail against it” or evil shall not master
Good. H e gave unto m an as a spiritual being the power to bind
by the Power of M ind all things visible or invisible, for H e said
I will give unto thee the keys (m eaning methods) of the king'
dom of heaven (m eaning harm ony), and whatsoever thou shalt
bind on earth (or in th e physical) shall be bound in heaven (or
the invisible)”, show ing the unlim ited quality of M ind manifest
in man’s spiritual being. T h e C hrist teaching is the science of
spiritual m astership w hich unfolds the inner of soul powers
within man, revealing the real self or Sonship of God to the dis'
ciple of T ru th , w hile so'called “C hristian” sectarianism is the
road to darkness.
(16:21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28)— “F ro m that tim e fo rth began
Jesus to sh ew unto H is disciples, how that H e m ust go
unto Jerusalem , and su ffe r m any things o f the elders and
chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again
the third day. T h en P eter took H im and began to rebuke
H im , saying, B e it fa r fro m Thee, L o rd : this shall not be
unto Thee. B u t H e turned, and said unto P eter, Get thee
behind me, S a ta n ; thou art an offence unto m e; fo r Thou
482 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be
of men. Then said Jesus unto His disciples, If any m
an
will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me. For whosoever will save his
life shall lose it; and whosoever will lose his life for My
sake shall find it. For what is a man profited, if he shall
gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what
shall a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son
of man shall come in the glory of his Father, with his
angels, and then he shall reward every man according to
his works. Verily I say unto you, There be some stand­
ing here which shall not taste of death, till they see the
Son of man coming in His kingdom”.
The spiritual vision of Jesus revealed His death from a
physical standpoint, in the future, and it also revealed His abil­
ity to prove death powerless over Life and Truth. He an­
nounced His intention of demonstrating the power of Spirit over
death by challenging priestcraft. The personality of Peter mani­
fests its carnal qualities when He rebuked His Divine Teacher.
His negative attitude of mind was immediately pronounced Satan
or adversary by the Master. Following this rebuke Jesus pre­
dicted His mastery over death. The lesson Peter learned from
this was that Christ was a universal principle or Spirit and not
a human personality which healed the sick, raised the dead, and
fed the multitude. He learned that it was God or Infinite Mind
manifesting through a purified mortal who had taken on the
full armour of Spirit and Divinity. He also learned that disease
and death could be bound and cast out by regenerate man if he
manifested God. This could not be done by material methods
or means, but through impersonality and Divinity, without con­
sideration of physical advantage or avoiding of spiritual respon­
sibility for the sake of physical life and well being. Jesus termed
this "that which savourest of God”. The Science of Life and
Spirit demand the renouncing of the physical world, except as
a means to an end. The giving of the key of Life and Being to
Peter was not the establishment of a physical institution or
church, but referred to the alter of Spirit within man s identity.
The earliest Roman church was established three hundred and
twenty five A. D. (325 A. D.), long after the physical demise of
all the disciples.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 483
(17:1-2-3-4-5)— “A n d a fte r s ix days Jesus taketh Peter,
James, and Jo h n h is brother, and bringeth them up into an
high m ountain apart. A n d w as transfigured before them :
and H is fa ce d id shine as the sun, and H is raim ent was
white as the light. A n d , behold, there appeared unto them
M oses and E lias, talking w ith him . Then answ ered Peter,
and said unto Jesus, L o rd , it is good fo r us to be here:
if thou w ilt, let us m ake here three tabernacles; one fo r
thee, and one fo r M oses, and one fo r Elias. W hile he yet
spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadow ed them : and,
behold, a voice out o f the cloud, w hich said, T his is M y
beloved S o n , in w h o m I am w ell pleased; hear ye him ”.
Jesus selected the m ost receptive of His disciples and
initiated them into the m ystery of im m ortality and spiritual
illumination w hen the cosmic voice m anifested in a cloud of
light, saying, “T his is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased; hear ye him ”. T h e voice of T ru th manifests to spirit­
ually prepared disciples and reveals the mystery of life, love
and spiritual powers. In order to experience this opening up of
spiritual vision one m ust have m ental receptivity, hence the
selection of Peter, Jam es and John w ho were advanced students
in the Science of Life. T h e appearance of Moses and Elias
proved the powerlessness of death over a M aster, dem onstrating
continuity of life in an individual form beyond physical death
for those w ho labor in the vineyard of human service and
Divine love, for man is spiritual not physical and his inner self
is immortal. A ttainm ent of this desired state is dependent upon
doing good deeds n o t upon affirming a belief. T he M aster says
Those w ho love me doeth my w orks”, w hich is healing and
helping hum anity. T hose w ho understand the Science of M ind
can accomplish this w ork, for G od is in mind and when mind
concentrates G od operates.
(17:6-7-8-9-10-11-12-13)— “A n d w hen the disciples heard it,
they fe ll on th eir face, and w ere sore afraid. A n d Jesus
came and touched them , and said, A rise, and be not afraid.
A n d w hen th ey had lifte d up their eyes, they saw no man,
save Jesus only. A n d as they came dow n fro m the m oun­
tain, Jesus charged them , saying, Tell the vision to no
man, until the S o n o f m an be risen again fro m the dead.
A n d H is disciples asked H im , saying, W h y then say the
scribes that E lias m u st first com e? A n d Jesus answ ered
484 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
and said unto th em , E lia s tru ly shall first come, and re­
store all things. B u t I say unto you, T hat Elias is come
already, and th ey k n e w h im not, but have done unto him
w h a tso ever th ey listed. L ik e w ise shall also the Son of
m an su ffe r o f them . T h en the disciples understood that
H e spake un to th em o f Jo h n the B a p tist”.
T h e corporeal consciousness of the disciples feared the
m anifestation of the pow er of Spirit, yet they desired to learn
the lessons of D ivinity. T h eir experience was as Jesus said, a
vision or m ental dem onstration of pow er, and they were charged
to keep it secret, because those uninitiated would scorn it and
w ould give negative suggestions to the disciples. They were
told “tell no m an until th e Son of m an be risen from the dead”
o r had conquered m an’s last enem y, the grave. The purpose of
th e lesson was to train them m entally to receive the risen Christ
afte r th e crucifixion, fo r Jesus C h rist was to prove forever the
doctrine of a resurrected individuality after death which is sub'
ject to spiritual law only. In order th a t one may attain the
D ivine kingdom or Infinite state, Jesus said they should “take
up th y cross and follow m e” or overcom e the physical body
(cross), dem onstrate th ro u g h spiritual pow er over disease, sin
and m ental obsession, “ love ye one ano th er” and do “the Will
of m y heavenly F ath er”.
( 1 7 :14-15-16-17-18-19-2 0 -2 1 ) — “A n d w hen they were come to
the m u ltitu d e, there cam e to H im a certain man, kneeling
d o w n to H im , saying, L o rd , have m ercy on m y son; for
he is lunatick, and sore v e x e d : fo r o fttim es he falleth into
the fire,and o ft into the w ater. A n d I brought him to Thy
disciples, and th ey could n o t cure him . Then Jesus an­
sw ered and said, 0 fa ith le ss and perverse generation!
h o w long shall I be w ith yo u ? h o w long shall I suffer
y o u ? B rin g h im h ith er to M e. A n d Jesus rebuked the
devil, and he departed out o f h im : and the child was
cured fr o m that ve ry hour. T h en came the disciples to
Jesus apart, and said, W h y could not w e cast him out?
A n d Jesu s said unto them , B ecause o f your unbelief: for
verily I say unto yo u , I f ye h a ve fa ith as a grain of mus­
tard seed, ye shall say unto this m ountain, Rem ove hence
to yo n d er place, and it shall rem o ve; and nothing shall
be im possible unto you. H o w b eit, this kind goetli not out
but by prayer and fa stin g ”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 485
The lack of belief or a positive mental concentrated state
causes the disciples to fail to cure the boy, but the W ill of the
Master w ho is possessed of D ivine faith quickly demonstrates
over failure, how ever w isdom as w ell as faith is required.
(1 7 :22-23-24-25-26-27)— “A n d w hile they abode in Galilee,
Jesus said un to them , T he S o n o f m an shall be betrayed
into the hands o f m en ; A n d they shall kill H im , and the
third d a y he shall be raised again. A n d they w ere exceed­
ing sorry. A n d w h en th ey w ere com e to Capernaum, they
that received tribute m oney came to P eter, and said, D oth
not yo u r m a ster pay trib u te? H e saith, Yes. A n d w hen
he w as com e into the house, Jesus prevented him , saying,
W hat th in kest thou, S im o n ? o f w hom do the kings o f
the earth take custom or tribute? o f their own children,
or o f strangers? P e te r saith unto H im , O f strongers,
Jesus saith unto h im , T h en are the children free? N o t­
w ithstanding, lest w e should offend them , go thou to the
sea, and cast an hook, and take up the fish that first
com eth u p ; and w h en thou hast opened his m outh, thou
shalt fin d a piece (ff m o n ey; that take, and give unto them
fo r M e and thee”.
T he M aster realizing th at H is physical death was near,
comforted H is disciples by explaining th at H e would rise again,
proving death has no pow er over m astership, love of hum anity,
Truth and spiritual wisdom. A dem onstration of prosperity or
taking a coin from a fish’s m outh dem onstrates the M aster’s
independence of m aterial conditions and laws. T he fish is also
a symbol of A quarius or the age of soul wisdom w hen powers
of Spirit supersede all m ateriality.
(8 :l-2 -3 -4 -5 -6 )— “A t the sam e tim e came the disciples unto
Jesus, saying, W h o is the greatest in the kingdom o f
heaven? A n d Jesus called a little child unto H im , and set
him in the m id st o f them , A n d said, V erily I say unto
you, E x c e p t ye be converted, and become as little children,
ye shall n o t enter into the kingdom o f heaven. W hoso­
ever th erefo re shall hum ble h im self as this little child,
the sam e is greatest in the kingdom o f heaven. A n d
w hoso shall receive one such little child in M y name, re-
ceiveth M e. B u t w hoso shall offend one o f these little
ones w hich believe in M e, it w ere better fo r him that a
486 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
m illstone w ere hanged about his neck, and that he were
d ro w n ed in the d ep th o f the sea”.
H um ility expresses D ivinity since all creation is subject to
Infinite pow er w hich shines above m ateriality like the light of
a m id'day sun. T h e m ind of a child is receptive to learning,
therefore one m ust becom e as a child, or receptive to learning in
o rder to en ter into th e kingdom of D ivine harm ony or heaven.
A nyone w ho offends a receptive person w ho is striving to attain
spirituality, brings suffering upon them selves and it would be
b etter fo r them to have lost th e ir life rather than offend the
D ivine Infinite W ill w hich will cause th e Law of Compensation
to be against them . T ru e C hristianity is the expression of Infinite
W ill in healing the sick and m anifesting G od and Good. Super
M ind Science in revealing the correct m ethod of applying Spirit
to the problem s of m atter becom es the m odern Divine Logos,
leading hum anity on and on in the path of progress toward
D ivinity. T h e true Super M ind Scientist expresses the illumina­
tion of Spirit in the hum ble b u t spiritual deeds of uplifting
hum anity, healing the sick and casting out obsessions.
(8 :7 -8 -9 )— “W o e unto the w o rld because o f offences! for it
m u st needs be that offences com e; but w oe to that man
by w h o m the offence co m eth ! W h erefo re if thy hand or
th y fo o t o ffen d thee, cut them off, and cast them from
thee; it is better fo r thee to enter into life halt or maimed,
rather than, having tw o hands or tw o fe e t, to be cast into
everlasting fire. A n d i f thine eye offend, pluck it out, and
cast it fr o m th e e ; it is better fo r thee to enter into life
w ith one eye, rather than, having tw o eyes, to be cast into
hell fire”.
T h e destruction of th e w icked is again predicted, also the
solving of the problem of hum an attachm ents. T he Master says
“if th y hand (m eaning friend) or foot (m eaning relative) offend
thee, cut them off”, or break the m ental relationship, for it is
better th at you lack th eir m aterial assistance than to be destroyed
w ith them , therefore attachm ent to o th er sinful mortals is not
conducive to one’s spiritual attainm ent. T hose w ho do not break
the attachm ents of offending m em bers are liable to be cast into
the everlasting fires of passion in th e low er planes of mind and
to be consum ed or lost to all identity. T h e true M ind Scientist
is one w ho is attached only to G od, and w ho overcomes all
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 487
other attachm ents th ro u g h the pow er of concentration. The
pervading Infinite Spirit predom inates in their life and illumi
nates their being w ith rays of T ru th , Love and Light.
(18:10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17) — “Take heed that ye despise not
one o f these little ones; fo r I say unto you, That in
heaven their angels do alw ays behold the face o f M y
Father w hich is in heaven. F o r the S o n o f man is come
to save that w hich w as lost. Flow think ye? if a man
have an hu n d red sheep, and one o f them be gone astray,
doth he not leave the nin ety and nine, and goeth into the
m ountains, and seeketh that w hich is gone astray? A n d
if so be that he fin d it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth
more o f that sheep, than o f the ninety and nine w hich
w ent not astray. E v e n so it is not the w ill o f your Father
w hich is in heaven, that one o f these little ones should
perish. M oreover, i f th y brother shall trespass against
thee, go and tell him his fa u lt betw een thee and him alone;
if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. B ut
if he w ill not hear thee, then take w ith thee one or two
more, that in the m o u th o f tw o or three w itnesses every
w ord m ay be established. A n d i f he shall neglect to hear
them , tell it unto the church; but if he neglect to hear the
church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a
publican”.
T he D ivine shepherd is Infinite Spirit, those “gone astray"
are those w ho sin and concentrate their m entality on evil and
the ways of darkness, b u t Infinite Love seeks to draw all souls
unto Spirit like a m agnet draw s steel. T he law here is th at those
who trespass against th eir brother are first to be confronted with
two witnesses, then if they refuse to do right they are to be
brought before the church, and then still refusing to do right,
they are to be social outcasts and considered as a heathen. This
doctrine of discipline and pow er given the true church of
Christ exemplifies a passive punishm ent as compared to the idea
of society today, w hich seeks revenge. It shows the true C hrist
principle of Justice and Faith in hum anity and the spiritual ideal.
It is a striking contrast to the m odern Christian so-called, idea of
revenge followed by theologians w ho still live under the law of
Moses.
(18:18-19-20-21-22)— “V erily I say unto you, W hatsoever ye
shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and w hat-
488 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
soever ye shall loose on earth, shqll be loosed in heaven.
A g a in I say unto you, T h a t i f tw o o f you shall agree on
earth as touching a n yth in g that they shall ask, it shall be
done fo r them ou t o f m y F a th er w hich is in heaven. For
w h ere tw o or th ree are g a th ered to g eth er in M y name,
there am I in the m id st o f them . T hen came Peter to
H im , and said, L o rd , h o w o ft shall m y brother sin against
m e, and I fo rg iv e h im ? till seven tim es? Jesus saith
un to him , I sa y n o t u n to thee, U n til seven times: but,
U n til se ven ty tim es seven ”.
Forgiveness is a spiritual realisation w ithin the forgiver.
Enm ity and th o u g h ts of revenge are a sin, they poison the body
and in terru p t D ivine harm ony, therefore one should forgive
im m ediately after they have been offended. Forgiving one an­
o th er is a m anifestation of th e C h rist Spirit within, for “that
w hich is bound on earth (th e physical) is also bound in heaven”
(or the m ental), and w ill produce its fruit. Forgiveness pro­
duces th e fru it o f spiritual w isdom , w hile enm ity produces the
fru it of darkness and destruction, therefo re every M ind Scientist
should overcom e enm ity th ro u g h concentration, meditation and
D ivine union w ith th e Infinite. C orrect thinking spiritualizes the
m entality w hich in tu rn produces ease in the body; sin lowers the
m entality to th e level of lust and anim al impulse which consti­
tutes the burning fires o f th e passions or hell. Therefore, the
spiritual m inded should study well th e fruits of sin and the re­
w ard o f righteousness, th a t th ey m ay glorify God and Good
w hich is harm ony or heaven.
(1 8 :2 3 -24-25-26-27)— “T h e re fo re is the kingdom o f heaven
likened unto a certain king, w h ich w o u ld take account of
his servants. A n d w h en h e had begun to reckon, one
w a s brought un to h im w h ich o w ed him ten thousand
talents: B u t fo ra sm u ch as he had not to pay, his lord
com m anded h im to be sold, and his w ife, and children,
and all that he had, and p a ym en t to be made. The servant
th erefo re fe ll dow n, and w o rsh ip p ed H im , saying, Lord,
have patience w ith m e, and I w ill pay thee all. Then the
lord o f th a t serva n t w as m o ved w ith compassion, and
loosed him , and fo rg a ve h im the debt”.
T h e one w ho owes a deb t to D ivinity should realize that
D ivinity is priceless and beyond m onetary value, therefore the
debt to G od and G ood requires eternity to pay. However, if they
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 489
are sincere they can overcom e th eir transgression and past tres­
passes through Infinite M ind, then the load is lifted from their
conscience, for Infinite M ind is Love, compassion and kindness,
manifesting as O m nipotent and eternal pow er of consciousness.
One person can forgive another, but as for this making the
sinner good, it does not, for every person m ust answer for their
own deeds. T h e person doing the forgiving keeps the poison of
enmity from his ow n consciousness.
(18:28-29-30) — “B u t the sam e servant w ent out, and fo u n d
one o f his fello w -serva n ts w hich ow ed him an hundred
pence; and he laid hands on him , and took him by the
throat, saying, P a y m e that thou owest. A n d his fellow -
servant fe ll do w n at his fe e t, and besought him , saying,
H ave patience w ith m e, and I w ill pay thee all. A n d he
w ould n o t; but w en t and cast him into prison, till he
should pay the debt”.
Carnal m inded individuals are unappreciative of the bless­
ings of Spirit and are unw illing to forgive even when they have
been forgiven; they desire rath er to punish. Forgetting Divine
Mercy, Love and Justice, they violate the law of Spirit. They
do unto others as they please, yet w hen they are punished
through D ivine law, they cry out for mercy and compassion.
Such is the unreasoning sin of carnal selfishness w hich goes on
heedless of the destruction w hich is the inevitable result of sin.
Men who sit in judgm ent on criminals and vote the penalty of
death to a w ayw ard b ro th er usually have no mercy, yet they
think that G od will give them life. In the Divine kingdom they
may be more crim inal than the one they desire to kill for revenge
of society, for the laws of G od are more Just than man s highest
ideal of Justice. T h e ways of G od are as far beyond the flesh
as the sun is above the earth, therefore, let every Super M ind
Scientist have com passion for their fellowman, refuse to kill,
and abide in Love and T ru th , forgiving others as you would be
forgiven, and doing good to your enemy.
(1 8 :31-32-33-34-35)— "S o w hen his fellow servants saw w hat
was done,th ey w ere very sorry, and came and told unto
their lord all that w as done. T hen his lord, a fter that he
had called him , said unto him , 0 thou w icked servant, I
forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me.
Shouldest not thou also have had com passion on thy fel-
low servant, even as I had pity on thee? A n d his lord
490 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w as w ro th , and delivered h im to the torm entors, till he
sh o u ld pay all that w a s due unto him . So likewise shall
m y heavenly F a th er do also un to yo u , if ye from your
hearts fo rg iv e no t every one his brother their trespasses".
T h e torm entors of evil doers or the destructive forces
created by man are germ s of life and energy which are con­
trolled by m ind. T h e evil th o u g h ts produce decaying tormenting
energies w hich punish according to the law of Compensation,
w hile th e good thoughts, being eternal in quality, produce
energies w hich build up and preserve the consciousness. The
Law of C om pensation provides forgiveness for each individual
in accordance w ith the m easure in w hich they forgive others or
in th e m easure th a t th e ir conscience is pure.
(1 9 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 )— “A n d it cam e to pass, that w hen Jesus had
finished these sayings, he departed fr o m Galilee, and came
into the coasts o f Judaea beyond Jordan: A n d great mul­
titu d es fo llo w e d H im ; and H e healed them there. The
P harisees also cam e unto H im , tem pting H im , and saying
unto H im , Is it la w fu l fo r a m an to pu t away his wife
fo r every cause? A n d H e answ ered and said unto them,
have ye no t read, that H e w h ich m ade them at the begin­
ning, m ade them m ale and fem a le. A n d said, For this
cause shall a m an leave fa th e r and m other, and shall
cleave to his w ife : and th ey tw ain shall be one fleshV
M ental and physical unity represents true marriage which
symbolizes m an’s unity w ith heaven or Good, “for this cause
shall man leave fath er and m other and cleave to his wife be­
cause “G od m ade them male and fem ale in the beginning’ . The
law of unity and harm ony as positive and negative creation is
the basis of reproduction, therefore it is a sacred institution.
M an is charged to preserve it and hold it sacred.
(19:6-7-8-9-10-11-12)— “W h e re fo re th ey are no more twain,
but one flesh. W h a t th erefo re G od hath joined together,
let not m an p u t asunder. T h ey say unto H im , W hy did
M oses then com m and to give a w ritin g o f divorcement,
and to p u t her a w a y? H e saitli unto them , Moses, be­
cause o f the hardness o f yo u r hearts, suffered you to
put aw ay yo u r w ives: but fr o m the beginning it was not
so. A n d I say unto yo u , W h o so ever shall put away his
w ife , except it be fo r fo rn ica tio n , and shall marry an
other, co m m itteth a d u ltery: and w hoso m arrieth her
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 491
■which is pu t aw ay d o th com m it adultery. H is disciples
say unto H im , I f the case o f the m an he so w ith his w ife,
it is no t good to m arry. B u t H e said unto them , A ll men
cannot receive this saying, save they to w hom it is given.
For there are som e eunuchs, w hich w ere so born fro m
their m o th er’s w o m b ; and there are som e eunuchs, w hich
were m ade eunuchs o f m en: and there be eunuchs, which
have m ade th em selves eunuchs fo r the kingdom o f
heaven’s sake. H e that is able to receive it, let him
receive it”.
In order to understand T ru th one must reason. Moses
represents physical law, w hile Jesus expounds spiritual laws and
principles, placing all hum an relationship on a spiritual basis,
but those w ho w ould live by these precepts m ust be spiritualized
mentally. C arnal lust and uncontrolled passions of anger break
up the home and produce m orons and criminals, the remedy is
to place m arriage on a spiritual basis through teaching hum anity
true spiritual attainm ent. U nity is the basis of existence
Divorce is a means of evading a problem , it is not the correct
way to solve it. Infinite Spirit alone solves all problems when
man does the W ill of the Father.
(19:13-14-15-16-17) — ‘‘T hen w ere there brought unto him
little children, that he should put his hands on them , and
pray: and the disciples rebuked them. B u t Jesus said,
S u ffer little children, and fo rb id them not, to come unto
m e; fo r o f such is the kingdom o f heaven. A n d he laid
his hands on them , and departed thence. A n d behold, one
came, and said un to him , Good M aster, w hat good thing
shall I do, that I m ay have eternal life? A n d he said unto
him, W h y callest thou, m e good? There is none good but
one, that is G od; but if thou w ilt enter into life, keep the
com m andm ents.”
Jesus did not desire to be w orshipped as a God, neither did
He desire to be called G ood, for H e had not yet entered into
Divine heavenly harm ony w ith His Father. T he tendency to
worship the physical man Jesus is the fruit born from the roots
of idolatry w hich the C hristians inherited from the Pagan world
of the pre'C hristian era. T he true concept of C hrist is the
universal principle of G ood and O rder upon a spiritual basis,
therefore the seeker is asked to keep the commandments of Good
492 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and G od and en ter into life, o r live in harm ony with Truth,
Love and Light.
(19:18-19-20-21-22-23-24) — " H e saith unto him , Which?
Jesu s said, T h o u shalt do no m urder, Thou shalt not
co m m it a d u ltery, T h o u shalt no t steal, Thou shalt not
bear fa lse w itn e ss; H o n o u r th y fa th e r and thy mother;
and, T h o u shalt love th y n eighbour as thyself. The young
m an saith un to him , A ll these things have I kept from
m y y o u th u p : w h a t lack I y e t? Jesus said unto him, If
th o u w ilt be p erfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give
to the poor, and th o u shalt have treasure in heaven; and
com e and fo llo w m e. B u t w h en the young man heard
that saying, he w en t aw ay so rro w fu l: fo r he had great
possessions . T h en said Jesu s un to his disciples, Verily
I say un to yo u T h a t a rich m an shall hardly enter into
the kin g d o m o f heaven. A n d again I say unto you, It is
easier fo r a cam el to go th ro u g h the eye o f a needle, than
fo r a rich m an to en ter into the kingdom o f God.”
V o lu n tary poverty and renunciation of personal gain has
ever been required of th e seeker of spirituality, that being the
cause back of th e principle “m any are called b u t few are chosen"
and “ m an cannot serve G od and m am m on.” Riches should be
used only to produce good. T h e m aterially w ealthy are devoted
to m ateriality, instead of G od, therefore they forfeit spirituality.
( 1 9 :25-26-27-28-29-30)— " W h e n h is disciples heard it, they
w ere exceedingly am azed, saying, W h o then can be
sa ved ? B u t Jesu s beheld them , and said unto them, With
m en this is im p o ssib le; but w ith G od all things are pos­
sible. T h en answ ered P eter, and said unto him , Behold,
w e have fo rsa k e n all, and fo llo w e d thee; w hat shall we
have th e re fo re ? A n d Jesu s said unto them , Verily I
say unto you, T h a t ye w h ich have fo llo w ed me, in the
regeneration, w h en the S o n o f m an shall sit in the
throne o f h is glory, ye also shall sit upon tw elve thrones,
ju d g in g the tw elve tribes o f Israel. A n d every one that
hath fo rsa ken houses or brethren, or sisters, or father,
or m other, or w ife , or children, or lands, fo r m y nam es
sake, shall receive an h u n d red fo ld , and shall inherit ever­
lasting life. B u t m a n y that are first shall be last; and the
last shall be first”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 493
The rew ard of righteousness and doing good is immortality,
"The wages of sin is d eath ”. Good judges those who live on
earth, or the tw elve tribes of Israel. T he twelve disciples rep-
resenting tw elve spiritual types are to be enthroned as prim
ciples on the spiritual planes of m ind, they are to be compensated
"an hundredfold” fo r doing good. T hey also symbolize the pro-
cession of the sun th ro u g h the signs or planetary circles. "T he
first shall be last and the last shall be first”, in this sense they are
manifesting both tim e and eternity or the complete spiritual
regeneration of m an and his progress mentally and spiritually
through the ages. T h ey are the complete m anifestation of
Truth, Love, Com passion and Light.
(20:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8) :— “F o r the kingdom o f heaven is like
unto a m an that is an householder, w hich w ent out early
in the m orning to hire labourers into his vineyard. A n d
w hen he had agreed w ith the labourers fo r a penny a
day, he sent th em into his vineyard. A n d he w ent out
about the th ird h o u r, and saw others standing idle in
the m arketplace. A n d said unto them , Go ye also into
the vineyard, and w hatsoever is right, I w ill give you.
A n d they w e n t th eir w ay. A gain he w ent out about the
sixth and nin th hour, and did likew ise. A n d about the
eleventh h o u r he w en t out, and fo u n d others standing
idle, and saith unto them , W h y stand ye here all the day
idle? T h ey say unto him , Because no man hath hired
us. H e saith un to them , Go ye also into the vineyard;
and w hatsoever is right that shall ye receive. So w hen
even w as com e, the lord o f the vineyard saith unto his
stew ard, Call the labourers, and give them their hire,
beginning fr o m the last unto the first”.
T he vineyard is physical life, Infinite Spirit is the house-
holder. T he w orkers represent those faithful to Infinite Spirit
and also those unfaithful. T h e rew ard of the righteous is soul
immortality w hich is given to all w ho do good and whose mo­
tives are pure, b u t some w ho do little Divine work expect to
receive even more th an the w orkers w ho do much. Carnal mind
is selfish, always dem anding of Spirit, desiring to receive, b u t
unwilling to give. It expects Infinite Spirit to please it, n o t
realizing th at the harvest shall be like the sowing, it is always
dissatisfied w ith D ivine rew ards; it ever seeks remission of sins
494 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w ithout trying to overcom e them . M ind Science teaches master­
ship, and th a t G ood is its ow n rew ard.
(20:9-10-11-12-13-14-15-16) — “A n d w hen they came that
w ere hired about the eleven th hour, they received every
m an a penny. B u t w h en the first came, they supposed
that they sh o u ld have received m ore: and they likewise
received every m an a penny. A n d w hen they had
received it, th ey m u rm u red against the goodm an of the
house. S a yin g , T h ese last h ave w ro u g h t but one hour,
and thou hast m ade th em equal unto us, which have
borne the burden and heat o f the day. B u t he answered
one o f them , and said, F rien d , I do thee no w rong; didst
not thou agree w ith m e fo r a p e n n y ? T a ke that thine is,
and go th y w a y: I w ill give unto this last even as unto
thee. Is it no t la w fu l fo r m e to do w hat I w ill with mine
ow n? ' Is thine eye evil, because I am good? So the last
shall be first, and the first last: fo r m any be called, but
fe w chosen”.
R epentance at th e eleventh h o u r or late in life is acceptable
if follow ed w ith as m uch D ivine w orks as is possible, providing
th a t the w orker is w illing and th e m otive m entally is in harmony
w ith good. R ew ard is according to quality, n o t quantity.
(20:17-18-19-20-21-22-23) — ‘‘A n d Jesu s going up to Jerus­
alem , took the tw elve disciples apart in the w ay and said
unto them , B ehold, w e go up to Jerusalem ; and the Son
o f m an shall be betrayed unto the ch ief priests and unto
the scribes, and th ey shall condem n him to death. And
shall d eliver him to the G entiles to m ock, and to scourge,
and to cru cify h im : and the th ird day he shall rise again.
T h en cam e to h im the m o th er o f Zebedee’s children,
w ith her sons, w o rsh ip p in g him , and desiring a certain
thing o f him , A n d he said un to her, W h a t w ilt thou?
she saith unto him , G rant that these m y tw o sons may sit,
the one on th y rig h t hand, and the other on the left, m
th y kingdom . B u t Jesu s answ ered and said, Ye know
not w h a t ye ask. A r e ye able to d rin k o f the cup that I
shall drink o f, and to be baptized w ith the baptism that
I am baptized w ith ? T h ey say unto him , W e are able.
A n d he saith unto th em , Y e shall d rink indeed o f my
cup, and be baptized w ith the baptism that I am baptized
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 495
w ith; but to sit on m y right hand, and on m y left, is not
mine to give, but it shall be given to them fo r w hom it
is prepared o f m y F a th er”.
Jesus starts on a journey know ing H is physical death is
near, but having conquered the flesh H e has no fear, for He
knows that in three days H e shall rise again. Those desiring
heavenly favors, yet n o t having earned them , approach Him
asking for certain seats in H is kingdom . T hey are told that to
earn this rew ard th ey m ust drink of the cup of sorrow which
He drank of and be baptized as H e was, or that each one’s
reward in the after life is in accordance w ith w hat they merit.
He did not say “those w ho believe in me and my sacrificial blood
shall enter into heaven and attain the same reward as I” as
some would have you believe today. Super M ind Science teaches
salvation through deeds and deplores the view of salvation
through pardon, for th e Law of Com pensation governs life and
being. W h en a m an attains to positive mastership his W ill
becomes the W ill of th e Father, for there is but one W ill, “T he
Divine W ill”. H um an W ill is but the negative operation of
Divine W ill, yihen this hum an W ill becomes positive it ceases
to be hum an, th en transcending the mortal planes, it becomes
Divine. Positive D ivine W ill is not developed through renounc-
ing matter, b u t is developed through positive mental exercise
directed tow ard righteous desires and away from negation, finally
through perseverance the consciousness reaches the Divine M ind.
Perfect health and m astery over death will then be dem onstrated
through the law of m ental harm ony w ith Good and God.
(20:24-25-26-27-28) — “A n d w hen the ten heard it, they w ere
m oved w ith indignation against the tw o brethren. B u t
Jesus called them unto him and said, Y e know that the
princes o f the G entiles exercise dom inion over them , and
they that are great exercise authority upon them. B u t it
shall not be so am ong yo u : but w hosoever w ill be great
among you, let him be yo u r m inister; A n d w hosoever
will be ch ief am ong you, let him be your servant: E ven
as the S o n o f m an cam e not to be m inistered unto, but to
m inister, and to give his life a ransom fo r m any".
Jesus becomes m aster of life and the servant of hum anity.
His life was given as ransom for all w ho would overcome sin,
disease and death through D ivine mastership. H e is ransom only
for those w ho love H im and doeth His Divine works.
496 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(2 0:29-30-31-32-33-34) — “A n d as th ey departed from Jericho
a great m u ltitu d e fo llo w e d him . A n d , behold, two blind
m en, sittin g by the w a y side, w h en they heard that Jesus
passed by, cried out, saying, H a ve m ercy on us, 0 Lord,
thou son o f D a v id ? A n d the m u ltitu d e rebuked them,
because th ey sh o u ld hold th eir peace: but they cried the
m ore, saying, H a ve m ercy on us, O L ord, thou son of
D a vid ! A n d Jesu s sto o d still, and called them, and said,
W h a t w ill ye that I shall do un to you? They say unto
h im , L o rd , th a t o u r eyes m ay be opened. So Jesus had
com passion on th em , and touched their eyes: and im­
m ediately th eir eyes received sight, and they followed
h im ”.
T h e life of Jesus is filled w ith healing demonstrations that
H e gave after H e began H is m inistry, w hich proves healing
to be a vital p art of C hristianity. "T h e blind receive their sight
and the lame w alk" are th e signs w hich follow those who believe
in Him . D em onstrations of m ind over m atter exemplify the Love
o f th e heavenly F ath er and th e pow'er o f Spirit to raise the
consciousness of m an to th e sublim e heights of soul wisdom and
Love. S uper M ind Science is th e ladder containing the steps in
soul progression from th e low est rung o r the physical to the
highest rung or G od realization th ro u g h th e doing of the Infinite
W ill w hich leads to life everlasting. T h is is accomplished by
subjecting th e body to spiritual control, casting out disease, sin
and m ental negation th ro u g h concentration of Divine Will, life
energy' and positive m astership.
(21 :l~2-3-4-5-6-7-S-9-10)—“And when they drew nigh unto
Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto the mount
of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, Saying unto them,
Go into the village over against you. and straightway ye
shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them, and
bring them unto me. And if any man say ought unto you,
ye shall say, The Lord hath need o f them; and straight­
way he will send them. A ll this was done, that it might
be f ulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell
ye the daughter o f Sion, Behold, thy king cometh unto
thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass. and a colt the foal
of an ass. And the disciples went, and did as Jesus com­
manded them. A nd brought the ass and the colt, and
put ou them their clothes, and they set him thereon. A
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 497
a very great m u ltitu d e spread their garm ents in the w ay;
others cut d o w n branches fro m the trees, and straw ed
them in the w ay. A n d the m ultitudes that w ent before,
and that fo llo w ed , cried, saying, H osanna to the son o f
D avid! B lessed is he that com eth in the name o f the
L ord: H osanna in the h ighest! A n d w hen he w as come
into Jerusalem , all the city w as m oved, saying, W ho is
this”?
All prophecy of the D ivine M essiah was fulfilled in Jesus,
proving the spiritual wisdom of the prophets of old, for He
showed the w onders of m astership to the spiritually hungry
multitude. M eek of spirit and a servant of mankind, H e was
given the highest honors and was held in the highest esteem
by those w hom H e healed and taught. His admirers were the
poor, the afflicted, and those w ho w ere mentally receptive to
Truth and Love,— they all sang the praises of O ne who had
demonstrated “G od w ith us”. W hile H e was being praised by
the poor, the rich and the religious politicians were plotting His
death and w ere laying traps to destroy Him , yet fearlessly H e
obeyed the D ivine W ill and came to His doom w ithout com-
plaint against H is foes.
(21:11-12-13-14-15-16-17)— “A n d the m ultitude said, T his is
Jesus, the p rophet o f N a za reth o f Galilee. A n d Jesus
w ent into the tem ple o f God, and cast out all them that
sold and bought in the tem ple, and overthrew the tables
o f the m oneychangers, and the seats o f them that sold
doves; A n d said unto them , I t is w ritten, M y house shall
be called the house o f prayer; but ye have made it a
den o f thieves. A n d the blind and the lame came to him
in the tem p le; and he healed them . A n d w hen the chief
priests and scribes saw the w o n d erfu l things that he did,
and the children crying in the tem ple, and saying,
H osanna to the son o f D a vid ! they w ere sore displeased,
A n d said unto him , H earest thou w hat these say? A n d
Jesus saith unto them , Y ea ; have ye never read, O ut o f
the m o uth o f babes and sucklings, thou hast perfected
praise? A n d he le ft them , and w ent out o f the city into
B eth a n y; and he lodged there”.
Jesus dem onstrates in a forceful m anner the sacredness of
the “Tem ples of G od”, rejecting those who were there for com­
mercial gain. H e dem onstrated healing the sick in the Tem ple,
498 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
show ing th e tru e purpose of Tem ples, \yhich is to serve human­
ity physically and spiritually. H is spiritual teachings displeased
the Elders and th ey sought to destroy H im because He opposed
the m oney changing in th e T em ple and dem onstrated Divinity.
A ll tru e C hurches of C h rist w ere to be a place for healing the
sick and preaching th e T ru th to th e poor, thus performing a
real service to suffering m ankind. D ivine healing is Christianity,
w hile m ateria m edica represents th e pre-Christian paganism
w hich tau g h t th e application of rem edies to effect, but never
succeeded in abolishing th e cause of diseas w hich is mental and
a violation of natural laws.
(21 :18-19-20-21-22) — “N o w in the m orning as he returned
into the city, he h ungered, A n d w h en he saw a fig tree
in the w a y, he cam e to it, and fo u n d nothing thereon, but
leaves only, and said unto it, L e t no fr u it grow on thee
h en cefo rw a rd fo r ever. A n d presently the fig tree with­
ered aw ay. A n d w h en the disciples sa w it, they mar­
velled, saying, H o w soon is the fig tree withered
a w a y! Jesu s answ ered and said unto them, Verily
I say unto yo u , I f ye have fa ith , and do u b t not, ye shall
n o t only do this w h ich is done to the fig tree, but also
i f ye shall say un to th is m o untain, B e thou removed, and
be cast into the sea, it shall be done. A n d all things what­
soever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive”.
T h e fruitless fig tree sym bolizes th e non-productive life
w hich is condem ned by Infinite Spirit w hose impulse is growth
and reproduction. T h e tree w ithered aw ay in obedience to
D ivine W ill m anifest in C h rist Jesus, dem onstrating how the
pow er of G ood elim inates w orthless life by taking from it sus­
taining spirit. T h e astonished disciples w ere told, if they ‘ have
faith and doubt n o t ye shall n o t only do this w hich is done to
the fig tree, b u t also if ye shall say unto this m ountain, Be thou
rem oved and be th o u cast into th e sea, it shall be done . The
state of m ind w here one “ doubts n o t” is the super-conscious
state w hich is all pow erful. V ery few attain to this state, but
those w ho do can dem onstrate unlim ited pow er of Spirit through
their regenerated W ill w hich has becom e as the W ill of God.
( 2 1 :23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31-32) — “A nd w hen he was
com e into the tem ple, the ch ie f priests and the elders of
the people cam e unto him as he w a s teaching, and said,
B y w h a t a u th o rity doest th o u these th in g s? A nd who
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 499
gave thee th is a u th o rity ? A n d Jesus answ ered and said
unto them , I also w ill ask you one thing, w hich if ye tell
me, I in like w ise w ill tell you by w hat authority I do
these things. T h e baptism o f John, w hence w as it? From
heaven, or o f m en ? A n d they reasoned w ith them selves,
saying, I f w e shall say, F rom heaven; he w ill say unto
us, W h y did ye no t then believe him ? B u t if w e shall
say, O f m en ; w e fe a r the people; fo r all hold John as a
prophet. A n d th ey answ ered Jesus, and said, W e cannot
tell. A n d he said unto them , N eith er tell I you by w hat
authority I do these things. B u t w hat think ye? A cer­
tain m an had tw o so n s; and he came to the first, and
said, S o n go zvork today in m y vineyard. H e answered
and said, I w ill n o t; but a fterw a rd he repented, and went.
A n d he cam e to the second, and said likewise. A n d he
answ ered and said, I go, sir; and w ent not. W hether o f
them tw ain did the w ill o f his fa ther? They say unto
him, T he first. Jesu s saith unto them , V erily I say unto
you, T hat the publicans and the harlots go into the king­
dom o f G od b efo re you. F or John came unto you in the
w ay o f righteousness, and ye believed him not; but the
publicans and the harlots believed him : and ye, w hen ye
had seen it, repented not afterw ard, that ye m ight believe
him ”.
Infinite W isdom m anifests through Jesus and confounds His
material m inded interrogators, H e dem onstrates His intuition
but refuses to discuss H is D ivine authority. H e tells them their
type cannot enter the kingdom of God, rem inding them of their
faithlessness to John and their unwillingness to accept Truth.
Carnal mind ever seeks to test D ivinity and to prove all things
through m aterial law; refusing the Divine message of T ruth it
seeks to trap the M essenger and deliver him to prisons or to
councils to destroy him. T h e D ivine prophecy is “God will not
always strive w ith the flesh” therefore Infinite Spirit is ever
victorious and rises above m ateriality.
(2 1 :33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40-41 -42)— '‘H ear another parable:
There w as a certain householder, w hich planted a vine­
yard, and hedged it round about, and digged a w inepress
in it, and built a tow er, and let it out to husbandm en, and
w ent into a fa r country. A n d w hen the tim e o f the fru it
drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandm en, that
E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
5 0 0 '
th ey m ig h t receive the fr u its o f it. A n d the husbandmen
took his serva n ts, and beat one, and killed another, and
sto n ed another. A g a in , he sen t other servants more than
the first: and th ey d id un to them likew ise. But, last of
all, he sen t unto th em h is son, saying, T hey will rever­
ence m y son. B u t w h en the husbandm en saw the son, they
said am ong th em selves, T h is is the heir: come, let us
kill him , and let us seize on his inheritance. A nd they
caught him , and cast h im out o f the vineyard, and slew
him , W h e n the lord th erefo re o f the vineyard cometh,
w h a t w ill he do un to those h u sb a n d m en ? T hey say unto
him , H e w ill m iserably d estro y those w icked men, and
w ill let out his vin eya rd unto other husbandm en, which
shall ren d er him the fr u its in th eir seasons. Jesus saith
unto them , D id ye n ever read in the scriptures, The stone
w h ich the builders rejected, the sam e is become the head
o f the corner: this is the L o rd ’s doing, and it is marvel­
lous in our eyes”?
T h e sins of th e greedy are explained and Divine Justice
illustrated. M any m en thinking th a t the D eity is far away
misuse th e D ivine P ow er and seek th e fruits of dishonesty by
killing, robbing and stealing. H ow ever, Spiritual Love and
W isdom reveals the sins of lust, pointing to the day when the
Law of C om pensation shall m ete out its rew ard. T he scribes do
n o t like to hear th e m eaning of a sym bol w hich applies to their
ow n wickedness, b u t th ey are forced to see and hear the Truth
about disease and ignorance as it is expounded by the Master
w ho has cast out all m anner of evil th ro u g h Divine W ill and
has becom e th e headstone of th e Tem ple of T ru th which the
builders of the Ideal T em ple rejected.
( 2 1 :43-44-45-46)— “T h erefo re say I unto you, The kingdom
o f G od shall be taken fr o m you, and given to a nation
bringing fo r th the fr u its th ereof. A n d w hosoever shall
fa ll on this stone shall be broken: but on whomsoever it
shall fa ll it w ill g rin d h im to pow der. A n d w hen the chief
p riests and P harisees had heard his parables, they per­
ceived that he spake o f them . B u t w hen they sought to
lay hands on him , th ey fea red the m ultitude, because they
took him fo r a p rophet”.
Fruits of W isdom are n o t confined to nations, creeds or dog­
mas, b u t rath er m anifest w here they bear fruit. Those who
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 501
loved darkness and sin desired to destroy Jesus, thinking that
Eie would then fail to establish the dem onstrations of the Divine
kingdom.
(22:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10) — “A n d Jesus ansivered and spake
unto them again by parables, and said, The kingdom o f
heaven is like unto a certain king, w hich made a m ar­
riage fo r his son. A n d sent fo rth his servants to call
them that w ere bidden to the w ed d in g ; and they w ould
not come. A g a in he sent fo r th other servants, saying,
Tell them zvhich are bidden, Behold, I have prepared
m y dinner; m y o xen and m y fa tlin g s are killed, and all
things are ready: com e unto the marriage. B u t they
made light o f it, and w en t their w ays, one to his farm ,
another to his m erchandise: A n d the rem nant took his
servants, and entreated them sp itefully, and slew them.
B ut w hen the king heard thereof, he w as w roth: and he
sent fo rth his arm ies, and destroyed those m urderers, and
burned up th eir city. T h en saith he to his servants, The
w edding is ready, but they w hich w ere bidden w ere not
w orthy. Go ye th erefo re into the highw ays, and as m any
as he shall find, bid to the m arriage. So those servants
w ent out into the highw ays, and gathered together all, as
m any as they fo u n d , both bad and good: and the w edding
was fu rn ish ed w ith guests”.
Infinite Spirit sym bolized by the king having prepared all
things good, bids m ortal consciousness to come to the feast of
Love. M ortal consciousness refuses to hear the messenger,
finally killing the m essenger (the conscience). T hen the power
of righteousness, sym bolized by the king’s army, destroys the
murderers and burns th eir city, the physical body or place of
habitation, thereafter furnishing a feast of the good things of
life, or fruits of Spirit to the wayfarers. T he fruits of Spirit
are good, while th e fruits of the flesh are evil; to be carnal
minded is to be lost, to be spiritual minded is to be saved or to
inherit soul im m ortality.
(2 2 :11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21-22)— “A n d w hen the
king came in to see the guests, he saw there a m an w hich
had not on a w edding garm ent: A n d he saith unto him ,
Friend, how earnest thou in hither, not having a w ed ­
ding garm ent? A n d he w as speechless. Then said the
king to the servants, B in d him hand and fo o t, and take
502 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
him aw ay, and cast him into outer darkness: there shall
be zveeping and gnashing o f teeth. F or m any are called
but fe w are chosen. T h en w e n t the Pharisees, and took
counsel hozv th ey m ig h t entangle h im in his talk. And
th ey sent ou t un to him th eir disciples, w ith the Hero-
dians, saying, M a ster, w e kn o w that thou art true, and
teachest the zvay o f G od in truth, neither carest thou
fo r any m a n ; fo r th o u regardest not the person of men.
T ell us th erefo re, W h a t th in kest thou? Is it lawful to
give tribute unto C aesar, or not? B u t Jesus perceived
th eir w icked n ess, and said, W h y tem p t ye me, ye hypo­
crites? S h e w m e the trib u te m oney. A n d they brought
un to him a penny. A n d he saith unto them , Whose is
this im age and su p erscription? T h ey say unto him,
Caesar’s. T h en saith he un to them , R en d er therefore unto
Caesar the th in g s w hich are Caesar’s, and unto God the
things that are C od’s. W h e n th ey had heard these words,
they m arvelled, and le ft him , and w e n t their way".
T h e w edding garm ent sym bolizes righteousness or illumina­
tion. “For m any are called, b u t few are chosen” means only
th e righteous or illum inated shall be chosen. H ere again the
subtle pow ers of evil tem pt th e Lord, this tim e to utter treason
against Caesar, b u t H e perceived th eir thoughts and ordered
them to “render unto C aesar th e things w hich are Caesar’s
m eaning render unto m atter or m ateriality th a t which belongeth
to it; “and unto G od the things th a t are G od’s”, meaning give
due reverence and respect u n to Infinite Spirit. Once again ma­
teriality is overcom e th ro u g h D ivine wisdom , and proof of the
pow er of D ivinity over ignorance m anifests. T he materialists
m arvel at H is answ ers and H is understanding, then depart and
go th eir w ay w ithout learning a D ivine lesson.
(22:23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31-32)— '“T h e sam e day came to
him the Sadducees, w hich say that there is no resurrec­
tion, and asked him , S a yin g , M a ster, M oses said, I f a
m an die, having no children, his brother shall marry his
w ife , and raise up seed unto his brother. N o w there were
w ith u s seven brethren: and the first, w hen he had mar­
ried a zvife, deceased, and, having no issue, le ft his wife
unto his brother: L ikew ise the second also, and the third,
unto the seventh. A n d last o f all the w om an died also.
7 herefore, in the resurrection, w hose w ife shall she he
i
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 503
of the s e v e n f For th ey all had her. Jesus answered and
said unto them , Y e do err, not know ing the scriptures,
nor the pow er o f God. F or in the resurrection they
neither m arry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the
angels o f G od in heaven. B u t as touching the resurrec­
tion o f the dead, have ye no t read that w hich w as spoken
unto you by G od, saying, I am the God o f Abraham , and
the God o f Isaac, and the G od o f Jaco b t God is not the
God o f the dead, but o f the living”.
Jesus m anifesting Infinite wisdom denounces religions or
systems which teach a G od of the dead and a heaven after death.
He plainly tells them th a t G od is the G od of the living, and
severely reprim ands the skeptical for how little they know of
the Scripture and of G od. Beliefs about life and the resur­
rection are many, b u t only T ru th harmonizes w ith wisdom,
therefore all questions pertaining to life are answered by the
Master who know s instead of believes. Spiritual T ru th reveals
Divine power, a living G od w hich overcomes disease, sin and
sorrow and brings forth the Sonship of Divinity. Such a loving
God of power is dem onstrated in Super M ind Science, but it
requires some tim e before the light shines in the dark chambers
of the conscious m entality of the materialists. T hey per­
secuted C hrist and th e prophets before us, therefore it is dif­
ficult to prevent th eir ow n evil and ignorance from destroying
them. They m ust become meek and receptive to T ruth before
th glory of m ind over m attter and consciousness eternal can
be revealed to them . W h e n it is they will fully comprehend
Super M ind Science. *
(22:33-34-35-36-37- 38-39-40) — “A n d w hen the m ultitude
heard this, they w ere astonished at his doctrine. B ut
when the P harisees had heard that he had put the Sad-
ducees to silence, they w ere gathered together. Then one
o f them w hich w as a law yer, asked him a question, tem pt­
ing him , and saying, M aster, w hich is the great com ­
m andm ent in the lazv? Jesus said unto him , Thou shalt
love the L o rd th y G od w ith all thy heart, and w ith all
thy soul, and w ith all th y m ind. This is the first and
great com m andm ent. A n d the second is like unto it, Thou
shalt love th y neighbour as thyself. On these two com ­
m andm ents hang all the lazv and the prophets”.
504 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e law yer finds th e M aster ready to answer his question
and is astonished to learn th a t th e great commandment is to
“love the Lord th y G od w ith all th y heart, and with all thy
soul, and w ith all th y m ind.” T h is com m andm ent demands
m ental developm ent and th e pow er to concentrate before selfish­
ness can be overcom e and th e Love of the Lord made manifest
in all th e m ind. It also show s th e necessity of M ental Science as
an aid to C hristian living and follow ing of the Divine law, for
w ithout m ental self-control one cannot exem plify the true Christ
Spirit of Love. T h e second com m andm ent “love thy neighbor
as thyself” is to give up personal pride and become mentally at
one w ith hum anity, m aking Love th e suprem e issue of life and
being.
(22:41-42-43-44-45-46) — “W h ile the P harisees were gath­
ered together, Jesu s a sked them , S a yin g , W hat think ye
o f C h rist? W h o se son is he? T h e y say unto him, The
son o f D avid. H e saith un to them , H o w then doth David
in sp irit call him L o rd , saying, T h e L o rd said unto my
L o rd , S it th o u on m y rig h t hand, till I m ake thine enemies
th y fo o tsto o l? I f D a vid th en call him Lord, how is he
his son? A n d no m an w a s able to answ er him a word;
neith er d u rst any m an, fr o m th a t day fo rth , ask him any
m ore questions”.
T h e question asked by Jesus puts m ortal knowledge to
sham e and show s th e lack of understanding of His accusers.
T hose w ho persecute a p ro p h et seldom have taken time for
study and th o u g h t, th ey see in him th e ir ow n faults and imper­
fections. Lacking in understanding to grasp the Divine Truths
w hich he expounds, th ey desire only to destroy him.
(2 3 :1 -2 -3 ) — “T h en spake Jesu s to the m ultitude, and to his
disciples, S a yin g , T he scribes and the Pharisees sit in
M o ses’ sea t; A ll th erefo re w h a tso ever they bid you ob­
serve, that observe and d o ; but do not ye after them
w o r k s ; fo r th ey say, and do no t”.
T h e scribes and Pharisees are prototypes of the formal
religionists of today w ho gather to gether to talk but never dem­
onstrate the D ivine w orks of C hrist. T h ey are the first to con­
dem n D ivine healing, m ind over m atter and spiritual illumma
tion. T hey preach and teach Jesus as a bearer of their sins and
burdens, making H im a source of weakness instead of strength,
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 505
calling upon H is blood to save them yet neglecting His works.
They place belief above T ru th and pardon above overcoming,
and teach the doctrines of M oses while professing their belief
in Christ. Let every S uper M ind Scientist be sincere and do
the good w orks th a t they m ay glorify their heavenly Father
with good deeds; be a D ivine example and torch bearer to suf­
fering hum anity, ever healing the sick and giving good council,
and avoiding evil.
(23:4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12)— “
'F o r th ey■ bind heavy burdens,
and grievous to be borne, and lay them on m en’s shoul­
ders; but th ey them selves w ill not m ove them w ith one
o f their fingers. B u t all their w o rks they do fo r to be
seen o f m en ; th ey m ake broad their phylacteries, and
enlarge the borders o f their garm ents. A n d love the
upperm ost room s at fea sts, and the chief seats in the
synagogues, and greetings in the m arkets, and to be called
o f m en, R abbi, R abbi. B e not ye called Rabbi: fo r
one is yo u r M a ster, even C hrist; and all ye are brethren.
A n d call no m an yo u r fa th e r upon the earth: fo r one is
your F ather, w hich is in heaven. N eith er be ye called
m asters: fo r one is yo u r M aster, even Christ. B u t he
that is greatest am ong you, shall be your servant. A n d
w hosoever shall exa lt him self, shall be abased; and he
that shall hum ble h im self, shall be exalted”.
Meekness and hum bleness are spiritual qualities. Those
who desire to be called “F ather” and “M aster” violate the most
explicit teaching of C hrist, for “he th at is the least physically
shall be the greatest spiritually” and “he that exalts himself by
calling himself “ H oly” on this earth shall be abased in the realm
of Spirit”. Religious Potentates, politicians and their hierarchy,
and those w ho call them selves “R abbi” are in contem pt of this
teaching, therefore they are in danger of being lost to all
spiritual identity.
(23:13-14-15-16-17-18)— “B u t w oe unto you, scribes and
Pharisees, h yp o crites! F or ye shut up the kingdom o f
heaven against m en ; fo r ye neither go in yourselves, neith­
er su ffer ye them that are entering to go in. W oe unto you,
scribes and P harisees, hyp ro cites! F or ye devour w idow s
houses, and fo r a pretence m ake long prayer; therefore
ye shall receive the greater dam nation. W oe unto you,
scribes and P harisees, hypocrites! F or ye com pass sea
506 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and land to m ake one p ro selyte; and w hen he is made,
ye m ake h im tw o fo ld m ore the child o f hell than your­
selves. W o e un to yo u , ye blind guides, w hich say, Who-
soveer shall sw ea r by the tem ple, it is nothing; but who­
so ever shall sw ea r by the gold o f the temple, he is a
debtor. Y e fo o ls, and blin d ! fo r w hether is greater, the
gold, or the tem ple that sanctifieth the gold? And, Who­
soever shall sw ea r by the altar, it is nothing; but who­
soever sw ea rth by the g ift that is upon it, he is guilty”.
Form al beliefs and the custom of oaths are shown to be
unreasonable, and outer form al religion is also shown to be evil.
T hose w ho are outw ardly religious are found to be hypocrites
w ithin, and th e M aster predicts th e ir destruction.
(23:19-20-21 -22-23-24-25-26) — " V e fo o ls, and blind! For
w h e th e r is greater, the g ift, or the altar that sanctifieth
the g ift? W h o so th erefo re shall sw ear by the altar,
sw eareth by it, and by all th in g s thereon. A nd whoso
shall sw ea r by the tem ple, sw eareth by it, and by him that
dw elleth therein. A n d he that shall sw ear by heaven,
sw eareth by the throne o f G od, and by him that sitteth
thereon. W o e unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypo­
crites! fo r ye pay tith e o f m in t, and anise, and cummin,
and have o m itted the w eig h tier m atters o f the law, judg­
m en t, m ercy and fa ith : these ought ye to have done, and
no t to leave the others undone. Y e blind guides! which
strain at a gnat, and sw a llo w a camel. W oe unto you.
scribes and P harisees, h yp ro crites! fo r ye m ake clean the
outside o f the cup and o f the platter, but w ithin they are
fu ll o f exto rtio n and excess. T h o u blind Pharisee!
Cleanse first that w hich is w ith in the cup and platter,
that the outside o f them m a y be clean also”.
T raditional religion is a screen to cover up evil, hypocrisy,
and ignorance, m aking it convenient to sin, becoming an
inducem ent to destroy hum an souls. T h ey seek ever to cleanse
the outer m an b u t neglect th e inner, th ey do not teach self-
m astery or casting out of disease. T h ey place salvation on a
basis of pardon thus robbing hum anity of the incentive to do
good. T hey fail in tem perate living, brotherly love and com­
passion. Such religions are m ore evil th an good, therefore when
the Law of Com pensation destroys them the C hrist Truth will
m anifest and th e true follow ers of the M aster will perceive His
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 507
illumined being as it really is and follow after His precepts. By
doing the “W ill of H im w ho sent us into the world,” they will
re-establish H is D ivine kingdom of Good. Super M ind Science
welcomes the fulfilling of this prophecy w hich means the
regeneration of m an and his salvation.
(23:27-28-29-30-31-32-33) — “W o e unto you, scribes and
Pharisees, h yp ro crites! F or ye are like unto w hited
sepulchres, w h ich indeed appear beautiful outw ard, but
are w ithin fu ll o f dead m en’s bones, and o f all unclean­
ness. E ven so ye also outw ardly appear righteous unto
men, but w ith in ye are fu ll o f hypocrisy and iniquity.
W oe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hyprocrites! B e­
cause ye build the tom bs o f the prophets, and garnish the
sepulchres o f the righteous. A n d say, I f w e had been in
the days o f our fa th ers, w e w ould not have been par­
takers w ith them in the blood o f the prophets. W here­
fore ye be w itn esses unto yourselves, that ye are the
children o f them w hich killed the prophets. Fill ye up
then the m easure o f yo u r fathers. Y e serpents, ye gen­
eration o f v ip ers! H o w can ye escape the dam nation o f
hell’’?
T he Pharisees represent a type of people who believe that
all wisdom is in th e ir ow n schools and all righteousness is in
their own priests and all goodness is in themselves, yet they
kill the prophets. T h ey are children of those who love dark­
ness and do the w orks of iniquity. These compare to followers
of creeds and dogm as of today w ho claim spirituality but are
hypocrites and corrupt w ithin, depending upon the blood sac­
rifice of Jesus to cleanse them and save their souls, yet they
persecute H is D ivine M essengers. W oe unto the modem
Pharisees and scribes, they shall destroy themselves through
their own ignorance and bigotry.
(2 3 :34-35-36-37-38-39)— " W h erefo re, behold, I send unto you
prophets, and w ise m en, and scribes: and som e o f them
ye shall kill and c ru cify; and som e o f them shall ye
scourge in y o u r synagogues, and persecute them fro m
city to city. T h a t upon you m ay come all the righteous
blood shed upon the earth, fro m the blood o f righteous
A bel unto the blood o f Zacharias son o f Barachias, w hom
ye slew betw een the tem ple and the altar. V erily I say
unto you, A ll these things shall come upon this genera-
508 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
tion. 0 Jerusalem , Jerusalem , thou that killest the
prophets, and. sto n est th em w h ich are sent unto thee, how
o fte n w o u ld I h a ve gathered th y children together, even
as a hen g a th ereth her chickens under her wings, and ye
w o u ld n o t! . B ehold, yo u r house is le ft unto you desolate.
F o r I say unto yo u , Y e shall n o t see m e henceforth, till
ye shall say, B lessed is he th a t com eth in the name of
the L o rd ”.
T h e darkest pages of hum an history are those containing
th e m artyrdom of prophets. T h ey have been destroyed ruth­
lessly in every generation, y et w ith o u t them the world would be
in u tte r spiritual darkness. T hose w hom they come to serve and
save are th e first to seek th eir destruction. T h e Pharisees and
th eir descendants of m odern tim es will have to answer for the
T ru th of th e ages. W h e n th ey oppose Spirit over flesh, mind
over m atter, and challenge th e doctrine of T ruth, Love and
L ight th ey shall in h erit oblivion and darkness. T he Founder of
S uper M ind Science has also stood slander and all manner of
persecution, b u t if th e cup of bitterness has helped the cause of
Spirit to m anifest, th en he has no regret, for all great Truths
w ere born in sorrow and tribulation of the founders that men
m ay have light. Such is th e history of all great discoveries
w hich have been th e greatest aid to wisdom , love and under­
standing.
(24:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9) — “A n d Jesu s w e n t out, and departed
fr o m the tem ple: and h is disciples came to him for to
sh ew h im the buildings o f the tem ple. A n d Jesus said
unto them , S ee ye n o t all these things? Verily I say
unto you, T h ere shall no t be le ft here one stone upon
another, that shall not be th ro w n dow n. A n d as he sat
upon the m o u n t o f O lives, the disciples came unto him
privately, saying, T ell us, w h en shall these things be?
A n d w h a t shall be the sign o f th y com ing, and of the
end o f the w orld? A n d Jesu s answ ered and said unto
them , T a ke heed that no m an deceive you. For many
shall com e in m y nam e, saying, I am C hrist; and shall
deceive m any. A n d ye shall hear o f w ars, and rumours
o f w a rs; see that ye be no t tro u b led ; fo r all these things
m u st com e to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation
shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom,
and there shall be fa m in es, and pestilences and earth-
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 509
quakes, in divers places. A ll these are the beginning o f .
sorrows. T h en shall they deliver you to be afflicted, and
shall kill y o u ; and ye shall be hated o f all nations fo r
m y nam e’s sake”.
The death of th e disciples and their m artyrdom is foretold,
showing the pow er of Spirit and prophecy. Tribulations, wars,
the beginning of sorrow because of sin and the struggle ahead
for the founders o f C hristianity are all foreseen by the Master.
Spirit and flesh have been at w ar since the beginning of time,
but Divine Love and w illing sacrifice perpetuates the works of
Infinite Spirit m anifesting through the chosen instrum ents of
Truth and pow er, w hich shows the means of overcoming
disease, sorrow and sin. It is a living doctrine in a dying world,
a light unto those w ho sat in darkness.
(24:10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — "A n d then shall
m any be offended, and shall betray one another, and
shall hate one another. A n d m any false prophets shall
rise and shall deceive m any. A n d because iniquity shall
abound, the love o f m any shall w a x cold. B u t he that
shall endure un to the end, the sam e shall be saved. A n d
this gospel o f the kingdom, shall be preached in all the
w orld fo r a w itn ess unto all nations: and then shall the
end come. W h e n ye, therefore, shall see the abomination
o f desolation, sp o ken o f by D aniel the prophet, stand in
the holy place, (w hoso readeth, let him understand:)
Then let h im w h ich be in Judea flee into the m ountains:
L et him w hich is on the housetop not come dow n to take
anything out o f his house: N eith er let him w hich is in
the field return back to take his clothes. A n d w oe unto
them that are w ith child, and to them that give suck in
those d a ys! B u t pray ye that yo u r flight be not in the
w inter, neither on the sabbah day”.
T he desolation of Jerusalem came, also the wars and the
scattering of the children of Israel w hich H e foretold, because
they would n o t heed the D ivine message and repent of their
sins, their idolatry and w rong living. T he Holy Shrines of
Christendom fell into th e hands of desert tribem en and even
the locations of scenes in th e life of the M aster were possessed
by foreigners for centuries. Infinite Spirit foresees destruction
of those w ho w ill n o t hear the voice of the soul and ever
endeavors to w arn hum anity of vice and sin and its consequences,
510 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
b u t few hear th e call and reform , because of lack of mental
developm ent and th e m anifestation of Infinite W ill.
( 2 4 :21-22-23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31) — “F o r then shall be
great tribulation, such as w a s not since the beginning of
the w o rld to this tim e, no, nor ever shall be. A nd except
those d a ys should be sh o rten ed , there should no flesh be
saved: but fo r the elect’s sake those days shall be short­
ened. T h en i f any m an shall say unto you, Lo, here is
C hrist, or th ere; believe it not. F o r there shall arise false
C hrists, and fa lse p ro p h ets, and shall shew great signs
and w o n d ers! insom uch that, i f it w ere possible, they
shall deceive the v e ry elect. B ehold, I have told you
before. W h e re fo re i f th ey shall say unto you, Behold,
he is in the d esert; go no t fo r th ; B ehold, he is in the sec­
ret cham bers; believe it not. F o r as the lightning cometh
out o f the east, and sh ineth even unto the w est; so shall
also the com ing o f the S o n o f m an be. F or wheresoever
the carcase is, there w ill the eagles be gathered together.
Im m ed ia tely a fte r the tribulation o f those days shall the
su n be darkened, and the m oon shall not give her light,
and the stars shall fa ll fr o m heaven, and the powers of
the heavens shall be shaken. A n d then shall appear the
sign o f the S o n o f m an, in h ea ven ; and then shall all the
tribes o f the earth m o u rn , and th ey shall see the Son of
m an com ing in the clouds o f heaven, w ith power and
great glory. A n d he shall send his angels w ith a great
sou n d o f a tru m p e t; and th ey shall gather together his
elect fr o m the fo u r w in d s, fr o m one end o f heaven to
the other”.
Jesus refers to H im self as the “ Son of m an” meaning of
m ortality, and predicts great catastrophies in the earth and His
com ing in the clouds. “ C om ing in the clouds after certain
changes” means com ing in th e m ental clouds of misunderstand­
ing after the individual has endured sorrow . His angels are
symbolical of H is D ivine M essengers of T ru th , Love and Light
w ho shall gather together “ from the fo u r w inds” or from all
directions of the earth all those w ho are the elect or who have
perform ed the D ivine works. T h is prophecy is a spiritual sym­
bol, not a physical literal reality, it is understood only by those
w ho can hear the voice of the cosmic m ind w hich explains all
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 511
mysteries. It is th e explanation of the spiritual unity of those
who follow the C hrist precepts and fearlessly perform their
mission.
(24:32-33-34-35-36) — " N o w learn a parable o f the fig tree;
W hen his branch is y e t tender, and putteth fo rth leaves,
ye know that su m m e r is nigh: So likew ise ye, w hen ye
shall see all these things, kn o w that it is near, even at the
doors. V erily I say unto yo u , T h is generation shall not
pass, till all these things be fulfilled. H eaven and earth
shall pass aw ay, but m y w ords shall not pass away. B ut
o f that day and ho u r know eth no man, no, not the angels
o f heaven, but m y F a th er only”.
The signs of prophecy are to come at a time when no one
knows except th e heavenly Father, for in spiritual vision, time
which is of the th ree dim ensions is not easy to approximate. The
visions seen in the realm of Spirit are coming events which cast
their shadow before in the m entality of those who have over­
come the w orld or physical sensations. T he destruction of the
careless m inded is foreseen, because they give all their time and
effort to the w orldly enjoym ents and do not accept the T ruth or
make any effort to com prehend spirituality.
(24:37-38-39-40-41-42-43-44) — “B u t as the days o f N oe
were, so shall also the com ing o f the S on o f man be.
For as in the days that w ere before the flood, they were
eating and drin kin g , m arrying and giving in marriage,
until the day that N o e entered into the ark. A n d knew
not, until the flood cam e, and took them all aw ay; so
shall also the com ing o f the S o n o f m an be. Then shall
two be in the fie ld ; the one shall be taken, and the other
left. T w o w o m en shall be grinding at the m ill: the one
shall be taken, and the other left. W atch therefore; fo r
ye kn o w not w h a t h our yo u r L o rd doth come. B u t know
this, that i f the good m an o f the house had know n in
w hat w atch the th ie f w ould come, he w ould have watched,
and w ould not have su ffered his house to be broken up.
T herefore be ye also ready: fo r in such an hour as ye
think not, the S o n o f m an com eth”.
The com ing of Jesus after H is resurrection is predicted. He
desires His disciples to be m entally alert, as He comes at an hour
when they think not. T his prophecy was fulfilled after the
crucifixion w hich H e also predicted. It does not apply to a third
512 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
com ing yet in the future, fo r H is first com ing was in the physi­
cal, and H is second after th e crucifixion. N o other coming was
predicted except the spiritual m anifestation of C hrist predicted
in the prophecy “w here tw o or th ree are gathered together in
m y nam e th ere w ill I also b e” . T h e A u th o r has contacted the
M aster on th e C hrist plane of m ind w hile in silent concentra­
tion, w hen all sensations of th e body had been overcome. If
C hrist can be contacted after death as some teach, it follows He
can be contacted during life, fo r H is mission was to the living
n o t to th e dead. M ind Science alone offers the correct method
of contact, th e m eans of overcom ing th e body through
concentration.
(24:45-46-47-48-49-50-51)— “W h o then is a fa ith fu l and
w ise servant, w h o m h is lord hath m ade ruler over his
household, to g ive th em m eat in d u e season? Blessed is
that servant, w h o m h is lord, w h en he com eth, shall find
so doing. V erily I say unto yo u , that he shall make him
ruler o ver all his goods. B u t and i f that evil servant shall
say in his heart, M y lord delayeth his com ing; A n d shall
begin to sm ite his fe llo w serva n ts, and to eat and drink
w ith the d ru n ken : T h e lord o f that servant shall come in
a day w h en he lo o keth n o t fo r him , and in an hour that
he is n o t aw are of. A n d shall cut him asunder, and
appoint h im his portion w ith the hypocrites: there shall
be w eeping and gnashing o f teeth ”.
Faithfulness in doing the w orks of D ivinity determines the
rew ard, b u t those w ho th in k th a t G od and C hrist have to be
inform ed about th eir deeds are indeed foolish servants. All-
seeing M ind know s w ho are faithful and conscious of the Divine
H oly Pervading Presence and w ho does th e M aster’s work. Those
w ho are faithful are to becom e m asters of the invisble kingdom.
(25 :l-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-l 1-12-13)— “T h en shall the kingdom
o f heaven be liken ed unto ten virgins, w hich took their
lam ps, and w en t fo r th to m eet the bridegroom . A n d five
o f them w ere w ise, and five w ere foolish. They that
w ere fo o lish took th eir lam ps, and took no oil w ith them:
B u t the w ise took oil in th eir vessels w ith their lamps.
W h ile the bridegroom tarried, they all slum bered and
slept. A n d at m id n ig h t there w a s a cry m ade, Behold, the
bridegroom co m eth ; go ye out to m eet him . Then all
those virg in s arose, and trim m ed th eir lamps. A n d the
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 513
foolish said unto the w ise, Give us o f your oil; fo r our
lamps are gone out. B u t the w ise answered, saying, N o t
so; lest there be n o t enough fo r us and you: but go ye
rather to them that sell, and buy fo r yourselves. A n d
while they w en t to buy, the bridegroom cam e; and they
that w ere ready w e n t in w ith him to the marriage; and
the door w as shut. A fte rw a rd came also the other vir­
gins, saying, L o rd , L o rd , open to us. B u t he answered
and said, V erily I say unto you, I know you not. W atch
therefore, fo r ye kn o w neither the day nor the hour
w herein the S o n o f m an com eth”.
The “wise virgins” are those w ho develop their spiritual
senses and attain spiritual illum ination while living on earth.
The “foolish virgins” are those w ho believe they will have an
opportunity after death to reform and develop their spirituality.
The “bridegroom ” is Infinite Spirit, the marriage is the union
of Infinite and finite Spirit, or m an and God. T he “door shut”
is consciousness lost for lack of spiritual development and soul
illumination.
(25:14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21 -22-23) — “F or the kingdom o f
heaven is as a m an travelling into a fa r country, w ho
called his ow n servants, and delivered unto them his
goods. A n d unto one he gave five talents, to another tw o,
and to another o n e; to every m an according to his several
ability; and stra ig h tw a y took his journey. Then he that
had received the f v e talents w ent and traded w ith the
same, and m ade th em other f v e talents. A n d likewise he
that had received tw o, he also gained other two. B u t he
that had received one, w en t and digged in the earth, and
hid his lord’s m oney. A fte r a long tim e, the lord o f those
servants com eth, and reckoneth w ith them. A n d so he
that had received five talents,' came and brought other
five talents, saying, L o rd , thou deliveredst unto me five
talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents
more. H is lord said unto him , W ell done, thou good and
fa ith fu l serva n t; thou hast been fa ith fu l over a fe w
things, I w ill m ake thee ruler over m any things; enter
thou into the jo y o f th y lord. H e also that had received
two talents, cam e and said, L ord, thou deliveredst unto
me tw o talents; behold, I have gained two other talents
beside them . H is lord said unto him , W ell done, good
514 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and fa ith fu l serva n t: tliou hast been fa ith fu l over a fen
things, I w ill m ake thee ru ler over m any things: enter
thou into the jo y o f th y lo rd ’’.
Spiritual talents are possessed by everyone and should be
developed fo r th e betterm en t of hum anity. Those who develop
and use them becom e great spiritual m asters. A fter having mul­
tiplied th e gifts of Spirit one enters into the glory of the Lord,
w hich is to know m ind over m atter and dem onstrate “the king­
dom of heaven is at h an d ” th ro u g h healing the sick, casting out
dem ons and teaching th e T ru th .
(25:24-25-26-27-28-29-30) — ‘ T h en he w h ich had received the
one talent, cam e, and said, L o rd , I kn ew thee that thou
art an hard m an, reaping w h ere th o u hast not sown, and
gathering w h ere thou hast n o t stra w ed : A n d I was afraid,
and w en t, and hid th y talent in the earth; lo, there thou
hast that is thine. H is lord answ ered and said unto him,
T h o u w icked and slo th fu l serva n t, thou knew est that I
reap w here I so w ed not, and g ather w here I have not
stra w ed : T h o u oughtest th erefo re to have put m y money
to the exchangers, and then at m y com ing I should have
received m ine o w n w ith usury. T a ke therefore the talent
fr o m him , and give it un to h im w h ich hath ten talents.
F o r unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall
have abundance; bu t fr o m h im that hath not shall be
taken aw ay even that w h ich he hath. A n d cast ye the
unprofitable serva n t into o u ter d a rkn ess; there shall be
w eeping and gnashing o f teeth.”
T hose u n fortunate ones w ho believe th a t they can live on
earth as they please, never developing th e spiritual powers en­
trusted to them by Infinite Spirit, fail to profit by spiritual ex­
perience. T h ey bury th eir talents beneath m aterial conditions
in the ground or mire, and believe th a t G od is unjust and that
they shall reap o th er th an w h at they have sown. Later, because
of this negligence they are cast into outer darkness, for we have
natural pow ers and spiritual pow ers, th e natural senses or powers
are the glory of the body, w hile the spiritual senses or powers
are the glory of the soul. N o one can take on imm ortality unless
they develop the spiritual senses, for if one be borned into the
w orld w ithout sense organs and fails to develop them , they will
never know of th e w orld, likewise if one is borned into Spirit
w ithout spiritual senses they will never know of that realm.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 515
(25:31-32-33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40)— “W hen the Son o f man
shall com e in his glory, and all the holy angels w ith him ,
then shall he sit u pon the throne o f h is glory: A n d before
him shall be gathered all nations; and he shall separate
them one fr o m another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep
from the goats: A n d he shall set the sheep on his right
hand, but the goats on the left. Then shall the K ing say
unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed o f m y
Father, in h erit the kingdom prepared fo r you fro m the
foundation o f the w o rld : F or I w as an hungered, and ye
gave m e m ea t; I w as thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I
was a stranger, and ye took m e in: N aked, and ye clothed
me: I w as sick, and ye visited m e : I w as in prison, and
ye came unto me. T h en shall the righteous answ er him,
saying, L o rd , w h en sa w w e thee an hungered, and fed
thee? O r th irsty, and gave thee drink? W hen saw we
thee a stranger, and took thee in? O r naked, and clothed
thee? O r w h en saw w e thee sick, or in prison, and came
unto thee? A n d the king shall answ er and say unto them,
V erily I say unto you. Inasm uch as ye have done it unto
one o f the least o f these m y brethren, ye have done it
unto m e”.
Charity rightly used is a blessing from Infinite Spirit. God
dwells in those w ho hunger and in those in prison. Those who
aid the poor and dow n-trodden m anifest the positive power of
God and Good sym bolized as the sheep on his right side, while
the goats on his left side symbolize the mentally negative who
sin and refuse to aid th eir fellowman. Being selfish, they live
entirely for them selves, refusing to aid those in distress, while the
positive-minded follow ers of Infinite Spirit who see God in all
living beings, assist all w hom soever they can. T he kingdom of
goodness and D ivine consciousness has been prepared for them
from the foundation of the world.
(25:41-42-43-44-45-46) — '“T h en shall he say also unto them
on the le ft hand, D epart fro m me, ye cursed, into ever­
lasting fire, prepared fo r the devils and his angels: F or I
was hungered, and ye gave m e no m eat; I w as thirsty,
and yet gave m e no d rin k: I w as a stranger, and ye took
me in: naked, and ye clothed m e not: sick, and in prison,
and ye visited m e not. T hen shall they also answ er him ,
Saying, L o rd , w h en saw w e thee an hungered, or athirst,
516 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not
m in ister unto th ee? T h en shall he answ er them, saying,
V erily I say un to yo u , In a sm u ch as ye did it not to one
o f the least o f these, ye did it n o t to me. A n d these shall
go aw ay into everlasting p u n ish m e n t: hut the righteous
into life eternal”.
G od or Infinite Spirit m anifesting in every living creature
judges us by the w ay w e recognize this T ruth. If one cannot
see G od w hile living in living beings, they will never see God
after death, for G od is Life, L ight and Being manifest in the
various form s w hich w e term creation. T hose w ho fail to find
G od in life will be cast into perm anent oblivion and spiritual
darkness forever, for once identity is lost through evil deeds, it
cannot be regained. L et all S uper M ind Scientists forsake evil
and follow after righteousness, be charitable and kind, knowing
th a t G od exists in every living being and th a t we owe a duty
to H im to serve hum anity according to Love, W isdom and
T ru th , w hich is to heal th e sick, teach the T ru th and perform
th e w orks of D ivinity.
(2 6 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 ) — ‘‘A n d it cam e to pass, w hen Jesus had fin­
ished all these sayings, he said unto h is disciples. Ye
kn o w that a fte r tw o days is the fe a st o f the passover,
and the S o n o f m an is betrayed to he crucified. Then
assem bled together the ch ie f priests, and the scribes, and
the elders o f the people, unto the palace o f the high priest,
w ho w as called Caiaphas. A n d consulted that they might
take Jesus by su b tility, and kill him . B u t they said, Not
on the fe a st day, lest there be an uproar among the
people”.
T h e so-called religious tu rn crim inal and plot to kill one
w ho opposes th eir hypocrisy and traditional ignorance. They
go to the house of th e H igh P riest to plot the m urder of Jesus
w hich show s the falsity of th eir religion. T h e H igh Priest
readily becomes a party to the m urder plot, showing his lack
of spirituality. H e w ould have agreed to kill Him even on a
sacred feast day had he not feared the uprising of the people.
Since the beginning of tim e, form al religion, lacking spirituality,
has condoned m urder and has justified killing its enemies. They
w ear long robes and say deceiving prayers w hich hide their inner
corruption, associate w ith th e low est crim inals and plot the
death of D ivine M essengers w ho expose th eir hypocrisy. Jesus
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 517
came to destroy such corrupt systems and to establish the
teaching of salvation th ro u g h D ivine works. H e knew that to
expose them m eant H is life w ould be taken, but H e was con­
fident H e could conquer death and dem onstrate over the grave,
for the grave has no pow er over one who has overcome the
world, flesh, sin and tem ptation. H e w ent forth a “lamb among
wolves”, the Son of G od, to suffer the death of a thief and be
reviled at the hands of those w ho w ere supposed to be the
Saviours of th eir people. Such has always been the fate of
those who com e to teach soul illumination, heal the sick and
perform the w orks of th e D ivine kingdom.
(26:6-7-8-9-10-11-12-13) — ‘‘N o w zvhen Jesus was in Bethany,
in the house o f S im o n the leper, There came unto him a
wom an having an alabaster box o f very precious oint­
m ent, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat. B ut
w hen his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying,
To w hat purpose is this w a ste? F o r this ointm ent m ight
have been sold fo r m uch, and given to the poor. W hen
Jesus understood it, he said unto them , W h y trouble ye
the w o m a n ? F o r she hath w rought a good w ork upon
me. F or ye have the poor alw ays w ith you; but m e ye
have not alw ays. F o r in that she hath poured this oint­
m ent on m y body, she did it fo r m y burial. V erily I say
unto you, W h ereso ever this gospel shall be preached in
the w hole w orld, there shall also this, that this wom an
hath done, be told fo r a m em orial o f her”. •
T he w om an unconsciously anoints the M aster before He
was to be betrayed and crucified, showing the influence of In­
finite Spirit and th e guidance of an Unseen Hand. H er sacred
oil symbolizes the spirit of sacrifice, also the value of spiritual
service unto the M aster.
(26:14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21)— '"T hen one o f the tw elve,
called Judas Iscariot, w en t unto the chief priests, A n d
said unto them , W h a t w ill ve give me, and I w ill deliver
him unto yo u ? A n d they covenanted w ith him fo r thirty
pieces o f silver. A n d fro m that tim e he sought oppor­
tunity to betray him . N o w the first day o f the fea st o f
unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying
unto him , W h ere w ilt thou that w e prepare fo r thee to
eat the passover? A n d he said, Go into the city to such
a man, and say unto him , T he M aster saiin, M y tim e is at
518 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
h a n d ; 1 w ill keep the passover at th y house w ith my dis­
ciples. A n d the disciples did as Jesu s had appointed them;
and th ey m ade ready the passover. N o w w hen the even
w as com e, he sat d o w n w ith the tw elve. A n d as they
did eat, he said, V erily I say unto you, that one of you
shall betray m e”.
T hose w ho attain m astery over the flesh perceive the
thoughts of others and can feel th e sinister plot of an enemy.
Jesus here dem onstrates th a t H e is a M aster of M ind Science,
and th a t H e know s thoughts expressed in silence. This is a
phase of M ind Science w hich the A u th o r has often performed
for his students, show ing th e value of the pow er of thought in
the silence.
(26:22-23-24-25-26-27-28)— “A n d th ey w ere exceeding sor­
ro w fu l, and began every one o f them to say unto him,
L o rd , is it I ? A n d he answ ered and said, H e that dip-
peth his hand w ith m e in the dish, the sam e shall betray
m e. T h e S o n o f m an g oeth as it is w ritten o f him ; but
w oe un to th a t m an by w h o m the S o n o f m an is betrayed!
I t had been good fo r that m an i f he had not been born.
T h en Judas w h ich betrayed him , answ ered and said, Mas­
ter, is it I? H e said unto him , T h o u hast said. A n d as they
w ere eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake
it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this
is m y body. A n d he took the cup, and gave thanks, and
give it do them , saying, D rin k ye all o f it: F or this is my
blood o f the n ew testa m en t, w hich is shed fo r many for
the rem ission o f sins”.
T h e guilty person know ing the M aster has read his
thoughts reveals his anxiety and guilt. A perfect demonstration
of the Science of M ind is given w hen the destruction of Judas is
foretold. Jesus speaks of bread as th e symbol of His body and
asks H is disciples to rem em ber H im each tim e they eat. Remem­
bering the “bread as H is body” m eant th a t H e may be in their
thoughts continually, and w hen they drink to remember His
blood of the N ew T estam ent as a m em orial to Him . His blood
was shed fo r all those w ho w ere righteous m inded for the re­
mission of sins, m eans it was an exam ple of overcom ing sin to all
those w ho follow in H is footsteps and do D ivine works. His
blood was not remission of sins fo r those w ho are evil minded
and w ho live selfishly and fail to develop th eir spiritual talents
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 519
and gifts, remission is conditional otherw ise Jesus C hrist would
be a party to all m anner of evil, crime and w rong living. Unless
the person reform s and follows C hrist there could not be any
remission of th eir sins, for G od is Good, Justice and Love and
governs through th e Spiritual Law of Compensation, or sowing
and reaping.
(26:29-30-31-32)— “B u t I say unto you, I w ill not drink
henceforth o f th is fr u it o f the vine, until that day w hen
I drink it n ew w ith yo u in m y F ather’s kingdom. A n d
w hen they had sung an hym n, they w ent out into the
m ount o f O lives, T h en saith Jesus unto them, A ll ye
shall be offen d ed because o f m e this night: fo r it is w rit­
ten, I w ill sm ite the shepherd, and the sheep o f the flock
shall be scattered abroad. B u t a fter I am risen again, I
will go before yo u into Galilee”.
The radiant C hrist arranges H is farewell to His disciples
while H e passes th ro u g h th e m astery of death and the grave.
Knowing th a t death has no pow er over those w ho attain, He
accepts the mission of H is F ather in preference to His own
Will.
(26:33-34-35-36-37-38-39-40-41)— “P eter answered and said
unto him , T h o u g h all m en shall be offended, because o f
thee, yet w ill I n ever be offended. Jesus said unto him ,
V erily / say unto thee, T h a t this night, before the cock
crow, thou shalt d en y m e thrice. P eter said unto him ,
Though I should die w ith thee, yet w ill I not deny thee.
L ikew ise also said all the disciples. Then com eth Jesus
w ith them unto a place called Gethsem ane, and saith unto
the disciples, S it ye here, w hile I go and pray yonder,
and he took w ith h im P eter and the tw o sons o f Zebedee,
and began to be so rro w fu l and very heavy. Then saith
he unto them , M y soul is exceeding sorrow ful, even unto
death; tarry ye here, and w atch w ith me. A n d he w ent
a little fa rth e r and fe ll on his face, and prayed, saying,
0 m y F ather, i f it be possible, let this cup pass fro m m e!
N evertheless, n o t as I w ill, but as thou wilt. A n d he
com eth unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and
saith unto P eter, W h a t! Could ye not w atch w ith me one
hour? W a tch, and pray, that ye enter not into tem pta­
tion; the spirit indeed is w illing, but the flesh is weak.
520 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e Infinite W ill is to sacrifice th e flesh to the power of
Spirit. T h e sleeping disciples symbolizes th e inactive Christians,
w ho fail to see th e approach of th e betrayal of Christianity when
the teachings o f th e M aster are delivered into the hands of
sinners w ho forbid th e healing and the doing of Divine works.
( 2 6 :42-43-44-45-46-47-48-49-50-51-52) — “H e w en t away again
the second tim e, and prayed, saying, 0 m y Father, if this
cup m ay no t pass aw ay fr o m m e, except I drink it, thy
w ill be done. A n d he cam e and fo u n d them asleep again:
fo r th eir eyes w ere heavy. A n d he le ft them , and went
aw ay agajn, and pra yed the th ird tim e, saying the same
w ords. T h en com eth he to his disciples, and saith unto
them , S leep on now . and take yo u r rest; behold, the hour
is at hand, and the S o n o f m an is betrayed into the hands
o f sinners. R ise, let u s be g oing; behold, he is at hand
that doth betray m e. A n d w h ile he yet spake, lo, Judas,
one o f the tw elve, cam e, and zvith h im a great multitude,
w ith szvords and staves, fr o m the ch ief priests and elders
o f the people. N o w he that betrayed him gave them a
sign, saying, W h o m so ever I shall kiss, that same is he;
hold h im fa st. A n d fo rth zvith he cam e to Jesus, and said,
H ail, M a ster; and kissed him . A n d Jesus said unto him,
F rien d , w h erefo re art th o u com e? T h en came they and
laid hands on Jesu s a nd took him . A n d behold, one of
them w h ich w ere w ith Jesus, stretch ed out his hand, and
d rew his sw ord, and stru ck a serva n t o f the high priest s,
and sm ote o ff his ear. T h en said Jesus, P u t up again thy
sw o rd into his place: fo r all they that take the sword,
shall perish w ith the sw o rd ”.
T h e plot laid by th e evil-m inded w ho conspired with the
H igh Priest bears its fruit. T h e ignorant come, being led by
the betraying disciple, Judas, w ho had been bribed by the High
Priest to play his part. P eter began to use physical resistance
and cut off a servant’s ear, b u t Jesus condem ned all violence and
predicted death for those w ho use th e sword. T his example
makes it forever impossible to be a C hristian and yet take part
in physical conflict or w ars of destruction w hich violate all
C hristian precepts of self-sacrifice and love.
( 2 6 :53-54-55-56-57-58-59-60-61-62-63-64) — “T h in kest t h o u
that J cannot n o w pray to m y F ather, and he shall prcs~
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 521
ently give m e m ore than tw elve legions o f angels? B ut
how then shall the scriptures he fulfilled, that thus it m ust
be? In that sam e h o u r said Jesus to the m ultitudes, A re
ye come out, as against a th ief, w ith sw ords and staves
fo r to take m e? I sat daily w ith you teaching in the
temple, and ye laid no hold on me. B u t all this w as done,
that the scriptures o f the prophets m ight be fulfilled.
Then all the disciples fo rso o k him , and fled. A n d they
that had laid hold on Jesu s led him away to Caiaphas the
high priest, w h ere the scribes and the elders were assem­
bled. B u t P e te r fo llo w ed him afar off, unto the high
priest’s palace, and w en t in, and sat w ith the servants, to
see the end. N o w the ch ief priests, and elders, and all the
council, so u g h t fa lse w itness against Jesus, to put him to
death; B u t fo u n d none: yea, though m any false w it­
nesses cam e, y e t fo u n d they none. A t the last came two
false w itnesses, A n d said, T h is fello w said, I am able to
destroy the tem ple o f God, and to build it in three days.
A n d the high priest arose, and said unto him , A nsw erest
thou nothing? W h a t is it w hich these w itness against
thee? B u t Jesu s held his peace. A n d the high priest
answ ered and said unto him , I adjure thee by the living
God, that thou tell u s w hether thou be the Christ, the
Son o f God. Jesu s saith unto him , Thou hast said: nev­
ertheless I say unto you, H erea fter shall ye see the Son
o f man sittin g on the right hand o f power, and coming
in the clouds o f heaven”:
The H igh Priest first tries to condemn the Christ by using
false witnesses, b u t finds th a t no crime can be testified to against
Him. H ow ever, the H igh priest by placing his own con­
struction upon the answ ers to his questions, condemns Jesus to
death. T he real reason for the condemnation of Jesus was
jealousy. T hey w ere jealous of the popularity which Jesus
enjoyed and the D ivine pow ers of mind over m atter which He
demonstrated. T h ey visioned the fall of Judahism, the ceasing
of their income and the condem nation of their religion as false
teachings if H is w orks continued. T heir sins and schemes
were the fulfillm ent of D ivine prophecy. Jesus could have sum­
moned invisible pow ers to His aid which would have destroyed
the High Priest and all of H is false witnesses in the twinkling of
522 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
an eye, b u t th e D ivine W ill w as th a t th e radiant Christ was to
prove th ere is no death fo r th e righteous.
( 2 6 :65-66-67-68-69-70-71-72-73-74-75) — “T hen t h e high
p riest ren t his clothes, saying, H e hath spoken blasphemy;
w h a t fu r th e r need have w e o f w itn esses? Behold, now ye
have heard h is blasphem y. W h a t think ye? They
answ ered and said, H e is g u ilty o f death. Then did they
sp it in his fa ce, and b u ffeted h im ; and others smote him
w ith the palm s o f th eir hands. Sa yin g , Prophesy unto us,
thou C hrist, W h o is he th a t sm ote thee? N o w Peter sat
w ith o u t in the palace; and a dam sel cam e unto him , say­
ing, T h o u also zvast zvith Jesu s o f Galilee. B u t he denied
before them all, saying, I k n o w no t w hat thou sayest. And
w h en he zvas gone out into the porch, another maid saw
him , and said unto th em that w ere there, T his fellow was
also w ith Jesu s o f N a za reth , A n d again he denied with
an oath, I do no t kn o w the m an. A n d a fte r a while came
unto h im they that sto o d by, and. said to Peter, Surely
thou also art one o f th e m ; fo r th y speech betrayeth thee.
T h en he began to curse and to sw ear, saying, I know not
the man. A n d im m ed ia tely the cock crew. A n d Peter re­
m em bered the w o rd o f Jesus, w hich said unto him, Be­
fo re the cock crow , thou shalt d en y m e thrice. A nd he
w en t out, and w e p t bitterly”.
D ivine prophecy is fulfilled, P eter proves unw orthy of His
M aster and “denys H im th rice”. P eter represents the faithless
type of disciples w hich all great teachers have had; being nega­
tive m inded and lacking spirituality, th ey flee from persecution.
(2 7 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 )— ‘‘W h e n the m orning w as come, all the chief
p riests and elders o f the people took counsel against Jesus
to pu t him to death. A n d w h en they had bound him, they
led him aw ay, and d elivered h im to P o n tiu s Pilate the
governor. T h en Judas, w hich had betrayed him , when he
saw that he zoos condem ned, repented him self, and
brought again the th irty pieces o f silver, to the chief
priests and elders. S a yin g , I have sinned, in that I have
betrayed innocent blood. A n d they said, W hat is that to
us? S ee thou to that. A n d he cast dow n the pieces of
silver in the tem ple, and departed, and w en t and hanged
h im self”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 523
Judas, the betrayer of C hrist, fulfills the prophecy by de­
stroying him self as all evil-m inded sinners do. He is lost physi­
cally, mentally and spiritually as a penalty for sinning against
Truth or the H oly G host, for th a t sin is unpardonable. The
betrayer represents the present day betrayer of T ruth who comes
seeking personal gain or m aterial benefits from Divinity, yet is
unwilling to reform from evil ways. Failing to receive same,
they go out and sw ear falsely against the Divine M essenger who
has come to show them the true Christ way to spiritual
redemption. T h e A u th o r has experienced such betrayal, and
Super M ind Science w ith its C hrist T ru th and demonstrations
has come up th ro u g h great tribulation, healing all manner of
disease, casting out sin and giving powers of spiritual under­
standing to all w ho came seeking.
(2 7 :6-7-8-9-10-l 1-12-13-14)— “A n d the chief priests took the
silver pieces, and said, I t is not la w ful fo r to put them
into the treasury, because it is the price o f blood. A n d
they took counsel, and bought w ith them the potter’s field,
to bury strangers in. W h erefo re that field w as called,
The field o f blood, unto this day. Then w as fulfilled that
w hich w as spoken by Jerem y the prophet, saying, A n d
they took the th irty pieces o f silver, the price o f him that
was valued, w h o m they o f the children o f Israel did
value; A n d gave them fo r the potter’s field, as the Lord
appointed me. A n d Jesus stood before the governor:
and the go vern o r asked him saying, A rt thou the K ing
o f the Jew s? A n d Jesus said unto him , Thou sayest. A nd
w hen he w as accused o f the chief priests and elders, he
answ ered nothing. T hen said Pilate unto him , H earest
thou no t h o w m any things they w itness against thee? A n d
he answ ered h im to never a w o rd ; insom uch that the
governor m arvelled greatly”.
As the M aster of life stands accused, H e answers not a
word, dem onstrating th e highest type of self-control and mental
composure. Since H e had overcome all revenge His mind had
only compassion for H is accusers. This is the highest example
of spirituality, self-abnegation and sacrifice. The lesson to learn
from this dem onstration is self-control at the expense of physi­
cal condem nation and punishm ent as a test of the development
of the principle of D ivine spiritual love within.
524 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(27:15-16-17-18-19-20-21 -22-23-24-25-26) — “N o w at that
fe a st the g o vern o r w a s w o n t to release unto the people a
prisoner, w h o m th ey w ould. A n d they had then a notable
prisoner, called B arabbas. T h erefo re, w hen they were
gathered together, P ilate said un to them , W h o m will ye
that I release un to y o u ? B arabbas, or Jesus which is
called C h rist? F o r he k n e w that fo r envy they had deliv­
ered him . W h e n he w a s set dozvn on the judgm ent seat,
his w ife sen t unto h im , saying, H a ve thou nothing to do •
w ith that ju s t m a n ; fo r I have su ffered m any things this
day in a dream because o f him . B u t the chief priests and
elders persuaded the m u ltitu d e th a t they should ask
B arabbas, and d estro y Jesus. T h e governor answered
and said unto th em , W h e th e r o f the tw ain w ill ye that 1
release unto y o u ? T h ey said, Barabbas. P ilate saith unto
them , W h a t shall I do then w ith Jesu s w hich is called
C h rist? T h e y all say unto him , L e t h im be crucified. And
the g o vern o r said, W h y , w h a t evil hath he done? But
they cried out the m ore, saying, L e t him be crucified.
W h en P ila te saw that he could prevail nothing, but that
rather a tu m u lt w as m ade, he took w ater, and washed
his hands before the m u ltiu td e, saying, I am innocent of
the blood o f this ju st person: see ye to it. T hen answered
all the people, and said, H is blood be on us, and on our
children. T h en released he B arabbas unto them ; and
zvhen he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be
crucified”.
T h e hypocrisy of Pilate and his evasion of responsibility
exemplifies th e cow ardice of officials w ho com m it m urder in the
nam e of Justice to satisfy a group of dishonest religious poli'
ticians w ho th irst after the blood of th e righteous. Later in life,
Pilate suffered far m ore th an th e M aster, he suffered political
defeat th en isolation on a m ountain and finally suicide. Some
traditions relate th a t th e real P ontius Pilate w ho condemned Our
Lord was secretly crucified by the E m peror Caiaphas, because he
incurred the displeasure of th e Sam aritans and also the
form er E m peror Tiberius. T h e story relates th at Pilate was
arrested, bound in chains and secretly crucified by imperial
orders in th e dungeon of th e palace, and his body was buried at
(V ienne on the R hone) by relatives w ho erected a pyramidal
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 525
Egyptian m onum ent fifty-two feet high and named the location
Pontius Pilate’s T om b. T h e fulfillm ent of the prophecy by
Jesus “that it was b etter had th a t man never been born” was
fulfilled in the case of b o th Judas and Pilate. This demonstrates
that the crucifixion was an act of sin and was not arranged by the
heavenly Father, fo r w ould G od w ho is Love cause sinners to
kill His son, then w ilfully destroy them for doing it? If He
did He would not be G od, or could H e do so and yet be Good?
The answer is no, for G od is beyond personal violence, enmity,
and revenge. T h e D ivine M ind dem onstrates over m atter and
Divinity in the form of C hrist and rises in glory, proving in­
dividual soul im m ortality, m ind over m atter, and personal sac­
rifice of life for th e cause of Good, God, Love, T ruth and
Light in the lesson of th e crucifixion.
(27:27-28-29-30-31-32-33-34-35) — ‘‘Then the soldiers o f the
governor took Jesu s into the com m on hall, and gathered
unto him the w hole band o f soldiers. A n d they stripped
him, and p u t on him a scarlet robe. A n d w hen they had
platted a crow n o f thorns, they pu t it upon his head, and
a reed in his right hand: and they bowed the knee before
him, and m o cked him , saying, H ail, K ing o f the Jew s!
A n d they sp it upon him , and took the reed, and sm ote
him on the head. A n d a fte r that they had m ocked him ,
they took the robe o ff fro m him and put his own raim ent
on him , and led him aw ay to crucify him. A n d as they
came out, they fo u n d a m an o f Cyrene, Sim on by nam e;
him they com pelled to bear his cross. A n d w hen they
were com e unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a
place o f a skull. T h ey gave him vinegar to drink, mingled
w ith gall: and w h en he had tasted thereof, he w ould not
drink. A n d th ey crucified him , and parted his garm ents,
casting lo ts; that it m ight be fulfilled w hich w as spoken
by the prophet. T h ey parted m y garm ents among them ,
and upon m y vestu re did they cast lots”.
The greatest M aster of Spirituality who ever lived is killed
as a criminal, suffering death because of the lies and plots framed
by the high priest, show ing the degree of sin committed with
religious influences back of it. T h e prophecies are fulfilled when
they cast lots on H is vesture. A lasting example of religious
bigotry and intolerance was established, holding it up to ridi­
cule forever. R egardless of w hat may be said, the T ruth re-
526 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
m ains th a t any type of religious jealousy and bigotry which
causes the death or im prisonm ent of innocent Divine M
essen
gers
un d er th e title of C hristianity o r righteous indignation, is the
low est type of sin, and any sin against T ru th or the Holy
G host is unpardonable. T o those so-called Christians of today
w ho say “C hrist died fo r our sins”, w e say “no, Christ died
because of your sins.”
(27 :36-37-38-39-40-41 -4 2 -4 3 )—-“A n d sittin g down, they
w atched h im th ere; A n d set up over his head, his accusa­
tion ivritten . T H I S I S J E S U S T H E K IN G OF THE
J E W S . T h en w ere there tw o thieves crucified with him;
one on the rig h t hand, and another on the left. A nd they
that passed by reviled him , w agging their heads. And
saying, T h o u that d estro yest the tem ple, and buildest it in
three days, save th y se lf, I f thou be the S o n o f God come
do w n fr o m the cross. L ikew ise also the chief priests
m o ckin g him , w ith the scribes and elders, said, H e saved
others, h im se lf he cannot save. I f he be the King of
Israel, lei h im n o w com e d o w n fr o m the cross, and we
w ill believe him . H e tru sted in G o d ; let him deliver him
now , i f he w ill have h im : fo r he said, I am the Son of
G od".
T h e carnal-m inded w ere foolish to the extent that they be­
lieved death had conquered th e C h rist and dared Him to save
Him self. T h ey little knew th a t H is good deeds had already
saved H im , fo r “th ere are none so blind as those who will not
see”. T h e sins of these m isguided m ortals w ere visited on their
race, fo r H is blood has been upon the hands of their children
w ho have suffered because of th e ir iniquity. Every prophecy
H e m ade shall be fulfilled.
(27:44-45-46-47-48-49-50-51-52-53-54)— '‘T he thieves also,
w hich w ere crucified w ith him , cast the sam e in his teeth.
N o w fr o m the six th hour there w a s darkness over all the
land unto the nin th hour. A n d about the ninth hour Jesus
cried w ith a loud voice, saying E li, E li, lama, sabachthanii
T h a t is to say, M y G od, m y God, w h y hast thou forsaken
m e? S o m e o f them th a t stood there, w hen they heard
that, said, T h is m an calleth fo r Elias. A n d straightway
one o f them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with
vinegar, and p u t it on a reed, and gave h im to drink. Tin
rest said, L et be, let us see w h eth er Elias w ill come to
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 527
save him . Jesus, w h en he had cried again w ith a loud
voice, yielded up the ghost. A n d , behold, the vail o f the
tem ple w as ren t in tw ain, fro m the top to the bottom , and
the earth did quake, and the rocks rent; A n d the graves
were opened; and m any bodies o f the saints w hich slept,
arose. A n d cam e out o f the graves a fter his resurrection,
and w en t into the holy city, and appeared unto many.
N o w w hen the centurion, and they that w ere w ith him,
w atching Jesus, sa w the earthquake, and those things that
were done, th ey fe a re d greatly, saying, Truly, this was
the S o n o f G od”.
The flesh w hich w as the physical vehicle of the Christ
cried out, “G od w hy hast th o u forsaken me”, fulfilling the
prophecy “the flesh is weak, but the spirit is strong,” and re-
vealing the fears of m ortal mind. T hen began the dem onstra­
tions of Infinite Spirit, the dead came forth from the graves and
the earth quaked as the Son of Glory overcame death. Then
the mortals w ho had doubted, revealed their belief in Him as
the Son of G od, for dem onstration of T ru th proved His power.
(2 7 :55-56-57-58-59-60-61)— “A n d m any w om en were there,
beholding a fa r off, w hich follow ed Jesus fro m Galilee,
m inistering unto him : A m o n g w hich was M ary M ag-
, dalcne, and M a ry the m other o f Jam es and Joses, and
the m other o f Zebedee’s children. W hen the even was
come, there cam e a rich m an o f Arim athaea, named
Joseph, w ho also h im self w as Jesus’s disciple: H e w ent
to Pilate, and begged the body o f Jesus. Then Pilate
com m anded the body to be delivered. A n d w hen Joseph
had taken the body, he w rapped it in a clean linen cloth.
A n d laid it in His ozvn n ew tom b, w hich he had hew n out
in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door o f the
sepulchre, and departed. A n d there was M ary M agda­
lene, and the other M ary, sitting over against the
sepulchre”.
Divine M ind finds a w ay to bury the M aster in a new tomb.
He is w rapped in clean linen and placed in the tom b that H e
may dem onstrate H e had overcome the grave. A stone is rolled
against the door as H is friends sat there grieving for Him who
was the “light of the w orld”.
(2 7 :62-63-64-65-66)— “N o w the next day, that follow ed the
day o f the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees
528 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
cam e to g eth er un to P ilate, S a yin g , S ir, w e remember
that that deceiver said, w hile he w as yet alive, After
three days I w ill rise again. C om m and therefore that
the sepulchre he m ade sure u n til the third day, lest his
disciples com e by night, and steal him away, and say
unto the people, H e is risen fr o m the dead; so the last
error shall be w o rse than the first. P ilate said unto them,
Y e have a w a tch : go yo u r w a y, m ake it as sure as ye
can. S o th ey w en t, and m ade the sepulchre sure, sealing
the stone, and settin g a w a tch ”.
T h e religious killers becam e uneasy thinking that Jesus
m ight prove H is prophecy by rising again after three days, so
they m ade sure th a t the physical body w hich they believed to
be Jesus w ould be kept secure, and if H e did arise He would
be im prisoned in th e tom b. T h ey also feared th at His disciples
m ight try to take H is body aw ay and convince the people that
H e had risen w hen H e had not. T h is show s distinctly how
m aterialism w hich only w orships and idolizes the flesh, fails to
grasp the true significance of “ H is rising”. Little did they
dream th a t H e w ho was w illing to lay aside the physical for the
cause of T ru th w ould be least of all interested in raising that
physical body again. T h ere is no doubt b u t th a t H e meant
th at the spiritual body w ould raise. T h eir sin was the most
deplorable ever com m itted in th e history of humanity, they
sinned against T ru th , the H oly G host, the laws of man and the
laws of G od, yet those w ho follow ed them continued to accept
religious teaching from m urderers because of their high office.
(28 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 )— ‘‘/n the end o f the sabbath, as it began
to daw n tozvard the first day o f the w eek, came Mary
M agdalene, and the o ther M a ry, tb see the sepulchre.
A n d , behold, there w as a great earthquake: fo r the angel
o f the L o rd descended fr o m heaven, and came and, rolled
back the stone fr o m the door, and sat upon it. H is coun­
tenance w as like lightning, and his raim ent w hite as snow:
A n d fo r fe a r o f him the keepers did shake, and became
as dead m en. A n d the angel answ ered and said unto the
w om en, F ear not y e ; fo r I kn o w that ye seek Jesus, which
w as crucified. H e is not h ere; fo r he is risen, as he said.
C om e, see the place w here the L o rd lay. A n d go quickly,
and tell his disciples that is risen fr o m the dead; and
behold, he goeth before you into G alilee; there shall ye
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 529
see him : lo, I have told yo u ”.
Infinite Spirit sends a m essenger from the immortal planes
of mind and being. “ H e rolls the stone away” proving that
Spirit is never overcom e by flesh, and th at the righteous can
overcome death and the grave. “T he keepers” who symbolize
mortal mind lim itation fear the D ivine messenger as the power­
ful vibratory forces of Spirit produce an earthquake. The fol­
lowers of the M aster are delighted to find that the grave could
not bind Him , th a t H e w as M aster of death even as He was
of life and th a t H e was living at th a t moment in glory.
(28:8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15) — “A n d they departed quickly
from the sepulchre, zvith fe a r and great jo y, and did run
to bring his disciples w ord. A n d as they w ent to tell his
disciples, behold, Jesu s m et them , saying, A ll hail. A n d
they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped
him... T h en said Jesu s unto them , B e not afraid; go tell
m y brethren, th a t th ey go into Galilee, and there shall
they see m e. N o w w h en they zvere going, behold, some
o f the w atch cam e into the city, and shew ed unto the
chief priests all the things that w ere done. A n d when
they zvere assem bled zvith the elders, and had taken coun­
sel, they gave large m oney unto the soldiers. Saying, Say
ye, H is disciples cam e by night, and stole him away while
we slept. A n d i f th is com e to the governor’s ears, w e will
persuade him , and secure you. So they took the m oney,
and did as th ey w ere taught: and this saying is com­
m only reported am ong the Jew s until this day”.
The religious conspirators against the Son of Divinity con­
tinue until the last, they seek to suppress the T ruth, and keep
the people in ignorance of D ivine T ruth, Love and power
as manifested in Jesus, the Christ. T hey represent a certain
type who exist today, they m eet in councils and decide to sup­
press the healing as perform ed by Jesus and to stress His blood
sacrifice and the ritualism based on His death, ignoring the great
Truth, w hich pertains to H is life and mastery. T hey bribe
officials to kill and im prison anyone who comes to do the healing
and Christ w ork, accusing the Divine messenger falsely and
doing all m anner of sin against Him. Super M ind Science has
endured persecution, especially the Founder thereof, who has
been slandered and persecuted as he w ent from city to city
healing the sick and teaching the kingdom of righteousness,
530 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
pow er and dem onstration, yet his persecutors claimed to be
C hristians. T ru th continues to overcom e the citadels of evil
and establish G ood and D ivinity w hich is doing the “will of
H im w ho sent us.”
(28:16 -1 7 -1 8 -1 9 -2 0 )— ‘‘T h en the eleven disciples went away
into Galilee, into a m ountain w h ere Jesu s had appointed
them . A n d w h en th ey sa w him , th ey worshipped him;
but so m e doubted. A n d Jesu s cam e and spake unto them,
saying, A ll p o w er is g iven un to m e in heaven and in
earth. Go ye th erefo re, and teach all nations, baptizing
them in the nam e o f the F a th er, and o f the Son, and of
the H o ly G h o st; T eaching them to observe all things
w h a tso ever I h ave co m m anded yo u : and lo, 1 am with
yo u alw ays, even unto the end o f the w orld. A m en”.
Jesus fulfills all righteousness and prophecy and appears
to H is disciples after H is physical death. H e sends forth His
disciples to heal th e sick and do th e D ivine works, after which He
prom ised to be w ith them always. T h is is the finish of the mas­
tery of Spirit over flesh and m ind over m atter, the closing scene
of the greatest dram a of life, glory and spiritual attainment, the
m ost com forting doctrine w hich hum anity has ever received.
H e is the ideal of every S uper M ind Scientist w ho strives to
im itate H is D ivine w orks, triu m p h over the flesh and glimpse the
victory of th e soul over m atter.
T o th e m etaphysician, Jesus is the “light of
th e w orld", th e greatest physician and
noblest of teachers. In Super M ind Science
we accept H im as O u r Saviour in th e sense th at His demon­
strations are th e proof of D ivine W ill over disease, sorrow and
sin and we know th a t anyone w ho follows H is example in heal­
ing and helping hum anity will attain spiritual illumination and
soul im m ortality. W e accept H is life as an example of salva­
tion to be follow ed and practiced as a living philosophy of life,
soul and being. W e know th a t one saves their soul by good
deeds only and th a t th e blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ is a sym­
bol of overcom ing death and th e grave th rough spiritual power.
W e reject the idea of H is physical blood saving wilfull sinners
w ho live carelessly and scorn D ivinity by a simple admission of
belief in Jesus C hrist, fo r th a t doctrine could do nothing other
than develop m ental w eaklings because dependence means death
while independence means life. Jesus came to establish the
G reatest
Teacher
T H E B O O K O F ST. M A T T H E W 531
kingdom of righteousness, H e did not come to provide a mean^s
of escape for liars, thieves and hypocrites, or to be a party to sin
under the assumed nam e of Justice.
Rituals U nless reform ation follows conversion noth-
of ing is accomplished. Rituals and ceremonies
M en are the w orks of man and have no Divine
power, for one man w ho him self is a sinner can never forgive
the sins of another sinner. O nly by observing the laws of Life,
Truth, Love and L ight can one attain to Divine heavenly har­
mony, peace and bliss. T h e keys to pow er in Super M ind Sci­
ence reveal the pathw ay of m astership, but the students them ­
selves must do th e attaining, fo r we sow as we reap and reap as
we sow, therefore all should sow to Spirit, Love and T ruth and
reap immortality.
T H E B O O K O F T H E R E V E L A T IO N OF
S A IN T JO H N T H E D IV IN E
“B lessed is he th a t readeth, and th ey that hear
the w o rd s o f th is prophecy, and keep those
things w hich are w ritte n th erein ; fo r the tim e is
at hand.”— (R ev elatio n 1 :3 ).
T h e Scripture is interpreted according to one’s understand­
ing, the scientific interpretation given herein is to assist the
student of M ind and Life so they may be prepared for the fulfill­
m ent of th e prophecy “ fo r all things hidden shall be revealed".
T his revelation is only possible w hen th e w riter has inspiration.
T heology does not explain the Scripture, it merely teaches it.
T hese interpretations are given in the spiritual sense and for
th a t reason they m ay be unpopular to th e m ortal concept of those
w hose m ind is untrained in m etaphysical understanding, but by
m ental application one can see in this rem arkable series of spir­
itual vision, th e history and fu tu re of tru e Christianity. One
can see the rise of m aterialism and form al theology and its fall,
the com ing of the w isdom of the “Far E ast” to the W est, and
the rise of the positive teaching of th e Science which Christ
dem onstrated as it show s to th e w orld m astery over disease, sin
and death. T h e A u th o r’s p art in this w ork is to make known
the T ru th regarding th e D ivine revelation and redemption of
m ankind.
(R ev elatio n 1 :1-2-3)— “T h e R evela tio n o f Jesus Christ,
w h ich G od gave unto him , to sh ew unto his servants
th in g s w h ich m u st sh o rtly com e to pass; and he sent and
signified it by his angel unto his servant John: W ho bare
record o f the w o rd o f G od, and o f the testim ony of
Jesus C hrist, and o f all things that he saw. Blessed is
he that readeth and th ey that heard the w ords of this
prophecy, and keep those th in g s w hich arc written
therein: fo r the tim e is at hand”.
D ivine revelation reveals th a t “th e tim e is at hand , mean­
ing the “ revelation” concerns the present life and time and does
not concern in entirety th e things to happen in life after death.
T h e message came from th e M essengers of T ru th which give
forth all revelations. T h e record of T ru th is eternal, and like
true Science of M ind and Life, its doctrines are eternal.
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 533
(l:4-5-6)— “John to the seven churches w hich are in A sia;
Grace be unto yo u , and peace, fro m him w hich is, and
which was, and w h ich is to com e; and fro m the seven
Spirits w hich are before his throne; A n d fro m Jesus
Christ, w ho is the fa ith fu l w itness, and the first begotten
of the dead, and the prince o f the kings o f the earth.
Unto him that loved us, and w ashed us fro m our sins
in his ow n bigod, A n d hath m ade us kings and priests
unto God and his F a th e r; to him be glory and dom inion
forever and ever. A m e n ”.
The m astery of all T ru th and Light is ascribed to Jesus
who healed the sick, tau g h t th e T ru th and overcame death.
Through His example w e are show n the mastery over flesh and
how to become kings or rulers through the H oly Spirit or God.
The. overcoming of m atter by the pow er of mind and Spirit
reveals that man is m ade in the image of God who is All-good,
and that Jesus was the exemplification of th at Good.
(1:7-8-9-10-11-12)— “B ehold, he com eth w ith clouds; and
every eye shall see him , and they also w hich pierced him :
and all kindreds o f the earth shall w ail because o f him.
Even so. A m en . I am A lp h a and Omega, the beginning
and the ending, saith the L o rd , w hich is, and w hich was,
and w hich is to com e, the A lm ig h ty. I, John, who also
am your brother, and com panion in tribulation, and in
the kingdom and patience o f Jesus Christ, was in the isle
that is called P a tm o s, fo r the w ord o f God, and fo r the
testim ony o f Jesu s C hrist. I w as in the Spirit on the
Lord’s day, and heard behind m e a great voice, as o f a
trumpet, Sa yin g , I am A lp h a and Omega, the first and
the last: and, W h a t thou seest, w rite in a book, and send
it unto the seven churches zvhich are in A sia; unto
Ephesus, and unto S m y rn a and unto Pergam os, and unto
Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and
unto Laodicea. A n d I turned to see the voice that spake
with me, A n d being turned, I saw seven golden candle­
sticks”.
The voice of eternal consciousness, the A lpha or first cause
°f life and light, and O m ega the last cause which is eternal
Spirit speaks unto the m ind of the prophet, giving him a mes-
sage for the original churches of C hrist which were in Asia.
The seven churches symbolize the five physical senses and two
534 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
spiritual senses, intuition and intelligence, w hich combined pro­
duce m an's light and understanding. T h e power back of the
seven senses are th e seven planes of m ind, symbolized by the
“seven golden candlesticks’’. Super M ind Science teaches the
transcending of these planes consciously so one may know the
realm of soul w hile yet on earth, for “ the tim e is at hand” when
the prim al elem ents of life can be controlled through the Science
of Life, and m astery over disease can be attained by all who
love T ru th and L ight. T hose abiding in the Spirit pass beyond
m ortality into life, know ing th a t G od is Good, Love and Truth
m anifest w ithin.
(1 T 3 ) — “A n d in the m id st o f the seven candlesticks one like
unto the S o n o f m an, clothed w ith a garm ent down to
the fo o t, and g irt about the paps w ith a golden girdle”.
Infinite Spirit clothed w ith love abides in the spiritual
senses, b u t m ind m ust be concentrated upon it to understand
this sublim e T ru th . It is likened unto the “ Son of man” be­
cause H e overcam e and m anifested as th e true image and essence
of the H oly Spirit.
(1 :1 4 )— “H is head and his hairs w ere w hite like wool, as
w h ite as sn o w ; and his eyes w ere as a flam e o f fire”
H is head and his h air w hite as snow is a symbol of purity,
and his eyes the flame of fire is th e symbol of light or eternal
wisdom . H e was the pure m otionless Infinite Spirit, Father of
life. W h e n th e flesh is overcom e th ro u g h mind, He manifests
to the individual consciousness.
(1 :1 5 )— “A n d his fe e t like un to fine brass, as if they burned
in a fu rn a c e ; and his voice as the sound o f m any waters .
“ Brass” symbolizes m ortal m ind, “ burned in a furnace
m eans consum ed by passions. “ H is voice as the sound of many
w aters” m eans m any souls, for soul is sym bolized by the element
of w ater, th e conscience is th e voice of th e Infinite which speaks
in the consciousness of all m ankind, telling him the consequences
of sin and th e beauty of spiritual m astery.
( 1 :1 6 )— “A n d he had in his rig h t hand seven stars; and out
o f his m o u th w e n t a sharp tw o-edged sw ord: and his
countenance w as as the su n sh in eth in his strength ,
T h e “seven stars” in his rig h t or positive hand are tht
seven creative influences w hich govern the thoughts of every
conscious being w ho attains to creative m entality. They are.
Strength, H onor, G lory, Blessings, Pow er, Riches and Wisdom,
I
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 535
and through these elem ents of Spirit and influence all beings
manifest Godly powers. T h e “tw o-edged sw ord” is the Law of
Compensation w hich cuts dow n the wicked but keeps the way
of the righteous clear. “ H is countenance as the sun” means the
source of spiritual light, wisdom and positive creative energy of
mind and Spirit.
(1:17-18-19-20)— “A n d w h en I saw him , I fell at his feet as
dead. A n d he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto
me, Fear n o t; I am the first and the last: I am he that
liveth, and w a s d ea d ; and, behold, I am alive fo r ever­
more, A m e n ; and have the keys o f hell and o f death.
W rite the things w hich thou hast seen, and the things
which are, and the things w hich shall be hereafter; The
m ystery o f the seven stars w hich thou saw est in m y right
hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars
are the angels o f the seven churches: and the seven
candlesticks w h ich thou saw est, are the seven churches’’.
Every symbol has a tw o-fold meaning, the scientific, and the
ordinary or literal, here the other meaning of the stars and
seven candlesticks is given. “ H e th at liveth” means the source
of Life, Light and im m ortality. “T he angels of the churches” are
the seven D ivine principles m entioned above w hich preserve all
Divine institutions th a t function in perfect heavenly harmony
with Infiite Spirit and Love.
(2 :l-2-3-4-5)— “U nto the angel o f the church o f Ephesus
w rite: T hese things saith he that holdeth the seven stars
in his right hand, w ho w a lketh in the m idst o f the seven
golden candlesticks; I kn o w thy w orks, and thy labour,
and thy patience, and ho w them const not bear them which
are evil: and th o u hast tried them w hich say they are
apostles, and are not, and hast fo u n d them liars: A n d hast
borne, and hast patience, and fo r m y name’s sake hast
laboured, and hast not fainted. N evertheless I have
som ew hat against thee, because thou hast le ft thy first
love. R em em b er, th erefo re fro m w hence thou art fallen;
and repent, and do the first w orks; or else I w ill come
unto thee quickly, and w ill rem ove thy candlestick out
o f his place, excep t thou repent”.
Infinite Spirit, A ll-know ing, All-seeing M ind knows how
Truth should be dealt w ith, recognizing the sins of the church as
well as those of individuals. T h e voice of T ruth threatens to
536 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w ithdraw its spiritual w isdom from th e church unless it returns
to “the first w orks”, w hich w ere healing the sick and doing
the D ivine w orks of C hrist and H is apostles. T he church had
drifted into cerem onialism and was neglecting doing the good
deeds, substituting salvation by sacrifice and belief for salvation
by works. It is evident th a t the judgm ent referred to was sent
against th e churches, for they ceased to exist, and the system
w hich sprang up th ereafter also neglected the Divine works,
killed and sinned until th e light of th e seven candlsticks was
w ithdraw n and th e earth was plunged into a dark age of spir­
itual despair from w hich it is just em erging at this writing. This
darkness created the necessity fo r th e discovery of Super Mind
Science and th e re-establishing of th e dem onstrations of power
as perform ed by Jesus and H is apostles, for all teachings which
exclude th e D ivine w orks fall short of th e requirements to be
called a “church of C h rist” and th eir adherents will likewise fall
sh o rt of th e requirem ent fo r soul im m ortality.
(2 :6 -7 ) — " B u t th is th o u hast, that thou hatest the deeds of
the N icolaitanes, w h ich I also hate. H e that hath an ear,
let h im hear w h a t the S p irit saith unto the churches; To
him that o vercom eth w ill I g ive to eat o f the tree of life,
w hich is in the m id st o f the paradise o f God”.
T h e N icolaitanes w ere a sect of supposed Christians who
bow ed before statues and exhibited phallic emblems of pagan
origin. T h ey created th eir ow n saints and perform ed magical
rites w ith a sexual suggestion. T h ey claim ed Divinity for physi­
cal beings and sensations and m ingled in orgies of idolatrous
feasts. T h ey b ro u g h t about th e im pure ideas of the Son of
G od being m arried to m ortals and th e asceticism of priests as a
necessity to salvation of the soul, and a doctrine of a physical
illum ination. Some of these absurd doctrines later found their
w ay into the C hristian church and b ro u g h t all manner of pun­
ishm ent on the church, creating divisions and sub-divisions.
T his resulted in the D ivine w orks being pronounced by some
“charlatanism ” and the true saints being killed and burned in
public places.
(2 :8 -9 -1 0 -1 1 ) — “A n d unto the angel o f the church in Symrna
w rite; T hese things saith the first and the last, which was
dead, and is alive; l knozv th y w o rk s and tribulation, and
p o verty, (b u t thou art rich) and I kn o w the blasphemy of
them w hich say th ey are Jew s, and are not, but are the
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 537
synagogue o f Satan. F ear none o f those things which
thou shalt su ffer: behold, the devil shall cast som e o f you
into prison, that ye m ay be tried; and ye shall have tribu­
lation ten d a ys; be thou fa ith fu l unto death, and I will
give thee a crow n o f life. Fie that hath an ear, let him
hear w hat the S p irit saith unto the churches: H e that
overcom eth shall no t be h u rt o f the second death”.
Poverty and righteousness go hand in hand, those who are
righteous are rich in Spirit although they may be poor materially.
The evil or adversary of good im prisons the righteous, but they
endure and win the crow n of life, for self-mastery overcomes the
second death, w hich is loss of m emory and spiritual identity.
Good deeds are good seeds w hich bear their fruit in the im­
mortal planes of m ind; illum ined by Spirit, Love, and T ruth
they light the w ay of th e Pilgrim soul unto Divinity.
(2:12-13-14-15-16)— ‘‘A n d to the angel o f the church in Per-
gamos w rite; T hese things saith he w hich hath the sharp
sw ord w ith tw o edges. I kn o w thy w orks, and where
thou dw ellest, even w here Satan’s seat is; and thou Iiold-
est fa st m y nam e, and hast not denied m y faith, even in
those days w h erein A n tip a s w as m y fa ith fu l m artyr, who
was slain am ong you, w here Satan dwelleth. B u t I have
a fe w things against thee, because thou hast there them
that hold the doctrine o f Balaam , w ho taught Balac to
cast a stu m b lin g block before the children o f Israel, to
eat things sacrified unto idols, and to com m it fornication.
So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine o f the
N icolaitanes w h ich thing I hate. R epent; or else I will
come unto thee quickly, and w ill fight against them w ith
the szvord o f m y m o u th ”.
The Spirit tells the church to follow the T ruth or be
destroyed. It is forbidden to sacrifice before idols or statues or
to teach the doctrine of fornication or phallic worship inherited
from the w orshippers of Balaam of old. Infinite Spirit threatens
to come w ith the “sw ord of my m outh" w hich is T ruth and
Love and Spiritual Purity.
(2:17)— “H e that hath an ear, let him hear w hat the S pirit
saith unto the ch u rch es; To him that overcom eth w ill I
give to eat o f the hidden m anna, and w ill give him a
w hite stone, and in the stone a new name w ritten, w hich
no m an kn o w eth saving he that receiveth it”.
538 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e “hidden m anna” is the sw eet nectar of life within
th e hum an body w hich is produced by the glands; when mind
is concentrated on blissful Infinite Spirit it prolongs life. The
“w hite stone” is th e soul, reasoning faculty, or philosopher’s
stone. “T h e new nam e w ritten ” is “ O m ” m eaning pure Divin­
ity w hich is know n in its essence only by those who receive it.
(2 :1 8 ) — “A n d un to the angel o f the church in Thyatira write:
T hese things saith the S o n o f G od, w ho hath his eyes like
un to a flam e o f fire, and his fe e t are like fine brass”.
T h e flame of fire of th e eyes symbolizes the at-one-ment
w ith th e D ivine M ind. “ H is feet are like fine brass” plainly
show s th e pow er of T ru th o r D ivine M ind to overpower mat­
ter. T h e fire is th e baptism o f th e H oly Ghost whose
pow er consum es all sin and disease, show ing the power of
D ivinity over m atter and sin.
(2 :1 9 -2 0 -2 1 -2 2 -2 3 )— “I k n o w th y w o rks, and charity, and
service, and fa ith , and th y patience, and thy works; and
the last to be m ore than the first. N otw ithstanding, I have
a fe w things against thee, because thou sufferest that
w o m a n Jezebel, w h ich calleth h erself a prophetess, to
teach and to seduce m y serva n ts to com m it fornication,
and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. A n d I gave her
space to rep en t o f her fo rn ica tio n ; and she repented not.
B ehold, I w ill cast h er into a bed, and them that commit
adu ltery w ith her into great tribulation, except they re­
p en t o f th eir deeds. A n d I w ill kill her children with
d ea th ; and all the churches shall kn o w that I am he which
searcheth the reins and h ea rts; and I w ill give unto every
one o f yo u according to y o u r w o rk s”.
False teachings of D ivinity m ixed w ith phallicism are re­
buked, and th e doom of its follow ers is foretold. Those who eat
things sacrificed to physical personalities or idols commit sin, for
G od is above and beyond all idols. “ Killing her children with
d eath ” m eans th ey will lose soul identity and shall never know
life after death. T h e Science of Life and M ind is true spiritual
and m ental purification and th a t is th e only true religious doc­
trine. A n y form of ritualism o r phallic magic is blasphemous,
for G od is beyond sect, sex, cast and class, H e is pure motionless
Infinite Spirit, Love and T ru th , and th e only true communion
is m ental, n o t physical.
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 539
(2:24-25-26-27-28-29)— “B u t unto you I say, and unto the
rest in T hyatira, as m any as have not this doctrine, and
which have not knozvn the depths o f Satan, as they
speak; I w ill p u t upon you none other burden. B ut that
which ye have already hold fa st till I come. A n d he that
overcom eth, and keepeth m y w o rks unto the end, to him
will I give p ow er over the nations: A n d he shall rule
them w ith a rod o f iro n ; as the vessels o f a potter shall
they be broken to shivers: even as I received o f m y
Father. A n d I w ill give him. the m orning star. H e that
hath an ear, let h im hear w hat the Spirit saith unto the
churches”
The D ivine w orks are healing, and aiding hum anity to solve
its problems. H e w ho perform ^ them is promised power and
mastery over the nations, fo r all seek the one who heals them
and teaches them T h e T ru th , T h e W ay and T he Life.
(3:l-2-3-4-5-6)— “A n d unto the angel o f the church in Sardis
w rite: T hese things saith he that hath the seven Spirits o f
God, and the seven sta rs; I know thy w orks, that thou
hast a nam e that thou livest, and art dead. B e w atchful,
and strengthen the things w hich remain, that are ready
to die; fo r I have not fo u n d thy w orks perfect before
God. R em em b er th erefo re how thou hast received and
heard; and hold fa st; and repent. I f therefore thou shalt
not w atch, I w ill com e on thee as a thief, and thou shalt
not know w h a t ho u r I w ill come upon thee. Thou hast
a fe w nam es even in S a rd is w hich have not defiled their
garm ents; and th ey shall w alk w ith m e in w hite: fo r they
are w orthy. H e that overcom eth, the same shall be clothed
in w hite ra im en t; and I w ill not blot out his name out o f
the book o f life, but I w ill confess his name before m y
Father, and before his angels. H e that hath an ear, let
him hear w h a t the S p irit saith unto the churches".
Infinite M ind dem ands mental purity and spiritual power,
which comes from doing good deeds. "Be thou watchful and
strengthen the things w hich remain that are ready to die,
meaning to heal the sick and teach life. If this is not done, thy
works shall not be perfect before God, T ruth and Light. The
few who had not defiled their garm ents” were those who were
doing the D ivine works, "they are w orthy . H e that over-
540 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H EA LTH
com eth” is he w ho becom es m aster of mind, life and self his
nam e is to be confessed before th e F ather in heaven.
(3 :7 -8 -9 -1 0 -1 1 -1 2 ) — “A n d to the angel o f the church in
P hiladelphia w rite : T hese th in g s saith he that is holy, he
that is true, he that hath the key o f David, he that
openeth, and no m an s h u tte th ; and shuttetli, and no man
o p en eth ; I k n o w th y w o rk s: behold, I have set before
thee an open door, and no m an can shut it; fo r thou hast
a little stren g th , and hast kep t m y w ord, and hast not
denied m y nam e. B eh o ld , I w ill m ake them of the
synagogue o f S a ta n , w h ich say th ey are Jews, and arc
not, but do lie; behold, I w ill m ake them to come and
w o rsh ip b efo re th y fe e t, and to kn o w that I have loved
thee. B ecause th o u hast kep t the w ord o f m y patience, I
also w ill keep thee fr o m the h our o f temptation, which
shall com e upon all the w o rld , to try them that dwell upon
the earth B ehold, I com e quickly: hold that fast which
th o u hast, th a t no m an take th y crow n, H im that over-
com eth w ill I m ake a pillar in the tem ple o f my God;
and he shall go no m ore o u t; and I w ill w rite upon him
the nam e o f m y G od, and the nam e o f the city of my
G od, w h ich is N e w Jerusalem , w h ich com eth down out of
heaven fro m m y G o d ; and I w ill w rite upon him my new
nam e’’.
“H e th a t openeth and no m an sh u tteth ” is Christ, or all
w ho attain to suprem e spiritual m astery, becom ing one with Him
th ro u g h D ivine pow er. T hose of evil m inds are to be brought
to th e feet of D ivine T ru th to w orship Infinite Spirit. “Hold
fast" to the principles of T ru th , Love and Light otherwise the
crow n of attainm ent will be lost. T h e “N ew Jerusalem’ is a
new condition of life th ro u g h T ru th and revelation. The Old
Jerusalem was a place of m aterialism and greed, therefore the
“N ew Jerusalem ” is its opposite, a condition of spirituality which
is to com e th ro u g h M ind Science and th e restoration of the
D ivine w orks of C hrist as a m eans of salvation, and the passing
aw ay of th e theories of belief and sacrifice for atonement of sins
w hich the sinners do not try to overcom e. “ Him that over-
com eth will I m ake a pillar in the tem ple of m y God and he shall
go no m ore o u t” refers to the teachings of self-mastery and
m ind over m atter as tau g h t in Super M ind Science which
unfolds th e pow ers of m astery in m an. It creates all things new
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 541
through revealing G od in m ind, spiritual energy, T ruth, Love
and Justice, healing th e sick and doing the W ill of the Divine
Father; it raises the standards of its followers. “By their fruits
ye shall know th em ”, “they shall lay hands on the sick and they
shall recover”.
(3:13-14-15-16-17)— “H e that hath an ear, let him hear w hat
the S p irit saith unto the churches. A n d unto the angel o f
the church o f L aodiceans w rite ; These things saith the
A m en, the fa ith fu l and true w itness, the beginning o f the
creation o f G o d ; I kn o w th y w orks, that thou art neither
cold nor h o t; I w o u ld thou w ert cold or hot. So then
because thou art lu kew a rm , and neither cold nor hot, I
will spue thee out o f m y m outh. Because thou sayest, I
am rich, and increased w ith goods, and have need o f
nothing; and kn o w est not that thou art wretched, and
miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked”.
“N either cold or h o t” is symbolical of a careless mental
state where the individual fails to do the Divine works and be­
comes negligent in th eir spiritual duties. T he church whose
members become careless m inded, concentrating only on worldly
riches become “poor and naked” spiritually, or they lack spiritual
vision and pow er to do the D ivine works, for all material wealth
is but illusion and will pass away; only Spirit is eternal.
(3:18-19-20-21-22) — “I counsel thee to buy o f me gold tried
in the fire, that thou m ayest be rich, and ivhite raiment,
that thou m a yest be clothed, and that the shame o f thy
nakedness do no t appear; and anoint thine eyes w ith
eyesalve, that thou m ayest see. A s m any as I love, 1
rebuke and chasten: B e zealous therefore, and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear
m y voice, and open the door, I w ill come in to him , and
will sup w ith him , and he w ith me. To him that over-
com eth zvill I grant to sit w ith m e in m y throne, even
os I also overcam e, and am set dow n w ith m y F ather in
his throne. H e that hath an ear, let him hear w hat the
Spirit saith unto the churches”.
'Gold tried in th e fire” is mind pow er which overcomes the
passions, lust and envy of carnal mind. “W hite raim ent is soul
purity w hich comes from overcom ing the lower nature through
inner desire and concentration of the mind on good. A noint
thine eyes w ith eyesalve” is to control thy vision and see only
542 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
G ood, T ru th and Love. “T o him th a t overcom eth” the flesh
and attains to m astership he shall “sit in the throne” of spiritual
im m ortality even as O u r Lord, Jesus C hrist did, for those who
doeth H is w orks are one w ith H im . Belief and prayer can never
attain this desired state, only self-control and mental realization
of the W ill of the F ath er can overcom e the illusions of cor­
poreality, fo r th en th e M aster enters into our consciousness and
“sups w ith us”.
( 4 : 1-2-3-4-5) — “A fte r th is I looked, and, behold, a door was
opened in h ea ven ; and the first voice w hich I heard was
as it w ere o f a tru m p et talking w ith m e; which said,
C om e up hither, and I w ill sh e w thee things which must
be h ereafter. A n d im m ed ia tely I w as in the spirit; and,
behold, a throne zvas set in heaven, and one sat on the
throne. A n d he that sat w a s to look upon like a jasper
and a sardine sto n e: and there w as a rainbow round
about the throne, in sig h t like unto an emerald. And
round about the throne w ere fo u r and tw enty seats: and
upo n the seats I sa w fo u r and tw en ty elders sitting,
clothed in w h ite ra im en t; and they had on their heads
crow ns o f gold. A n d out o f the throne proceeded light­
nin g s and th u n d erin g s and voices: and there were seven
lam ps o f fire burning b efo re the throne, which are the
seven S p irits o f G od”.
T h e vision of th e th ro n e of T ru th reveals the great All-
seeing Presence on th e highest plane of mind, surrounded by
the elders of T ru th crow ned w ith m astership over the world.
T h e seven lam ps of Spirit illum ine th e planes of glory and power
as the voice of T ru th and prophecy proceeds from the throne
under th e influence of th e seven Spirits of G od which govern
the cycles of tim e and ages of progression. T he twenty-four
elders sym bolize the tw elve brain convolutions of man and the
tw elve spiritual states of m ind w hich are the means of man
receiving intelligence and illum ination.
( 4 :6 )— “A n d b efo re the throne there w as a sea o f glass like
unto crystal: and in the m id st o f the throne, and round
about the throne, w ere fo u r beasts, fu ll o f eyes befort
and behind”.
“T h e sea of glass” symbolizes the peace of the realm ot
soul w hich exists in th e depths of m an's inner spiritual self. Sur
rounded by four beasts m eans he is clothed in elements of Earth,
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 543
the body; A ir, th e m ind; Fire, the spirit and W ater, the soul.
These elements com pose m an’s being w hich is the vehicle of the
soul.
(4 :7)— “A n d the first beast w as like a lion, and the second
beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man,
and the fo u r th beast w as like a flying eagle".
“The first beast like a lion’’ symbolizes the body or flesh,
“the second beast like a calf” is the soul clothed in etheric sub'
stance. “T he th ird had th e face of a m an” symbolizes the men­
tality or individual carnal consciousness, “the fourth beast was
like a flying eagle” symbolizes the Spirit w hich is propelled by
thought w hich can be released from the body and can soar to the
realm of soul and retu rn again, for “John was in the Spirit on the
Lord’s day”, likewise Paul says, “it is better to be at home with
the Lord and be absent from the body than to be at home in the
body and be absent from the L ord”. T he Science of M ind and
Life reveals the p roper w ay to liberate the consciousness from
matter and the w ay to understand G od and Good while we
live on earth, fo r G od is a G od of the living, not a God of
the dead.
(4:8-9-10-11)— “A n d the fo u r beasts had each o f them six
wings about h im ; and th ey w ere fu ll o f eyes w ithin: and
they rest not day and night, saying, H oly, holy, holy, Lord
God A lm ig h ty, w hich w as, and is, and is to come. A n d
w hen those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to
him that sat on the throne, w ho liveth fo r ever and ever.
The fo u r and tw en ty elders fa ll dow n before him that
sat on the throne, and w orship him that liveth fo r ever
and ever, and cast their crow ns before the throne, saying,
Thou art w o rth y, 0 L o rd , to receive glory and honour
and pow er; fo r thou hast created, all things, and fo r thy
pleasure th ey are and w ere created".
The beasts or beings of earth lay aside all thoughts of self
and individual attainm ent w hen they behold the glory of Infinite
Spirit who lives fo r ever and forever. A ll beings sing His praise,
for He giveth the Spirit of Life to all beings, symbolized by the
wings full of eyes” . T h ey sing “Holy, H oly” before the throne
of Divine M ind w hich created all things and gave intelligence
to matter, for Spirit is the only reality, and Divinity the light
of the world.”
544 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(5 :1-2-3-4-5) — “A n d I sa w in the rig h t hand o f him that sat
on the throne a book w ritte n w ith in and on the back side
sealed w ith seven seals. A n d I saw a strong angel pro­
claim ing w ith a loud voice, W h o is w o rth y to open the
book, and to loose the seals th ereo f f A n d no man in
heaven, nor in earth, n eith er u n d er the earth, was able
to open the book, neith er to look thereon. A nd I wept
m uch, because no m an w a s fo u n d w o rth y to open and to
read the book, n eith er to look thereon. A n d one of the
elders saith un to m e, W eep not, behold: the Lion of the
tribe o f Juda, the R o o t o f D avid, hath prevailed to open
the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof’’.
T h e “ rig h t h a n d ” or D ivine creative pow er is contained in
th e seven D ivine principles of m ind w hich created and are
th e seven planes of m ind. It is also th e seven receptive powers
of the soul w hich Jesus, “th e lion of th e tribe of Juda" fully
opened and m astered. H ow ever, all can open these powers if
they forsake carnality and do th e w orks of Spirit and Infinite
Love.
(5 :6) — “A n d I beheld, and, lo, in the m id st o f the throne and
o f the fo u r beasts, and in the m id st o f the elders, stood a
L a m b , as it had been slain, h aving seven horns and seven
eyes, w h ich are the seven S p irits o f G od sent forth into
all the earth”.
T h e “seven horns” is th e control of the seven spirits of
G od’s D ivine influence and pow er. T h e “seven eyes" is the
com plete opening of th e seven seals w ithin the human soul,
giving perfect spiritual sense perception and wisdom. “The lamb
or Love th a t was slain is Jesus th e C hrist, H e manifested the
perfect m astership of th e pow ers, becom ing the image and
likeness of H is heavenly Father. S uper M ind Science in its
advanced studies teaches th e technique of opening these seven
seals and th e harm onizing w ith th e seven Spirits of God men­
tally, the student thereb y attaining spiritual illumination,
D ivine w isdom and soul im m ortality.
(5 :7 -8 -9 -1 0 )— “A n d he cam e and took the book out of the
right hand o f h im th a t sat upon the throne. And ’
when
he had taken the book, the fo u r beasts and fo u r and twenty
elders fe ll d o w n befo re the L am b, having every one of
them harps, and golden via ls fu ll o f odours, which ore
the prayers o f saints. A n d th ey sung a new song, saywg,
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 545
Thou art w o rth y to take the book, and to open the seals
thereof: fo r th o u w a st slain, and hast redeem ed us to
God by th y blood, ou t o f every kindred, and tongue, and
people and n a tio n ; A n d hast m ade us unto our God kings
and p riests; and w e shall reign on the earth”.
The “lam b” th a t was slain or the sacrifice of the physical,
symbolised by “ H is blood” opens the Divine book of Nature,
Intelligence and Spirit. “T hou w ast slain and hast redeemed
us to God by th y blood” reveals the true path of mastership,
which means to renounce the pow ers of evil and the flesh. His
followers w ho do this become M asters and kings and priests
unto God, w hich gives them pow er to reign on earth or to rule
over physical problem s and conditions.
(5:11-12-13-14)— ‘‘A n d I beheld, and I heard the voice o f
m any angels rou n d about the throne and the beasts and
the elders: and the num ber o f them was ten thousand
times ten thousand, and thousands o f thousands; Saying
w ith a loud voice, W o rth y is the Lam b that was slain to
receive pow er, and riches, and w isdom , and strength, and
honour, and glory, and blessing. A n d every creature
which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth,
and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them , heard
I saying, B lessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be
unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lam b
fo r ever and ever. A n d the fo u r beasts said, A m en. A n d
the fo u r and tw en ty elders fe ll dow n and w orshipped
him that liveth fo r ever and ever”.
Those w ho overcom e the w orld and their body, are w orthy
of the influence of the seven creative spirits. All creatures high
and low sing th eir praises, for there is nothing higher than
mastership or beyond Infinite M ind, Spirit, T ru th and Love.
(6:1-2)— ‘‘A n d I saw w h en the L am b opened one o f the seals;
and 1 heard, as it w ere the noise o f thunder, one o f the
fo u r beasts saying, C om e and see. A n d I saw, and behold
a w hite horse: and he that sat him had a bow ; and a
crown w as given unto him.: and he w ent fo rth conquering,
and to conquer”.
The spiritual influence of the soul and mastership go forth
conquering m atter, m aterialism and the carnal world of illusion.
This influence gives unto the righteous, peace, power and bliss,
and overcomes th e tu rb u len t conditions of mortal mind.
546 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
(6 :3 -4 ) — “A n d w h en he had opened the second seal, I heard
the second beast say, C om e and see. A n d there went out
another horse that w a s red : and p ow er w as given to him
that sat thereon to take peace fr o m the earth, and that
th ey sh o u ld kill one and an o th er; and there was given
unto h im a great sw o rd ”.
T h e pow er of flesh w hich struggles against Spirit can be
com pared to th e contrasting opposites of N ature, the positive
and negative, th e red and w hite. M aterialism or red uses the
physical pow ers received from Infinite Spirit to kill, and to
create w ars in o rd er to satisfy th e influence of destruction in
the carnal m ind. It goes fo rth destroying, seeking to over­
pow er th e soul, sym bolized by w hite, b u t th e Spirit will not
always struggle w ith the flesh, fo r the Spirit will rise up and the
flesh w ill be destroyed.
(6 :5 -6 ) — “A n d w h en he had opened the third■seal, l heard
the th ird beast say, C om e and see, A n d I beheld, and, lo,
a black h o rse; and he th a t sat on h im had a pair of bal­
ances in h is hand. A n d I heard a voice in the midst of
the fo u r beasts say, A m easure o f w h ea t fo r a penny, and
three m easures o f barley fo r a p e n n y ; and see thou hurt
n o t the oil and the w in e”.
T h e “ pale horse w ith death as th e rid er” spreads death and
disease in a w orld w ar in w hich supposed Christian nations are
th e com batants. T h e poor pay th e suprem e sacrifice for victory.
T h ey are used as m en in bondage against th eir will, and are sent
to the field of blood and death to satisfy those w ho measure life
in personal gain. H ow soon men forget th e injunction, “those
w ho kill by the sw ord shall die by th e sw ord”. No good ever
came from destruction of life, for good is not assisted by evil
and hatred. G od is Love therefo re cannot become hate or bless
hate. D estruction is the w ork of evil, the adversary of good,
therefore true C hristians should accept death before becoming
instrum ents of the forces of darkness. “ If thine enemy strike
thee upon one cheek, tu rn th e o th er” is the law of Divinity
and C hrist, representative of th e sacrifice on Calvary and that
th e cross of darkness, negation and sin can be overcome.
(6 :7 -8 ) — “A n d w h en he had opened the fo u rth seal, I heard
the voice o f the fo u r th beast say, C om e and see. And I
looked, and behold a pale h o rse; and his name that sot
on him w as D eath, and H ell fo llo w e d w ith him. Ana
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 547
power w as g iven un to them over the fo u rth part o f the
earth, to kill w ith sw ord, and w ith hunger, and w ith
death, and zvith the beasts o f the earth”.
The forces of com mercialism and greed measure the per'
sonal gain involved th ro u g h the slaughter of mankind. In the
midst of death and destruction of hum an beings, the greedy
count pennies and the supplies necessary to carry on the the
deplorable business of hum an carnage. T his is because mankind
in general knows little or nothing of mind control and their
emotions are easily excited by stories of the cruelty of the en­
emy. All m anner of devices are used to brutalize man and make
him hate his fellowm an. T h e scales of evil are balanced on one
side with gain and the other w ith loss, for the Law of Com ­
pensation is, th a t evil shall n o t prosper.
(6:9-10-11) — “A n d w h en he had opened the firth seal, I saw
under the altar the souls o f them that w ere slain fo r the
zvord o f God, and fo r the testim ony w hich they held:
A n d they cried w ith a loud voice, saying, H ow long, 0
Lord, H o ly and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our
blood on them that dw ell on the earth? A n d w hite robes
were given unto every one o f them ; and it was said unto
them, that th ey should rest yet fo r a little season, until
their fello w serva n ts also and hetir brethren, that should
be killed as th ey w ere, should be fulfilled”.
Those killed innocently are gathered to the eternal altar
that the prophecy of th e goodness of God may be fulfilled and
mankind may learn th e evil in com m itting sin. T he Law of Com­
pensation w orking th ro u g h the processes of evolution brings
suffering upon the earth as the result of the sin of killing com­
mitted by the nations of th e earth.
(6:12-13-14-15-16-17)— “A n d I beheld w hen he had opened
the sixth seal, and, lo, there w as a great earthquake ; and
the sun becam e black as sackcloth o f hair, and the moon
became as blood: A n d the stars o f heaven fell unto the
earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untim ely figs, w hen
she is shaken o f a m ig h ty w ind. A n d the heaven departed
as a scroll w h en it is rolled together; and every mountain
and island w ere m oved out o f their places. A n d the kings
o f the earth, and the great m en, and the rich m en, and the
chief captains, and the m ighty m en, and every bondman,
and every freem a n , hid them selves in the dens and in the
548 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ro cks o f the m o u n ta in s; A n d said to the mountains and
rocks, F all on us, a nd hide u s fr o m the face o f him that
sitte th on the throne, and fr o m the w rath o f the Lamb:
F o r the great day o f his w rath is com e; and who shall be
able to sta n d ” ?
D isturbances in th e earth usually follow the sinning of
nations. T h e vibrations of evil th o u g h ts upset the equilibrium
of th e earth, th e elem ents of N atu re and the forces of evil ex­
pand them selves and clash, th u s causing great calamities and
fam ines. T h e fear of G od and G ood m anifests in all the earth
as m ankind realizes th e pow er of Infinite Spirit is set against
him.
( 7 :l- 2 - 3 ) — ‘‘A n d a fte r these th in g s I saw fo u r angels stand­
ing on the fo u r corners o f the earth, holding the four
ivin d s o f the earth, th a t the w in d should not blow on the
earth, n o r on the sea, n o r on any tree. A n d I saw another
angel ascending fr o m the east, h a vin g the seal of the liv­
ing G od: and he cried w ith a loud voice to the four
angels, to w h o m it w a s g iven to h u r t the earth and the
sea. S a yin g , H u r t n o t the earth, neither the sea, nor the
trees, till w e have sealed the serva n ts o f our God in their
fo reh ea d s”.
T h e “seal in th e forehead” is th e m ark of spirituality, or
th e living T ru th w hich m anifests th ro u g h reason whose faculty
is th e conscious m ind. A ll w ho receive th e seal of reason in the
conscious brain becom e tru e children of th e Spirit, the Life
and T ru th , exercising m astership over th e problem s of life, and
becom ing one w ith th e Infinite. T h e physiological mark is a
crescent form ed in th e low er portion of th e forehead, showing
th e cells of spirituality developed w hile the cells of materiality
are undeveloped. A very small percentage of people possess
this m ark.
(7 :4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -1 0 ) — ''‘A n d I heard the num ber o f them which
w ere sealed: and there w ere sealed an hundred and forty
and fo u r thousand o f all the tribes o f the children of
Israel. O f the tribe o f Ju d a w ere sealed tw elve thousand.
O f the tribe o f R eu b en w ere sealed tw elve thousand. Of
the tribe o f G ad w ere sealed tw elve thousand. Of the
tribe o f A s e r w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe
o f N ep th a lim w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe
o f M anasses w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe
THE BOOK OF ST. JOHN 549
of Sim eon 5
were sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe o f
L evi w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe o f
Issachar w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe o f
Zabulon w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe o f
Joseph w ere sealed tw elve thousand. O f the tribe o f
B enjam in w ere sealed tw elve thousand. A fte r this I be­
held, and lo, a great m ultitude, w hich no m an could num ­
ber, o f all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,
stood before the throne, and before the Lam b, clothed
w ith w hite robes, and palm s in their hands; A n d cried
w ith a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which
sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lam b”.
The “hundred and forty-four thousand” represents the
small percentage w ho attain to reason and spirituality. This is
also symbolical of th e small percentage of people living on earth
who enter into life im m ortal thro u g h t the straight gate of
righteousness and th ro u g h overcom ing sin. T he multitude of
spiritually pure, w earing th eir robes of purity and mastership,
assemble before the th ro n e of Spirit w ith palms, symbolical of
comfort in their hands. T h ey are those who overcame the flesh,
the adversary and m ortal tem ptation through mind over matter.
(7:11-12)— “A n d all the angels stood round about the throne,
and about the elders and the fo u r beasts, and fell before
the throne on th eir faces, and w orshipped God, Saying,
A m en ; B lessing, and glory, and w isdom , and thanksgiv­
ing, and honour, and pow er, and m ight, be unto our God
fo r ever and ever. A m e n ”.
Infinite M ind enthroned in wisdom is worshipped by beings
of Light, or A ngelic M essengers of Good, for all Good revolves
around the throne of Infinite Grace and Peace. T he worship
of the All-good, A ll-know ing G od exists forever and ever,
manifesting on the im m ortal planes of mind where mortal
consciousness has been overcome.
(7:13-14-15-16-17)— “A n d one o f the elders answered, say­
ing unto m e, IV hat are these w hich are arrayed in w hite
robes? A n d w hence came th ey? A n d I said unto him,
Sir, thou kn o w est, A n d he said to me, These are they
which cam e out o f great tribulation, and have w ashed
their robes, and m ade them w hite in the blood o f the
Lamb. T h erefo re are they before the throne o f God, and
serve him day and night in his tem ple: and he that sitteth
550 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
on the throne shall dw ell am ong them . T hey shall hunger
no m ore, neith er th irst any m o re; neither shall the sun
lig h t on th em , no r any heat. F o r the Lam b, which w in
the m id st o f the throne, shall fe e d them , and shall lead
th em un to livin g fo u n ta in s o f w a ters; and God shall
w ipe aw ay all tears fr o m th eir eyes”.
T hose follow ing after C hrist, being cleansed by the Truth
of Spirit overcom e the flesh. W h e n they attain they pass beyond
all m ortal sense, appetite, tem perature, and other mortal sensa­
tions. H aving received w ater from th e fountain of immortal life,
all grief and sorrow pass aw ay, since th e w orld of matter and
all of its delusions pass into oblivion to him w ho exists in Eternal
Love.
(8 :l-2-3-4-5-6)— “A n d w h en he had opened the seventh seal,
there w a s silence in heaven about the space o f half an
hour. A n d I sa w the seven angels w hich stood before
G od; and to th em w ere g iven seven trumpets. And
another angel cam e and sto o d at the altar, having a golden
censer; and there w a s g iven unto him m uch incense, that
he should o ffer it w ith the p ra yers o f all saints upon the
golden altar w h ich w as b efo re the throne. A n d the smoke
o f the incense, w h ich cam e w ith the prayers o f the saints,
ascended up b efo re G od ou t o f the angel’s hand. And the
angel took the censer, and filled it w ith fire o f the altar,
and cast it into the earth: and there w ere voices and
th underings, and lightnings, and an earthquake. And the
seven angels w h ich had the seven trum pets prepared
th em selves to so u n d ”.
T h e evolutionary processes of N atu re prepare to destroy
m atter and all of its claims of superiority over Spirit. The vibra­
tion of the seven cycles strikes th e earth at the sound of the
trum pets, announcing th e recapitulation of the ages and cycles,
as the heavenly th ro n e of w isdom continues to guide m
ankind
to his spiritual destiny.
(8:7-8-9-10)— “T h e first angel sounded, and there followed
hail and fire m ingled w ith blood, and they w ere cast upon
the earth; and the th ird pa rt o f trees w as burnt up, and
all green grass w a s b u rn t up. A n d the second angel
sounded, and as it w ere a great m ountain burning with
fire w a s cast into the sea; and the third part o f the sea
becam e blood; A n d the th ird part o f the creatures which
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 551
-were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part o f
the ships w ere destroyed. A n d the third angel sounded, and
there fe ll a great sta r fr o m heaven, burning as it were a
lamp, and it fe ll upon the third part o f the rivers, and
upon the fo u n ta in s o f w aters”.
Man is com posed of a being subdivided into three parts,
body, m atter; soul, D ivinity; and Spirit, mind. His body, one-
third of his being is affected through the changes of Nature.
This one-third is destroyed through the clashing of elements at
the sound of the trum pets of time, but M ind and Divinity are
not affected, for m atter is tem poral while M ind is eternal.
(8:11-12-13)— ‘‘A n d the nam e o f the star is called W orm ­
wood: and the th ird part o f the w aters became w orm ­
w ood; and m a n y m en died o f the waters, because they
were m ade bitter. A n d the fo u rth angel sounded, and
the third part o f the su n w as sm itten, and the third part
o f the m oon, and the third part o f the stars; so as the
third part o f them w as darkened, and the day shone not
fo r a third part o f it, and the night likewise. A n d I
beheld, and heard an angel flying through the m idst o f
heaven, saying w ith a loud voice, W oe, woe, woe, to the
inhabitors o f the earth, by reason o f the other voices o f
the trum pet o f the three angels, w hich are yet to sound”!
All planetary bodies of m atter are affected by time and the
decaying energies called W orm w ood. T he voice of Spirit pro­
claims the end of m ateriality as the death of m atter dims the
sunlight of understanding of those w ho have not attained. “The
angel flying th ro u g h the m idst of heaven” is symbolical of the
race of men w ho shall rise above the plane of visibility and
consciously transcend th e planes of M ind through the influence
of the seven cycles of progression.
(9:l-2-3-4)— ‘‘A n d the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star
fall fro m heaven unto the earth: and to him was given
the key o f the bottom less pit. A n d he opened the bottom ­
less p it; and there arose a sm oke out o f the pit, as the
sm oke o f a great fu rn a ce; and the sun and the air w ere
darkened by reason o f the sm oke o f the pit. A n d there
came out o f the sm o ke locusts upon the earth: and unto
them w as given pow er, as the scorpions o f the earth have
power. A n d it w as com m anded them that they should not
hurt the grass o f the earth, neither any green thing,
552 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
neith er any tree; bu t only those m en w hich have not the
seal o f G od in th eir fo re h e a d s”.
T h e decaying energies attack those n o t having the seal of
reason and spirituality in th eir foreheads, in preparation for the
destruction of m atter and the triu m p h of spiritual perfection. As
th e forces of m atter crum ble before th e receding sun, the ad­
vancing cycle. “T h y W ill be done on earth as in heaven”
m anifests. T h en th e spiritual forces of wisdom and light manifest,
uplifting m an’s being.
(9 :5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -1 0 -1 1 ) — “A n d to th em it w as given that they
sh o u ld not kill them , bu t th a t th ey should be tormented
five m o n th s: and th eir to rm en t w a s as the torment of a
scorpion, w h en he strik e th a m an. A n d in those days
shall m en seek death, and shall not find it; and shall
desire to die, and d ea th shall flee fro m them. And the
shapes o f the locusts w ere like unto horses prepared unto
b attle; and on th eir heads w ere as it w ere crowns like
gold, and their fa ces w ere as the fa ces o f men. And they
had hair as the hair o f w o m en , and their teeth were as
the teeth o f lions. A n d th ey had breastplates, as it were,
breastplates o f iro n ; and the so u n d o f their wings was as
the so u n d o f chariots o f m a n y horses running to battle.
A n d th ey had tails like u n to scorpions, and there were
stin g s in th eir tails; and th eir p o w er w as to hurt men five
m onths. A n d th ey had a kin g over them , which is the
angel o f the b o ttom less pit, w hose nam e in the Hebrew
tongue is A b a d d o n , but in the G reek tongue hath his
nam e A p o lly o n ”.
T h e spiritual forces clash w ith the flesh forces or evil, and
the destroyer w hich is greed and lust makes w ar with the elect.
“T h e sting of th e scorpion” is the sting of scandal and untruth
uttered against G ood, G od, T ru th and B rotherly Love by un­
thinking m entalities, producing its fru it in hum an misery, sorrow
and racial hatred. Seekers of light are driven before the assault­
ing hordes of m ateriality until th ro u g h th e sacrifice of materiality
they attain light.
(9 :1 2 -1 3 -1 4 -1 5 )— “O ne w oe is p a st; and, behold, there comes
tw o w oes m ore h erea fter. A n d the six th angel sounded,
and I heard a voice fr o m the fo u r horns o f the golden
altar w h ich is befo re G od, S a yin g to the sixth angel which
had the tru m p et, loose the fo u r angels w hich are boun
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 553
in the great river E uphrates. A n d the fo u r angels were
loosed, w h ich w ere prepared fo r an hour, and a day, and
a m onth, and a year, fo r to slay the third part o f men".
The forces of m atter are loosed in the combustion of atomic
energy and force. M aterialism or Euphrates is bound no more
and it destroys its ow nself through evil conflicts, for the nature
of evil is self destruction. H ow ever, only one'third of man,
which is m atter, is subject to these destroying agencies, for M ind
and Spirit are eternal qualities, not subject to the forces of
darkness.
(9:16-17-18)— ‘‘A n d the num ber o f the arm y o f the horse­
men w ere tzvo hundred thousand thousand; and I heard
the num ber o f them . A n d thus I saw the horses in the
vision, and them that sat on them , having breastplates o f
fire, and o f ja cin th , and brim stone; and the heads o f the
horses w ere as heads o f lions; and out o f their m ouths
issued fire and sm o ke and brim stone. B y these three was
the third part o f m en killed, by the fire, and by the sm oke,
and by the brim stone, w hich issued out o f their m ouths".
The fires of hatred, the smokes of passion, and the brim-
stone of envy, hasten the end of m atter and materialism through
their destructive conflict and w ords of hatred, falsehood and
curses which darken the sunlight of Love and Christ Truth.
(9:19-20-21)— “F or their pow er is in their m outh, and in
their tails: fo r their tads w ere like unto serpents, and had
heads, and w ith them they do hurt. A n d the rest o f the
men w hich w ere not killed by these plagues, yet repented
not o f the w o rk s o f their hands, that they should not
w orship devils, and idols o f gold, and silver, and brass,
and stone, and o f w ood: w hich neither can see, nor hear,
nor w alk: N e ith e r repented they o f their m urders, nor o f
their sorceries, nor o f their fornication, nor o f their
thefts".
M atter endures until the end of the great conflict, wor-
shipping personal gain, gold and earthly Gods. It never repents
of sin but goes on the dow nw ard path tow ard destruction and
self annihilation, taking part in fornication, vice and sin, for
such is the nature of m atter and materialism.
(10:1-2-3)— “A n d I saw another m ighty angel come down
from heaven, clothed w ith a cloud; and a rainbow was
upon his head, and his face w as as it w ere the sun, and
554 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
his fe e t as pillars o f fire: A n d he had in his hand a little
book open: and he set his right fo o t upon the sea, and
his le ft fo o t on the earth. A n d cried w ith a loud voice
as w h en a lion roareth: and w h en he had cried, seven
th u n d ers u ttered th eir voices”.
T h e angel of light of th e sixth cycle comes in the clouds of
doubt and m isunderstanding, clothed w ith the rainbow or prom­
ise of life in th e form of D ivine M ind Science. It crowns the il­
lum ined head w ith heavenly w isdom w hich saves mankind from
him self and sin. T h is L ight and T ru th heals the sick and demon­
strates Love and Light, and brings the baptism of Spirit and Fire
to replace th e in ert cerem onies of m aterialism which Spirit has
overthrow n. T h e flames of spiritual energy reach downward
and touch th e earth, consum ing sin and m ental impurities. “He
had in his h an d a little book o pen” or keys to power which
teach how one can overcom e th e flesh and do the Christ work.
T h e m isgivings of theology are replaced w ith the new message of
w isdom w hich gives an understanding of th e facts concerning
Life and Being. T h e right, or positive foot rests upon the sea,
sym bol of th e soul giving to m an spiritual mastership, the left
foot stands upon conquered m atter. M an functions as a super
being th ro u g h th e one and only S uper M ind Science of true
spiritual m astery, w hich has becom e th e new message. The cita­
dels of ignorance, disease and sin crum ble before its onward
m arch to victory and glorious attainm ent.
(1 0 :4 -5 -6 -7 ) — ‘‘A n d w h en the seven thunders had uttered
their voices, I w a s about to w rite : and I heard a voice
fr o m heaven saying unto m e, S ea l up those things which
the seven th u n d ers uttered , and w rite them not. And the
angel w h ich I sa w sta n d upon the sea and upon the
earth lifte d up his hand to heaven. A n d sware by him
that liveth fo r ever and ever, zvho created heaven, and
the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things
that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are
herein, that there should be tim e no longer: B ut in the
days o f the voice o f the seventh angel, w hen he shall
begin to sound, the m ystery o f G od should be finished,
as he hath declared to his serva n ts the prophets.”
“T h e seven th u n d ers” or T ru th s pertaining to human pro­
gression w ere n o t ready to have all secrets of pow er revealed,
and left th e keys to dem onstration to be discovered by sincere
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 555
seekers of the true light of T ru th , W isdom and Love through the
evolution of m ankind and D ivine Messengers. W hen the time is
ripe the M essenger of pow er presents the keys of M ind over
matter, revealing the intention and W ill of Infinite Spirit which
liveth for ever and ever. M ortals w ho obey the heavenly com­
mand and accept the golden keys of Divine M ind Science
transcend the planes of m ortal M ind and realise the at-one-ment
or mystery of G od, as “H e hath declared to His servants, the
prophets’’ the message of M ind over m atter and Spirit over flesh.
(10:8-9-10-11)— “A n d the voice w hich I heard fro m heaven
spake unto m e again, and said, Go and take the little
hook zvhich is open in the hand o f the angel which
standeth upon the sea and upon the earth. A n d I w ent
unto the angel, and said unto him , Give me the little book.
A n d he said unto m e, T ake it, and eat it up; and it shall
make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy m outh sw eet as
honey. A n d I took the little book out o f the angel’s hand,
and ate it u p ; and it w as in m y m outh sw eet as honey: and
as soon as 1 had eaten it, m y belly w as bitter. A n d he said
unto m e, T h o u m u st prophecy again before m any peoples,
and nations, and tongues, and kings".
The voice of T ru th com m ands th at mortals take Divine
Mind Science and “eat it u p ” or consume it mentally. Do not be
surprised if T ru th is b itter in your carnal mouth, for great souls
have had to overcom e this same bitterness that T ruth may live,
and the prophets of all nations have had to overcome to endure.
By breaking the tender ties of hum an relationship and matter,
they attained self m astery and reached the sublime heights of
spiritual discernm ent, w isdom and Love. T ru th “is sweet in the
mouth”, or in the beginning w hen seeking, until it demands that
you strike at the root of the tree of delusion which says that
matter is D ivine and G od is personality. T ruth places the pil­
grim on the pathw ay of eternal life on their own resources,
revealing the reality of Spirit and the transitory nature of matter.
(11:1-2-3-4)— “A n d there w as given m e a reed like unto a
rod; and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the
temple o f G od and the altar, and them that w orship
therein. B u t the court w hich is w ithout the temple leave
out, and m easure it n ot: fo r it is given unto the Gentiles,
and the holy city shall they tread under fo o t fo rty and
two m onths. A n d I w ill give pow er unto m y two w it-
556 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
nesses, and th ey shall prophecy a thousand two hundred
and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth. These are the
tw o olive trees, and the tw o candlesticks standing before
the G od o f the earth’’.
T h e “tw o w itnesses” symbolizes m ind and Spirit, or Divine
M ind Science of positive and negative spiritual power and in­
telligence. M ind and Spirit, being th e eternal qualities of life
and being, th ey m easure th e T em ple of G od, or know those who
w itness th eir pow ers. T h e o u ter court is those who are outside
th e pale of T ru th and L ight, or ignorant of the Science of Life,
represented by th e w itnesses th a t tread on the holy city, or
possess T ru th and y et do n o t recognize its sacred qualities. The
pow er of hum ility and m eekness of m ind gives the two witnesses
pow er of prophecy, they prophesy th e end of materialism and
the dom inion of m an, they control elem ents and chemicalize all
substances th ro u g h th e alchem y of Love.
( 1 1 :5-6-7) — “A n d i f any m an w ill h u rt them , fire proceedeth
out o f th eir m o u th , and d evo u reth their enemies: and if
any m an w ill h u rt th em , he m u st in this m anner be killed.
T hese have p ow er to sh u t heaven, that it rain not in the
d a ys o f th eir pro p h ecy: and have p ow er over waters to
tu rn th em to blood, and to sm ite the earth with all
plagues, as o fte n as th ey w ill. A n d w hen they shall have
finished th eir testim o n y, the beast that ascendeth out of
the bottom less p it shall m ake w a r against them , and shall
overcom e them , and kill th em ”.
T h e pow er of th e w itnesses proceeds from the words of
T ru th and L ight m anifest th ro u g h heavenly Messengers. The
forces of m aterialism seek destruction of th e doctrines of the
w itnesses, and apparently kill them , b u t T ru th crushed to earth
shall rise again.
(11 :8 -9 -1 0 -ll)— “A n d th eir dead bodies shall lie in the street
o f the great city, w h ich spiritu a lly is called Sodom and
E g yp t, w h ere also our L o rd w as crucified. A n d they of
the people, and kindreds, and tongues, and nations, shall
see th eir dead bodies three days and an half, and shall
not su ffe r their dead bodies to be pu t in graves. And
they that dw ell upon the earth shall rejoice over them,
and m ake m erry, and shall send g ifts one to another,
because these tw o p ro p h ets to rm en ted them that dwelt on
the earth. A n d a fte r three days and an half the Spirit
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 557
o f life fr o m G od entered into them , and they stood upon
their fe e t; and great fe a r fe ll upon them w hich saw
them”.
M atter is anim ated by m ind and Spirit. T he T ruth of
Divine Science and m ind over m atter being filled w ith the wis-
dom of God, rises again, for the tw o eternal witnesses must be
victors over the grave and death, thus fulfilling the prophecy of
immortality for all those w ho follow the doctrine of the Christ,
which is m astership. W h e n m ind and Spirit imbued with Divin­
ity illuminate m an’s being, m ateriality stands and gazes at the
transformation in surprise. M aterialism is afraid of the light of
eternal wisdom, w hich dem onstrates the weakness of the flesh
and the strength of Spirit. T his light overcomes all sin, disease
and death.
(11:12-13-14)-— “A n d th ey heard a great voice fro m heaven
saying unto th em , C om e up hither, A n d they ascended
up to heaven in a cloud: and their enemies beheld them.
A n d the sam e h o u r w as there a great earthquake, and
the tenth part o f the city fell, and in the earthquake were
slain o f m en seven thousand: and the rem nant were
affrighted, and gave glory to the God o f heaven. The
second w oe is pa st; and, behold, the third woe cometh
quickly”.
The stage is set for the dram a of Life and Light, the actors
in the scenes are m en of earthly ambitions struggling against
the spiritual revelations to come. T he two witnesses symbolizing
Spirit and mind, rise above the clouds of materiality and demon­
strate their eternal qualities, while earthquakes or disturbances
shock the w orld of m atter. Thus, as usual, m atter loses the
battle, while the forces of L ight and T ru th rise in glory and at­
tainment.
(11:15-16-17-18-19) — “A n d the seventh angel sounded; and
there w ere great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom s
o f this w o rld are becom e the kingdom s o f our Lord, and
o f his C h rist; and he shall reign fo r ever and ever. A n d
the fo u r and tw en ty elders, w hich sat before God on
their seats, fe ll upon their faces, and w orshipped God.
Saying, W e give thee thanks, 0 L ord God A lm ighty,
w hich art, and w ast, and art to com e; because thou hast
taken to thee th y great pow er, and hast reigned. A n d
the nations w ere angry, and thy w rath is come, and the
558 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
tim e o f the dead that th ey sh o u ld be judged, and that thou
sh o u ld est give rew ard un to th y servants the prophets
and to the saints, and th em that fe a r th y name, small and
g rea t; and sh o u ld est d estro y them w hich destroy the
earth. A n d the tem ple o f G od w as opened in heaven, and
there w as seen in his tem ple the ark o f his testament;
and there w ere lightnings, and voices, and thunderings,
and an earthquake, and great hail".
T h e seventh cycle brings fo rth suprem e wisdom, ushering
in the era of C hrist consciousness and pow er, spiritualizing the
earth and all th e nations thereof. A ll heavenly and earthly
pow ers bow before th e th ro n e of Infinite Spirit which manifests
forever. T h e m aterialistic nations and individuals who perse­
cuted the prophets are b ro u g h t to justice through the Law of
C om pensation w hich decrees th a t all victories belong to Spirit
and G oodness. A ll prom ises are fulfilled and the ark and testa­
m ent sit in th e spiritual realm of Life and Light, for a dispensa­
tion u n d er D ivine law has been finished. T h e sun has withdrawn
th e light of m aterialism and the kingdom of righteousness mani­
fests on earth, giving victory to m ind and Spirit.
(1 2 :1 -2 )— “A n d there appeared a great w o n d er in heaven; a
w o m a n clothed w ith the su n , and the m oon under her
fe e t, and upon h er head a crow n o f tw elve stars: And
she being w ith child cried, travailing in birth, and pained
to be d elivered”.
“T h e w om an clothed w ith the su n ” symbolizes a Divine
Science w ith positive, or sun pow ers. “T h e moon under her
feet”, or negation overcom e, is th e victory of the positive spirit­
ual pow ers over th e flesh and all negative conditions which
create m ental delusion. T h e tw elve stars represent the twelve
convolutions, show ing th a t the Science to be, is of the brain or
m ental in character, exalting th e super or higher mind powers
over the lower. “T h e child of th e w om an” is Infinite Spirit
w isdom m anifesting w hich overthrow s th e powers of darkness
and evil.
(1 2 :3 -4 )— “A n d there appeared a n o th er w onder in heaven;
and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten
horns, and seven cro w n s upo n h is heads. A n d his tail
d rew the th ird pa rt o f the sta rs o f heaven, and did cast
th em to the earth: and the dragon stood before the
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 559
wom an w h ich w as ready to be delivered, fo r to devour
her child as soon as it w as born”.
The forces o f evil, o r th e “red dragon” seek to devour
Wisdom and Intelligence w hich liberate mankind from ignorance.
“The seven heads” or opposites of the seven planes of mind are
degrees of negation, sin and darkness. T he “ten horns” are the
achievement of w orldly fam e and political power through evil,
sin and an alliance w ith th e powers of darkness.
(12:5-6-7-8) — “A n d she brought fo rth a m an child, who was
to rule all nations w ith a rod o f iron; and her child was
caught up unto G od, and to his throne. A n d the wom an
fled into the w ilderness, w here she hath a place prepared
o f God, that they should feed here there a thousand
two hundred and threescore days. A n d there w as w ar in
heaven: M ichael and his angels fo u g h t against the
dragon; and the dragon fo u g h t and his angels. A n d pre­
vailed n o t; n eith er w as their place fo u n d any more in
heaven”.
The “m an child”, W isdom , is brought forth and is to rule
all nations. “ It is caught up unto G od”, or harmonizes with
God, Love, T ru th and Light. W h en conflicts arise and mater-
ialism governs in the nations, they cast W isdom from them and
it retires to th e w ilderness, th e hom e of the sages and seers,
for there can be no conflict w hen W isdom governs. Divine
Science is also cast into th e seclusion of the wilderness while
mankind is torm ented by the dragon of materiality, but wisdom
manifests again after a season. T he supreme struggle between
materialism and W isdom is carried into the invisible where the
angels or invisible pow ers struggle for mastery over the consci­
ous mind of man, b u t good trium phs over evil and Spirit over
flesh, revealing th e pow er of Infinite mind over matter, w hich
is also victory over death.
(12:9-10-11)— “A n d the great dragon was cast out, that old
serpent, called the D evil, and Satan, w hich deceiveth the
whole w o rld : he w a s cast out into the earth, and his
angels w ere cast out w ith him . A n d I heard a loud voice
saying in heaven, N o w is come salvation, and strength,
and the kin g d o m o f our God, and the pow er o f his
Christ: fo r the accuser o f our brethren is cast dow n,
which accused them before our God day and night. A n d
560 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
th ey overcam e h im by the blood o f the Lam b, and by the
w o rd o f th eir te stim o n y ; and th ey loved not their lives
un to the d ea th ”.
M aterialism and th e doctrines of devils w ho do evil unto
good persons are cast out, fo r no evil pow er can inflict punish­
m ent on a good person. T h e W ill of th e Infinite would not
create a personality opposite to H im , for All-good cannot create
evil, n o r does it desire to punish its children. Only miscon-
cept w hich is com m on to m ortal m an conceives the idea of God
creating evil, fo r w ould a loving F ath er All-good, create a Deity
of evil to devour H is ow n children w ho are made in His image?
N o, such doctrines are b u t exaggerations of materialism, and
G ood casts them o u t into darkness, fo r no evil can enter the
kingdom of Good.
(1 2 :1 2 -1 3 ) — ‘‘T h e re fo re rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that
d w ell in them . W o e to the inhabiters o f the earth, and
o f the sea ! F o r the d evil is com e do w n unto you, hav­
ing great w ra th , because he kn o w eth that he hath but a
sh o rt tim e. A n d w h e n the dragon saw that he was cast
un to the earth, he persecuted the w om an which brought
fo r th the m an child”.
W h e n th e proponents of th e doctrines of devils and super­
stition see th a t W isdom is about to conquer the red dragon of
disbelief and m aterialism , th ey persecute D ivine Science. They
th in k physical force w ill preserve ignorance and that their
position can be m ade secure th ro u g h sin, b u t darkness cannot
overpow er light, or evil overcom e good.
(1 2 :1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 )— ‘‘A n d to the w o m a n w ere given two wings
o f a great eagle, that she m ig h ty fly into the wilderness,
unto her place, w h ere she is nourished fo r a time, and
tim es, and h a lf a tim e, fr o m the fa ce o f the present. And
the serp en t cast ou t o f his m o u th w a ter as a flood, after
the w om an, th a t he m ig h t cause her to be carried away
o f the flood. A n d the earth helped the wom an, and the
earth opened her m o u th , and sw allow ed up the flood
■ w h ich the dragon cast ou t o f his m outh. A n d the dragon
w a s w ro th w ith the w o m a n , and w e n t to m ake war with
the rem n a n t o f her seed, w h ich keep the commandments
o f G od, and have the testim o n y o f Jesus Christ”.
D ivinity protects the Science of Life and Love from the
forces of m aterialism , and the earth opens up and swallows the
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 561
flood, or conditions o f negation on the earth, that “the wom an”
or Divine Science m ay be saved. T he dragon being overcome,
“seeks w ar w ith h er seed th a t keep the commandment of God
and the testim ony of Jesus C hrist”, w hich is the power to heal
the sick and do good unto hum anity.
(13:1-2)— “A n d I sto o d upon the sand o f the sea, and saw a
beast rise up out o f the sea, having seven heads and ten
horns, and upon his horns ten crow ns, and upon his heads
the nam e o f blasphem y. A n d the beast w hich I saw was
like unto a leopard, and his fe e t were as the fe e t o f a
bear, and his m o u th as the pow er o f a lion: and the
dragon gave h im h is pow er, and his seat, and great
authority”.
M aterialism and its doctrines of justifiable death appeals to
those who seek prom inent places at banquets and pray to be
seen of men, b u t w ithin they are corrupt. T hey acquire great
titles w hich are given unto them by their own kind. They
arrogate unto them selves supposed Divine powers and great
names w hich are blasphem y, for “no one can enter heaven unless
they become as a child”. H eaven is a state of mental harmony
with Divine M ind, this spiritual unity w ith Good and God re-
quires meekness, honesty and hum ility for one to attain it.
Earthly royalty and kings uphold a religion which divides people
into a sacred class and a supposed to be secular class, because it
appeals to their evil ideas and their foolish mortal vanity. They
endorse the beast of m aterialism whose body or organization, is
likened unto a leopard w hich stealthily stalks its prey, or devours
men mentally, physically and spiritually. “His feet were as the
feet of a bear” w hich grips and rends asunder its opponents, or
he stands upon m aterialistic m ilitary powers which protect him
from those w ho are held in bondage and sin, and who hate the
dragon and all of its class doctrines of division among men.
“His m outh as a lion” speaks destructive commands and lies, and
creates great fears am ong men w hich destroy all who believe
them; evil is his pow er, hatred and envy his seat, and the
powers w hich kill all w ho oppose them give him his authority.
(13:3-4-5-6-7 )— “A n d I sazv one o f his heads, as it were
w ounded to d ea th ; and his deadly w ound w as healed.
and all the w o rld w ondered a fter the beast. A n d they
w orshipped the dragon w hich gave pow er unto the beast,
and they w o rsh ip p ed the beast; saying, W ho is like unto
562 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
the beast? W h o is able to m ake w a r w ith him? And
there w as g iven un to h im a m o u th speaking great things
and b la sp h em ies; and p o w er w a s g iven unto him to con­
tinue fo r ty and tw o m onths. A n d he opened his mouth in
blasphem y against G od, to blasphem e his name, and his
tabernacle, and th em that dw ell in heaven. A n d it was
g iven unto h im to m ake w a r w ith the saints, and to over­
com e th en : and p o w er w a s g iven h im over all kindreds,
and tongues, and nations".
T h e tem porary victory of m aterialism w hich is universally
accepted as tru e C hristianity is doom ed. T h e destructive forces
w hich preach th e necessity of slaughtering men give “the beast”
or physical m an pow er fo r a tim e. Ign o ran t masses believing in
th e m aterialistic and political pow ers of form al Christian ma­
terialism to conquer th e w orld w orship it and bow before the
im ages of idolatry. H e opens his m outh and “blasphemies the
nam e of G od", w hich is Infiite Spirit, Love and Truth, and
gains a tem porary victory over m en th ro u g h his evil powers.
W isdom retires to th e w ilderness of th e earth, observing the
struggle of righteousness against a false m aterialistic Christianity,
b u t D ivine G oodness decrees th e end of the beast.
(13:8-9-10-11-12-13-14) — “A n d all that dw ell upon the earth
shall w o rsh ip him , w hose nam es are not w ritten in the
book o f life o f the L a m b slain fr o m the foundation of
the w orld. I f any m an ha th an ear, let him hear. He
that leadeth into ca p tivity shall go into captivity; he that
killeth w ith the sw o rd m u st be killed w ith the sword.
H ere is the patience and the fa ith o f the saints. And I
beheld another beast com ing up out o f the earth; and he
had tw o horns like a lam b, and he spake as a dragon.
A n d he exerciseth all the p o w er o f the first beast before
him , and causeth the earth and them w hich dw ell therein
to w o rsh ip the first beast, w hose deadly w ound was
healed. A n d he doetli great w onders, so that he niaketh
fire com e d o w n fr o m heaven on the earth in the sight of
m en. A n d deceiveth th em , that dw ell on the earth by the
m eans o f those m iracles w h ich he had pow er to do in the
sig h t o f the beast; saying to th em that dw ell on the
earth, that th ey sh o u ld m ake an im age o f the beast, which
had the w o u n d by a sw o rd , and did live”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 563
M aterialism is w orshipped for a tim e by all who live on
earth, but their nam es will not be w ritten in “the Lamb’s book
of Life” w hich is th e record of im m ortality of the soul. T he
Law of C om pensation decrees th a t “ he who imprisons shall be
imprisoned” and th a t “those w ho kill by the sword must be
killed spiritually w ith th e sw ord”, for evil creates the powers
which destroy th e evil doer. A ll saints trust to this law to right
all wrongs, “herein is the patience of the saints”. “A nother beast
having two horns or pow ers arises on the earth”, one is econ-
omic freedom and th e o th er infidelity. H e asks all to worship
materialism or the first beast w ho was wounded, or who lost
political pow er over th e earth b u t had it restored. He makes
an image of th e m aterialism of the first beast and asks all to
worship, since it w as w ounded by a sword or material power
and did live. Life is given to the first beast th at it may serve
the second beast in preserving the doctrines of class hatred and
war, for the glory of the second beast is a material power.—
“Let him w ho h ath w isdom understand”.
(13:15-16-17-18) — “A n d he had pow er to give life unto the
image o f the beast, that the im age o f the beast should
both speak, and cause that as m any as w ould not w or­
ship the im age o f the beast should be killed. A n d he
causeth all, both sm all, and great, rich and poor, free and
bond, to receive a m ark in their right hand, or in their
foreheads; A n d that no m an m ight buy or sell, save he
that had the m ark, or the nam e o f the beast, or the num ­
ber o f his nam e. H ere is w isdom . L e t him that hath
understanding count the num ber o f the beast; fo r it is
the num ber o f a m a n ; and his num ber is six hundred
threescore and s ix ”.
Those w ho refuse to consider the beast of materialism as
holy are secretly killed by his orders who rule the materialistic
doctrines. “T h e m ark in the right hand” or the positive side
of nature undeveloped, and “the mark in their foreheads or
the mark of m ental negation and lack of self-control marks the
followers of the beast w ho become slaves mentally, physically
and spiritually to a destructive doctrine. T he same mark is also
the mark of crime, for those depending on materialism have no
self control and know not right from wrong when their emo­
tions are aroused. Being unable to reason for themselves, they
564 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
obey th e anim al im pulse, thinking th a t a physical man or beast
can forgive all th e ir sins, w hich gives them a false mental
security. T h e num ber of six sixty six added up gives the digit
or com pound nu m b er nine. T h is num ber is the number of
“physical m an” in th e ancient w isdom teachings as John the
R evelator relates. It m eans therefo re th a t all doctrines which
teach th a t one sinner or m an can forgive another man or sinner
all his transgressions, and th a t one can live as they please and ‘
then be pardoned by a m ortal after death, are false and will
decay as all things tem poral m ust. Such doctrines induce crime
and m ental w eaknesses and are a false C hristianity, foreign to
th e ideals of C h rist w ho ta u g h t “ as ye sow even so shall ye also
reap” and “ a good tree brin g eth fo rth good fruit while an evil
tree brin g eth fo rth co rru p t fru it”. “Judge all things by their
fru its”, test all things and hold fast to th a t w hich is good.
(1 4 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 )— “A n d I looked, and, lo, a L am b stood on the
m o u n t S io n , and w ith h im an h undred fo rty and four
thousand, h aving his F a th er’s nam e w ritten in their fore­
heads. A n d I h ea rd a voice fr o m heaven, as the voice of
m a n y w aters, and as the voice o f a great thunder: and I
heard the voice o f harpers harping w ith their harps: And
th ey sung as it w ere a n ew song before the throne, and
before the fo u r beasts, and the elders; and no man could
learn that song bu t the h u n d red and fo r ty and four thou­
sand, w h ich w ere redeem ed fr o m the earth. These are
th ey w h ich w ere n o t defiled w ith w o m en ; fo r they are
virgins. T hese are th ey w h ich fo llo w the Lam b whither­
soever he goeth. T h ese w ere redeem ed fro m among men,
being the first fr u its unto G od, and to the Lamb. And
in th eir m o u th w as fo u n d no g u ile; fo r they are without
fa u lt before the throne o f G od”.
T h e nam e of th e F ather w hich is wisdom and Truth is
w ritten in th e developm ent of the forehead of all who attain
im m ortality, fo r they have developed the pow er of perception
and reason th ro u g h Science of M ind, T ru th and Love. The
heavenly voice of harm ony sings the praise of those who over­
come the flesh, and the heavenly music m anifests on the planes
of soul im m ortality, dem onstrating harm ony of mind and Spmt.
T h e song of victory and praise is constantly in the consciousness
of those w ho are m asters of self, b u t it is know n only to them.
T h eir soul constantly sings th e nam e o f the M ost High whit
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 565
was purified th rough perform ing the C hrist work. They attained
to spiritual purity and the lost w ords of Divinity were revealed
to them, for th eir souls w ere Divine, likewise their mentality
purified through perform ing the C hrist work. They attained
the sinless state and stand w ithout guilt before the throne of
Grace where all is bliss, L ight, T ru th and Divine Love.
(14:6-7-8) — “A n d I sa w another angel fly in the m idst of
heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto
them that dw ell on the earth, and to• every nation, and
kindred, and tongue, and people. Saying w ith a loud
voice, F ear G od, and give glory to him ; fo r the hour o f
his ju d g m en t is com e; and w orship him that made heaven,
and earth, and the sea, and the fountains o f waters. A n d
there fo llo w ed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen,
is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations
drink o f the w in e o f the w rath o f her fornication”.
The Science of Life and T ru th , the everlasting gospel, is
proclaimed to all th e earth. M en are called back to T ruth and
Infinite W isdom and th e voice of Spirit proclaims the falls of the
beast of m aterialism and th e w orship of physical man. The
doctrine of forgiveness by m ortal man induced the people of all
nations believing in a false forgiveness and an outward saintli­
ness, to commit fornication and vice, w hich was contrary to the
doctrines of C hrist and th e prophets. W ars and pestilence
ravaged the nations w ho becam e deaf to the voice of righteous­
ness, for evil produces such negative conditions.
(14:9-10-11-12) — “A n d the third angel follow ed them, say­
ing w ith a loud voice, I f any m an w orship the beast and
his image, and receive his m ark in his forehead, or in
his hand, T h e sam e shall drink o f the w ine o f the wrath
o f God, w hich is poured out w ith o u t m ixture into the
cup o f his in d ig n a tio n ; and he shall be torm ented w ith
fire and brim stone in the presence o f the holy angels,
and in the presence o f the L a m b ; A n d the sm oke o f their
torm ent ascendeth up fo r ever and ever; and thy have no
rest day nor night, w ho w orship the beast and his image,
and w hosoever receiveth the m ark o f his name. H ere is
the patience o f the saints: here are they that keep the
com m andm ents o f God, and the fa ith o f Jesus”.
566 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
Infinite W isdom condem ns th e w orshippers of the physical
man or beast, predicting to rm en t and loss of immortality. The
m ark of his nam e is th e undeveloped brain center of reason and
love w hich show s th e lack of spiritual developm ent and wisdom.
T h e decaying processes of N atu re consum e th eir kind and the
sm oke of th e fires of uncontrolled passions ascend forever and
forever.
(1 4 :1 3 -1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 )— “And. I heard a voice fro m heaven, say­
ing un to m e, W rite , B lessed are the dead which die in
the L o rd fr o m h e n c e fo rth ; Y ea , saith the Spirit, that
th ey m ay rest fr o m th eir labours; and their works do
fo llo w them . A n d I looked, and behold a white cloud,
and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man,
having on h is head a golden crow n, and in his hand a
sharp sickle. A n d a n o th er angel cam e out o f the temple,
crying w ith a loud voice to h im th a t sat on the cloud,
T h ru st in th y sickle, and reap; fo r the tim e is come for
thee to rea p ; fo r the ha rvest o f the earth is ripe. And
he that sat on the cloud th ru st in his sickle on the earth;
and the earth w as reaped. A n d another angel came out
o f the tem ple w h ich is in heaven, he also having a sharp
sickle”.
T h e physical life of the earth progresses to the end of the
sixth cycle w hen tim e or evolution w ithdraw s the physical ener­
gies of life and reaps th e fruits of m atter. T his is the end of
physical life, and th e sun w ithdraw s its creative influence by
passing from its regular o rb it of rotation to a greater distance
from the earth. D uring this cycle the Spirit of Life and Love
dom inate this planet, fo r G od w ill n o t always strive with the
flesh.
(1 4 :1 8 -1 9 -2 0 ) — " A n d another angel cam e out fro m the altar,
w h ich had pow er o ver fire; and cried w ith a loud cry to
h im that had the sharp sickle, saying, T h ru st in thy sharp
sickle, and gather the clusters o f the vine o f the earth,
fo r her grapes are fu lly ripe. A n d the angel thrust in his
sickle into the earth, and g a th ered the vine o f the earth,
and cast it into the great w in ep ress o f the w rath of God.
A n d the w in ep ress w a s trodden w ith o u t the city, ond
blood cam e o u t o f the w inepress, even unto the horse
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 567
bridles, by the space o f a thousand and six hundred
furlongs”.
The final victory of Spirit over flesh and elements is
natural, since all pow er belongs to Spirit. T he end of the
physical cycles comes w ith the overcoming of matter, proving
the doctrine of Spirit over flesh and mind over m atter to be in
accordance w ith D ivine law.
(15:1-2-3-4)— ‘‘A n d I saw another sign in heaven, great and
m arvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues;
fo r in them is filled up the w rath o f God. A n d I saw as
it w ere a sea o f glass m ingled w ith fire; and them that
had gotten the victo ry over the beast, and over his image,
and over his m ark, and over the num ber o f his name,
stand on the sea o f glass, having the harps o f God. A n d
they sing the song o f M oses the servant o f God, and the
song o f the L a m b , saying, G reat and m arvelous are thy
w orks, L o rd G od A lm ig h ty ; ju st and true are thy ways,
thou K in g o f saints. W h o shall not fea r thee, 0 Lord,
and g lo rify th y n a m e? F or thou only art holy: fo r all
nations shall com e and w orship before thee; fo r thy
judgm ents are m ade m a n ifest”.
The trium ph of T ru th over error, and W isdom over ignor­
ance, causes the invisible M essengers of power which have the
last plagues or decaying forces to assemble around the Throne of
Grace. T hose w ho overcam e the false physical worship and
the beast of m aterialism and greed, walk on the sea of glass and
fire, or m aster th e pow ers of soul and Spirit, praising the
Infinite Spirit, the only true God. T hey sing the song of
mastership or M oses, and the song of mastership of Jesus, which
is T h y W ill be done on earth as it is in heaven”, for the Infinite
Wisdom m anifests its ow n judgm ents which was the prediction
of the fall of m ateriality and the rise of spirituality.
(15:5-6-7-8)— ‘‘A n d a fte r that I looked, and, behold, the tem ­
ple o f the tabernacle o f the testim ony in heaven was
opened: A n d the seven angels came out o f the temple,
having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and w hite linen,
and having their breasts girded w ith golden girdles. A n d
one o f the fo u r beasts gave unto the seven angels seven
golden vials, fu ll o f the w rath o f God, who liveth fo r
ever and ever. A n d the tem ple w as filled w ith sm oke fro m
568 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
the glory o f G od, and fr o m his p o w er; and no man was
able to en ter into the tem ple, till the seven plagues of
the seven angels w ere fu lfilled .
T h e angels or spiritual beings clothed in purity and power
of m ind, com e fo rth to see th e end of m atter as the wrath of
goodness is poured o u t upon th e earth, overcom ing all evil and
fulfilling th e m ission of th e seven creative Spirits of God which
bring fo rth th e perfect or seventh cycle.
(1 6 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 )— “A n d I heard a great voice out of the
tem ple sa yin g to the seven angels. Go yo u r w ays, and pour
o u t the via ls o f the w ra th o f G od upon the earth. And the
first w en t, and po u red out h is vial upon the earth; and
there fe ll a noisom e and g revio u s sore upon the men
w h ich h a d the m a rk o f the beast, and upon them which
w o rsh ip p ed his im age. A n d the second angel poured out
his vial upo n the sea; and it becam e as the blood of a
dead m a n ; and every livin g soul died in the sea. And
the th ird angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and
fo u n ta in s o f w a ters; and th ey becam e blood. And I
heard the angel o f the w a ters say, T h o u art righteous,
0 L o rd , w h ich art, and w ast, and shalt be, because thou
has ju d g e d thus. F o r th ey have shed the blood of saints
and prophets, and thou hast g iven them blood to drink;
fo r th ey are w o rth y. A n d I heard another out of the
altar say, E v e n so, L o rd G od A lm ig h ty , true and righteous
are th y ju d g m e n ts”.
T h e w orshippers o f m aterial G ods and physical men are
b ro u g h t to judgm ent before th e th ro n e of Divinity. The Law
of C om pensation m etes o u t its punishm ent, giving death unto the
follow ers of th e beast in order th a t righteousness and Truth
m ay live. T h e low er elem ents of m ind are overcome through
spiritual influence and pow er w orking through the invisible or
th e “w aters of life” .
(1 6 :8 -9 -1 0 -1 1 -1 2 )— “A n d the fo u r th angel poured out his
vial upon the su n ; and p o w er w as given unto him to
scorch m en w ith fire. A n d m en w ere scorched with
great heat, and blasphem ed the nam e o f God, which hath
p o w er over these plagues: and th ey repented not, to gwe
h im glory. A n d the fifth angel poured out his vial upon
the scat o f the beast; and his kin g d o m w as fu ll of dark-
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 569
ness; and th ey gnaw ed their tongues fo r pain, and
blasphem ed the G od o f heaven because o f their pains and
their sores, and repented not o f their deeds. A n d the
sixth angel p o u red out his vial upon the great river
E uphrates; and the w a ter th ereo f w as dried up, that the
way o f the kin g s o f the east m ight be prepared”.
M aterialism being overcome, the sinful turn and blaspheme
God. T he energies of life are intensified, becoming destroying
agents because of th eir im purities. T he influences of the cycles
of progression bring pow er to bear upon m atter that the doc-
trine of the E astern Saints and H oly M en may be given to all
the earth. M ind Science and spiritual realization finally triumph,
also the Eastern philosophy of renouncing m atter and develop­
ing spirituality is victor over all other teachings, thus preparing
mankind for the reception of the highest spirituality.
(16:13-14)— “A n d I sa w three unclean spirits like fro g s come
out o f the m o u th o f the dragon, and out o f the m outh o f
the beast, and out o f the m outh o f the false prophet. For
they are the sp irits o f devils, w orking miracles, which
go fo rth unto the kings o f the earth and o f the whole
w orld, to g ather them to the battle o f that great day o f
God A lm ig h y ”.
The “three frogs”, malice, hatred and envy come “out of
the mouth of th e dragon” of materialism, “out of the beast, and
out of the m outh of the false prophet” because they taught false
Christianity and prom ised heaven for all of their followers who
believed in them . “T h ey are the spirits of devils, working
miracles” w hich induce kings and those guilty of sin to follow
the beast. T h ey inspire the m aterialist to battle against T ruth,
wisdom and spirituality at the great battle of God Almighty.
(1 6 :15-16-17-18-19-20-21)— “B ehold, I come as a thief,
Blessed is he that w atcheth, and keepeth his garments,
lest he w a lk naked, and they see his shame. A n d he gather­
ed them together into a place called in the H ebrew tongue
A rm ageddon. A n d the seventh angel poured out his vial
into the air; and there came a great voice out o f the
tem ple o f heaven, fro m the throne, saying, It is done.
A n d there w ere voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and
there w as a great earthquake, such as was not since men
were upon the earth, so m ighty an earthquake, and so
great. A n d the great city w as divided into three parts,
570 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and the cities o f the nations fe ll; and great Babylon came
in rem em brance b efo re G od, to give unto her the cup of
the w in e o f the fierceness o f his w rath. A n d every island
fled aw ay, and the m o u n ta in s w ere n o t found. A nd there
fe ll u pon m en a great hail out o f heaven, every stone
about the w eig h t o f a ta len t; and m en blasphemed God
because o f the plague o f the h a il; fo r the plague thereof
w as exceed in g great”.
T h e battle of A rm ageddon symbolizes the conflict between
Spirit and flesh, m ind and m atter. T h e nam e signifies a hill
or an advanced cycle w hen all m atter is called to account by the
Law of C om pensation. M atter w ill have to pay for all sins and
evil deeds and for being opposed to Infinite M ind and Goodness.
G oodness w ill overpow er evil and w ill trium ph over matter.
(1 7 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 )— “A n d there cam e one o f the seven angels
w h ich had the seven vials, and talked w ith me, saying
unto m e, C om e h ith er; I w ill sh o w unto thee the judg­
m en t o f the great w h o re that sitteth upon m any waters;
W ith w h o m the kin g s o f the earth have com m itted for­
nication, and the in h abitants o f the earth have been made
d ru n k w ith the w in e o f h er fo rn ication. So he carried
m e aw ay in the sp irit into the w ilderness: and I saw a
w o m a n sit u pon a scarlet coloured beast, fu ll of names
o f blasphem y, h aving seven heads and ten horns. And
the w o m a n w a s arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and
decked w ith gold and precious stones and pearls, having
a golden cup in h er hand fu ll o f abom inations and filthi­
ness o f h er fo rn ica tio n : A n d upon h er forehead was a
nam e w ritten , M Y S T E R Y , B A B Y L O N T H E GREAT,
T H E M O T H E R O F H A R L O T S A N D A B O M IN A ­
T I O N S O F T H E E A R T H ”.
Infinite W isdom reveals th e source of evil, which is false
teachings th a t build upon th e beast of m aterialism and the wor­
ship of physical man. It is identified as popular belief, endorsed
by greedy kings w ho love darkness, and w ho give much material
w ealth and precious stones to the belief w hich pleases their cor­
ru p t m entality. T h e false teaching is “the m other of harlots,
hypocrites, th e m orally depraved, those drunken w ith abomina-
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 571
tions against T ru th , Reason, Love and Light, and those who
masquerade as saints b u t inw ardly are sinners.”
(17:6-7-8-9-10-11)— “A n d 1 saw the w om an drunken w ith
the blood o f the saints, and w ith the blood o f the m artyrs
o f Jesus: and w h en I saw her, I wondered w ith great
adm iration. A n d the angel said unto me, W herefore didst
thou m a rvel? I w ill tell thee the m ystery o f the woman,
and o f the beast that carrieth her, w hich hath the seven
heads and ten horns. T he beast that thou sawest was,
and is n o t; and shall ascend out o f the bottomless pit,
and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth
shall w onder, w hose nam es w ere not w ritten in the book
o f life fr o m the fo u n d a tio n o f the world, w hen they
behold the beast that w as, and is not, and yet is. A n d
here is the m in d w hich hath wisdom . The seven heads
are seven m ountains, on w hich the w om an sitteth. A n d
there are seven kin g s: five are fallen, and one is, and the
other is n o t y e t co m e; and w hen he cometh, he m ust
continue a sh o rt space. A n d the beast that was, and is
not, even he is the eighth and is o f the seven, and goeth
into perdition”.
M aterialistic C hristianity w hich serves the powers of evil
is described as th e false teacher, or the woman who subdued
kings through political pow er derived from ruling ignorant
masses through belief and falsehood. This false power claims to
be the original church of C hrist, but it is not, for it doeth not
His works. T h e nam es of its followers are not written in the
lamb’s book of life” for they killed the true saints of Christ
and God and called them “H eretics”, when Christ said Love
ye one another”, and “if ye love M e, doeth my works . T he
Law of C om pensation convicted them of their murders and they
and their follow ers will reign only a short time before they will
be destroyed th ro u g h the pow er of Good and Spirit, for evil
shall not prosper or sin continue to devour the soul of man.
The beast of m aterialism and greed goeth into the bottomless
pit of perdition, lost to all spiritual identity, destroyed through
the powers of evil w hich he served.
(17:12-13)— “A n d the ten horns w hich thou saw est are ten
572 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
kings, w h ich have received no kin g d o m as yet; but receive
p o w er as kin g s one h o u r w ith the beast. These have one
m ind, and shall give th eir p o w er and strength unto the
beast”.
Religious dignitaries w ho uphold materialism receive their
pow ers in th e form of appointm ents from the head of institu­
tions w ho oppose C hristianity in its sim plicity and power. They
pose as th e direct am bassadors of C hrist thereby committing the
greatest of sin, fo r th e M aster said “W o e be unto him who
deceiveth one of these little ones, it is better th at a millstone be
tied around his neck and he be cast into the sea”.
(17:1 4 -1 5 -1 6 -1 7 -1 8 ) — “T hese shall m ake w ar w ith the Lamb,
and the L a m b shall overcom e th em ; fo r he is Lord of
lords, and K in g o f kin g s: and they that are w ith him are
called, and chosen, and fa ith fu l. A n d he saith unto me,
T h e w a ters w h ich th o u saw est, w here the whore sitteth,
are peoples, and m u ltitu d es, and nations, and tongues.
A n d the ten ho rn s w h ich thou saw est upon the beast,
these shall hate the w hore, and shall m ake her desolate
and naked, and shall eat h er flesh, and burn her with fire.
F o r G od hath p u t in th eir hearts to fu lfil his will, and
to agree, and g ive th eir kin g d o m unto the beast, until the
w o rd s o f G od shall be fu lfilled . A n d the wom an which
th o u sa w est is that great city, w hich reigneth over the
kin g s o f the earth”.
Evil is to be punished and th e great sin compensated. The
evil doers are perm itted to continue until the law of Divine
com pensation acts, th en th e kings appointed to high office by the
beast are to destroy th e doctrine w hich is false, but which
claims to be C hristianity. Sin is its ow n punishm ent and the
evil doer creates th e pow er w hich destroys him. Good is Divine
harm ony and brings to those w ho com ply w ith it, bountiful
fruits.
(1 8 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 )— “A n d a fte r these things I saw another
angel com e d o w n fr o m heaven, having great power; and
the earth w as lightened w ith h is glory. A n d he cried
m ig h tily w ith a stro n g voice, saying, Babylon the great
is fa llen , is fa llen , and is becom e the habitation o f devils,
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 573
and the hold o f every fo u l spirit, and a cage o f every
unclean and h a te fu l bird. F or all nations have drunk o f
the w ine o f the w ra th o f her fornication, and the kings
o f the earth have co m m itted fornication w ith her, and
the m erchants o f the earth are w axed rich through the
abundance o f her delicacies. A n d I heard another voice
fro m heaven, saying, C om e out o f her, m y people, that
ye be not pa rta kers o f her sins, and that ye receive not
o f her plagues. F o r her sins have reached unto heaven,
and God hath rem em bered her iniquities. R ew ard her
even as she rew arded you, and double unto her double
according to her w o rks: in the cup w hich she hath filled,
fill to her double. H o w m uch she hath glorified herself,
and lived deliciously, so m uch torm ent and sorrow give
her; fo r she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no
w idow , and shall see no sorrow ”.
The sins of m aterialistic and false Christianity are found
out and the heavenly voice of T ru th condemns it. The
people whose conscience is clear are commanded to come out
of it that they m ay n o t becom e party to its punishments. The
Law of C om pensation decrees to double her sorrow, and Infinite
Wisdom is to prove its pow er over sin, falsehood and the forni'
cation of kings. D ivine Science takes the place of false
theoretical C hristianity, fulfilling all Goodness.
(18:8-9-10-11-12-13)— ‘‘T h erefo re shall her plagues come in
one day, death, and m ourning, and fa m in e; and she shall
be u tterly burned w ith fire; fo r strong is the L ord God
who ju d g eth her. A n d the kings o f the earth, who have
com m itted fo rn ica tio n and lived deliciously w ith her, shall
bewail her, and lam ent fo r her, w hen they shall see the
sm oke o f her burning. Standing afar off fo r the fear o f
her torm ent, saying, A las, alas, that great city Babylon,
that m ighty c ity ! F o r in one hour is thy judgm ent come.
A n d the m erchants o f the earth shall weep and m ourn
over her; fo r no m an buyeth their merchandise any m ore;
The m erchandise o f gold, and silver, and precious stones,
and o f pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and
scarlet, and all thine w ood, and all m anner vessels o f
ivory, and all m anner vessels o f m ost precious wood, and
574 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
o f brass, and iron, and m arble. A n d cinnamon, and
odours, and o in tm en ts, and fra n kin cen se, and wine, and
oil, and fine flo u r, and w h ea t, and beasts, and sheep, and
horses, and chariots, an d slaves, and souls o f men”.
T hose w ho have profited by sin and crime and the enslav­
ing of th e m ultitudes m ourn th e passing of the powers of evil
and false teachings. T h e poverty of th e people and earthly
calam ities bring ab out the ruin of m aterialism which posed as
C hristianity. T h e m erchants lose th eir profit on worthless
objects w hich w ere supposed to possess D ivine significance in
th e old o rd er of things. H ow ever, in the new social and spir­
itual order, T ru th and spirituality herald the manifestation of
th e D ivine Science of Life w hich enslaves no man, but points
th e w ay to life im m ortal.
(18:14-15-16-17-18-19-20) — “A n d the fr u its that thy soul
lu sted a fte r are departed fr o m thee and all things which
w ere d a in ty and g oodly are departed fr o m thee, and thou
shalt fin d th em no m ore at all. T he m erchants of these
things, w h ich w ere m ade rich by her, shall stand afar off
fo r the fe a r o f her to rm en t, w eeping and wailing. And
saying, A la s, alas, that great city, that w as clothed in fine
linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked w ith gold and
precious sto n es, and pearls! F o r in one hour so great
riches is com e to n o u g h t, A n d every shipm aster, and all
the com pany in ships, and sailors, and as m any as trade
by sea, sto o d a fa r off, A n d cried w hen they saw the
sm o ke o f h er burning, saying, W h a t city is like unto this
great city ! A n d th ey cast d u st on their heads, and cried,
w eeping and w ailing, saying, A la s, alas, that great city,
w h erein w ere m ade rich all that had ships in the sea by
reason o f h er costliness! F o r in one hour is she made
desolate. R ejo ice o ver her, th o u heaven, and ye holy
apostles and p ro p h ets: fo r G od hath avenged you on
her".
A s the conquering forces of D ivinity overpow er evil, the
com m ercial m inded w ho follow ed false teachings and false con­
cepts th a t they may profit in m erchandise, see the utter ruin of
all m aterialism w hich goes un d er th e nam e of Christianity. That
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 575
materialism w hich burned the prophets at the stake and made
the world corrupt th ro u g h teaching falsehood in golden gilded
cathedrals, w here despots met to plot the downfall of all
righteousness and T ru th and Love will be overpowered and
annihilated from the earth.
(18:21-22-23-24) — “A n d a m ighty angel took up a stone like
a great m illstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus
w ith violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown
down, and shall be fo u n d no m ore at all. A n d the voice
o f harpers, and m usicians, and o f pipers, and trum peters,
shall be heard no m ore at all in thee; and no craftsm an,
o f w hatsoever cra ft he be, shall be fo u n d any more in
thee'; and the sou n d o f a m illstone shall be heard no more
at all in thee: A n d the light o f a candle shall shine no
more at all in th ee; and the voice o f the bridegroom and
o f the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee; fo r
thy m erchants w ere the great m en o f the earth; fo r by
thy sorceries w ere all nations deceived. A n d in her was
fo u n d the blood o f prophets, and o f saints, and o f all that
were slain u p o n the earth”.
No m ore shall the music of the merry makers over evil
conquest be heard, no more shall the princes of earth and
riches overpow er T ru th . A new social and religious order
brings about the end of religious political influence and corrupt
doctrines as an advanced cycle of intelligence manifests. All sin
is punished th ro u g h the Law of Compensation, the poor are
exalted and the rich are cast down.
(19:1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8) — “A n d a fte r these things I heard a great
voice o f m uch people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salva­
tion, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord
our G od; F o r true and righteous are his judgm ents: fo r
he hath ju d g ed the great w hore, w hich did corrupt the
earth w ith her fo rn ication, and hath avenged the blood o f
his servants at her hand. A n d again they said, Alleluia.
A n d her sm o ke rose up fo r ever and ever. A n d the fo u r
and tw en ty elders and the fo u r beasts fell dow n and w or­
shipped G od that sat on the throne, saying, A m en ;
Alleluia. A n d a voice came out o f the throne, saying,
576 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
P raise o u r G od, all ye his serva n ts, and ye that fear him
both sm all and great. A n d I heard as it w ere the voice
o f a great m u ltitu d e, and as the voice o f m any waters,
and as the voice o f m ig h ty thunderings, saying Alleluia;
fo r the L o rd G od o m n ip o ten t reigneth. L e t us be glad
and rejoice, and g ive h o n o u r to h im : fo r the marriage of
the L a m b is com e, and his w ife hath m ade herself ready.
A n d to her w a s g ra n ted that she should be arrayed in fine
linen, clean and w h ite : fo r the fine linen is the righteous­
ness o f sa in ts”.
T h e triu m p h of righteousness over falsehood, Truth over
error, and Spirit over flesh results in th e praise of the God of
T ru th , Justice and Love w hich rules all things through Love
and ju st com pensation. D ivine Science of Life and Being takes
th e place of form al theoretical religion, dem onstrating the power
of T ru th over supposition as th e cycle of tribulation comes to
an end w ith D ivinity th e victor. T h e sick are healed and the
T ru th is preached to th e poor, for this is the patience of the
saints and th e prophets.
4 (19:9-10-11-12-13-14-15-16)— “A n d he saith unto me, Write,
B lessed are th ey w h ich are called unto the marriage sup­
per o f the L am b. A n d he saith unto m e, These are the
true sa yin g s o f God. A n d I fe ll at his fe e t to worship
him , A n d he said unto m e, S ee thou do it not: I am thy
fe llo w servant, and o f th y brethren that have the testi­
m o n y o f Jesu s: w o rsh ip G od; fo r the testim ony of Jesus
is the sp irit o f prophecy. A n d I sa w heaven opened, and
behold, a w h ite h o rse; and he that sat upon him was
called F a ith fu l and T ru e, and in righteousness he doth
ju d g e and m ake w ar. H is eyes w ere as a flame of fire,
and on his head w ere m a n y cro w n s; and he had a name
w ritten , that no m an k n e w but he h im self. A n d he was
clothed w ith a vestu re d ipped in blood: and his name is
called T h e W o rd o f God. A n d the arm ies w hich were in
heaven fo llo w e d him u p o n w h ite horses, clothed in fine
linen, w h ite and clean. A n d out o f his m outh goeth a
sharp sw o rd , that w ith it he sh o u ld sm ite the nations,
and he shall rule th em w ith a rod o f iron: and he treadeth
the w in ep ress o f the fierceness and w rath o f Almighty
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 577
God. A n d he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a
name w ritten , K IN G O F K IN G S , A N D L O R D O F
L O R D S ”.
The invisible heavenly host of purity reveals the things
that are to be. T h e law, or “Faithful and T rue” sits upon the
white horse of spiritual purity, clothed in a vestment dipped in
the blood of the saints and prophets who were slain by the
materialist. H e sm ites th e nation w ith the sword of T ruth and
rules them th ro u g h reason and love as the doctrine of the lord
of lords and king of kings m anifests to the consciousness of a
world torn by punishm ent, sin and conflicting ideas. The Sci­
ence of T ru th and Life free from sectarian and political influ­
ence and corruption, takes the place of the old doctrines as the
light of the new o rder is spread through the world.
(19:17-18-19-20-21) — ‘‘A n d I saw an angel standing in the
sun; and he cried w ith a loud voice, saying to all the
fow ls that fly in the m id st o f heaven, Come and gather
yourselves together unto the supper o f the great God;
That ye m ay eat the flesh o f kings, and the flesh o f
captains, and the flesh o f m ighty m en, and the flesh o f all
horses, and o f th em that sit on them , and the flesh o f all
men, both fre e and bond, both sm all and great. A n d I
saw the beast, and the kings o f the earth, and their
armies, gathered together to m ake w ar against him that
sat on the horse, and against his army. A n d the beast
was taken, and w ith h im the false prophet that w rought
miracles b efo re him , w ith w hich he deceived them that
had received the m ark o f the beast, and them that w or­
shipped his im age. T hese both w ere cast alive into a lake
o f fire burning w ith brim stone. A n d the rem nant were
slain w ith the sw o rd o f him that sat upon the horse,
which sw o rd proceeded out o f his m outh; and all the
fow ls w ere filled w ith their flesh”.
'The angel in the sun”, or positive life energies and T ruth
overcomes the m ental negation, theories are cast aside and the
powers of evil are destroyed. T h e beast and his horde of evil
doers are devoured by the fowls of the air or those with deter­
mined minds. T h e sw ord of him w ho sat on the horse is
578 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T ru th w hich convicts the sinner and delivers him to decaying
energies.
(2 0 :1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 ) — “A n d I sa w an angel come down from
heaven, h aving the key o f the bottom less pit and a great
chain in his hand. A n d he laid hold on the dragon, that
old serp en t, w h ich is the D evil, and Satan, and bound
h im a tho u sa n d years. A n d cast h im into the bottomless
p it, and sh u t h im up, and set a seal upon him, that he
sh o u ld deceive the nations no m ore, till the thousand
yea rs sh o u ld be fu lfille d ; and a fte r that he m ust be loosed
a little season. A n d I sa w thrones, and they sat upon
th em , and ju d g m e n t w a s g iven unto them : and I saw the
souls o f th em th a t w ere beheaded fo r the witness of
Jesus, and fo r the w o rd o f G od, and w hich had not wor­
sh ip p ed the beast, n eith er his im age, neither had received
h is m a rk u p o n th eir fo reh ea d s, or in their hands; and
th ey lived and reigned w ith C hrist a thousand years. But
the rest o f the dead lived n o t again until the thousand
yea rs w ere finished. T h is is the first resurrection. Blessed
and holy is he th a t hath part in the first resurrection:
on such the second death hath no pow er, but they shall
be p riests o f G od and o f C hrist, and shall reign with
h im a tho u sa n d yea rs”.
T h e angel or M essenger of T ru th , carrying the “key to the
bottom less p it” descends to earth and binds the belief in doc­
trines of devils and casts it into th e p it w here it is to remain
“one thousand years” or an o th er reflection of a cycle; the pit
is darkness. D uring this period th e w orld will not hear doc­
trines of devils for it is th e age w hen the spiritual vision of
m any w ill be opened and th ey w ill see th e record of the slaughter
of true apostles by th e beast of m aterialism .
(2 0 :7 -8 -9 -1 0 ) — “A n d w h en the thousand years are expired,
S a ta n shall be loosed ou t o f his prison. A n d shall go out
to deceive the nations w h ich are in the fo u r quarters of
the earth, G og and M agog, to g ather them together to
battle: the n u m b er o f w h o m is as the sand o f the sea.
A n d th ey w e n t up on the breadth o f the earth, and com­
passed the cam p o f the sa in ts about, and the beloved
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 579
city: and the fire cam e dow n fro m God out o f heaven,
and devoured them . A n d the devil that deceived them
was cast into the lake o f fire and brimstone, where the
beast and fa lse p rophet are, and shall be torm ented day
and nig h t fo r ever and ever”.
The fires of destructive forces consume the evil doers. A t
the approach of th e advanced cycle all deceiving influences seen
and unseen are cast dow n, while the new evangel of T ruth
possesses the earth. G od is G ood and all things working in
unison under D ivine law contribute to the universal power of
Infinite Love.
(20:11-12-13-14-15) — ‘‘A n d I saw a great w hite throne, and
him that sat on it, fr o m w hose face the earth and the
heaven fled a w a y; and there w as fo u n d no place fo r them.
A n d I sa w the dead, sm all and great, stand before God;
and the books w ere opened: and another book was
opened, w h ich is the book o f life ; and the dead were
judged out o f those things w hich were w ritten in the
books, according to their w orks. A n d the sea gave up the
dead w hich w ere in it; and death and hell delivered up
the dead w h ich w ere in them : and they were judged
every m an according to their w orks. A n d death and hell
were cast into the lake o f fire. T his is the second death.
A n d w h o so ever w a s not fo u n d w ritten in the book o f
life w as cast into the lake o f fire”.
Doctrines of “hell and devils” w hich oppose reason are
judged and cast o u t of th e kingdom of righteousness. M an is
judged according to his deeds. Sin and goodness are both com­
pensated, the evil or sinful reaping destruction, and the good
reaping im m ortal Life, Light, T ru th and Love. Super M ind
Science stands upon th e rock of Divine T ruth and repudiates
all doctrines of sin forgiveness through sacrifice nad remission,
and asserts th a t m an shall be judged by the law “as ye sow, even
so shall ye reap”.
(21:1-2-3-4) — “A n d I saw a new heaven and a new earth:
fo r the first heaven and the first earth were passed aw ay;
and there w a s no m ore sea. A n d I John saw the holy
heaven, prepared as a bride adorned fo r her husband.
580 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
A n d I heard a great voice out o f heaven, saying, Behold,
the tabernacle o f G od is w ith m en, and he will dwell with
th em , and th ey shall be his people, and God him self shall
be w ith th em , and be th eir God. A n d God shall wipe
aw ay all tears fr o m th eir eyes; and there shall be no
m ore death, n eith er so rro w , nor crying, neither shall
there be any m ore pain: fo r the fo rm e r things are passed
a w ay”.
T h e “ new heaven” or the “ new Jerusalem ” within man is
revealed as th e Science of Spirituality w hich demonstrates over
sin, death and disease. T h e “new heaven” foretells the destiny
of spiritual m inded m ortals w ho control themselves and live a
spiritual life. “T h e tabernacle of G od is w ith m an”, or within
m an, and is revealed th ro u g h the Science of Life, Mind and
Being. T ru th w ipes aw ay th e tears of sorrow as Divine Mind
and its pow ers becom e know n to m ankind. Life energy over-
comes pain and doctrines of beliefs pass aw ay when man mani­
fests as M aster of th e Science of T ru th , Love, Light and Being.
( 2 1 :5-6) — “A n d he that sat upo n the throne said, Behold, I
m ake all th in g s new . A n d he said, unto me, W rite; for
these w o rd s are true and fa ith fu l. A n d he said unto me,
I t is done. I am A lp h a and O m ega, the beginning and
the end. I w ill give unto h im that is athirst o f the foun­
tain o f the w a ter o f life fr e e ly ”.
A s eternal energy and Spirit becom es know n to man, former
darkness is overcom e, th e light of T ru th shines in the chambers
of his consciousness, and he becom es heir to the kingdom of
G od and G ood th ro u g h wisdom . D ivine Science clothed with
th e pu rity of T ru th and Love becom es the fountain of life or
eternal energy th a t ever flows freely. T h ro u g h Divine Science
and know ledge of G od, the fountain of life is revealed as the
pow er of L ight and S pirit w hich leads the hum an race toward
superconsciousness and self-m astery.
( 2 1 :7-8 ) — “H e th a t overcom eth shall inherit all things; and
I w ill be h is G od, and he shall be m y son. B u t the fearful,
and u n b elievin g , and the abom inable, and murderers, and
w h o rem o n g ers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all hors,
shall have th eir part in the lake w hich burnetii with firt
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 581
and brim stone; w h ich is the second death”.
Those w ho m aster life, overcome the lower evils, and
inherit the love and pow er of Infinite M ind, becoming Sons of
the Most H igh G od. A ll those w ho have uncertain beliefs and
fears of evil are cast out of D ivine M ind consciousness, and are
consumed in the fires of passion, lust, greed and sin, or “the
lake of fire w hich b u rn eth forever.”
(21:9-10)— ‘‘A n d there cam e unto m e one o f the seven angels
which had the seven vials fu ll o f the seven last plagues,
and talked w ith m e, saying, Come hither, I will shew
thee the bride, the L a m b ’s w ife. A n d he carried me
away in the sp irit to a great and high m ountain, and
shew ed m e that great city, the holy Jerusalem , descending
out o f heaven fr o m G od”.
The heavenly M essenger reveals the descent of T ruth and
spiritual pow er w hich creates th e “new Jerusalem” or heavenly
destiny of man. A s T ru th and Science descend from the in­
visible to the visible, the walls of ignorance and the fortification
of sin crum ble and th e new era of m an’s progress is brought
forth. T he physical beings w ho have stood great tribulation
are illuminated th ro u g h spiritual mastery over the dragon, ma­
terialism, hypocrisy and death. A new social and spiritual
order has daw ned and the Science of overcoming becomes the
doctrine of all m ankind, fo r all beliefs have been revealed as
instruments of darkness and evil. Super M ind Science which
is also the C hrist Science is fully vindicated in the light of
Infinite W isdom . “T h e bride of the Lam b” is T ruth or facts
regarding life.
(21:11-12)— ‘‘H a vin g the glory o f God: and her light was
like unto a sto n e m o st precious, even like a jasper stone,
clear as crysta l; A n d had a w all great and high, and had
twelve gates, and at the gates tw elve angels, and names
w ritten thereon, w hich are the nam es o f the twelve tribes
o f the children o f Israel”.
The spiritual light of D ivine Love reveals the fortress of
Israel which was th e T ru th prophesied by her prophets. T he
names of the tw elve tribes w ritten on the wall of protection
582 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
around th e new city is D ivine M ind Science. It alone reveals
the tru e in terp retatio n of th e H ebrew mysteries and the correct
dem onstration of th e Science of C h rist and Life which proves
th e u n ity of all G ood, and th e eternal quality of Love.
(2 1 :1 3 -1 4 -1 5 ) — “O n the east three gates; on the north three
g a tes; on the so u th three g a tes; and on the west three
gates. A n d the w all o f the city had tw elve foundations,
and in th em the nam es o f the tw elve apostles of the
L a m b . A n d he th a t talked w ith m e had a golden reed to
m easure the city, and the g ates thereof, and the wall
th e re o f”.
T h e “ fou n d atio n ” of th e new Jerusalem or Divine Science
is th e pow er w hich heals th e sick, raises the dead and teaches the
T ru th th a t C h rist revealed to th e tw elve apostles. “The gates"
in all directions is sym bolical of th e m ind, the body and the
soul of m an open to universal T ru th . T h e Divine measure of
T ru th or “ golden reed to m easure th e city” is applied to the
Science of Life by th e M essenger of Infinite Spirit.
( 2 1 :16) — “A n d the city lieth fo u rsq u a re, and the length is as
large as the b readth: and he m easured the city with the
reed, tw elve tho u sa n d fu rlo n g s. T he length, and the
breadth, and the h eig h t o f it are equal”.
T h e “ city is foursquare”, th e num ber of elements of mans
being, w hich are earth, air, fire and w ater; these are overcome
and controlled in S uper M ind Science. T h e “twelve thousand
furlongs” symbolizes th e energy of th e tw elve convolutions of
th e brain, th e tw elve apostles of C hrist, and the twelve states of
consciousness, a know ledge of w hich gives one mastery over life
and being. T h e h eight of it is equal to the length and the
w idth, th u s solving th e problem of squaring the circle, or man
controlling his being, transcending all m aterial limitations and
attaining universal C h rist consciousness.
(2 1 :1 7 -1 8 ) — “A n d he m easured the w all thereof, an hun­
d red and fo r ty and fo u r cubits, according to the measure
o f a m an, that is, o f the angel. A n d the building of the
w all o f it w a s o f ja sp er; and the city w as pure gold, like
un to clear glass”.
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 583
The measure of the wall of the “new Jerusalem” is one
hundred forty-four cubits, which added together is nine
(1 + 4 -f 4 = 9). In the ancient mysteries, this was the number
of man and was used to convey the thought of creation, or the
number of months required for physical birth of man, his entry
from the invisible realm into the seed of life and being. The
The “building of the wall” of the “new Jerusalem” or Divine
Mind Science is a stone “Jasper”, symbol of Truth which
requires a polish, or means spiritual development of man.
“The city was pure gold”, gold is the color of the vibration of
mind, therefore the means used to develop man or bring about
the “new Jerusalem” is the Science of Mind. The Truth of the
ages is easy to comprehend or “like unto clear glass”; such
is the Truth of Super Mind Science, for “all things hidden shall
be revealed” to mind.
(21:19)— “A n d the fo u n d a tio n s o f the wall o f the city were
garnished w ith all m anner o f precious stones. The first
foundation w a s ja sp er; the second, sapphire; the third,
a chalcedony; the fo u rth , an em erald”.
“T he foundations of the w all” means the foundations of
Truth or scientific facts; “garnished w ith precious stones” sym­
bolizes the revelations o f Spirit and power in the study of life.
“The first foundation w as jasper” or mental development; “the
second foundation, sapphire”, varying shades of blue, the color
of the vibration of pure D ivinity w hich manifests the T ruth and
Light of Infinite M ind. “T h e th ird foundation, a chalcedony” is a
translucent stone m anifesting the colors of all planes of mind
and consciousness or universality of being. This stone was
found near the ancient ruins of Chalcedon in Asia Minor. The
Truth of M ind Science was founded in the failures and ruins
of a decaying C hristianity w hich became materialistic and
failed to do the D ivine works. Its purpose is the complete over­
coming of disease, death and the doctrines of devils which have
enslaved hum anity. “T h e fourth foundation, an emerald , is
the symbol of th e psychic plane of Divine M ind which opens
spiritual vision and dem onstrates to consciousness the T ru th of
the soul’s im m ortality.
(21:20)— “T he fifth , sa rd o n yx; the sixth, sardius; the sev­
enth, ch ryso lyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz;
584 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
the ten th , a ch ryso p ra su s; the eleventh, a jacinth; the
tw e lfth , an a m e th y st”.
“T h e fifth fou n d atio n ” of the “new Jerusalem ” or Divine
M ind Science is “ sardonyx”, sym bol of T ru th . Sard and onyx
com bined in one stone designates th e nature of Divine Mind
Science, w hich is physical and spiritual operating in a two-fold
m anner fo r m an’s redem ption and purification. “The sixth
foundation, sardius”, a precious stone especially adapted to en­
graving. Infinite M ind engraves the T ru th of Divine Science
on th e consciousness of m an th ro u g h th e sixth sense or intuition.
“T h e seventh foundation, C hrysolyte”, symbol of the illumina­
tion of Spirit th ro u g h soul purification. “T he eighth founda­
tion, beryl” w hose rays are bluish green. Being of hard sur­
face b u t tran sp aren t it sym bolizes th e solidity of Infinite Truth
and th e transcendent quality of Infinite M ind. “The ninth
foundation, a topaz” is sym bolical of th e delicate rays of Infinite
L ight cultivated by D ivine Science. “T h e ten th foundation, a
chrysoprasus”, th e D ivine lapis lazuli of Infinite intelligence
w hich records th e D ivine w orks of th e M ind Scientist in “the
L am b’s book of life” th a t he m ay attain immortality. “The
eleventh foundation, a jacin th ” of deep blue color, the color of
D ivinity and M astership. Its prism s being square symbolize the
fo u r elem ents of m an. In some cases th e stone ig reddish brown
signifying th e m ystical union of m an and the Infinite Spirit
th ro u g h contact w ith th e several planes of Divinity and life.
“T h e tw elfth, an am ethyst”, the stone w hich contains bluish
violet rays. T h is is th e color of m ystical vibration and peace of
the soul, and is also th e sym bol of one w ho masters the Science
of M ind.
(2 1 :2 1 )— ‘‘A n d the tw elve gates w ere tw elve pearls; every
several gate w a s o f one pearl; and the street o f the city
w as pure gold, as it w ere transparent glass”.
A ll the pow ers of M ind Science, th e “ new Jerusalem are
“ pearls” o r precious, b u t are of one pearl or of the universal
Infinite Spirit. “T h e streets of gold” or m ind are mental planes
w hich cause m an’s evolution and light. T h e transparent quality
of th e streets sym bolizes the pow er of perception to understand
the laws of mind.
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 585
(21:22-23-24-25-26-27) — “A n d I saw no temple therein: fo r
the L o rd G od A lm ig h ty and the Lam b are the temple o f
it. A n d the city had no need o f the sun, neither o f the
moon, to shine in it; fo r the glory o f God did lighten it,
and the L a m b is the light thereof. A n d the nations o f
them w hich are saved shall w alk in the light o f it; and
the kings o f the earth do bring their glory and honour
into it. A n d the gates o f it shall not be shut at all by
day; fo r there shall be no night there. A n d they shall
bring the glory and honour o f the nations into it. A nd
there shall in no w ise enter into it any thing that d efleth
neither w h a tso ever w o rketh abomination, or m aketh a
lie; but they w h ich are w ritten in the Lam b’s book o f
life”.
The “new Jerusalem " or Divine Science teaching the
higher illum ination does n o t depend upon material science,
it proclaims th e ancient wisdom w hich is “eternal light”
as the light of T ru th and Love. T his light illumines the “new
city"; C hrist and T ru th is its temple, it is independent of all
temporal conditions and knowledge. T he nations who are saved
through it m ust w alk in th e light of its T ruth. Illuminated by
Spirit, teaching only facts*, it rises above all theory and “there is
no night th ere”, nothing low or debased can enter therein, for
all is pure and true. E ntrance to it is forever open to those
whose names are w ritten in the “lamb's book of life”, or whose
deeds recorded show they did the Divine works of Christ Jesus,
which are healing th e sick, speaking the T ru th and overcoming
the flesh. T his is th e true interpretation of the “new Jerusalem’
as revealed to the consciousness of the A uthor while in com-
munion w ith Infinite M ind, T ru th and Love. Let all Divine
Mind Scientists feel secure in this wisdom.
(22:1-2)— “A n d he sh ew ed m e a pure river o f w ater o f life,
clear as crystal, proceeding out o f the throne o f God and
o f the L am b. In the m idst o f the street o f it, and on
either side o f the river, w as there the tree o f life which
bare tw elve m anner o f fru its, and yielded her fru it every
m onth: and the leaves o f the tree w ere fo r the healing o f
the nations”.
586 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e “w ater of life” is th e w isdom of the soul coming
direct th ro u g h th e laws of harm ony from the throne of Grace.
It nourishes th e tw elve brain convolutions w hich bear twelve
m anner of fruits or energy, used fo r th e healing of the nations.
Infinite S pirit flow ing th ro u g h th e brain cells heals all manner
of disease, as is revealed in S uper M ind Science.
(2 2 :3 -4 -5 -6 -7 )— "A n d there shall be no m ore curse: but the
throne o f G od and o f the L a m b shall be in it: and his
serva n t shall serve him . A n d th ey shall see his face; and
h is nam e shall be in th eir fo reh ea d s. A n d there shall be
no n ig h t there: ‘and th ey need no candle, neither light of
the su n ; fo r the L o rd G od g iveth them light: and they
shall reign fo r ever and ever. A n d he said unto me,
T h ese sayings are fa ith fu l and tru e: and the Lord God
o f the holy p ro p h ets se n t his angel to shew unto his ser­
va n ts the things w h ich m u st sh o rtly be done. Behold, I
com e q u ickly; blessed is he th a t keepeth the sayings of
the p rophecy o f th is book”.
T h e heavenly M essenger of T ru th comes into the con­
sciousness of m an and functions th ro u g h the brain centers,
illum inating th e center of T ru th in th e forehead, which is the
nam e of th e M ost H igh. A ll m ental darkness is overcome,
th ere is no m ore sin, fo r m an has developed beyond darkness.
Infinite T ru th com es quickly, let all w ho follow groundless
theories bew are of th e com ing of th e “lord of light”.
(22:8-9-10-11-12-13-14-15) — " A n d I Jo h n saw these things,
and heard them . A n d w h en I had heard and seen, I fell
d o w n to w o rsh ip b efo re the fe e t o f the angel which
sh ew ed m e these things. T h en sa ith he unto me, See thou
d o .it n o t: fo r I am th y fello w serva n t, and o f thy breth­
ren the prophets, and o f th em w h ich keep the sayings of
th is book: w o rsh ip God. A n d he saith unto me, Seal not
the sayings o f the p rophecy o f th is book: fo r the time
is at hand. H e th a t is u n ju st, let h im be unjust still: and
he w h ich is filth y, let h im be filth y still; and he that is
righteous, let h im be rig h teo u s still: and he that is holy,
let h im be holy still. A n d behold, I com e quickly; and
m y rew ard is w ith m e, to give every m an according as
T H E B O O K O F ST. JO H N 587
his w ork shall be. I am A lp h a and Omega, the beginning
and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that
do his com m andm ents, that they m ay have right to the
tree o f life, and m a y enter in through the gates into the
city. F o r w ith o u t are dogs, and sorcerers, and w hore­
mongers, and m urderers, and idolaters, and whosoever
loveth and m a keth a lie”.
Those w ho love darkness, despise selTcontrol and deny
matter and the T ru th of being, are outside the Divine Science
of Life. Surrounded by low m ental elements that please their
vanity and create delusions w hich destroy them, they go care-
lessly to destruction as transgressors of Divine law and com-
panions of infidels. B ut, behold the M essenger of T ruth comes
quickly to destroy all w ickedness and establish the “new
Jerusalem” w hich is the Science of Divinity, Life, Being, and
mind over m atter.
(22:16-17-17-19-20-21) — “I Jesus have sent mine angel to
testify unto yo u these things in the churches. I am the
root and the o ffspring o f D avid, and the bright and m orn­
ing star. A n d the S p irit and the bride say, Come. A n d
let him that heareth say, Come. A n d let him that is athirst
come: and w h o so ever w ill, let him take the w ater o f life
freely. F o r I te s tify unto every m an that heareth the
words o f the prophecy o f this book, I f any man shall add
unto these things, G od shall add unto him the plagues
that are w ritten in this book: A n d if any man shall take
away fro m the w o rd s o f the book o f this prophecy, God
shall take aw ay his part out o f the book o f life, and out
of the holy city, and fr o m the things w hich are w ritten
in this book. H e w h ich testifieth these things saith, Surely
I come q u ickly; A m en . E ven so, come, L ord Jesus. The
grace o f our L o rd Jesus C hrist be w ith you all. A m en ”.
The prophecy of th e kingdom of good is now explained
scientifically and th e hidden meanings are revealed. The
prophecy remains as it w as and is, but it is illumined by the
light of Science of Life and M ind. Blessed is he who accepts
the interpretation w ith the same value as the prophecy, for God
hath revealed T ru th even unto babes. T he A uthor feels the
•588 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
deep responsibility w hich w as placed upon him in placing this
tru e in terp retatio n before a w orld blind to T ru th and Love and
he expects th e persecution w hich follows doing the Divine
w orks, b u t if his bearing it helps hum anity, it is well done. May
th e peace and glory of Infinite W isdom rest w ith the reader is
th e sincere w ish of T h e author.
Apocrypha Scripture
(T he rejected or concealed Scripture)
The W isdom of Jesus the son of Sirach, or Ecclesiasticus.
These concealed Scriptures should have been included in
the Holy Bible since th ey are inspired books. However they were
rejected, and th e reason, no doubt, could be traced back to the
translators w ho probably had some theoretical belief which
would have been disturbed by the T ruth contained in the
Apocrypha.
The author is including one of these hidden books in this
work because it is said by metaphysicians to be the work of a
forefather of Jesus C hrist, and to have been passed down to
Him as a family heirloom . Its wisdom is of a high spiritual type
and is in accordance w ith the teachings of Divine M ind Science
except in some doctrinal points, w hich can be overlooked, since
it is a book of great antiquity.
The students of Super M ind Science will derive much
benefit if they will observe its proverbs and learn its wisdom.
T H E W IS D O M O F JESU S
T H E S O N O F S IR A C H , O R ECC LESIA STIC U S
T H IS Jesus was th e son of Sirach, and grandchild to
Jesus of th e sam e nam e w ith him : this m an therefore lived in
th e latter tim es, afte r th e people had been led away captive,
and called hom e again, and alm ost after all th e prophets. Now
his g ran d fath er Jesus, as he him self w itnesseth, was a man of
great diligence and w isdom am ong th e H ebrew s, who did not
only g ather th e grave and sh o rt sentences of wise men, that
had been before him , b u t him self also uttered some of his
ow n, full of m uch understanding and wisdom . W hen as there­
fore th e first Jesus died, leaving this book almost perfected,
Sirach his son receiving it after him , left it to his own son Jesus,
w ho having gotten it into his hands, com piled it all orderly into
one volum e, and called it W isdom , entitling it both by his own
nam e, and his fath e r’s nam e, and his g ran d fath er’s; alluring the
h earer by th e very nam e o f W isdom , to have a greater love to
th e study o f th is book. It containeth therefore wise sayings,
dark sentences, and parables, and certain particular ancient godly
stories of m en th a t pleased G od; also his prayer and song; more­
over, w h at benefits G od had vouchsafed his people, and what
plagues he had heaped upon th e ir enemies. T his Jesus did
im itate Solom on, and w as no less fam ous for wisdom and learn­
ing, b o th being indeed a m an of great learning, and so reputed
also.
The Prologue of th e W isdom of JESUS, the Son of SIRACH
W H E R E A S m any and great things have been delivered
unto us by th e law and the prophets, and by others that have
followed th eir steps, fo r th e w hich things Israel ought to be
commended for learning and wisdom; and whereof not only
the readers m ust needs become skillful themselves, but also
they that desire to learn be able to profit them which are with-
out, both by speaking and w riting: my grandfather Jesus, when
he had m uch given him self to the reading of the law, and the
prophets, and other books of our fathers, and had gotten therein
good judgm ent, was draw n on also himself to write something
pertaining to learning and wisdom; to the intent that those
which are desirous to learn, and are addicted to these things,
might profit m uch m ore in living according to the law. W here'
fore let me entreat you to read it w ith favour and attention, and
to pardon us, w herein w e may seem to come short of some
words w hich we have laboured to interpret. For the same
things uttered in H ebrew , and translated into another tongue,
have not the same force in them , and not only these things, but
the law itself, and th e prophets and the rest of the books, have
no small difference, w hen they are spoken in their own language.
For in the eight and th irtieth year coming into Egypt, when
Euergetes was king, and continuing there some time, I found a
book of no small learning: therefore I thought it most necessary
for me to bestow some diligence and travail to interpret it:
using great w atchfulness and skill in that space to bring the
book to an end, and set it forth for them also, which in a
strange country are w illing to learn, being prepared before in
manners to live after the law.
592 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
C H A P T E R I
1. A ll w isd o m is fr o m God. 10. H e giveth it t
that love H im . 11. T h e fe a r o f G od is fu ll o f many blessings
28. T o fe a r G od w ith o u t hypocrisy.
1. A ll w isd o m co m eth fr o m the L o rd , and is with him
fo rever.
G od is E ternal M ind.
2. W h o can n u m b er o f the sand o f the sea, and the
dro p s o f rain, and the d a ys o f e te rn ity ?
T h e Son of G od w ho m anifests D ivinity.
3. W h o can fin d ou t the height o f heaven, and the
breadth o f the earth, and the deep, and w isdom ?
O nly those w ho know G od as Good.
4. W isd o m hath been created before all things, and the
understanding o f prudence fr o m everlasting.
D ivine M ind constitutes all wisdom.
5. T h e w o rd o f G od m o st high is the fountain of wis­
d o m ; and her w a ys are everlasting com m andm ents.
G ood alone is changeless and eternal.
6. T o w h o m hath the root o f w isdom been revealedf
O r w h o hath k n o w n her w ise counsels?
T h e sincere saint w ho h ath renounced the world.
7. U nto w h o m hath the know ledge o f wisdom been
m ade m a n ifest? A n d w ho hath understood her great
experience.
8. T here is one w ise and greatly to be feared, the Lord
sitting upon his throne.
Ignorance is the cause of fear, W isdom manifests Love.
9. H e created her, and saw her, and num bered her, and
poured her out upo n all his w orks.
M eaning H e created W isdom .
10. S h e is w ith all flesh according to his gift, and he hath
given her to them that love him .
W isdom and facts are one, God is the author.
11. T he fe a r o f the L o rd is honour, and glory, and glad­
ness, and a crow n o f rejoicing.
Fear is the result of a guilty conscience and sinning mind
12. T he fe a r o f the L o rd m aketh a m erry heart, and
giveth jo y, and gladness, and a long life.
M ind Science unites m an to G od and overcomes evil.
13. W hoso fe a re th the L o rd , it shall an well w ith him at
the last, and he shall find fa v o u r in the day o f his death.
Provided he lives in righteousness.
14. To fe a r the L o rd is the beginning o f w isdom : and
it was created w ith the fa ith fu l in the womb.
To know m ind as G od is soul liberation.
15. S h e hath built an everlasting foundation w ith men,
and she shall continue w ith their seed.
For the wise loveth T ru th and avoideth error.
16. To fe a r the L o rd is fullness o f w isdom , and filleth
men w ith her fru its.
594 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
Science dem onstrates, and know ledge supplants fear.
17. S h e filleth all th eir house w ith things desirable, and
the garners w ith h er increase.
Wisdom and Love prosper the good.
18. T h e fe a r o f the L o rd is a crow n o f w isdom , making
peace and p e rfe c t health to flo u rish ; both w hich are the gifts
o f G od: and it enlargeth th eir rejoicing that love him.
Prosperity comes from Divine goodness.
19. W isd o m ra in eth d o w n skill and know ledge of under­
standing, and exa lteth th em to h o n o u r that hold her fast.
Hold fast to Truth and honor that more Wisdom may
come to you.
20. T h e ro o t o f w isd o m is to fe a r the L ord, and the
branches th e re o f are long life.
D ivine consciousness and a serene m ind preserveth vitality.
21. T h e fe a r o f the L o r d d riveth aw ay sin s: and where
it is p resen t, it tu rn eth aw ay w rath.
Overcome mental negation and sin is no more.
22. A fu r io u s m a n cannot be ju stifie d ; fo r the sway of
his fu r y shall be h is destruction.
Evil destroyeth the evil doer.
23. A p a tien t m an w ill bear fo r a tim e, and afterward
jo y shall spring up un to him .
Divine Goodness and a controlled mind produces joy.
24. H e w ill hide his w o rd s fo r a tim e, and the Ups °f
m a n y shall declare his w isdom .
Silence sometimes reveals inner wisdom.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 595
25. The parables o f know ledge are in the treasures o f
wisdom: but godliness is an abom ination to a sinner.
Sin never pays, it always destroys the sinner.
26. I f thou desire w isd o m , keep the com m andm ents, and
the Lord shall give h er unto thee.
“Love thy neighbor as thyself” is the commandment.
27. F or the fe a r o f the L o rd is w isdom and instruction:
and faith and m eekn ess are his delight.
Goodness is Godliness, Wisdom and Love.
28. D istru st n o t the fe a r o f the L o rd w hen thou art poor:
and come not unto h im w ith a double heart.
Approach Divinity in a positive mental state.
29. B e no t a hypocrite in the sight o f men, and take
good heed w hat th o u speakest.
One’s speech reveals their type of thoughts and deeds.
30. E xa lt not th y se lf, lest thou fall, and bring dishonour
upon thy soul, and so G od discover thy secrets, and cast thee
down in the m id st o f the congregation, because thou earnest
not in truth to the fe a r o f the L ord, but thy heart is fu ll o f
deceit.
Humility is the sign of Wisdom and Mastership manifest
in man.
CHAPTER II
1. God’s serva n ts m u st look fo r trouble, and be patient,
and trust in him . 12. F o r w oe to them that do not so. 15. B u t
they that fea r the L o rd w ill do so.
1. M y son, i f thou com e to serve the Lord, prepare thy
soul fo r tem ptation.
596 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
T h e good alone are tem pted because they desire only God.
2. S e t th y heart aright, and constantly endure, and make
not haste in tim e o f trouble.
M editate calm ly on every event in life.
3. C leave unto him , and d ep a rt not away, that thou
m a yest be increased at th y last end.
Be attached only to T ru th n o t theory.
4. W h a te v e r is brought upo n thee, take cheerfully, and
be p a tien t w h en thou a rt changed to a lo w estate.
A ll seem ing victories of evil are transitory.
5. F o r gold is tried in the fire, and acceptable men in
the fu rn a ce o f adversity.
E ndurance alone proves one's m astership of life.
6. B elieve in him , and he w ill help thee; order thy way
aright, and tru st in him .
Believe only in good and evil cannot harm thee.
7. Y e that fe a r the L o rd , w a it fo r his m ercy; and go
not aside, lest ye fall.
E ver be positive, determ ined, and not easily swayed.
8. Y e that fe a r the L o rd , believe h im ; and your reward
shall no t fail.
Practice good fo r it is its ow n rew ard.
9. Y e that fe a r the L o rd , hope fo r good, and for ever­
lasting jo y and m ercy.
K now th a t good is never conquered by evil.
10. L o o k at the generations o f old, and see; did ever any
tru st in the L o rd , and w a s co n fo u n d e d ? O r did any abide m
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 597
his fear, and w a s fo rsa k e n ? O r w hom did he ever despise,
that called upon him ?
God or G ood rew ardeth all w ho conform to Divine order.
11. F o r the L o rd is fu ll o f compassion and mercy, long
suffering, and ve ry p itifu l, and forg iveth sins, and saveth in
time o f affliction.
God never inflicts suffering on humanity.
12. W o e be to fe a r fu l hearts, and fa in t hands, and the
sinner that g oeth tw o w a ys!
A negative consciousness destroys its ownself.
13. W o e un to h im that is faint-hearted! For he believeth
not; therefore shall he no t be defended.
M ental negation h ath no part in victory.
14. W oe un to yo u that have lost patience! A n d what
will ye do w h en the L o rd shall visit yo u ?
Faint n o t in well doing; G od is Good.
15. T h ey that fe a r the L o rd w ill not disobey his w ord;
and they that love h im w ill •keep his ways.
O ne’s life and rew ards are in accordance with their deeds.
16. T h ey that fe a r the L o rd w ill seek that which is well-
pleasing unto h im ; and they that love him , shall be filled w ith
the law.
Law and order in the universe conform to good.
17. T h ey that fe a r the L o rd w ill prepare their hearts,
and hum ble th eir souls in his sight.
A rrogance and conceit are grievous sins.
18. Saying, W e w ill fa ll into the hands o f the Lord, and
not into the hands o f m en: fo r as his m ajesty is, so is his
mercy.
598 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
D epend only on good deeds being rew arded by God, who
is Love.
C H A P T E R III
2. C hildren m u st h o n o u r and help both their parents.
21. W e m a y n o t desire to kn o w all things. 26. The incor­
rigible m u st needs perish. 30. A lm s are rewarded.
1. H e a r m e y o u r fa th e r, 0 children, and do thereafter,
that ye m a y be safe.
T h e aged should so live as to be a good example to the
youthful.
2. F o r the L o r d hath g iven the fa th e r honour over the
children, and hath confirm ed the a u th o rity o f the m other over
the sons.
M o th er Love like D ivine Love inspires one to do good.
3. W h o so h o n o u reth his fa th e r m a keth an atonement
fo r h is sins.
R estitution and overcom ing sin is th e w ay to peace and
G od.
4. A n d he that h o n o u reth his m o th er is as one that
layeth up treasure.
Love fo r one’s parents is n ext to love of God.
5. W h o so ho n o u reth his fa th e r shall have jo y o f his
ow n ch ild ren ; and w h en he m a keth his prayer, he shall be
heard.
T h e L aw of C om pensation n ev er fo rg ets to rew ard the
good.
6. H e th a t ho n o u reth h is fa th e r shall have a long life;
and he th a t is obedient un to the L o rd shall be a com fort to
h is m other.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 599
Goodness preserves life, loyalty strengthens the soul.
7. H e that fe a re th the L o rd w ill honour his father, and
will do service un to his parents, as to his masters.
The good need no com m and to force them to do their duty.
8. H o n o u r th y fa th e r and m other both in w ord and
deed that a blessing m ay com e upon thee fro m them.
H onoring parents is th e sowing of good seeds.
9. F or the blessing o f the fa th er establisheth the houses
of children; b u t the curse o f the m other rooteth out
foundations.
H arm ony in the hom e is like Divine harmony in the
universe.
10. G lory n o t in the dishonour o f thy fa th er; fo r thy
father's dish o n o u r is no glory unto thee.
A n evil deed is never a credit to the doer.
11. F o r the glory o f a m an is fro m the honour o f his
father; and a m o th er in dishonour is a reproach to the
children.
. Parents should observe the D ivine laws of God and Good.
12. M y son, help th y fa th e r in his age, and grieve him not
as long as he liveth.
Helping one’s parents is a duty like unto a duty to God.
13. A n d i f his understanding fail, have patience w ith
him; and despise h im no t w hen thou art in thy fu ll strength.
N ever abuse one because they have lost their reasoning
power.
14. F or the relieving o f thy fa th er shall not be forgotten:
and instead o f sin s it shall be added to build thee up.
600 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
Good contributes to one’s welfare and spiritual develop­
ment.
15. In the day o f th in e affliction it shall be remember
th y sin s also shall m e lt aw ay, as the ice in the fair warm
w eather.
Good overbalancing evil destroys the effect of ignorance.
16. H e th a t fo rsa k e th his fa th e r is as a blasphemer; and
he th a t angereth his m o th er is cursed o f God.
Parental devotion is an act of goodness.
17. M y son, go on w ith th y business in m eekness: so sha.lt
thou be beloved o f h im th a t is approved.
Goodness produces a powerful personality.
18. T h e g rea ter th o u art, the m ore hum ble thyself, and
thou shalt fin d fa v o u r b efo re the L ord.
19. M a n y are in high place, and o f renow n: but mys­
teries are revealed un to the m eek.
20. F o r the p o w er o f the L o r d is great, and he is
honoured o f the low ly.
21. S e e k no t out the th in g s that are too hard for thee,
neith er search the th in g s that are above th y strength.
22. B u t w h a t is com m anded thee, th in k thereupon with
reverence; fo r it is n o t n e e d fu l fo r thee to see w ith thine eyes
the th in g s that are in secret.
23. B e no t curious in unnecessary m atters: fo r more
things are sh ew ed un to thee than m en understand.
24. F o r m any are deceived by their ow n vain opinion,
and an evil suspicion hath o verth ro w n their judgm ent.
25. W ith o u t eyes thou shalt w ant light: profess not the
knowledge th erefo re that thou hast not.
26. A stubborn heart shall fa re evil at the last; and he
that loveth danger shall perish therein.
27. A n obstinate heart shall be laden w ith sorrow s; and
the w icked m an shall heap sin upon sin.
28. In the p u n ish m en t o f the proud there is no remedy;
for the plant o f w icked n ess hath taken root in him.
29. The heart o f the p rudent w ill understand a parable;
and an a ttentive ear is the desire o f a wise man.
30. W a ter w ill quench a flam ing fire; and alms maketh
an atonem ent fo r sins.
*
31. A n d he th a t requiteth good turns is m indful o f that
which m ay com e h erea fter; and w hen he falleth, he shall find
a stay.
C H A P T E R IV
1. W e m ay no t despise the poor or fatherless, but seek
for w isdom , and n o t be asham ed o f som e things, nor gainsay
the truth, nor be as lions in our houses.
1. M y son, d efra u d no t the poor o f his living, and make
not the needy eyes to w ait long.
602 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
5. T u rn aw ay n o t thine eye fr o m the needy, and give
h im none occasion to curse thee:
6. F o r i f he curse thee in the bitterness o f his soul, his
p ra yer shall be heard o f h im th a t m ade him .
/
7. G et th y s e lf the love o f the congregation, and bow
th y head to a great m an.
8. L e t it no t grieve thee to bow dow n thine ear to the
poor, and give h im a fr ie n d ly a n sw er w ith meekness.
9. D eliver h im th a t su ffe re th w ro n g fro m the hand of
the o p p resso r; and be n o t fa in t-h ea rted w hen thou sittest in
ju d g m en t.
10. B e as a fa th e r u n to the fa th erless, and instead of a
husband unto th eir m o th er: so shalt th o u be as a son of the
M o st H ig h , and he shall love thee m ore than thy mother
doth.
11. W isd o m exa lteth h er children, and layeth hold of
th em th a t seek her.
12. H e th a t lo veth h er lo veth life ; and they that seek to
her early shall be filled w ith jo y.
13. H e th a t h o ld eth h er fa s t shall inherit glory; and
w h ereso ever she entereth, the L o r d w ill bless.
14. T h e y th a t serve her shall m in ister to the H oly One:
and th em that love h er the L o rd do th love.
15. W h o so g iveth ear un to her, shall judge the nations,
and he that a tten d eth un to h er shall dw ell securely.
16. I f a m an co m m it h im se lf un to her he shall inherit
h er; and h is generation shall hold h er in possession.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 603
17. F o r at the first she w ill w alk w ith him by crooked
ways, and bring fe a r and dread upon him , and torm ent him
with her discipline, u n til she m ay trust his soul, and try
him by her laws.
18. T h en she w ill return the strait w ay unto him, and
com fort him , and sh ew h im her secrets.
19. B u t i f he go w rong, she w ill forsake him, and give
him over to his o w n ruin.
20. O bserve the opportunity, and beware o f evil; and be
not asham ed w h e n it concerneth thy soul.
21. F o r there is a sham e that bringeth sin; and there is
a shame w h ich is glory and grace.
22. A ccep t no person against thy soul, and let not the
reverence o f any m an cause thee to fall.
23. A n d refra in no t to speak, w hen there is occasion to
do good, and hide n o t th y w isdom in her beauty.
24. F o r by speech w isdom shall be know n: and learning
by the w o rd o f the tongue.
25. In no w ise speak against the truth; but be abashed o f
the error o f thine ignorance.
26. B e n o t asham ed to confess thy sins; and force not
the course o f the river.
27. M a ke no t th y se lf an underling to a foolish m an;
neither accept the person o f the m ighty.
28. S triv e fo r the tru th unto death, and the L ord shall
fight fo r thee.
29. B e n o t h a sty in th y tongue, and in thy deeds slack
and remiss.
604 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
30. B e n o t as a lion in th y house, nor fra n tic among thy
servants.
31. L e t not th y hand be stretch ed out to receive, and shut
w h en th o u sh o u ld est repay.
C H A P T E R V
1. W e m u st n o t presu m e o f ou r w ealth and stre
nor o f the m ercy o f G od, to sin. 9. W e m u st not be double
tongued, n o r a n sw er w ith o u t know ledge.
1. S e t not. th y heart upon th y g oods; and say not, I have
enough fo r m y life.
2. F o llo w n o t thine ow n m in d and th y strength, to walk
in the w a ys o f th y heart:
3. A n d say not, W h o shall control m e fo r m y works?
F o r the L o rd w ill su rely reven g e th y pride.
4. S a y not, I have sinned, and w h a t harm hath hap­
pened un to m e? F o r the L o rd is long-suffering, he will in
no w ise let thee go.
5. C oncerning propitiation, be no t w ith o u t fear to add
sin un to sin:
6. A n d say not, H is m ercy is g rea t; he w ill be pacified
fo r the m u ltitu d e o f m y sin s: fo r m ercy and wrath come
fr o m him , and his ind ig n a tio n resteth upon sinners.
• 7. M a ke no ta rryin g to tu rn to the L o rd , and put not
o ff fr o m day to da y: fo r su d d en ly shall the wrath of the
L o rd com e fo r th , and in th y secu rity thou slialt be destroyed,
and perish in the day o f vengeance.
8. S e t no t th y heart upon goods u n ju stly gotten
th ey shall no t profit thee in the day o f calam ity.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 605
9. W in n o w no t w ith every w ind, and go not into every
way: fo r so do th the sinner that hath a double tongue.
10. B e stea d fa st in thine understanding; and let thy
word be the sam e.
11. B e s w ift to hear; and let thy life be sincere; and w ith
patience give answ er.
12. I f thou hast understanding, answ er thy neighbour; if
not, lay thy hand u pon th y m outh.
13. H o n o u r and sham e is in talk: and the tongue o f man
is his fall.
14. B e not called a w hisperer, and lie not in w ait w ith
thy tongue: fo r a fo u l sham e is upon the thief, and an evil
condemnation upon the double tongue.
15. B e not ignorant o f any thing in a great m atter or a
small.
C H A P T E R V I
2. Do not exto l thine ow n conceit, but make choice o f
a friend. 18. S e e k w isd o m betim es: 20. I t is grievous to
some, yet the fr u its th e re o f are pleasant. 35. Be ready to
hear wise men.
1. In stea d o f a frie n d becom e not an enem y; (fo r
thereby) thou shalt in h erit an ill name, shame, and reproach:
even so shall a sin n er th a t hath a double tongue.
2. E x to l not th y se lf in the counsel o f thine own heart;
that thy sold be not torn in pieces as a bull (straying alone).
3. T hou shalt eat up th y leaves, and lose thy fru it, and
leave th yself as a d ry tree.
606 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
4. A w icked so u l shall d estro y h im that hath it, and
shall m ake h im to be laughed to scorn o f his enemies.
5. S w e e t language w ill m u ltip ly frie n d s: and a fair­
speaking tongue w ill increase kin d greetings.
6. B e in peace w ith m a n y: nevertheless have but one
counsellor o f a thousand.
7. I f th o u w o u ld est get a frie n d , prove him first, and
be n o t h a sty to credit him .
8. F o r so m e m an is a fr ie n d fo r his ow n occasion, and
w ill n o t abide in the day o f th y trouble.
9. A n d there is a frie n d , w h o , being turned to enmity
and s trife , w ill d isco ver th y reproach.
10. A g a in , som e fr ie n d is a com panion at the table, and
w ill n o t continue in the d a y o f thine affliction.
11. B u t in th y p ro sp erity he w ill be as thyself, and will
be bold over th y servants.
12. I f th o u be bro u g h t low , he w ill be against thee, and
w ill hide h im se lf fr o m th y face.
13. S ep a ra te th y s e lf fr o m th in e enem ies, and take heed
o f th y frien d s.
14. A fa ith fu l fr ie n d is a stro n g d efen ce: and he that
hath fo u n d such a one hath fo u n d a treasure.
15. N o th in g d o th countervail a fa ith fu l friend, and hs
excellency is invaluable.
16. A fa ith fu l fr ie n d is the m edicine o f life: and they
that fe a r the L o rd shall fin d him .
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 607
17. W hoso fe a re th the L o rd shall direct his friendship
aright: fo r as he is, so shall his neighbor be also.
18. M y son, g a th er instruction fro m thy youth up: so
shalt thou find w isd o m till thine old age.
19. Come unto h er as one that plougheth and soweth, and
wait fo r her goo d fr u its : fo r thou shalt not toil much in
labouring about her, bu t thou shalt eat o f her fru its right
soon.
20. She is v e ry unpleasant to the unlearned: he that is
without understanding w ill not rem ain w ith her.
21. S h e w ill lie u p o n h im as a m ighty stone o f trial; and
he m il cast her fr o m h im ere it be long.
22. F or w isd o m is according to her name, and she is not
manifest unto m any.
23. Give ear, m y son, receive m ine advice, and refuse
not my counsel.
24. A n d p u t th y fe e t into her fetters, and thy neck into
her chain.
25. B o w d o w n th y shoulder and hear her, and be not
grieved w ith her bonds.
26. Com e un to h er w ith thy w hole heart, and keep her
ways w ith all th y pow er.
27. Search, and seek, and she shall be made know n unto
thee: and w hen th o u has got hold o f her, let her not go.
28. F or at the last th o u shalt find her rest, and that shall
be turned to th y jo y.
29. Then shall her fe tte r s be a strong defence fo r thee,
and her chains a robe o f glory.
608 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
30. F o r there is a golden ornam ent upon her, and her
hands are p urple lace.
31. T h o u shalt p u t h er on as a robe o f honour, and shalt
pu t her about thee as a cro w n o f jo y.
32. M y son, i f th o u w ilt, th o u shall be taught: and if
th o u w ilt apply th y m in d , thou shalt be prudent.
33. I f th o u love to hear, thou shalt receive understanding:
and i f th o u b o w thine ear, th o u shalt be w ise.
34. S ta n d in the m u ltitu d e o f the elders; and cleave unto
h im th a t is w ise.
35. B e w illin g to hear every g o d ly discourse; and let not
the parables o f u n d ersta n d in g escape thee.
36. A n d i f thou seest a m an o f understanding, get thee
betim es unto him , and let th y fo o t w ea r the steps o f his door.
37. L e t th y m in d be u p o n the ordinances o f the Lord,
and m ed ita te continually in his co m m a n d m en ts: he shall Estab­
lish th y heart, and give thee w isd o m at thine own desire.
C H A P T E R V II
1. W e are d eh o rted fr o m sin, fr o m am bition, presump­
tion, and fa in tin g in prayer, fr o m lyin g and backbiting.
18. H o w to esteem a fr ie n d ; 19. A good w ife ; 20. a servant;
22. our cattle; 23. our children and pa ren ts; 31. the Lord
and his p riests; 32. the poor and those that m ourn.
1. D o no evil, so shall no harm com e unto thee.
2. D epart fr o m the u n ju st, and in q u ity shall turn away
fr o m thee.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 609
3. M y son, so w n o t upon the fu rro w s o f unrighteous­
ness, and thou shalt not reap them seven-fold.
4. S eek no t o f the L o rd pre-em inence, neither o f the
king the seat o f honour.
5. J u stify not th y se lf before the L o rd ; and boast not o f
thy wisdom befo re the king.
6. S eek no t to be ju d g e, being not able to take away
iniquity; lest at any tim e thou fe a r the person o f the mighty,
and lay a stum bling-block in the w ay o f thine uprightness.
7. O ffend no t against the m ultitude o f a city, and then
thou shalt not cast th y s e lf dow n am ong the people.
8. B in d no t one sin upon another; fo r in one thou shalt
not be unpunished.
9. S a y not, G od w ill look upon the m ultitude o f mine
oblations, and w h en I o ffer to the m ost high God, he will
accept it.
10. B e n o t fa in t-h ea rted w hen thou m akest thy prayer,
and neglect no t to give alms.
11. L augh no m an to scorn in the bitterness o f his soul:
for there is one w h ich h u m bleth and exalteth.
12. D evise no t g lie against thy brother: neither do the
like to thy frien d .
13. Use not to m ake any m anner o f lie: fo r the custom
thereof is not good.
14. Use no t m a n y w o rd s in a m ultitude o f elders, and
make not m uch babbling w h en thou prayest.
15. H ate no t laborious w ork, neither husbandry, which
the M ost H ig h hath ordained.
608 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
30. F o r there is a golden ornam ent upon her, and her
hands are purple lace.
31. T h o u shalt p u t h er on as a robe o f honour, and shalt
p u t her about thee as a crow n o f jo y.
32. M y son, i f th o u w ilt, th o u shall be taught: and if
thou w ilt apply th y m ind, thou sh a lt be prudent.
33. I f th o u love to hear, thou shalt receive understanding:
and i f thou bow thine ear, th o u shalt be w ise.
34. S ta n d in the m u ltitu d e o f the elders; and cleave unto
him that is wise.
35. B e w illing to hear every g odly discourse; and let not
the parables o f understanding escape thee.
36. A n d i f thou seest a m an o f understanding, get thee
betim es unto him , and let th y fo o t w ea r the steps o f his door.
37. L e t th y m in d be upon the ordinances o f the Lord,
and m editate continually in his co m m a n d m en ts: he shall Estab­
lish th y heart, and give thee w isd o m at thine own desire.
C H A P T E R V II
1. W e are dehorted fr o m sin, fr o m am bition, presump
tion, and fa in tin g in prayer, fr o m lying and backbiting.
18. H o w to esteem a fr ie n d ; 19. A good w ife ; 20. a servant;
22. our cattle; 23. our children amd parents; 31. the Lord
and his p riests; 32. the poor and those that m ourn.
1. Do no evil, so shall no harm com e unto thee.
2. D epart fr o m the u n ju st, and in q u ity shall turn away
fro m thee.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 609
3. M y son, so w n o t upon the fu rro w s o f unrighteous­
ness, and thou shalt no t reap them seven-fold.
4. Seek not o f the L o rd pre-em inence, neither o f the
king the seat o f honour.
5. Ju stify not th y se lf befo re the L o rd ; and boast not o f
thy wisdom before the king.
6. Seek not to be ju d g e, being not able to take away
iniquity; lest at any tim e th o u fe a r the person o f the m ighty,
and lay a stum bling-block in the w a y o f thine uprightness.
7. O ffend no t against the m u ltitu d e o f a city, and then
thou shalt not cast th y s e lf d o w n am ong the people.
8. B ind not one sin upo n another; fo r in one thou shalt
not be unpunished.
9. Say not, G od w ill look upon the m ultitude o f mine
oblations, and w h en I o ffe r to the m ost high God, he will
accept it.
10. Be not fa in t-h ea rted w h en thou m akest thy prayer,
and neglect not to give alm s.
11. Laugh no m an to scorn in the bitterness o f his soul:
for there is one w h ich hum b leth and exalteth.
12. D evise n o t a lie against th y brother: neither do the
like to thy friend.
13. Use not to m ake any m anner o f lie: fo r the custom
thereof is not good.
14. Use not m a n y w o rd s in a m ultitude o f elders,
make not m uch babbling w h en thou prayest.
15. H ate no t laborious w o rk, neither husbandry, w hich
the Most H igh hath ordained.
610 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
16. N u m b e r no t th y se lf am ong the m u ltitu d e o f sinners,
but rem em ber that w ra th w ill no t ta rry long.
17. H u m b le th y soul g rea tly: fo r the vengeance of the
ungodly is fire and w orm s.
18. C hange no t a fr ie n d fo r any good, by no means;
neith er a fa ith fu l bro th er fo r the gold o f O p h ir.'
19. F orego not a w ise and good w o m a n : fo r her grace
is above gold.
20. W h erea s th y serva n t w o rketh truly, entreat him not
evil, nor the hireling that besto w eth h im se lf w holly fo r thee.
21. L e t thy soul love a good servant, and defraud him
not o f liberty.
22. H a st thou ca ttle? H a ve an eye to them : and if they
be fo r th y profit, keep them w ith thee.
I
23. H a st thou children? In stru c t them , and bow down
their neck fr o m th eir youth.
24. H a st thou daughters? H a ve a care o f their body, and
sh ew not th y se lf ch eerfu l tow ard them .
25. M a rry 'th y daughter, and so shalt thou have per­
fo rm e d a w eig h ty m a tter: but give her to a m an o f under­
standing.
26. H a st thou a w ife a fte r th y m in d ? F orsake her not:
but give not th y se lf over to a lig h t w om an.
27. H o n o u r th y fa th e r w ith th y w hole heart, and forget
not the so rro w s o f th y m other.
28. R em em b er that thou w a st begotten o f them , and how
canst thou recom pense them the things that they have done
fo r thee?
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 611
29. Fear the L o rd w ith all th y soul, and reverence his
priests.
30. Love him that hath m ade thee w ith all thy strength,
and forsake not his m inisters.
31. Fear the L o rd , and h o nour the priest; and give him
his portion, as it is co m m a n d ed thee; the first-fruits, and the
trespass-offering and the g ift o f the shoulders, and the sac­
rifice of santification, and the first-fru its o f the holy things.
32. A n d stretch th y hand unto the poor, that thy blessing
may be perfected.
33. A g ift hath grace in the sight o f every man living,
and for the dead detain it not.
34. Fail not to be w ith th em that w eep, and m ourn w ith
them that m ourn.
35. Be not slow to v isit the sick: fo r that shall m ake thee
to be beloved.
36. W hatsoever thou ta kest in hand, rem em ber the end,
and thou shalt never do am iss.
C H A P T E R V III
1. W hom w e m ay n o t strive w ith, nor despise,
provoke, nor have to do w ith.
1. Strive not w ith a m ig h ty m an, lest thou fall into
hands.
2. Be not at variance w ith a rich man, lest he o itr u g
thee: for gold hath d estro yed m any, and pervetrtc t ic
°f kings.
612 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
3. S tr iv e no t w ith a m an th a t is fu ll o f tongue, and heap
not w ood upon h is fire.
4. Je st no t w ith a rude m an, lest thine ancestors be
disgraced.
5. R eproach no t a m an th a t tu rn eth fro m sin, but
rem em ber th a t w e are all w o rth y o f punishm ent.
6. D ish o n o u r n o t a m an in his old age: fo r epen some
o f u s w a x old.
7. R ejo ice no t over th y g reatest enem y being dead, but
rem em ber that w e die all.
8. D espise n o t the discourse o f the w ise, but acquaint
th y s lf w ith th eir p ro verb s: fo r o f th em th o u shalt learn
in stru ctio n , and h o w to serve great m en w ith ease.
9. M iss no t the discourse o f the elders: fo r they also
learned o f th eir fa th ers, and o f th em th o u shalt learn under­
standing, and to give a n sw er as need requireth.
10. K in d le n o t the coals o f a sin n er lest thou be burnt
w ith the flam e o f h is fire.
11. R ise no t up (in anger) at the presence o f an injurious
person, lest he lie in w a it to entrap thee in th y w ords.
12. L e n d n o t un to h im that is m ig h tier than thyself: for
i f thou lendest him , count it but lost.
13. B e ho t su rety above th y p o w er: fo r i f thou be surety,
take care to pay it.
14. Go n o t to la w w ith a ju d g e, fo r th ey w ill judge for
him , according to his honour.
15. T ra vel no t by the w a y w ith a bold fellow , lest he
becom e grevious un to thee: fo r he w ill do according to his
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 613
own will, and thou sh a lt perish w ith him through his own
folly.
16. Strive no t w ith an angry m an, and go not w ith him
into a solitary place: fo r blood is as nothing in his sight, and
where there is no help, he w ill o verth ro w thee.
17. Consult no t w ith a fo o l, fo r he cannot keep counsel.
18. Do not secret th in g before a stranger; fo r thou
knowest not w hat he w ill bring fo rth .
19. O pen not th y heart to every m an, lest he requite thee
with a shrewd turn.
C H A P T E R IX
1. W e are advised h o w to use our w ives; w hat w om en
to avoid; and not to change an old frie n d ; not to be fam iliar
with men in a u th o rity; b u t to k n o w our neighbours; and to
converse w ith w ise m en.
1. Be not jealous o ver the w ife o f thy bosom, and teach
her not an evil lesson against th yself.
2. Give not th y soul unto a w om an to set her fo o t upon
thy substance.
3. M eet not w ith a harlot, lest thou fa ll into her snares.
4. Use not m u ch the com pany o f a w om an that is a
singer, lest thou be taken w ith her attem pts.
5. Gaze no t on a m aid, that thou fa ll no t by those
things that are precious in her.
6. Give no t th y soul unto harlots, that thou lose not
thine inheritance.
NH9R
614 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
7. L o o k not around about thee in the streets o f the city,
neither w a n d er thou in the solitary places thereof.
8. T u rn aw ay thine eye fr o m a b ea u tifu l wom an, and
look not upo n another’s b ea u ty; fo r m any have been deceived
by the beauty o f a w o m a n ; fo r h erew ith love is kindled as
a fire.
9. S it not at all w ith a n other m an’s w ife , nor sit down
w ith her in thine arm s, and sp en d not th y m oney w ith her at
the w in e ; lest thine heart incline unto her, and so through thy
desire thou fa ll into destruction.
10. F orsake no t an old fr ie n d ; fo r the new is not com­
parable to h im : a n ew frie n d is as n e w w in e; w hen it is old,
thou shalt d rin k it w ith pleasure.
11. E n v y not the glory o f a sinner: fo r thou knowcst not
w hat shall be his end.
12. D elight no t in the thing that the ungodly have
pleasure in: but rem em b er th ey shall no t go unpunished unto
their grave.
13. K eep thee fa r fr o m the m an that hath pow er to kill;
so shalt thou not doubt the fe a r o f death: and if thou come
unto him , m ake no fa u lt, lest he take aw ay th y life presently;
rem em ber that th o u goest in the m id st o f snares, and that
thou w a lkest upon the b a ttlem ents o f the city.
14. A s near as thou const, guess at th y neighbour, and
consult w ith the w ise.
15. L e t th y talk be w ith the w ise, and all th y cotnmuniia-
tion in the law o f the M o st H igh.
16. A n d let ju s t m en eat and d rin k w ith thee: and let
th y glorying be in the fe a r o f the L ord.
17. F o r the hand o f the artificer the w o rk shall be com­
m ended: and the w ise ruler o f the people fo r his speech.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 615
18. A man o f an ill tongue is dangerous in his city; and
he that is rash in h is talk shall be hated.
CHAPTER X
1. The advantages o f a w ise ruler. 4. God setteth him
up. 7. The inconveniences o f pride, injustice and covetous­
ness. 14. W hat G od hath done to the proud.
1. A w ise ju d g e w ill in stru ct his people; and the gov­
ernment o f a p rudent m an is w ell ordered.
2. A s the ju d g e o f the people is him self, so are his
officers; and w hat m a n n er o f m an the ruler o f the city is, such
are all they that dw ell therein.
3. A n unw ise king destro yeth his people; but through the
prudence o f them w h ich are in authority, the city shall be
inhabited.
4. The p ow er o f the earth is in the hand o f the Lord,
and in due tim e he w ill set over it one that is profitable.
5. In the hand o f G od is the prosperity o f m an: and
upon the person o f the scribe shall he lay his honour.
6. Bear not hatred to th y neighbour fo r every w rong!
and do nothing at all by in ju rio u s practices.
7. Pride is h a te fu l before God and m an: and by both
doth one com m it iniquity.
8. Because o f u n rig h teo u s dealings, injuries, and riches
got by deceit, the kin g d o m is translated fro m one people to
another.
9. W h y is earth and ashes p ro u d f There is not a more
wicked thing than a covetous m an: fo r such a one setteth his
own soul to sale; because w hile he liveth, he casteth away
bis bowels.
616 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
10. T h e physician cu tteth o ff a long disease; and he that
is today a king, to m o rro w shall die.
11. F o r w h en a m an is dead, he shall inherit creeping
things, beasts, a nd w orm s.
12. T h e beginning o f pride is w h en one departeth from
God, and his heart is tu rn ed aw ay from , his M aker.
13. F o r pride is the beginning o f sin, and he that hath it
shall po u r out abom ination: and th erefo re the L ord brought
upon th em strange calam ities, and o verth rew them utterly.
14. T h e L o rd hath cast do w n the thrones o f proud
princes, and set up the m eek in th eir stead.
15. T h e L o rd hath p lu cked up the roots o f the proud
nations, and planted the lo w ly in their place.
16. T h e L o rd o verth rew co u n tries o f the heathen, and
d estro yed th em to the fo u n d a tio n o f the earth.
17. H e took som e o f th em aw ay, and destroyed them,
and hath m ade th eir m em orial to cease fr o m the earth.
18. P rid e w as no t m ade fo r m en, no r fu rio u s anger for
them that are born o f a w om an.
19. T h e y that fe a r the L o rd are a sure seed, and they
that love h im an honourable pla n t: th ey that regard not the
law are dishonourable seed ; th ey th a t transgress the com­
m a n d m en ts are a deceivable seed.
20. A m o n g brethren he that is ch ief is honourable; so
are they that fe a r the L o rd , in h is eyes.
21. T h e fe a r o f the L o rd g oeth before the obtaining of
a u th o rity; but roughness and pride is the losing thereof.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 617
22. W hether he be rich, noble, or poor, their glory is
the fear o f the L ora.
23. It is not m eet to despise the poor m an that hath
understanding; neith er is it convenient to m agnify a sin fu l
man.
24. Great m en, and ju d g es, and potentates, shall be
honoured; yet is there none o f them greater than he that
feareth the Lord.
25. Unto the serva n t that is w ise shall they that are free
do service: and he that hath know ledge w ill not grudge w hen
he is reformed.
26. Be not overw ise in doing thy business; and boast not
thyself in the tim e o f th y distress.
27. B etter is he that laboureth, and aboundeth in all
things, than he that boasteth h im self, and w anteth bread.
28. M y son, g lo rify th y soul in m eekness, and give it
honour according to the d ig n ity thereof.
29. W ho w ill ju s tify him that sinnetli against his own
soul? A nd w ho w ill h o nour him that dishonoureth his own
life?
30. The poor m an is honoured fo r his skill, and the rich
man is honoured fo r h is riches.
31. H e that is h onoured in poverty, how m uch m ore m
riches? A n d he that is dishonourable in riches, how m uc i
more in poverty?
C H A P T E R X I
4. W e m ay n o t v a u n t nor set fo rth ours^ e*L n°,
answer rashly, n o r m eddle w ith m any m atters.
618 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
and all things else are fr o m God. 24. B rag not o f thy wealth,
nor bring every m an into th y house.
1. W isd o m lifte d up the head o f him that is o f low
degree, and m a keth h im tq sit am ong great m en.
2. C om m end not a m an fo r his beauty, neither abhor a
m an fo r his ou tw a rd appearance.
3. T he bee is little am ong such as fly ; but her fru it is
the ch ief o f sw eet things.
4. B o a st not o f th y clothing and raim ent, and exalt not
th y se lf in the day o f h o n o u r: fo r the w o rk s o f the Lord are
w o n d erfu l, and his w o rk s am ong m en are hidden.
5. M a n y kin g s have sat d o w n upon the ground; and one
that w as n ever th o u g h t o f hath w o rn the cro w n .
6. M a n y m ig h ty m en have been greatly disgraced; and
the honourable delivered into other m en ’s hands.
7. B lam e not befo re thou hast exam ined the truth:
understand first, and then rebuke.
8. A n sw e r not b efo re thou hast heard the cause: neither
interru p t m en in the m id st o f th eir talk.
9. S triv e not in a m a tter that concerneth thee not; and
sit not in ju d g m en t w ith sinners.
10. M y son, m eddle not w ith m any m atters: fo r if thou
m eddle m uch, thou shalt not be innocent: and if thou follow
after, thou shalt not obtain, neith er shalt thou escape by
fleeing.
11. T here is one that laboureth, and taketh pains, and
m aketh haste, and is so m uch the m ore behind.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 619
12. Again, there is another that is slow , and hath need o f
help, wanting ability, and fu ll o f p o verty; yet the eye o f the
Lord looked upon h im fo r good, and set him up fro m his low
estate,
13. A n d lifte d up his head fro m m isery; so that m any
that saw it m arvelled at him .
14. P rosperity and a dversity, life and death, poverty and
riches, come o f the L ord.
15. W isdom , know ledge, and understanding o f the law,
are of the L o rd : love, and the w a y o f good w orks, are fro m
him.
16. E rror and d a rkn ess had their beginning together w ith
sinners; and evil shall w a x old w ith them that glory therein.
17. The g ift o f the L o rd rem aineth w ith the godly, and
his favour bringeth p ro sp erity fo r ever.
18. There is that w a x e th rich by his w ariness and
pinching, and this is the portion o f his rew ard:
19. W hereas he saitlr, I have fo u n d rest, and now will
eat continually o f m y g oods; and yet he know eth not w hat
time shall com e upon him , and that he m ust leave those things
to others, and die.
20. Be stea d fa st in th y covenant, and be conversant
therein, and w a x old in thy w ork.
21. M arvel not at the w o rks o f sinners; but trust in the
Lord, and abide in th v labour: fo r it is an easy thing in
sight of the L o rd , on the sudden to m ake a poor man rich.
22. The blessing o f the L o rd is in the rew ard o f the
godly, and su d d en ly he m aketh his blessing to flourish.
620 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
23. S a y not, W h a t p rofit is there o f m y service? And
w h a t good th in g s shall 1 have h erea fter?
24. A g a in , say not, I have enough, and possess many
things, and w h a t evil can com e to m e h erea fter?
25. I n the day o f p ro sp erity there is a forgetfulness of
affliction: and in the day o f affliction there is no more
rem em brance o f prosperity.
26. F o r it is an easy thing un to the L o rd in the day of
death to rew ard a m an according to his w ays.
27. T h e affliction o f an h o u r m a keth a man forget
pleasure: and in his end his deeds shall be discovered.
28. Ju d g e none blessed befo re his d ea th : fo r a man shall
be kn o w n in his children.
29. B rin g not every m an into th y house: fo r the deceitful
m an hath m any trains.
30. L ik e as a partridge ta ken (a n d k ep t) in a cage, so
is the heart o f the p ro u d ; and like as a sp y, w atcheth he for
thy fa ll:
31. F o r he lieth in w ait, and tu rn eth good into evil, and
in things w o rth y praise w ill blam e upo n thee.
32. O f a spark o f fire, a heap o f coals is kindled: and a
sin fu l m an layeth w a it fo r blood.
33. T a ke heed o f a m ischievous m an, fo r he worketh
w icked n ess; lest he bring upo n thee a perpetual blot.
34. R eceive a stranger into th y house, and he will disturb
thee, and tu rn thee out o f thine own.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 621
C H A P T E R X II
2. Be not liberal to the ungodly. 10. T ru st not thine,
enemy nor the w icked.
1. W hen thou w ilt do good, kn o w to w hom thou doest
it; so shalt thou be th a n ked fo r th y benefits.
2. Do good to the godly m an, and thou shalt find a
recompense; and i f n o t fr o m him , yet fro m the M ost H igh.
3. There can no good com e to him that is alw ays occu­
pied in evil, nor to h im that g iveth no alms.
4. Give to the g o d ly m an, and help not a sinner.
5. Do w ell unto h im that is low ly, but give not to the
ungodly: hold back th y bread, and give it not unto him , lest
he overmaster thee thereb y: fo r (else) thou shalt receive
twice as m uch evil fo r all the good thou shalt have done unto
him.
6. F or the M o st H ig h hateth sinners, and w ill repay
vengeance unto the ungodly, and keepeth them against the
mighty day o f their p unishm ent.
7. Give unto the good, and help not the sinner.
8. A frie n d cannot be know n in prosperity: and an
enemy cannot be h id in adversity.
9. In the pro sp erity o f a m an, enem ies w ill be grieved:
but in his adversity, even a frie n d w ill depart.
10. N ever tru st thine en em y: fo r like as iron rusteth, so
is his wickedness.
11. Though he hum ble h im self, and go crouching, yet
take good heed and bew are o f him , and thou shalt be unto
622 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
h im as i f thou hadst w ip ed a looking-glass, and thou shalt
kn o w that his ru st hath no t been altogether w iped away.
12. S e t him no t by thee, lest, w h en he hath overthrown
thee, he sta n d up in th y place; n eith er let h im sit at thy right
hand, lest he seek to take th y seat, and thou at the last
rem em ber m y w o rd s, and be p ricked therew ith.
13. W h o w ill p ity the charm er that is bitten w ith a ser­
pent, or any such as com e nigh w ild beasts?
14. S o one that goeth to a sinner, and is defiled with
him in his sins, w ho w ill p ity ?
15. F o r a w hile he w ill abide w ith thee, but if thou begin
to fa ll, he w ill n o t tarry.
16. A n enem y sp eaketh sw eetly w ith his lips, but in his
heart he im agineth h o w to th ro w thee into a p it: he will weep
w ith his eyes, but i f he fin d s o p p o rtu n ity, he will not be
satisfied w ith blood.
17. I f a d versity com e upon thee, thou shalt find him
there first; and though he p reten d to help thee, yet shall he
underm ine thee.
18. H e w ill shake his head, and clap his hand, and whis­
per m uch, and change his countenance.
C H A P T E R X I I 1
1. K eep not com pany w ith the proud, or a mightier
than th yself. 15. L ik e w ill to like. 21. T he difference be­
tw een the rich and the poor. 25. A m an’s heart ivill change
his countenance.
1. H e that touchetli pitch shall be defiled therewith;
and he that hath fello w sh ip w ith a proud m an shall be like
unto him .
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 623
2. B urden not th y se lf above th y pow er w hile thou livest;
and have no fello w sh ip w ith one that is m ightier and richer
than thyself: fo r h o w agree the kettle and the earthen pot
togetherf F or i f the one be sm itten against the other, it shall
be broken.
3. The rich m an hath done w rong, and yet he threat-
eneth withal: the poor is w ronged, and he m ust entreat also.
4. I f thou be fo r his profit, he w ill use thee: but if thou
have nothing, he w ill fo rsa k e thee.
5. I f thou have a nything, he w ill live w ith thee: yea,
lie will make thee bare, and w ill not be sorry fo r it.
6. I f he have need o f thee, he w ill deceive thee, and
smile upon thee, and p u t thee in hope; he w ill speak thee
fair, and say, W h a t w a n test th o u ?
7. A n d he w ill sham e thee by his m eats, until he have
drawn thee dry tw ice or thrice, and at the last he w ill laugh
thee to scorn: a fterw a rd , w h en he seeth thee, he w ill forsake
thee, and shake his head at thee.
8. Bew are that th o u be not deceived, and brought dow n
in thy jollity.
9. I f thou be in vited o f a m ig h ty m an, w ithdraw thyself,,
and so much the m ore w ill he invite thee.
10. P ress thou not upon him , lest thou be put back; stand
not far off, lest thou be fo rg o tten .
11. A ffect not to be m ade equal unto him in talk, and
believe not his m any w o rd s: fo r w ith m uch com m unication
will he tem pt thee, and sm iling upon thee w ill get out thy
secrets:
12. B u t cruelly he w ill lay up thy w ords, and w ill not
spare to do thee hurt, and to pu t thee in prison.
624 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
13. O bserve, and take good heed, fo r thou walkesi in
peril o f th y o verth ro w in g : w h en th o u hearest these things,
aw ake in th y sleep.
14. L o v e the L o rd all th y life , and call upon him fo r thy
salvation.
15. E v e ry beast lo veth his like, and every m an loveth his
neighbour.
16. A ll flesh consorteth according to kind, and a man
w ill cleave to his like.
17. W h a t fello w sh ip hath the w o lf w ith the lamb? So
the sinner w ith the godly.
18. W h a t a greem ent is there betw een the hyena and a
dog? A n d w h a t peace betw een the rich and the poor?
19. A s the w ild ass is the lion’s prey in the wilderness:
so the rich eat up the poor.
20. A s the proud hate h u m ility : so doth the rich abhor
the poor.
21. A rich m an beginning to fa ll is held up o f his friends:
but a poor m an being d o w n is th ru st also aw ay by his friends.
22. W h e n a rich m an is fa llen , he hath m any helpers: he
speaketh things not to be spoken, and y e t m en ju stify him:
the poor m an slipped, and y e t th ey reb u ked him too; he spake
w isely, and could have no place.
23. W h e n a rich m an speaketh, every m an holdeth his
tongue, and look w h a t he saith, th ey exto l it to the clouds:
but i f the poor m an speak th ey say, W h a t fe llo w is this? And
i f he stum ble, th ey w ill help to o verth ro w him .
24. R ich es are good unto h im that hath no sin, and pov­
erty is evil in the m o u th o f the ungodly.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 625
25. The heart o f a m an changeth his countenance,
whether it be fo r good or e v il: and a m erry heart m aketh a
cheerful countenance..
26. A ch eerfu l countenance is a token o f a heart that is
in prosperity; and the fin d in g out o f parables is a wearisom e
labour o f the m ind.
CHAPTER XIV
1. A good conscience m a keth m en happy. 6. The nig­
gard doeth good to none. 13. B u t do thou good. 20. M en
are happy that d ra w near to w isdom .
1. B L E S S E D is the m an that hath not slipped w ith
his mouth, and is n o t p ricked w ith the m ultitude o f sins.
2. Blessed is he w hose conscience hath not condem ned
him, and w ho is no t fa llen fr o m his hope in the Lord.
3. R iches are n o t com ely fo r a niggard: and w hat
should an envious m an do w ith his m o n ey?
4. H e that gath ereth by defrauding his own soul,
gathereth fo r others, that shall spend his goods riotously.
5. H e that is evil to h im self, to w hom w ill he be good?
Be shall not take pleasure in his goods.
6. There is none w orse than he that envieth h im self;
<
snd this is a recom pense o f his w ickedness.
7. A n d i f he d oeth good, he doeth it unw illingly; and
at the last he w ill decalre his w ickedness.
8. The envious m an hath a w icked eye; he turneth away
bis face, and despiscth m en.
626 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
9. A co vetous m an’s eye is no t satisfied w ith his portion;
and the in iq u ity o f the w icked d rieth up his soul.
10. A w icked eye en vieth (h is) bread, and he is a niggard
at his table.
11. M y son, according to th y ability do good to thyself,
and give the L o rd his due offering.
12. R em em b er that death w ill not be long in coming, and
that the covenant o f the grave is no t sh ew ed unto thee.
13. D o good unto th ey fr ie n d b efo re thou die, and ac­
cording to th y ability stretch out th y hand and give to him.
14. D efra u d not th y s e lf o f the good day, and let not the
part o f a good desire overpass thee.
15. S h a lt thou n o t leave th y travails unto another? and
th y labours to be d ivid ed by lot?
16. G ive, and take, and sa n c tify th y so u l; fo r there is no
seeking o f dainties in the grave.
17. A ll flesh w a x e th old as a g a rm en t: fo r the covenant
fr o m the beginning is, T h o u shalt die the death.
18. A s o f the green leaves on a thick tree, som e fall, and
som e g ro w ; so is the generation o f flesh and blood, one cometh
to an end, and another is born.
19. E v e ry w o rk ro tteth and co n su m eth away, and the
w o rker th ereo f shall go w ithal.
20. B lessed is the m an that doth m editate good things in
w isdom , and that reasoneth o f holy things by his under­
standing.
21. H e that considereth her w a ys in his heart shall also
have understanding in her secrets.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 627
22. Go a fte r her as one that tracetli, and lie in w ait in
her ways.
23. H e that p ryeth in at her w in d o w s shall also hearken
at .her doors.
24. H e that do th lodge near her house shall also fasten
a pin in her walls..
25. H e shall p itch his ten t nigh unto her, and shall
lodge in a lodging w h ere good things are.
26. H e shall set his children under her shelter, and shall
lodge under her branches.
27. B y her he shall be covered fro m heat, and in her glory
shall he dwell.
C H A P T E R X V
2. W isdom em braceth those that fe a r God. 7. The w icked
shall not get her. 11. W e m ay not charge God w ith our faults:
for He made and le ft u s to ourselves.
1. H E that f caretIt the L o rd w ill do good; and he that
hath the know ledge o f the law shall obtain her.
2. A n d as a m o th er shall she m eet him , and receive him
as a wife m arried o f a virgin.
3. W ith the bread o f understanding shall she feed him ,
and give him the w a ter o f w isd o m to drink.
4. H e shall be stayed upon her, and shall not be m oved,
and shall rely upon her, and shall not be confounded.
5. She shall exalt him above his neighbours, and in
niidst o f the congregation shall she open his m outh.
628 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
6. H e shall fin d jo y and a crow n o f gladness, and she
shall cause h im to in h erit an everlasting nam e.
7. B u t fo o lish m en shall no t attain unto her, and sinners
shall not see her.
8. F o r she is fa r fr o m pride, and m en that are liars
cannot rem em b er her.
9. P raise is n o t seem ly in the m o u th o f a sinner, for it
w as not sen t h im o f the L ord.
10. F o r praise shall be u ttered in w isdom , and the Lord
w ill prosper it.
11. S a y not thou, I t is th ro u g h the L o rd that I fell away:
fo r thou ou g h test no t to do the things that he hateth.
12. S a y no thou, H e hath caused m e to err: fo r he hath
no need o f the s in fid m an.
13. T h e L o rd h a teth all a b o m ination; and they that fear
G od love it not.
14. H e h im se lf m ade m an fr o m the beginning, and left
him in the hand o f his counsel;
15. I f thou w ilt, to keep the com m andm ents, and to per­
fo r m acceptable fa ith fu ln ess.
16. H e hath set fire and w a ter befo re thee: stretch forth
th y hand unto w h eth er thou w ilt.
17. B e fo re m an is life and d ea th ; and w hether him liketh
shall be g iven him .
18. F o r the w isd o m o f the L o rd is great, and he is mighty
in pow er, and beholdeth all things:
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 629
19. A n d his eyes are u pon them that fea r him , and he
knoweth every w o rk o f m an.
20. H e hath com m anded no m an to do w ickedly, neither
hath he given any m an license to sin.
C H A P T E R X V I
1. It is better to have none, than m any lew d children.
6. The w icked are n o t spared fo r their num ber. 12. B oth the
wrath and the m ercy o f the L o rd are great. 17. The w icked
cannot be hid. 20. G od’s w o rk s are unsearchable.
1. D E S IR E no t a m u ltitu d e o f unprofitable children,
neither delight in un g o d ly sons.
2. Though th ey m u ltip ly, rejoice not in them , except the
fear of the L o rd be w ith them .
3. T rust not thou in th eir life, neither respect their
multitude: fo r one th a t is ju s t is better than thousand, and
better it is to die w ith o u t children, than to have them that arc
ungodly.
4. For by one that hath understanding shall the city be
replenished; but the kin d red o f the w icked shall speedily bi
come desolate.
5. M any such th in g s have I seen w ith m ine eyes, and
mine ears hath heard greater things than these.
6. In the congregation o f the ungodly shall a fire be
kindled; and in a rebellious nation w rath is set on fire.
7. H e w as not pacified tow ard the old giants w ho fell
away in the strength o f th eir foolishness.
630 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
8. N e ith e r spared he the place w here L o t sojourned, but
abhorred them fo r their pride.
9. H e pitied not the people o f perdition, w ho were taken
aw ay in their sins:
10. N o r the s ix h u n d red thousand fo o tm en , who were
gathered to g eth er in the hardness o f their hearts.
11. A n d i f there be one stiff-n ecked am ong the people, it
is m arvel i f he escape u n p u n ish e d : fo r m ercy and wrath are
w ith h im ; he is m ig h ty to fo rg iv e , and to pour our displeasure.
12. A s his m ercy is great, so is h is correction also: he
ju d g eth a m an according to his w orks.
13. T he sin n er shall n o t escape w ith his spoils: and the
patience o f the godly shall n o t be fru stra te.
14. M a ke w a y fo r every w o rk o f m ercy: fo r every man
shall find according to h is w orks.
15. T h e L o rd hardened P haraoh, that he should not know
him , that his p o w e rfu l w o rk s m ig h t be kn o w n to the world.
16. H is m ercy is m a n ifest to every creature; and he hath
separated his light fr o m the d a rkn ess w ith an adamant.
17. S a y not thou, I w ill hide m y se lf fr o m the Lord: shall
any rem em b er m e fr o m above? I shall not be remembered
am ong so m any people: fo r w h a t is m y soul among such an
infinite n u m b er o f creatures?
18. B ehold, the heaven, and the heaven o f heavens, tin
deep, and the earth, and all that therein is, shall be moved
w hen he shall visit.
19. T he m ountains also and fo u n d a tio n s o f the earth shall
be shaken w ith trem bling, w h en the L o rd looketh upon them.
n
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 631
20. N o heart can th in k upon these things w orthily: and
who is able to conceive his w ays?
21. It is a tem pest w hich no m an can see: fo r the most
fart of his w o rks are hid.
22. W ho can declare the w o rks o f his justice? or who
can endure them ? fo r his covenant is a fa r off, and the trial o f
all things is in the end.
23. H e that w a n teth understanding, w ill think upon vain
things: and a foolish m an erring, im agineth follies.
24. M y son, hearken unto m e, and learn knowledge, and
mark my w ords w ith th y heart.
25. I will sh o w fo r th doctrine in w eight, and declare his
knowledge exactly.
26. The w o rks o f the L o rd are done in judgm ent fro m
the beginning: and fr o m the tim e lie m ade them he disposed
the parts thereof.
27. H e garnished his w o rk s fo r ever, and in his hand are
the chief o f them unto all generations: they neither labour,
nor are weary, nor cease fro m their w orks.
28. N one o f them hindereth another, and they shall
never disobey his w ord.
29. A fte r this the L o rd looked upon the earth, and filled
it with his blessings.
30. W ith all m anner o f living things hath he covered the
face thereof; and th ey shall return unto it again.
C H A P T E R X V II
1. H ow God created and fu rn ish ed man. 14. ' j z 0 '
»n; for God seeth all things. 25. T u rn to him w hile thou
livest.
632 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
1. T H E L o rd created m an o f the earth, and turned him
into it again.
2. H e gave th em fe w days, and a sh o rt tim e, and power
also over the things therein.
3. H e endued th em w ith stren g th by them selves, and
m ade them according to his im age,
4. A n d p u t the fe a r o f m an u pon all flesh, and gave him
dom inion over beasts and fo w ls.
5. T h ey received the use o f the five operations of the
L o rd , and in the s ix th place he im p a rted th em understanding,
and in the seven th speech, an in terp reter o f the cogitations
thereof.
6. C ounsel, and a tongue, and eyes, ears, and a heart,
gave he th em to understand.
7. W ith a l he filled th em w ith the know ledge o f under­
standing, and sh ew ed th em good and evil.
8. H e set his eye upo n th eir hearts, that he m ight shew
them the greatness o f his w orks.
9. H e gave th em to g lory in h is m arvellous acts fo r ever,
that th ey m ig h t declare his w o rk s w ith understanding.
10. A n d the elect shall praise his holy nam e.
11. B esid es this he gave th em know ledge, and the law of
life fo r a heritage.
12. H e m ade an everlasting covenant w ith them, and
shew ed them his ju d g m en ts.
13. T h eir eyes saw the m a jesty o f h is glory, and their
ears heard his glorious voice.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 633
14. A n d he said un to them , B ew are o f all unrighteous­
ness; and he gave every m an com m andm ent concerning his
neighbour.
15. Their w a ys are ever before him , and shall not be hid
from his eyes.
16. E very m an fr o m his y o u th is given to evil; neither
could they m ake to them selves fleshly hearts fo r stony.
17. For in the d ivisio n o f the nations o f the w hole earth,
he set a ruler over every people; but Israel is the L o rd ’s
portion:
18. W hom , being his first-born, he nourisheth w ith disci­
pline, and, giving h im the light o f his love, doth not forsake
him.
19. T h erefo re all th eir w o rk s are as the sun before him ,
and his eyes are co n tinually upon th eir w ays.
20. N one o f their u n rig h teo u s deeds are hid fro m him ,
but all their sins are b efo re the L ord.
21. B u t the L o rd being gracious, and know ing his w o rk­
manship, neither le ft n o r fo rso o k them , but spared them.
22. The alm s o f a m an is as a signet w ith him , and he
will keep the good deeds o f m an as the apple o f the eye,
and give repentance to his sons and daughters.
23. A fte rw a rd he w ill rise up and rew ard them , and ren
der their recom pense u p o n th eir heads.
24. B u t unto th em that repent, he granted them return,
and com forted those that fa iled in patience.
25. R etu rn unto the L o rd , and forsake thy sins, m ak
thy prayer before his face, and offend less.
634 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
26. T u rn again to the M o st H ig h , and turn away from
in iq u ity: fo r he w ill lead thee out o f darkness into the light
o f h ealth; and hate thou abom ination vehem ently.
27. W h o shall praise the M o st H ig h in the grave, instead
o f them w hich live and give thanks?
28. T h a n ksg ivin g perisheth fr o m the dead, as from one
that is n ot: the living and so u n d in heart shall praise the Lord.
29. H o w great is the lo vin g -kin d n ess o f the Lord our
God, and his com passion unto such as turn unto him in
holiness!
30. F o r all things cannot be in m an, because the son of
m an is not im m ortal.
31. W h a t is brighter than the sun? yet the light thereof
fa ileth : and flesh and blood w ill im agine evil.
32. H e view eth the p o w er o f the height o f heaven, and
all m en are but earth and ashes.
C H A P T E R X V III
4. G od’s w o rk s are to be w o n d ered at. 9. M an’s life is
short. 11. G od is m ercifu l. 15. D o no t blem ish thy good
deeds w ith ill w ords. 22. D e fe r no t to be justified. 30. Follow
not thy lusts.
1. H E that liveth fo re v e r created all things in general.
2. T he L o rd only is righteous, and there is none other
but he.
3. W h o governeth the w o rld w ith the palm o f his hand,
and all things obey his w ill: fo r he is the K in g o f all, by his
p ow er dividing holy th in g s am ong them fr o m profane.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 635
4. To w hom hath he g iven p ow er to declare his w orks?
and who shall find out his noble acts?
«
5. W ho shall n u m b er the stren g th o f his m ajesty? and
who shall also tell out his m ercies?
6. A s fo r the w o n d ro u s w o rks o f the L ord, there m ay
nothing be taken fr o m them , neither m ay anything be put
unto them, neither can the g ro u n d o f them be fo u n d out.
7. W hen a m an hath done, then he beginneth; and w hen
he leaveth off, then he shall be doubtful.
8. W hat is m an, and w hereto serveth he? w hat is his
good and w hat is his evil?
9. The nu m b er o f a m an’s days at the m ost are a
hundred years.
10. A s a drop o f w a ter unto the sea, and a gravel-stone
in comparison o f the sa n d ; so are a thousand years to the
days of eternity.
11. T herefore is G od patient w ith them , and poureth
forth liis m ercy upon them .
12. H e saw and perceived their end to be evil; therefore
he multiplied h is com passion.
13. The m ercy o f a m an is tow ard his neighbour; but the
mercy of the L o rd is upon all flesh: he reproveth, and nur-
tureth, and tcacheth, and bringeth again, as a shepherd his
flock.
14. H e hath m ercy on them that receive discipline, and
diligently seek a fte r his ju d g m en ts.
15. M y son, blem ish no t th y good deeds, neither use unc­
omfortable w ords w h en thou givest any thing.
636 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
16. S h a ll n o t the d ew assuage the h e a tf so is a word
better than a g ift.
»
17. L o , is not a w o rd b etter than a g ift? but both are
w ith a gracious m an.
18. A fo o l w ill upbraid churlishly, and a g ift o f the en­
vio u s co n su m eth the eyes.
19. L ea rn b efo re th o u speak, and use physic or ever
th o u be sick.
20. B e fo re ju d g m e n t exa m in e th yself, and in the day of
visita tio n th o u sh a lt fin d m ercy.
21. H u m b le th y se lf b efo re th o u be sick, and in the time
o f sins sh ew repentance.
22. L e t no th in g h in d er thee to pay th y vo w in due time,
and d e fe r no t u n til d eath to be ju stified .
23. B e fo re thou prayest, prepare th y s e lf; and be not as
one that tem p teth the L o rd .
24. T h in k upon the w ra th th a t shall be at the end, and
the tim e o f vengeance, w h en he shall tu rn aw ay his face.
25. W h en thou hast enough, rem em b er the time of hun­
ger: and w h en thou art rich, th in k u p o n p o verty and need.
26. F ro m the m orn in g u n til the evening the time is
changed, and all th in g s are soon done before the Lord.
27. A w ise m an w ill fe a r in every thing, and in the day
o f sinning he w ill bew are o f offence: but a fo o l will not ob­
serve tim e.
28. E v e ry m an o f u n d erstanding kn o w eth wisdom, and
w ill give praise unto him that fo u n d her.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 637
29. They that w ere o f understanding in sayings, became
also wise them selves, and poured fo r th exquisite parables.
30. Go not a fte r th y lusts, but refra in th yself fro m thine
appetites.
31. I f thou givest th y soul the desires that please her, she
mil make thee a laughing-stock to thine enem ines that malign
thee.
32. Take not pleasure in m uch good cheer, neither be
tied to the expense th ereof.
33. Be not m ade a beggar by banqueting upon borrowing,
when thou hast nothing in th y purse: fo r thou shalt lie in w ait
for thine own life, and be talked on.
C H A P T E R X IX
2. W ine and w o m en seduce w ise men. 7. Say not all
thou hearest. 17. R ep ro ve th y frie n d w ith o u t anger. 22. There
w no wisdom in w ickedness.
1. A L A B O U R IN G m an that is given to drunkenness
shall not be rich: and he th a t contem neth sm all things shall
fall by little and little.
2. W ine and w o m en w ill m ake m en o f understanding to
fall away: and he that cleaveth to harlots w ill become im pu­
dent.
3. M oths and w o rm s shall have him to heritage, and a
hold man shall be taken aw ay.
4- H e that is h asty to give credit is light-m inded ; and
he that sinneth shall o ffen d against his ow n soul.
638 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
5. W h o so taketh pleasure in w ickedness shall be con­
d em n ed : but he that resisteth pleasures crow neth his life.
6. H e that can rule his tongue shall live w ithout strife;
and he that hateth babbling shall have less evil.
7. R ehearse not unto a n other that w hich is told unto
thee,and. thou shalt fa re n ever the w orse.
8. W h e th e r it be to a fr ie n d or fo e , talk not o f other
m en’s lives; and i f th o u const w ith o u t offence, reveal them not.
9. F o r he heard and observed thee, and when time
com eth he w ill hate thee.
10. I f thou hast heard a w o rd , let it die w ith thee; and
be bold, it w ill not b u rst tliee.
11. A fo o l travaileth w ith a w ord, as a w om an in labour
o f a child.
12. A s an arrow that sticketh in a m an’s thigh, so is a
w o rd w ith in a fo o l’s belly.
13. A d m o n ish a frie n d , it m ay be he hath not done it:
and i f he have done it, that he do it no m ore.
14. A d m o n ish th y frie n d , it m ay be he hath not said it:
and if he have that he speak it not again.
15. A d m o n ish a frie n d : fo r m a n y tim es it is a slander,
and believe not every tale.
16. T here is one that slippeth in his speech, but not from
his heart; and w ho is he that hath not offended with Ins
to n g u e?
17. A d m o n ish thy neighbour b efo re thou threaten him.
and not being angry, give place to the law o f the M ost High.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 639
18. The fe a r o f the L o rd is the first step to be accepted
(of him), and w isd o m obtaineth his love.
19. The know ledge o f the com m andm ents o f the L ord is
the doctrine o f life : and th ey that do things that please him
shall receive the fr u it o f the tree o f im m ortality.
20. The fe a r o f the L o rd is all w isdom ; and in all w is­
dom is the p erform ance o f the law , and the know ledge o f his
omnipotency.
21. I f a serva n t say to his m aster, I w ill not do as it
pleaseth thee; though a fte rw a rd he do it, he angereth him
that nourisheth him .
22. The know ledge o f w ickedness is not w isdom , neither
at any time the counsel o f sin n ers prudence.
23. There is a w ickedness, and the sam e an abom ination;
and there is a fo o l w a n tin g in w isdom .
24. H e that hath sm all understanding, and feareth God,
is better than one th a t hath m uch w isdom , and transgresseth
the law o f the M o st H igh.
25. There is an exq u isite su btilty, and the sam e is un ju st;
and there is one that tu rn eth aside to m ake judgm ent appear;
and there is a w ise m an that ju stifieth in judgm ent.
26. There is a w icked m an that hangeth dow n his head
sadly; but inw ardly he is fu ll o f deceit.
27. Casting dozvn his countenance, and m aking as if he
beard not: w here he is not kn o w n , he w ill do thee a m ischief
before thou be aware.
28. A n d if fo r w a n t o f p ow er he be hindered fro m sin-
nxng, yet w hen he fn d e th op p o rtu n ity he w ill do evil.
640 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
29. A m an m ay be kn o w n by his look, and one that hath
understanding by h is countenance, w h en thou meetest him.
30. A m an’s attire, and excessive laughter, and gait, shew
w h a t he is.
C H A P T E R X X
1. O f silence and speaking. 10. O f g ifts and gai
O f slipping by the tongue. 24. O f lying. 27. O f divers cau­
tions.
1. T H E R E is a rep ro o f th a t is n o t com ely: again, some
m an holdeth his tongue, and he is w ise.
2. I t is m uch better to reprove, than to be angry secret­
ly: and he that co n fesseth his fa u lt shall be preserved from
hurt.
3. H o w good is it, w h en th o u art reproved, to shew re­
pentance: fo r so shalt thou escape w ilfu l sin.
4. A s is the lu st o f an eunuch to deflow er a virgin: so
is he that execu teth ju d g m e n t w ith violence.
5. T h ere is one that keep eth silence, and is found wise:
and another by m uch babbling becom eth hateful.
6. S o m e m an ho ld eth his tongue, because he hath not
to answ er: and som e keepeth silence, kn o w in g his time.
7. A w ise m an w ill hold his tongue, till he sees oppor­
tu n ity: but a babbler and a fo o l w ill regard no time.
8. H e that u seth m any w o rd s shall be abhorred; and In
that taketh to h im se lf a u th o rity therein shall be hated.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 641
9. There is a sinner that hath good success in evil things;
and there is a gain that tu rn eth to loss.
10. There is a g ift th a t shall no t profit thee: and there is
a gift whose recom pense is double.
11. There is an abasem ent because o f glory; and there
is that lifteth up his head fr o m a low estate.
12. There is that buyeth m uch fo r a little, and repayeth
it sevenfold.
13. A w ise m an by his w o rd s m aketh him self beloved:
but the graces o f fo o ls shall be poured out.
14. The g ift o f a fo o l shall do thee no good w hen thou
hast it; neither yet o f the envious fo r his necessity: fo r he
looketh to receive m a n y th in g s fo r one.
15. H e giveth little, and upbraideth m uch; he openeth
his mouth like a crier; to-day he lendeth, and to-m orrow will
he ask it again: such a one is to be hated o f God and man.
16. The fo o l saith, I have no frien d s, I have no thanks fo r
all my good deeds, and th ey th a t eat m y bread speak evil o f me.
17. H ow o ft, and o f h o w m any shall he be laughed to
scorn! fo r he kn o w eth no t aright w hat it is to have; and it
is all one unto him as i f he had it not.
18. To slip upon a p a vem en t is better than to slip w ith
the tongue: so the fa ll o f the w icked shall come speedily.
19. A n unseasonable tale w ill alw ays be in the m outh o f
the unwise.
20. A w ise sentence shall be rejected w hen it com eth out
°f a fool’s m o u th ; fo r he w ill not speak it in due season.
642 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
21. T h ere is th a t is hin d ered fr o m sinning through want:
and w h en he ta keth rest, he shall not be troubled.
22. T h ere is that d estro yeth his ow n sold through bash­
fu ln ess, and by accepting o f p ersons overth ro w eth himself.
23. T h ere is th a t fo r b a sh fu ln ess prom iseth to his friend,
and m a keth his en em y fo r nothing.
24. A lie is a fo u l blot in a m an, y e t it is continually in
the m o u th o f the untaught.
25. A th ie f is better than a m an that is accustomed to lie:
bu t th ey both shall have d estru ctio n to heritage.
26. T h e d isposition o f a liar is dishonourable, and his
sham e is ever w ith him .
27. A w ise m an shall p ro m o te h im se lf to honour with his
w o rd s: and he th a t hath und ersta n d in g w ill please great men.
28. H e that tilleth his land shall increase his heap: and
he that pleaseth great m en shall get pardon fo r iniquity.
29. P resen ts and g ifts blind the eyes o f the wise and stop
up his m o u th that he cannot reprove.
30. W isd o m that is hid, and treasure that is hoarded up,
w h a t profit is in th em both?
31. B e tte r is he that h ideth his fo lly than a man that
hideth his w isdom .
32. N ecessa ry patience in seeking the L o rd is better than
he that leadeth his life w ith o u t a guide.
C H A P T E R X X I
2. F lee fr o m sin as fr o m a serpent. 4. H is oppre
uhll undo the rich. 9. T h e end o f the u n ju st shall be naught-
12. T h e d ifferen ces betw een the fo o l and the wise.
A P O C R Y P H A S C R IPT U R E 643
1. M Y son, hast th o u sin n ed ? do so no more, hut ask
pardon fo r thy fo r m e r sins.
2. Flee fr o m sin as fr o m the face o f a serpent: fo r if
thou contest too near it, it w ill bite thee: the teeth thereof
are as the teeth o f a lion, slaying the souls o f men.
3. A ll iniq u ity is as a tw o-edged sw ord, the w ounds
whereof cannot be healed.
A. To te rrify and do w ro n g w ill w aste riches: thus the
house o f proud m en shall be m ade desolate.
5. P rayer out o f a poor m an’s m outh reacheth to the
ears of God, and his ju d g m e n t com eth speedily.
6. H e that hateth to be reproved is in the w ay o f sinners;
but he that fea reth the L o rd w ill repent fro m his heart.
7. A n eloquent m an is kn o w n fa r and near; but a man
of understanding kn o w eth w h en he slippeth.
8. H e that buildeth his house w ith other m en’s m oney
is like one that g athereth h im se lf stones fo r the tom b o f his
burial.
9. The congregation o f the w icked is like two w rapped
together: and the end o f them is a flam e o f fire to destroy
them.
10. The w ay o f sin n ers is m ade plain w ith stones, but
ot the end thereo f is the p it o f hell.
11. H e that keepeth the law o f the L o rd getteth the un ­
derstanding th ereo f: and the p erfectio n o f the fea r o f the
hard is wisdom .
12. H e that is not w ise w ill not be taught: but there is a
wisdom w hich m u ltiplieth bitterness.
644 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
13. T h e kn o w led g e o f a w ise m an shall abound like a
flood: and h is counsel is like a pure fo u n ta in o f life.
14. T h e in n er p a rts o f a fo o l are like a broken vessel,
and he w ill hold no kn o w led g e as long as he liveth.
15. I f a s k illfu l m an hear a w ise w o rd , he will commend
it and add un to it: bu t as soon as one o f no understanding
heareth it, it displeaseth him , and he casteth it behind his back.
16. T h e talking o f a fo o l is like a burden in the way:
but grace shall be fo u n d in the lips o f the w ise.
17. T h e y inquire at the m o u th o f the w ise man in the
congregation, and th ey shall p o n d er his w o rd s in their heart.
18. A s a house th a t is d estro yed , so is w isdom to a fool:
and the know ledge o f the u n w ise is as talk w ithout sense.
19. D octrine un to fo o ls is a fe tte r s on the feet, and like
m anacles on the rig h t hand.
20. A fo o l lifte th up h is voice w ith laughter; but a wise
m an d o th scarce sm ile a little.
21. L ea rn in g is unto a w ise m an as an ornam ent o f gold,
and like a bracelet upo n h is rig h t arm .
22. A fo o lish m an’s fo o t is soon in his ( neighbour’s)
house: but a m an o f experience is asham ed o f him.
23. A fo o l w ill peep in at the do o r into the house: but
he that is w ell n u rtu re d w ill sta n d w ith o u t.
24. I t is the ru d en ess o f a m an to hearken at the door,
but a w ise m an w ill be g rieved w ith the disgrace.
25. T h e lips o f talkers w ill be telling such things as per­
tain not unto th em : b u t the w o rd s o f such as have under
standing are w eig h ed in the balance.
■
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 645
26. The heart o f fo o ls is in their m outh: but the m outh
of the wise is in th eir heart.
27. W hen the u n g o d ly curseth Satan, he curseth his own
soul.
28. A w hisperer defileth his ow n soul, and is hated w here­
soever he d w e lle d .
C H A P T E R X X II
1 .0 / the slo th fu l m an, and a foolish daughter. 11. W eep
rather fo r fools, than fo r the dead. 13. M eddle not w ith them.
16. The wise m an’s heart w ill n o t shrink.
1. A S L O T H F U L m an is com pared to a filthy stone,
and every one w ill hiss h im out to his disgrace.
2. A slo th fu l m an is com pared to the filth o f a dunghill:
every man that takes it up w ill shake his hand.
3. A n evil-n u rtu red son is the dishonour o f his fa th er
that begat him : and a (fo o lish ) daughter is born to his loss.
4. A w ise d aughter shall bring an inheritance to her
husband: but she that liveth dishonestly is her fa th e r s heavi­
ness.
5. She that is bold d ish o n o u re d both her fa th er and her
husband, but th y both shall despise her.
6. A tale out o f season (is as) m usic in tnouring.
stripes and correction o f w isd o m are never out o f tim e
7. W hoso teacheth a fo o l is as one that glueth a pots­
herd together, and as he that w a keth one fro m a soun
646 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
8. H e th a t telleth a tale to a fo o l speaketh to one in a
slum ber: w h en he hath told h is tale he w ill say, ‘W hat is the
m a tte r?’
9. I f children live h o n estly, and have w herew ithal, they
shall cover the baseness o f th eir parents.
10. B u t children, being ha u g h ty, through disdain and want
o f n u rtu re do stain the nobility o f th eir kindred.
11. W eep fo r the dead, fo r he ha th lost the light: and
w eep fo r the fo o l, fo r he w a n teth understanding: make little
w eeping fo r the dead, fo r h e is at rest: but the life o f the fool
is w orse than death.
12. S e v e n days do m en m o u rn fo r h im that is dead; but
fo r a fo o l and an u n g o d ly m an all the d a ys o f his life.
13. T a lk not m uch w ith a fo o l, and go not to him that
hath no u n d ersta n d in g : bew are o f him , lest thou have trouble,
and th o u shalt n ever be defiled w ith his foo leries: depart from
him , and th o u shalt fin d rest, and n ever be disquieted with
m adness.
14. W h a t is h eavier than lead? and w h a t is the name
th ereo f, but a fo o l?
15. S a n d , and salt, and a m ass o f iron, is easier to bear
than a m an w ith o u t understanding.
16. A s tim b er g irt and bound together in a building can­
not be loosed w ith sh a kin g : so the heart that is established by
advised counsel shall fe a r at no tim e.
17. A heart settled upon a th o u g h t o f understanding is os
a fa ir plastering on the w all o f a gallery.
18. P oles set on a high place w ill never stand against the
w in d : so a fe a r fu l heart in the im agination o f a fool cannot
sta n d against any fea r.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 647
19. H e that p ricketh the eye w ill m ake tears fall: and he
that pricketh the heart m a keth it to shew her knowledge.
20. W hoso casteth a stone at the birds fra yeth them aw ay:
and he that upbraideth his frie n d breaketh friendship.
21. Though thou d rew est a sw ord at thy friend, yet
despair not: fo r there m a y be a returning (to fa vo u r).
22. I f thou hast opened th y m outh against thy friend, fear
not; for there m ay be a reconciliation: except fo r upbraiding,
or pride, or disclosing o f secrets, or a treacherous w ound:
for these things every fr ie n d w ill depart.
23. Be fa ith fu l to th y neighbour in his poverty, that thou
mayest rejoice in his p ro sp e rity : abide steadfast unto him
in the time o f his trouble, that thou m ayest be heir w ith him
in his heritage: fo r a m ean estate is not alw ays to be contem ­
ned: nor the rich th a t is fo o lish to be had in admiration.
24. A s the va p o u r and sm oke o f a furnace goeth before
the fire; so reviling b efo re blood.
25. I w ill no t be asham ed to defen d a frien d ; neither
w ll I hide m y se lf fr o m him .
26. A n d i f any evil happen unto m e by him , every one
that heareth it w ill bew are o f him .
27. W ho shall set a w atch before m y m outh, and a seal
of wisdom upon m y lips, that I fa ll not suddenly by them,
and that m y tongue d estro y m e n o t?
CHAPTER XXIII
, . , Q W e m ay not use
1. A p ra y e r.fo r grace to flee sin. ■ ^ ^
swearing; but rem em b er our parents. 1 0 . j
sin. 23. T he adulterous w ife sinneth m any ways.
648 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
1. O L O R D , F a th er and G overnor o f all m y whole life,
leave m e no t to th eir counsels, and let m e no t fa ll by them.
2. W h o w ill set scourges over m y thoughts, and the
discipline o f w isd o m over m y h ea rt? that they spare me not
fo r m ine ignorances, and it pass no t by m y sins:
3. L e s t m ine ignorances increase, and m y sins abound
to m y d estruction, and I fa ll b efo re m ine adversaries, and
m ine en em y rejoice over m e, w h o se hope is fa r from thy
m ercy.
4. 0 L o rd , F a th er and G od o f m y life, give me not a
proud look, bu t tu rn aw ay fr o m th y serva n ts alw ays a haugh­
ty m ind.
5. T u rn aw ay fr o m m e va in hopes and concupiscense,
and thou shalt hold h im up that is desirous always to serve
thee.
6. L e t not the greediness o f the belly nor lust of the
flesh take hold o f m e; and give n o t over m e thy servant into
an im p u d en t m ind.
7. H ea r, O ye children, the discipline o f the mouth: he
that keepeth it shall n ever be ta ken in h is lips.
8. T h e sin n er shall be le ft in his fo o lish n ess; both the
evil speaker and the pro u d shall fa ll thereby.
9. A ccu sto m n o t th y m o u th to sw earing; neither use
th y se lf to the nam ing o f the H o ly O ne.
10. F o r as a serva n t that is continually beaten shall not
be w ith o u t a blue m a rk ; so he th a t sw eareth and nameth God
continually shall n o t be fa u ltless.
11. A m an that u seth m u ch sw earing shall be filled with
iniquity, and the plague shall n ever d epart fro m his house,
if he shall offend, his sin shall be upo n h im : and if he acknow
— ' v v :;,.-nn
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 649
ledge not his sin, he m a keth a double offence; and if he swear
in vain, he shall n o t be innocent, but his house shall be fu ll
of calamities.
12. There is a w o rd that is clothed about w ith death:
God grant that it be n o t fo u n d in the heritage o f Jacob; fo r
all such things shall be fa r fr o m the godly, and they shall
not wallow in th eir sins.
13. Use not th y m o u th to intem perate swearing, fo r there­
in is the w ord o f sin.
14. R em em b er th y fa th e r and thy m other, w hen thou
sittest among great m en. B e no t fo rg e tfu l before them, and
so thou by thy custom becom e a fo ol, and w ish that thou
hadst not been born, and curse the day o f thy nativity.
15. The m an that is accustom ed to opprobrious w ords
will never be refo rm ed all the days o f his life.
16. Tw o so rts o f m en out m ultiply sin, and the third
will bring w rath: a h o t m in d is as a burning fire, it w ill never
he quenched till it be co n su m ed : a fornicator in the body o f
his flesh w ill never cease till he hath kindled a fire.
17. A ll bread is sw eet to a w horem onger, he w ill not leave
off till he die.
18. A m an that breaketh w edlock, saying thus in his
heart, W ho seeth m e? I am com passed about w ith darkness,
the walls cover m e, and no body seeth m e; w hat need I to
fear? the M o st H ig h w ill no t rem em ber m y sins:
19. Such a m an only fea reth the eyes o f men, and know -
eth not that the eyes o f the L o rd are ten thousand tim es
brighter than the sun, beholding all the w ays o f men, and con­
sidering the m o st secret parts.
20. H e kn ew all things ere ever they w ere created, also
after they w ere p erfected he looked upon them all.
650 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
21. T h is m an shall be p u n ish ed in the streets o f the city,
w h ere he su sp ecteth not he shall be taken.
22. T h u s shall it go also w ith the w ife that leaveth her
husband, and bringeth in an heir by another.
23. F o r first, she hath disobeyed the law o f the Most
H ig h ; and secondly, she hath trespassed against her own hus­
band: and th ird ly, she hath played the w hore in adultery, and
brought children by a nother m an.
24. S h e shall be brought out into the congregation, and
in q u isition shall be m ade o f h er children.
25. H e r children shall no t take root, and her branches
shall bring fo r th no fru it.
26. S h e shall leave h er m em o ry to be cursed, and her
reproach shall no t be blotted out.
27. A n d th ey that rem ain shall k n o w that there is nothing
better than the fe a r o f the L o rd , and that there is nothing
sw eeter than to take heed un to the com m andm ents o f the
L ord.
28. I t is great g lory to fo llo w the L o rd , and to be receiv­
ed o f him is long life.
C H A P T E R X X IV
1. W isd o m do th praise h erself, shew ing her beginni
her dw elling, her glory, h er fr u it, h er increase and perfection.
1. W IS D O M shall praise h erself, and shall glory in the
m id st o f her people.
2. In the congregation o f the M o st H ig h shall she open
her m o u th , and triu m p h befo re H is pow er.
■ H
l
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 651
3. I came out o f the m o u th o f the M ost H igh, and cov­
ered the earth as a cloud.
4. I dw elt in high places, and m y throne is in a cloudy
pillar.
5. I alone com passed the circuit o f heaven, and w alked in
the bottom o f the deep.
6. In the w a ves o f the sea, and in all the earth, and in
every people and nation, I g o t a possession.
7. W ith all these I so u g h t rest: and in whose inheritance
shall I abide?
8. So the C reater o f all things gave m e a com m andm ent,
and H e that m ade m e caused m y tabernacle to rest, and
said, L et thy dw elling be in Jacob, and thine inheritance in
Israel.
9. H e created m e fr o m the beginning before the world,
and I shall never fail.
10. In the holy tabernacle I served before him ; and so
‘
was I established in Sion.
11. L ikew ise in the beloved city he gave m e rest, and in
lerusalem w as m y pow er.
12. A n d I took root in an honourable people, even in the
portion o f the L o rd ’s inheritance.
13. I w as exalted like a cedar in Libanus, and as a cy­
press-tree upon the m o u n ta in s o f H erm on.
14. I w as exalted like a palm -tree in Engaddi, and as a
r°se-plant in Jericho, as a fa ir olive-tree in a pleasant field,
°nd grew up as a plane-tree by the w ater.
652 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
15. I gave a sw eet sm ell like cinnam on and aspalathus,
and I yield ed a pleasant odour like the best m yrrh, as gal-
banum , and o n y x , and sw eet sto ra x, and as the fu m e o f frank­
incense in the tabernacle.
16. A s the tu rp en tin e-tree I stretch ed out m y branches,
and m y branches are the branches o f h o n o u r and grace.
17. A s the vin e bro u g h t I fo r th a pleasant savour, and my
flo w ers are the fr u it o f h o n o u r and riches.
18. I am the m o th er o f fa ir love, and fea r, and knowledge,
and holy ho p e: I th erefo re, being eternal, am given to all my
children w h ich are nam ed o f him .
19. C om e un to m e, all ye th a t be desirous o f me, and fill
you rselves w ith m y fr u it.
20. F o r m y m em orial is sw eeter than honey, and mine in­
heritance than the honey-com b.
21. T h e y th a t eat m e shall y e t be hungry, and they that
d rin k m e shall y e t be thirsty.
22. H e that obeyeth m e shall n ever be confounded, and
they th a t w o rk by m e shall n o t do am iss.
23. A ll these th in g s are the book o f the covenant of the
M o st H ig h G od, even the law w h ich M o ses com m anded for a
heritage unto the congregations o f Jacob.
f
24. F a in t not to be stro n g in the L o rd : that H e may con­
firm you, cleave un to H im : fo r the L o rd A lm ig h ty is God
alone, and besides H im there is no o ther Saviour.
25. H e filleth all th in g s w ith H is w isdom , as Phison and
as T ig ris in the tim e o f the n ew fru its.
26. H e m a keth the understanding to abound like Eu­
phrates, and as Jordan in the tim e o f the harvest.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 653
27. H e m a keth the doctrine o f know ledge appear as the
light, and as G eon in the tim e o f vintage.
28. The first m an kn e w her not p erfectly: no more shall
the last find her out.
29. F or h er th o u g h ts are m ore than the sea, and her
counsels p ro fo u n d er than the great deep.
30. I also cam e ou t as a brook fro m a river, and as a
conduit into a garden.
31. I said, I w ill w a ter m y best garden, and w ill w ater
abundantly m y garden-bed: and lo, m y brook became a river,
and my river becam e a sea.
32. I w ill yet m ake a doctrine to shine as the m orning,
and will send fo r th her light afa r off.
33. I w ill yet p o u r out doctrine as prophecy, and leave it
to all ages fo r ever.
34. Behold that 1 have n o t laboured fo r m yself only, but
for all them that seek w isdom .
C H A P T E R X X V
1. W hat things are b ea u tifu l and w hat hateful. 6. W hat
is the crow n o f age. 7. W h a t things m ake m an happy. 13.
Nothing w orse than a w icked w om an.
1. I N three things I w as beautified, and stood up beauti­
ful both before G od and m e n : the u n ity o f brethren, the love
of neighbours, a m an and a w ife that agree together.
2. Three so rts o f m en m y soul liateth, and I am greatly
offended at their life : a poor m an that is proud, a rich m an
that is a liar, and an old adulterer that doteth.
654 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
3. I f th o u hast g a th ered noth in g in th y youth, how
thou find any thing in thine age?
4. 0 h o w com ely a thing is ju d g m e n t fo r gray hairs, and
fo r ancient m en to kn o w counsel!
5. O h o w com ely is the w isd o m o f old m en, and under­
standing and counsel to m en o f h o n o u r!
6. M u ch experience is the cro w n o f old m en, and the fear
o f G od is their glory.
7. T here be nine th in g s w hich I have ju d g ed in m y heart
to be happy, and the ten th I w ill u tte r w ith m y tongue: A man
th a t hath jo y o f his ch ild ren ; and he that liveth to see the fall
o f his en em y:
8. W e ll is h im that d w elleth w ith a w ife o f understanding,
and th a t hath not slipped w ith his tongue, and that hath not
served a m an m ore u n w o rth y than h im se lf:
9. W ell is h im that hath fo u n d prudence, and he that
speaketh in the ears o f them th a t hear.
10. O h o w great is he th a t findeth w isd o m ! yet is there
none above h im that fea retli the Lord.
11. B u t the love o f the L o rd passetli all things fo r il­
lum ination: he th a t ho ld eth it, w h ereto shall he be likened?
12. T he fe a r o f the L o rd is the beginning o f his love: and
fa ith is the beginning o f cleaving unto him .
13. (G ive m e) any plague, but the plague o f the heart,
and any w ickedness, but the w icked n ess o f a w om an:
14. A n d any affliction, bu t the affliction fro m them that
hate m e: and any revenge, but the revenge o f enemies.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 655
15. There is no head above the head o f a serpent; and
there is no w rath above the w ra th o f an enemy.
16. I had rather dw ell w ith a lion and a dragon, than to
keep house w ith a w icked w om an.
17. The w icked n ess o f a w om an changeth her face, and
darkeneth her countenance like sackcloth.
18. H er husband shall sit am ong his neighbors; and w hen
he heareth it shall sigh bitterly.
19. A ll w icked n ess is but little to the w ickedness o f a
woman, let the portion o f a sin n er fa ll upon her.
20. A s the clim bing o f a sandy w ay is to the fe e t o f the
aged, so is a w ife fu ll o f w o rd s to a quiet man.
21. Stum ble no t at the beauty o f a w om an, and desire her
not for pleasure.
22. A w om an, i f she m aintain her husband, is fu ll o f
anger, im pudence, and m uch reproach.
23. A w icked w om an abateth the courage, m aketh a heavy
countenance and a w o u n d ed heart: a w om an that w ill n o t
comfort her husband in d istress m aketh w eak hands and feeble
knees.
24. Give the w a ter no passage; neither a w icked wom an
liberty to gad abroad.
25. I f she go no t as thou w ouldest have her, cut her o ff
from thy flesh, and give her a bill o f divorce, and let her go.
C H A P T E R X X V I
1- A good w ife and a good conscience, do gladden men.
6. A wicked w ife is a fe a r fu l thing. 13. O f good and bad
656 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w ives. 28. O f three th in g s th a t are grievous. 29. Merchants
and h u cksters are n o t w ith o u t sin.
1. B L E S S E D is the m an th a t hath a virtuous wife, for
the n u m b er o f h is d a ys shall be double.
2. A v irtu o u s w o m a n rejoiceth h er husband, and he shall
fu lfil the yea rs o f his life in peace.
3. A good w ife is a good portion, w hich shall be given in
the po rtio n o f th em that fe a r the L o rd .
4. W h e th e r a m an be rich or poor, i f he have a good
heart to w a rd the L o rd , he shall at all tim es rejoice with a
ch eerfu l countenance.
5. T here be three th in g s th a t m y heart fea reth ; and for
the fo u r th I w as sore a fra id : the slander o f a city, and gather­
in g together o f an u n ru ly m u ltitu d e, and a fa lse accusation; all
these are w orse than death.
6. B u t a g r ie f o f h eart and so rro w is a wom an that is
jea lo u s over a nother w om an, and a scourge o f the tongue
w h ich co m m u n ica teth w ith all.
7. A n evil w ife is a yo ke sh a ken to and fr o : he that hath
hold o f her is as though he held a scorpion.
8. A d ru n ken w o m a n and a gadder abroad causeth great
anger, and she w ill n o t co ver her o w n sham e.
9. T h e w h o red o m o f a w o m a n m ay be know n in her
h aughty looks and eyelids.
10. I f th y d a u g h ter be sham eless, keep her in straitly, lest
she abuse h erself thro u g h o verm u ch liberty.
11. W a tch over an im p u d en t eye: and m arvel not if shL
trespasses against thee.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 657
12. She w ill open her m o n th as a thirsty traveller w hen
he hath fo u n d a fo u n ta in , and d rin k o f every w ater near her:
by every hedge she w ill sit dow n, and open her quiver against
every arrow.
13. The grace o f a w ife delighteth her husband, and her
discretion w ill fa tte n his bones.
14. A silent and loving w om an is a g ift o f the L o rd ; and
there is nothing so m uch w o rth as a m ind w ell instructed.
15. A sh am efaced and a fa ith fu l w om an is a double
grace, and her con tin en t m in d cannot be valued.
16. A s the su n w h en it ariseth in the high heaven; so is
the beauty o f a good w ife in the ordering o f her house.
17. A s the clear light is upon the holy candlestick; so is
the beauty o f the fa ce in ripe age.
18. A s the golden pillars are upon the sockets o f silver;
so are the fa ir fe e t w ith a constant heart.
19. M y son, keep the flo w er o f thine age sound; and give
not thy strength to strangers.
20. W h en thou hast g o tten a fr u itfu l possession through
all the field, so w it w ith thine ow n seed, trusting in the good­
ness of thy stock.
21. So th y race w h ich thou leavest shall be magnified,
having the confidence o f their good descent.
22. A harlot shall be accounted as spittle, but a married
woman is a to w er against death to her husband.
23. A w icked w o m a n is given as a portion to a w icked
wan: but a godly w o m a n is given to him that feareth the Lord.
658 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
24. A d ish o n est w o m a n co n tem n eth sham e: but an honest
w o m a n w ill reverence her husband.
25. A sham eless w o m a n shall be accounted as a dog; but
she that is sh a m efa ced w ill fe a r the L o rd .
26. A w o m a n th a t ho n o u reth her husband shall be judged
zvise o f all; but she that d ish o n o u reth h im in her pride shall
be counted un g o d ly o f all.
27. A loud crying w o m a n and a scold shall be sought out
to drive aw ay the enem ies.
28. T h ere be tw o th in g s that grieve m y heart; and the
third m a keth m e an g ry: a m an o f zvar that suffereth poverty;
and m en o f understanding th a t are no t set b y; and one that
retu rn eth fr o m rig hteousness to sin : the L o rd prepareth such
a one fo r the sw ord.
29. A m erchant shall h ardly keep h im se lf fro m doing
w ro n g : and a h u ckster shall no t be fre e d fr o m sin.
C H A P T E R X X V II
1. O f sin s in selling and buying. 7. O ur speech wil
w h a t is in us. 16. A fr ie n d is lost by discovering his secrets.
25. H e that diggeth a p it shall fa ll into it.
1. M A N Y have sin n ed fo r a sm all m a tter; and he that
seeketh fo r abundance w ill tu rn his eyes away.
2. A s a nail sticketh fa s t betw een the joinings of the
sto n es; so do th sin stick close betw een buying and selling.
3. U nless a m an hold h im se lf d ilig en tly in the fea r of the
L o rd , his house shall soon be o verth ro w n .
4. A s w h en one s ifte th w ith a sieve, the refu se remaineth,
so the filth o f m an in his talk.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 659
5. The fu rn a ce p ro veth the p o tter’s vessels; so the trial o f
man is in his reasoning.
6. The fr u it declareth i f the tree have been dressed; so is
the utterance o f a conceit in the heart o f man.
•
7. Praise no m an b efo re thou hearest him speak; fo r this
is the trial o f m en.
8. I f thou fo llo w e st righteousness, thou shalt obtain her,
and put her on, as a glorious long robe.
9. The birds w ill reso rt unto their like; so will truth re­
turn unto them that practise in her.
10. A s the lion lieth in w a it fo r the prey; so sin fo r them
that work iniquity.
11. The discourse o f a godly m an is always w ith w isdom ;
but a fool changeth as the m oon.
12. I f thou be am ong the indiscreet, observe the tim e; but
be continually am ong m en o f understanding.
13. The discourse o f fo o ls is irksom e, and their sport is
m the w antonness o f sin.
14. The talk o f him that sw eareth m uch m aketh the hair
stand upright; and th eir braw ls m ake one stop his ears.
15. The strife o f the proud is blood-shedding, and their
revilings are grievous to the ear.
16. W hoso discovereth secrets loseth his credit: and shall
never find a frie n d to his m ind.
17. Love th y frie n d , and be fa ith fu l unto him : but if thou
betrayest his secrets, fo llo w no m ore a fter him.
660 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
18. F o r as a m an h a th d estro yed his enem y; so hast thou
lost the love o f th y neighbour.
19. A s one th a t letteth a bird go out o f his hand, so hast
thou let th y n eig h b o u r go, and shalt n o t get h im again.
20. F o llo w a fte r h im no m ore, fo r he is too fa r off; he is
as a roe escaped ou t o f the snare.
21. A s fo r a w o u n d , it m a y be bound u p ; and after revil­
ing there m a y be reconcilem ent: but he th a t betrayeth secrets
is w ith o u t hope.
22. H e that w in k e th w ith the eyes w o rketh evil: and he
that kn o w eth h im w ill d epart fr o m him .
23. W h e n th o u art p resen t, he w ill speak sw eetly, and will
adm ire th y w o rd s: bu t at the last he w ill w rithe his mouth,
and slander th y sayings.
24. I have hated m a n y things, but nothing like him; for
the L o rd w ill hate him .
25. W h o so casteth a stone on high casteth it on his own
head; and a d eceitfu l stro ke shall m ake w ounds.
26. W h o so diggeth a p it shall fa ll therein: and he that
setteth a trap shall be ta ken therein.
27. H e th a t w o rk e th m isch ief, it shall fa ll upon him, and
he shall no t k n o w w hence it com eth.
28. M o ckery and reproach are fr o m the proud; but ven­
geance, as a lion, shall lie in w a it fo r them .
29. T h e y th a t rejoice at the fa ll o f the righteous shall
be taken in the sn a re; and anguish shall consum e them bejort
they die.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 661
30. M alice and w ra th , even these are abom inations ; and
the sinftd m an shall have them both.
C H A P T E R X X V III
(Against revenge, quarrelling, anger, and backbiting.)
1. H E that reven g eth shall find vengeance fro m the
Lord, and he w ill su rely keep his sins (in rem em brance).
2. Forgive th y n eighbour the h u rt that he hath done unto
thee, so shall thy sin s also be fo rg iven w hen thou prayest.
3. One m an beareth hatred against another, and doth he
seek pardon fr o m the L o rd ?
4. H e shew eth no m ercy to a m an, w hich is like him self:
and doth he ask fo rg iven ess o f his ow n sins?
5. I f he that is but flesh nourish hatred, who will entreat
for pardon o f his sins?
6. R em em ber th y end, and let enm ity cease; (rem em ber)
corruption and death, and abide in the com m andm ents.
7. R em em ber the com m andm ents, and bear no malice to
thy neighbour: (rem em b er) the covenant o f the H ighest, and
w nk at ignorance.
8. A bstain fr o m strife , and thou shalt dim inish thy sins,
for a furious m an w ill kindle strife.
9. A sin fu l m an disquieteth friends, and m aketh debate
among them that be at peace.
10. A s a m a tter o f the fire is, so it burneth: and as a
mans strength is, so is his w ra th ; and according to his riches
662 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
his anger riseth ; and the stro n g er they are w hich contend, the
m ore th ey w ill be inflam ed.
11 - A h a sty conten tio n kin d leth a fire: and a hasty fight­
ing sh ed d eth blood.
12. I f th o u blow the sp a rk, it shall burn: if thou spit
upon it, it shall be quenched: and both thèse com e out of thy
m outh.
13. C urse the w h isp erer and double-tongued: fo r such
have d estro yed m a n y that w ere at peace.
14. A backbiting tongue hath d isquieted m any, and driven
them fr o m nation to nation: stro n g cities hath it pulled down,
and o verth ro w n the houses o f great m en.
15. A backbiting tongue hath cast out virtuous women,
and dep rived th em o f th eir labours.
16. W h o so hearkeneth unto it shall never find rest, and
never dw ell quietly.
17. T h e stro ke o f the w h ip m aketli m arks in the flesh:
bu t the stro ke o f the tongue b reaketh the bones.
18. M a n y have fa llen by the edge o f the sw ord: but not
so m any as have fa llen by the tongue.
19. W ell is he that is d efen d ed fr o m it, and hath not
passed through the ven o m th e re o f; w ho hath not drawn the
yo ke th ereo f, no r hath been bound in her bands.
20. F or the yo ke th e re o f is a yo ke o f iron, and the bauds
th ereo f are bands o f brass.
21. T h e death th e re o f is an evil death, the grave were bit­
ter than it.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 663
22. It shall no t have rule over. them that fea r God,
neither shall they be burned w ith the flam e thereof.
23. Such as fo rsa ke the L o rd shall fa ll into it; and it shall
burn in them, and not be quenched; it shall be sent upon them
as a lion, and d evo u r th em as a leopard.
24. Look that thou hedge thy possession about w ith
thorns, and bind up th y silver and gold:
25. A nd w eigh th y w o rd s in a balance, and make a door
and bar fo r thy m outh.
26. Bew are thou slide no t by it, lest thou fall before him
that lieth in wait.
C H A P T E R X X IX .
2.W e m u st sh ew m ercy and lend; 4. B u t the borrower
must not defraud the lender. 9. Give alms. 14. A good man
mil not undo his surety. 18. To be surety, and undertake fo r
others, is dangerous. 22. I t is better to live at home, than to
sojourn.
1. H E that is m ercifu l w ill lend unto his neighbour; and
he that strengtheneth his hand keepeth the com m andm ents.
2. Lend to th y neighbour in tim e o f his need, and pay thou
thy neighbour again in due season.
3. Keep thy w ord, and deal fa ith fu lly w ith him , and thou
shalt always find the thing that is necessary fo r thee.
4. M any, w hen a thing w as lent them , reckoned it to be
found, and he pu t them to trouble that helped them.
5 Till he hath received, he w ill kiss a m an’s hand; and
for his neighbour’s m oney he w ill speak subm issively. but
664 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
w h en he sh o u ld repay, he w ill prolong the tim e, and return
w o rd s o f g rie f, and com plain o f the tim e.
6. I f he prevail, he shall h ardly receive the half, and he
w ill count as i f he had fo u n d it: i f not, he hath deprived him
o f his m o n ey, and he ha th g o tten h im an enem y w ithout cause:
he p a yeth h im w ith cu rsin g s and railings; and fo r honour he
w ill pay h im disgrace.
7. M a n y th erefo re have re fu se d to lend fo r other men’s
ill dealing, fe a rin g to be d efra u d ed .
8. Y e t have th o u patience w ith a m an in poor estate, and
delay n o t to sh ew him. m ercy.
9. H elp the po o r fo r the co m m a n d m en t’s sake, and turn
h im n o t aw ay because o f his p o verty.
10. L o se th y m o n ey fo r th y brother and thy friend, and
let it no t ru st u n d er a stone to be lost.
11. L a y up th y treasure according to the commandments
o f the M o st H ig h , and it shall bring thee m ore profit than gold.
12. S h u t up alm s in th y sto reh o u ses; and it shall deliver
thee fr o m all affliction.
13. I t shall fig h t fo r thee against thine enemies better
than a m ig h ty shield and a stro n g spear.
~ 14. A n h onest m an is su rety fo r his neighbour: but he
that is im p u d en t w ill fo rsa k e him .
15. F o rg et no t the frien d sh ip o f th y surety, fo r he hath
given his life fo r thee.
16. A sinner w ill o verth ro w the good estate o f his surety.
17. A n d he that is o f an u n th a n k fu l m ind will leave him
(in danger) th a t delivereth him .
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 665
18. Suretyship ha th undone m any o f good estate, and
shaken them as a w a ve o f the sea: m ighty m en hath it driven
from their houses, so th a t th ey w andered among strange
nations.
19. A w icked m an transgressing the com m andm ents o f
the Lord shall fa ll into su retysh ip : and he that undertaketh
and followeth other m en ’s business fo r gain shall fall into
suits.
20. H elp th y n eighbour according to thy power, and be­
ware that thou th y se lf fa ll n o t into the same.
21. The ch ief th in g fo r life is w ater, and bread, and
clothing, and a house to cover sham e.
22. B etter is the life o f a poor m an in a mean cottage,
than delicate fa re in a n other m an’s house.
23. Be it little or m uch, hold thee contented, that thou
hear not the reproach o f th y house.
24. For it is a m iserable life to go fro m house to house:
for where thou art a stranger, thou darest not open they
mouth.
25. Thou shalt entertain, and fea st, and have no thanks,
moreover, thou shalt hear bitter w ords.
26. Come, th o u stranger, and fu rn ish a table, and feed
me of that thou hast ready.
27. Give place, th o u stranger, to an honourable m an, m y
brother com eth to be lodged, and I have need o f m y house.
28. These things are grievous to a man o f understanding,
the upbraiding o f house-room , and reproaching o f the lender.
666 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
CH APTER XXX
1. I t is good to correct ou r children and not to co
them . 14. H ea lth is better than w ealth. 22. H ealth and life
are sh o rten ed by grief.
1. H E that loveth his so n causeth him o ft to feel the
rod, that he m ay have jo y o f h im in the end.
2. H e th a t chastiseth his son shall have jo y in him, and
shall rejoice in h im am ong his acquaintance.
3. H e that teachetli his so n g rieveth the enem y: and be­
fo re his fr ie n d s he shall rejoice o f him .
4. T h o u g h his fa th e r die, y e t he is as though he were
n o t dead: fo r he hath le ft one behind him that is like himself.
5. W h ile he lived, he sa w and rejoiced in him : and when
he died, he w a s no t so rro w fu l.
6. H e le ft behind h im an avenger against his enemies,
and one that shall requite kin d n ess to his friends.
7. H e th a t m a keth too m uch o f his son shall bind up his
w o u n d s; and his bow els w ill be troubled at every cry.
8. A horse no t broken becom eth headstrong: and a child
le ft to h im se lf w ill be w ilfu l.
9. C ocker th y child, and he shall m ake thee afraid: ploy
w ith him , and he w ill bring thee to heaviness.
10. L a u g h no t w ith him , lest th o u have sorrow w ith him,
and lest th o u gnash th y teeth in the end.
11. G ive h im no lib erty in his yo u th , and w ink not at his
follies.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 667
12. B ow do w n his n eck w hile he is young, and heat him
on the sides w hile he is a child, lest he w a x stubborn, and be
disobedient unto thee, and so bring sorrow to thy heart.
13. Chastise th y son, and hold him to labour, lest his lew d
behaviour be an offence to thee.
14. B etter is the poor, being sound and strong o f consti­
tution, than a rich m a n th a t is afflicted in his body.
15. H ealth and good estate o f the body are above all gold,
and a strong body above infinite wealth.
16. There is no riches above a sound body, and no jo y
above the jo y o f the heart.
17. Death is better than a bitter life or continual sickness.
18. D elicacies p o u red upo n a m outh shut up, are as
messes o f m eat set upon a grave.
19. W hat good d o eth the offering unto an idol? fo r
neither can it eat nor sm ell: so is he that is persecuted o f the
Lord.
20. H e seeth w ith his eyes and groaneth, as a eunuch that
embraceth a virgin and sigheth.
21. Give n o t o ver th y m in d to heaviness, and afflict not
thyself in thine ow n counsel.
22. The gladness o f the heart is the life o f man, and the
joyfulness o f a m an prolongeth his days.
23. Love thine ow n soul, and com fort thy heart,
sorrow fa r fro m thee: fo r so rro w hath killed m any, an
u no profit therein.
668 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
24. E n v y and w ra th sh o rten the life , and carefulness
bringeth age b efo re the tim e.
25. A c h eerfu l and good heart w ill have a care of his
m eat and diet.
CH APTER XXXI
1. O f the desire o f riches. 12. O f m oderation an
cess in eating, o r d rin kin g w ine.
1. W A T C H I N G F O R riches consum eth the flesh, and
the care th e re o f d riveth aw ay sleep.
2. W a tch in g care w ill no t let a m an slum ber, as a sore
disease breaketh sleep.
3. T h e rich ha th great labour in gathering riches to­
g e th e r; and w h en he resteth he is filled w ith h is délicates.
4.. T h e po o r laboureth in his po o r estate; and when he
leaveth off, he is still needy.
5. H e th a t lo veth gold shall no t be justified, and he that
fo llo w eth co rru p tio n shall have enough thereof.
6. G old hath been the ru in o f m any, and their destruc­
tion w a s present.
7. I t is a stu m b lin g -b lo ck unto them that sacrifice unto
it, and every fo o l shall be ta ken therew ith.
8. B lessed is the rich that is fo u n d w ith o u t blemish, and
hath n o t gone a fte r gold.
9. W h o is h e ? and w e w ill call h im blessed: fo r wonder­
fu l th in g s ha th he done am ong his people.
IINIMHirf
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 669
10. W ho hath been tried thereby, and fo u n d perfect?
then let him glory. W h o m ig h t offend, and hath not offended?
or done evil, and ha th n o t done it?
11. H is goods shall be established, and the congregation
shall declare his alms.
12. I f thou sit at a b o u n tifu l table, be not greedy upon it
and say not, There is m u ch m eat on it.
13. R em em ber that a w icked eye is an evil thing: and
what is created m ore w icked than an eye? therefore it weepetli
upon every occasion.
14. Stretch no t th y hand w hithersoever it looketh, and
thrust it not w ith h im into the dish.
15. Judge o f th y neighbour by th yself: and be discreet in
every point.
16. Eat, as it becom eth a m an, those things which are set
before thee; and d evo u r not, lest thou be hated.
17. Leave o ff first fo r m anner’s sake; and be not u n sa l­
able, lest thou offend.
18 .W hen thou sitte st am ong m any, reach not thy hand
out first o f all.
19. A very little is sufficient fo r a m an well nurtured,
and he fetch eth no t his w in d sh o rt upon his bed.
20. S o und sleep com eth o f m oderate eating: he riseth
zarly, and his w its are w ith h im : but the pain o f watching,
and choler, and pangs o f the belly, are w ith an unsatiable man.
21. A n d i f thou h a st been fo rced to eat, arise, go forth,
vomit, and thou shalt have rest.
670 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
22. M y son, hear m e, and despise m e not, and at the last
thou shalt fin d as I told th ee: in all th y w o rks be quick, so
shall there no sickn ess com e un to thee.
23. W h o so is liberal o f h is m eat, m en shall speak well of
h im ; and the report o f his good house-keeping w ill be believed.
24. B u t against h im th a t is a niggard o f his meat the
w hole city shall m u rm u r; and the testim o n ies o f his niggard-
ness shall n o t be do u b ted of.
25. S h e w no t th y va liantness in w in e: fo r wine hath
d estroyed m any.
26. T h e fu rn a ce p ro veth the edge by dipping: so doth
w in e the h earts o f the p ro u d by drunkenness.
27. W in e is as good as life to a m an, if it be drunk mod­
erately: w h a t is life then to a m an that is w ith o u t wine? for
it w as m ade to m ake m en glad.
%
28. W in e m easurably d ru n k and in season, bringeth glad­
ness o f the heart, and ch eerfu ln ess o f the m ind:
29. B u t w in e d ru n ken w ith excess m a keth bitterness of
*
the m ind, w ith braw ling and quarrelling.
30. D ru n ken n ess increaseth the rage o f a fool till d
offen d : it d im in ish eth stren g th , and m a keth wounds.
31. R eb u ke no t th y neighbour at the w ine, and despise
him no t in h is m irth : give h im no d e sp ite fu l w ords, and press
not upon h im w ith urging h im (to d rin k ).
C H A P T E R X X X II
1. O f his d u ty that is c h ie f o f m aster in a feast. 14. Of
the fe a r o f God. 18. O f counsel. 20. O f a rugged and
sm ooth w ay. 23. T ru st not to any but to th yself, and to God.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 671
1. I f thou be m ade the m aster ( o f a fe a st), lift not th y­
self up, but be am ong them as one o f the rest, take diligent
care for them , and so sit dow n.
2. A n d w hen th o u hast done all thy office, take thy place,
that thou m ayest be m erry w ith them , and receive a crown
for thy w ell-ordering o f the feast.
3. Speak, thou th a t art the elder, fo r it becometh thee,
but with sound ju d g m e n t; and hinder not music.
4. P our not o u t w o rd s w here there is a musician, and
shew not fo rth w isd o m ou t o f tim e.
5. A concert o f m usic in a banquet o f w ine is as a signet
of carbuncle set in gold.
6. A s a signet o f an em erald set in a w ork o f gold, so
is the melody o f m usic w ith pleasant wine.
7. Speak, yo u n g m an, i f there be need o f thee: and yet
scarcely w hen th o u art tw ice asked.
8. L et thy speech be short, com prehending much in fe w
words; be as one that kn o w eth and yet holdeth his tongue.
9. I f thou be am ong great m en, m ake not thyself equal
with them ; and w h en ancient m en are in place use not m any
words.
10. B efore the th u n d er goeth lightning; and before a
shame-faced m an shall go fa vo u r.
11. R ise up b etim es, and be not the last; but get thee
home w ithout delay.
12. There take th y pastim e, and do w hat thou w ilt. but
sin not by proud speech.
672 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
I
l 13. A n d fo r these th in g s bless h im that m ade thee, and
hath replenished thee w ith his good things.
14. W h o so fe a re th the L o rd w ill receive his discipline;
and th ey that seek h im early shall fin d fa vo u r.
15. H e that seeketh the law shall be filled therewith: but
the hypocrite w ill be o ffen d ed thereat.
16. T h e y that fe a r the L o rd shall find judgm ent, and shall
kindle ju stice as a light.
17. A s in fu l m an w ill not be reproved, but findeth an ex­
cuse according to his w ill.
:
18. A m an o f counsel w ill be considerate; but a strange
and p ro u d m an is no t da u n ted w ith fea r, even w hen o f himself
he h a th done w ith o u t counsel.
19. D o noth in g w ith o u t a d vice; and w h en thou hast once
done, repent not.
20. Go not in a w a y w h erein th o u m ayest fall, and stum­
ble n o t am ong the stones.
21. B e no t confident in a plain w ay.
22. A n d bew are o f th y o w n children.
23. In every good w o rk tru st th y ow n soul; fo r this is the
keeping o f the com m andm ents.
24. H e that believeth in the L o rd taketh heed to the com
m a n d m en t: and he that tru steth in h im shall fare never tic
1
1; w orse.
'
n o n
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E
C H A P T E R X X X III
673
1. The sa fety o f h im that fea reth the Lord. 2. The wise
and the foolish. 7. T im e s and seasons are o f God. 10. M en
are in his hands as clay in the hands o f the potter.
1. There shall no evil happen unto him that feareth the
Lord: but in tem p ta tio n even again he w ill deliver them.
2. A wise m an hateth n o t the law ; but he that is a hypo­
crite therein is as a ship in a storm .
3. A m an o f understa n d in g trusteth in the law ; and the
law is fa ith fu l unto h im , as an oracle.
4. Prepare w h a t to say, and so thou shalt be heard: and
bind up instruction, and then m ake answer.
5. The heart o f the fo o lish is like a cart-w heel; and his
thoughts are like a rolling axle-tree.
6. A stallion horse is as a m ocking friend, he neigheth
under every one that sitteth upon him.
7. W h y doth one day excel another, w hen as all the light
of every day in the yea r is o f the su n ?
8. B y the know ledge o f the L o rd they were dis­
tinguished: and he altered seasons and feasts.
9. Som e o f them hath he m ade high days, and hallowed
them, and som e o f them hath he m ade ordinary days.
10. A n d all m en are fr o m the ground, and A dam was
created o f earth.
11. In m uch know ledge the L o rd hath divided them , and
made their w ays diverse.
674 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
12. S o m e o f th em hath he blessed and exalted, and some
o f th em hath he sanctified, and set near h im self: but some, of
th em he cursed and bro u g h t low , and tu rn ed out o f their
places.
13. A s the clay is in the p o tter's hand, to fashion it at his
pleasure; so m an is in the hands o f him that made him, to
render to th em as liketh h im best.
14. G ood is set against evil, and life against death: so is
the g odly against the sinner, and the sin n er against the godly.
15. S o look upon all the w o rk s o f the M o st H igh; and
there are tw o and tw o, one against another.
16. I a w a ked up last o f all, as one that gathereth after
the grape ga th erers: by the blessing o f the L o rd I profited,
and filled m y w in e-p ress like a g a th erer o f grapes.
17. C onsider that I laboured no t fo r m y se lf only, but for
all th em that seek learning.
18. H e a r m e, 0 ye great m en o f the people, and hearken
w ith y o u r ears, ye ru lers o f the congregation.
19. G ive no t th y son and w ife , th y brother and friend,
p o w er o ver thee w h ile th o u livest, and give not thy goods to
another: lest it repent thee, and th o u entreat fo r the same
again.
20. A s long as thou livest and hast breath in thee, give
no t th y se lf over to any.
21. F o r better it is that th y children should seek to thee,
than that thou sh o u ld est sta n d to th eir courtesy.
22. In all th y w o rk s keep to th y se lf the pre-eminence,
leave n o t a stain in thine honour.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 675
23. A t the tim e w h e n thou shalt end thy days, and finish
thy life, distribute thine inheritance.
24. Fodder, a w and, and burdens, are fo r the ass; and
bread, correction and w o rk, fo r a servant.
25. I f thou set th y serva n t to labour, thou shalt find rest:
but if thou let him go idle, he shall seek liberty.
26. A yoke and a collar do bow the neck; so are tortures
and torments fo r an evil servant.
27. Send him to labour, that he be not idle; fo r idleness
teacheth m uch evil.
28. S et him to w o rk, as is fit fo r him : i f he be not
obedient, put on m ore hea vy fetters.
29. B u t be not excessive tow ard any; and w ithout dis­
cretion do nothing.
30. I f thou have a serva n t, let him be unto thee as thyself,
because thou hast bought h im w ith a price.
31. I f thou have a servant, entreat him as a brother: fo r
thou hast need o f him , as o f thine ow n soul: if thou entreat
him evil, and he ru n fr o m thee, w hich w ay w ilt thou go to
seek him?
C H A P T E R X X X IV
1- O f dream s. 13. T h e praise and blessing o f them that
f w the Lord. 18. T h e offering o f the ancient, and prayer
°f the poor innocent.
1- The hopes o f a m an void o f understanding are vain
and false: and dream s lift up fools.
676 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
2. W h o so regardeth dream s is like him that catcheth at
a shadow , and fo llo w e th a fte r the w ind.
3. T h e visio n o f d rea m s is the resem blance o f one thing
to another, even as the liken ess o f a fa ce to a face.
4. O f an unclean th in g w h a t can be cleansedf and from
th a t thing w h ich is fa lse w h a t tru th can c o m e f
5. D ivinations, and soothsayings, and dream s, are vain:
and the heart fa n cieth , as a w o m a n ’s heart in travail.
6. I f th ey be n o t sen t fr o m the M o st H igh in thy
visita tio n , se t n o t th y heart upon them .
7. F o r dream s have deceived m any, and they have failed
that p u t th eir tru st in them .
8. T h e law shall be fo u n d p erfect w ithout lies: and
w isd o m is p erfectio n to a fa ith fu l m outh.
9. A m an that hath travelled kn o w eth m any things: and
he th a t hath m uch experience w ill declare w isdom .
10. H e that hath no experience kn o w eth little: but he
th a t ha th travelled is fu ll o f prudence.
11. W h e n I travelled, I sa w m any things; and I under­
sto o d m ore than I can express.
12. I w a s o ft-tim e s in danger o f death: yet I was
d elivered because o f these things.
13. T h e sp irit o f those that fe a r the L o rd shall live, for
heir hope is in him that saveth them .
14. W h o so fe a re th the L o rd shall n o t fe a r nor be afraid,
fo r he is h is hope.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 677
15. B lessed is the soul o f him that feareth the Lord: to
whom doth he lo o k ? and w h o is his strength?
16. F or the eyes o f the L o rd are upon them tlia love
him, he is their m ig h ty protection and strong stay, a defence
from heat, and a cover fr o m the sun at noon, a preservation
from stum bling, and help fr o m falling.
17. H e raiseth up the soul, and lighteneth the eyes: he
giveth health, life, and blessing.
18. H e that sacrifieth o f a thing w rongfully gotten, his
offering is ridiculous; and the g ifts o f unjust m en are not
accepted.
19. The M o st H ig h is not pleased w ith the offerings o f
the w icked; neith er is he pacified fo r sin by the m ultitude o f
sacrifices.
20. W hoso bringeth an offering o f the goods o f the poor,
doeth as one that killeth the son before his fa th er’s eyes.
21. The bread o f the needy is their life: he that
defraitdeth him th e re o f is a m an o f blood-
22. H e that ta keth aw ay his neighbour’s living slayeth
him: and he that d efra u d etli the labourer o f his hire is a
blood-shedder.
23. W h en one buildeth, and another pulleth down, what
profit have they th en bu t labour?
24. W h en one prayetli, and another curseth, whose voice
'will the L o rd hear?
25. H e that w a sh eth h im self a fter the touching o f a dead
body, if h e touch it again, w h a t availeth his washingI
678 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
26. S o it is w ith a m an that fa ste th fo r h is sins, and g
again, and d oeth the sam e: w h o w ill hear his prayer? or what
do th his hum b lin g p rofit him ?
CH APTER XXXV
1. Sacrifices pleasing to God. 14. T h e prayer o f the
fa th erless, o f the w id o w , and o f the hum ble in spirit.
20. A cceptable m ercy.
1. H e that keep th the law bringeth offerings enough: he
that ta keth heed to the co m m a n d m en t offereth a peace-offering.
2. H e that req u iteth a good tu rn o ffereth fine flour; and
he that g iveth alm s sacrificeth praise.
3. T o depart fr o m w icked n ess is a thing pleasing to the
L o rd ; and to fo rsa k e u p rig h teo u sn ess is a propitiation.
4. T h o u shalt no t appear em p ty before the Lord.
5. F o r all these th in g s (are to be do n e) because o f the
com m andm ent.
6. T h e o fferin g o f the rig h teo u s m a keth the altar fat,
and the sw eet sa vo u r th e re o f is befo re the M o st H igh.
7. T h e sacrifice o f a ju s t m an is acceptable, and the
m em orial th e re o f shall n ever be fo rg o tten .
8. G ive the L o rd his h o n o u r w ith a good eye, and
dim inish n o t the first-fru its o f th y hands.
9. In all th y g ifts sh ew a ch eerfu l countenance, and
dedicate th y tith es w ith gladness.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 679
10. Give unto the M o st H ig h according as he hath
enriched thee; and as thou hast gotten, give w ith a cheerful
eye.
11. F or the L o rd re c o m p e n se d , and w ill give thee seven
times as much.
12. Do not th in k to corrupt w ith g ifts; fo r such he will
not receive: and tru st n o t to unrighteous sacrifices; fo r the
Lord is judge, and w ith him is no respect o f persons.
13. H e w ill not accept any person against a poor man, but
will hear the prayer o f the oppressed.
14. H e w ill n o t despise the supplication o f the fatherless;
nor the w idow , w h en she poureth out her complaint.
15. Do not the tears ru n dow n the w idow ’s cheek? and
is not her cry against h im that causeth them to fall?
16. H e that serveth the L o rd shall be accepted w ith
favour, and his p ra yer shall reach unto the clouds.
17. The prayer o f the hum ble pierceth the clouds: and
till it come nigh, he w ill no t be co m fo rted ; and will not depart,
till the M ost H ig h shall behold to judge righteously, and
execute judgm ent.
18. F or the L o rd w ill n o t be slack, neither will the
Mighty be patient tow ard them , till he have sm itten in sunder
the loins o f the u n m ercifu l, and repaid vengeance to the
heathen; till he have taken aw ay the m ultitude o f the proud,
and broken the sceptre o f the uprighteous:
19. Till he h a ve rendered to every m an according to his
deeds, and to the w o rk s o f m en according to their devices, till
he have judged the cause o f his people, and made them to
rejoice in his m ercy.
680 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
20. M ercy is seasonable in the tim e o f affliction, as clo
o f rain in the tim e o f d rought.
C H A P T E R X X X V I
1. A p ra yer fo r the church against the enem ies thereof.
18. A good heart and a fro w a rd . 21. O f a good w ife.
1. H a ve m ercy u p o n us, 0 L o rd G od o f all, and behold
us:
2. A n d sen d th y fe a r upon all the nations that seek not
a fte r thee.
3. L i f t up th y hand against the strange nations, and let
them see th y pow er.
4. A s thou w a st sanctified in u s before them : so be thou
m agnified am ong them b efo re us.
5. A n d let th em kn o w thee, as w e have know n thee, that
there is no God, but only thou, O God.
6. S h e w n ew signs, and m ake other strange wonders:
g lo rify th y hand and th y rig h t arm , that they m ay set forth
th y w o n d ro u s w o rks.
7. R aise up indignation, and p o u r out w ra th : take away
the adversary and d estro y the enem y.
8. M a ke the tim e short, rem em b er the covenant, and let
them declare th y w o n d e rfu l w orks.
9. L e t h im that escapeth be consum ed by the rage of
the fire ; and let th em p erish that oppress the people.
—
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 681
10. S m ite in su n d er the heads o f the riders o f the
heathen, that say, T h ere is none other but we.
11. G ather all the tribes o f Jacob together, and inherit
thou them, as fr o m the beginning.
12. 0 L ord, have m ercy upon the people that is called by
thy name, and upon Israel, w h o m thou hast named thy first­
born.
,13. 0 be m ercifu l unto Jerusalem , thy holy city, the place
of thy rest.
14. Fill S io n w ith thine unspeakable oracles, and thy
people w ith thy glory.
15. Give testim o n y unto those that thou hast possessed
from the beginning, and raise up prophets that have been in
Ihy name.
16. R ew ard th em th a t w ait fo r thee, and let thy prophets
be found fa ith fu l.
17. 0 L o rd , hear the prayer o f thy servants, according
to the blessing o f A a ro n over th y people, that all they which
dwell upon the earth m ay kn o w that thou art the Lord, the
eternal God.
18. The belly devo u reth all m eats, yet is one meat better
than another.
19. A s the palate ta steth divers kinds o f venison: so doth
a heart o f understanding fa lse speeches.
20. A fro w a rd heart causeth heaviness: but a man o f
experience w ill recom pense him .
21. A w om an w ill receive every man, yet is one daug
better than another.
682 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
22. T h e beauty o f a w o m a n cheereth the countenance,
and a m an lo veth nothing better.
23. I f there be kindness, m eekn ess, and com fort in her
tongue, th en is no t her husband like o th er m en.
24. H e that g etteth a w ife , beginneth a possession, a help
like un to h im self, and a pillar o f rest.
25. W h ere no hedge is, there the possession is spoiled:
and he that hath no w ife w ill w a n d er up and dow n mourning.
2 6 . 'W h o w ill tru st a th ie f w ell appointed, that skip
fr o m city to c ity ? so (w h o w ill believe) a m an that hath no
house, and lodgeth w h ereso ever the nig h t taketh him ?
C H A P T E R X X X V II
1. H o w to kn o w fr ie n d s and counsellors. 12. The dis­
cretion and w isd o m o f a g odly m an blesseth him . 27. Learn
to refra in thine appetite.
1. E v e ry fr ie n d saith, I am his frie n d also, but there is
a frie n d w h ich is only a fr ie n d in nam e.
2. Is it not a g rie f unto death, w h en a companion and
frie n d is tu rn ed to an enem y?
3. 0 w icked im agination, w hence earnest thou m to
cover the earth w ith deceit?
4. T h ere is a com panion, w h ich rejoiceth in the pros­
perity o f a frie n d , but in the tim e o f trouble w ill be against
him .
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 683
5. There is a com panion, w hich helpeth his frien d fo r
the belly, and taketh up the buckler against the enemy.
6. F orget n o t th y frie n d in thy m ind, and be not un­
mindful o f him in th y riches.
7. E very counsellor exto lleth counsel; but there is some
that counselleth fo r h im self.
8. B ew are o f a counsellor, and know before w hat need
he hath; fo r he w ill counsel fo r h im self; lest he cast the lot
upon thee,
9. A n d say unto thee, T h y w ay is good: and afterw ard
he stand on the o th er side, to see w hat shall befall thee.
10. C onsult no t w ith one that suspecteth thee: and hide
thy counsel fr o m such as en vy thee.
11. N eith er consult w ith a w om an touching her o f w hom
she is jealous; n eith er w ith a cow ard in m atters o f w ar; nor
with a m erchant concerning exchange; nor w ith a buyer o f
selling; nor w ith an en vio u s m an o f thankfulness; nor w ith
an unm erciful m an touching kin d n ess; nor w ith the slothful
for any w o rk ; no r w ith a hireling fo r a year o f finishing
work; nor w ith an idle serva n t o f m uch business: hearken not
unto these in any m a tter o f counsel.
12. B u t be continually w ith a godly man, w hom thou
knowest to keep the co m m andm ents o f the Lord, whose m ind
is according to th y m ind, and w ill sorrow w ith thee, if thou
shalt miscarry.
13. A n d let the counsel o f thine ow n heart stand, fo r
there is no m an m ore fa ith fu l unto thee than it.
14. For a m an’s m in d is som etim e w ont to tell him mort
than seven w atchm en, th a t sit above in a high tower.
684 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
15. A n d above all th is pray to the M o st H ig h , that he will
direct th y w a y in truth.
16. L e t reason go b efo re every enterprise, and counsel
before every action.
17. T h e countenance is a sign o f changing o f the heart.
18. F o u r m a n n er o f th in g s appear: good and evil, life
and death: but the tongue ru leth o ver them continually.
19. T h ere is one that is w ise and teacheth m any, and yet
is unprofitable to h im self.
20. T h ere is one that sh ew eth w isd o m in w ords, and is
hated: he shall be d estitu te o f all fo o d .
21. F o r grace is no t g iven h im fr o m the L o rd ; because
he is d ep rived o f all w isdom .
22. A n o th e r is w ise to h im s e lf; and the fr u its o f under­
standing are com m endable in his m outh.
23. A w ise m an in stru cteth his p eo p le; and the fru its of
his understa n d in g fa il not.
24. A w ise m an shall be filled w ith blessing; and all they
that see him shall count h im happy.
25. T h e days o f the life o f m an m ay be num bered: but
the days o f Israel are innum erable.
26. A w ise m an shall in h erit g lory am ong his people, and
his nam e shall be perpetual.
27. M y son, prove th y sold in th y life, and see what is
evil fo r it, and give no t that unto it.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 685
28. For all th in g s are not profitable fo r all men, neither
hath every soul pleasure in every thing.
29. Be not unsatiable in any dainty thing, nor too greedy
upon meats:
30. For excess o f m eats bringeth sickness, and surfeiting
will turn into choler.
31. B y su rfeitin g have m any perished; but he that taketh
heed prolongeth his life.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
1. H onour due to the physician, and w hy. 16. H ow to
weep and m ourn fo r the dead. 24. The w isdom o f the learned
man, and o f the labourer and artificer: w ith the use o f them
both.
1. H onour a physician w ith the honour due unto him
for the uses w hich ye m a y have o f him : fo r the Lord hath
created him.
2. For o f the M o st H ig h com eth healing, and he shall
receive honour o f the king.
3. The skill o f the physician shall lift up his head: and
in the sight o f great m en he shall be in admiration.
4. The L o rd hath created m edicines out o f the earth,
nnd he that is w ise w ill n o t abhor them.
5. W as not the w a ter m ade sw eet w ith wood, that the
virtue thereof m ig h t be k n o w n ?
686 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
6. A n d he hath g iven m en skill, th a t he m ight be hon­
oured in his m a rvello u s w o rks.
7. W ith such d o th he heal (m e n ,) and taketh away their
pains.
8. O f such do th the apothecary m ake a confection; and
o f his w o rk s there is no en d ; and fr o m him is peace over all
the earth.
9. M y son, in th y sickn ess be no t negligent: but fra y
unto the L o rd , and he w ill m ake thee w hole.
10. L ea ve o ff fr o m sin, and order th y hands aright, and
cleanse th y heart fr o m all w ickedness.
11. G ive a sw eet savour, and a m em orial o f fine flour;
and m ake a fa t o ffering, as not being.
12. T h en give place to the physician, fo r the Lord hath
created h im : let h im no t go fr o m thee, fo r thou hast need of
him .
13. T h ere is a tim e w h en in th eir hands there is good
success.
14. F o r th ey shall also pray un to the L o rd , that he would
prosper that w hich th ey give fo r ease and rem edy to prolong
life.
15. H e that sin n eth b efo re h is M a ker, let him fall into
the hands o f the physician.
16. M y son, let tears fa ll d o w n over the dead, and begin
to lam ent, as i f thou hadst su ffe re d great harm thyself: and
then cover his body according to the custom , and neglect not
h is burial.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 687
17. W eep bitterly, and m ake great moan, and use lamenta­
tion as he is w o rth y, and that a day or tw o, lest thou be evil
spoken of: and then c o m fo rt th y se lf fo r thy heaviness.
For men judge by appearance.
18. For o f h eaviness com eth death, and the heaviness o f
the heart breaketh strength.
19. In affliction also so rro w rem aineth: and the life o f
the poor is the curse o f the heart.
20. Take no heaviness to heart: drive it away, and
remember the last end.
i \ . Forget it not, fo r there is no turniny again: thou
^nalt not do him good, but h u rt thyself.
22. R em em b er m y ju d g m en t: fo r thine also shall be so;
yesterday fo r m e, and today fo r thee.
23. W h en the dead is at rest, let his remembrance rest;
and be com forted fo r him , w h en his spirit is departed fro m
him.
24. The w isd o m o f a learned m an com eth by opportunity
of leisure: and he th a t hath little business shall become wise.
25. H o w can he get w isd o m that holdeth the plough, and
that glorieth in the goad, that driveth oxen, and is occupied
in their labours, and w hose talk is o f bullocks?
26. H e giveth his m in d to m ake fu rro w s; and is diligent
to give the kine fo d d er.
27. So every carpenter and w orkm aster, that laboureth
night and day: and th ey that cut and grave seals, and are
diligent to m ake great va riety, and give them selves to counter­
feit imagery, and w atch to finish a w o rk:
688 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
28. T h e sm ith also sittin g by the anvil, and considering
the iron w o rk , the va p o u r o f the fire w a steth his flesh, and
he fig h teth w ith the heat o f the fu rn a ce: the noise o f the
h a m m er and the anvil is ever in his ears, and his eyes look
still upo n the p a ttern o f the th in g that he m a keth ; he setteth
his m in d to finish his w o rk , and w atcheth to polish it
p erfecly:
29. S o d o th the p o tter sittin g at his w o rk, and turning
the w h eel about w ith his fe e t, w h o is alw ays carefully set at
his w o rk, and m a keth all his w o rk by n u m b er;
30. H e fa sh io n eth the clay w ith his arm , and boweth
d o w n his stren g th b efo re his fe e t; he applieth h im self to lead
it over: and he is diligent to m ake clean the furnace:
31. A ll these tru st to th eir hands: and every one is wise
in his w ork.
32. W ith o u t these cannot a city be inhabited: and they
shall not dw ell w h ere th ey w ill, nor go up and dow n:
33. T h e y shall no t be so u g h t fo r in public council, nor sit
high in the congregation: th ey shall n o t sit on the judges’ seat,
no r u n derstand the sentence o f ju d g m e n t: they cannot declare
ju stice and ju d g m e n t; and th ey shall not be fo u n d where
parables are spoken.
34. B u t th ey w ill m a in ta in the sta te o f the world, and
(a ll) their desire is in the w o rk o f th eir craft.
C H A P T E R X X X IX
1. A d escription o f him th a t is tru ly w ise. 12. A n ex­
hortation to praise G od fo r his w o rk s: w hich are good to the
good, and evil to th em that are evil,
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 689
1. B u t he that g iveth his m ind to the law o f the M ost
High, and is occupied in the m editation thereof, will seek out
the wisdom o f all the ancient, and he occupied in prophecies.
2. H e w ill keep the sayings o f the renowned men: and
where subtil parables are, he w ill be there also.
3. H e w ill seek out the secrets o f grave sentences, and
be conversant in d a rk parables.
4. H e shall serve am ong great m en, and appear before
princes; he w ill travel through strange countries; fo r he hath
tried the good and evil am ong men.
5. H e w ill give his heart to resort early to the Lord
that made him and w ill pray before the M ost H igh, and will
open his m outh in prayer, and m ake supplication fo r his sins.
6. W h en the great L o rd w ill, he shall be filled w ith the
spirit o f u n d ersta n d in g : he shall pour out wise sentences, and
give thanks unto the L o rd in his prayer.
7. H e shall direct his counsel and knowledge, and in his
secrets shall he m editate.
8. H e shall sh ew fo r th that w hich he hath learned, and
shall glory in the la w o f the covenant o f the Lord.
9. M any shall co m m en d his understanding; and so long
as the w orld endureth, it shall not be blotted out; his memorial
shall not depart aw ay, and his nam e shall live fro m generation
to generation.
10. N a tio n s shall sh ew fo r th his w isdom , and the con­
jugation shall declare his praise.
11. I f he die, he shall leave a greater name than a thou­
sand: and if he live, he shall increase it.
690 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
12. Y e t have I m ore to say, w h ich I have thought upon;
fo r I am filled as the m oon at the fu ll.
13. H e a rk e n un to m e, ye h oly children, and bud forth as
a rose g ro w in g by the brook o f the field:
14. A n d give ye a sw eet sa vo u r as frankincense, and
flourish as a lily, sen d fo r th a sm ell, and sing a song o f praise,
bless the L o rd in all his w o rks.
15. M a g n ify his nam e, a n d sh e w fo r th his praise with
the songs o f y o u r lips, and w ith harps, and in praising him
ye shall say a fte r th is m anner:
16. A ll the w o rk s o f the L o rd are exceedingly good, and
w h a tso ever he com m a n d eth shall be accom plished in due
season.
17. A n d none m a y say, W h a t is th is! w h erefo re is that?
fo r at tim e convenient th ey shall all be sought out: at his
co m m a n d m en t the w a ters sto o d as a heap, and at the words
o f his m o u th the receptacles o f w aters.
18. A t h is co m m a n d m en t is done w hatsoever pleaseth
h im ; and none can hinder, w h en he w ill save.
19. T h e w o rk s o f all flesh are b efo re him , and nothing
can be hid fr o m his eyes.
20. H e seeth fr o m everlasting to everla stin g ; and there ts
nothing w o n d e rfu l b efo re him .
21. A m an need n o t to say, W h a t is th is? w herefore is
th a t? fo r he hath m ade all th in g s fo r th eir uses.
22. H is blessing covered the d ry land as a river, and
w atered it as a flood.
23. A s he hath tu rn ed the w a ters into saltness: so shall
the heathen in h erit his w rath.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 691
24. A s his w a ys are plain unto the holy; so are they
stumbling blocks u n to the w icked.
25. F or the good are good things created fro m the begin­
ning: so evil th in g s fo r sinners.
26. The principal th in g s fo r the w hole use o f man’s life
are water, fire, iron, and salt, flo u r o f w heat, honey, m ilk, and
the blood o f the grape, and oil, and clothing.
27. A ll these th in g s are fo r good to the godly: so to the
sinners they are tu rn ed into evil.
28. There be sp irits that are created fo r vengeance, which
in their fu r y lay on sore stro kes; in the tim e o f destruction
they pour out th eir fo rc e , and appease the w rath o f him that
made them.
29. Fire, and hail, and fa m in e, and death, all these were
created fo r vengeance;
30. Teeth o f w ild beasts, and scorpions, serpents, and the
sword, punishing the w icked to destruction.
31. T hey shall rejoice in his com m andm ent, and they
shall be ready upon earth, w h en need is; and w hen their time
ts come, they shall not transgress his word.
32. T h erefo re fr o m the beginning I was resolved, and
thought upon these things, and have le ft them in writing.
33. A ll the w o rk s o f the L o rd are good: and he w ill give
every needful thing in due season.
34. So that a m an canndt say, T his is worse than that,
for in time they shall all be w ell approved.
692 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
35. A n d th erefo re praise ye the L o rd w ith the wh
heart and m o u th , and bless the nam e o f the L ord.
CHAPTER XL
1. M a n y m iseries in a m an’s life. 12. The reward of
u prighteousness, and the fr u it o f true dealing. 17. A virtuous
w ife , and an honest frie n d , rejoice the heart, but the fear of
the L o rd is above all. 28. A beggar’s life is hateful.
1. G reat travail is created fo r every m an, and a heavy
yo ke is upon the so n s o f A d a m , fr o m the day that they go out
o f their m o th er’s w o m b , till the day that they return to the
m o th er o f all things.
2. T h eir im a gination o f th in g s to com e, and the day of
death, ( tro u b le) th eir th o u g h ts, and (ca u se) fe a r o f heart;
3. F ro m h im that sitteth on a throne o f glory, unto him
that is hu m b led in earth and ashes;
4. F ro m h im that w ea reth purple and a crown, unto
him that is clothed w ith a linen fro ck.
5. W ra th , and en vy, trouble and unquietness, fear of
death, and anger, and strife , and in the tim e o f rest upon his
bed, his night-sleep, do change his know ledge.
6. A little or n o th in g is h is rest, and a fterw a rd he is in
his sleep, as in a day o f keeping w atch, troubled in the vision
o f his heart, as i f he w ere escaped out o f a battle.
7. W h e n all is sa fe, he a w a keth , and m arvelleth that tin
fe a r w as nothing.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 693
8. (Such things happen) unto all flesh, both man and
beast, and that is se v e n -fo ld m ore upon sinners.
9. Death, and bloodshed, strife , and sw ord, calamities,
famine, tribulation, and the scourge;
10. These th in g s are created fo r the w icked, and fo r their
sakes came the flood.
11. A ll things that are o f the earth shall turn to the
earth again: and that w h ich is o f the w aters doth return into
the sea.
12. A ll bribery and in ju stice shall be blotted out: but true
dealing shall endure fo r ever.
13. The goods o f the u n ju st shall be dried up like a river
and shall vanish w ith noise, like a great thunder in rain.
14. W hile he openeth his hand he shall rejoice: so shall
transgressors com e to nought.
15. The: children o f the ungodly shall not bring fo rth
many branches; but are as unclean roots upon a hard rock.
16. The w eed gro w in g upon every w ater and bank o f a
river, shall be pulled up b efo re all grass.
17. B o u n tifu ln ess is as a m ost fr u itfu l garden, and merci­
fulness enduretli fo r ever.
18- To labour, and to be content with, that a man hath,
is a sweet life: but he that findeth a treasure is above them
both.
19. Children and the building o f a city continue a man s
name: but a blam eless w ife is counted above them both.
694 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
20. W in e and m usic rejoice the heart, but the love of
w isd o m is above th em both.
21. T h e pipe and the p saltery m ake sw eet m elody: but a
pleasant tongue is above th em both.
22. T h in e eyes desireth fa v o u r and beauty: but more
than both, corn w h ile it is green.
23. A fr ie n d and com panion n ever m eet am iss: but above
both is a w ife w ith her husband.
24. B reth ren and help are against tim e o f trouble: but
alm s shall d eliver m ore than th em both.
25. G old and silver m ake the fo o t stand sure: but council
is esteem ed above th em both.
26. R ich es and stren g th lift up the heart: but the fear of
the L o rd is above th em both: there is no w a n t in the fear of
the L o rd , and it needeth no t to seek help.
27. T h e fe a r o f the L o rd is a fr u itfu l garden, and cov-
ereth him above all glory.
28. M y son, lead no t a beggar’s life ; fo r better it is to
die than to beg.
29. T he life o f him that dependetli on another m a n s table
is not to be counted fo r a life ; fo r he polluteth him self with
other m en ’s m eat: but a w ise m an w ell n u rtured will beware
thereof.
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 695
30. B egging is sw eet in the m outh o f the shameless: but
in his belly there shall burn a fire.
C H A P T E R X L I
1. The rem em brance o f death. 3. D eath is not to be
feared. 5. T he un g o d ly shall be accursed. 11. O f an evil
and a good nam e. 14. W isd o m is to be uttered.
1. 0 D eath, h o w bitter is the remembrance o f thee
to a man that liveth at rest in his possessions, unto the man
that hath nothing to v e x him , and that hath prosperity in all
things: yea, unto h im that is yet able to receive m eat!
2. 0 death, acceptable is th y sentence unto the needy,
and unto him w hose stren g th fa ileth , that is now in the last
age, and is v exed w ith all things, and to him that despairetli,
and hath lost patience!
3. Fear not the sentence o f death, rem em ber them that
have been before thee, and that come a fter; fo r this is the
sentence o f the L o rd o ver all flesh.
4. A n d w h y art th o u against the pleasure o f the M ost
High? there is no inquisition in the grave, w hether thou have
lived ten, or a hundred, or a thousand years.
5. The children o f sin n ers are abominable children, and
they that are conversant in the dw elling o f the ungodly.
6. The inheritance o f sinners’ children shall perish, and
their posterity shall have a perpetual reproach.
7. The children w ill com plain o f an ungodly father,
because they shall be reproached fo r his sake.
696 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
8. W o e be unto yo u , un g o d ly m en, w h ich have forsaken
the law o f the m o st high G od! fo r i f ye increase, it shall be
to y o u r d estruction,
9. A n d i f ye be born, ye shall be born to a curse: and
if ye die, a curse shall be y o u r portion.
10. A ll that are o f the earth shall tu rn to earth again:
so the u n godly shall go fr o m a curse to destruction.
11. T h e m o u rn in g o f m en is about their bodies: but an
ill nam e o f sin n ers shall be blotted out.
12. H a ve regard to th y n a m e; fo r that shall continue with
thee above a thousand g reat treasures o f gold.
13. A good life hath but fe w days: but a good name
en d u reth fo r ever.
14. M y children, keep discipline in peace: fo r wisdom
that is hid, and a treasure th a t is n o t seen, w hat profit is in
th em b o th ?
15. A m an th a t h id eth his fo o lish n ess is better than a
m an that h ideth his w isdom .
16. T h e re fo re be sh a m efa ced according to m y w ord: for
it is not good to retain all sh a m efa ced n ess; neither is it alto­
g eth er approved in every thing.
17. B e asham ed o f w h o red o m befo re fa th e r and mother:
and o f a lie b efo re a prince and a m ig h ty m an;
18. O f an offence b efo re a ju d g e and ruler; o f iniquity
before a congregation and people; o f u n ju st dealing before
th y partner and frie n d ;
BflBEHraKfl
APOCRYPHA SCRIPTURE 697
19. A n d o f th e ft in regard o f the place w here thou
sojournest, and in regard o f the truth o f God and his cov­
enant; and to lean w ith thine elbow upon the m eat; and o f
scorning to give and ta ke;
20. A n d o f silence b efo re them that salute thee; and t&
look upon a ha rlo t;
21. A n d to tu rn aw ay th y face fro m thy kinsm an; or to
take away a portion or a g ift; or to gaze upon another man’s
wife;
22. O r to be o ver-b u sy w ith his maid, and come not near
her bed: or o f upbraiding speeches before friends; and after
thou hast given, upbraid n o t;
23. O r o f iterating and speaking again that w hich thou
hast heard; and o f revealing o f secrets.
24. So shalt thou be truly sham efaced, and find favour
before all men.
C H A P T E R X L II
1. W h ereo f w e sh o u ld not be ashamed. 9. Be careful
of thy daughter. 12. B ew a re o f a wom an. 15. The. w orks
ond greatness o f God.
1. O f these th in g s be not thou ashamed, and accept no
person to sin thereby:
2. O f the law o f the M o st H igh, and his covenant; and
of judgm ent to ju s tify the ungodly;
698 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
3. O f reckoning w ith th y pa rtn ers and travellers; or of
the g ift o f the heritage o f fr ie n d s;
4. O f exa ctn ess o f balance and w eig h ts; or o f getting
m uch or little;
5. A n d o f m erch a n ts’ in d ifferen t selling; o f much cor­
rection o f ch ild ren ; and to m ake the side o f an evil servant
to bleed.
6. S u re keeping is good, w h ere an evil w ife is; and shut
up, w h ere m a n y hands are.
7. D eliver all th in g s in n u m b er and w eig h t; and put all
in w ritin g th a t thou g ivest out, or receivest in.
8. B e n o t asham ed to in fo r m the unw ise and foolish,
and the e xtrem e aged th a t co n tendeth w ith those that are
yo u n g : th u s shalt thou be tru ly learned, and approved o f all
m en living.
9. T h e fa th e r w a keth fo r the daughter, w hen no man
kn o w eth : and the care fo r h e r ta keth aw ay sleep: when she
is yo ung, lest she pass aw ay the flo w er o f her age; and being
m arried, lest she sh o u ld be hated:
10. In her vig in ity, lest she sh o u ld be defiled and gotten
w ith child in her fa th e r ’s h o u se; and h aving a husband, lest
she should m is-behave h e r s e lf; and w h en she is married, lest
she sh o u ld be barren.
11. K eep a sure w a tch over a sham eless daughter, lest
she m ake thee a laughing-stock to thine enem ies, and a by­
w o rd in the city, and a reproach am ong the people, and make
thee asham ed b efo re the m u ltitude.
12. B eh o ld n o t everyb o d y’s beauty, and sit not in the
m id st o f w om en.
■U
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 699
13. For fr o m g a rm en ts com eth a m oth, and fro m w om en
wickedness.
14. B etter is the churlishness o f a man than a courteous
■woman, a w om an, 1 say, w hich bringeth sham e and reproach.
15. 1 w ill n o w rem em b er the w o rks o f the Lord, and
declare the things that I have seen: In the w ords o f the Lord
are his works.
16. The su n th a t g iveth light looketh upon all things, and
the work th ereo f is fu ll o f the glory o f the Lord.
17. The L o rd ha th n o t given pow er to the saints to
declare all his m arvellous w o rks, w hich the A lm ighty Lord
firmly settled, that w h a tso ever is, m ight be established fo r his
glory.
18. H e seeketh ou t the deep, and the' heart, and con-
sidereth their c ra fty d evices: fo r the L o rd know eth all that
may be know n, and he beholdeth the signs o f the world.
19. H e declareth the things that are past, and fo r to
come, and revealeth th e-step s o f hidden things.
20. N o thought escapeth him , neither any w ord is hidden
from him.
21. H e hath garnished the excellent w orks o f his w is­
dom, and he is fr o m everlasting to everlasting : unto him may
nothing be added, n eith er can he be dim inished, and he hath
no need o f any counsellor.
22. 0 h o w desirable are all h is w o rks! and that a man
may see even to a spark.
23. A ll these th in g s live and rem ain fo r ever fo r all uses,
and they are all obedient.
700 ETERNAL WISDOM AND HEALTH
24. A ll th in g s are double one against another: and lie
hath m ade noth in g im p erfect.
25. O ne thing establisheth the g lory o f another: and who
shall be filled w ith beholding his g lo ry ?
C H A P T E R X L III
1. T h e w o rk s o f G od in heaven, and in earth, and in
the sea, are exceed in g ly glorious, and w o n d erfu l. 29. Yet
G od h im se lf in his p o w er and w isd o m is above all.
1. T h e pride o f the height, the clear firm am ent, the
beauty o f heaven, w ith his glorious sh ew ;
2. T h e su n w h en it appeareth, declaring at his rising a
m arvellous in stru m en t, the w o rk o f the M o st H igh:
3. A t noon it parcheth the co untry, and w ho can abide
the burning heat th e r e o ff
4. A m an blow ing a fu rn a ce is in w o rks o f heat, but the
su n burneth the m o u n ta in s three tim es m ore; breathing out
fiery vapours, and sending fo r th bright beams, it dimmeth
the eyes.
5. G reat is the L o rd that m ade it; and at his com­
m a n d m en t it ru n n eth hastily.
6. H e m ade the m oon also to serve in her season fo
declaration o f tim e, and a sign o f the w orld.
7. F ro m the m oon is the sign o f fea sts, a light
decreaseth in her perfection.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 701
8. The m onth is called a fte r her name, increasing w on­
derfully in h er changing, being an instrum ent o f the armies
above, shining in the firm a m en t o f heaven;
9. The beauty o f heaven, the glory o f the stars, an
ornament giving lig h t in the highest places o f the Lord.
10. A t the co m m a n d m en t o f the H oly One they will
stand in their order, and n ever fa in t in their watches.
11. L ook u p o n the rainbow , and praise him that made
it; very beautiful it is in the brightness thereof.
12. It com passeth the heaven about w ith a glorious circle,
and the hands o f the M o st H ig h have bended it.
13. B y his co m m a n d m en t he m aketh the snow to fall
apace and sendeth s w iftly the lightnings o f his judgm ent.
14. T hrough th is the treasures are opened: and clouds
fly forth as fo w ls.
15. B y this great p o w er he m aketh the clouds firm , and
the hailstones are bro ken sm all.
16. A t his sig h t the m ountains are shaken, and at his will
the south w in d blow eth.
17. The noise o f the th u n d er m aketh the earth to trem ­
ble: so doth the n o rthern sto rm and the w hirlw ind: as birds
flying he scattereth the snow , and the falling dow n thereof is
as the lighting o f grassh o p p ers;
18. The eye m arvelleth at the beauty o f the w hiteness
thereof, and the heart is astonished at the raining o f it.
19. The h o a r-fro st also as salt he poureth on the earth,
and being congealed, it lieth on the top o f sharp stakes.
702 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
20. W h e n the cold no rth w in d hlow eth, and the water is
congealed into ice, it abideth upo n every gathering together of
w ater, and clotheth the w a ter as w ith a breastplate.
21. I t d evo u reth the m o u ntains, and burneth the wilder­
ness, and co n su m eth the grass as fire.
22. A p resen t rem ed y o f all is a m ist com ing speedily.a
d ew com ing a fte r heat, refresh eth .
23. B y his counsel he appeaseth the deep, and planteth
islands therein.
24. T h e y th a t sail on the sea, tell o f the danger thereof;
and w h en w e hear it w ith our ears, w e m arvel thereat.
25. F o r therein be strange and w o n d ro u s w orks, variety
o f all kin d s o f beasts and w hales created.
26. B y h im the end o f th em h a th prosperous success, and
by his w o rd all things consist.
27. W e m a y speak m uch, and y e t com e sh o rt: wherefore
in su m he is all.
28. H o w shall w e be able to m a g n ify him ? fo r he is great
above all his w o rks.
29. T h e L o rd is terrible and ve ry great, and marvellous
is his pow er.
30. W h e n ye g lo rify the L o rd , exa lt h im as m uch as ye
can; fo r even y e t w ill he fa r exceed : and w h en ye exalt him,
p u t fo r th all y o u r stren g th , and be not w ea ry; fo r ye can
n ever go fa r enough.
31. W h o hath seen h im that he m ig h t tell us? and who
can m a g n ify h im as he is?
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 703
32. There are y e t hid greater things than these be, fo r
we have seen but a fe w o f his w orks.
33. For the L o rd hath m ade all things; and to the godly
hath he given w isdom .
C H A P T E R X L IV
1. The praise o f certain holy m en; 16 O f Enoch, Noah,
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
1. L e t us n o w praise fa m o u s m en, and our fathers that
begat us.
2. The L o rd hath w ro u g h t great glory by them through
his great pow er fr o m the beginning.
3. S u ch as did bear rule in their kingdom s, men
renowned fo r their pow er, giving counsel by their under­
standing, and declaring prophecies:
4. Leaders o f the people by their counsels, and by their
knowledge o f learning m eet fo r the people, wise and eloquent
in their instructions :
5. Such as fo u n d out m usical tunes, and recited verses
in writing:
6. R ich m en fu rn ish e d w ith ability, living peaceably in
their habitations:
7. A ll these w ere honoured in their generations, and
were the glory o f their tim es.
704 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
8. T h ere he o f th em , th a t have le ft a nam e behind them,
that th eir praises m ig h t he reported.
9. A n d som e there be, w h ich have no m em orial; who
are perished, as tho u g h th ey had never been; and are become
as though th ey had n ever been born; and their children after
them .
10. B u t these w ere m erc ifu l m en, w hose righteousness
hath not been fo rg o tten .
11. W ith th eir seed shall continually rem ain a good
inheritance, and th eir children are w ith in the covenant.
12. T h eir seed sta n d eth fa st, and th eir children fo r their
sakes.
13. T h e ir seed shall rem ain fo r ever, and their glory
shall no t be blotted out.
14. T h e ir bodies are buried in peace; but their name
liveth fo r everm ore.
15. T h e people w ill tell o f their w isdom , and the con­
gregation w ill sh ew fo r th th eir praise.
16. E noch pleased the L o rd , and w a s translated, being
an exam ple o f repentance to all generations.
17. N o a h w a s fo u n d p e rfect and righteous; in the time
o f w ra th he w a s taken in exchange ( fo r the w o rld :) there­
fo re w as he le ft as a rem n a n t unto the earth, w hen the flood
came.
18. A n everlasting covenant w a s m ade w ith him , that all
flesh sh o u ld perish no m ore by the flood.
19. A b ra h a m w a s a great fa th e r o f m any people: in glory
w as there none lifle unto h im ;
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 705
20. W ho kep t the la w o f the M o st H igh, and was in
covenant w ith h im : he established the covenant in his flesh;
and when he w as p ro ved ; he w as fo u n d fa ithful.
21. T herefore he assured him by an oath, that he would
bless the nations in his seed, and that he w ould m ultiply him
as the dust o f the earth, and exa lt his seed as the stars, and
cause them to in h erit fr o m sea to sea, and fro m the river
unto the utm ost part o f the land.
22. W ith Isaac did he establish likew ise (fo r Abraham
his father's sake) the blessing o f all m en, and the covenant.
23. A n d m ade it rest upon the head o f Jacob. H e
acknowledged h im in his blessing, and gave him a heritage,
and divided his p o rtio n s; am ong the tw elve tribes did he part
them.
C H A P T E R X L V
The praise o f M oses, o f A a ro n , and o f Phinees.
1. A n d he brought out o f him a m erciful man, winch
found fa vo u r in the sig h t o f all flesh, even M oses, beoved o f
God and m en, w hose m em orial is blessed.
2. H e m ade h im like to the glorious saints, and mag­
nified him so that h is enem ies stood in fea r o f him.
3. B y his w o rd s he caused the w onders to cease, and
made him glorious in the sight o f kings, and gave him ^
commandment fo r his people, and shew ed him part o f
glory.
706 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
4. H e sanctified h im in h is fa ith fu ln e ss and meekness,
and chose h im out o f all m en.
5. H e m ade h im to hear his voice, and brought him into
the d a rk cloud, and gave h im co m m a n d m en ts before his face,
even the la w o f life and know ledge, th a t he m ig h t teach Jacob
his covenants, and Isra el his ju d g m en ts.
6. H e exa lted A a ro n , a holy m an like unto him, even
h is brother, o f the tribe o f L evi.
7. A n everlasting covenant he m ade w ith him , and gave
h im the p riesth o o d am ong the people; he beautified him with
com ely ornam ents, and clothed h im w ith a robe o f glory.
8. H e p u t upo n h im p e rfe c t g lo ry; and strengthened him.
w ith rich garm ents, w ith breeches, w ith a long robe, and the
ephod.
9. A n d he com passed h im w ith pom egranates, and with
m a n y golden bells around about, th a t as he w en t there might
be a sound, and a noise m ade th a t m ig h t be heard in the tem­
ple, fo r a m em orial to the children o f his people;
10. W ith a holy ga rm en t, w ith gold, and blue silk, and
purple, the w o rk o f the em broiderer, w ith a breastplate of
ju d g m en t, and w ith U rim and T h u m m im ;
11. W ith tw isted scarlet, the w o rk o f the cunning work­
m an, w ith precious sto n es g ra ven like seals, and set in gold,
the w o rk o f the jew eler, w ith a w ritin g engraved for a
m em orial, a fte r the n u m b er o f the tribes o f Israel.
12. H e set a crow n o f gold upo n the m itre, wherein was
engraved H oliness, an ornam ent o f honour, a costly work, tin
desires o f the eyes, goodly and beautiful.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 707
13. B efore h im there w ere none such, neither did ever
any stranger p u t th em on, but only his children and his
children’s children perpetually.
14. Their sacrifices shall be w holly consum ed every day
twice continually.
15. M oses consecrated him , and anointed him w ith holy
oil: this was appointed un to h im by an everlasting covenant,
and to his seed, so long as the heavens should remain, that
they should m inister un to him , and execute the office o f the
priesthood and bless the people in his name.
16. H e chose h im o u t o f all m en living to offer sacrifice
to the Lord, incense, and a sw eet savour, fo r a memorial, to
make reconciliation fo r his people.
17. H e gave un to h im his com m andm ents, and authority
in the statutes o f ju d g m en ts, that he should teach Jacob the
testimonies, and in fo r m Isra el in his laws.
18. Strangers conspired together against him , and
maligned him in the w ilderness, even the m en that were o f
Dathan’s and A b iro n ’s side, and the congregation o f Core,
with fu ry and w rath.
19. This the L o rd saw , and it displeased him , and in his
wrathful indignation w ere they consum ed: he did w onders
upon them, to consum e th em w ith the fiery flame.
20. B u t he m ade A a ro n m ore honourable, and gave him
a heritage, and d ivid ed unto him the first-fruits o f the in­
crease; especially he prepared bread in abundance.
21. For they ate o f the sacrifices o f the Lord, w hich he
gave unto him and his seed.
708 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
22. H o w beit, in the land o f the people he had no inh
tance, n eith er had he any portio n am ong the people: fo r the
L o rd h im se lf is h is po rtio n and inheritance.
23. T h e th ird in g lory is P h in ees the S o n o f Eleazar,
because he had zeal in the fe a r o f the L o rd , and stood up
w ith good courage o f heart w h en the people w ere turned back,
and m ade reconciliation fo r Israel.
24. T h e re fo re w a s there a covenant o f peace made with
him , th a t he sh o u ld be the c h ie f o f the sanctuary and o f his
people, and th a t he and his p o sterity sh o u ld have the dignity
o f the priesth o o d fo r ever:
25. A cco rd in g to the covenant m ade w ith D avid the son
o f Jesse, o f the tribe o f Juda, th a t the inheritance o f the king
sh o u ld be to his p o sterity alone: so the inheritance o f Aaron
sh o u ld also be unto his seed.
26. G od give yo u w isd o m in y o u r heart to judge his
people in righteousness, th a t their good things be not abol­
ished, and th a t th eir g lory m a y endure fo r ever.
C H A P T E R X L V I
T h e praise o f Joshua, Caleb, and Sam uel.
1. Jesu s the son o f N a v e w a s valiant in the wars, and
w a s the successor o f M o ses in prophecies, w ho according to
his nam e w as m ade great fo r the saving o f the elect o f God,
and taking vengeance o f the enem ies that rose up against
th em , th a t he m ig h t set Isra el in th eir inheritance.
2. H o w great glory gat he, w h en he did lift up his hands,
and stretch ed out his sw o rd against the cities!
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 709
3. W ho before h im so stood to it? fo r the Lord him self
brought his enem ies un to him .
. 4. D id not the su n go back by his means? and was not
one day as long as tw o ?
5. H e called upon the m o st high L ord, w hen the enemies
pressed upon him on every sid e; and the great Lord heard
him.
6. A n d until hailstones o f m ighty pow er he made the
battle to fall vio len tly u pon the nations, and in the descent (o f
Bethoron) he d estro yed them that resisted, that the nations
might know all th eir stren g th , because he fo u g h t in the sight
of the Lord, and he fo llo w e d the M ig h ty One.
7. In the tim e o f M o ses also he did a w ork o f mercy, he
and Caleb the son o f Jep hunne, in that they w ithstood the
congregation, and w ith h eld the people fro m sin, and appeased
the wicked m urm uring.
8. A n d o f s ix hu n d red thousand people on foot, they
two were preserved to bring them into the heritage, even unto
the land that flo w eth w ith m ilk and honey.
9. The L o rd gave stren g th also unto Caleb, which re
mained w ith him un to his old age: so that he entered upon the
high places o f the land, and his seed obtained it fo r a lu rita g t.
10. That all the children o f Israel m ight see that it is
good to fo llo w the L o rd .
11. A n d , concerning the Judges, every one by name,
whose heart w en t no t a w h o rin g , nor departed fro m the Lord,
let their m em ory be blessed:
12. L e t their bones flo u rish out o f their place, and let the
name o f them that w ere honoured be continued upon their
children.
710 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
13. S a m u el, the p ro p h et o f the L o rd , beloved o f his Lord,
established a kin g d o m , and a n n ointed princes over his people.
14. B y the law o f the L o rd he ju d g ed the congregation,
and the L o rd had respect un to Jacob.
15. B y h is fa ith fu ln e s s he w a s fo u n d a true prophet, and
by h is w o rd he w a s k n o w n to be fa ith fu l in vision.
16. H e called upon the m ig h ty L o rd , w h en his enemies
pressed upo n h im on every side, w h en he offered the sucking
lam b.
17. A n d the L o rd th u n d ered fr o m heaven, and with a
great noise m ade his voice to be heard.
18. A n d he d estro yed the ru lers o f the Tyrians, and all
the princes o f the P hilistines.
19. A n d b efo re his long sleep he m ade protestations in
the sig h t o f the L o rd and h is annointed. I have not taken
any m an’s goods, so m uch as a shoe: and no m an did accuse
him .
20. A n d a fte r his death he prophesied, and shewed
king h is end, and lifte d up his voice fr o m the earth m
prophecy, to blot ou t the w icked n ess o f the people.
C H A P T E R X L V II
1. T h e praise o f N a th a n , D a vid, and S olom on: his glory
and infirm ities. 23. O f his end and punishm ent.
1. A n d a fte r h im rose up N a th a n to prophesy in the time
o f D avid.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 711
2. A s is the fa t ta ken aw ay fro m the peace-offering, so
was David chosen out o f the children o f Israel.
3. H e played w ith lions as w ith kids, and w ith bears as
with lambs.
4. S le w he no t a giant, w h en he w as yet but yo u n g f and
did he not take aw ay reproach fr o m the people, w hen he lifted
up his hand w ith the stone in the sling, and beat dow n the
boasting o f G oliath?
5. F or he called upon the m ost high L ord; and he gave
him, strength in his rig h t hand to slay that m ighty warrior,
and set up the ho rn o f h is people.
6. So the people h onoured him w ith ten thousands, and
praised him in the blessings o f the L ord, in that he gave him
a crown o f glory.
7. F or he d estro yed the enem ies on every side, and
brought to n o u g h t the P h ilistin es his adversaries, and brake
their horn in su n d er unto this day.
8. In all his w o rk s he praised the H oly One m ost high
with w ords o f g lo ry ; w ith his w hole heart he sung songs, and
loved him that m ade him .
9. H e set sin g ers also before the altar, that by their
voices they m ig h t m ake sw eet m elody, and daily sing praises
in their songs.
10. H e beautified their fea sts, and set in order the solemn
times until the end, that th ey m ig h t praise his holy name, and
that the tem ple m ig h t sou n d fro m morning.
H . The L o rd took aw ay his sins, and exalted his horn
for ever: he gave h im a covenant o f kings, and the throne o f
glory is Israel.
712 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
12. A fte r h im rose up a w ise son, and fo r his sake he
d w elt at large.
13. S o lo m o n reigned in a peaceable tim e, and was hon­
ou red ; fo r G od m ade all quiet ro u n d about him , that he might
build a house in his nam e, and prepare his sanctuary fo r ever.
14. H o w w ise w a st th o u in th y yo u th , and, as a flood,
filled w ith u n d ersta n d in g !
15. T h y sold covered the earth, and thou filledst it with
dark parabes.
16. T h y nam e w e n t fa r into the islands; and fo r thy
peace th o u w a st beloved.
17. T he countries m a rvelled at thee fo r thy songs, and
proverbs, and parables, and interpretations.
18. B y the nam e o f the L o rd G od, w hich is called the
L o rd G od o f Israel, th o u d id st g a th er gold as tin, and didst
m u ltip ly silver as lead.
19. T h o u d id st bow th y loins unto w om en, and by thy
body thou w a st brought into subjection.
20. T h o u d id st stain th y honour, and pollute thy seed: so
that th o u bro u g h test w ra th upon th y children, and wast
g rieved fo r th y fo lly.
21. S o the kin g d o m w as d ivid ed , and out o f Ephraim
ruled a rebellious kingdom .
22. B u t the L o rd w ill n ever leave o ff his m ercy, neither
shall any o f his w o rk s perish, n eith er w ill he abolish the pos­
terity o f his elect, and the seed o f h im that loveth him he
w ill not take aw ay: w h erefo re he gave a rem nant unto Jacob,
and out o f h im a root unto D avid.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 713
23. Thus rested S o lo m o n w ith his fathers, and o f his
seed he left behind h im R oboam , even the foolishness o f the
people, and one that had no understanding, who turned away
the people through h is counsel. T here w as also Jeroboam the
son of N ebat, w ho caused Isra el to sin, and shew ed Ephraim
the way to sin:
24. A n d their sin s w ere m ultiplied exceedingly, that they
were driven out o f the land.
25. For they so u g h t out all w ickedness, till the vengeance
came upon them .
C H A P T E R X L V III
The praise o f E lias, E liseus, and Ezekias.
1. Then sto o d up E lia s the prophet as fire, and his w ord
burned like a lam p.
2. H e brought a sore fa m in e upon them, and by his zeal
he diminished their num ber.
3. B y the w o rd o f the L o rd he shut up the heaven, and
also three tim es bro u g h t do w n fire.
4. 0 E lias, h o w w a st th o u honoured in thy w ondrous
deeds! and w ho m ay g lo ry like unto thee!
5. W ho didst raise up a dead man from death, an^
soul from the place o f the dead, by the w ord o f t te
High:
6. W ho bro u g h test kings to destruction, and honourable
nen from their bed:
714 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
7. W h o heardest the reb u ke o f the L o rd in Sinai, and
in H o reb the ju d g m e n t o f vengeance:
8. W h o a n o in ted st kin g s to take revenge, and prophets
to succeed a fte r h im :
9. W h o w a st ta ken up in a w h irlw in d o f fire, and in a
chariot o f fiery horses:
10. W h o w a st ordained fo r rep ro o fs in their times, to
p a cify the w ra th o f the L o rd ’s ju d g m e n t, before it brake forth
into fu r y , and to tu rn the heart o f the fa th e r unto the son,
and to restore the tribes o f Jacob.
11. B lessed are th ey that sa w thee, and slept in love; for
w e shall su rely live.
12. E lias it w as, w h o w a s covered w ith a w hirlw ind: and
E liseu s w as filled w ith h is sp irit: w h ilst he lived, he was not
m o ved w ith the presence o f any prince, neither could any
bring h im into subjection.
13.. N o w o rd could overcom e him , and a fte r his death his
body prophesied.
14. H e did w o n d ers in his life , and at his death were his
w o rk s m arvelous.
15. F o r all th is the people repented not, neither departed
th ey fr o m th eir sins, till th ey w ere spoiled and carried out of
their land, and w ere scattered th ro u g h all the earth: and yet
there rem ained a sm all people, and a ruler in the house of
D avid:
16. O f w h o m som e did that w h ich w as pleasing to God,
and som e m u ltip lied sins.
W B H H U — ^
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 715
17. E zekias fo rtifie d his city, and brought in w ater into
the midst th ereo f: he digged the hard rock w ith iron, and
made wells fo r w aters.
18. In his tim e S en nacherib cam e up, and sent Rabsaces,
and lifted up his hand against S io n , and boasted proudly'.
19. Then trem bled th eir hearts and hands, and they were
in pain, as w o m en in travail.
20. B u t th ey called upon the L o rd w hich is m erciful, and
stretched out their hands tow ard him : and im m ediately the
Holy One heard th em ou t o f heaven, and delivered them by
the ministry o f E say.
21. H e sm ote the h o st o f the A ssyrians, and his angel
destroyed them.
22. F or E zekia s had done the thing that pleased the Lord,
and was strong in the w a ys o f D avid his father, as Esay the
prophet, w ho w as great and fa ith fu l in his vision, had
commanded him .
23. In his tim e the su n w en t backward, and he lengthened
the king’s life.
24. H e saw by an excellent spirit w hat should come to
pass at the last, and he co m fo rted them that m ourned in Sion.
25. H e sh ew ed w h a t should com e to pass fo r ever, and
secret thing or ever th ey came.
C H A P T E R X L IX
The praise o f Josias, o f D avid and Ezekias, o f Jerem y,
of Ezekiel, Zorababel, Jesu s the son o f Josedec. o f Neem ias,
Enoch, Seth, S em , and A d a m .
716 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
1. T h e rem em brance o f Josias is like the composition
o f the p e rfu m e that is m ade by the a rt o f the apothecary: it
is sw eet as ho n ey in all m o u th s, and as m usic at a banquet
o f w ine.
2. H e behaved h im se lf u p rig h tly in the conversion of
the people, and took aw ay the abom inations o f iniquity.
3. H e d irected his h eart un to the L o rd , and in the time
o f the un g o d ly he established the w o rsh ip o f God.
4. A ll, excep t D avid, and E zekia s, and Josias, were
d efe c tiv e: fo r th ey fo rso o k the la w o f the M o st H igh, even
the kin g s o f Ju d a fa iled .
5. T h e re fo re he gave th eir p o w er unto others, and their
g lory to a strange nation.
6. T h e y bu rn t the chosen city o f the sanctuary, and m
the streets desolate, according to the prophecy o f Jeremias.
7. F o r th ey entreated h im evil, w h o nevertheless was a
prophet, sanctified in his m o th er's w o m b , that he m ight root
out, and afflict, and d estro y; and th a t he m ig h t build up also,
and plant.
8. I t w a s E ze k ie l w ho sa w the glorious vision, which
w as sh ew ed h im upon the chariot o f the cherubim s.
9. F o r he m ade m en tio n o f the enem ies under the figure
o f the rain, and d irected them that w e n t right.
10. A n d o f the tw elve p ro p h ets let the memorial be
blessed, and let th eir bones flo u rish again out o f their place,
fo r th ey co m fo rted Jacob, and d elivered th em by assured hope.
11. H o w shall w e m a g n ify Z o ro b a b elf even he was as
a sig n et on the rig h t hand:
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 717
12. So w as Jesu s the son o f Josedec: who in their tim e
builded the house, and se t up a holy tem ple to the Lord, w hich
■was prepared fo r everlasting glory.
13. A n d am ong the elect w as N eem ias, whose renown
is great, who raised up fo r us the w alls that were fallen, and
set up the gates and the bars, and raised up our ruins again.
14. B u t upon the earth w as no man like Enoch; fo r he
was taken fro m the earth.
15. N eith er w a s there a m an born like unto Joseph, a
governor o f his brethren, a stay o f the people, whose bones
were regarded o f the L o rd .
16. S em and S e th w ere in great honour among men, and
so was A dam above every living thing in the creation.
C H A P T E R L
1. O f S im o n the son o f Onias. 22. H o w the people
were taught to praise G od, and pray. 27. The conclusion.
1. S im o n the high priest, the son o f Onias, who in his
life repaired the house again, and in his days fortified the
temple.
2. A n d by h im w as built fro m the foundation the double
height, the high fo rtre ss o f the w all about the temple.
3. In his d a ys the cistern to receive water, being in
compass as the sea, w a s covered w ith plates o f brass.
4. H e took care o f the tem ple that it should not fall, and
fortified the city against besieging:
718 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
5. H o w w a s he ho n o u red in the m id st o f the people in
his com ing ou t o f the sa n ctu a ry!
6. H e w a s as the m o rn in g sta r in the m id st o f a cloud,
and as the m oon at the fu ll:
7. A s the su n sh in in g upon the tem ple o f the Most
H ig h , and as the rainbow g ivin g light in the bright clouds:
8. A n d as the flo w er o f roses in the spring o f the year,
as lilies by the rivers o f w aters, and as the branches o f the
fra n kin cen se-tree in the tim e o f su m m er:
9. A s fire and incense in the censer, and as a vessel of
beaten gold set w ith all m a n n er o f precious stones:
10. A n d as a fa ir o live-tree budding fo r th fru it, and as
a cypress tree w h ich g ro w eth up to the clouds.
11. W h e n he p u t on the robe o f honour, and w as clothed
w ith the p erfectio n o f glory, w h en he w e n t up to the holy
altar, he m ade the g a rm en t o f holiness honourable.
12. W h e n he took the p o rtio n s ou t o f the priest’s hands,
he h im se lf sto o d by the h earth o f the altar, com passed with
his brethren rou n d about, as a yo u n g cedar in Libanus; and
as p alm -trees com passed th ey h im ro u n d about.
13. S o w ere all the so n s o f A a ro n in their glory, and
the oblations o f the L o rd in th eir hands, before all the con­
gregations o f Israel.
14. A n d finishing the service at the altar, that he might
adorn the offering o f the m o st high A lm ig h ty ,
15. H e stretch ed out his hand to the cup, and poured of
the blood o f the grape; he p o u red out at the fo o t o f the altar a
sw eet-sm ellin g sa vo u r unto the m o st high K in g o f all.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 719
16. Then sh o u ted the so n s o f A aron, and sounded the
silver trum pets, and m ade a great noise to be heard, fo r a
remembrance befo re the M o st H igh.
17. Then all the people together hasted, and fell dow n to
the earth upon their fa c e s to w orship their Lord God
Almighty, the M o st H ig h .
18. The singers also sang praises w ith their voices, w ith
great variety o f so u n d s w a s there m ade sw eet melody.
19. A n d the people besought the L ord, the M ost H igh, by
prayer before him th a t is m ercifu l, till the solem nity o f the
Lord was ended, and th ey had finished his service.
20. Then he w e n t d o w n , and lifte d up his hands over the
whole congregation o f the children o f Israel, to give the bless­
ing of the L o rd w ith h is lips, and to rejoice in his name.
21. A n d they bow ed them selves dow n to worship the
second time, that th ey m ig h t receive a blessing fro m the M ost
High.
22. N o w th erefo re bless ye the God o f all, which only
ioeth w ondrous th in g s everyw h ere, w hich exalteth our days
from the w om b, and dealeth w ith us according to his mercy.
23. H e grant u s jo y fu ln e ss o f heart, and that peace may
be in our days in Isra el fo re v e r:
24. That he w o u ld confirm his m ercy w ith us, and deliver
us at his tim e!
25. There be tw o m anner o f nations which m y heart
abhorreth, and the th ird is no nation:
26. They that sit upo n the m ountain o f Samaria, and they
that dwell am ong the P h ilistin es, and that foolish people that
dwell in Sichem .
720 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
27. Jesu s the son o f S ira ch o f Jerusalem hath w ritten in
th is book the in stru ctio n o f un d ersta n d in g and knowledge,
w h o out o f his heart poured fo r th w isdom .
28. B lessed is he th a t shall be exercised in these things;
and he that layeth th em up in his heart shall become wise.
29. F o r i f he do th em , he shall be stro n g to all things:
fo r the lig h t o f the L o rd leadeth him , w h o giveth wisdom to
the godly. B lessed be the L o rd fo r ever. A m e n , A m en.
C H A P T E R L I
A p ra yer o f Jesu s the son o f Sirach.
1. I w ill th a n k thee, O L o rd and K in g , and praise thee,
O G od m y S a v io u r: I do g ive praise un to th y nam e:
2. F o r th o u art m y d efe n d e r and helper, and hast pre­
served m y body fr o m d estru ctio n , and fr o m the snare o f the
slanderous tongue, and fr o m the lips that fo rg e lies, and hast
been m y helper against m ine a d versa ries:
3. A n d hast d elivered m e, according to the m ultitude of
th y m ercies and greatness o f th y nam e, fr o m the teeth o f them
that w ere ready to d evo u r m e, and out o f the hands o f such
as so u g h t a fte r m y life , and fr o m the m a n ifo ld afflictions
w h ich I had;
4. F ro m the ch o kin g o f fire on every side, and from the
m id st o f the fire w h ich I kin d led n o t;
5. F ro m the d ep th o f the belly o f hell, fro m an unclean
tongue, and fr o m lyin g w ords.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPT U R E 721
6. B y an accusation to the king fro m an uprighteous
tongue, m y soul d rew near even unto death, m y life was near
to the hell beneath.
7. They com passed m e on every side, and there was no
man to help m e: I lo o ked fo r the succour o f men, but there
was none.
8. Then th o u g h t I upon thy m ercy, 0 Lord, and upon
thine acts o f old, h o w th o u dcliverest such as w ait fo r thee,
and savest them out o f the hands o f the enemies.
9. Then lifte d I up m y supplication fro m the earth and
prayed fo r deliverance fr o m death.
10. I called u pon the L o rd , the Father o f m y Lord, that
he wotdd not leave m e in the days o f m y trouble, and in the
time of the proud, w h en there w as no help.
11. I w ill praise th y nam e continually, and will sing
praise w ith th a n ksg ivin g : and so m y prayer was heard:
12. F or thou sa ved st m e fr o m destruction, and deliver-
edst me fro m the evil tim e: therefore w ill I give thanks, and
praise thee, and bless th y nam e, 0 Lord.
13. W h en I w a s y e t young, or ever I w ent abroad, I
desired w isdom openly in m y prayer.
14. 1 prayed fo r her before the temple, and will seek her
out even to the end.
15. E ven fr o m the flo w er till the grape was ripe, hath m y
heart delighted in her: m y fo o t w en t the right way, fro m my
youth up sought 1 a fte r her.
16. I bow ed d o w n m ine ear a little, and received her, and
9°t much learning.
722 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
17 . 1 profited therein, th erefo re w ill I ascribe the glory
unto h im th a t g iveth m e w isdom .
18. F o r I pu rp o sed to do a fte r her, and earnestly I fo l­
lo w ed th a t w h ich is g o o d ; so shall I n o t be confounded.
19. M y soul hath w restled w ith h er, and in m y doings I
w a s exa ct: I stretch ed fo r th m y hands to the heaven above,
and bew ailed m y ignorances o f her.
20. I directed m y so u l unto her, and I fo u n d her in pure­
ness: I have had m y heart jo in ted w ith her fr o m the begin­
ning, th erefo re shall I not be fo rsa ken .
21. M y h eart w as troubled in seekin g her: therefore hav-
I g o tten a good possession.
22. T h e L o rd ha th g iven m e a tongue fo r m y reward,
and I w ill praise h im therew ith.
23. D ra w near un to m e, ye unlearned, and dw ell in the
house o f learning.
24. W h e re fo re are ye slow , and w h a t say ye o f these
things, seeing y o u r souls are ve ry th irsty ?
25. I opened m y m o u th , and said, B u y h er fo r yourselves
w ith o u t m oney.
26. P u t y o u r neck u n d er the yo ke, a n d ' let your soul
receive in stru ctio n : she is hard at hand to find.
27. B eh o ld w ith yo u r eyes, h o w that I have had but little
labour, and have g o tten unto m e m uch rest.
28. G et learning w ith a great su m o f m oney, and get
m uch gold by her.
A P O C R Y P H A SC R IPTU R E 723
29. L e t yo u r so u l rejoice in his mercy, and be not
ashamed o f his praise.
30. W o rk yo u r w o rk betim es, and in his time he will give
you your rew ard.
724 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
NOTE
W h ile th ere are m any statem ents in this book of wisdom
w ritten by Jesus, Son of Sirach of Jerusalem w hich are contrary
to S uper M ind Science, th e m ost o f it is valuable philosophy
and its historical im portance is great.
L et every reader discrim inate, test all things and hold fast
to th a t w hich is good.— T h e A u th o r.
I
G LO SSA R Y
In Super M ind Science we use the spiritual meaning of
words and ideas as expressed in symbolism, this is to elucidate
the m eaning and give the true interpretation thereof. All things
below proceeded from above, “as above so below”, therefore
when we pass beyond the literal m eaning of a term we attain
the higher or spiritual idea, w hich is the true thought. It was
this spiritual idea w hich the inspired writers of the Scriptures
endeavored to express. A summ ary and elaboration of some of
the various Scriptural and symbolical terms and words which are
quite frequently used, is herew ith given w ith a view in mind
of enlightening th e student so that they may better com prehend
their true m eaning.
726 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ABEL— Self-sacrifice, the sincere giver, innocence which is
guiltless before Infinite Spirit.
ADAM— T h e first m ortal spiritually created, w ho was to have
created his offspring th ro u g h spiritual laws, b u t fell from
G race th ro u g h placing his creation on a m aterial basis; this
b ro u g h t physical death to all his offspring. H e was not the
first m ortal on earth, b u t w as th e first spiritually created
m ortal w ho w as supposed to inaugurate a new spiritual age,
b u t w ho failed in his original purpose.
ADVERSARY— M eaning adverse to good. Devil, scandal mon­
ger, referred to as Satan, sym bolical of th e unseen influence
of m ental negation w hich prom pts one to do evil, tempts
th e good and gives negative suggestions to those positive.
T h e Bible does n o t express this w ord as a personality, only
th e ignorant construction placed upon it by translators who
w ere n o t aw are of its tru e m eaning, makes it seem so.
ALMIGHTY GOD— D ivine M ind, S uper M ind, Infinite Spirit,
Spirit of T ru th , Love and L ight w hich pervades the uni­
verse and is in every being w hich m oves and breathes. The
m otivating force w hich is in all life, in the birds, the trees,
th e flowers, th e ocean, in everything w hich lives.
ARK— Sym bol of T ru th and safety for those w ho hear the
voice of the Infinite and obey its orders. A demonstration
of preserving th e righteous, and destruction of the wicked
w ho refuse to hear th e voice. T h e A rk served Noah, also
m an and beast as a place of safety, symbolical of brother­
hood and D ivine Love.
BABEL— M aterialism and confusion. T h e idea of trying to
reach heavenly harm ony th ro u g h a m aterial doctrine which
results in a confusion of th o u g h t and inability to express
in th e language of Spirit. It is th e fate of all those who try
to climb up to im m ortality on the steps of material sacrifice
and m aterial ritualism .
G LO SSA R Y 727
BAPTISM—Purification by Spirit through devotion, submerg-
ing of individuality into Spirit. John finished material bap­
tism and Jesus instituted baptism w ith fire or Spirit, and
proclaim ed a new spiritual era.
BELIEF— A n im pression on the mind, a hope of reward, an
uncertain state of m ind, a substitute for Divine works that
gives one a sense of false comfort. A n excuse for living a
careless life and neglecting Divine works and Truth.
BRIDE— In a spiritual sense, the spiritual counterpart of a posi­
tive D ivine principle, and idea which harmonizes with
T ru th , Love and Light.
BRIDEGROOM— Positive D ivine principle which heals the
sick and raises th e dead. “Behold the bridegroom cometh
in an h o u r ye know n o t”, united w ith its spiritual opposite
or the bride of T ru th , it forms the marriage of the Lamb
w hich is spiritual innocence.
BURIAL— T h e putting away of the corporeal body after the
real self has departed from it.
CAIN— Sym bol of low animal passions and jealousy which kills
its brother, Innocence, in a fit of anger. A prototype of
the physical consciousness w hich denies the rights and ex­
istence of spiritual consciousness.
CALVARY—T h e M ount of V ictory over the flesh. T he place
w here C hrist proved mind over m atter and Spirit over flesh,
the place of death of the lower self.
CHILDREN OF ISRAEL—Symbolical of a group of individ­
uals w ho disobey the Divine prophets and as a result are
dispersed to m any lands, and are punished for their iniqui­
ties th ro u g h the Law of Compensation. They are later re­
deem ed th ro u g h M ind Science, Love, T ru th and Light sym
bolical of m an’s redem ption.
730 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ELIAS— T h e spirit of prophecy and th e daw n of the doctrine
of overcom ing, or S uper M ind Science w hich explains the
laws of m astery and being. Elias is also th e spirit of restora­
tion of T ru th . T h e nam e also signifies a prophet of Israel.
EUPHRATES (R iv e r)— T h e sym bol of th e w ater of life or life
energy w hich gives M ind Science spiritual mastery over
disease and sin.
EVANGELIST— O ne w ho proclaim s th e glad tidings of self
m astery and overcom ing of th e flesh. O ne who demon­
strates m ind over disease, sin and negation, leading human­
ity onw ard to th e Life and L ight of th e tru e Christ Spirit.
EVE (L ife)— T h e m otherhood idea perfected. T h e beginning
of th e violation of th e spiritual idea of creation in favor
of th e physical. M ortal m ind is tem pted by the serpent of
passion and violates th e D ivine com m and of purity in pro­
ducing offspring th ro u g h D ivine cohesion, therefore falling
from th e G race of understanding in th e All-ness of God.
FATHER OF MAN— Infinite A ll-know ing, All-seeing Omnip­
otent G od; pure D ivine life intelligence.
FABLE— Belief w ith o u t w orks; stories of a physical God, a
physical heaven and hell. Suppositions w hich please the
v anity of carnal m ind.
FAMINE— S tarvation for T ru th and spirituality. T he condition
of those w ho follow belief w ith o u t w orks after this life,
th ey are fam ished fo r T ru th and are cast into outer dark­
ness. T h ro u g h prejudice th ey refused to hear the heavenly
message of pow er w hile on earth.
FAST— C easing to eat of m aterial substance for a time, which
gives th e brain super norm al spiritual powers. Jesus fasted,
concentrated and m editated for forty days in order to over­
com e m atter th ro u g h m ind.
G LO SSA R Y 731
FEAR— M ental negation, a state of m ind corresponding to sin.
Those afraid to study the Science of Life for fear of w hat
others m ay say are destroyed because of this fear and nega-
tion.
FIRE— O ne of the four elements of m an’s being, representing
the pow er of creation or life Spirit. W hen uncontrolled,
it m anifests in the form of tem per and evil negation. W hen
controlled, it becomes the greatest Divine healing agent,
and is know n in Super M ind Science as Solar Energy, the
fire and pow er of Life and Light.
FIRST F R U IT S — T h e first fruits of studying M ind Science
are perfect health, healing pow er and prosperity, followed
by spiritual realization of God.
F IR M A M E N T (A b o v e)— Symbol of M ind Science existing
above all earthly doctrines of belief. As T ru th alone has
a heavenly origin, Super M ind Science is the firmament in
both Science and C hristianity, com prehending all things
w hich G od has ordained and created as T ruth.
FLESH— A low er or slower m anifestation of mind.
G A BRIEL— T h e heavenly M essenger sent to M ary to announce
the b irth of Jesus w ho was the M aster of the Science of the
M agi and a perfect M etaphysician.
G A D (F o rtu n e)— T h e pow er of prosperity revealed in M ind
Science as personal magnetism, the mystic pow er of attrac'
tion. T his nam e was given the seventh son of Jacob who
becam e the m essenger of the Law of Com pensation which
punished Israel w ith poverty. This punishm ent was inflic-
ted in connection w ith the num bering of the people.
G E H E N N A (H in n o m )— Valley of fire worship, symbol of the
w orship of the low er passions by carnal minded mortals.
In this valley infants were burned alive to please an imagin'
ary G od, show ing the cruelty and fiendishness of physical
concepts of worship.
732 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
GENESIS (O rig in )— Scientific m eaning is Infinite Spirit which
is th e tru e originator of Life and Being. T his term does not
necessarily m ean the first book of the Pentateuch, it is
m erely the title of its subject m atter. T h e spiritual idea of
creation is th a t it evolved from atom ic attraction and com­
bustion, w hich m olded beings th ro u g h Infinite Mind.
GETHSEMANE— Scene of the triu m p h of D ivinity over flesh
th ro u g h doing th e Infinite W ill. C arnal mind yielding to
D ivine M ind th ro u g h overcom ing m atter, and the wis­
dom of C hrist.
G O D — Infinite M ind, S uper M ind, D ivine M ind, T ruth, Love
and Light. A ll-seeing Spirit, light of M ind Science. Divine
heavenly Father, th e cause and source of Life, Light and
T ru th m anifesting th ro u g h F ath er or T ru th ; Son or Love;
H oly G host or L ight in m an’s m ind, body and soul which
expresses th e D ivine image.
G O L G O T H A (Place in th e skull)— W h e re Jesus Christ proved
Spirit over flesh, m ind over m atter and love over hatred.
T h e place of th e b irth of th e doctrine of overcoming,
w hich is Super M ind Science. It conquers death with life,
disease w ith health energy, and ignorance w ith Divine
W isdom . T h e doctrine of salvation th ro u g h sacrifice was
disproven on G olgotha and th e doctrine of immortality
th ro u g h D ivine w orks w as sealed and sanctioned by Divine
M ind. T h e theories of unillum inated theologians fell before
th e advance of th e illum ined and risen Christ.
HAM (B lack)— Supposed to be N o ah ’s son w ho originated the
colored races th ro u g h being cursed for his sins. An old
superstition w hich is contrary to reason, since color is ac­
cording to clim atic conditions and is not the curse of a God
w ho is A ll-good, Love and Just.
HEAVEN— A m ental state of harm ony, bliss, happiness, the
higher altitudes of Spiritual Love, L ight and Being which
can be attained w hile on earth. It is not a physical place to
be reached after death as some believe.
G LO SSA R Y 733
HELL (T o rm en t)— Literal m eaning is the grave. State of m or­
bid consciousness low ered as a result of sin. Symbolical of
the fires of passion and lust w hich destroy the subtle body
and cause lost identity of soul and self.
HEM O F G A R M E N T — T ouched by the sick w hen Christ was
passing by, sym bol of m ortal mind contacting Divinity
w hich overcom es disease, sorrow and sin. T he dem onstra­
tion of D ivine Science of Life and Being.
H O LY G H O S T (Life principle)— Life energy w hich heals the
sick in Super M ind Science. T he pow er w hich creates ease,
bliss, peace and D ivine at-one-ment.
ID O L A T R Y — Belief in a physical God in a place supposedly
above, called heaven. Belief in the physical blood of Jesus
as a rem ission of sins. W orship of riches, worship of any
object in visible form or w ith visible parts and passions. Be­
lief th a t G od can be induced to forgive sins of mortals
th ro u g h a sacrifice of blood or other sacrifice. A God of
A ll Love does n o t require m urder of His own Son in order
to forgive sinners and do justice unto His children. Such
ideas are the pagan doctrines of disciples such as Paul, who
failed to understand the symbolism of the sacrifice made by
Jesus C hrist w hich means giving up the flesh and all of
its ideas in favor of Divinity.
I A M — T h e inner self, the Divine principle of being. T he God
of Jehovah w hich leads captives of the flesh who are in
bondage into Light, Life and Being through dem onstrations
of the miracles of Spirit working through M ind, Life and
substance.
IN T E L L IG E N C E — M ind, life consciousness, Spirit, that which
cognizes in every living being having life. T he opposite of
ignorance; M ind Science or the opposite of theoretical doc­
trines and beliefs.
734 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
IN T U IT IO N — T h e sixth sense w hich im presses the diaphragm
of th e Solar Plexus w ith w arnings of com ing events. The
sense w hich com bines w ith intelligence and functions as
perception of th e soul in im m ortal realms.
JACOB— A m an of Israel w ho had a heavenly vision, demon-
strating D ivine guidance as ta u g h t in Super M ind Science,
th e h ig h er m etaphysics.
JERUSALEM (T h e city of p eace)— W h e re M elchesidec estab­
lished th e sacred o rder o f “ H igh Priests unto G od” who
initiated Jesus th e C h rist as H ig h P riest after “the order of
M elchesidec”. T h e hom e of Judahism w hich was destroyed
by sin and calam ity. T h e city of triu m p h and sorrow, sym­
bolizing hum an progress tow ard th e Science of Life and
M ind from a chaotic condition. T h e physical expression of
spiritual triu m p h over death. A type of the “new Jerusa­
lem ” o r D ivine M ind Science w hich overcom es the beast,
th e dragon, th e devil and d eath at th e tim e of the great
judgm ent of th e Law of C om pensation.
JESUS CHRIST— T h e highest expression of Divine Mind in
hum an form . H e dem onstrated m ind over m atter, Spirit
over flesh, T ru th over false tradition. H e is the radiant
exam ple of pow er, th e ideal of every sincere Super Mind
Scientist. Jesus th e son of Sirach, grandchild to Jesus of
the sam e nam e m entioned in th e A pocrypha Scriptures as
one w ho inherited great spiritual w isdom from his fore­
fathers; and recipient of a book called “W isdom ” which
w as passed dow n th ro u g h th e generations to succeeding
sons. T h e book is a book of m etaphysical proverbs and
possibly w as w ritten by a fo refath er of Jesus the Christ.
It is am ong the rejected books of th e O ld Testament.
KING— T h e only tru e K ing is Infinite Spirit w hich rules with
T ru th , Love and Justice. M an ow es his allegiance to this
D ivine ruler of life before any other, fo r Infinite Spint
rules all life th ro u g h laws of M ind, Soul and Spirit.
G LO SSA R Y 735
KINGDOM OF HEAVEN— D ivine harm ony of mind. M ind
united w ith Spirit, T ru th , Love and Light as dem onstrated
in Super M ind Science w hich reveals the methods of self
control and D ivine harm ony.
KNOWLEDGE—-Truth. Provable facts opposed to belief, spec­
ulation and affirmations. A state of mental certainty pertain­
ing to Life and G od as acquired in the study of M ind Sci­
ence, T ru th and Life.
LAM B— A nim al used in ignorant sacrifices to please a supposed
G od w ho required the blood of H is creatures before H e
could be induced to be Just. A pagan superstition foreign
to the ideals of C hrist and Divine M ind Science.
LIFE— T h e com posite m anifestation of individualized conscious­
ness. W h en the currents of life flow uncongested the body
retains life indefinitely, but congestion means death of the
body. Life is positive and negative spiritual energy.
LORD (M aster)— O f life energy, mind and life. O ne who con­
trols m atter through spiritual power, love and devotion to
G ood and G od, m anifesting Divine W ill over sorrow, dis­
ease, sin and death.
LORD’S SUPPER— Symbol of sacrificing physical life w ithout
resistance. G iving up the flesh to carry out the plan of
dem onstrating individual soul salvation and the resurrection
o f th e righteous to a life of glory. Supreme mastery of
m ind and Spirit over m atter. It is not a symbol of a phy­
sical blood sacrifice in order to encourage God to do Justice
to hum anity, for could G od who is All-good be a party to
killing H is “beloved Son in whom H e was well pleased ?
W ould H e require H is innocent Son s blood before saving
a just m an? W ould H e cause all nations w ho have their
ow n Saviours other than C hrist to be lost? No, such doc­
trines and interpretations of the Scriptures breed hatred of
other races and they are decidedly unchristian. Divine Sci­
ence proclaim s a universal God and Brotherly Love.
738 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
ONENESS— U nion w ith th e Infinite, m entally and spiritually.
OMNIPRESENCE— T h e A ll-pervading U niversal Presence of
G od and G ood existing everyw here, w hich can be under­
stood w hen low th o u g h t w aves are stilled.
OM— Sounded as O M , b u t spelled A U M , m eaning Almighty
U niversal M aster, or Infinite Spirit. T h e “lost word” of
M asonry, th e vibratory sound w hich opens the ears of the
deaf in S uper M ind Science. It is said this word sounded
by seven M asters of D ivine Science raises the dead. The
A u th o r and his students have restored hearing to many
th ro u g h its use and th e directing of energy into the dead
cells of th e hearing center.
PANTHEISM— T h e doctrine th a t G od is universal and all life
is a m anifestation of H is Infinite Being. A true concept,
scientifically correct, w hich w ould teach mankind harmony
and unity and do aw ay w ith creeds, dogmas, wars and
hatred.
PANTHEON— A n ancient tem ple dedicated to the worship of
all know n Gods. A sym bol of tru e brotherly concept of
G od, free from jealousy and racial prejudice.
PHARISEE— T hose w ho disbelieve in th e works of Christ,
condem ing all D ivine w orks of Spirit, yet claiming a re­
ligious belief in th e prophets. A prototype of the present
day narrow m inded creed follow ers w ho reject the spiritual
dem onstrations of th e C h rist pow er, yet assert that they are
H is follow ers and H e th e ir G od.
PROPHET —O ne w ho dem onstrates the pow er of Seership as
ta u g h t in D ivine m etaphysics.
PROTOTYPE—A n original m odel after w hich anything is
form ed according to th e shape and quality of the origins ■
RED— Sym bol of the physical plane, color of vibration of matter.
GLOSSARY 739
R E D E M P T IO N — Paying the price of self mastery, and over-
com ing the flesh to liberate the soul from flesh bondage.
R E S U R R E C T IO N — Raising from dead belief to a scientific un-
derstanding of life and im m ortal being.
RO C K — Symbol of T ru th and facts and the Science of Life.
Jesus established H is church upon the rock of spiritual
identity, saying “T hou art Peter, and upon this rock
(T ru th ) I will build my church and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it”, m eaning the facts of Being, w hich is
the Science of Life.
S A L V A T IO N O F S O U L — M erging of individual conscious-
ness w ith Infinite Spirit, T ruth, Love and Light. A ttaining
love of hum anity and perform ing the works of C hrist which
destroys sin, disease, ignorance and death.
S E R PE N T — Sym bol-of the influence of carnal mind. T he first
deceiver of m ankind w hich spoke lies mentally to Eve,
telling h er to create physically and ignore the Divine law
of creation, and having com m itted sin, she would be as a
G od, she w ould know good from evil and therefore would
become a like pow er as Infinite Spirit. Eve listened to the
voice of carnal passion and created physically, thus sentenc­
ing h er offspring to a physical death through dependence
on m atter.
SO L A R PLEX U S— A body center of cosmic influence and life
forces in w hich is located the soul consciousness and God
center of man. Solar, m eaning of the sun or illumination,
Plexus m eaning center. Soul is derived from Solar meaning
m iniature sun, or the pow er of illumination of Spirit in
m atter.
S P IR IT U A L — D ivine understanding, the Christ-like Godly in­
telligence opposite to m atter. T o the degree that one over­
comes sin, disease and m atter, they are spiritual.
740 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
SPIRITS— D iscarnate beings w hich supposedly advise human
beings in th e ir love affairs, business enterprises, etc., how­
ever th ey are b u t th e m anifestation of th o u g h t forms and
m agnetism . T h eir seem ing intelligence is b u t the operation
of th e subconscious m ind of th e one giving the message.
T hese “spirits” are b u t floating astral shells of unconscious­
ness from w hich th e soul and D ivinity have departed.
SUBSTANCE— A low er m anifestation of m ind, matter.
SUN— T h e physical source of life, sym bol of Infinite Spirit,
th e creative or positive force of life.
SUPREME BEING— O m nipotent, eternal life principle; all per­
vading; all-know ing, b o th w ithin m an and w ithout. Sustainer
of th e universe, th e intelligence w hich pervades matter.
SWORD OF TRUTH—Facts or T ru th s opposed to belief.
S uper M ind Science, D ivine pow er and Infinite understand­
ing w hich casts o u t disease, sin, and pow ers of evil. It severs
th e relationship of th e one w ho attains, from those who
believe b u t fail to practice th e D ivine laws of life.
TEMPLE OF GOD— T h e hum an body w herein the soul or God
dwells. It should be controlled and dedicated to the service
o f hum anity in o rder to prepare m ankind for the new
Jerusalem ” or suprem e Science of M ind.
TRIUNE PRINCIPLE—T ru th , facts; Love, D ivine conscious­
ness; L ight, D ivine m anifestation, equals Father, Truth,
Son, Love; H oly G host, Light.
T IT H E — A sacrifice of one te n th of a person’s earnings to pro
m ote T ru th , D ivine M ind Science and spiritual understand
ing. T h is should be given to th e cause of Super Mind Sci
ence by every devoted Scientist.
G LO SSA R Y 741
UNION OF GOD— C oordination of all positive Divine prin­
ciples in harm ony w ith Infinite Spirit, God.
UNCLEAN— Evil deeds, im pure thoughts, belief in marriage
of m ortals to the Son of God, literally, Animal impulses,
eating dead anim al flesh for food.
UNGODLY— A ll beliefs w hich offer no methods of attaining
spiritual understanding. Teaching vicarious atonem ent and
encouraging m ental dependence on belief.
UNIFORM LAWS OF MIND— Laws which manifest accord­
ing to positive and negative mental principles, dem onstrat­
ing at-one-m ent w ith T ru th , Love and Light.
UNKNOWABLE— Com plete universal consciousness where in ­
dividuality becomes universal. O ther than this, the so-called
unknow able mysteries of life of material science are fully
explained and dem onstrated in Super M ind Science.
UNUSUAL DEMONSTRATIONS—T he restoring of sight to
the blind and hearing to the deaf, and casting out of dis­
ease as dem onstrated in Super M ind Science. Unusual only
to those w ho have not studied and do not understand the
laws of life and being.
VEIL OF LIFE— M ortal mind, life and consciousness; beyond
this veil is T ru th and Immortal Being, revealed through
the w isdom of D ivine M ind Science.
VERITY—T ru th , dem onstration of facts of Life and Being.
VESTAL— T h e pure virgin T ru th concerning God and life
w ith o u t m an made creeds, theories and mortal ideas.
742 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
WILDERNESS OF WANDERING—Sym bol of the soul’s so­
journ in th e body surrounded by carnal passions and lust,
later becom ing th e vehicle of expression of the conscious­
ness w hen it attains im m ortality or reaches the spiritual
prom ised land. It is led into safety from bondage of desire
by th e T eaching of D ivine M ind Science.
WILL POWER— Positive creative m ind force w hich becomes
th e W ill of G od w hen it perform s good; w hen it commits
sin, it serves evil and negation. W h e n positive it represents
the heavenly W ill, w hile negative th e pow er of carnal mind
and evil. T h e W ill of th e F ath er becom es one w ith the Son
w hen D ivine unity of m ind is attained.
WINE— Sym bol of th e blood of saints sacrificed in order to
foster T ru th , Love and L ight. A lso a symbol of Good Will
and fellowship.
WINDOW—Place w here light enters a dark room, symbol
of th e illum ination of S pirit w hich enters the consciousness
th ro u g h D ivine M ind Science of Life.
YOKE— A m eans of subjecting th e strength to control, to move
heavy loads. Sym bol of m ind concentration and control
of m ental energy. Jesus said, “ For m y yoke is easy and my
burden is lig h t”, m eaning, m y teachings are easy to under­
stand, and they rem ove sorrow from th e mind.
ZEPHON (W a tch in g )— Son of G od, th e nam e is a symbol of
th e soul w hich w atches th e deeds com m itted in the body.
ZION— U nderstanding of Infinite Spirit, the foundation of true
C hristianity and D ivine wisdom . Symbol also of the new
Jerusalem ” of D ivine M ind Science reached through a re­
new ing of th e m ind, body control and spiritual realization.
742 E T E R N A L W IS D O M A N D H E A L T H
WILDERNESS OF WANDERING—Symbol of the soul’s so­
journ in th e body surrounded by carnal passions and lust,
later becom ing th e vehicle of expression of the conscious­
ness w hen it attains im m ortality or reaches the spiritual
prom ised land. It is led into safety from bondage of desire
by th e T eaching of D ivine M ind Science.
WILL POWER—Positive creative m ind force w hich becomes
th e W ill of G od w hen it perform s good; w hen it commits
sin, it serves evil and negation. W h e n positive it represents
th e heavenly W ill, w hile negative th e pow er of carnal mind
and evil. T h e W ill of th e F ath er becom es one w ith the Son
w hen D ivine unity of m ind is attained.
WINE— Sym bol o f th e blood o f saints sacrificed in order to
foster T ru th , Love and Light. A lso a symbol of Good Will
and fellowship.
WINDOW— Place w here light enters a dark room, symbol
of the illum ination of Spirit w hich enters the consciousness
th ro u g h D ivine M ind Science of Life.
YOKE— A m eans of subjecting the strength to control, to move
heavy loads. Sym bol of m ind concentration and control
of m ental energy. Jesus said, “For m y yoke is easy and my
burden is light”, m eaning, m y teachings are easy to under­
stand, and th ey rem ove sorrow from the mind.
ZEPHON (W a tch in g )— Son of G od, th e nam e is a symbol of
th e soul w hich w atches th e deeds com m itted in the body.
ZION— U nderstanding of Infinite Spirit, th e foundation of true
C hristianity and D ivine wisdom . Sym bol also of the new
Jerusalem ” of D ivine M ind Science reached through a re­
new ing of the m ind, body control and spiritual realization.
The following testimonies of power were voluntarily given
by loyal Super Mind Scientists to Professor Wm. Estep per­
sonally, or to the Mother Church to show the appreciation of
the writers.
Many testify to overcoming of diseases, such as blindness,
deafness and other infirmities. Many have received soul
illumination, demonstrating the powers of the Science of Christ,
Life and Truth. This is the sign of the building of the “New
Jerusalem” in which man is to bind ignorance and cast it out,
and know God as a living heavenly power of harmony and Love
which heals disease and difFuses eternal light.
The Founder of Super Mind Science labored for years that
the reader may read these proofs of Divine power on the open­
ing of a Divine era of scientific Christianity and a new social
structure. This new era is to be the forerunner of the fall of
materialism and theoretical Christianity which is now being
ruled by earthly hierarchies, for God is a living God that over­
comes all evil and matter by the power of Justice, Love, Mercy
and Divine wisdom.
The originals of the following testimonies, with many hun­
dreds of others similar to these, are on file in the office of the
Super Mind Science Publications at Excelsior Springs, Missouri.
THE GREATEST EDUCATION
Seattle, Wash.,
October 18, 1931.
Professor Wm. Estep,
Dear Sir:
I wish to thank you for the great work you are doing. The
Super Mind Science Course of instructions is more valuable than
any years’ course in Colleges, Universities or other institutions
that I know of. I have tried quite a number of these. It enables
one to use all of his faculties and powers effectively and con­
structively, and protects them from the destructive tendencies.
Your advanced class is invaluable and cheap at any price.
I would make every possible sacrifice to get it if I had not
done so.
Again thanking you and hoping to see you again next year.
Respectfully,
E. W. COX, M. D.
FOUND THE TRUTH
Minneapolis, Minn.
January 23, 1930.
Dear Sir:
I cannot find words to express my gratitude for the privi­
lege of attending class instructions under Prof. Wm. Estep,
whose patience and kindness is endless. For years I have
searched in many religions and cults, always to find there was
something missing. Now I know that the true way has been
revealed, and that man can know and feel the Divine presence,
if he does the work as taught.
With Love and Sincerity,
ANNA V. LEWIS.
PARALYSIS AND BLINDNESS HEALED
Philadelphia, Pa.,
February 4, 1932.
Prof. Wm. Estep.
My dear Professor:
I feel it a duty to my fellow neighbor and brother, to pub­
licly acknowledge the great benefits I have received from Super
Mind Science and thereby prove to them there is a way by
which verlasting health and happiness can at last be obtained.
About sixteen years ago I was stricken with a very serious
illness which left me in a physical condition that I was subject
to temporary paralysis. These attacks would come upon me
several times a year, causing the loss of the use of my limb or
limbs. During these sixteen long years the doctors were unable
to stop the coming on of these attacks or to remove the cause
of them and it would take sometimes two weeks for them to get
life back again to the limbs.
While suffering an attack which settled in my right leg, I
heard of Super Mind Science, was TAKEN to their meeting,
received a treatment and in fifteen minutes I WALKED out, my
leg healed.
I took up the S. M. S. Course, abided by its teachings and
have rid my body of the cause of all the trouble, for I have
been in S. M. S. for a year with no signs of any discomfort, and
I wish I had the power of the pen to write of my physical
condition and happiness.
Besides bringing me to a Mental and Physical fitness, S. M.
S. has restored my proper sight. My sight was so impaired that
I had to wear tinted glasses, for clear light was harmful, and by
concentration as taught in S. M. S. my sight was restored and
I was able to discard my glasses in three days after wearing them
for thirty years.
This is a free will Testimony and you can use it in any
way that you feel will be of help to others.
Signed,
GEORGE RICHARDSON.
HEALTH AND PROSPERITY
Prof. Win. Estep.
Founder of Super Mind Science.
The man who demonstrates his teachings.
Dear Teacher:
I want at this time to give you my thanks, and to express
my sincere appreciation of a knowledge of the most practical
Science ever presented to the American Public.
I have studied, weighed the merits of a great many beliefs
but found very little which appealed to my reason, or which
would help me to solve my daily problems.
Super Mind Science has given me a real, and definite knowh
edge and Key to the mysteries of the universe. It has given me
new light, life and hope. I have proven the Science for six
years, and have had some wonderful demonstrations of both
health and prosperity.
You will remember that I came out of the hospital where
the Doctors gave me no hopes. I took my first lesson in S. M. S.;
and I shall ever be a booster, and it is my hope that the
Science and its Founder will prosper.
Your sincere student,
ARTHUR SLATER.
PHYSICAL WRECK RESTORED
Philadelphia, Pa.,
January 30, 1932.
To my Fellow Beings:
It is impossible to outline in detail all that accounts for my
present development physically, mentally and spiritually, so I
will confine my statement to just a few outstanding accomplish'
ments.
Before taking up the study and practice of Super Mind
Science about one year ago, my body was a physical wreck and
my brain was fast reaching the same condition. I had been
treated by various types of drugs and drugless professionals for
prolapsed stomach, colon and kidneys. I had been told by one
physician that I had many symptoms of cancer of the gall blad'
der and stomach, and after having several series of X'Ray pic-
tures taken was informed that I should keep constantly under
the care of a good physician, but there was no promise of a
positive cure. At that time I was also wearing bifocal glasses
and had worn glasses since childhood.
A newspaper ad was the means of my going to hear Pro-
fessor Estep’s lecture and his lectures were the means of my
taking a course in his teaching and now but one year later, I
have not only been completely cured of the bodily conditions I
had, but also have been enabled to entirely dispense with the
use of glasses. It is my blessed privilege to dispense this glorious
truth to others, as a leader and teacher of Super Mind Science;
and my aim for the remainder of my physical existence will be
to aid others in finding the path to the attainment of health,
prosperity and spiritual unfoldment as I have found it.
The Great Creator certainly led a Master Mental Scientist
to this country in the person of Professor Wm. Estep.
Yours in Truth, Love and Light,
DR. L. K. DANIEL.
PROVEN TRUTH
Seattle, Wash.,
February 17, 1932.
Dear Prof. Estep:
I wish I could find words enough to express my appreciation
to you as Founder of this great Super Mind Science. Having
searched extensively through many of our Western occult teach'
ings for the great Truth, I found that there was relative truth,
much speculation and a great deal of theory, but no scientific
demonstrative facts, which of course did not satisfy my hunger
for Truth.
Some six years ago I was attracted to one of your lectures.
When I left that lecture I knew you had something that I
wanted, that something was Truth, for you demonstrated what
you claimed, and that to me proved one thing, that religion
must be founded on facts, able to be proven in the individual’s
every-day life, and stripped of false beliefs and theories.
At the first opportunity I became a student of yours, and
found a sea of knowledge, worthy of the most exacting scientific
investigator.
I was able to prove conclusively to own satisfaction many
of the basic facts which you taught. For instance, I proved that
the life energy which you taught, could be increased in the
individual’s body, and that that energy would heal when
directed by the Will. This energy being electric produced a
magnetism in the body which you taught becomes a valuable
source of attraction in the person’s life, which I have also
proven. And I know that the average mind understanding the
laws of dynamics will agree with you in your claims that where
there is electrical force, there is also magnetism.
You claimed it was possible for a person to become an
inspirational speaker through your teaching. I proved that and,
Professor, I could go on enumerating the many techniques I
have proven, but space will not permit. Allow me to state this:
There are thousands of people searching, just as I sought, and
to those people I would make this appeal, Be honest with your­
self, ask yourself these questions: Am I able to prove what I
believe is Truth, and am I getting the best out of life?” If
your answer is “No” then do as I did. Take up this line bf
study, a Master teaching from a Master mind. You will never
regret it as long as you live, for it will prove valuable to you in
your life, and you will bless the Founder of this Science for
giving to you methods by which you can find God in your own
being, and learn the mysteries of The Cosmic.
Thanking you, Prof. Estep, for the many blessings I have
received through your profound teaching, Super Mind Science.
Ever your devoted student,
DR. G. F. FRASER
EYES HEALED
To Whom it may concern:
I could not read nor write without my glasses, but after
my first lesson by Prof. Estep in Super Mind Science I was
surprised to read and write without my glasses and I am improv-
ing daily by applying same.
Yours,
O. G. IRRGANG.
SURPASSES ALL KNOWLEDGE
Portland, Oregon,
November, 13, 1931.
To Whom it may concern:
I take great pleasure in recommending “Super Mind Sci-
ence” as taught by its author and founder, Prof. Wm. Estep.
“Super Mind Science” contains and embodies the most
practical, concrete and potential methods known today in the
application of the Will for actual concentration of the Mind
and the power to retain the same; also, the cause of various
manifestations of mind forces that heretofore have been veiled
in deepest mystery.
In “Super Mind Science,” Prof. Estep explains many mys-
teries of the mind; its power; its use and the various phases of
the mind that have baffled our greatest psychologists, phrenoh
ogists, criminologists and analysts. He also explains the posh
tive and negative forces in nature and of the mind and how
these forces can be utilized by man in healing himself—both
physically and mentally.
Super Mind Science teaches the cause of disease; why some
grow old in mind early in life; the lack of perception; poor
memory; lack of will-power; inferior complexes and various
other conditions of the mind. It teaches a method by which
all these negative conditions can be overcome. I consider Super
Mind Science contains the most positive and forcible healing
method known today.
I have heard some astounding testimonies given in the class
room and seen some remarkable demonstrations.
I will frankly admit that I have made some very strong
statements, but do not call it a dream, until you investigate and
find out for yourself.
FREDERICK J. N. PHILLIPS,
LLB., DC., DO., DN„ ME.
CONNECTION WITH GOD
Seattle, Wash.,
My Dear Teacher:
I want to express to you my appreciation of your course
of instructions which I have just finished. I know that it is the
most valuable thing that has ever come to me. In the Super
Mind Science class I found God. I have been searching for
Him for years. You made Him available. You showed me
how to prove that “I and my Father are one,” how to heal
myself and others. Your explanation of God as Divine energy,
makes God the most available, tangible power that is possible
to conceive.
Your purpose seemed always to show us the way to find
our connection with God, always safeguarding us and guiding
us so that we would only use these newly awakened powers
within us, by doing good, pointing out the Law of Compensation,
or rebound.
You covered the ground completely, helping me to destroy
superstition and beliefs. You have given me the most usable
method of contacting God that I could ever have dreamed of.
Your Advanced work is vast, wonderful, and all inclusive.
To me the ways, means and methods are given which will
lead one through the seven states of consciousness to the great
I AM. It is all there—a tangible, usable way. It remains with
the individual. It is up to him to use what is there and if he
does he can accomplish wonderful things.
Since taking your course I feel that many mysteries of the
Bible are explained. It seems an open book now. I cannot find
words to express my gratitude to you, for you have given me
much, and I feel that I now know myself. I can connect myself
with God (Divine energy) and overcome the ills of the flesh.
Super Mind Science is truly “God with us. In the begin-
ning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word
was God” is a verse that has always puzzled me, but you have
given me the Word and so I have “God with me.
I am truly grateful,
DR. PAMELA R. HICKS
CANCER CURED
Minneapolis, Minn.
Dear Teacher:
It is a great pleasure to have the opportunity to write this
testimonial for your wonderful Course in Super Mind Science,
having just finished the course.
I have seen Cancer cured, hearing restored and sight im­
proved so that glasses have been discarded.
I also value the fact that after the first lesson we could
heal and get practical results.
I would not take any amount of money for the knowledge
I have acquired and I thank God and Prof. Estep for the
opportunity to take this course.
Sincerely,
IDA M. L. HANSEN.
WISE MAN OF THE WEST
Denver, Colo.
The Great Master:
For many years we have read of the “Wise Men” of the
East. Now, after these many years we have a “Wise Man” of
the West.
A man from our own common people, who with a burning
desire to pierce the inner secrets of the mystical lore of the
East, went there and mastered in the inner secrets so carefully
guarded for thousands of years, and he, Prof. Wm. Estep came
back a master of these secrets.
He describes what they do, how they do it and really
teaches these precious secrets in a simple, understandable manner.
Is he not fairly the first American Master?
Evermore,
S. G. SNELL.
HEALTH AND TRUTH
Dear Sir and Teacher:
Seattle, Wash.
October, 23, 1931.
I came into the Science six years ago seeking better health
and truer understanding, and I have received abundantly.
My health has never been better than it is now and I am
in harmony within as well as in my surrounding, and each day
I live I am more thankful to you, Prof. Estep, for the great
knowledge you have brought me.
Sincerely,
O. A. NISSEN.
STANDS ON ITS MERITS
Chicago, 111.
Super Mind Science stands on its own merits. It is about
fifty years in advance of the time. Like everything else worth
while it must be studied, practiced, and applied.
MRS. HELEN E. FRENCH.
ATHEIST HEALED AND CONVERTED
Portland, Ore.,
November 6, 1931.
Prof. Wm. Estep,
D ear Friend: .
T h e purpose of this letter is to show my appreciation for
the benefits I have received, and will continue to receive from
the Study of Super M ind Science. I am greatly indebted to you
as its founder.
Previous to October, 1931 when I took the first course of
lessons in Super Mind Science, I was a mental drifter in danger
of becoming a confirmed atheist and a wage slave, plodding
along to the end of my life in the rut I was digging for myself.
Over a period of twelve years I had attended services and
meetings of almost every religious sect in existence seeking a
form of religion that I could prove to myself and demonstrate
to others, but I found that beliefs were taught and not knowl­
edge. When I asked for proof of certain statements I was told
to have faith or in other words to stop using the mind the
Creator gave to each of us for the purpose of reasoning. This
contention finally caused me to disbelieve them all and I reached
the decision that I would accept no religion unless its followers
could demonstrate at least in part the teachings of the Prophet
they worshipped, then, after some time I saw an announcement
of a series of lectures on Super Mind Science and, as I look back
now I realize that that was the turning point in my life. I
attended all the lectures, at first skeptically, but soon believing
that at last I had found a practical, religious Science I enrolled
in the class. That was the greatest forward step I had ever
made and the sacrifices which were necessary were trivial com­
pared to the benefits I received from the first course of lessons
for they surpassed all my expectations and dispelled my doubts.
I learned how to overcome the defects in body and mind
and how to help my fellow men to do the same. One week
later I had thrown away the glasses I had been wearing for
years and had cured myself of sinus trouble, besides stopping
pains for others. Also, I learned what my talents and char­
acteristics best fitted me for and how they should be applied for
success. I used the methods with immediate results and won­
dered then at the ease with which I accomplished difficult tasks.
The Advanced work brought the knowledge (not belief)
that Infinite Spirit actually existed, not as an entity residing in
a land above the skies, but as an integral part of every living
thing manifesting in its evefy motion, and I proved to myself
conclusively that contact with God is possible here and now.
At the end of this second course of lessons I was unable
to read character accurately at a glance and give astounding
demonstrations of thought reading to skeptics.
To you, Professor, I owe the fact that I am well started on
the road to material and spiritual success and I shall always be a
devoted student of Super Mind Science.
Yours in truth,
R. SHEPHERD.
THE WORK OF CHRIST
Seattle, Wash.,
September 20, 1931.
Friends:
Ever since I can remember I have been seeking after Truth
and something that would elucidate the Bible. I studied an
intensive Bible Course with a well-known Protestant institution
in the United States, but when I asked the questions which were
bothering me—I was given to understand I must take things for
granted and question nothing. This didn’t satisfy me, so while
I was a student of the Bible I still went seeking in outside read­
ing, lectures, courses, etc. to find the key to many of the mys­
teries. I attended a few public lectures of Prof. Wm. Estep,
purchased a few pamphlets and decided to give his Science a
chance. I had had these pamphlets several days before having
an opportunity to read. The very first one I picked up to glance
over one morning on my way to work—answered ONE big
question which had bothered me for years. Reading on others
were made plain so I decided to take the Class. The reason
WHY and HOW has been answered too much during this class
work that I feel now I have the key to the work that Jesus, the
Christ, intended his true Disciples to have. It is up to me now,
how I use it.
MARION E. THOMPSON.
GREATEST PSYCHOLOGY
Portland, Ore.,
N o v . 3, 1931.
Dear Prof. Estep:
I have taken several courses in Applied Psychology under
nationally known instructors, and while I have been able to
glean some knowledge from each, and have studied and worked
faithfully I have felt that the results were so vague and the goal
of attainment was so far in the future that I have experienced
at times a sense of futility.
However, after hearing your course of Free Lectures I was
convinced that here at last was a tangible method I could lay
hold on, so I determined to try again. I am most thankful that
I did, for after one week’s instruction I have learned more prac­
tical psychology than from all the other courses combined, and
have gained a working knowledge or key by which I can apply
immediately what I have learned.
Through the application of this Science I am already able to
go without my glasses which I have worn for about thirty years.
Also, I have seen the deaf made to hear, and all together I think
this is a rare opportunity for anyone who wishes to improve
himself physically, mentally and spiritually.
Sincerely,
MRS. J. W. HIRONS.
WONDERFUL HEALING DEMONSTRATION
Chicago, 111.,
May 2, 1930.
Professor Estep:
Super Mind Science has done something for me which
doctors have been trying to do for the past three years.
I have had the Flu. every year for three years and each
time it has run me down to a very weakened condition and
affected my digestion to such an extent that it was practically
impossible for me to eat anything that would agree with me
and my weight went down from 140 lbs. to 115.
I have paid out several hundred dollars to various doctors
in an effort to regain my health and have been very persistent
in following their advice. I have gained practically no benefit
from the treatments and medicine they have given me and I had
about come to the conclusion that nothing would work on me.
I could not go to bed at night without taking at least one
dose of medicine for my digestion, even then I would sometime
lay awake for hours before my stomach would permit me to go
to sleep.
NOW, within FIFTEEN MINUTES after using the
Four Element Method of Super Mind Science I felt it working
in my stomach and I became so hungry I had to get something
to eat. This wore off in a day or so and I had to do it again,
but since then I have had no trouble except in getting enough
to eat, as I have not been used to eating so much. I seem to
be hungry all the time for the first time in three years.
I have used this same method and others on other people
with marvelous results.
It is impossible to learn in a short space of time all there
is to learn about Super Mind Science and the things it leads to,
but I am going to try to do just that.
Your devoted student,
VERNON SEAVER, JR.
SEARCHER REWARDED
Seattle, Wash.,
Sept. 19, 1931.
My dear Professor Estep:
For years I have been interested in the inner workings of
the human mind but did not know that such a beautiful surprise
awaited me.
Have joined churches, studied psychology and examined
occult studies in hope of finding the answer to the great mystery
of life.
In listening to your public lectures it occurred to me that
by further investigation I may find the answer to my problem.
I advanced carefully, somewhat skeptically, more due to the
fact that I thought your Science too good to be true.
I have now completed your course and am happy to say
that it has more than met my highest expectations.
By taking your work I have benefited materially. After
taking one or two lessons I have be#
en able to master something
which has been a thorn in the flesh to me for many years.
This alone is of inestimable value to me. In addition I have
received many other benefits. It would be very selfish of me
if after having been so benefitted that I should not express my
sincere appreciation of your work.
Have often wondered how the Millennium could ever be
brought about in such a world of chaos. I am convinced that
in your Science is the answer, that by mastery of the mind,
mankind will eventually reach such a state of perfection.
I would like you to know that you have helped me find
myself, you have given me a new vision and that your science
has had a beautiful, constructive influence upon my life. I can
heartily endorse your work and can truthfully say it is good
for anyone.
May you receive the blessings that must eventually come
to one engaged in such an unselfish service to humanity.
Sincerely,
BERTHA E. ANDREWS,
Public Health Nurse.
INCOMPARABLE TRUTH
Portland, Me.,
Novem ber 12, 1931.
D ear Prof. Estep:
T h e S uper M ind Science elem entary and advance courses
have been th e greatest thing in my life. T hey have completely
changed m y outlook on life, my past, present and future. T hey
are incom parable to anything I know of— a priceless knowledge
for anyone to possess.
MISS GERTRUDE STRANGE.
NEURITIS HEALED
Philadelphia, Pa.,
February 4, 1932.
To The Public:
I w ish to add my testim ony as to the w onderful power of
Super M ind Science, for it has proven itself to me in many
different ways.
I came into the Science in a miserable physical condition, a
severe stom ach and intestinal disorder and was subject to neuritis
in different parts of my body; my memory also was very poor.
In one year I have through this Science been able to heal
m y ow n body perfectly and have also healed more than a hun-
dred others. I have also improved my mental capacity and
unfolded spiritually.
It is m y w ish th at all my fellow beings should benefit by
this w onderful Science of Life.
V ery truly yours,
M O R R IS LETVIN.
THE ONLY COMPLETE SCIENCE OF LIFE
Chicago, 111.,
A pril 20, 1930.
T h is is to certify th at I, the undersigned, have been an
investigator and seeker after tru th for the past twenty-five years.
I investigated all religions and found them all to make many
prom ises w hich they can not make good, and from a commercial
standpoint they are m oney makers for the promoters, but the
victim s get nothing b u t promises to make you angels and furnish
you a harp.
T h e w riters and publishers of psychology books, I found
are full of technical phrases and these shoot over the heads of
the average lay reader.
O n the other hand, I have taken the advanced course in
Super M ind Science and I have found it the only Course that
goes to the bottom of things.
Professor Estep doesn’t teach you a lot of theories but
show s you how to p u t all his teachings into practical use, you
do n o t have to w ait until you die, his methods work right away.
I am indeed grateful for having received these teachings.
Y our Student,
EDWARD EMMET.
SENSE OF SMELL RESTORED
I treated a wom an for a bad ear. She had also had a severe
cold. T h e cold im proved in her head but settled in her right
ear. N eedless to say she had spent many sleepless nights w ith
the pain. A fte r my first treatm ent she said she felt something
opening in h er head. I didn’t think any more about it. T he
follow ing day I stopped in to see her. She said the pain was
m uch b etter and also said. “You know the strangest thing
happened to me this m orning.’’ T hen she w ent on to say that
w hen she was fifteen years of age (she is now 60 years old)
she had a bad case of typhoid fever. T he disease left her
devoid of all sense of smell and taste. T he taste had returned
b u t she hasn’t been able to smell anything for forty-five years.
T h a t m orning while in her yard she noticed something strange
about herself, then it suddenly dawned on her that she smelled
baking from the next door house. She called the woman and
asked if she was baking and the woman said, “Yes.’’ She then
entered h er ow n home, hardly believing w hat had happened and
found th a t for the first time in forty-five years she was able to
smell h er flowers and other things. T he world seems so different
to h er and she is so grateful.
ED Y TH E A PPLETO N .
KNOWLEDGE SEARCHED FOR
Seattle, W ash.
Prof. W m . Estep,
D ear Sir:
I have taken your Super M ind Science Course and it has
given m e the know ledge I have been searching for for years. I
am up in years and am grateful to the Infinite Spirit for making
it possible for me to obtain this priceless knowledge you teach.
Sincerely,
C. J. SELLANDER.
HERNIA HEALED
W ildwood, N . J.,
February 6, 1932.
Prof. W m . Estep,
D ear Sir:
Just a line to let you know w hat I think of Super M ind
Science.
I was afflicted w ith a Double H ernia which gave me a great
deal of trouble, oftim es when the truss slipped I would fall as the
pain was so great.
A fter taking eight lessons I was able to discard my truss
and have n o t w orn it since and have never felt any pain or
sign of rupture, and it is now over four m onths since I started
using Super M ind Science M ethods. Since finishing my course
I am firmly convinced th at the Super M ind Science M ethod is
the proper w ay of healing pain and disease, and the way to
spirituality.
Sincerely,
W ILLIA M C. NUSS.
Prof. W m . Estep,
D ear T eacher:
I w ant to thank you for all the good I have received
th ro u g h your class w ork the last four nights. Y our teachings
have been a G od Send to me. I have taken other class work,
b u t none w ere equal to yours. T he wonderful keys you are
giving, one in particular is of priceless value. I w ouldn’t give
up this know ledge for all the jewels and all the money in the
w orld. I w ould like to tell everybody that the money they
invest in Super M ind Science is the best investm ent that they
have ever m ade in their lives. It takes them to the real teachings
of th e M aster, Jesus Christ, the Nazarene, and teaches His w ay
of healing and doing good in the world.
Super M ind Science gives us the key to the W isdom of the
Seers and Sages of the ages, explaining the eternal fundam ental
laws of our being, and the laws of the universe. It teaches that
w e are living not for time, but for eternity and that the greatest
happiness can be obtained only in developing the spiritual
attributes.
I am determ ined like never before to go on and learn, and
to becom e a Super M ind Science teacher for the good th at I
can do.
T h e w orld needs thousands of teachers like you, Prof.
Sincerely,
MRS. LOUISE E. BLUM.
SCRIPTURE FULFILLED
Portland, Ore.
D ear Prof. Estep:
In the G ospel of M ark (C hapter 16, Verses 15, 17 and 18),
w e read th e follow ing: “A nd he (Christ) said unto them (the
disciples) go ye unto all the world and preach the gospel to
every creature. A nd these signs shall follow them th at believe.
In m y nam e shall they cast out devils, they shall speak w ith new
tongues; th ey shall take up serpents and if they drink any deadly
thing, it shall n o t h u rt them , they shall lay hands on the sick
and th ey shall recover.” T his is only a few of many such state'
m ents th a t are found in the W ord of God. Prof. Estep teaches
his pupils th a t C hrist m eant exactly w hat H e said and th at by
taking H im at H is w ord, living a life of sincerity and purity,
using th e m ental laws th at God has placed within every hum an
being in conjunction w ith the Scientific Universal laws th at have
always been here, through meditation and concentration, we
becom e M asters, able to help right the wrongs of this world,
lift up th e fallen, heal the sick, bring encouragem ent to the
faint-hearted and bliss and exaltation to our own soul.
I regard th e teachings of Prof. Estep as presenting the
highest type of Spirituality th at I have yet known, co-ordinating
as th ey do, the sayings of the M aster w ith the scientific laws of
the universe. M aking practical in every day life, the truths of
th e Bible as tau g h t by Jesus Christ.
O nly those w ho come in contact w ith Prof. Estep through
the w orks of the class room, can realize his deep Spirituality, his
profound know ledge of the works he is presenting and his great
desire to serve hum anity in the most practical way.
I have a very high estimate of Prof. Estep and the work
he is presenting to the people of Portland.
M RS. M. S. PORTER.
PRICELESS WISDOM
To W h o m T h is M ay C oncern:
I have taken several lessons from great teachers, but the
lessons and teachings from Professor W m . Estep are the greatest
lessons and teachings w hich I have ever received.
M oney could n o t bring the knowledge which I have gained.
Yours,
JO H N M. FOTSCH.
A COMPLETE SCIENCE
Rushville, Ind.
April 17, 1930.
Professor E step’s Course in Super M ind Science is a direct
scientific answ er to problem s of health and truth.
It heals th e physical, develops the mental and perfects the
spiritual natu re of man. Its value is inestimable.
EM M A M. DOUGLASS.
ONLY COMPLETE METAPHYSICS
Portland, Ore.
D ear Prof. Estep:
Super M ind Science is the Science of Life on all its planes
of being, w ith definite m ethods for developing each phase.
O th er systems of metaphysics give attention to only part of
the phases of Being, either denying or ignoring the others with
practically no m ethods to develop the phase they present.
T h is leads to confusion while Super M ind Science leads to
understanding.
DR. M. M. REID,
Phg. D. C.
“THE GREAT REVELATION or THE WHITE PROPHECY”
A n astounding revelation after death as experienced by the
au th o r w hile in suspended animation. This unusual masterpiece
also contains a prophecy of a great war. Students of the author
praise it as the w orld's greatest revelation of Life, T ru th and
Being.
Price $2.00
t
* * * * *
“THREADS OF WISDOM”
A book containing 18 different lectures and meditations on
various occult subjects, including also an explanation of Re-
incarnation and the pow er of the Sub-conscious mind.
Price 50c
* * * * *
“FORBIDDEN WISDOM”
A book on Phallic w orship and Phallic symbols used in
C hristianity. Secrets never before made public.
Price 50c
* * * * *
“THE PATH OF LIGHT”
A revelation of A ncient W isdom, a treatise on the soul s
flight through the seven gates to the God-head. A n explanation
of the pow ers dem onstrated by a Super M ind Scientist. A book
of w ide circulation.
Price 50c
* * * * *
“ESOTERIC EVOLUTION AND ANIMAL MAGNETISM ’
A book explaining the evolution of man and animals
th rough the cycles of creation— w hy we think and act as we
do. M agnetism of the body— the magnetic sleep, clairvoyance
and intuition. A book you will enjoy reading.
Price $1.00
“HO W TO DEVELOP MASTERSHIP”
A booklet explaining the C hrist way to M astership.
Price 25c
* * * * *
“THE MYSTERIES OF GOD AND MAN”
A book dealing w ith the progress of the Soul, and the Law
of R e-incarnation, as taught by the G reat Teachers of the
Tem ples of India. A ll students of the W isdom Teaching are in
need o f this book.
Price 50c
* * * * *
“KEY TO BIBLICAL MYSTERIES”
A booklet containing an explanation of some of the mys­
teries of the Bible, viz.: A dam and Eve, T he Holy Ghost, The
Im m aculate C onception, etc. A ll Bible students should have this
valuable booklet.
Price 25c
* * * * *
“CHART OF BIBLICAL REGENERATION”
A C h a rt show ing the symbolism of the body as compared
to events in th e Bible. For your library.
Price $1.00
* * * * *
“SUPER MIND SCIENCE OBSERVER”
A m onthly magazine, the official organ of the Super M ind
Science C hurch, U .S.A . T his publication contains lessons in
T ru th , A ncient W isdom ; Testimonies, and News of the M ove­
m ent. It also contains addresses of many Super M ind Science
C hurches and R eading Rooms.
Single copy, 25c each - By subscription, $2.00 per year.
Course of
Super Mind Science
T h e “S uper M ind Science Course” of instructions complete
w ith textbook “Keys to C hristianity” contains actual keys to
the pow ers explained in this volume. This masterpiece of wisdom
is the standard T eacher’s textbook. It contains key methods to:
D ivine H ealing
Self H ealing
M agnetic Powers
A ll'seeing Sight
Control of Consciousness
A w akening of the Ego Center
Rejuvenation through spiritual
energy
Pow er of Concentration, etc.
Price of complete course of instruction,
with Textbook, Keys to Christianity, $25.00
For fu rth er inform ation call at the Super M ind Science
C entre in your city.
F or C orrespondence Course, w rite care of this Publication.
Super Mind Science
Metaphysical College
Branches in various cities
Teaching
Super M ind Science M astery
A n cien t M ysteries
C om parative Religions
Esoteric Philosophy
A udience Psychology
O ccult A natom y
Esoteric Symbolism
Psychology
Public Speaking
Salesmanship
H ealing and Public D em onstrations
Special M ethods of Spiritual U nfoldm ent and Development
T his College prepares those desirous of becoming teachers
of Super M ind Science.
A pply to your Super M ind Science C enter or address this
publication for inform ation.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE PUBLICATIONS
527 Kansas City Avenue
Excelsior Springs, Mo.
