{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__lewis___rosicrucian_questions_and_answers.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Questions And Answers","mylang":"de"}
ROSICRUCIAN
QUESTIONS
and
ANSWERS
WITH COMPLETE HISTORY
of the ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
By H. Spencer Lewis, Ph. D., F. R. C.
Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order
for North America
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME NO. 1
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
Printing and Publishing Department
AMORC COLLEGE
FIRST EDITION
Copyright 1929
SECOND EDITION
April, 1932
By AMORC
Printed in the U. S.A.
Rosicrucian Press, San Jose, Calif.
Dedication
V
To the Memory of
Brother Julius Sachse, F. R. C.
Historian,
last descendant of the First American
Rosicrucian Colony, whose History of
their achievements will remain as a
monument to the Faith and Love of their
great leader, Magister Kelpius,
This Book Is Dedicated
that I may place a flower among the
many at the side of
his grave.
The Rosicmcian Library
V V V
VOLUME
I. Rosicrucian Question and Answers with Com
plete History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and
Business.
III. Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
V. "Unto Thee I Grant"
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
XL Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
(Other volumes 'will be added from time to time.
Write for complete Catalogue.)
2 3.7 3 C
Contents
V V V
PART ONE
Complete, Authentic History of the
Rosicrucian Order
page
Preface 9
Introduction 15
Chapter I Traditional History of the
Order 19
Chapter II Growth of the Order in the
Orient 39
Chapter III The Work of the Disciples 53
Chapter IV The "108 Year Cycle" and
C.R'C 77
Chapter V The Popular Revival in Ger'
many 87
Chapter VI The Birth of Semi'Rosicru'
cian Organizations . . .103
Chapter VII First Rosicrucians in America 135
Chapter VIII The Present Rosicrucian Or'
der in America .... 141
V
PART TWO
Questions and Answers
(See Index to Questions on page 172)
The True Name and Emblems of the
International Rosicrucian Order
Registered in the U. S. Patent Office
Exclusively in the name of AMORC
PREFACE
The mystery which has always surrounded the
origin and history of the Great White Brother'
hood has probably been one of its fascinating at'
tractions, even with those who had no interest in
its teachings or its activities. The mystery is not
eliminated by a revelation of the real as well as the
traditional facts associated with its origin; and in
its history one will find romance, intrigue, astound'
ing achievements, fascinating exploits, and allur'
ing inducements.
The history of the Brotherhood must be divided
into two general classifications. First, that which
is traditional, and which has come down to the
present time by word of mouth, supported by more
or less definite references in ancient writings or
symbolical passages in the rituals or teachings; and
second, that which is truly historical and sup'
ported by the records found in the various
branches of the organization throughout the world.
It is realized that the traditional history of the
organization is very often cast aside or accepted
9
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
with considerable doubt by those who hesitate to
believe in the antiquity of the organization. Per'
sons of this type prefer to have the history of the
organization begin with its first definite, printed
records. But they forget that everything of human
construction had a beginning, and that there must
have been an origin and beginning of the Order
which antedates the first definite, printed, or writ'
ten records.
It was generally believed, several hundred
years ago, that the historical hirih of the Rosicru'
cians did not antedate the seventeenth century.
It was likewise believed that the traditional birth
of the Order began some time in the Christian Era,
and ended at the time of the historical birth. In
other words, the attitude was taken that all the
stories, reports, and references to the Rosicrucians
as existing prior to the seventeenth century be'
longed to the traditional history of the Order. But,
the many discoveries of documents, books, manu
scripts, and references of an authentic nature in
the past century have taken the actual origin
and existence of the Order backward step by step,
10
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
year by year, into the very heart of the so'called
traditional period.
The demand on the part of Rosicrucian students
throughout the world and the search on the part
of thousands of others for more facts regarding
both the traditional and actual periods of the
Order's existence, have warranted this history.
Parts of this history appeared for the first time in
the official Rosicrucian magazine called the "Amer'
ican Rosae Crucis," beginning with the January,
1916, issue. That history was at that time con
sidered the most complete outline of the tradi
tional part of the Order's existence ever presented,
and has been widely utilized by other writers who
found therein the clues which enabled them to ver
ify many of the statements made. Since 1916 a
number of other histories have appeared in the
French, Dutch, German, and English languages by
eminent officers of the organization. In most of
these, the facts presented in the articles which
appeared in the "American Rosae Crucis" have
been utilized and appreciation expressed for the
publication of hitherto concealed records.
11
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
The present history is an extension of the one
published in the magazine and considerably aug'
mented by documents, books, and papers sent to
the author by other historians or members of for'
eign branches of the Order, who were able to find
the further details because of the clues given in the
original articles. Credit must also be given to the
researches made by the official historian of the
Order in America, Fra Fidelis, who, through his
editorial association with one of the largest news'
papers in North America, and his connections
with the Order and with foreign libraries and rec
ords in many languages, has been able to make
extensive researches covering a number of years,
thereby bringing to light many important and
intensely interesting facts.
Whether one accepts all of the points of the
traditional history or not, one is certain to feel
that the origin of the Rosicrucian Order is found
in the early mystery schools of the Great White
Brotherhood. A study of the schools of philosophy
and arcane wisdom in the Oriental lands preced'
ing the Christian Era reveals that there is but one
land in which the Rosicrucian organization could
12
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
have had its birth. That land is Egypt. And even
the casual student of Egyptian history is impressed
with the probability of the birth of the organic
tion in that land.
If one sets aside the traditional history en'
tirely, and accepts only that which is based upon
very definite records in printed or official manu'
script form, one must reject the popular and en'
tirely fictitious claim that the Rosicrucian Order
had its origin in the seventeenth century in Ger'
many. The very positive references to the Order
in printed books dated centuries earlier in other
lands conclusively prove that the Order was very
old and very well established when it had a form
of revival in Germany in the seventeenth century.
Likewise, one discovers at once that the romantic
or symbolic story regarding Christian Rosen\reuz
and his foundation of the first Rosicrucian body
must be rejected, unless one associates that story
with similar stories found in many earlier records.
The author, therefore, presents the following
history as the most modern version and perhaps
the most complete outline of the history of the
Rosicrucian Order, with the hope that the mem'
13
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
bers of the Order will find between the lines the
facts which are carefully concealed; and the inquir'
ing mind, seeking for a mystery story and nothing
more, will also find in the printed words a mystical
romance prepared to his liking.
14
INTRODUCTION
It is no violation of secrecy to give the outer,
objective details of the various activities of the
Great White Brotherhood, but the genuine con'
servatism of the Eastern Councils until recent
as we in America believe necessary for the growth
of any public or semi'public institution.
After twenty years' study of the doctrines and
principles, and a very careful examination of all
matters pertaining to the history of the Order, one
does not find a single prohibition against the gen
eral publication of the history except in such minor
details as are closely associated with the working
or manifestation of some of the R. C. doctrines.
While these exceptions are few, although of vast
importance to the higher students, they have un'
doubtedly caused the subconscious attitude on the
part of all R. C. Brothers and Sisters that it is
safer, in the face of their individual sacred oaths,
to refrain from all mention of either the antiquity
or progression of the Order.
years has acted as a barrier
15
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
There is also the element of mysticism which
explains the attitude of even the most advanced
Brothers and Sisters. Realizing as most of them do
that the complete history of the Brotherhood has
never been given to the public and has for cen'
turies defied the casual researches of scientists, his'
torians and archivists alike, they feel a certain
pride in having been able to mystify the pro
foundly inquisitive minds. Even the grossly erron'
eous and biased raisonne of the history of the
Brotherhood given in various encyclopedias, ref
erence books, and histories only adds to this feeling
of pride and victory.
Such secrecy is not only uncalled for, but is
positively detrimental to the Order in America.
We are a people of frankness; Americans are lov
ers of the true, and have a natural antipathy to
ward that which may be characterized as "mysti'
cally mythical;" and precisely such is the general
impression of the origin and existence of the R. C.
Order in the minds of many thousands today.
Nor is it necessary to enshroud the history of
the Order with a cloak of blackest mystery to
make the Order itself appeal to the thinking mind.
16
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
One will find that the true history of the Order
arouses, even commands, such deep respect for
its noble birth, grand growth, and wonderful in
crease of power, that this is a greater attraction to
the thinking American than the element of mys'
tery.
Inexactness and indefiniteness are the principal
faults to be found with all the published accounts
of the origin and present status of the Order. The
few instances of wilful and inconsistent deception
shown by some writers on the subject may be ig'
nored in any consideration of the matter, for no
mind can explain these things nor account for
them aside from the writer's own personal bias
which we are always led to believe has had no
influence upon the honesty of the work.
Still, there are many very definite and exact
facts easily within the reach of an analytical mind
bent upon historical research, even when such
mind is uninitiated into the secrets of the Order.
The claim has been made that the AMORC is
the oldest fraternal or secret order known to man.
This claim makes the Order antedate Freemasonry
and the latter has always claimed great antiquity.
17
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Here again the investigator is confronted with a
mass of details purporting to be the history of
Freemasonry, but gradually classifying itself into
two groups which one may label "facts" and
"traditions."
On the point of its connection with the Rosi'
crucians, Freemasonry is more or less silent. It
traces its antiquity to Solomon's Temple, and
refers to characters whose history, if not actual
existence, is cloaked with mystery. Its published
history is very esoteric and mystical, although its
actual history, as known to all advanced Rosicru'
cians, is a living testimonial to the truth of the
notable principles of Brotherhood which actuate
Freemasonry.
So closely are the two Orders allied in some
lands that many of the great exponents of the one
are active workers in the other. Freemasonry has
acknowledged its debt to the ancient White
Brotherhood by adding a Rosicrucian Degree to
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite.
H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C.
18
Chapter I
THE TRADITIONAL HISTORY OF
THE ORDER
HE Rosicrucian Order had its tradi'
tional conception and birth in Egypt
in the activities of the Great White
Lodge. In giving the story of the ori'
gin, the writer realizes that to an exceptional de'
gree will exactness be demanded by the reader, and
in return pardon must be granted for reiteration.
Space will not be used in describing conditions
in Egypt as they existed at the time of the concep'
tion of so wonderful an organization as this. The
reader is requested to read either a brief or ex'
tended history of Egypt, which will prove highly
illuminating on this subject.
One will find, however, that the Egyptians had
reached a high state of civilization and advanced
learning at the beginning of the XVIII dynasty
comparable only with the Renaissance of France.
Many were the means adopted to preserve the
19
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
knowledge attained that it might be correctly
given to future generations. The hieroglyphic
markings on the pyramids, obelisks, and temple
walls give us evidence of the first desires to make
permanent the knowledge and learning of the
Egyptians.
But the more profound secrets of nature, sci'
ence, and art were not to be entrusted to the
masses nor were they susceptible to preservation
through writing upon papyri. For this reason
classes were formed by the most learned, attended
by the select minds, at which the doctrines and
principles of science were taught.
These classes or schools, as history refers to
them, were held in the most isolated grottos at
times, and again in the quiet of some of the tem'
pies erected to the many Egyptian gods. In some
cases classes of a very select nature were held in
the private chambers of the reigning Pharaoh.
The members of such assemblies became more
and more select, the teachings more profound, and
the discussions so dialectic that there arose a most
autocratic and secret society of the truly great
20
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
minds of the day. Thus was laid the foundation
of the Great White Brotherhood.
The first Pharaoh who conducted the class in
his private chambers was Ahmose I, who reigned
from 1580 B. C. to 1557 B. C. Because he was
capable of conducting the great school as well as
ruling the people with more civilized and advanced
principles (due to his training in the school, no
doubt), he is referred to as the "deliverer of
Egypt" by some historians.
He was succeeded as Pharaoh by Amenhotep I,
who became a teacher in the secret school for
three years.
On January 12th (approximately), 1538 B.C.,
Thutmose I was crowned succeeding Amenho-
tep I. He owed his position to his wife, Ahmose,
who was the first woman to become a member of
the class on equal terms with the men. The dis'
cussion regarding her admittance (preserved in the
Rosicrucian Archives) forms an interesting story
and reveals the origin of some of the doctrines of
the equality of the sexes.
Thutmose I was succeeded by Hatshepsut, his
daughter, who ruled as a "king" independently
21
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
and as co'regent with her half'brother Thutmose
II, a son of Thutmose I by his marriage to Isis.
It was Thutmose III who organized the present
physical form of the secret Brotherhood and out
lined many of its rules and regulations. He be
came ruler upon the deposition of his father, Thut
mose II, in 1500 B. C. He ruled until 1447 B. C,
and his reign is unimportant to us except for his
establishment of the Brotherhood.
He appears to have been quite original in his
application of the doctrines of mysticism, but held
to the existing external form of religion, possibly
because of political conditions. Egypt was not free
from the danger of the "grasping hand" of adjoin
ing nations and the life of this ruler was con
stantly tormented by outbreaks of war; the co
operation of his military forces depended consid
erably upon permitting the populace to indulge in
all its fanciful beliefs—the idolatrous religions
especially. For this reason an immediate change in
the fundamentals of their religion —such as was
made by Thutmose's descendant, Amenhotep IV
in 1355 with such reactionary results—did not
seem advisable or even necessary.
22
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
A gradual development in the existing mystical
beliefs could be more easily and permanently ac
complished by establishing a secret school of phil'
osophy, the students of which would put into
practice the high standards decided upon.
As in all ages there were those who might be
called advanced thinkers, true philosophers, sages,
and scholars. Many of these were students of the
mystical doctrines as taught by Thutmose's prede'
cessors, and they evidently had great faith in the
final success of the principles; for when Thutmose
proposed that the "class" which had been meeting
in his chambers become a closed and secret order,
"there was no dissenting voice, and articles of lim'
itations were established ere the assembly dispersed
in the early hours of dawn.,<
This grand "Council Meeting," for such it is
considered in all official records, occurred during
what would be the week of March 28th to April
4th of 1489 B. C., according to our present calen'
dar. It is generally conceded to have been on
Thursday, April 1st, but this may be associated
with Maunday Thursday, a later establishment.
However, Thursday has become the usual day for
23
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Rosicrucian meetings, and "Maunday" Thursday
has become the occasion for special Temple Serv
ices in many AMORC Lodges of the world.
Twelve known Brothers and Sisters were pres'
ent at this first Supreme Council, the Sisters being
the wife of Thutmose III, known in the Order as
"Mene"; the wife of one of the Brothers; and an'
other who was descendant of one of the rulers of
a preceding dynasty. Therefore, there were nine
Brothers and three Sisters at this Council, a com'
bination of numbers very significant.
No worldly name was decided upon for the
Brotherhood, the records showing that the pre'
dominating thought was the maintenance of
secrecy. The organization had no publicity, re'
quired no propaganda other than personal advice
to those whose presence was desired, and as the
one word, translated into Brotherhood (a secret,
fraternal body), was sufficient name for all pur'
poses, we do not find any other term. This ac
counts for the widespread diversion of the name
as adopted later. In so many of the documents
issued by the Supreme Magi to the Grand Lodges
throughout the world, the name of the Order is
24
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
seldom mentioned. The writer has noticed this
especially in such documents as are given to a
newly established Grand Lodge and which are
translations of ancient documents. In these the ele'
ment, the idea, of secrecy is so strong and predom'
inant that the Order is referred to indirectly and
sometimes erroneously (or perhaps diplomatically)
as
it,
the school, the brotherhood, or the council.
Furthermore many of these documents begin with
the announcement: "I, Brother
of
the Illuminati,
with power decreed, do declare this Manifesto,"
or with the Salutation: "I, F. Illuminati of the
12."
(I,
Frater Illuminati of the 12th degree.)
Very often these official manifestos are signed:
"With Peace Profound" and sometimes "F, Pro-
fundis" or "F, 12."
These words not only show that the twelfth or
last degree has been the last circle within the
Order, and known as the Illuminati, even to this
day, but they also explain why some references are
made to these documents as "Instructions of the
Illuminati," which may easily be misinterpreted as
"Instructions to the Illuminati" as one sees them
referred to in works published abroad in the 15th,
25
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
16th, and 17th centuries A. D., where the Order
Rosae Cruris is designated solely by the term
"Illuminati."
Furthermore, if one considers for a moment the
prejudice —even the prohibition—against such
secret Orders, one will appreciate the very evident
attempts at subterfuge. Not only did certain big'
oted religious organizations condemn all secret or'
ders as "works of the devil," but those orders or
schools which claimed to have rare \nowledge of
the sciences were severely criticised by the various
scientific bodies of the day. As soon as learning
became very general and competition arose be'
tween schools and students, the secret orders were
widely condemned even though many of the most
unfair critics of some were oath'bound members of
others.
Though the Order had no definite name, Thut'
mose saw that it had very definite principles, rules,
and modes of procedure, all of which have come
down to us today without material change.
At the close of his reign in 1447 there were
thirtynine Brothers and Sisters in the Council,
and the meetings, which had become regular and
26
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
systematic, were held in one of the halls of the
Temple at Karnak, outside of which Thutmose III
erected two obelisks bearing a record of his
achievements.
Thutmose signed most of the decrees of the
Council with his own cartouche and it became the
Seal of the Order "in testimony of the great work
of our teacher (Master) to be forever a mark
of honor and loyalty." As was customary with
these rulers when any event of national import'
ance occurred, Thutmose issued a scarab bearing
his cartouche on one side, plus a mark which has a
special meaning to all mystics. One original scarab,
which was used for hundreds of years in Egypt, by
various officials to impress the Seal of the mystic
fraternity in wax on all official documents, was
given to the Grand Lodge of America with other
jewels and papers of an official nature, and it
is considered one of the rarest antiquities of Egypt
now in this country. The Order here is to be con'
gratulated on having in its possession one of the
oldest, if not the most sacred, of all mystic jewels,
one which has never been used by others than the
Masters in Egypt; for it means virtually the pass'
27
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ing of the Master's Spirit from Egypt to America,
as was planned by the founders centuries ago.
This Seal appears on the official documents of
the Order in America together with the American
R. C. Seal, and its illegitimate use constitutes a
forgery, according to the ByLaws of the Order
throughout the world, punishable by a special de'
cree of the Masters.
In this connection it may be explained that the
Obelisk in Central Park, one of the two erected in
Egypt by Thutmose III and intended to stand
some day in "the country where the Eagle spreads
its wings," bears this Cartouche or Seal as well as
many other authentic and instructive signs now
used by all Rosicrucians of the true order. In
Egypt today the Rosicrucian Order, descending
from very ancient lodges, uses this Cartouche as
its official emblem above all others.
Before his transition, Thutmose III made his son
(by Hatshepsut) coregent. Thus Amenhotep II
took up his father's work in the Brotherhood about
the end of September, 1448. In the month of
March—the seventeenth to be exact —1447 B. O,
Thutmose passed to the Great Beyond, having
28
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
been king for nearly 54 years and being but one
week less than 89 years of age. His mummy was
found in the Cachette at Deir el Bahri, and history
acclaims him "the greatest pharaoh in the New
Empire if not in all Egyptian history."
Amenhotep II ruled from 1448 to 1420 B. C.
and he in turn was succeeded by his son Thutmose
IV, who ruled from 1420 to 1411 B. C. Amenho
tep III, son of the preceding, occupied the throne
from 1411 to 1375 B. C. and was the last of the
truly powerful pharaohs or emperors.
Upon the transition of Amenhotep III the Em'
pire fell to his son Amenhotep IV, with whose his'
tory all Rosicrucians are greatly concerned. He
was the last Great Master in the family of the
founders and the one to whom we owe the really
wonderful philosophies and writings used so uni'
versally in all Lodge work throughout the world.
Amenhotep IV was born in the Royal Palace at
Thebes, November 24th, 1378 B. C. His mother
Tiy or Tia was of Aryan birth, but both he and
his father paid the most sincere respects to her and
were ever proud of designating her "Queen Tia"
upon all monuments.
29
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
He was only eleven years old in 1367 B. C.
when he was crowned and immediately began a
career unequaled by any pharaoh of Egypt.
His father, having been the Master of the Order
for a number of years, built the great Temple of
Luxor and dedicated it to the Brotherhood. He
also added to the Temple of Karnak and in many
ways left "monuments of testimony and praise."
The Brotherhood numbered two hundred and
eightythree Brothers and sixty'two Sisters at this
time, and at the time of the crowning of young
Amenhotep IV, the Master was one Thehopset
who remained in the office until 1365 B. C. Amen'
hotep's installation as Master'byCouncil'Decree
occurred in the Temple of Luxor, April 9th, 1 365,
at sunset, in the presence of his bride and her
parents.
Amenhotep being the only descendant it was
deemed advisable that he marry as early as the
customs then permitted in order that an heir to
the throne would be assured. But though Amen
hotep had a number of children, unfortunately
they were daughters, and this proved disastrous to
the throne.
30
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
The life of this great man is too easily found in
various histories of Egypt, especially Breasted' s, to
warrant space in this work, but his accomplish
ments for the Order must be treated at least
briefly.
Born in a country where peoples were given to
idolatry, where the chief endeavors were those of
building Temples to gods of all kinds, it is easy to
appreciate his attitude toward the existing religion
(or religions) after he had been thoroughly in'
structed in the secret philosophy. His mind and
understanding were unusually keen, for in his fif
teenth year he composed many of the most beau'
tiful prayers, psalms, and chants used in the or'
ganization today, as well as contributing to the
philosophy and sciences.
To him came the inspiration of overthrowing
the worship of idols and substituting the religion
and worship of one God, a supreme deity, whose
spirit was in Heaven and whose physical manifes'
tation was the Sun—the Symbol of Life. This was
in accordance with the secret doctrines and it
changed the worship of the Sun as a god to the
worship of the God symbolized by the sun. This
31
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
was the beginning of Monotheism in Egypt and
the origin of the worship of a spiritual deity which
"existed everywhere, in everything, but was notfo
ing of the earth" i. e., had no physical existence on
earth in the form of inanimate or nonspiritual
images.
Arthur E. P. Weigall, Chief Inspector of the
Department of Antiquities, Upper Egypt, in writ'
ing of the religion inspired by Amenhotep IV,
says: "Like a flash of blinding light in the night
time, the Aton (the sun'symbol of the true God)
stands out for a moment amidst the black Egyptian
darkness, and disappears once more—the first sig'
nal to the world of the future religions of the
West. One might believe that Almighty God had
for a moment revealed himself to Egypt."
Truly the religion of Amenhotep did not endure
for long. Compared to the years of darkness, it
was but a flash, for it ceased as a public and gen'
eral religion when Amenhotep passed beyond the
veil in 1350 B. C.
He, too, left many monuments to the glory of
the Brotherhood. First he removed as far as possi'
ble all "pillars to Ammon" and all references to
32
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Ammon as a god. So thorough was his work that he
did not hesitate to mutilate the work done by his
father at Karnak and Luxor of effacing all refer'
ence to the god Ammon, put there to appease the
heathen priesthood, even to removing the name of
his father and mother where they were connected
with such idolatry. This naturally provoked the
populace, especially since Amenhotep substituted
beautiful monuments to the "living God."
In the fifth year of his reign—when he was only
sixteen years of age
—a sweeping reform was ini'
tiated throughout Egypt by his decree, which pre
hibited any other form of worship except that al
ready mentioned. In one of his decrees he wrote:
"This is my oath of Truth which it is my desire to
pronounce, and of which I will not say: 'It is false,'
eternally forever."
He then changed his own name so that it would
not be inconsistent with his reform. Amenhotep
meant "Ammon is satisfied"; this he altered to
Akhnaton or Ikhenaton meaning "pious to Aton"
or "Glory to Aton."
He built a new capital at El Amarna in the
plain of Hermopolis on a virgin site at the edge of
33
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
the desert and abandoned Thebes because it was
the magnificent city of Amnion. At El Amarna he
also built a large Temple for the Brotherhood, in
"the form of a cross," and a large number of houses
for his Council. Here was the beginning of mon'
astic life, for within the boundaries of El Amarna
lived two hundred and ninetysix Brothers of the
Order, each having taken an oath never to pass
"beyond the shadow of the Temple."
These Brothers wore special costumes which in'
cluded a "cord at the loins" and a covering for the
head, while the priest in the Temple wore a sur'
plice of linen and had his head shaved in a round
spot on the top.
It is from this institution that all monastic op
ders, especially that of St. Francis, derive their
methods, even their costumes.
During these years at El Amarna the Brother'
hood was being made into a concrete organization,
and the Brothers at this community outlined the
initiations and forms of service as used today.
Akhnaton (Amenhotep IV) not only built his
Temple in the form of a cross, but he added the
cross and the rose as symbols and further adopted
34
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
the Crux Ansata, in a special coloring, as the sym'
bol to be worn by all teachers (Masters) . In fact,
the last year of his life was spent in evolving a
wonderful system of symbols used at this day, to
express every phase and meaning of the Rosicru'
cian sciences, arts, and philosophies, and while
some of these have become known to the uniniti'
ated through the researches of Egyptologists, many
remain secret and all are understandable only to
the initiated.
As a ruler of Egypt our master failed utterly to
check the desire for war and by his attacks on the
popular religion he left the way open for invasion
through lack of cooperation on the part of his
subjects. As the crisis approached our Master
foresaw the result and sad at his neglect of politi'
cal matters in his enthusiasm for the spiritual, he
weakened his health and he was finally forced to
take to his bed in the month of July, 1350 B. C.
Instead of using his mighty knowledge to regain
his health it appears from his last dictated writings
that his constant wish was to be spiritualized, that
he might be raised up to that plane from which
God's symbol shone down upon him. He fasted—
35
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
practically starving himself —refused the services
of the physician in the Order, and prayed con'
stantly. Then, on July 24, late in the afternoon,
with his right hand upstretched to God pleading
to be taken into the nous he was seen by his Broth'
ers and Sisters of the Order watching there, to be
actually raised for a moment and then to drop back
in "sweet repose with a smile of illumination upon
his countenance." .
Thus, passed to the beyond our Great Master,
who did so much and left so much for our organi'
zation.
He may have neglected Egypt politically, but she
will always remember her young Pharaoh whose
twentyeight years left its art and architecture, its
sciences and philosophies so greatly changed and
improved. His reign was like unto the Renaissance
of France, and even the hieroglyphics and arts show
a vast improvement based upon the principles of
Truth. At the time of his crowning he took the
title of "Amenhotep, King, Living in Truth"
which was the Rosicrucian phrase of fidelity as it is
today, and he passed onward to the other life in
truth.
36
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Perhaps the most summary of all testimonies to
Amenhotep IV found outside of the Rosicrucian
literature, is that paid by James Breasted, Profes'
sor of Egyptology, University of Chicago, who
says in his History of Egypt: "The modern world
has yet adequately to value, or even acquaint itself
with this man, who in an age so remote and under
conditions so adverse, became the world's first in'
dividual."
37
Chapter II
THE GROWTH OF THE ORDER
IN THE ORIENT
T the close of the first epoch of the
Brotherhood's history, ending with
the transition of Amenhotep IV
(Aknaton) in 1350 B. O, there was
but one secret assembly, that which met in the
Temple at El Amarna; and the Brothers and Sis'
ters numbered four hundred and ten, which num'
ber included the Officers of the Lodge and the
members of the Supreme High Council.
Plans had been made for years for the establish'
ment of other assemblies or Lodges in various
countries; but in those countries where a Lodge
could have been established by one of the Egyp'
tians who would have traveled there, war was
raging and conditions were against any such
institution.
Greeks were coming to Egypt to study its phil'
osophies and become acquainted with its learning.
39
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Many of them sought entrance into the Order but
it appears from various Council decisions that
they were not admitted because of unprepared'
ness.
Benedictus Figulus, a Brother of the Order,
who made a very exhaustive study of the growth
of the Order, wrote: "About the year 1680 A. M.
the Greeks went to Chaldea and Egypt to learn
this philosophy —but after learning a little they
became so puffed up and proud, depending more
than was meet on their own understanding." This
seems to have been the result most feared by the
Council there, just as it is today. So many are
ready to grasp at the first principles and then,
thinking their minds capable of building a philo
sophical structure upon the foundation, cease to
be students and at once become teachers, each
having a distinct, incomplete, and erroneous phi'
losophy or "ism." Naturally there will be heretics
in every school of thought; but a heretic is one
who diverges from the established teachings only
because of a thorough \nowledge of such teach'
ings and to such we may turn for helpful criticism
and suggestions at times. But we must be deliv
40
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ered from the bigoted student who rises above his
fellows and places his superior mind and judg'
ment above the experienced understanding of his
teachers.
For many years the Order progressed but little.
Amenhotep IV left the work in the hands of com'
petent teachers and as the years passed by a few
were admitted and initiated while the great teach'
ings were being transcribed into symbolism and a
special secret alphabet.
There being no male descendants of Amenhotep
IV, he was succeeded by his son'in'law as Pharaoh
and at the close of the XVIII dynasty. The re
ligion of Ammon had been established once again,
while the dreams and hopes of our Master were
confined to the Order and its succession of
teachers.
During the XIX dynasty under Seti I and Ram'
eses II considerable tolerance was granted to the
Order in Egypt; but gradually . a feeling arose
against its "secret power" and the lines of activity
had to be drawn closer and closer.
Fortunately, in the Order at the time of the
transition of Amenhotep IV, there was a sage
41
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
named Hermes. So great was his learning and yet
so mystical his many writings, purposely veiled so
that they might be of value only to the future ini'
tiates, that the uninitiated minds of future years
arose and acclaimed Hermes a myth, and there are
those today who try to establish his identity with
that of the Egyptian god "Thoth." However, it is
the author's pleasure to state now that which has
never appeared in print before and which has per'
plexed investigators for centuries—the birth date
of Hermes —the Thrice Great Man. He was born
in Thebes, October 9th, 1399 B. C. He lived to
the age of one hundred and fortytwo years, dying
in the Rosicrucian Monastery at El Amarna, on
March 22nd, 1257, B. C., and his mummy lies
among others in a cachette in the vicinity of El
Amarna.
He was "thrice great" because he lived to attend
the installation of Amenhotep IV as an R. C.
Master, became Master himself upon the latter's
transition, and in 1249 installed one Atonamen
as Master of the Order.
It was at this time that Hermes completed his
writings, especially the seven books and tablets
42
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
which were found and brought to light in 400
A. D., and which were upon diverse chemical and
physical subjects.
In 1203 several of the Brothers of the Order
who were of the Illuminati were commissioned to
go into other lands and spread the secret doctrines
by the establishment of other Lodges. It was quite
apparent that Egypt was to be subjected to a
devastation and that its great learning might be
lost. Confidence seems to have been the keynote,
however, for one may read a long argument, re'
minding one of a speech in Congress, delivered by
one of the Brothers at a Council held in El
Amarna on June 8, 1202 B. C., in which he re'
assures all present that the "stars shew naught but
trial, and test, by air, fire, and water, which we
hold to be the elements of the crucible from which
the precious stones will bring forth its own." And
again: "who among us will rise and predict defeat
for that which our Masters have labored over 29
cycles (two hundred years)? Is not this Truth?
Are we not assembled in Truth? Are we not liv
ing Truth? And, can Truth ever die? Is not
transition the gateway of progress? And can the
r
43
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
crucible do more than bring about a physical and
spiritual transition, a transmutation, of the prin'
ciples for which we have pledged our lives?"
It was finally decided that "no undue haste
should be sanctioned in permitting the Brothers
who have gone abroad to establish Lodges, but
rather that those who travel here in search of the
Light should be tried, and to those found qualified
shall be given the commission to return to their
people and establish a Lodge in the name of the
Brotherhood."
It was this dictum—known as the "Amra" —
that in later years proved the wisdom of the Coun'
cilors at this meeting, for it not only became a
hard and fast rule, but made for the success of the
plans of propagation.
It was in this wise that the phrase "travel East
for learning or Light" first came into use; for those
who soon began to travel to Egypt came from the
West.
About the year 1000 B. C. there came to Egypt
a character whose name is recorded as Salomon
but who was identified in later years with Sole
mon.
44
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
The records show that he had come from the
West, had traveled over many lands and across
waters. He was of a nation which was large and
important, situated in some very distant land. All
this is indicated from the report he made to the
representative of the fraternity whom he inter'
viewed at Thebes "whither he had gone immedi'
ately upon his arrival in Egypt accompanied by
his slaves (!) and his najah (a word unknown to
the translators)."
He desired instruction in the higher Egyptian
sciences and philosophy, and was directed to El
Amarna with a letter of introduction from the
intendant at Thebes. He reached El Amarna on
the 4th day of June, 999, under the name of Sake
man, the youthful see\er.
Saloman did not complete his studies, for it is
reported that he left El Amarna "before the fourth
examination." He left with his Brothers and Sis'
ters a definite feeling of love, wisdom, and virtue,
and all were grieved at his sudden but announced
departure.
The next word of him is as a resident at the
royal home in Bubastis in the Delta where Shishak
45
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
I (or Sheshonk) had established himself. This was
in the year 952 B. C., and Saloman is referred to
as an instructor to the Pharaoh's son. This is prob'
ably a mistake in translation, for in another place
he is referred to as advisor in political matters, and
this seems more probable in the light of future de'
velopments. Whether he had been at this resi'
dence all the intervening years from 999 to 952
B. C. is not definitely established, but there is a
record of his presence at Thebes in the year 980
when he visited some games in company with the
intendant of Thebes, and a group of scholars with
whom he seemed on the most intimate terms.
Saloman seems to have been greatly influenced
in Thebes and Bubastis by the religion of Ammon
and conceived a form of philosophical religion
which was a mixture of the Rosicrucian monothe'
ism and the Egyptian idolatry. To him the sun be'
came more than the mere symbol of a God; it was
the living vital spirit of God, and while not the
God, it was God's ethereal body. This would indi'
cate that Saloman conceived God as being (a) per'
sonal, rather than impersonal as Rosicrucianism
46
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
taught, and (b) dual, body and spirit, Father and
Holy Ghost.
Shishak I secured Thebes in 951 B. C. and ap'
pointed his son priest in the religion of Ammon,
and gave his daughter, Aye, to Saloman to wed.
This is the first mention of any of Saloman's wives
and she may have been his first wife. At the close
of 951 or early in 950 Saloman departed for Pal'
estine where he became a mighty power, and with
a prearranged plan, permitted Shishak I to rule
over his people. The history of Saloman or Sole
mon in Palestine is too well known to warrant any
further comment except on one point.
Five years after Saloman began his rule in Pal'
estine, or about 945 B. C., he completed a Temple
there in which to house a "society" or brotherhood
such as he had found at El Amarna. An examina'
tion of the plans and cross'section views of the see
called Saloman's Temple shows it to be not only
typically Egyptian in architecture and decoration,
but copied after the mystic Temple at El Amarna,
even to the location of the Altar, with the excep'
tion that the side structures which made the orig'
47
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
nal building a cross were eliminated in Saloman's
plans.
Saloman had the assistance of two who had
traveled in Egypt as architects and artists—Hu'
ranvabi of Tyre and one Hiram Abif .
The Saloman brotherhood was closely watched
by the fraternity in Egypt, which had removed its
headquarters to Thebes again because of political
changes and the warring invasions in the territory
of El Amarna, which eventually reduced the entire
community to ruins.
It was found that Saloman restricted his order
to males and adapted a great many of the details of
the Rosicrucian initiations and services. At first
it was believed that he would apply to the Grand
Lodge in Thebes for a charter and make his work
a branch of the R. C., but it became apparent be'
fore the first assembly was held that he was not
adhering to the Rosicrucian philosophy, for he
used the sun as the exclusive symbol of his order.
Of the growth of the Saloman brotherhood, as
it was officially called in all ancient documents, one
may read in all literature bearing upon Free Mas'
onry. It has evolved into a semi'mystical, specu'
48
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
lative, secret, fraternal order of power and great
honor, gradually altering the principles laid down
by Saloman, it is true, but doing so for the greater
benefit of man.
The Greeks were now coming to Thebes to
study, and it was at this time that the world'wide
spread of the organization began.
Pythagoras is so often mentioned as one of the
earliest Messiahs of the order, but in truth there
were many who preceded him. Among the first to
become worldly famous in the order was Solon,
who became the first chaplain who was not an
Egyptian. He entered the order in 618 B. C., and
remained a true Messiah until his transition in
550 B. C., leaving for our use some of the most
beautiful and inspiring prayers ever spoken by a
yearning soul. Contemporary with him was Anax'
imander, who came from Miletus to study at
Thebes preceding the coming of Pythagoras.
Pythagoras was born in Samos on November
26th, 582 B. C. He entered the Order at Thebes
on the second of April, 531, and having passed
through all the initiations and examinations he
entered the Illuminati, October 16, 529, and left
49
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
at once for Crotona (Krotono), Italy, with jewels
and documents to found a Grand Lodge there.
There were a few secalled secret cults in existence
at that time in Italy, and when Pythagoras began
to promulgate his plans and admitted that women
might not only become members, but could hold
office, he attracted the attention of the most ad'
vanced thinkers of the day. Theano, the wife of
Pythagoras, was one of the principal officers for
three years. The Grand Lodge eventually had 300
brothers and sisters and issued many charters for
local lodges of the order throughout Italy.
From this time onward toward the Christian
period, great minds from many countries jour'
neyed Eastward and Westward and Crossed the
Threshold, and having completed the work and
studies, passed again into the world's darkness to
spread the light as they interpreted it.
As a historical record and a guide to the student
who delights in research and antiquarianism, there
will be given the names of those who came to
Thebes to study, became Masters of Rosicrucian
Lodges in other lands, and during their lifetimes
50
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
published at least one book, an official work, treat'
ing on the Rosicrucian philosophies or sciences.
Many of the books or manuscripts to be listed
are still extant in the original, or translated, and
quite a few of them are in America. A perusal of
any one of them convinces one of the author's real
knowledge and experience in Rosicrucianism.
51
Chapter III
THE WORK OF THE DISCIPLES
UTER activities of the Great White
Brotherhood, during the pre'Christian
Era, were centered in a number of
branches controlled by one group of
supreme officers who constituted the Rosicrucian
Fraternity of Brethren of the Rosy Cross. The
Supreme Masters of the Great White Brotherhood
withdrew from public activity and with a council
of eminent advisors constituted the esoteric body
known thereafter as the Great White Lodge.
Notable among the phases of the spread of the
work of the Rosicrucians to other lands was the
establishment of two branches known as the
Essenes and the Therapeuti. The Essenes consti'
tuted that branch which went into Palestine and
adopted a distinct name in order to veil its pre'
liminary work while the Therapeuti was a similar
branch established for the same purpose in Greece.
53
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
In Palestine the Essenes established a commu
nity of members and associate members at Galilee
where they had many homes in this nonjewish,
Gentile part of the country, and built their princi
pal monastery and temple on the top of Mount
Carmel where Elijah, as one of the descendants of
the Great White Brotherhood, had previously
established a retreat and had taught many of the
mysteries of the Brotherhood.
Just before the Christian period, the Great
White Brotherhood had also established a new
monastery and temple and other structures for a
great central point of their activities at Heliopolis,
and the temple here was known as the Temple of
Helios, or sometimes called "the Temple of the
Sun." The intercourse between the temple at Help
opolis and the one on top of Mount Carmel was
intimate and frequent, and many of the philose
phers who journeyed from European points to
Egypt to study spent some of their time at Mount
Carmel.
Just about the time of the birth of Jesus the
great library and archivist records maintained at
Heliopolis were transferred to Mount Carmel, and
54
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
the Essenes Brotherhood in Palestine together with
other branches of the Great White Brotherhood
were preparing for the coming of the great Avatar
who was to be the reincarnation of Zoroaster, one
of the famous Avatars of the Brotherhood in cen'
turies past.
The birth of Jesus in the family of Gentiles liv
ing in the Essenes community at Galilee fulfilled
the expectations of the Brotherhood, and from this
time on the outer and inner activities of the Broth'
erhood became centered around the ministry of the
great Master Jesus. The details of the birth, prep'
aration, ministry, and culminating events of the
Master Jesus are all set forth in a separate volume
entitled "The Mystical Life of Jesus" wherein are
given details from the records of the Essenes and
the Great White Brotherhood and which have
never been published before. Therefore, I will not
take space in the present record to recite these
many and important matters.
At the close of the life of Jesus the Christ, the
disciples of Jesus and the high officers of the Great
White Brotherhood planned to carry on the new
cycle of illumination and revelation of doctrines as
55
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
presented by Him, and an outer congregation or
public movement was established known as the
Christine Church. This movement gradually
evolved into a more or less independent public or'
ganization, and while it was sponsored by the
Great White Brotherhood, and all of the principal
workers like unto the original Apostles were men
chosen from the Essenes Gentile community at
Galilee, the Great White Brotherhood did not
establish the Christine Church as a part of its
activities, because it was interested in the work
of all religious movements in all lands, and did not
become a part of any of them.
Several hundred years after the foundation of
the Christine Church, and while it was being
actively promulgated by the representative of the
Great White Brotherhood in those lands where
the doctrines and teachings would do the utmost
good, the Supreme Temple and monastery, as well
as the library and archivist records, were trans'
ferred from Mount Carmel to new structures built
in an isolated section of Tibet where the Head'
quarters of the Great Masters of the organization
is still maintained.
56
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
During the time of the organization of the
Christine movement, and throughout all the cen'
turies thereafter, the inner circle of the Great
White Brotherhood continued to function as a
non'sectarian, non'religious school of mystical, oc
cult, and scientific teachings. All of the outer
activities such as the Essenes movement, the Chris
tine movement, and similar bodies in various lands,
represented the outer congregation of the Great
White Brotherhood while the secret schools and
temples with their high priests and instructors and
large membership of students represented the inner
congregation. All through the ages up to the pres
ent time the Great White Brotherhood has con
tinued to function in this dual manner.
It was during the period of contentions and
strife that the Christine movement faced, that the
Great White Brotherhood found it advisable to
establish another organization composed almost
exclusively of men, and called the Militia Crucv
fera Evangelica. Its purpose was to protect the
cross as a mystical symbol, against its misuse by
those who attempted to carry on crusades of per
secution against others who would not accept a
57
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
sectarian interpretation of the symbolism of the
ancient emblem. It was in the foundation of this
Militia that we find the origin of all the militant
organizations which became defenders of the faith
in later years, but it is notable that the Militia
Cmcifera Evangelica never became an active body
of prosecutors or crusaders, but merely of silent
defenders who were pledged never to unsheathe
the sword except in absolute defense. The organi'
nation became greatly enlarged in later centuries
and continues to exist at the present time, not
as a true military organization, but as defenders of
the Rosicrucian emblem and the cross with their
moral strength rather than with any physical
strength.
Throughout the centuries preceding the Chris'
tian Era, and thereafter, the Great White Brother'
hood and its centers of learning and its libraries
and monasteries became the centers for pilgrimages
on the part of great minds seeking illumination and
the highest advancement in culture and ethics. The
records of the Brotherhood are replete with the life
stories of many eminent characters known in gen'
eral history who became students in the mystery
58
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
temples of the organization in Egypt, at Pales'
tine or elsewhere, and later presented outlines of
modified philosophies and principles which the
public could understand and apply, and authors of
books which have been valuable contributions to
the advancement of learning.
Among the very earliest of the philosophers
who contributed to the Rosicrucian philosophy
were: the fellow' workers of Hermes —Mena, Bu'
siris, Simandius, Sesostris, Miris, Sethon, Amasis,
Adfar Alexandrinus, and King Calid.
Then there was "Maria Hebraeae," a Hebrew
woman supposed to have been Miriam, a sister of
Moses.
But after the going of Pythagoras to Italy many
came from Greece and other lands to be initiated
in Egypt and from there returned to their native
lands or elsewhere to establish branches of the mys
tic school and become Masters and Officers
therein.
Most of these —whose names are listed below,
published during their lifetime one or more papers
dealing with various principles of the Rosicrucian
philosophy or science.
59
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Some of these writings were kept secret —others
were written for public reading with the true doc
trines carefully veiled. In order that the Rosicnp
cian students may study such writings as are ex'
tant today these philosophers'1 names are given
and sometimes the name or title of their work
which is especially recommended.
Solon, 640 to 550 B. C.
Anaximander of Miletus, 610 to 540 B. C.
Anaximenes of Miletus, 520 B. C.
HeracHtus of Ephesus, 520 B. C.
Parmenides, born 5 1 5 B. C.
Empedocles of Agrigentum, 500 B. C.
Democritus of Thrace, 460 B. C.
Socrates of Athens, 470 B. C.
Euclides of Negara, 399 B. C.
Plato of Athens, 428 to 347 B. C.^
Aristotle of Thrace, 385 to 322 B. C.
(Read: "De Annua," the "Metaphysica" and
the "Quinta Essentia.")
Epicurus of Athens, 341 to 270 B. C.
Metrodorus, Hermarchus, Colotes, Leonteus
and his wife Themista, and Leontium, all of whom
60
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
were pupils of Epicurus in his R. C. Lodge in
Athens in 306 to 301 B. C.
Philo, 110 B. C.
Antiochus of Ascalon, 100 B. C.
Cicero, 79 B. C.
Nigidius Figulus, 70 B. C.
Seneca, 70 B. C.
THE CHRISTIAN PERIOD
After these came philosophers from the Chris'
tian period beginning a new line of writers.
From this time on the work spread very rapidly
throughout many lands and only a brief list of the
most prominent can be given. The following not
only contributed interesting writings to the future
R. C. literature, but were either Masters of vari'
ous Lodges or assisted in bringing the mystic frater
nity into their respective countries.
Geber (or Yber) of Haman in the VIII century
A. D.
(Read: "Fragmentum de Triangulis Sphaeri'
cis" and "The Sum of Perfection or THE
PERFECT MAGISTRY .")
61
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Rhasis (or Razi), an Arabian, born in 850 A. D.
(Wrote many treatises on planetary corre'
spondences and alchemy.)
Alfarabi, of Farab, Asia Minor, born about 910
A. D.
(He compiled the first Encyclopaedia of
R. C. science and arts.)
Avicenna (or Ebn Sina) of Bacara, Persia, born
about 980 A. D.
(Read: "Tractatulus Alchemiae.")
Morien of Rome (who after his Initiation in
Egypt remained there as the chief Alchemist for
49 years) . Born about 1 120 A. D.
(Read: "Liber de Compositione Alchemiae,"
published under the auspices of the Rosi'
crucian Order in France.)
Albertus Magnus of Subia, born in 1205 A. D.
(Read: "Secretum Secretorum.")
Thomas Aquinas (St. Thomas) of Italy.
(Read: "Thesaurus Alchemiae.")
Roger Bacon of England, born 1214 A. D.
(Read: "Book of Six Sciences," and others.)
Alain de Lille.
(Read: "Dicta de Lapide Philosophico.")
62
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Raymond Lully of Spain, born 1229.
(Read: "Clavicula, or the Little Key." He
wrote over 400 R. C. treatises.)
Arnold de Villanova, of Montpellier, France.
Born 1245.
(Read: "Rosarium Philosophorum.")
Jean de Meung of France, born 1250.
(Read: "Roman de la Rose")
Ferarius, The Italian Monk, born in Italy, 1303.
(Read: "Thesaurus Philosophiae.")
Nicholas Flamel, born at Pontoise, France, 1330.
(Read: 'Tresor de Philosophie.")
Peter Bono of Lombardi, born 1330.
(Read: "Margarita Pretioso.")
Johannes de Rupecissa, born 1336.
(Read: 'The Book of Light.")
Basil Valentine, of Mayence.
(Read: "Currus Triumphalis Antimonii.")
Isaac, of Holland.
(Read: "Opera Minerali.")
Bernardi Trevisan of Padua, born 1406.
(Read: "La Philosophie Naturelle des Me'
taux")
John Fontaine, of France.
63
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
(Read: "Aux Amoureux de Science," a
poem.)
Thomas Norton of Briseto, died in 1477.
(Read: "Ordinall of Alchemy.")
Thomas Dalton of England.
Sir George Ripley, died 1490.
(Read: "Twelve Gates of Alchemy.")
Picus de Mirandola (John Picus, Earl of Miran'
dola, born February 24, 1463.
(Read: "De Auro")
Philippus A. T. Bambas Von Hohenheim (known
in the Order as "Paracelsus"), born 1493 in
Switzerland.
(Read: "Kabbalah of the Spiritual, Astral
and Material Worlds.")
Johann Trithemius.
Denis Zachaire of Guienne, born 1510.
(Read: "Opusculum Chimicum.")
Berigard of Pisa (Claude Berigard), 1614.
(Read: "Circulus Pisanus.")
Thomas Charnack, of Isle of Thanet, born 1524.
(Read: "Breviary of Philosophy," and "Enig'
ma of Alchemy.")
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Giovanni Braaccesco of Brescia, 1580.
(Read: Legno della Vita")
Leonardi Fioravanti of Italy, 1571.
(Read: "Summary of the Arcana of Medi'
cine, Surgery and Alchemy.")
John Dee (or Dr. Dee) .
(Read: "Diary of Dr. Dee")
Sir Edward Kelly (or Talbot) of Worcester, born
1555.
(Read: "Theatrum Chemicum Britanni'
cum. )
Dr. Nicholas Barnaud and Thaddeus de Hozek,
Imperial Physician at Prague, 1585.
Henry Khunrath of Saxony, born 1560. Estab'
lished first Rosicrucian Library in Germany.
(Read: "Amphitheatrum Sapientiae.")
Michael Maier, Grand Master of the R. C. Order
in Germany for many years. Born in Holstein,
1567. Died 1622.
(Read: "Revelatam de Fraternitate Rosae
Crucis.")
Jacob Bohme of Old Seidenberg, born 1575.
(Read: "True Principles," and Mysterium
Magnum.") Bonnie's books are especially
65
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
recommended to all Rosicrucians. They
contain many R. C. Keys.
J. B. Van Helmont, of Boise le Duc, born 1 5 57.
(Read: "De Vita Eterna")
Dr. (Ralph) Butler of England, 1557.
Jean d'Espagnet.
(Read: "Arcanum Philosophiae Hermeti'
cae," also known as "Canons of Espag'
net.")
Alexander Sethon of Scotland (known as "Setho-
nius", born in Molier.
Michael Sendevogius of Moravia, born 1566.
(Read: "New Light of Alchemy.")
Gusenhover of Strasburg, 1603.
"Baron Chaos" (Busardier) of Prague, 1648.
Albert Belin (Benedictine), of Besancow, born
1610.
(Read: "Adventures of an Unknown Phi'
losopher.")
Eirenaeus Philalethes of England, born 1623.
(Read: "Fame and Confession of the Frater
nity R. C.," also "Euphrates, or the Waters
of the East.")
66
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Thomas Vaughan of England (a Welshman),
born 1621, died 1665. He translated the early
Rosicrucian papers into English for the English
R. C. Order.
(Read: "Lumen de Lumine.")
Pierre Jean Fabre of Montpellier, Grand Master
in France from 1610 to 1620.
(Read: "Alchimista Christianus.")
Dr. John Frederick Helvetius of Amsterdam.
Grand Master in 1667.
Guiseppi Francesco Borri (Chevalier), born in
Milan 1627.
(Read: "The Key to the Cabinet.")
John Heydon of England. He translated the
famous "Atlantis" into the Rosicrucian story
intended by Francis Bacon, who was also a
Master in the Order.
(Read: "Atlantis," and "Rosae Crucian In'
fallible Axiomata.")
Delisle, of Provence, 1710.
John Herman Obereit of Switzerland, born in
1725.
(Read: "La Connexion Originaire des Es'
prits.")
67
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
"Count Cagliostro" of Sicily, born 1743. He was
Initiated in the Temples of Egypt, and became
a Continental Master and established many
Lodges in Europe. Recent historical researches
prove that he was not the notorious "Joseph
Balsamo" nor guilty of the charges made against
him by the enemies of "Light."
When the Rosicrucian movement reached
France, early in the Christian Era, it found there
its greatest welcome.
The Pilgrims to the Holy Land had brought
back to the Counts and Lords of the South of
France reports of the activities of a certain secret
society devoted to science and brotherhood.
Charlemagne was at the time conducting his great
school of learning. History will tell the lay mind
considerable regarding this famous school. Charle'
magne realized that through education alone could
he build his power and hold the reins of govern
ment. He gathered around him the brightest schol'
ars of the day, the learned men of many countries,
and offered them excellent remuneration if they
would devote all their time to the teaching of the
pupils in this school. These pupils consisted of
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
himself, his family, his relatives, and a few of the
officials he had appointed.
Nor were these learned men limited to teach'
ing. Charlemagne desired to promote learning.
He gave his tutors every opportunity to make ex
tensive researches in every field, and provided
them with an experimental laboratory. The philo
sophers —among them was the famous Alcuin —
were permitted to travel to other lands and bring
back the cream of all knowledge. In this school
the great St. Guillem received his education, being
a nephew of Charlemagne.
One of these philosophers, Arnaud, was di
rected to go to Jerusalem in the year 778 A. D. to
learn all he could of this wonderful secret society
which possessed the key to all science and all art.
Arnaud journeyed to Jerusalem and was there
directed to Egypt. It is recorded that he made
humble application for admission into the Order
in Thebes, and then, in accordance with the Law
"AMRA," applied for permission to establish a
branch Lodge in France.
Arnaud completed his study in Egypt in ap
proximately two years and one month. Because of
69
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
the difficulty of communication his several letters
and reports to Charlemagne failed to reach their
destination and in France he was given up as dead
—a fate which fell to many who journeyed far in
those days. One of his letters to Charlemagne,
written on a papyrus in Thebes, was afterward
found in a monastery near Milau in France, where
it had been deposited in a vault among other rare
papers for some unknown reason. In it Arnaud
makes a very glowing report of his discoveries,
and refers to the body of "silent students clothed
in white as pure and spotless as their characters
but diligent in their mastery of God's laws and
privileges." In closing his report he says: "Should
it be my privilege, my great honor, to bring to our
land the seal and signs of this great school, we
shall have in our midst the power which our be'
loved Master may use in destroying all ignorance,
provided, of course, our Master shall deem it wise
and beneficial to humble himself, not to those who
ask
it,
but to God, and thereby become as one of
the disciples of our Lord Jesus."
The significance of this closing sentence will be
brought to mind when
it
is
recalled that the re'
70
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ligious feeling in Charlemagne's school was very
intense and sincere. And, bear in mind, Arnaud
was trying to diplomatically and respectfully state
that it would be necessary for Charlemagne to be'
come a humble supplicant for admission into the
Order if he wished to become a Master of the
Order in France —a position and honor which
Arnaud and his colleagues would certainly have
insisted upon.
Arnaud returned to France in 802, however,
and was given a very interesting ovation in the
chamber of Charlemagne's throne. Charlemagne
did not become a Master in the Order, but after
two years' delay permitted a Lodge to be estab
lished in Toulouse. The original Lodge was
founded in a temporary monastery on the out'
skirts of Tolosa—the ancient city—which is now
in ruins some little distance from the present city
of Toulouse. Part of the Altar of this first Lodge
in France was still preserved by the archivists of
the Order in France in 1909, though it was much
the worse for very severe handling during the
many religious wars in the Provinces.
71
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Arnaud became the Master in that first Lodge
which held its opening convocation about 804'805.
(The difficulty with exact dates is due to the many
changes in the calendar and in interpreting the
various methods of keeping records in those days.)
The first Grand Master of France was Frees,
who reigned from 883 to 899 A. D. Until that
time Grand Masters were not appointed. There
was to be only one Lodge in any country, accord'
ing to the original plans, and the Master of that
Lodge held no other power or authority than rule
over the one Lodge. The granting of charters was
still in the hands of the Supreme Council. But
it was Frees who brought before the Council the
advisability of establishing a Grand Lodge in cer
tain countries and giving to its Masters the right
to grant charters to other Lodges within the same
national confines. It was only one year before
Frees passed to the beyond—898—that he re
ceived his authority and instructions to establish
other Lodges in France and the second Lodge was
immediately established in Lyons.
There were many devout students of the Order
in Toulouse who lived in Lyons and they lost no
72
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
time—after years of waiting—in getting a very
flourishing Lodge established there. Many years
later—1623 —the Masons in Lyons organized a
Rose Croix degree in the same city to please the
many Rosicrucians who were Masons. The Ma'
sonic body was organized at a Council held there
July 23rd, 1623.
In the meantime the Order in France had spread
very rapidly and had attracted wide attention.
Some of the Monks in the various monasteries in
the South of France became interested, and with'
out mentioning names at this time—let it be
known that some of these Roman Catholic per'
sons, devout and sincere, rendered a great service
to the upbuilding of the sanctity of the Order by
contributing many beautiful moral and spiritual
creeds and dogmas.
Finally in 1001 —the year when all the South
of France was expecting the end of the world —
according to an old Biblical prophecy —the Order
in France established a Rosicrucian Monastery —
the first in the world —in the old Roman city of
Nemausus, now Nimes.
73
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
This Monastery became the nucleus for the
great Rosicrucian College or Ecole R. C. which
flourished in France from the twelfth century to
the middle of the sixteenth and which was re'
vived again in 1882 in Montpellier.
The history of the Order in France is very in'
teresting. The most minute facts of the early his'
tory were recorded by Phonaire, who was the
Official Historian of the Order in 1132 to 1134.
The later history was compiled by a number of
Masters of the R. O, R. F. and preserved in the
archives in the Dongeon at Toulouse. This latter
city has been the meeting place of the French Su'
preme Council since 1487. France held second
place in strength of number of members, Germany
holding first place, and England third. Egypt of
course, was the great Supreme Center, but had
only a comparatively small number of members.
In France today —at this very hour—the loss
of membership through the great war is seen to be
enormous. Of the French Supreme Council of
twentyfive, there were living in December of 1915
only seven. But the loss in Germany has been
even greater. So many of the Brothers of the
74
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Order in France were living in the South of
France, that although they were called upon to
bear arms, they did not reach the front. Then,
again, a great many of the French Brothers were
older men and men who held high offices in the
army, navy, and general government and they
did not participate in the actual conflict.
The Order spread into Germany shortly after
the Grand Lodge was established in France. Char'
lemagne himself was the first to introduce the
Order in Germany, for by his command one
Mause settled somewhere along the Rhine near
Coblenz and there began a propaganda for mem'
bers in a quiet dignified manner. He never lived,
however, to see his work bear fruit, for the re'
strictions placed around membership were severe
and too stringent. But in 1100 a Lodge was es'
tablished in Worms, which became the Grand
Lodge.
The work grew rapidly in Germany during the
twelfth century, but it remained so secret and so
inactive in its outward manifestations during its
108 years of inactivity that little was known of
the Order or its members. Toward the beginning
75
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
of the fifteenth century a spell of quietude —of
dormancy —came again to the Order and as its
members passed on few were admitted. Religious
controversies and other troubles not of interest
here threatened the complete destruction of the
Order. At the beginning of the fifteenth century
there were only about seven hundred Brothers and
Sisters of the Order living within the jurisdiction
of the German Grand Lodge at Leipzig.
But in the fifteenth century —at almost the last
moment — the great revival came again. And
whilst this great revival brought new life, new
vigor and new hope to the Order in Germany, it
has proved to be the most perplexing one that ever
came to the Order anywhere throughout the
world. It has left a question, a doubt, unanswered
and unsettled, in the layman's mind and has
caused more misunderstanding of the Order's true
history and ancestry than this humble attempt by
me will ever be able to make clear.
76
Chapter IV
THE 108'YEAR CYCLE AND "C. R'C.
T is necessary, just at this point in the
history, to refer to one of the very
mysterious and puzzling laws of the
organization, the origin of which is
lost in the traditional history, but the general ac
ceptance of which accounts for many of the pe'
culiar breaks in the activities of the organization.
It appears from many ancient writings that in
the first centuries preceding the Christian Era the
organization complied with a regulation which
may have been established centuries before, or
may have been tried at this time as a new regula'
tion. This regulation called for a periodicity of
active and inactive cycles, each of 108 years. The
number of 108 is significant in itself to all occult
students, but just why this new regulation was
brought into effect is not known.
77
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
According to the terms of this regulation, every
branch jurisdiction was to select a certain year
as the anniversary of its original foundation, and
from that year onward operate in accordance with
the periodicity of cycles.
A complete cycle of existence from birth to re'
birth was to be of 216 years. Of this cycle, the
first 108 years was to be a period of outer, general
activity, while the second period of 108 years was
to be a period of concealed, silent activity, almost
resembling complete dormancy. This period of
inactivity was to be followed by another 108 years
of outer activity, just as though a new Order of
the organization was born without any connection
with the previous cycles. This regulation seemed
to be a close analogy to the cycles of birth and
rebirth for the human family, except that the num'
ber of years in each cycle was different. Just as
man's rebirth on earth was considered a reincap
nation of his previous existence, so each new birth
of the organization in each jurisdiction was to be
considered the birth of a new organization as a
reincarnated soul in a new body.
78
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
So we find in the first few centuries preceding
the Christian Era the Order seemed suddenly to
disappear from all outward existence and all out'
ward activity in some of the older branches in
the Orient. So far as the uninitiated were con'
cerned, and so far as the casual historians recorded
the events, the older branches forming a part of
the foundation of the Rosicrucian Order suddenly
ceased to exist without any explanation, or any
indication that they would be revived. The mem'
bers of the branches, and the great leaders, did
not cease to carry on their individual activities,
and we know from the records of the organization
that, according to the rules and regulations re'
garding these periods of silence, during the 108
years of inactivity the members of the organize
tion privately initiated their own descendants in
their immediate families, but accepted no new
members from the profane world. Thus several
generations of Rosicrucians, initiated within the
privacy of homes or secret temples, continued to
carry the heritage of the Order in some lands,
while outwardly and in all of its general activities
the Order seemed to have gone out of existence.
79
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Then for several years preceding the time of the
new birth, many prepared themselves by getting
in contact with an active branch of the organiza'
tion in other lands, and at the proper time an'
nounced in their own land the birth of a new
cycle of the Order.
In most of the foreign lands the periods of dor'
mancy and the periods of activity were not co.
incidental. Therefore, we find, for instance, that
Germany was in the midst of a period of dor'
mancy so far as the outer activities of the Order
were concerned, during a time when the Order
was very active in France and Holland. And
again we find that the Order was inactive in
France just at the time that the Order had its new
birth in Germany, and the Order in England was
in the very center of its period of activity.
The Mystery of C. R'C.
As the time approached for each jurisdiction
or country to have its new birth of the Order, ar'
rangements were made for the usual issuance of a
manifesto or pamphlet setting forth the beginning
of a new cycle. Just when this custom was
80
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
adopted it is difficult to say, and of course in the
early pre'Christian days, the issuance of pamph'
lets or printed matter was impossible, and so a
decree was promulgated or disseminated by word
of mouth and by the display of a certain symbol
among the people. This manifesto, decree, or synv
bol, announced the opening of a "tomb" in which
the "body" of a great master, C. R'C., was found,
together with rare jewels and secret writings or en'
gravings on stone or wood which empowered the
discoverers of the "tomb" to establish the secret
organization once again.
We will find later on in our history that when
the time came for the new birth in Germany, the
incident of the opening of the "tomb" was given
wider circulation than had ever been given to a
similar incident in any land before. This was due
to the invention of the art of printing, which made
possible the distribution of the manifestos and the
announcements in the form of pamphlets issued in
five different languages, and disseminated through
many nations at the same time. Coming at a cru'
cial hour, as we shall see, in the evolution of re'
ligion and philosophy, and being so widely dis'
81
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
tributed, the pamphlets of the seventeenth century
attracted such universal attention among persons
who had never heard of the organization before
that a common impression was created and re'
corded to the effect that a new organization, never
known in the world before, had come into exist'
ence through the discovery of a tomb, and the
body of a person unique in history. This false
impression was recorded in so many later histories,
that even today we are required to explain the
misconception.
It must be apparent to the reader of this his'
tory that the discovery of a "body" in the "tomb,"
or the finding of the "body" of a person known as
C. R'C., is allegorical, and is not to be taken in
a literal sense. In the first place, the word "body"
in the language in which it was first used, was
symbolical of something entirely different than the
physical body of a man. In the second place, the
initials C. R'C., did not mean Christian Rosen'
\reuz, except as the words represented by those
initials were translated in the German language.
The initials C. R'C., standing for the Christus of
the Rosy Cross, may be translated into the Latin,
82
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
French, and other languages without any change;
therefore the initials C. R'C., when first used were
not the initials of either German or French words,
but of Latin words.
Those writers of mystical and fantastical stories
who have tried to present the story of C. R'C.,
by stating that these initials were those of an indi'
vidual, are wholly unacquainted with the facts.
Even if the spiritual person represented by the
"body" of C. R'C., were the same in each cycle,
through a series of reincarnations, such a reincar
nated person would be a different earthly individ'
ual in each incarr ition. For that reason it must
be understood that there was no one earthly per'
son who was uniquely and exclusively known as
C. R'C., in any cycle of the Order's existence. Our
records refer to at least twelve discoveries of
"tombs" containing the "body" of C. R'C. in dif
ferent lands preceding the greatly popularized in'
cident in Cassel, Germany, in the seventeenth cen'
tury. And there have been similar incidents in the
history of the Order since the one in the seven'
teenth century.
83
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Therefore, when the student of the history of
the organization finds the various breaks in the
outer activities of the organization he soon notices
that there is a periodicity to the breaks, and al'
most unconsciously sets down the dates of the
cycles of activity and dormancy. We shall note a
few of these dates as we proceed with the history
in the different lands.
However, everyone who reads in some of the
modern mystical books, and even in those that
claim to be Rosicrucian, the story of "Christian
Rosenkreuz" being the original founder of the
Rosicrucian Order in Germany (speaking of C.
R'C. as though he were an earthly person who
invented and established the first lodge of Rosicru'
cians anywhere in the world) will know at once
that the writer of the account is unfamiliar with
the facts and has mistaken the allegorical story for
an actual event. The other explanation of the
Rosicrucian work, by an author of this calibre,
may be easily placed in the same category of re
liability. And, when the seeker comes in contact
with a mystical organization, or a "Rosicrucian"
group, that claims that it has its authority and
84
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
power derived from the organization started by
"Christian Rosenkreuz" in Germany, or that it is
a descendant from the original lodge established by
C. R'C in Germany, he will know also that the
claim must be fictitious and wilfully misleading;
for the facts contained in this history will show
that the Order was in existence in many lands
before the popular new birth of the Order in Ger
many in the seventeenth century, and that any
Rosicrucian student and most certainly any leader
of Rosicrucian activities connected with the genu
ine organization would have the correct story and
the correct facts which are available to all of those
who are truly affiliated with the real organization.
85
:
i
:
Chapter V
THE POPULAR REVIVAL IN GERMANY
S intimated in previous paragraphs of
this history, the most popular and
puzzling incident in the whole history
of the Rosicmcian Order is in connec
tion with the third or fourth revival of the organ'
ization in Germany. Coming as it did, at a critical
time in the awakening of the religious conscious'
ness of the people, and when various reforms were
being instituted and attacks were being made upon
older institutions, with a promulgation of ideas for
newer ones, the announcement of the birth of the
Rosicrucian Order for the new cycle in Germany
was considered by many as a part of the general
reform taking place throughout that country and
other lands. The revival would never have be'
come so popular nor attracted so great attention
if it had not been that for the first time in the his'
87
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
tory of the Rosicrucian Order, the art of printing
was freely used.
Such a use of printing was almost unique, and
it naturally attracted the attention of persons who
were easily convinced that great wealth and great
power were back of this national and international
program, and for this reason other pamphlets and
booklets were written criticizing, commenting
upon, and attacking the organization, as well as
praising it and endorsing it.
The mass of literature resulting from the open'
ing announcements of the German revival consti'
tutes one of the very dependable sources of his'
torical information regarding the Rosicrucians,
and at the same time constitutes one of the deploy
able problems that confronts every seeker for real
information.
Many of the pamphlets and booklets issued by
critics or by enemies of the organization, or even
in some cases by persons who merely wished to
attain prominence or attract attention through
writing about the organization, without any real
knowledge of the subject, resulted in a mass of mis'
information, a great deal of which eventually
88
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
found its way into encyclopedias and general his'
tories. To this very day, the average newspaper,
magazine writer, or seeker for information regard'
ing the organization, who turns to one of the
standard encyclopedias or histories of literature,
religion, science, or art, is very apt to come in con'
tact with misleading statements based upon the
critical essays written about the organization dur'
ing this period of the German revival.
It is not my intention to take space in this pres
ent history to review the facts relating to the re'
vival in Germany, but merely to call attention to
the outstanding points connected therewith, be
cause, the real history of the revival, as well as the
theoretical and misleading history, has been pub'
ished in many books and can be found in many
articles and essays dealing with Rosicrucianism.
The opening salute of that revival was the sud'
den and mysterious publication of a book briefly
called 'The Fama." In just what year the original
pamphet entitled "The Fama Fraternitatis" was
issued in Germany is really unknown; for there
were so many editions in so many languages ap'
pearing in a number of different cities at slightly
89
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
varying dates. Judging from copies which have
been collected, one may see that the pamphlet ap'
peared during the years 1610 to 1616, or even
later. It is generally conceded that most of these
were printed at Cassel, in Germany, although the
English edition and the French edition were prob'
ably printed in other countries. As is natural with
all of the ancient Rosicrucian literature, the au'
thorship was veiled with a symbolic name, and a
great deal of the literature of the period of revival
in Germany was signed with the name of Christian
Rosen\reuz when the pamphlet was in German,
or with a similar name translated in other lan'
guages when published in foreign lands; or else the
principal character telling the story in the an'
nouncements or proclamations bore this symbolical
name. Of course, the name translated into our
English means "a Christian of the Rosy Cross."
The pamphlets were addressed to the learned
persons of the world, particularly of Europe, and
appealed to the educated and cultured, and it is
very doubtful if any of the learned persons in
Germany or other lands who read those pamphlets
believed that the name "Christian Rosenkreuz"
90
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
was the actual bona'fide name of any person.
However, today throughout the world we find
thousands of persons, and especially those who
have attempted to write misleading articles about
the Rosicrucians, or who have attempted to found
and organize commercial propositions selling so-
called Rosicrucian books, who seem to really be'
lieve that the name "Christian Rosenkreuz" was
the name of an individual, and that this individual
was the real author of the "Fama" and other pieces
of Rosicrucian literature, and likewise the founder
of the entire Rosicrucian Order which had its be'
ginning, according to their belief, in this very es'
tablishment during the years 1610 to 1616.
The other general opinion regarding the author'
ship of these pamphlets is one which was born in
the minds of a great many persons who criticized
the organization during the seventeenth century.
They believed that an individual by the name of
Johann Valentine Andrea was the real author of
the "Fama," and the later book called the "Con'
fessio Fraternitatis R. C."
In the year 1614, the "Fama" had attained na'
tion'wide popularity in its way, and had created
91
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
a real public sensation, and at that time Andrea
was but a young man of twentyeight years. He
was born at Wurtenberg, on August 17, 1586.
He was of a family devoted to the Lutheran form
of reformation, and although Andrea was raised
according to strict orthodox religious principles,
he did come under the influence and instruction of
a group of theologians and philosophers, two of
whom were mystically inclined, and one of whom
was one of the high officers of the Rosicrucian
Order in Germany. The public knew nothing of
his studies under this Rosicrucian teacher, but it
knew or heard something of his mystical view
points, and this was sufficient to make some start
the story that Andrea was the real author of the
Rosicrucian pamphlets.
As has been intimated heretofore, the Rosicru'
cian Order has always been subject to the law es'
tablished by itself; one hundred and eight years
of activity and one hundred and eight years of
inactivity. We now have sufficient record, in the
form of manuscripts, documents, and official papers
not available or known to the German public
in the seventeenth century, to show conclusively
92
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
that the Rosicrucian Order was not born for the
first time in the history of the world in Germany,
in 1610 or 1614, but had existed in many lands
for many centuries previous thereto, and had had
cycles of activity and inactivity in Germany for
several centuries before the revival to which we
are referring. Even the "Fama" itself referred to
the fact that the symbolical author of the manu'
script or the symbolical characters in the story had
been members of the organization centuries pre'
vious. All of this has been overlooked by those
who still claim, especially in America, that a Ger'
man whose true family name was "Christian Ros'
enkreuz," invented, and established the Rosicru
cian Order, for the first time in the history of the
world, in the years 1610 to 1614, in Germany.
One of the many well established facts regard'
ing the history of the Order, which proves the
existence of the Order of the Rose Cross or Rosy
Cross throughout Europe before 1610, is the story
of the founding of one of the branches of the
Rosicrucian activities.
Throughout Rosicrucian literature, reference
will be found to peculiar initials and strange names
93
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
usually connected with the title "Militia Crucifera
Evangelica." The "M. C. E." has always been a
puzzle to those who have not worked through the
complete history of the Order, and at the same
time it has continued to be one of the most essen
tial forms of Rosicrucian activities in many lands.
It may be that the following facts regarding the
"M. C. E." will interest those of my readers who
have never had the privilege of learning the real
facts before, and it will probably set at rest the
hundreds of questions that have been in the minds
of Rosicrucian research workers for many years.
As stated above, the revival of the Rosicrucian
work in Germany in 1610 to 1614, which con'
stituted the beginning of one of the new cycles of
one hundred and eight years, occurred when most
of Europe was being torn by various forms of re'
ligious reformation and strife between church and
state. Throughout each of the countries of
Europe, various secret societies or military organi'
zations had been formed to protest against the es'
tablished activities of the larger church, or to
stamp out the growing freedom of religious
thought and practices of the so'called heretics.
94
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Thus we find that for many years before the re'
vival of the Rosicrucian Order there had been
established, for instance in 1511, as typical of the
many secret religious bodies, a "Holy League"
composed of those persons who had pledged them'
selves to support the church against its critics, even
to the extent of taking up arms and carrying on
warfare in "the name of the cross." The Holy
League was perhaps the most famous or powerful
of these organizations, but there were so many
others, and with so many different purposes or
ends in view, that historians have been incapable
of classifying them or even determining the real
part that any of them played in the changes that
were made. During all these years of strife and
contention, the cross either as a Christian symbol
or as adopted by the early Crusaders in the
eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries was
used as the standard under which the wars and
other forms of persecutions were conducted. And
to the worshipper of the ancient cross, who had its
real symbolism in his mind and heart, the use of
the cross in the manner in which it was being
95
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
employed by these contending organizations
brought grief and deep sorrow.
Our records show that the Rosicrucians early
protested against the cross being carried on staffs
or painted on flags that were carried into the bat'
ties and into the fields of bloodshed, as well as into
the plans and schemes for tortures and persecu'
tion. To the Rosicrucians, the use of the cross for
such destructive work was not only irreligious and
a sacrilege, but a mystical insult and a spiritual
crime. It is easy to believe that the Rosicrucians,
wherever they could avoid doing so, took no part
in any of these religious strifes and contentions,
and it is easy to believe that they never permitted
themselves to carry any standard that bore the
cross in public affairs.
Matters became so bad in connection with the
use of the cross in this sorrowful way that finally
the Rosicrucians decided to revive an ancient or'
ganization to defend the cross against its misuse.
The idea of re'establishing this organization was
born in the mind of the Grand Master of one of
the inactive branches in Germany. His name was
Simon Studion, and he was born at Urach in the
96
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
state of Wurtemberg in 1543, and later attained
the high degree of Imperator in Germany. Dw
ing the year 1 586 he planned an international con'
vention for the purpose of organizing a special
body of Rosicrucians to defend the cross against
its misuse in destructive and sorrowful activities.
After communicating with the leading Rosicrucian
officers in various lands, and receiving their whole'
hearted approval, a convention was called in Han'
over, where was located the "silent" Grand Lodge
of the Rosicrucians for that part of the country.
The meeting was officially called "Cruce Signa'
torum Conventus," and its opening session was
held on July 27th, 1586. Studion himself made
the opening speech, reading the history of the orig'
inal Militia formed in Palestine soon after the
founding of the first Christian churches; and then
introduced the high representatives from many
lands and the legates from the many thrones which
gave support to the movement. The records show
that the convention and its plan was sponsored
particularly and specifically by Henry IV, king of
France and Navarre, who had received the "arms"
of the ancient Militia through direct authority
97
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
from the Militia in Palestine, Queen Elizabeth of
England, and the king of Denmark, as well as the
nobility of other lands. The organization thus
formed used the ancient name, "Militia Crucifera
Evangelica," and was established as an organize
tion of loyal Rosicrucians who would defend the
cross, not especially the Rosy Cross, but the an
cient and much loved cross of all times, against
its use in religious persecution, religious warfare,
or destructive contests of any kind. Each who
signed the great scroll at that convention became
titled or knighted as a Chevalier and a secret
worker to protect the Rosicrucian organization in
its constructive activities, revive the pure mystical
teachings of the Pristine Christians and Rosicru'
cians, and prevent persecution of any kind because
of freedom of religious and scientific thinking. A
few years later, when the records of activities of
this great organization had been gathered from all
lands, Studion compiled a great book of nineteen
hundred and ninetyfive (1995) pages, dedicated
to Frederick, the Duke of Wurtemberg, who was
a Grand Master of the Rosicrucians. This book
was called "Naometria," and it was completed in
98
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
1604. The book is still in existence, and has been
examined by eminent historians and quoted from
quite freely. A great part of the book is devoted
to a history of the cross and its real spiritual and
mystical significance, to the rose and its symboli'
cal meaning, and to the special significance of the
rose and the cross when united. The book also
contains a complete outline of the Rosicrucian doc
trines, reviving the ancient teachings of the Es'
senes, the first Christians, and the Rosicrucians,
giving emphasis to the spiritual and mystical sig
nificance of the Rosicrucian ideals. It has never
been copied or republished in any form, and con
stitutes one of the secret publications that has been
examined only by eminent historians who have
sought positive proof of the existence of such a
book or such a Rosicrucian monument before the
year 1610.
The "Militia Crucifera Evangelica," as a defen
sive body within the Rosicrucian Order, still exists,
and is the real secret organization within the Rosi
crucian Order. Membership in it is limited to
those who are well trained in the fundamentals of
the Rosicrucian teachings, and to those who have
99
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
pledged their entire lives in devotion to the Rosi'
crucian ideals, and especially to the support of the
individual Imperator in each country where the
Militia exists. It is the existence of such an or'
ganization that makes possible the continuous pre
tection of the Rosicrucian Order, and enables the
Order itself to carry on its national and interna'
tional secret activities in a conservative, uniform
manner, to the glory of the Order and the preset
vation of the true, secret doctrines of Jesus. To be
admitted and titled as a Chevalier of this Militia
is to receive one of the highest honors and highest
acknowledgements in the Rosicrucian Order. The
ranks of the Militia are open to both men and
women who have been individually tested and
tried for a number of years by the Imperator of
the jurisdiction where each member lives.
An interesting point in connection with this is
the fact that this organization and this convention
of Rosicrucians was brought about by the coop'
eration of thousands of well'trained, tried, and
tested Rosicrucians, and the first convention and
meeting of establishment was held on July 27th,
1 586, which was several weeks before Johann Val'
100
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
entine Andrea was born. The statement, there'
fore, on the part of those unacquainted with Rosi'
crucian history that Andrea was the author of
the books that "established the first and only Rosi'
crucian Order in the world in Cassel, Germany,
in 1610," appears ridiculous.
The real author of the pamphlets that brought
about the revival in Germany was none other than
Sir Francis Bacon, who was Imperator for the
Order in England and various parts of Europe at
the time. And his other Rosicrucian writings, and
especially his book the "New Atlantis," admit'
tedly his own work, clearly indicate the connection
between Bacon and the publications issued in Ger
many between 1610 and 1616.
101
i
I
Chapter VI
THE BIRTH OF SEMI'ROSICRUCIAN
ORGANIZATIONS
HE spread of Rosicrucian activity
throughout many lands and the at'
traction to its ranks of many notable
characters brought the organization
before the attention of men of other associa'
tions and affiliations. It was but natural that other
secret societies or fraternal Orders would investi'
gate the increasing activities of the Rosicrucian
Order, and attempt to discover whether there was
any invasion of their sacred rites by the Rosicru'
cians, or anything of value in the Rosicrucian
work that might be added to their own rituals and
forms of operation.
We will not consider at all the attempts made
by various persons at various times to institute
"Rosicrucian" lodges or bodies solely for the pur'
pose of attracting the gullible or misleading the un'
103
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
wary. A number of such organizations came into
existence in France, Germany, and England, but in
each case their existence was very short and they
left no records of importance.
We do find, however, that preceding the year
1870 the development of Freemasonic activity in
England, with an increasing desire on the Conti'
nent to add more and higher degrees to the exist'
ing Masonic degrees, tempted many men of that
organization to establish separate secret bodies or
societies composed entirely of Masons, and in some
cases new Orders or organizations were established
with many degrees based upon Masonic symbols
and requiring Masonic affiliations as a pre'requisite
for affiliation in the new organization. The his'
tories of Freemasonry deal extensively with this
unfortunate situation throughout Europe, for
these many bodies attaching themselves to Free
masonry or attempting to associate themselves
with the Freemasonic ideals caused endless trouble
and confusion. A few of the bodies thus formed
became recognized eventually and carried on a
very excellent work. It must be stated, however,
that the average Freemasonic enthusiast of that
104
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
period was a true seeker for light and arcane wis'
dom, and while he found much in the Freemasonic
teachings to gratify his desires or satiate his hun'
ger, many seemed to feel that there was more light
and wisdom to be found elsewhere and especially
in the secret, mystic schools which had their origin
in the Oriental philosophies. Probably in those
days, as today, many of those in the Freemasonic
fraternity did not realize the vast amount of wis'
dom that is contained in their symbology and in
their carefully veiled teachings. However that may
be, the fact remains that many of the most promi'
nent Freemasons congregated at different times in
different places, and formed research bodies or
groups devoted to the sole purpose of unearthing
such additional teachings or arcane knowledge as
might be found in the various mystic schools of
the day.
It is not surprising, therefore, that a number of
these men were attracted to the Rosicrucian
Order, especially the English lodge, and were ad'
mitted therein and became enthusiastic students
and workers. The time came, however, when some
of these believed that further research of an inde'
105
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
pendent nature might be carried on outside of both
the Rosicrucian and the Freemasonic circles, and
that members of both organizations might come
together in a more social and informal manner at
stated periods for the purpose of discussing the
work and teachings found in both bodies.
Out of this belief was born a new organization
in England, the activities of which and the imita'
tion of which has caused considerable confusion in
the minds of those persons seeking to trace the
origin and development of the Rosicrucian Order.
It appears from definite historical records that
some men of learning, and with typical research
minds, united to establish what they intended to
be a Masonic Rosicrucian Society. During their
first discussion of the plans of organization it was
clearly stated that application for membership in
this new body would be limited to Freemasons, in
good standing, who had mastered the elementary
work of Freemasonry and were desirous of such
philosophical knowledge as was available just be'
yond the limited teachings of their organization.
The transactions of this organization, with min'
utes of its meetings, are to be found in the British
106
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Museum in London, but the most definite state'
ments regarding its purposes and activities are
found in a small historical treatise prepared by the
Supreme Magus of the body, Dr. W. Lynn Wes'
cott. It appears that after much discussion they
decided to call their new society the "Societas
Rosicruciana in Anglia," which name, translated,
would mean the "Rosicrucian Society in Eng
land," and the initials of this title were used as a
brief form of name in their literature. Hence the
initials S. R. I. A. became significant among Free'
masons during that period, and have contributed
to considerable confusion in Rosicrucian records
ever since.
It seems that the prime mover of the formation
of this new society was Robert Wentworth Little,
who is referred to in the records as a clerk at Free'
mason's Hall, and subsequently secretary of the
Royal Institution for Girls. Freemason's Hall at
that time was the national headquarters for the
Freemasonic Brotherhood, and it contained a large
library and archive of ancient books and manu'
scripts, to all of which Mr. Little had access. No
where in the early literature of this organization
107
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
or in its early histories as published by them is
there any reference to any of the organizers of
the S. R. I. A. being initiates or members of any
other Rosicrucian body or organization anywhere
in the world. This a very important fact, and
its significance is emphasized by the statements of
this society regarding the methods or means of its
foundation.
In its official history, this S. R. I. A. says that
the society was "designed" by Robert Wentworth
Little, who "rescued" some rituals from the store'
rooms of Freemason's Hall. In other places there
are statements indicating that Mr. Little found and
borrowed, or as Mr. Waite, the Masonic historian,
states
it,
abstracted certain papers containing Rosi'
crucian ritual information preserved in the Grand
Lodge library of Freemason's Hall, and that these
papers had been discovered before him by William
Henry White, who was Grand Secretary of the
Freemason's until 1857. According to Dr. Wes'
cott, Mr. White had received some "Rosicrucian"
initiation in an English "Rosicrucian" Lodge, but
had never made any use of the ritual manuscripts
which he had discovered in the Masonic Grand
108
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Lodge library. Waite calls attention to the fact
that other records intimated that after Mr.
White's retirement from the office of Grand Sec
retary, wherein he had charge of such secret or
private manuscripts as were not a part of the
Masonic work, Mr. Little borrowed the Rosicru'
cian papers and called to his assistance a year or
so later one Kenneth R. H. McKenzie, who
claimed that while he was in Germany he had been
admitted by some "German adepts" into some of
the "Rosicrucian" system, and had been licensed
to form a group of Masonic students in England
"under a Rosicrucian name."
To the sincere and careful student of Rosicru'
cian history, the claims made by Mr. McKenzie
seem peculiar, to say the least. Why some German
adepts should admit an English person into just a
part of the Rosicrucian work and then lice'ase him
to establish a group of Masonic students in Eng'
land under a Rosicrucian name, while there was a
superior Rosicrucian body already active in Eng'
land, is certainly incomprehensible. It would ap'
pear to be the first and only instance in Rosicru'
cian history where the Rosicrucian Order licensed
109
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
anyone to establish a Masonic Rosicrucian body.
And it is as inconsistent with Rosicrucian prin'
ciples as would be the licensing of a Freemason
to go into a foreign land and establish a Masonic
body composed of Rosicrucians.
Dr. Wescott states also that the peculiar Rosi'
crucian papers that were taken from the Masonic
archives were used to reconstruct a branch of the
Red Cross of Rome and Constantine, as well as
the foundation of the S. R. I. A.
The important points in this brief sketch of the
foundation of the S. R. I. A. are: First, the fact
that the Society was started by an individual with'
out any charter or authority from the local Rosi'
crucian lodge in London, or any other superior
Rosicrucian body in Europe; and, secondly, that
with some manuscripts of an indefinite nature a
society was formed which did not adopt the uni'
versal name of the Rosicrucian Order or the uni'
versal symbol as used by the rest of the Rosicru'
cian fraternity throughout the Continent. In no
other Rosicrucian records do we find any reference
to any German branch that licensed Mr. McKen'
zie, and, therefore, we may believe that Mr. Mc
110
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Kenzie's contact with the Rosicrucians, if real at
all, was a contact with some of the temporary,
clandestine, or imitation societies that flourished
for short intervals in foreign sections.
Mr. Waite, in his English history of the Rosi'
crucian Order, gives little credence to Mr. McKen'
zies Rosicrucian connections, and emphasizes the
fact that "in 1866 Mr. McKenzie was a Free'
mason only under some foreign and apparently un'
acknowledged obedience." Mr. Waite, who is not
only a Rosicrucian historian but an eminent Ma'
sonic historian and writer as well, plainly indicates
the cloud that seems to cover the origin and fowv
dation of the S. R. I. A., and shows that while it
became a very worthy, learned, and highly re'
spected organization of gentlemen seeking for ar'
cane wisdom, enjoying a banquet and social eve'
ning once a month, it was not in any sense a part
of the Rosicrucian organization throughout the
world.
However, the S. R. I. A. in England continued
to grow and called its first branch the Metropolis
tan College. We find that its principal officers
were well'known Freemasons, and included a num'
ill
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ber whose names we shall mention later. Mr. Mc
Kenzie visited Paris some years later and there met
one who was deeply interested in the Rosicrucian
work and teachings, as a member of the regular
Rosicrucian organization, known as Eliphaz; Levi,
but whose name was Alphonse Louis Constant.
Levi was invited to become a part of the S. R. I.
A. in England, and did so with the belief that the
founders were really sincere in their desire to delve
deeply into Rosicrucian lore, and become nee
phytes of the Rosicrucian organization. A few
years after his acceptance into the S. R. I. A., Levi
evidently felt that his connections therewith were
not proper in the face of his affiliation with the
regular Rosicrucian Order, or else he discovered
reasons for withdrawing. It is indicated that he
had many arguments with the founders of the new
English society, and disagreed with their view
points in many ways, and finally withdrew his
membership. The records of the S. R. I. A. state
that Levi incurred their displeasure by the publi'
cation of his several books on magic and ritual, but
since these books have proved to be excellent and
highly endorsed by mystics of many periods, such
112
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
explanation does not seem to be justifiable. Levi
passed through transition in 1875, and in the last
years of his life was not connected with the S. R.
I. A. in any way.
Other branches of the S. R. I. A. were estab'
lished at Bristol, Manchester, Liverpool, and York'
shire, and finally a branch was established in Can'
ada. All of these branches were strictly limited to
Freemasons. In fact, the ritual adopted by the
S. R. I. A. for its initiations and ceremonies was
quite distinct from the Rosicrucian ritual of the
regular Order, and the fantastic names of the vari'
ous grades were designed to appeal to Freemasons.
The highest of these grades were limited to Free'
masons who were in the higher grades of their own
organization.
Prior to the establishment of a branch of the
S. R. I. A. in Canada, which was intended to be
under the British or English jurisdiction of the
organization, a branch was authorized in 1880 to
be known as the "Societas Rosicruciana in
U. S. A." According to some records, a few Free'
masons living in Pennsylvania were granted per'
mission to establish this American branch, but
113
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
there is no record of its having existed very long
in Pennsylvania, and in the meantime the Cana'
dian branch carried on very successfully among
the Freemasons in that part of North America.
We have seen the official copies of the charters
issued by the Canadian branch which was known
as the "Societas Rosicruciana in Canadensis."
These charters were preserved in the House of the
Temple of the Southern jurisdiction of the Scottish
Rite of Freemasonry in Washington, D. C. They
were issued by the Canadian branch of the S. R.
I. A. to Brother Albert Pike and several others of
the American Freemasonic organization, particu'
larly because Albert Pike, the honored and re'
spected writer of American Freemasonry, was a
very thorough Rosicrucian student. The charter
grants to Brother Albert Pike and others the privi'
lege of establishing a Southern College of the S. R.
I. A. in the United States, and is worded as
though the Canadian branch was unaware that a
similar warrant for an American branch had been
issued previously to the Freemasons in Pennsyl
vania. However, a controversy arose over the es'
tablishment of a second North American branch,
114
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
and thereby hangs a very interesting story. It must
be borne in mind that these S. R. I. A. branches
were not operating as a part of the ancient Rosi'
crucian Order, and by their own admission did
not have the Rosicrucian rituals and teachings nor
any warrant, charter, patent, or authority from
the Rosicrucian Order of Europe and other lands.
American Rosicrucian students were well aware
of the fact that the Rosicrucian Order of Europe
had previously authorized the establishment of
true Rosicrucianism in America in the years 1692
and 1693, and there were many living descendants
of those first official Rosicrucians who objected to
the establishment of Rosicrucianism in America in
connection with any other organization and with'
out warrant or proper rituals. But nothing was
done to prevent the S. R. I. A. of England in
maintaining a branch of its English work in Amer'
ica, especially in connection with Freemasonry,
since it was recognized that the Masonic Rosicru'
cian society thus being established in America
would cooperate with the desires of many of the
Masons in giving them that additional light or
knowledge along certain arcane lines which they
115
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
desired, and which was highly praiseworthy. This
did not in any way infringe the rights of the
Rosicrucian Order. In fact, there was no conflict
or discussion in that one regard, because the S. R.
I. A. did not claim to have the genuine Rosicru'
cian teachings or ritual, and was, therefore, en'
titled to establish a branch of its English body in
America. But the controversy referred to started
between the various officials and members of the
S. R. I. A. and gradually involved the interest of
all Rosicrucians; because the argument in regard
to two establishments of S. R. I. A. under two dif
ferent warrants was bringing the subject of Rosi'
crucianism and the Rosicrucian activities into un'
favorable light among those who did not under'
stand the situation. It appears that the gentlemen
who were granted the privilege by the Canadian
branch to operate in the United States finally with'
held any action on their part, while the Brother
who held the charter direct from England for the
State of Pennsylvania, proceeded to organize a
branch, and some spasmodic meetings of this
branch were held without attempting to practice
the Rosicrucian rituals or introduce the true Rosi'
116
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
c
crucian teachings. This was the situation existing
in the United States when a third effort was made
to establish the S. R. I. A. in America, and the
third effort proved more successful, as we shall see
from the following facts: «
A number of Freemasons in America were ad'
mitted into the S. R. I. A. of England in its branch
known as the Tor\ College. They petitioned the
English headquarters for permission to continue
the work in America under the charter that had
been granted for Pennsylvania. They established
a branch at Philadelphia and another in New York
City in 1880. Eventually these two American
branches established a High Council of the society
for the United States. This Council then chartered
branches in Boston and Baltimore, in the spring
of 1880, and another one in Vermont. Practically
every officer connected with these establishments
was a Freemason, and we must quote here the
words of Dr. Wescott, the Supreme Magus of the
English headquarters of the organization, who said
in an address: "I have been asked to speak on the
Rosicrucians because I have the pleasure to hold
a high office in the Rosicrucian Society of England,
117
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
so might reasonably be supposed to have studied
the history of the Order. But to avoid misconcep'
tion, I wish to say that the S. R. I. A. is a Masonic
body—it is composed of Freemasons who have
associated themselves in order to study the old
Rosicrucian books in the light of history, and to
trace the connection between Rosicrucianism and
the origins of Freemasonry, the connection which
has been alleged to exist by many historians be'
longing to the outer world." This statement by
Dr. Wescott is taken from biographical sketches
in the official literature of the S. R. I. A.
In September of 1889, after nine years of opera'
tion as a literary society with banquets, the new
branches of the S. R. I. A. in America decided to
reform and reorganized their body with the dis
tinctive title "Societatis Rosicrucianae in the
United States of America," (S. R. I. U. S. and
not S. R. I. A.) . Under this new form of name
and constitution, the various branches accom'
plished very little, and the New York and Balti'
more sections seemed to pass out of existence. One
of the prominent characters initiated into the
S. R. I. U. S. in Boston was Sylvester Clark
118
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Gould, who became the publisher of a small Rosi'
crucian magazine, and who sincerely sought to
learn and master the real Rosicrucian teachings.
We read in the official literature of this organize
tion the following significant statement: "Mem'
bership in these Colleges was limited to Free'
masons of the 32nd degree; quarterly meetings
were held, and their sessions were devoted prin'
cipally to banquets, with an aftermath of a liter'
ary and philosophical nature, with little if any
attempt to exemplify the Rosicrucian degrees with
the philosophy they embodied.'"
In other words, the society had nothing more of
a Rosicrucian nature connected with it than
the word "Rosicrucian" which they arbitrarily
adopted in their title. This was practically true of
the national headquarters of the organization in
London, and records of this society show that
when Rosicrucians belonging to the Rosicrucian
Order became affiliated with the S. R. I. A. or the
S. R. I. U. S., they did not continue to remain
active for a very long period.
According to the literature of the branch estab
lished in America, Mr. Gould, who was their most
119
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
illustrious American member, became "thoroughly
awaked to the omission of the real Rosicrucian
work, and having received the eighth degree of the
society constituting him a provincial magus of the
fraternity, engaged in special research work to re'
cover the original rituals of the fraternity ." He
succeeded in corresponding with some Rosicrucian
officers in Europe, and then undertook to revive
the American branch of the S. R. I. A., which had
become inoperative for a time. It was his intention
to make the S. R. I. U. S. a typical Rosicrucian
organization if he could secure the permission and
authority of the Rosicrucian Order in Europe.
According to the records of the S. R. I. U. S., the
transition of Mr. Gould occurred on July 19th,
1909, preventing the fulfillment of his personal
ambitions in regard to the society, and the work of
reorganization devolved upon a few of the other
members who were still interested.
It should be noted that in the very month in
which Mr. Gould passed to the Great Beyond, an'
other American proceeded to Europe to secure
permission to pursue the Rosicrucian work of the
international Rosicrucian Order, and made his
120
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
plea to the regular Order of Europe instead of
petitioning the Masonic Rosicrucian society in
England. The success of this plea we refer to in
a future section of this history.
Those who followed Mr. Gould, after his pass'
ing, in trying to reestablish the S. R. I. U. S. in
America, finally organized a new body with a eff
erent name. According to their official papers,
they adopted the name "Societas Rosicruciana in
America," which gave them the old familiar ini'
tials "S. R. I. A." as their official title. They
adopted a revised constitution under this new
name in 1919, which became effective January 1st,
1920. Their constitution states that they were in'
corporated under three different classifications:
first, as a church; second, as an academic institu'
tion; and third, as a fraternity. In their general
literature, they stated: "The Societas Rosicru'
cians in America, therefore, is a continuation in
direct succession from the High Councils of An'
glia." In other statements it is said that the society
"works in complete harmony and close association
with the Masonic fraternity, and constitutionally
its major officers are Masons of all rites and dc
121
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
grees." And furthermore, "the society, deriving
from the English fraternity, was incorporated in
1912, and is therefore the active American branch
of the Rosicrucian fraternity." These statements
have been refuted by published articles in various
magazines, and of course it is well known to all
Freemasons and others that no other organization
of any kind can be a part of Freemasonry unless it
is operating under the Freemasonic title and sym
bolism. And, so far as the S. R. I. A. in the
United States being derived from the English fra'
ternity of the same name or charter, or authorized
by the same society in England, an article was pub
lished in the "Occult Review" of England in re'
cent years, wherein the Societas Rosicruciana in
Anglia denied that the society in America was
sponsored by it or officially recognized by it. And
this denial was later acknowledged as correct by
the American S. R. I. A., which leaves the Ameri
can organization standing as a distinctly separate
institution operating without any charter from the
general Rosicrucian Order of Europe, or any Ma'
sonic Rosicrucian body of England.
122
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
This organization has, therefore, continued as
an independent body, establishing a few branches
in different cities, and continuing to make its ap'
peal to Freemasons who enjoy purely philosophical
discussions without any of the rituals or teachings
as used in the various branches of the Rosicrucian
Order of Europe and other lands.
Among several other American institutions
using the name "Rosicrucian" in about the same
manner that the S. R. I. A. of England and Amer
ica have adopted
it,
is
one which has also caused
considerable confusion in the minds of those who
attempt to trace the history and activities of the
Rosicrucian Order. Since the name and term
"Rosicrucian"
is
not protected by any patents or
copyrights of any kind,
it
may be used in connec'
tion with other words for various purposes. Hence
there may be Rosicrucian societies, Rosicrucian
clubs, or Rosicrucian churches without having any
authority from the Rosicrucian Order.
It
is
inter'
esting to note, however, that only one organization
throughout the world uses the ancient title of
"Rosicrucian Order" and this organization main'
123
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
tains its active branches in all lands, under the
abbreviation of AMORC.
It appears from some historical records that a
man by the name of Dr. P. B. Randolph, who was
a student of the occult and mystical, came in con'
tact with some Rosicrucian literature or essays
prior to the year 1856 while in America. It ap
pears that Dr. Randolph visited London in 1858
and there met a student of mysticism known as
Mr. W. G. Palgrave, who claimed to be a member
of some esoteric Order in Europe, which was oper'
ating under a charter issued by a "Council of
Seven." Through this man he was introduced to
Mr. Hargrave Jennings, Eliphaz Levi, and several
others who eventually formed the High Council of
the original S. R. I. A. in England. Dr. Randolph
was initiated into this Masonic Rosicrucian body
and as an honorary member continued his tour,
and returned to America. While in America he
wrote a number of books dealing with the sub'
jects of health, marriage, love, and sex hygiene,
and in one of them introduced a story about the
mystic Rosicrucians, intimating that he was plan'
ning to establish some of the Rosicrucian Masonic
124
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
work in America on the basis of that which was
being carried on by the S. R. I. A.
Because of the nature of his books, dealing in
unusually plain language with subjects not gener'
ally discussed in American literature, and certainly
having none of the goodness and high idealism of
the S. R. I. A. (London) teachings, he was tried
in courts for such publications, and eventually
abandoned his entire work because of the condem'
nation of his writings. Mr. Arthur Waite, the
eminent Masonic historian of England, has this to
say regarding Randolph's form of "Rosicrucian"
activities as considered by him:
"There is no question that he was his own and
his first victim, if he thought that his views and
lucubrations might stand for authentic Rosicrucian
teachings. But in a judgment which makes for jus'
tice, it must be added that he revoked his own
claim on a vast antiquity. ... It does not appear
that in the matter of the Rosy Cross he did more
than give a fresh circulation to some of the old
reveries, to the extent that he was acquainted with
these by common report and otherwise In
other and more hectic stories, he paraded flaming
125
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
accounts of the Brotherhood, its immemorial an'
tiquity, its diffusion throughout the world, with
suggestions that its ramifications extended to un'
seen spheres. ... I have worked through such of
his volumes as are available here in England, and
have concluded that mountebank as he was, he
believed in all his rant and was not lying con'
sciously when this stuff of sorry dreams was put
forward unfailingly as the wisdom of the Rosy
Cross. This is how it loomed in his mind, and this
is what it was in a dream, for it was a thing of his
own making. On this subject, he is his own refu'
table witness, affirming that Very nearly all which
I have given as Rosicrucian originated in my own
soul'."
Randolph eventually signed himself in some let'
ters and papers as the "Supreme Grand Master of
Eulis for the world," and a few of his friends tried
to explain after his unfortunate transition through
suicide that he believed himself to be a Grand Mas'
ter of the "Triple Order." This term is not an offi'
cial part of Rosicrucian terminology, and there are
no documents or papers to be found in Europe
indicating that he was ever authorized to establish
126
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
anything of a Rosicrucian nature in America or
elsewhere and none of the historical records of the
Order mention his name or his branches as a part
of the Rosicrucian history.
Randolph was succeeded by a Mr. Dowd, who
tried to continue operating some of the branches
which Randolph had established on the Pacific
Coast and in several eastern cities, but, according
to their own records, these branches constantly dis
banded when the members thereof discovered that
there were no real Rosicrucian teachings or rituals
in the work and insisted on withdrawing from the
Randolph work and uniting with the regular for'
eign branches of the Rosicrucian Order. Mr. Ran
dolph and his successors claimed that such actions
constituted "treason," and for many years there
were bitter quarrels and arguments within his
branches over this point, with the branches dis
banding and remaining inactive for years at a time.
Mr. Dowd was succeeded by a Dr. Edward H.
Brown, who likewise was unable to secure any of
the Rosicrucian teachings, or maintain Randolph's
scheme against the common criticisms and the bad
127
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
reputation which his writings had brought upon
their activities.
In a statement signed by Mrs. Randolph, and
which appeared in a fraternal' publication as a
biographical sketch of the life of Dr. Randolph in
1917, it is said that Dr. Randolph was born in
New York City on October 8th. 1825, and that
his transition occurred in Toledo, Ohio, on July
29th, 1875; and she further stated that although
he organized some branches as late as 1874, they
"have long since become extinct."
According to Sedir, the well'known Rosicrucian
historian, the work of Randolph was simply a
society of "editions"—referring to the significant
point that his work was mostly that of publishing
various editions of boo\s claiming to be Rosicru'
cian. This point is one which should be impressed
upon the minds of every student of Rosicrucian
history. The Rosicrucian Order has never been
exclusively or even primarily a book publishing
business, and a careful examination of the histori'
cal writings connected with the Rosicrucian Order
shows that none of the books now famous as Rosi'
crucian manuscripts or official publications ever
128
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
contained a complete outline of the secret teach'
ings or rites of the Rosicrucians, and what is more
important, never claimed to contain such things.
It has been a serious and universal law with the
Rosicrucian Order that its secret teachings should
, never be published in book form, or offered for sale
to the public, and there is no violation of this law
that has ever been brought to our attention. On
the other hand, there have been many who were
not a part of the Rosicrucian Order or even initi
ated in its teachings who have attempted to com'
mercialize the desires of seekers by the printing
and selling of books which claimed to be "Rosi'
crucian text'books" or books of Rosicrucian doc
trines or teachings. It is a notable fact that none
of these hoo\s have made any valuable contribu
tion to mystical literature and have passed into
oblivion and can hardly be found in the best
libraries of Europe or America. This is true of
Randolph's books which claimed to be wonderful
revelations of Rosicrucian teachings, but which to
day have no place in the real occultist's library and
have not been considered even worthy of preserva
tion in the great reference libraries of the world.
129
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Such books as these, catering to the gullibility of
the seeker, and often misleading the worthy in
quirer, are being published and sold in America
today very freely, while Europe most naturally
fails to support such publications. We have, for
instance, in America, a book called 'The Rosi'
crucians and Their Teachings." This book was
written by a New Thought leader, who has writ'
ten many other books on various subjects and who
is not a member of the Rosicrucian Order. The
book contains none of the Rosicrucian teachings.
Such books are harmless in themselves, and per'
haps interesting to casual students of mysticism;
but they have no place in any list of authoritative
publications. It is for this reason that Sedir made
his satirical remarks regarding Randolph's society
of "editions." The good that Dr. Randolph did
as a New Thought pioneer will live for many ages,
but the failure of his Rosicrucian movement was
due to a complete lack of authority, and no under'
standing of the Rosicrucian teachings.
Mr. Randolph's work was later taken up again
by a Dr. R. S. Clymer, who claimed to be the
"successor" to Randolph and to have inherited and
130
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
acquired the Rosicrucian "authority" which Ran'
dolph had. Clymer followed in the same plans
adopted by Randolph and conducted an organic
tion consisting wholly of books, a number of
which deal with love, marriage, and "sex regener
ation," the latter being in such language as to be
condemned in any Rosicrucian assembly, if not in
any general assembly of ladies and gentlemen. He
proceeded to carry on his work first under the
name of a publication company, then under vari
ous names, avoiding the use of the complete name
or correct name of the Rosicrucian Order, and
devising entirely new and unique symbols for his
Rosicrucian literature without infringing upon the
correct symbols in any way. Dr. Clymer continues
to operate his sale of books and presentation of
personal, "Rosicrucian" teachings under different
names from his home in Pennsylvania, without
having established any typical Rosicrucian temples
anywhere in America, and without having any
connection with the regular Rosicrucian Order
and lodges of Europe.
Of other semi'Rosicrucian movements in Amer'
ica, we find little in any of the Rosicrucian his'
131
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
tones of Europe to support their claims to Rosi'
crucian association. That which was most popular
for many years was the Rosicrucian Fellowship,
established by Mr. Max Heindel. Mr. Heindel
was at one time a student of the occult, and in his
desire to learn more of the Rosicrucian teachings
went to Europe seeking affiliation with the Order.
He became discouraged in the many obstacles pre
sented, and finally became a personal student of
Mr. Rudolph Steiner, the eminent Theosophist,
who was an unaffiliated student of Rosicrucian
history and principles. Mr. Steiner was at that
time inaugurating the work of a new organization
of his own creation, and Mr. Heindel became one
of his enthusiastic students. Mr. Heindel claims
that in addition to this short period of study in
Europe, he had a "psychic initiation" into the
Rosicrucian Order during a dream or a trance,
whereby he was authorized (!) to proceed with
the work of bringing Rosicrucianism to America,
and later was given permission through the same
unnamed and unknown Masters to write a per'
sonal outline of his opinions of the Steiner teach'
ings, and issue this to the American public in reg'
132
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ular book form. He returned to America, and in
1911 established his printing plant and offices in
a very small city of Southern California, and be'
fore his transition in 1919 had written a number
of books dealing with an outline of his personal
"Rosicrucian" beliefs, which are claimed to be a
form of "Christian philosophy." So, once again,
America was presented with a representation of
sccalled Rosicrucian doctrines through commer'
cialized books, dealing with many subjects not
taught in the regular Rosicrucian lodges of Europe
or elsewhere. Mr. Heindel made no attempt to
establish lodges throughout the country, as is cus'
tomary with the Rosicrucian Order in every land,
for of course he had no authority from the Order
in Europe to do so, and he in no way conducted
the work as it is conducted by the Rosicrucian
Order.
Unquestionably the work of Mr. Heindel was
inspirational and added to the interesting mystical
literature of America, but the name of his personal
organization and the fact that all his work was
conducted through the sale of books, plainly indi'
cated to the Rosicrucian seeker that the work of
133
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
Mr. Heindel, like that of several others, was unof'
ficial from, the Rosicrucian point of view, and
"Rosicrucian" only in name. His widow attempted
to continue the Fellowship after his transition, but
internal difficulties arose and she withdrew from all
connection with the Fellowship in the early part
of 1932, while a few of its former students
attempted to hold together the remnants of an or'
ganization that reduced itself to a mere personal
interpretation of Christian teachings.
Thus we have written of the various semi'Rosi'
crucian or unofficial organizations existing in
America, including the "Masonic" Rosicrucian
activity which started in England and made many
attempts to establish itself in the United States.
All of these bodies are doing good work in their
own particular fields, and aside from the objection'
able sex teachings that are found in a few of the
books issued by some of these organizations, their
publications undoubtedly start many casual stu'
dents of occult science on a path that leads eventu'
ally to the higher teachings.
134
Chapter VII
THE FIRST ROSICRUCIANS IN AMERICA
E HAVE just been speaking of semi'
Rosicrucian bodies in America, but
we must not overlook the first genuine
Rosicrucian body to come to Ameri'
can shores. The brief facts given herewith are
taken from two excellent books. First, that by Mr.
J. F. Sachse, who was an heir and descendant of
the first Rosicrucians to establish an official branch
of the work in the United States, and second,
from Mr. Arthur Waite's History of the Rose
Cross Order. According to these two books, and
the many other books quoted by them in their his
tories, a movement was started in Europe in 1693,
as a result of previous plans to send a colony of
leaders in the Rosicrucian work from the principal
European branches to America, to found not only
a Rosicrucian colony but to establish the Rosicru'
cian sciences, arts, and trades. The plan had its
inception in the book called "The New Atlantis"
135
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
written by Sir Francis Bacon while he was Impera'
tor of the Rosicrucian Order in Europe, and which
plan was later worked out in detail by the princi'
pal lodge of the Rosicrucian Order in London
known as the Philadelphia Lodge or the Philadel'
phic Lodge, named after the city in the Fast where
one of the original mystery schools was located.
In the fall of 1693, the tourists started out in a
specially chartered vessel called the "Sarah Maria"
under the leadership of Grand Master Kelpius,
who was connected with the Jacob Bohme Lodge
of the Rosicrucians in Europe, and with other ofE'
cers from the Grand Lodge of the Rosicrucians in
Heidelburg. They reached the city that is now
known as Philadelphia, and to which they gave
that name, in the first months of 1694, and built
many buildings in what is now known as Fairmont
Park, and later they moved further west in Penn'
sylvania. Many of their own books and manu'
scripts prepared in their own printing plant are
still preserved in the historical collections of vari'
ous historical societies of Pennsylvania, and by the
descendants of early governors of the State. Mr.
Sachse and Mr. Waite have examined many of
136
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
these manuscripts and books and find in them the
undoubted connections with the Rosicrucian Or
der, and the presentation of the true Rosicrucian
teachings. Mr. Waite discusses at length the Rosi'
crucian manuscripts used by these American pio
neers and shows that they were the genuine secret
teachings of the Order, and that the activities and
regulations of the men and women forming the
colony coincided with the standard activities of
other Rosicrucian branches. It was here that many
important American institutions were established,
and valuable contributions to the scientific and art
foundations of the United States were laid. The
list of eminent Americans who became affiliated
with the Rosicrucian activities during the first cen
tury of its existence in Philadelphia reads like the
roster of American patriots and leaders. Benjamin
Franklin and Thomas Jefferson were but two of
the outstanding figures in the activities of this
national headquarters of the Rosicrucians in
America. It would take too many pages in this
history to even outline the many unique forms of
activities which they created in a spirit of assisting
to build up a new nation in a new land.
137
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
We must call attention again to the fact that
this first colony came to America in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the 108'year
cycle of the Rosicrucian Order. Having started
their movement toward America in 1693, it was
only natural that 108 years later, or in 1801, this
first American movement should close its outer
public activities and start its cycle of 108 years of
retirement and secret activity. So we find, accord'
ing to the records, that in 1801 the large colony
of Rosicrucians in Philadelphia dispersed and pro
ceeded to various parts of the United States where
small branches had been prepared even as far west
as the Pacific Coast. The principal buildings in
Philadelphia were abandoned, and the members
continued to carry on their work in silence. Chil
dren were carefully trained in the teachings, and
as they reached adulthood were initiated secretly
into the organization so that their descendants
might also carry on the work.
It was well known that as the 108'year cycle of
silence and secrecy closed in the year 1909, the
Order would again be authorized and chartered in
a public manner and therefore, documents, papers,
138
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
seals, and jewels were carefully handed down from
one generation to another in anticipation of the
coming of the year 1909. And, just as Mr. J. F.
Sachse became the custodian of many of the mami'
scripts and jewels, so other descendants, notably
those who assisted in the re'establishment of the
new Order in 1909, possessed certain papers or
"keys" which were useful in re'establishing or
bringing to birth again the Rosicrucian Order in
America, in its new cycle.
Thus we close this section of the history but
call attention to the fact that during the years
1800 to 1900 the Order in France, Germany,
England, Switzerland, Holland, Russia, Spain, and
in the Orient, was carrying on with increasing
activity, but under very difficult conditions. It
was found necessary, in most foreign lands, to con
tinue the extreme silence and secrecy originally
established because of the political persecution that
was made toward every sort of a secret organize
tion devoted to the promulgation of advanced
knowledge and the higher laws. But, despite such
difficulties, the records show that in France, Eng
land, and Germany especially, the organization
139
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
operated a great many branches with ever'increas'
ing membership; and as the year 1909 approached,
many men and some women journeyed to Europe
to contact the Rosicrucian Order. Among these
were a few eminent Freemasons, who sought to
revive the "Masonic" Rosicrucian studies, and oth
ers who sought permission or authority to assist in
the new birth of the 1909 cycle. The success of
their missions, and the result of their activities,
will be referred to in the next section of this
history.
140
Chapter VIII
THE PRESENT ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
IN AMERICA
N WRITING this section of the his
tory, I find that I cannot avoid using
the first person pronoun because of
my own intimate connection with the
activities to be described, and I trust that the
reader will understand this and overlook the per'
sonal element.
I have said that as the year 1909 approached,
many men and women journeyed to France or
other parts of Europe seeking not only initiation
into the Order, but some official permission to aid
in the establishment of the Order again in the
United States, for its new cycle.
In France, during the years from 1880 onward,
the Order became very active because the year
1880 was apparently the beginning of a new cycle
of the Rosicrucian activities for several of the
countries, and records show that in the years 1900
Ml
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
to 1909 the Rosicrucian branches were many, and
very active indeed, especially in France. It was
only natural, therefore, that those students of
Rosicrucian history and those who had been par'
tially initiated into the work as descendants of ear'
her members of the Order, should look to France
and its high development in the Rosicrucian activi'
ties for aid in their plans and desires. As in other
lands at other periods, a number of semi'Rosicru'
cian bodies had come into existence in France dur
ing the early part of the twentieth century, and
many of these gradually affiliated with the Rosi'
crucian Order and adopted the strict rules and
regulations of the ancient fraternity. A few of
them, however, continued to use their previous
titles even after affiliation with the Order, and this
caused some confusion in the minds of those who
journeyed to France seeking the genuine move'
ment.
Many veiled stories regarding the Brotherhood
had appeared in France, notably those by Eugene
Sue, and Zola. These informed the seekers of the
existence of certain Rosicrucian activities which
contained clues that enabled the determined seek'
142
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ers to finally contact the proper officials. From the
seventeenth century onward, the Order in France
had adopted the French term "Rose Croix," in
preference to the Latin term "Rosae Crucis." We
find even in Wassenaers "Historisch Verhael"
published in 1623, mention of the "Ordre de la
Rose Croix" in France, with connections with
members and other branches of the Order in Spain,
Italy, England, Switzerland, Germany, Flanders,
and other lands; and many prominent persons are
mentioned in several French histories as having
been active in the Order previous to the new cycle
of 1880. I refer to such persons as Garasse, Gaul'
tius, Naude, Richelieu, Louis XIII, king of France;
and many others, even Descartes. Other records
show that Jacques Rose organized before his
transition in 1660 one of the newest and largest
branches of the Rose Croix, and of course there
were such famous leaders of the work in France
as the le Comte de Gabalis, and Louis Claud de
Saint'Martin.
The very complete history of the Rosicrucian
Order written in French and other languages by
Brother Wittemans, a member of the Belgium Sen'
143
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ate, and an honorary member of our Order here in
America, contains very interesting facts regarding
the activities of the Order in France during the
twentieth century. Among the independent or'
ganizations in France after 1900 were a branch of
the S. R. I. A. of England, the "Masonic" Rosi'
crucian society referred to previously, the Her'
metic Order of the Golden Dawn founded in 1887,
and VOrdre Cabbalistique de la RoscCroix. The
latter organization contained a number of officers
connected with the regular Rosicrucian Order,
and this cabalistic body devoted itself to a limited
list of subjects for scientific research, and did not
claim to be a part of the regular Rosicrucian Order
and was therefore never considered as a clandestine
body. There was also an independent organization
known as la Rose Croix Catholique, which
attracted the interest of many Roman Catholics
who were misled into the belief that it was a
separate organization for them. On the other hand,
there was also a Rosicrucian group quite independ'
ent under the leadership of Brother Castelot, who
was, and still
is,
a
member of the regular Order in
144
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
France, and one of the honorary members of our
Order here in America. Brother Castelot is one of
the most eminent and dearly beloved workers in
the art of alchemy, and has devoted his time and
the interests of the few who are in his independent
organization to the study of alchemical problems.
He has demonstrated in their group laboratory the
possibility of transmutation in accordance with the
Rosicrucian teachings, and has succeeded in pre
ducing gold as told in a story published by our
Order in our official magazine, the "Rosicrucian
Digest."
However the real Order as established through'
out the world, had several official branches in
France as national headquarters. One of these was
the "Secretariat" in Paris, while another was a
College of Rites at Lyons, originally established by
Cagliostro, and the national Council Chambers
and temple, with the national archives in the en'
virons of Toulouse, the ancient site of the first
Rosicrucians established in Europe.
The meetings that were held in the various spe'
cial branches of the Order in parts of France were
as secret and veiled as were the activities at the
145
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
larger national offices, and it was as difficult in the
year 1909 as it is today to locate a Rosicrucian
lodge or identify a Rosicrucian member anywhere
in Europe.
A survey of the history of the various occult
movements that find moral and psychic support
from the Great White Lodge shows that in the
year 1909 more of the mystical movements of the
world were reborn, revised, or changed in their
form of activity than in any other year of occult
history. It was in this year that Mr. Heindel of
the semi'Rosicrucian independent society in Amer
ica went to Europe to attempt to secure Rosicru'
cian information, and instead became a student of
Mr. Rudolph Steiner, in his revised form of the'
osophy. And it was in the year 1909 that Mr.
Gould planned to go to Europe to secure the true
Rosicrucian rituals and teachings for his branch
of the S. R. I. A. in the United States. And other
leaders of other movements journeyed to Europe
during this year or received instructions from for'
eign branches in this year, to revise or renew their
activities.
146
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
It was in 1909, also, that I made my visit to
France for a similar purpose. For many years I
had held together a very large body of men and
women devoted to occult and metaphysical re'
search along Rosicrucian lines. As editor of sev
eral occult magazines I had made contact with
various Rosicrucian manuscripts and had discov
ered that I was related to one of the descendants
of the first Rosicrucian body in America —that
which had established itself in Philadelphia in
1694. This gave me access to many of their old
papers, secret manuscripts, and teachings. These
we discussed, analyzed, and attempted to put into
practice. Among ourselves, the society, composed
of several hundred persons in professional life, was
known as "The Rosicrucian Research Society."
Among the many prominent persons then affiliated
and holding active positions as officers, were I. K.
Funk, president of the Funk and Wagnalls Pub
lishing Co., (publishers of the Literary Digest),
"Fra" Elbert Hubbard, of the famous Roycrofters,
and who was deeply interested in the work to the
very day of his transition, and Ella Wheeler WiL
147
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
cox, the famous mystical writer, who later became
a member of the Supreme Council of AMORC,
which position she held until the time of her tran'
sition. Others of equal prominence who were ac
tive members are still members of the present
AMORC in high degrees. The meetings of the
Society were held monthly from 1904 to 1909 in
New York City. Realizing that we were not yet
chartered or authorized to use the name Rosicrw
cian, the society operated publicly under the name
of The T^ew Tor\ Institute for Psychical Research.
Just before 1909 there applied for membership
in our society one who presented paper proving
the appointment of "Legate" of the Rosicrucian
Order in India. Many weeks of close association
with this member revealed the fact that I might
be successful in my search for some form of au
thority to introduce the true Rosicrucian work in
America at the right time. Every means of com'
munication with any official of the Order in
foreign lands was denied to me until early in the
year 1909 when I was informed that the year
for the public appearance of the Order in America
148
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
was at hand and that definite arrangements for
the new cycle had been completed. The Legate
from India encouraged me to follow the urge that
had actuated me for six or more years, regardless of
any obstacles or trials that might tend to discour
age my unselfish aims.
Therefore, I went to France in the summer of
1909 and after a brief interview with one who
refused to commit himself very definitely, I was
directed to various cities and in each case re'
directed until I finally approached a definite con
tact in Toulouse. There I eventually found that
my plans and desires had been anticipated and
known for some time, and I was permitted to meet
not just one of the officers of the French Rosicru'
cian Order, but a number, as well as some who
were members of the international Council of the
Rosicrucian bodies of various European nations.
At a regular Council meeting, and at several spe'
cial sessions of the Order in other cities held in the
months following, I was duly initiated and given
preliminary papers of instruction to present to
others whose names had been given to me. I was
also instructed to arrange to hold preliminary
149
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
foundation meetings for the purpose of organizing
a secret group of workers, who would receive fur'
ther instructions from Legates of the Order in
India and Switzerland. These instructions were
signed by Count Bellcastle'Ligne, the secretary of
the international Council, and the venerable La'
salle, the well'known author of many historical
Rosicrucian documents, and Grand Master of the
Order Rosae Crucis or Rose Croix of France. Be'
fore leaving France I had the pleasure of meeting
several of the highest officers, and met in America,
on my return, the Legate from India, who pre'
sented to me the jewels and papers which had
been preserved from the early American founda'
tion.
Throughout the years 1909 to 1915, many offi
cial Council sessions were held in my house and
the homes of others, with men and women present
who were descendants of early initiates of the Or'
der, and a few of whom were initiates of the Order
in France during the years 1900 to 1909. In 1915,
the first official public manifesto was issued in this
country announcing the birth of a new cycle of the
Order, and immediately thereafter the first Su'
150
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
preme Council of the Order was selected from
among hundreds of men and women who had been
carefully selected during the preceding seven years.
At the first official sessions of this American Su'
preme Council officers were nominated and I was
surprised to find that the Legate from India had
been instructed to nominate me as the chief execu'
tive of the Order because of the work I had done
during the seven years in organizing the new fomv
dation. Well qualified persons were elected to
other executive positions in the Order, and copies
of the French constitution of the Order and official
documents were presented to committees for trans'
lation and adoption in a form to fit American con'
ditions.
These meetings were followed by the first initi'
ation of new members, the report of which to the
French High Council brought a document of spon'
sorship for the American branch signed by the
principal French officers. As with every new cycle
in each land, the first years of its activity are under
the sponsorship of some well'established jurisdic
tion, and so for a time this new cycle of the Amer'
151
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ican Order operated under the sponsorship of the
French jurisdiction.
It must be noted that from the very start, and
with the issuance of the first public manifesto, the
correct name of the international Rosicrucian or
ganization was used, namely, the Ancient Mystical
Order Rosae Cruris. This is a slightly abbreviated
form of the original Latin name, Antiquae Arca'
nae Ordinis Rosae Rubeae et Aureae Cruris, and
the initials AMORC were immediately used as
well as the true and original symbol of the Rosi'
crucian Order —the golden cross with but one real
rose in its center. At this time, and especially dur
ing the years 1915, 1916, and 1917 there were in
existence in America several forms of semi'Rosi'
crucian movements, namely, the S. R. I. A., and
the Rosicrucian Fellowship founded by Mr. Hein'
del. One will note that the S. R. I. A. was using
the unique independent name of Society of Rosi'
crucians, rather than the ancient name of the Rosi'
crucians, which body always used the name Rosi'
crucian Order as used by us; and the S. R. I. A.
symbol was very different from the symbol used
by us. The Rosicrucian Fellowship likewise had
152
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
adopted a name that was not that of the regular
organization throughout the world, and for its
symbol had created a new and independent device
consisting of a cross with a garland of seven roses
around it instead of only one rose in its center.
Both of these organizations were ptblishing their
teachings in book form, and were carrying on a
work that was undoubtedly of value to students of
general occultism. The very earmarks of their or'
ganizations —their distinctive names and symbols
—differentiated them from the ancient organize
tion, and the fact that they published and sold
books claimed to contain the Rosicrucian teach'
ings, put them in a different category from any of
the other Rosicrucian branches of Europe or
elsewhere.
Therefore, the AMORC proceeded with the
ancient customs and practices by publishing no
books of teachings, but insisted that all who de'
sired to study the work of the Order must join
with and help form regular lodges or groups in
various localities.
So successful was this form of activity during
1916 that branches were established from coast to
153
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
coast, and from Canada to Mexico. By the sum'
mer of 1917 there were so many branches of
AMORC in existence and carrying on the work
with such enthusiasm that a National Convention
was called for one week at Pittsburgh, Perm.
Here hundreds of delegates from the branches, and
members of the Order, assembled officially to ac
knowledge the existence of the Order and adopt a
National Constitution.
A committee was selected, composed of ten or
more well'known Freemasons, who were eminent
in the sciences and professions and who were
familiar with ritualistic and fraternal law, to exam'
ine the translated and revised French constitution
of the Order, for adoption in America. This com'
mittee rendered its report, and the National Con'
stitution of AMORC was adopted at the sessions
of the convention, paragraph by paragraph. The
Committee later signed a document stating that
their experience with the work as members of the
Order, and their familiarity with the claims and
teachings of the Order, proved to them that the
Rosicrucian work as issued by the AMORC was
distinctly different from anything that they had
154
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
contacted in their other affiliations, and worthy of
the deepest and most profound study on the part
of every seeker for the greater light. Other mat'
ters were officially established by this great con'
vention, and thereafter the organization continued
to grow throughout the United States, Canada,
and Mexico.
The result of this increasing activity resulted in
a proclamation being issued at the International
Convention of Rosicrucians held in Europe, estab'
lishing North America as a complete jurisdiction
of the international organization, and no longer
necessary to operate as a branch of the French
body.
Eminent Rosicrucian officers of France, notably
Monsieur Verdier, the commander'in'chief of the
Illuminati of the Rosicrucians in France, visited
the Order in America and left papers of approval
and recognition. These were followed later on by
a document issued by the International Conven
tion held in Switzerland, appointing the national
headquarters of the Order in North America as a
branch of the international body. This latter doc
155
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
ument is one of the most important in the archives
of the American headquarters.
During the years 1918 to 1925, the Imperator
for the Order in America was honored with vari'
ous degrees in the French organization, and in
1926 attended the next session of the International
Conventions held both in Toulouse and Switzer
land, receiving other appointments and honors;
and finally in Paris during the same year at a high
reception given by a Congress of the most notable
of all the Rosicrucian officers of Europe, he was
acknowledged as one of the highest officers of the
Rosicrucian work. At the same time these high
officers of the French Order, who are also high
officers of other fraternal organizations in Europe,
were made honorary members of the American
Order, and official papers exchanged to verify
these appointments.
The Order in America, known by the general
international name of the Order as AMORC, con'
tinues to function strictly in accordance with the
ancient traditions and in affiliation with all other
recognized branches. The Imperator of the
AMORC in North America is the only official
156
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
American delegate to the International Rosicru'
cian Conventions. Since the Great World War
the Order in various parts of Europe, Asia, and
Africa has had to operate under strict surveillance
and with great secrecy, while here in America con'
ditions are favorable to an open and frank opera'
tion of all Rosicrucian activities. Hence the prin'
cipal propaganda of the Rosicrucians may be car'
ried on in this country without interference; for
this reason the work in North America has grown
to such an extent that the American AMORC tec
day is the largest metaphysical and mystical organ'
ization in the western world.
Adhering to the ancient traditions, the
AM®RC of North America sells no books claim'
ing to contain the secret teachings and does not
sell its services at any price. Membership is lim'
ited to those who are carefully examined and
tested with preliminary studies for many months
and then finally admitted into regular membership.
The teachings are given freely to those who are
members, and no fees are charged for degrees or
titles as with organizations operating on a com'
mercial basis. An official magazine called the
157
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
"Rosicrucian Digest" is sent from the national
headquarters of AMORC to all members, thereby
keeping every one of its many thousands of stu'
dents well acquainted with the general activities of
the Order in America and other lands. The Order
now owns many Egyptian temples and lodge'
rooms throughout the United States, Canada and
Mexico, possesses much property devoted exclu
sively to the great work, and carries on a number
of humanitarian activities under various names so
as the better to avoid publicity in connection with
such matters as are of no public concern.
The national headquarters were first located in
New York City, but in 1918 were moved to the
Pacific Coast because of property secured there
which had been originally owned by the first or'
ganization established in America, and which was
eventually transferred to the present Order. After
establishing administration offices and a Supreme
Temple in San Francisco, the executive offices
were moved in 1925 for a period of two years to
Florida, in order to help strengthen the work in
the southeastern part of the United States. An
agreement was made with the large membership
158
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
on the Pacific Coast that the headquarters would
return within two years to the West, and so in
one day less than two years the national head'
quarters, with the entire executive staff, returned
to the Pacific Coast to occupy its own property at
its present site in San Jose, California, where an
Administration Building, Museum, a beautiful Su'
preme Temple in Egyptian form, an Egyptian
Shrine Temple, a large Auditorium building and
other edifices constitute the assembly buildings for
all of the executive sessions and High Council
meetings; and future buildings are planned. Unlike
other secret organizations of a mystic nature, the
AMORC in North America during its entire his'
tory has never had any unfavorable newspaper
notoriety, has never been involved in legal or polit
ical disputes, and has had no detrimental or un'
pleasant attacks made upon it by even the natural
enemies of all advanced movements.
THE PILGRIMAGE TO EGYPT
Early in 1928, the Imperator for North Amer'
ica received official notice of several important
national and international meetings that were to
159
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
be held by the various . Rosicrucian bodies of
Europe and Egypt during the spring of 1929. De'
siring to have the highest officers of the organize
tion in North America meet many of the high
officers of the Order in foreign lands, the Impera'
tor planned a pilgrimage to Egypt, and proceeded
to select members from the various groups and
lodges throughout North America who could
accompany him on his trip. The members finally
selected represented thirtyone different cities in
North America, covering nineteen jurisdictions,
and every grade and degree of the work. Among
these were seventeen of the highest officers of the
Order in Canada, United States, Mexico, and the
Latin' American jurisdictions, as well as a number
of officers representing many of the secret and
allied activities of the organization.
The pilgrimage started from Supreme Head'
quarters in San Jose, California, on the evening of
January 4th, and proceeded in special cars across
the United States in a unique route which touched
the southern and Mexican cities and went up into
the Canadian provinces in order to pick up the
members from various cities and take them to
160
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
New York. The large party then proceeded by
boat to the Mediterranean and after visiting many
of the ancient cities, spent considerable time in
Palestine visiting the holy shrines of the Essenes
and the Great White Brotherhood, and finally
reached Egypt, where the Rosicrucian Order of
that country prepared a number of interesting fea'
tures for the entertainment and instruction of the
tourists, including a series of initiations conducted
in the ancient Rosicrucian manner, beginning at
the Sphinx and the great Pyramids, passing
through ceremonials at Lake Moeris, and culmi'
nating in a special initiation ceremony arranged by
the oldest Rosicrucian lodges in Egypt in the Tem'
pie of Luxor at Luxor on the Nile. From this
place the tour continued throughout Europe, giv
ing the highest officers an opportunity to visit the
Rosicrucian landmarks in Switzerland, France,
Germany, and England. The officers of the North
American jurisdiction had the pleasure of visiting,
secretly and privately, the oldest of the Rosicru'
dan temples in Europe and meeting with many of
the high officers in special sessions.
161
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
This unusual pilgrimage not only afforded the
Imperator an opportunity to attend the official
sessions, but it afforded the officers who were with
him an opportunity to make contacts seldom made
by American mystics; and the initiation ceremony
in Egypt whereby a Rosicrucian Egyptian lodge
was instituted, composed solely of American mem
bers, was the first of its kind ever held in Egypt
and will not be held again for one hundred and
eight years.
The results of this pilgrimage will become highly
significant as the years pass by; but the one out'
standing fact is that the AMORC is today the
only Rosicrucian movement anywhere in the
world whose principal officers and active represen'
tatives in so many jurisdictions actually journeyed
to Egypt as in the pre'Christian Era, and received
in the ancient temple of Amenhotep IV at Luxor,
Rosicrucian initiation and Rosicrucian ac\now
ledgment at the hands of officials of the oldest Rosi
crucian lodges in existence anywhere in the
world. This gives the AMORC a special power
and an international standing which no other
162
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
metaphysical organization in North America has
ever had or probably ever will have in the future.
JURISDICTIONS OF THE ORDER
The North American jurisdiction includes not
only the United States and its dependencies, but
the Dominion of Canada, the West Indies, and
the Central American states. In the United States
there is a Supreme Grand Lodge, and Grand Lodge
having direction over all subordinate bodies of each
state.
Canada is similarly divided into provincial juris'
dictions, with the Canadian Grand Lodge located
at Vancouver, British Columbia.
In Mexico, the Mexican Grand Lodge has im'
mediate jurisdiction over the various sections of
Mexico, but the Mexican Grand Lodge itself is
under the direction of the Spanish'American
Grand Lodge at San Juan, Porto Rico.
The Grand Lodge of the Spanish'American
jurisdiction, located at San Juan, Porto Rico, in'
cludes not only Mexico and the Spanish' Ameri'
163
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
can sections of North America, but all the Spanish
countries and Latin speaking countries of South
America, and the Antilles.
The North American jurisdiction is affiliated
with the Order in all foreign lands, and maintains
intimate relationship with the branches of this or'
ganization in England and the British territories,
the Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands,
France, Germany, Austria, China, Russia, India,
Dutch East Indies, Egypt, Africa, British Guiana,
Costa Rico, and other districts. The monastery
for the Order is maintained in India, and an Ori'
ental College is also maintained in South India.
The Order in foreign lands is generally known
by the initials of the abbreviated form of the name,
A. M. O. R. O, or by the initials of the complete
Latin name, A. A. O. R. R. A. C., or abbreviated
to A. A. O., or A. O., or otherwise. The univer'
sal symbol of the Order is the rosy cross with a
single red rose in its centers, or an equilateral tri'
angle with one point downward containing a cross
with a red rose in its center. These symbols are
patented in the United States by AMORC, and
the AMORC is the only Rosicrucian movement
164
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
in the United States having the exclusive patent
registration on this symbol in connection with the
complete name of the organization, Ancient Mys'
tical Order Rosae Cruris.
A Few Words to Those Who Are
Strangers
If you, Reader, are not a member of the Rosi'
crucian Order, we wish to take this opportunity
to greet you, and to thank you for the opportunity
of placing in your hands this history of the organi'
nation with the questions and answers which fur'
ther explain the ideals and purposes of the
Rosicrucians.
There are two ways by which this book may
have come into your hands, first through the cour'
tesy of some member or interested person who has
believed that you would be interested in its con'
tents, or second through your own acts whereby
you have either purchased this book or borrowed
it from the shelves of some public library. If the
book is in your hands through your own act, it is
165
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
an indication of your curiosity or your interest.
We hope, therefore, that you have found in the
history of the organization such information as
satisfies your desire for facts, and that we have
introduced ourselves to you sufficiently well
to have you know us better and appreciate the
real traditions of the Order as compared with
the false beliefs and misunderstandings which have
been so prevalent in the past centuries.
Perhaps no other organization in the world has
been so greatly misunderstood as the Rosicrucians.
We cannot say that all of this is due to the too
brief or too mysterious presentations of the history
as found in the popular encyclopedias, for much
of the misunderstanding is also due to the writings
of many novelists who have found in the history
and traditions of the Order the basis for many
weird, fantastic, and romantic plots. As stated in
the introduction to the history, there was a time
when such stories as "Zanoni" by Bulwer Lytton
served their purpose in revealing the existence of
the organization but surrounding it with a cloak
of mystery and fancy which left the seeker for its
portals doubtful of any success in his search. For
166
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
almost a century the fictitious mystery which en'
veloped the Rosicrucian Order has been dispelled
by the illumination of research and publicity; but
there are still thousands of persons seeking contact
with what the Rosicrucians teach and practice
who find no other account of the history of the
Order and no other clue to its present existence
than the same strange misinformation contained
in the old encyclopedias, which are published and
republished without editing or revising.
The Rosicrucian Order today throughout the
world represents a movement of high idealism and
high purpose. It has become a public movement
among men and women of repute and wide affairs,
and is no longer the closed council for restricted
membership. Its work has broadened into many
channels and its place in the evolution of mod'
ern civilization has become fixed and well recog'
nizied.
If you are interested in knowing more of the
organization, or desire to share in its teachings and
practices, you are cordially invited to make further
inquiry; and if your expressions are sincere and it
is apparent that more than curiosity prompts your
167
HISTORY OF THE ORDER
inquiry, you will receive that encouragement
which will enable you to have your desires fulfilled.
In order that the Secretary may competently
take care of your inquiry, and know that you
have already read this book and are familiar with
the facts contained therein, he would thank you
to address your letter to the department name
given below.
Secretary'General of AMORC,
Inquiry Department,
Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, Calif.
168
PART TWO
QUESTIONS
AND
ANSWERS
4 -N
IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS
The questions presented on the following pages
have been carefully selected from among the many
hundreds asked by those who are interested in the
activities and principles of the Rosicrucian Order.
Such questions constitute a large part of the cor'
respondence sent to the General Secretary of the
Order in America, and from his records a list of
the questions more frequently asked, was carefully
compiled.
The answers to the questions given in the fol'
lowing pages have been prepared by those who are
most familiar with the points covered by the ques'
tions, and represent official, authentic statements.
In most cases the questions have been answered
more elaborately and in more detail than they are
usually answered in correspondence.
The reader of this book will find these questions
and answers a valuable aid in the comprehension
of the nature of the Rosicrucian Order, its activi
ties, principles, ideals, and doctrines. Even mem'
bers of the organization will find these illuminating
171
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and helpful, especially since they represent official
viewpoints.
The subjects have been indexed and cross'in'
dexed for ready reference, and the information
contained therein, in conjunction with the history
of the organization, gives one of the most complete
outlines of the nature and work of the real Rosi'
crucian Order ever presented to the public.
INDEX
The numerals following each question refer to
the numbers of the questions on the following
pages.
A
Age for membership, 26, 39, 40, 72.
Alchemy, 18.
Allegiance to founder or rulers, 2, 3.
Ancient teachings, 70.
Application for membership, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40,
42, 66.
Assessments and taxes, 6, 7.
Astral planes, 15, 25, 43, 51.
172
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Astrology, 13.
Authenticity of the work, 1 1 .
B
Bible, 34, 45, 68.
Black magic, 17, 43, 51, 60.
Book studies, 58, 62, 63, 64.
Breathing exercises, 29.
Business interference, 5, 66, 67.
C
Catholicism, 30, 33.
Ceremonies, 53.
Character, 24, 66.
Child training, 41.
Christianity, 44, 45, 46, 47, 55, 56, 68.
Convenience of study, 12, 42, 58, 67, 72.
Correspondence lessons, 42.
Cosmic Soul, 24, 25.
Cultism, 1, 48, 54.
D
"Death," 26, 27, 28, 61.
Dieting, 21, 22, 23.
Disease, 19, 26, 27, 28.
Destructive thoughts, 17.
173
questions and answers
Drinking of liquors, 21.
•
Donations from members, 8, 9.
Dues and membership fees, 7.
E
Election of officers, 2.
Elemental spirits, 16, 43, 51.
Enthusiastic support, 59, 65.
Ethereal bodies, 15, 16, 25, 43, 51.
Evil influences, 17, 43, 51, 60.
F
Fear, 17, 43, 51, 60.
Financial obligations, 4, 6, 7.
Fortune telling, 13.
Founder of Rosicrucianism, 2.
G
Great Masters, 52.
Great White Brotherhood, 52.
H
Healing, 19, 20.
Hindu teachings, 29, 48, 54.
Home study, 42, 58, 62, 72.
Human body, 25, 26.
Hypnotism, 60.
174
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
I
Immortality, 26, 44, 45, 61.
Individuality, 24, 25.
Initiation ceremonies, 53.
Invitation to join, 36.
L
Liquor drinking, 21.
Lodge attendance, 42.
M
Meat in diet, 21, 22, 23.
Medicine and surgery, 19, 20, 28.
Membership agreements, 5.
Membership application, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40,
42, 66.
Membership cancellation, 4.
Membership donations, 8, 9.
Membership dues and fees, 7.
Membership qualifications, 38, 39, 40, 42, 59,
66, 72.
Membership robes and paraphernalia, 10, 67.
Membership taxes and assessments, 6.
N
National Lodge, 42.
Neophyte preparation, 37, 38.
175
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
O
Oaths of secrecy, 3, 4, 5, 34, 35, 58.
Old age, 26, 29.
P
Pain, 26, 27.
Penalties for violations, 3.
Political interference, 5.
Practical benefits, 47, 48, 56, 62, 63, 72.
Psychology, 62.
Publicity, 59, 65.
Q
Qualifications for membership, 38, 39, 40, 42,
59, 66, 72.
R
Rebirths, 49, 50, 61.
Reincarnation, 49, 50, 61.
Religion and Rosicrucianism, 1, 5, 30, 31, 33,
44, 45, 46, 47, 54, 68.
Religious interference, 5, 31, 34, 44, 45, 46,
47, 66, 68.
Revelations, 57, 71.
Revision of teachings, 70, 71.
Rituals, 53.
176
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Robes, and paraphernalia, 10, 67.
Rosicrucian books, 64.
S
Scientific teachings, 70, 71.
Secrecy, 35, 38.
Sectarianism of Rosicrucianism, 1, 31, 3 3, .44.
Smoking of tobacco, 21.
Social interference, 5, 21, 32, 66, 67.
Soliciting, 36.
Soul, 23, 24, 25,61.
Spirit entities, 16, 25, 43, 51.
Spiritual bodies, 15, 16, 25, 43.
Spiritual development, 23.
Spiritualism, 14, 42.
Supreme Lodge, 42.
T
Teachings and lectures, 11, 12, 13, 29, 37, 38,
44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 55, 57, 62, 63, 69, 70, 72.
Theosophy, 52.
Tobacco and its use, 21.
Transition, 26, 27, 28.
Transmigration, 50.
Transmutation, 18.
Treatments for health, 19, 20.
177
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
U
Universal Soul, 24, 61.
V
Vegetarianism, 21, 22, 23.
Vibration of the body, 22, 23.
Voluntary donations, 7, 8, 9.
W
Worthiness for membership, 36, 37, 38, 39.
Y
Yogi teachings, 29, 48, 54.
V V V
178
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 1
Q. Do the Rosicrucians constitute a religious
cult?
A. The Rosicrucians do not constitute a cult,
either religious or otherwise. They constitute a
fraternity of men and women like any other frater'
nity or Brotherhood. The members of the or'
ganization are of every religious denomination,
and are not asked to change their religious beliefs
to any degree. Therefore, the organization is not
a cult.
No. 2
Q. Do the Rosicrucians in each country have
a great leader or founder who is their absolute
ruler, and to whom allegiance must be pledged?
A. The organization in every country is phy
sically formed like a society or other organization
of men and women, with chief executives equiva'
lent to presidents, vice'presidents, secretaries,
treasurers, and recorders. The organization has no
national or international founders, leaders, or dis'
179
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
coverers, to whom personal allegiance must be
pledged at any time or in any manner. All officers
of the organization are elected and do not hold
their positions by any super virtue or Divine decree
that is unique to each as an individual. The chief
executives of each branch in each land are on an
equal basis, constituting an international advisory
council like the Board of Directors of a business
concern.
No. 3
Q. Are there any secret oaths or any form of
allegiance to individuals which must be subscribed
to before or after joining the organization?
A. There are no real secret oaths in connec
tion with the organization whatsoever. The Great
Oath of the organization is shown to every mem
ber before he or she is invited to join the organiza'
tion, and each has an opportunity to read and un'
derstand it thoroughly before accepting the invita'
tion to membership. There are no oaths or pledges
which contain secret agreements or implied pen'
alties for violations. No pledges are asked by the
organization in behalf of allegiance to any individ'
180
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
ual except obedience to the rules and regulations
of the organization, its constitution, and the exe'
cutive decisions of the officers representing the
organization.
No. 4
Q. Is one bound for an entire lifetime to the
organization by taking any oaths or pledges?
A. Freely are you permitted to partake of the
benefits of the organization and share in its great
work, and just as freely are you permitted to re'
sign from the organization and sever all connec
tions. Of course, the promise to keep secret the
few passwords or signs by which members may be
easily identified is to be respected by every man
and woman as a moral obligation, even after he
believes it desirable to withdraw from the organiza'
tion. And it must be said in fairness to all con
cerned that the few who do drop out of the ranks
of the organization for one reason or another in
each country have generally held in high esteem
the ethical and moral ideals of the organization,
and have, therefore, kept their promises in regard
181 .
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
to the secret elements of passwords, grips, signs,
and so forth.
No. 5
Q. Are there any secret agreements or binding
obligations on the part of members which may in'
terfere with their religious, political, social, or busi'
ness activities?
A. Nothing is ever asked of a member in the
organization, or before he joins the organization,
which will force him to do anything that will in'
terfere with his righteous beliefs and moral obliga'
tions to God, the members of his family, or his
country. And certainly there is nothing in the
work of the organization that will interfere with
any person's activities in connection with legal and
proper business matters, or with the proper ethical
and moral social relations in the world. When
any special work of any kind is to be done that
calls for a personal sacrifice of time and interest
in behalf of a member, volunteers are asked to
serve that purpose, and no one is obligated to do
that which he cannot easily do or do without
injury to his own best interests.
182
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 6
Q. Are the members of the organization bound
in such financial manner as to make them obliged
to meet assessments or special taxes of any kind?
A. No assessments have ever been made and
no obligations other than the nominal monthly
dues are required in each lodge to meet the inci'
dental expenses of rent and general operating
accounts.
No. 7
Q. Why are there any monthly dues when
one has always been told that the high spiritual
teachings are given without a price?
A. This question is based upon the assump
tion that the nominal dues universally charged by
every branch of the Rosicrucian organization con'
stitutes payment for the teachings. This is a mis'
take. The dues have nothing to do with the in'
struction work whatsoever. Every branch of the
organization must have general assembly rooms in
which the classes can come together for their lee
tures, discussions, and general activities. Some
means must be devised for the payment of the
183
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
monthly rent, electric light, and general operating
expenses. Who shall pay these monthly dues?
The master of the classes, who is giving all of his
spare time to helping in the work because of his
enthusiasm, or the students themselves, on the
basis of an apportionment of the actual amount
involved? If any lodge could meet in a proper hall
or assembly place, properly equipped with neces'
sary paraphernalia, without having had to buy any
equipment or having had to pay carpenters, elec
tricians, painters, decorators, and others for mak'
ing the necessary equipment, and without paying
any rent or paying for any electricity or heat, then
the members might come together and without
any cost to them at all receive the teachings. Since
this is not possible, dues are charged by each
branch and the amounts of the monthly dues vary
in accordance with the operating expenses of the
individual branches. Since no salaries are paid to
the masters, teachers, or secretaries in these
branches, the dues are very nominal. For those
who desire the instructions in a personal way by
correspondence, some means had to be devised to
defray the cost of postage, stationery, typewriting,
184
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and the printing of such forms and pieces of litera'
ture as are necessary to make the seeker acquainted
with the organization. In addition to this, the
investment in automatic machinery for the ad'
dressing of envelopes, filing of reports, as well as
the rent and lighting of the many offices necessary
for such correspondence work, requires some form
of proportionate division of operating expenses.
Nominal monthly dues constitute the only logical
manner to take care of this matter. But again,
such dues do not pay for the teachings. If those
who desire personal instruction could travel from
the various parts of the United States to the na'
tional headquarters of the organization, and
thereby save the necessity of postage and station'
ery, and if they would be willing to meet out in
an open valley where the officers and teachers
could come without any expense for travelling,
and if all other incidental expenses could be
avoided in this way while the teachers gave per'
sonal instruction to the seekers, there would be
no necessity for monthly dues in connection with
personal instruction. Granting that the lessons and
teachings are absolutely free, there still remains the
185
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
problem of getting these instructions from the vari'
ous central points to the students. Herein also lies
an element of cost.
No. 8
Q. Do not some organizations extend member'
ship on a purely voluntary donation basis, per'
mitting the member to pay as little or as much as
he chooses?
A. Yes, there are several occult organizations
in America which claim that they are operating
solely upon a voluntary donation basis. An inves'
tigation of these movements revealed, however, an
entirely different system than that used by the
Rosicrucian Order. These others extend member'
ship upon a purely voluntary basis, and that means
that the member may donate anything from twen'
tyfive cents a month to five dollars a month. But,
in exchange for this voluntary donation, the mem'
ber receives nothing but affiliation with the or'
ganization, with an occasional monthly letter of
greetings which is a stereotyped letter sent to all
members, and reading identically the same for all.
If such members desire to take up the studies and
186
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
teachings of the organization to which they belong,
they find it necessary to buy the many books pub'
lished by the organization, and they find that these
books are not given or offered on a voluntary dona'
tion basis, but sold at a definite price. We see,
therefore, that the voluntary donation merely
covers membership while the instructions and
teachings must be paid for by the purchase of
books. The Rosicrucian Order issues no books and
sells no books containing its private teachings. The
very nominal monthly dues, which are hardly more
than any sincere member would voluntarily offer
as a donation, cover every benefit of membership,
which means more than merely a monthly letter.
The magazine is sent monthly to every member,
and throughout the year hundreds of personal let'
ters of advice and instruction, especially dictated,
and specially written, are included in the general
membership benefits, as well as the privilege of at'
tendance at lodges and affiliation with the various
activities of the organization. In addition to all
these benefits, the weekly private instructions and
teachings are given to the members without any
cost or price and without requiring the purchase
187
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
of any books or pamphlets. It is a fact demon'
strated to practically every member of the Order
that the amount of money paid in a year as dues
to the organization is less than what the average
seeker spends in the purchase of books, and yet the
organization offers many benefits in addition to the
teachings, which could not be expected or asked
for if the student were merely the purchaser of
books from a publishing company.
No. 9
Q. Has the organization ever tried to operate
on a voluntary donation basis?
A. After the Order in North America had
been operating for a number of years with nominal
monthly dues, the matter of adopting voluntary
donations as a basis for supporting the general op'
erating expenses was submitted to every branch
of the organization and to every member in every
branch. The vote showed that ninetyseven per
cent of the members believed that the definite
monthly amount decreed by the individual lodges
was the better system, in as much as it put every
member upon an equal basis in sharing the ex'
188
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
pense of the operating expenditures, and did not
throw the burden of a monthly deficit upon the
several leaders in each group or branch. The mem'
bers themselves proclaimed that the knowledge that
their voluntary donations were not sufficient each
month, and left a deficit to be met by those who
were giving so freely of their services in addition
to a proportionate donation to the general funds,
would make them feel uneasy and guilty of a lack
of duty and appreciation. It was found from the
records and reports of other organizations that
those who insisted upon the voluntary donation
were those who sought to take advantage of the
liberal method to contribute less than was their
proper proportion. If it were not for the sale of
books and the sale of paraphernalia by many of
the organizations that operate on a voluntary do-
nation basis, they would not be able to carry on
their work with any system or any degree of
efficiency.
No. 10
Q. Are the members required to buy robes,
paraphernalia, or devices of any kind?
189
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. The general members are not required to
buy robes, equipment, devices, instructions, or ma'
terial things of any kind. Everything that is neces'
sary for the study of the teachings, and the proper
development in the work, is supplied without cost
by the organization. Where there are lodges carry
ing on the Egyptian ritual ceremonies, and the
demonstrations of the natural and Divine laws, the
officers wear Oriental robes which they furnish
themselves voluntarily, and the equipment is gen'
erally supplied by voluntary donations on the part
of those most interested in the work.
No. 11
Q. Who prepares the teachings and the les'
sons given by the organization?
A. Since the teachings are not the discovery
of some self'appointed leader or founder of the
organization, and since they are not the personal
opinion of some philosophic individual, the lessons
are impersonal and prepared not by a single in'
dividual, but by groups of individuals in the high'
est grades of the teachings in the various branches
of the Order throughout the world. The teachings
190
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
are, therefore, not stereotyped or in printed form,
but continually evolving and becoming enlarged
and improved through newer discoveries, newer
tests, and newer demonstrations in the many
branches. This gives us another excellent expla'
nation why the Order has never permitted its
teachings to be put into book form or printed
form. Such books would soon become obsolete, so
far as the revised teachings are concerned, and
could not possibly be kept up to the minute in
such matters as are of the utmost importance to
the individual student. National conventions and
international conventions discuss the great prob'
lems of the teachings, as well as the great problems
of the affairs of man, and bring forth additional
instruction and advice to be added to the lectures
for the benefit of all. Research departments and
bureaus in every jurisdiction contribute freely to
the teachings and the extension of various systems
of help and advice. The teachings as given, there'
fore, in every branch are uniform for the time of
the presentation, and are free from personal opin
ion and personal bias. There is probably no other
191
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
system of instruction as flexible, as modern, and as
progressive as this.
No. 12
Q. Is it necessary for the members to memorize
a great many laws and principles as well as the
many lessons?
A. Except for the ritualistic parts, dramatized
by the officers in the various lodges, there is noth'
ing to be memorized by any member. The lectures
and lessons are so worded and so interestingly pre'
sented with arguments, demonstrations, and illus'
trations, analogies, and similes, that the student's
interest is held without conscious effort and he un'
consciously absorbs the knowledge which becomes
a part of his memory without the process of mem'
orizing. The Rockefeller Education Foundation
has stated that this sort of instruction is the most
ideal, and typifies the perfect method of conveying
knowledge from one mind to another. Notebooks
are kept by members who wish to aid their mem'
ory and in them notations are made of important
principles and laws as they are given, and refer'
ence is made to them at times when problems of
192
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
our daily affairs call for the application of the
principles taught by the organization.
No. 13
Q. Do the Rosicrucians teach astrology or any
other method of fortune telling?
A. The RjDsicrucian organization does not
teach astrology or any other method of prognosti'
cating the future. It considers the art of astrology
as an imperfect science, being evolved through
ages of experimentation and testing, and at the
present time far from being efficient in predicting
all the affairs of life. The fundamental principles
involved in astrology are referred to in various
lectures and lessons pertaining to the nature of the
planets and the nature of our talents and dormant
tendencies, but the making of horoscopes or the
study of astrology is not included in the work
because the absoluteness of the art is not demon'
strable, and the Rosicrucians do not teach or in'
clude anything in their teachings that cannot be
demonstrated by the individual members as absc
lute and dependable. Organizations claiming to be
Rosicrucian or mystical, and which include astrol'
193
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
ogy as a prerequisite or as an important part of
their work, are merely taking advantage of the
fascination which astrology holds for so many, and
of the help it gives in meeting the financial necessi'
ties of the organization. The Rosicrucian Order
does not deal with crystal gazing or any other form
of necromancy.
No. 14
Q. Do the Rosicrucians deal with spiritualistic
demonstrations or means of communication with
spirits?
A. The Rosicrucians do not teach anything
that pertains to spiritualistic demonstrations or
doctrines as commonly understood. In fact the
Rosicrucian Order deplores the popular tendency
to hold seances and dark room sessions, and advises
against the systematic or occasional attemptsjg
enter the trance state or any other state of an ab'
normal nature for the purpose of trying to com'
municate with so-called spirits.
No. 15
Q. Do the Rosicrucians believe that man has
many forms of spiritual bodies and that he lives in
these various bodies at various times?
194
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. The Rosicrucians teach that there are two
planes of existence upon which man lives, namely:
this earth plane with its material earthly problems
and activities, and another plane which is not this
one. It does not attempt to explain how we live
or how we function on the other plane, it has
no knowledge to offer regarding a number of
ethereal, spiritual, psychic bodies possessed by man
which function on various planes, and it does not
attempt to divide the non'material or spiritual
plane into various subdivisions and hypothetical,
super subdivisions, as taught by various complex
mystical systems which are devoted to the dissemi'
nation of puzzling philosophies, t.^., l<lu*JtJ.
No. 16
Q. Do the Rosicrucians believe that there are
spirit entities, large or small, which hover in space
and which may take possession of an earthly indi
vidual and influence him for good or bad?
A. The Rosicrucians have never taught the
existence of elemental entities or evil spirits that
may take possession of human beings. These teach
ings are a remnant of ancient Oriental supersti'
-
195
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
tions, and are revived in these modern days by
schools of thought which cater to the credulous
and the unlearned.
No. 17
Q. Do the Rosicrucians believe in black magic
or the ability of one mind to injure another at a
distance?
A. The Rosicrucians have said in all ages that
the only power that black magic has is the fear
which the unlearned have of it. The Rosicrucian
teachings make most plain the fundamental fact
that the Cosmic space that intervenes between two
humans at a distance from each other will not
carry destructive thought vibrations, since such
vibrations are inharmonious and incongruous to
its own constructive, Divine nature. Evil thoughts
directed toward another person do not leave the
mind of the individual conceiving them, and are
reactive upon the individual attempting to radiate
them. The teaching of the possibility of black
magic by some modern schools has created a fear
of it in the minds of those who do not understand
the true Cosmic laws, and this fear causes much
196
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
suffering and discomfort which is immediately
attributed to the black magic thoughts of others.
No. 18
Q. Do the Rosicrucians still practice the art
of alchemy or transmutation of base metals into
gold?
A. In some of the higher lodges of the organi
zation where complete laboratories are maintained
for testing and proving many of Nature's funda'
mental laws, the art of transmutation has been
tested and a small amount of gold made from baser
metals after a great many hours of diligent work,
and at a tremendous cost, out of proportion to
the value of the gold manufactured. In France,
one of the great laboratories of the Order has been
very successful in demonstrating to the scientific
world the feasibility of the Rosicrucian principles
of alchemy. The Rosicrucians have always been
accused of being the makers of gold because
throughout the history of the organization it ap'
pears that its members and its branches are always
well qualified to meet their financial obligations
and to enjoy many of the luxuries of life. The
197
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
progress and advancement which the members
make as they go through the higher teachings of
the Order impress strangers with the idea that
some means of securing material wealth is given
to the students of the organization. The real art
of alchemy practiced by every Rosicrucian organs
zation and every member of the organization con'
sists of transmuting the baser metals of a material,
mental, and spiritual nature into the pure gold
products of efficiency in action, prosperity in re
sult, and happiness in attainment. This is the
greatest of all the processes of transmutation and
enables each member to successfully master his
own problems and bring about such realizations of
his dreams as may seem miraculous or mysterious
to the uninitiated.
No. 19
Q. Do the Rosicrucians constitute a body of
healers or a healing organization?
A. Throughout all the ages, many of the lead'
ers of the Rosicrucian work have been valuable
contributors to the art of physics as it was orig'
inally called, or to the science of therapeutics as we
198
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
understand it today. Many of these eminent men
were discoverers of fundamental principles in con'
nection with physiology and anatomy, as well as
chemistry, thereby helping to establish the many
great fundamental principles of healing, as well as
revealing the real nature of disease and health. The
Order today teaches its members how to prevent
disease through proper living, and how to cure and
correct the violations of nature's laws which gen'
erally result in disease or suffering and pain. Many
of the members of the organization become so fas
cinated with these principles dealing with health
and the cure of disease that they make a special
study of this branch of the teachings and take it
up in addition to their regular profession. Such
persons generally are physicians of other schools,
and add the Rosicrucian principles to their regu
lar practice, so as to secure more lasting results
and more immediate changes in any physical con
dition. But the organization does not attempt to
specialize in the healing work by attempting to
make healers of all of its members and encourage
them to go out into the world as healers or prac
titioners. Throughout the entire studies, the mem'
f
199
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
bers are advised to consult only the very best
physicians in regard to any physical problem.
Neither medicine nor surgery is condemned by the
Kosicrucian teachings, but given their proper places
in the world of therapeutics. The Rosicrucian
Order realizes that a real healer must be born, and
must be trained in the various systems of thera'
peutics to be highly efficient, and that such physi'
cians using the Rosicrucian principles in addition
to their other principles will become the very best
physicians.
No. 20
Q. Does the organization offer its healing serv
ices to its members?
A. For those members who cannot come in
contact with physicians of the regular schools who
are connected with the local branches of the or'
ganization, the organization itself offers to use the
metaphysical principles taught by it to help those
who are in mental or physical need. Such work is
done gratuitously, and always in a scientific man'
ner, and without any criticism or antagonism tc
ward the regular schools of medicine and surgery.
200
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
It is a notable fact, however, that the members
of the organization generally continue to improve
in health as they go through the various lectures
and lessons, and finally reach a point where the
need for special treatments of any kind is very
rare. The organization does have ways and means
of doing those things which science might call mir
acles and of helping in such cases where all other
systems seem to have failed or where the problem
is not understood in its right terms. Such service
is given freely, and thousands of members in all
parts of the country take advantage of it in emer
gencies for themselves or for members of their
families. This service is one of the outstanding
benefits given to the general membership.
No. 21
Q. Do the Rosicrucians insist that the mem'
bers shall refrain from eating meat and become
vegetarians, and refrain from smoking and drink
ing?
A. The Rosicrucians do not attempt to change
the habits and methods of living on the part of
their members by revolutionary reforms or auto'
201
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
cratic decrees. The teachings gradually make plain
to each member the nature of his own health and
physical condition, and reveal to him what is best
for him to eat under any or all circumstances.
Each member soon discovers whether he or she
may, with any consistency, eat a diet exclusively
of vegetables or a diet composed of vegetables and
meat. When a member discovers the effect that
his diet has upon his individual constitution, and
upon his individual stage of development, he will
be better prepared to adjust his method of living,
and will do it with greater efficiency than if some
universal, arbitrary rule was established for all
members, regardless of individual needs. The same
may be said in regard to fasting, smoking, drink'
ing, or indulging in any of the other attractions
or seeming necessities of the mind, body, or soul.
No. 22
Q. Is it true that the eating of animal flesh
adds lower vibrations to the human system?
A. Such an idea is purely theoretical, and
there is nothing in the sciences or the occult laws
that shows that the eating of cooked meats adds
202
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
vibrations of a lower kind than the eating of
wheat, rye, eggs, or milk. Milk contains as much
of the animal nature as cooked meat. And the
same may be said of butter and of cheese. Many
persons who believe the theory that meat lowers
the rate of vibrations of the human body, do not
hesitate to drink milk and to eat cheese or to eat
eggs. This shows the inconsistency of their reason'
ing. It is true, from a chemical point of view, that
the eating of raw meat or the eating of meat that
is very rare, with much uncooked blood, will add
a great deal of the chemical nature of the animal
blood to the human blood. But this is not true of
well'cooked meats.
No. 23
Q. Is it true that the eating of meat interferes
with the spiritual vibrations of the human body?
A. Some modern schools of thought have
added this idea to their teachings in order that they
may have another peculiar idea to present to their
students. Many of these modern schools have had
to invent a complete set of new ideas and new
teachings in order to make their systems quite dis'
203
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
tinctive and unique. In their ambition to be very
original with their teachings, they have promul
gated ideas that are not only unsound, but ridicu
lous and contrary to natural law. However, the
very uniqueness of such systems attracts the at'
tention of those persons who are ever seeking
new ideas, and especially peculiar ideas, and of
course we find such persons usually fanatical and
irrational in much of their thinking and acting.
The truth of the matter is that man is born essen'
tially spiritual, with as much Divine essence in his
soul as he will ever acquire. There is no way by
which the soul essence in the human body can be
added to or subtracted from in any way. The soul
of man is something so infinite, so immortal, and
so superior to conditions and elements of this earth
plane, that nothing of a material nature can affect
it. Neither disease nor sin affects the soul as far as
its essential divine essence is concerned. Man's
consciousness and man's character may be contami'
nated by sin and by disease of the mind or body,
but these things cannot affect the infinite soul
within him; for this infinite soul is ever and con'
tinuously a part of the Divine Soul of the universe,
204
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and a part of God, Himself. Therefore, the state'
ment that certain exercises or certain actions will
add to the "development" of the soul, in either
essence or quantity, is absurd, as also is the
statements that anything we eat or anything we
drink may subtract from or charge or modify the
Divine essence of which the soul is composed. The
development of spirituality in a man or woman is
the development of his comprehension, understand'
ing, and domination of himself and his relation'
ship to the universe. It is not a development of
the soul essence. Therefore, food cannot affect
this Divine essence, and only those leaders, teach'
ers or schools which are seeking to take advantage
of the misconception of these facts on the part of
seekers for the real truth, will teach such an idea
as this. Furthermore, your spiritual development
will be indicated to others more surely by what
comes out of your mouth than by what goes into
it,
as the very true statement in the Bible explains,
where we are reminded that more important than
the food that passes through the mouth are the
expressions that come out of the mouth. Then
205
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
again we have the words of that famous sermon
on the mount, which may be read as:
"Be not anxious for your life,
What you shall eat and drink,
Or where' with/all you shall be clothed;
Is not the life more than the meat, and the body
more than the raiment?"
No. 24
Q. Do the Rosicrucians believe that there are
millions of individual souls in the universe or just
one soul?
A. The Rosicrucians believe and have always
believed that there is but one soul in the universe,
and that is the universal soul or the universal con'
sciousness of God. Furthermore, the Rosicrucians
have always taught that a segment of that univer'
sal soul resides in each being that possesses soul.
And this segment is never separated from the uni'
versal soul or is never an entity in such a sense as
to make it independent and individual. The soul
expression of each person, or in other words, the
expression of the soul in each of us, through the
medium of the physical body and through the
206
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
channel of our education and comprehension of
things, may be quite different and thereby give us
those characteristics or traits of personality which
we interpret as individuality. But these distinc
tive traits are not of the soul, but of the charac
teristics or traits of personality that manifest
through the physical body and which we interpret
as individuality. In this sense, mankind is one uni'
versal brotherhood, being Sons and Daughters of
God through the Fatherhood of God. This is the
fundamental principle upon which universal
brotherhood is understood by the Rosicrucians.
And all modern mystic teachings, or even some
popular personal conceptions of the Rosicrucian
teachings which claim that man has an individual
soul, are inconsistent with the real and original
teachings of the Rosicrucians.
No. 25
Q. Has man only one body and one soul?
A. As has been intimated, the Rosicrucians
have always been rational and scientific in their
postulations, and they say that so far as actual
207
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
knowledge of conditions is concerned, they know
of only one body and that is the physical body.
We may stretch the use of a term and call the soul
a spiritual body within man if we choose to do so,
or we may call it the psychic body or astral body.
In this case, man would possess two bodies, the
physical body and that which is not physical. But
to say that man has a physical body, an astral
body, a desire body, a mental body, and several
others is simply to state a theoretical postulation
devised solely to confound the facts of life and
present a very puzzling and mysterious system of
mysticism which keeps the student ever trying to
fathom the unfathomable, and continuously blam'
ing his lack of comprehension of the teachings for
his lack of mastership. None of the teachers of
this sort of complex existence has ever been able
to demonstrate his ability to function exclu'
sively or partially in any one of these numerous
bodies, nor has he been able to teach his stu'
dents to function in one of these bodies success'
fully enough to enable the students to prove to
their own satisfaction that there are such bodies.
The Rosicrucians hold fast to the sane and rational
208
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
law that that which cannot be demonstrated by an'
other, or which is not demonstrable to one's self,
should be cast aside as knowledge or as fact. This
keeps the true Rosicrucian from sailing into the
clouds of ethereal, hypothetical principles and
away from the sane and solid facts of life.
No. 26
Q. Do the real Rosicrucians teach that it is
possible for a man to live eternally in the same
body?
A. The true Rosicrucians do not teach this,
and have never taught it as a physical possibility.
They know only too well the universal laws of
Nature, which include the divine laws as well.
They know that one of the fundamental laws of all
material manifestation is the law of change. Noth'
ing that exists at this moment is identically as it
was an hour, a week, a month, or a year ago.
Man's body is susceptible to this law and gov
erned by it just as is all other matter with which
we are acquainted. The soul of man, or the divine
essence which animates him is the only part of man
which is immaterial and which is not subject to the
209
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
law of change. It is impossible for man to live
continuously or eternally in the same physical
body. In fact, the physical body which man now
occupies is not the same physical body in all of its
elements which he had five years ago, or ten years
ago. Every part of the body is being remade to
replace that which is worn out or discarded and
sooner or later the breaking down processes of the
human body work more rapidly than the construe
tive processes, and eventually the physical body is
cast off and rejected. This is an inevitable law of
Nature, and there is absolutely no record to be
found in any of the sacred mystical occult or scien'
tific teachings of the world which disprove it.
Many of the popular teachers who, twenty or
thirty years ago, promulgated the idea of the pos'
sibility of very long life in the same physical body,
have passed through transition and are gone from
this plane. Most of them either sold secret, private
courses of instruction which were claimed to teach
one how to live without transition, or they sold
secretly and privately to their students remedies
which they claimed to have invented, and which
were supposed to prevent old age. Those modern
210
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
teachers or lecturers who advocate this idea at the
present time are simply catering to the gullibility
of persons who believe it is possible to prevent old
age or transition. No Rosicrucian of the true
school, with his thorough understanding of na'
ture's many laws, could possibly accept such state'
ments.
No. 27
Q. Do the Rosicrucians believe that since tran'
sition is inevitable, disease is a natural thing.
A. No, the Rosicrucians do not believe that
disease is a natural thing. While it is a fact that
transition is inevitable, on the other hand, disease,
pain, and suffering of the physical body are not
inevitable. It is possible and it is ideal, for man
or woman to live to such a ripe old age without
disease or pain that eventually the body just grad'
ually weakens and at some propitious time in the
scheme of things goes to sleep, never to awaken
again in earthly consciousness. That is the ideal
ending of earthly life. It is the way that the transi'
tion of the many advanced masters and teachers
of the organization have occurred, and it is the
211
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
way that the organization would have transition
occur in the lives of all of its members. Therefore,
the proper way to live to prevent disease and pain,
and the proper way to naturally and properly rem'
edy the cause of any disease or pain is thoroughly
taught by the organization .
No. 28
Q. Does the organization sell any remedies or
devices which it claims will help to prolong life
or prevent disease?
A. The true Rosicrucian organization has
never sold things of this kind, nor does it sponsor
or tolerate the use of devices of this kind. Many
occult or mystical schools claiming to be Oriental
and represented in America by some foreign
teacher have tried to introduce in America under
great secrecy and through insidious methods the
sale of chemical combinations, drug preparations,
or mystical charms or talismans which are pur'
ported to give immunity against disease and old
age. The literature of such teachers or organiza'
tions is filled with misleading statements regard'
ing the ideas being promulgated, and it is unfor
212
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
tunate indeed that America has proved to be the
happy hunting ground of such charlatans.
No. 29
Q. Do the Rosicrucians of today attempt to
practice or teach the Yogi principles or the other
Hindu or Oriental teachings?
A. The Rosicrucian Order has never taught
the Yogi principles except possibly in some branch
of the Order located in India centuries ago. The
Yogi teachings are distinctly the teachings of a
special and limited sect of one part of the Orient,
and were never considered universal teachings,
applicable to all nations, nor are they of any value
in the Occidental world to modern people. The
fact of the matter is that the Yogi teachings were
abandoned long ago as of no value except to those
persons living in that part of the world where
they originated. That is why the attempt on the
part of some schools or movements to introduce
the Yogi principles in modern lands in modern
times has proven futile. To derive any benefit
from the Yogi principles at all, the Oriental de'
votee had to spend many hours of each day sitting
213
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
in certain postures in absolute relaxation and pro'
found meditation upon things unconnected with
his material existence and unassociated with the
practical duties and obligations of everyday life.
Even the casual student of such teachings in mod'
ern lands finds it impractical to give this much
time to the development of a side of his nature
that will be of no practical advantage in his daily
life. The few benefits to be derived from breath
ing exercises which were incidental to the Yogi
teachings have found better expression and better
application in more modern teachings, and a care'
ful examination of such Yogi breathing exercises
shows that they are typical of the breathing exer'
cises taught to the average boy and girl in the
school gymnasium. In their day and in their time
these teachings were necessary and were un
doubtedly a great step forward, but they are of
no value now from the Rosicrucian point of view,
which is ever progressive and practical. The same
may be said of many other ancient, antiquated,
and limited forms of Oriental teachings.
214
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 30
Q. Is the Rosicrucian organization in any
way connected with the Roman Catholic church
or with the Roman Catholic Jesuit movement?
A. The Rosicrucian Order has never been
connected in any way, outwardly or inwardly,
publicly or secretly, with any church. The Rosi'
crucian organization is not a religious cult nor a
religious sect in the sense that it teaches any sec
tarian theology or operates as a church in any
sense. In the past some Roman Catholics have
belonged to the organization. The historical rec
ords of the organization show that at one time
one of the Popes, and in various periods many
of the Jesuits, were students of the Rosicrucian
work; and because some of the great Protestant
leaders were also students of the work, it has often
been claimed that the Rosicrucian Order was,
during the reformation period, a part of the Prates'
tant propaganda. Naturally, an organization
could not be religiously biased in both directions.
The organization has kept itself free from re'
ligious and political revolutions and campaigns.
r
215
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 31
Q. Has the Rosicrucian organization ever
been criticized or prosecuted by any of the great
religious organizations?
A. Because the organization has never shown
partiality in religious or political matters and does
not attempt, through its teachings, to break down
the faith of anyone in his or her religious convic
tions, the organization has never been officially or
unofficially condemned by either the Roman Cath
olics, Protestants, or the Jews. It may be said in
passihg that the Rosicrucian organization is per
haps the only fraternal or semi'secret society that
has never been singled out for any special criticism
on the part of the various religious movements.
No. 32
Q. Have the Rosicrucians ever been publicly
condemned or prosecuted for any of their activi'
ties?
A. Neither justly nor unjustly has the organi'
zation ever been publicly or privately condemned
for its teachings or activities. The organization
has been peculiarly free from public censorship,
216
'
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and has enjoyed centuries of existence without the
whisperings of scandal or the indictment of the
courts of law. Even in modern times, when so
many organizations of a mystical, metaphysical, or
occult nature have been ridiculed by the news'
papers or by magazine articles, the Rosicrucian
Order has been highly respected and highly
praised. Many writers of articles and pamphlets
dealing with a review of the fads and fancies of
the human mind along occult lines have definitely
stated that nothing said by them was intended to
reflect upon the activities and teachings of the
Rbsicrucians. The organization has, therefore, an
unsullied history and a record of which each
member may be justly proud.
No. 33
Q. Is it true that some of the principal officers
of the Rosicrucians in America today are asso.
ciated with the Roman Catholic church?
A. So far as the Rosicrucian Order of
AMORC is concerned, the chief officers for
North America are in no way connected with the
Roman Catholic church, nor have they ever been
217
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
of that religious denomination. The Imperator for
North America was raised and educated as a
Methodist, and his connections with the church
are well known. His wife was raised in the Pres'
byterian church and continues her connections
with that organization. The Supreme Secretary is
also a member of the Protestant religion, and the
Grand Masters of the various jurisdictions are
generally of the Protestant denominations. Some
are members of the Jewish churches, with perhaps
an occasional officer who was originally raised or
educated in the Roman Catholic church. The
Grand Master of Canada and his staff are mem'
bers of the Episcopal church of England, while
those of the Spanish speaking branches are of vari'
ous religious denominations. Some of the teachers
on the staff of the Supreme Council, being of
foreign birth, are of the Buddhistic or Hindu re'
ligions, or other religions of the Orient.
No. 34
Q. I have been told that the Bible condemns
the taking of oaths and the joining of secret so
cieties. Is this true?
218
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. The injunction in the Bible against the
taking of oaths pertains to making sworn state'
ments in which the name of God is used to give
emphasis to the statements made. We are re'
minded by this injunction that we should not
use the name of God in this way, but to let our
aye be aye and our nay be nay. There is no
injunction against the joining of private societies
of learning anywhere in the Bible. And in fact
we find from a careful reading of the Christian
Bible that private societies of learning existed in
the Bible days or in the early Christian days, and
were not condemned. The fact of the matter is
that Jesus, as well as the other great teachers of
learning, appreciated the fact that not everyone
is ready or qualified to receive all the facts and
knowledge of life, and that those who are ready
should be given more private and separate instruc
tion than that given to the mass. In Matthew,
Chapter XIII, we find that Jesus gave His great
teachings in two different methods. To the mass
He revealed the principles in simple stories and
parables, while to His disciples in private He ex'
plained the laws and principles more profoundly
219
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and in detail. His disciples realized that there was
a reason for this, and so we find the two following
verses very interesting:
"And the disciples came, and said unto
Him: Why speakest Thou unto them in par'
able?
"He answered and said unto them: Be'
cause it is given unto you to know the mys'
teries of the Kingdom of Heaven, but to them
it is not given."
Ministers, clergymen, priests, and rabbis of the
various religious denominations and churches of
the world have been members of the Rosicrucian
Order and are today. None of these have found
anything in the work of the organization or in its
teachings which would be inconsistent with the
high ideals of Christianity, or the principles and
teachings of any other religion.
No. 35
Q. Why is the Rosicrucian Order believed
to be a secret organization?
A. Because the average member makes it so.
By this, we mean that the organization itself has
never attempted to make the Brotherhood a secret
220
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
among peoples, nor has it ever attempted to con'
ceal itself so completely that it could be properly
classified as a secret society. Certainly its ideals
and purposes are not secret, nor any of its pledges
to the members or pledges of the members to the
organization. It has no great secret oaths which
members must accept or make which have not
been publicly printed and dealt with at length in
histories and other books, nor which cannot be
printed or exposed to public examination even
today. It does not work through secret channels,
nor have any secret or ulterior motives. Its meet
ing places are not secret, and its propaganda is not
secret. Nor do its officers and members hide in
secrecy. If the Rosicrucian organization could
have its way or have its dreams materialized, it
would give its teachings and all it has to offer
freely and without limitation to every man,
woman, and child in the world. It is constantly
seeking ways and means of spreading its teachings
to the masses. The difficulty which the organiza
tion has to face is that only those who have come
to a keen realization of the need of what the Rosi'
crucians have to offer are really ready to accept
221
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
the help that is available through the many activi'
ties included in the Rosicrucian work. The aver'
age member is so conscious of the fact that not
all are ready or willing to give a little time and
thought to their own improvement and the mas'
tership of their own affairs in life, that he is care'
ful and conservative in his remarks and in his
invitations to others to accept the Rosicrucian
offerings. This attitude on his part tends to make
the organization more or less private or secret, and
constitutes the only reason for the seeming secrecy
of the organization.
No. 36
Q. Why is it said that you must be invited
to join the Rosicrucian Order and cannot ask for
membership of your own volition?
A. It is a traditional custom with the Rosicru
cian organization, for the organization or its mem'
bers to invite a seeker or a worthy person to come
into the circle of its activities and share in its
unusual benefits. In foreign lands, for many ages,
it has been considered a great honor to receive a
formal or informal invitation to unite with the
222
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
organization. In the days of long ago, it would
have seemed presumptuous for anyone to have
made voluntary application or petition to join the
organization. In America today the ancient sys'
tern is respected and applied with some modifica'
tion. Therefore, it is now customary for the or'
ganization or one of its members to invite the
seeker or inquirer to make application for mem'
bership and have his application examined and
passed upon. Therefore, all of the propaganda
work is carried on in the form of invitations being
sent to those who have manifested worthiness, in'
terest, sincerity, special qualifications, or a real
desire to step ahead of the nonprogressive ones in
life and become a real master of his affairs. This
method does not prevent the seeker or interested
one from writing to any of the branches or to the
national headquarters and asking for further infor
mation regarding the Rosicrucian teachings and
activities. If the inquirer's letter shows a sincere
interest, he is immediately invited to make appli'
cation for membership, and a question sheet sent
to him to fill out and sign. The answers to the
questions thereon are carefully considered by a
223
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
committee, and if it is found that the inquirer is
more than casually interested in the work and
really of a progressive trend of mind, he or she
is at once accepted into the neophyte or proba'
tionary form of membership.
No. 37
Q. Are all new members placed in the proba'
tionary or neophyte classification without regard
to any of their previous studies or their intellectual
comprehension and attainments along similar lines?
A. All new members are placed in the same
category for a short period, during which time
certain fundamental principles are given to them
and an opportunity afforded each member to
indicate his or her special fitness for the studies,
and thereafter the member finds that advance'
ment is in accordance with his own ability and
his own qualifications. No two members will find
the work identical in their comprehension and
understanding, and very soon after uniting with
the organization, each member develops along lines
particularly suited to his individual needs and
previous education and training.
224
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 38
Q. Is any special education or training needed
to constitute qualifications for membership?
A. The ability to read and write, and to con'
centrate the mind for a moment or two upon each
paragraph or sentence as it is read are the prelimi'
nary educational requisites. Any man or woman
with ordinary school education will be able to
comprehend and master even the most profound
parts of the Rosicrucian teachings. High school
or college education will not be of any material
benefit in the general comprehension of the work.
The most simple language, and the most simple
methods of presentment are used in all of the lee
ture work, and the experiments given to the mem'
bers to try, whereby they can demonstrate and
prove certain laws and principles to themselves are
of the most simple form, so that the average man
or woman will have no difficulty whatever in per'
forming these experiments. No memorizing, no
difficult mental tests, are required anywhere
throughout the work.
225
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 39
Q. Are persons past middle age too old to
take up the work?
A. Many who are far beyond middle age have
united with the organization and found in it the
start of a new life, the beginning of a new career,
and the openings of channels and paths to happi'
ness, prosperity, and health, which they had be'
lieved were closed to them. It is not uncommon
to find in the various branches of our organization
men and women who are seventy, eighty, or
ninety years of age, and who have been in the
organization but a year or two. There are many
members in the organization much older than this.
The usual statement made by these persons is that
they regret that they had not contacted the or'
ganization fifty years earlier in their lives. It is
no more difficult for an elderly person to under'
stand and master the teachings than it is for a
young person, and there are just as many oppor
tunities in life for the elderly person to bring a
new world before his comprehension and enjoy
the unknown marvels of life as there are for the
young person.
226
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 40
Q. What is the minimum age for membership
in the Rosicrucian Order?
A. There never has been a definite minimum
age established in a universal sense, and each coun
try or each jurisdiction has certain rules in this
regard which it has found compatible with the
conditions to be dealt with. In most lands, and
especially in North America, young people who
are below the legal age may become members only
with the approval of their parents or guardians,
and after being carefully examined as to their sin'
cerity and serious attitude of mind. Persons above
twentyone years of age find the work intensely
interesting because of the new start it gives them
in life.
No. 41
Q. What has the Rosicrucian organization
done toward teaching and instructing children in
the right way of living and the right way of
thinking?
A. In a few jurisdictions of the Order, there
are junior lodges of the organization, especially
227
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
designed and conducted for children ranging from
twelve to twenty years of age. These lodges are
conducted like clubs or society assemblies, with a
set of officers selected from the junior members,
and with specially prepared lectures or lessons,
consisting of instructions in lodge or social de'
corum, and illustrations of the proper ways to
attain a cultural and ethical understanding of life
in the most simple matter. Where such junior
lodges are not conducted, the children of members
or children of those who are not members are
given special articles or manuscript instructions to
read at home, and for very young children the
organization conducts a subsidiary body known as
the Child Culture Institute, which carries on spe'
cial courses of instruction for mothers who are
attempting to give cultural and ethical training at
home to children between the ages of six and fif
teen . There are also courses of instruction for
expectant mothers, and a series of interesting
stories in manuscript form to be read to young chil'
dren so as to acquaint them with the important
metaphysical, ethical, and cultural laws of Nature
and man.
228
3UESTI0NS AND ANSWERS
No. 42
Q. Must a member join a lodge and attend
lodge meetings in order to receive the instructions
and teachings of the Rosicrucians?
A. Years ago this question became an import'
ant one in North America because of the great
distances between the cities where the principal
lodges were located. By a special vote of the na
tional convention of the organization, a national
lodge to cover the entire North American country
was organized and was empowered to offer a spe'
cial series of graded instructions in manuscript
form for home study. Since the organization never
prints its teachings in books that are publicly sold,
or does not put its teachings in printed form of a
permanent nature in any way, the lessons offered
by the correspondence system are especially pre'
pared from time to time and are constantly kept
up to the modern standard of the progressive work
in the regular lodge. Thousands of members in
North America today are pursuing the Rosicru'
cian studies at home in this manner, with as great
success and with as much efficiency in mastership
as those who attend the regular lodges. Many
229
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
members in the regular lodges are also pursu'
ing the correspondence work at home. In hun
dreds of communities where there is no lodge, the
large number of correspondence members have be
come acquainted and have formed groups which
meet occasionally at one another's homes or in
special halls to discuss the teachings, with ques'
tions answered by one of the most advanced mem'
bers; they also carry on demonstrations and the
application of certain principles. A monthly mag'
azine issued by the national, supreme council of
the organization goes each month to all of the
correspondence members, as well as to the regular
lodge members and in this way every correspond'
ence member is kept informed of all the national
and international activities and given the latest
findings and additions to the teachings. As with
regular lodge membership, the correspondence
members do not have to buy any additional books
or buy any special paraphernalia from the organi
zation, or go into any heavy expenses of any kind,
and the teachings are given just as freely to them
as to the lodge members. In other words, no com'
230
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
mercial features nor typical correspondence school
fees are charged for the correspondence work. A
correspondence member is a member of the organi'
zation in the same sense as a lodge member, and
is,
therefore, entitled to all of the instruction, and
benefits freely offered by the organization, and
they may visit or attend groups or lodges when
ever they are in any city or location where such
are to be found.
No. 43
Q.
Do the thoughts of evil minded persons
create such powers or energies as will become
destructive to land and property, as well as to in'
dividuals? In
a
book entitled, "Realms of the Liv
ing Dead,"
it
is
stated that mighty storm winds
are made up of the embodied evil and malignant
thought forces generated by mankind, which be'
come entities like demons of destruction, sweeping
on with tremendous power.
Is
this true?
A. Such an idea as you quote from the book
you have read
is
absolutely contrary to all sensible
and rational mystical thought. Storms and winds,
cyclones and hurricanes, thunder and lightning,
231
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and all such manifestations of nature and the
results therefrom, good or bad, are parts of God's
creative process of evolution. In the early forma'
tion of this earth, great disturbances of land and
sea undoubtedly in the form of great storms, earth'
quakes, and other manifestations, resulted in the
formation of continents, mountains, valleys, lakes,
seas, and rivers. Animal life may have passed from
existence, and other forms of living things may
have changed their nature, but it was all for good.
Every storm that blows, and every cataclysmic
occurrence which man interprets as destructive, is
part of the process of reconstruction. Only
through intolerance, ignorance, or irrational think'
ing can man come to the conclusion that these
things are evil. As for the thought forces coming
from embodied evil minds, or malignant thinking
on the part of man, affecting the earth and its
elements or human beings and their lives, this is
a superstitious idea continuing from the days when
the ignorant minds of men believed that anything
which was unpleasant to them, or disturbing to
their individual peace, or contrary to conditions as
they would have them, emanated from demons or
232
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
from evil, earthly minds or evil powers of the
heavens. Everything that
is,
is
good. All
is
for
our ultimate benefit and to the glory of God. That
we may be upset in our plans, disturbed in our
peaceful tranquility, or aroused from our slumber
in self indulgence by the activities of nature's
forces,
is
no reason for us, individually or collec
tively, to believe that our judgment of what
is
good and evil
is
right. The true mystic will not
believe that because he, individually, apparently
loses or suffers through
a
natural law, the law
is
evil, or the manifestation of
it
is
a
manifestation
of evil. What
is
loss to one
is
gain to another.
What
is
a
suffering to one must be
a
blessing to
some one else,
if
the cause of these things is
a
natural cause directed by the benevolent, merciful,
omnipotent Mind of the Creator of all things.
No. 44
Q. What position do the Rosicrucians take in
regard to the Christian doctrines?
A. Collectively, as an international organiza
tion, composed of members of every religious
233
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
thought and denomination, the Order takes no
definite stand in regard to the religious doctrines
of any church or religious movement. Naturally,
there is nothing in the real teachings of the Rosi'
crucians which would make a devout Christian
unhappy in his orthodoxy, nor is there anything
in the teachings which would make the Jew or
the Mohammedan unhappy. The real teachings
of the Rosicrucians can be completely studied, as'
similated, and put into practical application with'
out in any way interfering with the religious be'
liefs of anyone. It has been stated by thousands
of students of our teachings that the continual
reference to Divine principles, and the exposition
of many ideas expressed in Biblical literature, has
caused the students to do more Bible reading and
more reading of the sacred literature of their par'
ticular denomination than any other form of
study.
No. 45
Q. Why is it that some writers of so'called
Rosicrucian literature present the Rosicrucian
teachings as a version of Christian mysticism?
234
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. For the same reason that so many cults
and movements, particularly in America, use some
of the terms of the Christian religion in connection
with their work. Whenever personal propounders
of a new form of philosophy wish to attract con'
siderable attention and secure a large following in
America they organize their work as a form of
religion and generally make it appear to be a
revelation of Christian principles. This assures
them of a large and profitable business. There is
no reason for this, so far as the Rosicrucian teach'
ings are concerned, and books or pamphlets claim'
ing to be Rosicrucian, and which present a form
of Christian mysticism based upon some individ'
ual, personal interpretation, are not truly Rosicru'
cian in any sense, and are simply designed to
appeal to Christians without giving them the very
important and valued instructions of the Rosicru'
cian Brotherhood.
No. 46
Q. Can strictly orthodox Christians belong to
the Rosicrucian organization without compromis'
ing their position in the Christian church?
235
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. Orthodox Christians of the most devout
kind can consistently belong to the Rosicrucian
Order and study and follow its teachings with the
utmost good to their lives and personal affairs, just
as devout Christians might study law or music,
art or chemistry, without compromising their posi'
tion in the Christian church. Our records show
that not only are there as many Christians in our
organization as there are members of other denomi'
nations, but many of the leading Christian Divines
and eminent representatives of the Christian church
are members, and even officers of the Rosicrucian
Order. Some of these have written considerable
about the Rosicrucian teachings, and others have
presented many of the Rosicrucian principles in
their Sunday and other services.
No. 47
Q. If the Rosicrucians present no teachings
that are contrary to the Christian teachings, or the
teachings of any other church, then why should
the Order claim to have new knowledge?
A. The teachings of the Rosicrucians deal
with the practical things of life, and Divine prin'
236
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
ciples are included because they make plain to man
the operation of natural laws. While it is true that
none of the Rosicrucian teachings will contradict
any positive statement that may be found, for
instance, in the Christian Bible, that does not
mean that the teachings do not contain new
knowledge that will not be found in the Christian
or any other Bible. In the teachings of the various
churches, we are implored to live rightly, to serve
God, and our fellowman, and to lead a useful
life. But nowhere in these secred writings do we
find such practical instructions as tell us precisely
how we are to follow out the advice given, and
how we may make our lives useful and of service
to God and man. Books on philosophy and ethics
explain to us the need for right living and right
thinking, but they do not contain the practical
examples, illustrations, and methods for meeting
the multiple problems of our earthly life, nor do
they give us exercises and problems to work with
whereby we develop such latent faculties and func
tions as we may possess, and which will enable
us to master the obstacles in our path and attain
the highest degree of usefulness and success. The
237
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Rosicrucian teachings do not philosophize, nor ex'
pound aphorisms and abstract principles, but state
definite laws and then give specific instructions for
the application of these laws to our daily needs.
This is why the Rosicrucian teachings are dis'
tinctly different from the abstract teachings of the
many cults and philosophical movements which
merely inspire the mind to seek to live better or
more happily without giving the definite instruc
tions for accomplishing the desired end.
No. 48
Q. Are the Rosicrucian teachings of today
merely a re'hash of the ancient teachings of the
various schools of mystery?
A. Not at all. A compilation of the ancient
mystery teachings has been attempted in many
books and many encyclopedias, and has never
made a strong appeal except to the scholarly, ana'
lytical minds who love to read of the ancient ac
complishments without any thought of fitting
them into the scheme of things today. The Rosi'
crucian teachings have been evolutionary in their
development and progressive in their spirit. They
238
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
have not kept merely abreast of the times but have
anticipated the needs of each new generation and
each new race of peoples and have forged a path'
way through the turmoil of civilization to the new
land, the new life, and the new goal which was
just beyond the horizon. In all ages and in all
times, the master teachers and workers in the or'
ganization have contributed to the development
and progressive nature of the teachings and in'
structions, and many of the revelations made in
the teachings have been hundreds of years in ad'
vance of the discoveries of science. The teachings
in the organization today deal with the affairs of
the lives of men and women of modern times, and
only such principles taught in the past as are in
the form of universal truth are to be found in
the present day teachings. Truth never becomes
obsolete, and a law never changes its nature, but
only its form of application. To study the ancient
teachings in their ancient form, with their many
references to ancient applications, would be of lit'
tie value to the modern person of the modern
world. This is why the cults and schools that
teach the ancient philosophical principles of India
239
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
and other Oriental lands without modification or
modernization, have failed to render practical serv
ice, especially in the Occidental world.
No. 49
Q. Does one have to believe in reincarnation
in order to master the teachings and principles of
the Rosicrucians?
A. No one is asked to believe in any abstract
or positive principle in order to continue with the
practical teachings and benefits of the Rosicrucian
Order. In fact, the organization seeks to have
its members refrain from accepting anything on
faith, or adopting any principle before it has been
demonstrated to be a truth. The doctrine of rein'
carnation explains many of the mysteries of life,
but the doctrine itself need not be adopted by any
student of the Rosicrucian teachings unless he or
she has found from personal experience that the
doctrine is true. Aside from this doctrine, the
other teachings of the organization will be found
of such practical help and of such logical and
reasonable presentation that the doctrine of rein'
carnation may be set aside by the student without
240
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
interfering with his progress or mastership.
Whether the doctrine of reincarnation is true or
not, is of no importance to the student of the
practical teachings of Rosicrucianism. Those or'
ganizations which insist upon the acceptance of
the doctrine of reincarnation in faith, greatly inter'
fere with the freedom of the student's individual
thinking.
No. 50
Q. Do the Rosicrucians teach that man
evolved from an animal, and that if he does not
live properly he may be born again in some animal
form?
A. The Rosicrucians teach no strange phi'
losophy of this kind. The Rosicrucians know that
the soul of man is ever progressing and ever evolv
ing to a higher and higher standard of pureness
of thought, it never recedes or retrogrades.
Therefore, it would be impossible for the soul of
a human to ever be born again in the body of a
lower animal. Such teachings as this are rem'
nants of ancient superstitions and are easily dis'
proved by scientific and by Cosmic revelations.
241
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Man may be punished in various ways for his
transgressions, but such punishment is to enable
him to purge himself of his evil tendencies and rise
to a higher standard. To cast the soul of a sinner
back into a lower form of animal life, might serve
as a punishment, but it would not contribute to
his evolution and progress and development to a
higher spiritual being. The Cosmic, carrying out
the will of God, does not seek to punish us for our
sins independently of its desire to make us better
and more perfect in our living. Therefore, such
retrogression of the soul as is indicated by the
above question would mean a defeat of the very
purpose of the Cosmic principles.
No. 51
Q. I have read in some occult books that there
exists in the universe some peculiar kind of spirits
called elementals or nature spirits, such as those
which haunt forests, mountains, cataracts, rivers,
and so forth, and are classified as dryads, naiads,
elves, and so forth. It is said by several writers
that these elemental spirits can seize hold of hu'
mans and make slaves of men and women, or
242
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
affect their lives. What do the Rosicrucians say
about this?
A. Of all of the leading occult and metaphy
sical schools of the Orient, and other lands, only
two of them include this fantastic theory of ele-
mental spirits in their teachings. So fantastic, al
luring, and attractive was it to some Occidental
. readers of Oriental literature, that these Occi
dentals have seized upon this weird idea and
elaborated upon
it,
because
it
made an excellent
foundation for that sort of propaganda known as
"fear propaganda." And this
is
always profitable
to those who intend to write
a
number of books.
In one of such books, the author intimates that
everyone should be fearful of the influence of these
elementals, but should, at the same time, remem
ber that there are formulas and methods whereby
these elementals may be kept at
a
distance and
good spirits invoked. Nothing
is
explained in
such books as to how one may protect himself
against these elementals, but the intimation
is
al
ways there that by further inquiry or the buying
of more books, the great protective knowledge
may be obtained. This
is
what might be called
243
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
high pressure salesmanship, or seductive advertis'
ing in the mystical literature of the Occident. The
Rosicrucians know that when God created the
human as the highest manifestation of His own
Consciousness, He did not create other lesser ex'
pressions of consciousness which would have the
power and the privilege of arbitrarily enslaving
His highest creatures. The Rosicrucians know
that God has given man a part of His own pro
tective Consciousness, and that the mind of man
and the will of man, like unto the Mind and Will
of God, can and does protect man against every
natural danger and temptation that exists, and that
no lesser forms of beings have either the power
or privilege of enslaving the human being or even
influencing or endangering the normal, natural
course of human existence. If it were otherwise,
life would be so illogical, God's laws so unsound
and unsystematic, and Nature's principles so hap
hazard and independable, that there would be no
need to study her laws or principles nor attempt
to co'operate with them or use them. And most
certainly there would be no need to try to find
formulas or methods to protect one's self against
244
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
these invisible spirit elementals, since they would
have the advantage through their invisibility,
minuteness, and mystical powers, to overcome us
and control us, despite all of our efforts. Only
the ignorant, superstitious minds of a few Orien
tal countries, and only the grossly ignorant and
gullible students of popular forms of fantastic be'
liefs in the Occident will give more than a passing
thought to such theories, and then smile with
toleration at the fact that a few writers can turn
such fearful ideas into means and methods for
filling their coffers.
No. 52
Q. What is the relationship between the
Great White Brotherhood and the Rosicrucian
Order?
A. The original activities of the Great White
Brotherhood when first established in Egypt con'
sisted almost exclusively of secret sessions held in
very secret places for the purpose of bringing
together the most illustrious minds of the period,
and for the discussion and classification of such
unusual knowledge as had been discovered
245
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
through experimentation, notation, observation, or
revelation. The high motive in mind was to pre'
pare teachers and workers to secretly disseminate
such seeds among the seeking minds of the popu'
lace as would take root and have a very beneficial
effect upon the cultural trend of their thinking.
As time passed, eminent Avatars born in the or'
ganization or coming into it at an early age and
being properly prepared were sent forth into other
lands to quicken the reception of a new cycle and
awaken the minds of the people in the higher
things of life. To better carry on the world'wide
activities, various forms of movements were or'
ganized by the Great White Brotherhood under
various names, and these movements in several
lands were wholly and enthusiastically supported
by the Great White Brotherhood, which as a gov
erning body remained secret in its central location.
Among these organizations thus sponsored by
the Great White Brotherhood were the Essene
Brotherhood and later the Rosicrucian Brother'
hood which evolved out of the Essene and Thera'
peuti movements. Many of the eminent Avatars
born in various parts of the world who were
246
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
conscious of the inspiration given to them to bring
light to the masses came under the observation of
the Great White Brotherhood, and through the
Masters thereof received direct support and fur'
ther inspiration. Some of these Avatars were per'
mitted to organize movements of their own be'
fitting the time and development of the people
with whom they were dealing. One typical in'
stance of this is the work of Madame Helen Bla'
vatsky, who throughout her childhood was a sub
ject of Cosmic inspiration and preparation, and
submitted to the Cosmic urge to establish an in'
dependent organization which she called Theosc
phy because of its appeal to the class of people
with which she believed she would have to deal.
As she more completely attuned herself with the
Cosmic, she eventually came in contact with the
Masters of the Great White Brotherhood, and in
the later part of her life her work was sponsored
by the Great White Brotherhood as one of its
channels of operation. At her transition her work
was completed as an Avatar of the Great White
Brotherhood. Madame Blavatsky's writings and
247
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
teachings will remain as a monument to her con'
tact with the Brotherhood and to the great good
that such other activities can accomplish. The
organization she had founded had accomplished
its definite mission, and there seemed to be no need
for its continuance under the name and form used
by her. In fact, the very rapid growth of the Rosi'
crucian Order throughout the world gave the
Great White Brotherhood every possible channel
and every opportunity it could utilize for the
dissemination of its power and knowledge. With
the Great White Lodge and its Ashramas and
monasteries in several lands of the Orient provid'
ing a place for the most evolved workers of the
organization to come together and devote their
lives to the inner work of the Brotherhood, there
was no reason for the maintenance of many move'
ments or schools under various names divided
against themselves under opposing leaders. Thus
the Rosicrucian Order throughout the world today
represents the general, inner and outer activities of
the Great White Brotherhood and the most exten'
248
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
sive western world channel for the dissemination of
the secret doctrines and teachings of the great
Masters.
No. 53
Q. What is the necessity for initiation cere'
monies?
A. A question of this kind usually arises in
the mind of a person who is unfamiliar with the
real purpose of true initiation ceremonies. Very
often such persons have in mind an elaborate rit
ual, bombastic in its settings, and pretentious in
the formalities and expressions. True initiation is
rather of the inner self than of the outer self.
Ceremonialism may be divided into two classifica
tions: First, that which is incident to preparation,
for certain definite steps about to be taken; or,
second, a dramatization and illustration of prin
ciples and ideals inwardly apprehended but out
wardly incomprehensible. In regard to the first of
these, we may say that any preliminary steps taken
before beginning a definite course might be con
sidered as initiatory steps, and any procedure
wherein conditions are arranged and the individual
prepared to adjust himself to the conditions may
249
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
be properly called an initiation. In this sense, if a
student of the higher teachings receives his first les'
son, and decides that in order to do justice to the
work at hand, and receive the utmost from the
lesson to be studied, he should have privacy, quiet'
ness, and the facilities for concentration, he is
closely following the procedure of initiation. If he
takes himself off to a quiet room of his home, and
arranges a comfortable seat and adjusts a proper
light to read by and softens other lights in the
room or removes things that would distract his
attention, and closes himself against intrusion and
interruption, we may properly say that in doing
these things he is initiating himself into the work
or labor at hand. If in doing these things he does
them with a sense of the sacredness, importance,
and influence that they will have in his life, and
reverently sits down in his room and proceeds to
meditate awhile before starting the lesson in order
to clear his mind of intruding impressions and
irrelevant thoughts, he is performing a ritual or
ceremonial in connection with his initiation. It is
absolutely necessary that the student of the higher
laws and principles who is seeking to have these
250
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
things become a part of his inner self should pre
ceed with a realization that the objective or outer
self, with its burden of worries, thoughts, and
concerns regarding the material things in life, must
be quieted and made peaceful in order that it may
not interfere with the attunement on the part of
the inner self. The true value of initiation lies in
the attunement it brings to the inner self with the
Cosmic Mind and the Universal Intelligence. Any
ceremony or ritual that aids the student or the
Adept to bring the inner self to a higher phase of
apprehension and comprehension is of unquestion
able value and has its place in the course of study
and development. Processes or rituals called ini'
tiations which do not do this, but merely elaborate
on the importance of the work to be accomplished,
are of little value indeed. Therefore, the Rosicru'
cians have only such ceremonies or forms of initia
tion in their work as enable the student to attune
himself with the Cosmic and quicken his inner
comprehension. Such ceremonies are peaceful
quiet, and very often conducted privately, and
without elaborate ritualism, by the student him'
self.
251
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 54
Q. Are the Rosicrucian activities related in
any way to the various religions or religious'
fraternal movements of the Hindus, Persians, or
others?
A. The Rosicrucian organization is not affili'
ated with any other outer or inner movements
associated with religious activities, and is distinctly
different from such movements as are indicated in
the question. There are a number of organizations
devoted to the unification of religions and religious
ideas such as the Bahai movement, but the Rosicnp
cian Order is devoted exclusively to the dissemina'
tion and demonstration of such principles and laws
as are applicable to the requirements of our every
day life. While many other organizations are de'
voted to the spread of the idea of a universal
brotherhood, with the altruistic purpose of bring'
ing all races and all beliefs together under one
symbol of cooperative thinking and acting, the
Rosicrucians are quietly and efficiently going
about the unification of the races of man, and the
minds of man, by teaching such practical principles
as enable men and women to live a more useful
252
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
life in harmony with others everywhere. Those
organizations which do not attempt to teach such
practical things are simply holding an ideal before
the minds of men and inspiring them to work to-
ward that ideal. The Rosicrucian Order, on the
other hand, is showing all men the very practical
ways to bring this about. In this way, the Rosi'
crucian organization is distinctly different in pur'
pose and practice from any other international fra'
ternal body in the world.
No. 55
Q. Why is the subject of mysticism of interest
to progressive minds?
A. Because there is an inherent desire in the
consciousness of every progressive thinker to in'
quire into the origin of things, the mystery of life,
and the ultimate purpose of our existence. In the
early history of civilization, such inquiries as these
constituted the delving into the mystical side of
our existence, and mysticism became an eminent
and profound school of thought. In the unlearned
minds, mysticism today is erroneously associated
with modern mysteries and with magic; but there
253
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
is no magic in mysticism, and the only mystery
therein is that which is unanswered and unsolved.
Mysticism represents the highest expressions of
Truth, and the study of mysticism is a study of
Truth in all of its pristine purity and uncontami'
nated manifestations. Mysticism is not a religion,
although it reveals and explains the greatest and
most profound of the religious mysteries; it is not
an unscientific study, although it does not depend
upon the findings of science for its knowledge, and
accepts as many of its Truths through Cosmic
Revelations as it does through the analytical ob'
servation of the objective minds utilizing every
scientific process known to man; it is not a philose
phy, for it directs the mind to the practical appli'
cation of its principles, as urgently as it empha
sizes the need of inspirational meditation. It is
generally conceded by every eminent theologian
that the essence of religion is its mysticism; and it
is likewise conceded by every artist, musician,
architect, inventor, or creative artisan that mysti'
cism is the fabric out of which he weaves the in'
spired impressions for objective comprehension.
In this we see that mysticism is the very essence
254
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
of our higher thoughts and higher living, and with'
out it as an element of nature, and a school of
instruction, man is only partially educated and not
wholly cognizant of the beauties, powers, and
blessings of existence.
No. 56
Q. In what way does a mystical comprehen'
sion of the things of life enable man to enjoy life?
A. The mystical understanding of all things
that exist brings to man a closer attunement with
the natural laws of the universe, and removes from
his consciousness the fear of the unknown and the
fear of the misunderstood. This results in greater
peace to his soul and mind, greater power of will,
and greater determination to cooperate with the
laws he knows to overcome the obstacles and limi'
tations of his life here on earth. The study gives
him a broader view of life and its miracles and
mysteries, and enlarges his horizon of comprehen'
sion as well as widens his realm of sympathy and
attunement. It enables him to anticipate the in'
evitable results of certain actions in his life, and
to prepare for them. It removes the doubt regard'
255
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
ing the consequences of other acts, and gives him
the power to proceed with greater sureness and
security. It attunes the harmony of the physical
body to the creative principles, and thereby brings
better health and a greater freedom from the in'
fluences of disease and contamination. It quickens
man's perceptive faculties, awakens and develops
the intuitive functionings of his consciousness,
and makes him fortified in many ways to master
the trials and situations of his everyday affairs,
bringing greater success and happiness. The
mystic is ever alert to the finer things, the higher
things, the better things, and the more real things
of life, and he finds enjoyment, pleasure, con'
tentment, and peace in conditions and circum'
stances where another is depressed, distracted, and
discouraged.
No. 57
Q. Are not the great truths of our existence
obtainable through Revelation rather than through
study?
A. Even if this were so, it would be necessary
for the average person to learn how to prepare
256
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
himself for the Revelations, and unquestionably
the influx of Cosmic Revelations would necessi'
tate the invention of some system for the proper
classification and analysis of the knowledge thus
revealed. Great truths have undoubtedly been re'
vealed to the unprepared minds in the past, and
through the partial comprehension of these Reve'
lations, man has been able to advance civilization
and to improve the conditions under which the
races of man have lived. It is also true, however,
that those Revelations which have come to the pre'
pared minds have been more comprehensible and
more perfectly transmuted into benefits and bless'
ings. The whole purpose of the Rosicrucian Order
is to acquaint the seeking mind with an under'
standable explanation and analysis as well as a
logical classification of all the Revelations that
have been made to man in the past, so that such
as may come to the seeker in the future may be
instantly and properly related to the known truths,
and properly appreciated and comprehended. The
teachings of the organization are not presented as
dogmatic doctrines which must be accepted on
faith, but as understandable principles susceptible
257
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
to application and analysis, with such demonstra'
tions as bring conviction and remove the necessity
for faith. The acquirement of this knowledge nat'
urally and gradually attunes the student for the
reception of further knowledge through his own
experimentation and study, or through Cosmic
Revelation.
No. 58
Q. Why is not such knowledge published in
books and disseminated freely to the public in'
stead of being held for limited dissemination among
members of a private organization?
A. Neither the Rosicrucian organization nor
any other world'wide movement in the past or
present that has possessed a knowledge of the
great truths of life have attempted to limit the
dissemination of such knowledge. The great prob'
lem and serious struggle on the part of all such
movements has been to discover ways and means
for the widest possible distribution of the teach'
ings or information at their disposal. If the pres'
ent'day Rosicrucian organization could do so, it
would have the teachings introduced into all of the
258
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
public schools where the foundation of education
is laid in the minds of young men and women, and
the teachings would be expounded as part of the
preachments in every church. In fact, if the Great
White Brotherhood could realize its dream of uni'
versal dissemination of this knowledge, there
would be no need for the Rosicrucian organize
tion or any of the schools of mysticism or mystical
philosophy. But the mass does not want this sort
of education at the present time, and this is proved
by the fact that only one person out of many
thousands is interested enough in the improvement
of his own welfare and the development of his
best interests to pause a moment in the mad rush
of material affairs to read a pamphlet or lesson or
listen to a few words spoken by an enlightened one
in their midst. This condition necessitates the dis'
semination of the knowledge in a limited way, and
in a manner that will appeal to those who are
seeking for
it,
not the projecting of
it
into the
affairs of those who have no time for
it,
and who
would actively protest against its dissemination, as
an unnecessary consumption of valuable time and
effort. The Rosicrucian Order does not operate
259
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
as a secret organization, but merely as a private
organization and does everything within its power
to bring its work and its offerings before the atten'
tion of the public in a dignified and efficient
manner. Every form of ethical procedure is used
to apply the knowledge possessed by the organize
tion to the betterment of mankind, in addition to
the dissemination of the teachings; and for this
reason many private forms of humanitarian and
altruistic activities are conducted by the organic
tion under various names so that great good may
come to many without having it appear that it is
for the purpose of promulgating the teachings or
appearing to be a subtle form of proselyting. Thou
sands of dollars are spent annually by every
branch of the organization in conducting public
meetings consisting of excellent music, interesting
lectures, and illuminating discussions, in order to
scatter as widely as possible such seeds as may fall
into the fertile minds of seekers, or perhaps
awaken an interest in these matters in the dor'
mant mind of a potential seeker. Large sums of
money are also spent in the dissemination of lit/
erature, in the presentation of motion'pictures and
260
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
plays that teach an ethical or mystical principle,
and in the dissemination of books or magazines
containing helpful instruction. Nothing is left un'
done, of a dignified nature, to propagate the teach'
ings of the organization in as efficient, economi
cal, and impressive a manner as possible; and na'
tional congresses are held every year for the pur'
pose of discussing ways and means of spreading
the work as widely and as freely as is consistent
with the awakening of the mass consciousness.
No. 59
Q. Why do we not hear more about the Rosi'
crucian organization in the speeches and writings
of eminent persons?
A. The answer to this question is found in
the reluctance on the part of prominent persons
to speak of their personal affiliations for fear of
appearing to be either boastful or seeming to bring
their personal, philosophical connections into mat'
ters that have no connection therewith. On the
other hand, many of the most eminent writers and
public workers in America and other lands today
261
SUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
are members of the organization. In their writings,
speeches, or general activities they apply the Rosi'
crucian principles, and in many ways make them'
selves known to the understanding ones as stu'
dents of the Rosicrucian work. In one case in the
North American jurisdiction, the general man'
ager and controller of one of the largest news'
papers and every one of the heads of the important
editorial and producing departments of the paper
are members of the Rosicrucian organization. Any
Rosicrucian reading that paper analytically would
discover in each issue hundreds of earmarks indi'
cating that the ethical ideals and sympathetic un'
derstanding of a real mystic entered into the
make'up and editorial policy of that paper. The
fact that the leading editorial articles and the news
of the activities of the churches and the various
educational institutions and humanitarian bodies
always give emphasis to the ethical and mystical
side of the things of life, and that the advertise'
ments and offerings are free from all obscene or
depressing pictures and statements, would indicate
that the paper was carefully edited and directed
by those who understood the principles being
262
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
taught by the Rosicrucians. Even the business
policy of this newspaper, dealing with its adver'
tisers and with its subscribers contains many un
usual features that have attracted attention to the
paper as one having philosophical ideals of a very
high standard. And yet only occasionally does
there appear a story or a news item about the
Rosicrucians, and always without any reference
to the fact that the newspaper knows anything
more about the Rosicrucians than is contained in
the item. A number of eminent feature writers
whose articles appear in magazines and Sunday
editions of the newspapers are members of the
organization, and their writings are often clipped
and preserved by our members who recognize in
the stories or in the articles extracts or principles
from our teachings, carefully presented so as to
sow seeds of thought without the objectionable
feature of appearing to be some form of propa'
ganda. In courts of law, judges who are members
of the organization adhere to the principles taught
by the Rosicrucians in the administration of jus'
tice and in the tolerant, sympathetic consideration
of the cases brought before them. Many physi'
263
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
dans, scientists, professors in colleges, and tutors
in schools who are members of the organization
are devoutly demonstrating the practical nature
of our work, and sowing seeds that must eventu'
ally produce distinct results. On the other hand,
more and more of the popular books on religion,
philosophy, morals, and ethics do make reference
to the Rosicrucians; and the Rosicrucian Order in
the United States has had in the last five years
more widespread publicity in the form of feature
articles telling of its activities, its teachings, and
the lives of its principal workers than any other
humanitarian movement of its kind. The organi
zation has always tried to avoid such forms of
bombastic propaganda as would make it appear to
be a cult or a sect appealing for members who are
desired to join in some unique reformation or
school of fanaticism. Its unusual increase of mem'
bers and students is more the result of the per'
sonal recommendation on the part of enthusiastic
members than the result of any of its outer forms
of propaganda. A Rosicrucian is generally known
by the life he lives and the happy, contented, sue
cessful manner in which he enjoys his life and
264
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
carries on with his affairs than by any other sign;
and often a number of Rosicrucians may be united
in one church or in one service club or civic body
for many years before any of them discover that
there are other members of the Rosicrucian organ'
Ration with them.
No. 60
Q. How do the Rosicrucians deal with the
subject of hypnotism?
A. Rosicrucian teachings do not deal with
hypnotism as a science or an art. In explaining
and presenting all of the laws that pertain to vari'
ous psychological states of consciousness, it is but
natural that reference would be made to sleep,
whether induced or natural, and in this manner
the so-called state of hypnosis is explained scien
tifically and properly. Likewise, the possible or
probable benefits resulting from any induced state
of semiconsciousness are fully dealt with as well
as the false claims made for the so-called state of
hypnosis. There was a time, a few years ago,
when it would have been necessary to expound
considerably on the dangers of experimenting with
265
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
the popular formulas for attempting to produce
the state of hypnosis, but those days have passed,
and the real dangers associated with such experi'
mentation are of little consequence as a result of
the more popular understanding of other laws and
principles of a superior efficiency. The popular
craze for the study of hypnotism rightfully passed
into oblivion as men and women came to under'
stand the real principles of psychology and the
application of them to our mental and physical
requirements. Perhaps the greatest danger that
was associated with the idea of hypnotism was the
fear of it that existed in the minds of the un'
learned. Nothing of a hypnotic nature could pos'
sibly be included in the work of the Rosicrucian
Order because it would be unscientific, impracti'
cal, and unsound, from the Rosicrucian point of
view.
No. 61
Q. If the doctrines of reincarnation are true,
and all beings in the world today are incarnations
of only those who have lived previously, how do
you account for the increasing population?
266
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. This question assumes that as the world
gets older month by month and year by year, the
population is increasing by thousands of beings,
and that there are more persons living on earth
today than were living one hundred, five hundred,
a thousand, or ten thousand years ago. This as'
sumption, however, is not based upon any actual
facts that are discovered by science. Regardless
of what the population of the earth may be today,
we have no reason to assume that it is any larger
in number than it was ten thousand years ago.
The assumption that the earth's population is in'
creasing is based upon the belief that in recent
centuries new lands have been discovered which
were unpopulated and have since been populated
without decreasing the population of other lands.
It was believed, for instance, that when Columbus
discovered America this continent was populated
by only a few thousand Indians. If that assump'
tion was correct, then it would appear that the
hundred million population now existing in the
United States means a considerable addition to
the entire population of the world. On the basis
of such reasoning, it would appear that ten thou'
267
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
sand or more years ago, there were only a few
countries in the world which had any population,
and that today those same countries have an in'
creased population, while the new lands that have
been opened to civilization have added millions of
new beings to the earth's population. The find'
ings of science, however, are constantly revealing
what the ancient mystics of the Orient always
contended, namely, that the North American con'
tinent, for instance, was always thickly populated
at different periods in its history, and the discov
ery of lost cities of enormous size and the ruins
of ancient centers of civilization prove that at one
time North America was well populated with a
highly advanced race of people, or of many races
of peoples. The same thing can be said of parts
of South America and other lands. Then we must
not forget that there was a great continent called
the Atlantis which was also thickly populated,
but which became submerged and brought to an
end the earthly existence of millions of incarnated
beings. Taking these facts into consideration, it
is possible to conceive that at various cycles of the
earth's existence, the earth has had a very large
268
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
population, and that at other cycles the popula'
tion has been greatly decreased through famine,
earthquakes, storms, volcanic disruptions and
other natural means of evolution. Therefore, it
may be that there are no more beings on the earth
today than there were thousands of centuries ago.
However, all of this is purely speculative, and
solely as a result, of the assumption that the popu'
lation of the earth is increasing continuously with'
out the creation of new souls. There is nothing
in the doctrines of reincarnation to intimate that
every living creature on the face of the earth has
lived before, and that no being is now living for
the first time on this earth plane. It is very pos'
sible that many of the thousands of primitive be'
ings that are discovered on various islands and in
far away sections of uncivilized land are new soul
expressions having their first incarnation on this
earth. In fact, every scientific investigation of this
class of beings indicates that this is so, and these
facts help us to understand how the population
of the earth can increase without presenting any
contradiction to the doctrines of reincarnation.
269
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 62
Q. Will not a thorough study of practical
psychology cover all the benefits to be derived
from the study of the Rosicrucian teachings?
A. A thorough study of practical psychology
will make the student familiar with the funda'
mental principles of the functioning of the mind,
and cast some light on the relationship of the
mind to the soul. This knowledge constitutes but
a fraction of the knowledge included in a com'
plete study of mysticism, metaphysics, psychology,
and ontology. Certainly the Rosicrucian teachings
embrace more important and more practical
knowledge than is contained in a thorough course
on psychology. Furthermore, no course on psy
chology deals with all of the practical problems
of everyday life with solutions for them and meth'
ods whereby men and women may master the
serious situations in life and accomplish the things
which lead to contentment, perfect health, peace,
happiness, and prosperity. Hundreds of books
have been written on the subject of psychology
and hundreds of lecturers have conducted public
and private classes dealing exhaustively with psy
270
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
chology, and yet the average student of these
courses and classes discovers that he has been
merely touching the edge of a field of knowledge
that becomes more and more alluring. Many thou
sands of the members who unite with the Rosi'
crucian organization have spent years in the study
of psychology and come to the Rosicrucian organi'
zation seeking more knowledge and more practical
help than they have had; and the fact that they
remain in the organization and become enthusiastic
regarding the work and teachings of the Rosicru'
cian Order indicates that they did not find in
psychology the complete presentation of the prin
ciples which are necessary for a comprehensive
understanding of life and all of its problems. For
a number of years America was enthusiastic over
the subject of practical psychology, and this study
was offered as a solution to all of the ills and
problems of humanity. The study of this science
was bombastically offered as the last and ultimate
\ey to life and its enigmas. The fad has waned
solely because the thousands who devoted their
time and money in close application to the study
of psychology discovered that it was not the great
271
SUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
aid that it was claimed to be, despite the excellent
help it has been in many ways.
No. 63
Q. Cannot anyone secure just as complete an
outline of the Rosicrucian teachings from any of
the popular books on Rosicrucian principles as by
taking the course of study from the Rosicrucian
Order?
A. The Rosicrucian teachings in their entirety
and even in a fairly comprehensible outline have
never been published in any books sold on the
open market, and never will be. It is true that
a number of publishers have been tempted by the
demand on the part of thousands of seekers for
such books, to publish pamphlets and books claim
ing to contain the Rosicrucian secrets, teachings,
rituals, symbols, and so forth. It is notable
that in every case the most bombastic of these
claims and the most alluring of these books are
issued by publishing companies or individuals hav
ing absolutely no connection with the Rosicrucian
Order, and not operating as a part of the Rosi'
crucian Order. Furthermore, a casual examina'
272
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS •
tion of the eight or ten books published within the
last fifty years in America claiming to contain
some of the Rosicrucian teachings shows that no
two of these books contain the same fundamental
principles, use the same terminology, have the
same viewpoint on essential principles in life, or
offer the same explanations. Certainly, therefore,
all of them cannot be Rosicrucian presentations.
There cannot be and never has been any diversity
of opinion on the part of the real Rosicrucian in'
structors in regard to the principles, laws, and
teachings of the Rosicrucian work, and whether a
man or woman unites with the Rosicrucian organi'
zation in Egypt, South Africa, Australia, United
States, England, France, or Germany, the teach'
ings are identical, and the uniformity of under'
standing and practice of these principles is one
of the strong features making for cooperative ac
tion and universal brotherhood. Differences of
opinion on the part of teachers or writers of popu
lar books in regard to the same science would
cause not only confusion in the minds of the stU'
dents, but lead to endless speculative theories and
inconsistent consequences. This is precisely what
273
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
one finds in the books offered on the open market
as outlines of Rosicrucian teachings. In every case
these books have been written by men or women
who have had some course of reading in meta'
physical or occult subjects, and have attempted to
write a personal opinion of what the Rosicrucian
teachings may be like or should be like without any
real knowledge of them. No Rosicrucian student
who has completed the course of study and is pre
ficient and successful in his application of the prin'
ciples and the mastery of his life has ever written
or attempted to write a book presenting these
teachings to the public for commercial price.
We say it has never been done, and we further
say that it never will be done; for every such stu'
dent knows that it would be inconsistent and im'
proper, and, therefore, impossible, in the light of
his understanding and development. Several thou
sand men and women among the others who unite
with the Rosicrucian organization every year
spend large sums of money in the purchase of such
books before coming into the organization, with
the hope of economically and conveniently learn
ing the principles which they believe will produce
274
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
the utmost benefit in their lives. They finally dis'
cover that the purchase of these books becomes a
costly proposition, and that they are expending
more money this way in one year than they would
in several years in the proper manner of study.
They find that they receive no benefits but are
becoming constantly confused through the differ'
ences of opinions on the part of these authors and
through the continual issuance of new books with
new ideas written for the purpose of tempting the
seeker to continue to buy books in the hope that
his search will eventually come to an end. The
more alluring and tempting, and the more inclusive
is the title of any of these sccalled Rosicrucian
books, the more sure one can be that the books
contain nothing of real value and are designed
solely to appeal to the susceptibility of the un'
guided seeker. Books which claim to be an exposi'
tion of the Rosicrucian mysteries or a presentation
of the Rosicrucian rites and rituals, or of the secret
doctrines of the Rosicrucians, are not only mis'
leading in their titles, but deceptive in the claims
set forth, inasmuch as such books do not and can'
not contain what is claimed for them. Attention
275
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
is called to a section of the history of the organi'
zation published in this book, which explains how
and why a number of pseudccRosicrucian move'
ments have attempted to carry on the impression
of being a part of the Rosicrucian Order by the
adoption of misleading names or simulating em'
blems, while doing nothing more than publishing
and selling useless books. Everyone of common
sense will appreciate the fact that any book
offered for public sale, claimed to be a complete
presentation of the secret teachings and secret rit'
ual of the Freemasons would be unworthy of pur'
chase at any price, for one would know instinc
tively that the contents of the book could not pes'
sibly fulfill the claim made by the title. The same
may be said of books dealing with the subject of
Rosicrucianism.
No. 64
Q. Is it not true that the Rosicrucian Order
in America and in some other lands has published
some books dealing with Rosicrucianism, even
though they say that the Rosicrucian teachings
are never published in any public books?
276
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
A. The Rosicrucian Order in America, like
the Order in other jurisdictions, for many cen'
turies has published certain books which present
the real ideals and philosophical standards of the
Rosicrucian fraternity. None of these books,
however, have ever borne a title that would indi'
cate that they contained the secret teachings or
an outline of all of the teachings, or a presenta'
tion of the complete teachings, rituals, practices,
and work of the organization. In checking up on
the largest Rosicrucian bibliography, compiled in
Europe a few years ago, it was found that not one
of three thousand eight hundred some odd books
contained a title or a sub-title that was misleading
in so far as claiming the book to be a presentation
of the secret teachings or the complete teachings,
or the practices and arts, of Rosicrucianism. This
in itself distinguishes these official books from
the pretentious offerings and subtle inducements
put forward in the titles of books published by
concerns not connected with the Rosicrucian
Order, and not familiar with the real Rosicrucian
teachings. The Rosicrucian Order in America, for
instance, has published a book dealing with the
277
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
"Rosicrucian Principles for Home and Business."
This book does not present the secret teachings of
the Rosicrucians, nor does it claim to do so, and
distinctly states in its introduction that the book
presents only a few of the Rosicrucian principles
with an enlargement and elaboration of their ap'
plication to business and social affairs. Everyone
who reads such a book and derives unmistakable
benefits from the principles presented, is continu'
ously made aware by the statements therein that
the more extended and varied teachings of the
Rosicrucian work are not contained in the printed
pages. In other books published by the Rosicnp
cian Order of North America, dealing with the
subject of reincarnation in story form for the sake
of those who want to know what reincarnation
deals with, and in books dealing with the mystical
life of Jesus, the history of the Order, the early
manuscript writings of the Masters of Tibet, and
similar publications, only such subjects are dealt
with as are not a part of the secret teachings or
the practical teachings of the complete course of
Rosicrucian study. Even though the Rosicrucian
Order were to publish a complete library of several
278
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
hundred books, which it intends to do in the
coming years, none of these would contain the
complete course of study as given by the Rosicru'
cian Order in all the lands where it exists. Such
books are helpful, inspiring, and of practical bene'
fit to members and non'members alike, and are
issued and sold at an economical price. They
should be classified as valuable contributions to
the occult and metaphysical literature of the
world, and not as claimed expositions of the secret
Rosicrucian teachings.
No. 65
Q. Why is so much being said about the Rosi
crucian Order at the present time, if it has existed
in all lands for so many centuries?
A. A study of the history published in the
other part of this book will show that the Order
has had a public and private existence in alternat
ing periods of one hundred and eight years each.
There was a time when the Rosicrucian Order
was as well known in America among the popu
lace of this country at that time as it is known
today, but this period was followed by one hun'
t
279
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
dred and eight years of dormancy in the organize
tion during which the public knowledge and in'
terest in the organization passed away. In order
to understand this the better, the attention of the
reader is called to the section of the history deal'
ing with "The One Hundred and Eight Year
Cycle and the Mystery of C. R'C."
No. 66
Q. What are the moral requirements of mem'
bership in the Rosicrucian Order?
A. The only moral requirements necessary for
membership in the Rosicrucian Order are that the
applicant should be of good repute, living a life of
general conformity with the moral and ethical
standards of the country, and having a firm con'
viction in the existence of God. The Order ex'
chides those who do not believe in the existence
of God, solely because of the time that would have
to be consumed and the unnecessary effort ex'
pended in establishing a conviction of the existence
of God, Supreme Architect, Divine Creator, or
Omnipotent Intelligence in the mind and heart of
a prospective member. Unless such a conviction
280
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
does exist in the consciousness of a student of the
Rosicrucian teachings, he or she can make no
progress and can never master the application of
the natural laws. Those who are engaged in any
practice or hobby contrary to the laws of the land,
or in any profession or study that is unethical and
tends toward fanaticism, radicalism, or extreme
unconventionalism are not permitted to unite with
the organization. Religious differences of opinion,
so far as sectarianism is concerned, have no con'
sideration in the qualification of an applicant. Each
applicant must promise, before being accepted, to
honor and respect the laws of the country and the
Flag under which he lives, and he or she must
also promise to be a good and useful citizen in the
upbuilding of a better nation. This naturally elimi'
nates the objectors to law and order, and those
who pretend to be conscientious objectors to the
upholding of the nation's best interests in the time
of peace or war. The sole purpose of the work
of the Rosicrucian Order is not to make better
beings out of individuals in a selfish sense, but to
make better citizens in every country to the glory
of God and the betterment of the nation. With
281
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
each jurisdiction in each land having the same
motive and the same purpose, the organization is
building up a race of men and women of all na'
tionalities, who see beyond national bounds and
limitations and are united in one grand Brother'
hood for the perfection of all races of mankind.
No. 67
Q. Do the Rosicrucians have to wear any par'
ticular garb, robe, or emblem, or conduct them'
selves in any outward manner so as to distinguish
themselves from other citizens?
A. The Rosicrucian Order does not require its
members to wear anything, or act in any manner,
that would designate them as being different from
other persons, except in so far as their mental atti'
tude of tolerance, sympathy, and understanding,
and their success and happiness in life, would in'
dicate them to be advanced persons, familiar with
and applying a philosophy and system of living
that enables them to achieve the utmost and re'
ceive the bountiful blessings of this universe.
282
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
No. 68
Q. Do the Rosicrucians read the Christian
Bible and attend churches of any denomination?
A. It is but natural that the studies of spir'
itual and natural laws would lead to the close study
of the Christian Bible as well as many other sacred
books that have been written in the centuries
past. Rosicrucians are devout students of the
Christian Bible, for they find therein many ex'
pressions of the early comprehension of God's
great laws. They are generally members of vari
ous churches of various denominations, for there
is nothing in the teachings that would lead them
from the church, and much that makes them ap'
preciate the great work that the churches have
done in the past and are doing today and which
calls for their hearty support and cooperation.
No. 69
Q. Do the Rosicrucian teachings include all
knowledge and all Truth?
A. It would be impossible for the Rosicrucian
teachings to include all Truth and all knowledge.
The study of facts known about bacteria, for in'
283
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
stance, constitutes a long and serious course, but
is not included in the Rosicrucian teachings be'
cause it has no place in its system, even though it
does represent Truth. All the laws of art and
music are not included in the Rosicrucian teach'
ings, regardless of the fact that they also represent
Truth. There is much knowledge in the universe
generally known, and much that is only secretly
known that is not included in the Rosicrucian
teachings, because it has no place in the scheme of
things as outlined by the practical purposes of the
organization. But all knowledge of metaphysical,
occult, psychological, mystical, natural, spiritual,
and mental laws as pertains to man's being, man's
development, and man's mastership of the condi'
tions around him, are included in the course in so
far as they are of practical value and enable him
to actually do things in this material world for his
own betterment and the betterment of others. The
teachings are inclusive enough to contain all that
is good and practical and based upon Truth as
presented in the teachings of all the other meta'
physical and mystical schools of India, Egypt,
Persia, and other lands. The fact that the Rosi'
284
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
crucian organization is extensive in all of the
Oriental lands and that the greatest teachers of the
individual philosophies and mystical teachings in
these other lands are officers and enthusiastic
workers in the Rosicrucian Order, and have been
so for many centuries, should plainly indicate that
whatever is good and practical and true of these
other teachings would become a part of the Rosi'
crucian studies. The Rosicrucian work continues
to be as it has been in all centuries, the most com'
plete and most inclusive of all schools. As rapidly
as any laws and principles of nature are discov
ered, or evolved by experimentation and test on
the part of Masters and highly developed individ'
uals in any land, in any school of thought, and
in any race of people, these things are immediately
brought before the national and international con'
gresses of the Rosicrucian Order. If found of prac
tical value in either the Oriental or Occidental
world they are added to the Rosicrucian instruc
tions in a form to be most easily understood and
most efficiently applied. Not being bound by any
creed or dogmas, or limited by any traditions of
antiquity, the Rosicrucian Order can logically and
285
2UESTIONS AND ANSWERS
rightfully add to its teachings and modify them
continuously in keeping with the evolving con'
sciousness and requirement of all men and women.
No. 70
Q. Are the Rosicrucian teachings of today the
same ancient teachings as those promulgated cen'
turies ago?
A. The very fact that men and women of the
Western World and of Occidental progressive'
ness find the teachings of practical value in their
every day affairs, would indicate that the teach'
ings of the Rosicrucian Order today cannot be
those which were given in the schools of centuries
past. Truth is never changing, and a law or prin
ciple that was sound and proved a thousand or
ten thousand years ago must be sound and true
today; but it may be a principle requiring no
application on the part of men and women of
modern times. Therefore, it would not be a prac
tical one in the view of modern light and develop'
ment. Many of the ancient principles in regard
to diet and fasting which were sound, logical, and
of practical help several centuries ago, are of little
286
gUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
value today because of the improvements and mod'
ification in man's living and especially in the mat'
ter of eating. Therefore, the study of the ancient
philosophies in their original form includes many
principles and practices of no value today, and
this fact is overlooked by many who seek know
lodge from ancient sources, and in the republica'
tion of ancient books. On the other hand, many
of the profound principles that served man so well
in years gone by have their application today in
a modified form or in relation to activities and
practices on our part not known to those of an'
cient peoples. In addition to this, every year sees
the discovery or evolution of a new principle or
law partially known or perhaps unknown to the
ancients, but always existing in the Cosmic as a
universal principle. These discoveries or evolved
principles are tested and tried by the highest mem'
bers of the organization in all lands and are gradu
ally added to the teachings of the organization so
as to provide the students with the very best and
most modern application of the fundamental prin
ciples which are helpful to all. For this reason, the
teachings and lessons of the Rosicrucian organic
287
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
tion are continuously revised, modified, and aug'
mented. The revisions and modifications do not
set aside any Truth that is of a practical value, nor
do they make untrue that which was and always
will be true. The revisions and modifications usu'
ally apply to the wording, presentation, or utility
of the principle or law. The Rosicrucian teach'
ings of each year are the most advanced presenta'
tion of these things to be found in any school or
system, and are always in keeping with man's ac
tual requirements and contemplations.
No. 71
Q. Do the Rosicrucian teachings follow in the
wake of science in their revelations, or do they
anticipate them? »
A. The Rosicrucian teachings have always
been many years, and often many centuries in ad'
vance of the findings of science. This is not a
reflection upon science, for science acknowledges
and gives voice to principles and laws only after
it has tested them in its own way and reduced
them to certain measures and methods of observa'
tion. This unique standard established by science
288
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
causes it to hold back in the acceptance of any
law or principle, long after many of such prin'
ciples have been known and used by progressive
minds. The Rosicrucians, on the other hand, do
not depend upon the rules of science for the dis
covery and test of natural laws and principles.
They have their own way by which they may
prove the truth or worthiness of a principle, and
this method permits them to quickly come to the
proper conclusion and with less likelihood of mis'
judgment than by the scientific method. This is
proved by the fact that many principles and laws
tested and proved by the Rosicrucians and
adopted by them have been rejected or denied by
science for centuries, and then later found by
science to be true. /Another interesting fact is that
at no time in the history of the Rosicrucian Order
has it ever had to retract or subtract from its
teachings any law or principle expounded as true,
because of a discovery that it was untrue and in'
consistent with other laws and principles. This
cannot be said of the material sciences, which are
constantly retracting and correcting statements
made, or conclusions reached, by their own methods.
289
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
In this connection we may say that scientists and
philosophers have often called attention to the fact
that the Rosicrucians have made most of the im'
portant contributions to scientific knowledge be'
cause of their unique methods of securing infor'
mation, and their freedom from doctrinal limita'
tions, which permits them to accept new know
ledge that is proven true regardless of its unique'
ness or astounding nature. New facts discovered
by science, which do not fit nicely into the theories
established by science, must of necessity be laid
aside when there is a possibility of such new
knowledge contradicting that which has been
promulgated for some time. Rosicrucianism has
never been in this predicament, and is not likely
to be, since it has no theories but deals only with
facts and truth. No discovery or revelation, there'
fore, of a truth can be an inconsistency with what
is already known to the Rosicrucians, and cannot
be so unique that it will not fit into the woven fab'
ric of principles and laws already established and in
use. In a recent article in the Sunday edition of
the New Tor\ World a former magazine editor
writing on religious, scientific, and philosophic
290
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
subjects stated that, "Ifmy scientific friends think
their labors are based on accuracy this is nothing
to the accuracy and the painstaking finality of the
mystics who anticipated science, who announced
discoveries in science centuries before they are
worked out externally He calls attention to the
fact that the recent discoveries of Einstein, and of
Milliken, and Eddington, deal with laws and prin'
ciples well known to the mystics and used by them
for many centuries. This probably explains why
the eminent discoverers of great principles in
physiology, anatomy, biology, chemistry, electri
city, astronomy, medicine, music, and art have been
advanced students of the Rosicrucian studies, and
that today the leading experimenters in many of
the greatest scientific laboratories of the world are
also advanced students of the Rosicrucian work.
No. 72
Q. Is the Rosicrucian work only of benefit to
the very learned and those engaged in scientific
and professional occupations?
A. The larger part of the membership of the
Rosicrucian Order consists of men and women
291
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
who are not engaged in scientific or professional
pursuits. The average member is a man or woman
engaged in nominal business interests or engaged
solely in looking after a home, caring for children,
and bringing joy and happiness into the lives
of a family. The organization would fail in its
great aim if its work were not directed to give the
utmost of benefit to the layman or to the average
individual in life. It is with the multitude and
with the mass that the great work must be accom'
plished, and where the greatest benefit can result.
For this reason every man or woman who is cap'
able of reading ordinarily in the English language,
and capable of comprehending the meaning of the
average words of the English language, can easily
master and succeed in the application of the prin
ciples taught in the Rosicrucian teachings. The
work becomes so fascinating, the study so tempt
ing, and attractive in its revelations and applica'
tions, that men and women who have little time
for other studies or for evening devotion to un'
necessary things, are happy to set aside a part of
one evening each week for the study of the weekly
lecture so that during the other days of the week,
292
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
in spare moments, the principles may be applied
and benefits may be derived in every one of the
daily affairs.
293
Explanatory
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
V
ANTICIPATING
questions which may be asked by the
readers of this book, the publishers wish to announce that
there is but one universal Rosicrucian Order existing in the
world today, united in its various jurisdictions, and having one
Supreme Council in accordance with the original plan of the
ancient Rosicrucian manifestos.
This international organization retains the ancient traditions,
teachings, principles, and practical helpfulness of the Brother
hood as founded centuries ago. It is known as the Ancient
Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, which name is abbreviated for
popular use into AMORC. The North American jurisdiction of
this order maintains National Headquarters at San Jose, Califor
nia, with branches distributed throughout the United States,
Canada and Mexico. Those interested in knowing more of the
history and present day offerings of the Rosicrucians may have
a free copy of the book entitled the "Wisdom of the Sages" by
sending a definite request to Extension Librarian, AMORC
Temple, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California.
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described in
the following pages, and which may be purchased from the
AMORC SUPPLY BUREAU, San Jose, California.
295
Volume II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home and Business
V
THIS
volume contains such principles of practical Rosicru
cian teachings as are applicable to the solution of the
every.day problems of life in business and in the affairs of the
home. It deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health,
the curing of many of the common ailments, and the attain
ment of peace and happiness as well as the building up of the
affairs of life that deal with financial conditions. The book is
filled with hundreds of practical points dealing especially with
the problems of the average business man or person in business
employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the use of
metaphysical and mystical principles in attracting business,
increasing one's income, promoting business propositions, start
ing and bringing into realization new plans and ideas, and the
attainment of the highest ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business" is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its third edition,
having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not
only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily
stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by busi
ness organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
Volume III.
Mystical Life of Jesus
V
THIS
is the book that thousands have been waiting for—the
real Jesus revealed at last! It has been in preparation for
a number of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt
to secure a verification of the strange facts contained in the
ancient Rosicrucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
296
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystic symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bound in purple silk and stamped
in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It will be the most talked'
about book of the year. Read it and be prepared for the dis
cussions of it that you will hear among men and women of
learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.25.
Volume V.
"Unto Thee I Grant ..."
V
THIS
is one of the rarest. Oriental, mystery books known.
It is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and
Disciples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple In Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago,
and was hidden in manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with
the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been
written about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the
Far East and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever
contained the secret teachings found in this book. This book is
divided into many parts, each part containing a large number
of sections or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weak
nesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are
treated in detail with illuminating simplicity. The book is beau
tifully printed and bound in leatherette, and contains also the
strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this
marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
297
Volume VI.
A Thousand Years of Yesterdays
v
HERE
is a book that will tell you more about the real
facts of reincarnation than anything that was ever written.
It is a story of the soul, and explains in detail how the soul
enters the body and how it leaves, where it goes to and when
it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Par
East and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into
book form as a story before this book was printed. That is
why the book has been translated into so many foreign languages
and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia,
Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring — Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to
leave it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals
the mystic principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to
reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the
incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound, and worthy of a place in
anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 85 cents.
Volume VII.
Self Mastery and Fate with the
Cycles of Life
V
This book is entirely different from any ever issued in America
dealing with the secret periods in the life of each man and woman
wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain
periods to bring success, happiness, health and prosperity into our
298
lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are not favor
able for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal
with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but presents a
system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and
which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of
the book with its charts and tables will enable the reader to see
the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone to elimi
nate "chance" and "luck," to cast aside "fate" and replace these
with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. Tnere is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark
able manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
paid, $2.00.
Volume VIII.
Rosicrucian Manual
V
THIS
practical book contains not only extracts from the
Constitution of the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete
outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and
terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations
of the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of
the principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical
sketches of important characters connected with the work. There
are also special articles on the Great White Lodge and its
existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian
Code of Life with thirty laws and regulations, and a number of
portraits of prominent mystics including Master K. H., the
Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of
Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it
contains.
The "Rosicrucian Manual" is of large size, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fourth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
299
Volume IX.
Mystics at Prayer
V
THE
first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the
renowned mystics and adepts of all ages. By MANY
C1HLAR, F. R.C., Austrian Philosopher and Mystic.
The book "Mystics at Prayer" explains in simple language
the reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws in
volved. You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its
full beauty dawns upon you. Whatever your religious beliefs,
this book makes your prayers the application not of words,
but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite
power of prayer. Prayer Is man's rightful heritage. It is the
direct means of man's communion with the infinite force of
divinity.
"Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid $1.00
Volume XI.
Mansions of the Soul
V
REINCARNATION
! The world's greatest disputed doctrine.
The belief in reincarnation has had millions of intelligent,
learned, and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing
through the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers
have always been the words: "Why Are We Here?" Reincar
nation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred
literature and without verification. This book reveals, however,
in an astounding manner the many facts to support reincarnation.
Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works substantiate reincarnation. This volume PROVES rein'
carnation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book is
without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening
book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story but a
300
step by step revelation, of profound mystical laws. Look at some
of these fascinating, intriguing subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does
Personality Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma
and Personal Evolution; Religion and Biblical View.points;
Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals
and the "Unborn;" Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully
printed, neatly bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to
your library, economically priced. Price per copy, postage pre
paid, only $2.20.
Volume XII.
Lemuria —The Lost Continent
of the Pacific
V
BENEATH
the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgot
ten civilizations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands,
worn away by terrific pressure are the remnants of a culture little
known to our age of today. Where the mighty Pacific now rolls
in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there was once a vast
continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and its people as
Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and de
velopments of today. We call them modern, but these ancients
and long.forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as
future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science
has gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and
in this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling
chapters you have ever read. How these people came to be
swept from the face of the earth, except for survivors who have
living descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and explana
tions of their mystic symbols, maps of the continent, and many
ancient truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird —
read this book —remember, however, this book is not fiction, but
based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization
reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Is the culture and
progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then
301
returns to start over again? These questions and many more are
answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living descend'
ants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bot
tom of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants is the
knowledge of the principles which in bygone centuries made their
forbearers builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, "Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is
beautifully bound, well printed, and contains many, many illus
trations. It is economically priced at $2.20, postpaid.
HOW TO ORDER BOOKS
V
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in
stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures them for you,
you may save time by sending your order direct, with remit
tance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
Amorc Supply Bureau
ROSICRUCIAN PARK ' - SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
302
