{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 4836 7858 3592","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_24_april_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 April 24 1883","mylang":"de"}
April 24, 1883.J Third Report on Thought-Traniference. 161
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY ON
April 24, 1883.
The third general meeting of the Society was held at Willis's Rooms,
St. James's, London, on April 24th, 1883.
HENRY SIDGWICK, ESQ., PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
I.
THIRD REPORT ON
THOUGHT-TRANSFE RENO E.
Committee :-EDMUND GURNEY, M.A.,* late Fellow of Trinity College,
Cambridge; F. W. H. MYERS, M.A.,~ late Fellow of Trinity College,
Oambridge; F. PODMORE, B.A.; and W. F. BARRETT," Professor of
Physics in the Royal College of Science for Ireland, Hon. Secreto/fY.
At the close of the last Report a series of experiments were recorded
illustrating the reproduction of drawings without any discernible com-
munication passing between the Agent, Mr. Blackburn, who had
momentarily seen the drawing made by one .of us, and the Percipient,
Mr. G. A. Smith, who was blindfolded throughout the experiment. In
these early experiments Mr. Smith held Mr. Blackburn's hand for a
few moments, and then, releasing it, drew his impression of the figure.
In this way we obtained a rough, but recognisable, reproduction of the
nine figures which we had drawn. The figures and the reproductions
are published in Part II. of our Proceedings. We have now to record
a further extension of our inquiry in this direction, the experiments
being made under conditions still more stringent than those at first
imposed. We have also endeavoured to ascertain how far the curious
inversion of the figures, which had been noticed in the descriptions but
not in the pencil reproductions of the drawings, was accidental or
otherwise.
At the invitation of the Committee, Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith
[* THE CoUNOIL HOLDS ITSELF GENERALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REPORTS OF iTS COMMITTEES.
AT THE HEAD OF EACH REPORT THE NAHES OF THOSIII MElIIBlIiRS OF COllllllIT!rEE WHO ARE
SPECIALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR ITS COMPOSITION ARE MARKED WITH ASTERISKS.)
igitized by Googl
162 Tltird Report on Tkougltt-Transference. [April 24,
came from Brighton in January last, and met us at the rooms of the
Society in Dean's Yard, where all the experiments about to be described
were conducted. As Mr. Blackburn came only in answer to the urgent
request of the Committee, and at considerable inconvenience to himself.
we feel it our duty to mention this fact, and, at the same time,· to
express our hearty obligations to him for the unrecompensed trouble
which we have so frequently imposed upon him.
It is almost needless to point out that in these observations, so foreign
to our common experience, it is indispensable to be minutely careful
and conscientious in recording the exact conditions of each experiment.
This we have striven to be; and the reader will thus be enabled to form
an independent judgment by making allowance for whatever mental bias
he may discover in our conclusions. He has thus, moreover, the means
afforded him of detecting possible errors, or of suggesting precautio,ns·-
which we may have overlooked.
Our nwdus operandi is as follows : The Percipient, Mr. Smith, is
seated blindfolded at a table in our own room; a paper and pencil are
within his reach, and a member of the Committee is seated by his side.
Another member of the Committee leaves the room, and outside the
closed door draws some figure at random. Mr. Blackburn, who, so far.
has remained in the room with Mr. Smith, is now called out,
and the door closed; the drawing is then held before him for
a few seconds, till its impression is stamped upon his mind.
Then, closing his eyes, Mr. Blackburn is led back into the room
and placed standing or sitting behind Mr. Smith, at a distance
of some two feet from him. A brief period of intense mental
concentration on Mr. Blackburn's part now follows. Presently, l\fr.·Smith
takes up the pencil amidst the unbroken and absolute silence of all
present, and attempts to reproduce on paper the impression he has
gained. He is allowed to do as he pleases as regards the bandage round
his eyes; sometimes he pulls it down before he begins to draw, but if
the figures be not distinctly present to his mind, he prefers to let it
remain on, and draws fragments of the figure as they are perceived.
During all this time, Mr. Blackburn's eyes are, generally, firmly closed
(sometimes he requests us to bandage his eyes tightly as an aid to
concentration), and except when it is distinctly recorded, he has not
touched Mr. Smith, and has not gone in front of him, or in any way
within his possible field of vision, since he re-entered the room.*
*This precaution was not attended to in the experiments of one afternoon;
but these experiments, and these alone, are omitted from the series disc1l88ed
below, as having been rendered nugatory through accidental circumstances which
'were calculated to exercise, and obviously did exercise, a distracting effect on Mr.
Blackburn'. mind.
igitized byGoogl
1883.] Third Report on TkOtegkt-Tramiference. 163
When Mr. Smith has drawn what he can, the original drawing,
which has so far remained outside the room, is brought in, and
1:ompared with the reproduction. Both are marked by the Committee
-and put away in a secure place. The drawings and reproductions,
. :given at the end of the Report, are in every case fac-similes of the
untouched originals, from which they have been photographed on the
wood blocks. .
The experiments began on January 19th, 1883, and were continued
for three or four days in succession. During this series of experiments
a. considerable number of drawings were made, nearly all of which
were exhibited at the following General Meeting. Another series of
~xperiments were made in April. All the drawings may be seen at the
_.Society's rooms; but it has been thought needlessly expensive to
reproduce the whole number here. ~ose which are omitted,
however, are by no means failures, and in fact only 8
experiments, out of the total of 37, can be put down
.as unsuccessful, Mr. Smith in 4 cases failing to see any-
thing and in 4 cases giving so imperfect a representation that
it might be called a failure. The first 4 figures were obtained after
Mr. Blackburn had for a few minutes grasped Mr. Smith's hand-a
procedure to which they were accustomed-as a supposed aid to Mr.
Smith in visualising Mr. Blackburn's mental picture. We, however,
1:ould allow no exception to our cardinal axiom on this subject, that no
experiment where contact of any sort is allowed can be decisive; and
though in the present instance the drawings were of· such an
irregular character that their description would have been extremely
difficult to convey by imperceptible tracing or by any subtle code of
pressure-signs, yet, assuming Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith to have
been in collusion, the hypothesis was at least conceivable. Accordingly,
we requested Mr. Blackburn to dispense altogether with the preliminary
- _ contact; and it must be understood that all the rest of the
successful drawings (with the exception of two, not here reproduced
and of Fig. 13b as explained below) were done without any
contact whatever, in, the manner already indicated on p. 162. Down to
Fig. 9 we had made rude geometrical drawings; at this point, one
member of the Oommittee, without giving tke least indication of hiB
intention, now drew Fig. 10 outside the room as usual. The grotesque
reproduction by Mr. Smith is decidedly striking; and so also is the
reproduction of the next figure, when Mr. Smith again apparently
imagined that a geometrical figure had been drawn.
In some of the less accurate reproductions Mr. Blackburn com-
plained of the difficulty he had in keeping the original drawing steadily
in his mental view ; and on one or two occasions we asked Mr. Black-
burn to draw his recollection of the picture simultaneously with Mr.
Digitized by G@)<3gIe
164 Third Report on Tkought-Traniference. [April24t
Smith (the two, of course, being kept out of sight of each other). We
found that the main etTOrs in Mr. Smith's reproduction existed already
in Mr. Blackburn's recollection of the drawing. . A striking illustration
of this is given in Fig. 16, where the reproduction closely resembles
Mr. Blackburn's drawing of what he remembered. It is, in fact, by nQ
means easy to keep vividly and correctly in mind for several
minutes any irregular figure which has only been actually before the
eye for a few seconds. We tried one experiment to test the.effect of
refreshing Mr. Blackburn's memory. Fig. 13 was drawn by us; and
its reproduction, Fig. 13&, was made by Smith, in the usual way. The
reproduction is very imperfect, being a sinuous, instead of a spiral line.
. No contact between the operators having so far occurred, we now asked
Mr. Blackburn to touch Smith's hand for a few moments; on releasing it
the reproduction, 13b, was obtained. Mr. Blackburn was now asked to--
stand (as at first) behind Mr. Smith, who remained blindfolded. Ths
original drawing was now brought into the room, and held in .front of
Mr. Blackburn's eyes, and, therefore, some distance from the back of
Smith's head. The latter now made the reproduction, 13c, which is an
exact copy of the original. We need hardly add that there were absolutely
no means (such as mirrors, &c.) by which Smith, even if not blind-
folded, could have gained any glimpse of the drawing, and, as we have
already remarked, the most complete silence was preserved throughout
these experiments.
We have now to consider whether it was possible that any
information of the character of the designs drawn could have reached
Smith through the ordinary avenues of sense. Of the five recognised
gateways of knowledge, four-tasting, smelling, touch, and sight-were
excluded by the conditions of the experiment. There remains the sense
of hearing, which was but partially interfered with by the bandage over
the eyes and ears. But the information can certainly not have been
conveyed by speech; our ears were as near to Mr. Blackburn as Mr.
Smith's, and our eyes would have caught the slightest movement of his --
lips.
There remains the hypothesis of a code, consisting of audible signa.ls.
other than oral speech; and it would, no doubt, be an exaggeration to
affirm that the possibility of such signals was absolutely excluded. We
shall endeavour so to vary the conditions of subsequent experiments as.
to exclude this hypothesis completely: at present we will only point out
the very great improbabilities which it involves, quite independently of
our reliance on the integrity of Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith, which
nothing has occurred to shake in the slightest degree.
Let our readers, who may be familiar with the Morse or any other
code of signals, try in some such way to convey a description of some of
our drawings, to a friend who is blindfolded and has not seen the original ;.
Digitized by Google
1883.J TMrd Report on Thought-Transference. 165
we venture to assert that, even if audible signs were allowed, several
xninutes at least would be required to convey the notion of the figures
(lorrectly. It is probably no exaggeration to say that several scores, if
not hundreds, of precise signs would be required to convey an idea as
exact as that implied in many of Mr. Smith's representations. But in
our experiments what sort of range existed for this mode of communica-
tion 1 The material for possible signs appears to be reduced to
shuffling on the carpet, coughing, and modes of breathing. Anything
distinctly unusual in any of these directions must inevitably have been
noticed; and since our attention, during this part of the experiment, was
of course concentrated on the relation between Mr. Blackburn and Mr.
Smith we are at a loss to conceive how any signalling, sufficient in
amount to convey the required ideas, could have passed undetected.
-.Furthermore, it must be observed that the reproductions were not made
in a tentative,_ hesitating manner as if waiting for signals; but
deliberately and continuously as if copying a drawing that is seen.
Moreover, in almost every instance the proportions of the different
parts of the original figure were reproduced more accurately than
were its more easily describable details. However, with the view of
removing all doubts that might arise as to possible auditory com-
munications, we on one occasion stopped Mr. Smith's ears with putty,
then tied a bandage round his eyes and ears, then faste~ed a bolster-
case over the head, and over all threw a blanket which enveloped his
entire head and trunk. Fig. 22 was now drawn by one of us, and shown
outside the room to Mr. Blackburn, who on his return sat behind
Mr. Smith, and in no contact with him whatever, and as perfectly still
as it is possible for a human being to sit who is not concentrating his
attention on keeping motionless to the exclusion of every other object.
In a few minutes Mr. Smith took up the pencil and gave the
successive reproductions shewn below.
To profit by I!o code in this case, Mr. Smith would have had to
extract the putty from his ears unobserved by us, (an action the possi-
bility of which the heavy swathings rendered just conceivable,) and
then, still smothered in bolster-case and blanket, to detect periodic
variations in Mr. Blackburn's breathing imperceptible to us ; to identify
them as proceeding from Mr. Blackburn, and to interpret them into
a description of the figure given below. This hypothesis seems to us
an extreme one, but, as we have already said, we intend to meet it by
yet further varying and narrowing the conditions of future experiments.
We have now to describe some experiments which were undertaken
to test whether the mental inversion of the object that had been noticed
in some of the early trials was accidental or otherwise. Mr. Smith,
having been carefully blindfolded, sat with his back to us, in a darkened
room-some heavy opaque curtains being between him and us. An
Digitized by Google
166 Third Report on Thought-Transfermce. [Apri124.
~rrow having. been drawn on a sheet of white paper, it was held by one
of us in sight of Mr. Blackburn, who remained in our presence, and sat.
facing the same way as Mr. Smith. In answer to the query, "How is.
the arrow pointing t" spoken by one of the Oommittee in a uniform
tone of voice, Mr. Smith called out the direction as he mentally per.
ceived it. We turned the arrow noiselessly, and at random, in different
directions, and noted the following series of replies :-
TRUE POSITION POSITION AS TRUE POSITION POSITION AS
OF ARROW. STATED BY SMITH. OF ARROW. STATED BY SKITH.
1. Pointing up: Pointing up. 22. Pointg.toright : Pntng.toright.
2.
"
to left :
"
to right. 23.
"
to left:
"
to left.
3.
"
down:
"
down. 24.
"
to left :
"
to right.
4.
"
to right:
"
to right. 25.
"
up:
"
up.
5.
"
up:
"
up. 26.
"
down:
"
down. .
6.
"
to left:
"
to right. 27.
"
up:
"
up.
7.
"
up:
"
up. 28.
"
up:
"
up.
8.
"
up:
"
up. 29.
"
to left :
"
to left.
9.
"
up:
"
up. 30.
"
to right:
"
to left.
10.
"
down:
"
down. 31.
"
up:
"
up.
11.
"
to left:
"
down. 32.
"
to right:
"
down.
12.
"
to left:
"
down. 33.
"
to right:
"
to left.
13.
"
up:
"
up. 34.
"
down:
"
down.
14.
"
to right:
"
to left. 35.
"
up:
"
up.
15.
"
to right:
"
to right. 36.
"
to right:
"
to right.
16.
"
up:
"
up. 37.
"
down:
"
down.
17.
"
up:
"
up. 38.
"
to left:
"
down.
18.
"
up:
"
up. 39.
"
up:
"
to right.
19.
"
to left:
"
to right. 40.
"
down:
"
to right.
20.
"
to right:
"
to left. 41.
"
to right:
"
to right.
21. down: down. 49. up: up•
" "
....
" "
After the 37th trial, Mr. Blackburn was obliged to leave; but we
continued the experiments, one or two of the Oommittee taking
Mr. Blackburn's place, and with fair success. Oounting these las~
we made in all 42 trials. In these the arrow was held in a per-
pendicular position, up or down, 23 times; and of these cases 20 were
guessed rightly, 3 wrongly. It was held in a horizontal positio~
right or left, 19 times; and of these cases 7 guessed rightly, 12
wrongly. The three wrong guesses when the arrow was in a perpen-
dicular position occurred after Mr. Blackburn had left us; and in these
cases the error was not one of inversion. Of the 12 wrong guesses, when
the arrow was held horizontally, 8 were lateral inversions of the
position of the arrow, as if it were seen in a mirror. Hence we see
that 87 per cent. of the answers were correct for the perpendicular
p:>sition, and barely 37 per cent. for the horizontal position; and, further,.
Digitized by Google
1883.] Third Report on Tkougkt-Tranverence. . 167
that it was about an even chance, when the arrow was horizontal,
whether the image' was described as laterally inverted or not.*
The interest which this subject is exciting throughout the country
leads us to hope that experiments in various directions may be made
wherever anyone shows indications of possessing the percipient faculty.t
Experiments are of value even when they do not point to thought-
transference, as long as the nature of the conditions is accurately
noted. Thus, among others, the Rev. E. H. Sugden, B.Sc., of Bradford,
has, by practice, developed an acute power of sense perception whereby
he can write down any number thought of by following (according to
his own account) the unconscious indications given by the thinker. At
the same time, Mr. Sugden, while fully convinced of the possibility of
genuine thought-transference without contact, expressly asserts the
--- necessity of that condition for his results: hence his experiments and
explanations, which are admirably clear and well-described, testify to
the accuracy of the distinction prefixed by us to our second Report.
(Proc. S.P.R. p. 70.)
SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
It will be interesting here to review the numerical results of our
experiments on thought-transference. These are summed up in the
accompanying tabular fonn.
PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENTS.
Made by Prof. Barrett, at Buxton, Easter, 1881. Proc. S.P.R. p. 21.
ThIngs chosen.
I No. of trials. Total right. Remarks.
Objects ......... 33 25 Many of these guesseswererliht
Names 35 26 on the first trial, but DO .exaot
......... record was kept of this. At
Oards ............ 7 7 least a score of these trials
were made with the gue888r
Totals......... 75 58 in an adjoining room.
Adverse chances at least 50 to 1.
• Hr. Smith described the impression he obtained as that of a white arrow on
a dark ground. We used at first an arrow drawn in ink on white paper, With-
out informing Hr. Smith (who remained behind the opaqlle curtain) of our
intention, we cut an arrow out of white paper and placed it on a crimson cloth ;
Hr. Smith at once perceived the di1ferenoe, and said he saw a kind of greenish
arrow-this being (though we could hardly perceive it) the sUBjective oolour
given to the arrow from its oontiguity with the crimson cloth. We had no
facilities at the moment for trying further experiments in this direction, and
merely mention this result, which might have been aocidentaI, as indicating
another avenue of inquiry.
t Since this Report was drawn up, we have learnt with muchsatisfaction that
a paper has been read before the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool,
Digitized by Google
168 Third Report on Thought-Transference. [Apri124,
l\lR. A.~D MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK'S EXPERIMENTS. Buxton,August,I88!.·
INo No.rlghton
of • 1st I2nd ~otal
,trialS. guess. gueas. nght
p-l-aym-·-g-o-a-rd-s-···123 -6-1-
6
--;-
counted. the succeas by
If IIrst gueas only is IThe chance of
result by experiment was _. accld~nt:::.-
1 quite right in 31 11 right in 52
In addition to the numbers which were entirely right in the first
response, the suit was named rightly 4 times, and the number of the
card 6 times, on the first guess.
There was also an ambiguous case not included in the above; here
the seven of spades was thought of, but Mrs. Sidgwick accidentally
thought of the seven of clubs, and this latter carll was named by the
percipient. A few trials were also made with objects, but with less
success, the thing in many cases being partially guessed, as crumb-brush
was said for clothes-brush, cigar for cigar-case, &c. As it would be
difficult to tabulate these they are omitted.
PROF. BALFOUR STEWART'S EXPERIMENTS.
Buxton, November, 1881, and February, 1882. Proc. S.P.R. p. 38.
No. No. right on If IIrst gueas onlyis The chance of
Total
ThIngs chosen. of 1st 2nd rightt counted, the succeas by
trials. gueas. gueas. result by experiment was accident was
-- -- -- --
Oards ............ 36 10 9 24 1 right guess in 3l 1 right in 52
Nos. 10-100 ... 20 5 3 9 1
"
4 1
"
90
Objects ......... 21 7 1 10 ·1
"
3 1
"
40
Names ......... 8 4 3 7 1
"
2 iSomething Inde-
llnitely small.
--- ---- -
Totals ......... 85 26 16 50
by Mr. Malcolm Guthrie and Mr. Birchall, giving a. ca.refully compiled record of a
series of independent experiments on Thought-transference. The Hon. Secretary
of this Committee has visited Liverpool, and seen the minute and jealous care
with which the experiments were conducted, and witnessed some striking
successeB. We hope that MeBBrB. Guthrie and Birchall will shortly contribute a
f'i8wm6 of ·their work to this Society.
.. These experiments ha.ve not before been recorded in the Proceedings.
t Inclusive of an occasional third attempt.
Digitized by Google
1883.J Third Report on Thought-Transference. 169
OOMMITTEE'S EXPERIMENTS.
Buxton, Easter, 1882. Proc. S.P.R. p. 22 et seq.
No. No. right on
Total If ftrst guess only ia The chance of
Things chosen. counted, the BUCCe88 by
of 1st 2nd
trials. gueBB. guess.
right· result by experiment was accident was
-- --
Cards ............ 194 61 39 106 1 right guess in 3 1right in 52
Objects ......... 55 21 2 28 1
"
21 1
"
50
Names ......... 64 35 7 42 1
"
2 {Something in·
de1lnitely small.
Nos. 10-100 ... 33 5 3 10 1
"
6 1right in 90
Miscellaneous... 36 5 5 16 1
"
7 1
"
20
--------
Totals ......... 382 127 56 202
OOlllMITTEE'S EXPERIMENTS.
Oambridge, August, 188~. Proc. S.P.R. p. 71 et seq.
Things chosen No. of No. right on Total If ftrst gueBB onlyiacounted' The chance of succeBB
trials 1st 2nd right· the result by expt. was by accident was
~ ~ --
Oards ...... 248 22 18 40 1 right guess in 11 1 right in 52
Numbers ... 64 5 6 11 1
"
13 1
"
90
--------
Totals ...... 312 27 24 51
PROF. BARRETT'S EXPERIMENTS.
Dublin, December, 1882. Proc. S.P.R. p. 76.
Things chosen No. of No. right on Total If Jlrst aDess onlyia counted The chance of succe88
trials 1st 2nd right· the result by expt. was by accident was
~ guess
Oards ...... 109 19 7 26 ·1 right guess in 6 1 right in 52
Numbers ... 143 53 23 76 1
"
3 1
"
16
Words ...... 50 25 10 35 1
"
2 1
"
4
--------
Totals...... 302 97 40 137
The ntlxt table shows the results obtained when the possibility of
collusion was excluded, unless our own veracity be impeached, the
thing selected being known to the Oommittee only. Perfect silence, as
in all our trials, was preserved in each experiment:-
'" Inclusive of an occasional third attempt.
Digitized by Google
o
cg
N
~
~
CJ
o
~
~
TABLE SHOWING SUOOESS OBTAINED WHEN THE SELEOTED OBJECT WAS KNOWN TO ONE OR MORE OF THE OJldMITTEB ONLY,
To Te8t Hypothesis of Collusion.
No. RIght on U 1st GUe88 only18 counted The Chance of Succeaa
Place of TrIal. ThInga ChOien. No. of Trials. Total Rlght*
1st GUe88. 2nd Gueas, ExperIment gave by Accident was
a. Buxton Expts. Playing cards t 14 9 0 10 1 right guess in 1i- 1right in52trials
" "
Numbers, &c. 15 4 0 5 1
" "
3! 1
" 90 "
b, Oambridge " Oards t 216 17 18 38 1
" "
13 1
" 52 "
" "
Numbers 64 5 6 11 1
" "
121 1
" 90 "
c. Dublin
"
Oards t 30 3 0 3 1
" "
10 1
"
52
"
" "
Numbers, &c. 108 32 11 43 1
" "
3i- 1
" 12 "
" "
Words 50 25 10 35 1
" "
2 1
" 4 "
Totals............ 497 95 45 145 1
" "
5i 1
" 43 "
a Present, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. Edmund Gurney and Miss Mason. b Present, Mr. Myers, Mr. Gurney, Mr. Barrett and
Mrs. Myers. 0 Present, Mr. Barrett only.
* Inclusive of an occasional third guess. t A full pack of oards was invariably used, from which a card was drawn at random.
"
'""'
~
o
~
~.
~
r
~
.....
~
~
5
o§.
'i'"
~
~
'§.
~
~
~
.e-
j;!;
...~
1883.J Third Report on TkougM-Tran8ference. 171
Excluding the Dublin trials, which were made before one member
of our Committee only, and where the odds against success by accident
also were smaller, and· confining our estimate to the first answer
alune, the experiments show that when the Committee alone knew the
card or number selected there were :-
260 Experiments made with playing cards; the first responses gave 1
quite right in 9 trials; whereas the responses, if pure chance,
would be 1 quite right in 52 trials.
79 Experiments made with numbers of two figures; the first responses
gave 1 quite right in 9 trials; whereas the responses, if pure chance,
would be 1 quite right in 90 trials.
A more favourable result would have been shown had we made these
- . test experiments earlier, or included those of the preliminary trials made
by Mr. Barrett,when the Percipient was shut in an adjoining room during
the experiment. Although the proportion of success was then greater
than subsequently, those trials were undertaken before the joint inquiry
commenced, and bCfore precision in our methods and records had been
attained.
All these experiments were made with the Misses Creery. It may
be noted that the power of these children, collectively or separately,
gradually diminished during these months, so that at the end of 1882 they
could not do, under the easiest conditions, what they could do under the
most stringent in 1881. This gradual decline of power seemed quite
independent of the tests applied, and resembled the disappearance of a
transitory pathological condition, being the very opposite of what might
have been expected from a growing proficiency in code-communication.
Having above exhibited the results of a long series of experiments
where collusion was out of the question, we subjoin in the next table a
general summary of our results, shewing the insufficiency of mere
_ chance coincidences as an explanation. From this table, which
summarises the results obtained both with the Creery family and with .
Messrs. Blackburn and Smith,we have excluded all those trials when the
chances against success were less than 50 to 1 :-
Digitized by Google
TABLE OF EXPERIMENTS ON THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE,
Slwwing success obtained 1tnder stringent conditions, wAen tAe adverse cAances were beyond 50 to 1.
(To test the hypothesis of chance coincidence.)
No. No. Right on Total
Date. Authority. of 1st I 2nd TotalRIght· Percentage Objects Selected. Percipients.
trials. guess. gueBS. Right.
--
PER CENT.
1881. Easter Prof. Barrett 75 - - 58 77 Playing cards, fictitious The Misses Cree
August { Mr. and Mrs. }
23 6 6 13 56
names, numbers of two
" Sidgwick
I figures, &c., chosen in "
Nov. &Dec. { Profs. Stewart } 64 19 15 40 62 each case by one of us.
" and Hopkinson
"
1882. Easter Committee 346 122 51 186 54
" "
"
August
"
312 27 24 51 16
" "
"
December Prof. Barrett 109 19 7 26 24
" "
" "
Committee 23 8 6
-~1--61
Pains, colours,words, figures. Mr. G. A. Smi1
- - 1 - - -------------------
Totals......... 952 [201 109 388 40'7
-
* Inclusive of an occasional third attempt.
'\
:ry
....
~
~
a
~
~
~
c
;::
~
o
<§.
....
~
0:.
~
!
~
~
I>=>
~
1883.J Third Report on Thought-Traniference. 173
Thus, giving eve;ry experimentwhen the chances against success were
beyond 50 to 1, we find upwards of 40 per cent. correctly answered if we
include the second and an occasional third response. But excluding
these, and confining ourselves to the first responses o'llly, 21 per
cent. were correctly answered. Pure chance would have given
certainly less than from one to two per cent.
As the chances of hitting by pure guesswork on a fictitious name,
invented by one of us, would be at least one to many thousands, and as
none of the chances were less than 1 to 50, we may roughly say that if
pure guesswork only were concerned, we should not have had more
than :-
1 quite right in 100 trials :
-' .' whereas our experiments showed we had, if the first responses only
be allowed,
1 quite right in 41 trials.
In these results we have not included our recent experiments on the
reproduction of drawings. Here obviously an incalculable number of
trials might be made, at any rate in the case of the more random and
eccentric figures, before pure guesswork would hit upon a resemblance
, as near as that obtained in almost every case by Mr. G. A. Smith.
It will, we think, be evident to any candid inquirer who has care-
fully followed our investigations so far, that our experiments derive
much strength and coherence from their very multitude and variety.
In a question where the antecedent improbability of our conclusions
.seems so great, we could not be surprised if any single experiment-
even an experiment in which sources of error were so. completely ex-
cluded as in the cases where the Creery family correctly told cards, &c.,
unseen by anyone except the investigating Committee-should leave the
reader's mind still unconvinced. But we venture to assert that the
cumulative character of the evidence which we have now amassed,
and the extent to which we have eliminated the hypotheses of
collusion, chance coincidence, and muscle or sign-reading, render
our claim to have established the reality of this novel class of
phenomena a very strong one. We continue carefully to consider
all adverse criticism; but we venture to think that much of it really
depends on an Ii priori presumption of impossibility which, natural
though it may be, cannot of course be legitimately opposed to
positive evidence.
Hitherto, we have confined our inquiry to Cases where the subject
is in his or her normal waking state. But there already exists a large
amount of historic evidence, of varying degrees of value, which shows
that transference of thought and sensation occurs far more readily
Digitized by GOdgIe
174 Third Report on. Tkougkt-TranBJerellce. [April 24,
when certain changes are induced in the Percipient's nervous system by
the so-called Mesmeric Sleep, or Induced Somnambulism. Some evi-
dence of this kind is afforded in a paper which the Hon. Secretary of
this Committee read before the British Association in 1876; and a
portion of which is re-printed in the present part of the Proceedings.
A description of many further experiments is given in the ensuing
Report of the Mesmeric Committee.
The accompanying diagrams are facsimiles of the original drawings
which were obtained in the manner described on page 162. The
accuracy of the engraving has been ensured by photographing the
original drawings and transferring the photographs on to the wood.
blopks.
Digitized by Google
--
1883.] Third Report on Tltougkt-Transference. 175
NO. I. ORIGINAL DRAWING•
•
No. I. REPRQDUCTION.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883'.] Third Report on Tkought-Transference. 177
NO.2. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No.2. REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by GoogIe
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883.] Tltil'd Report on Thought-Transference. Jj'9
NO.3. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No.3. REPRODUCTION.
I
z
The figures indicate the or.!er in which the drawings were lUade. ,\ t the close Mr. limit"
said 1 should be .. put on here somewhere," pointing to the spot where the asterisk Is shown.
N :l
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883.] 'Tllird Report on Thought-Tl'an..iference. 181
NO.4. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No. 40 REPRODUCTION.
---
No.6. ORIGINAL DRAWINtl. No.6. REPRopUCTION.
I
-
Digitized by Google
-- ~.
Digitiz~d by GoogIe
April 24, 1883.] Tliird Report on Tltouflh.t-Transjerence. ' 201
No. 16. ORIGINAL DRAWING•
•
NO. 16. REPRODUCTION.
igitized byGoogl
--
Digitized by Google
Apri124, 1883.] Third Report on ThougM-Transjerence. 203
NO. 16. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No. 16. REPRODUCTION.
Mr. Blackburn bad not precisely remembered the ftp:ure, and drew the following as representing
what be had In lila mind.
Digitized by Google
· April 24, 1883.] Third Report on Thought-Tt'ansftrence. 205
No. 17. ORIGINAL DRAWING•
••
<: »
.------,-------~-----
No. 17. REPRODUCTION.
luner circle begun at point marked +, and then carried round In one contlnuol1S line from left
to right.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by GoogIe
April 24, 1883.] Third Report on Tkougkt-Tran~ference. 207
No· 18. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No. 18. RiPRODUCTION. No. 18. REPRODUCTION.
2
lIr. Blackburn forgot the eyes.
•
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883.] 'Third Report on Thought-Transference. 209
NO. 19. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
----
No. 19. REPRODUCTION.
:Hr. BlackblU"ll waa /lxIng his mfnd on the oval, in order
. to make Mr. Smith conaeDt the linea he had got.
p
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883.] Tltird Report on TltOugkt~Tran·iference., 211
NO. 20. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
I
NO: 20. REPRODUCTION.
Digitiz Go p le
Digitized by Google
April 24, 1883.] Third Report on Thought.Tranifcl'enct. 213
NO. 21. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
NO. 21. REPRODUCTION.
Mr. Blackburn was imagining the handles as turned outwards.
iqitiz( G
Digiti~ed by GoogIe
Apri124, 1883.] Third Report on Thougkt-rransjerence.215
NO. 22. ORIGINAL DRAWING. No. 22. REPRODUCTION.
No. 22. REPRODUCTION. No. 22. REPRODUCTION.
/
For a description of this experiment see page 165.
j by
Digitized by Google
A~ril24, 1883.] Fir8t Report oj tke Oommittee on Me8meri8m. 217
II.
FIRST REPORT
OF THE
COMMITTEE ON MESMERISM.
Committee :-W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.E.if.; EDMUND GURNEY, M.A.if.;
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS, M.Aif.; HENRY N. RIDLEY, M.A., F.L.S.;
W. H. STONE, M.A., M.B.; GEORGE WYLD, M.D.; and FRANK
PODMORE, B.A,if. lIon. Secretary.
--..... The work which lies before the Committee on Mesmerism differs,
to some extent, from that appropriated to other Committees of this
Society. In most of the subjects which we have included under
the designation of "Psychical Research," the ground was so inade-·
quately explored as to afford no basis for any confident scientific
induction. In mesmerism, on the other hand, the investigators have
been both numerous and intelligent; the ground has been tra-
versed and retraversed; the literature of the subject already forms a
small library, and the evidence, if impartially studied, appears to be
harmonious, and on many points cQmplete. Nevertheless, if we turn
from the advocates of mesmerism to our natural guides on such subjects,
we find that scientific writers, both at home and abroad, have united in
ridiculing the pretensions of the mesmerists-at first attributing all the
phenomena to trickery and delusion, and subsequently admitting many
of the facts, but explaining them as within the domain of well-recognised
psychological or physiological laws. And if we compare the scientific
utterances of to-day with those of half a century back, we shall see
that the discredit of mesmerism, as such, has been distinctly on the
increase. True, the orthodox s!;ientific attitude was never anything
but hostile. Thus, in 183~, the then leading medical organ, edited
by Sir John Forbes, wrote as follows: "Considering the high
sanction which even a temporary belief in the powers of animal
magnetism has obtained in this country, we look upon its recent
progress, and its abrupt and shameful fall, as calculated to degrade
the profession. English practitioners are now ashamed
of the very name." But the scepticism was not entirely thorough-
going; for, six years later, the same journal remarked: "Mesmerism
has hardly received fair play at the hands of many of our professional
brethren, and its pretensions are too wcll supported to justify an
opposition made up almost exclusively of ridicule and contempt.
We think it is proved, or, to say the least, we think it to be
igitized byGoogl
218 Fi1'8t Report of tke Oommittee on,Me8meri8m, [April 24,
made in the highest degree probable, that there is a reality in the simple
phenomena of mesmerism;" and the writer ends by declaring "his full
belief in the reality of so~e of the facts which have often been set down
as sheer delusion or imposture."* But this opinion has not been shared
by later authorities in medicine or physiology. Dr. Carpenter, for
instance, "does not hesitate to express the conviction, based on long,
'protracted, and careful examination of the evidence adduced to prove
the existence of a mesmerio force, acting independently of the con-
sciousness of the ' subject,' that there is none which possesses the least
claim to acceptance as scientific truth. * * * Mesmerisers who
assert they could send particular individuals to sleep have altogether
failed to do so when the ' su~illcts' were carefully kept from any
suspicion that such will was being e:icercised.. * * * Nothing is
more easy than to explain the peculiar rapport between the mesmeI'i.wr~
and his 'subject' on the principle of dominant ideas."t And in
his published lectures on "Mesmerism, &c.," Dr. Carpenter draws
a broad line of distinction between the phenomena of induced som-
nambulism, which he admits to be now a recognised physiological
condition, and the alleged facts of mesmerism, such as the "rappOT't n
between the mesmerist and his subject, their community of sensation,
the induction of general or local anresthesia (so far as this is not de-
pendent on suggested ideas), the effluence of any peculiar power from
the mesmerist, &c., &c.
And this leads us to a most important observation, namely, that the
main cause of the increasing incredulity and contempt shown towards
mesmerism, as such, has been, not an error, but a truth, or at least a
partial truth,-the discovery, namely, of a real means of explaining
many of the facts, without resorting to any" mesmeric." hypothesis.
The credit of this discovery is due to a countryman of our own, the late
Mr. Braid, whose name deserves a wider reputation than it has received.
He sh~wed, by a long and admirable series of experiments, that mere
fixation of the eyes in a strained position was often enough to throw
the subject into a condition in which many of the phenomena attributed
to mesmeric influence could be easily produced. Similar experiments
have been lately conducted by Professor Heidenhain, of Breslau, whose
conclusions are decidedly in advance of anything contained in the
standard treatises on physiology.t His explanation wholly rejects
• Briti,', and libreign Medical R8'l:i81V, 1845, pp. 440 and 485.
t Mental Physiology, 2nd Edition, pp. 619-623.
t A summary of the views advanced by Heidenhain is to be found in Dr.
McKendrick's article on Mesmerism in the E'IIC1Jo. Brit. Ninth Edit. Other
important psycho-physiological investigations into this hypnotio state are being
carried on in America, France, Italy, and Germany, as well as in our own country.
We hope to notice these on a future occasion.
Digitized by GoogIe
1883.J -First Report 0/ the fJommittee on Mesmerism. 211)
"expectant attention," "dominant ideas," and all mental factors what-
soever, and refers the phenomena to what is practically a wide ex~nsion
of the range of "reflex action." He conceives that, in the hypnoti~
condition, stimulation by word or gesture of the lower sensory centres
in the "'subject's" brain, instead of passing on in the usual way to ,the-
higher portion of that organ and there giving rise to consciousnf'ss
and volition, passes by a direct path to the hnmediate centres of
motion, and there gives rise to automatic responses, which may take the-
form of mimicry or of unconscious carrying out of simple orders. In
his view, the opening of this direct path, with its result of a certain
and involuntary response, is due to inltibition, brought about by mono--
tonous sensory impressions of the functions of those 'higher cortical
centres which a.I'!3 associated with choice and reasoning, and which
-'"lnmnally control the lower motor centres. It will thus be evident that
anything of the nature of a specific efHuence or influence in mesmerism
is rejected in our day by Heidenhain, as it was by Braid 40 years
ago. Hypnotism or 'induced somnambulism, whethel accompanied by
consciousness or not, has been regarded as covering tl'8 wltole ground~
and thus, in proportion as it has become more and more orthodox to
admit many of the facts commonly known as "mesmeric," has it become-
more and more heretical to attribute them to "mesmeric agencies."
This point in the history of the subject is of such prime importance-
that a brief reference to' it was absolutely indispensable. We do not,
however, propose to enter at present upon anything like a historica)-
survey. Such a task needs, indeed, to be accomplished; but it would
require much more space than could fitly be devoted to it in this Report.
We will content ourselves with a single remark; namely, that the great
divergences in the conclusions reached by different observers,-say, by
the first French Commission as contrasted with the second,. or by Dr-
Carpenter as contrasted with Dr. Elliotson or (we may add) with
__Heidenhain-are by no means necessarily to be attributed either
to prejudice on the one side or to credulity on the other. It
seems to us that the champions of the different sides, who have bandied
these terms so freely, have generally failed to realise the immense-
variety of the phenomena which these abnormal states present to our
study, and have been too apt to assume the completeness of their
own particular observations. And the conflict of opinion which prevails
at any rate renders the duty of this Committee doubly clear, viz., ~
submit the whole subject to renewed and careful experiment. If, as we-
have hinted, the differences of previous observers have largely depended
* The first was appointed to inveBtigate and report on mesmerism in 1784 j.
the second reported in 1825. Both included distinguished physicians and trained
observers; and the second report,which eontains a mass of carefully conducted ex-
periments, was favourable to the claims made by mesmerists.
Digitized by Google
'220 Pirst Re}!ort of tile Oom:mittee on ¥esmerism. [April 24,
~n the limited scope (or on the varying luck) of their observations,
that is the most cogent reason for making the basis of our inductions as
'Complete as possible.
From what has been said, it will readily be understood that the
term "l1z.e8'llUriSfn," which occurs in the title of the Committee, and
which will be used throughout this Report, has been selected as
the most general description, and not as involving any theory, or
pledging us to any particular explanation of tht' facts, such as is
2uggested, e.g., in the terms animal magnetism or electro-biology.
But while for convenience sake we have adopted the most general
name, we must state at once that we anticipate, as we advance, the
necessity of limiting and specialising the meaning of the word
'.. mesmerism." For since the term '~hypnotism," as just explained,
is confined to phenomena which may bt' produced without 0..-
.special injluenc, or e.f!lttence passing from the operator to the subjec~
and has been adopted as a complete designation of these phenomena
by those who emphatically deny that any such influence or effluence
'Can exist, it will be natural for us, if we come across further facts to
which the "hypnotic" hypothesis proves inapplicable, to describe
these facts as par excellence "mesmeric." And, as we have seen, it
would be no unfair description of these two classes of alleged pheno-
mena, to say that the line between them is the line which, so far, recog-
nised science has not overstepped : by the science of this country, at
.any rate, at the present day, " ,hypnotism" is pretty widely acknowledged,
.and "mesmerism" almost universally rejected.
Before recounting our more consecutive experiments, we ought to
mention that we have tried on several occasions to influence various
persons-boys of from 12 to 20 years old, in the manner described
by Braid, but, hitherto, with little success. The method is as follows:
The person to be operated on is placed in a comfortable position
in a chair. Perfect silence is observed, and every precaution is taken
not to distract the attention of the patient. He is then bidden to·
look at a coin, or other bright object, held about 15 inches from hia
forehead, in such a position as to produce in his eyes a slight inward and
upward squint. Braid states that he found the great majority of the
persons on whom he operated susceptible to this method. We, on the
-other hand, have only had even partial success in one case, that of
Mr. W. North, late lecturer at Westminster Hospital. As a. full
.account of this experiment will be published elsewhere, it will be
sufficient here to state that Mr. North, after gazing intently for
upwards of half-an-hour at a. bright copper disc, succeeded in
bringing himself into a condition in which some of the phenomena
-observed by Braid and Heidenhain were successfully demonstrated,
namely, (partial) insensibility to pain, extreme muscular irrita-
Digili!'ed by Google
, ,
1883.J First Report oj the Oommittee on Mesmerism. 221
bility, and a deadening of the mental faculties. Equally charae--,'
teristic was Mr. North's very,imperfect subsequent recollection of what,
had taken place.
But the rest of the phenomena here described were preceded by the
conditions ordinarily associated with mesmeric in.flutlnce. They were
observed, for the most part, in a willing and intelligent young man or
20, Fred Wells by name-the son of a baker in Brighton. Othe~
youths have also been tried, and some are now under experiment. The
operator in every case has been Mr. R A. Smith, of Dulwich, S.E.,
and lately of Brighton. Mr. Smith's method with his "subjects" is as.
follows: The subject is placed in a chair, with his hands in his lap..
and he is told to direct his attention exclusively to a coin or other
bright disc of metal, which is placed in his hands. Mr. Smith, mean-
~hile, draws his hands, at intervals, slowly downwards across the,
subject's head and face, always in the same direction. His hands,
generally, do not touch the surface of the skin, nor even approach very
near to it. ~fter a time varying from two to twenty minutes has been
thus occupied, Mr. Smith raises the subject's head, closes the eyes, and
presses his thumb on the forehead between the eyes. He then bids.
him open his eyes. If the boy succeeds in doing so without difficulty, '
the whole operation is repeated; and if on a second trial no effect is.
;produced,'the su~ject is dismissed. But it not infrequently happens that
the boy, when told to open his eyes, finds himself unable to do so; ()~
only succeeds after many efforts. Mr. Smith then strokes the muscles.
at the corner of the mouth; and, after a short interval, both eyes and
mouth being closed, he is told to open them. If the subject is a good
one, he fails to do this, and it is very strange to watch the contortion of'
his features, and his evident vexation, whilst he endeavours to thwart.
the mysterious influence which has sealed his lips and eyes. This.
curious phenomenon was amusingly illustrated in the person of a friend
of one of us, Mr. Harold Wolferstan, of Tavistock. Mr. Wolfenitan
.had been brought into the mesmeric state by Miss Smith, sister of"the
Mr. G. A. Smith above-mentioned, in the presence of Dr. lVlyers and
Mr. Podmore. Believing him to be, at the time, unconscious, these
gentlemen were talking about him pretty freely; and it was not until Mr.
W olferstan had been restored to his normal condition that they dis-
covered that he had heard the whole of the conversation, but had been
unable to open his lips or make any other movement to shew his.
interest in it. On another occasion, a friend of ours, after subjection
to the usual process, was left alone, apparently asleep, in an arm-
chair, while the Committee turned their attention to other
"subjects." Meanwhile our friend awoke, but found himself
unable to' move his limbs, and the first intimation which we had
of his condition was the plaintive request, "Please come and undo me."
Digitized by Google
'222 Fir8t Report of the Oommittee on Mesmerism. [April 24,
Influence of Suggestion.-When the "subject" has been rendered
. ·110 far amenable to the operator's manipulation, other singular
phenomena may be observed. It is easy to make him the victim
o()f any hallucination which the fancy of those present may suggest.
"I'hat he is, for the time, really under the influence of the suggested
idea, and genuinely believes what he is told, cannot be doubted,
..at any rate after a sufficiently long and· varied experience. To
.suppose that the multifarious gestures and movements, performed in
-1!upport of the characters which they are bidden to assume, are parts of a
'conscious and deliberate scheme of deception, would be to attribute to
the half-educated boys who formed the subjects of these experiments, a
-sustained capacity for acting a part, as well as rare genius for mimicry and
power of self-control. Moreover, that the hallucination is, in most cases,
..complete, is the more readily perceived by its incompleteness o~ certah>"..
occasions. Sometimes the reasoning faculties are but partially subdued,
·and the boy offers a half incredulous resistance to the suggested
impression. A very striking instance of this kind was the follow.
ling. Mr. Smith dandled a handkerchief before a boy, telling
him that it was a baby. The boy listened, but half convinced, and
smiled incredulously. But he was gradually overcome by the idea
.suggested, and taking the handkerchief, laid it carefully across his
arms, in orthodox nursery fashion. No sooner, however, did Mr.
Smith divert his attention, than reason began to assert itself 8.oaain.
The boy discovered an unusual deficiency in his nursling ; he kept
furtively looking round, with most genuine anxiety and hopeless
>bewilderment, to discover the head of his baby. In the midst of his
perplexity he was recalled to his proper senses, and joined with us in
laughing at his own discomfiture.
The illusion, however, is generally untroubled by any doubts. On
'One occasion, for example, Wells was given a candle, which he was
assured was a sponge-cake. He broke it in pieces, remarking that it
was very stale, and actually ate about an inch and a-half of it. Shortly
i8.fterwards, he began to feel the effects of his unusual meal; and, when
pressed, flatly declined to have any more of "Mr. Gurney's sponge-
cakes." On another occasion, he ate salt greedily, when told that it
was sugar; and rejected sugar in great haste under the impression that
it was cayenne pepper. When white pepper was blown up his nostrils,
he being under the impression that it was mignonnette, not only did he
not sneeze, but his eyes did not water to any appreciable extent, a fact
which was ascertained by opening the lids. Other experimentS inter-
Yened, and no sneezing occurred until some ten minutes afterwards,
when he was given common salt, and told it was snuff. He smelt at it
-and then sneezed violently, with the characteristic spasm, for some
little time. He drank a spoonful of vinegar with much relish, believing
Digitized by Google
1883.] Fir8t Beport oj tlte Oommittee on Me8merism.
, . 22~
it to be cream, and subsequently ate a slice of bread and mustard as
plumcake, eagerly asking for more.
On another occasion Wells, then in his normal condition, was bidden
to look fixedly at Mr. Smith, and was then impressed with the idea that
Mr. Smith had left the room, though Mr. Smith was immediately in
front of him. He anxiously looked for him allover the room and even
left the room to search over the house. When Mr. Smith was pointed
out he was unable to recognise him-" had never seen him before." His
power 'of imitation under the, influence of a suggested idea was most
remarkable. Thus he admirably mimicked at different times a parrot,
a worm, a clock, a statue, a bear, and a frog. His leaps under the
influence of the last-named impression were so energetic and so reckless
that it became necessary to discontinue the experiment, lest he should
__do himself some injury. When he was told on another evening that he
was a nightingale it, was anticipated that he would confine himself-
as in the case of the parrot, to vocal imitation mainly. But his interpre-
tation of the part, though sufficiently thorough, was quite
unconnected with our expectations. He rushed, without hesita.-
tion, at a set of high book-shelves, well filled with books,
which lined one wall of the room, mounted-we might almost say
fluttered-up them with wonderful speed, and then crouched in a corner
on the top of the shelves, with his head against the ceiling, violently
and ineffectually flapping his arms, as a bird, accidentally imprisoned in
a room, will flap its wings. Nor was his assumption of combined parts
less complete. He at once succumbed, for example, to the suggestion
that one side of him was a nurse, and the other a windmill; and for
many minutes his sedulous though left-handed attentions to an imaginaJ:Y
infant were quite unimpaired by the no less sedulous revolutions of his
right arm.
From these lighter stages of the induced condition, the sensitive
would be roused by a loud clap of the hands, and the word " Right "
ahouted at him by the operator. He would wake suddenly with a
dazed expression, and would as a rule be found to retain not the
slightest recollection of what had taken place. Sometimes, as in Mr.
North's case, there was a slight remembrance of the main incidents.
And it was found that if a command or a prohibition were strongly im-
pressed upon the "subject" in the sleep, he would execute the behest
on waking. In obedience to such a command Wells was made to leave
the house, on going home, without his hat: indeed, his subjection to the
command was so thorough that the hat could only be put on his head
by force. This sensitive was frequently made the subject of such com-
mands. He invariably executed them in the waking state, hut, as a
rule, with some hesitation and reluctance-not unnatural, perhaps, in
view of the tasks demanded of him. Thus he, on one occasion, threw
Digitized by Google
224 Fil:st Report oj tke Oommittee on Jlesmeri8m. [April 24,
his waistcoat on to the fire in obedience to the dominant idea impressed
upon him in the sleep. Similarly at another time he thrust his fingers
between the bars into the lighted fire, but was of course prevented
from injuring himself. The effort to remember these and other
commands, where many consecutive actions were enjoined, made
his head ache, and thus at last caused the failure of the experi-
ment. But in no case had he any recollection at all of the circumstances
under which the command was·given. His own account of the matter
was that, on waking, he would feel that he "had to do something;"
but the exact nature of the task would, as a rule, become clear to him
only after a few minutes' reflection. He appeared generally to resist
the idea thus suggested, until its influence became too strong for him.
The above examples, which are merely selections from a long and
varied list, may suffice to indicate our complete adhesion to the view."...
(taken by the advocates of hypnotism and mesmerism alike) that in
certain states of the nervous centres suggested ideas may acquire &
dominant and practically irresistible force. Of course experimentation of
this kind can scarcely exclude all sources of error with scientific
precision....:...that is to say, the state of SUbjection to a dominant idea can
be, to a certain extent, simulated, as epilepsy or coma can be simulated;
and in the one case, as in the other,· some very painful tests might
seem necessary to establish the genuineness of the alleged state. But
the need of such tests here is rather apparent than real. For this
partiCUlar phenomenon-on public platform or in private consulting-
room-rarely fails in practically demonstrating itself,- and observers of
all shades of opinion, who have witnessed this state of subjection to a
suggested idea, are hardly more disposed to deny that the state is,
at any rate in the majority of ca.ses, a genuine one, than observers of
epilepsy are disposed to deny that such a thing as true epilepsy exists.
Community of Sensation.~But we come now to a thesis more
controverted and more controvertible. We maintain (and here we are
supported by one section only of previous inquirers) that we have
frequently observed a very remarkable cO'l/~munity of sensation between
operator and "subject"; or. as the phenomenon might be, perhaps,
more correctly described, a transference of sensation from the operator
to the "subject." This phenom~non .. is obviously closely allied
to. those which have been occupying the Oommittee on Thought-
transference. It differs, however, from the experiments recorded by
that Oommittee in that the Percipient is here in the mesmeric sleep, and
not, therefore, in his normal state. The experiments were conducted
as follows. Fred Wells was placed in· a chair blindfolded, and Mr.
Smith stood behind him. Wells was .then sent into the mesmeric sleep
through passes made by Mr. Smith. Some part of the latter's body would
then be pricked or pinched tolerably severely-the operation lasting,
Digitized by Google
1883.J Fir8t Report qf tke Comm#fee on Me8merism. 225
generally, one or two minutes. Perfect silence was observed throughout,
except for the simple and uniform question: "Do you feel anything 1"
This question was asked by Mr. Smith, as the subject appeared not
to hear any other speaker. In the first set of experiments Mr. Smith
held one of Wells' hands, but this was found subsequently to be
unnecessary, and the later experiments were performed without contact
of any kind between Mr. Smith and the sensitive.
First Series. Jamw/MJ 4th, 1883.
1. The upper part of Mr. Smith's right arm was pinched continuously.
Wells, after an interval of about two minutes, began to rub the
corresponding part on his own body.
- C)
.. Back of the neck pinched. Same result.
S. Calf of left leg slapped. Same result.
4. Lobe of left ear pinched. Same result.
5. Outside of left wrist pinched. Same result.
6. Upper part of back slapped. Same result.
7. Hair pulled. Wells localised the pain on his left arm.
8. Right shoulder slapped. The corresponding part was correctly
indicated.
9. Qutside of left wrist pricked. Same result.
10. Back of neck pricked. Same result.
11. Left toe trodden on. No indication given.
12. Left ear pricked. The corresponding part was correctly indicated.
13. Back of left shoulder slapped. Same result.
14. Calf of right leg pinched. Wells touched his arm.
15. Inside of left wrist pricked. The corresponding part was correctly
indicated.
16. Neck below right ear pricked. Same result.
In the next series of these experiments Wells was blindfolded, as
before; but in this case a screen was interposed between Mr. Smith and
Wells; and there was no contact whatever between them. During
two or three of the trials Mr. Smith was in an adjoining'room, separated
from Wells by thick curtains. .
Second Series. ..4.prill0th, 1883.
17. Upper part of Mr. Smith's left ear pinched. After the lapse of about
two minutes, Wells cried out: "Who's pinching me 1" and
began to rub the corresponding part.
18. Upper part of Mr. Smith's left arm pinched. Wells indicated the
corresponding part almost at once.
Digitized by Goo~Ie
226 Fir8t Report of the Committee on Mesmerism. [April 24,
19. Mr. Smitli's right ear pinched. Wells struck his own right ear, after
the lapse of about a minute, as if catching a troublesome
fiy, crying out: "Settled him that time."
20. Mr. Smith's chin was pinched. Wells indicated the right part almost
immediately. ,
21. The hair at the b~k of Mr. Smith's head was pulled. No
indication.
22. Back of Mr. Smith's neck pinched. Wells pointed, after a short
interval, to the corresponding part.
23. Mr. Smith's left ear pinched. Same result.
After this, Mr. Smith being now in an adjoining room, Well,
began, as he said, "to go to sleep"; and said that he "didn't want to
be bothered." He was partially waked up, and the e~periments were _
resumed.
24. Salt was put into Mr. Smith's mouth. "\Vells cried out, "I don't like
candle to eat" (an idea possibly suggested by the word "candle"
having been mentioned in his hearing a few minutes before).
25. Powdered ginger, of a particularly hot description, put into Mr.
Smith's mouth. Wells presently exclaimed, "I don't like hot thingsj
what do you want to give me cayenne for ~ "
26. Salt was then again placed in Mr. Smith's mouth. Wells exclaimed,
" Why do you give me nasty hot sweetmeats 1"
27. Wormwood in Mr. Smith's mouth. Wells cried, "Makes my eyes
smart : don't like mustard."
It will be noticed that in these last two experiments, the taste of
the ginger apparently persisted, and obscured all later sensations.
28. Mr. Smith's right calf pinched. Wells was very sulky, and for a long
time refused to speak. At last he violently drew up his right leg,
and began rubbing the calf.
After this Wells became still more sulky, and refused in the next
experiment to give any indication whatever. With considerable acute-
ness he explained the reasons for his contumacy. "I ain't going to
tell you, for if I don't tell you, you won't go on pinching me. You·
only do it to make me tell." Then he added, in reply to a remon-
strance from Mr. Smith, "What do '!IOU want me to tell for ~ they ain't
hurting gou, and I can stand their pinching." All this time Mr. Smith's
left calf was being very severely pinched.
Thus out of a total of 24 experiments in transference of pains, the
exact spot.was correctly indicated by the subject no less than 20
times. Two out of the four failures had been anticipated, previous
experience having shewn that the experiment rarely succeeded when the
Digitized by Google
1883.J First Repal't aj the Oammittee an Mesmerism. 227
infliction consisted in pulling the hair. There remain, then, but 'two
failures unaccounted for, and in only one of these cases was a wrong
indication given, the boy merely remaining silent on the other
Qccasion. It would be hazardous to draw any positive conclusions from
the results of the four trials with tastes. But we shall hope to continue
<lur experiments in this direction at no distant date.*
It is obvious that the impressions here recorded as having been
transferred by sympathy from operator to subject might conceivably
have been conveyed by a code, with less difficulty, at any rate, than in'
the case of the diagrams given. in our report on Thought-transference.
-where, nevertheless, our precautions may appear to have been more
-elaborate than here. But the fact is that we never attempted these
-experiments in" mesmeric sympathy~' until we had satisfied ourselves
-d the genuineness and completeness of the "mesmeric sleep." That
state was, as we think, tolerably unmistakable; nor did anyone
(lircumstance occur during the whole course of our experiments which
threw any doubt on its reality, or on the perfect integrity of the opera~r.
Rigidity andAnresthesia.-Buta more distmct and definite testimony to
the genuineness of this induced condition is to be found in our experiments
Qn anrestltesia. We satisfied ourselves, by a great number of carefully-
varied experiments, that it was possible to induce in the subject: (1)
_either a general insusceptibility to, pain inflicted on any part of his
person-and this state ge~er~lly, e!,isted even while he was acutely
sensitive to pains inflicted 'on'the operator; (2) or an auresthesia of
some specified part of the subject's' body, chosen by ourselves.
Thus, a limb or a portion of a limb, after being stroked two or three
times by. the operator's hands, would assume ~ condition of perfect
rigidity, in which pinching, pricking, burning, or strong electric shocks
might be applied without producing the slightest protest or sign of
pain.
This condition would last for a considerable period; indeed, the
Committee have not yet observed a case in which rigidity, when once
fully induced in a- sensitive su~Ject, has disappeared of its own accord.
The limb is soon restored to. its normal condition when stroked with_
the hand as before-the pas~es-beu;.gmade, however, in the reverse direc-
tion. It is noticeable that the insensibility is often very strictly defined.
All parts above a definite line, apparently limited by t~e range of the
., passes," are in the normal condition; all below seem as void of sensation
" '
• Some independent observations of one of our Committee strongly corrobor-
ate this "mesl,Ileric sympathy." See the facts recorded by ProfessOr Barrett in
a paper read before the British Association in 1~76,a.nd: reprinted in the
present part of our Proceedings, as to the tra.D.sfererice of impressions from
kifllleZ/, as mesmeriser, to an ignorant Irish peasant girl, who was his snbject.
Digitized by Go'b~Ie
228 First Report oj the Committee on Mesmerism. [April 24,
as a piece of shoe-leather. Occasionally,whilst all senseof pain is destroyed,
the sense of contact is, to a certain extent, preserved; then the "sub-
ject" will feel a pin touch the skin, but cannot feel it driven into the
flesh. In our observation the two phenomena of rigidity and insensi-
bility to pain have always been conjoined; but it is believed that this.
is not always the case.
In the case of Fred Wells, above-mentioned, Harry Manson, a
tradesman's apprentice, and several other "subjects" whom the Com-
mittee have employed, this insensibility has been very thoroughly tested;
and the results abundantly confirm the observations of Esdaile, Elliotson,
and others. To cite one experiment only, out of many which were tried
upon Wells-a very willing subject-in order to demonstrate this induced
insensibility to pain. One arm having been bared and stiffened, the
wires from a powerful induction coil were applied to the skin, so as to. - .
affect the flexor muscles of the fingers. The boy, who was otherwise in
the normal state, watched with tranquil curiosity the action of the
battery, which he had never seen before; he was greatly amused and
delighted with the rapid and spasmodic movements of his fingers. The
wires were then suddenly applied to a sensitive part, and the boy jumped
out of his chair from the violence of the shock.
It may be noted that in the case of the eye, insensibility seems
to be produced as part of the general condition-at any rate without
any special manipUlation of the organ. If the sleep is profound, and
the eyes, which are firmly closed, are forced open, the sensibility of the
conjunctiva may be proved to have almost entirely disappeared. The
contractility of the pupils is also very much lessened; as may be
conveniently demonstrated by bringing a lighted candle close to the
eyes, when but a very slight movement is observed."
We have dealt thus far with three main phenomena connected with
the mesmeric state, viz.: (1) The dominance of a suggested idea; (2)
transference of sensations, without suggestion, from operator to
patient; (3) induction of general or local aruesthesia. Thefir8t of
these three theses is, we believe, on the high road to universal accept-
ance. The mass of recorded testimony to it is enormous; the
experiments are not difficult to repeat; and the discllssions of
physiologists are beginning to turn on the explanation rather than on the
* Experiments on pain, even when as in these cases their result is to prove their
own absol1lte painle,mell, should be sparingly employed ; and we hardly antioi-
pate any such scepticism as to the induced aD.lel!thesia of mesmerism as can make
it needful to renew them. We need, perhaps, scarcely add tha' the
Committ6e are fully aware of certain special dangers attendiug mesmeric
experiments. The strictest preoautions ha.ve always been taken to avoid undue
interference on the part of a.ny onlooker with the mesmerised "subject"; and
our care in thi~ respect will not be relaxed in f1lture.
Digitized by Google
1883.J First Report 0/ tlte Committee on Mesmerism. 229
~xistence of the phenomenon. The second thesis is, of course, much more
keenly contested. We think that we have added something to the facts
recorded in its favour, and we have every hope of adding more. Thill
mesmeric sympathy is, as we have suggested, entirely consonant with
~ur experiments in Thought-transference in the normal state; and as we
learn more of the philosophy of the subject it may be hoped that the
two inquiries will throw reciprocal light upon each other. The tltird
point-the production of anresthesia-has been already established by
Esdaile and others with what seems to us even overwhelming complete-
ness, and is to a certain extent admitted by many exponents of modern
physiology. But here we come face to face with one form of what
must now be accounted as the fundamental problem of the whole
inquiry. Is this anresthesia produced by mere expectant attention
- ~xercised in a particular state of the nervous system 1 Is it (in some-
what different terms) the culminating example of the dominance of a
suggested idea 1 Or is it, again, the result of the inhibition of certain
sensory centres in consequence of prolonged stimulation of the peripheral
~xtremities of the nerves. This is the explanation given by HeidenhainJ
and, with some modifications, previously by Braid; but it only covers the
~ases where the passes have been accompanied by actual contact, which
in our experiments has by no means always been the case. Or is i,t,
lastly, the result of some specific effluence from the operator which
may act without actual contact, independently. of the subject's
knowledge or expectation 1 It is on this question that we' are now
concentrating our attention; and it is only fair to say that our results
point strongly in the direction of the tltird-the least antecedently
probable, thli\ least generally accepted explanation. But the question of
this specific inHuence-of mesmmsm, as opposed to ltypnotism-is too
complex and important to be approached in a fragmentary manner. It
.admits of direct investigation in several ways: and we prefer to defer the
pUblication of results until a more complete reproduction of the experi-
'ments of others, with added tests of our own, may have afforded a.
wider basis for discussion.
230 Fir8t Report of the "Reichenbach" Oommittee. [April24.
III.
FIRST REPORT
OF THE
"REIOHENBAOH" OOMMITTEE.
Committee:-W.F. ilARRETT,F.R.S.E.*; Rev. MAXWELLH. CLOSE, M.A..
ST. GEORGE LANE-Fox"'; EDMUND GURNEY, M.A. ; FREDERIC W.H:
MYERS, M.A.; A. T. MYERS, M.D.; EDWARD R. PEASE; HENRY N.
RIDLEY, M.A., F.L.S.; W. H. STONE, M.A., M.ll. ; and WALTER
H. COFFIN, F.L.S., F.C.S.,* Hon. Sec.
In accordance with their preliminary Report, the Committeeappointed
to repeat Baron Reichenbach's experiments have, 80 far, confined
themselves entirely to his original and fundamental observations upon
.the magnet, anu particularly to the alleged" Magnetic Light."
If a luminous effect of ordinary magnetism, though rarely seen, is.
as Reichenbach believed, an actual physical phenomenon, and demon-
strable as such, its establishment would not only have a high scientific
interest outside the main objects of this Society, but distinctly lend
importance and a degree of credibility hitherto wanting to his description
of correlative and less purely objective phenomena.
, .The necessary experimental conditions have latterly been fairly well
realised by the Committee: A room on the Society's premises, about
13 feet square and 12 feet high, has been so arranged as to be easily
and perfectly darkened. On a bright, sunny day, prolonged immenion
in this "camera ob8C~tra" fails to reveal to any eye the faintest glim-
mering of ordinary light; but in view of cf'rtain hypotheses, trials with
various large white and polished surfaces, lenses, and silvered concave
reflectors, have not rendered visible any of the light assumed to still
linger in the room. Furthermore to exclude the effect of phosphor-
escence exhibited more or less by all substances, the apartment was
usually darkened for an hour or more before each series of observations.
The comparative sensitiveness to ordinary faint light of the normal
human eye, as between individuals, has not, so far as the Committee
are aware, been very systematically studied; their own rough and
casual estimates of this, by means of phosphorescent sulphides of the
"luminous paint" descriptiou, indicate only a slight. and inconstant
difference between healthy eyes. Of thetwo observers tobe specially men-
tioned hereafter, one seemed to be a little above, the other slightly below
the average sensibility to the ordinarily visible rays of the spectrum.
Digitized by Google
-
--
1883.] Fir8t Report Qf t~e " Reichenbach" Committee. 231
The magnetic objects employed have been permanent magnets of various
shapes and sizes, distributed on tables or shelves around the room, or·
mounted and standing on the floor ;-a small portable electro-magnet;
whose position could be readily changed ;-and a larger and more
powerful one kindly lent by Dr. Stone (hereafter called "the electro-
magnet "), with limbs about eight inches long, the same distance apart,
of flattened section of 2! by 7 inches, reduced to 2! inch circular at the
polar surfaces, the whole 24 inches length of the magnet being wound with
wire, and so mounted on trunnions in a massive wooden stand that it
could be inclined and clamped in any position. It was excited by the
current of eight large (10 by 6 inch plates) Smee cells, led to it from a
"commutator," (that is, a contact-maker and current reverser,) in the
adjoining room.
These facilities have been used by the Committee in their regular
experiments of from 2i to 3 hours' duration, and for numerous informal
trials conducted by individual members, when at least one hour has
always been allowed for the visual accommodation to the darkness. The
longest observations in the dark have been about three hours, the
average duration of them being an hour and a-half, and it is quite
possible that a much longer period, with perhaps an interval of sleep
or rest, may be found necessary for maximum sensitiveness.
The main results, however, have been that no member of the Com-
mittee (or of the Society so far tested) has yet seen anything unusual
connected with a magnet, the human body, or other object; and that
after careful and repeated trials with 45 " subjects" of both sexes, and-
of ages between 16 and.60, only three of these professed to see
luminous appearances; a much smaller proportion of "sensitives"
.than, according to Reichenbach; should be found. The testimony, how-
ever, of these observers, who declared their entire ignorance of Reichen-
bach's works, was so remarkable, and the series of tests by which it
was confirmed is so striking, that the Chairman of the Committee,
recounting a portion of it in the Pltilosophical Magazine,* says, "Of
the fact that, to certain eyes, a luminosity accompanies the creation of
a magnetic field, the evidence, so far as it goes, seems to me absolutely
unexceptionable." In view of this opinion, it will be useful to record
some of the experiments more fully than they are described in the
" Note" just quoted.
The following, for instance, is an account of one of several similar
and nearly equally satisfactory meetings of the Committee: Mr. G. A.
Smith, a young man of 19, of whom further mention is made in
• Note on the Alleged Luminosity of the Magnetic Field. By W. F. Barrett,
Prof. of Experimenwl Physics in the Royal College of Science, Dublin. Phil.
Mag., April, 1883.
Digitized by Google
23~ First Report oj tlte " Reickenbaclt" Oommittee. [April 24,
\
the Mesmeric Report, and a lad, Fred Wells, who had been a "subj!lct"
of his mesmeric experiments, were, on the evening of January 2nd,
1883, seated in the dark room with Dr. A. T. Myers, :Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, Mr. H. N. Ridley, and Professor W. F. Barrett. The large
electro-magnet was in the centre of the room with its poles upward,
and about 4ft. 6in. above the Hoor. This was magnetised at intervals,
but for the first half hour without being observed. At the end of that
time poth sensitives described something in the centre of the room,
as, in their own words, "more like a faint smoke than a light," and suc-
cessively led Professor Barrett's hand directly to the poles of the electro-
magnet as its source. The" commutator," which made and broke the
current animating the electro-magnet, worked quite silently, and was in
charge of Mr. E. R. Pease, Mr. Edmund Gurney, and Mr. WalterH. Coffin
in the adjoining room, where every remark of the. " sensitives," or any of_
the Committee, could, through the darkening screens,be plainly heard and
noted. The current was suddenly and unexpectedly broken, when
Smith said instantly, "It is gone" (alluding to the "smoke" or faint
light described), and it being as suddenly remade in a few seconds, he
exclaimed as quickly, "Now I see it." A few less decisive observa-
tions then followed, until, on breaking the current, Smith instantly
announced the fact; and from this moment commenced a remarkable
number of uniform successes. In the words of Professor Barrett:-
A consecutive series of observations, extending o,"er an hour, was then
made by Mr. Smith. From time to time, during this period, the observers
in the next room silently and unexpectedly closed or interrupted the current,
the intervals being purposely varied from a few seconds to several minutes.
In this way fourteen consecutive trials were made; and in every case, except
one, the exclamations made by Mr. Smith, such as "Now I see it," "Now
it's gone," were absolutely simultaneous with the movement of the com-
.mutator-according to the unanimous report uf the witnesses in the adjoining
room. In the one exception referred to, a delay of five seconds occurred
between the breaking of the current and the exclamation: this, however,
may easily have been due to a momentary relaxation of attention on the part
of Mr. Smith. The strain on the attention was indeed so severe, that
after the fourteenth observation, Mr. Smith complained of considerable pain
in his eyes and head, and was obviously much exhausted. During a succeed-
ing half hour two or three further experiments were made ; but the results
were uncertain, and may, I think, be fairly excluded.
It is obVIOUS that a series of accidental comcidences between the act of
closing or opening of the circuit and the exclamation of the observer cannot
explain the facts here noted. As there are 3,600 seconds in an hour, to hit
oft' anyone right moment by pure chance would be very improbable; but
the chances against success increase in geometric progression when fourteen
right moments are S'UccemtJely hit oft'. The probabilities against mere coin-
cidence as an explanation are tnerefore many millions to one.
More important was the possibility of indications being alrorded by the
Digitized by Google
1883.] First Report of tke "Reicltenback" OOlnmittee.
act of magnetiZation and demagnetization, which might give notice to the
observe!." and suggest to the imagination the conversion of an illusion into a
fancied reality.
Of these indications the so-called" magnetic tick" at once suggesteditself.
Knowing precisely what to listen for, and therefore more keenly alive to the
sound than Mr. Smith, who presumably knew nothing of this molecula.r
crepitation, I failed to detect the faintest Bound on the "making" of the
circuit; and a barely audible tick on "breaking" contact was heard only
when my ear was in close contact with the magnet or its support.*" This was
due to the massive characte!." of the magllet and stand, which also prevented
any other discernible movement when the magnet was excited. Further, I
satisfied myself that, at the distance at which Mr. Smith stood from the
magnet; it was impossible to discover when the clrcuit was completed or in-
terrupted by the attraction of any magnetic substance about on6's body ; as a
precaution, however, Mr. Smith emptied his pockets beforehand. At th.,e
~--lI&1lle time it is quite possible a skilful operator, bent upon deceiving us, might
be able to detect the moment of magnetization and demagnetization by feeling
• the movement of a concealed compass-needle. Against this hypothesis must
be placed the fact that no informatioll was given to Mr. Smith beforehand of
the nature of the experiment. Ultimately all scientific observation rests
upon the good faith of the observers; alld there was nothing to arouse the \
smallest suspicion of the good faith of the observer in the present instance.
Similar experiments were made on another evening with the boy Wells,
with fairly satisfactory results. In the case of Wells the luminosity, from
his description, must have appeared to be brighter and larger; and on the
interruption of the circuit it was not instantly extinguished, but gradually
died awayt; his frequent exclamation on breaking the current was, "Oh,
you are spoiling it."
The description given by the three "sensitives" (including Mr.
Sidney Beard, in addition to the above mentioned) of the luminous
appeamIlce was that of two rounded or blunted cones, apices downward,
one of each being directly over and upon a pole of the magnet; that
over the north-seeking pole being the brighter. They were said to be
unstea.eJ.y, waving in form, and flickering or variable in intensity. The
breath deflected without extinguishing them. According to two of the
observers with whom the experiment was tried the luminosity was not
intercepted or cut off by a black velvet cloth or a thick board laid flat
over the poles, but was hid from view like an ordinary source of light
by an opaque body between it and the eye.
Faint lights have been described by one of these sensitives on
permanent steel m8.0anets, and in particular upon a small laminar
* The Committee have subsequently found that under proper conditions (of
perfect silence, &c.) the ticks of both " making" and "breaking" are audible
to the ear placed directly in contact with the polar surface of the magnet.
t There was a considerable amount of residual magnetism in the electro-
magnet.
Digitized by Google
234 First Rfport q/ the" Reiclienbach " Committee. [April 24,
"Jamin" magnet having a concentrated intense field,-but the
tests to which the Committee have as yet been able to put these
statements are not entirely conclusive.
On several occasions, two of these" sensitives" and a member of
the Committee have experienced peculiar sensations in the face and
head which appear to be an effect of the magnetic field. This member,
placing his forehead exactly between the poles of the electro-magnet, was
certainly able to distinguish accurately,-and according .to him by
feelings in the face and eyes,-whether the magnet was excited or not.
Mr. Smith, in the light, and in presence of the Committee, with
his face placed in the strongest part of the magnetic field, has-as he
alleges by singular effects upon his eyes and temples-accurately an-
nounced within one or two seconds, 21 successive" makes" and
" breaks" of the current. In these, as in the other experiments, every
precaution was taken against any direct or indirect knowledge, other
Digitized by GoogIe
-
1883.J First Report of tke "Reicltenbaclt" Oommittee. ~3o.
than by the inagnetization, of the opening or Hosing of the circuit
reaching the observer.
The Committee regret that under apparently identical cIrcumstances,
similar effects have not been always forthcoming, and think it reasonable
to consider that the phenomena depend upon conditions, possibly
physiological, not yet understood.
The objections that have been urged to even admitting the possibility
of luminous magnetic phenomena, as apparently attributing a continuous
evolution of radiant energy to a magnet, are, the Committee
think, sufficiently met if it be remembered that on the one hand the
source of energy may be outside the magnet altogether, and on the
other the amount of this energy must be so small that many undetected
sources of it probably exist. .
___ In confirmation of this opinion it is gratifying to find that so
distinguished and high an authority as Professor G. F. Fitzgerald,
F.R.S., F.T.C.D., in a paper read before the Royal Dublin Society, has
shown that these luminous appearances do not necessarily oontravene
the 1aws of thermo-dynamics or of the conservation of energy.
Professor Fitzgerald has been good enough to state, in a letter (appended
by permission to this Report), his hypothesis accounting for the origin of
the light. In fact, the amoul).t of molecular disturbance whioh may be
competent to excite vision is immeasurably small. Thus a rush light
can be seen through a radius of, say, a mile or more. How infinitesimal
is the energy which produces sensation at that distance! Also, a phos-
phorescent powder, illuminated for one second, is found to be visible
after uninterruptedly expending for five or six hours the trace of energy
imparted to it by a momentary insolation. How minute is the amount of
energy which excites our vision at the 20,OOOth second! But, notwith-
standing the amazing delicacy of the organ of sight, photographic plates
can now transcend our sense perception, and unlike the sensory effect,
the image on such plates grows in distinctness by prolonged exposure
to very feeble radiations. Hence the Committee were anxious to try.
photography; but preliminary efforts have been disappointing, no effect
being produced by a magnet on very sensitive dry plates. The matter,
however, will be returned to; meanwhile the eminent astronom~r, Dr.
Huggins, F.R.S., whose experienoe in this kind of photography is not.
exceeded by that of any other experimenter, has also tried, but unsuc-
cessfully, to phd'tograph these luminous phenomena. An interesting
letter from Dr. Huggins is, by his permission, included in the Appendix.
Other scientific men, in communication with the Committee, are
found by no means hostile to these views; among them being Mr.
J. Rand Capron, F.R.AS., who refers to the subject in his work on
"Auroral," p. 165, and has favoured the Committfle with further par~
ticuIars of his experiments.
Digitized by Google
236 First Repol·t of the" Reichenbacl&" Oommittee. [April 24,
On the whole, while undoubtedly the evidence is yet too slight
to draw more definite conclusions, the" Committee feel at least justified
in recording :-
Firstly, that three observers, separately, on distinct occasions were
in some way immediately aware when an electro-magnet was secretly
" made" and "unmade," under such precautions as were devised to
suppress ordinary means of knowing, and to exclude chance and
deception; and identified such magnetization with luminous appear-
ances which as described agreed generally with the evidence recorded
by Reichenbach ;-
Secondly, that there were,though less decisively, indications of other
-sensory affects of magnetism.
In view of these apparent confirmations of previous testimony, the
Committee incline to the opinion that, among other unknown phenomeIl!lo--
associated with magnetism, there is a primd facie case for the existenCe,
under conditions not yet determined, of a peculiar and unexplained
luminosity resembling phosphorescence, in the region immediately
around the magnetic poles, and visible only to certain individuals.
APPENDIX.
40, Trinity College, Dublin, 23rd April, 1883.
My DEAR BARRETT,-In my paper read last Monday at the Royal
Dublin Society I proposed an experiment to decide between the
Qrdinary electrical theories of -direct action at a distance and Clerk
Maxwell's theory of action by means of the ether. Upon the
latter theory it should be possible to originate either stationary
{)r progressive waves, and I showed that it might be possible to originate
-experimentally such short waves as to be within range of observation,
for the principal difficulty is that owing to the velocity of propagation being
the same as that of light it is very difficult to get short wans. I proposed.
to get over the difficulty by using the rapidly alternating currents produced
when a condenser is discharged through a small resistance. As I was on the
""Subject of the electrical origination of light I mentioned some suggestions as
to a possible origin for the light sRid to be seen near a magnet. I suggested
hat the fact that the air molecules are moving in an intense magnetic field
might very likely disturb the distribution of vibrations when they collide:
the sudden change of direction in their motion may induce electrlc currents
or vibrations in the molecules which are sufficiently rapid to be visible. I
pointed out that this got over all difficulty in respect of the first Law of
"Thermo-dynamics, for that the source of energy was the air and not the perma-
nent magnet. I suggested some ways in which it might not be opposed
to the second Law, although it seems as if you were getting energy from
the air by cooling it down below its surroundings. I pointed out that the
action might not be permanent in still air and that the action might be like
evoking a phosphorescence out of the air which would ultimately settle down
Digitized by Google
1883.] Fir8t Report 01 the" Reioltenhacll" Oommittee. 237
to a new distribution of velocities, but that practically air currents would
make the action pennanent. I pointed out that a somewhat similar action
was supposed to take place when the magnet is stated to be able to separate
the paramagnetic oxygen from the nitrogen in the air, for that as the gaselt
are not of the same density there is a greater energy in them when apart than
when mixed, and I suggested that the two effects might be in lome way con-
nected with one another, for that in order to separate them there must be
some disturbance of the intra-molecular impacts. I refrained from suggesting
obvious experiments to test the suggestions, such as putting the magnets in
vacuo, or in a simple gas, or in a liquid or transparent solid, partly because,
they were obvious and partly because it seems so hard to catch the experi-
menter who can see the phenomenon. Mr. Moss suggested putting dry
photographic plates for a long time near a magnet to see would they get at
all fogged. This might very well be tried, but it would require a long course
of experiments, as plates get accidentally fogged in so many ways.-Yours,
--~ sincerely, GEO. FRAS. FITZGERALD.
P.S.-I think I stated that contrary to what many people state I can see no
Ii priori difficulty in the supposition of direct action at a distance.
Upper Tulse Hill, S. W., 6th May, 1883.
D EAR PROFESSOR BARRETT,-Mr. Grubb, doubtless, gave to you the,
photographic plate, with the data of the experiment. I gave it to him the
same day, and had not the opportunity of careful examination when dry.
If you can see even the very faintest suspicion of any form, it may be well
to strengthen 'with bichloride of mercury and ammonia. * This photograph
was taken under the impression that you rather suggested the possibility of
ultra-violet light. It is difficult to understand, from what we know of the
magnetic lines of force, that there is a radiant energy which can be brought
to focus on the retina. Your experiment with screens seems to suggest that
the force is physical and not purely psychical. May it be energy in the form of
infra-red vibrations1 If our eyes were like Abney's plates every object would.
be I uminous, and men and women and all warm-blooded creatures would be
pre-eminently" shining ones." In one case the, oxidation necessary to life
does manifest itself in vibrational energy within the eye's range, namely, the,
little phosphorescent beasts in the sea, and also similarly infire-flies and glow-
worms. When you experiment again, will you try screens of glass and very
thin ebonite 1 The former is very imperfectly transparent to short vibra-
tiona, and the ebonite is opaque to all but low infra-red rays, which pass.
freely through it. It would be well to try magnets with Abney's plates. If
there is sufficient radiated energy to affect the eye, it might be well to see if,
with the most sensitive pile, there is any indication of a rise of temperature
from the magnetic field. In this case, if an electro-magnet is used, care must
be taken that any rise of temperature in the wire from the current may not
be allowed to affect the pile. This would be a good preliminary experiment
before trying for photographic evidence of red or infra-red rays.-Yours very
sincerely, WILLIAM HUOOIN~.
• I could see no trace of any form at all on the plate.-W. F. B.
Digitized by Google
238 Abnormal Conditions oj Mind. [April 24,
IY.
ON SOlIE PHENOMENA ASSOCIATED WITH ABNORMAL
CONDITIONS OF MIND.*
By W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.E., M.R.I.A., &c.
There are certain conditions of the mind, either temporarily
induced or habitual, which appear to be associated with many
remarkable phenomena that have hitherto received but partial
attention from scientific men. On various occasions during the last ten
years I have had the opportunity of observing some of these singular
states, and in the hope of eliciting further information or of stimulating
inquiry by those more competent than myself, I venture to bring tbe-
following facts under the notice of the British Association. '
The observations to be described belong mainly to the class known by
the names of mesmerism, hypnotism, or induced somnambulism, for
these terms express very similar mental states. The experiments of the
late Dr. Braid have led physiologists to recognise the existence of the
fact that an extraordinary condition of the mind can be induced in
certain susceptible or sensitive individuals by merely fixing theatten·
tion rigidly for several minutes upon any bright object. Whilst staying
with a friend in Westmeath, now, some years ago, I had the opportunity
of frequently witnessing the production of this morbid condition, and,
further, of observing some phenomena that are usually denied by
eminent physiologists of the present day.
Selecting some of the VIllage children and placing them in a quiet
room, giving each some small' object to look at steadily, it was found
that one amongst the number readily passed into a state of reverie,
resembling that dreamy condition between sleeping and waking.
In this state the subject could readily be made to believe the most
extravagant statements, such as that the table was a mountain, a
chair a pony, a mark on the floor an insuperable obstacle. As Dr.
Maudsley observes in his Mental P/~ysiology, "the mind of the patient
becomes possessed with the ideas the operator suggests, so that hiS
body becomes an automatic machine set in motion by them."
In the Proceedings of the British Association for 1855, is a paper
by Mr. Braid in which the phenomena of mesmerism are referred to
* This paper was originally read before the British Association, at the
'Glasgow Meeting, September, IS76. By permission of the Council of the S.P.R~
it was included in the proceedings of the meeting on April 24th, after a verbal
revision and the omission of a few paragraphs. Though this paper was the
subject of much animadversion when first read, students ofthe Reports published
by the S.P.R. will be able to judge how far the opinions expressed seven years ago
have since received confirmation.
Digitized by,Google
1883·1 Abnormal Oondition8 oj Mind. 239
what is termed a mono-ideo-dynamic action, the ideo-motor force of the
present day. Many other writers might be quoted, but the main facts
are not now denied; in fact, this peculiar physiological state is referred
to all in recent works on the mind. •
The fact that sne mind can thus readily be thrown into a state of
passive obedience to another mind is undoubtedly a fact of much im-
portance. It is important, not only as exhibiting a state into which
ilertain minds are liable to be exposed, but also as probably affording a
clue to some of the extraordinary assertions that have' been made by
credible witnesses as to the elongation and levitation of the human
body, the handling of fire and the like. These facts are testified to by
eminent men whose word one cannot for a moment question. Either
the narrators saw the things they describe or they tlwugkt they saw
--'ohern. The following considerations seem to render it highly probable
that the latter affords a provisional explanation.
Mr. Herbert Spencer has compared the ordinarily vivid mental
impressions produced by the perceptions of external things which
are simultaneously present in our consciousness with the fainter
ideas produced by reflection, memory, or imagination-to two
parallel streams of consciousness, constantly varying in their
relative breadth, as the outer or the inner world predominates. During
states of activity we are receiving a crowd of impressions from the
senses, and hence the stream of consciousness derived from the external
world causes the faint manifestations derived from within to sink into
insignificance. But when the vivid manifestations produced by the
senses are enfeebled-e.g., by closing the eyes, stillness, &c.-the
usually faint stream of consciousness becomes predominant; the hetero-
geneous current of ideas grows more distinct, and almost excludes the
vivid order of impressions, and finally, on lapsing into sleep, the
manifestations of the vivid order cease to be distinguishable as sue h,
and those of the faint order come to be mistaken for them.
It is highly probable that the vivid stream of consciousness produced
by sensation, having been reduced by quietness and twilight, the minds
of those who testify to the feats referred to, would readily yield them-
selves to any emphatic suggestion on tht. part of the operator. However.
to put this matter to the test of experiment, I selected (in the manner
a.Irea.dy described) a young lad, who in the course of fifteen minutes was
hypnotised, as Mr. Braid would say. The lad now readily believed any
assertion I made, with evident relish going through the farce of eating
and drinking because I suggested the act, though the only materials I
,gave him .were a book and an empty vase. When subsequently he partly
awoke, he was under the conviction that he had had his tea, yet could
not understand how it was, as he associated the actual books with the
forced idea of bread and butter, and the struggle of reason and memory
Digitized by Google
240 .Abnm-mal Condition8 ~f Mind. [April 24,
was curious to witness. On another occasion, when the lad was
hypnotised, I placed my shoes on the table and forcibly drew his atten-
tion to them_ I then suggested that I was standing in them, and after-
he had given his assent, I said, "Now I am going to rise up and float
round the room." So saying I raised my hand, and directing his sight
upwards, pointed out the successive stages in my imaginary flight. He-
followed the direction I indicated with intense and anxious interest, and
on my slowly depressing my hand, and asserting I was once more on the
ground, he drew a sigh of relief. On awaking he held to the belief that
I had in some indistinct way floated round the room and pointed to the
course I had taken. I had not the slightest doubt that after a few
trials, this extravagant idea might have been fixed in the lad's mind
with the greatest ease.
I adduce the foregoing experiment to shew the powerful influen~­
of suggestion when the mind is in certain states such as reverie, and
hence the need of guarding against illusion. At the same time, I do
not wish it to be supposed that I dogmatically assert this must have-
been the explanation of the phenomena described by Lord Lindsay and
others; all I assert is, in our present state of knowedge, it is an easier-
explanation than to assume the actual occurrence of the marvels.
Nevertheless, in justice to those who hold an opposite view, I am bound
to mention a case that came under my own repeated observation,wherein
certain inexplicable physical phenomena occurred in broad daylight,and
for which I could find no satisfactory solution either on the ground of
hallucination or of fraud.* .
Returning to the experience gained at my friend's house in West.
meath, the girl there mesmerised passed on another occasion into a state
of deeper sleep or trance,wherein no sensation whatever was experienced·
unless accompanied by pressure over the eyebrows of the subject. When
the pressure of the fingers was removed, the girl fell back in her chair
utterly unconscious of all around, and had lost all control over her .•1
voluntary muscles. On re-applying the pressure, though her eyes
remained closed, she sat up and answered questions readily, but the
ma.nner in which she answered them, her acts and expressions, were
eapable of wonderful diversity by merely altering the place on the head"
where the pressure was applied. So sudden and marked were the
changes produced by a movement of the fingers that the operation
seemed very like playing on some musical instrument.t I mention these
facts simply to ask whether a careful and systematic study of them-
* The description of this case is here omitted, not from any doubt of itB
genuineness. but because it is thought better M> refer it to the special Committee-
of the Society a.ppointed to deal with this class of phenomena..
t The deep mesmeric sleep and the complete insensibility of the subject
seemed to te the best guarantee against a clever course of deception on her part.
-Digitized by Google
1883.] Abnormal OOnditions of Mind; 24L
might not throw some additional light on the localisation of the func-
tions of the brain. For extraordinary as it may appear that moderate
pressure on the skull could produce any local irritation of the brain, yet it
must be bome in mind that we are here dealing with the brain in an
abnormal condition, probably a state of unstable equilibrium, so that a
slight disturbance might produce an altogether disproportionate effect.
On a third occasion the subject, after passing through what .has
been termed the "biological" and "phrenological" states, becam~
at length keenly and wonderfully sensitive to the voice or acts
ef the operator. It was impossible for the latter to call the girl
by her name, however faintly and inaudibly to those around, with-
out at on<lEl eliciting a prompt response. Even when the operator left the
house, and at intervals gently called the girl's name, at the same time
-indicating the fact by signs to those within sight, she still responded,
more and more faintly, it is true, as the distance became greater. This
extraordinary and unnatural sensibility surprised me greatly, as it ex-
ceeded anything I had heard or read, and I regretted being unable, at
the time, to carry out more experiments in this direction.
In his Mental Physiology, Dr. Carpenter states that he has seen
abundant evidence that the sensibility of a hypnotised subject may be
exalted to an extraordinary degree in regard to some particular class of
impressions, this being due to the concentration of the whole attention
upon the objects which excited them. Thus, he has known a youth in
the hypnotised state find out, by the sense of smell, the owner of a
glove which was placed in his hand, from amongst a party of more
than sixty persons, scenting at each of them one after the other, until
he came to the right individual. In another case, the owner of
a ring was unhesitatingly found out from amongst a company of
twelve, the ring having been withdrawn from the finger before the
somnambule was introduced. He has seen other cases, again, in
~ which the sense of temperature was extraordinarily exalted, very
slight differences, inappreciable to ordinary touch, being at once
detected.
Without denying the possibility of such an extraordinary sensibility,
other facts I witnessed pointed in the direction of a C(YTnrrtunity 0/
sensation between the mesmeriser and the subject, for I noticed that if
the operator tasted, smelt, or touched anything, or experienced any
sudden sensation of warmth or cold, a corresponding effect was instantly
produced on the subject, though nothing was said, nor could the subject
have seen what had taken place upon the operator. To be assured Qf
this, I bandaged the girl's eyes with great care, and the operator having
gone behind the girl to the other end of the room, I watched him and the
girl, and repeatedly assur ed myself of this fact. If he placed his hand over
the lighted lamp, the girl instantly withdrew hers, as if in pain; if he
DigitizedbyG~gle
242 .Abnarmal Oonditioni oj Mind. [April 24, -
tasted salt or sugar, corresponding expressions of dislike and approval
were indicated by the girl. If, however, anyone else in the room
other than the operator tried the experiment, I could
perceive no indications on the part of the subject. Certainly,
so far as my observations. extended, there did seem to be
a vast difference between the influence exerted on the subject
by the operator, and that which could be exerted by anyone else.
Dr. Carpenter believes, however, tha.t there is no foundation for
the " rapport" which is so often asserted to exist between a
mesmerised subject and the operator. On this point he remarks:
"If the subject be 'possessed' with the previous co nviction that a
particular individual is destined to exert a special influence over him,
the suggestions of tllat individual are obviously received with greater
readiness, and are responded to with greater certainty, than are those of---
any bystander. This is the whole mystery of the relationship between
the 'biologiser' and his 'subject.''' _
For my own part, I do not think that the whole mystery of this so·
called" rapport" can be disposed of quite so easily. Not only do the
facts I have just given negative Dr. Carpenter's easy solution, but the
following still more remarkable experiments shew, at any rate, that the
question is one deserving of more extended inquiry.
When the subject was in the state of trance or profound hypnotism,
I noticed that not only sensations but also ideas or emoti ons occurring
in the operator appeared to be reproduced in the subject without the
intervention of any sign, or visible or audible com~unication. Having
mesmerised the girl myself, I took a card at random from a pack that
was in a drawer in another room. Glancing at the card to see what it
was, I placed it within a book, and in this state brought it to the girl.
Giving lier the closed book, I asked her to tell me what I had put
within its leaves. She held the book close to the side of her head and
said, "I see something inside with red spots on it." "Count the spots,"
I told her; she did so, and said there were five red spots. The card
was the five of diamonds. Another card, chosen and concealed in a
similar way, was also correctly named; and when a Bank of Ireland
note was substituted she said, "Oh now I see a number of
heads; so many I can't count them." She sometimes failed to
guess correctly, asserting the things were dim, and invariably I
found she could give me no information of what was within the
book, unless I had previously known what it was myself. More
remarkable still, I aSked her to go in imagination to Regent Street, in
London, and tell me what 8 hops she saw. The girl had never been out
of her remote Irish village, but she correctly described to me the shop
of Mr. Ladd, the optician, of which I happened to be thinking-
::eferring to some large crystals (of lcelahd spar) and to other things in
Digitized by Google
I883.} .A.bnal'mal Oondlttans OJ Mind. 243
the shop-and when she mentally left the shop she noticed the large
clock that overhangs the entrance to Beak Street. '
In many other ways I convinced myself that the existence of a
distinct id~ in my own mind gave rise to an image of the idea in the
subject's mind ; not always a clear image, but one that could not fail to
be recognised as a more or less distorted reflection of my own thought.
The important point is that every care was taken to prevent any
unconscious movement of the lips, or otherwise giving any indication
to the subject, although one could hardly reveal the contents of an
optician's shop by facial mdications.*
This power of "thought-reading," as it has been termed, has often
been described by writers on mesmerism, but little credence has been
given to it by physiologists or psychologists.
- -- " Some assert that this state extends even further; that subjects in
this condition are able to perceive occurrences at remote distances which
are not known to any present, and yet are subsequently verified. I
* The following interesting communication from my friend, Mr. W. E.
Wilson, of Co. Westmeath, reached me in September, 1876, after the fore-
going was written, and gives us a glimpse of something even beyond thought-
reading, but many more experiments are necessary before a prima facie case
in favour of so-called "clairvoyance" can be said to have been established.
Mr. Wilson writes in reference to the above-mentioned card experiment :-
" You are correct, as I remember several experiments of the same kind,
I think we proved beyond all doubt that the subject is able to read the
thoughts of the mesmeriser. Also that they are able to see through things
which are to us optically opaque, .provided that they could touch the objects
or hold them in their hand. At any distance beyond that I don't think we
have evidence that they can see things unless the mesmeriser knows them,
in which case it of <lourse becomes thought-reading. A lady subject has
often told us the time by a gold hunting watch, which was put in a box
after the hands were altered to any extent by the keyless arrangement, so
that no one knew their position. I remember one instance with her. There
were some friends in the room looking on. The hands of the watch were
twisted round promiscuously; it was then put in a box and the clOlled box put in
her hand. She at once said what o'clock it was. My father opened the watch
to see if she was right, but found to his astonishment that she was wrong.
He told her so, and gave her the watch to try again. She at once said she
was right. He told her to look again, but she got crusty and refused to look
for some time. He pressed her to look once more. She still said she was
right, but that it was now a minute past the time she first said. My father
opened the watch to shew those present the mistake she made, but found that
she was perfectly right, that he had made a mistake himself. In that in-
stance the thoughts of the mesmeriser were against her. Another instance
I remember was with a country boy. He was mesmerised in a room which
we made perfectly dark. Cards were given to him at random from a pack.
He told fourteen correctly without a mistake, and I have no doubt would
have gone through the pack if we liked. Of course you know that they
don't try to use the eyes to see with. T~y always, without exception, put
whatever is put in their hand to the side of their head, a little behind the
ear, and about six inches from them. Thcy always say that everything is
greatly diminished. Ordinary book print they describe as fine lines."
R 2
244 Abnormal Oond'tions of Mind. [April 24, 1883.
have had cases of this kind described to me by those whom I esteem
as careful and conscientious observers; but as nothing of the sort
has ever come under my own observation, I refrain from stating
what I cannot vouch for myself. Even as regards the facts I
have myself witnessed, I do not pretend that they do lDore than
justify further inquiry, as a large amount of similar evidence must be
obtained by well qualified men before these phenomena can be accepted
unreservedly. All I wish to urge is, that it is not wise to allow a
natural feeling of incredulity on this matter to become a barrier to a
possible extension of knowledge.
Dr. Carpenter himself remarks, that "everyone who admits that
, 'there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophy,' will be wise in maintaining 'a reserve of possibility' as to
phenomena which are not altogether opposed to the laws of physics en--
physiology,but rather transcend them"; and he adds (Mental Physiology,
p. 633), "some of his own experiences have led him to suspect that a
power of intuitively perceiving what is passing in the mind of another,
which has' been designated as ' thought-reading,' may, like certain
forms of sense-perception, be extraordinarily exalted by entire con-
centration of the attention. So far, however, as we are acquainted
with the conditions of its exercise, it seems to depend upon the
unconscious interpretation of indications (many of them indefinable)
furnished by the expression of the countenance, by style of conversation,
and by various involuntary movements; that interpretation, however,
going, in many instances, far beyond what can have been learned by ex-
perience as the meanitng of such indications."
It will be noticed that whilst Dr. Carpenter does not deny the
possibility of thought-reading or some analogous kind of divining
power, he distinctly asserts that everything lUJ has seen is explicable by
sign or "muscle-reading." The evidence that I have here adduced, on
the other hand, indicates that when a person is thrown into a hypnotic
or passive condition, the nervous action associated with thought can be
excited by a corresponding action in an adjoining individual, and this
across space and without the intervention of the recognised organs of
sensation. Nor does this seem an altogether incredible fact. The energy
of electricity exerts itself in two ways, by transmission along a material
conductor and by influence, or induction as it is termed, across space.
May not nerve energy, whatever be its nature, also act by influence as
well as conduction1 For many years I have held this view, and it has
been confirmed by what I have witnessed from time to time. My main
object in bringing this paper before the Section is to direct attention to
the subject in the hope that those who have any evidence to offer in
support of this view, or any good grounds for opposing it, may favour
me with their experience.
Digitized by Google
