{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__jowett___address_to_the_believers_in_the_divine_mission_of_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Address To The Believers In The Divine Mission Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
AN ADDRESS
to the
BELIEVERS IN THE DIVINE MISSION
or
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
M y d e a r l y *b e l o v e d F r ie n d s ,
It is now nearly twenty-seven years since we were
left as sheep without a shepherd, or, without any immediate
directions from God, as we had been in the habit of receiving
for nearly fourteen years prior to that time; but yet we were
not left without instructions how to proceed while thus left to
ourselves. The Scriptures and the writings of Joanna
Southcott are replete with such information, a little of which
I shall briefly notice.
In the 2nd of Timothy and the 4th chap. Paul charges
him to “ Preach the word; be instant in season, out of
season ; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all longsuffering and
doctrine.” Now what is the reason that Paul is so strict in
thus charging Timothy “ before God and the Lord Jesus
Christ ” ? He tells you, “ because men would not bear sound
doctrine.9
3 And in the second chapter he says, “ study to
shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth
not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.” This
shews, that there would be some who would wrongfully
divide the word of truth.
The Lord by the mouth of the prophet Isaiah, saith,
“ Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees.
Say to them that are of a fearftd heart, be strong, fear n ot;
behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with
a recompence, he will come and save you.” 35 c. 3, 4 v. I
think it must be allowed by us all, that the above Scriptures
have a direct reference to the present time,— indeed, I know
of no time when preaching was prohibited by the Almighty
as it now is ; then if the order was valid and of force when
given, it must have the same validity and force now, and
A
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
a. * \<gc>|S
2
our Saviour says a ye have freely received, then freely give."
And again, he says to Peter, “ Simon, son of Jonas, lovest
thou me ? Peter answered, Lord thou knowest all things*
thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, feed
m y sheep.” John 21 c. 17 v.
Now as there is a danger of dividing the word of truth
wrongfully, I think it behoves us all, especially those among
us who are looked up to for information and instruction, to
be very careful how we divide and place the word of God,
which is the word of truth that Paul meant. In the Revela­
tions it is said, “ that none could sing the song of Moses, the
servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, but the hundred
and' forty and four thousand. Now the song was, “ JUST
and TRUE are all thy ways, thou King of Saints.”
In a communication given to Joanna Southcott, Sep. 1810,
it is said, “ But if men ponder on the justness of Goa in the
creation, they will clearly see the justness of God in the
redemption, tb redeem man from that evil power who seduced
him at first to rob God of his honor and man of his happiness.
H e r e m a n ’s t h o u g h t s m a y go d e e p, to see the m e r c y
and JUSTICE of God in casting out the author of evil, and
bringing in the redemption of man. In a communication
given on the Tuesday after Christmas day, 1797, it is said,
“ I have begun and will go on,
“ And every room Til finish here,
“ Just like the plan that's laid before ;
“ And every room 111 make complete,
“ Employ my men and finish it.
“ But skilful builders must appear,
“ Half-learn’d tradesmen will not do here/*
Now this brings me more immediately to the subject o f this
address, wlierein I intend to shew the GROUND PLAN that
the Alm ighty laid in the beginning; and then to shew how
far he has hitherto acted in accordance therewith.
In the first chap, o f Genesis 27 v. it is said, “ So God
created man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him : male and female created he t h e m a n d at the 31 v.
it is said, “ And God saw every thing that he had made, and
behold it was very good.” ’ Now in this good and perfect
state was our first parents created; and yet in the 2 chap.
18 v. “ The Lord God said, it is not good for man to be
alone, I will make an help meet for him.”
Now if it was not good that the man should remain alone,
it i> bnt fair to conclude that the woman was made to better
his situation; this was decidedly the intent of the Creator
when he made the woman, or there could be no meaning
in his words.
Digitized, by Google
3
Now it is quite plain and clear, that this was the plan of
Jehovah in the beginning, but in the 3 chap, we find
that the woman, through the influence of that old serpent,
called the devil, very soon disobeyed the command of her
Creator, by eating of the forbidden fruit, and also brought
the man into the same sin with herself; from which have
been entailed upon all their posterity, from that time to the
present, all the sin and iniquity, all the sorrow and distress,
all the labor and anxiety, all the pain and misery both of
body and mind, all the poverty and wretchedness, known
and unknown, which have been experienced— both by the
high and low, rich and poor, the learned and the ignorant,
the wise and the foolish, the good and the bad, the bond
and the free; from the king upon the throne to the beggar
on the dunghill, from the aged and grey to the infant at its
mother’s breast, from the most pious Christian to the most
debased infidel, from the most enlightened and accomplished
to the most savage and beastly— All, all have felt the painful
and lamentable effects of the fatal disobedience—yea, and nob
only they, but all the animal creation, from the greatest unto
the least, from the most useful to the most annoying, from
the most domestic to the most wild, from the most pleasing
to the most disgusting, from the most harmless to the most
poisonous— All, all have partook from her of the fatal draught
— A h ! her, whom God made to complete the happiness o f his
new creation. W hat shall we say, then ? Did the devil
outwit God, by causing her who was to complete the creation,
to be the means of destroying the happiness of the whole?
For who, without the visitation, in our own day can justify
the Almighty in making the woman ? But now that the
Almighty, after having examined into all the circumstances
of the case, and having the true cause of the evil from the
parties themselves, proceeds to pass sentence upon them all
in the following manner. Gen. 3 chap. 14 to 19 v. “ And
the Lord God said unto the serpent, because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast
of the field: upon thy belly shalt thou go,'and dust shalt thou
eat all the days of thy life. And I will put enmity between
thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed ;
it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Unto
the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children;
thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee. And unto Adam he said, because thou hast hearkened
unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which
Digitized by L . ooQle
4
I commanded thee, saying, thou shait not eat. of it; cursed
is the ground for thy sake, in sorrow shait thou eat of it all
the days of thy life. Thoms also and thistles shall it bring
forth unto thee; and thou shait eat the herb of the field. In
the sweat of thy face shait thou eat bread till thou return
unto the ground ; for out of it was thou taken ; for dust thou
art, and unto dust shait thou return.”
No one will dare to deny the truth of the sentence that
was passed upon the man and the woman, as daily expe­
rience is a proof of our being to the present day, in every
respect, suffering under this heavy sentence; so that even
the food we eat, the air we breathe, the comforts and plea­
sures we enjoy, are frequently but so many sources of pain
and misery. But when, or how hath the curse been inflicted
on Satan above every creature ? Is it not his very delight
and element to see and make God’s creatures miserable ?
Has he ceased to do this at any time since he first gained
the advantage over our first parents ? And can we justify
the Almighty in permitting such heavy punishment to rest
upon the man and woman,who were innocently and unwittingly
deceived, by the crafty deceit and lies of that infernal and
old offender, who had so lately been cast out of heaven for
his rebellion, subtlety and lies there, and that hisjust sentence
should never be executed ? W e cannot justify him but by the
sentence being executed as it was jixed at the first; for as
the devil thought to overturn the plan that God had laid when
he created the woman, it must be proved that that plan is
still maintained, that the Almighty is not a changeable being.
But though the devil did succeed to introduce sin and sorrow
by the hand which God had said should be for man’s
good, yet we find that God still abides by his first plan, that
he is unchangeable, that he did not make her for man’s hurt,
nor in vain; that he was not disappointed in his design of
making the woman, for he yet will accomplish the perfection
of man by her hand— he will yet place the enmity in her
breast against Satan, and by this means cause him to be
finally taken away from the face of the earth.
How many times hath God delivered his people by the
hands of women ? See in the time when Deborah judged
Israel, how Jael took a nail of the tent and a hammer, and
nailed Sisera to the ground. Judges 4 c. 21 v.
See also how Esther delivered her people,when they by the
subtle arts of that hellish monster who had first deceived Eve,
were all doomed to perish. Esther, 8 c. See how the Lord
worked round by the woman’s hand to turn the whole back
Digitized by G o o g l e
upon the head of him who had invented the evil against them;
and this we are told is a deep type how the Lord will turn
all the evil that was invented in the garden of Eden against
God and the woman, by that old serpent the devil; that he
will turn it all hack on Satan’s guilty head, by the simple
instrumentality of the woman. Again, see how Judith slew
Holofemes, by which means she delivered her people, cutting
off the head of the leader of her people’s enemies. This also
is a strong type* of Satan’s destruction by the woman’s
hand, who is the fountain, spring and source of all the
enmity against God and his people, from the first to the
^present time, that he shall fall by the hands of a woman the
same: that if it was Satan’s wisdom in the beginning to
destroy the plan which Jehovah had laid, by causing the
woman to disobey, it was, and now is, the wisdom oj God to
destroy the root oj all evil, the devil, by the womans hand•
See how Abimelech wished to avoid it being said that a
woman had slain him, Judges 4 c., and so will Satan wish it
not to be said that a woman through the power of Christ hath
been the instrument for his destruction:— But inasmuch
as he thought fit to make the woman an instrument in his
hands, to mar the creation that God had made, even so in
Christ, shall she be made an instrument to bring man back,
not only to the perfect state in which he was created; but to
the certainty of him abiding therein;— for if Satan by his
malice against God and his creation caused that vessel t6 be,
then to the dishonor of the Creator, is not God able of the
same clay, to make the woman a vessel to his honor ? Yes,
and that Satan will find to his eternal disgrace.
W hen Jesus Christ took upon himself the nature of man,
he came into the world like other men, by and through the
woman ; and his word says, that he came to destroy him that
had the power of death, which is the devil. Heb. 2 c. 14 v.
Here we find that man had neither part nor lot in the matter,
that he had no hand at all in bringing Jesus Christ into the
world, but that it was all done by God and the woman. It
was the woman that brought him forth without the aid of
man— it was the woman who nursed and suckled him— it
was the woman who watched and kept all his sayings in her
heart— it was a woman who knelt at his feet— washed them
with her tears, wiped them with her hair, and kissed them
with her lips. It was a woman that anointed his head with
precious ointment, although men were incensed against her
for it. There was no woman present when Judas betrayed
him into the hands of his enemies. It was women who •
Digitized by
Stood weeping, while men, drest in a little petty authority and
power were crucifying him, through the influence of the devil,
who thought Ills hour would never come, that he could again
stave it off, and again overturn the plan of the Almighty.
But his plan was laid in secret tracks, unseen and unthought
of by Satan. Now what man is so foolish and ignorant
as to suppose, that, if God intended to fulfil his plan by
man, that he would not have done it in his own person when
here upon earth ? but as he did not do it in his own person
then, be assured it never will be done by man. It would
be exalting man above himself if he was to do it by man
now, and it would be disgracing his Father’s plan in the
beginning, as though the devil had outwitted him and obliged
him to turn another way. But hear what the Lord says
“ And can it be another way ?
I ask, my honor how ’t must lay,
To say at first I laid a plan
To he an helpmate then for man;
As I pronounc’d her for his good—
Can man so vainlyjudge their God,
Should let the devil me betray,
And turn me back another way ?
And tell me I should not go through,
The plan I’d laid would never do ? •
But now to do it I am come; —
And Satan may consult with man,
To turn me back another way—
They both together may agree."
What Manner of Com, p. 9.
In a communication given Dec. 18,1810, the Lord says, “ I
am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, the
first and the last; so if I began by the woman, to give her to
man to bring him to the knowledge of the devil, which caused
sin and sorrow, l will end with the woman, to bring you to
the knowledge of myself, that ye may have a right to the
tree of life. Can you suppose I will alter my decrees ? Could
I not have brought all men to the knowledge of myself when
my son was in the body ? But as I did not by him, I never
will by any man; but in my spirit through the woman, I will
bring men to the knowledge of myself.” “ That as man was
not brought to knowledge by my coming into the world as
man, 1 never will bring them to knowledge by man,* for then
I must let down myself and exalt man above me.”
Then shall God change his scriptural plan,
To feed the pride of haughty man ?
N o ! this I say will never do,
But his first plan hell straight pursue.
6 .
Digitized by Google
7
For if t o angel from heaven should preach any other
doctrine than this, he must be accursed, and like the fallen
angels, dishonor the son who died for the redemption of man.
It was women who first visited his tomb, and found he was
risen— it was to women he first shewed himself after his
resurrection— it was women also who first declared his
resurrection to the disciples. The plan of the Almighty is
so closely followed up throughout the Scriptures, from the
time the woman was first created, to the time of the
ascension of our Saviour, that there can be no doubt with the
faithful and true believer, but that he, the Almighty, had
always his first plan in view, and that he left here a little
and there a little scattered throughout the whole of the
Scriptures, as landmarks for us on whom the ends of the earth
are com e; and Christ himself said, in the days of his flesh,
that he would send the Comforter to bring all tliijigs to our
remembrance, and shew us things to come.
Now come to our own day, wherein God hath more fully
and clearly shewn his plan from the beginning, by his spirit
through the woman ; and this he continued to do for twenty
three years, with such clear, abundant and conclusive evidence
as cannot be produced in the same number o f years since the
creation o f man. When the Almighty first visited her, he
told her that the angels rejoiced at her birth; and in the
hieroglyphic for the year in which she was bom, (as shewn
in Moore’s Almanac for the year 1750,) we have the repre­
sentation of angels with trumpets sounding, and a number
of others, apparently in seraphic joy, listening to them. Now
this is a scientific prooj of the words of the spirit to her.
W hy, I would ask, should the angels rejoice at the birth of
a female child, born of poor parents, who had neither riches
power, popularity, nor influence, friends, nor interest, and in
an obscure village to o ; why, I say, should the angels, the
heavenly angels, the angels who stand in the presence of that
God from whom no secret is hid, and from whom they derive
all the knowledge, wisdom and power, of which they are
possessed— why should they who are happy and securely
seated with the eternal King of Glory, the very fountain of
happiness, the spring from whence proceeds every good,— why
should they rejoice at such a simple, and, to all appearance,
an•altogether unimportant event? The answer is clear,
beautiful, and conclusive. Although the angels in heaven
are seated there in the perfection of happiness, yet they are
unable to execute their missions from thence to us mortals
here below, without experiencing the annoyance and insults
Digitized by Google
8
of the hosts of the devil and his angels, which are hovering in
the way, and therefore they rejoiced at her birth, knowing
what she was bom for, to free them as well as men from all
and every malicious hellish host, so that heaven and earth
might be united in that perfect harmony, happiness, peace
and love, which was intended by the great Creator of the
universe, when he first created man, and, when he took
upon him our nature to bear the blame that the man unjustly
cast upon him in the garden of Eden, that the old serpent,
which is the devil, might bear the blame the woman justly
cast upon him for betraying her innocence, when he well
knew the command the Almighty had given to her. Here
was abundant reason for the angels to rejoice at her birth.
See how the angels rejoiced at the birth of Jesus Christ, when
he came into this world, to suffer his heel to be bruised for
man, knowing that by this means he was opening the way
for the full and complete emancipation of all creation from
the insults and influence of that wicked, hellish, proud, vain,
deceitful and rebellious tribe, who had been cast out of heaven
for striving to overthrow the throne and power of Jehovah.
No doubt the angels well remembered the mutiny that
Satan had caused there ; and if they rejoiced at the first part
of the promise being fulfilled, how much more would they
rejoice to see the birth of her who was to be the instrument
in the hands of Jehovah of accomplishing the last and best
part o f the promise. Now mark, when the Lord begins to
work with this instrument, he goes back to the fall, to the
plan that he then laid, “ I will put enmity between thee and
the woman.” This enmity is placed so strongly and so
effectually in her breast, that everything presented or offered
to her is as nothing in comparison to the destruction of that
monster of iniquity, the devil, against' which she has an
irreconcileable hatred planted in her breast. Here we find
the Lord acting in perfect accordance with hisfirst plan, his
first declaration, “ It is not good for man to be alone, I will
make an help meet for him.”
For,twenty three years, (and ten years the Lord gave her
directions for herself, before she was visited for the nations,
to prepare her for the work he had for her to do— in .all
it was thirty three years, the precise number that our Saviour
sojourned upon earth,) the Lord was opening the doors
of his plan from the fall,— all this time he was shewing us,
in language, that, to a faithful believer, cannot be misunder­
stood, that his determination was to accomplish the plan he
first had in view, and his promises to this effect are so many,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
9
So clear, so wise, so ju st, and «o righteous, that there is no
room left for even a doubt. In the last year of her visitation,
the Lord shewed us more fully, how, and in what manner, his
plan is to be completed by and through the woman.
From the 6th of Jam* 1792, to the 27th of Dec., 1814, we
find the Lord, throughout the whole time, speaking the same
thing,— bringing forward the law, the prophets, and the gospel
to shew us that he has been,* as it were by an invisible and
mysterious hand, carrying on his original plan, unperceived
by man ; and has left us here a little and there a little to
shew his regular and unvaried proceeding from first to iast, to
those who will hearken to his word. I ask, can jye suppose after
the Lord has gone on for so many years, giving us assurance
after assurance of the way and manner he intends to bring in
the redemption of man,'—year afteryear he has been renewing
his promises, and that with an increase of light and knowledge
thereon,— that he has been so many years taking unceasing
and untiring pains to shew to man tile real nature o f his
plan, so that he may be able to justify his God in all he has
done;— can we suppose, after all this, he will now adopt the
plan that man in all ages has proposed by which the kingdom
of Christ should be established ? Whoever had a thought or
an idea of the plan of God, as revealed to the woman, before
it was thus made known ? Remember, he is a God the same
yesterday, to-day, and for ever; in him is no variableness nor
the shadow of turning.— He is the same now, as he was when
he said, “ It is not good for man to be alone, I will make an
help meet for him.” — He is the same God now that he was
when he said, the angels rejoiced at her birth, because she
was born to free them as well as men from the insults of the
devil. He is the same God now that he was when he told
her that he would give her whatever she would ask to the
half of his kingdom ; and did she iiot ask the destruction of
Satan, who had been the cause of all the sin and misery that
has existed since the creation of man ? He is the same God
that he was in the year 1802, when he ordered her to dispute
with the powers of darkness; and promised that if slue stood
out in strong faith in God, and powerful arguments for her
Lord, then he would cast Satan by her weak hand, and he
should find that the Lord had not made the woman in vain ;
for though Satan had thought to overturn the plan of Jehovah,
by causing the woman to hand the knowledge of the evil
fruit unto man, yet he shall feel to his sorrow and eternal
disgrace, the power of Christ in thejorm o f the womany to
hand unto man the knowledge of the good fruit.— He is the
B
Digitized by Google
10
same God now, that he was in the year 1804, when, the
shadows of all took place; and there is no shadow without a
substance. In that year the Lord ordered her to seal up
Satan’s destiny, by sealing lip the names of all those who had
signed for his destruction, and that his bounds were fixed,
that they were as muchjorbidden jru it to him, as the tree o f
knowledge in the garden o f Eden was to our first parents;
and that all should be preserved according to their faith in,
and obedience to, all the commands given to the wom an;
but riot a word was said, not a solitary command given, to
obey any directions given to, or through, any man. Then, if
in the shadow all must come to and through the woman, is
not God the same in the substance as he was in the shadow ?
God is the same now as he was when he shewed the shadow
of his power in her, that she declared “ she should not have
feared had there been ten thousand men and devils before
h er; that she felt in herself power, that she thought, if he
was present, she could tear him to pieces.” The Lord is the
same now as he was when he said, that the spirit that had
been so powerful in her that day, “ was the shadow of the
substance to come in all. The horror of hell that thou hast
felt this day, some will come against thee in, by temptations,—
then, as a God / shall appear in thee, and cast the devils out
of men by my power.” W . M. of Com. God is the same
unaltered being that he was when he said—
“ That men like Adam they are all asleep,*—
But, when they see the womanfor to break
Upon the serpent in herfu ry there
' In words that all will tremblefor to hear—*
Thou cursd betrayer, as thou said’st of man;
But then in fury thou wilt surely come
Against the serpent, and in rage dispute,
While men will tremble, and theyll all stand muter
Surely no man can suppose that Jehovah can have forgotten
that lie has spoken these words, and left them upon reco»d for
us, and enjoined implicit faith therein.
He is the same God now as when he said, “ WHEN FROM
THE DUST RETURN THOU MUST.” If he declared the end
from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that
shall be, saying, MY COUNCIL SHALL STAND, and I will
do all my good pleasure, “ then have we no room for doubt
left, but ought to stand steadfast in our faith in the words o f
the Lord— in the great and precious promises which he has
left for us to feed upon; and remember he has told us, that
those that speak often one to the other of his promises and
Digitized by Google
11
fulfilments, shall he liis in the day when he maketli lip his
jewels, and he will spare them as a man spareth his own son
that serveth him. Ex. B. p. 448. If we. have not faith to
believe all that the Lord hath said, by what law or rule can
we believe any part thereof? If we believe only the things
that appear likely to take place, according to our wisdom,
then do we measure the O m n ip o t e n t and A l m ig h t y
C r e a t o r of all things by our weak and shallow capacities.
In all ages great and powerful working has been, when
there appeared no human probability of the things being
fulfilled or taking place, therefore we need not despair of
the fulfilment of all his promises, for his word is YEA and
AMEN, what he hath said he will fulfil. He is the same God
now as he was in the year 1814, when he told us “ that these
marvellous workings will never appear before the power of
Christ is seen in the power of a BRIDEGROOM, according to
the MARRIAGE mentioned in the Revelations; then they will
see the second LIGHTENING like the first.; and the SECOND
is MADE FLESH to dwell with men. And till this be made
known and the truth be PROVED, I now tell thee it is not
all the bishops in England, nor all the learned men upon
earth, that can be competent judges of the Scriptures, to con­
found those men that write blasphemy against them.” Now
if the Almighty, when he gave us these words, knew as
much as we now know, is it not our duty to believe and
firmly rely upon them, although we have not received their
fulfilment as we then expected ? The Lord knew, when he
spoke these words, all and much more than we now know ; he
knew that they would not be fulfilled according to our judg­
ment at that tim e; but yet the words still stand, and with
the same power and force as when they were spoken, because
the speaker knew as much then as now, and his word is yea
and am en; what he hath said, that he will do, that he
will never unsay; therefore it is our duty to believe and rely
upon it woic, as firmly as we believed and relied upon it then.
W e then were not only sanctioned, but encouraged, nay
much m ore; for the Lord declares, and that in unequivocal
terms, that without a firm belief in this, and charity in the
veracity of this word of God, that all our faith and hope is
of no avail, and this is expressed in the following terms, which
cannot well be misunderstood. “ For I now tell thee, the
boasters of religion have turned the Gospel in such a manner
as to make it appear another G ospel; and therefore it must
be men of learning, that can see the plain truth before them ,
or it must be men of faith to believe that what I heme said I
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
12
have power to fu lfil, to believe all things, to hope all things,
and know that faith, hope and charity must be joined together;
but the greatest is CHARITY, to believe and rely upon the
HONOR OF G o d , and believe in the Son whom he hath sent,
that died for the transgression of man, but is able of the stones
to raise up children to Abraham, and to prove his power in
raising up a likeness of his body which they destroyed. This
must be the jaith o f the believers who now look upon Jesus
Christas an all-sufficient SAVIOUR; for without this CHARITY,
faith and hope will both fa il of looking for the redemption I
promised in the end.” 49, 50 p. 4 B. W . and Ex. B. 501.
Now, whoever is bold enough to deny, evade, or explain
away the plain and common-sense meaning o f the words, I am
bold to tell him that he is influenced by the same spirit as
those who deny, evade, or explain away the following Scrip­
tures. “ And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the
covering cast over all people, and the vail that is spread over
all nations. H e will swallow up death in victory, and the
Lord God will wipe away tears from o ff allfaces ; and the
rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth;
for the Lord hath spoken it.” Is. 25 c. 7, 8 v. “ I will ran­
som them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them
from death; O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will
be thy destruction ; repentance shall be hidfrom mine eyes.”
Hosea 13 c. 14 v. “ Therefore will he give them up, until
the time that she which travaileth hath. brought forth HER
SON ; then shall tlie remnant of his brethren return unto the
children of Israel.” Micah 5 c. 3 v. “ Forasmuch, then, as
the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself
likewise took part of the sam e; that through death he might
destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil;
and deliver them who through fear of death were all their
lifetime subject to bondage.” Heb. 2 c. 14, 15 v. “ And
I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, behold, the taber­
nacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them; and
they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them,
and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from
their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow
nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the
former things are passed away. Ana he that sat upon the
throne? said, behold I make all things new. And he said
unto me, write; for these words are true and faithful.” Rev.
21 c. 3 v. “ For as.in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall
all be made alive” 1st Cor. 15 and 22. “ For I testify unto
,
every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
13
took, if any man shall add unto these things, God shall add
unto him all the plagues that are written in this hook; and
if any man shall take away from the words of the hook of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the hook of
life, and out of the Holy City, and from the things that are
written in this hook. He which testifieth these things, saith,
surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.”
Rev. 22, and 18, 19, 20. Out of an innumerable number of
passages to the same effect, I shall quote one or two more
from the writings. “ For in this visitation, I shall shew my
power in the CREATION, my power in the GOSPEL, and my
power to bring in the REDEMPTION of man: because I shall
shew my power so clearly in the creation o f the CHILD in thy
womb, that those who mock the Sc r ip t u r e s now must allow,
that power which could create a son in thy womb, at this
age, could create the man and woman in the beginning, and
could create the woman from the man, by the same power
.and outstretched arm that I create the man from the woman,
because a man-child is creating the man from the woman, and
it is from this that my power shall be made known to men.”
“ So from my power in TH IS, it must prove my power in
all.” But if this never take place, how can his power of
being a Creator, ever be made known ? Can the effect take
place before the cause? This is the only way revealed to man
by which the Almighty can bring the atheists and the deists
to believe in God as a Creator at first, and a Redeemer at last.
J
5 B. W . 13, 14.
ur il shew my power so in thee,
A God in power, men shall see,
Is a Creator at the last,
As you may see it nam'd atfirst'*
5 B. W . p. 15.
Here are the words of the unchangeable Jehovah, who
knew the end from the beginning, who is the same yesterday,
to-day, and for ever; then who will dare to say that he is not
the saipe in the year 1841, that he was in the year 1814 ? For
know he says, “ my words stand as firm as the pillars of
Heaven, which cannot be shaken by man, neither can my
word be changed by the judgment of man.” Man may deny,
evade, or explain away the word of God to his own hurt, and
to the hurt of all those who listen to, and rely upon him or
his explanations; but be assured the word of God still remains
the sam e; for heaven and earth may pass away, but the
word of God abideth for ever.
It cannot be denied that the Almighty’s greatest, best and
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
14
most precious promises are given to us in the strongest,
clearest, and most unequivocal language that can he made use
o f ; and his assurances that those promises shall be fulfilled
in conformity to the words, are in terms that one would be
almost ready to conclude would insure a full and lasting faith
and confidence therein, “ Heaven and earth shall pass away, but
my words shall not pass aw ay” Again, “ Thus saith the Lord,
which giveth the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of
the moon and of the stars for a light by night, which divideth
the sea when,the waves thereof roar; the Lord of Hosts is
his nam e: if those ordinances depart from before me, saith
the Lord, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being
a nation before me for ever.” Jer. 31 c. 35, 36 v. “ Thus
saith the Lord; if ye can break my covenant of the day, and
my covenant of the night, and that there should not be day
and night in their season; then may also my covenant be
broken with David my servant, that he should not have a
son to reign upon his throne.” Jer. 33 c. 20, 21 v. W hat
words can be stronger, what words can be clearer and less
liable to be mistaken?
In a Communication given March 4th, 1814, it is said,
“ The third Book of Wonders will soon appear, when the
true daylight w ill break before them9 and the rising sun be
opened to their view9 that will arise to shine brighter and
brighter to the perfect d a y” Now this is either true or false.
Those of us who remember the situation in which we were
placed at the time these words were given— that the believers
were split and divided in their faith and ideas of the one great
character so often and so pointedly spoken of, throughout
both the Scriptures and the writings— that no sooner had we
received that book, than all our various ideas and preconceived
notions vanished as darkness before the light— as the light o f
the moon before the rising sun, and we went united together
as the heart of one man, till the end of that year. We had
the sm ile s o f J e h o v a h upon us— the light was such that it
defied all opposition— the Scriptures were opened so clearly,
that the bigoted professor of Christianity, and the open and
avowed infidel alike were put to silence— the humble professor
of Christianity, the nlild and considerate Jew, with the hesi­
tating infidel, were all ready to acknowledge that it was a
superior light upon the Scriptures than they had ever seen
before, and should it be borne out by the event taking place,
they would gladly receive it.
Now every believer who has given up the faith that he
held in the year 1814, must acknowledge that he has left the
Digitized by Google
true daylight, and also that he has left the acknowledged
plan o f the Almighty at that tim e; or he must prove, and
that on the best authority, that the Almighty has changed
his plan since that time; or, that it was not the true daylight,
and so give the lie to the word of God, and the facts arising
from that word at that time. If it was the plan of God then,
he assured it is no less the plan of God now. If it was not
the plan of God, then hath God designedly led us wrong,
greatly encouraged and strongly supported us in that wrong.
But I say let God he true and every man a liar, who either
says that he hath deceived us by telling us what was not the
truth, encouraging and supporting us in believing it, or that
he hath changed from the plan that he then had, and as one
said to me, that the Lord only said those things to cheat the
devil w ith; but for my own part I would sooner believe there
was no God than such a God as this.
In the 12th page of the 5th Book of Wonders, it is said,
“ For this is the grace, in the end, that is to be brought to
man at the revelation of Jesus Christ, that never was revealed
before, in what manner I should reveal the Son that should be
born to establish my kingdom, and bring in grace and peace
to all mankind.” Again, the Lord says in page 62 of the
4th Book, “ Because I have made this clearer to mankind
than ever I made things before, either by the Prophets or in
my G ospel/’ And in the 26th page of the 5th Book he says,
“ But the way I should come to fulfil my words was never
revealed to thee, till this year, from this visitation.”
“ Since earth a foundation e'er was plac'd,
And God created man;
He ne’er so much unveild his face,
Nor skew’d us all hisplan**
Now if this revelation that was given in the year 1814
really he the clearest, plainest, and most to the point of the
plan of the Almighty from the first, of any before given, how
can we wonder at men stumbling in that revelation which is
not so clear, and also was given ^o many hundred years ago,
when we see with our own eyes, and hear with our own ears,
that those who had this clearest revelation given to them in
their own day and when they were of mature years, that they
should stumble, disbelieve and try to persuade others that
there is no truth nor dependence upon that revelation; but
will deny, evade, or explain away the very words themselves—
how, I say, can we wonder at the professors of Christianity
being stumbled, when their revelation, the whole that they
have to depend upon, was not given so clearly, and is now
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
almost won! out by long standing? The Lord says, u t now
tell thee my coming in the spirit is to renew my words, to fulfit
my proinises, and to pour out my spirit upon man, that they
may see the fulfilment of my words, that hath* appeared to
thousands to be worn out with tong standing,that men cannot see
the print appear, because the fulfilment is not accomplished.”
Communication given December 31st, 1807. How often
does the Lord tell us he will fulfil all his promises to man,
according to the words in which they are made, though not at
the time men expect them ? In a Communication given Oct.*
17th, 1809, it is said, “ yet when they see thy writings brought
round to be fulfilled, according to my words9 at a time they
never expected them, then the eyes of their understanding
will be opened clearly to discern the truth-of my Gospel, that
I shall fulfil it according to my words, at a time they never*
expected” But according to the 30th page 3rd book of
Wonders, before brought forward, they cannot be proved to
be true, till there be one raised up, and MADE FLESH to dwelt
among us, to prove how that Jesus Christ did take upon
himself the nature of man, in the Virgin’s womb.
In a Communication given July 1st, 1802, it is said,
“ There's not a word that I have spoke,
However men may laugh or mock,
But I the word will wisely clear,
And prove to man ’tie he doth e r r”
“ Because in the end when they see thy prophecies come
round to their own shame and confusion, in a way they never"
discerned, and things go on to be fulfilled perfectly to the
words that I have spoken to thee, but not as hasty as men
expected; then thousands and tens of thousands will be as
brands plucked out of the burning, and know the Scriptures
to be the word of God.” Controversy with the Worldly W ise,
p, 22. • ’
“ He that will believe one prophecy and not another, is no
believer at all.” Expl. of B. p. 223.
Although I have considejably overstepped the bounds I
first intended in this address, I wish, in conclusion, strongly
and earnestly to advise the Believers, one and all, deeply to
consider THE PLAN that Jehovah had in view, when he said,
“ It is not good that the man should be alone, I will make an
help meet for him.” See how he has gone on, for now nearly
six thousand years; that he has not yet varied in one
instance; for no sooner had Satan taken the advantage of the
woman’s innocence and ignorance, but the Almighty steps
forward with a promise, that “ the seed of the woman shall
bruise the serpent’s head.”
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
17
How many times has the Lord in a most wonderful manner
delivered his people by the hand of women ? Then his taking
upon himself the nature of man, in the Virgin’s wom b; and
now, in our own day, he hath visited a woman, and placed
in her that enmity, which he promised in the garden of Eden;
thus shewing us that he has gone on like a flower in the bud,
opening more and more; and has promised to go on till the
full blown flower a p p e a r s o r like the dawn of the morning,
before the sun rises, to become lighter and lighter; so that
we can see objects clearer and clearer; till at length the sun
arises in all its brightness.
See the additional light brought in by the Gospel, Again,
the still stronger light that was brought in by the visitation
of the spirit, in our own day; which is represented by the
Lord to exceed the light of the Gospel as much as the light
of the Comet, in the year 1811, exceeded the light of one
of the stars. Thus it rose in magnitude and importance
till the year 1814, when we had given to us a greater, a
brighter, and a more glorious light, than had ever before been
revealed to man. It was, first, perfectly like seed sown in
the ground, and buried down, till the blade appears; then
the stalk arises to the view of the beholder; but the kind of
grain is not demonstrated till the ear is seen, then all will
allow what kind of grain was sown in the field. But there is
no actual and substantial benefit till the com be ripe for the
harvest: then will be the reward of all the toil and labor, and
of all the anxious waiting of the Husbandman.
In this manner we must mark the rising of all things that
come from God. See 2nd B. of Visions, p. 56. What
unbelief, what uncharitableness, nay what madness must
possess the mind of the man, who, after having viewed the
progress that Jehovah has made in his original plan hitherto,
can for one moment hesitate to believe that he will complete
it according to his first intent, when he made the woman—
according to the intent of his mind when he said, his delight
should be with the sons of men— according to the intent of
his heart when he said, “ The Kingdom of Heaven was likened
to ten virgins that went out to m eet the bridegroom; and
said the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him,”
“But like a bridegroom cannot be
Without a woman all must see *
But whether you will hear or whether you will forbear, it
is our duty, while preaching is out of season, to exhort,
according as we have opportunity, with all longsuffering and
doctrine, for the purpose of strengthening the weak hands
C
Digitized by Google
18
and Confirming the feeble knees in their most holy faith; and
after having done this, we have the satisfaction of knowing
that we have so far done our duty according to all the known
rtlles that are laid down for us in sacred writ; and that
whether you will hear or whether you will forbear, we are
well assured that the Lord will fulfil his plan which he laid
down in the beginning; that he is the same unchangable
Being he ever was ; that it is man, through the hellish influ­
ence of that old Serpent, who thought in the beginning to
outwit the Almighty and rob man of that happiness he was
created to enjoy, hath sought out many inventions, and is
still doing so by forming new plans of his own.
After perusing the above, it may be that some may say,
Ah, but he has left out all the conditions. To such I say,
if the plan the Almighty set forth in the year 1814, was on
conditions, then the conditions not being complied with
caused the Lord to turn a different way. These conditions
either were or were not refused through the influence of the
devil; if they were refused through that influence, then did
the devil frustrate the plan of the Alm ighty; .and if he had
the power to frustrate the plan of the Almighty in the year
1814, he may and also will frustrate his plan in any future
year. If the Almighty caused the conditions not to be com­
plied with, then did he frustrate his own plan, and by the
same rule may do the same again.
But I Say, conditions belong not to God, nor to his plan,
because he is unchangable; but to man who is changable.
Hence this caution, “ Let him that thinketh he standeth
take heed lest he fall.”
Though I have said much more than I intended to say,
yet I cannot forbear bringing forward one quotation more, as
a contrast to conditions belonging to Jehovah, and which
ought to satisfy every believer on the conditions; and then I
shall conclude this address, praying that the same singleness
of heart to the honor and glory of God, and the good of his
creatures, may influence you in the perusal of it, that has
influenced me in the writing thereof; and that the blessing
of God may attend it so far1as it is agreeable to his w ill; and
may we all respond to the following prayer:—
Thy Spirit Lord vouchsafe to us,
While in this vale we go;
That we with joy may see thy face,
When thou shall come to free
The world from sin, as thou hast said,
And bind our cursed foe;
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
ID
And reign on earth our God and King*
Supremely here below.
The following is the quotation from the Explanation of
Parables, 28, 29 p. “ How canst thou marvel at these
parables that are brought forward by ME more plain and clear,
to skew my firm decrees in the creation,— what I said when I
created the woman at first— the Promise that is made in the
fall— my being bom of the Virgin—my promising to come
again as the bridegroom, to free thefa ll o f the woman— or how
could I bring in the Redemption of man ? Now if men have
wisdom to discern this parable, (of the Knight) being brought
forward by ME to be placed a likeness of my bible, it is a
parable clear to be understood, how my decrees were fixed,
and how they will be fulfilled, and how the enmity o f Satan
will swell the pride o f men to prevent it• So clear is this
parable before you, consistent with my words, that every
man endowed with reason, that weigheth it deeply with the
beginning, and with my gospel to the ending, must clearly
discern from the sense of the parable, that it is the Promise
made to the woman, to bring in your Redemption, as I have
said; and when men discern it was MY COMMAND to have it
broughtforward, as a parable to shew you the end, then they
would clearly discern MY DECREES, when I laid thefoundation
atfirst, in what manner I should fiilfil them, when I come to
give them the Kingdom, in innocence, peace and happiness,
as it was designed at first before man fell. But then 1 shall
make his standing more secure, when l have destroyed the
power of the adversary, who began by arts to betray the
woman, and seeked her murder.at the first; and so he is
going on to the last; but my decrees he cannotfrustrate; and
the end will convince mankind how wrong hath been their
malice, (like the Knights> against the child in the parable,)
to try to shun my just decrees, which are for the happiness of
man. So let them weigh the parable deeply, and call the
whole to their remembrance; then they will see there is not a
parable standing on record, more plain to shew them the end
o f my decrees, than that parable is. And let them know, it
never was a woman’s wisdom to bring forward such parables,
to place with the Scriptures; for if you discern the Scriptures,
it is a perfect likeness of the end; neither was it Satan’s
wisdom to bring forward £uch parables, to shew you all that
my decrees at first, what I saia in the creation, I should fulfil
them at last, that they stood like the parables, that all arts
were used in vain to break the decrees. Now thus I have
shewn thee plainly of one parable; and what I have said of
one, I shall say of all.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
20
Nothing can he more plain, clear and explicit on the point
than the above; and I would recommend the serious perusal
of the whole of the book, and to weigh it deeply with the
plan of God as set forth throughout the Scriptures, and the
writings; but especially as set forth in the last and clearest
revelation that ever was given to man, THE BOOKS of
WONDERS. I shall now conclude this address with the words
of king Jehoshaphat to the children of Israel, 2nd Chron. 20 c.
20 v. “ Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be estab­
lished; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper.” And the
Lord by the mouth of the prophet Isaiah saith, “ If y e will not
believe, surely ye shall not be established.”
I beg to subscribe myself, your fellow labourer in the
work of the Lord, through Jo a n n a So u t h c o t t ,
JOSEPH JOWETT.
Sandy Lane, Edgbaston, Birmingham,
September V&th, 1841.
N* B. I wish it to be distinctly understood that the above is not
intended for publication: but having a desire to address the
believers on the nature of the plan of Jehovah from the
beginning, and not having time to write a long letter to many
places, I have, with the advice of a number offriends, adopted
. the above mode, thinfyng it the b,esU
.
I
S. JOWETT, PRINTER, MILL HILL, LEEDS.
)
Digitized by Google
