{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__bslu___oral_grade_primer_and_junior_groups_manual.pdf","mytitle":"Oral Grade Primer And Junior Groups Manual","mylang":"de"}
The Oral Grade Primer
AND
Junior Groups Manual.
Containing :
SIMPLE RHYMES AND STORIES,
GOLDEN CHAIN RECITATIONS AND
THREE BRIEF HISTORICAL SKETCHES
for use in the Junior Groups;
AND
THE ORAL GRADE EXAMINATION SCHEME '~
SYLLABUS, SILVER CHAIN RECITATIONS
AND CATECHISM.
PUBLISHED BY
The British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union.
1932.
E. F. ROBERTS, Printer, Bradford Road, Batley.
~..
ALFRED KITSON.
Farher of the British Spiritualist Lyceum Movement.
- - - - - ---------------
CON'f'ENTS.
Section Page
Preface
Introductory 6
A SEVEN SIMPLE HHYMES:
God is Love 9
Angel Guardians ... 10
Bedtime has Come... 10
Angels Love Children 11
God"s Gifts 12
Angels' Eyes 12
A Prayer ... 12
B SIX SIMPLE STORIES:
Meadow Friends ... 13
Mr. I Can't Changes his Name 14
The Golden Keys ... 16
Beauty and the Calf 18
Gifts 19
The Builders 21
c SIMPLE LIFE STORIES WORTH KNOWING:
Alfred Kitson 23
Mary E. Kitson. B.A. 25
Andrew Jackson Davis 27
~ D SEVEN SIMPLE GOLDEN CHAINS:
Always Tell the Truth 28
Make Life Beautiful 29
True Comradeship ... 30
Playing the Game ... 31
How Modern Spiritualism Started 33
What Spiritualism Teaches Us 36
Child Life in the Summerland 37
E THE ORAL GRADE EXAMINATION SCHEME:
The Reason for our Education Scheme 41
The Oral Grade Syllabus 44
F FOUR SILVER CHAINS:
The Spirits' Mission 45
Home 46
Never Lose Heart ... 47
There is No Death ... 48
G THE ORAL GRADE CATECHISM: 49
PREFACE.
It is generally agreed that the value and progress
of the Spiritualism of the future will depend to a great
extent on the value of the training given to the children
of the present-and the principal object of the
Spiritualist .Lyceum Movement is to put thi·s training into
operation. The LYCEUM MANUAL is a very valuable
text-book, an,d is used in all our Sessions-but again,
there is general agreement that most of the teachings
it contains are too advanced, or too abstract, to be
fully or easily grasped by the average child under twelve
years old. For many years there has been an agitation
for a CHILDREN'S MANUAL, in which the teachings
would be simplified. At present :the issue of a
Children's Manual is financially impossible, an,d the
Education Committee hopes that this little booklet will
· help to meet the situation-and at the same time reveal
to what extent such a Manual would be used in the
Lyceums. If there is a wide demand for the Primer,
succeeding editions could each be enlarged, until the
desired CHILDREN'S MANUAL would be in actual
being-but only general use in all the Lyceums could
justify such a heavy expenditure.
The Oral Grade Examination SylJalbus is contained
in Sections E, F, and G-the remainder of the Primer
is for reading in the Junior Groups during the Lyceum
Session.
The Rhymes, Stories, Sketches and Golden Chain!',
and the two new Silver Chains in Section F, have all
been written .by Miss M. E. Lawton, G.N.S.C., and
Mr. A. T. Connor, F.N.S.C., to whom the Committee
tenders its thanks for their work and their devotion to
the cause of the Juniors.
That the sales may justify the experiment, and the
subsequent issue of a larger and more ambitious hook is
the earnest wish of
THE COMMITTEE.
INTRODUCTORY.
1.-A Chat with Oral Croup Leaders.
The Education Committee has given serious con-
sideration to the preparation of this new edition of
The Oral Grade Primer, and at recent meetings the
possible contents were carefully discussed. The result
of this consideration is the present booklet. Most of
it is devoted to .reading matter suitable for children, and
the only part which refers to the B.S.L.U Examinations
is the Oral Grade Syllabus as set out •in Sections E, F,
and G. The other sections are for use <:luring the
Groups period-though Lyceum Conductors and Com-
mittees are invited to consider the possibility of setting
aside one Session in each month, in which the whole
Session (excepting the Songs) will be chosen from the
Primer.
The Simple Rhymes will appeal to the child mind, and
could be learned and given as Individual Efforts in the
ordinary Sessions. Or they could be used as Silver
Chain Recitations.
The Simple Tales have all a moral value, and are
at the same time interesting stories on subjects that
children will en.joy. The stories may be read by the
childr.en (in turn) or by the Conductor or Leader, and
the children encouraged to talk about them, and to give
any experien,ces or stories of their own, which teach
the same lesson as the story for the day. There is no
need to take a fresh story every week ; indeed, the
children might, with benefit, be encouraged to carry
over a story from week to week-each of them being
asked in turn to begin a day's talk by telling the story
under consideration, in his or her own words.
One of the Historical Sketches should be read each
week, until every Oral Grader is familiar with the in-
formation given.
- - - - - - - - - - - -- -- ----------
7
The Golden Chains deal with subjects about which
all children should have opinions, and the Leader should
encourage his Group to give additional examples to show
that they have really grasped the teachings. Hin.ts to
Leaders are given after some of the Chains.
These suggestions, if put into practice, will make the
Oral Grade Leader one of the hardest-worked members
of the Lyceum-but who minds hard work in a task of
such vital importance !
The Oral Grade Examination Scheme and Syllabus
are set out and explained in the final sections.
11.-A Chat with the Oral Crade Children.
Why are You a Lyceumist 7
Do your schoolmates ever ask you why you are
a Lyceumist? If so, what do you tell them? Just
think about why you first came to the Lyceum, and why
you still want to be a Lyceumist.
Man.y of you would come to the Lyceum when you
were quite little, just because Mother and Dad wanted
you to _be a Lyceumist ; perhaps they were Lyceumists
themselves. Some of you came with your friends,
enjoyed the Session, and have come ever since. But no
matter why you first came, and no matter what age you
were then., you still want to attend. Why? If you
have talked with your chums about Sunday Schools, you
will know why you are so fond of your Lyceum.
At other Sunday Schools the chjldren sing hymns,
listen to Bible stories, and then talk about the story of
the day. Almost all of the time is spent in their Groups
or Classes. Think about the time in the Lyceum
Session. We sing together and we read together, and
then everybody in the Lyceum tries to help each other.
How? By the talks and questions that follow all our
Readings. All of our wonderings about the Readings,
and all the things we don't understand, can he talked
over. There is almost sure to he someone in the Lyceum
-~-
8
who can answer our questions. It might be our Con-
ductor, or a Leader, or- an adult, or we might explain the
hard words ourselves. Our questions-perhaps about
just one word too hard for us-matter quite as much as
those of the older Lyceumists, or what they think. The
tiniest Lyceumist, in this case, is as important as the
Conductor I
Then, there are the marches and the calisthenics. No
other Sun.day School seems to have these. We remember
that our bodies must be strong and healthy if they are to
be fit for our spirits to live in happily. Therefore, we
use our muscles and try to become graceful. Isn't it
nice to see the whole Lyceum marching and drilling
together?
Do othe1- Sunday Schools have Open, Sessions?
don't think many do; but they all would if they knew how
Lyccumists enjoy the chance of making an hour pleasant
with songs and .recitations or the playing of instruments.
All of these things can be enjoyed by the whole
Lyceum.· H is in our Groups that we learn the right
things for our own age. There, besides the Lyceum
Manual, we have our Handbooks. These tell us the
stories of how Spiritualism and the Lyceum Movement
started and grew, and of the people who made them
grow-as well as other lessons they teach us. All mem-
bers of the Lyceum can, find the Group that suits them.
What do we learn fa the Lyceum? Here are a
few of our Lyceum teachings:-
1.-How to make our lives happy and !beautiful by
helping others.
2.-That when our bodies die, the real US lives on
in the Spirit Wotld, where our Spirits still re~
member an,d still love those we loved on Earth.
3.-That we, on Earth, can have th~ friendship and help
of our friends in the Spirit \Norld, but we must
try to be worthy of their love.
9
4.-That if we want to have beautiful spirits, and
beautiful homes in the Spirit World, we must
try to live good and helpful lives in. this world.
If we try to live up to all of these Lyceum Teachings,
we must be good citizens and so be respected by all
who know us.
Our Lyceum is like a country. We choose our
Officers and Leaders, for ourselves, and we can all share
in the work of the Lyceum.
For all o.f these things we are proud to be Lyceumists.
There is another reason. No matter how old we may
become, we can still be Lyceumists. We don't have to
leave the Lyceum just because we are grown up. We
can be Lyceumists for the whole of our lives.
- o -
SECTION A.
SIMPLE RHYMES FOR CHILDREN.
If so desired, these Rhymes could be used as Silver
Chains. In such case, the Group Leader would decide
how many !in.es the Leader and the Group should
respectively read. For instance:-
W,ith '' God is Love,'' the Leader would read the
first line of each verse, the Lyceumists would read the
second line, and all would read the third and fourth lines.
With " Angel Guardians," the Leader would read
the first four lines and the Lyceumists would read the
fifth and sixth lines.
In all cases the number of lines read would be so
arranged that the sense of the teaching would not be
lost.
GOD IS LOVE.
Every sunbeam in the sky,
Every breath of morning air,
Tell us of our Father's love-
Teach us of His loving care.
10
Every note of wild-birds' song,
Sounding from the hedge or wood,
Tells us of their joy in life,
Says they know that God is good.
Every little boy or girl,
Full of health and spirits bright,
Proves by cheery, friendly smiles,
God is Love and God is Light.
ANGEL GUARDIANS.
Little children, when the Angels
Come your steps to guide,
Do you fear to feel their presence-
W alking by your side?
No, we joy to feel them near:
Angels guide-there's nought to fear.
Little children, when the Angels
Point to paths of Love,
Do you fear their songs and anthems
Soun.ding from above ?
No, we joy to know them near:
Angels sing-we love to hear.
Little children, when the shadows
Fall, and day is gone,
Do you fear when through the darkn.ess
Angel light is shone ?
No, we let our glad songs swell :
Angels guard us-all is well.
BEDTIME HAS COME.
Leader : Little birds, little birds, fly to your nest,
Make up your soft bed and have a nice rest:
Group : The sun is SO tired, and it wants to go home;
LeadeY:
ALL:
Leade1':
G1·ou.p:
Leadey:
G1'oup:
11
So ,sleep sound till morning,
The gay hills adorning,
Shall once more awake you the wide world to
roam.
Cuddle together, close .packed in your nest,
Little tired head tucked into your breast.
Little birds, little birds, fly away home :
The sun is SO tired, and your bedtime has come.
Little boys, little gfrls, safe in Love's nest,
Get into bed n,ow and have a nice rest:
Eyes are SO tired, and legs will NO'.f move;
So kneel down by iMammy,
Or Sister, or Granny,
And lisp your sweet prayer to Our Father of
Love--
Then in lbetween sheets that are white as the
snow
You snuggle, and off into Sleepland you'11 go.
ALL : Little boys, little girts, " crows !have come
home'':
Eyes are SO tired, and your bedtime has come.
ANGELS LOVE CHILDREN.
We are so glad the Angels love us ;
That to their hearts we are so dear ;
And that from Spirit Homes, to guide us,
They come and to them draw us near.
With songs of joy they come to cheer us,
And wrap us in their fond caress,
And with their love around us shining,
Our path through life they guide and bless.
They guard our footsteps from all evil,
And, when in danger or distress,
We feel the-ir loving presence round us,
And woe is changed to happiness.
12
We are so glad the An.gels love us,
And come to cheer us, bless and guide:
Ever guarding, ever near us-
Hand in hand, and side by side.
GOD'S GIFTS.
Two hands, to help in an.other's need,
Two feet, on errands of love to speed,
And two clear eyes to seek with ;
Two ears, to listen to tales of woe,
And-Infinite Wisdom ordains it so-
Only one tongue to speak with.
ANGELS' EYES.
I love to go out, on a clear cold night,
And gaze at the starry sky,
And I love to imagine each twinkling tight
Is an Angel's loving eye;
And then I feel that it must be so,
And I wonder if they can see-
And if from the skies those loving eyes
Are guarding o'er you and me.
'Tis sweet to believe that our Angel Friends,
In their beautiful homes above, .
Are happily planning what they can do
To brighten our lives with love;
And that, when. the dusk begins to fall,
And stars light the evening sky,
Each twinkling beam is the sparkling gleam
Of an Angel's loving eye.
A PRAYER.
The sun has set and night has come,
And now, before I go to rest,
I thank Thee for my happy home
With parents' love so richly blest.
13
I pray that Angels, round my bed,
Will keep their watch throughout the night,
Till shades of darkness all have fled
Before the morning's gladdening light.
Amen.
- 0 -
SECTION B.
SIMPLE STORIES FOR READING OR TELLING.
MEADOW FRIENDS.
There was quite a commotion in the meadow. The
rose-.bush by the gate refused to grow red hips. Her
berries were to stay green, just s0 that she could be
different from the rest.
Everybody was amazed. lt was a big meadow and
the home of so many folks. There were three cows, ten
sheep, .and Betsy the old mare. Then the hedges were
thick with roses and hawthorn bushes, while one crab-
apple tree grew in. a corner and brambles climbed where-
ever they could. Lots of birds lived in the meadow-
and, with the exception of this one rose, all the meadow
folk were friends.
What could be done? The animals talked about
it sadly. A cow sighed : " If many bushes talk like
that we shall lose our birds, and we should hate that.''
Betsy agreed, " I gladly give them hairs for their
n,ests-for they keep the flies away."
" Yes," added a sheep, " they are worth all the
wool I give them."
" True," nodded the brown oow, " but they cannot
stop here without ripe berries to eat. What can we do?
" I '11 help I" called out tlhe wind. " I '11 tell all the
other bushes, and ask them to work extra hard.''
As tJhe bushes heard the Wil!ld's news, they pilanned
to grow bigger, brighter and juicier berr.ies than ever
14
before. The rose !bush did not hear their plans, nor did
she hear them thank the bees for their help in making
the seeds live in the berries. Autumn came, an.cl the
hedges burned with shiny hips and haws and juicy black-
berries. Even the crab apples looked sweet this year.
Only the rose bush held hard green berries. The birds
were so busy they had scarcely time to sing. " You have
given us a real feast this year, bushes,.'' they cried. '' And
what do you thin,k? \Ve have found some sad fields w,ith
scarcely a bush in them, and that is where we are tak~ng
your seeds. The seed babies will have such good
homes.'' '' Oh, thank you, .birds,'' said the bushes.
Soon only the rose bush had any berries left. Then
the hush cried : " Oh, how can my seeds get to new
homes; the birds never come to me.'' The animals
stood round the bush in pity, as they told her-'' No
birds could eat your berries, you have kept them so hard
and sour. Seeds cannot get homes unless the birds
carry them for you.'' '' That is right,'' said the horse-
" you see, we all help each other. We need the birds,
and they need us. You bushes need the bees and birds,
and they need you. We can only live by helping each
other." " I see," sighed the bush; " perhaps the birds
w,ill come to me next year, if I try very hard."
'' Of course we shall come,'' sang the birds.
The wind listened, and, as she went on her way,
murmured: '' That is good, for now all the Meadow
World is full of friends.''
MR. I CAN'T CHANGES HIS NAME.
There lived ·two little dwarfs with just a field between
their cottages. '' I Can Cottage '' was spick and span.
The windows shone, the furniture was polished until it
was like a mirror, and there wasn,'t a corner where dust
might hide. Mr. I Can's garden was just as neat. Gay
flowers grew along the borders, the lawn was just like
velvet, and the vegetables grew in straight rows and were
fit for a king.
15
At " I Can't Cottagt;," things were never right.
Mr. I Can't couldn't polish ibis windows or his furniture,
and he couldn't drive away the cobwebs. As to his
garden,-oh ! dear ! ! The lawn was thick with dande-
lioi1s, the roses were spoilt lby grubs, and it:he vegetables
were so higgledy-p,iggledy that they grew up in the
queerest shapes.
Mr. I Can was ashamed of his neighbour. " Fancy
:having anybody named I Can't for a neighbour I" he
would complain. '' No wonder everybody comes to me
for help and never goes near him. People know that I
can do whatever they ask, while Mr. I Can't isn't a· bit
of use.''
Poor Mr. I Can't was very lonely. He would look
at his useless fingers and say-"' What can be the matter
with my hands? When people ask me for help, I always
have to say' I can't.' Nowadays, people go up to Mr.
I Can's rhouse instead of calling on me."
One day some workmen began to bujld a little house,
exactly half-way between the cottages of the two dwarfs. . ~
Both dwarfs were very curious as to who could be coming /'
to the new house, but no one seemed to knoiw. At last
the new house was built, curtains were put up, furniture
was brought in, and the dwarfs saw their nerw ne.igh-
bour. She was a small, pretty, ant<l very kind-looking
little lady. Both dwarfs invited her to tea. At Mr.
I Can's, everything was just so; t:he tea was very dainty,
Mr. I Can said just the right things, and the little lady
admired his clever ways.
Tlhe f.oJiloO"Wing day she visited Mr. I Can't. The bell
wouldn't ring, and so she was. kept waiting a long time.
Mr. I Can't was so slow i·n· making the tea-and then he
spilt milk on the cloth. The little lady was sorry for him,
and offered to help. Mr. I Can rhadn't needed any help,
and she loved helping people. Poor Mr. I Can't could do
w,i.th quite a lot of help.
Mr. I Can't and the little lady became good friends.
Peoplle beg·an to notice ihorw things at " I Can't Cottage "
16
improved. The garden h~e tidier, the windows shone,
and Mr. I Can't himself looked smarter and happier.
At last he asked the little lady to marry him.
" I'd love to marry you, dear," she said, " bnt i
don't like your house and I don't Like you.r name. I'm
sorry, but l'd hate to be Mrs. I Can't."
" I don't like my name, either" said Mr. I Can't,
" hut what can, I do?"
" I know," cried the Little lady. " We'll get mar-
ried, hut we'll live in my house, and you shall use my
name. We'll 1be different from everybody else, but I'm
sure we shall be very happy."
Walking out the next day, Mr. I Can !had a big
surprise. " I Can't Cottage " stood empty, and in one
win.dow hung a FOR SALE card. Then passing the new
house, he noticed a new name-plate on the door. On h
he read, " I'll T1'y Villa." Now, Mlr. I Can keeps won-
dering if Mr. and Mrs. I'll Try don't own· a smarter
house and garden than his own. Certainly they have
qnite as many friends as he has.
THE GOLDEN KEYS.
The fairy folk were sad, because something strange
had happened to the Earth People. They had .become
selfish, got cross too easily, and would not help each
other gladly, and so they were not happy.
Now, fairies cannot bear to hear of people being
unhappy, and their King and Queen asked that each fairy
should try to find out how.to help the people. To do this
they were given leave to wander as they wished on
Earth. Of course, the .people did not know this, and
did not see that fairy eyes were watching them all the
time.
At last one fairy returned to Fairyland, feeling quite
sure that she had found how to help the people. She
asked to be allowed to see the King and Queen. She
-~------ ---~----~------
17
was admitted at once, for they were most anxious about
the people, and the King asked her to tell them of her
wonderful jdea.
" I think that all the trouble would be ended, your
Majesties," she said, " if we could only give the Earth
People ~mother key."
" Another key,"
they do with a key?
and keys I"
repeated the Queen. " What could
In F·airyland iwe never need locks
'' I know I'' said the fairy ; '' but I have been
watching the people in their homes. You can't tnink
how fond people are of locks and keys. They lock up
their houses ,if they go out, an.d they lock them up when
they go to bed. They lock up their treasures, and they
lock up their money. There are locks and keys every-
where on Earth. Almost every man and woman has a
bunch of keys, and even the children. love a box that can
be locked. "
"Then why should we give them another key?"
cried the King. " Surely they must have plenty of keys.
I hate to have things locked away. How queer these
people must be I"
" They are queer," agreed the fairy " Still, I am
sure they need that other key. You see, they have locked
up our treasures too, and I am afraid that only keys of
fairy gold could unlock their hearts."
The King and Queen stood dismayed. Very sadly
they asked the fairy : " Do you really mean that they
have locked up love, and kindness, and helpfulness in their
hearts? No wonder they are sad!"
" I'm sure of it," replied the fairy. " That is why
I want everybody on Earth to be given a key-a fairy
key, that would unlock their hearts when it was used
with magic words."
The King sent for his goldsmiths and bade them listen
to the fiairy's tale, and then to make the keys for which
she asked. For a few days the goldsmitlis worked their
~
I
·~
18
hardest, as they made keys of such fine gold tllat they
were invisible to all but fairy eyes. As they hammered
tne keys into shape, they gave them the magic powers
which would allow the keys, if used with the right pass-
words, to open even the hardest of hearts. Then fairy
messengers took the keys, 1and fitted on,e jnto the heart
of a man, or woman, or child, as he or she lay asleep.
. The next day people a\Yoke to find that, somehow,
thev had learnt new words. Wherever these words were
used smiles and happiness appeared, for the words .were ,
the mag·ic pass-words that had grown, into the fairy
keys. The fair.ies came to Earth gladly, and listened to
the new ·words, which sounded as sweet as music to their
ears. " Please,'' '' Thank you,'' " May I ?'' and '' Can
I help?" had already unlocked the treasurers that had
lain in the hearts of men and women.
That fairy's plan was such a success that now there
is a new rule in Fairyland. It is this:-
" The King and Queen command that, when.ever a
new baby first speiaks, its present from Fairyland shall be
A GOLDEN KEY."
BEAUTY AND THE CALF.
Spring had come with all her babies. Lamlbs and
calves played in the fields, and long-legged foals romped
beside their mdthers ; and yet Farmer James was rather
worried. April had been such a rainy month that many
of the fields were flooded, and he hoped that the May
sunshine ;would soon dry up the fields. At presen,t, the
horses wjth their foals, and the cows with their calves,
had to share the big meadow. There all the water lay
along one side, where the stream had overflowed, but
there was plenty of dry grass for them to wander over.
The farmer could only hope that no harm would come to
his baby anjmals.
The sunny day made all the young things frisky and
bold.. Calves and foals kept running away from their
19'
mothers to play by themselves. Then the acciden,t hap-
pened! A brown-eyed calf wandered down to the water's
edge and fell into the deep stream. The poor calf Kicked
and moo-ed, but it could not get out of the water. The
mother cow ran to the waterside, but, try as she would,
she could not drag the calf on to the grass. Her moo-ings
and cries brought all the other animals, but they, too,
were not able to help the calf.
Among the horses was a grey mare, named Beauty,
of which F:umer James was very proud. Beauty did not
stay by the water, but raced across the field to the gate,
neighing loudly ·as she ran. The gate was not· locked,
and Beauty pushed it open and ran. along the lane towards
the farm. Farmer James was working in the barn, !bi.It
he came out to see what was the cause of all the noise.
As soon .as Beauty saw the farmer, she turned roun.d, ran
a few steps back .along the l.ane, then stopped and
neighed. She did that a few times, until the farmer
guessed what she wanted and followed her. Then
Beauty was satisfied, and led the farmer back to the
field and across to the flooded stream.
There the poor calf was growing weak with kicking
and strug-g-J,ing, and ,the farmer jumped into the water and
pulled the calf on to the grass. He put the calf and its
moth'er into a shed, and gave it a drink of warm milk;
then, he went back for Beauty.
That night Beauty had a royal feast, and she felt
very proud as the farmer patted her and said::...._
" I alway~ thouJ;ht that animals helped each other;
ncrw Beauty has shown me that they do, and that .animals
ran he just as kind to each other as we people can be."
GIFTS.
Derek and Edith sat looking at their books. Derek
had been reading of " J\laddin 's Wonderful Lamp,,.
whilst Edith's story was about " The Sleeping Beauty."
She looked up from the book and said :-
20
" Derek, I wonder if the fair.iies still give gifts to
tiny babies. This baby princess had gifts from twelve
fairies."
" Pooh ! " said Derek, " the gi:fits from the fail'ies
weren't much use. To be pretty, or clever, or kind I
Those were the g.ifts the fairies gave, weren't they? I
wash somebody iwould give me a gift worth having. I'd
like Aladdin's Lamp. Fancy being able to have anything
you wanted, just by rubbing an old lamp. I don't sup-
pose there are any like that nowadays." ·
Bedtime came then., and the children were soon fast
asleep. "In Dreamland Derek met the Gifi: Dwarf. He
was a brigfit-eyed little man, and he appeared quite
suddenly before Derek and bowed low in front of him.
'' Who are you?'' asked Derek.
" I am the Gifil: Dwarf," was the reply. " You may
choose any three gifts, and I shall give them to you."
''Oh, .thank you," said Derek. ''Now, wlhat can
I choose? I know ! I would like a memory that won't
forget, please."
" It is yours," announced the Dwarf.
" Thank you," said D~rek. " Now, may I have
some money that is never all spent; and some candy that
i~ never all eaten, pleiase? "-and the bwarf handed hlm
a bright new coin and a stick of yellow sugar candy.
" Now I must go," said the Dwarf. " I can g.ive
you three gifts every night.'' ·
" That is splendid," said Derek; " when, will you
come again? I'd Uke you to come very often if you
could, please."
" Very well," answered the Dwarf, " but the people
who want me have to do something for me, too."
" I '11 be delighted to do anything you want," pro-
mised Derek. " Please do tell me what to do."
'' Three good deeps every day,'' called out the
Dwarf, and then. he d.isappeared.
21
Derek awoke next morning with a memo·ry that
couldn't forget, but no magic coin and no fiairy candy.
All day long he remembered the Dwarf's .parting message.
" Three good deeds every d'ay-that seems a lot for a
boy to do,'' he thought ; '' even scouts only promise to
do one good deed each day." That day he did one good
deed-he offered to go Mother's messages-;but no dwarf
came that night. The next day he did .another good
deed-he chopped wood for old Mrs. Grant-but again
n.ight did not bring the Dwarf. All day long he seemed
to hear the Dwarf say-" Three good deeds every day."
When Saturday came, Derek found three good deeds
for that day. He helped Dad in the garden; he mended
Edith's pr1am, and he carried Mother's basket home from
market. Somehow he felt very happy when he went to
bed. That night the Gift Dwarf returned, an.cl gave him
a trip to Fairyland. Just as he was going to leave
Derek, the Dwarf said :-
" I am only giving you one gift 1to-n1ght, because it
is the finest gift in Fairyland."
Derek thought of Edith's fair.ies and their gifts as
he asked :-'' What can it be?"'
The Gift Dwarf handed Derek a tiny golden casket,
and said :-" Take this and use it, for ·it grows richer
with using."
Derek open.eel the box, and in it he found a jewel,
and wJthin the jewel he read : " I am the gift of making
other people happy."
Derek never saw tlhe dwarf again-but the next
morning his Mother said: " Derek, you look as happy as
'if the fairies had g"iven you a priceless gift "-and Derek
on,ly smiled. ·
THE BUILDERS.
Mr. Steadfast was a buiklcr who took an honest
pride in his work. H~s buildings had good foundations,
and each brick was set with oare, but because he was
~..
22
so careful his work was done slowly. People· admired
the houses he built, an,d Liked to live in them, but they
were just plain, ordina!ry houses. Wlhen fine bujmdings
were wanted people went to Mr. Smart, at the other end
of the town.
It was Mr. Smart who built the new Picture House,
which was so fine that v.isitors stopped to admire .it; and
everyone talked of how quickly the work had been done.
Mr. Smart, too, had pulled aown the old shops in the
mruin street, and in their place had built the wonderful
new store. That had been, quick work, too. No wonder
he could afford to live in that I\ew mansion on the out-
skirts of the town.
People began to feel sorry for Mr. Steadfast. Not
many new houses were needed. At least, the people who
did want new houses wanted fine ones, an,d not Mr.
Steadfast's ordinary ones. Besides, they wanted quickly
built houses, and so Mr. Smart received their orders and
Mr. Steadfast cliid not grow rich. At last a new works
was opened in the town, and the owner needed a new
house. Mr. vViseman was rich and he needed a large
house. He was n,ot sure which builder to employ, and
so called on them both.
Mr. Smart could build him a fine large house, and it
would be ready in four months. "iMy houses are good
to see,'' he !boasted ; '' I can build you a house of which
you will be proud ''-and he told Mr. Wiseman his price.
Mr. Wiseman called next on. Mr. Steadfast. He described
to the builder the house he wantea, and asked him could
he do the work? Mr. Steadfast a.nswered :-"Yes, I
could bu.ild you a liouse ; but my houses are not smart
ones ; they are just ordinary ones, and I build rather
slowly. You see, I think the inside of the house mat-
ters more than the outside "-and then he told Mr. Wise-
man his price.
The two prices were about the same, but still Mr.
Wiseman could not choose between the two builders. He
called again on, Mr. Steadfast and asked him why the jn-
)
23
side of a house mattered more than the outside. · Mr.
Steadfast smiled. " I'm afraid you will think my ideas
are rather queer, sir," he said, " but you see, l always
think of what is to grow inside my houses."
"Grow, Mr. Steadfast?" asked Mr. Wiseman.
'' Surely you mean live?''
" I mean grow, Mr. W.iseman," answered the
builder. " Houses are like gardens, full of plants."
" Whatever can you mean?" inquired Mr.
Wiseman.
" Just this," answered Mr. Steadfast. " People live
in houses, and bodies grow in fiouses. Minds grow in
bodies, and •thoughts grow in minds. The things we say
and do grow 'in our thoughts, and from them our happi-
·ness grows. My brick houses have to be good enough
to be the gardens for all thos~ plants. That is why they
grow slowly.''
Mr. Wiseman nodded his head.
" I 'had never thought about that," he said. " I
have some very precious plants in my family. .Will you
please build me a house that will be good enough for my
children to grow in ? ''
- - 0 -
SECTION C.
SIMPLE LIFE STORIES WORTH KNOWING.
ALFRED KITSON.
Once upon a time there lived, in a mmmg town in
the north of England, a little boy whose parents were
too poor to be able to send him to school every day. He
had to stay at home, and mind hi.s little brothers and
sisters while his mother went out to work ; and he could
only go to school two half-days in each week. Some-
times, when his clothes were good enough, he went to a
I
~.
24
Sunday School, and there he learned to read and wr.ite.
At the age of nine he went to wonk, for a shilliing a
day, in one of the coal mines, for his father suffered from
ill-health and he had to help to keep the home.
The little lboy was Alfred .K.itson, our great piioneer,
who was born in Gawthorpe in 1855--and we. can guess
how nice it .was d'or him when his father got well enough
to work regularly, and he was aible to have the same
pleasures as other boys.
Alfred became a Lyceumist, and at 17 he was
appointed one of the two Conductors of his Lyceum.
Since that time, except for a period of less than a year,
he has wof'ked for the Lyceum Movement amongst
Spir.itualist children, and it is mainly due to his work
that we have Lyceums, or a Lyceum Union, to-day. The
Lyceum Un.ion will be Mr. Alfred Kitson 's honouraible
monument.
When Lyceums first started, there were no Lyceum
Manuals for the Sunday Sessions; but after some time
M.r. Kitson worked with Mrs. Britten and Mr. Kersey
to get a Manual for us, and that first edition of the
Lyceum Manual was improved upon in later editions
until at last we got the Manual we have to-day. Every
Lyceum now uses this book for its weekly lessons, and
the Lyceum Movement has grown big and strong and
healthy.
Besides what he did for our Manual, Mr. Kitson has
written several stories for the Lyceum Banner, and also
Outlines of Spiritualism for the Young-which is a book
every boy and girl should read.
Mr. Kitson was Secretary of the Lyceum Union for
twenty-nine years, and has been its Advisor for over
twelve years. Htis work and his life have been given to
the Cause of the Children, and every boy and girl should
try to do as great th~ngs Eor each other as he has done
for them.
- --------- -----------------
25
MARYE. KITSON, B.A.
In another story we read how Mr. Alfred Kitson
gave his life to the service 0°f children, and how Lyceums
were formed all over the country. Now we must learn
how his daughter carried on his work, so that it might
be of still greater value, not only to Spiritualist chlldren
but to the Cause of Spiritualism itself.
Born on July 19th, 1890, " Nellie " Kitson, as she
was known to all her friends, was trained to be a
teacher, and so was well fitted for the part she was to
26
play in our. Spiritualist Education iwork. But before the
Education Scheme was thought Oif, she conducted the
Bluebell Guild i111 the Lyceum Banner, under the name
of Flora Belle, and helped her father in his work as
Secretary of the Union. ln 1920 she started Our Lyceum
Guild, ro help Lyceumists to meet each other outside the
Lyceum and to band themselves together for study, and
sports and holbhies. The Guild was a great success, and
all the leaders and workers and stPdents in the Lyceum
Movement htad their names on its roll. When Miss
Kiitson passed to Spirit Life on Friday, 23rd August,
1929, the Guild and its activities had to be put to one
side for a time; but we are hoping that very soon a new
Guild Leader will take us in hand and set us all to
work again to carry out our first Leader's ideals.
Miss Kitson worked h,a.rd to help the start of the
Lyceum Union's Education Scheme. Before 1920 she
was an Examiner under the old Scheme, and from 1920
to 1929 she was Honorary Secretary of the Education
Committee ; and her hard work set an example to
thousands of Lyceumists who took up the Scheme, either
as Examiners or Tutors or Students. She .was very fond
of children and was always ready to do anything to help
them, and she has left two memories behind her--of
the many Lyceumi.sts who have benefitted by her work
for the Education Scheme, and of the many happy hours
spent by those who joined Our Lyceum Guild and took
part .in its hobbies and its competitions. Young
Lyceumists owe a great deal to Mass Kitson, and it is
hoped that each of them will adopt, as a guide in life,
the Guild motto :-We Live to learn, and learn to live.
27
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
Andrew Jaokson Dav.is was born in Blooming
Grove, Orange County, New York State, America, on
1lth August, 1826. He was a spirit seer, and the
founder on Earth of the system of teaching used in our
SpirituaLiist Lyceums, which he copied from Lyceums in
the Summerland, as he called the Children's Sphere jn the
Spirit WQ0
rld.
We have learned how Mr. Alfred Kitson built up the
Lyceum Movement in Great Britain, and how his
daughter worked for its educational schemes ; and it is
only right that •we should learn how Lyceums were fir.st
started and how they came to be known about and used
in our own Spiritualist Movement.
The Lyceum system dame to this country from
America, where Andrew Jackson Davis had interested a
body of New York Spi·ritualists. He told them of the
system of training children which he had seen oin his
visiions of the Spirit World. The children were arranged
in Groups, each under a Leader who gave them lesson~
according to their age. They did marches just as we do, ~
and some of these marches were used to teach them
geography and other subjects. And just like us, they
had holidays and outings, and on these days they would
go out full of joy, marching witli happy songs and
. waviiog banners, on their way to visit some other
Lyceum.
The New York Spiritualists liked this idea so we!J.
that they decided to adopt it, and they started the first
Spkitualis't Progressive Lyceum that very day-Sunday,
25th January,, 1863-with Mr. Davis as its fiirst Con-
ductor.
The first Lyceum in England was opened in 1866,
and in 1871 Mr. Kitson began his work; but we must
never forget that all the credit for introducing the
Lyceum system to the Spiritualist Movement belongs to
Andrew Jackson Davis, the American Spirit Seer.
28
SECTION D.
ORAL CROUP COLDEN CHAINS,
1.-ALWAYS TELL THE TRUTH.
Leader: What do we mean ·when we say that a thing is
true?
Group: We mean that, as far as we know, what is said
or believed ·is cor.rect.
Leader: What do we mean when we say that we should
alwiays tell the truth?
Group: We mean that we should always try to say
only what we know, or honestly lbelieve, to be
true.
J,eader: What is a lie?
Group : A lie is the telling of what we know or believe
to be untrue, because we are t·rying to deceive
somebody.
Leader: Would a really hrave boy or gicl tell a lie?
Group : No. Only cowards tell lies.
Leader : What does that mean?
~. Group: It means that boys and girls who tell lies do so
because they are afraid o.f what will happen if
they tell the truth.
T,eader: Is that the only reason why 1.ies are told?
Group : No. Sometimes they are told to get people into
trouble.
Leader : Are the people who tell such lies cowards?
Group : They are, and also thieves ; and they are not fit
to be allowed to mix wnth decent people.
Leader : Why do you call them thieves?
Group: Because they steal, or try to steal, other people's
good name from them. They are very wicked
thieves.
Leader: What is the punishment of those who tell lies?
Group : In this life, when they get found out, everybody
disJ.ikes them, and nQlbody wm •believe anything
they say.
29
Leader : Whait happens to them in Spirit Life?
Group : They are ashamed o.f themselves as soon as
they see themselves to be as mean and low as
they really are.
Leader: What, then, is the Lyceum's advice to all boys
and girls?
Group : Be honest, be decent, be brave, and always tell
the truth.
MAKE LIFE BEAUTIFUL.
Leader: What do we mean when we say that anything is
beautiful?
Group: A beautiful thing is one that it pleases us to look
at-such as a beautiful flower, or a beautiful
bird, or beautiful scenery.
Leader: Can boys and girls be !beautiful?
Group : Yes, in themr lives.
Leader: Does not their beauty depend on their good
looks?
Group : No. Good looks are nothing without good
works. ~
Leader: How can we do good works?·
Group : By being kind to others and doang our best to
help them.
Leader : How can we be kind to others?
Group : By always doing right ourselves and by helping
others to do right.
Leader: Are there any special ways of helping?
Group : Yes, we can run errands for moth->.r anrl help
with work in our homes. Also, we can help
others by showing them how to do things that
they could not do for themselves. And we can
al.ways have a friendly smile for everyone we
meet.
[,eader: Would this make our lives beautiful?
Group : It would : because it would give others pleasure
to know us and work with us. A beautiful thing
is one that it pleases us to look upon.
30
TRUE COMRADESHIP.
Leader: What do we mean by saying that anyone is our
comrade?
Group: We mean that he or she is a work-mate, or a
f.niend in whom we trust.
Leader: Who are our comrades in. the Lyceum Move-
ment?
Group: Every other Lyceumist is our oomrade.
Leader : What does this mean to us?
Group: It means that we are bound to help each other,
in every way.
Leader : How can Lyceumists help each other?
Group: We can always stand by other Lyceumists when
in trouble. We can help them in many ways in
the Session worik. Those of us who have things
to spare can give to those who have ·not enough
to lave on. And we can always give a word of
cheer and en.cour:agement to those who are sad.
Leader: What do we mean bv a h'Ue oomrade?
Group: We mean one who n~t only is 'trusted, lbut is fit
to be trusted.
Leade·r: What s·hould we, as true comrade, do for each
other?
Group: We should refuse to believe anyithing said
against each other. We should always refuse to
say or hear anything against anyone who is not
present. We should always be ready to make
the interests of our friends equal to our own, and
to play fair in all our dealings vv1ith others.
J,eader: Does this mean that we m1ay have comrades
apart from other Lyceumists?
Group: It does. Our school-mates and our work-mates
should all be our comrades. There should be
true comradeship between alt people who have
to live or work together, and between all races
and nations.
Leader : Does not this put 1a special duty on all
Lyceumists?
31
Group: Yes--.it puts on us the duty of trying, by our
example, to teach all people and all nations to
love and trust eath other, and to live and work
together in harmony.
PLAYING THE GAME.
Leader : There are three rules that should be kept in
mind by all lboys and girls, as a gu.ide in their
lives. What is the first rule?
Group : That we should always " play fair."
Leader: How does this rule apply to boys?
Group: If playing football, they .should not thjnk of
tripping or kioking a boy oh the other side. I.f
playing cricket, they should bat, or bowl, or
field, with fairness. And in aJl games they
should always try not to break any of the rules
of the game.
Leader : How does it apply to girls?
Group: In playing Netball, it is not fair to run with the
ball, or to trip an.other girl. In playing ~
" Touch " or " T~," it is not fair to run on /'
after having been touched. So no girl who is
" playing fair " would dream of doing these
things, or of cheating in any game.
Leader: Does this rule apply only to games?
Group: No. It applies also to our treatment of our
s::hoolmates and playmates and f.rien_ds-and to
learning our lessons-and to obeying the wishes
o.f our parents.
Leader: What is the second rule?
Group : That we should always " play to win."
Leader: What do we mean by that?
Group: We mean that, whether in sports or games, or
in school or at home, we should always do our
very best. When playing with others, we should
not just try to look the cleverest. We should do
our best for the team, n,o matter who gets the
credit. When doing things by ourselves, only
I
I
~
32
our very best should be good ei:iough to satisfy
us.
Leader : What is the third rule?
Group: That we must not " lose heart," just because
we are not winning.
Leader : What does that mean to us?
Group: It means that, just because the game is hard, or
even if the other side may be leading us, we are
not to stop playing our very hardest. That is
the time to play extra hard. Many a game has
been won in the last minute.
Leader : Why should all boys and girls try to live as
taught by these rules?
Group : Because we shall grow up to be men and
women; and, if we learn to " play the game "
now, we shall continue .to play it then.
Leader : What is the sure .reward for '' playing .the
game "? ·
Group : In our·selves-we shall always know that, even
if we have not always won, we have always done
our best. With others-all who know us will
trust and' respect us. And the respect of our-
selves and others is always worth having.
Speclal Notes.
In this Golden. Chain the Leader has a r.ich field of
opportuniti.es for drawing out, and moulding, the opinions
of .the children.; for the rules apply to every phase of their
daily lives. Most normal boys and gfrls have a keen sense
of fair play, and this sense should be developed along
tight tin.es.
For boys, only two games have been mentioned, but
there are many others about which questions could be
asked-such as, iwhat is fair, and what i.s not fair? There
are boys who try to lie " off-side," or who argue when
the umpire gives them out-and many other examples.
With girls-there is the girl who tries to go on
sk.ipping after her rope has caught, and she is really
33
"down "-or wlho pushes an opponent in the back-and
many other examples.
Then there are the boys and girls who cheat and copy
in school---or tell fibs in excuse for not having don,e their
home work-or who would put the blame for things on
others, so as to get out of it themselves-and many other
examples.
Against this, ALWAYS, must be placed the boys and
girls who always play fair-and their popularity-and the
way that people always trust them, an,d believe what they
say.
N.B.-It should be left to the children to bring out
these extra examples-the Leader's part being to en-
courage the expressions of opinion, and to guide the dis-
cussion so that too much time would not be spent in
considering one person, .or any one phase of conduct.
Similar discuss~ons could be raised on the three
preceding Chains. Examples of people .who had played
the game, o·r had helped to make life beautiful, o.r had
~ted as true comrades, being taken, from the lives of .~
our Pioneers and leaders. The children should always
have it impr:essed on them that they iwill ibe the Spir.itualist
workers and leaders of the future, and that .it depends on
them to keep up the high standard of life and :work and
conduct set up by our pioneers and leaders of the past.
HOW MODERN SPIRITUALISM STARTED.
Leader : \Vhy should all Spiritualists be especially kind
and loving to children ?
Group : Because it was rt:hrough the mediumship of
children that the Spirit Friends started our
Movemen,t.
Leader : Where and when did this happen?
Group: At a house j.n Hy.desville, Wayne County, New
York State, U.S.A., on Friday, 31st March,
1848.
I
I
~
34
ui
-I
-I
>
c/l
w
0
>-
:c
I-
<
35
Leader : Who were the children ?
Group: Margaretta Fox, aged 15 years, and Catherine
Fox, age4 12 years.
Leader: How did these children first get in.to touch with
the Spirit Friends?
Group : By means of '' knockings.''
Leader : What do we mean by knockings?
Group: We mean, raps being heard on the walls, or the
ceil.ing, or the floor; or on tables, or chairs, or
other fumjture.
Leader: How were these knockings used by the children?
Group: When the knocking·s started on that F·rid.ay
night, Catherine snapped her fingers, and asked
whoever was knocking to give the same number
of raps. He did, and then he kept time to
Margaretta clapping her han,ds.
Leader: This proved that whoever was knocking could
hear what was said and done. Could he also
see?
Group: Yes. He proved that he could see, when
Catherine made a number of silent motions in the
air wath her fingers, and he g.ave the same num- ~
ber of raps.
Leader : Did they find out who was doing the .knocking?
Group : Yes. He was the Spirit of a pedlar who had
died jn the house .in the winter of 1843.
Leader: Were only the children present that night?
Group: No. Their father an,d mother were wa.th them.
Leader : What did theirr- parents do?
Group: They .asked the pedlar questions, rwhich were all
ans·wered correctly. Then •they called in some
neighbours, who also asked questions, and were
satisfied with the answers.
Leader : vVhat happened later?
Group: Soon after the tbeginining .of the knockings the
Fox family moved to the .town of &ochester,
where they formed and sat in Circles. In
November, 1849, they held ,public .meetings in
the Corinthian Hall, 111 Rochester. These
36
attracted many people; .and by degrees
Spiritualism spread, until now every nation has
heard of it. In, this country Churches and
Lyceums have !been formed to study and
explain what it means to all people.
Special Note.
The Education Committee is of the opinion that it is
not necessary to tell our Juniors the full story of the
pedlar. But ·it is left to the discretion of the Leader to
decside how much of the remainder of the story (as
given in No. 1 Handbook) shouLd be told or read to
each Group.
The lesson on '' What 'is ia Medium?'' (in The Oral
Grade Reader) should be read to give a general idea of
the meaning of mediumship.
WHAT SPIRITUALISM TEACHES. US.
Leader: Why should we he glad that we .are members
of •a Spiriitualist Lyceum?
Group : Because in .it we learn of the care and com-
panlonship of loving Spir.it Friends.
Leader: Who are these Spirit Fr.iends?
Group: They are human !beings who used to live in
this world, and rwho ·now come back, to guide
and help and cheer us, from their homes .in
the Spirit World.
Leader; Are Spiritualists the only people to whom they
come?
Group : They come to all people, whether they are
Spiritualists or not.
Leader: Are they always called Spirit Friends?
Group: No. Some people have called them Angels.
·Leader: Are all of these Angels people who have known
us in Earth 1ife.
37
Group : Not all. Some come to us just hecause they
are so full of love that they feel they must
hring help or comfort to all in need.
Leader : They are indeed Angels, and we should do our
best to show them that we are grateful, an.d
to make them feel welcome when they come to
us. How can •We do that?
Group: We must be bright and happy in ourselves,
and we must love our parents, ~nd our brothers
and sisters, and be ,gentle and loving to all with
whom we liv·c or work. 'Bhen they will be
happy.
Leader: Do only adult Spirit Friends come to us?
Group: No. Spiirit children oome 'to us from their
bright homes in the Summerland, and are
happy in. being with us, so long as we .are kind
and loving to each other.
Leader : Do they come to our Lyceums?
Group : Yes. They love to take part in our Sessions,
0!Ild especially >in our Chain March. In it we
can, be marching, really and trnly, hand in hand
with Angels.
Leader: We learn, then, that these Angel Friends are
ever with us-that they take care of us, and
try to lead us into paths of love-and that it
is our duty to be worthy of their companion-
ship.
ALL : Hand in hand with Angels, througih the world
we go:
Brighter eyes are on us than we bLind ones
know;
Ten,derer voices cheer us than we deaf w.ill
own-
Never, walking heavenward, can we walk alon,e.
CHILD LIFE IN THE SUMMERLAND.
Leader: What is the Summerland?
Group : It ds one of the distnicts in the Spirit World,
where Spi>rit children are oared for and taught.
38
Leader : Who cares for these children?
Groitp: Loving Spirit Friends, who are kno·wn as Spirit
Guardians.
Leader: \7\That happens to children who were .ill in Earth
life?
Group : They are taken to lovely places, called sana-
toriums, where they are tended until they feel
strnng an.cl healthy again.
Leader: What happens to children who lived in homes
where they were ·not loved?
Group : They are petted and comforted, and treated so
lovingly that they soon forget the sorrows of
their Earth Lives.
Leader: How are the children taught?
Group: They go to schools, just as we do, aJ11d are
taught in the same way as we are taught in
our Lyceums.
Leader : Who teaches them?
Group: Spirit Friends who love children, and delight
in training their minds-and who are fitted for
the task.
Leader: Aire these Summerland schools like the schools
we have to attend?
Group: No. They are large and beautiful buildings,
set in lovely ga!'dens-where the children can
en.joy the bright sunshine-see the lovely flowers
-or listen to the sweet singing of the birds.
Leader: Do the children spend all their time at school?
Group : Oh, no. They have sports and games just
like Ea·rth children-and they go for outings
and picnics, in the same way as our own
Lyceums do.
T,eader : Where <lo they go?
G1-n11p: They go into country districts-such a:=; Rocky
Nook, Crystal Lake, Lily Vale, and Golden
Nest-wh'ere everything ·is beautiful and happy.
Leader : What do they do in these ~istricts?
Group:
Leader:
Group:
Leader:
Group:
39
In Lily Vale they oan piok the beautiful lilies
which give the valley its name. In Rocky
Nook they can go climbing the rocks. Or they
oan go lboarting -011. Crystal Lake-in tittle boo.ts
shaped like swans, or like Lovely sea-shells.
· And they have many other ways of enjoying
their outings.
Who told us of thes•e things ?
Andrew Jackson Davis, who visited the Sum-
merlan.d, and· saw how the Spir.it Children
lived and spent their time.
From what he has told us, we know that these
children are very happy. It teaches us npt to
grieve when our little firiends and playmates
are taken away from us.
We should be glad that they have gone to such
lovely homes, and such happy lives, in the
Summerland.
Special Notes.
The foregoing outLine of Child-life in the Spirit
World is intended to give the children a general idea of
Summerland condition.s, arid it is hoped. that the Leader
will see that they understand the meaning of " Sph·it
Guardians ''-and that these loving Friends may be
their -0wn parents. If time and opportunity allow, tfie
Leader might read extracts from " The Spiritualist
Lyceum " and " ChHdren in Spirit Life " (£,rom No. 1
Handbook) to fill in the outline-and to prepare those
who are taking the Om! Grade examinations for the
jump from the Oral Grade to Grade I.
Those who are fortun.ate enough not to know what
a sanatorium is should hav.e the idea of sanatoriums, and
convalescent homes, explain,ed to them.
40
A. J. DAVIES.
41
SECTION E.
THE O~AL GRADE EXAMINATION SCHEME.
THE REASON FOR OUR EDUCATION SCHEME.
(An Appeal to Conductors and Leaders.)
Why have an Education Scheme 'l
The question is often asked: What need have we in
the Lyceum Movemen,t for a special Education Scheme,
and why should Lyceumists of all ages be asked to take
up special Oourses of Study? We aire reminded that, in
the Lyceum Session, we read and discuss Cha.ins and
Readings which deal with every phase of Spiritualist
teaching and belief-and what more, we are asked,
could be learned by any special study of the very things
we are already studying in the Session?
Its Influence on Opinions.
The reason is very simple. The Session <liscussions
very often run on the same lines, and every time any
given Chain or Reading is dJscussed the same people
express more or less the same opinion-so it would seem ,~
that the Lyceum djscussion has not resulted in any very
noticeable change of the opinions of those who took
part. The seeming cause of this is that, in the Session,
there is not time for any speaker to say much about his
opinions, or to give any reasons for holding them. In
the Examjn·ations each student has three hours in which
to answer five questions, whkh allows over 35 minutes
each for the student to state his opinions in, full and
justify them; and in preparing for this, without the
natural feeling of opposition aroused by others having
expressed other opinions, many studen.ts have realised
that their opinions are not as sound 0as they had thought.
In faot, quite a number have confessed that their special
studies have changed many of their opinions on matters
of ·importance, an.d in other cases the Examiner's com-
ments on the Answer Papers have opened up new points
of v.iew, and new avenues for careful thought.
- - -- - -----------------
42
It " Sorts Out " our Knowledge.
There is anotlher reason. Many of us know plenty
about Spiritualism, but our knowledge is not connected
in any way, and we are very often beaten in an argu-
men,t, about things we know well, by not being able to
think of our telling points when we most need them.
The studies in the Five Grades of the Education Scheme
cover a course that sorts out all this knowledge in our
minds, so that the instant any point is raised all we know
about it .is ready for our use. Even for this alone the
Education Scheme is worth con.sideration. The General
Secretary will send a copy of the Syllabuses of Work,
and a booklet on How to Prepare for the Examinations,
to any inquirer who sends t:~d. in stamps. Send along
for them and examine the Scheme for yourselves.
It Gives our Juniors a Cood Start-oft,
The declared object of Lyceum teaching is to develop
the self-confidence, self-reliance and self-expression of
Lyceumists-and, even if the adults are satisfied that
they do not themselves require any training in these im-
portant qualities, we think they will agree that with the
children such training is essential.
The surest way to self-confidence is assured know-
ledge, which also brings self-reliance and the courage for
self-expression ; and in the Oral Grade Scheme our young
Lyceumists become acquainted with useful items of ,in-
formation, which prepare a good foundation for their
future work in the Lyceum. In the Senior Section they
are asked to learn four Silver Chain Recitations and the
Answers to the 34 Questions set out (and answered) in
the Oral Grade Catechism. In the Junior Section they
have to learn oniy two of these Silver Chains and 16 of
the Answers. All who obtain forty marks are presented
with a Certificate, and the Entry Fee is only 3d. A Leaf-
let fully explaining the Scheme can be obtained, for a ld.
stamp, from the General Secretary or the Oral Grade
Secretary.
43
Isn't it Worth While 7
Don't you think, now, that the Education Scheme,
in all its Grades, is worth working for :with all your
ability and enthusism? If you do not care for sitting
at the Examinations, cannot you help by being a Tutor?
Everything you do will be a help and cnoouragement to
others; and being able to say that you have gone-or are
going-through the Scheme you,rseJ!f will be a strong
argument to use when trying to persuade others to take
up the studies.
Please think it over. The Movement needs you and
your knowledge and enthusiasm. If not yet prepared,
isn't it 1worth while preparing to play your part with
satisfaction to yourself ,and with benefit to the
Spir.itualist Movement?
THE REASON FOR THE ORAL GRADE SCHEME.
The Education Committee is of opinion that our
Lyceum children should not have to wait until they are
twelv·e years old before being introduced to some facts ~
and aspects of Spiritualism not usually touched on in f
the ordinary Lyceum Session. But the Committee
recognise that, to many children under twelve, writing
is often a task, and ithat many candidates at a written
examination would not be able to do full justice to their
knowledge. So it has been decided to .hold an Oral
Examination (at the .same time as the written exam.lna-
tion) for Lyceumists under twelv.e; and the appended Oral
Griad.e Syllabus has been drawn up.
The thi1dren should be asked to learn Silver Chains
at home, and recite them at the Lyceum as Individual
Efforts; whilst the Summanies and " Catechism " coul<l
be studied in the Oral Grade Group. The Questions
and Answers m1ght also be learned at home--by leam.ing
two a week the child could go rthrough them all about
three times a year, and then have time 1for a final
revision. (It might he found more suitaible to take
44
three or four of the shorter answers for one week, and
give one or more weeks to each of the longer answers) .
The language used is as simple as possiilble, but it has
been, found impossible ito avoid altogether using difficult
words and expressions ; -and it has been left to the Grade
Leader to explain, and see that the children thoroughly
understand, all that is taught. Notes suggesting
explanations have been added after soµie of the an,swers.
Further information can ibe obta.ined from the Oral
Grade Secretary.
SYLLABUS OF WORK FOR THE ORAL GRADE.
Jun.ior Section-Lyceumists between the ages of eight
and ten years.
Senior Section.-Lyceumists of ten years and over.
( l) SENIOR SECTION :
Learn Silver Chains .set from Section F. (The
Summaries should be read, but not leerned for
repetition at the Oral Examination).
Learn the Answers to Questions in Section. G.
( l l) JUNIOR SECTION:
Learn the two Silver Chains set from Section F.
Learn ONLY the Answers to Questions in Section
G that are marked with a star.
Object Lessons illustrating and explainiing several
of the teachings in: Section G, together with an introduc-
tory " Chat about Croup Leaders," will be found in the
" Oral Grade Reader "-which can be obtained from
the General Office at 4/9 per dozen ; single copies, 7d.
post free.
45
SECTION F.
ORAL CRADE SILVER CHAINS.
Note for Leaders and Tutors.-
Of the followang four Silver Chain Recitations, two
-Nos. 15 and 100-are taken from the Lyceum Manual;
the other two (which replace Nos. 19 and 55) will not be
found in the Manual. But as they teach the same lesson
as 19 and 55, they are numbered (for reference) as
Nos. 19a and 55a.
Only the two marked with a star (*) have to be
learned by the Juniors. The whole four have to be
learned by the Seniors.
It ~s suggested that the children should be encour-
aged to learn the Silver Chains set for their Section of
the Oral Grade, and to g~ve them in. the Session as
Indiviidual Efforts.
*S.C.R. 15.
Jol.fl\//d~S ~
$.eA/.Jf~-t'S
THE SPIRITS' MISSION.
They come at morn. and dewy eve,
At radiant noon and midnight bout",
To breathe their messages, or leave
The inward token.s of their power.
Think not their homes are far away
From human sympathy and love,
Nor when desired, that they delay
To leave their Spirit-home above.
Their mission .is the work of love
To kindred in the earthly home,
And we with joy their work approve,
And often kindly hid them come.
Thrice gladly they the call obey,
\Vhen, yearning hearts the welcome give.
Receive their love, their care repay,
In their communion joyous live.
/~
46
Summary of Teaching,
This Silver Chain teaches us that our loving Spirit
Friiends come to us at all times, when they see that we
need their help; and always leave a blessing ·with us. We
must not think of them as being so far away that they
lose their love for us, or do not know that we need
them; rior even that they do not hurry at once to answer
our call. They have made it their mission, to do loviing
and sympathetiic work amongst those still liv.ing in Earth
life-and we are full of joy at having found this out.
They answer every call " thrice gladly," when they kn:aw
that we are in sorrO!W or trouble, and they feel that they
are fully rewarded if we make them welcome, accept
their loving help, and try to make ourselves fit to live
in constant communion with them.
S.C.R. 19a. HOME.
What matter.s where we work or live-
In humble hut or gilped dome?
Where'er we are with those we love
Or those who love us-.Jf:hat is Home.
Where Love can peace and service bring.
And Hate or Discord cannot come ;
Where Love has taught us everything
That makes life happy-that is Home.
In life we all must take our par't:
As pilgrims here we're forced to roam-
But ever in eadh wanderer's heart
Dwells the endearing thought of Home.
And when our task on Earth ~s o'er,
And we no more are ,forced to roam,
We'll journey to the Spirit Shore
And Angels sing our Welcome Home.
47
Summat"Y cf Teaching.
This Silver Cha.in teaC'hes us that it doesn't really
matter whether we live in a humble cottage, or in rooms,
or in a grand paLaoe ; so long as we love those rwe Hve
with, and are loved lby them-thait place is Home. Leve
brings t.he wm .for peace and the desire ,to help each other'
and keeps hate and quarrelling out of -0ur hearts; and
where this has happened and made life happy, we can
call it our real Home. Oru Earth we are like people
living in, a distant oountry, and always thinking of our
real home-the Spir~t World; and we knorw that, when
our life on Earth is over, we shall be welcomed Home by
our loving Spirit Friends.
$.e'"··•.hd~
S.C.R. 55a. NEVER LOSE HEART.
Oh, never lose heart, boys, never lose heart,·
And never give way to repfo,ing,
For sooner or later the dark clouds must part
And show you their bright silver lining.
Oh, never lose heart, girls, never lose heart,
Whatever the depth of your sorrow :
The sadness and .gloom of the n:ight must depart
Before the glad light of the morrow. ·
Oh, never lose heart-no, n.ever lose heart:,
And, though the whole world may betray you,
So long as you're worthily playing your part
There's nothing can daunt or dismay you.
Then never lose heart-oh, never lose heart,
No matter how poor the beginn:ing :
The fiercer the battle, the harder the part,
The greater the honour in winning.
Summary of Teaching.
This Silver Chain teaches us that, no matter how badly
things may seem to go against us, we must never lose
~\
48
heart, nor start grumbling about our hard luck ; because
OU·r luck is bound to tum if we will only meet our troubles
with a stout heart. Whatever our sorrow, we must try
to be cheerfiul, because the light of the love of loyal
friends will drive a.way our sadness, just as the darkness
is driven away by the sunlight. So long as we are \brave,
and play our part in life as well as we can, nothing can
keep us from winnfog-and the harder we have had to
fight for victory, the sweeter it will ibe to win.
*S.C.R. 100. THERE IS NO DEATH.
We do not d1e-we cannot die :
We only change our state of life,
When. these earth temples fall and lie
Unmovfog 'mid the world's wiild strife.
There ·i.s no death in God's_wide world,
But one eternal scene of change;
The flag of life is never furled,
It only taketh wider range.
And when the spirit leaves 1ts fria.me,
Its home fo, which it long hath kept,
It goes, a life that's real to claim,
As if in this it had but slept.
Then let us not speak of the " dead,"
For none are dead-all live, all love·.
Our friends have only changed, have sped,
From lower homes to homes aibove.
Summary of Teaching,
This Silver Chain teaches us that we, as Spirits,
cannot die ; thait " what iMen call Death " is only the
change from 1ifo with a physical body to Life withouJt a
physical body. Li'fe is ever changing (as tlhe seed
changes into a plant, and the plant goes on 1lill it pro-
duces a flower), .and, if we like to try, we can, go foriward
(even in Earth-life) to higher and higher states af life.
49
This Earth-life seems just like a sleep, from which we
awake into Spi·rit-life. So do not let us think of our
friends as " dead "-we know that they are alive, and
that they have only gone from earthly homes to spirit
homes (from which, as •we are taught in S.C.R. 15, they
gladly come to Ii.elp and encourage us).
- o -
SECTION G.
THE ORAL CRADE CATECHISM.
EXPLANATORY NOTE.-The following series of
questions and answers belong to a class always called a
" catechism," and the word .is not used here with any-
thing but its usual and proper meaning.
Questions and Answers.
*I. What is a Spiritualist Lyceum?
A Spiritualist Lyceum is a school for Spiritualists,
whether young or old. . ~
-~2. What is ·a Lyceumist?
A Lyceumist is a member of a, Lyceum, but a true
Lyceumist is a student member.
*3. What do you mean by a student member of a
Lyceum?
mean a member who studies the Lyceum's
teaching, and seeks to learn all possible about
the beginnings, the pioneers, the progress and
the aims of the Lyceum Movement.
*4. How does the Lyceum system help us?
It develops and trains the thinking powers of
Lyoeumists, and widens their outlook on life.
*5. Who started the Lyceum Movemen.t?
Andrew j ackson Davis, in. Dodsworth Hall,. Broad-
50
way, New York, U.S.A., on January 25th,
1863.
6. Why did Mr. Davis stairt the Lyceum?
Because, in a vi,sion, he had seen the Lyceums for
children in Spirit-life, and rthought that what
was good for them must be good for people in
Earth-life.
7. How was the knowledge of Lyceum work spread?
By articles about Lyceums in tihe Spirit-world,
and the proper training of children-written by
A. J. Davis ; by articles in '' The Medium and
Daybreak," written by Mr. J. Burns, and by
the devoted labours of the early English
pioneers.
8. Are there many Lyceums in America?
There are only a few, considering the .size of the
country. The Lyceum system flourished better
in England.
~\ 9. Where was the fir.st British Lyceum started?
At Nottingham, in 1866.
*10. Who is the FMher of the Bdtish Spir<itualist
Lyceum Movement?
Alfred Kitson, of Hangfog Heaton, Batley, York-
shire.
11. Why is .Nlfr.ed Kitson called Father of the British
Spiritualist Lyceum Movement?
Because it was through his devotion, and by his
example, that the Lyceum Movement gained its
first hold, and its present strong position in this
country. He is a noble exemplar to ALL
Lyceumists.
12. What do you know of Alf.red Kitson and his
work?
a
51
He founded Lyceums, and helped to organise
Lyceums opened by others. He was Secretary
of the Ann.ual Lyceum Conferenc~ from the
first in 1886; Honorary Secretary of the Lyceum
Union from its formation in 1890 till 1901, and
General Secretary from 1901 till 1919~alto­
gether thirty-three years of devoted active ser-
vice. He is still Adviser to the Utiion.
13. Has Alfred Kitson written anything for Lyceums?
Yes. He wrote " Outlin,es of Spiritualism for the
Young," and presented the copy,r1ght to th~
Union ; and combined with Mrs. ·. Britten and
Mr. H. A. Kersey to produce 'The Lyceum
Manual. He was also manager ad;ld editor of
The Lyceum Banner from 1902 till 1919. When
there were no Manuals, he wrote Golden Chains
and other Readings, and sent copies of these
to all who asked for advice or help.
*14. In what way is Alfred Kitson, a noble exemplar?
Without thought of reward or fame, he has devoted
his life to the service of others, especially
children, and .to the spreading of the Lyceum
Cause.
(See The Oral Grade Reader.)
15. Why should Lyceumists be grateful to Mr. Harry
A. Kersey?
Because, when the Lyceum Movement needed a
Manual, and had no money to get one, Mr.
Kersey provided the money, and at his own
risk publislhed The Lyceum Manual in 1887 and
The Spiritual Songster in 1888, presenting the
copyright of these to the Union jn 1901.
(Note.-" Presenting the copyr·ight " means that he gave
the books to the Union as their own property-as a
free gift).
52
HARRY A. KERSEY.
16. What is The Lyceum Manual'?
It is the text-book of the Lyceum Movement, and
deals with Spiritualism as a Science, a Philoso-
phy and a Religion.
17. How can Spiritualism be called a Science?
Because investigators of Spiritualism collect and
study facts about Man and his survival of
physical death.
(Note.-Science comes from Scio-" to know." An In-
vestigator is one who collects and studies facts, so as
to find out the truth for himself. Survive means to
" live after.")
18. How can we claim that Spiritualism is a Philoso-
phy?
53
Because students of ~ts facts are able to form ideals
of the Plan of Nature, and of the Power (br
Mind) behi·nd ·the Plan. .
(See The Oral Crade Reader.)
19. How can we claim that Spir·itual.ism is a Religion?
Religion is Man's idea of the relationship between
himself and God-and Spiritualism teaches that
God is our Father, and that all Men. are
Brothers. It also teaches us that we must
" worship God by doing good " (S.C. 93).
20. What is God?
God is fo.finite Spirit-all Life, all Love, all Wis-
dom and all Power.
(Note.-lnlinite means " having no limits "-of any
kind).
21. What i.s Man?
Man, is a spirit, working through a physical body
on the earth plane, and through a spirit body on . ~
ithe spirit planes. r
22. Should Man fear Death?
No. Death is only the change from life with a
physical body to life without a physical body,
and does not affect Man the Spirit in any way.
23. What 'happens to children who pass into Spirit life?
* They are taken to the Summerland, the children's
home in the Spirit World, and put under the
charge of Spirit Guardians, in company with
other children like themseJlves.
24. Do children go to school in the Summerland?
* Yes, they are taught in, Progressive Lyceums, of
which our own are a cQpy.
25. Do Spirit children ever grow up?
*
54
Yes, they develop very quickly, and grow in wis-
dom and love. Their Spir.it bodies also grow as
on Earth.
26. Do Spkit children ever return to earth conditions ?
*
27.
*
28.
Yes, they are often brought back to earth condi-
tions, so that they may learn the lessons of
Earth life. They are sometimes able to com-
municate with their parents.
Do Spirit children ever have to work?
Yes. When old enough, and wise enough, they are
put to the work for Which they are best fitted.
What kinds of work are Spirit children put to?
Some are sent to guide and help us, through
mediums; others are sent to teach spirits living
in Spiritual ignorance.
29. What is a melium?
30.
A medium is a man or woman who is able to lend
his or her body to the spirit friends, to be used
for speaking or automatic writing, and in many
other ways.
(See The oral Crade Reader).
Has Spiritualism any creed?
Not in the usual meaning of the .word
there are certain principles in
Spiritualists believe.
creed, but
which all
31. \~that are the Principles of Spiritual.ism?
* The Fatherhood of God;
The Brotherhood of Man;
The Immortality of the Soul an.cl its Personal
Characteristics ;
The Proven Facts of Communion between departed
Human Spirits and Mortals ;
55
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN.
32.
*
56
Personal Responsibility, with Compensation and
Retribution, hereafter for all the good and evil
deeds done here ;
And a Path of Eternal Progress, open to every
Human Soul that wills to tread it by the path of
Eternal _Good.
(See The Oral Crade Reader).
Where did Spiritualists get these Principles?
From t~e Spiriit World,- through the mediumsbip
of Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten. (G.C.R. 136).
33. Why are you a Ly.ceumist?
*
34.
Because I w.ish to study the facts of Spiritualism;
to study and try to understand its ph1lo!!ophy ;
and to try to live iil:s religion. All religion; has
relation to life, and the life of religion is to do
good. :
What is the LyceuinMsts' pledge?
Wiith the help of God, and the Angels, we wiU;ever
try to reaLise, by our devotion to love, ~utb
and justice, the Divine ideal here upon Earth.
(G.C.R. 148).
-,-
.
__c
.\
