{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__cady___lessons_in_truth.pdf","mytitle":"Lessons In Truth","mylang":"de"}
LESSONS IN TRUTH
A Course of Tw elve Lessons in
Practical C hristianity
H. Emilie Cady
AUTHOR OF
M isc e l l a n e o u s W r itin g s
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
KANSAS CITY, MO.
1932
CONTENTS
LESSON PAGE
I. Statement of B eing............................ 5
II. Thinking .............................................. 13
III. Denials.................................................. 28
IV. Affirmations ........................................ 42
V. Faith .................................................... 53
VI. Definition of Terms U sed.................. 65
VII. Spiritual Understanding.................... 77
VIII. Secret Place of the Most H ig h .......... 89
IX. Finding the Secret P lace.................... 103
X. Spiritual Gifts .................................... 119
XI. Unity of the Spirit .......................... 131
XII. Bondage or Liberty, W hich?............ 144
Question H elps.................................... 159
Index .................................................... 179
STATEMENT OF BEING
WHO AND WHAT GOD IS—WHO AND WHAT
MAN IS
FIRST LESSON
In entering upon this course of instruction, each of
you should, so far as possible, lay aside, for the time
being, all previous theories and beliefs. By so doing
you will be saved the trouble of trying, all the way
through the course, to force “new wine into old bot­
tles.” If there is anything, as we proceed, which you
do not understand or agree with, just let it lie passively
in your mind until you receive the entire course, for
many statements that would at first arouse antag­
onism and discussion will be clear and easily accepted
a little farther on. After the course is completed, if
you wish to return to your old beliefs and ways of liv­
ing, you are at perfect liberty to do so. But, for the
time being, be willing to become as little children;
for, said the Master, in spiritual things, “Except ye
become as little children ye can in no wise enter the
kingdom of heaven.” If at times there seems to be
repetition, please remember that these are lessons, not
lectures.
1. When Jesus was talking with the Samari­
tan woman at the well, He said to her, “God is
Spirit: and they that worship him must wor­
ship him in spirit and in truth.” (The A. S. V.
reads, “God is a Spirit,” but the marginal note is,
5
6 First Lesson
“God is spirit,” and some other versions render
this passage, “God is Spirit.”) To say “a spirit”
would be to imply the existence of more than one
spirit. Jesus, in His statement, did not imply
this.
2. Webster in his definition of spirit says:
“Spirit is life or intelligence conceived of entirely
apart from physical embodiment. It is vital es­
sence, force, energy, as distinct from matter.”
3. God, then, is not, as many of us have been
taught to believe, a big personage or man residing
somewhere in a beautiful region in the sky, called
“heaven,” where good people go when they die,
and see Him clothed in ineffable glory; nor is He
a stern, angry judge only awaiting an opportunity
somewhere to punish bad people who have failed
to live a perfect life here.
4. God is Spirit, or the creative energy which
is the cause of all visible things. God as Spirit
is the invisible life and intelligence (according to
Webster’s definition of spirit) underlying all phys­
ical things. There could be no body, or visible
part, to anything unless there were first Spirit
as creative cause.
5. God is not a being or person having life,
intelligence, love, power. God is that invisible,
intangible, but very real, something we call life.
God is perfect love and infinite power. God is the
Statement op Being 7
total of these, the total of all good, whether mani­
fested or unexpressed.
6. There is but one God in the universe, but
one source of all the different forms of life or
intelligence which we see, whether they be men,
animals, trees, or rocks.
7. God is Spirit. We cannot see Spirit with
these fleshly eyes; but when we clothe ourselves
with the spiritual body, then Spirit is visible or
manifest and we recognize It. You do not see the
living, thinking “me” when you look at my body.
You see only the form which I am manifesting.
8. God is love. We cannot see love, nor grasp
any comprehension of what love is, except as love
is clothed with a body. All the love in the uni­
verse is God. The love between husband and wife,
between parents and children, is just the least
little bit of God, as pushed forth through visible
form into manifestation. A mother’s love, so
infinitely tender, so unfailing, is the same love,
only manifested in greater degree by the mother.
9. God is wisdom, or intelligence. All the wis­
dom and intelligence which we see in the universe
is God—is wisdom projected through a visible
form. To educate (from educare, to lead forth)
never means to force into from the outside, but
always means to draw out from within something
already existing there. God as infinite wisdom or
8 First Lesson
intelligence lives within every human being, only
waiting to be led forth or drawn out into mani­
festation. This is true education.
10. Heretofore we have sought knowledge and
help from outside sources, not knowing that the
source of all knowledge, the very Spirit of truth,
is lying latent within us each and every one, only
waiting to be called on to teach us the truth about
all things—most marvelous of teachers, and
everywhere present, without money or price!
11. God is power. Not simply God has power,
but God is power. In other words, all the power
there is to do anything is God. God, the source of
our existence every moment, is not simply omnip­
otent (all-powerful) ; He is omnipotence (all
power). He is not alone omniscient (all-know­
ing) ; He is omniscience (all knowledge). He is
not only omnipresent, but more—omnipresence.
God is not a being having qualities, but He is the
good itself. Everything you can think of that is
good, when in its absolute perfection, goes to
make up that invisible being we call God.
12. God, then, is the substance (from sub,
under, and stare, to stand), or the real thing
standing under every visible form of life, love,
intelligence, or power. Each rock, tree, animal,
everything visible, is a manifestation of the one
Spirit—God—differing only in degree of mani-
Statement op Being 9
festation; and each of the numberless modes of
manifestation, or individualities, however insig­
nificant, contains the whole.
13. One drop of water taken from the ocean is
just as perfect ocean water as the whole great
body. The constituent elements of water are
exactly the same, and they are combined in pre­
cisely the same ratio or perfect relation to each
other, whether we consider one drop, a pailful, a
barrelful, or the entire ocean out of which the
lesser quantities are taken; each is complete in
itself; they differ only in quantity or degree.
Each contains the whole; and yet no one would
make the mistake of supposing from this state­
ment that each drop is the entire ocean.
14. So we say that each individual manifesta­
tion of God contains the whole; not for a moment
meaning that each individual is God in His en­
tirety, so to speak, but that each is God come
forth, shall I say? in different quantity or degree.
15. Man is the last and highest manifestation
of divine energy, the fullest and most complete
expression (or pressing out) of God. To man,
therefore, is given dominion over all other mani­
festations.
16. God is not only the creative cause of every
visible form of intelligence and life at its com­
mencement, but each moment throughout its ex-
10 First Lesson
istence He lives within every created thing as
the life, the ever renewing, re-creating, upbuilding
cause of it. He never is and never can be for a
moment separated from His creations. Then how
can even a sparrow fall to the ground without
His knowledge? And “ye are of more value than
many sparrows.”
17. God is. Man exists (from ex, out of, and
sistere, to stand forth). Man stands forth out of
God.
18. Man is a threefold being, made up of
spirit, soul, and body. Spirit, our innermost, real
being, the absolute part of us, the I of us, which
you and I know has never changed, though our
thoughts and our circumstances may have changed
hundreds of times—this part of us is a standing
forth of God into visibility. It is the Father in
us. At this central part of his being every per­
son can say, “I and the Father are one,” and speak
absolute Truth.
19. Mortal mind—that which Paul calls
“carnal mind”—is the consciousness of error.
20. The great whole of, as yet unmanifested,
Good, or God, from whom we are projections or
offspring, in whom “we live, and move, and have
our being” continually, is to me the Father—our
Father; “and all ye are brethren,” because all are
manifestations of one and the same Spirit. Jesus,
Statement of Being 11
recognizing this, said: “Call no man upon the
earth your father, for one is your Father which is
in heaven.” As soon as we recognize our true
relationship to all men, we at once slip out of our
narrow, personal loves, our “me and mine,” into
the universal love which takes in all the world,
joyfully exclaiming: “Who is my mother? Who
are my brethren? Behold, these are my mother
and my brethren!”
21. Childlike, untrained minds say God is a
personal being. The statement that God is princi­
ple chills them, and in terror they cry out, “They
have taken away my Lord, and I know not where
they have laid him!”
22. Broader and more learned minds are al­
ways cramped by the thought of God as a per­
son, for personality limits to place and time.
23. God is the name we give to that unchange­
able, inexorable principle at the source of all ex­
istence. To the individual consciousness God takes
on personality, but as the creative underlying
cause of all things, He is principle, impersonal; as
expressed in each individual, He becomes personal
to that one—a personal, loving, all-forgiving Fa­
ther-Mother. All that any human soul can ever
need or desire is the infinite Father-Principle,
the great reservoir of unexpressed good. There is
no limit to the Source of our being, nor to His
12 First Lesson
willingness to manifest more of Himself through
us, when we are willing to do His will.
24. Hitherto we have turned our hearts and
efforts toward the external for fulfillment of our
desires and for satisfaction, and we have been
grievously disappointed. For the hunger of every
one for satisfaction is only the cry of the home­
sick child for its Father-Mother, God. It is only
the Spirit’s desire in us to come forth into our
consciousness as more and more perfection, until
we shall have become fully conscious of our one­
ness with All-perfection. Man never has been
and never can be satisfied with anything less.
25. We all have direct access through the Fa­
ther in us—the central “I” of our being—to the
great whole of life, love, wisdom, power, which is
God. What we now want to know is how to re­
ceive more from the fountainhead and to make
more and more of God (which is but another
name for All-good) manifest in our daily life.
26. There is but one Source of being. That
Source is the living fountain of all good, be it
life, love, wisdom, power—the Giver of all good
gifts. That Source and you are connected, every
moment of your existence. You have power to
draw on this Source for all of good you are, or
ever will be, capable of desiring.
THINKING
SECOND LESSON
1. We learned in the first lesson that the real
substance within everything we see is God; that
all things are one and the same Spirit in different
degrees of manifestation; that all the various
forms of life are just the same as one life come
forth out of the invisible into visible forms; that
all the intelligence and all the wisdom in the world
are God as wisdom in various degrees of mani­
festation; that all the love which people feel and
express toward others is just a little, so to speak,
of God as love come into visibility through the hu­
man form.
2. When we say there is but one Mind in the
entire universe, and that this Mind is God, some
persons, having followed understandingly the first
lesson, and recognized God as the one Life, one
Spirit, one Power, pushing Himself out into vari­
ous degrees of manifestation through people and
things, will at once say: “Yes, that is all plain.”
3. But some one else will say: “If all the mind
there is, is God, then how can I think wrong
thoughts, or have any but God thoughts?”
4. The connection between universal mind and
13
14 Second Lesson
our own individual minds is one of the most dif­
ficult things to put into words, but when it once
dawns on one, it is easily seen.
5. There is in reality only one Mind (or Spirit,
which is life, intelligence, and so forth) in the
universe; and yet there is a sense in which we are
individual, or separate, a sense in which we are
free wills and not puppets.
6. Man is made up of spirit, soul, and body.
Spirit is the central unchanging I of us, the part
which since infancy has never changed, and to
all eternity never will change. That which Chris­
tian Scientists call “mortal mind” is the region of
the intellect where we do conscious thinking and
are free wills. This part of our being is in con­
stant process of changing.
7. In our descent, or outspringing, from God
into the material world, spirit is inner—next to
God; soul is the clothing, as it were, of the spirit;
body is the external clothing of soul. Yet all are
in reality one, the composite man—as steam at
the center, water next, and ice as an external
are one, only in different degrees of condensation.
In thinking of ourselves, we must not separate
spirit, soul, and body, but rather hold all as one, if
we would be strong and powerful. Man originally
lived consciously in the spiritual part of himself.
He fell by descending in his consciousness to the
Thinking 15
external or more material part of himself.
8. “Mortal mind,” the term so much used and
so distracting to many, is the error consciousness,
which gathers its information through the five
senses from the outside world. It is what Paul
calls “carnal mind” in contradistinction to spirit­
ual mind; and he flatly says: “To be carnally
minded [or to believe what the carnal mind says]
is death [sorrow, trouble, sickness]; but to be
spiritually minded [£. e., to be able to still the
carnal mind and let the Spirit speak within us]
is life and peace.”
9. The Spirit within you is Divine Mind, the
real mind, for without it the mortal mind disap­
pears, just as a shadow disappears when the real
thing which casts it is removed.
10. If you find this subject of mortal mind and
universal mind puzzling to you, do not worry over
it, and above all things do not discuss i t ; but just
drop it for a time, and as you go on with the les­
sons, you will find that some day an understanding
of it will flash suddenly upon you with perfect
clearness.
11. There are today two classes of people, so
far as mentality goes, who are seeking deliverance
out of sickness, trouble, and unhappiness, by spir­
itual means. One class requires that every state­
ment made be proved by the most elaborate and
16 Second Lesson
logical argument, before it can or will be re­
ceived. The other class is willing at once to “be­
come as a little child” and just be taught how
to take the first steps toward pure understanding
(or knowledge of Truth as God sees it), and then
receive the light by direct revelation from the All-
Good. Both are seeking and eventually will reach
the same goal, and neither is to be condemned.
12. If you are one who seeks and expects to
get any realizing knowledge of spiritual things
through argument or reasoning, no matter how
scholarly your attainments or how great you are
in worldly wisdom, you are a failure in spiritual
understanding. You are attempting an utter im­
possibility—that of crowding the Infinite into the
quart measure of your own intellectual capacity.
13. “The natural man receiveth not the things
of the Spirit of God; for they are foolishness
unto him: neither can he know them, because
they are spiritually discerned.” Eventually you
will find that you are only beating around on the
outside of the “kingdom of heaven,” though in
close proximity to it, and you will then become
willing to let your intellect take the place of the
“little child,” without which no man can enter in.
14. “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
have entered into the heart of man, the things
Thinking 17
which God hath [not will] prepared for them that
love him.
15. “But God hath revealed them unto us by
his Spirit.”
16. “For what man knoweth the things of a
man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even
so the things of God knoweth no man, but the
Spirit of God.”
17. For all those who must wade through
months and perhaps years of this purely intellec­
tual or mental process, there are today many books
to help, and many teachers of metaphysics who
are doing noble and praiseworthy work in piloting
these earnest seekers after Truth and satisfaction.
To them we cry: “All speed!”
18. But we believe with Paul that “the fool­
ishness of God is wiser than men,” and that each
soul has direct access to all there is in God, and
we are writing for the “little children” who, with­
out question or discussion, are willing at once to
accept and to try a few plain, simple rules, such as
Jesus taught the common people, who heard Him
gladly—rules by which they can find the Christ
(or the Divine) within themselves, that through
it each man for himself may work out his own
salvation from all his troubles.
19. In other words, there is a short cut to the
top of the hill; and while there is a good but long,
18 Second Lesson
roundabout road for those who need it, we prefer
the less laborious means of attaining the same
end—by seeking directly the Spirit of truth prom­
ised to dwell in us and to lead us into all Truth.
Our advice is: If you want to make rapid progress
in growth toward spiritual understanding, stop
reading many books. They only give you some
one’s opinion about Truth, or are a sort of his­
tory of the author’s experience in seeking Truth.
What you want is revelation of Truth in your own
soul, and that will never come through the read­
ing of many books.
20. Do not even discuss these lessons with
others. Go alone. Think alone. Seek light alone,
and if it does not come at once, do not be discour­
aged and run off to some one else to get light; for,
as we said before, by so doing you get only the
opinion of the intellect, and may be then farther
away from the Truth you are seeking than ever
before; for the mortal mind may make false re­
ports.
21. The very Spirit of truth is at your call—
within you. “The anointing ye have received
abideth in you.” Seek it. Wait patiently for it to
“guide you into all truth about all things.”
22. “Let this mind be in you, which was also
in Christ Jesus.” This is the universal mind,
which makes no mistakes. Still the intellect for
Thinking 19
the time being, and let universal Mind speak to
you; and when it speaks, though it be but a “still,
small voice,” you will know that what it says is
Truth.
23. How will you know? You will know just
as you know that you are alive. All the argument
in the world to convince you against Truth which
comes to you through direct revelation will fall
flat and harmless at your side. And the Truth
which you know, not simply believe, you can use
to help others. That which comes forth through
your spirit will reach the very innermost spirit of
him to whom you speak.
24. What is born from the outside, or intel­
lectual perception, reaches only the intellect of
him you would help.
25. The intellect, or false mind, which is serv­
ant to the real Mind, and as servant (but not as
master) is good, loves to argue; but as its infor­
mation is based on the evidence of the senses and
not on the true thoughts of the Divine Mind in us,
it is very fallible and full of error.
26. Intellect argues. Spirit takes of the deep
things of God, and reveals. One may be true;
the other always is true. Spirit does not give
opinions about Truth; it is Truth, and it reveals
itself.
27. Some one has truly said that the merest
20 Second Lesson
child who has learned from the depths of his soul
to say, “Our Father,” is infinitely greater than the
most intellectual man who has not yet learned
it. Paul was a man of gigantic intellect, learned
in all the law, a Pharisee of the Pharisees; but
after he was spiritually illumined he wrote, “The
foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the
weakness of God is stronger than men.”
28. It does make a great difference in our
daily lives what we as “mortal minds” think about
God, about ourselves, about our neighbors. Here­
tofore, through ignorance of our real selves and
of the results of our thinking, we have let our
thoughts flow at random. Our minds have been
turned toward the external of our being, and
nearly all our information has been gotten
through our five senses. We have thought wrong
because misinformed by these senses, and our
troubles and sorrows are the results of our wrong
thinking.
29. “But,” says some one, “I do not see how
my thinking evil or wrong thoughts about God, or
about any one, can make me sick or my husband
lose his position.”
30. Well, I will not just now try to explain all
the mental machinery by which bad results follow
false thinking, but I will just ask you to try think-
Thinking 21
ing true, right thoughts awhile, and see what
the result will be.
31. Take the thought, “God loves me, and ap­
proves of what I do.” Think these words over
and over continually for a few days, trying to re­
alize that they are true, and see what the effect
will be on your body and circumstances.
32. First, you get a new exhilaration of mind,
with a great desire and a sense of power to please
God; then a quicker, better circulation of blood,
with sense of a pleasant warmth in the body, fol­
lowed by better digestion. Later, as Truth flows
out through your being into your surroundings,
everybody will begin to manifest a new love for
you without your knowing why; and finally, cir­
cumstances will begin to change and fall into har­
mony with your desires, instead of being adverse
to them.
33. Every one knows how strong thoughts of
fear or grief have turned hair white in a few
hours; how great fear makes the heart beat so
rapidly as to seem about to “jump out of the
body,” this result not being at all dependent on
whether there be any real cause for fear or
whether it be a purely imaginary cause. Just so,
strong thoughts of criticism will render the blood
acid, causing rheumatism. Bearing mental bur­
dens makes more stooped shoulders than does
22 Second Lesson
bearing heavy material loads. Believing that God
regards us as “miserable sinners,” that He is con­
tinually watching us and our failures with dis­
approval, brings utter discouragement and a sort
of half-paralyzed condition of mind and body,
which means failure in all our undertakings.
34. Is it difficult for you to understand why, if
God lives in us all the time, He does not keep our
thoughts right instead of permitting us through
ignorance to drift into wrong thoughts, and so
bring trouble on ourselves?
35. Well, we are not automatons. Your child
will never learn to walk alone if you always do his
walking. Because you recognize that the only
way for him to be strong, self-reliant in all things
—in other words, to become a man—is to throw
him on himself, and let him, through experience,
come to a knowledge of things for himself, you
are not willing to make a mere puppet of him by
taking the steps for him, even though you know
that he will fall down many times and give him­
self severe bumps in his ongoing toward perfect
physical manhood.
36. We are in process of growth into the high­
est spiritual manhood and womanhood. We get
many falls and bumps on the way, but only
through these, not necessarily by them, can our
growth proceed. Father and mother, no matter
Thinking 23
how strong or deep their love, cannot grow for
their children; nor can God, who is Omnipotence,
at the center of our being, grow spiritually for
us without making of us automatons instead of
individuals.
37. If you keep your thoughts turned toward
the external of yourself, or of others, you will see
only the things which are not real, but temporal,
and which pass away. All the faults, failures, or
lacks in people or circumstances will seem very
real to you, and you will be unhappy, miserable,
and sick.
38. If you turn your thoughts away from the
external toward the spiritual, and let them dwell
on the good in yourself and in others, all the ap­
parent evil will first drop out of your thoughts and
then out of your life. Paul understood this when
he wrote to the Philippians: “Finally, brethren,
whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are
honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever
things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely,
whatsoever things are of good report; if there be
any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on
these things.”
39. We all can learn how to turn the conscious
mind toward universal Mind, or Spirit, within
us. We can, by practice, learn how to make this
everyday, topsy-turvy, carnal mind be still—actu-
24 Second Lesson
ally stop thinking—and let the mind which is
God (All-wisdom, All-love) think in us and out
through us.
40. Imagine, if you will, a great reservoir,
out of which lead innumerable small rivulets or
channels. At its farther end each channel opens
out into a small fountain. This fountain is not
only being continually filled and replenished from
the reservoir but is itself a radiating center
whence it gives out in all directions that which it
receives, so that all who come within its radius are
refreshed and blessed.
41. This is exactly our relation to God. Each
one of us is a radiating center. Each one, no mat­
ter how small or ignorant, is the little fountain
at the far end of the channel, the other end of
which opens out into all there is in God. This
fountain represents the free will, or individuality,
as separate from the great reservoir—God-—-and
yet as one with Him in that we are constantly fed
and renewed from Him, and without Him we are
nothing.
42. Each of us, no matter how insignificant
he may be in the world, may receive from God
unlimited good of whatever kind he desires, and
radiate it to all about him. But remember, he
must radiate if he would receive more. Stagna­
tion is death.
Thinking 25
43. Oh, I want the simplest mind to grasp
the idea that the very wisdom of God—the love,
the life, and the power which are God—is ready
and waiting with longing impulse to flow out
through us in unlimited degree! When it flows
in unusual degree through the intellect of a certain
person men exclaim, “What a wonderful mind!”
When it flows through the hearts of men it is
the love that melts all bitterness, envy, selfishness,
jealousy, before it; when it flows through their
bodies as life, no disease can withstand its on­
ward march.
44. We do not have to beseech God any more
than we have to beseech the sun to shine. The
sun shines because it is a law of its being to shine,
and it cannot help it. No more can God help
pouring into us unlimited wisdom, life, power, all
good, because to give is a law of His being. Noth­
ing can hinder Him except our own free will.
The sun may shine ever so brightly, but if we
have, through willfulness or ignorance, placed
ourselves, or have been placed by our progenitors,
in the far corner of a damp, dark cellar, we get
neither joy nor comfort from its shining; then
to us the sun never shines.
45. So we have heretofore known nothing of
how to get ourselves out of the cellar of ignorance,
doubt, and despair; to our wrong thinking, God
26 Second Lesson
has seemed to withhold the life, wisdom, power,
we wanted so much, though we besought Him
ever so earnestly.
46. The sun does not radiate life and warmth
today and darkness and chill tomorrow; it cannot,
from the nature of its being. Nor does God radi­
ate love at one time, while, at other times, anger,
wrath, and displeasure flow from His mind toward
us.
47. “Doth a fountain send forth at the same
place sweet water and bitter? Can a fig tree, my
brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine figs?”
48. God is All-Good—always good, always
love. He never changes, no matter what we do
or may have done. He is always trying to pour
more of Himself through us into visibility so as
to make us grander, larger, fuller, freer individ­
uals.
49. While the child is crying out for its Fa­
ther-Mother God, the Father-Mother is yearning
with infinite tenderness to satisfy the child.
“In the heart of man a cry,
In the heart of God supply.”
RECAPITULATION
50. There is but one Mind in the universe.
51. Mortal mind is false mind, or intellect.
Thinking 27
It gathers its information and speaks from with­
out.
52. Universal Mind sees and speaks from
within.
58. Our ways of thinking make our happiness
or unhappiness, our success or nonsuccess. We
can, by effort, change our ways of thinking.
54. God is at all times, regardless of our so-
called sins, trying to pour more good into our
lives to make them larger and more successful.
DENIALS
THIRD LESSON
Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man
will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me.—Matt. 16:2k-
1. All systems for spiritualizing the mind in­
clude much denial. Every religion in all the ages
had some sort of denial as one of its foundations.
We all know how the Puritans believed that the
more rigidly they denied themselves comfort the
better they pleased God. So far has this idea taken
possession of the human mind during some ages
that devout souls have even tortured their bodies
in various ways, believing that they were thus
making themselves more spiritual, or at least
were in some way placating an angry God. Even
today many interpret the above-quoted saying of
Jesus as meaning: If any man wants to please God
he must give up about all the enjoyment and com­
fort he has, all things he likes and wants, and must
take up the heavy cross of constantly doing the
things which are repugnant to him in his daily
life. This is why many young people say, “When
I am old I will be a Christian, but not now, for I
want to enjoy life awhile first.”
28
Denials 29
2. There could, I am sure, be nothing farther
from the meaning of the Nazarene than the fore­
going interpretation. In our ignorance of the
nature of God, our Father, and of our relation to
Him, we have believed that all our enjoyment
came from external sources, usually from gain­
ing possession of something we did not have. The
poor see enjoyment only in possessing abundance
of money. The rich, who are satiated with life’s
so-called pleasures until their lives have become
like a person with an overloaded stomach, com­
pelled to sit constantly at a well-spread table, are
often the most bitter in the complaint that life
holds no happiness for them. The sick one be­
lieves that, were he well, he would be perfectly
happy. The healthy but hard-working person
feels the need of some days of rest and recreation,
that the monotony of his life may be broken.
3. So ever the mind has been turned to some
external change of condition or circumstance in
pursuit of satisfaction and enjoyment. In after
years, when men have tried all, getting first this
thing and then that, which they thought would
yield them happiness, and have been grievously
disappointed, in a kind of desperation they turn
to God and try to find some sort of comfort in be­
lieving that sometime, somewhere, they will get
what they want and be happy. Thenceforth their
30 Third Lesson
lives are patient and submissive, but they are des­
titute of any real joy.
4. This same Nazarene, to whom we always
return because to us He is the best known teacher
and demonstrator of Truth, spent nearly three
years teaching the people—the common everyday
people like you and me, who wanted, just as we
do, food and rent and clothing, money, friends,
and love—to love their enemies and to do good
to those who persecuted them; to resist not evil in
any way, but to give double to any one who tried
to get away what belonged to them; to cease from
all anxiety regarding the things they needed, be­
cause “your heavenly Father knoweth that ye
have need of all these things.” And then in talk­
ing one day He said, “These things have I spoken
unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and
that your joy might be full.” And another day He
said, “Whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in
my name, he will give it you.” “Ask and ye shall
receive, that your joy may be full.” “I do not say
that I will entreat the Father for you, for the
Father himself loves you.” We have further
learned that God is the total of all the good in the
universe and that there is in the mind which is
God a perpetual desire to pour more of Himself
—the substance of all good things—through us
into visibility, or into our lives.
Denials 31
5. Surely all these things do not look as
though, when Jesus said that the way to be like
Him and to possess a like power was to deny one­
self, He meant that we are to go without the en­
joyable comforts of life or in any way deprive or
torture ourselves.
6. In these lessons we have seen that, besides
the real innermost Self of each of us—the Self
spelled with a capital S, because it is an expression
or pressing out of God into visibility, and is al­
ways one with the Father, there is a mortal self,
a carnal mind, which reports lies from the ex­
ternal world and is not to be relied upon at all; this
is the self of which Jesus spoke when He said,
“Deny yourself.” This intellect man, carnal
mind, mortal mind, or whatever you choose to call
him, is envious and jealous and fretful and sick
because he is selfish. The mortal self is always
seeking its own gratification at the expense, if
need be, of some one else.
7. The Self of you is never sick, never afraid,
never selfish. It is the part of every man which
“seeketh not his own, is not puffed up, thinketh
no evil.” It is always seeking to give to others,
while the self is always seeking its own. Hereto­
fore we have lived in the self region. We have
believed all that this false mind has told us, and
the consequence is that we have been overwhelmed
32 Third Lesson
with all kinds of privation and suffering.
8. Some people who, during the last few years,
have been making a special study of the mind find
it a fact that certain wrong or false beliefs held by
us are really the cause of all sorts of trouble—
physical, moral, and financial. They have learned
that wrong (or, as they call them, error) beliefs
arise only in the carnal or mortal mind; they have
learned and actually proved that we can, by a per­
sistent effort of the will, change our beliefs, and
by this means alone entirely change our trouble­
some circumstances and bodily conditions.
9. One of the methods which they have found
will work every time in getting rid of troublesome
conditions (which are all the result of believing
the lies told us by the carnal mind, the senses) is
to deny them in toto: First, to deny that any such
things have, or could have, power to make us un­
happy; second, to deny that these things do in
reality exist at all.
10. The word “deny” has two definitions, ac­
cording to Webster. To deny, in one sense, is to
withhold from, as to deny bread to the hungry.
To deny, in another sense (and we believe it was
in this latter way that Jesus used it), is to declare
to be not true, to repudiate as utterly false. To
deny oneself, then, is not to withhold comfort or
happiness from the external man, much less to
Denials 33
inflict torture upon him, but it is to deny the
claims of this false self called “mortal mind,” to
declare these claims to be untrue.
11. If you have done any piece of work incor­
rectly, the very first step toward getting it right is
to undo the wrong, to erase from the slate so far
as possible the wrong figures you have made, and
begin again from the foundation. We have be­
lieved wrong about God and about ourselves. We
have believed that God was angry with us and
that we were, at the best, great sinners who
ought to be (and most of us are) afraid of Him.
We have believed that sickness and poverty and
trouble were evil things put here by this same God
to torture us in some way into serving Him and
loving Him. We have believed that we have
pleased God best when we became so absolutely
paralyzed by our troubles as to be patiently sub­
missive to them all, not even trying to rise out of
them or to overcome them. All false, entirely
false! And the first step toward freeing our­
selves from our troubles is to get rid of our erro­
neous beliefs about God and about ourselves.
12. “But,” objects one, “if a thing is not true
and I have believed a lie about it, I do not see just
how my believing wrong about it could affect my
bodily health or my circumstances.”
13. A child can be so afraid of an imaginary
34 Third Lesson
bugaboo under the bed as to have convulsions or
become insane. Should you, today, receive a tele­
graphic message that your husband, wife, or child,
who is absent from you, had been suddenly killed,
your suffering, mental and physical, and perhaps
extending even to your external and financial af­
fairs, would be just as great as though the report
really were true; and yet it might be entirely
false. Exactly so have these messages of buga­
boos behind the doors, bugaboos of divine wrath
and of our own weakness, come to us through the
senses until we are paralyzed by our fears of them.
14. Now, let us arouse ourselves. Denial is
the first practical step toward wiping out of our
minds the mistaken beliefs of a lifetime—the be­
liefs which have made such sad havoc in our lives.
By denial we mean declaring not to be true a
thing which seems true. Appearances are di­
rectly opposed to the teachings of Truth or science.
Jesus said, “Judge not according to the appear­
ance, but judge righteous [right] judgment.”
15. Suppose you had always been taught that
the sun really moved or revolved around the earth,
and some one should now try to persuade you that
the opposite is the truth. You would see at once
that such might be the case, and yet as often as
you saw the sun rise, the old impression, made on
your mind by the wrong belief of years, would
Denials 35
come up and seem almost too real to be disputed.
The only way by which you could cleanse your
mind of the impression and make the untrue seem
unreal, would be by repeatedly denying the old
belief, saying over and over to yourself as often
as the subject came up in your mind: “This is not »
true. The sun does not move; it stands still, and
the earth moves.” Eventually the sun would not
even seem to move.
16. The appearances are that our bodies and
our circumstances control our thoughts, but
science says directly the opposite.
17. If you repeatedly deny a false or unhappy
condition, it not only loses its power to make you
unhappy, but eventually the condition itself is de­
stroyed by your denial.
18. What every one desires is to have only the
good manifested in his life and surroundings—to
have his life full of love; to have perfect health;
to know all things; to have great power and much
joy; and this is just exactly what God wants us
to have. All love is God in manifestation, as we
have learned in a previous lesson. All wisdom is
God. All life and health are God. All joy (be­
cause all good) and all power are God. All good
of whatever kind is God come forth into visibility
through people or some other visible form. When
we crave more of any good thing, we are in reality
36 Third Lesson
craving more of God to come forth into our lives
so that we can realize it by the senses. Having
more of God does not take out of our lives the good
things—it only puts more of them in. In the
mind that is God there is always the desire to
give more, for the divine impulse is forever to get
more of itself into visibility.
19. Intellectually we may see the fact of our
own God-being which never changes. What we
need is to realize our oneness with the Father at
all times. In order to realize it we deny the ap­
pearances in ourselves and others which seem
contrary to this—deny them as realities; we de­
clare that they are not true.
20. There are four or five great error
thoughts which nearly every one holds, and which
the people who have grown out of sickness and
trouble by these means have found it good for all
people to deny, in order to cleanse the mind of the
direful effects of believing them. They are some­
thing like this:
21. First: There is no evil.
22. There is but one Power in the universe,
and that is God—good. God is all good, and God
is omnipresent. Apparent evils are not entities
or things of themselves. They are simply an ab­
sence of the good, just as darkness is an absence
of light. But God, or good, is omnipresent, so
Denials 37
the apparent absence of good (evil) is unreal. It
is only an appearance of evil, just as the moving
sun was an appearance. You need not wait to dis­
cuss this matter of evil or to understand fully all
about why you deny it, but begin to practice the
denials in an unprejudiced way, and see how mar­
velously it will, after a while, deliver you from
some of the so-called evils of your daily life.
23. Second: There is no absence of life, sub­
stance, or intelligence anywhere.
24. We have seen that the real is the spiritual.
“The things which are seen are temporal; but the
things which are not seen are eternal.” By using
this denial you will soon break your bondage to
matter and to material conditions. You will know
that you are free.
25. Third: Pain, sickness, poverty, old age,
death, cannot master me, for they are not real.
26. Fourth: There is nothing in all the uni­
verse for me to fear, for greater is He that is
within me than he that is in the world.
27. God says, “I will contend with him that
contendeth with thee.” He says it to every living
child of His, and every person is His child.
28. Repeat these four denials silently several
times a day, not with a strained anxiety to get
something out of them, but trying calmly to re­
alize the meaning of the words spoken:
38 Third Lesson
29. There is no evil (or devil).
30. There is no reality or life or intelli­
gence apart from Spirit.
31. Pain, sickness, poverty, old age, and death
are not real, and they have no power over me.
32. There is nothing in all the universe for
me to fear.
33. Almost hourly little vexations and fears
come up in your life. Meet each one with a denial.
Calmly and coolly say within yourself, “That’s
nothing at all. It cannot harm or disturb me or
make me unhappy.” Do not fight it vigorously,
but let your denial be the denial of superiority to
it, as you would deny the power of ants on their
little hill to disturb you. If you are angry, stand
still, and silently deny it. Say you are not angry;
you are love made manifest, and cannot be angry;
it is not true; and the anger will suddenly leave
you entirely.
34. If some one shows you ill will, silently deny
his power to hurt you or to make you unhappy.
Should you find yourself feeling jealous or envious
toward any one, instantly turn the heel of nega­
tion on the hydra-headed monster. Declare that
you are not jealous; that you are an expression
of perfect love (an expression which is God
pressed out into visibility) and cannot feel jeal­
ousy. There is really nothing and no one to be
Denials 39
jealous of, for all people are one and the same
Spirit. “And there are diversities of operations
[or manifestations], but it is the same God which
worketh in all,” says St. Paul. How can you be
jealous of another part of yourself which seems
to you “more comely” ?
35. Shall the foot be jealous of the hand, or the
ear of the eye? Are not the seemingly feeble
members of the body just as important to the per­
fection of the whole as the others? Do you seem
to be less, or to have less, than some others? Re­
member that all envy and all jealousy are in the
false or mortal mind and that in reality you, how­
ever insignificant, are an absolute necessity to
God in order to make the perfect whole.
36. If you find yourself dreading to meet any
one, or afraid to step out and do what you want or
ought to do, immediately begin to say, “It is not
true; I am not afraid; I am perfect love, and can
know no fear. No one, nothing in all the universe,
can hurt me.” You will find after a little that all
the fear has disappeared, all trepidation has gone.
37. Denial brings freedom from bondage, and
happiness comes when we can effectually deny the
power of things to touch or to trouble us.
38. Have you been living in negations for
years, denying your ability to succeed, denying
your health, denying your Godhood, denying your
40 Third Lesson
power to accomplish anything, by feeling yourself
a child of the devil or of weakness? If so, this
constant negation has paralyzed you and de­
stroyed your power.
39. When, in the next lesson, you learn some­
thing about affirmations—the opposite of nega­
tions—you will know how to lift yourself out of
the realm of failure into that of success.
40. All your happiness, all your health and
power, come from God. They flow in an unbroken
stream from the fountainhead into the very cen­
ter of your being and radiate from center to cir­
cumference, or to the senses. When you acknowl­
edge this constantly and deny that outside things
can hinder your happiness or health or power, it
helps the sense nature to realize health and power
and happiness.
41. No person or thing in the universe, no
chain of circumstances, can by any possibility
interpose itself between you and all joy—all good.
You may falsely think that something stands be­
tween you and your heart’s desire, and so live with
that desire unfulfilled; but it is not true. This
“think” is the bugaboo under the bed that has no
reality. Deny it, deny it, and you will find your­
self free, and you will realize that this seeming
was all false. Good will then begin to flow into
Denials 41
you, and you will see clearly that nothing can
stand between you and your own.
42. Denials should be spoken silently and
audibly, but not in a manner to call forth antag­
onism and discussion.
43. To some, all this sort of mechanical work­
ing will seem a strange way of entering into a
more spiritual life. There are those who easily
and naturally glide out of the old material life into
a deeper spiritual one without any external helps;
but there are thousands of others who are seeking
primarily the loaves and fishes of bodily health
and financial success, but who really are seeking
a higher life, who must needs take the very first
steps. For such, the practicing of these mechan­
ical rules in a whole-hearted way, without preju­
dice, is doing the very best thing possible toward
purity of heart and life, toward growth in divine
knowledge and fullness of joy in all things under­
taken.
AFFIRMATIONS
FOURTH LESSON
Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall
hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows. Thou shalt
also decree a thing and it shall be established unto
thee; and the light shall shine upon thy ways.—Job
22:27, 28.
1. Most people, when they first consciously
set out to gain a fuller, higher knowledge of spir­
itual things, do so because of dissatisfaction—or
perhaps unsatisfaction would be the better word—
with their past and present conditions of life. In­
herent in the human mind is the thought that
somewhere, somehow, it ought to be able to bring
to itself that which it desires and which would
satisfy. This thought is but the foreshadowing
of that which really is.
2. Our wishes, it is said, do measure just
Our capabilities. Who with his might
Aspires unto the mountain’s upper height,
Holds in that aspiration a great trust
To be fulfilled, a warrant that he must
Not disregard, a strength to reach the height
To which his hopes have taken flight.
3. The hunger which we feel is but the
prompting of the Divine within us, which longs
42
Affirmations 43
with an infinite longing to fill us. It is but one
side of the law of demand and supply, the other
side of which is unchangeably, unfailingly, the
promise: “What things soever ye desire, when ye
pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall
have them.” The supply is always equal to the
demand, but there must first be a demand before
supply is of use.
4. There is, attainable by us, a place where we
can see that our doing can cease, because we re­
alize that Spirit is the fulfillment of all our de­
sires. We simply get still and know that all
things whatsoever we desire are ours already;
and this knowing it, or recognizing it, has power
to bring the invisible God (or good)—the inner­
most substance of all things—forth into just the
visible form of good that we want.
5. But in order to attain this place of power,
we must take the preliminary steps, faithfully,
earnestly, trustingly, though these steps at first
glance seem to us as useless and as empty as do
the ceremonial forms and religious observances
of the ritualistic churchman.
6. To affirm anything is to assert positively
that it is so, even in the face of all contrary evi­
dence. We may not be able to see how, by our
simply affirming a thing to be true, a thing which
to all human reasoning or sight does not seem to
44 Fourth Lesson
be true at all, we can bring that thing to pass; but
we can compel ourselves to cease all quibbling and
go to work to prove the rule, each one for himself.
7. The beautiful Presence all about us and
within us is the substance of every good which we
can possibly desire—aye, infinitely more than we
are capable of desiring; for “Eye hath not seen,
nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared for
them that love him.”
8. In some way, which it is not easy to put
into words—for spiritual laws cannot always be
compassed in mortal words, and yet they are none
the less infallible, immutable laws which work
with precision and certainty—there is power in
our word of faith to bring all good things right
into our everyday life.
9. We speak the word, we confidently affirm,
but we have nothing to do with the “establishing”
of the word, or bringing it to pass. “Thou shalt
also decree a thing, and it shall he established
unto thee.” So if we decree or affirm unwaver­
ingly, steadfastly, we hold God by His own unal­
terable laws to do the establishing or fulfilling.
10. They who have carefully studied spiritual
laws find that, besides denying the reality and
power of apparent evil, which denying frees them
from it, they also can bring any desired good into
Affirmations 45
their lives by persistently affirming it is there
already. In the first instructions given to stu­
dents, the denials and affirmations take a large
place. Later on, their own personal experiences
and inward guidance lead them up to a higher
plane where they no longer need rules.
11. The saying over of any denial or affirma­
tion is a necessary self-training of the mind which
has lived so long in error and false beliefs that it
needs this constant repetition of truth to unclothe
it and to clothe it anew.
12. As it is with the denials, so with the af­
firmations. There are four or five great sweeping
affirmations of Truth which cover a multitude of
lesser ones, and which do marvelous work in
bringing good to ourselves and to others:
13. First: God is life, love, intelligence, sub­
stance, omnipotence, omniscience, omnipresence.
14. This you will remember from the first les­
son—“Statement of Being.” As you repeat the
affirmation, please remember that every particle
of life, of love, intelligence, power, or of real sub­
stance in the universe, is simply a certain degree,
or, so to speak, a quality of God made manifest
or visible through a form. Try to think what it
means when you say that God is omnipresent,
omnipotent, omniscient.
15. If God is omnipresent (all presence), and
46 Fourth Lesson
is all good, where is the evil? If He is omnip­
otence (all power), what other power can there
be in the universe?
16. Since God is omnipotence and omnipres­
ence, put aside forever your traditional teaching
of an adverse power, evil (devil), that may at any
moment thwart the plans of God and bring you
harm.
17. Do not disturb yourself about the appear­
ances of evil all about you; but in the very pres­
ence of what seems evil stand true and unwaver­
ing, in affirming that God, the good, is omnipres­
ent, or all there is present. By so doing, you will
see all the seeming evil melt away as the darkness
before the light or as the dew before the morning
sun, and good come to take its place.
18. Second: I am a child or manifestation of
God, and every moment His life, love, wisdom,
power, flow into and through me. I am one with
God, and am governed by His laws.
19. Remember while repeating this affirma­
tion that nothing—no circumstance, no person or
set of persons—can by any possibility interpose
between you and the Source of your life, wisdom,
or power. It is all “hid with Christ [the inner­
most Christ or Spirit of your being] in God.”
Nothing but your own ignorance of how to re-
Affirmations 47
ceive, or your willfulness, can hinder your having
unlimited supply.
20. No matter how sick or weak or inefficient
you seem to be, take your eyes and thoughts right
off the seeming, and turn them within to the cen­
tral fountain there, and say calmly, quietly, but
with steadfast assurance: “This appearance of
weakness is false; God, manifest as life, wisdom,
and power, is now flowing into my entire being
and out through me to the external.” You will
soon see a marvelous change wrought in yourself
by the realization that this spoken word will bring
to you.
21. You do not change God’s attitude toward
you one iota by either importuning or affirming.
You only change your attitude toward Him who
is always on the giving hand. By thus affirming,
you put yourself into harmony with divine law,
which is always working toward your good and
never toward your harm or punishment.
22. Third: I am Spirit, perfect, holy, har­
monious. Nothing can hurt me or make me sick
or afraid, for Spirit is God, and cannot be hurt or
made sick or afraid. I manifest my real self
through this body now.
23. Fourth: God works in me to will and to do
whatsoever He wishes me to do, and He cannot
fail.
48 Fourth Lesson
24. Affirming His mind working both to will
and to do, makes us will only the good; and He, the
very Father in us, does the works, hence there can
be no failure. Whatsoever we fully commit to
the Father to do, and affirm is done, we shall see
accomplished. These, then, are the four compre­
hensive affirmations:
25. First: God is life, love, intelligence, sub­
stance, omnipotence, omnipresence, omniscience.
26. Second: I am the child or manifestation
of God; and His life, love, wisdom, power, flow into
and through me every moment. I am one with
God, and am governed by His law.
27. Third: I am Spirit, perfect, holy, har­
monious. Nothing can hurt me or make me sick
or afraid, for Spirit is God, and God cannot be
sick or hurt or afraid. I manifest my real self
now.
28. Fourth: God works in me to will and to do
whatsoever He wishes me to do, hence I cannot
fail.
29. Commit these affirmations to memory, so
that you can repeat them in the silence of your
own mind in any place and at any time. Strangely
will they act to deliver you out of the greatest
external distresses, places where no human help
avails. It is as though the moment you assert
emphatically your oneness with God the Father,
Affirmations 49
there is instantly set into motion all the power of
omnipotent love to rush to your rescue. And
when it has undertaken for you, you can cease
from external ways and means, and boldly claim:
“It is done; I have the desires of my heart.”
“Thou openest thy hand, and satisfiest the desire
of every living thing,” said the Psalmist.
30. In reality God is forever in process of
movement toward us, that He may manifest Him­
self (All-Good) more fully through us. Our affirm­
ing, backed by faith, is the link which connects
the car of our conscious human need with the ever
moving cable of His power and supply.
31. They who have claimed their birthright
by thus calmly affirming their oneness with God
know how still they can be from external planning
and efforts, after they have called into operation
this marvelous power by affirmation. It has
healed the sick, brought joy in place of mourning,
literally opened prison doors and bidden the pris­
oner go free, without one particle of human effort
or assistance.
32. Understand, it is not necessarily the using
of just this form of words that has availed in each
individual case; but the denying of apparent evil,
and, in spite of all contrary evidence, affirming
the good to be all there is, affirming oneness with
God’s omnipotent power to accomplish, even when
50 Fourth Lesson
there were no visible signs of His being present,
wrought the deliverance. In one case within my
knowledge, just simply claiming, “God is your de­
fense and deliverance,” for a man who had for
five years been an exile from home and country
(through a series of deceptions and machinations
which for depth and subtlety were unparalleled)
opened all the doors wide and restored the man to
his family within a month, without one effort or
step taken from the human side; and that, too,
after five years of the most strenuous human ef­
forts of lawyers had failed utterly to bring the
truth to light or to release the prisoner.
38. Some minds are so constituted that they
get better results from repeated use of denials;
others, from using denials less and affirmations
more.
34. No definite rules can be laid down as to
which will work most effectually in each individual
case to eradicate apparent evil and bring the good
into manifestation, but some little hint can be
given which may be helpful.
35. Denials have an erasive or destructive
tendency. Affirmations build up, and give
strength and courage and power. People who re­
member vividly, and are inclined to dwell in their
thoughts on the pains, sorrows, and troubles of
the past or present, need to deny a great deal; for
Affirmations 51
denials cleanse the mind and blot out of memory-
all seeming evils and unhappiness, so that they be­
come as a far-away dream. Again, denials are
particularly useful to those who are hard or in­
tolerant, or aggressively sinful; to those who, as
a result of success, have become overconfident,
thinking the mortal is sufficient in itself for all
things; to the selfish, and to any who do not
scruple to harm others.
36. Affirmations should be used by the timid
and those who have a feeling of their own ineffi­
ciency; those who stand in fear of other minds;
those who “give in” easily; those who are subject
to anxiety or doubt, and those who are in positions
of responsibility. The people who are in any way
negative or passive need to use affirmations more;
the ones who are self-confident or unforgiving,
need denials more.
37. Deny evil; affirm good. Deny weakness;
affirm strength. Deny any undesirable condition,
and affirm the good you desire. This is what
Jesus meant when He said, “What things soever
ye desire, when ye pray, believe [or claim and
affirm] that ye receive them, and ye shall have
them.” It is what is meant by the promise:
“Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread
upon [or that you stand squarely or firmly upon],
that have I given you.”
52 Fourth Lesson
38. Practice these denials and affirmations
silently on the street, in the cars, when you are
wakeful during the night, anywhere, everywhere,
and they will give you a new, and, to you, a
strange, mastery over external things and over
yourself. If there comes a moment when you are
in doubt as to what to do, stand still and affirm,
God in me is infinite wisdom; I know just what to
do. “For I will give you a mouth and wisdom,
which all your adversaries shall not be able to
gainsay nor resist.” Do not get flustered or anx­
ious, but depend fully and trustingly on your prin­
ciple, and you will be surprised at the sudden in­
spiration which will come to you as to the mode of
procedure.
39. So always this principle will work in the
solution of all life’s problems—I care not what the
form of detail is—to free us, God’s children, from
all undesirable conditions, and to bring good into
our lives, if we will take up the simple rules and
use them faithfully, until they lead us into such
realization of our Godhood that we need no longer
depend on them.
FAITH
FIFTH LESSON
For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say
unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou
cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but
shall believe that those things which he saith shall
come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.
—Mark 11:23.
Science was faith once.—Lowell.
1. The word “faith” is one which has gener­
ally been thought to denote a simple form of be­
lief based mostly on ignorance and superstition.
It is a word that has drawn forth something akin
to scorn from so-called “thinking people”—-the
people who have believed that intellectual attain­
ment was the highest form of knowledge to be
reached. “Blind faith” they have disdainfully
chosen to call it—fit only for ministers, women,
and children, but not a practical thing on which
to establish the everyday business affairs of life.
2. Some have prided themselves on having
outgrown the swaddling clothes of this blind, un­
reasoning faith, and having grown to the point, as
they say, where they have faith only in that which
can be seen, or intellectually explained.
53
54 Fifth Lesson
3. Paul, a most intellectual man, and a learned
theologian, after having written at length on the
nature of faith and the marvelous results attend­
ing it, tried to put into a few words a condensed
definition of faith:
4. “Faith is the substance of things hoped
for, the evidence of things not seen.”
5. In other words, faith takes right hold of
the substance of the things desired, and brings
into the world of evidence the things which before
were not seen. Further speaking of faith, Paul
said, “Things which are seen were not made of
things which do appear” ; i. e., things which are
seen are not made out of visible things, but out
of the invisible. In some way, then, we under­
stand that whatever we want is in this surround­
ing invisible substance, and faith is the power
which can bring it out into reality to us.
6. After having cited innumerable instances
of marvelous things brought to pass in the lives
of men, not by their work or efforts, but by faith,
Paul said,
7. And what shall I more say? for the time would
fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson,
and of Jephthse; of David also, and Samuel, and of
the prophets;
Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths
of lions.
Faith 55
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of
the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed
valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the
aliens.
Women received their dead raised to life again.
8. Do you want any more power or any greater
thing than is here mentioned by Paul—power
to subdue kingdoms, to stop the mouths of lions,
quench fire, turn to flight whole armies, raise
your dead to life again? Even if your desires ex­
ceed this, you need not despair or hesitate to claim
their fulfillment, for One greater than I, One who
knew whereof He spoke, said: “To him that be-
lieveth, all things are possible.”
9. Until very recently, whenever any one has
spoken of faith as the one power which could
move mountains (or move God, which was still
more difficult), we have always felt a sort of hope­
less discouragement. While we have believed that
God holds all good things in His hand, and is will­
ing to be prevailed upon to dole them out “accord­
ing to your faith,” yet how could we, even by
straining every nerve of our being toward faith,
be sure that we had sufficient to please Him? For
does it not say, “Without faith it is impossible to
please God”?
10. From the moment we began to ask, we be­
gan to question our ability to reach God’s stand-
56 Fifth Lesson
ard of faith on which hung our fate. We also be­
gan to question whether, after all, there is any
such power in faith to prevail with the Giver
of every good gift so as to draw out of Him
something which He had never let us have before.
11. Viewing faith in this light, there is not
much wonder that logical minds have looked on it
as a sort of will-o’-the-wisp, good enough for weak
women and silly children to hang their hopes on,
but not a thing from which any real, definite re­
sults could ever be obtained—not a thing that the
business world could rest upon.
12. There is a blind faith, to be sure. (Some
one has truthfully said that blind faith is better
than none at all; for, if held to, it will get its eyes
open after a time.) But there is also an under­
standing faith. Blind faith is an instinctive trust
in a power higher than ourselves. Understanding
faith is based on immutable principle.
13. Faith does not depend on physical facts,
or on the evidence of the senses, because it is born
of intuition, or the Spirit of truth ever living at
the center of our being. Its action is infinitely
higher than that of intellectual conclusions; it is
founded on Truth.
14. Intuition is the open end, within one’s
own being, of the invisible channel ever connecting
each individual with God. Faith is, as it were, a
Faith 57
ray of light shot out from the central sun—God—
the farther end of which ray comes into your be­
ing and mine through the open door of intuition.
With our consciousness we perceive the ray of
light, and though intellect cannot grasp it, or give
the why or wherefore thereof, yet we instinctively
feel that the other end of the ray opens out into
all there is of God (good). This is “blind” faith.
It is based on Truth, but a Truth of which we are
not at the time conscious. Even this kind of faith
will, if persisted in, bring the desired results.
15. What is understanding faith? There are
some things which God has so indissolubly joined
together that it is impossible for even Him to put
them asunder. They are bound together by fixed,
immutable laws; if we have one of them, we must
have the other.
16. Evans illustrates this by the laws of
geometry. For instance, the sum of the angles of
a triangle is equal to two right angles. No matter
how large or small the triangle, no matter whether
it is made on the mountain top or leagues under
the sea, if we are asked the sum of its angles we
can unhesitatingly answer, without waiting an in­
stant to count or reckon this particular triangle,
that it is just two right angles. This is absolutely
certain. It is certain, even before the triangle is
drawn by visible lines; we can know it before-
58 Fifth Lesson
hand, because it is based on unchangeable laws,
on the truth or reality of the thing. It was true
just as much before any one recognized it as it
is today. Our knowing it or not knowing it does
not change the fact. Only in proportion as we
come to know it as an eternally true fact, can we
be benefited by it.
17. It is a simple fact that one plus one equals
two; it is an eternal truth. You cannot put one
and one together without two resulting. You may
believe it or not; that does not alter the fact. But
unless you do put the one and one together you do
not produce the two, for each is eternally depend­
ent on the other.
18. The mental and spiritual worlds or realms
are governed by laws that are just as real and un­
failing as the laws that govern the natural world.
Certain conditions of mind are so connected with
certain results that the two are inseparable. If
we have the one, we must have the other, as surely
as the night follows the day—not because we be­
lieve some wise person’s testimony that such is
the case, not even because the voice of intuition
tells us that it is so, but because the whole matter
is based on laws which can neither fail nor be
broken.
19. When we know something of these laws,
Faith 59
we can know positively beforehand just what re­
sults will follow certain mental states.
20. God, the one creative cause of all things,
is Spirit, and visible to spiritual consciousness, as
we have learned. God is the sum total of all good.
There is no good you can desire in your life but
that, at its center, it is God. God is the substance
of all things—the real thing within every visible
form of good.
21. God, the invisible substance out of which
all visible things are formed, is all around us wait­
ing to come forth into visible manifestation.
22. This good substance all about us is un­
limited, and is itself the supply of every demand
that can be made; of every need that exists in the
visible or natural world.
23. One of the unerring truths or facts in the
universe (by “universe” I mean the spiritual and
natural worlds combined) is that somewhere
there is already provided a lavish abundance for
every human want. In other words, the supply of
every good always somewhere awaits the demand.
Another truth, or fact, is that the demand must
be made before the supply can come forth to fill
it. To recognize these two statements of Truth
and to affirm them are the whole secret of under­
standing faith—faith based on principle.
24. Let us square this by Paul’s definition of
60 Fifth Lesson
faith, given earlier in the lesson: “Faith is the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen.” Faith takes hold of the sub­
stance of the thing hoped for, and brings into evi­
dence, or visibility, the things not seen.
25. What are usually called the promises of
God are certain eternal, unchangeable truths that
are true whether they are found in the Bible or
in the almanac. They are the unvarying state­
ment of facts which cannot be altered. A promise,
according to Webster, is a something sent before­
hand to indicate that something unseen is at hand.
It is a declaration which gives the person to whom
it is made the right to expect and claim the per­
formance of the act.
26. The Nazarene recognized the unchange­
able fact that, in the unseen, the supply of every
want awaits demand. When He said, “If ye ask,
ye receive,” He was simply stating an unalterable
truth. He had learned enough of spiritual law to
know that the instant we ask or desire (for ask­
ing is desire expressed) we touch a secret spring
which starts on its way toward us the good we
want. He knew that there need not be any coax­
ing or pleading about it; that our asking is simply
our complying with an unfailing law which is
bound to work; there is no escape from it. Ask­
ing and receiving are the two ends of the same
Faith 61
thing. We cannot have one without the other.
27. Asking springs from desire to possess
some good. What is desire? Desire in the heart
is always God tapping at the door of your con­
sciousness with His infinite supply—a supply
which is forever useless unless there be demand
for it. “Before they call, I will answer.” Before
ever you are conscious of any lack, of any desire
for more happiness, for fullness of joy, the great
Father-Mother heart has desired them for you. It
is He desiring them in you that you feel, and
think it is only yourself (separate from Him)
desiring them. With God the desire to give, and
giving, are one and the same thing. Evans says,
“Desire for anything is the thing itself in incip-
iency” ; i. e., the thing you desire is not only for
you, but has already been started toward you out
of the heart of God; and it is the first little ap­
proach of the thing itself striking you that makes
you desire it, or even think of it at all.
28. The only way God has of letting us know
of His infinite supply and His desire to make it
ours is for Him to push gently on the little divine
spark living within each one of us. He wants you
to be a strong, self-efficient man or woman, to
have more power and dominion over all before
you; so He quietly and silently pushes a little more
of Himself, His desire, into the center of your be-
62 Fifth Lesson
ing. He enlarges, so to speak, your real self, and
at once you become conscious of new desire to be
bigger, grander, stronger. If He had not pushed
at the center of your being first, you would never
have thought of new desires, but would have re­
mained perfectly content as you were.
29. You think that you want better health,
more love, a brighter, more cheerful home all your
very own; in short, you want less evil (or no evil)
and more good in your life. This is only God
pushing at the inner door of your being, and say­
ing: “My child, let me in; I want to give you all
good, that you may be more comfortable and
happy.” “Behold, my servants shall eat; behold,
my servants shall drink; behold, my servants shall
build houses and inhabit them; behold, my serv­
ants shall rejoice and sing for joy of heart.”
80. Remember this: Desire in the heart for
anything is God’s sure promise sent beforehand to
indicate that it is yours already in the limitless
realm of supply, and whatever you want you can
have for the taking.
31. Taking is simply recognizing the law of
supply and demand (even if you cannot see, with
mortal understanding, a sign of the supply any
more than Elijah did when he had affirmed for
rain, and not a cloud even so big as a man’s hand
was for a long time to be seen). Affirm your pos-
Faith 63
session of the good that you desire; have faith in
it, because you are working on law and cannot
fail; do not be argued off your basic principle by
any one; and sooner will the heavens fall than that
you fail to get that which you desire.
32. “All things whatsoever ye pray and ask
for, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have
them.”
33. Knowing the law of abundant supply, and
the fact that supply always precedes the demand,
demand simply being the call which brings the
supply into sight; knowing that all desire in the
heart for any good is really God’s desire in us and
for us, how shall we obtain the fulfillment of our
every desire, and that right speedily?
34. “Delight thyself in the Lord; and he shall
give thee the desires of thy heart.” Take right
hold of God with an unwavering faith. Begin
and continue to rejoice, and thank Him that you
have (not will have) the desires of your heart,
never losing sight of the fact that the desire is
the thing itself in incipiency. If the good were
not already yours in the invisible realm of supply,
you could not, by any possibility, desire it.
35. One asks: “Suppose I desire my neigh­
bor’s wife, or his property; is that desire born of
God? And can I see it fulfilled by affirming that
it is mine?”
64 Fifth Lesson
36. You do not and cannot, by any possibility,
desire that which belongs to another. You do not
desire your neighbor’s wife. You desire the love
which seems to you to be represented by your
neighbor’s wife. You desire something to fill
your heart’s craving for love. Affirm that there
is for you a rightful and an overflowing supply,
and claim its manifestation. It will surely come,
and your desire (?) to possess your neighbor’s
wife will suddenly disappear.
37. So you do not in reality desire anything
that belongs to your neighbor. You want the
equivalent of that for which his possessions stand.
You want your own. There is today an unlimited
supply of all good provided in the unseen for every
human being. No man must needs have less that
another may have more. Your very own awaits
you. Your understanding faith, or trust, is the
power which will bring it to you.
38. As Emerson said, “The man who knows
the law is sure that his welfare is dear to the heart
of Being; and he believes that he cannot escape
from his good.”
39. Knowing divine law, we can forever rest
from all anxiety, all fear, for “He openeth his
hand, and satisfieth the desire of every living
creature.”
DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN
METAPHYSICAL TEACHINGS
SIXTH LESSON
1. One of the greatest beauties of the Sermon
on the Mount is the perfectly childlike simplicity
of its language. Every child, every grown person,
be he ever so illiterate, if he can read at all can
understand it. Not a word in it requires the use
of a dictionary; not a sentence in it that does not
tell the way so plainly that a “wayfarer though a
fool may not err therein.” And yet the Nazarene
was the fullest, most complete manifestation of
the one Mind that ever lived; that is to say, more
of the wisdom which is God came forth through
Him into visibility than through any one else who
has ever lived. The more any person manifests
the true wisdom, which is God, the more simple
are his ways of thinking and acting; the more
simple are the words through which he expresses
his ideas. The greater the truth to be expressed,
the more simply can it (and should it) be clothed.
2. Emerson said, “Converse with a mind that
is grandly simple, and all literature [high-sound­
ing sentences to convey ideas] looks like mere
word catching.”
65
66 Sixth Lesson
3. In the metaphysical literature of today a
good many terms are used that are very confusing
to those who have not taken a consecutive course
of lessons on the subject. It seems to me wise to
give just here a clear, simple explanation of cer­
tain words frequently used, so that even the most
unlearned may read understandingly.
4. You will often see the words, “thought
transference.” This simply means the sending of
thought from one person’s mind to another’s with­
out using either written or audibly spoken words.
There was a time when, in order to communicate
with any one not in our presence, our thoughts had
to be laboriously written down on paper and car­
ried from one to another. Then, in the progress
of things, came a time when Spirit within a cer­
tain man revealed to the intellect of that man that
a subtle fluid called “electricity,” which was not
tangible, which could neither be seen nor handled,
could be used to convey a message from point to
point if it only had a connecting wire between the
two points on which to run, with proper batteries
at each end of the wire to keep up the supply of
electricity.
5. More recently, scientific people are learn­
ing that they can dispense with the batteries and
the connecting wire between two points, and can
Definition of Terms 67
so project the silent thought of their own minds
out through space to another mind, that the latter
can inwardly hear or receive the message; as we
say, the other mind “catches the thought.” It is a
sort of mental telegraphy, and is called telepathy.
6. You have no moral right to use the power
of thought transference in order to cause any one
to carry out any plan that you may make for that
one. You may think your neighbor rich, and may
silently send him thoughts to give something to
some good cause in which you are interested, or
to some poor person, justifying yourself by say­
ing : “This is not selfish; I do not want him to give
to me, and it must be right for me to help others.”
You may feel justified in silently sending your
thought into another one’s mind to cause him to
go to prayer meeting, or some other good place,
because you desire him to lead a moral, upright
life. Beware how you use this power of thought
transference on your neighbor for any such spe­
cific purpose, though it may seem to your mortal
mind as though the thing you want him to do were
the only right thing for him. You cannot know,
for only Spirit within a man can know for him.
You have no right to interpose yourself between
him and God in his own soul; no right to steal
silently into the inner portals of his being, to turn
him one way or another. If you do so, remember
68 Sixth Lesson
that the wrong you thus do another will invariably
react on yourself.
7. You have a right to use the law of thought
transference on another only to call out the divine
self of him, saying to him silently something like
this: “God lives in you; He guides all your actions;
He leads you where He would have you go; He
works in you to will and to do ivhatsoever He
would have you to do,” and so forth. Then let the
external manifestation be what it will, believing
that it is just what God would have it for the
present, even if it is exactly the opposite of what
you have planned.
8. Another term often used, and not always
clearly understood, is “chemicalization.”
9. Did you ever put soda into sour milk, cider,
or other acid fluid and witness the agitation or
excited action which takes place? One of the sub­
stances neutralizes the other, and something bet­
ter results from the action.
10. This is a good illustration of what takes
place sometimes in the minds and bodies of people.
Suppose one has lived in wrong thought, and
molded his body by wrong thought for years,
until, as you might say, he has become solidified
in that wrong belief. You introduce Truth to him
by strong denials and affirmations, as has been
taught. The very newness of it (and because it
Definition of Terms 69
is Truth) creates, the first few days, new hope,
new joy, and health. After a little time a sort of
mental ferment or agitation takes place. He is
likely to feel very nervous and frightened, away
down in the depths of himself. If he ever has
been sick, he will begin to feel the old diseases; if
he has been morally bad, the old desires and habits
will take possession of him with new force; if he
has been holding denials and affirmations about
business affairs until they have looked hopeful, all
at once they will collapse and seem darker and
more hopeless than ever. All the new beliefs
which lifted him into a new world for a few days
seem failures, and he seems on the very verge of
breaking up generally.
11. What has happened? Simply this: There
has been a clash between the old condition—which
was based on falsehood, fear, and wrong ways of
thinking—and the new thought, or Truth, enter­
ing into him. The old mortal is kicking vigorously
against Truth. He has a feeling of discourage­
ment or fear—a feeling such as one would have if
caught at something disreputable. He should not
be frightened. That which he feels is, on the
mental plane, an excitement and agitation similar
to that which was seen on the material plane in
the chemical action between the alkali and the
70 Sixth Lesson
acid, and something higher and better always re­
sults.
12. This agitation does not take place with
every one, but is most likely to occur with those
who have been most fixed, and, as it were, solidi­
fied in the old beliefs. Such people break up with
more resistance. Those who are not very settled
in their convictions are more malleable mentally
and physically, and are not so likely to chemicalize.
Vigorous use of denials is also more likely to pro­
duce chemicalization than is the use of affirma­
tions. There is always less resistance by the mor­
tal when it is gently led into Truth than when its
errors are directly and vigorously combated.
Should you find yourself at any time in this state
of internal excitement with aggravation of old,
bad conditions, it needs only that you constantly
affirm, “There is nothing to fear, absolutely noth­
ing to fear; perfect love reigns, and all is good;
peace, be still,” and so forth, and very soon the
brighter conditions will appear, and you will find
yourself on a much higher plane than you have
ever been on before.
13. Do not be afraid of the word (or the con­
dition) “chemicalization,” as many have been, for
truly there is nothing in it to fear.
14. The words “personality” and “individual­
ity” are two words that present clearly distinct
Definition of Terms 71
meanings to the trained mind, but by the un­
trained mind they are often used interchangeably
and apart from their real meanings.
15. “Personality” applies to the mortal part
of you—the mortal mind, the person, the external.
It belongs to the region governed by the intellect.
Your personality may be agreeable or disagree­
able to others. When you say that you dislike
any one, you mean that you dislike his personality
—that exterior something that presents itself to
us from the outside of any one. It is the outer,
changeable man, in contradistinction to the inner,
or real, man.
16. “Individuality” is the term used to denote
the real man. The more God comes into visibility
through a person the more individualized he be­
comes. By this I do not mean that one’s individu­
ality is greater when one is more religious. Re­
member, God is wisdom, intelligence, love, power.
The more pronounced the manner in which any
one of these qualities—or all of them—comes
forth into visibility through a man, the greater
his individuality.
17. Emerson was a man of large individuality,
but small personality. He was grandly simple.
He was of a shrinking, retiring nature (or per­
sonality). But just in proportion as the mortal
of him was willing to retire and be thought little
72 Sixth Lesson
of, did the immortal, the God in him, shine forth
in greater degree.
18. John the Baptist, who represents person­
ality or the mortal, said in speaking of Jesus, who
represents individuality, or the divine, “He must
increase, but I must decrease.”
19. One’s individuality is that part of one
that never changes its identity. It is that which
distinguishes one person from another. One’s
personality may become like that of others with
whom one associates. Individuality never
changes.
20. Do not confound the terms. One may
have an aggressive, pronounced personality, or ex­
ternal man, which will, for a time, fight its way
through obstacles and gain its point. But a pro­
nounced individuality never battles; it is never
puffed up; it is never governed by likes and dis­
likes and never causes them in others; it is God
come forth in greater degree through the soul of
man, and all mere personality instinctively bends
the knee before it in recognition of its superiority.
21. We cultivate individuality by listening to
the voice down deep within our own souls, and
boldly following it, even if it does make us differ
from others, as it surely will. We cultivate per­
sonality, in which live pride, fear of criticism,
and all manner of selfishness, by listening to the
Definition of Teems 73
voices outside ourselves and by being governed by
selfish motives, instead of by the highest within
us. Seek always to cultivate, or to bring into vis­
ibility, individuality, but never personality. In
proportion as one increases, the other must de­
crease.
22. Whenever we fear man, or shrink before
him, it is because his personality, being the
stronger, overcomes ours. Many timid souls go
through life always feeling that they are ineffi­
cient, that others are wiser or better than they.
They dread to meet a positive, conceited person;
and when in the presence of such a one, they are
laid low, just as a field of tall wheat is, after a
fierce windstorm has swept across it. They feel
as though they would like to get out of sight for­
ever.
23. All this, dear timid ones, is not because
your fellow really is wiser or better than you, but
because his personality—the external, mortal man
—is stronger than yours. You never have a sim­
ilar feeling in the presence of strong individual­
ity. Individuality in another not only produces in
you an admiration for its superiority, but it also
gives you, when you are in its presence, a strange
new sense of your own inherent possibilities, a
sense that is full of exhilaration and comfort and
encouragement to you. This is because a pro-
74 Sixth Lesson
nounced individuality simply means more of God
come forth into visibility through a person, and by
some mental process it has power to call forth
more of God through you.
24. If you want to know how to avoid being
overcome and thrown off your feet by the strong
personality of others, I will tell you:
25. Always remember that personality is of
the mortal and individuality is of God. Silently
affirm your own individuality, your oneness with
God, and your superiority to personality. Can
God fear any person?
26. If you are naturally inclined to be timid
or shrinking, practice of the following will help
you overcome it: As you walk down the street and
see any one coming toward you, even a stranger to
you, silently affirm such words as: “ I am a part of
God in visibility; I am one with the Father; this
person has no power over me, for I am superior
to all personality.” Cultivate this habit of think­
ing and affirming whenever you approach any per­
son, and you will soon find that no personality,
however strong and aggressive, has the power to
throw you out of the most perfect poise. You will
be self-possessed because God-possessed.
27. Some years ago I found myself under a
sense of bondage to a strong, aggressive personal­
ity with whom, externally, I had been quite in-
Definition of Terms 75
timately associated for several months. I seemed
to see things through another’s eyes; and while I
was more than half conscious of this, yet I could
not seem to throw it off. This personality was
able, with a very few words, to make me feel as if
all that I said or did was a mistake, and that I was
a most miserable failure. I was always utterly
discouraged after being in this presence, and felt
that I had no ability to accomplish anything.
28. After vainly trying for weeks to free my­
self, one day I was walking along the street, with
a most intense desire and determination to be
free. Many times before, I had affirmed that this
personality could not affect or overcome me, but
with no effect. This day I struck out farther and
declared (silently, of course), “There is no such
personality in the universe as this one,” affirming
it again and again many times. After a few mo­
ments I began to feel wondrously lifted, and as if
chains were dropping off. Then the voice within
me urged me on a step farther to say, “There is
no personality in the universe; there is nothing
hut Godl.” After a short time spent in vigorously
using these words, I seemed to break every fetter,
and step out absolutely free. From that day to
this, without further effort, I have been as free
from any influence of that personality as though
it had never existed.
76 Sixth Lesson
29. If at any time the lesser affirmation of
Truth fails to free you from the influence of other
minds, try this more sweeping one, “There is no
personality in the universe; there is nothing but
God,” and you are bound to be made free.
30. The more you learn to act from the voice
within your own soul, the stronger and more pro­
nounced will be individuality in you.
31. If inclined to wilt before strong personal­
ities, or mortal minds, always remember that, as
Emerson puts it, “The soul [God] had need of
such an organ as I.” Since God has need of you,
through whom, in some special manner, to mani­
fest Himself—some manner for which He cannot
use any other organ—what need have you to quail
before any mere person, no matter how important
he may feel himself to be?
32. However humble your place in life, how­
ever unknown to the world you may be, however
small your capabilities may seem at present to
you, you are just as much a necessity to God in
His efforts to get Himself into visibility as is the
most brilliant intellect, the most thoroughly
cultured person in the world. Remember this al­
ways, and act from the highest within you.
SPIRITUAL UNDERSTANDING
SEVENTH LESSON
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the
man that getteth understanding.
For the merchandise of it is better than the mer­
chandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine
gold.
She is more precious than rubies: and all the
things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto
her.
Length of days is in her right hand; and in her
left hand riches and honor.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her
paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon
her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.
With all thy getting, get understanding.
—Proverbs of Solomon.
1. What is this understanding on the getting
of which depends so much? Is it intellectual lore,
obtained from delving deep into books of other
men’s making? Is it knowledge obtained from
studying rocks (geology), or stars (astronomy),
or even the human body (physiology) ? Nay,
verily, for when did such knowledge ever insure
life and health and peace, ways of pleasantness,
with riches and honor?
77
78 Seventh Lesson
2. Understanding is a spiritual birth, a revela­
tion of God within the human soul. Jesus touched
the root of the matter when, after having asked
the disciples a certain question which was an­
swered variously, according to the intellectual
perception of the men, one—Peter—gave Him a
reply not based at all on external reasoning, but
on intuition. He said to Peter, “Blessed art thou,
Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not re­
vealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in
heaven.”
3. You may have an intellectual perception of
Truth. You may easily grasp with the mind the
statement that God is the Giver of all good gifts
—life, health, love—just as people have for cen­
turies grasped it. Or you may go farther, and
intellectually see that God is not only the Giver,
but the Gift itself; that He is life, health, love, in
us. But unless it be “revealed unto thee by my
Father which is in heaven,” it is of no practical
benefit to you or to any one else.
4. This revelation of Truth to the conscious­
ness of a person is spiritual understanding.
5. You may say to yourself, or another may
say silently to you, over and over again, that you
are well and wise and happy. On the plane of
mortal mind or intellect a certain “cure” is ef­
fected, and for a time you will feel well and wise
Spiritual Understanding 79
and happy. This is simply hypnotism, or mind
cure. But until, down in the depths of your soul,
you are conscious of your oneness with the Father,
until you know within yourself that the spring of
all wisdom and health and joy is within your own
being, ready at any moment to leap forth at the
call of your need, you will not have spiritual
understanding.
6. All the teachings of Jesus were for the pur­
pose of leading men up to this consciousness of
their oneness with the Father. He had to begin
at the external man—because people then as now
were living mostly in external things—and teach
him to love his enemies, to do good to others, and
so forth. These were external steps for them to
take—a sort of lopping off of the ends of the
branches; but they were steps which led on up to
the place of desire and attainment where finally
the Master could tell them some of the “many
things” which previously they “could not bear.”
7. He told them of the Comforter which
should be in them, and which should teach them
all things, revealing the “deep things of God” to
them, and showing them things to come. In other
words, He told these simple, worldly-ignorant men
how they might find the kingdom of heaven within
themselves—the kingdom of love, of power, of
life.
80 Seventh Lesson
8. The coming of the Comforter to their
hearts and lives, giving them power over every
form of sin, sickness, sorrow, and over even death
itself, is exactly what we mean by understanding
or realization. The power which this conscious­
ness of the indwelling Father gives is for us today
as much as it was for those to whom the Nazarene
spoke. Aye, more; for did He not say, “Greater
works than these shall ye do”?
9. All the foregoing lessons have been simply
external stepping-stones leading up to this same
point—the consciousness of the ever abiding inner
Presence, which is to reveal to each soul the fact
that it (the soul) is the temple in which dwells
the Most High, God. “Know ye not that your
body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in
you?”
10. I cannot reveal God to you. You cannot
reveal God to another. If I have learned, I may
tell you, and you may tell another, how to seek and
find God, each within his own soul. But the new
birth into the consciousness of our spiritual fac­
ulties and possibilities is indeed like the wind
which “bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest
the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it
cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that
is born of the Spirit.” It is a process in the si­
lence, in the invisible.
Spiritual Understanding 81
11. Intellectual lore can be bought and sold;
understanding, or realization, cannot. A man,
Simon by name, once attempted to buy the power
which spiritual understanding gives, from another
who possessed it. “But Peter said unto him, Thy
money perish with thee, because thou hast thought
that the gift of God may be purchased with money.
Thou hast neither part nor lot in this m atter; for
thy heart is not right in the sight of God.”
12. Nor will crying and beseeching bring
spiritual understanding. Hundreds of people
have tried this method, and have not received that
for which they earnestly but ignorantly sought.
They have not received, because they did not know
how to take that which God freely offered. Others
have sought with selfish motives this spiritual
understanding, or consciousness of the indwelling
Father, because of the power it would give them.
“Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss,
that ye may consume it upon your lusts” (or to
serve selfish ends).
IB. Understanding, or realization of the pres­
ence of God within us, is as Peter said, “the gift
of God.” It comes to any and all who learn how to
seek it aright. Emerson said, “This energy [con­
sciousness of God in the soul] does not descend
into individual life on any other condition than
entire possession. It comes to the lowly and sim-
82 Seventh Lesson
pie; it comes to whoever will put off what is for­
eign and proud; it comes as insight; it comes as
serenity and grandeur. When we see those whom
it inhabits, we are apprised of new degrees of
greatness. From that inspiration [consciousness]
the man comes back with a changed tone. He
does not talk with men with an eye to their opin­
ion; he . . . is plain and true; has no rose
color, no fine friends, . . . no advantages; does
not want admiration; dwells in the hour that now
is.”
14. “And ye shall seek me, and find me, when
ye shall search for me with all your heart.” In
that day when, more than riches and honor and
power and selfish glory, you shall desire spiritual
understanding, in that day will come to you the
revelation of God in your own soul, and you will
be conscious of the indwelling Father, who is life
and strength and power and peace.
15. One may so desire a partial revelation of
God within him, a revelation along one line—as,
for instance, that of health—as to seek it with “all
his heart.” And if he has learned how to take the
desired gift, by uncompromising affirmation that
it is his already, he will get understanding, or
realization, of God as his perfect health. So with
any other desired gift of God. This is a step in
the right direction. It is learning how to take
Spiritual Understanding 83
God by faith for whatever one desires. But in
the onward growth, the time will come to every
soul when he will hear the divine voice within
him saying, “Come up higher,” and he will pass
beyond any merely selfish desires which are just
for his own comfort’s sake. He will desire good
that he may have the more to give out, knowing
that as God (good) flows through him to others it
will make him “every whit whole.”
16. In the beginning of Solomon’s reign as
king over Israel, the divine Presence appeared to
him in a dream at night, saying: “Ask what I
shall give thee.” And Solomon said: “Give thy
servant an understanding heart.”
17. “And the speech pleased the Lord, that
Solomon had asked this thing.
18. “And God said unto him, Because thou
hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thy­
self long life; neither hast asked riches for thy­
self, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but
hast asked for thyself understanding to discern
judgment;
19. “Behold, I have done according to thy
words: lo, I have given thee a wise and an under­
standing heart; so that there was none like thee
before thee, neither after thee shall any rise like
unto thee.
20. “And I have also given thee that which
84 Seventh Lesson
thou hast not asked, both riches and honor: so
that there shall not be any among the kings like
unto thee all thy days.”
21. Thus in losing sight of all worldly goods
and chattels, all merely selfish ends, and desiring
above all things an understanding heart (or a
spiritual consciousness of God within him as wis­
dom, life, power), Solomon received all the goods
or good things included, so that there was none
among the kings like unto him in worldly posses­
sions. “Seek ye first the kingdom [consciousness]
of God, and his righteousness; and all these things
shall be added unto you.” “For whosoever will
save his life [the things of his life] shall lose it:
and whosoever will lose his life for my sake [that
is willing to forget the goods of this life for the
Truth’s sake, choosing before all things the finding
of God in his own soul] shall find it.”
22. When you first consciously desire spir­
itual understanding, you do not attain it at once.
You have been living in the external of your being
and have believed yourself cut off from God.
Your first step after “coming to yourself” is to
“arise and go to my father”—to turn your
thoughts away from the external seeming toward
the central and real; to know intellectually that
you are not cut off from God, and that He forever
desires to manifest Himself within you as your
Spiritual Understanding 85
present deliverance from all suffering and sin.
Just as Jesus taught, we begin our journey toward
understanding by cutting off the branches of our
selfishness. We try to love instead of to hate.
Instead of avenging ourselves, we begin to for­
give, even if it costs us great mental effort. We
begin to deny envy, jealousy, anger, sickness, and
all imperfection, and to affirm love, peace, and
health.
23. Begin with the words of Truth that you
have learned, and which perhaps you have as yet
only comprehended with the intellect. You must
be willing to take the very first light you receive
and use it faithfully, earnestly, to help both your­
self and others. Sometimes you will be almost
overcome by questions and doubts arising in your
own mind when you are looking in vain for re­
sults. But you must with effort press past the
place of doubt; and some day, in the fullness of
God’s time, while you are using the words of
Truth, they will suddenly be illumined and be­
come to you the living word within you—the true
light which lights every man who comes into the
world. You will no longer dwell in darkness, for
the light will be within your own soul; and the
“word will be made flesh” to you; i. e., you will be
conscious of a new and diviner life in your body,
86 Seventh Lesson
a new and diviner love for all people, a new and
diviner power to accomplish.
24. This is spiritual understanding. This is
a flash of the Most High within your conscious­
ness. Old things will have passed away. Behold,
all things become new! This will be the time
when you “will not talk with men with an eye to
their opinion.” This is when you will suddenly
become plain and true; when you will cease to de­
sire admiration; when all words of congratula­
tion from others on your success will fill you with
an inexpressible sense of humility; when all mere
compliments will be to you as sounding brass and
tinkling cymbal. Truly, from that inspiration a
man comes back with a changed tone!
25. With spiritual understanding comes new
light on the Scriptures. The very Spirit of truth,
which has come to abide with you forever in your
consciousness, takes the deep things of God and
reveals them to you. You no longer feel like run­
ning to and fro, seeking teachers or healers, how­
ever efficient and good they may be. You know
that the living light, the living word within you,
will guide you into all Truth.
26. What we need to do is to seek this revela­
tion of the living Christ within our own being,
each for himself, knowing that only this divinity
come forth can make us powerful and happy.
Spiritual Understanding 87
27. Every person in his heart desires, though
he may not yet quite know it, this new birth into a
higher life, into this spiritual consciousness.
Every one wants more power, more good, more
joy. And though to the ignorant mind it may
seem that it is more money as money, or more
goods that he wants, it is, nevertheless, more of
good (God) that he craves; for all good is God.
28. Many today are conscious that the inner
hunger cannot be satisfied with goods, and are
with all earnestness seeking this spiritual under­
standing, or consciousness, of an immanent God;
they have been seeking long, and with a great de­
gree of unselfishness, a feeling that when they
have fully found God they will begin to do for
others. Faithful service for others hastens the
day-dawning for ourselves. The gifts of God are
not given in reward for faithful service, as a fond
mother gives cake to her child for being good;
nevertheless they are a reward, inasmuch as
service is one of the steps that lead up to the place
where all the fullness of God awaits men. And
while spiritual understanding is in reality a “gift
of God,” it comes to us more or less quickly in
proportion as we use the light that we already
have.
29. I believe that too much introspection, too
much of what people usually call “spiritual seek-
88 Seventh Lesson
ing,” is detrimental rather than helpful to the end
desired—spiritual growth. It is a sort of spirit­
ual selfishness, paradoxical as this may seem.
From the beginning to the end, Jesus taught the
giving of what one possesses to him who has none.
30. “Is not this the fast that I have chosen?”
said the Spirit of God through the prophet Isaiah,
“to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the
heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free?
31. “Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry,
and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to
thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou
cover him?
32. “Then shall thy light break forth as the
morning, and thy health shall spring forth speed­
ily. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall an­
swer, Here I am.
33. “And if thou draw out thy soul to the
hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall
thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as
the noonday:
34. “And the Lord shall guide thee contin­
ually, and satisfy thy soul in drouth, and make fat
thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered gar­
den, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail
not.”
35. Stagnation is death. A pool cannot be
kept clean and sweet and renewed unless there is
Spiritual Understanding 89
an outlet as well as an inlet. It is our business to
keep the outlet open, and God’s business to keep
the stream flowing in and through us. Unless you
use for the service of others what God has already
given to you, you will find it a long, weary road
to spiritual understanding.
36. We cry out and strain every nerve to ob­
tain full understanding, just as sometimes we
have heard earnest people, but people wholly ig­
norant of divine laws, beseech God for the “full
baptism of the Holy Ghost as in the day of Pente­
cost.” Jesus said, “I have yet many things to say
unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.” We
grow by using for others the light and knowledge
we have. We expand, as we go on step by step in
spiritual insight, until in the fullness of time—
which means when we have grown spiritually up
to the place where God sees that we are able to
bear the many things—we receive the desire of
our hearts, understanding.
37. Seek your own Lord. Take the light as it
is revealed to you, and use it for others; and prove
for yourself whether there be Truth in this proph­
ecy of Isaiah, that “then shall thy light rise in
obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noonday”
and “then shall thy light break forth as the morn­
ing, and thy health shall spring forth speedily.”
THE SECRET PLACE OF THE
MOST HIGH
EIGHTH LESSON
In the progress of these simple lessons, some may
object to the language as being too orthodox—as pre­
senting too much of the religious side of the question.
I use Scriptural terms simply because I prefer them;
but the teaching is all essentially one and the same
thing. It is not mental science, as such, that you want.
It is not any “ism,” for each is but one side of Truth.
We are after Truth, and at the center of all the various
forms of presenting Truth, the thing itself is one.
So let us be big enough and broad enough, no mat­
ter on what side of Truth we have thus far been seek­
ing the light of the world, to put away all prejudices,
all the limitations which the mere form of words may
heretofore have made in our minds, and be open to all
there is for us.
1. There is nothing the human soul so longs
for, so cries out after, as to know God, “whom to
know aright is life eternal.”
2. With a restlessness that is pitiful to see,
people are ever shifting from one thing to another,
always hoping to find rest and satisfaction in some
anticipated accomplishment or possession. Men
fancy that they want houses and lands, great
90
Secret Place of the Most High 91
learning or power. They pursue these things and
gain them, only to find themselves still restless,
still unsatisfied.
3. At the great heart of humanity there is a
deep and awful homesickness, which never has
been and never can be satisfied with anything less
than a clear, vivid consciousness of the indwelling
presence of God, our Father. In all ages, earnest
men and women who have recognized this inner
hunger as the heart’s cry after God have left seek­
ing after things, and have sought, by devoted wor­
ship and by service to others, to enter into this
consciousness; but few have succeeded in reach­
ing the promised place where their “joy is full.”
Others have hoped and feared alternately; they
have tried, with the best knowledge they pos­
sessed, to “work out their salvation,” not yet hav­
ing learned that there must be an inworking as
well as an outworking. “By grace [or free gift]
ye are saved through faith; and that not of your­
selves [nor of any mortal working] : it is the gift
of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast.”
4. To him who “dwelleth in the secret place of
the Most High,” there is promised immunity from
the noisome pestilence and the snare of the fowler,
from the terror by night, and the arrow that flies
by day; and even immunity from fear of these
things. Oh, the awfully paralyzing effect of fear
92 Eighth Lesson
and evil! Fear surely “doth make cowards of us
all.” It makes us helpless as babes. It makes us
pygmies, whereas we might be giants were we
only free from it. It is at the root of all our fail­
ures, of nearly all sickness, poverty, and distress.
But we have the promise of deliverance from even
the fear of evil when we are in the “secret place.”
“Thou shalt not be afraid of the terror by night,”
and so forth. “In the time of trouble he shall hide
me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle
shall he hide me.” “Thou shalt hide them in the
secret of thy presence from the pride of man:
thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from
the strife of tongues.”
5. The secret place! Why called a secret
place? What is it? Where may we find it? How
abide in it?
6. It is a secret place because it is a place of
meeting between the Christ at the center of your
being, and your consciousness—a hidden place
into which no outside person can either induct you
or enter himself. We must drop the idea that this
place of realization of our divinity can be given to
us by any human being. No one can come into
it from the outside. Hundreds of earnest souls
are seeking, night and day, to get this inner re­
vealing. They run from teacher to teacher, many
Secret Place of the Most High 93
of them making the most frantic efforts to meet
the financial obligations thus incurred.
7. You may study with human teachers and
from man-made books until doomsday; you may
get all the theological lore of the ages; you may
understand intellectually all the statements of
Truth, and be able to prate healing formulas as
glibly as oil flows; but until there is a definite
inner revealing of the reality of an indwelling
Christ through whom and by whom come life,
health, peace, power, all things—aye, who is all
things—you have not yet found the “secret of the
Lord.”
8. In order to gain this knowledge—this con­
sciousness of God within their own souls—many
are willing (and wisely so, for this is greater than
all other knowledge) to spend all they possess.
Even Paul, after twenty-five years of service and
of most marvelous preaching, said: “I count all
things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge
of Christ Jesus my Lord: and do count them but
dung, that I may win Christ” (or the conscious­
ness of His divine self).
9. Beloved, that which you so earnestly de­
sire will never be found by your seeking it through
the mental side alone, any more than it has hereto­
fore been found through the emotional side alone.
Intuition and intellect are meant to travel to-
94 Eighth Lesson
gether, intuition always holding the reins to guide
intellect. “Come, and let us reason together, saith
the Lord.” If you have been thus far on the way
cultivating and enlarging only the mental side of
Truth, as probably is the case, you need, in order
to come into the fullness of understanding, to let
the mental, the reasoning side rest awhile. “Be­
come as a little child,” and, learning how to be
still, listen to that which the Father will say to
you through the intuitional part of your being.
The light that you so crave will come out of the
deep silence and become manifest to you from
within yourself, if you will but keep still and look
for it from that source.
10. This conscious knowledge of an indwell­
ing God, which we so crave, is that of which Paul
wrote to the Colossians, as “the mystery which
hath been hid from ages and from generations,
but now is made manifest . . . Christ in you,
the hope of glory.” “The secret place of the Most
High,” where each one of us may dwell and be
safe from all harm or fear of evil, is the point of
mystical union between soul (or conscious mind)
and Spirit (or God in us), wherein we no longer
believe, but know, that God in Christ abides al­
ways at the center of our being as our perfect
health, deliverance, prosperity, power, ready to
come forth into manifestation at any moment we
Secret Place of the Most High 95
claim it. We know it. We know it. We feel our
oneness with the Father, and we manifest this
oneness.
11. To possess the secret of anything gives
one power over it. This personal, conscious
knowledge of the Father in us is the secret that
is the key to all power. What we want is the rev­
elation to us of this marvelous “secret.” What
will give it to us—who can give it to us except
Him, the “Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from
the Father” ? Surely none other. That which God
would say to you and do through you is a great
secret which no man on the face of the earth
knows, or ever will know, except yourself as it is
revealed to you by the Spirit that is in you. The
secret that He tells me is not revealed to you, nor
yours to me; but each man must, after all is said
and done, deal directly with the Father through
the Son within himself.
12. Secrets are not told upon the housetop;
nor is it possible to pass this, the greatest of
secrets, from one to another. God, the creator of
our being, must Himself whisper it to each soul
living in the very innermost of itself. “To him
that overcometh [or is consciously in process of
overcoming] will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and will give him a white stone [or a mind
like a clean white tablet], and in the stone a new
96 Eighth Lesson
name written, which no man knoweth saving he
that receiveth it." It is so secret that it cannot
even be put into human language or repeated by
human lips.
13. What you want today and what I want is
that the words that we have learned to say as
Truth be made alive to us. We want a revelation
of God in us as life, to be made to our own per­
sonal consciousness as health. We no longer care
to have somebody just tell us the words from the
outside. We want a revelation of God as love
within us, so that our whole being will be filled
and thrilled with love—a love that will not have
to be pumped up by a determined effort because
we know that it is right to love and wrong not to
love, but a love that will flow with the spontaneity
and fullness of an artesian well, because it is so
full at the bottom that it must flow out.
14. What we want today is a revelation to
our consciousness of God within us as omnipotent
power, so that we can, by a word—or a look—
“accomplish that whereunto the word is sent.”
We want the manifestation to us of the Father in
us, so that we can know Him personally. We
want to be conscious of “God working in us to
will and to do,” so that we may “work out our
salvation.” We have been learning how to do the
outworking, but have now come to a point where
Secret Place of the Most High 97
we must learn more of how to place ourselves in
an attitude where we can each be conscious of the
divine inner working.
15. Mary talked with the risen Jesus, suppos­
ing that He was the gardener, until suddenly, as
He spoke her name, there flashed into her con­
sciousness a ray of pure intelligence, and in an
instant the revelation of His identity was made to
her innermost soul.
16. According to the same sacred history,
Thomas Didymus had walked daily for three years
with the most wonderful teacher of spiritual
things that has ever lived. He had watched this
teacher’s life and had been partaker of His very
presence, physical and mental. He had had just
what you and I have thus far received of mental
training and external teaching. But there came a
time when there was an inner revealing which
made him exclaim, “My Lord and my God!” The
secret name which no other man could know for
him had that moment been given to him. There
had come, in the twinkling of an eye, the mani­
festation to his consciousness of the Father in him
as his Lord and his God. No longer simply our
Father and our Lord, but my Lord and my God—
my divine self revealed to me personally.
17. Is not this that which you are craving?
18. Each soul must come to a time when it no
98 Eighth Lesson
longer is satisfied with, or seeks, external helps—
when it knows that the inner revelation of “my
Lord and my God” to its consciousness can come
to it only through an indwelling Power, which
has been there all the time, waiting with an in­
finite longing but an infinite patience to reveal the
Father to the child.
19. This revelation will never come through
the intellect of man to the consciousness, but must
ever come through the intuitional to the intellect
as a manifestation of Spirit to the soul. “The
natural man receiveth not [nor can it impart
them] the things of the Spirit of God: for they
are foolishness unto him: neither can he know
them, because they are spiritually discerned,” and
they must be spiritually imparted.
20. In our eagerness we have waited upon
every source that we could reach or hear for the
light that we want. Because we have not known
how to wait upon Spirit within us for the desired
revelation, we have run to and fro. Let no one
misunderstand me in what I say about withdraw­
ing himself from teachers. Teachers are good
and are necessary, up to a certain point. “How
then shall they call on him in whom they have not
believed? and how shall they believe in him of
whom they have not heard? and how shall they
hear without a preacher?”
Secret Place of the Most High 99
21. Books and lectures are good, teachers are
good, until you learn that Christ, the Son of God,
lives in you; that He within you is your light and
life and all. When you have once grasped this be­
yond a doubt with the intellect, you have forever
finished with external teachers; every day you
look to them after this you put off the day of reve­
lation for yourself. That Christ lives in you,
Spirit itself must make real to you. Teachers talk
about the light, but the light itself must flash into
the darkness before you can see the light.
22. Had the Master remained with the dis­
ciples, I doubt whether they would ever have got­
ten beyond hanging on His words and following in
the footsteps of His personality.
23. Jesus knew that His treatments for spir­
itual illumination, given to His disciples from His
recognition of Truth, would act in them as a seed
thought, but He also knew that each man must
for himself wait upon God for the inner illumina­
tion which is lasting and real. God alone can
whisper the secret to each one separately.
24. The induement of power was not to come
to them by the spoken word through another
personality, not even through that of Jesus, with
His great spiritual power and discernment. It
was to come from “on high” to each individual
consciousness. It was the “promise of the Father
100 Eighth Lesson
which ye have heard of me.” He had merely told
them about it, but had no power to give it to them.
25. So to each of us this spiritual illumination
which we are crying out after, this induement of
power for which we are willing to sell all that we
have, must come from “on high,” i. e., to the con­
sciousness from the Spirit within our being. This
is the secret that the Father longs with an infinite
yearning to reveal to each individual soul. It is
because of the Father’s desire within us to show us
the secret that we are drawn to desire the revela­
tion. It is the purpose for which we came into
the world—that we might grow step by step, as
we are doing, to the place where we could bear to
have the secret of His inner abiding revealed to
us.
26. Do not be confused by seeming contradic­
tions in the lessons. I have said heretofore that
too much introspection is not good. I repeat it;
for there are those who, in earnest desire to know
God, are always seeking light for themselves, but
neglect to use that which they already have to help
others.
27. There must be an equal conscious receiv­
ing from the Father and giving out to the world,
a perfect equilibrium between the inflowing and
the outgiving, to keep perfect harmony. We must
each learn how to wait renewedly upon God for
Secret Place of the Most High 101
the infilling, and then go and give out to every
creature that which we have received, as Spirit
leads us to give, either in preaching, teaching, or
silently living the Truth. That which fills us will
radiate from us without effort right in the place
in life where we stand.
28. In nearly all teaching of Truth from the
purely mental side, there is much said about the
working out of our salvation by holding right
thoughts, by denials and affirmations. This is all
good. But there is another side which we need to
know a little more about. We must learn how to
be still and let Spirit, the I AM, work in us, that
we may indeed be made “new creatures,” that we
may have the mind of Christ in all things.
29. When you have learned how to abandon
yourself to infinite Spirit, and have seasons of do­
ing this daily, you will be surprised at the marvel­
ous change that will be wrought in you without
any conscious effort of your own.
30. It will search far below your conscious
mind, and root out things in your nature of which
you have scarcely been conscious, simply because
they have lain latent there, waiting for something
to bring them out. It will work into your con­
sciousness light, and life, and love, and all good,
perfectly filling all your lack while you just quietly
102 Eighth Lesson
wait and receive. Of the practical steps in this
direction we will speak in another lesson.
31. Paul, who had learned this way of faith,
this way of being still and letting the I AM work
itself into his conscious mind as the fullness of all
his needs, was neither afraid nor ashamed to say:
32. “For this cause I bow my knees unto the
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
33. “Of whom the whole family in heaven and
earth is named,
34. “That he would grant you, according to
the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with
might by his Spirit in the inner man;
35. “That Christ may dwell in your hearts by
faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love,
36. “May be able to comprehend with all
saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth,
and height;
37. “And to know the love of Christ, which
passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all
the fullness of God.”
38. And then he gives an ascription of praise:
“Unto him that is able to do exceedingly abun­
dantly above all that we ask or think, according to
the power that worketh in us.”
FINDING THE SECRET PLACE
NINTH LESSON
1. How to seek the secret place—where to find
it—how to abide in it—these are the questions
that today, more than at any other time in the
history of the world, are engaging the hearts of
men. More than anything else it is what I want.
It is what you want.
2. All the steps that we are taking by speak­
ing the words of Truth and striving to manifest
the light which we have already received are car­
rying us on swiftly to the time when we shall have
consciously the perfect mind of Christ, with all the
love and beauty and health and power which that
implies.
3. We need not be anxious or in a hurry for
the full manifestation. Let us not at any time lose
sight of the fact that our desire, great as it is, is
only God’s desire in us. “No man cometh unto
me, except the Father draw him.” The Father
in us desires to reveal to us the secret of His pres­
ence, else we had not known any hunger for the
secret, or for Truth.
4. “Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen
103
104 Ninth Lesson
you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring
forth fruit.”
5. Whoever you are that read these words,
wherever you stand in the world, be it on the plat­
form preaching the gospel, or in the humblest lit­
tle home seeking Truth, that you may make it
manifest in a sweeter, stronger, less selfish life,
know once and forever that you are not seeking
God, but God is seeking you. Your longing for
greater manifestation is the eternal Energy,
which holds the worlds in their orbits, outpushing
through you to get into fuller manifestation. You
need not worry. You need not be anxious. You
need not strive. Only let it. Learn how to let it.
6. After all our beating about the bush, seek­
ing here and there for our heart’s desire, we must
come right to Him who is the fulfillment of every
desire; who waits to manifest more of Himself to
us and through us. If you wanted my love or any­
thing that I am (not that I have), you would not
go to Tom Jones or to Mary Smith to get it.
Either of these persons might tell you that I could
and would give myself, but you would have to
come directly to me, and receive of me that which
only I am, because I am it.
7. In some way, after all our seeking for the
light and Truth, we must learn how to wait, each
Finding the Secret Place 105
one for himself, upon God for this inner revela­
tion of Truth and our oneness with Him.
8. The light that we want is not some thing
that God has to give; it is God Himself. God does
not give us life or love as a thing. God is life
and light and love. More of Himself in our con­
sciousness, then, is what we all want, no matter
what other name we may give it.
9. My induement of power must come from
“on high,” from a higher region within myself
than my present conscious mind; so must yours.
It must be a descent of the Holy (whole, entire,
complete) Spirit at the center of your being into
your conscious mind. The illumination we want
can never come in any other way; nor can the
power to make good manifest.
10. We hear a great deal about “sitting in the
silence.” To many it does not mean very much,
for they have not yet learned how to “wait upon
God,” or to hear any voice except external ones.
Noise belongs to the outside world, not to God.
God works in the stillness, and we can so wait
upon the Father of our being as to be conscious of
the still, inner working—conscious of the fulfill­
ment of our desires. “They that seek the Lord
shall not want any good.” “They that wait upon
the Lord shall renew their strength.”
11. In one of Edward Everett Hale’s stories,
106 Ninth Lesson
he speaks of a little girl who, amidst her play with
the butterflies and birds in a country place, used
to run into a near-by chapel frequently to pray;
and after praying always remained perfectly still
a few minutes, “waiting,” she said, “to see if God
wanted to say anything” to her. Children are al­
ways nearest the kingdom.
12. When beginning the practice of sitting in
the silence, do not feel that you must go and sit
with some other person. The presence of another
personality is apt to distract the mind. Learn
first how to commune alone with the Creator of
the universe, who is all-companionship. When
you are able to withdraw from the outside and be
alone with Him, then sitting with others may be
profitable to you and to them.
13. “Sitting in the silence” is not merely a
sort of lazy drifting. It is a passive, but a definite,
waiting upon God. When you want to do this,
take a time when you are not likely to be dis­
turbed, and when you can, for a little while, lay
off all care. Begin your silence by lifting up your
heart in prayer to the Father of your being. Do
not be afraid that, if you begin to pray, you will
be too “orthodox.” You are not going to suppli­
cate a God who has already given you “all things
whatsoever ye desire.” You have already learned
Finding the Secret Place 107
that before you call He has sent that which you
desire; otherwise you would not desire it.
14. You know better than to plead with or to
beseech God with an unbelieving prayer. But
spending the first few moments of your silence in
speaking directly to the Father centers your mind
on the Eternal. Many who earnestly try to get
still and wait upon God have found that, the
moment they sit down and close their eyes, their
thoughts, instead of being concentrated, are filled
with every sort of vain imagination. The most
trivial things, from the fixing of a shoe string to
the gossipy conversation of a week ago, chase one
another in rapid succession through their minds,
and at the end of an hour the persons have gained
nothing. This is to them discouraging.
15. This is but a natural result of trying not
to think at all. Nature abhors a vacuum, and if
you make (or try to make) your mind a vacuum,
the thought images of others which fill the atmos­
phere about you will rush in to fill it, leaving you
as far away from the consciousness of the divine
presence as ever. You can prevent this by begin­
ning your silence with prayer.
16. It is always easier for the mind to say
realizingly, “Thy will is being done in me now,”
after having prayed, “Let Thy will be done in
me.” It is always easier to say with realization,
108 Ninth Lesson
“God flows through me as life and peace and
power,” after having prayed, “Let Thy life flow
through me anew while I wait.” Of course prayer
does not change God’s attitude toward us, but it is
easier for the human mind to take several suc­
cessive steps with firmness and assurance than
for it to take one big, bold leap to a point of emi­
nence and hold itself steady there. While you are
thus concentrating your thoughts on God, in defi­
nite conversation with the Author of your being,
no outside thought images can possibly rush in to
torment or distract you. Your mind, instead of
being open and negative toward the external, is
closed to it, and open only to God, the source of
all the good you desire.
17. Of course there is to be no set form of
words used. But sometimes using words like, for
instance, the first few verses of the 103d Psalm,
in the beginning of the silent communion, makes
it a matter of face-to-face speaking: “Thou for-
givest all mine iniquities [or mistakes]; Thou
healest all my diseases; Thou reaeemest my life
from destruction, and crownest me with loving­
kindness, now, now, while I wait upon Thee.”
Sometimes we may enter into the innermost with
the words of a familiar hymn; as:
Thou art the life within me,
0 Christ, Thou King of Kings;
Finding the Secret Place 109
Thou art Thyself the answer
To all my questionings.
18. Repeat the words many times, not anx­
iously or with strained effort, not reaching out and
up and away to an outside God; but let the petition
be the quiet, earnest uplifting of the heart to a
higher something right within itself, even to the
“Father in me.” Let it be made with the quietness
and assurance of a child speaking to its loving
father.
19. Many people carry in their faces a
strained, white look that comes from an abnormal
“sitting in the silence,” as they term it. It is hard
for them to know that God is right here within
them, and when sitting they fall into the way of
reaching away out and up after Him. Such are
earnest souls truly feeling after God if haply they
may find Him, when all the time He is near them,
even in their very hearts. Do not reach out thus.
This is as though a seed were planted in the earth,
and just because it recognized a vivifying, life-
giving principle in the sun’s rays, it began to
strain and stretch itself upward and outward to
get more of the sun. You can see at a glance that
by so doing it would get no solid root whatever in
the earth where God intended it to be. All the
plant needs to do is to keep its face turned toward
110 Ninth Lesson
the sun, and let itself be drawn upward by the
sun.
20. Some of us, in our desire to grow, and
having recognized the necessity of waiting upon
God in the stillness for the vivifying and renewing
of life, make the mistake of climbing up and away
from our bodies. Such abnormal outstretching
and upreaching is neither wise nor profitable.
After a little of it, one begins to get cold feet and
congested head. While the soul is thus reaching
out, the body is left alone, and it becomes corre­
spondingly weak and negative. This is all wrong.
We are not to reach out away from the body even
after the Sun of righteousness. We are rather to
be still, and let the Sun shine on us right where
we are. The sun draws the seed up as fast as it
can bear it and be strong. We do not need to grow
ourselves, only to let the Sun “grow” us.
21. But we are consciously to let it; not merely
to take the attitude of negatively letting it by
not opposing it, but to put ourselves consciously
where the Son can shine on us, and then “be still,
and know” that while we wait there it is doing the
work. While waiting upon God, we should, as
much as possible, relax ourselves both mentally
and physically. To use a very homely but prac­
tical illustration, take much such an attitude of
the entire being as do the fowls when taking a
Finding the Secret Place 111
sun bath in the sand. Yet there is something
more than a dead passivity to be maintained
through it all. There must be a sort of conscious,
active taking of that which God gives freely to
the waiting soul.
22. Let me see if I can make it plain. We
first withdraw ourselves bodily and mentally from
the outside world. We “enter into thy closet and
shut the door” (the closet of our being, the very
innermost of ourselves), by turning our thoughts
within. Just say, “Thou abidest within me; Thou
art alive there now; Thou hast all power; Thou
art now the answer to all I desire; Thou dost now
radiate Thyself from the center of my being to the
circumference, and out into the visible world as
the fullness of my desires.” Then be still, abso­
lutely still. Relax every part of your being, and
believe that it is being done. The divine substance
does flow in at the center and out into the visible
world every moment you w ait; for it is an immu­
table law that “he that asketh receiveth,” and sub­
stance will come forth as the fulfillment of your
desire if you expect it to. “According to your
faith be it unto you.”
23. If you find your mind wandering, bring it
right back by saying again: “It is being done;
Thou art working in me; I am receiving that
which I desire,” and so forth. Do not look for
112 Ninth Lesson
signs and wonders, but just be still and know that
the very thing you want is flowing in and will
come forth into manifestation either at once or a
little farther on.
24. Go even beyond this and speak words of
thanksgiving to this innermost Presence, that it
has heard and answered, that it does now come
forth into visibility. There is something about
the mental act of thanksgiving that seems to carry
the human mind far beyond the region of doubt
into the clear atmosphere of faith and trust, where
“all things are possible.” Even if at first you are
not conscious of having received anything from
God, do not worry or cease from your thanksgiv­
ing. Do not go back of it again to the asking, but
continue giving thanks that while you waited you
did receive, and that what you received is now
manifest; and believe me, you will soon rejoice
and give thanks, not rigidly from sense of duty,
but because of the sure manifest fulfillment of
your desire.
25. Do not let waiting in the silence become a
bondage to you. If you find yourself getting into
a strained attitude of mind, or “heady,” get up
and go about some external work for a time. Or,
if you find that your mind will wander, do not in­
sist on concentrating; for the moment you get into
a rigid mental attitude you shut off all inflow of
Finding the Secret Place 113
the Divine into your consciousness. There must
be a sort of relaxed passivity and yet an active
taking it by faith. Shall I call it active passivity?
26. Of course, as we go on in spiritual under­
standing and desire, we very soon come to the
place where we want more than anything else that
the desires of infinite wisdom and love be fulfilled
in us. “My thoughts are not your thoughts,
neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so
are my ways higher than your ways, and my
thoughts than your thoughts.”
27. Our desires are God’s desires, but in a
limited degree. We soon throw aside our limita­
tions, our circumscribed desires (as soon, at least,
as we see that more of God means more of good
and joy and happiness), and with all our soul we
cry out in the silent sitting: “Fulfill Thy highest
thought in me now!” We make ourselves as clay
in the potter’s hands, willing to be molded anew,
to be “changed into the same image,” to be made
after the mind of the indwelling Christ.
28. We repeat from time to time, while wait­
ing, words something like these: Thou art now re­
newing me according to Thy highest thought for
me; Thou art radiating Thy very self throughout
my entire being, making me like to Thyself—for
there is nothing else but Thee. Father, I thank
114 Ninth Lesson
Thee, I thank Thee. Be still, be still while He
works. “Not by might, nor by power, but by my
Spirit, saith the Lord of hosts.”
29. While you thus wait, and let Him, He will
work marvelous changes in you. You will have a
strange, new consciousness of serenity and quiet,
a feeling that something has been done, that some
new power to overcome has come to you. You
will be able to say, “I and the Father are one,”
with a new meaning, a new sense of reality and
awe that will make you feel very still. Oh! how
one conscious touch of the Oversoul makes all life
seem different! All the hard things become easy;
the troublesome things no longer have power to
worry; the rasping people and things of the world
lose all power to annoy. Why ? Because, for the
time, we see things from the Christ side of our­
selves ; we see as He sees. We do not have to deny
evil; we know in that moment that it is nothing at
all. We no longer rigidly affirm the good from
sense of duty, but with delight and spontaneity,
because we cannot help it. It is revealed to us as
good. Faith has become reality.
BO. Do not be discouraged if you do not at
once get conscious results in this silent sitting.
Every moment that you wait, Spirit is working to
make you a new creature in Christ—a creature
possessing consciously His very own qualities and
Finding the Secret Place 115
powers. There may be a working for days before
you see any change; but it will surely come. You
will soon get so that you can go into the silence,
into conscious communion with your Lord, at a
moment’s notice, at any time, in any place.
31. There is no conflict or inconsistency be­
tween this waiting upon God to be made perfect,
and the way of “speaking the word” out toward
the external to make perfection visible. Waiting
upon and consciously receiving from the Source
only make the outspeaking (the holding of right
thoughts and words) easy, instead of laborious.
Try it and see.
32. Clear revelation—the word made alive as
Truth to the consciousness—must come to every
soul who continues to wait upon God. But re­
member, there are two conditions imposed. You
are to wait upon God, not simply to run in and
out, but to abide, to dwell in the secret place of
the Most High.
33. Of course I do not mean that you are to
give all the time to sitting alone in meditation and
silence, but that your mind shall be continually in
an attitude of waiting upon God, not an attitude
of clamoring for things, but of listening for the
Father’s voice and expecting a manifestation of
the Father to your consciousness.
34. Jesus, our Master in spiritual knowledge
116 Ninth Lesson
and power, had many hours of lone communion
with His Father, and His greatest works were
done after these. So may we, so must we, com­
mune alone with the Father if we would manifest
the Christ. But Jesus did not spend all His time
in receiving. He poured forth into everyday use,
among the children of men in the ordinary voca­
tions of life, that which He received of His Father.
His knowledge of spiritual things was used con­
stantly to uplift and to help other people. We
must do likewise; for newness of life and of rev­
elation flows in the faster as we give out that
which we have to help others. “Go teach and
preach and heal,” He said. Go manifest the Christ
within you, which you have received of the Father.
God works in us to will and to do, but we must
work out our own salvation.
35. The second indispensable condition to find­
ing the secret place and abiding in it is “my ex­
pectation is from him”—“My soul, wait thou
only upon God; for my expectation is from him.”
“Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the
hills, and from the multitude of mountains: truly
in the Lord our God is the salvation of Israel.” It
is good that a man should both hope and quietly
wait for the salvation of the Lord.
36. Is your expectation from Him, or is it
Finding the Secret Place 117
from books, or teachers, or friends, or meetings,
or societies?
37. “The King of Israel, even the Lord, is in
the midst of thee.” Think of it! In the midst of
you—at the center of your being this moment
while you read these words. Say it, say it, think
it, dwell on it, whoever you are, wherever you are!
In the midst of you! Then what need for all this
running around ? What need for all this strained
outreaching after Him?
38. “The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is
mighty [not God in the midst of another, but in
the midst of you, standing right where you a re ];
he will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy; he
will rest in his love, he will joy over thee with
singing.” You are His love. It is you that He
will rejoice in with singing if you will turn away
from people to Him within you. His singing and
joy will so fill you that your life will be a great
thanksgiving.
39. Your Lord is not my Lord, nor is my Lord
your Lord. Your Lord is the Christ within your
own being. My Lord is the Christ within my soul.
40. There is one Spirit, one Father of all, in
us all, but there are different manifestations or in­
dividualities. Your Lord is He who will deliver
you out of all your troubles. Your Lord has no
other business but to manifest Himself to you and
118 Ninth Lesson
through you, and so make you mighty with His
own mightiness made visible; whole with His
health; perfect by showing forth the Christ per­
fection.
41. Let all your expectation be from your
Lord. Let your communion be with Him. Wait
upon the inner-abiding Christ often, just as you
would wait upon any visible teacher. When you
are sick “wait thus only upon God” as the Most
High, rather than upon healers. When you lack
wisdom in small or large matters, “wait thou upon
God,” and see what marvelous wisdom for action
will be given you. When desiring to speak the
word which will deliver another from the bondage
of sickness or sin or sorrow, “wait thou upon
God,” and exactly the right word will be given you,
and power will go with it, for it will be alive with
the power of Spirit.
SPIRITUAL GIFTS
TENTH LESSON
1. It is very natural for the human heart first
to set out in search of Truth because of the “loaves
and fishes.”
2. Perhaps it is not too much to say that the
majority of people first turn to God because of
some weakness, some failure, some almost unbear­
able want in their lives. After having vainly tried
in all other ways to overcome or to satisfy the
want, they turn in desperation to God.
3. There is in the heart of even the most de­
praved human being, though he would not for
worlds have others know it, an instinctive feeling
that somewhere there is a power that is able to
give him just what he wants; that if he could only
reach that which to his conception is God, he could
prevail on Him to grant the things desired. This
feeling is itself God-given. It is the divine self,
though only a spark at the center of the man’s
being, suggesting to him the true remedy for all
his ills.
4. Especially have people been led to seek
Truth for the reward, “for the very works’ sake,”
during the last few years, since they have come to
119
120 Tenth Lesson
know that God is not only able, but willing, to de­
liver them from all the burdens of their everyday
life. Every one wants to be free, free, free as the
birds of the air—free from sickness, free from
suffering, free from bondage, free from poverty,
free from all forms of evil; and he has a right to
be;it is a God-given desire, and a God-given right.
5. Thus far nearly all teaching has limited the
manifestation of infinite love to one form—that
of healing. Sickness, seemingly incurable dis­
ease, and suffering reigned on every side, and
every sufferer wanted to be free. We had not yet
known that there was willingness as there was
power—aye, more, that there was intense desire
—on the part of our Father to give us something
more than sweet, patient submission to suffering.
6. When first the truth was taught that divine
presence ever lives in man as perfect life, and can
be drawn on by our recognition and faith to come
forth into full and abounding health, it attracted
widespread attention, and justly so. Both teach­
ers and students centered their gaze on this one
branch, or outcome, of a spiritual life, losing sight
of any larger, fuller, or more complete manifesta­
tion of the indwelling Father. Teachers told all
their pupils most emphatically that this knowl­
edge of Truth would enable them to heal, and they
devoted all their teaching to explanation of the
Spiritual Gifts 121
principles and to giving formulas and other in­
structions for healing the body. The time is now
ripe for giving larger and broader views of the
truth about spiritual gifts.
7. Healing of the body is beautiful and good.
Power to heal is a divine gift, and as such you are
fully justified in seeking it. But God wants to
give you infinitely more.
8. Why should you and I restrict the limitless
One to the bestowal of a particular gift, unless,
indeed, we be so fairly consumed with an inborn
desire for it that we are sure that it is God’s high­
est desire for us ? In that case we shall not have
to try to heal. Healing will flow from us wher­
ever we are. Even in a crowd of people, without
any effort of our own, the one who needs healing
will receive it from us; that one will “touch” us,
as did the one woman in all the multitude jostling
and crowding against Jesus. Only one touched
Him.
9. Healing is truly “a branch of the vine,”
but it is not the only branch. There are many
branches, all of which are necessary to the perfect
vine, which is seeking through you and me to
bear much fruit. What God wants is that we shall
grow into such conscious oneness with Him, such
realization that He who is the substance of all
122 Tenth Lesson
good really abides in us, that “ye shall ask what
ye will, and it shall be done unto you.”
10. If you are faithfully and earnestly living
what Truth you know, and still find that your
power to heal is not so great as it was at first,
recognize it as all good. Be assured, no matter
what any one else says to you or thinks, that the
seeming failure does not mean loss of power. It
means that you are to let go of the lesser, in order
that you may grasp the whole, in which the lesser
is included. Do not fear for a moment to let go
of just this one little branch of divine power;
choose rather to have the highest thoughts of
infinite mind, let them be what they may, fulfilled
through you. We need to take our eyes off the
ends of the branches, the results, and keep them
centered in the vine.
11. You are a vessel for some purpose. If,
when the time comes, you let go cheerfully, with­
out humiliation or shame or sense of failure, your
tense, rigid mortal grasp on some particular form
of manifestation, such as healing, and “covet
earnestly the best gifts,” whatever they may be
in your individual case, you will do “works” in
that one specific direction which will be simply
marvelous in the eyes of men. These works will
be done without effort on your part, because they
will be God, omnipotent, omniscient, manifesting
Spiritual Gifts 123
Himself through you in His own chosen direction.
12. Paul said, “Now concerning spiritual
gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
. . . There are diversities of gifts, but the same
Spirit. . . . For to one is given by the Spirit
the word of wisdom; to another the word of
knowledge by the same Spirit; . . . to another
faith; . . . to another the gift of healing;
. . . to another the working of miracles; to
another prophecy; and to another discernings of
spirits: to another divers kinds of tongues.”
13. The same Spirit, always and forever the
same, and one God, one Spirit, but in different
forms of manifestation. The gift of healing is no
more, no greater, than the gift of prophecy; the
gift of prophecy is no greater than faith, for faith
(when it is really God’s faith manifest through
us), even as a grain of mustard seed, shall be
able to remove mountains; the working of mir­
acles is no greater than the power to discern
spirits (or the thoughts and intents of other men’s
hearts which are open always to Spirit). And
“greatest of all these is love” ; for “love never
faileth” to melt down all forms of sin, sorrow,
sickness, and trouble. “Love never faileth.”
14. “But all these worketh that one and the
selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally
as he will. . . . For the body is not one mem-
124 Tenth Lesson
ber, but many. . . . If the whole body were an
eye [or gift of healing], where were the hearing?
If the whole were hearing, where were the smell­
ing? . . . And the eye cannot say unto the
hand, I have no need of thee: nor again the head
to the feet, I have no need of you. . . . But now
hath God set the members every one of them in
the body, as it hath pleased him.”
15. Thus Paul has enumerated some of the
free “gifts” of the Spirit to those who will not
limit the manifestations of the Holy One, but yield
themselves to Spirit’s desire within them. Why
should we so fear to abandon ourselves to the
workings of infinite love and wisdom? Why be
so afraid to let Him have His own way with us,
and through us?
16. Has not the gift of healing, the only gift
we have thus far sought, been a good and blessed
one, not only to ourselves, but to all with whom
we have come in contact?
17. Then why should we fear to wait upon
God with a perfect willingness that the Holy
Spirit manifest itself through us as it will, know­
ing that, whatever the manifestation, it will be
good—all good to us and to those around us!
18. Oh, for more souls who have the courage
to abandon themselves utterly to infinite will—
souls who dare let go of every human being for
Spiritual Gifts 125
guidance, and, seeking the Christ within them­
selves, let the manifestation be what He wills!
19. Such courage might possibly mean, and
probably would mean at first, a seeming failure, a
going down from some apparent success which
had been in the past. But the going down would
only mean a mighty coming up, a most glorious
resurrection of God into visibility through you in
His own chosen way, right here and now. The
failure, for the time, would only mean a grand,
glorious success a little later on.
20. Do not fear failure, but call failure good;
for it really is. Did not Jesus stand an utter fail­
ure, to all appearances, when He stood dumb be­
fore Pilate, all His cherished principles come to
naught, unable (yes, I say it—unable, or else not
tempted in all points as we are) to deliver Him­
self, or to “demonstrate” over the agonizing cir­
cumstances of His position?
21. But had He not failed right at that point,
there never could have been the infinitely grander
demonstration of the resurrection a little farther
on. “Except a seed fall into the ground and die,
it cannot bring forth fruit.” If you have clung
to one form of spiritual gift because you were
taught that, and you begin to fail, believe me, it is
only the death, the disappearance, of one gift, in
order that out of it may spring many new gifts—
126 Tenth Lesson
brighter, higher, fuller ones, because they are the
ones that God has chosen for you.
22. Your greatest work will be done in your
own God-appointed channel. If you will let Spirit
possess you wholly, if you will to have the highest
will done in you and through you continually, you
will be quickly moved by it out of your present
narrow limitations, which a half success always
indicates, into a manifestation as much fuller and
more perfect and beautiful as is the new grain
than the old seed which had to fall into the ground
and die.
23. Old ways must die. Failure is only the
death of the old that there may be the hundred­
fold following. If there come to you a time when
you do not demonstrate over sickness, etc., as you
did at first, do not run outside of yourself to seek
some healer. It is beautiful and good for another
to “heal” you bodily by calling forth universal life
through you; but right here there is something
higher and better for you.
24. Spirit, the Holy Spirit, which is God in
movement, wants to teach you something, to open
a bigger, brighter way to you. This apparent fail­
ure is His call to you to arrest your attention and
turn you to Him. “Acquaint now thyself with
him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto
thee.” Turn to the divine presence within your-
Spiritual Gifts 127
self. Seek Him. Be still before Him. Wait upon
God quietly, earnestly, but constantly and trust­
ingly, for days—aye, weeks, if need be! Let Him
work in you, and sooner or later you will spring
up into a resurrected life of newness and power
that you never before dreamed of.
25. When these transition periods come, in
which God would lead us higher, should we get
frightened or discouraged, and run off to seek the
help of some healer to be made simply physically
well, we only miss the lesson which He would
teach, and so postpone the day of receiving our
own fullest, highest gift. In our ignorance and
fear, we are thus hanging on to the old grain of
wheat which we can see, not daring to let it go
into the ground (of failure) and die (or fail), lest
there be no resurrection, no newness of life, noth­
ing bigger and grander to come out of it.
26. Oh, do not let us longer fear our God, who
is all good, and who longs only to make us each one
a giant instead of a pygmy!
27. What we all need to do above everything
else is to cultivate the acquaintance or conscious­
ness of Spirit within our own being. We must
take our attention off results, and seek to live the
life. Results will be “added unto” us in greater
measure when we turn our thoughts less to the
“works” and more to embodying the indwelling
128 Tenth Lesson
Christ in our entire being. We have come to a
time when there must be less talking about Truth,
less treating and being treated merely for the pur­
pose of being delivered from some evil result of
wrong living; there must be more living of Truth
and teaching others to do so. There must be more
incorporating of Truth in our very flesh and bone.
28. How are you to do this?
29. “I am the way, the truth, and the life,”
says the Christ at the center of your being.
30. “I am the vine, ye are the branches: He
that abideth [consciously] in me, and I in him [in
his consciousness], the same bringeth forth much
fru it: for without me [or severed from me in your
consciousness] ye can do nothing. . . . If ye
abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall
ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.”
31. I do assure you, as do all teachers, that
you can bring good things of whatever kind you
desire into your life by holding to them as yours
in the invisible until they become manifest. But,
beloved, do you not see that your highest, your
first—aye, your continual—thought should be to
seek the abiding in Him, to seek the knowing as a
living reality, not simply as a finespun theory that
He abides in you? After that, ask what you will,
be it power to heal, to cast out demons, or even the
“greater works,” and “it shall be done unto you.”
Spiritual Gifts 129
32. There is one Spirit—“one God and Father
of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you
all. But unto every one of us is given grace [or
free gift] according to the measure of the gift of
Christ” in us.
33. “Wherefore I put thee in remembrance
that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee.”
34. Do not be afraid, “for God hath not given
us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and
of a sound mind.”
35. It is all one and the same Spirit. To be
the greatest success, you do not want my gift, nor
do I want yours; each wants his own, such as will
fit his size and shape, his capacity and desires,
such as not the mortal mind of us, but the Highest
in us, shall choose. Seek to be filled with Spirit,
to have the soul of things incarnated in larger de­
gree in your consciousness. Spirit will reveal to
your understanding your own specific gift, or the
manner of God’s desired manifestation through
you.
36. Let us not desert our own work, our own
God within us, to gaze or pattern after our neigh­
bor. Let us not seek to make his gift ours; let us
not criticize his failure to manifest any specific
gift. Whenever he “fails,” give thanks to God
that He is leading him up into a higher place,
where there can be a fuller and more complete
130 Tenth Lesson
manifestation of the divine Presence through him.
37. And “I . . . beseech you that ye walk
worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,
“With all lowliness and meekness, with long-
suffering, forbearing one another in love;
“Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit
in the bond of peace.”
UNITY OF THE SPIRIT
ELEVENTH LESSON
1. Did we not know it as a living reality that
behind all the multitude and variety of human en­
deavors to bring about the millennium there
stands forever the master Mind which sees the end
from the beginning, the master Artist who Him­
self is (through human vessels as His hands) put­
ting on the picture here a touch of one color and
there a touch of another, according to the vessel
used, we might sometimes be discouraged.
2. Were it not at times so utterly ridiculous,
it would always be pitiful to see the human mind
of man trying to limit God to personal comprehen­
sion. However much any one of us may know of
God, there will always be unexplored fields in the
realms of expression, and it is an evidence of our
narrow vision to say: “This is all there is of God.”
3. Suppose that a dozen people are standing
on the dark side of a wall in which are various
sized openings. Viewing the scene outside through
the opening assigned to him, one sees all there is
within a certain radius. He says, “I see the whole
world; in it are trees and fields.” Another,
through a larger opening, has a more extended
131
132 Eleventh Lesson
view; he says: “I see trees and fields and houses;
I see the whole world.” The next one, with a still
larger opening, exclaims: “Oh! you are all wrong!
I alone see the whole world; I see trees and fields
and houses and rivers and animals.”
4. The fact is, each one looking at the same
world sees according to the size of the aperture
through which he is looking, and he limits the
world to just his own circumscribed view of it.
You would say at once that such limitation was
only a mark of each man’s ignorance and narrow­
ness. Every one would pity the man who thus
displayed—aye, fairly vaunted—his ignorance.
5. From time immemorial there have been
schisms and divisions among religious sects and
denominations. And now with the newer light
that we have, even the light of the knowledge of
one God immanent in all men, many still cling to
the external differences, so postponing, instead of
hastening, the day of the millennium; at least they
postpone it for themselves.
6. I want, if possible, to help break down all
seeming “middle walls of partition,” even as
Christ, the living Christ, does in reality break
down or destroy all real walls of partition. I
want to help you to see that there is no real wall
of difference between all the various sects of the
new theology, except such as appear to you be-
Unity op the Spirit 133
cause of your circumscribed view. I want you
to see, if you do not already, that every time you
try to limit God’s manifestation of Himself in any
person or through any person, in order to make
that manifestation conform to what you see as
Truth, you are only crying loudly: “Ho! every
one, come and view my narrowness and my igno­
rance !”
7. I want to stimulate you to lose sight of all
differences, all side issues and lesser things, and
seek but for one thing—i. e., the consciousness of
the presence of an indwelling God in your own
soul and life. And believe me, just as there is
less separation between the spokes of a wheel the
nearer they get to the hub, so you will find that the
nearer you both come to the perfect Center, which
is the Father, the less difference will there be be­
tween you and your brother.
8. The faith healer, he who professes to be­
lieve only in what he terms “divine healing” (as
though there could be any other healing than
divine), differs from the so-called spiritual scien­
tist only in believing that he must ask, seek, knock,
importune, before he can receive; while he of the
Truth teaching knows that he has already re­
ceived God’s free gift of life and health and all
things, and that by speaking the words of it the
gifts are made manifest. Both get like results
134 Eleventh Lesson
(God made visible) through faith in the invisible.
The mind of the one is lifted to a place of faith by
asking or praying; the mind of the other is lifted
to a place of faith by speaking words of Truth.
9. Is there any real difference?
10. The mental scientist usually scorns to be
classed with either of the other two sects. He
loudly declares that “all is mind” and that all the
God that he knows or cares anything about is the
invincible, unconquerable I within him, which
nothing can daunt or overcome.
11. He talks about conscious mind and uncon­
scious mind and subconscious mind, and he fancies
that he has something entirely different from and
infinitely higher than either of the other sects. He
boldly proclaims, “I have the truth; the others
are in error, too orthodox,” and thus he calls the
world’s attention to the small size of the aperture
through which he is looking at the stupendous
whole.
12. Beloved, as surely as you and I live, it is
all one and the same Truth. There may be a dis­
tinction, but it is without a difference.
13. The happy Methodist who will from his
heart exclaim, “Praise the Lord!” no matter what
happens to him, and who thereby finds “all things
working together for good” to himself, is in reality
saying the “All is good” of the metaphysician.
Unity of the Spirit 135
Each one does simply “acknowledge him [or God,
good] in all thy ways,” which is indeed a magical
wand, bringing sure deliverance out of any trouble
to all who faithfully use it.
14. The teachings of Spirit are intrinsically
the same, because Spirit is one. I heard an un­
educated little colored woman speak in a most
orthodox prayer meeting some time ago. She
knew no more of “science” than a babe knows of
Latin. Her face, however, was radiant with the
light of the Christ manifest through her. She told
how, five or six years before, she had been ear­
nestly seeking to know more of God (seeking in
prayer, as she knew nothing about seeking spirit­
ual light from people), and one day, in all earnest­
ness, she asked that some special word of His will
might be given directly to her as a sort of private
message. These words flashed into her mind:
“If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full
of light. . . . No man can serve two masters.”
15. She had read these words many times, but
that day they were illumined by Spirit, and she
saw that to have an eye “single” meant seeing but
one power in her life; while she saw two powers
(God and Devil, good and evil) she was serving
two masters. From that day to this, though she
had passed through all sorts of troublous circum­
stances—trials of poverty, illness in family, in-
136 Eleventh Lesson
temperate husband—she found always the most
marvelous, full, and complete deliverance out of
them all by resolutely adhering to the “single eye”
—seeing God only. She would not look even for
a moment at the seeming evil to combat it or rid
herself of it, because, as she said, “Lookin’ at God
with one eye and this evil with the other is bein’
double-eyed, and God tole me to keep my eye
single.”
16. This woman, who had never heard of any
“science,” or metaphysical teaching, or laws of
mind, was combating and actually overcoming the
tribulations of this world by positively refusing
to have anything but a single eye. She had been
taught in a single day by infinite Spirit the whole
secret of how to banish evil and have only good
and joy in her. Isn’t it all very simple?
17. At the center, all is one and the same God
forever more. I believe that the Hottentot, or the
veriest heathen that ever lived, he who worships
the golden calf as his highest conception of God,
worships God. His mind has not yet expanded to
a state where he can grasp any idea of God apart
from a visible form, something that he can see
with human eyes and handle with fleshly hands.
But at heart he is seeking something higher than
his present conscious self to be his deliverance
out of evil.
Unity of the Spirit 137
18. Are you and I, with all our boasted knowl­
edge, doing anything more or different?
19. The Spirit at the center of even the hea­
then, who is God’s child, is thus seeking, though
blindly, its Father God. Shall any one dare to say
that it will not find that which it seeks—its
Father? Shall we not rather say it will find, be­
cause of that immutable law that “he that seeketh
findeth” ?
20. You have now come to know that, at the
center of your being, God (omnipotent Power)
ever lives. From the nature of your relationship
to Him, and by His own immutable laws, you may
become conscious of His presence and eternally
abide in Him and He in you.
21. The moment that any man really comes
to recognize that which is absolute fact—namely,
that one Spirit, even the Father, being made mani­
fest in the Son, ever lives at the center of all
human beings—he will know that he can cease for­
ever from any undue anxiety about bringing
others into the same external fold that he is in.
If your friend, or your son, or your husband, or
your brother does not see Truth as you see it, do
not try by repeated external argument to convert
him.
22. “And I, if I be lifted up from the earth,
will draw all men unto me.” That which is needed
138 Eleventh Lesson
is not that you (the mortal which is so fond of talk
and argument) try to lift up your brother. The
Holy Spirit, or Christ within him, declares: “If I
be lifted up, I will draw him.” You can silently
lift up this I within the man’s own being, and it
will draw the man up unto—what? Your teach­
ing? No, “unto me,” the divine in himself.
23. If your loved one seems to you to be going
all wrong, say nothing at all. Keep your own
light lifted up by living the victorious life of
Spirit. And then, remembering that your dear
one, as well as yourself, is an incarnation of the
Father, keep him silently committed to the care
of his own divine Spirit. You do not know what
God wants to do in him; you never can know.
24. If you fully recognize the fact that the
God that dwells in you dwells in all men, you know
that each one’s own Lord, the Christ within each
one, will make no mistake. The greatest help that
you can give to any man is to tell him silently,
whenever you think of him: “The Holy Spirit
lives within you; He cares for you, is working in
you that which He would have you do, and is
manifesting Himself through you.” Then let him
alone. Be at perfect rest about him, and the re­
sult will be infinitely better than you could have
asked.
25. Keep ever in mind that each living soul in
Unity op the Spirit 139
all God’s universe is a radiating center of the
same perfect One, some radiating more and some
less, according to the awakened consciousness of
the individual. If you have become conscious of
this radiation in yourself, keep your thought cen­
tered right there, and the Spirit of the living God
will radiate from you in all directions with mighty
power, doing without noise or words a great work
in lifting others up. If you want to help others
who are not yet awakened to this knowledge, cen­
ter your thought on this same idea for them—i. e.,
that they are radiating centers of the All-Perfect.
Keep your “eye single” for them, as did the little
colored woman for herself, and Spirit will teach
them more in a day than you could in years.
26. Throughout the ages man has leaned to
the idea of separateness instead of oneness. He
has believed himself separate from God and sepa­
rate from other men. And even in these latter days
when we talk so much about oneness, most teach­
ers of metaphysics manage again to separate
God’s children from Him by saying that while one
suffers the Other knows no suffering nor does He
take cognizance of the child’s suffering; that we,
His children, forever a part of Him, are tom and
lacerated, while He, knowing nothing of this, goes
sailing on as serenely and coldly as the full moon
sails through the heavens on a winter night.
140 Eleventh Lesson
27. It is little wonder that many, to whom the
first practical lessons in the gospel of the Christ
came as liberation and power, should in time of
failure and heartache have turned back to the old
limited idea of the fatherhood of God.
28. There is no real reason why we, having
come to recognize God as infinite substance, should
be by this recognition deprived of the familiar
fatherly companionship which in all ages has been
so dear to the human heart. There is no necessity
for us to separate God as substance and God as
tender Father; no reason why we should not, and
every reason why we should, have both in one;
they are one—God principle outside of us as un­
changeable law, God within us as tender, loving
Father-Savior, who sympathizes with our every
sorrow.
29. There is no reason why, because in our
earlier years some of us were forced into the
narrow puritanical limits which stood for a reli­
gious belief, we should now so exaggerate our
freedom as to fancy that we are entirely self-suffi­
cient and shall never again need the sweet, uplift­
ing communion between Father and child. The
created, who ever “lives, moves, and has his be­
ing” in his Creator, needs the conscious presence
of that Creator, and cannot be entirely happy in
knowing God only as cold, unsympathetic prin-
Unity of the Spirit 141
ciple. Why cannot both conceptions find lodg­
ment in our minds and hearts? Both are true,
and both are necessary parts of a whole. The
two were made to go together, and in the highest
cannot be separated.
30. God as the underlying substance of all
things, God as principle, is unchanging, and does
remain forever uncognizant of and unmoved by the
changing things of time and sense. It is true that
God as principle does not feel pain, is not moved
by the cries of children of men for help. It is a
grand, stupendous thought that this power is all
unchanging law, just as unchanging in its control
of our affairs as in the government of the starry
heavens. One is fairly conscious of his entire be­
ing’s expanding into grandeur as he dwells on the
thought.
31. But this is not all, any more than the emo­
tional side is all. True, there is law; but there is
gospel also. Nor does gospel make law of no
effect; it fulfills law. God is principle, but God is
individual also. Principle becomes individualized
the moment it comes to dwell in external manifes­
tation in a human body.
32. Principle does not change because of pity
or sympathy, “even as a father pitieth his chil­
dren.” The “Father in me” always moves into
helpfulness when called on and trusted. It is as
142 Eleventh Lesson
though infinite wisdom and power, which outside
are Creator, Upholder, and Father, became trans­
formed into infinite love, which is Mother, with all
the warmth and tender helpfulness which that
word implies, when they become focalized, so to
speak, within a human body.
33. I do not at all understand it, but in some
way this indwelling One does move to lift the con­
sciousness of His children up and to place it paral­
lel with God, Principle, Law, so that no longer two
are crossed, but the two—aye, the three—the
human consciousness, the indwelling individual
Father, and the Holy Spirit—are made one. In
every life, with our present limited understanding
(Jesus with His greater understanding was not
yet exempt), there come times when the bravest
heart goes down, for the moment, under the ap­
parent burdens of life; times when the strongest
intellect bends like a “reed shaken in the wind,”
when the most self-sufficient mind feels a help­
lessness which wrings from it a cry for help from
the “rock that is higher than I.”
34. Every metaphysician either has reached,
or must in future reach, this place; the place
where God as cold principle alone will not suffice
any more than in the past God as personality alone
could wholly satisfy. There will come moments
when the human heart is so suddenly struck as to
Unity op the Spirit 143
paralyze it, and for the moment to make it im­
possible, even with strained effort, to “think right
thoughts.”
35. At such times there will come but little
comfort from the thought: “This suffering comes
as the result of my wrong thinking; but God, my
Father, takes no cognizance of it; I must work
it out unaided and alone.” Just here we must
have, and we do have, the motherhood of God,
which is not cold principle any more than your
love for your child is cold principle. I would not
make God as principle less, but God as individual
more.
36. The whole business of your Lord (the
Father in you) is to care for you, to love you with
an everlasting love, to note your slightest cry, and
to rescue you.
37. Then you ask, “Why doesn’t He do it?”
38. Because you do not recognize His indwell­
ing and His power, and, by resolutely affirming
that He does now manifest Himself as your all-
sufficiency, call Him forth into visibility.
39. God (Father-Mother) is a present help
in time of trouble; but there must be a recognition
of this fact, a turning away from human efforts,
and an acknowledgment of God only (a single eye)
before He becomes manifest.
BONDAGE OR LIBERTY, WHICH?
TWELFTH LESSON
Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in
the power of his might.—Eph. 6:10.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true,
whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are
just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things
are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if
there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think
on these things.—Phil. 4:8.
1. Every soul is by nature, or believes itself
to be, in bondage to the flesh and to the things of
the flesh. All suffering is the result of this bond­
age. The history of the coming of the Children of
Israel out of their long bondage in Egypt is de­
scriptive of the human soul, or consciousness,
growing up out of the animal or sense part of man
and into the spiritual part.
2. “And the Lord said [speaking to Moses], I
have surely seen the affliction of my people which
are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason
of their taskmasters; for I know their sorrows;
3. “And I am come down to deliver them up
out of the land unto a good land and a large, unto
a land flowing with milk and honey.”
144
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 145
4. These words express exactly the attitude of
the Creator toward His highest creation, man.
5. Today, and all the days, He has been saying
to us, His children: “Surely I have seen the afflic­
tion of my people which are in Egypt [darkness
of ignorance], and have heard their cry by reason
of their taskmasters [sickness, sorrow, and pov­
erty] ; and I am [not I will, but I am now] come
down to deliver you out of all this suffering, and
to bring you up unto a good land and a large, unto
a land flowing with good things.”
6. Sometime, somewhere, every human soul
must come to itself. Having tired of eating husks,
it will “arise and go to my Father.” “For it is
written, As I live, saith the Lord, to me every
knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess to
God.”
7. This does not mean that God is a stern
autocrat who by reason of supreme power will
compel man to bow to Him. It is rather an expres­
sion of the order of divine law, the law of all love,
all good. Man, who is at first living in the selfish
animal part of himself, will grow up through
various stages and by various processes to the
divine or spiritual understanding wherein he
knows that he is one with the Father, and wherein
he is free from all suffering, because he has con­
scious dominion over all things. Somewhere on
146 Twelfth Lesson
this journey the human consciousness, or intellect,
comes to a place where it gladly bows to its spir­
itual self and confesses that this spiritual self, its
Christ, is highest and is Lord. Here and forever
after, not with sense of bondage, but with joyful
freedom, the soul cries out: “The Lord reigneth.”
Every one must sooner or later come to this point
of experience.
8. You and I, dear reader, have already “come
to ourselves.” Having become conscious of an op­
pressive bondage, we have arisen and set out on
the journey from Egypt to the land of liberty, and
now we cannot turn back if we would. Though
possibly there will come times to each of us, be­
fore we reach the land of milk and honey (the
time of full deliverance out of all our sorrows and
troubles), when we shall come into a deep wilder­
ness or against an impassable Red Sea, when our
principle will seem to fail, yet does God say to
each one of us, as to the trembling Children of
Israel: “Fear ye not, stand still, and see the sal­
vation of the Lord, which he will show to you.”
9. Each soul must sooner or later learn to
stand alone with its God; nothing else avails.
Nothing else will ever make you master of your
own destiny. There are in your own indwelling
Lord all the life and health, all the strength and
peace and joy, all the wisdom and support that you
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 147
can ever need or desire. No other can give to you
as can this indwelling Father. He is the spring
of all joy and comfort and power.
10. Hitherto we have believed that we were
helped and comforted by others, that we received
joy from outside circumstances and surroundings;
but it is not so. All joy and strength and good
spring up from a fountain within one’s own be­
ing; and if we only knew this truth we should
know that, because God in us is the fountain out of
which springs all our good, nothing that any one
does or says, or fails to do or say, can take away
our joy and good.
11. Some one has said: “Our liberty comes
from an understanding of the mind and the
thoughts of God toward us.” Does God regard
man as His servant, or as His child? Most of us
have believed ourselves not only the slaves of cir­
cumstances, but also, at the best, the servants of
the Most High. Neither belief is true. It is time
for us to awake to right thoughts, to know that
we are not servants, but children, and if children,
then heirs. Heirs to what ? Why, heirs to all wis­
dom, so that we need not, through any lack of
wisdom, make mistakes; heirs to all love, so that
we need know no fear or envy or jealousy; heirs
to all strength, all life, all power, all good.
12. The human intelligence is so accustomed
148 Twelfth Lesson
to the sound of words heard from childhood that
often they convey to it no real meaning. Do you
stop to think, really to comprehend, what it means
to be “an heir of God and joint heir with Christ”?
It means, as Emerson says, that “Every man is the
inlet, and may become the outlet, of all there is in
God.” It means that all that God is and has is in
reality for us, His only heirs, if we only know how
to claim our inheritance.
13. This claiming of our rightful inheritance,
the inheritance which God wants us to have in our
daily life, is just what we are learning how to do
in these simple talks.
14. Paul said truly: “That the heir, as long
as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant,
though he be lord of all;
15. “But is under tutors and governors until
the time appointed of the father.
16. “Even so we, when we were children [in
knowledge], were in bondage under the elements
of the world:
17. “But when the fullness of the time was
come, God sent forth his Son. . . . And because
ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his
Son into your hearts [or into your conscious
minds],-crying Abba, Father.
18. “Wherefore thou art no more a servant,
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 149
but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God
through Christ.”
19. It is through Christ, the indwelling
Christ, that we are to receive all that God has and
is, as much or as little as we can or dare to claim.
20. No matter with what object you first
started out to seek the knowledge of the Truth, it
was in reality because it was God’s “fullness of
time” for you to arise and begin to claim your in­
heritance. You were no longer to be satisfied
with or under bondage to the elements of the
world. Think of it! God’s “fullness of time” now
for you to be free, to have dominion over all things
material, to be no longer bond servant, but a son
in possession of your inheritance! “Ye have not
chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained
you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit.”
21. We have come to a place now where our
search for the Truth must no longer be for the
rewards; it must no longer be our seeking a creed
to follow, but it must be our living a life. In these
simple lessons we have taken only the first steps
out of the Egyptian bondage of selfishness, lust,
and sorrow toward the land of liberty, where per­
fect love and all good reign.
22. Every right thought that we think, our
every unselfish word or action, is bound by immu­
table laws to be fraught with good results. But in
150 Twelfth Lesson
our walk we must learn to lose sight of results
which are the “loaves and fishes.” We must
rather seek to be the Truth consciously, to be love,
to be wisdom, to be life (as we really are uncon­
sciously) , and let results take care of themselves.
23. Every soul must take time daily for quiet
and meditation. In daily meditation lies the secret
of power. No one can grow in either spiritual
knowledge or power without it. Practice the pres­
ence of God just as you would practice music. No
one would ever dream of becoming a power in
music except by spending some time daily alone
with music. Daily meditation alone with God
seems, some way, to focus the divine presence
within us and to our consciousness.
24. You may be so busy with the doing, the
outgoing of love to help others (which is unselfish
and Godlike as far as it goes), that you find no
time to go apart. But the command, or rather the
invitation, is, “Come ye apart and rest awhile.”
And it is the only way in which you will ever gain
definite knowledge, newness of experience, steadi­
ness of purpose, or power to meet the unknown
which must come in all daily life. Doing is sec­
ondary to being. When we are consciously the
Truth, it will radiate from us and accomplish the
works without our ever running to and fro. If
you have no time for this quiet meditation, make
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 151
time, take time. Watch carefully, and you will
find that there are some things, even in the active
unselfish doing, which would better be left undone
than that you should neglect regular concentrated
meditation.
25. You will find that some time is spent every
day in idle conversation with people who “just run
in for a few moments” to be entertained. If you
can help such people, well; if not, gather yourself
together and do not waste a moment just idly dif­
fusing and dissipating yourself to gratify their
idleness. You have no idea what you lose by it.
26. When you withdraw from the world for
meditation, let it not be to think of yourself or
your failures, but invariably to get all your
thoughts centered on God and on your relations to
the Creator and Upholder of the universe. Let
all the little annoying cares and anxieties go for a
while, and by eifort, if need be, turn your thoughts
away from them to some of the simple words of
the Nazarene, or of the Psalmist. Think of some
statement of Truth, be it ever so simple.
27. No person, unless he has practiced it, can
have any idea how it quiets all physical nervous­
ness, all fear, all oversensitiveness, all the little
raspings of everyday life—just this hour of calm,
quiet waiting alone with God. Never let it be an
hour of bondage, but always one of restfulness.
152 Twelfth Lesson
28. Some, having realized the calm and power
which come of daily meditation, have made the
mistake of drawing themselves entirely from the
world, that they may give their entire time to
meditation. This is asceticism, which is neither
wise nor profitable.
29. The Nazarene, who was our noblest type
of the perfect life, went daily apart from the world
only that He might come again into it with re­
newed spiritual power. So we go apart into the
stillness of divine presence that we may come
forth into the world of everyday life with a new
inspiration, and increased courage and power for
activity and for overcoming.
30. “We talk to God—that is prayer; God
talks to us—that is inspiration,” says Lyman
Abbott. We go apart to get still, that new life,
new inspiration, new power of thought, new sup­
plies from the Fountainhead, may flow in; and
then we come forth to shed it on those around us,
that they too may be lifted up. Inharmony can­
not remain in any home where even one member
of the family daily practices this hour of the pres­
ence of God, so surely does the renewed infilling
of the soul by peace and harmony result in the
continual outgoing of peace and harmony into the
entire surroundings.
31. Again, in this new way which we have
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 153
undertaken, this living the life of Spirit instead of
the old self, we need to seek always to have more
and more of the Christ Spirit of meekness and love
incorporated into our daily life. Meekness does
not mean servility or imbecility, but it means a
spirit which could stand before a Pilate of false
accusation, “opening not his mouth.” No one else
is so grand, so Godlike as he who, because he
knows the truth of Being, can stand meekly and
unperturbed before the false accusations of mor­
tal mind. “Thy gentleness hath made me great.”
32. We must forgive as we would be forgiven.
To forgive does not simply mean to arrive at a
place of indifference to those who do personal in­
jury to ourselves; it means far more than this.
To forgive is to give for—to give some actual,
definite good in return for evil given. One may
say: “I have no one to forgive; I have not a per­
sonal enemy in the world.” Even so; and yet if,
under any circumstances, any kind of a “served-
him-right” spirit springs up within you over any­
thing that any of God’s children may do or suffer,
you have not yet learned how to forgive.
33. The very pain that you suffer, the very
failure to demonstrate over some matter which
touches your own life deeply, may rest upon just
this spirit of unforgiveness that you harbor to-
154 Twelfth Lesson
ward the world in general. Put it away with reso­
lution.
34. Do not be under bondage to false beliefs
about your circumstances or environment. No
matter how evil any circumstances may seem,
nor how much it may seem that some other per­
sonality is at the foundation of your sorrow or
trouble, God, good, good alone, is really there when
you call His law into expression.
35. If we have the courage to persist in seeing
only God in it all, “even the wrath of man” shall
be invariably turned to our advantage. Joseph,
in speaking of the action of his brethren in selling
him into slavery, said, “As for you, ye thought
evil against me; but God meant it unto good.”
“All things work together for good to them that
love God,” or to them who recognize only God. All
things! The very circumstances in your life that
seem torturing, heartbreaking evils will turn to
joy before your eyes if you will steadfastly refuse
to see anything but God in them.
36. It is perfectly natural for the human soul
to seek to escape from its troubles by running
away from present environments, or by planning
some change on the material plane. Such methods
of escape are absolutely vain and foolish. “Vain
is the help of man” or mortal.
37. There is no permanent or real outward
Bondage or Liberty, Which? 155
way of escape from miseries or circumstances; all
must come from within.
38. The words, “God is my defense and de­
liverance,” held in the silence until they become
part of your very being, will deliver you out of the
hands and the arguments of the keenest lawyer
in the world.
39. The real inner consciousness as a truth
that “the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want”
will supply all my wants more surely and far more
liberally than any human hand can.
40. The ultimate aim of every soul should be
to come into the consciousness of an indwelling
God, and then, in all external matters, to affirm
deliverance through and by this divine One. There
should not be a running to and fro of the mortal,
making human efforts to aid the divine, but a
calm, restful, unwavering trust in All-wisdom
and All-power within one as able to accomplish
the thing desired.
41. Victory must be won in the silence of
your own soul first, and then you need take no part
in the outer demonstration of relief from condi­
tions. The very walls of Jericho which keep you
from your desire must fall before you.
42. The Psalmist said: “I will lift up mine
eyes unto the hills [or to the highest One], from
whence cometh my help.
156 Twelfth Lesson
43. “My help cometh from the Lord, which
made heaven and earth.
44. “The Lord [your indwelling Lord] shall
preserve thee from all evil.
45. “The Lord shall preserve thy going out
and thy coming in from this time forth, and even
for evermore.”
46. Oh, if we could only realize that this
mighty power to save and to perfect, to deliver
and to make alive, lives forever within us, and so
cease now and always to look away to others!
47. There is but one way to obtain this full
realization—the way of the Christ. “I am the
way, the truth, and the life,” spoke the Christ
through the lips of the Nazarene.
48. Holding to the words, Christ is the way,
when you are perplexed and confused and can see
no way of escape, will invariably open a way of
complete deliverance.
QUESTION HELPS
QUESTION HELPS
For Students of
LESSONS IN TRUTH
QUESTIONS
[To be used in connection with the study of “Les­
sons in Truth.” Every student should study his lesson
with these questions before him. It is a very good
practice to write out the answers and bring them to
the class. Every student should recite as often as pos­
sible, but should not monopolize the class period. Each
member should have opportunity to express his realiza­
tions upon the subject. The questions need not neces­
sarily be answered at all, but can be used to call atten­
tion to the central idea contained in the paragraph
under consideration. Do not spend too much time upon
one question; a class should not cover more than
six questions at a meeting. Remember, never argue!
Keep to the subject! Be considerate of every one’s
ideas. Your purpose is to find Truth.']
159
160 Question Helps
LESSON I—STATEMENT OF BEING
1. What is your conception of God as Spirit?
2. Is God a stern, angry judge of the so-called
wicked?
3. What is the relation of God to His creation?
4. Is God a person?
5. How many Gods are there?
6. Explain God as love.
7. Explain God as intelligence.
8. Explain power in its relation to God.
9. Explain God as substance.
10. Are all the qualities of God potentially in
man?
11. What is the difference between man and
the other manifestations of God?
12. What is the relationship of God to the com­
pleted creation?
13. Explain man’s threefold make-up.
14. What is the difference between mortal
mind and spiritual mind?
15. What is our relationship to God?
16. How does it differ from our earthly rela­
tionships?
17. Explain God as principle. As person.
18. How may we find satisfaction for all our
desires?
Question Helps 161
19. Does every man have direct access to God?
How?
20. Why should man look to God as the one
source?
LESSON II—THINKING
1. From your study of the first chapter, how
would you describe the foundation principle of
Truth?
2. What is the real of every manifestation?
3. Is there more than one Mind?
4. Why does there appear to be more than
one Mind?
5. What is universal Mind?
6. What is the difference between Spirit and
intellect?
7. Explain how the three phases of man’s be­
ing are related.
8. How did man fall?
9. What does Paul mean by the words: “To
be carnally minded is death” ?
10. What does Paul mean by the words: “To
be spiritually minded is life and peace” ?
11. Through what faculty does man find God?
12. Are the principles of Truth simple, or com­
plex?
13. Can one come into a realization of Truth
162 Question Helps
by arguing, or through intellectual reasoning?
14. Why is it necessary for one to be open and
receptive to Truth?
15. Why is it detrimental to depend wholly
upon books and teachers for Truth?
16. What is the short road to spiritual attain­
ment?
17. Is it important that each individual receive
his own spiritual revelations?
18. How can we know whether a statement is
Truth or not?
19. What is the difference in the manner in
which the intellect and Spirit handle ideas?
20. Is it important what we think about our­
selves, about God, or about our neighbors? Why?
21. What are some of the results of a right
attitude toward God? Toward ourselves and
others?
22. Is God responsible for keeping our
thoughts right? If He is not, who is? Why does
your answer seem to you to be a just plan?
23. How are our thoughts first formulated?
24. How do we formulate only true thoughts?
25. What does God seek to express through
man? To what degree?
26. Do we have to beseech God for the fulfill­
ment of our desires ? Why?
27. Does God change?
Question Helps 163
LESSON III—DENIALS
1. Where does man find real enjoyment?
2. What is the truth about denial?
3. Why does man fail to find satisfaction in
external things?
4. Give some of the important points found
in Jesus Christ’s teaching of the way in which
man may find joy.
5. Did Jesus teach that He was the means
through which man would reach God?
6. Is the real self ever sick?
7. What is the cause of sickness?
8. Has sin or sickness any existence in God?
9. What is the first step in readjusting our­
selves in accordance with true principle?
10. How do our sorrows and sufferings differ
from the bugaboos of childish imagination?
11. Why can we not judge from appearances?
12. What happens to false conditions in the
presence of strong denials?
13. What is the result of having more of God
in one’s life?
14. What do we mean by saying that there is
no evil?
15. Does the body control the thought?
16. Is it necessary for man to realize his one­
ness with the Father?
164 Question Helps
17. Is there an absence of life, substance, or
intelligence anywhere?
18. Is there really anything in the universe to
fear?
19. Should we fight evil?
20. How may we overcome jealousy?
21. How may we overcome fear?
22. How may we overcome bondage?
23. How should denials be spoken?
LESSON IV—AFFIRMATIONS
1. What is the cause of our desire?
2. How may we attain satisfaction?
3. Are supply and demand equal?
4. What is affirmation?
5. How near to man is the supply of his
every need ?
6. What is the purpose of affirmation?
7. What is the power in an affirmation which
brings about its fulfillment?
8. What faculty of mind is necessary to make
affirmation most effective?
9. Is there a force in the universe opposed to
the creative Mind?
10. Where does the seeming opposition arise?
11. How may we overcome the belief in evil?
12. Can man be separated from his Source?
Question Helps 165
13. Can man contact his Source at all times,
and under all circumstances? How?
14. What change takes place through the use
of affirmation?
15. What are the four logical steps to consider
in connection with affirmation?
16. Is it wise to commit affirmations to
memory?
17. In what direction does the Spirit of God
always move?
18. When man identifies himself with Spirit
what happens?
19. Should affirmations be confined to set
forms ?
20. Is there any set rule in regard to use of
affirmations and denials?
21. What type of mind has most need of
denials? Of affirmations?
22. What should one do in moments of doubt?
23. Will Principle always work in the solution
of life’s problems?
LESSON V—FAITH
1. What is faith?
2. What part does faith play in our accom­
plishment?
3. Explain Paul’s definition of faith.
166 Question Helps
4. What is blind faith?
5. What has intuition to do with faith?
6. What is understanding faith ?
7. Does an understanding faith increase one’s
power to demonstrate?
8. How may we know just what results will
follow certain mental states?
9. What is meant by “God is Spirit and vis­
ible to spiritual consciousness” ?
10. Can man desire any good not to be found
in God?
11. From what are all things visible formed?
12. What is man’s real supply?
18. To what extent is man’s supply already
provided ?
14. How does faith work in connection with
substance?
15. What are the promises of God?
16. Does asking for the thing we desire play a
part in spiritual demonstration?
17. What is desire?
18. What is the cause of desire?
19. What part does affirmation play in the ful­
fillment of desire?
20. Which comes first—supply or demand?
21. Would it be possible to have our needs ful­
filled if the supply did not already exist in Divine
Mind?
Question Helps 167
22. In reality can you desire that which be­
longs to another?
23. In reality what is man’s greatest desire?
LESSON VI—DEFINITIONS OF META­
PHYSICAL TERMS
1. What is evidence of the most advanced
teaching?
2. Who is the most advanced teacher that
mankind has had?
3. Should simplicity be sought in our expres­
sion of Truth?
4. What is thought transference?
5. How should the power of thought trans­
ference be used?
6. Should one ever use the power of thought
to influence another?
7. What is chemicalization?
8. How can it be avoided in the individual?
9. What is personality?
10. What is individuality?
11. What did John the Baptist mean when he
said, “He must increase, but I must decrease” ?
12. How do we cultivate individuality?
13. Should personality be killed out?
14. How may we overcome fear and timidity
in the presence of strong personality?
168 Question Helps
15. Is one ever afraid in the presence of a thor­
oughly great soul?
16. How may we strengthen our individuality?
17. What is meant by the “voice within” ?
18. What is the meaning of “The soul [God]
had need of such an organ as I”?
19. Are there any great or small in God’s
world?
20. What did Jesus say on this point?
21. Does a humble station in life indicate your
relationship to God?
22. From what basis should man always act?
LESSON VII—SPIRITUAL UNDERSTAND­
ING OR REALIZATION
1. How do we develop intellectual knowledge?
2. How do we develop spiritual understand­
ing?
3. How did Peter know that Jesus was the
Christ?
4. How is spiritual understanding attained?
5. Can you cure yourself or another by speak­
ing words of Truth from the intellectual plane of
consciousness? Does true healing require any­
thing beyond this ?
6. What was the purpose of all Jesus’ teach­
ing?
Question Helps 169
7. Are there external steps that one can take
in coming into consciousness of the inner Pres­
ence? What are they?
8. What did Jesus mean by “the Comforter” ?
Does it apply to us today?
9. Where is the kingdom of heaven?
10. What is the temple of the Most High?
11. Can one person reveal God to another?
Where must we all seek?
12. Can the gift of God be purchased?
18. Will beseeching bring understanding?
How does it come? Does it come to one with self­
ish motives ?
14. To whom does spiritual understanding
come?
15. Why do we ask and receive not?
16. Why should we desire spiritual under­
standing above all other gifts?
17. When will man become conscious of the in­
dwelling Father?
18. What is the meaning of “Seek ye first the
kingdom of God” ?
19. What is the first step toward gaining spir­
itual understanding?
20. What are some of the steps in attaining
spiritual understanding?
21. What are some of the effects, in the in­
dividual, of spiritual understanding?
170 Question Helps
22. Does every one really desire birth into
spiritual understanding?
23. Are we helped in receiving spiritual
growth by service, or should we wait until the full
understanding comes?
24. What is the law of growth?
25. Can one do too much “spiritual seeking” ?
26. What is the fast spoken of by Isaiah?
27. Can we receive the full spirit of God at
once?
LESSON VIII—THE SECRET PLACE OF
THE MOST HIGH
1. For whom does the soul long?
2. Do men find satisfaction in outer things?
3. How will man find satisfaction?
4. What precedes the outworking of spiritual
consciousness?
5. Where is man’s escape from evil?
6. What eifect does fear have upon man?
What is the cure for fear?
7. How would you describe the “secret place”
to another?
8. What revelations come to us through abid­
ing in the “secret place” ?
9. How can we come into the fullness of
understanding?
Question Helps 171
10. How is the Spirit of God likely to reveal
itself to one?
11. Wherein lies man’s “hope of glory”?
12. What is the key to power? What or who
can give it to us?
13. What is the “white stone” upon which
man’s spiritual name is written?
14. What is our desire concerning the words
of Truth which we speak?
15. What is an all-important point that we
should become conscious of in connection with the
outworking of our ideals?
16. What enabled Mary to recognize Jesus?
17. Should we ever reach the point where we
do not need external help? How will it come?
18. When should one turn from teachers and
books in one’s search for Truth?
19. Why did not Jesus at once open the eyes of
understanding in His disciples?
20. What is the purpose for which we came
into the world?
21. Must there be a balance between giving
and receiving? Why?
22. Must we work out our own salvation?
What other idea is to be taken into consideration?
23. What changes will Spirit work in the con­
sciousness?
172 Question Helps
24. Study Paul’s attitude, outlined in the
quotations closing this chapter.
LESSON IX—FINDING THE SECRET
PLACE
1. What is the one great underlying desire of
man?
2. How is it attained ?
3. Should we be in a hurry?
4. Who are the “chosen” ones?
5. What is one of the most helpful attitudes
of mind in spiritual attainment?
6. Should man approach God direct?
7. Does God have life and love? How are
these qualities incorporated in our being?
8. What is holiness?
9. What is “the silence”? Give some impor­
tant things in connection with it.
10. Is one passive in the silence? What else?
11. How can one center one’s mind on the Eter­
nal?
12. Should one try not to think at all?
13. Are there successive steps one can easily
take to bring concentration of mind? What are
they?
14. Should one use a definite form of words?
15. Does anxiety, strained effort, or looking
Question Helps 173
out and up, form a part of true prayer? What
does?
16. How close is God to man?
17. Does physical and mental relaxation play
a part in our moments of “silence” ? Why? Does
this mean inertia? What does it mean?
18. What part does faith play in the fulfill­
ment of our desire?
19. What should one do instead of looking for
“signs and wonders” ?
20. How does the attitude of thankfulness act
upon the fulfillment of our desire?
21. What should one do if he becomes strained
or “heady” in the silence?
22. What are some of the changes that come
as a result of true prayer?
23. Is your desire in process of fulfillment be­
fore you become conscious of it?
24. Is it enough to be continually receiving the
blessings of Spirit? What further step is neces­
sary?
25. Should one expect the satisfaction of one’s
desire from any source except God?
LESSON X—SPIRITUAL GIFTS
1. Do man’s difficulties sometimes result in
good to him? How?
174 Question Helps
2. Is there any one who does not cherish the
belief in a supreme power?
3. Is God willing to grant to all men deliver­
ance from sin?
4. Is it the highest motive to seek God for
what we may gain in return?
5. Is there more than willingness upon the
part of God to deliver man ?
6. Is healing a spiritual gift? Are there
other gifts?
7. To what extent do the “gifts of God” meet
the needs of man?
8. Is healing the greatest gift?
9. If one has had healing power and it seem­
ingly leaves one, what should be one’s attitude?
10. What are some of the gifts of God?
11. What is the greatest gift?
12. What attitude is necessary to receive all
the gifts of Spirit?
13. What is the result of abandoning oneself
to the infinite Will?
14. Are apparent failures sometimes suc­
cesses ?
15. What is the truth about apparent failures,
after one has surrendered oneself to the infinite
Will?
16. What is the Holy Spirit?
Question Helps 175
17. What attitude should one avoid during
transition periods?
18. What do we most need to cultivate in con­
sciousness?
19. Is the building of a consciousness of our
oneness with the Father of more importance than
the demonstrating of things? Why?
20. To what degree are we given grace?
21. What are we given in place of fear?
22. How does each man become the greatest
possible success?
23. Should we measure our work by that of
another?
LESSON XI—UNITY OF THE SPIRIT
1. What reason have we for never being dis­
couraged ?
2. Is there any limit to God?
3. What limits the manifestation of God in
man?
4. Is there any real wall of difference between
sects ? What makes it seem so?
5. What will break down all seeming differ­
ences between sects?
6. What constitutes the seeming difference
between the “divine healer” and the “spiritual
scientist”? Is it a real difference?
176 Question Helps
7. When a person holds out for his own idea
and proclaims that he alone sees Truth, what does
he really proclaim?
8. Does it make any difference how we say:
“All is good”?
9. What is the difference between the word
which we read and the word which God speaks to
us?
10. What does it mean to have a “single” eye?
11. Is it necessary to be versed in the science
of mind in order to hear the word of God and re­
ceive its blessings?
12. Are there any to whom God is not acces­
sible?
13. Where does God ever live? What does a
knowledge of this fact do for one?
14. How are we “lifted up” ?
15. Can we depend upon the Christ in others
to make no mistake in bringing them to the
Father?
16. What should we always keep in mind re­
garding others? Regarding ourselves?
17. Should the idea of oneness become an ab­
solute reality to us ?
18. Should the new idea of God as infinite sub­
stance deprive man of his realization of the com­
panionship of God as Father?
Question Helps 177
19. Should the freedom of our new concept of
God make us self-sufficient? What should be true
in this respect?
20. How may one expand one’s being?
21. What is the relation of law and gospel?
22. When does Principle become individual?
23. How does God always move when called
upon ? Explain.
24. What happens when the individual con­
sciousness is lifted up ?
25. Does man in his unfoldment ever reach the
point where he does not recognize that there is
something higher?
26. Will God as cold Principle always satisfy?
27. What is “your Lord’s” whole business?
What is necessary that one may become conscious
of God’s sufficiency?
LESSON XII—BONDAGE OR LIBERTY,
WHICH?
1. What is the cause of all suffering?
2. What is the attitude of the Creator to
man?
3. Will every soul eventually come to itself?
4. What is the meaning of “to me every knee
shall bow”? Is God autocratic in His attitude to­
ward man?
178 Question Helps
5. What is a helpful attitude in the face of
discouragement?
6. Can man desire anything that is not within
his reach? What is the one way he may attain
his desires?
7. Whence come joy, strength, and good?
What is the fountain of all good?
8. Is man the slave of circumstances? Is he
a servant of God?
9. To what are we heirs?
10. What does it mean to be an heir of God?
11. How long is man seemingly a servant?
12. When does the “fullness of time” come to
us?
13. What must eventually become our object
in the search for results?
14. Should we lose sight of results?
15. Is it necessary to “practice the presence of
God”?
16. Should one be too busy to take time for
meditation ?
17. Upon what should one’s thoughts be cen­
tered in moments of meditation?
18. What is the result of waiting alone with
God?
19. Should one drift into the habit of giving
one’s entire time to meditation?
Question Helps 179
20. What is the object of moments of medita­
tion?
21. What is the difference between prayer and
inspiration?
22. When a life is divinely inspired, what is
the effect upon surroundings?
23. Do meekness and love play a part in the
Christ life? What is meekness?
24. What is it to forgive?
25. Is there any condition in which God does
not exist?
26. What is the result of persistently seeking
God in every situation?
27. Can man escape adversity by running
away from it?
28. What is the attitude that leads to complete
deliverance?
29. What should be the ultimate aim of every
soul?
30. Where is victory first won?
[When the study of “Lessons in Truth” has been
completed, you should next send for Charles Fillmore’s
“Christian Healing.” The two books, “Lessons in
Truth” and “Christian Healing,” constitute a course
in the fundamentals of Christian metaphysics.]
x'a a N i
INDEX
Abundance Already Provided—59.
Access to the Father—12.
Affirm, To, Is to Assert—43.
Affirmations and Denials Compared in Effect—50, 51.
Affirmations and Denials Combined—51.
Affirmations and Denials, Necessary Self-Training’
—45.
Affirmations and Denials, Practice of, Gives Mastery
—52.
Affirmations, by Whom to be Used—51.
Affirmations Deliver—48.
Affirmations for Deliverance—155, 156.
Affirmations, Four Comprehensive—48.
Affirmations, Four Great Sweeping—45, 46, 47.
Affirmations Hold God to His Laws—44.
Affirmations Not Arbitrary in Form—50.
Appearances Are Misleading—34.
Appearances, Deny—36.
Asceticism Not Wise—152.
Asking and Receiving—60.
Automatons, We Are Not—22.
Being, But One Source of—12.
Beliefs, False, Cause of All Trouble—31, 32.
Beliefs, Wrong, Wiped from Mind through Denial—35.
“Chemicalization” Illustrated and Explained—68, 69,
70.
Christ the Way—156.
Christ Within Makes No Mistakes—138.
Classes, Two, Seeking Deliverance—15, 16.
Comforter, Work of the—79, 80.
11 IN D E X
Conditions Destroyed through Denial—35.
Conscious Mind, Control of—23.
Creator, The, Assures Us of Deliverance—145.
“Cures,” How Effected—78, 79.
Death Is Stagnation—24, 88.
Deliverance, Two Classes Seeking—15.
Demand Precedes Appearance of Supply—59.
Denial of Good Destroys Your Power—39, 40.
Denial of Troublesome Conditions Gives Freedom—32.
Denial, Place of, in Religious Systems—28.
Denial, Taught by Jesus—31.
Denial Wipes Mistaken Beliefs from Mind—34.
Denials and Affirmations Combined—51.
Denials and Affirmations Compared in Effect—50, 51.
Denials and Affirmations, Practice of, Gives Mastery
—52.
Denials Bring Freedom from Bondage—32.
Denials Destroy Conditions—35.
Denials Should Be Spoken Silently and Audibly—41.
Denials Specified for Daily and Hourly Use—37, 38.
Denials, to Whom Particularly Useful—50, 51.
Deny Appearances—36.
Deny Dread of Meeting Others—39.
Deny, Meaning and Application of—32, 33.
Deny Power of Others to Make You Unhappy—38.
Deny Yourself—31.
Desire Defined and Explained—61.
Desire, Spirit’s, in Us—12.
Desire, Spirit the Fulfillment of—43.
Desires, Our, Are God’s—113.
Divine Mind, the Real Mind—15.
Doing Is Secondary to Being—150.
IN D E X iii
Education, True—8.
Effects of Thinking—20, 23.
Emerson, Quoted on Understanding—81; in Connec­
tion with Our Divine Inheritance—148.
“Enduement of Power”—100, 105.
Enjoyment, Where Sought—29; Where Found—30.
Equilibrium Between Inflow and Outflow—100.
Error Consciousness Defined—15.
Error Thoughts, Four, to Be Denied—36, 37.
Expectation Necessary to Receiving—118.
External, The, Disappoints—12.
External, Thought in Relation to—23.
Failure, Seeming, Means Mighty Success—125, 126,
127.
Faith, Action of—54.
Faith, Compared and Explained—55, 56, 57.
Faith, Defined—54.
Faith, General Thought Concerning—53.
Faith, Power of—54, 55.
Faith, Questioning Our Ability to Use—55, 56.
Faith, Simple, Greater than Intellectual Strength—
19, 20.
Faith, Understanding, Based on Principle—56, 57.
Fall of Man Explained—14, 15.
False Mind, Jealousy Is in the—38, 39.
Father, Access to—12.
Father, Our, Defined—10.
Father, Our, Desires to Give—120.
Father, The, Lives at Center of All Lives—136, 137.
Father-Mother, God—11, 12, 26.
Forgiveness, Law of—153.
“Fullness of Time” for Claiming Inheritance—149.
IV IN D E X
Gift, Your Own Specific, Revealed—129.
Gifts, Desired, Are to Be Taken—82.
God, All-Good—12, 59.
God, Always Trying to Pour Himself into Visibility
—26.
God, Appellations of—6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 59.
God as Cold Principle Will Not Suffice—142.
God as Principle and God as Father—140, 141, 142.
God, Both Principle and Person—11.
God, but One in Universe—7.
God, Changeless—26.
God, Creative Cause Living Within—9, 10.
God, Father-Mother—11, 12, 26.
God Informs Us of Supply—61, 62.
God Is—10.
God, Manifest Good—35, 36.
God, Motives in Seeking—119.
God Not a Stern Autocrat—145.
God, Our Salvation in All Experiences—146.
God, Revelation of, Process in Silence—80.
God Seeks Us.—104.
God, Source of Happiness, Health, Power—40.
God, Sum Total of All Good—59.
God, Supreme Over Adversity—154.
“God, Wait Thou Upon”—118.
God, Wait Upon, Without Fear—125.
God Wants Us to Have the Good—35.
God Works in Stillness—105.
God Would Manifest through Us—49.
God-Being, Our, Never Changes—36.
God’s Child, Every Living Person Is—37.
God’s Giving Likened to Sun’s Radiations—25, 26.
Good Substance, the Supply of Every Demand—59.
IN D E X v
Good, The, Manifests Through Holding It as Yours
—128.
Great Master-Mind and Master-Artist—131.
Growth Comes Through Using Our Gifts—87.
Growth, We Are in Process of—22.
Healing is “a Branch of the Vine”—121.
Heirs, or Servants?—147.
“I AM” Working in Us—101, 102.
“I, if I be Lifted Up”—137, 138.
I, The Central, Unchanging, Is Spirit—14.
Importance of Right Thinking—20, 21, 22, 23.
Individuality, How Cultivated—72, 73.
Indwelling God, Consciousness of, Satisfies the Soul
—91.
Indwelling One Lifts Up His Children—142.
Infinite, The, Cannot Be Measured by the Intellect—16.
Inheritance, Claiming Our—149.
Intellect and Spirit Compared—19.
Intellect Defined—14.
Intellect, Servant to the Real Mind—19.
Intuition and Intellect Meant to Travel Together—
93, 94.
Intuition Defined—56.
Jealousy Is in the False Mind—39.
Jesus, His Teaching of Denial—-31.
Jesus, His Teachings Lead Men to the Father—79.
Jesus, Quoted—10, 11.
Jesus, Quoted on Affirmations—51.
Jesus, Quoted on Understanding—78.
Jesus, Quoted, Our Dependence on the Christ—128.
Jesus Received and Gave—116.
VI IN D E X
John the Baptist Quoted—72.
Kingdom of God, Seek First—84.
Knowledge of God, Key to All Power—95.
Lesser, the, Let Go, to Grasp the Whole—122.
Life, Spiritual, Ways of Entering—43.
Limitless One, The, Should Not be Limited—121.
Law of Demand and Supply-—43.
Law of Receiving-—61, 62, 63.
Laws, Mental and Spiritual, Are Unfailing—58.
Lord, Seek Your Own—89.
“Lord Thy God in the Midst of Thee”—117.
Lord’s, Your, Business Is to Care for You—143.
Man Exists—10.
Man, Expression of God—9.
Man Not Separate from God—139.
Man, Spirit, Soul, Body—10, 14.
Manifestations, All Things, of one Spirit—8, 9, 10, 11.
Meditation, The Purpose and Method of—150.
Meekness Explained—153.
Mind, Only One, in the Universe—14.
Mind, Mortal, Carnal, Defined—10.
Mind, Necessity of an Open—5.
Mind, The Human, Unable to See All of God—131.
Mind, The Real, Is Divine Mind—15.
Minds, Untrained—11.
“Mortal Mind”—15.
Motherhood of God—143.
Name, Revelation through—97.
Nazarene—29.
IN D E X vii
Nazarene, Methods of, for Spiritual Renewal—152.
Nazarene, Most Complete Manifestation of the One
Mind—65.
Nothing Can Come Between You and Your Good—40.
Paul, Concerning Spiritual Gifts—123, 124.
Paul, on Carnal Mind—15.
Paul, on Faith—54, 55, 59, 60.
Paul, on “Gift of God”—129.
Paul, on God Unity in Mankind—39.
Paul, on “Power That Worketh in Us”—102.
Paul, on Rule for Thinking—23.
Paul, on Spiritual Perception—16.
Paul, Showing that We Are Heirs of God—148.
“Personality” and “Individuality”—70, 71, 72.
Personality Limits—11.
Personality, To Overcome Shrinking from—73, 74, 80.
Place of Power, How to Attain—43.
Practice the Presence, Every Soul Must—150.
Prayer of Solomon; Its Reward—83, 84.
Prayer, Purpose of-—152.
Presence, The Beautiful, Is Substance—44.
Principle Always Works—52.
Principle and Person, God Is Both—11.
Promise Defined—60.
Promises of God Are Truths—60.
Psalmist, Showing God to Be Our Deliverer—155, 156.
Receiving and Asking—60.
Relation, Our, to God Likened to a Fountain—12, 24.
Revelation, How It Comes—98.
Revelation of God a Process in the Silence—80.
Revelation through the Name—97.
IN D E X
Schisms Should Not Exist—132, 133.
Schools of Healing Distinguished—133, 134.
Scriptural Terms Preferred—90.
Search for Truth, What It Must Be—149.
“Secret Place” Explained and Defined—91, 92, 93.
“Secret Place” Protects from Dangers and Fears—91.
“Secret Place,” Steps to—103.
Seek Spirit More and Results Less—127, 128.
Self, Real and Mortal, Distinguished—31.
Sermon on the Mount—65.
Servants, or Heirs?—147.
Signs and Wonders, Do Not Look for—111, 112.
Silence, Abnormal—109.
Silence, Affirmations in—113, 114.
Silence, an Active Passivity—112, 113.
Silence, Changes Worked by—114.
Silence, How Practiced—106.
Silence, Method of Entering—110, 111.
Silence, Results of—114.
Soul Craving, How Satisfied—90, 91.
Soul Deals Directly with God—95.
Soul Defined—14.
Soul, Each, a Radiating Center—138, 139.
Soul, Each, Must Stand Alone with God—146.
Soul, Every, Must Practice the Presence—150,
Soul, Temple of the Most High—80.
Source, But One, of Being—12.
Spirit and Intellect Compared—19.
Spirit Defined—6.
Spirit, Fulfillment of Desires—43.
Spirit in Each, The Same—137.
Spirit, Its Desire in Us—12.
viii
IN D E X IX
Spirit of Truth—18; Where Found—18, 19.
Spirit of Truth Latent in Each—8.
Spirit, The Central Unchanging I—14.
Spirit, There Is One—129.
Spiritual Gifts, Why Sought—42.
Spiritual Laws, Infallible, Immutable—44.
Spiritual Things Not Known through Intellect—16.
Spiritual Understanding, How Reached—18.
Stagnation Is Death—24, 88.
Substance Defined—8.
Success through Seeming Failure—125, 126, 127.
Suffering Is a Result of Bondage—144.
Sun of Righteousness, Let It Draw Us—110.
Supply, God Informs Us of—60.
Systems, Religious, Teach Denials—28.
Teachings of Spirit, Intrinsically the Same—135.
Terms Confusing—65.
Thanksgiving Carries Us into Faith—112.
Thinking, Importance of Right—20, 21, 22, 23.
“Thought Transference,” Caution for Using—71.
“Thought Transference” Explained—67.
Thoughts in Relation to External—23.
Transition Periods Not to Be Feared—127.
Truth Intellectually Perceived of No Practical Benefit
—78.
Truth Its Own Witness—19.
Truth, One and the Same—134.
Truth Should Be Simply Expressed—65.
Truth, Spirit of, Latent in Each—8.
Truth, Spirit of, Where Found—18, 19.
Understanding, “Gift of God”—81, 87.
X IN D E X
Understanding, Nature of, Explained—77, 78.
Understanding, Spiritual, Effects of—85, 86.
Understanding, Spiritual, Not Attained at Once—84.
Understanding, Spiritual, Sought by All—87.
Understanding, Spiritual, Way of Attaining—85.
Unity of Things Illustrated—58.
Universal Mind Makes No Mistakes—18.
Universe, But One God in—7.
Universe, But One Mind in—14.
Victory in the Silence of the Soul—155.
Want, What You and 1—93.
We Are in Process of Growth—22.
We Are Not Automatons—22.
We Must Seek at the Source—104, 105.
We Want God—105.
Word of Faith, Power in—44.
Word of the Lord to Moses—144.
Work, Our Own, Let Us Not Desert—129.
Worship, Spirit of, Same in All—136.
Publishers3Announcement
Lessons in Truth is published by the Unity School
of Christianity, an undenominational, educa­
tional institution that publishes Christian liter­
ature with a metaphysical interpretation. The
purpose of Unity School is not to found a new
church, but to help every one to make practical
his own religion, whatever it may be.
In addition to a large number of books, book­
lets, and tracts, the School publishes six periodi­
cals, as follows:
Unity—A monthly magazine teaching the prin­
ciples of Christian healing.
Weekly Unity—A weekly periodical showing how
to apply the teachings of Jesus Christ to ev­
eryday problems.
Unity Daily Word—Published once a month, with
a daily lesson in Christian living.
Christian Business—A monthly magazine show­
ing how to apply the Golden Rule to busi­
ness.
Wee Wisdom—Published monthly. A magazine
teaching children right principles through
pictures, stories, and poems.
Youth—A monthly magazine for persons of any
age. Up-to-date and constructive. Con­
tains fiction.
(The price of a year’s subscription to any one of
these magazines is $1.50)
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
917 Tracy, Kan s as C ity, Miss onr i
P R I N T E D IN U. S . A.
(3C— 20M— 5 32)
