{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__bslu___introduction_to_spiritualism_and_lyceumism.pdf","mytitle":"Introduction To Spiritualism And Lyceumism","mylang":"de"}
~.
INTRODUCTION TO
SPIRITUALISM
AND LYCEUMISM.
Containing :
THE STORY OF HYDESVILLE.
EARLY AMERICAN PIONEERS.
PRINCIPLES OF SPIRITUALISM.
CHILDREN IN SPIRIT LIFE.
THF SPIRITUALIST LYCEUM.
Our Founders:-
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
ALFRED KITSON.
..s:~ ~~
.s' C' .9.3,
-"?. -f' .:Jo 'i'
/'?.,f'. .:I//
ac /<>e
C.C' /3<j'
C.C -"N8'
& PUBLISHED BY
Th.e British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union.
1932.
E. F. ROBERTS, Printer. Bradford Road, Batley.
r
PREFACE.
This little manual has been issued by the Education
Committee of the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Un.ion as
an introduction to the study of Spiritualism, and especially
that banch of it known as the Lyceum Movement. The
first article explains the Principles on which the religion
of Spiritualism has been built ; the second retails the
story of Hydesville and Rochester; the third introduces
some early investigators and pioneers; and the fourth
traces the growth and expansion of Spiritualism in
America and Eng-land. The brief sketches of Andrew
Jackson Davis (U.S.A.), and Alfred Kitson (England),
give some faint idea of the efforts and ideals of these two
founders of the Lyceum system of teaching. In the
article on The Spiritualist Lyceum, the aims and ideals of
this system are discussed, and in Children in Spirit Life
we are told some of the joys of child life in the Summer-
land. The article on Physical Exercises is designed to
show that these are more than a mere exercising of the
muscles, and have a definite purpose in the Lyceum
Session.
The Committee takes this opportunity of thanking
the writers of the articles, and hopes that all who read
them will find an incentive to a further and deeper study
of Spiritualism and Lyceumism.
As this manual is No. 1 in the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union's series of Educational Handbooks, and
has been designed as an aid to Students in Grade I of their
Education Scheme, the Syllabus for that Grade is added-
in the hope that it will not only help to explain the design
of the book but will attract students to the Scheme.
The Education Committee wishes it to be distinctly
understood that the word " Lyceumism " in the title is not
used in opposition to the word " Spiritualism "-it only
stands for the ideals of the System under which
Spiritualism is taught in Spiritualist Lyceums.
THE EDITORS.
...
"t
--- -~---------------
CONTENTS.
--o--
PAGE
PREFACE
SYLLABUS FOR GRADE I.
1.-THE PRINCIPLES OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 5
II.-THE ORIGIN OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 7
111.-SOME AMERICAN PIONEERS OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM 18
IV.-RISE AND PROGRESS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 23
V.-ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS 26
Vl.-ALFRED KITSON 31
Vll.-THE SPIRITUALIST LYCEUM 37
VIII.-CHILDREN IN SPIRIT LIFE 45
JX.-PHYSICAL EXERCISES-HEALTH 51
.~
SYLLABUS FOR GRADE I.
(For Lyceumists of 12 years and over.)
A.-From the " Lyceum Manual.
(i.) Silver Chain Recitations :
(a) No. 66, " The Angel Guest."
(b) No. 93, " Deeds, not Words.''
(ii.) Golden Chain Recitations :
(a) No. 108, "The Lyceum."
(b) No. 139, " Children. in Spirit Life."
(c) No. 148, " The Origin of the Lyceum."
(iii.) Musical Readings:
(a) No. 208, " Home Affections."
(b) No. 211, " Be Kind to Others."
B.-From Handbook No. 1.
(i.) The Principles of Modern Spiritualism.
(ii.) The Origin of Modern Spiritu-alism.
(jji.) Some American Pioneers of Modern Spirit-
ualism.
(iv.) Andrew Jackson Davis.
(v.) Alfred Kitson.
(vi.) The Spiritualist Lyceum.
(vii.) Children in Spirit Life.
(viii.) Physical Exercises-Health.
Introduction
to
Spiritualism
and
Lyceumism.
THE PRINCIPLES OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
The Fatherhood of Cod. By the study of Nature-
that is, by trying to find out the laws which govern all
that is happenjng around us-we art! forced to admit the
existence and presence of a Divine Order (see S.C. 1),
and the working outwards o'f a Divine Power, which
dwells in all things. The life of animals and plants; the
growth of flowers; and in fact, existence or development
of any kind-without the presence of this Indwelling
Power, would seem to be impossible. In jt " we live
and move and have our being.'' As we realise that life
and progress are from within, and dependent on the
Great Source of All, we declare that God, the source and
sustainer of all, is our Father. /
The Brothcwhood of Man. God being the universal ' ···
Father, all men are 1brothers. This means that all men
and women-wise or foolish ; strong or weak; virtuous
or sinful ; loving or hating ; worthy or unworthy-are
members of the same family, and entitled to each other's
love and service. We must bear one another's burdens;
do as we would be done .by ; and help those who are weak
to become strong, and worthy of their relationship in the
family o.f God.
The Immortality of the Soul and its Personal Char·
aoteristics. As we are am! parts of a~ Infinite God, it is
impossible that any individual should cea5e to exist. Death
is only the change from life with a physical body to life
6
without a physical body. In spirit life we have a spirit
body-an exact copy of our physical body. We are the
same individuals in every way, and just as we are recog-
nised here by our different characteristics, so are we
known in the spirit world ; and we change in character
only by progression, or otherwise--as the result of our
own efforts.
The Proven Facts of Communion between departed
Human Spirits and Mortals. After many years of patient
study of Spiritualistic phenomena, scientists have joined
with Spiritualists in claiming that human spirits from the
Spirit World can communicate with us. There are many
methods of communication-but these 1will be dealt with
in a later course of study.
Personal Responsibility, with Compensation and
Retribution hereafter for all good or evil deeds done h-ere.
We are eat'ili in a position. of responsibility. The use we
make of our lives depends entirely on ourselves. No out-
~ide influence can interfere with our spiritual development,
u111less we are weak enough to allow it. And as we reap
only what we sow, the tendencies which we develop in, or
add to, our nature are the only qualities we can take into
the spirit life. If these ·tendencies are progressive, we go
on progressing ; if not progressive, our spiritual develop-
ment is delayed un,til we root out our imperfections and
replace them with progressive tendencies.
A Path of Eteirnai Prog1ress open to every Human
Soul that wills to tread it by the Path of Eternal Cood. In
every heart there exists the desire for pr-ogress, .and to
every human spirit belongs the power to progress in
wisdom and love. All who desire to tread the path that
leads to perfection are able to pursue it-and the rate of
advance is determined (only) by the mental and spiritual
development o.f the pilgrim. If we have done our best in
Earth life to follow our inward promptings (intuitions),
we shall find progress in the spirit life very easy ; 1f not,
every step in advancement will follow a struggle against
imperfections which we ourselves have worked into our
natures. So let us begin now to fit ourselves for pro-
gression in spirit life.
7
THE ORIGIN OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By A. T. CONNOR.
The Movement of Modern Spiritualism had its origin
ir. the Hydesville Knockings, by means of ,which, during
the night of February, 31st March, 1848, a human sp1r,it
broke throught the barriers of physical death, and estab-
lished communication between the physical and spiritual
planes of existence. It is impossible to emphasise too
strongly the great importance to the Spiritualist Move-
ment of these early knockings. They were not lby any
means the first to be recorded-the Epworth knockings
occurred over a century earlier-but on this occasion, for
the first time, the spiritual telegraph was intelligently used,
and the message received given not to any favoured few,
but to the whole world. And therefore ·every student or
investigator of Spiritualism as it 1s known to-day should
be well acquainted with the history of its crude and
humble beginnings. A Christian who knew nothing of
the story of Jesus of Nazareth-of his virgin birth; his
miracles and teachings; his betrayal, death and re-
surrection-would be looked on as very ignorant iadeed.
And the Spiritualist who knmvs nothing of Charles B.
Rosna-of his betrayal, death and resurrection-is equally
ignorant. The results of present-day research may prove
the truth of Spirit Return without the aid of the story
of Hydesville; but this would not have been undertaken
but for these early happenings, and the prominence g·iven
to them by those who had been selected as the instruments
of the new revelation of Man's victory ovet physical
death. So it is very important that every ,investigator
should know why great scientists an(\ great thinkers took
up the study of Spiritualistic phenomena, and built up the
system of philosophy which is known as Modern Spirit-
ualism.
HYDESVILLE.
The first scene of the story was laid in Hydesville, a
little village in Wayne Country, New York State, U.S.A.
The hamlet consisted of a cluster of wooden homesteads;
and into one of these, on 1lth December, 1847, moved
I
~
8
John David Fox with his wife and two little daughters:
Margaretta, aged 15 years, and Catherine, aged 12. Soon
after moving in, the family began to b.e disturbed at night
by strange noises, which by the beginning of the new year
had developed into slight knockings. At first these were
put down to the hammering of a neighbouring shoemaker,
but soon it became evident that thev were located in the
house itself. Gradually the phenomena varied-the knocks
were accompanied by vibrations of the beds and chairs;
some articles of furniture were moved from their places
and sometimes it seemed as if someone was walking about
the house. During the month of March, the noises became
louder and were heand more frequently, and the children
became so nervous of the strange liappenings that their
bed was moved into their parents' room. The climax
seemed to have been reached on the night of 30th March,
when the family were. kept awake all night by the
mysterious sounds, for the possible causes of which Mr.
and Mrs. Fox searched the house, in vain, from attic to
cellar.
On Friday, 31st March, the Foxes prepared to go to
rest about dusk, as they were utterly worn out-but the
noises started before Mr. Fox had got into bed, and
wearily they resigned themselves to another night of dis-
tmibance. But before long the proceedings took a new and
fateful direction. Feeling very brave in the presence of
their parents, the little girls treated the knockings as a
good joke, and began to '' have a game.''
Katie snapped her fingers, and cried :-
" Now, ' Mr. Split-foot,' do as I do..,
" Mr. Split-foot " replied with an equal number of
knocks. Then Margaretta joined in, clapping her hands
and challenging the invisible knocker to keep count with
her-which he did. Lastly, Kate made a numlber of
noiseless movements with her finger and thumb, and the
unseen communicator gave a corresponding number of
raps. This thoroughly amazed them, and Katie cried
out:-
" Only look, mother; it can see as well as hear."
They might well be amazed, for here was evidence
9
G that there was a human intelligence behind the knocks.
But-whose? Katie suggested that it was somebody
trying to '' make an April fool '' of them-but Mrs.
Fox soon. disproved this by asking some personal
questions, which none of the neighbours could have
answered (as the Foxes were strangers, having lived in
the district Jess than four months), but which were
answered correctly by " Mr. Split-foot." In one of his
answers Mrs. Fox at first thought he was wrong, as he
said she had seven children, an,d she had only six-
.,' alive.'' But the knocker insisting on seven, she at last
remembered one who had '' died '' at a very early age.
She was <;o impressed that she sent for a neighbour. Mrs.
Redfield '' didn't believe in. ghosts,'' but the .answers she
received to some questions induced her to send for her
husband, and he in turn went and called in others; until
at last the " haunted " house was crowded with neigh-
l'ours asking questions-and getting correct replies.
One of these neighbours was Wm. Duesler, a former
tenant of the house, who introduced a new method of
questioning the Knocker. When questioned by Mrs. Fox
and others, on subjects other than numbers and ages, and
which required a definite " Yes " or " No " answer,
the Knocker had signified " Yes " by rapping and " No "
by not rapping. In this ·way he informed Mrs. Fox that
he was the spirit of a man, aged 31 years, who had been
murdered in that house and his body buried in the cellar;
that his family consisted of his wife and five children, all
living at the time of his death---but that his wife had since
died.
Mr. Duesler's method was that, if he got no reply to
a question, he altered his question so that raps could be
given. For example-he asked if he or his father had
ever injured the Knocker, and, receiving no reply, asked
that if they had not injured him would he manifest this by
rapping; and they all heard three distinct raps. By this
means the following additional information was obtained.
The man was a pedlar, and had been murdered in the
cast bedroom a.bout five years befor~by John C. Bell, a
blacksmith who occupied the house at the time ; he had
~.. ·
10
had with him a pedlar's trunk and five hundred dollars, "'
and for these he had been killed and his body buried in the
centre of the cellar to a depth of ten feet. Bell's wife
knew what was going to happen, ~nd had left the house
during the afternoon, taking with her their hired girl; so
he and Bell were alone in the house. The exact position
of the alleged grave was pointed out by means of raps
which sounded only when Mr. Redfield stood over the
spot.
Mrs. Fox and the girls spent the night at a neigh-
bour's house-but the knockings continued in their
absence, and Mr. Fox and several others tried hard to
get the pedlar's name, by calling out the letters of the
alphabet; but they were unsucce.,;<;ful, and it was not till
some time later that David Fox su::ceeded in obtaining the
name of Charles B. Rosna. ·
FURTHER EXPERIENCES.
On Saturday large croiwds assembled, as the news of
1"11e rappings spread, and foe house was filled to over-
flowing. But the rappings did not &tart till after darkness
had fallen. Then again questions were answered with
remarkable accuracy. On Sunday, for the first time, raps
were heard in daylight, and Wm. Duesler, with a number
of neighbours, tried hard to solve Lhe mystery. Various
experiments were tried, all successful in themselves, but
none of the results of sufficient importance to be accepted
as the solution. What would have been a supreme proof
apparently failed the investig-ators. If the Knocker's story
was true, his body should be in. the grave which had !been
pointed out. Digging was started on the Monday night,
but the ground was waterlogged with the win.ter rains,
nnd after digging down to a depth of three feet the attempt
!•ad to be abandoned. Annther attempt was made in the
summer of 1848, and on this occasion they found a plank,
"ome broken crockery ware, and some undoubted human
remains. The presence, also, of charooal and quicklime
argued that a human body had been buried there, and that
an attempt had been made to destroy it-but, of course,
there was no proof that the body had belonged to the
pe!llar.
l l
Meanwhile the other forms of investigation continued,
and day by day ·the house was filled with inquirers and
curious sight-seers, who prevented the> family from getting
any peace. It soon ibecame apparent that Kate was the
" medium," as the phenomena were always strongest in
her presence. The manifestations now took a violent
turn, physical phenomena being mingled with the knock-
ings ; and the comlbin.ed effect of being pestered all day
and kept aiwake all night was more than the family could
bear. Their ·nerves began to give way under the strain,
and at last they were persuaded by David to leave the
haunted house and live with him on his farm.
CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE.
All the evidence so far had been obtained from the
Knocker~by asking leading questhns, and altering them
until an affirmative answer could be obtained. The name
of John C. Bell had been obtained by calling out the names
of previous tenants of the house until raps were heard.
\Vm. Duesler hunted up all these tenants, and all, with
one exception, denied having ever heard any strange
sounds. The exception was Michael Weekman;_and he
had followed the Bells as tenant; liv.ing in the.cottage for
about eighteen months, but leaving it at last because of
the noises. His experiences were similar to those of the
Foxes, and were added to by what would seem to have ~·
been a clairvoyant vision of his servant, Mrs. Lape. She
was startled one day, whilst working in the kitchen, by .
seeing a strange man, dressed .n a black coat, light:
trousers and cloth cap, standing in the bedroom. She
ran in terror to find Mrs. Weekman, but when they re-
turned the man had disappeared. Mrs. Lape was
positive that nobody could have gone into the :bedroom
without being seen by her, and was convinced that the
appearance must have been supernatural.
This was valuable evidence, b11t better still was to
come.
The girl who had been servan.t to the Bells lived in
the district, and having heard of the Knocker's story came
1.2
forward with a strange story of her .own. Her name was
Lucretia Pulver, and she and her mother had been friends
of the Bells. She had lived with them for about three
months during the winter of 1843-44. One afternoon a
pedlar called at the house-a man about thirty, dressed
in a black coat and light trousers, and carrying a tin
pedlar's pack and a basket. He was greeted as an old
acquaintance iby Mrs. Bell, and they held what seemed to
be a very intimate conversation. Soon after, Mrs. Bell
called Lucretia and told her that she could not afford to
keep her any longer ; adding that <lS she herself was going
to Loch Berlin (a neighlbouring village) to spend the night,
if Lucretia would pack her clothes at once they could both
go away together. Before leaving, Lucretia examined the
pedlar's stock and saw some things she would have liked
to buy-so the pedlar promised to call at her home next
morning. She and Mrs. Bell then left the pedlar and Mr.
Bell together. The pedlar did not c-all at her home next
rlay, and she never saiw him again. Three days later, at
Mrs. Bell's invitation she return.ed to the house, to board
there and attend school. But at the end of a week Mrs.
Bell asked her to leave school and resume housework.
Mrs. Bell was busy altering a ooupie of coats to fit her
husband, ~nd she made Lucretia a present of a thimble
which she said she had bought from the pedlar. One day
about a week after the pedlar's visit, the girl stepped in.to
some loose earth in the cellar ; and on asking the meaning
of it was informed that it was due 4.:o rats-and two nights
later Mr. Bell was engaged for some time in filling up the
" rat-holes." Shortly after her r.eturn she began to hear
noises mher room, and these were also heard :by a girl
friend who slept with her one night, as well as by Mrs.
Bell, iwho seemed terrified.
A few months later the Bells left the house and the
district.
Against this story must be placed the denial of John
C. Bell; who later appeared from the town of Lyon, where
he had gone to live, a·rmed with ~ certificate of good
character signed by forty-four respectable citizens, who
declared that in their op.inion. he was incapable of the
crime laid to his charge.
The reader must take all the evidence into consider-
ation, and decide for himself which version is the correct
one.
EARLY EVENTS IN ROCHESTER.
On 1lth and 12th April, 1848, Mr. E. E. Lewis, of
Canandaigua, visited Hydesville and obtained signed
statements about the phenomena from the Foxes, the Red.
fields, the Pulvers, Wm. Duesler, and over a dozen other
neighbours. These he made into a pamphlet, which he
sent for printing to a Mr. Little of Rochester...;_,where Mrs.
Fox's daughter Leah (then Mrs. Fish, later Mrs. Under-
hill) was in !business as a music-t~acher, and, strangely
enough, taught Mr. Little's daught~rs. One day in May,
Mr. Little came into the room where she was teaching,
with the proof-sheets in his hand, an<l thus she learned for
the first time of the knock·ings. She immediately left for
home, but had to go on to her brother David's farm, as
the family were now living with him-and there she found
the phenomena in full swing. In the hope of stopping the
knockings by separating the girls, Mrs. Fish took her
mother and Kate .with her to Rochester; but the knockings
continued in. the presence of Loth sisters, and so
Margaretta was soon taken to join the others.
In Rochester the present alphabetical code was
adopted, at the suggestion of Isaac Post, and the
character of the communications altered accordingly.
Various '' dead '' friends of the family and the other ~
sitters manifested their presence; and under their in- _
structions development circles were held, and several of
the sitters developed mediumship.
Several families in the neighbourhood began to ex-
perience phenomena in. their own homes ; and it would
naturally be thought that, spiritual communication now
having been established, Spir·itualism--at any rate as a
science--"Would be generally accepted and the possibility
of spirit communion proclaimed ~.ar and wide. But the
very opposite happened. The Foxes, ~nstead of being
hailed as pulblic benefactors, rwere treated as if they were
criminals. They were persecuted .md jeered at, and Mrs.
Fish loSll: nearly all her pupils. The local clergy were fore-
14
most fo this. At first they went to the Fox home and
tried to exorcise the spirits ; lbut the spirits ~efused to go
away, and the clergy then .said that the Foxes were to
blame-they were even lblamed for the phenomena that
happened in other people's houses! i\s a result, the Foxes
and their friends were practically driven out of membership
of the local churches, of which up to that time they had
beeen highly-respected members.
About this time Katie had lbeen. taken to Auburn,
N.Y., by Mr. F. W. Capron, butthephenomenacontinued
with Margaretta as the medium. The first joy of com-
munication pad been destroyed by the persecution and
replaced by a desire that the spirits would go away. But
they not only re'fused to go ; they began to urge that a
public demonstration should be held. This seemed absolute
madness and the circle refused to consent. The spirits
then seemed to make a great mistake ; .they threatened
that .if the public meeting was not held, they would go
away. This made the Foxes all the: more determined
that the meeting should not lbe held; and at last, to their
great delight, the spirits departed. But the spirits had
not made any mistake. Within a few days the memlbers
of the cirde began .to miss the spirit companionship, and
by the end of a 1week began to implore that the unseen
visitors would return--.apparently all .in vain. But our
spirit friends aliways treat us better than we deserve, and
at the end of twelve days a ques.tion asked by Mr. Capron
was answered with a shower of raps. The lesson was
sufficient-the mediums consented to the holding of a
public meeting; and on 14th November, 1849, the meeting
was held in the Corin,thian Hall, Rochester, before an
eager crowd. Mr. Capron gave the history of the knock-
ings and during his lecture rappings were heard by all in
the building-the largest in Rochester. At the end of the
demonstration, a committee was formed to test the Foxes,
:..nd report to a second meeting on the 15th; and to this
meeting the committee reported that they had been unable
10 discover any means .by ·which the mediums could fraud-
i.;.len.tly produce the sounds. Their failure was put do.wn
to incompetence, and a second comm~ttee was appointed,
tc test the mediums and report to a third meeting on the
15
16th. One of this committee used a stethoscope, to test
if the sounds were produced by ventriloquism ; ,but all to
no purpose-the second committee had to con.fess failure
in their attempt to discover fraud. A third committee was
appointed, this time with women members, and they .were
to report to a meeting on the 17·th. The test was very
thorough (in Mrs. Britten's <>.pinion, needlessly severe, if
not cruel) , but the report was the same. " When they
were .standing on pillows," reported the ladies, " with a
handkerchief tied round the !bottom of their dresses, tight
to the anltles, we all heard the rapping on the wall and
floor distinctly.'' The men had to report that they had
heard the sounds, and failed to discover their origin..
·' They· had proved thait neither machinery nor imposture
had been used, and their questions, many of them being
mental, had 'been answered correctly.''
This did n.ot suit the audience, who had come prepared
tc hear the mediums proved guilty of fraud, and the
rougher elements became riotous; fireworks were dis-
charged ; and a determined effort "'as made to •rush the
pla.tform. But George Willetts, a brave Quaker friend,
sprang forward crying : '' You shall only reach the
mediums over my dead lbody." The tiush was stopped,
and at last the mediums .reached their homes under police
protection. And so ended the first attempt at a public
demon,stration of Spiritualism.
DISCOVERY OF THE SKELETON.
The failure to find a corpse in the cellar at Hydesville
was for many years a stumbling-block to belief in the story
rapped out by the alleged pedlar. In vain ardent investi-
gators dug and re-dug the floor of the cellar-nothing was
found ibeyond the hones and fragment of a skull dug up in
1848. And this failure, coupled with John C. Bell's denial
and the fact that Rosn,a's children could not be traced,
threw grave doubts on the veracity of the Knocker. But
at last albsolute proof of the pedlar's story was discovered;
and as children had been the cause of the story ·being told,
it is only fitting thait children should have been the cause
of ·its truth being proved.
16
, "'.fhe Boston Journal," of November 23rd, 1904,
and " The Sunflower," of December, 1904, contained
accounts of the finding of a human skeleton in the '' Spook
House '' .at Hydesville, by some children playing in the
cellar. Part of one of the cellar wal.ls fell in, revealing
the surprising fact that it was not the onginal wall, but
one that had been built in front of the real one-anid be-
tween. the two walls was found the almost complete
skeleton of a man, the skull bt:ing missing. Later
accounts·* state that a tin pedlar's trunk was also dis-
covered, ain.d this seems to connect the skeleton with the
pedlar, especially as part of the missing skull had been
found in the grave :pointed out by the Knocker.
The Fox cottage was purchased by Mr. B. F. Bartlett
and moved to Lily Dale, N.Y., in April, 1916. The
furniture includes the tin trunk dug up in 1904.*
SUMMING UP, AND VERDICT.
l t now only remains to consider the Hydesville story
as a whole, and to decide on which side the weight ot
evidence lies. It has been claimed that the Fox sisters,
at diffel'ent times, confessed that •he rappings were due
to fraud~but the '' confessions '' were made in circum-
stances that .rob them of much of their face-value. And
we must take these alleged confession,s in conjuction with
the fact that on the night of 31st March, 1848, knocks
were hea.rd when the sisters were uot in the house. Also,
even if they could have produced such a variety of sounds
by snapping their knee-joints, as was claimed, they could
n.ot in the same way have ,produced the exact knowledge
which :so impressed all investigators~nor will this account
for the sounds heard iby the Pulvers, the W eekmans, and
Mrs. Bell.
The precautions against fo:1aud taken by Wm. Duesler
and the Rochester committees also seem very complete;
and as an instance of their thoroughn,ess we have Duesler's
recording the fact that there was only one thickness of
wood between the :bedrooms and the cellar, and that there-
fore nothing capable of producing the Mises could have
been hidJien.
• See" Hydesville in History," by Mrs. Cadwallader.
17
The failure to find the pedlar's children throws some
shadow of doubt on his story, but the discovery of his
skeleton and the tin trunk confirms not only his story of
the murder, but also Lucretia Pulver's description of his
luggage on the fatal day. It would appear that the body
had been buried in the centre of the cellar, and that, after
the chal"COal and quicklime had done their work, the
skeleton had been built in with the· false cellar wall.
Be11's cont.radiction, and his certificate of character
from the citizens of Lyon, must be given due weight--.but
we must rememlber that several murderers of our own time
have borne very good characters with their neigh'bours
in general. The weight of evidence seems to be against
Bell.
Finally, we must !bear in mind the unlikelihood of two
chitdren being capable of planning and carrydng through
such a tremendous fraud, and .rely rather on the verdict of
the three Rochester committees, who tested the mediums
in every way, but were unable to discover any traces of
fraud. It is an accepted fact that " unsolicited testi-
monials '' are the most reliable.
So our verdict must be that on the 31st March, 1848,
the Fox sisters were mediums and flothing else; that the
pedlar's story was true, and was told by himself; and
that on that fateful night a human spirit had broken
through the barriers that separate the mate.rial from the
spiritual realms of being, and demonstrated the fact of /""
human survival of physical death, and the continuity of
conscious i·ndividual existence.
'P'OR A FULLER ACCOUNT.
(Students who desire a fuller account of the Knockinf?s, and a
full examination of the evidence-together with an account of the
early days of Spiritualism in America-are referred to "Advent:
The Beginnings of Modern Spiritualism" ; 7d,, post free from the
General Office).
IS
SOME AMERICAN PIONEERS OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By A. T. CONNOR.
A pioneer is " one who goes before, to prepare thr
way '' ; and although, in its early days, Spil-itualism was
despised by the ignoranit, and misrepresented lby the pre-
ji::diced and by those whose vested interests it assailed,
yet the infant Movement was well served by men of note
in the rworlds of journalism, science and the law, and also
by .brave men ·and women who demonstrated their psychic
gifts at a time when ito be a medium was to invite slander
and persecution.
CAPRON OF AUBURN.
Of course, the principal pioneers of Modern Spirit-
ualism were the Foxes. It was through their mediumship
that the first communications were made; and it was
through testing rtheir mediumship that several famous men
were brought into touch with Spiritualism.
Mr. E. W. Capron, of Auburn,, N.Y., was one of the
earliest investigators. It was to him that the spirits
replied after their brief absence from the Fox circle in
November, 1848, and iit was to him that they assigned the
.task o.f delivering the first public lecture, in the Corinthian
Hall, Rochester. For some time during 1848, Kate Fox
stayed with him at Auburn, and many remarkable
evidences of spirit po1Wer were receiVled. Spirit music,
the materialisation of spirit hands, and the levitation of
articles of furnitu•e, were only some of the many phases
of phenomena manJfested at the Auburn circle. In his
book. " The Facts and Fanaticisms of Modem Spirit-
ualism," Mr. Capron records these experiences, as well
as accounts of convincing experiences contributed lby other
investigators.
A CIRCLE OF NOTABILITIES.
In the spring of 1850, the Fox family visited New
York City, where, on one occasion, they conducted a
circle which consisted almost entirely of famous men, in-
19
eluding Fenimore Cooper, Hosea Bigeloiw, Cullen Bryant,
and others. The sitters took turns in aslcing questions
aibout deceased friends on whom they " fixed their
minds," and all the answers were stated to be correct.
F1enimore Cooper's test was with regard ito a sister who,
fifty years !before, had passed into spirit life as the result
of being thrown from her horse.
GREELEY OF " THE TRIBUNE."
Horace Greeley, of " New York Tribune " fame,
inv:ited the mediums to stay at his house, and conducted
investigations which were reported in the " Tribune " ;
in which, also, was described the precautions taken to
prevent fraud-searches of the mediums' rooms; their
being disrobed by committees of ladies, and their being
placed on, glass plates hidden under carpets. Greeley was
convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena, and rather
ingenuously ·accepted the spirit hypothesis as an explan-
ation-his account ending with the statement that if he
were to publish all the questions asked and the answers
received, he would be accused of having done so to prove
that the operators were departed .spirits.
GOVERNOR TALLMADGE.
In Washington the Foxes were tested by Governor
Tallmadge, who, in answer to the question-'' ·What good
can result .from these manifestations ?"-was informed
thait the •Object was " to draw mankind together in ~
harmony, and convince sceptics of the immortality of the
soul." The Governor was :fortunate enough to receive a
message in direct writing from a deceased friend named
Calhoun.
DRAPER OF ROCHESTER.
As will be seen, the phenomena were not confined to
raps. Pracitically every phase of mediumship was mani-
fested, and remarkable •tests were received. Mr. Draper,
of Rochester, describes how a spirit claiming to be
Benjamin Franklin, demon.strated the possi!bility of com-
ir.unication ibetween two distant points. The circle, which
included the Foxes, was divi~ed into two ,parties, who sat
~.
20
in separate rooms. The first attempt resulted in failure;
but at the second attempt the two parties received the
same message, with the exception, of the last sentence.
In this, one party was instructed not to leave its room,
and the other party was intructed to go to the first and
compare notes. Thus it was demonstrated that all who
received a message did not need to sit in the same room-
and Earth distances did not affect spirit entities. A re-
markable fact was that ·during this test the rappings
sounded like the clicking of a telegraph instrument-and
Benjamin Franklin was the operator.
REV. A. H. JERVIS.
But the Foxes were not the only mediums. The Rev.
A. H. Jervis had his own Home Circle, with members of
his own family as the mediums, and one of his tests con-
cerned a friend named Pickard, who spent a night in
Rochester. Overnight, Mr. Pickard had had his mother
described to him at Jervis's, and in the morning his mother
" sent through " a message " that his child was dead " ;
which was confirmed at noon by a telegram from his home
sixty miles away.
Mr. Jervis was one of the staunchest friends of the
Fox family, and supported them against the slanderous
attacks of other ·clergymen who were accusing the Foxes
of being in. league with the Devil.
Mrs. TAMLIN.
One of the members o.f Mr. Capron's Auburn circle
was Mrs. Tamlin, said to be the first medium through
\vhom musical instruments were played without contact.
Mrs. Tamlin herself knew nothing of music and could
not play on any instrument; yet tunes were recognised,
and on one occasion an accompaniment was given to the
singing of a member of the circle. The music was played
as if by a practised musician ; and the phenomena varied
from the sound of a whistle to .the tones of the human
voice or the ringing notes of a harp.
21
Miss LAURA EDMONDS.
Another phase was that manifested in the medium-
'ihip of Miss Laura Edmonds, daughter of Judge
Edmonds, the emin~nt American lawyer. She became a
trance medium, and her controls spoke in many
(recognised) languages; she was also a clairvoyant, able
to describe distant scenes, and was evidently a:n expert in·
telepathy, for she could communicate mentally ·with absent
friends. One of her controls .was a New York newsboy,
who gave a history of his career; and who greatly sur-
prised the Judge (to iwhom he was dictating) .by beginning
to whistle through his medium .whilst waiting for a
sentence to be written down.
Mrs. SEYMOUR.
Yet another phase was the writing mediumship of
Mrs. Seymour, of Waukegan, N.Y. Her mediumship
took the peculiar form of the ahility to write on her arms
with .the points of her fingers. The writing appeared as
raised letters, at first of a whitish colour; then a !bright
red-and lasted for about twenty minutes, after which
it faded, leaving the skin quite smooth and unmarked.
JUDGE EDMONDS.
These varying manifestations of a new power were
sure to attract investigators ; and some came because of
the phenomena, in order to learn more--.others came to
prove that the phenomena were fraudulent.
One of these latter was Judge Edmonds, of the ~
American Supreme Court. All the powers of a well-
trained legal mind, used to the sifting of evidence, were
brought to bear on h::-; investigations. He kept careful
records of all the phenomena witnessed and all the
messages received, frequently comparing them to detect
possible contradictions; he went from place to place
visiting different mediums, in some cases :being entirely
unknown ; and he studied all possible phases of .physical
and mental phenomena, at the same time reading every-
thing on the subjeot on which he could lay his hands.
With the aid of an electrician and his machinery he in-
vestigated the knockings, and satisfied himself that they
were not producec:I 'by fraud. The result was complete
-----------------........--......
conviction- and also complete disaster. When the account
of his fovestigations, and his oonclusions, was published,
it aroused such a storm of abuse and libel that he felt
called upon to resign from his position. as a judge.
PROFESSOR HARE.
Professor Robert Hare, of Pennsylvania University,
was another investigator who approached Spiritualism to
prove that .it was " a gross delusion "-and became a
convert. He invented different kinds of machinery, by
means of which he tested various mediums. One of his
testing machines was a table iwith a sliding top, to which
was attached a revolving disc containing the alphabet.
The letters were mixed up, all out of their proper order-
and hidden, from the medium. At his request the spirit
operators re-arranged the letters into their :proper order ;
and went on to spell out messages of which the medium
did not know until he was told. On one occasion he had
a curious experience with a sceptical follow professor,
whose presence at a circle preven,ted the manifestation of
phenomena until another professor was intrioduced. He
tried to explain this by an interestin_g theory-that there
are varying grades of mediumship (and, presuma:bly, non-
mediumship), and that the professor .in question was
graded so low that he ·acted, in a circle, as what might be
called •an anti-medium, his " anti " power oounter-
balancing that of an <>rdinary medium and preventing the
occurrence of phenomena. In 1856 he published his great
work on " Spiritualism Scientifically Demonstrated,'' in
which all his experiments are fully described.
These are only a few of the pioneers-mediums,
martyrs, investigators, experimenters and recorders-and
the foregoing is only a very brief outline of their labours.
But brief as iot is, it serves to show how splendid and
efficient was their preparing of the way for those who were
to .folloiw in their footsteps. And it also gives us an idea
of the magnificent array of facts they were able to present,
even in those early days, in .support of the Spiritualist
claim that Man's survival of physical death has been
established beyond the faintest shadow of reasonable
doubt.
23
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By HANSON G. HEY.
The history of a spiritual movement can hardly be re-
corded in dates and events ; -it is to lbe read in the ever
widening circle which pulsates in unison with the funda-
mental truths and basic principles for .which that move-
ment stands, and as the leaven slowly but surely worketh
its iway so is the heart of the true disciple gladdened, for
he desires to see spirituality inwrought in the very fibre
of the people's .nature, rather than out-wrought in edifices
of architectural might.
The battle was first for freedom, for truth, .then for
means, and now we fight oto instil in people's minds the
idea that Spiritualism is not extraneous to, but corporate
with, our worship, and that as we develop spir.itually we
shall see that in the least form is the highest ritual, and
the pure in heart and mind need only give of that which
they have in order to make the conditions ideal.
Why, then, an organisation,? Because Union is
Strength, and accretion of numbers as the accretion of
molecules, raises the simple to the complex, and each unit
partakes of the added strength, for as the blood it flows
firs•t to the centre, •then. ito the outermost parts, and we, in
bu-ilding up the organisation, in assisting in the dissemin-
ation of its litenature, in the help we give to the F .O.B., I
a.or~ doing Oll;r .Part to ere;it that J~b's I.adder,, which shall ~­
umte the spmt-1World with ours, 1n iwh1ch union we may ·
lose Hate in Love, may forget Self in, Sacrifice, and in
works of charity teach practically the Brotherhood of Man.
Modern Spiritualism had its rise in Wayne County,
New York State, in a liittle homestead named Hydesville,
the residence of a family named Fox. The little Fox girls
were .the chosen instruments by whom the messages from
the unseen were fi.rst systematised and codified. How
true the words of old, " A little child shall lead them."
From streng1th to strength the movement ran, gatheri.ng
force as ito'erspread, .fi.rstthe State, and then the count·ry,
then came across the Atlantic to Europe.
Bitter opposition iwas aroused, as was to be expected,
24
but learn.ed men ~ike· Hon. J. W. Edmonds (known in
Spiritualistic literature as Judge Edmonds), Pcofessor
Hare, Dr. A. R. Wallace, Sir William Crookes, Dr.
c:;;::;-ge~rg-~ Se~t911~ have each in their turn and time stood
d valiantly for· the truth of this new revelation. Many who
\ came with the idea of exploding it remained to serve.
~ y The firsit triumph here .in England was the publication
1871 of the Report of the Dialectical Society Committee
n Spiritualism, which shewed the ceady willingness of
ose who had espoused the new truth to come forward,
"'f•~i1.ift.nd give testimony for the faith within them at the bar of
~ientific enquiry. The evidence there given by Mrs. E.
H. Britten, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Signor Damiana, and
others, is conclusive to any ·but the very biassed.
The Committee iwhen. presenting the Report recom-
mended the Society to print the same, but the Society,
t:qough lbrave enough to investigate, ·was not r;;ufficiootly
courageous to publish :broadcast the findings of its own
Commfrtee ; to their lasting credit the Committee issued it
on their own responsLbility, price 15/-. A cheaper edition
{5/-) was issued later :by Mr. J. Burns, 2,364 copies being
sutbscribed for before publication.; so eamest were the
pioneers of those days that ;they gave in their names and
paid so much per week to the oollector who undertook to
get the books for his district.
Thanks to the unselfish, untir-ing work of the early ad-
herents of the Cause, who carried the truth with them
~ wherever they went, quite a large number of Societies were
formed up and down. the oountry, the earliest of them, I
believe, being Keighley, which was missioned by Mr. D.
Richmond.
The first attempt to organise the forces is perhaps
difficult ito establish. The earliest of which I have any
documentary evidence was the formation of the British
Association of Prng~·essive Spiritualists, which was ~naug­
urated at Darlington in 1865. This Association existed
seven years jf not longer, for I have in my :possession the
report of their proceedings held in Darlington, July 3Qth-
3 lst, 1872. I believe they met in Liverpool in 1873.
A meeting iwas held in Manchestec fo 1874 of a few of
the progressive minds to attempt the solutipn of ,th~ prob-
25
tern of welding the diffused energies of the cause into one
massed force. Other attempts were made at various times
and places.
At last, as the outcome of a meeting convened by Mrs.
B.ritte.g, a Conference was called at Manchester for Sunday
July 6th, 1890, at which Conference the present organised
!body was inaugurated under the style and title of The
Spiritualists' National Federation, and that body was
registered on the 22nd of October, 1901, as the Spirit-
ualists' National Union, Limited, which is the recognised
body in this country.
The publications began with the '' Spicitual Tele-
graph," published in Keighley in the early days of the
movement; th:e 11 Spiritual !Magazine," founded in 1860;
"Human Nature, 0 1866; "The Medium and Daybreak,"
originally a monthly, commenced as a weekly, 1870 ;
" The Spiritualist,"1869; followed two years laJter by the
11 Christian Spi.ritualist "; then " Light," 1880; and the
"Two Worlds," 1887. These two have outlasted an
almost countless number of literary productions and are
to-day the accepted papers of il:he movement.
To-day we need as ever, nay, more .than ever, the
whole-hearted co-operation of every Spiritualist to tlie end
desired, viz., that not one spot of the United Kingdom
shall remain longer without knowledge of the truth we
have to expound, truths which will .free them .from many
er:rors, and will en.able all who grasp them to steer their ~
barque safely and well o'er the troubled waters; but this,/
pleasant to comtemplate and to talk about, needs whole·
hearted co-operation and perseverance.
Our duty alike to the veteran leaders of the past, and
the generation which is to follow, demands that we do our
part towards the ·erection of a perfect structure.
The following are but a few of the heroes of the past
who laboured hard and long for organisation: Mr. Jas.
Bums, Mr. Jas. Swindlehurst, Mrs. E. H. Britten, Mr.
E. W. Wallis, Mr. William Johnson, Mr. :Wm. Proctor,
Mr. Thomas Etchells, Mr. D. Richmond, Mr. Kilburn,
and Dr. MacLeod, and .they will always be remembered as
Builders of ,the Future.
26
ANDRE·W JACKSON DAVIS.
By JAMES TINKER.
An,drew Jackson Davis .is honoured by Lyceuniists as
the founder of our Lyceums and as an inspired educa-
tionist. He had visions of the system of education
practised in the spirit-world, and descr.ibe4 it to the
Spiritualists' Meeting, at .Oodsworth Hall, Brdadway,
New York, on January 25th, 1863. They started
d Lyceum there that day, with Davis as first con.ducto·r,
and he compiled a manual for it, on which Mr. Kitson
based the Manu:al which Bdtish Lyceumists use. But
Davis was not specially devoted to Lyceum work, as
" Our Alfred " has been. Davis's main work was the
publication o.f " The Harmonia! Philosophy. " A sketch
of his life indicates h(lfW he •was fitted from birth for that
special purpose.
He was born August 11th, 1826, at Blooming Grove,
Orange Coun.ty, New York State, U.S.A., and was the
youngest of six children. His father, Samuel, was a
shoemaker, weaver, and harvest&, and was usually very
poor. Mrs. Davis was a very neighbourly body, and .it
is interesting to note that she was a clairvoyante, and
that Andrew was a seer when quite a young boy. When
five he was made drunk. That so disgusted him that he
became an abstainer-a very helpful quality for his life's
mission. The family removed to Hyde Park, Duchess
County, when he was six, and he went to a dame's
school for a few weeks. He went to schools for about
five months altogether. His education was got from
workshops and fields and f.rom visions and voices.
He was a shy, clumsy lad, fond of solitary .rambles.
His father declared he '' Hadn't enough gumption to
make a whistle " ; his teacher said he was a " !block-
head "; his sisters called him a " dummy." He went to
work at a flour mill and then a grocery store, but made
too many mistakes. Then he went for two years to a
cattle dealer. While working in the fields, being about
11, he heard spirit voices and music. As the ·result of
what one voice said, the :family removed to Poughkeepsie
in 1838. There Andrew helpecl his father as shoemaker
27
for 18 months, and then became a grocer. His father
bought the store and Andrew managed it till the spring of
1841, when, being 14, he was apprenticed to Ira
Armstrong, boot dealer.
At the close of a cold February day in. 1841, Andrew
got to the gate of his home rwhen a black veil shut every-
thing from his sight. A golden radiance followed, and
the house changed to a palace in the Summerland. His
Mother called him to look at her new house. He knocked
loudly at the door and danced for joy. The door opened;
but an Irish neighbour scolded him for his noise, saying
his mother rwas dying. He did not believe her and 'bounded
.in. The black veil fell again and the palace disappeared.
He next saw his poor pale mother in ·bed and the doctor
was whispering to him, " She was dying." But he learned
the lesson of the vision, and rejoiced that his Mother had
exchanged the cottage for the palace.
While he was at Armstrong's the lads one ·day sang,
" Where are the friends that to me w.ere so de~?" iwith
the answer '' In their graves laid lorw, '' when Andrew
heard a spirit voice say, " No " each time the ansiwer
was sung.
The time was near when Andrew's inherited psychic
powers were to be greatly increased by mesmerism. In
1843, a Mr. ·Grimes lectured on " Animal Magnetism "
(one of the names for the forces used in mesmerism and
spirit control) . He tried to mesmerise Davis and failed.
Mr. Levington, a tailor, got interested in the subject, and
he succeeded in mesmerising Andrew, who displayed great
po·wers of '' Inner vision.'' He descr.ilbed places on earth
he had never visited, mad from closed books with his
eyes bandaged, and did other feats of clairvoyance done
by mesmeric subjects iwhen .in. deep trance. In January,
1844, he saiw every article and person in the room wonder-
fully alight in every in.ner detail. Every organ of the
human body, every detail of bone and blood, nerve and
tissue, was alight and variously tinted. His vision ex-
tended over the country outside the house, and he saw the
inner details of vegetation and of the strata of the earth
clearly defined in colours. He was then 17.
It is necessary to understand what is claimed for this
28
power .in the mesmeric state called " the superior con-
dition." It meant that he extended the power of his own
spirit to include observation of the spirit spheres beyond
the earth, .and also to draw Truths from the Mind Sphere
as clearly as he saw the objects in the spirit world. He
was released from the body and became a spirit in the
spirit world, and got his knowledge of it directly, not as
a medium under the oon:trol or inspiration of individual
spirits. That direct method is what all should try !for, and
which proper mediumship helps to cultivate. But those
who practise it are also mediums more than they know.
Davis claimed to get the t!ruths of the Harmonial
Philosophy by that direct method.
In March, 1844, he had a wonderful journey 40 miles
from home, " running at a wonderful speed," crossing
the frozen, Hudson, and returning, while in trance. He
also had two symbolic visions and convtersatlons with
Swedenborg and Galen, to prepare him for his great work
as healer and spiritual teacher. He then stopped displaying
his powers for curious people, and MT. Levingston agreed
to give up his busi,n.ess, so that, as mesmerist1 he could
help Davis in devoting all Eis time to healing, only
charging those who could afford to pay. One day Andrew
got very angry at some opposition and lost his temper.
Galen had given him in vision a " magic staff "or cane, as
a sign of his mission. After his outlburst of temper he
lost sight of the staff. He begged Galen to return it.
--...,_ Galen did so, showing him the meaning by the words as
'\. if printed on a card : '' Behold, here is thy ' magic staff.'
. Under all circumstances keep an even mind. '.fake it, try
it, walk with it, talk iwith it, lean on. it, believe on it, for
ever." The " magic staff," however, means much more
than keeping your temper. It means the control and use
of all the powers of the Self as Spirit, including healing.
While extending their healing work Davis met Dir.
Lyons, of Bridgeport, and converted him from opposition
to warm support. He consulted Davis in his medical
practice. Davis gave instructions while in trance that
Dr. Lyons was to give up his practice and go as
mesmeriser with Davis to New York for Davis to give
lectures on '' The Principles of Nature : Her Bivine Re-
29
velations." These started on November 28th, 1845, when
Davis was 19, and the last was given on January 25th,
1847-157 lectures. No notice was given to the public.
Invitations were sent to the most prominent people to
attend, and 267 of them signed the records made by the
Rev. Wm. Fishbough, whom Davis had selected as scribe.
Davis dictated to Dr. Lyons slowly and in a low voice,
the doctor repeated the words more loudly, the scribe
wrote them, and those present signed the record.
It is evident from the accounts of the methods and
purposes of Davis that he was not the " Father of Modern
c;;piritualism." He declared that he got his knowledge of
spiritual truths " apart from any special personality."
That difference in mode of inspiration is sufficient to debar
the claim that he was the leader of the new order. But
the special pu1rposes of modern Spiritualism are even more
distinctive than the special personalities and their modes
ot proof of their identity. Firom the raps of Rosna on-
wards, (1) the control of persons and things, by (2)
special and identifiable personalities to PROVE HUMAN
SURVIVAL, (3) have been the disfin,guishing features of
modern Spiritualism, specially associated with (4) the
home circle. Those were the modes and purposes that
roused the world and converted millions to Spiritualism
when a select few were quietly studying the " Harmonia!
Philosophy." Those few joined the " Knockers " to get
what proofs they could in support of their philosophy.
Davis did not start any one of the four characteristics ~
of modern Spiritualism. We can believe he conversed /
with Galen, Swedenborg, Franklin and others. But they
never used him as medium to pT'ove either their own sur· ,
vival or that of any oth~r person. Nor was his mode of
reveali·n.g the " existence of the Spi.ritual Universe " that
which marked the beginning of a nerw era by the work of
the new Order of Mediums typified lby D. D. Home and
J. J. Morse. Davis was rightly assertive of his difference
from that order and its modes. His merits are sufficiently
high to dispense with the mistaken. claim that he was the
Father of Modern Spiritualism. What we have to do is
to combine all methods.
In April, 1847, Dr. Lyon ceased mesmerising Davis,
30
who went into the " superior condition " at will (or
when inspired). A reform pape·r, " The Univercrelum."
was started for him when he was 21, but ceased at the
en,d of 1848. That year he marrJed Mrs. Kate Dodge.
In 1849-50 he wrote the first volume of his " Great
Harmonia," and the fifth volume was finished in 1855.
Their titles were: " The Physician," " The Teacher,"
" The Seer," " The Reformer," " The Thinker." His
wife died in November, 1853, and in May, 1855, he married
Mrs. May Love. In 1885 he mar·ried Dr. Della Markham,
who survived him.
Throughout a long caTeer as writer, lecturer, and
healer, Davis rdied on Spiritual Exaltation,. He wm-ote
thirty volumes on various aspects of his philosophy (and
on his life as seer and healer) from 1850 to 1887. The
chief works have been reprinted mimy times and are being
again published. He also wrote much in journals and
magazines. In 1886, to preserve his practice as healer,
he got the doctor's diploma of the U.S. iMedical College,
N.Y., and practised many years in Boston, Mass. He
retired on August 11th, 1909, aged 83, and passed away
peacefully on January 13th, 1910, at his home in Water-
town, Mass. He is still interested in Lyceum work, and
has lbeen .photographed with his worthy fellow pion,eer,
Alfred Kitson.
i It is difficult to give a just estimate of his works.
~ They are too wo:dy, .too.caTelessl:y writt~, and .are ~oo
' frequently more 1magmat1ve than mformat1ve or illumin-
ative. They are altogether too much of the old ·rhetorical
' and the Swedenborgian ord:er·s of '' revelations '' to suit
the modern scien,tific spirit. But they are a rich mine of
spiri!'ual truths and intuitions as well as interesting seer-
ship.
A good digest, not expensive repri1nts, would be
welcome ; but the modern Spiritualist, a•f.ter paying due
respect to Davis, sees that the satisi\actory Harmonia}
Philosophy has yet to be builded. 'We are only preparing
its foundations.
31
ALFRED KITSON.
" Father of the British Spiritualist Lyceum Movement."
By A. T. CONNOR.
Wher. a man has attained prominence in any .Move.
ment, all who are interested in that Movement wish to
know all that can ibe learned about him-'-especially with
regard to his early life. What were the surroundin~s of
his childhood and boyhood; what were the conditions
under which his youth developed, and blossomed into full
an.d efficient manhood ; what extent and degree of
education did he receive to shape his Qlind for such a
career; what were tfie incentives or inducements, the
urgings or the determining circumstances, which led to
his adoption of the calling in which he has attained such
conspicuous success? And very often, when the full life.
story has been told, the admirer 'is as far off as ever from
understanding why the career was adopted, or why the
success was attained. fWe think of numlbers of men who
have started under The same conditions-and remained at
the starting-post ; of other men who have struck out a
new line for themselves-and failed to make a success of
their new undertaking. Why, then,, should this particular
man succeed?. The answer must lie in the indomitable
spk.it of the man concerned-the spirit which enabled him
to laugh at all obstacles, to overcome all natural limitations
and to rise triumphant over all disasters, until at last the
desired (or should we say destined?) goal was reached.
The "divinity that shapes 0\11" ends "dwells in ourselves,
and manifests in our works.
Students who desire to ask these questions about
Alfred Kitson, and to have them answered with authority,
must obtain Mr. Kitson's Autobiography and find the
answers for themselves. In this brief sketch it will be
impossible to do more than tauch on the principal events
of his life and career as a pioneer of Lyceumism, in an
attempt to show that limitations and obstacles exist only
for those who fear them-or can be ignored by those who
have the courage to disrega.rd them.
~
I
32
Mr. Kitson, is an ardent educationist, so it would be
allowable to imagine him as having been reared in cir-
cumstances wherein he learned the advantages df a good
education. Instead, his period of " schooling " extended
over about a year, during which he attended school two
half-days a week. He lear.ned to read and write at
Sunday School, which he tells us he attended as often as
the state of his clothing would permit. For he was the
eldest of six children, the son of a miner whose ill-health
did not allow of regular working ; and as his mother had
to go out to work, little Alfred w.as kept at home as .nurse
and housekeeper when he should have been at school.
And even this only lasted until he was nine years old, at
which tender age he went fo work in a coal-mine, at
the iniqu.itous wage of a shilling a day. So his zeal for
education may have been born of his realisation of what
he had missed.
Mir. Kitson, senior, was an ardent Primitive
Methodist, and it was in an atmosphere of hell-fire and
everlasting torment that Alfred's mind began to take
shape. The effect of his religious surroundings on the
boy's mind may be summed up in his statement that he
had a horror of life and a great dread of death. Life
brought opportunities of sinning, and death would pre-
vent opportunities of repenting-and so he was certai.n
that, whatever happened, he was doomed " to bum in
hell-fire for ever and ever." But his work as a "hurrier"
filled most of his young life, varied by the pleasure
obtained through a talent for drawing and colouring.
In 1867, when twelve years old, he first hea.rd of
Spiri.tualism, through his father joining a iocal home
circle, and its teachings 1lhat we reap w!hat we sow gave
him his first hope of escape from eternal punishmernt. His
fatiher was as aTdent in Spiritualism as he had been in
Methodism, and in spite of persecution and revilings at
home and abroad became a medium and healer; with the
marvellous result {to others) that the healing power that
was poured through him removed the causes of his own
ilii~health, so that he was able to wOTk reglJilarly ; and life
for Alfred became much more pleasant and easy. Of
33
course, Alfred now attended the Spiritualist meetings,
and when a Lyceum was started at Gawthorpe in 1871
he was appointed co-Conductor w.ith William Winfield.
It was thus that he came in touch iwith the work to
which he has devoted his life, and it was in this new
atmosphere of inqu·iry and study that he left boyhood and
youth :behind and entered manhood.
As we have seen, in his childhood he was deprived of
any real opportunity of acquiring even a £aidy good
education. But only those who were content to rema.in
ignorant ever needed to remain ignorant, and ·Alfred
Kitson was consumed by a desire for knowledge. So he
took up courses of study that gave him an enti.rely new
idea of the world in which he lived. He studied geology,
and his work as a min.er provided him with many op-
portun.ities of putting the lessons to .a practical test. To
this he added the study of astronomy, and as his studies
progressed he :found a new heaven and a new ·earth
opening on his understanding; whilst !books on human.
physiology and phrenology explained to him the physical
and mental make-up of Man. Later he bought, and
studied, Cassell's " Science for All "; and finally, in
order to make sure that his '' Outlines of Spiir.itualism ''
should be authoritative and instructive, he purchased and
studied " The Religions of the World." And thus he
laid the foundations of the knowledge which has been so
helpful to all students of Spiritualism.
He was not only a student but a competent teacher, ~
and his well-stored mjnd made his teachings .partioularly
valuable. Articles from his ready pen appeared in '' The
Two Worlds," " The Medium and Daybreak," and
" The Lyceum Banner," both when it was edited by J.
J. Morse and later when, it came under his own manage-
ment. In addition to stories--one of which, '' The
Adventures of Prjnce Trueheart," was ire-published in the
1924 volume of " The Lyceum Bann.er "-he is the
author of " Is the Bible Opposed to Spiritualism?"
(answering the question in the negative) and " Outlines
of Spiritualism for the Young," of which Andrew Jackson
Davis wrote that " it is, in a word, the clearest and most
34
comprehensive of any work of its P'ages that I have yet
seen; and it should lbe in the possession of every reader
of progressive literature. ''
Bwt his monumental work lies in the great part he
took, in collaboration with H. A. Kersey and Mrs.
Britten, in. compiling our Lyceum Manual. Several of
the Golden Chains and most of the Musical Readings are
his own compos~tion; and it can be claimed for the Manual
that it is the rock on which the Lyceum Movement has
been built. A full list of Mr. K.itson.'s literary works will
'be found in his Autobiography.
In 1877 Mr. Kitson gave up his work as a collier and
his office as Conductor of Ossett Lyceum, on obtaining
the post o:f Advance Agent to a lecturer on Phren,ology.
But news of his sweetheart's ill-health brought him back
tc. the colliery and the Lyceum, and so our g.reat leader
wias saved to the Movement. He was married, on 22nd
December, 1877, to Miss Mary Fothergm Wainwright,
of Batley, and almost from the first misfortune seemed to
clog tihe footsteps of tJhe young couple. It seemed as if
their mettle was to be tried in every way. A son was
borin to them late in 1878, but went to spirit life when
three months old, whilst both father an.cl mother were
laid up with serfous illnesses. Another son was born in
1880, and a third in 1882-and both passed in.to spirit
life within a period of ten days ; one being two and a iha!lf
years and the other only two weeks old. A fourth son,
born in 1888, passed on in 1893; and in 1890 was born their
daughter, " Nellie," known to the Spiritualist Move-
ment as 'Miss Mary E. Kitson, B.A., Hon. Secretary of
the B.S.L.U. Education Committee, whose transition in
August, 1929, came ,as such a grievous shock to the whole
Mov.ement.
It was the 1882 disaster that brought Alfred Kitson
to his final decision to devote his life to working ifor the
children, and it was under its influence that he wrote the
connectiv.e readings for M.R. 209. He started the Batley
Carr Lyceum fo 1May1 1882, and advocated the Lyceum
system of teaching so strenuously and successfully that in
1886 it was possible to hold a Conference of Lyceumists,
----------------- -·-------------. --·----------------------
35
at which he acted as President and Sec11etiary. When the
Lyceum Union was formed, on May 11th, 1890,--with
about fifty Lyceums in existence-he was elected Hon.
Secretary, a post which lhe held until 1901, when he be-
came part-time Secreta·ry, becoming fual-time Secretary
in 1904. In addition1 to his secretarial work he managed
and edited " Tlhe Lyceum Banner " from 1902 (when
it was presented to the Union, as a free gift, by its
founder, the arisen J. J. Morse) until 1919,. when failing
healtih compelled him to resign both tasks to a younger
and stronger man. Full details of the period 'between
1882 aind 1919 must be sought elsewhere, as tihe scope
of tbis essay does not admit of their being dealt with ·here.
But the period was packed full of .painstaking work-
organising, administrative and literary, and the details
make interesti.ng reading. On his retirement a national
testimoniaa was organised, and the presentation made in
1920 at Keighley, on the fiftieth ann.iversary of Keighley
Lyceum's foundation. He ·is now Adviser to tihe Lyceum
Union, and in 1923 represented the Lyceum Movement
at the International Conference at Liege, where he read
a paper on Lyceum Ideals.
The causes of his success aire many, but we have only
sufficien1t space to deal with a few. We may fairly
assume tiha·t his ancestry played an important part. The
Primitive Methodist strain in his blood endowed him with
tihe power to hold fast to an ideal, !however unpopular ~
the ideal miglht be; and there were times when even the /
stoutest heart miglht have been tempted to give up in/
despair. But he never gave up. Another contributing
.factor was his early poverty, wlhich taliglht him to be
satisfied with very small returns for very hard work,. and
to make the most of what little came to hand. His con-
quest of ignorance, also, gave lhim an understanding of
what might be acomplished iby consisten,t personal
endeavour, and so he never lost cou,rage, .no matter thow
crude and unpromising might be tlhe mental material with
which he had to work.
There was one other great cause-the part played
by his ;wj.fe, In his Auto, he tells us how, in ·their early
-----~~----
36
mar~ied life, she often acoompanied him and took an
active ,part in his work ; and when at last the calls of
home became too strong, she used her skill as a cook to
build up and maintain that healthy body in which only ·
can a sound mind work, and gave home conditions suit-
ablle for the acoomplisihment of the great task he had
assumed. ,Many ifail to .realise tihe patient self-sacrifice
of the womenfolk of national workers-the submission to
lonely week-ends, the relinquis!hing of desired companion-
ship, the ·effort to keep a clheerful countenance to speed or
greet the departing or- returning husband-but it is very
real ; and those who applaud tihe work of a national
leader should give a tihought of gratitude to the wife
wlhose sympathetic co-operation• has made the leader's
work possible. To Mrs. Kitson, then, with her co-
operation and lher wifely care,. we must give due praise as
a prime factor in her husband's successes.
Thus in very brief outline we have reviewed Alfred
Kltson.'s career, and have seen how he triumphed over
poverty and the lack of instruction, How lhe succeeded
in his life's mission we a.Ji know. The Lyceum Union
has now about 300 Lyceums in memberslhip, and new
Lyceums are being formed all over the land. The majority
of Spiritualists are becoming convinced that the time has
come wlhen Spiritualism should cease to be merely pro-
pagandist and instructive and should be also educational;
and as this conviction spreads, tihe number of Lyceums
~.. wm increase in equivalent proportion. But, whatever the
ultimate end of the Lyceum Movement may be, every
well-informed Lyceumist admits that its present position
and strength is due to the devotion and ability of " The
Father of the British Spiritualist Lyceum Movement."
37
THE SPIRITUALIST LYCEUM.
By A. T. CONNOR.
Perhaps tlhe most important of all the beginnings of
Modern Spiritualism was the inauguration of the Spirit-
ualist Lyceum. On 25th JanuaTy, 1863, Andrew Jackson
Davis delivered an address at Dodsworth Hall, Broadway,
New York, in which he described how Spirit children were
tmded a·n1d tiiained and taught-and his audience was so
impressed with his description of clhild life in the Summer-
land (as lhe named tlhe Chittdren's Sphere), and of the
methods adopted to develop the child-mind, that they
there and then decided tlhat what was good for Spirit
children must be good for Earth children, 1and that
Lyceums modelled on the Summerland system should be
established at once. To show tlheir belief that example
is better than precept, the Dodsworth Hall Lyceum, with
Dr. Davis as Conductor, was established that very day.
Children in Spirit Life.
From the writings of Andrew Jackson Davis, Mrs.
Mary T. Longfoy and others, it is possible to build up a
fascinating picture of the happiness of life in the Summer-
land. As we know, " Wlhat men call death " is only a
change from physical to spirit conditions of life; -and
you1
ng dhildren survive physical death just the same as
adults, and enter spirit life where they left off in their
earthly life-as Spirit clhildren. At first sigtit it seems a
terrible thing for tlhese Uttle ones to be taken away from
all they have known1 and loved, and ushered into another,
and strange, set of conditions. But they are never ·allowed
to feel forsaken or neglected ; tlheir transition is superin-
tended by loving workers on the Spirit side, who meet and
welcome the little strangers, and attend to their well-
being and comfort. Neitlher are tlhey left, as so many
Earth clhildren are tteft, to the care of anyone who is
willing to take charge of them-instead, the greatest care
is taken by the Spirit Elders in selecting .for this guardian-
ship only those who are eminently fitted for children's
work. If tlh'e o'hild's mother is already in spirit life, she,
if worthy and capable, is allowed to take charge ; if not,
I
~
38
someone is appointed who will know just what is best
for the clhiad concerned. The Spirit Mother, or Spirit
Guardian, takes the child to its spirit •home in the Summer-
fond, and there .it takes up its albode in surroundings love-
lier and happier than it could have experienced on Earth.
Its companjons are children like itself, and every care is
taken to guard it from any taint or evil. Should it have
developed or acquired any evil tendencies du·dng its sojourn
on earth, no pains are spared until such spiritual ;weeds
have been eradicated. The child-memory is short, and,
in the midst of its new happiness and its new interests, the
child soon forgets things that are not continually brought
to its notice.
But one thing the child is not allowed to forget-that
it .is a human .being; and to this end the Spirit Guardians
sometimes bring their children back to their earthly homes
so that they may learn the lessons of earth-life and get a
correct idea of earth-conditions. They are often allowed
to remain ,for days, and sometimes, where the conditions
are :favourable, 1are able to communicate with their parents
or friends, and thus prove that physical death has .f¥>t in
any way interfered with their conscious individuality.
SUMMERLAND LYCEUMS.
The children grow up into men and women, just as
Earth children do, and increase in, wisdom and stature.
They progress very quickly, more quickly than would have
been possible in earth-life. The principal reason for this
is that, in the Summerland, education is understood and
practised as the process of draiwing out an.cl building up
the child's mentality: the system of education is adapted
to the needs and capacity of the studen1t, and learning is
made pleasant ·and easy. The Summerland schools are
called Progressive Lyceums, and the method of teaching
is mainly by object lessons, even the surroundings having
been so arranged as to play their rpart in the scheme. The
whole object of the lesson is to develop the spiritual powers
of the mind, to keep the child spiritually healthy, to train
his powers of observation and reasoning ; and the •aim of
the teachers is to make the lessons not only in,structive, but
39
interesting. There is nothing whateve·r in the nature of
"cramming" or of a11birtrary teaching. Certainly there are
what might be called teachers (in the Lyceums they are
called Leaders), but their ,work is very different :from that
of earthly teachers. When 'they have given a lesson on
any subject, they ar,e called upon to answer any questions
that may be asked by the pupils--'as authority does not
come with position, but from knowledge; for although in
this material world those who are not born great may
have greatness thrust upon them, in the spirit world every
individual must achieve greatness. For their object lessons
they are able to materialise from the atmosphere whatever
is ~equired to drive the lesson home ; and the children are
taught how to concentrate and thus materialise any object
desired for their games, etc. When history is being
taught, !he teachers produce panoramas illustrating the
subject or period under ·review-something, we may sup-
pose, in, the nature of the present-day cinematographic
exhibitions. In this pleasant way the young minds are
stored with useful knowledge, all of it thoroughly under-
stood by the students, and all of it essential to giving them
a comprehensive grasp of life and its problems. But not
only are children taught these necessary lessons; they are
taught also the duty and ithe beauty of goodness, and of
the happiness that attends on helping others. They are
taught the difference between happiness and pleasu~e-that
while pleasures, which come from without, may and
generally do depend on the 'will or the conduct of others,
their happiness, which comes from within, is dependent
er-tirely ·'Jn, themselves. Thus are they developed .jn love
and wisdom, 1and prepared for self-sacrificing work
wherever ·required.
EARTHLY LYCEUMS.
The aim of the earthly Lyceums is to be as nearly as
possible a copy of the heavenly Lyceums-but jt will easily
be seen that Earth conditions make anything like a perfect
copy an, utter impossibHity. The Spirit children know all
about the continuity of life--'the Earth children have to
be taught about it. The Spirit teachers know about the
exercise of mental powers, and are able to exert them on
~
.1
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
1 ·
I
!
40
behalf of 1
their pupils-the Earth teachers, as a body, do
not understand their mental powers, and therefore are not
able to use them. The Spirit Lyceums meet fo large and
beautiful halls, surrounded with !beautiful g·ardens-the
Earth Lyceums have very often to hold their classes in
rooms too small to allow proper seating accommodation
for all the children. The Spirit Lyceumists know
nothing-or have forgotten all-about pain and sorrow
an,d poverty and hunger, while about these the Earth
Lyceumists know far too much. And as the conditions
0f working differ to such an extent, so must the possibili-
ties and results of working. But if we cannot have an
aeroplane as the means of travelling, we must :be content
with a horse or donkey, or, in the last extremity, with
" shanks's pony." And in this spirit many earnest souls
determined that, although it is .impossible to produce a
perfect copy of the Summerland Lyceums, yet much could
be done, even under adverse conditions, for the children
of Earth. So the Lyceum at Dodsworth Hall was followed
by many others, both in America and in England, the
devoted workers doing their utmost to fit the children for
the ·trials and troubles. of earth-life. In the words of a
resolution of the London, District Lyceum Manual Revision
Committee : " The object of Lyceum teaching is to instil
in children, at the earliest age, the knowledge that they
I are immontal spirits; and of the Lyceum Manual to teach
them as such how to conduct their lives on the highest
~ principles and the purest moral code "--.and this 1
is the
\key-note of the teaching.
The Lyceum System.
The Lyceum is not at all like an ordinary Sunday
School, although the Lyceums meet on Sunday. The
members assemble with the idea of helping each other to
study, and therefore a large part of the session is devoted
to discussion of the various items on the Session P.ro-
o-ramme. The officers are the servants, ,and n.ot the
~asters, of the other members, and are elected annually
by the Lyceumists of twelve years old and upward. The
Conductor fills the place of the Sunday School Super.in-
tendent, and it is his duty to see that the Lyceum.ists get
41
the greatest possible benefit from each lesson. The ether
officers-Musical Conductor, Guardian of Groups, etc.-
have each an appointed task, and the success of the
Lyceum and its sessions depends on how these realise the
importance of their duties-and act up to the realisation.
For purposes of particular studies, the Lyceum .is, where
possible, divided into Groups according to age, and these
Groups (or classes) are in charge of Leaders. Andrew
Jackson Davis's ideal was a Lyceum of twelve Groups,
each containing twelve students, which he described as
follows (the name of the Group being given in italics) :-
" The first Group is called the Fountain Group.
Next, a Stream, flowing from the Fountain. Then a
River, in.to which the Streams widens. Next, a Lake.
Then to the Sea and onward into the Ocean. Now we
joyously behold a Beacon on the Shore. Then a Banner of
progress is seen waving in the free air. At this point we
look above, and discover a new Star in the heavens. Then
an aspiring Excelsior spirit enters the heart. And, lastly,
having passed onward from the Fountain, we begin to
realise internally something of the Libe·rty of the sons of
w.isdom, truth and righteousness.''
In practioe, Groups are formed acoording to the
membership of the Lyceum concerned, and the Leaders of
these Groups ar.e appointed as set out in Article 6, sec. 8,
of the Constitution for Spiritualist Lyceums, to " super-
intend the studies of their respective Groups ,and endeavour
to widen the outlook, and develop the thinking powers, of ~
the minds under their charge." Their work is to see that ·
education does not deteriorate into mer·e instruction, as it
is realised that, as Lord Avebury wrote in his article on
Education {in " The Pleasures of Li:fe "), " it is far
more important to cultivate the mind .than to store the
memory. Instruction is only a part of education .
Studies are a means and· not an end."
The Lyceum Manual, which was compiled from
various sources by Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Alfred
Kitson and Harry A. Kersey, is the official text-book of
the Lyceum Movement, and is used at every session. In
addition to the usual religious exercises, the session
oon,sists of a Silver Chain-a short poem of which a set
42
nUllllber of lines is read al'1:ernately by the Conductor and
the Lyceum. Next, a !Musical Reading-a hymn such as
'' Trust in God and do the Right,'' with prose or metrical
readings between the verses, connecting the verse sung
with the verse about to he sung. Then, a Golden Chain-
a series of paragraphs or sentences read alternately by
the Conductor (or an appointed substitute) and the
Lyceum. The rnle is that one or all of these should be
fully discussed-anything in the nature of debate being
foribidden. As the Silver Chains teach moral lessons,
and the Golden Chain,s deal with such subjects as " The
Teachings of Spiritualism," " Spiritual Gifts," " The
Religion o:f Humanity," " Brotherhood," " T:ruth,"
'' Pur.ity, '' etc., .it will be realJsed what a grand work the
Lyceums are trying to do. In most Lyceums the Golden
Chain .is followed by marching and calisthenics (exercises
calculated to .inierease the gracefulness of the body). The
marches all have a psychic meaning, and similar marches
are performed by the Summerland Lyceums. After the
marching ithe Lyceumists go to their various Groups for
c.. stated .period of study; and when the Groups have
broken up a hymn and benediction brin~ the session to
a close.
The Lyceum Union.
The first attempt at forming a Lyceum in England was
made at Nottingham, in 1866--:but ithe th:ree oldest
Lyceums are Keighley, founded in July, 1870; Sowerby
Bridge (October, 1870), and Batley Carr ('May, 1882).
From 1882 onward, the movement gradually spread, and
in 1886 there were enough Lyceums to justify an annual
Conferen,ce. In 1890 (the year of the formation of the
British :spiritualists' Lyceum Union) there were fifty
Lyceums .in existence, and to-day there are about 300
affiliated to the Union. Alfred Kitson, of Hanging Heaton,
Yorks., was Hon. Sec. from the first Confer.ence in 1886
till 1901, when he :became full-time Secr.etary, a post he
held till failing health rompelled his retirement in 1919. In
1886, Mr. Kersey (Newcastle-on-Tyne) generously
.assumed the fin,ancial risk of publishing the '' Lyceum
Manual," and continued until in 1901 the Union was
43
strong enough to take over the responsj.bility. Space will
not allow any detailed account of the org·anisation and
activities of the Union, lbut mention must be made of its
enterpr.ising and successful Pulblishing Department. The
Union now owns its own official journal, " The Lyceum
Banner," which, under consistently able editorship is
doing splendid work for the Movement; it publishes the
" Lyceum Manual " and a number of other educational
books and pamphlets; and it conducts an Education
Scheme for those .who wish to pursue their studies more
deeply than, is possible at the ordinary Lyceum session.
The Education Scheme is a fine example of progres-
sive evolution. Established ·in 1915 as a one-Grade
scheme, it lhad grown. to three Grades when in 1920 it was
amalgamated with the five-grade London Scheme. In 1922
the Oral Grade (with two section·s, for children .bet:JWeen
fl and 12 years old) was added, and in 1926 it was in-
creased to its present (1932) scope by the addition of a
Continuation (Advanced) Course consisting of the Inter-
mediate, Subsidiary and Final Grades. The original
Scheme (Oral Grade and Grades I to V) is called the
Associate Section, and is administered by the Lyceum
Union Education Committee; the Advanced Course is
called the Graduate Section, and its ann,ual examina-
tions ;are conducted by the Spi-ritualists' National
Union Education Committee. The Syllabus of the
Graduate Section. (which includes a study of Logic,
Psychology and Philosophy ; Evolution and Anthropology /_,,.,,.,
and Comparative Religion; Psychical Research and '
Mediumship and courses of General Reading) was drawn
up !by a joint committee of the two Education Committees,
and adopted by the National and Lyceum Union Con~
ferences in 1926-and this Joint Education Committee
governs the administratoin of the Joint Scheme and
functions as the Governing Board of the National
Spiritualist College, which also was established by the
1926 Conferences. Yearly examinations are held by both
sections, and all Lyceumists over 12 who wish to go
through the Scheme must start at Grade I-but Church
members are allowed to join the Scheme at Grade V, which
i~ the Entrance Examination to the Graduate Section.
44
·The College Scheme (explained in The College Booklet
and The College Guide) provides for the award of the
Associate and Graduate Degrees to successful students
in the Grade V and Final examinations. At the end of
1931 .there were 11 Graduate and 116 Associate members
of the College, and these numbers ·Will increase with each.
annual examination. The Lyceum Union Education Com-
mittee has issued an Oral Grade Primer and six handbooks
for use in the Grade studies, and also two pamphlets of
hints to students and tutors. In the two Sections about
2,000 students are prepared annually for one or other of
the ten Grades.
A Call to Duty.
It will be seen that the workers in the Lyceum Move-
ment are doing their best to live up to the Summerland
ideal ;- but the harvest is gr.eat and the qualified labourers
are few; and the work being attempted is a clear call to
duty to ?.11 who have convinced themselves of the truth of
spirit return and of the life after death. There is room,
.and need, for thousands of Lyceums in this country. Who
will join in, and help in the great and honourable task?
Those who cannot teach can attend and study, an.cl thus
encourage others. In the SummerJ.and, says Dr. Davis,
the wise men and women who dwell there "educate not
only those who are children in. years but also in matters of
knowledge, thought and principle.'' So all will be
welcome, and when at last Lyceums are spread all over
this and other lands, and all full of earnest students, the
Movement of Spiritualism will become a m.ighty instru-
ment for the formation of character and the attainment
of perfect manhood and womanhood.
45
CHILDREN IN SPIRIT LIFE.
By A. T. CONNOR.
" Where do children go when they die?"
This is a question which has set many minds busy.
The Christian Church-and it is one of its most serious
failures-has never given a clear-cut, unanjmous answer,
but has left each sect to provide its own answer according
to its ideal of God and His love; and in consequence,
sorrowing paren,ts find comfort or added grief according
to the sect to rwhich they belong. There ar·e many Christ-
ians who believe that Jesus takes all little children into his
own personal care and keeping. " Gentle Jesus, meek
and mild " ; the Good Shepherd, who guards from ha.rm
every little lamb in his flock; the loving Big Brother, who
folds the little ones to his bosom-this, the most beautiful
God-conception to which the human mind has ever
attained, has b.rought sweet comfort to many sorrowing
hearts. And many boys and girls of very tender years
have gone without fear in.to the Valley of the Shadow, be-
lieving that Jesus was waiting there to go with them and
guide them safely through the journey. But there are
other Christian sects which have built up an ideal of a God
who is as cruel and vindictive and unreasoning as they are
themselves; and these have taught that the little children
who pass out of earth life without having been baptised
are treated as if they were wicked cr-iminals, and sent to ~
everlasting torment. Their idea is that rwe are all horn / · .·
with the taint of Adam's sin, and that unless we are born
again '' of water and the spirit '' we cannot enter the
Kingdom of God (See John, ch. 3, v. 3, 5). In other
words, .1f we are not baptised we are not memlhers of
Christ's Church and· so cannot be saved. This horrible
(and, as ·JVe know, utterly wrong) teaching has filled many
hearts with despair. No wonder that mothers have re-
beHed against this apparently pitiless God, and that " The
voice of Rachel, for her children crying, Will not be
comforted."
To such mothers Spiritualism has brought a message
of_great joy. Little children, when their earthly career
46
comes to an end, do not " go out into the dark," and
alone. They are helped through the change by loving
Spirit Friends, who comfort and tend them. If, before
passing on, they have been suffering from disease, they are
taken to sanatoriums, ·where they drink in health and hap-
piness amidst specially prepared surroundings, and. soon
forget their earthly sorrows in the joys of the Summer-
land. They are then allowed to join orther children, and
take part in the child life of the Spirit Spheres, which is
not so very different from normal child life on Earth. They
go to school ; they take part in games ; they go on ex-
cursions and outings ; and-this is a time of times-they
are sometimes brought back to Earth conditions and are
able to give or send messages to their parents.
The method of teaching js fully described in. the article
on " The Spiritualist Lyceum " (see page 37). And we
are forced to the belief that, in the Summerland, children
cannot but enjoy going to school. There are no wearisome
home lessons; there is no monotonous learning of lists of
dates and events; the idea of the " educational film "
seems to have been anticipated; there is no " cramming "
for examinations. The Summerland teachers seem to
concentrate on developing the spiritual natures of the
children and drawing forth all their mental powers; and
we are told that even the surroundings and many of the
marches are used for 1educational purposes. " These
educational processes in the heavens," says Andrew Jack-
son Davis, " are independent of books-of the ordinary
formal methods of instruction. They are based upon the
identity b~tween motion and life in. body and spidt-the
principles that regulate matter and mind. For instance,
ii children there were to be taught the principles of
astronomy, they would not sit down to Mitchell's
Astronomy or Burritt's " Geography of the Heavens,"
or the text-books of whoever may have 1written on the
subject; for the constellations themselves are astronomers,
and every .planet waltzes about its primary on. the same
principle that one human being will pass another in the
street, or in. the waltz, or in the mazes of the dance. The
bright-eyed, golden-haired, and happy-hearted children in
the heavenly Groups go through various marches, whereby
47
they are taught to comprehend the operation of planets,
showing how one star plays around another, how satellites
move around planets, how plan.tes and satellites move
around the sun, how sun·s with planets and satellites move
around greater suns, and how all constellations move
around some still greater and more central controlling
power. All this attractive knowledge is accquired by the
beautiful marches of the little persons who go to the
Zellabingen Association, or to some corresponding
Lyceum.'' (.. Davis Manual," pp. 8-9).
But it is not all school-work ir. the Summerland-for,
even there, all work and no play would make Jack a dull
boy and Joan a dull girl ; even although work an.cl enter-
tainment are so judiciously blended that it is hard to tell
where one leaves off and the other begins. So rwe find these
young Lyceumists going for outings and on, long ex-
cursions, " marching in perfect order, over undulating
plains with banners waving, and making the valleys re-
sound with their sweet melodies, while on their way to
visit some other Lyceum, who receive them with friendly
greetings ... " (See " Lyceum Manual, G.C.R. 148).
In this and similar •ways the young minds are kept !bright
an.cl healthy, whilst at the same time being trained to their
hi·ghest possible pitch of development.
To most of these little ones the change from Eartb
life to Spirit life must :seem a glorious one, for far too .
many of our Earth children kn101w ve·ry little of anything -~
'beyond mean streets or busy highways of commerce. And ,,
now, what a change! " Their Lyceums," we are told in
the " Manual," " are surrounded by large and beautiful
gardens, where birds sing, flowers bloom, waters ripple,
and fountains play." And the Lyceum buildings are them-
selves things of beauty. Built of beautiful materials which
resemble crystal or alabaster or marble, silver or some
other precious metal, they are furnished inside with almost
indescribable loveliness. Nooks an.d corners are ocoupied
hy graceful statues ; the walls are adorned rwith beautiful
pictures or frescoes, and the ceilings are carved into figures
of beauty, dignity and grace. All this is designed to in-
fluence the child mind, and fill it with a love of the
48
beautiful and the good.
Lovely as are the Summerland Lyceums and their
surroun,dings, they are not the only abiding places-nor,
indeed, the only places of instruction--of the children.
There are other homes, and what we might call country
retreats, to which they go, or in rwhich they live. Some
of these are described in '' Outlines of Spiritualism for
the Young," so it will lbe sufficient here to give a general
idea of what they are like, and to refer those who would
like further details to Mr. Kitson's book (which is really
suitable for all ages).
The key-note of these homes and retreats is beauty
and .interest, and the daily programme combines amuse-
ment with instruction. One of these " homes," which is
really a large district, is called Lily Vale, from the bea.uti-
fu.l white lilies with owhich its meadows and grassy slopes
are thickly studded ; and a description of h and its customs
an.d daily routine will help us to realise how happy its ·
child inhabitants must be. Lily Vale we are told, is a
pretty spot " where flowers 1bloom all the time, and where
bir-ds sing and carol " all the day. In the centre of the
valley is a wide lake, ,surrounded .with -great trees, and
o.n the lake are little white boats, some shaped like swans,
others like different kinds of shells ; and in these the
children go sailing under the care of adult guardians.
Two children, with a teacher, form the '' crew '' of each
boat, and as .they glide along the teacher -instructs them
" concerning the -n,ature, qualities and uses of water, and
the laws of motion as connected with the flow of waves."
All this sounds very difficult, lbut the system of question
and answer. in use in aill Summerland schools, must make
the lesson easier, and much more interesting, than it seems
to us. Occasionally the teachers organise picn.icking
parties to some secluded spot in the Vale, during which
the children receive lessons in botany and natural history. ·
This mode of instruction, may he styled '' learning without
realising it "-as will readily be admitted by any reader
who has ever gone for a ramble in the country with an
interesting, well-informed companion. The pupils ask
questions about things that interest them, and the teachers
49
supply the desired information (and that only)-and sudh
information is not readily forgotten.
vVhen not out in the open air the children live in little
houses, which arc '' all round J.ike pavilions, and have
entrances on every side; the windows open like doors from
floor to ceiling, and arc generally open wide. The coJ.umns
or posts arc entwined •with growing vines, which throw
out their purpk, pink, golden or scarlet blossoms to
catch the gentle breeze. The insides of the houses are
furnished prett.ily but simply, and all look neat, .tasteful
and sweet, just as little children's homes always should;
J"or the surroundings of a child have a great deal to do with
forming its characte1- and cli,spusition, as well as with de-
veloping its tas.tes. Books, pictures, music, and every-
thing beaut.iful, arc to be found in the little homes of Lily
Vale, and all who d\vell there live in harmony with one
another. The older scholars assist in. training and caring
for the younger, and all are happy in this Summerland
home.'' In the Vale is a magnificent Temple of Art,
which has been fully described by Mr. Kitson. In this
Temple lectures are g.iven on sculpture, painting, music,
etc., by advanced spirits who when in Earth-life had been
acknowledged masters of Lhe subjects on which they
lecture.
The other homes and districts are of a similar nature
and put to a similar use ; and their description is almost
suggested by their names-Crystal Lake, Rocky Nook,
Happy Valley, Golden Nest, etc. Crystal Lake is a sana- ~
torjum. Little children who have been sick and feeble, '
and have finally passed into Spirit life, are taken to
Crystal Lake or similar districts, '' and there they grow
well and strong and happy, and are never sick nor miser-
able any more."
Thus far we have been able to follow the "physical"
(I know of no alternative word that will suit for the
spirit body) and mental development of children in Spirit
life. It may be (has been) questioned why the children of
the .Spirit sphere are taught astronomy and like sciences.
The question might be answered hy asking why astronomy
.:- and Latin and Greek are taught in our own schools. And
50
the an.swer will fit both questions. Universal Love would
be impossible to a spirit, child or adult, who knew nothing
but the one region of the Spirit World {or this material
world) in which he or she happened to live. And the
grasping, and possible solution, of world problems would
be more practicable to a well stored mind, thoroughly
trained in reasoning, than to an ignorant mind that put
prejudice before facts :and had no idea of the rules of
correct thinking. Further, those who have charge of the
instruction of Spirit children are much w.iser than we; and
even if we cannot see clearly all their reasons for what
they do, we may be sure that everything done leads to the
very best possible results.
\iVhen the children are old enough and wise enough,
they are set to the work for which, by nature, inclination
an.cl training, they are best fitted. And, as we know, one
of their chosen tasks is to come back to Earth conditions
and control mediums for private and public propaganda
work. The wisdom, and even the propriety, of this has
often been questioned. But again, those on the Spirit
side who are controlling our Movement must be
acknowledged as knowing better than we. The time spent
in Earth surroundings is ·a small fraction of twenty-four
hours, .and the children do not miss their lessons to any
extent. And besides, it may be that the '' child '' who
controls (and .remains a '' child '' even after twenty years
of con.trolling) may merely be manifesting as such in
response to the expectations of the medium and the sitters
-and in Spirit life may be .a man or woman in years and
wisdom. However that may be, I am going to quote, in
ans,wer to the objectors, the words of the Spirit control
or Mrs. Mary T. Longley:-
" Spirit children learn most rapidly by coming back
to earth, bearing messages to mortals ; they also grow
beautiful and strong in so doing. Knowledge increases
with them, and they become wise and experienced in a
little while. They earn their lovely homes ; all the bright
beautiful things they have· are theirs because they have
worked for them, and they know how to enjoy them
thoroughly." (" Life and Labour in the Spirit World.")
51
And now we must leave the Spirit Children to their
instructors and their games, closing with a further
quotation from the same Spir.it Friend:-
" So you .see, my friends, the lives of the children in
the Summerland arc busy, useful and earnest. These
little ones have all the amusement and recreation they
desire, while they !ind an incentive to study or work in the
joy they fed when they have mastered their lesson or
accomplished their labour. They have no time to quarrel
or ·he discontented, and are always happy."
---0---
PHYSIC.\ L EXERCISES-HEALTH.
Ry ALFRED KITSON.
Due exen-.isc of the members of th@ human body is
necessary for their development and strength. The weak
may be made strong; the sufferer may be greatly ben,c-
fited, if not made healthy, 'by a careful course of physical
exercises.
On the other hand the strong may become weak, the
robust sickly, by inaction or lack of exe _Lise. Why is
this so? Because streng·th and what is c~,lled b~ing ~
" fit " depend on activity. I
Strength of limb depends on the ,size and compactness
of muscular fibre, by which all action .is performed. When
extra exertion is demanded of the muscles, of the arms,
kgs or body; as in playing cricket, football, running, or
climbing; the limbs feel sore and stiff the day following
.owing to the extra demand made upon them. But if the
games or walks are repeated day after day the soreness is
sai.d to '' wear off.'' Why? Because the weak muscles
are !being made strong. The long walks and cI.imbing of
hills do n;ot tire us. We can indulge in cricket, football,
etc., without feeling sore and stiff in our limbs the day
after.
52
The same remarks apply to home gymnastics, dumb-
bells, chest expanders, clubs, etc., iwhich all help to bring
weak muscles into more frequent and active use, and so
strengthen them. The effect on the body, df this exercise,
is to demand that more iblood ibe supplied to the parts
exercised, thereby causing a more vigorous action of the
heart. The heart then demands a larger supply of the
vital fluid blood; and this causes the .stomach to demand
more food iby which to supply the extra amount of blood.
The use of the muscles must not .be of an aimless
nature, but must have a definite pu!'pose. The cricketer
has to train his muscles to become dexterous in ''fielding,''
" batting " and " bowling." The footballer ha.s to train
his muscles to bel'omc dexterous in " defence " and
'' attack '' in order to win. the ball through to the goal
posts.
Similarly, the girls with their skipping-rope contests,
their battledores, knitting, crocheting and sewing, acquire
dexterity by frequent practice.
The same rule app'lies when learning to play any
musical instrumen,t: piano, violin, flute, etc. The eye has
to be trained to read the music, judge the length of the
notes, and at the same time bring the fingers into play to
find the proper keys, or position of fingers and bow on the
violin strings. How difficult this training is ! How dis-
tracting to the ears are the discordant sounds produced by
the learner in training his or her fingers. But " practice
makes perfect," or in other words, frequent exerdses train
the eyes, ears, and fingers to obey the will in,stantly. The
fingers seem to know just where and how to move of their
own accord as soon .as the eyes see the music sheet. The
ear instantly detects a faulty note and demands its being
put right. So perfection in, execution is won by frequent
exercise on the lines desi.red.
If exercises can do so much for us in our play and
musical acquisitions they can be of equal help in the exe-
cution of our marches and calisthenics.
Marching and calisthen,ics should .be as carefully per-
formed as are other things of importance. The marching
•
53
should combine a rhythm of motion, with a graceful bear-
ing or deportment. Indifference to these things leads to
stamping or shuffling of the feet, either of which spoils the
harmonfous effect of the marches; there .is nothing grace-
ful or artistic about them and the effect on the body and
mind is more harmful than good, because they tend to
create carelessness and lack of will-power. Let the feet
move lightly and evenly with the music. Listen to the
music and note how its parts blend with and sustain each
other, producing harmony. Let the harmony thrill your
inner being and carry you gracefully along wjth its
impulse, then you 1will realise the beneficial effects of the
marches.
Similarly with the calisthenics. To be indifferent to
the pose of the body, and to throw your arms about any-
how without paying attention to the correct position of
hand and arm required by each movement, is not
calisthenJcs, any more than stamping of feet is marching.
The position of the body, the graceful extension of the
arms, the turning of the palms of the hands in rhythm with
the music, produce harmonious poetry of motion. But in
order to do this we must practise until we can bring the
pose of body, and rhythmic motion of arms and hands
under the direct and immediate control of the will. These
exercises will then have the desired effect on, the body by
st.imulating the circulation, breathing and digestion. To
the thrilling strains of music then we all may sing:-
" Gaily to music our hands shall keep time,
Happily bounding our thoughts flow in rhyme;
Working together in movement and word,
The deeps of our soul shall in concert be stirred."
" With muscles made strong by the lessons we learn,
And minds made clear, right from wrong to discern ;
The Banners of Truth shall be grandly unfurled,
And float in. the blue of a truth-loving world."
f.
~/
