{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__curtiss___key_to_evolution_and_bible.pdf","mytitle":"Key To Evolution And Bible","mylang":"de"}
THE TRUTH ABOUT
EVOLUTION AND
THE BIBLE
BY
HARRIETTE AUGUSTA CURTISS
AND
F. HOMER CURTISS, BS., MI).
Founders of
THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN MYSTiCS
and
THE UNIVERSAL RELIGIOUS FOUNDATION, INC.
AUTHORS OP THE CURTISS BOORS."
Members of
Tb. AfN.TICCu Assedatio's for the Advauceu,eut of Sd.,w.; Tb.
Ausedcas. Society for Psychical Research; Tb. Araericaa
Asiatic AssodatIou; The Author? league of Ausevks;
The League of Ai.ei'icazs Peu-Wouse,i; Cowwitte.
at, Psychology, World Couferetsc. os Narcotic
Educatlo*; Natiowal Council of American
indians; The Anthozsy Foundation,
The Bacon Society (London);
The Hugueisot Society of
Washington, etc., etc.
Second Editi.t,
WASHINGTON, D. C.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
1932
COrzMu1II 1928, iT
F. Hoiiza Cuinss, MD.
Tronslatlon aisd AU Other Rights Reserved
LONDON
L. N. FOWLIR & CO.
7, Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus, E.C. 4.
Printed Is the United States of America
CONTENTS
Introducton
"If we really understand what evolution
means, and if we understand what the Bible
really says as to the origin of man, we will find
that there is no conflict between science and
religion or between evolution and the Bible,
only between misconceptions on both sides."
Necessity for aeroplane views of modem con-
ditions xi
CnAmi I. Science
"Facts and laws, when repeatedly observed,
proved and demonstrated, are said to be scien-
tific." Science underlies all our modem civili-
zation, all our creature comforts and all our
conceptions of life and the universe in which
we live. What science has proved as to the
evolution of forms through Embryology,
Palæontology, Anthropology, Comparative
Anatomy, etc. 17
Cmu'm II. Materiaiisni
Not a sound philosophy. Now replaced by
dynamism. Can explain processes but not ori-
gins and causes. "The bankruptcy of ma-
terialism. . . is now evident." Accept its
facts, but need not accept its conclusions. . 25
CIIAPTEa III. The Law of Manifestation
All manifestation from a single cell; from
within outward. Necessity of a pattern. How
V
vi CONTENTS
the pattern is materialized. Why a plant or
animal stops growing in size. Meaning of
Hebrew word "created." Necessity of a
causative factor tending toward a predeter-
mined end. Examples of the conscious ac-
tions of cells 33
CHAPTER W. Creation
Length of the "days" of creation. Geological
evidence. "The Lord God made every plant
of the field before it was in the earth, and
every herb of the field before it grew." The
Adam of the first chapter of Genesis a purely
Spiritual Man, in the image and likeness of
God. A spiritual and pre-physical being,
created not evolved 46
CHAPTER V. Creation (Concluded)
The two Adams. Adam of the second chap-
ter not "created" but "formed" or evolved.
The vital difference. Body of man not the off-
spring of the ape. Why? How? How man
became "a living Soul." Paul's testimony as
to the conflict between the Spiritual Man and
the animal man. What was "the fall of.
man"? "Original sin"? 54
CHAPTER VI. Manifesting the Creation
Why is the body so imperfect and prone to
sickness and disease? Effects of inharmoni-
ous creations. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Progress requires effort. . . . 66
CHAPTER VII. Manifesting the Creation (Con-
cluded)
Change essential to progress. Effect of
radium. Spiritual radio-activity. . . . 74
CONTENTS vii
CuAPrn VIII. Adam and Eve
Adam and Evenot the parents of all mankind.
How the separation of the sexes took place.
Meaning of the rib. Sex inheres in the Soul.
Woman's place and duty in society. Reasons
for her "inferiority complex," dress fads, cos-
inetics, "sex appeal" 81
CRAPTER IX. The Garden in Eden
No such locality ever found. Necessity for
another interpretation. Testimony of St. Au-
gustine. How long did it take Adam to name
1,000,000 species? Meaning of the four
rivers. Difference between Eden and the Gar-
den. How the Bible was compiled. The role
of inspiration 94
CHAPTER X. The Trees in the Garden
Hebrew words for Garden and Tree. How
justify the Hebrews' seizing of other people's
lands? Tree of Knowledge. Tree of Life.
Kundalini-force. Dangers of eating the fruit.
Origin of evil. Why banished from Eden? 109
CHAPTER XI. The Serpent Power
Serpent not the initiator of evil. Why used
as a symbol? Meaning of the word. Sex not
impure. Only method of incarnation. Rod
of Moses and Aaron. Caduceus. Kundalini-
force. Effect on spinal cord and brain . 125
Cum XII. The Serpent Power (Concluded)
The curse of the serpent. Fruit of the tree.
Adam and Eve not driven from the Garden
for using the sex functions 136
CHAFrER XIII. Unity in Duality
Manifesting the unity of the Soul in the duality
vni CONTENTS
of the sexes. Sex underlies all manifestatioxj.
Not merely an animal function. Doctrine of
spiritual mates 142
CUAmR XW. The Twain One Flesh
Marriage made in heaven. Two expressions
of the same Higher Self. Geometrical proof.
Object of the Soul's incarnation. Marriage
rite essentially spirituaL No satisfaction pos-
sible in promiscuity. Wrong mental attitude
short-circuits forces. "Risen above sex." No
normal woman frigid. Object of marriage.
Sex equality, and woman's rights. Trial and
companionate marriages ..- . . . . . 150
Ca&m XV. Summary 168
Supplementary Chapters
CHAPTER XVI. God. Part 1.The Three-fold
FlameThe Father
Connection with light and fire. Sibylline Ora-
des. Three persons of the Trinity. God a
consuming fire yet a God of Love. Prayer to
Divine Mother; Evening Prayer . . . . 175
CHAPTER XVII. God. Part 11.The Chariot of
FireThe Divine Mother
The "Sun behind the Sun." Chariot descends
periodically. Meaning of "Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot." Effect of the "Fire of the Lord" 189
CHAPa XVIIL God. Part IlLThe Chritos
The Son
Growth of the Christ-seed in man. How to tin-
fold the mind centers. The second coming of
the Christ 201
CONTENTS
Cum XIX. The Image of God
The Mill of the Gods. The Wheel of Time
What is the Image? Steps in its manifestation 215
CHA1rEa XX. Emmanuel
Mystic symbology of Jesus' life; meaning of
the word virgin; symbology of Mary; meaning
of Emmanuel; not a Imowledge, but a realiza-
tion; symbology of blood; mystic symbology
of the rainbow 229
Indes
Elaborated for use of students . . . . 239
EVOLUTION
They quiver, shift and change like human hope,
These myriad forms In the Kaleidoscope,
Abide their little hour and are gone,
As Life's fast flying wheel whirls ever on.
Each flows out from one evolved before
In equal charm, or may be lessor more.
But naught remains unchanged. Mi things must shift
Into such forms as next may be the gift
Of Him who turns the wheel. Yet see the Law
With certitude serene, infinite1 draw
A golden thread forever through the mane
Uniting present, past and future days.
Though men with tints and colors may essay,
They work inside of lines drawn yesterday.
To-morrow shows a scene of woe or weal,
A sequence sure of this day's sloth or zeal.
Thus runs the Law, life's atoms bright arranging,
And combinations new reflect the changing.
Each form has Intimate, complete relation
To that just past, Its source and derivation.
Learn day by day sindlitudes to scan;
See in this toy, somewhat the way of man,
From out the Spiritual Sun a Ray,
Held by the magic of the Law In clay.
Who knows what fairest form of afl
Shall lastand perfecton our shoulders fall?
Fain Buwirx Lu-us, Fellow O.C.M.
Courtesy of The Square and Cor4iass, Denver.
INTRODUCTION
"Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not. . . Forsake
her not, and she shall preserve thee; love her, and she shall keep
thee." Proverbs, iv, 5, 6.
"Men who know very little of science and men who know
very little of religion do indeed get to quarreling, and the on-
lookers im2ghle that there is a conflict between science and
religion, whereas the conflict is only between two different
species of Ignorance." Prof. Robt. A. Mflflfr.n, CoWer's,
Oct. 24, 1925, 6.
'Wisdom is the principal thing," Solomon tells us.
"Therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get
understanding." If we have a real understanding of
a principle we can grasp and comprehend the many
seemingly conflicting aspects of its manifestation and
thus solve the problems its diverse aspects may pre-
sent. This is particularly true of the apparent con-
flict between the doctrine of evolution and the
statements of the Bible as to the origin of man. For,
if we really understand what evolution means, and
if we understand what the Bible really says as to the
origin of man, we will find that there is no conifict
between science and religion or between evolution and
the Bible, only between misconceptions on both sides.
Both sides are right in a way, but both are thiking
about entirely different things
Since it would require several volumes to expound
xl
xli EVOLUTION AND TEEBIBLE
and fully corroborate the philosophy presented in this
volume, especially its theological implications, and
altho many theological card-houses will necessarily be
toppled over, because they are built upon the shifting
sands of human speculation instead of upon Cosmic
Law and the Rock of Eternal Truth, nevertheless, we
will have to confine ourselves more to an outline than
to a complete exposition of the subject.
In the subsequent pages if we do no give more
elaborate corroborative examples and argumonts, or
if at times we may speak somewhat dogmatically, it
should be remembered that only sufficient of the
philosophy can be given herein to substantiate our
main thesis. We will endeavor, however, to give suf-
ficient Illustrations and to point out the same laws
working in Nature all about us to convince the aver-
age unprejudiced mind that does not have a thesis of
its own to modify or discard ere it can grasp a new
conception. Those who are studiously inclined will
find many of the points more fully elaborated in our
other volumes.'
To gain a true understanding of any principle or
problem we must have, firstly, a wfllingress to accept
truth when it is proved to us, an4 secondly, we must
have minds whose rlutnneli of tiliniring are not fos-
silized into grooves by traditions which mould and
distort every fact according to preconceived concep-
tions. In other words, not only must we have minds
'Particularly The E. to the U,,iverse, The Key oJ DutMy aed
The Voice oJ Iris.
INTRODUCTION iiii
that are plastic enough to grasp new ideas, but we
must have the willingness to accept new points of
view, new conceptions and new truths when they are
demonstrated to us. Also we must not permit our
emotionswhether religious or of scientific impa-
tience or intellectual contemptto enter into what
should be a calm, rational and scientific enntion
of the proved facts of the case and the unvarying laws
of Nature back of them. For, if we do, the resulting
emotional storm upsets the quiet balance of our
reasoning and even of our intuitive faculties, and
blinds us to the truth, no matter how nnRsbIbly
presented, both logically and scientiflcaly. As we
have said elsewhere: "It is well to heed the past, yet
not to live in it and say that that which has been is
all that can ever be, but to reason intelligently from
the underlying principles which are the s2rne yester-
day, today and forever, aitho they find ever greater
facilities for more perfect expression as evolution ad-
vances. The Tree of Life grows from age to age and
puts forth fresh branches and leaves and fruit perhaps
undreamed of when it was but a sapling; nevertheles
it grows always from the Everlasting Root, and but
expresses that which was present aitho nnrmtnifested
within the seed. And ever it is the same fundamental
process of Nature which puts forth its new experi-
ences.".
Proved facts are realities, while appearances may
be but certain aspects of those facts seen under vary-
'Tb. Message .1 AquarIa, Curtlu, 25.
xiv EVOLUTION AND TUE BIBLE
ing and often limiting conditions. With the investiga-
tions of science and the progress of knowledge, both
our understanding and our interpretation of facts
must progress and enlarge. New scientific interpre-
tations of facts often require some time for their
general acceptance, because of the inertia of the mind
and the power of habit or the impetus of former ideas.
Yet, because of the willingness, even eagerness, of the
truly scientific mind to arrive at the truth, and its
willingness to thrash out objections in the open, the
period required for the acceptance of new conceptions
and new truths in the scientific world is relatively
short. But in religious matters the case is far dif-
ferent.
The spiritual realities, the eternal verities, are ever
the same. Yet with the advance of knowledge and
the expansion of man's consciousness their interpreta-
tions should also advance as greater light is shed
upon them. However, in the religious field there is not
the willingness to face truth and modify old concep-
tions, even if those old conceptions were interpreta-
tions made by a handful of men during the Dark Ages.
The minds of a majority in the Christian world today
are still slwkled and limited by the creeds and
dogmas formulated so long ago by their respective
churches. They fall to realize that there are no
creedsordogmasintheBible: thatallsucharebut
man-made interpretations of certain spiritual truths,
made by groups of men as fallible as ourselves in long
bygone ages when the knowledge of Nature and her
INTRODUCTION xv
laws was limited: was speculative instead of scien-
tific.
Many religious conceptions today are in much the
same class as were the conceptions of science and
medicine during the Dark Ages. Since the Funda-
mentalists are literalists they may be regarded as ma-
terialists in religion, falling to recognize that they are
living in the age of radium, the radio, television and
the aeroplane. They fall to realize that niankind will
no longer tolerate the oxcart or the one-horse-chaise
interpretations of either scientific or religious truths,
but insists on mental and spiritual aeroplanes in
which they can rise above the literal, materialistic
and earth-plane conceptions of former ages and get
an aerial view of the spiritual landscape and so judge
as to the relative value of mere appearances.
Yet the Fundamentalists are right in holding to
their inner retli,ition that man was created in the
imageofGodandnotofanape. Butitdependsupon
their conception and definition of man.
On the other hand science is right In claimhg that
all forms of life on Eartliboth plant and nnhn1-
have evolved gradually from the simplest beginnings,
and that these forms have developedaitho not uni-
formlythrough successive stages of complexity until
they ciilmimite in man.
Apparently these two ideas are contradictory, dia-
metrically opposed and irreconcilable, and yet in
truth they are not. The conflict is only between the
respective definitions of man. One refers to the
xvi EVOLUTION AND Tli1 BIBLE
Spiritual Man and the other to his physical vehicle or
body, yet both these two men are distinctly mentioned
and accurately described in the Bible. It is the
failure to make the distinction and discrimination be-
tween these two that has caused the confusion and
led to the controversy between the two schools of
thought. Both are sincere and both stand firmly for
their honest convictions, and both are right from their
point of view. But in both cases their point of view
is limited by their lack of understanding of all the
facts in the case and to their lack of consideration of
the other's view-point.
It is just this lack of understanding each of the
other which we hope to remedy in this volume by
pointing out to both the plain statements of the Bible
which support both sides and thus reconcile all their
differences through true understanding and its result-
ing wisdom.
THE TRUTH ABOUT
EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
CHAPTER 1
SCIENCE
"Evolution l a natural history of the cosmos, Including
organic beings, expreesed in physical terma as a me41rl
oes" Æiicydopvzdia Bdtaiunica,; 22.
"Anyone who Is pracffrI1y acquainted with scientific work
Is aware that those who refuse to go beyond fact, rarely get
as far as fact." Colicckd Essays, Huxley, 1,62.
'It Is not beyond belief that we may son.Iiin be able to
do In our laboratories 'what the Sun Is doing In Its labora-
tory.. . . But to what end? Without the moral background
of religion, without the spirit of service which is the e of
religion, our new powers will only be the means of our de-
struction." Prof. Robt. A. MI1Iifrn CoWe,':, Oct. 24, 1925, 6.
Science is the handmaiden of religion. But at
present she is on a strike, because she will not accept
as scientific facts man-made dogmas in which she can
find no evidence of facts.
The desire to know and understand is an intel-
lectual manfestation of the Soul's inherent desire
for truth. It finds expression in the intellectually
awakened thru curiositytransient or persistent ac-
cording to the degree of the awakening. The
result of such curiosity Is a more critical observa-
17
18 EVOLUTION AND TIlE BIBLE
tion of appearances, phenomena and events. And
when such observations are organized and studied
they lead to the discovery of facts and the laws of
manifestation underlying them. Such facts and laws,
when repeatedly observed, proved and demonstrated,
are said to be scientific. Hence, science has been
called organized knowledge: knowledge which'can be
demonstrated at any appropriate time and place by
anyone who complies with the laws involved.
The facts and laws thus discovered and proved by
science, especially during the last half century, are
truly marvelous, most enlightening and mind-expand-
ing as well as extremely valuable. They underlie all
our modern civilization, all our creature comforts and
all our conceptions of life and the universe in which
we live. Where would we be today, for instance,
without the steam and gas engines? Without elec-
tricity, the aeroplane, the radio, etc.? And if ac-
ceptance of these facts and laws discovered by science
is essential to modern civilization and comfort, it is
equally essential that we accept other facts which
have, just as painstakingly and accurately, been
proved by science, even tho we are not as fimillnr
with all the steps of their demonstration. When
practically the whole scientific world agrees as to the
accuracy of certain clearly demonstrated facts it is
but exposing both our ignorance and our mental fos-
siiration, it is qqijnation of our reasoning facul-
ties, to deny them. We can, however, deny not the
fact:, but certain scientific interpretations of them.
SCIENCE 19
In fact, in the light of new discoveries, the scientific
world itself necessarily changes its interpretation of
the facts so frequently that its text-books have to be
rewritten every few years.
In the scientific world there are perhaps no facts
more clearly demonstrated than that the higher and
complex fon,cs of life have been gradually evolved
through the ages from organisms so simple that they
are composed of but one cell. In fact, our own bodies
today arise from the single cell formed by the fusion
of the masculine and feminine germ-cells of our
parents. The science of biology shows not only each
stage in the development of complex forms from the
simple by the acquirement of new functions, but it
can trace the beginning and progressive development
of every organ and function, from the primitive dif-
ferentiation of the protoplasm up to the fully de-
veloped nervous system and enormous brain of man;
from the primitive "sensitive spot" to the fully de-
veloped eye; from the straight digestive tube to the
complex digestive tract; from the straight pulsating
blood vessel to the heart and complicated circulatory
system, etc.
The science of embryology has proved that all
forms evolve from a single cell. Furthermore, during
its intra-uterine evolution each form of life passes
successively through the stages of all the lesser forms
below it in evolution. For instance, the hnmrn em-
bryo like all mnmmals has its leaflike stage, its fish
stage with gill-slits in the neckone of which still
20 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
persists as the eustarl1rn tube connecting the ear
with the mouthits reptile stage, its m,iinnial stage,
In some stages the organs which are only vestiges
in adult man are still prominent in the lower 2ninlßllc
For instance, at one stage of the hnnin embryo the
tail is longer than the leg, yet after birth the only
trace of a tail is a rudimentary chain of bones at
the lower end of the spine, the coccyx. There have
been catalogued no less than 180 structures1 that are
but rudimentary or vestigial in man, aitho these
structures are fully developed and functioning in
lower forms of nmii1 life.
The science of comparative anatomy shows that
there are no essential differences in the structure of
man and many lower formsthe horse, dog, ostrich,
whale, frog, etc.only modifications of the same gen-
eral plan. "The resemblance, after the first four
weeks' growth, between the embryo of a man and a
dog is such that it is scarcely possible to distinguish
The embryo of the whalewhich was once
a land animalis coated with hair, has ru&mentaiy
teeth and bind legs plainly apparent, and its selcton
still retains the rudimentary leg bones even tho their
function has been discontinued.
Together with anthropology, the science of palæon-
tologythe science of the fossil remain of animals_
has collected a virtually complete series of fossil forms
'The Net, Sd.uc. cud the Old Rdiglou, Jacobs, 245.
'Moda,. Sdeuce cud Mod.ris Thought, 171.
SCIENCE 21
from the simplest trilobites and ammoeltes up to the
most complex forms, the series of the changes in each
form often being complete. The series showing the evo-
lution of the horse from a five-toed creature scarcely
larger than a rabbit up to the modern one-toed horse,
for instance, is quite complete. The lowest and earliest
strata of rocks show only the lowest types of shell
forms, but the higher and more recent strata show, In
precise succession, fkbis, reptiles, birds and niam-
Every general type-form in this imperish2hle and
irrefutable record of the rocks is followed in pre-
cisely the snie order by the development of the
hmmm embryo, showing that its form bad been pro-
gressively developed through aU those stages. Certain
b12n1q in the geological record still occur, but certain
fossil remainq of man have been found which trace
him back thru the close of the Pliocene perioda
period which endured at least a quarter of a million
yearsinto the still older Miocene period, which was
certainly twice as long as the Pliocene. And in the
Miocene strata many types of giant anthropoids have
been found.
Yet the process of evolution Is far from a median-
Ical one or we would not find primitive forms, from
unicellular orgnhntc up to mansuch as the newly
discovered tribes in New Guinea which are still in
the Stone Age and without metal of any kindStill
persisting. If it were merely a mechanical process all
forms would have evolved practically together and
22 EVOLUTION AND TIlE BIBLE
we would now have only the highest types found to-
day. Yet the Bnslnmtn and the Black Boy have made
practically no advance above the most primitive
stages, while many highly cultured races have flour-
ished and disappeared. And highly civilized nations
have suddenly been plunged backward into barba-
rism, not once in history, but many times, as the ruins
of a score of empires mutely testify.
In fact nowhere do we find a constant, ever-flowing
progress in every species. Nowhere is there evidence
of one species uniformlyonly approximatelyshad-
ing off into the next higher, and so on up to man, as
is rialmed by the materialists as the absolute rule.
The sudden breaks and gaps can only be explained
as the result of a discriminating, super-physical Con-
sciousness working out a pre-determined plan.
"Certain well-marked forms of living beings have
existed thru enormous epochs, surviving not only the
changes of physical conditions (environment), but
persisting comparatively unaltered, while other forms
of life have appeared and disappeared.. . and ex-
aznples of them are abundant enough in both the
milnial and the vegetable worlds."
Therefore, evolution is far from being the mere
mechanical process which materialicm would have us
believe. "There is such a vast abyss between the
anatomy and physiology of the larva and that of the
perfect insect, that it is evidently impossible to find
in natural selection the explanation of its ancestral
'PToceedi,gs ci th. Royal Iiisthutioa, Huxley, lii, 151.
SCIENCE 23
evolution." There are many factors which science
has not yet discovered or which it has refused to rec-
0
"There is so much we do not yet understand. Will
the day ever come when we can explain why the brain
of man has made such great progress while that of the
gorilla has fallen far behind? Can we explain why
inherited ability falls to one family and not to an-
other; or why, in the matter of cerebral endowment,
one race of mankind has fared so much better than
another? We have as yet no explanation to offer.
The final, decisive judgment on the theory of
evolution may not be delivered in our time. Mean-
while, we think its most enlightened advocates would
not t4im more for it than that it is a working hypoth-
esis which explains the known facts more satisfac-
torily than any other.. . . The conclusions may be
right or they may be wrong, but they are not proved
in the sense that a mathematical or chemical problem
can be proved."
Yet there is so mudi actual physical and logically
irrefutable evidence as to the progressive evolution of
forms that it cannot be ignored or denied. The im-
portant thing is that it all has to do with forms only,
not with the causes or reasons for these forms, or the
life-spirit and consciousness which animates them.
F,oss the Uuconsdoi,s to the Cousdous, Geley, 10.
'Pre,M.fhI address of Sir Arthur Keith, bailed as "the most
brilliant of anthropologisb," before the BriUst. Association for the
Advoacemeut of Science, 1927.
24 EVOLUTION AND Tli BIBLE
'Nothing is really greater in the scopeof the plan
of an evolved universe than the growth of man from
among the lowest forms of life to a being of intellect
and soul, struggling to define his own relation to his
Creator, aware of his obligations to his Creator and
his fdllowmen; developing a normal law of altruism,
and a progress in self-restraint and duty to a Power
higher than himself, which works for righteousnds."
'Ez-Presdent William U. lAft, Addr to Aedcazs UaiMrias.
A3scsdaUon, Oct. 13, 1927.
cHAFI'ER U
MATERIALISM
«Materlalhm In philosophy Is the theory which regards all
the facts of the universe as pLliil.I. In terms of m'f.0 and
motion, and In particular .pl*htt all psychical procemes by
physical and rl,.nfr1 changes In the survom system....
The bt,th of sr.iiH4 Is to explain everything by the
physical cames which are comparatively well understood and
to exclude the lutciferesee of spiritual causer."
Zzucdopdia Bva"-ca, xvii, 878.
"You cannot pomlbly 5ynfl'.d Nature and leave out Its
most oubfIvIhw attributer. Nor can you get these poten-
tialities out of Nature, no m5f,, bow far back you go. In
other words, materialism, as commonly understood, Is an al-
together absd and utterly bratIossd philosophy, and Is bwI.14
so regarded by moat thoughtful mm.!'
Prof. Robert A. Collier's, Oct. 24, 1925, 5.
"By Its whole biology the Insect presents the symbol of
what evolution really Is, and it proves that the esseutial cause
of evolution should be sought neither In the Influence of the
envlronmrnt, nor In the reactions of organic 'nt'r to that
environment; but in a dynivthm independent of that organic
"t' directing It ansi superior to it
Prom the Unconscious to the ConscJous, Geley 30.
6kterialism is an evidence of intellectual vanity:
the refusal of the intellect to admit that there is a
Consciousness beyond its comprehension and aspects
of Causation which it is unable to grasp./
In spite of the marvelous achievements of science
25
26 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
mentioned in the previous chapter, a close analysis
will show that they have to do with physical things
only: physical forms, conditions and appearances.
They do not deal with ultimates, with either causation,
origins or destinies. In fact, science deliberately
shuts itself away from origins and destinies, saying
that they belong in the domzdns of philosophy, meta-
physics, theology and speculation. It therefore $ol-
imtarily limits itself to manifestations only; to
phenomena; to things which can be seen, touched and
handled or at least measured meclitnically. It thus
limits the scope of its investigations and its service to
inn1rind quite as much as would one who was investi-
gating the color of the spectrum if be declared that
he-would have nothing to do with the regions of the
ultra-violet or the infra-red for the superficially
plausible reason that they did not concern him be-
cause he could not see them! "Everything transcend-
ing the scheme of energetics is declared to be
superstition. Everything transcending the limits of
ordinary consciousness is declared to be pathological.
A Chinese wall of 'positivistic' sciences and methods
is built up around free investigation. Everything
rising above this wall is condemned as unscientific."1
In other words, in scientific materðism, "The busi-
ness of the scientist is to explain everything by the
physical causes," and refuse to discuss any other pos-
sibility.
Once given ultimateslife, energy, consciousness,
'Te,giu*s Orga*uus, Ouspensky 344.
MATERIALISM 27
mattermaterialism can furnish marvelous explana-
tions of processes, but not of causes. It explains only
the intricate medanism by means of which those ulti-
mates find expression in matter, for these are physical
phenomena which come within the scope of its self-
imposed limitations; phenomena which it can trace,
weigh and measure. /Et can trace the transformation
of energy from one form to another, but cannot ex-
plain its origin./ It can aimiyze and catalog the
chemical constituents of matter, but cannot explain
its origin. It can trace the progressive evolution of
the different forms thru which life manifestsfrom
lowest to highestbut it cannot explain why life
manifests thru any of them.' It can trace with micro-
scopic accuracy the beautiful and complex meelnnhm
by which life manifests in the body, its growth and
repair, the end products of its activities, etc., but it
cannot explain life itself. It can trace the avenues
by which consciousness, operating thru the mind,
affects certain brain centers to cause the movement of
muscles and thereby give expression to the idea held
hi the mind, but it cannot explain mind or conscious-
ness.
"They (scientists) seem to immerse us in a sort of
self-acting mechanism, as if everything proceeded
automatically without any conscious knowledge, ar-
"I cannot explain why I am alive rather than dead. Physi-
ologists can tell me a great deal about the nchankal and chemlril
processes of my body, but they cannot my why I am alive. But
would It not be utterly absurd for me to deny I am alive? Prof.
Robt. A. Wflifrn CoWer':, Oct. 24, 1925, 5.
28 EVOLUTION AND TH BIBLE
rangement, guidance or plan; as if it were a sort of
hapbird universe .. . as if the universe were a
machine, a heartless, unmindful machine. Why?
Because the business of science is to explore inecha-
,sisms, to detect processes by which all the functions
of an organism are accomplished."$
With all its vaunted scientific aththinients mated-
nlkm cannot explain the origin of the universe oçeven
of the tiniest speck of protoplasm, much less can it
explain life, consciousness, mind, love, altruism, self-
sacrifice, duty, ideals, etc. Yet all these are just as
real as wood, stone, iron or steel and are more power.
ful than any known material forces. For men give
up their lives and suffer unspeakable tortures for an
ideal, sacrifice their lives to save another from drown-
big or from a burning building, and often give up
wealth, honor, position and family for a moral or
spiritual principle.
Since materialism deals only with processes and
materials, and explains neither life, death, existence,
consciousness nor idet1tcm, it falls us in every crisis of
life, hence is not only an inadequate but a false phi-
losophy. "The bankruptcy of materialism when It
comes to organizing life on earth is now evident....
It becomes clearer that the changes in our outer life,
when they come, will come as a result of inner
changes in man." As Prof. Millikanthe winner
of the Nobel Prize for his revolutionary discoveries
SIr Oliver Lodge, New Yo,* 2mes, Maxch 25, 192*, 13.
'Terthrni Orga.i, Ouspeniky, 332. -
MATERIALISM 29
in electricitywell says: "Materialism is an alto-
gether absurd and entirely irrational philosophy, and
is indeed so regarded by thoughtful men."
As a stimulus to physical research materialism has
done wonders in analyzing materials and explithihig
processes, but as a philosophy it has been morally
stultifying and spiritually a blight, almost a curse, in
the lives of its followers. It has turned their attention
from causes to their mere effects; from origins to
phenomena. And, thru the promotion of agnosticism
and atheism, it has stifled in many the innate instinct
of the human Soul to believe iii and seek to correlate
with a Supreme Being, Its Creator and Source.
But, f1ianc be, materalisni as a philosophy Is al-
ready dead and buried, aitho some odors of its decay-
ing corpse still linger in the back waters of the
scientific world, in spite of the fact that the main cur-
rent of scientific thought has long since swept on to
new and higher conceptions.
The person who would appear scientific, yet still
holds to the doctrine of materallcm, simply displays
his ignorance of the advances which have taken place
in the scientific world, and is at least two decades
behind the times. For materialism has been entirely
abandoned and supplanted by dynamkm as a theory
of causation. In fact, matter, in the old sense of
indivisible physical particles, no longer eiists, the
atom having been shown to be but a phenomenal
manifestation of two charges of electricity, a positive
nucleus, the proton, surrounded by negative electrons.
30 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
As a distinguished Ri'csm scientist, Prof. N. A.
Oumoff, puts it: "The universe consists of positive
and negative corpuscles, bound by electro-magnetic
fields. Matter disappeared; its variety was replaced
by a system of mutually related electric corpuscles,
and instead of the accustomed material world one
deeply differentthe electro-magnetic worldis en-
visaging itself to us." "But in such case," says Ous-
pensky, "the electrons must be regarded, not as
electro-magnetic units, but as principles only, i.e., as
two opposite aspects, phases of the world, or in other
words, as metaphysical units. The transition of
physics into metaphysics is inevitable if the physicists
desire to be simply logical." The theory as to matter
has, therefore, disappeared, its place being ten by
the theory of energy or force. Materialism, there-
fore, no longer has a leg to stand upon.
But no amount of stored energy can produce a
living or even an orgnithed form. The cause of forms
is neither matter nor force; for back of any force,
even life-force, must be the pattern which governs and
delimits the form thru which the force manifestsffhe
pattern cannot be produced without design. Design
cannot be produced without the idea back of it. And
ideas cannot be produced without intelligence. And
intelligen cannot be manifested without mind.
Causation, therefore, has been pushed back from mat-
ter to mind.
Some schools of thought, in their enthusiasm for
'Tertium Organum, Ouspen&y, 117.
MATERIALISM 31
this great advance in scientific conception, go so far
as to proclaim that "all is mind and mind is all," and
that the brain is supreme. But modern advances in
psychology, and especially in psychical research, show
that we do not think with our brains, but with our
,ninds, and that the mind can function entirely apart
from the brain,' and survives it after its death and
disintegration in the grave, as taught in every great
religion and scientifically proved under test, labora-
tory conditions by the mountains of evidence pro-
duced by scientific physical research.T In fact, the
brain is now known to be largely but the physical
mechanism or switchboard by which sensory impulses
from the outer physical world reach the mind, and by
which ideas and thoughts in the mind move the appro-
priate muscles necessary for their expression in the
physical world.
A little further consideration reveals the fallacy of
the "mind is all" doctrine; for we only have to think
a moment to realize that even mind is not the ultimate
factor in causation. Back of mind must be the con-
sciousness which merely uses the mind as a merlianism
for the formulation and expression of its ideas into
'In a native, aged forty.five years, suffering from cerebral con-
tuslon, the autopsy revealed a large abscese occupying nearly the
whole left cerebral hemisphere. how did this man think? What
orgasi was used for thought after the destruction of the region
which, according to physiologists, is the seat of hitelllgiince?"
Prom the Uzscoasdous to the Cowsdoiss, Geley, SI.
'For detalis see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss; Photograph-
ing the Invisible, Coates; Phenomena of Materialization, Schrenck-
Notzlng, etc.
32 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
thoughts in the mental world, as the thought uses the
brain as a mecllRnicm of expression in the physical
world. But back of consciousness there must still be
That which is conscious, the Thinker. In its uni-
versal and cosmic aspect, It is indisputable thM back
of even Divine Mind there must be that self-existent
Infinite Source of force, life and consciousness "whose
center is nowhere and whose circumference is every-
where" which man calls God.
This Infinite Source is not a Being, yet from Its
bosomspringallbeings. ItisnotaLife,yetltlsthe
Source of the One Life which mimz4es all forms. It
is not a Consciousness, yet It rules and governs and
manifests through all focalized expressions of con-
sciousness, from the highest Archangels, the mighty
Heaven-born, whose consciousness is so vast, so all-
pervading that we can but guess at its functioning,
down through grade after grade of conscious living
Beings to the consciousness of worlds, the conscious-
ness of men, of inimals and of Nature, down to the
tiniest electron $ that goes to make up the smiflst and
seemingly least important tninifestation of all the
vast solar systems of the universe. F-ach is a part of
some aspect of God and a manifestation of His life,
consciousness and power In its own plane and alter
its own kind.
5 The Co.dov,zwm oJ 1'. 410., Bailey.
APER III
Tffi LAW OF MANIFESTATION
"All things bad their origin In Spirit-evolution [Involution
rather.ED.1, having begun above and proceeded downward,
bot'" of the reverse, as taught In the Darwinian theory. In
other words, there ban been a gradual materialization of forms
until a xed nkhif of ibl.in,th j reached. Ths point Is
that at which the doctrine of modern evolution enterS Into
the areas of speculative hypothesis."
Principles o/ Zoology, 154.
"Evolution, In the latter (occultism], proceeds on quite dif-
ferent lines; the physical according to Eioterlc trMug,, evolv-
lag (or descending, etc.] from the spiritual, and
piycblc." The Secret Doctrine, Blavatshy, 23$.
"It Is the erroneous coucbidom of physical gd,qw,, which
overlook God as the iidi1lg,nie back of the evolutionary plan,
that cause a great many people . . . to disbelieve actual facts
as well as this theory.." The Seventh Seal, Agnes, 76.
In the previous chapter we have shown that neither
matter nor force alone could produce an intricately
organized form, even that of an amoeba, without a
pattern But where does the pattern come from?
Throughout all ages the greatest philosophers man-
2"Oae cannot even conceive by what mysterious series of adapta-
tiona an insect, accustomed to larval life, underground, or In water,
could succeed in graduafly creating for Itself wings for an aerial
life, dosed to it and doubtims unknown." From the Unconscious
to the Conscious, Geley, 16.
33
34 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
kind has produced, as well as all its greatest religious
teachers, are in practical agreement that the patterns
or Ideal Types of all forms and materials in Nature
were outbreathed or projected from the mind of the
Architect of the Universe at the beginning of each
cycle of manifestation. As these Ideal Types de-
scended through the various invisible worlds into
physical manifestation they successively became men-
tal and then ethereal or astral patterns before they
became physically embodied or materialized. For
the life-force which tnmntcs all forms which express
it is a projective and impelling power which ever flows
from within outward. In other words, the Law of
Manifestation is that all manifestation proceeds from
the invisible to the visible; from within outward;
from the invisible pattern to its materialized expres-
zion in matter.
The proof of the correctness of this axiom is seen
about us, on every hand, in Nature. In man we see
his invisible ideas and desires moulding his thoughts,
and his thoughts finding expression in and determin-
ing his words and acts, moulding his countenance and
even modifying the contours of his head. Gladstone
is said to have increased the size of his hat three
times. Everywhere we see the inner pattern or idea
moulding the outer manifestation; the invisible pat-
tern gradually materialized by the synthesizing, co-
hesive and projective power of the life-force. Once
the life-force pouring through the pattern is with-
drawn, the physical form disintegrates into its corn-
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 35
ponent parts; for the cohesive, centripetal force which
held them together is no longer present.
Why does a plant or inimi1 stop growing in size
whei it has reached maturity? Why does an acorn
grow into an oak tree and never into any other kind
of a tree? Why does every seed in the vegetable
world and every germ in the animal world reproduce
its own kind? the tiniest pathogenic germ its own.
disease, and no other? Cut open an acorn and no
tiny physical pattern of the future oak can be found,
not even by the highest powered microscope. Yet it
is evident that there must be a pattern, a particular
pattern belonging to that species, and a specific pat-
tern belonging to that individual tree. The fact that
there is no pattern to be seen in the seed plainly shows
that the seed is merely a focal point in matter thru
which the life-force can flow into the earth and by
its synthesizing power pick out from the earth the
materials necessary to be built into the meshes of the
invisible pattern to materialize that particular form.
It selects not only the materials in general, but the
particular chemicals needed to materialize that par-
ticular pattern and give it its specific properties,
whether food, medicine, poison, etc. For this reason
we see some plants or trees absorbing certain sub-
stances from the soil and other plants and trees grow-
ing side by side with them absorbing other substances
from the same soil according to the nature of the
pattern and properties to be materialized. The prac-
tical application of this Law of Materialization thru
36 EVOLUTION AND ThE BIBLE
selective affinity is already utilized by the progressive
farmer in his rotation of crops, or his soil would
cprickly become exhausted of certain materials by the
repeated planting of one particular crop.
According to one Hebrew authority' this super-
physical or mental creation of archetypal forms is
expressly stated to be the basis of all manifestation.
In the first verse of Genesis, instead of the conven-
tional translation of, "In the beginning God creted
the heavens and the earth," the true meaning of the
Hebrew words is,1'Within His spiritual consciousness
God chose and prepared for and decided to put the
heavens and the earth into ninnifestation."/ The
Hebrew phrase Be-rasilith now translated "In tie be-
ginning" has no relation to time or the beginning of
time, but means "the active power or principle within,"
hence mind or consciousness, while the word Bara,
translated as "created," really means "preparation of
movement toward form," hence preparation for mani.
festation in form.
But this m rinlixition of the invisible pattern is
not a mere mechanical process. Evolution clearly
shows that forms are continually modified by some
causative factor which tends toward a predetermined
end, the perfection of the species.' Wherever we see
'TA. Pow-IoU Process of God Creatioø, Brown Landone1 I, S.
Is not the 'directive idea' of Claude Bernard, which Is a
kind of abstraction. .. . This Is a concrete Idea. . . that of a
directing and centralizing dýnmkin, dominating both Intrinsic and
extrinsic contingencies, the chemical reactions of the organic medium,
and the Influences of the external environment!' Prows the Uacou-
sdoes to the Coiudous, Geley, 49.
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 37
a manifestation of life there we also see a manifests,-
tion of consciousness. In the kingdoms below man
it is not human consciousness or self-consciousness,
but nevertheless consciousness of a certain grade and
upon its own plane. This is so well recognized that
it has led to the formulation of the axiom, "No
life without consciousness: no consciousness without
life." Even the invisible, microscopic animalcujæ in
a drop of stagnant water have been shown to possess
all the fundamental characteristics which are accepted
as tests of consciousness in the higher forms, nnni'ly,
irritability, choice, volition, will, etc.'
An excellent eTample of the conscious activity of
cells is seen in the uriniferous tubules of the kidney.
Here one type of cells is followed by an entirely dif-
ferent type within the same tubule. The tall
columnar cells select from the blood stream only the
solid wastes that must be thrown out of the body,
while the low, flat, epithelial cells lying next to them
in the same tubule excrete only the liquid wastes.
This is not a mere matter of osmosis or fluids soaking
through an animal membrane until the specific gravity
of the fluids on the two sides of the membrane is
equalized; for if it were, all the fluids of the blood
would soon be drained away like water through a
sponge. That which appears as urine on the excreting
side of the cells is not urine simply transferred from
the blood to the excreting duct, for there is no urine
in the blood, only the materials from which it can be
'For details see Tb. Psychic life of Mkro.øygw,isws, Binet.
38 EVOLUTION AND TH BIBLE
manufactured. Nor is this process a mere matter of
chemotaxis, or meliinical chemical affinity. For in
each case the two kinds of cells select from the com-
mon blood stream, which bathes them both, certain
specific substances which they alone can handle. And
these substances are not merely thrown out on the
other side of the cell, but are transformed into
quite different products. These new products are
thrown out of the cell, not back again into the blood
stream whence their materials were extracted, but are
pushed out on the other side of the ll into the other-
wise empty uriniferous ducts where there is neither
chemical affinity (chemotaxis) nor negative osmotic
pressure to attract them.
It is true that complicated chemical reactions do
take place during this process, but they are not the
result of mere proximity or propinquity of chemical
substances. They are the result of: (a) the con-
scious selection by the U of certain specific sub-
stances from the blood, (b) their transformation into
quite other .substances by the specific activity of the
cell protoplasm, and (c) their intelligent and purpose-
ful excretion into the one and only channel whereby
they can be thrown out of the body, not only for the
preservation of the health of the cells performing this
service, but for the preservation of the health of the
entire organism.
If the underlying normal chemistry of the body, i.e.,
the alkalescence of all the body fluids (except four)
and tissues, is upset by an excess of acid-forming foods,
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 39
deficient oxidation (exercise) and deficient excretion,
the functioning of all the cells, tissues and organs is
lessened and often perverted. The excess acid de-
pletes the tissues of their calcium salts which make
the nerves and tissues electrically conductive, and its
place is taken by the electrically non-conductive
magnesium salts. This calcium-depletion and mag-
nesium-infiltration naturally loads up the ccli proto-
plasm with inert material which obstructs the flow of
the nerve currentselectric, thermic, mechanic,
chemic and psychic (conscious and sub-conscious)-
and the tissues thus deprived of their normal nerve
stimulu are depleted in vitality and their functions
both diminshed and often perverted; for the acid
excess diminkhes the electrical conductivity, retards
oxidation and the elimination of waste products and
thus causes various retrograde changeschronic in-
llamrnation, atrophy, hypertrophy, fibrosis and other
degenerative changes--in the cells; among other
things producing cytotoxines or. cell poisons, which
definitely interfere with the functions of the cells
themselves and all the other functions and structures
depending upon the products of the cell activities.
This is especially true of the nervous system and the
endocrine and other glands.
it is well known in progressive medical circles that
acidosis, with its concomitant calcium-depletion and
magnesium-infiltration,' is the great chemical factor
'For details see Tb. Ckei.Ic Prob is. Nigtritios., Dr. John
Mlde, Philadelphia, Pa.
40 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
underlying the body condition upon which the great
majority of all diseases, both acute and.cbronicin-
fections, neuritis, sciatica, arterlo-sclerosis, arthritis,
nephritis, etc.ingraft themselves. For with the
cells short-circuited from their normal stimuli, loaded
with obstructive material and depleted in vitality they
become an easy prey to all kinds of germs or other
invasions.
But this chemical condition is not an argumeit
against the consciousness and selective and purposive
action of the cells. It is simply their reaction to the
abnormal conditions of the body fluidsblood, lymph
and chyle, whose integrity depends upon their alka-
lescenceupon which they must depend entirely for
all their materials. And when their vitality is mi-
paired by this calcium-depletion and magnesium-
infiltration they cannot manifest the normal resistance
to disease which we call natural immunity.
The above shows that while man's consciousness
must be responsible for the treatment he gives to the
body as a whole and for the accomplishment of the
mlqson for which he incarnated in the flesh, every
cell and every organ baa a consciousness of its own,
adapted to its work and competent to carry out its
destined part in the Law of Manifestation, and intel-
ligently adapt itself to the varying conditions imposed
upon it.
Prof. Jagaclis C. Bose, of the University of Cal-
cutta, in his years of experimentation with plants has
conclusively shown that even plants have not only a
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 41
quality of consciousness of their own, but also sensa-
tion; that they suffer from injury and respond to stim-
ulus just as do nnhnnlg They can be poisoned by the
same poisons that affect RninlzLls and can be revived by
the same antidotes, etc.' Even fading, cut flowers in
a vase can be revived and made to last longer by the
addition of a simple stimulant such as aspirin.
We, therefore, in all cases see that back of the in-
visible pattern there is a life-force and a conscious-
ness, an intelligence, an infinite power to move
continually onward and upward, that is ever working
toward the perfection of the form through which it
finds expression. Man can work with, and to a degree
guide, this lesser intelligence in various ways, such
as cross-breeding, the prolonged use of the X-rays;'
thru artificial fertilizationmechanical, chemical,
electrical, etc.which modify and often greatly ac-
celerate the perfection of the form, just as an un-
developed man can be improved and assisted toward
perfection thru education. But in both cases the
control of the process is only within certain well
recognized limits. Çit has been shown that "no
amount of uplift, education or opportunity can de-
velop a new race of men of initiative, creative intelli-
gence, resourcefulness and self-commi'nd out of the
stupid and ineffective who have to be told what to do
and how to do it.) This is the eugenic and biological
'Iii, and Work oJ Sir Jcgadb C. Bose, 147.
'See Expe,faeids of Dr. H. I. Muller, University of Texas, also
of Dr. Win. K Dieff.nhah, New York flomeopathk MedI.l College.
42 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
contention against which environmentalists of the
senfimental school vainly declaim The facts are
against them."
This continual modification of he form toward per-
fection, and from lower and simpler forms to higher
and more complex forms, science rightly calls evolu-
tion, for it is an e-voluting or unfolding outwardly of
that which has already been involved (involution)
within the invisible pattern.' The embryo, for 'in-
stance, is a huge congeries of intricately interdepend-
ent tissues, organs and functions. Biologists are only
beginning to ask how the differing activities and ileeds
of these various tissues and organs are regulated,
their freedom of function protected and their maneu-
vers timed and synchronized in perfect harmony. All
work together for the best good, not only of each
cell, tissue and organ, but for the best gòod of that
larger unit of which they are but parts, the growing
organism itself, of whose appearance, consciousness
and function as a whole the lls and organs can have
no possible conception or even awareness. 4ust as the
vast majority of persons have no conception of the
Universal or Over-Soul of humanity in Whose body of
'The Btdlder of America, Huntington and Whitney.
'"How could the reptilian ancestor of the bird adapt Itself to
surroundings which were not Its own and could only become Its
own after It had passed from the reptilian to the bird form? Be-
fore possessing usable (not embryonic) wings It could not have
an aerial life to which to adapt itself. . . . A reptile with embryonic
wings, or wings Indicated at the b.bining of their development, has
never been found." From the Uacoasdous to the Conscwus, Geley,
15, 25.
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 43
manifestation they are but individualized cells, and
Whose perfect manifestation can never be perfected
until all its constituent cells (individualized Souls)
reach their individual perfection.
No answer has ever been found to this problem and
none will ever be found that does not postulate the
intelligen of a directing Mind, a discriminating super-
physical Consciousness, back of the invisible pattern
which both determines and controls the organkni.
Just now science is worshipping energy or the force
of the atom, the electron, etc., and endeavoring to
ascribe all power to it, just as it formerly worshipped
matter and ascribed all causation to it. But just as
it found in matter no explanation of causation, neither
will it find such an explanation in force; for neither
matter nor undirected forcenor both combined
can create form without a pattern, nor a pattern with-
out consciousness.
The materialists still refuse to recognize conscious-
fless as a factor in the process of evolution because
their philosophy of life is too narrow to account for
its presence. Consequently they endeavor to explain
its cause by wholly mechanical factors: the elder
Darwin by the effect of environment; Charles Darwin
by sexual selection; Lamarck by use and disuse;
Dc Vries by mutation; Nagei by specific ideo-plasm,
and others by heredity, etc., all holding that in some
admittedly unknown way it must result from the me-
c1iancal reaction of the orginicm to the various fac-
The Mechari4k Co,iceptio,s of Life, Loeb.
44 EVOLUTION AND T1i BIBLE
tors in its life and environment And the very fact
that there are so many theories as to causation shows
that no one and no combination of them is wholly
satisfactory even to the materialists themselves.
Since the progressive evolution of life-forms in
Nature is according to a predetermined design, or the
unfoldment and outward manifestation of that which
has been involved and is already inherent within,, it
cannot be satisfactorily accounted for or understood
except as the gradual manifestation in matter of Ideal
Types or Archetypes, created in the higher worlds by
the various angelic Creative Hierarchies and con- -
sciously manifested by the various grades of Inteffi-
gences who are their agents. "The cause of the under-
lying physiological variation of the speciesone to
which all other laws are subordinate and secondary
is a sub-conscious intelligence pervading matter, ulti-
mately traceable to a reflection of the Divine and
Dhyan-Choanic Wisdom."'
The immediate pre-physical patterns are progres-
sively modified by the Creative Hierarchies according
to the stage of evolution, the varying outer conditions,
etc., so there may seem to be mistakes made, but
they are all part of the various stages of adaptation
to conditions, yet in a general progression toward the
ultimate manifestation of the ideal." "The evolution
"The Secret DOCtYIISe, Blavatsky, Ii, 685.
""Humanity as a whole is not so isolated as it had thought.
It Is but a temporarily materialized portion of a great spiritual
world, wherein are powers and afectiom and intelligences Innnm,,.
THE LAW OF MANIFESTATION 45
of the external form, or body, around the astral, is
produced by the terrestrial forces, just as in the case
of the lower kingdom; but the evolution of the Inter-
nal or real Man is purely spiritual."
'Think this brief outline of the Law of Mani-
festation is sufficient to show that because science
ignores the essential factors of causation in evolution,
i.e., intelligence, plan and purpose, its entire view-
point is limited and its basic theories as to origins and
causes are, therefore, necessarily inadequate, and
hence must ultimately be revised. Instead of evolu-
tion being the mechanical reaction of the organism to
its environment, it is due to the conscious adaptation
of the organism to its environment. It is the guidance
of Intelligence and Purpose working toward the ever
more perfect manifestation of the Ideal Type for
each species.
Since the hnrn'an body belongs to the niniil king-
dom, it too has reached its present state of perfection
by such conscious adaptation and evolution from the
lower forms thru the progressive manifestation of its
Invisible Archetype or pattern which contains all that
man will eventually manifest as he evolves Godward
out of the hnmrn kingdom into the super-hnni*n.
But how are we to reconcile these conclusively demon-
strated biological facts with the theological doctrine
of creation? That is the problem of this volume.
able, hi+.Wgnt outside of the scope of our semes, but watchful
and helpful to the utmest of their permitted power." Sir Oliver
Lodge, New York Timer, March 25, 1928, 13.
The Secret Doctdi,e, Blavateky, 1, 198.
UAFER lv
CREATION
"And God said, Let us make man in our Image, alter ozr
So God created man in his own image, In the
image of God created he him; male and female created he
them." Genens, 1, 26-7.
"There is an ever-increasing number of persona who refuse
to accept former religious "hing! unless they are given, not
merely dogma and creed, but a rational and scientific expkn
tion of the basis of their claims."
The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 375.
Creations cannot be the result of mere merbmical
mixtures or chemical activities. The intricate organi-
zation of all forms, from amoeba to man, and the per-
fect synchronizing of all their varied functions, is in
itself irrefutable evidence of both plan and purposive
organization toward a predetermined end. All of this
is necessarily the result of organized and purposive
consciousness controlling powers and forces necessaiy
for its manifestation.
Both the creation of Ideal Types and their evolu-
tion in matter, or their gradual unfoldment after their
descent from the subjective worlds into materializa-
tion on Earth, seem to nistnlrind a tremendously, al-
most infinitely, slow process. Geology tells us that
after the materinliration of the Earth began, "1,000
46
CREATION 47
million years is a mode,ate minimum" for ihe time
required to lay down the sedimentary layers of the
Earth's crust, from the earliest Palæozoic and Cam-
brian rocks to the comparatively recent glacial clays
and gravels and the present day alluvium and peat
deposits.
Professor Johil Walter Gregory, of Glasgow, has
estimated the age of the Earth at 8,000 million years.
Professor Arthur Eddington, of Cambridge, arrived
at the same figure from. astronomical data. Lord
Rayleigh arrived at the same figure from still other
data. And Prof. A. W. Bickerton of London, and
Dr. James Hopwood Jeans, Secretary of the Royal
Astronomical Society of London, consider the Earth
much older.
If we could stratify and eirniiine the sea in the
same way we would find that it also had passed
through corresponding changesfrom the ages in
which it was largely composed of carbonic acid down
to the present day salty sea waterand within its
depths we would find many prehistoric forms of life.
In fact, the more we search the earth and the sea, and
the more we study the awesome changesthe mighty
upheavals, subsidences and disappearanceswhich
are still tiking place today, the more convincing the
evidence and the deeper becomes the conviction that
the stupendous processes of creation and evolution
are not yet completed; indeed, are still continuing,
both in the body of the planet and in the body of
man and the lower kingdoms.
48 EVOLUTION AND TIth BIBLE
Since we have shown that the Law of Mtnifsjon
is the process whereby the invisihie pattern of every
formwhether in Nature or man-made--is gradually
materialized into its physical expression, and since we
see proofs everywhere around us of this conception
being correct, how can we reconcile this self-evident
lawwith the traditional teai'lihig of the Bible as to the
origin of man? it is very simple, for the Bible teaches
exactly Size same law, and in almost the same words.
In the second chapter of Genesis (4-5) we read:
"These are the generations of the heavens and of the
earth when they were created, in the day that the
Lord God made the earth and the heavens, and every
plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every
herb of the field before it grew." Here we have the
doctrine of the formation of Ideal Types or pre-
physical patterns precisely stated. At the early stage
of manifestation indicated in the first, and part of
the second, chapter of Genesis all forms were still
subjective, ethereal and pre-physical, not having as
yet descended into physical manifestation.
If there is a fundamental law in Nature whereby
eveything manifesting on Earth is first conceived in
the mind of its creator and imaged forth in the sub-
stance of the invisible super-physical worlds before
it descends into physical materialition or grows on
Earth, then that law must apply to man as well. But
lest someone objects to our use of the word every-
thing, let us point out that this same Law of Mani-
festation applies to man's creations as well as to God's.
CREATION 49
If a building, automobile or other invention is to be
constructed it must first be conceived in the mind of
its creator and an exact mental pattern formed. This
pattern is then outpictured as a drawing, and finally
the masons, carpenters and other artisans build into
that pattern the physical materials until the com-
pleted building or marbine is but a materiaU'ition of
its invisible mental pattern. And so with all man's
creations. Even his words and acts are but physical
expressions of his thoughts and desires. They are all
outward expressions of invisible patterns which in
their turn are but concrete mental forms thru which
their ideas find expression.
In the first chapter of Genesir (26-27) we read:
"And God said, Let us make man in our image, alter
our likeness. . . . So God created man in his image,
in the image of God created he him: male and female
created he them."
Here we have the statement that is the backbone of
the Fundamentalists' &-kim; and they are quite right
toclingtoitascorrect. Butisthisstatementmade
concerning the physical body of man? Is it created
in the Image of God? No thinking person can be so
foolish as to maintain that it is our imperfect and still
evolving physical bodies that were created in the
Image of God! Certainly not! This refers to the
formulation of the Ideal Type of man in the mind of
God. The formation of the physical body is not re-
ferred to until the second chapter and is an entirely
different thing. His body is but the outer building
50 EVOLUTION AND T1E BIBLE
which ultimately results from the materall,ation of
the inner idea, the Ideal Type, plan or pattern. The
Adam of the first chapter is an entirely different being
from the Adam of the second chapter. This first
Adam is the Ideal or Spiritual Man, the Inner or
Higher Self, the Divine Androgyie. This is a purely
spiritual being and usually the one generally, altho
loosely, referred to as the Soul of man.
This Spiritual Man has naught to do as yet with
physical manifestation or with matter; in fact, no
spiritual being, force or consciousness, nor even a
mental or thought-form or thought-force, can mani-
fest in any world except thru a suitable form, body or
mechnicm composed of the substance of the world
in which it is to manifest: of spiritual substance in
the spiritual world, mental substance in the mental
world, astral substance in the astral world and
physical substance in the physical world. it is only
this Spiritual Man, created in the spiritual world, that
is truly the Son of God, since he is created in His
image and after His likeness; an individualized ema-
nation of His consciousness and substance: the very
imige of God.
According to one Hebrew scholar 1who has devoted
many years' study to the root meanings of the Hebrew
words used in Geneth, the word Adam is an Egyptian
mystery-word brought into the Hebrew language by
Moses, who was learned in all the mysteries of the
Egyptian priests. "Primarily the word Adam is com-
posed of three roots: the first means power within,
CREATION Si
the second similarity, and the third tendency to as-
similate. Therefore, this giving of activity to man by
God includes: (1) God's giving to Adam a secret
power within, similar to the power of God; (2) God's
capacity of being cimilated by Adam; and (3)
Adam's capacity to ccimibtte actively in the similar-
ity of God.... Thus man has, first, absolute rule
and dominion in assimilating God in the likeness of
God, manifesting as God. Second, man has absolute
rule and dominion over all processes of creation, each
producing its own kind in his Soul in accord with the
creative impulsefrom the Spiritual Manexisting
within itself. Third, man has complete and absolute
power in using the activity given him, and this activity
is like unto the actions of God. Fourth, man is in
complete control and dominion of the growth of Soul
manifestation... . The Samaritan Version, the old-
est and most reliable, uses a synonym after the word
Adam. This synonym means 'universal' or 'general.'
Consequently, Adam is the Universal Man, the Infinite
Man. So far as the English is concerned, the best
translation of Adam is m,inlrnd."t
This Spiritual Man, therefore, has inherently within
him, not only the potencies, but the actual emnßltions
of all the God-powers and potenciesthe God-Con-
sciousness, the God-wisdom, the God-love, the God-
compassion, and the God-power of creativenessis in
very truth "one with the Father, full of grace and
15 El Okia, Cycles f Mani/esktion, Brown Landone1 vU,
1-4.
ðÐ
0
&l.
CREATION 53
called the Late Priestly Narrative, written between
450 and 400 B.c. The second chapter represents the
Judean or Yahwist (Jehovistic) School, often called
the Early Judean Prophetic. This second narrative
was written several hundred years earlier (about 825
B.C.) than the first and certainly over three thousand
years after the events were supposed to have taken
place!
In the first chapter the lower kingdoms are repre-
sented as being created first and in their proper evo-
lutionary order, and man Is created last. In the second
chapter the order is reversed and man is represented
as being created first and then the lower kingdoms.
In the first chapter man is represented as created
dual, "male and female created He them," while in
the second chapter Adam alone is formed and later
on Eve.
This is a statement whose misunderstanding has
caused a great deal of controversy. Apparently this
is in flat contradiction to the statement made in the
first chapter. The first states that man was created a
spiritual being in the Image and likeness of God, while
the second states that he was composed of matter,
formed of the dust of the ground. Can both these
contradictory statements be true? If not which are
we to believe? We are to believe both, for both are
true, but they refer to entirely different things; the
first to the Real or Spiritual Man and the second to
the physical man or body which is absålutely essential
for the Spirit's m2nifestation in material conditions.
CHAPTER V
CREATION (Concluded)
"I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil Is
prment with me. For I delight In the law of Gõd after the
Inward man; but I see another law In my members, warring
against the law of my mind, and bringing me Into captivity to
the law of sin which is In my members. 0 wretched man that
I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death?"
Romans, vii, 21-24.
"We may thus conceive of a dynamic and psychological com-
plex above the material and organic complex, organhng and
centralizing It . . the real Sd!, one and Indivisible"
From the Unconsdons to She Conscious, Geley, 38.
In considering these two verses in Genesis, referred
to in the previous chapter, it should be noted that
there is a vast difference in the two processes described
in the two chapters. The word translated as "cre-
ated" in the first chapter is the Hebrew word Bara
whose root meaning is found in many ancient Ian-
guagesChaldaic, Sarnaritai, Arabic, etc.aIl of
which indicate "that the basic root is a choice or an
intention or preparation of movement toward form."
In this connection it indicates that God intended and
prepared in thought for a formation, or made choice
of an individualized aspect of Himself for expression
in those worlds of manifestation which He had just
El Ohim Cycles of Manifestation, Landone, vi, I.
54
CREATION 55
projected from His Divine Consciousness into form.'
The word in the second chapter translated as
"formed" is the Hebrew word Yatsar which means
"formative imagination." This plainly indicates that
the man of the second chapter was the physical body
or anhmil man who was not created or projected
spiritually in the image and likeness of God but was
fashioned by the activity of a creatively formed and
projected thought-form or invisible pattern which ani-
mated the dust of the ground, just as every beast of
the field and every fowl of the air was "formed" out
of the dust of the ground.' Here is the solution of
the whole conflict between the Fundamentalists and
the scientists; for this second man is the animal form
which science has conclusively shown was slowly
evolved from lower forms thru untold ages, while the
first man is the Spiritual Man or Image of God which
was not evolved, but created by the conscious inten-
tion of the Godhead to manifest Himself in form.'
As explained elsewhere: This, of course, does not
mean that God gathered up a handful of dust and
fashioned man out of it, but it does mean, that the
Divine Ideation, through the creative power of the
Cosmic Consciousness and the manifesting power of
the One Life, first conceived the idea and then pro-
jected it into objective manifestation: first the idea
'"We may understand that the blith and evolution of a world Is
a vast materialization of the universal dynamo-psycbism."Pros
the Uocorsdous to the Co*scious, Geley1 284.
'Genesis, ii, 19.
'The Pow-fold Process 01 God Creation, Landone, 1, S.
56 EVOLUTION AND ThE BIBLE
of the Earth and all things pertaining to it, and
finally man himself, all fashioned out of the same
fundamental and undifferentiated Cosmic Substance
and then clothed in a body of flesh composed of earthly
substances'
But until this nnhnal form had reached a certain
degree of perfection it was but a human animal and
not man as we know him today. When the proper
stage of evolution had been reached, something most
extraordinary took place: an addition was made which
raised this animal form out of the fourth kingdom of
Nature (the animal) into the fifth kingdom (the hu-
man) and made that ape-like animal form more than
animal. This extraordinary advance took place when
God "breathed into his nostrils the breath of life."
What was the result? This human animal then "be-
caine a living souL" Manifestly the "breath of life"
does not refer to oxygen or the ordinary air, for all
apimal forms breathed that in their nostrils and had
ordinary physical life. What was breathed in was the
"pneuma" or the Spirit, and only because man then
possessed a Spirit did he become a living Soul.
A body of flesh is essential, for without it the Soul
cannot manifest on Earth, but it must be a body so
evolved that it was capable, physically, mentally and
spiritually, of ultimately expressing the life and con-
sciousness of the Supreme Intelligence as the individ-
ualized consciousness of the incarnating Soul. Yet
after the incarnation of the Soul the organicm must
'The Messege of Aqworia, CurtIs, 126.
t CREATION 57
be trained to cooperate with the indwelling Soul that
its infinite powers may ultimately be manifested. In
other words, only when, through the slow process of
evolution from lower forms, a physical body had been
evolved which contained the necessary functions,
faculties, organs, centers and powers which were es-
sential for the Soul's complete manifestation on Earth
did the Spiritual Man descend and incarnate in that
2nim2l form. And because of his presence therein he
gave it a living Soul.
Thus does the mystic disarm the materialist by
gladly accepting all the proved facts of science, if not
their materialistic and hen limited interpretation,
and showhowthey alifitinto theirproper place in the
divine Plan of Manifestation, once we understand the
fundamentals of the Cosmic Philosophy which explains
that great Plan.
As we have said elsewhere: Spiritual Beings...
consciously descended to Earth and breathed into the
huninn-tnhnil forms "the breath of life," as recorded
inGenesis. That which is called the breath was some-
thing with which nnimal man was only then endowed
a power and capacity added to the mere nmi1
consciousness which he possessed before; for it was
the breath of Divine LU; a lpimtn Soul, a spiritual
overshadowing.'
Realize that life here in the physical world is not
something separate from Life in the higher realms, but
is simply a continuation of that Life downward into
'TA. Voice of 14,, Curtis, 233.
58 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
a denser medium of expression. /We also find ihat
the body is not a mere mechanism, but a living and
highly intelligent nimtl with the functions, desires,
appetites and habits of any animal. Hence it needs
training and control, just as does any other high-bred
,inimal, if it is to become a willing, obedient apd
efficient servant of its lord and master,' the indwell-
ing Spiritual Man.
With the incarnation of the Spiritual Man in the
,tnhnzð body the great conflict of the two natures for
control begins, for the animal nature naturally strives
to gratify its desires, while the Spiritual Man strives
to guide it toward constructive ends in accordance
with Divine Law. As we have already said: This
animal body of yours has certain desires and tend-
encies which are perfectly natural to it just as they
are to any animal, but since you, the Immortal Self,
are dwelling in it, you, the Immortal Self, must con-
trol the anhnal with its desires and tendencies and
make it subservient to the Law of Being. The lower
aiimalshaving no individualized spark of the Divine
dwelling in them. . . follow their natural tendencies,
when not perverted by contact with man, and these
tendencies, not being perverted, are necessarily right
and proper, but man, having a higher guidan than
instinct, must control the anmal tendencies instead
of being controlled by them. In fact, it is one of the
great aims of human manifestation for the Soul to
'The Message of Aquaria, Curtzs1 175.
The Voice of i,i,, Curtiss, 215.16.
CREATION 59
perfect a body so spiritualized and trained that it will
do the will of the Father on Earth, even as it is done
in Heaven by the Soul.
As dearly explained by Jesus in speaking of the
Spiritual Man within: "I came down from heaven,
not to do mine own will, but the will of Him that sent
me. And this is the Father's will which bath sent me,
that of all [the powers and potencies] which he bath
given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up
again at the last day."
We thus see why it is, that while the Real Man is
an immortal Spiritual Being, created perfect in the
heavenly worlds, when he is limited in his expression
on Earth, not only by a material body but one which
is imfinislied and still evolving, only thru eons of
time and manifesting thru such a body during myriads
of incarnations can he gain the experience in material
embodiment necessary to dominate completely and
control the nnim'I organism and make it truly ex-
press the Divine Consciousness of his Real Self. It
is because the zinim1 body has all the appetites, de-
sires and inherent selfishness of any animal and
because these continually struggle for unrestricted in-
dulgence, when unhzimpered by the guidance of the
Divine Consciousness, that St. Paul said: "For we
know that the law is spiritual: but I [the animal
man] am carnal. . . . For I know that in me (that
is, in my flesh) dwelleth no good thing for to will is
present with me; but how to perform that which is
'St. John, 4 38-9.
60 EVOLUTION AND Tkii BIBLE
goodlfindnot. Forthegoodthatlwouldldonot:
but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if
I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but
sin [or nnim2l desires] that dwelleth in me. I find
then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is pres-
cift with me. For I delight in the law of God after
the inward man: but I see another law in my mem-
bers, warring against the law of my mind, and bring-
ingme into captivity to the law of sin which is in my
members." St. Paul here dearly distingnWes be-
tween the guidance of the Spiritual Man and the
desires of the animal man. Yet "the flesh is a thing
of habit; itthrough the subconscious mindWill re--
peat mehincalIy a good impulse as well as a bad one.
It is not the flesh which is always the tempter; hi nine
cases out of ten it is the Lower Manasor hmrntn
mind-which by its (creative) images, leads the flesh
into temptation.. . . The higher (or spiritual) Mind
directs the Will: the lower turns it into selfish De-
sire."u
We therefore see that the "fall of man," which urn
unilluinined speculations of theologic have decided
was due to the sin of our first parents, was not due to
sin at all, but was the fall of the Spiritual Man into
material embodiment as the natural and inevitable re--
sult of the Law of Manifestation. The "fall" was
indeed great: the descent of a celestial being into
nuirtality; from the pure, beatific state of being and
UROfIGUS, vil, 14-23.
*Tkl Secret Doadse BIanieky W, 539.
CREATION 61
consciousness of the Spiritual World, down into a dense
and unresponsive nimð body which was dominated
by its will to live and propagate its species. This
descent into Earth conditions was also a great sacri-
lice.
As we have already pointed out: The Law of Sacri-
fice must be a principle of divine manifestation.
As the Creative Ray is sent forth into manifestation
from the Divine, something of its divinity, purity and
power is of necessity sacrificed by the limitations of
every successive form through which it expresses,
from the ideal thought-forms in the Universal Mind
down through their manifestation in ethereal sub-
stance, until they reach their densest expression in
physical matter. Each step of the descent is a sacri-
floe of a higher state and degree of consciousness that
a lower form may exist... . It was brought about
by the same great Principle of Divine Love and Wis-
dom, the Voice of the Deity sent forth, the Word that
was spoken and sent forth thru all spheres in which
the Spiritual Monad had to manifest to complete his
Cycle of Necessity," or cycle of projection, nnifesta-
tion and indrawing. This "fall" was therefore not a
"sin," nor due to the use of the sex functions, for the
fall began in the higher realms long before those func-
tions were manifested physically in the separated
sexes. While the descent of the Soul into material
"See "ilie Law of Sacr5ce," The Message of Aquaria, Curtlee,
25446.
"See "The Cycle of Neceeelty" in The Voice of Ith, Curtiss,
2M.
62 EVOLUTION AND Tli BIBLE
embodiment was a "fall," it was not a "fall" for man
to use faculties, functions and forces which would ul-
timately make him "as gods" and "as one of us," the
Elohim. For these were the very means given him
wherewith to achieve his destiny; to rise to Godhood.
With this understanding of the real nature of the
"fall" of man, it will be seen that the monstrous doc-
trine of "original sin" was but a mistaken medieval
deduction from a false premise due to the failure of
the early Church Fathers and Councils to distinguish
between the Adam of the first chapter and the Adam
of the second chapter: the same failure that is being
made by both parties to the cohtroversy today.
The Calvinistic doctrine of original sin holds that:
"Adam in his fall involved the whole hum'n race de-
scended from him. Hence depravity and corruption,
diffused thru all parts of the Soul, attached to all men.
. . These are held vitiated in all parts of their na-
ture, and on account of such corruption deservedly
condemned of God. . .. Adam's sin is, as a penalty,
transmitted to all his descendants, both as guilt and
as weakness . . . even infants are involved in Msun's
comnati.'TM
We must remember that this terrible and debasing
doctrine is not a teaching inspired by God, nor is it
contained in the Bible story, but is the mere opinion
of one man living in an age of persecution and bigotry,
and who very evidently did not have the enlighten-
ment of direct spiritual inspiration or of a Cosmic
"ZZICJCIOpdia BYIgaSSIUCa, v, 26; xxv, 135.
CREATION 63
Philosophy to guide his speculations. But it is high
time we use a little common sense, not to say spiritual
intuition, and stop blindly following after such a de-
basing idea, just as we have stopped following the
far more plausible doctrine of "the evil eye." As we
have said elsewhere: The exaltation of the intellect
and man's refusal to follow his Inner Guidance, to-
gether with his effort to subserve the spiritual forces
within to bring temporal domination and the gratifica-
lion of the lower senses, passions and desires was the
"original sin" of the early Races, not the use of the
creative powers themselves. This is clearly shown by
the fact that the creative powers were given to man
by his Maker and he was told to use them," long be-
fore he misused these powers and was cast out of the
Garden of Eden.
It should be noticed here that there is no time limit
placed on the process of the formation of the nnimal
body, and it may well have required the millions of
years which both science and cosmic philosophy claim
for it. The statement that Adam was formed out of
the dust of the ground gives a hint as to the time that
must have elapsed before there was any dust. For it
must have taken many ages before the land was up-
heaved above the waters, and still other ages for the
rocks thus upheaved to disintegrate through erosion
and become dust.
We now understand that the so-called "days" of
creation were not days of twenty-four hours, but vast
'5Th. Meuag. of Aquaria, Cuitlis, 396.
64 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
geological ages. As a matter of fact, geology has
proved that the Earth was created in six such "days"
or ages, for the structure of the planet itself shows
just six such vast eras, i.e., the Pre-zoic or the stage
from gaseous fire-mist to dense physical matter, the
Arclsæozoic, Proterozoic, Palæozoic, Mesozoic, and ihe
Cenozoic or present age, which is still evolving and
revealing its wonders. While the Bible was never 1n-
tended to be a scientific or accurately historical treat-
ise, nevertheless it is sufficiently accurate to have
modern scientific research confirm its general order of
creation.
For instance, Genesis tells us that there was
light several "days" (cons) before the Sun, Moon
and stars were created. Only a few years ago this
statement was laughed at in scientific circles, but we
now know that the nebula from which our solar sys-
temone of the smð1estwas condensed shone as
brilThrntly by its own inherent light as those we now
observe in the heavens undergoing the same process,
according to the universal Law of Manifestation.
Ag'in science tells us that life began under water in
the primordial ooze, and that as dry land arose out of
the waters the higher forms of life gradually appeared.
The Bible gives us precisely the same order of events,
the Earth being without form (land) and covered with
the waters of the deep. As the light appeared those
germs of life in the waters were activated and began
the unfoldment of their inner patterns in accordance
with the Law of Mtnifestafion. As the land appeared
CREATION 65
the higher forms progressively appeared one after the
other, first vegetationgrass, herbs, trees, etc.then
"moving creatures" (reptiles) fowls, nixnmi1c and
lastly man, in almost the exact order of evolution
found by science recorded in the rock strata of the
Ea
Again we see that when we gain understanding of
both evolution and what the Bible says about it, we
find there is no conflict between science and the Bible
in this respect. As one famous scientific authority
says: "The spiritually inspiring thing which the bi-
ologists have shown us is that all life has progressed
from the lowest toward the highest. If one does not
believe that life has been a progressive development,
step by step, under the guidance of a co-ordinating
principle, then be has a very poor idea of divinity.
For if life has progressed from 5miM beginnings up to
man in, say, ten million years, where will it be ten
million years from now? Man is revealed by science
as a being who is constantly progressing from glory
to glory, changing more and more toward the spiritual
image of his Creator."
Prof. Michael Pupin of Con'1' Univez5ity, American Maga-
met, Se$ezDber 1927.
CHAPTER VI
MANIFESTING THE CREATION
'Long under the dosnhifon of materialism and positive
C Miifrliig, forgetting and perverting religious ideas, men thought
that It was possible to live by the merely logical mind alone.
But, now, little by little, It Is becoming quite evident to those
who have eyea, that merely by t1e exercise of logical reason
men will not be able to organize their life on euth."
TerUum Orgaasoss, Ouspeasky, 335.
"The totality of evolution, like Its details, reveals as obvlowi
9wose which n.iher i,4ertlon nor adaptation nor any of the
rk1 factors can sefr1y P9JI" By on of the
Ideal adaptation which It Implies, this acquired purpose alone
allows of the complete operation of the el1 factors.
notural selection, Influence of the environment, sexual selectinu,
segregation, migration, etc."
Prows the Uiscos,sdoss to the Cousdoss, Geley, 279.
"For the law of the Spirit of Life.. . bath made me free
from the law of sin and death... . That the righteousness
of the law might be fntI.d In as, who walk not after the
flesh, but after the Spirit." Rowsaws, viii, 2, 4.
Since man is a "microcosm of the macrocosm" or an
epitome of the universe, to utilize the ideas set forth
in the previous chapters let us here review them briefly
as they apply to our own personal life and unfold-
ment.
At first thought many students find IL hard to real-
ize that man's body is as sinfinWied and unperfected
66
MANIFESTING TIth CREATION 67
an evolutionary product as is his personality and its
human mind. Yet if we stop to think dearly we will
readily recognize that this is so; for we know that
the inner Spiritual Bodyrepresented in the biblical
allegory by the first Adamwas created as a perfect
Pattern or Ideal Type. Gradually this Ideal Type
descended into matter through involution, and then
began the slow process of minifesfing its perfection
through evolution. Thus evolution progresses accord-
big to the degree in which the subðe creative forces of
the invisible pattern are able to manipulate and make
dense physical matter respond, altho for ages it re-
sponded only in a crude, rough general way to that
pattern. And even this slow process of overcoming
the inertia of matter and mikng it more responsive to
the inner vibrations has been further retarded by
man's disobedience, wrong thinking and misthkcn re- -
ligious teaching.
Ultimately we must manifest the Image of God in
which the Real or Spiritual Self is created. But how
few of even those who seek to live close to the Divine
Ideal, at least in thought, find it possible at this stage
of our evolution to manifest that Image as perfect
harmony of mind and body, perfect functioning and
health of every organ and part! For not only do we
find functional disorders, due to our ignorance or
carelessness of the laws of health,diet, exercise, etc.
and to infections, etc., but we also have to meet the
hereditary defects of the family in which we have in-
carnated, as well as the karmic conditions which we
68 EVOLUTION AND Tli BIBLE
bring over from past lives, all of which will be spared
us when those conditions have been worked out and
our bodies have been fully evolved and perfected.
Today, the more we advance the more sensitive ve
become to all these personal conditions and also to
world conditions. And the faster we work out our
personal Karma the more we are able to help redeem
the world Karma which we share with the rest of man.
kind. This is one of the mystical meanings of the
crucifixion. For the more we become one with the
Christ, the more Christ-force we have with which to
conquer these conditions and thus help lift the bur-
dens of humiinity and say: "Father, forgive them;
for they know not what they do."
At present our Spiritual Body is much like a ___
sapling which is destined to become a great tree but
which has been planted in the crude soil of an inimt1
body where it is subjected to tempestuous gusts of
passion, gnawing desires and scorching emotions. It,
therefore, still needs the oversight and guiding care
of the great Gardener upon whom it must depend dur-
ing its early stages of growth ere it can become the
giant tree whose strength, beauty and fruitfulness can
scarcely be imagined from the appearance of the mere
sapling. For the most powerful microscope can dis-
cover no trace of a pattern of the future tree in the
seed, nor does the outer appearance of the sapling
give any indication of what Its blossom and fruit will
be. 'The very appearance of these are miracles in them-
selves; yet the pattern or Ideal Type of the tree and
MANIFESTING TIlE CREATION 69
its fruit already exists in the invisible worlds. And as
the pattern is materialized thru the Law of Growth it
will gradually unfold and determine the size and type
of tree and the kind of flower and fruit.
As we have already explained, the body of man is
"of the earth earthy," just as is the seed of the tree.
Yet like the seed it has within it an invisible ethereal
pattern' which endeavors to reflect, as far as it has
evolved, the perfection of its Ideal Type, or the Spiri-
tual Body of the Inner Man or Real Self. Let us
tMnk then of our Real Self not merely as a vague,
shadowy, formless Divine Essence, but as possessing a
perfected and glorious Spiritual Body, the Ideal Type
which shall ultimately manifest on Earth, perfect in
every part, organ and function, and filled with radiant
vitality, health and joy of living.f But if our Real Self
Is clothed in such perfection that no inharmony, de-
forndty, disease, sin, sickness or death can abide in
It, why is it that our physical body is so incomplete,
Imperfect, unresponsive to the Real Self and prone to
all the ailments to which the flesh is heir?
The first explanation Is that the physical body Is
still evolving and has not yet rearlud a point where
the Real Self can shine through or aminifest, except
to a very limited degree. Just as the life-cycle of the
giant Sequoia trees of California requires many thou-
sands of seasons (years) to evolve and unfold the inner
pattern from seed to perfected tree, so does the much
greater life-cycle of the Soul require many thousands
'Ru. c/the Zivhsg Dud, Curths, Cbapter viii.
10 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
of "seasons" or life-cycles to bring its pattern ihto
full manifestation, from seed to perfected Man, the
Master, even when not constantly interfered with, ye-
tarded and pushed back by man's self-made Karma.
When we note the great prevalence of weakness,
sickness and disease among ni2nbhid and the struc-
tural and functional imperfections of his body, we
realize that in no other nimi1 is its structure so poorly
adapted to its posture as in man, even though the dis-
advantages of the upright position are enormously
outweighed by the release of two limbs (arms) from
the function of locomotion for the exclusive use of the
brain and mind. The enormous influence upon the
development of the brain and the greater mental
power and intellectual atbthiments to which the use
and development of the hand permitted expression, is
well known to scientific investigators and psycholo-
gists. Yet no optical instrument so defective as the hu-
man eye, no automobile so inefficient as the body and
no water-works or system of electrical conduits which
allowed the leakage from one part to disable all its
neighborsas the infl2mmltions and disease of the
abdomimil and other organs leak or extend from one
to the other through mere contactwould find a mar-
ket in these days of efficiency.
When we consider the present imperfect organiza-
Hon of society, with its narrow racial outlooks and
antagonisms and wars, its struggles between the so-
called "classes," its extremes of great wealth and
miserable poverty, how hopeless it all would be if we
MANIFESTING TkLE CREATION 71
believed that these conditions were as near to the ul.
tiznate perfection of man as he could hope to attain!
Yet in spite of all the imperfections in the Earth, in
man's body and mental activities, and in his organ!-
zation of society, we find a deep, eternal purpose and
an ever-present urge, both in the Earth, in Nature and
in man, toward something higher and better. Even
the most undeveloped mentally and the most unawak-
cued spiritually feel a dim Inner Urge toward higher
unfoldment which, when once awakened, gives them
no peace or rest until they begin to work with it.
Often, however, this Inner Urge is nthhtterpreted
and man seeks to smother it out either through exces-
sive self-indulgence of the lower appetites and passions,
through a mad whirl of feverish social life or through
incessant and strenuous mental activity, each accord-
ing to his degree and type of development. But these
attempts to smother out the cry of the inner or Spir-
itual Self for expression in the life only increase and
make more persistent the conflict and inharmony,
until finally the suffering which the rebellious person-
ality brings upon itself forces it to appeal to the
higher powers, commonly called God, for help. Then
a new stage of evolution begins, viz., the beginning of
man's conscious recognitionhowsoever dimly at first
of the Divine and his dependence upon It.
The second explanation is that in addition to the
Incompleteness of his present stage of evolution man
also has to reap, express and work out the results of
the Karma of his own creating as he goes along, i.e.,
72 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
all the sin, sickness and inharmony that he has created
in past lives and in the present, by the misuse of his
creative powers and his God-given materials. For,
until he recognizes and redeems his creations, and
thereby learns the lesson, he will never cease creating
such obstacles to his advance.
When man's creations are inharmonious and de-
structive in character, their working out and redemp-
tion naturally impedes and delays his evolutionthe
manifestation of the Spiritual Patternjust as his
creations of peace, harmony and purity accelerate it.
Hence the Divine Self must wait patiently for all that
man in his pompous ignorance, sell-will and self-
indulgence has created, to be worked out through the
events of daily life, knowing well that if man will not
listen to and strive to follow his Divine Guidance and
live in harmony with the Divine Law, only the suf-
fering which results from reaping that which he has
sown and redeeming that which be has created, can
turn his consciousness Godward and awaken him to the
necessity of striving co,uciousiy to aid his spiritual
unfoldmpnt and thereby hastening the perfecting of
his evolution.
God in His great love and mercy knows our iinper-
fect and unfin1ed state and expects of us only the
best we can do, each according to his ligbts/ We
could not expect a seedling to blossom and fruit ere
It had become a tree. But we do expect it constantly
to turn to the Sun, drink in the warm rain and nmi
late the substances of the Earth and ultimately build
MANIFESTING m CREATION 73
all into perfect growth. And we delight in its upright
stalk, in each tender leaf as itunfolds and in its every
effort to grow aright. Just so God never expects His
children to accomplish more than their particular stage
of development and understanding permits. But He
does expect us cheerfully and willingly to do our best,
and He delights in our every effort.
God's Image, in which the Real Self is mide, is not
merely the cause which unfolds the pattern of the
physical body, but it also focuses and outpictures the
God-consciousness, the God-powers and the God-love
of the Divine Father-Mother. And if man did not
strive to correlate with the power of this Inner Self
he would never realize his relation to nor his powers
as a Son of the Father-Mother, and in appearance he
would never be more than an ape-like creature.
A child inherits the traditions and mental traits, as
well as the physical characteristics, of its family, but
unless it strives to live upto and perfect those traits
and traditions it is an unworthy representative of the
family. "Further evolution, if it take place, cannot be
an elemental and unconscious affair, but will result
solely from conscious efforts toward growth.
Man, not striving toward evolution, not conscious of
its possibility, not helping it, will not evolve. And the
individual who is not evolving does not rem2in in a
static condition, but goes down, degenerates. This is
the general'
'Tl?tiw1I Orga.ui,, Ouspciiky, 329.
CHAPTER VII
MANIFESTING TH CREATION (Concluded)
'Mtho we accept the law of evolution, there is no nwe.liy
to regard all ktIng forms as having developed from one
another.. . . In such cosca It Is pwre correct to regard thms
nfl as the highest types In their own evolution. The aluence
of Intermediate forms makes this view much more probable
than that which Is esuafly accepted"
Tertisn. Orgwswn, Ouspesaky, 336.
"Until we con grasp the sees. of the muSty, the greater
Importance, and beauty and satisfaction of the life of the
Spiritthe life lived close to Godwe are allowing material
things to fetter in and rob us of the sweeter harmonies of life,
rather than serve our hIgbt good as they are d1gned to
do" The Seventh Seat, Agnes, 98.
As we have already pointed out: We speak of the
Divinity within, but in our present state of evolution
that Divinity is scarcely more than the radiance of
the emanations which the Divine Indweller left in-
meshed in us when we were forced to leave the Gar-
den when the mind usurped the authority of the
spiritual will. But even this radiance is a very real
Flame of spiritual force and Through it we can always
"ascend into the hill of the Lord" and reach the In-
dweller. Therefore, we must dwell in the thought of
its radiant sMning until it grows more and more in-
tense; for through the misuse of mind we have driven
74
MANIFESTING THE CREATION 75
it out, and by the proper use of mind we must bring
it back. . . . In proportion as we turn the dynamic
power of thought upon it, it will truly manifest in our
outer lives, even in the outward appearance of the
personality. It will bring to birth new powers, new
strength, new health, new beauty, new love, new joy
of life, new ability to help our fellowmen.1
Further to help in our spiritual unfoldment and our
physical evolution we must discard all old ideas which
the light of later understandings show to be imperfect
or outgrown; for, as a rule, change is an evidence of
growth and progress, while fixedness is stagnation and
fossilization. rruly to progress we must consciously
conoentrate, not upon the physical body for the attain-
ment of mere health, but upon the perfect complete-
ness, symmetry and beauty of our Divine Self, and
use all our creative powers to manifest that Divine
Image in our flesh. Think of the Spiritual Body as a
radiant Being within our flesh, a source of radiant
spiritual life-force permeating our body and vivifying
it with new life, just as radium does the Earth, that
it shall find expression in greater health, cheerfulness
and happiness. Rest in the calm assurance and un-
sh&able faith that the radiance of that Divine Image
will accomplish and take care of all the details of the
needed results in the best poslble way if we pennitit
to do so. Strive to be cheerful even during periods of
depression (night-periods); for there is no real gain
to be derived from giving way to depression or to
'The Message oJ Aqvaria, Curtbs, 476, 472.
76 EVOLUTION AND TliE BIBLE
tears, since so often their scat is in self-pity.
During our final incarnations in the physical world,
etc the Divine Image can shine thru in perfection, we
have to pass thru a period during which the vibrations
of every illness or weakness of the flesh which have
been registered in the astral body have to be brought
out and ellminited. This period of transmutation or
house-cleaning is often one of great suffering, yet is
an evidence that the time of our redemption and per-
fection draweth nigh. Durin the many house-clean-
ings thru whichwe have to pass, hold fast to the Idea
that the radiant life-force of the Divine Image is creat-
ing new and better conditions each day: new cells in
the body, new ideas in the mind, new realizations in
the Soul, and new conditions in the outer life; that
it is constantly at work to manifest the perfection of
the Spiritual Self.
Yet God has never left us comfortless. Always the
power of the Holy Ghost has overshadowed us. And
in our darkest hours the Flame of Divine Love has
dwelt with us as a pillar of fire that has guided us
thru the wilderness of life, and the Lord God has
spoken to us out of the.fiery cloud.
Because of the very brilllmcy of this shining, man
sees reflected on the darkness of his life his creations
of sin and disobedience. Therefore, only as he seeks
to embody and follow the guidance of the Divine Light
which shines within can he learn how to advance to
the point where he can re-enter his lost heritage, Eden.
Unless we often dwell In thought on the glorious
MANIFESTING THE CREATION 77
possibilities which the Light unfolds we cannot pre-
pare ourselves to correlate with the Divine Indweller.
Therefore, let each earnest reader who desires to have
more than an intellectual knowledge of these truths;
who desires to make a practical application of them,
meditate upon the Divine Indweller' night and morn-
ing and as often as possible during the day, and
visualize its manifestation within himself.
There never was or is an outer symbol, force or
condition which does not have its corresponding inner
mystic meaning or reaction in the life and conscious-
ness of man. Just as radium always has been em-
bodied in the Earth and sent out its transmuting and
life-giving einantions to the planet and all min1rind,
so has the Chris rce' always been embodied in the
heart of man and has striven to send out its life-giving
emanations and its great. powers of transmutation
and redemption to the consciousness of the person-
ality.
Just as comparatively few scientists of the past have
recognized radium and its usefulness, so only the
comparative few among the millions of mankind have
consciously realized the presence of the Christ-force
as a radiant center of the Divine within them. Only
when man's evolution reached a point where be could
understand and mAke proper use of radium for the
good of all could he find it, altho advanced Souls in
every age who had reached the necessary stage of
'See The Message ci Aqwia, Curthe, 477.
'See Gems .1 MysUdsss, Curdis, Chapter v.
78 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
evolution both knew about and utilized radio-active
substancesas a kind of Philosopher's Stoneeven
if not pure radium.
Radium is one of the three-fold expressions of the
Divine Life-force in the Earth, in this case in a me-
tallic form. It is to the planet much like the Divine
in man, i.e., a source of radiant life-force. In another
aspect it corresponds to Divine Mind which man's
evolution is beginning to enable him to contact more
consciously, just as his evolution is beginning to
enable him to contact and utilize radium. And just
as the Divine Mind must and does send out its radiant
emsinitions thru the mortal mind, whether recognized
or not, giving all thought-power a creative and per-
sistent enduring force which enables it to accomplish
concrete results, so does radium in the Earth give forth
corresponding powers, constructive or destructive ac.
cording to the degree and method of their use.
If our readers could once realize the destructively
creative power of inharmonious, unkind and impure
thoughts they would understand why there is so much
evil in the world and why they have to fight so hard
and so long. For evil thoughts are like pestiferous in-
sects which breed in tremendous swarms, while good
thoughts are more like the higher forms of life whose
progeny are few and which must be nourished and
cherished if they are to reproduce. How earnestly then
should we strive to realize that the creative power of
thought is the great step in evolution of the New Age
in which it will be intensified many-fold, and that we
must determine to use it constructively or the New
MANIFESTING TkL1 CREATION 79
Age may be far worse than the past, because new and
greater forces are being poured out for man for him
to utilize.
Just as it requires but an infinitesimal particle of
radium to produce a definite result, just so we, if we
allow the Divine Light and Life to manifest thru and
emanate from us, even though we may be infinitesimal
in numbers, can help push on the evolution of both
ourelves and all humanity and the planet itself. Thus
can we each accomplish a definite and constructive
work in the changing and chaotic conditions of today.
For the Divine Law has made this period of evolution
not merely the usual closing of one great cycle (the
Piscean) and the beginning of a new (the Aquarian),
but a special period when exceptional changes must
come about' This is a period when much that is old
must be done awayold ways of thiniring, acting,
working, governing, doing bnshipsq, worshipping, etc.,
that the evolution of all may be accelerated to keep
pace with the other advances of the New Age.
We must adopt such new ideas, not merely In the
form of outer creeds and dogmas of man's devising
and sophistry, of condemnation or superiority over
others whose ideas are slightly different, but we must
look to the Divine Indweller to illumine our mind
with a realization of our powers as a creator. / Then
our ability consciously to send forth powerful, posi-
tive and vital thoughts of peace, harmony, purity,
brotherhood and co-operation will be a mighty factor
in counteracting the mistakes and deficiencies of par-
'For details see Coi,sizsg World CMnges, Curtin.
80 EVOLUTION AND TIlE BIBLE
tially evolved man and his partially unfolded Spiritual
Consciousness.. For in spite of ourselves, and in spite
of temporary set-backs, we are slowly evolving, since
back of all our mistakes is the Urge to Good. But
witk-our conscious co-operation and determined effort
that evolving can be greatly accelerated and the suf-
fering due to our ignorance and rebellion avoided.
As Samson' overcame the young lion barehanded
and ate of the honey found in its carcass, so upon
him who is strong in his faith in the Divine and who
constantly looks to and relies upon It for guidance and
help, will come "the spirit of the Lord mightily," so
that out of danger shall come safety, out of inharmony
brotherhood, out of competition co-operation, and out
of that which seemed cvii shall come sweetness and
strength.
'Jrdgu, ziv 5-9.
82 EVOLUTION AND Tki BIBLE
(Genesis, iv, 16, 17.) Secondly, there was that mys-
terious race, called "the sons of God," which was
apparently polygamous, for they "saw the daughters
of men that they were fair; and they took them wives
of all which they choose." (Genesis, vi, 2.)
In fact, like most biblical narratives, the description
is so worded as to divert those who give it any dis-
criminating study from taking it literally. In addition
to the wording of the text, the study of comparative
religion now amply proves that Adam and Eve are
not to be regarded as individual, historic personalities,
but as types of the earliest physical race. As we have
said elsewhere: The literal meaning of Adam is "red
earth," hence Adam stands for the earthly Race of
the Red Ray, red coming first because it is the lowest,
most material vibration of the solar spectrum, the
previous Races being too super-physical to be classed
as earthly.'
While the allegorical story of Adam and Eve could
not go into details, it nevertheless illustrates the de-
scent of the Spiritual Man into Earth conditions, and
the broad outlines of his subsequent evolution. Yet,
if we are to "get wisdom, get understanding; forget
it not," as Solomon enjoins us, we should know not
only the broad outlines, but something of the details
'The Message of Aquaria, Curtlss, 77. "The first two races of
men were too ethereal and phantom-Eke In their coustltutlon,
opnhm and shape even, to be called physical man. . . this Ii
one of the rsons why their relies can never be expected to be
exhumed among other fossik" The Secret Doctrine, Blavataky,
11,303.
ADAM AND EVE 83
of the marvelous process of involution or materbtli,ii-
tion of the invisible pattern of man into physical
manifestation, as taught in Cosmic Philosophy, even
tho those details may prove somewhat intricate and
require more than a casual reading.
The Race referred to as Adam is represented quite
correctly as being alone, for the first ethereal and only
semi-materialized patterns were androgynous beings,
containing both sexes in the one form, "male and fe-
male created he them." But as the descent into
materinE-ation° reached the plane of dense physical
matter, the manifestation necessarily had to conform
to the laws of the physical plane. One of the most
fundamental of these laws is the Law of Duality or
Polarity. Under this Law all forces and manifestations
on Earth must be separated into "pairs of opposites,"
or positive and negative, active and passive, expres-
slons. Thus we have positive and negative, masculine
and feminine, day and night, light and dark, beat and
cold, summer and winter, etc. Under this Law the
gradually materializing body was no longer sufficiently
plastic for the expression of both sexes, hence they
had to be differentiated into separate bodies, each
specifically adapted for the expression of its sex.
Altho this process is represented in the condensed
biblical allegory as an overnight affair, actually it was
by no means a sudden change, but was the result of
a gradual involution lasting throughout the entire latter
'For the details of the pee-physical conditions see chapter, "The
Origin of Man," Tb. Voice of 1,1,, CurtIs., 228, 232-4.
/
84 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
bali of the Third and the first part of the Fourth
Great Races,' the first two Races being entirely super-
physical. These primitive beingsof the first two
Raceswere still composed of semi-astral matter and
today would not be visible. Therefore, they left. no
physical renin by which science might trace them.
Only later, toward the middle of the Third Race
(Lemurian) did solid bones develop, the sexes sepa-
rate, the body become clothed with "coats of skin"
and take on hiimnn form as we know it today, aitho
at that time it was of gigantic proportions.'
As this separation of the sexes first took place dur-
ing the super-physical involution of the astral patterns
while still in the ethereal Eden, aitho on their down-
ward course into materinlization, science finds no
trace of a physically androgynous hutnnn Race, only
the early separated materialized forms.
Their gigantic size is confirmed by Geneth (vi, 4),
atJ were giants in those days; and also after that."
"It is not denied that... [the body of] man was a
gigantic ape-like creature; when we say 'man' we
ought perhaps to say the rough mould that was de-
veloping for the use of [the spiritual man]
Finally, it is shown in every ancient scripture and
cosmogeny that man evolved primarily as a luminous
incorporeal form, over which like molten brass poured
Into the model of a sculptor, the physical frameor
rather Into the ni&'es of whichof his body was
'See footnote, page 83.
'Tb. Vol.. of Ish,Curtiu, 232.
ADAM AND EVE 85
built by, through and from, the lower forms and types
of tnhmi1 terrestrial life."4 This began to take place
during the Mesozoic Agethe age of huge reptiles
when the bodies of all anim1 forms were of gigantic
size. As we have already explained: These early
types were gigantic semi-human monsters, the first
attempt of material nature at building human bodies.
. . He is still gigantic and ethereal, but growing
firmer and more condensed in body; a more physical
man yet less intelligent, for mind is a slower and more
difficult evolution than is the physical frame.'
The radio-active, refining and transmuting effect of
a tremendously higher octave of vibrations brought to
bear upon the gross and gigantic body by the intro-
duction into it of self-consciousness--a far higher oc-
tave of vibration than animal mindtogether with the
effect of the still higher octave of vibrations coming
from the newly incarnated "living soul," have pro-
gressively condensed that gross-body, reduced its size
and refined its structure until we now have the less
gross, smaller but far more highly evolved body of
modern man.
The process of the separation of the sexes is quite
properly represented as a rib being taken from Adam's
side, for the process at that time was one of budding,
just as we see occur today in certain lower forms of
life when the bi-sexual or androgynous stage passes
directly into the stage of separate sexes in the suc-
-
The Secret Doctd,w, Blavatsky, Ii, 273; 118.
Tb. Vole. 01 isis, Curtlis, 231.
/
86 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
ceeding generations. According to Cosmic Philosophy:
The eminzttions which came from their bodies during
the seasons of procreation were ovulary; the small
spherical nuclei, developing into a large, soft, egg-like
vehicle, gradually hardened, when, after a period of
gestation, it broke and the hymian nimil issued from
it unaided, as the fowls do in our Race; not a strange
procedure when we remember that even today the now
sexually generated child is born in a membraneous
sack or large, soft, egg-like vehicle. . . . For in his
physical development and in his modes of procreation
man has passed thru all the stages Nature has used
and still uses in the lower kingdoms,' as indisputably
shown in the successive stages thru which the hiimrn
embryo passes during intra-uterine life.
The truth that man can never be truly complete
hence can never do his best workwithout his com-
plementary mate is dearly indicated by Eve being
taken from Adam's side. And he never can be truly
complete until she is again blended with and becomes
one with him, in purpose, ideals, mind and heart, if
not in body. The biographies of most great men are
almost i,ntnimous in gladly attributing a large meas-
ure of their success to the inspiration, love and help
of their mates.
The process by which the body of Eve was differ-
entiated from that of Adam is therefore correctly
described in general in the Bible story, even though it
was not an actual rib that was used. This item is not
'The Voice ofith, Curtlss, 231-2.
ADAM AND EVE 87
literal, but is as allegorical as the rest; for in the
anatomy of man there is no rib missing. He has the
same number on one side as on the other, and the
same number as woman. What, then, is the signifi-
cance of the use of the word rib? Why should that
particular part of man's anatomy be mentioned as the
origin of woman rather than any other?
The anatomy of the rib gives us the key to its sym-
bolic interpretation. The ribs are an essential part of
the framework of the body, without which the vital
organs would not be protected or the body be able to
maintain its erect posture. Here in one graphic word
it is dearly indicated that woman was not created as
a mere off-shÕot, as a mere appendage to mair as a
possession of his or for man's mere companionship
and pleasure, or as an after-thought of God's. This
false interpretation by theologitns w.s one of the ma-
jor causes which for nturies kept woman in bondage
and servitude, as a possession and chattel of man.
But the obvious meaning of the symbol indicates that
woman is not an appendage, but an integral part of
the body of humanity and the framework of society,
without which its vital organs would not be protected
or humanity be able to maintain its uprightness. Un-
der the Law of Duality woman is but the natural
differentiation of the feminine aspect of the one Spir-
itual Being in the Spiritual World who is seeking
manifestation on Earth through the two co-equal
masculine and feminine organism.
Sex, therefore, is not merely a thing of the body,
/
88 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
but inheres in the Soul itself.' It also inheres in evely
differentiated or individualized form of consciousness
long before it manifests in the flesh. In fact it mani-
fests in the flesh only because it already exists in the
pre.physical pattern of which the flesh is but a
materialization.
This same law applies to wcman's mind as well as to
her body. For while woman's mind is of the intuitive
type, able to grasp the essence of truth without the
laborious process of logical reasoning required to reach
the same truth by man's rational type of mind, her
mind is in no way inferior to man's. Even in the
structure of woman's brain, the critical eraininntion of
the brain of the lebrated feminist, Helen Gardner,
by the neurological specialists at Cornell University
shows that: "Compared in each of its details with the
brains of twenty other men and women, the brain of
Mrs. Gardner has presented abundant evidence that
the brain of a woman need not be inferior to that of
a man of equal rank. In its entire structure it reveals
a wealth of cortical substance, or gray matter, that is
only equaled, but not exceeded, by the best brains
in the Cornell collection, which includes those of a
number of doctors, professors, lawyers and natural-
ists." -
While the brain structures of men and women
are comparable, their types of mind are as distinctive
'For the geometrical proof iee The Key So She Umverse, Curdis,
349.
'Dr. Jamea W. Paper, New York Tiw, Oct. 9, 1927.
ADAM AND EVE 89
as their types of body. They are not alike and were
never intended to be alike: they are complements each
of the other. And both, working harmoniously to-
gether, are needed for the highest manifestation of
the Soul-consciousness in society, or the outer affairs
of niinkind.
As we have said elsewhere of woman during this
coming age: Adam, or the Real or Divine Self, will
once more give up a mental "rib" or a part of the
framework of his mental body and out of it will be
fashioned once more a help-meet for him. In other
words, during the past ages of the world it has been
man who has built up the mental conceptions and
ideals which have influenced, moved and controlled
the religious, business and social fabric of society,
while woman has had her place in the intellectual and
spiritual background, bidden within the body of man,
so to speak, altho always an important upholder of
the structure of the man-made society. But in this
coming Woman's Age, now dawning, she will take her
place as a co-equal part of the framework of hnmin
society, no longer merely a rib in a man's world, but
having ribs and a complete independent structure of
her own, which shall henceforth work as a co-equal
with man in bringing forth the new conditions for
hnminity.
Since (he special and specific orgintion of
woman's body necessarily makes her open to the higher
invisible worlds that she may give incarnation to the
The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 78.
I
90 EVOLUTION AND THF BIBLE
Souls in those worlds which desire birth Into the phys-
ical world, so should she be open to and bring down
to Earth and give embodiment to such higher spiritual
ideals as love, compassion, purity, righteousness and
joy which are seeking incarnation in the minds and
lives of hlrnl2nity. Her relation to man should be to
stimulate his passion for Truth instead of his passion
for lust. Her greatest aim should be to lead man not
to the altar, but to idealism. She should strive not
for political but for moral and spiritual leadership. In
other words, woman's mission on Earth is to represent
the Divine Mother in spiritual things as she does now
in physical things: to give embodiment and physical
manifestation to ideals as she now gives embodiment
and physical manifestation to incarnating Souls.
According to tradition it was the fifth rib on the left
side that was used to fashion Eve. This too has a
wonderful symbology, for that is the rib which covers
or encloses the heart, the universal symbol of the
feminine or heart qualities or love-nature--intuition,
sýmpathy, compassion, etc. This indicates that in
woman there is a greater and more independent ex-
pression of the divine love nature of the Soul than
there could possibly be in an androgynous being domi-
nated by the masculine aspect. "Until this cycle in
the world's history, almost every system of religion
and esoteric philosophy has rejected the feminine, and
either taught the absolute separation of the sexes as
the idealsegregating women in convents and men In
monasteriesor baa in some way rejected woman1
ADAM AND EVE 91
even to the extent of denying to woman a Soul and
barring her from Paradise except to minister to man's
desires."
"The time has now come when woman must take
her place as the Priestess of the Most High, the Re-
vealer of Purity and Truth to man. . . . It is woman
who must lift up the world's ideas of the sex-force
from the mire and degradation of man's misconceptions
and give this great power its proper place in the Tem-
ple of the Living God (the body) as the highest expres-
sion of the Divine in man. Just as it was woman who
gave to man the apple of discord, so must it be woman
who plucks the golden apples that grow at the top of
the Tree of Life and gives them to man to eat....
But, until woman awakens to her responsibility and
understands her real mission, i.e., her power to play
upon man's heart, stimulate his noblest aspirations and
thus lead him to the heights of spiritual attainment,
instead of into mere physical union without love, she
will continue to be the slave she is today, in spite of
any political or social liberties she may attain."
Man isas ready todayas ever tobe Iedbywomanin
any altruistic and unselfish crusade, but to secure his
co-operation he must be led by ideals, for he instinc-
tively resists being driven by force or compulsion.
Most women realize this power of moral leadership,
but they should understand that it is their duty, their
great privilege and their great opportunity.
The Voice of isis, Curds,, 336.
UTba Voice of ins, Cur)k, 253-.
92 EVOLUTION AND Tth BIBLE
As woman today begins to awaken to her independ-
ent status, her first reaction is to think that to be
man's equal she must do the things he does and copy
him as much as possible. She therefore endeavors to
suppress all normal contours and strives for a boyish
figure, boyish bob, boy-scot Miring clothes and so
forth. She even apes his bad habits and vices, smok-
ing on the streets and in automobiles, drinking in
public, etc. Yet, at the same time, to attain her own
ends she continues her age-old efforts to fascinate and
enslave man by her scanty and suggestive dress, her
facial make-up and her general "sex appeal." In all
this, instead of exhibiting her independence, she tacitly
confesses that there is a superiority in man worthy of
Imitation. She thereby reveals the "inferiority com-
plex" which her ages of subjection by man has built
Into the race consciousness. -
If we djd not know that all this is but an exuberant
phase of the first stages of her newly won freedom
much as children run, shout and throw up their caps
when let out of schoolwe might well fear for her
future. But we know that crc long she will drop these
essentially unfeminine fads and begin to express the
higher and more worthy aspects of true feminism.
It is not so long ago that man passed thru a imiIar
stage, aping woman by dressing in effeminate, lace
trimmed clothes, seeking to gain distinction by the
shape of his legs, exposing his knees, using face powder
and rouge, carrying lace handkerchiefs and jeweled
snufiboxes, and doing everything to express his vanity
of person and increase his "sex-appeal."
ADAM AND EVE 93
And if man has learned that real superiority is not
exhibited by clothes or personal adornment, but by
the expression of superior qualities of mind and heart,
so must woman learn the same lesson. The "superior-
ity complex' that each must attain is to rise superior
to the usual faults and weaknesses of the less evolved.
For, to be (ruly equal, men and women must strive to
express the highest possibilities of true nimbood and
true womanhood and not give way to passing weak-
ness and fads which only reveal the vanity of a Soul
not yet awakened to the higher conceptions of life.
To reach his highest expression of life a man must
recognize not merely woman's true position in society
and co-operate with her in all constructive and up-
lifting endeavors, but he must learn to recognize and
develop the feminine qualitiessympathy, intuition,
compassion and lovewithin himself, just as woman
must learn to balance her feminine qualities with the
masculine qualities of logic, reason, courage and will,
em humanity as a whole can bring forth its highest
ideL
HA?TER IX
Tff GARDEN IN EDEN
«And the Lord planted a garden eastward In Eden; and
there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the
ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is ple
to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also In the
midst of the garden, aid the tree of knowledge of good and
calL" GenesIs, 11, 8-9.
"The student of Orculthm has to bear In mind that every
God and hero In n4.* Panthenna (that of the Bible Included)
has three biographies in the narrative, so to say, running
parallel with each other and each connected with one of the
aspects of the herohistorical, astronomical and perfectly
mythical, the last serving to connect the other two together
and smooth away the asperities and discordances of the first
two" The Secret Doctrine, Blavataky, lii, 94.
Probably in no other chapters of the Bible is the
manifest absurdity of the words, when taken in their
literal and materialistic sense, so evident as in flue
first four chapters of Genesis.1 It is imaginatively
possible to conceive of a god taking a handful of clay
and modeling an image of man, nnirnßlting it and later
on marshaling the more than 1,000,000 species of
living thingsincluding 3,500 species of mnmrnnl,,
3,500 species of reptiles, 400,000 species of insects,
etc.in a long line which would reach across four
states from New York City to Wnslaington, D. C.,
'See The Yoke of isis, Curtias, 7L
94
THE GARDEN IN EDEN 95
and parading them before that newly rniimited mnni-
kin that he might name them. (Genesis, ii, 19.) But
to accomplish this God would have to keep them all
in line, prevent their fighting or straying, supply them
with their specific foods and keep them stepping for.
ward at the rate of one each minute of the day for
nearly four years, supposing that Adam could inspect,
understand and correctly name a new species each
minute for twelve hours a day without stopping for
meals or to rest his voice; for at that time he was
alone among all the inimi1s and had no Eve to bring
him food. During this four years all the larger mma1c
would have brought forth several generations of
progeny, while the lower formsmany of which have
a life-cycle of only a few hours or dayswould have
reproduced in countless swarming millions. The ab-
surdity of a literal interpretation is too obvious to
merit discussion.
Even if we grant the possibility of so great a mir-
acle, it is a little too much for the literalists to ask us
to believe in a serpent that can talk, a tree that confers
immortal life and another tree that can teach man the
knowledge of good and evil. All of which is quite as
allegorical and fabulous as any mythology or so-called
"heathen" scripture asks us to accept.
According to St. Augustineone of the four great
authorities and leaders among the early Church
Fathers, and the one who largely formulated and gave
the Christian doctrins their traditional trendsays:
96 EVOLUTION AND TH BIBLE
"There is no way of preserving the literal sense of the
first chapters of Genesis without impiety and attribut-
ing things to God unworthy of him." It should
therefore be fairly obvious that the Bible is purposely
written in symbolic and allegorical language so absurd
initsliteralsenseas to forcenin1rindto seeksome
other interpretation. As St. Paul tells us: "The letter
killeth, but the spirit giveth life." It is just this
spiritual interpretation which we endeavor to present
in this and the other volumes of "The Curtiss Books."
As we have pointed out: Fo be efficient in life's day
at school a philosophy should be sought which is so
all-inclusive that it explains where we come from, why
we are here, what the destiny is to which we are ex-
pected to reach, and what our individual place is in
the whole mighty sÛleniP of the universe, and how
we are to attain it.'
'The essentials of this Cosmic Spiritual Philosophy
have been known to the Illumined. Seers, Adepts, Wise
Men and Initiates into the Mysteries in all ages, but
have been withheld from the profane who could not
understand them without the special training that is
given to a Candidate for the Mysteries. As St.
Augustine plainly tells us: "What is now called the
Christian religion has existed among the ancients, and
was not absent from the beginning of the human race
until Christ came in the flesh, from which time true
'Retradions, St. AugustIne, 1, 13.
'II Corinthians, III, 6.
'The Message of AquvIa, Curtl, 186.
THE GARDEN IN EDEN 97
religion, which already existed, began to be called
Christian" $
The locality of the Garden of Eden baa been vainly
sought, not only by Christian theologians, but also by
religionists of all creeds, from the days of the early
Indian Aryans to the present day; for the story of
a Garden as the birthplace of hinnnity is by no means
confined to the Christian Scriptures. The Hindoo
legend of such an Elysium or Paradise is still more
striking. "In the sacred mountain Meru, which is
perpetually clothed in the golden rays of the Sun, and
whose lofty summit reaches into heaven, no sinful man
can exist It is guarded by a dreadful dragon. It is
adorned with many celestial plants and frees, and is
watered by four rivers which separate and flow to the
four chief directions." Among the Hindoos the Gar-
den is located near the Lake of the Dragon in the
plateau of Pamir, from which region go forth the four
rivers, Oxus, Indus, Ganges and the Silo. Among the
Greeks there were also four symbolic rivers, but these
were represented as being in the nether world or the
plane of physical embodiment, ntme'ly, the Phiegethon,
Cocytus, Styx and Acheron, whose symbology we have
described elsewhere.' Cuneiform inscriptions have
also been found which show conclusively that the
Babylontnc had this legend 15,000 years before the
Hebrews. Of this legend of a Garden we are told:
'Retracslo,u, St. Augustine, 1, 13.
'The Peráateuck Æxamine4 Colemo, lv, 153.
'The Key to the UNiverze Curtis, 149-150.
98 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
"It was born in that mysterious locality which no one
is able to locate, and which is the despair of both
Geographers and Christian Theologians." Therefore
let us try to grasp the main lesson which this mast
ancient and universal myth outpictures, and deduce
from the Bible narrative of it some logical sequence
and helpful application.
The statement that the Garden was placed "east-
ward in Eden" is significant. On a rotating globe there
can be no spot that is actually, only relatively, east
or west. A particular spot can be east or west only
from some point arbitrarily chosen according to a
conventional division of the Earth's surface. Even
today, to the people of the Far East, America lies
east of them, although it is called the Western World.
Placing the Garden "eastward in Eden" does not lo-
cate it in the least, and hence no such spot has eve,
been found. The Encyclopoedia Brilcnnicà tells us
that "research into primitive beliefs, guided by the
comparative method, leads to the view that the 'Gar-
den' was originally a celestial (super-physical) lo-
cality.. . the geographical details given in the Bible
are rather difficult to work into a consistent picture."
As a matter of fact, It was purposely intended that no
such spot was ever to be located and found literally
and physically, for the entire narrative is symbolic.
The supposed location varies with each racial story of
creation, Babylonian, Chaldean, Mayan, Incan, etc.
Th. SeaeS DOCftIJII, Blavatsky, 111,94.
'Vol. 'iii. 923.
TIJJ GARDEN IN EDEN 99
Therefore, we may well erekim with Origen, one of
the greatest authorities among the Fathers of the early
Christian Church, 'What man is found such an idiot
as to suppose that God planted trees in Paradise, in
Eden, like a husbaiy1mn?"
Since the Spiritual Man was created in the higher
super-physical worlds like "every plant of the field
before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field
before it grew," the Eden in which this Man was
placed symbolizes the super-physical, ethereal globe
which was condensing from radiant matter through the
stage of fire-mist into a physical or dense material
Earth. Eden also symbolizes the state of innocence
and spiritual consciousness which the Soul enjoyed
before it was embodied in matter. And man cannot
return to or re-enter this Eden until he has mastered
matter, learned to rule his Garden, and has so purified
and spiritualized the body through which he manifests
that it can vibrate to the high octave of Edenic con-
ditions. This is the goal of all his evolution through
matter.
The bare statement about the formation of man is
first elaborated as a mystical allegory; we are told
that first Eden is formed and then within it a Garden
Is fashioned, and in the Garden is placed "the man,"
or more correctly the "living SouL" What is more rca.
sonable than to understand that this Garden, made of
the dust of the Earth and planted and watered and
fitted in every way as a dwelling place for the "living
Myder of Adoi4' 176.
100 EVOLUTION AND Tith BIBLE
soul" who had come to incarnate on the Earth through
the Divine Breath, was this same body of man re-
ferred to in the previous verse, man's semi-astral or
etherealized body; that newly individualized portion or
"Garden"? It was a concrete, individualized portion
of the newly created globe of universal primordial sub-
stmce or fire-mist which, through cosmic involution,
bad taken on the form of the new planet, Earth, here
called Eden.
Since the east is the point where the Sun rises to
give light, life and warmth to the physical world, it is
used in the symbolical and allegorical writings in all
languages to symbolize Size point of origin of all things,
the super- or pre-physical, the Spirit. Therefore, when
man's body (the Garden) began to manifest physically.
on Earth out of the previously Invisible ethereal state,
since man's destiny Is to be the Light-Bearer and
Ruler of the globe1 it was quite correct to describe it
as appearing "eastward in Eden," just as the Sun ap-
pears in the east out of the mists of night to Illumine
and rule the day.
As we have already pointed out: In Genes we
find four mystical rivers represented as watering ibe
Garden of EdenPison, GThon, Hiddekel and Euphra-
tes. Taking Eden as a symbolic reference to the body
of man, these four rivers correspond to the four great
arteries proceeding from the heart, which carry the
purified blood to the four regions of the body indi-
cated. The flst river, Pisonwhose menfng is
U, 10-14.
ThE GARDEN IN EDEN 101
"joined together as one"which "compasseth the
whole land of Havilab," refers to the innominate ar-
tery which is formed by the right subclavian and the
right common carotid arteries "joined as one." The.
tneanhig of the word Havilah is "to bring forth; to
form, create; to supply strength," all of which vividly
portrays the offices of the brain and right arm and
head, which are supplied by this river of blood. The
river Gihonslgnifying "to run out; to burst forth
into thought"refera to the left common carotid
artery which supplies the left side of the brain and
head. The third river, Hiddekelmeaning "freely
flowing'refers to the left subclavian artery which
supplies the left arm. The fourth river, Euphrates
meaning "to increase; the creative power; the fruitful
river," etc.symbolizes the descending aorta, the
great river of blood that supplies the lungs and the
entire body below the diaphragm, including the crea-
tive centers. Thus the four rivers "water" the whole
Garden.'
With this basic conception in mind it is easy to
discern the meaning of the seemingly ridiculous inci-
dent of the animais being brought to Mam to be
named. For since the body of man is the result of the
evolution of all the lower kingdoms, every child that
is born inherits not only all the functions developed by
the nnhn2l kingdom, but also embodies the cream of
all the experiences passed through during all previous
stages of evolution. As the physical body or material
Ufl Kej to the U,Jverze, Curtbi 149-ise.
102 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
manifestation of the Earth was evolved long before
the body of man appeared upon it, so was the body
of man evolved long before his Soul descended and
appeared within it. And since his body was formed of
earth materials it necessarily has within it all the de-
velopment that the earth partides have attained.
Man's body, therefore, contains the synthesized es-
sence of all the instincts, teiidencies and potentialities
of all the lower kingdomsthe vegetable, the animi1,
the birds and every creeping thing. These are all
transmuted into faculties, functions, powers and in-
stinctive reactions of body and mind, as evidenced by
the stages through which the body passes before birth.
Not only do we inherit the potentialities of the lower
kingdoms, but we embody many of the actual atoms
that composed their bodies. This is evidenced by the
fact that man's body is formed of the dust of the
ground. And of what is that dust composed?
Through counðess ages all prehistoric forms of life had
to have their evolution and leave their remains be--
hind. Through still greater ages these remains had to
be consolidated in the sedimentary rocks, oil shale,
etc. Then as the sedimentary rocks disintegrated
into dust Id succeeding ages, they released the very
atoms that composed the bodies of all the prehistoric
forms of life, from the tiny trilobite to the hundred
foot Atlantoscuth, the giant Batuchetherium and the
Dinosaur. Even of man today it is said, "Dust thou
art and unto dust shalt thou return."
The dust also contains the remains of all the later
Tith GARDEN IN EDEN 103
forms of life that have ever manifested on Earth, many
of the same atoms of which are built into man's body.
For from the soil they are built into the plants, grains,
fruits and nnim2ls which man uses for food and so
become a part of his body, as they became a part of
the bodies of many previous forms of life. And since
every atom bears the radio-active imprint of every
dynamic form of life with which it has been intimately
associated, our bodies not only inherit the functions
and instincts of the lower kingdom, but actually pos-
sess the same atoms and radio-active ems'nntions."
In fact, we have within us every element that has en-
tered into the formation and evolution of the planet
and all that ever dwelt thereon. Yet out of this dust
of the ages, which contained all the imperfections of
the earlier stages and all the impurities of the earlier
forms, out of all this refuse the Lord God saw fit to
evolve a body which the Spiritual Man would have to
use as his instrument thru which to manifest on Earth
and which he must ultimately so purify and perfect as
to enable him to become the Lord of Creation and the
Ruler of the Garden.
This conception also gives the key to that other
Çmikr miracle of Noah gathering two of every kind
of beast, bird and reptile into the ark. For in one
sense the ark symbolizes the hum"n fetus floating in
the amniotic waters while it repeats or embodies all
the animals or the lower stages of evolution. If it
would have taken Adam nearly four years merely to
For further details, see The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 255.
104 EVOLUTION AND THF BIBLE
name the different species when already gathered and
brought to him, how long would it have t2ken Noah
to roam the Earth, after the rains bad begun and
many parts were already under water, and capture,
feed and transport to the ark, two of every kind of
bird, reptile and nnh'mi? It is evident that the sym-
bolic interpretation is the only possible one.
As we have previously explained: To interpret,
through the science of Logography, the story of the
nunng of the nnim1 means that man must take all
the materials, and itnImð forces to be found in his
body, recognize the good they can accomplish for him,
and gather up their true essence of life and build it
into his higher Soul-life. Herein lies one of the great-
est mysteries of life, for not only is man given domin-
ion over all these kingdoms, but he assumes his
dominion only as he «nimo," I.e., recognizes, controls
and gives them their true place in the Garden or up-
lifts them in his own organkm
This incident of nnrning the anhnitic gives marvelous
proof of the power and place of intuitiontuition
from withinor the ability of properly trained Seers
to receive revelations from superior Beings. For at the
time the Bible was compiled there were no written
records as to what took place in Eden thousands of
years before, nor was there any physical science or
even any scientific instruments for the investigation
of Nature. Hence there were no palæontÓloglcal or
anthropological data from which tò deduce a theory
N TA. M.sssgi of Aqwia, Cuxts, 2S6-7.
THE GARDEN IN EDEN 105
of evolution. Yet the general outline of the entire
scheme was so fully grasped and so clearly understood
that the whole process was marvelously and correctly
expressed in that one pregnant verse. (Genesis, ii,
19.)
AItho man is the crowning point of evolution, he is
still more or less affected by all the lower forces which
he embodies, and he must learn to master and control
them crc he can become the Lord of Creation. or
as long as be allows the inherent characteristics of the
minerals and i'lemical activities of the Earth, the gases
of the air, the herbs of the field; the traits, pOwei
and instincts of the beasts, the birds and the creeping
things, to pway him, he is still the slave of physical
conditions.) Because of this there Is a certain amount
of truth in the theories of determinism and behavior-
But if even one man ever surmounted the handi-
caps his heredity and environment placed upon him,
be has proved that determinism Is not a compelling
law; that while heredity and environment have a
noticeable influence on his career, they are, neverthe-
less, only minor factors. The major and essential fac-
tor is the degree of advancement of the incarnating
Soul; for its degree of unfoldment will minUest, no
matter what the heredity and environment.
The fact that poor and uneducated boys of obscure
parents overcome all obstacles of heredity and environ-
ment and rise to be presidents of banks, railroads,
steel trusts, etc., while their brothers and sisters, born
106 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
under exactly the same conditions, do not rise out of
their environmental influences, plainly shows that it
is the inherent quality of Soul that is tbe determining
factor and not heredity and environmdt. Abribtm
Lincolnwas born with the heredity and in an environ-
ment of a "rail splitter," and ninety-nine out of one
hundred of the others in that environment remained
"rail splitters" because they were not advanced. Souls.
But Lincoln was an advanced Soul and he demonstrated
his greatness of Soul by overcoming all handicaps and
expressing the degree of his spiritual advance in spite
of all deterministic factors.
Once we recognize that we are more than mere 1w-
man animals reacting to the conditions in our environ-
ment and to our inbred nnmt1 instincts; that we have
within us all the powers and potencies of the "living
Soul," the Spiritual Man, with which to rule our Gar-
den, we need no longer be subject to the rule of the
lower vibrations, but are capable of ruling over them
in love and wisdom.
ç. The Soul comes down from the higher worlds pure
and perfect and is given its Garden in which to dwell.
God made this Garden perfect and filled it with all
needful trees and fruits, but through many incarna-
tions man has only too often scattered the seeds of
weeds in his Garden, many of which proved poisonous.
He also planted many trees of whose bitter fruit be
must eat until he learns that they should have no place
in his Garden. The Lord God instructed man to tend
and cultivate his Garden, perfect its fruits and rule
TH GARDEN IN EDEN 107
over all its inhabitants and manifestations, and man
must reincarnate again and again until he has accom-
plished his miqaon and taken his place as the Lord
of Creation.
"Once this new idea is recognized by the mind, ac-
cording to the laws of mind there is a modification of
the mind In conformity with the Idea. And if the idea
is held continually or is recurred to frequently and
positively, it grows and grows and reacts upon the
body with greater and greater power until finally the
body is modified in conformity with the new idea, just
as was the mind. This is true of the birth of every
new conception in proportion to the power we give it.
. . We must, therefore, seriously face ourselves and
cease our opposition to the manifestation of the Divine
in us; must learn what our Real Self is and what
influences come from It and what from the lower per-
sonal self. . . . It is this struggle for the inanifesta-
tion of the Image projected from the consciousness of
God when we were sent forth on our cycle of evolu-
tion, that is destined to unfold the perfect pattern and
fill a certain place in the Grand Plan." Once this is
realized then will all these subjects of ours be brought
to our attention by the Lord (Law), as they are rep-
resented as being brought to Adam, to be recognized
and named, and to serve us and worship at our feet
as Lord of the Garden.
The body, then, is the Gardyn given each incarnated
Soul to cultivate and rule. It is filled with all kinds of
D The Message of Aquaria, Cuzti, 421-2, 368.
108 EVOLUTION AND Tffi BIBLE
plants (vegetative functions) and trees (nerve trunks
and their forces, also fruits of the Spirit), "both pleas-
ant to the sight and good for food," which the "living
Soul" must tend, cultivate and ultiraately bring to
perfection. It is also swarming with "every fowl of
the air (thoughts and ideas) and every beast of the
field" (appetites, passions and desires) which the Lord
(Law) brings to the attention of "the man" to be
recognized as being within and a part of hiniself, and
to be named, controlied and trained to follow the Law
crc "the Man" can re-enter and ultimately become the
ruler of Eden, as the Lord of Creation.
flAPTER X
TliF TREES IN Tli GARDEN
"Out of the ground made the Lord God to grow evesy tree
that is ptn to the sight, and good for food; the Tree of
Life iso In the midst of the garden, and the Tree of Knowl-
edge of good and evil." Genesis, il, 9.
"What roan Is -found such an Idiot as to euppe that God
planted trees In Paradise, In Eden, like a hndmln?"
Mystery f Ad.ai St. AugustIne, 176.
In the previous chapters we have seen that Eden
embraced far more than merely a Garden, for Eden
was the entire newly created ethereal globe1 in which
all things were still in the perfection of their astral
patterns"every plant of the field before it was in the
earth, and every herb of the field before it grew"as
yet unmodified, limited or distorted by embodiment in
the densest state of physical matter. The tiny Garden
was man's etherealized and as yet pure body in which
the Real or androgynous Man dwelt before the sexes
separated and be became truly terrene. Piih Soul in-
carnating on this planet has given to It, as the ma-
terials for its dwelling place, just such a Garden or
as much of the physical substance of the planet as is
necessary for itð formation and maintentnce. Since
man is the crowning creation or the ultimate of evo-
1For detaib iee The Vo&e of Iris, Curtlse, 204.
109
110 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
lution on this globe, he must ultimately become its
ruler.
According to one authority,' the Hebrew word
translated "Garden" comes from a root-word which
means enveloped as with a mantle. his root-meaning
is found not only in the Hebjew, but in the Sanskrit
and Egyptian. It has no reference at all to a physical
place or garden, but refers to the Spiritual Man "en-
veloped" in astral or semi-physical matter.
The consciousness of the hunizin animal in which
the Soul is now enveloped responds more readily to
the vibrations from its nim2l nature and to the vi-
brations from the physical world, which come throng-
ing into it through the avenues of its five senses, and
these vibrations naturally tend to awaken desires for
the things from which they come. The enveloping of
the Soul in a crude material body greatly lessens its
response to spiritual vibrations and it begins to listen
more to the call of the flesh than to the inner voice of
the Lord God which speaks within its Garden. In
other worth, it begins to be ruled by the outer vibra-
tions instead of by the vibrations from the Real or
Spiritual Man. Thus do the bodily senses seduce man
to transgress the Law, the results of which eventuate
In his expulsion from the Garden.
In the light of this interpretation we see that the
Tree of Life in the midst of the Garden is the spinal
cord whose sap is referred to later $ as the River of
'Brown Landone.
'Rsvei$iwn zxiL
THE TREES IN THE GARDEN 111
Life. At the present stage of evolution only the
physiological, and the beginnings of the psychological,
functions of this marvelous "tree" are developed in
the average man. But it contains mystical and spirit-
ual centers4 which are more or less dormant as yet,
like the tightly rolled buds of a rose. Yet this mys-
terious Tree can bear good fruit only when it has
reached a mature stage of evolution. Its fruit can
ripen normally only in the light of the Spiritual Sun
and not in the reflected light of the astral world where
there are so many deceptive lights and fearsome shad-
ows: so many misleading and evil forces ever ready
to blight the fruit in the bud or cause perverted and
abnormal development. Through the ultimate devel-
opment of this Tree and its fruit, in some far-distant
stage of evolution, the body of man will acquire much
higher functions and powers, and as a result it will
become so spiritualized and responsive to the radio-
activity of the indwelling Spiritual Man that he will
evolve above the present state of the human kingdom
into the super-hurnn kingdom by the acquisition and
utilization of those spiritual powers, just as he has
evolved out of the nmi1 kingdom into the human or
super-inmid kingdom, by the acquisition and utiliza-
tion of the added powers of a "living soul."
What will eventually result when this mystical Tree
of Immortal Life, mentioned in the first chapters of
the Bible, is partakà of, is repeatedly set forth in the
Connected with the seven nerve plexuses.eacral, pros*atk, solar,
cardiac, laryngeal, pbazyngeal and cavernoen.
112 EVOLUTION AND TUE BIBLE
Bible from Genesis to Revelation. In Genesis we are
told of the Tree of Life in the midst of the garden be-
fore the sexes were separated, while in Revelation the
picture of the perfected atbinment of the separated
sexes is represented as the Tree of Ife "on either side
of the river [which] yielded her fruit every month;
and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the
nations." In fact all that transpires between the first
chapters and the last may be interpreted as a grand
allegory of the Path of Attainment which the Soul
has to tread from the time of its firstincarnation in a
hi-h1 body until it completes its Cycle of
Nec'sity and reaches at-one-ment with the Father
in the Holy City of the New Jerusalem in the super-
physical worlds. Then the River of Life shall flow.
out of the throne of God, that is, it shall no longer be
a current of physical life-force, but of spiritual life-
force flowing from the Spiritual Man into all his
bolies.
With this bc conception in mind we can see how
historic personages, places and events have been woven
into the storyoften quite out of their actual setting
to Illustrate the truths intended. The many unjusti-
fied wars, seizures of property and expulsions of whole
nations from their homelnnds; the cruelties and in-
justices apparently not only sanctioned, but com-
manded by Jehovah,Çwere but intended to Illustrate
the conquering, subjugating or expelling of the lower
traits, passions and desires of the tnhnLman that
Revelatio*, xxii, 1-2.
T.0 TREES ]N TkiF GARDEN 113
the Lord God might reign. When this is realized,
much of the sting is taken out of many otherwise
unanswerable modern historical critichms.
If all such events are fiken literally we cannot blame
sincere scholars, whose sense of justice and himuinity
is outraged by the apparent sanction of such thingc, for
rr1siiniing: "Yaliweh was a strange god, a god of
battles, a god of torture, a god .unwilhing to forgive
his erring creatures without anblatÌu of blood. He
connived with his favorites at trickery, thieving, and
murder. He pursued those he dkliked with relentless
hatred. He avowed himself a just god and dispensed
injustice. He preached love and stirred up hatred."
Mi of which is undi'ntahle in the face of a literal
interpretation. This, writer simply does iot understand
that the Bible must be spiritually discerned and not
literally Interpreted. For all the terrible tMngq he
complains of become entirely justifiable as an allegory
of the struggles of the Soul to mmifest the ImIlge of
God amidst the warring instincts of the flesh.
However, since this volume is not the place for an
exposition of this theni, we merely mention it in
pcing.*
But there is another tree in the midst of the Garden,
which grows from the roots of the Tree of Life. The
fruit of this second tree, the orthodox translation tells
us, man was warned not to eat lest he die. This was
TA. Penis, October, 1927, 533-4.
* For further details see 'The Curtis Boc&s," especIally Th. Me,-
age .1 Aquaria, The Fo4c. oJ isis, etc.
114 EVOLUTION AND Tli BIBLE
the Tree of Knowledge. Knowledge of what? Since
man already possessed the knowledge of the spiritual
worlds, this new knowledge against which he was
warned must have been knowledge concerning the new
world into which he was destined tdescend, the world
of materiality ruled by the Law of Duality, the world
in which would be found all the "pairs of opposites,"
good and evil, etc. And since the Tree of Immortal
Life represents the immortal Ray of the Divine Monad,
it can be approached in consciousness only by eating
of the Tree of Knowledge by which alone intelligence
and discriminsition can be developed, even though this
involves partaking of the bitter fruit of personal ex-
periencepain, suffering and disappointment.
Man's spiritual parents warned him that as he par-
took of the fruit of this tree or gained a knowledge of
materiality he would become so enmeshed in matter
and the limitations it would impose on the Spirit that
be would surely die to the consciousness of the spirit-
ual world, just as our consciousness today dies or
ceases to react to the spiritual world as we are born
into the physical world. For ere the Soul can reincar-
nate on Earth it must drink of the Cup of Lethethç
Cup of Forgetfulnessand forget its heavenly home as
it once more takes up its iinfinWied tasks, learns its new
lessons and unfolds new powers in the physical world.
But the Great Initiator or Serpent of Wisdom told
man that be would not surely or completely die to the
higher knowledge, but that ultimately his spiritual eyes
would be opened to know both the spiritual and the
THE TREES IN Tith GARDEN 115
material worlds and thus become "as gods," knowing
both extremes. For he must know both the spiritual
and the material, the unlimited and the limited, the
good and the limitation of good or the relatively evil,
ere he can become the Lord of Creation and properly
tend and rule his Garden.
One aspect of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil, is the lower human mind of th personality or
the intellect. Its product or fruit is tbmposed of the
vibrations from the outer physical world coming into
it thu the five physical senses and producing or giv-
ing rise to or recogoizing and responding to the
sensations, appetites and desires of the animal body,
and often engendering, in the mòre advanced, self-
aggrandizement and pride of intellect To be ruled by
these vibrations, instead of by the vibrations from the
Real or Spiritual Man, brings about transgressions of
the Law which eventuate in death. For "the man"
Adam is "born an image of clay, into which the Lord
God' breathes the breath of life, but not of intellect
and discrimination, which are developed only after he
had tasted of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge; in
other words, when he has acquired the first develop-
nient of Mind, whose terrestrial aspect is of the earth
earthy, although its highest faculties connect it with
Spirit and the Divine Soul." While the earliest type
of man who had qnly just become self-conscious could
not become intellctuaUy discriminating until after he
had eaten of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge thru
'The Secret Doct,Me, .Bkvatsky, 11, 185.
116 EVOLUTION AND 11th BIBLE
experience in the conditions of material embodiment,
he should have done so under the guidance of the
incarnating Soul and not thru the guidance of the
animð desires.
According to the Hebrew scholar already quoted $
the Hebrew word translated "tree" (El:) really means
growth, growing or growth toward attaJnment. The
fruit of this growth is represented in the Bible story as
a knowledge of good and evil. But the word trans-
lated "knowledge" (Daath) also means knowing. The
word for "good" (Tob) also means cheer and joy;
while the word translated "evil" is the Egyptian root
Ra, meaning the "life-giver." Therefore the real
neaning of the sentence is "growth in knowledge of
the life-giver or the life-giving power." What is this
life-giving or creative power of which Adam and Eve
were told not to eat lest they die?
As we have already explained: According to the
same symbology this Tree which is in the midst of
the Garden is the spinal cord, the sap of which is the
kundalinl-for (serpent-force), a dynamic, creative
power functioning through the spinal cord, its lower
aspect of creativeness being expressed through the
sex organs and its higher aspect ultimately functioning
through the pineal gland. The fruit of this tree is the
spiritual power gained as a result of the opening of
that which is known as the Third Eye. As man,
through experience, gains Wisdom he uses this mystic
power gradually to bring about its higher physical
Tb. For.fold Process of God Creation, LaaIo, 1v 3.
THE TREES IN TkL GARDEN 117
innifestations, as well as the psychic and spiritual.'
When normally awakened, as a result of spiritual
growth, "it slowly ascends the spinal cord through the
central cnti until it reaches and stimulates into ac-
tivity the pineal gland, the conscious functioning of
which is called the opening of the Eye of Wisdom...
through which the disciple is able tosee the 'glory of
the Lord' surrounding him. This is Ìphysical effect
which accompanies spiritual illnniimtion."
Since the unfolðm'nt of this spiritual bud and the
conscious use and control of this spiritually creative
power is one of the ultimate atbLin,nents of that higher
evolution which will enable man to become Super-man,
at their present stage of evolution it reniRns dormant
in the masses of mnkbid.
Man cannot become Super-man until he has reached
an advanced stage of spiritual development and the
buds of his seven sacred centers have begun to unfold
normally and enable him to contact and use the higher
octaves of spiritual force so necessary to evolve his
body to the point where he can enter the super-hmn'n
kingdom, his ultimate destiny. But before he can
reach this point man must learn to rule the 2nimi1
desires and Instincts and unfold the buds of his higher
spiritual, as well as intellectual powers. For aitho one
may be a walking encyclopedia of facts and other
men's ideas he calinot be considered truly intellectual
until be has used his intellect to lead him upward to
the next higher realm, that of spiritual consciousness
'The Voic. of 1,1,, Curtlss, 344416.
118 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
and realization of the Divine, both in the cosmos and
within himself.
Because of the great and terrible dangers which
could result from the premature development or mis-
use of the powers of these mystic centers, primitive
man was warned by his Divjne Instructors not to at..
tempt to arouse or misuse the forces of these centers
lest he surely die. For the consciousness of the un-
developed and spiritually unawakenedhence far more
mim1 than spiritualearly Races naturally responded
more strongly to the denser currents of force from the
outer world than to the finer currents from the spirit-
ual world. In gratifying their inmzil appetites they
stimulated the lower creative centers far more than an
ordinary zmimi1 would during normal procreation; for
the stnirrnil is guided and controlled by. instinct,2' while
man has free-will and is restrained from over-self..
indulgence only by the influence of the indwelling
Spiritual Man whose presence takes the place of in-
stinct as the governing power. In other words, the
early animal-man failed to discriminate in the use of
his newly acquired self-consciousness and his physical
senses. He therefore responded to the densest and
most material aspects of the desires in which he found
himself enveloped. These desires tempted him from
following the Lord (Law), that is, the law that when
instinct is superseded by self-consciousness all the
creative powers must be guided and controlled by the
higher consciousness of the Spiritual or Higher Self,
2'Vor details see The Voice of isis, Cuztiss, 182.
THE TREES IN rku GARDEN 119
instead of by the lower sense-consciousness of the ani-
mal in which the Higher Self is incarnated.
Since the humm personalitythe body plus as much
of the Divine Consciousness as has been able to find
even reflected if not direct expressioncontains the
1)ivine Spark, man inherits all the attributes and
powers, at least potentially, of God his Father, one of
the chief of which is the power to create at will, as
well as to procreate as do the mimals. \It should be
clearly understood that whenever used t?e sex forces
are always creative."
- As we have already shown, Tall forms of creation take
place in the subjective worIdspiritual, mental or
astraleven to the creation of a sonata, a play, a
painting, a house or an automobile, and only later is
the invisible creation or mental and astral pattern ma-
terialized or evolved on Earth thru the brain and hands
of man, or in the case of Nature guided by the Crea-
tive Hierarchies working thru the elementals and
nature sprites. But since the Divine Ideation creates
only in harmony, beauty and perfection, it is the re-
bellious human personality, refusing to obey its Divine
Guidance and to work in harmony with the Divine
Law, and misusing its creative powers and the materi-
als given it with which to evolve a perfect organisn1
and environment for the use of its Divine Conscious-
ness, that has created every form of inharmony, sin,
sickness and disease, war, famine, pestilence and other
disasters from which both the planet and man suffer.
'tSee The Yok. of isis, Curtiss, 21849.
120 EVOLUTION AND m. BIBLE
In fact, it is the sum total of these inharmonious worlds
which constitutes what is known as hell and its devils.'
No wonder, then, in the Dark Ages when supersti-
tion flourished on ignorance of Nature's laws, that hell
and the devils (inharmonies) in man, which created
it and kept it alivewas believed to be an eternal
pimisliment for man! Yet already huminty is rap-
idly outgrowing that belief because the Divine Light
of our Spiritual Consciousness is bining more and
more deeply into the hells we have created, in order
to Illumine them and show us what they really are,
and also to help us redeem them thru the radio-active
power of the Divine Light.
Thus is good ultimately brought out of evil; not
because "all is good" and iliere is good in evil, but
because the Divine Law strives to bring the best pos-
sible results out of our misbib's and evil creations.21
This is why all Souls who have evolved to the state
where they must begin this redemptive process, either
consciously or unconsciously, must descend into the
hells of their creation, either through sit-kn.cs, great
sorrow, disaster or suffering of some kind, that through
the strength and power of the Christ-force within, with
which they meet these conditions and tests, they may
conquer and prove their ability to take the still higher
steps on the Path of Attainment.) 'If I -cnd up into
heaven, thou art there: if I nie my bed in hell;
21See "'The Doctrine of Hell Fire," The Yoke of Ith, Curtha, 75.
21"R,tmn hhtory has been guided more than we know; even
national blunders have In the long run been overruled for good."
Sir Oliver Lodge, New York 2hau, March 25, 1928, 13.
TilE TREES IN TILE GARDEN 121
behold, thou art there.. . . Even there shall thy hand
lead me, and thy right band shall hold me. .. . Yea,
the darkness hideth not from thee . . . the darknes
and the light are both alike to thee." By man came
sin and death into the world and by man also must
come the redemption. Only thus can hell be redeemed
and its forces transmuted, for the individual and for
the world. So clearly does Nature teach this lesson of
redemption and the bringing of good out of evil that
once it is pointed out to him,'no thinithig person can
believe in eternal punishment or the supremacy of evil.
For generations theo1ogns have reasoned from the
false premise that because God is omnipotent, there-
fore He must have created all thingc. As a matter
of fact, aitho God is omnipotent, He did not create
all things. But since we cannot conceive of God
creating inharmony, evil, sin, disease and death, it is
not necrsary to icsassinite our reason and disregard
the evidence of all our senses and our experience in
life by denying their existence, although this is an
unwarranted conclusion to which certain mental
science cults jump. All we need to do is to recognize
that there are two Creators, a Greater and a lesser,
God and His offspring, Man, who was created in His
image and after His likeness, and who contains all
His God-powers--including that of creating at will
according to the thought heldand who, altho now
but an apprentice, is destined some day to create even
as his Father.
Therefore it was, not by the legitimate use of his
122 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
procreative power, but by the prostitution and per-
version of all his creative powersboth mind and
body and the misuse of the materials given him to
fashion into a Garden of peace, purity and harmony
that man created such inharmony and impurity
that he not only brought evil, sin, sickness and death
upon himself, but also polluted the whole aura of
Eden and cursed the very ground on which he walks.
It should be noted that the ground was not cursed
by Godfor we cannot imagine a God of Love and
Justice, or any Divine Being cursing anythingbut
was cursed by the inharmonious, impure and perverted
creations engendered, and still being engendered, by
man himself. Even today virulent diseases arise
spontaneously (endemically) in regions where they
never occurred before and to which no source of in-
fection can be traced, because the germs in the polluted
astral world are precipitated into physical expression,
by the Law of Manifestation already explained.
Throughout the past long cydes of evolution the
hosts of evil, fashioned by man's thoughts and vital-
ized by his creative forces, have battled with the hosts
of good, and this conflict has found its physical cx.
pression through many great wars, great epidemics,.
great catastrophes and cataclysms. But since all these
results of man's inharmonious creation have not fully
taught him his lesson, the accumulated evil still left
unredeemed by his sacrifice and suffering is yet to be
faced and overcome in the great Battle of Armageddon
now being fought in the mental and astral worlds with
thoughts and creative forces as weapons. And the
THE TREES IN TILEJGARDEN 123
results of this struggle between the ignorance, intoler-
ance, hatred and impurity of iminirind and his con-
structive and Godlike thoughts and creations, due to
his response to the Divine Consciousness through
thoughts of love, devotion, aspiration and unselfishness,
must be precipitated upon the physical plane from
which they arose and upon which they must find their
final adjustment."
Thank God that all man's thoughts and creations
have not been evil! that one constructive, positive
thought of good and helpfulness can neutralize and
redeem many evil and destructive thoughts; that
thousands upon thousands have sent out thoughts
and prayers and have created plans for the betterment
of mankind, so that the situation is far from being as
hopeless as it looks; in fact, is distinctly encouraging.
For every good thought is inspired by the divine side
of man's consciousness, hence contains a higher crea-
tive potency and power, also is more enduring, altho
finer and more subtle and hence more difficult of
manifestation in dense Earth conditions. Moreover,
every constructive and helpful thought, even if seem-
ingly lost or smothered out by the hosts of evil, is
gathered up, preserved and used by the warrior Angels
as ammunition in the Battle of Armageddon.
As wç have said elsewhere: The btnWiment of
Adam and Eve from Eden was due to the fact that
they could not face the Fhmbig Sword of Purity,
which turned every way and barred them from obtain-
lug the Fruit of th Tree of Life. This b'nicbment
"See Co,.iisg World Cbassges, Curtbs, Chapter vi.
124 EVOLUTION AND TLL BIBLE
meant that man could no longer dwell in the ethereal-
ized body (Garden) with his spiritual faculties freely
functioning and able to talk face to face with God.'
This was not an instantaneous punishment, but took
place thni the gradual sepai$ion of man's conscious-
ness from that of the Higher Self, owing to man's
greater materizilltion and his greater response to the
sensations from the outer world. This gradual disuse
of the function led to the atrophy of the organ of
direct spiritual cognition (the pineal gland), whose
reawakening and renewed functioning man must re-
gain by conscious effort thru spiritual aspiration,
prayer and endeavoring to let his life be governed by -
Intuition and the Divine Law. Therefore, the true
Soul or Real Self cannot fully dwell in the body of
man as be is today, but can only project a Ray of
Itself and endeavor to guide the hunl2n personality
into the Path of Atbnment and inspire him to seek
the final At-one-ment.
While it was the destiny of both the globe and ilie
incarnating Soul to manifest in the dense material con-
ditions of our Earth, the vehitie or body built up of
this physical material should have been kept so pure
and sensitive that the Divine Self could have continued
to dwell therein, instead of merely overshadowing it
and incarnating only a Ray as at present Only when
the body is so purified that it can truly incarnate the
Soul-consciousness, can we say with Jesus, "I and my
Father are one."
'The Voice oJ Isic, Curdis, 246-7.
126 EVOLUTION AND Tli BIBLE
many misconceptions which, in our earlier stages of
unfoldment, we thought were true spiritual tearhngs;
yet true spiritual teachings are never a hampering
skin, but bring inner lllnmintion and expansion of
consciousness. Therefore, by transcending the limi-
tations of less mature conceptions, and by overcoming,
transmuting or mastering the lower forces and tempta-
tions of "the world, the flesh and the devil," the
Initiate is said to have cast off his outer hampering
conditions as the serpent does his skin and to be "born
ngin." In the Bible Moses is made to descend from
the tribe of Levi, a serpent tribe. Gautaina Buddha
descended from a race of Nagas or Serpent Kings who
ruled Magadha, and Hermes is represented by a sne
symbol as Tet.
The common misconception of the serpent symbol
has created such a consciousness of evil that it is well
to elaborate somewhat on Its derivation and true mean-
ing, according to Hebrew scholars who have special-
ized on the derivation of the word used.
"First, the word translated serpent is not the He-
brew word Renter, which means creeping thiqg5 and
reptiles. Second, at the time Moses wrote, the ser-
pent was not the symbol of evil among any people
In the world. The Eindoos regarded it as a symbol
of Life and reproductivity. In Greece it was the Pro-
tecting Genius of the physician and healing. Among
the Africans it was a symbol of protecting good; and
For details see 'The Symbol of the Serpent," lb Voice of isis,
Curths, 241-55.
THIS SERPENT POWER 127
in many other lands it was the symbol of life and
divine power of healing. Third, among the Hebrews
themselves, the serpent represented God-power from
the time of Moses up to the time of Hezekiah. When
Moses was still in Egypt he was comm2nded by the
Lord God to cast his rod upon the ground; and when
he did so, it became a serpent (Exodus, iv, 5.) This
was a proof to Moses 'that God was with him.' When
Moses wished togo before Pharaoh endowed with the
power of God, be was conimtnded by the Lord God
to carry with him the rod which could be turned into
a serpent."
It was using the word serpent in this sense of heal-
Ing through a. God-power that Moses was told to make
k fiery serpent of brass and set it upon a pole or tree,
by the beholding of which those who had been bitten
by vipers would be healed. As a matter of fact, the
Hebrew word (Nachash) translated in this one in-
stance as serpent is the same word that is translated
many times afterward as "brass." Seemingly, this
translation of Nachash for serpent is an unbelievably
careless or ignorant interpretation, for it is the only
place in the Bible where it is translated as serpent.
Only when the universal symbology of the serpent is
understood is the translation seen to convey the idea
intended, i2., Divine Wisdom.
Only since the Dark Ages, when the function of sex
was condemned as evil by superficial students, has it
been taught that the serpent symbolized the sex func-
'Tb. Fr.Jold Places: oJ God CreoiIos, Laozie, iv, 4.
128 EVOLUTION AND TIlE BIBLE
tions. And it is still commonly so regarded today by
the nndiscriininating. But there is no warrant in the
story of the Garden of Eden for any such assumption,
for mere assumption it surely is.
According to the Bible stry the sex function can-
not be regarded as evil. It was built into man's body
by the Creator himself. To think of the creative force
as evil is to belittle the wisdom and goodness of God,
who gave It to man, and attribute evil to Thm "If
the so-called 'fall' occurred as a result of an act never
Intended by God or Nature and was a sinhow about
the nninlßth? Did they also sin in using their pro-
creative powers?" Manifestly such an idea is ab-
surd. The misconception arises only through the
speculations and misunderstandings of the philosophi-
cally unenlightened. For when God had created all
thh1g, "God saw every thing that he had made, and,
behold, It was very good." Hence, God made no
mistake in providing man with that function, as many
theological "wise men" think He did. Not only did
God not mAke any mistake in providing the body with
the sex function, but He picked out that function for
particular commendation and blessed it and told man
to use it normally for its proper use. "Be fruitful, -
and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it."
"Shall mortal man be more just than God? Shall
a man be more pure than hi Maker?" "What
'The Swd Dodrise, Birvitiky, II, S40.
G.i.esis 1, 31.
'GeeesL,, 1,2*.
'Job, Ii, 17.
THE SERPENT POWER 129
God hath cleansed, that call not thou common."
Aswehavealreadysaid: IfthRaceistobe
propagated in vileness, every child that is born must
bear the burden of a thought of something vile and
impure connected with its birth. It is no wonder that
children so conceived have little love or respect for
their unwilling parents... . For this reason the sal-
vation of the Race depends upon the pure in heart
conceiving children in love and purity, for if the per-
petuation of the Race is left to the impure and igno-
rant, conditions must grow worse," for this is one of
the chief reasons for the large proportion of the unfit,
from morons and the feeble-minded to the congeni-
tally Çn2ne.
Since the use of this function is the only method by
which an immortal Soul or Spiritual Being can find in-
carnation on Earth, and since it was the only function
man was specifically told to use, and whose use was
specifically blessed, it certainly is not evil in itself, nor
was its use prohibited. All such ideas have arisen
from misconceptions of it due to a materialistic and
unenlightened medieval interpretation of the allegory.
As we have already explained: This belief has
given rise to doctrines which teach man to despise and
try to kill out this greatest of gifts. But as long as
this serpent of sex is accursed and degraded by man's
thought, it is doomed to crawl upon the ground and
bring forth its progeny of vipers in darkness and filth,
and woman is doomed to conceive and bring forth in
4as, x, is.
"75* Vow. .1 Ia, Curthi, 225.6.
130 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
pain and suffering instead of Purity and Joy. Woman
has suffered the most, but by that suffering she should
have developed her spiritual intuition.'1
The sex-force is considered impure only because the
spiritually blind have decreed that it shall be consid-
ered impure. They assume that they are wiser and
holier than He who created them, He who breathed
into them the Living Fire of creative force. Being
wiser than the gods, they have decreed that the normal
expression of the sex-function (even within the mar-
ried relation) Shall be considered vile and that it shall
be suppressed. The result is already apparent."
What then is the true meaning of the word trans-
lated "serpent"? And what the meaning of the alle-
gory as a whole? The Hebrew word used is Nachash,
whose root meaning is "divine experience." The ser-
pent is represented as "beguiling" Eve. The word
translated as "beguiled" is Nasha, whose root mean-
ing is "to lift up." "Nasha, the form used in the verse
under discussion, is translated as lifted up in the text
of the Standani Protestant Concordance. .. . It is
never ntis-translated beguiled in any other place In the
Bible."' Therefore, what Eve really said was that,
because she followed what Divine Wisdom (serpent)
told her, a "divine experien" had lifted her up, and
she naturally wished Adam to share it with her. What
was this divine experience? it was certainly not the
'1y Vow. ol isis, Curtis, 249-50.
"Tho Poiw-Jod hoceu of God Creatio,i,. lrvinIle, lv, 4.
THE SERPENT POWER 131
use OJ She sex function, for it was not until far later,
after they had left Eden (iv, i), that "Adam knew
Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain."
This explanation of the symbology of Eve and the
serpent confirms what we said in Chapter VIII as to
the role woman was meant to play. Being the more
intuitive of the twain who are one, she has the gift of
being able to see and understand the mystical truths
and ideals of the serpent (Divine Wisdom) necessary
for both. And she is not fulfilling her mission unless
she presents them for man to share.
The experience of so-called temptation is correctly
described as being due to a serpent because it referred
to the serpentine character of that mysterious force
for which we have no term in English, but which in
the Sanskrit is called the bundalini-force. The devel-
opment and use of this force in the unfolding of the
psychic centers of the body is as highly technical a
science as is the use of electricity, the X-rays, or
radium, and about which little of its practical func-
tioning is known in the Western world, but concerning
which many ponderous volumes have been written?'
And it is even more dangerous if attempted without the
personal training and oversight of one whoas in the
other sciences mentioned aboveis thoroughly versed
in its laws and is an adept in its use.jWe can, there-
fore, refer to it here only in general'outline, just suf-
For pictures of the centeis and diagrams of the current path-
ways ses The Serpent Pgwer, Avalon, Madras; Funda.aewtaI 111*-
dpies ol Operative Occrlsisnu, Han; The E,sd,ded Serpeist, Howey,
etc.
132 EVOLUTION AND TIth BIBLE
ficlent to explain the ni.itning of the tree, the serpent
and the temptation. 'Basically it is "an electro-
spiritual force, a creative power which, when aroused
intoaction,canaseasilykillasitcancreate."4 Just
so with the creative po*er of sex. It can be used
normally both to provide bodies for the Souls who are
seeking incarnation on Earth, and also as an expres-
sion of affection and love which shall unite the twain
as one with that Divine Love which is their Source.
But if the sex functions are concentrated upon and
artificially stimulated and worshipped from babyhood
for the purpose of ministering merely to an abnormally
stimulated lust, then it brings foith only the weeds
of the Gardenphysical degeneration and moral deg-
radation, sin, loathsome diseases and premature death.
Since brass is an alloy composed of two metals,
copper (belonging to Venus, Divine Love) and zinc
(connected with the Earth), its composition symbol-
Izes that for the proper manifestation of the serpent
on Earth there must be an alloy or combination of its
two elements, the heavenly and the earthly; Divine
Wisdom and the physical kundalini-force lifted up n
the pole of the spinal cord, or the sap of the "tree."
In the average man the serpent-power normally
passes around and up the spinal cordthe "tree" in
the midst of the Garden (body)reflexly and with-
out man's being aware of it, in a spiral or serpentine
nnner. Its positive and negative currents are called
"The Voice ol the Sikuce, Blavataky, note to page?.
POT details see Mother Ii,dia, Mayo.
134 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
stimulates into a higher octave of activity the seven
sacred centers or cbakras along the spine whose higher
functioning gives to man the sidis or super-physical
psychic powers. These are not spiritual powers in
themselves, for their devejopment merely enables man
to use his five senses in a higher octave of vibration
or function consciously in that semi-physical world
which is just above the physical world But when
this current of spiritual fire reaches the b'rain it stim-
ulates those higher centers whose unfoldment brings to
man that "divine experience" or spiritual illumination
promised to Eve by the serpent, by means of which
man should become "as gods, knowing good and evil"
and whose proper use will ultimately enable man to
face the Thming Sword and re-enter Eden from which
the Law of Good (Lord God) drove him when he had
ignorantly aroused and perverted the serpent-power.
As the serpent-force spreads out at the base of the
brain and then pushes upward to the top of the head
it forms a small cross called the "cross of suffering."
For it is upo this cross that the body is crucified as
the atoms of the flesh are subjected to the transmuting
and spiritustll'ing effects of this spiritual fire. It is
this mystic cross which forms the hilt of the Sword of
the Spirit and is symbolized by the cross on the hilt
of the swords of the Knights of the Holy Grail whose
real, mystic quest was none other than the attainment
of this same "divine experience" of spiritual illmnin,i-
tion.
See Realtus oJ the Liviug Dead, Curtiss, 201-4.
THE SERPENT POWER 135
When aroused artificially and without proper prepa-
ration or out of due season, or if improperly controlled
and perverted, the serpent-power stimulates only the
lower aspects of thçenters and thus tempts man to
use his newly discovered creative powers of mind and
body for self-gratification and the self-indulgence of
the meely animal nature, so that sex impulses are
often mistaken for desires of the Real Self. This
brings about an entirely different kind of crucifixion:
not 'the voluntary crucifixion of spiritualization and
transmutation which enables man to enter the next
higher kingdom of Super-man, but the involuntary
crucifixion of the fleshthrough disease and degenera-
tionwhich sinks man below the level of the nhn1
kingdom beneath him.
EAFER XII
THE SERPENT POWER (Concluded)
"Thou shalt surely die Is usually considered a penalty for
of Eden, but In reality even this death rlfnr,
was but the working of the Immutable Law of Divins Love;
for Immortality under conditions of Impurity, sickness and
suffering, would be a piinhmnt far surpassing even the
medieval conceptions of a physical bell."
The Yoke of his, Curtlss, 347.
In the early Races when the forces of evolution were
focused on the body and on the development of the
newly acquired fifth principle, self-conscious mind, the
stimulus of the kundalini was so great that its vibra-
tions very largely shut out those of the Inner Guid-
ance. That is, the more the attention was occupied
by the vibrations of mind and of the outside world,
the less attention was given to the inner spiritual vibra-
tions from the Real Self, just as is the case today. It
was, therefore, this mind, which should have ruled the
Garden as a husbandrnan under the direction of the
Lord God, which was perverted by the vibrations of
the desires of the flesh and the things of the outer
world.
It was because of this misuse of the serpent-power
that the serpent is represented as being cursed. "Upon
thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
136
days of thy life." For just as the Rod of Moses and
Aaron became a serpent when cast upon the ground,
so does the kundalini-jIre become a stinging serpent
when allowed to crawl upon the ground instead of
being lifted up into a Rod of Power. As long as man's
creative power is allowed to crawl upon its belly it
must eat of the dust or the offscourings of the Earth,
and bring to man the dire results which curse him,'
"visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children,
and upon the children's children, unto the third and
to the fourth generation." We must remember that
neither the ground nor the serpent-power was cursed
by God, but was cursed by the evil which resulted
from man's misuse and perversion of his creative pow-
ers of body and mind. Only as man lifts up the ser-
pent-power upon the pole or "tree" (spinal cord) in
the wilderness of the outer life, as Moses lifted it up
on a pole in the wildernessi.e., lives a life of purity,
chastity and wise controlcan it become the God-
power which shall restore to health all man's functions
and faculties (symbolized by the children of Israel)
which have been poisoned by the vipers of impurity
and perversion.
In this sense the serpent symbolizes hmmnity as
a whole; for as long as hmnanity "crawls upon its
belly" or does not lift its consciousness up from crawl-
ing on the physical plane and following after appe-
'Gei.esis, iii, 14.
'See Mother Izidia, Mayo.
'Exod,ur, uxv, 7.
THE SERPENT POWER 137
138 EVOLUTION AND Tith BIBLE
tites, desires and lusts of the belly, and does not seek
for spiritual food, it must expect to reap, in suffering
and sorrow, the results of feeding upon the offscour-
ings or dust of the ground as well as the dust of igno-
rance and old conceptionsJong since proved to be but
the dust of the ages. As long as he crawls upon his
belly man is in very truth a stinging serpent, poisoning
his own life, his fellowmen and society as a whole.
But with his creative powers of mind and body up-
lifted by a determined will as strong and sbning as
brass, and illumined by the lestial light that shines
from his at-one-ment with the Lord God or Law of
his Good, the radio-activity of the spiritual God-power
flowing through him will help to heal all those who.
are bitten by the vipers of sin, sickness and sorrow;
for, to everyone who looks to him and recognizes the
brazen will or Illumined serpent-power, he will bring
life and healing.
If, therefore, the "fruit of the tree" is eaten ere it
is ripe, that is, if man attempts to use these higher
mystic powers ere he has reached the stage of spiritual
growth and gained the spiritual understanding through
which alone he can normally unfold these centers like
the petals of a rose, the attempt to use them can bring
only inbarmony, suffering and premature death. Far
better not eat of the fruit of these higher powers at all,
that is, it is far better to be just a good, wholesome,
normal human being and take a little longer to evolve
into the Super-human kingdom, than to try to force
THE SERPENT POWER 139
a development for which neither mind, character nor
body is normally prepared.
When man is unprepared for its proper control and
use, the very God-power, or the divine ecstasy of the
serpent-power itself, which is given to man in due sea-
son to make him as the gods, "knowing good and
evil," becomes the Fliming Sword which guards the
gatescenters or chakrasof the Garden. For ere
man can safely use the super-normal God-powers in
such a way that Nachash, the "divine experience" can
"beguile" or "lift him up" into the ecstasy of spiritual
consciousness, he must have gained the wisdom and
the moral strength of character to use such higher dy-
namic powers consciously, and constructively, under
the guidance of the Lord God of his Garden, or the In-
dwelling Spiritual Man or Higher. Self within.
To every Soul who sincerely strives to do his best,
according to his stage of evolution, to express har-
mony in his life and helpfulness to his fellowman, the
time will come in some incarnation when these nters
will open as normally as the petals of a rose. But
if he tries to force them open ere they are ready, the
beauty and fragrance and joy of life will wither and
fall to the ground and be lost in the dust of the earth
like fallen petals.
it is usually understood that Adam and Eve were
driven out of their Garden for having used the per-
fectly natural and normal functions of sex. But we
are distinctly told LGenesis, iii, 2 2-3) that this was not
the reason. They were banished from the Garden lest
140 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
they partake of that other Tree, the Tree of Life, and
become immortal and live forever in the flesh. "Be-
hold, the man is become as one of us,. to know good
and evil: and now, lest he put forth hisband and túÎ
also of the tree of life, nd eat, and livO forever:
therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden
of Eden." For to attain immortality in the flesh while
still enveloped in a grossly tnmt1 body as defective
and unevolved as it was during the early Races, or
even in the more evolved body of man today, which
is still such a hampering garment for the expression
of the indwelling Spiritual Man, would be a greater
curse than any imaginable hell.
Man was first turned out of his Garden individually
not by God but by his own misuse of his opportuni-
ties, forces and materials which brought death, with
all its attendant ills and miseries, first into his own
body and then into the body politic. Thus man finth
death mixed with every draught of life, and his Eden
no longer a pure and perfect globe, but impregnated
with death; and his body no longer a quiet protected
Garden filled with goodly fruits which are his for th
picking; for by his actions be has automatically turifed
himself out of the Garden lest he eat of the Tree of
Life and live forever in imperfection.
Since inharmony, sin, sickness and death cannot
exist in the pure aura of the Real or Spiritual Self,
the sinful man bad to be cast out of his Garden where
all things are pure, perfect and immortal, and where
health and happiness are his natural heritage. Man
m SERPENT POWER 141
can re-enter his Garden only when he has so purified
himself in mind and body that his vibrations are so
greatly raised as oncemore to coincide with those of
the Garden. But, once man was precipitated out of
the Garden, thenceforth he must till the soil of earth
conditions from the outside "by the sweat of his
brow"; must learn through physical exertion, experi-
ence and suffering that these conditions are not his
real home; must learn to recognize the sphere of
Divine Consciousness and radiant spiritual force which
is his true home or Garden, and seek to prepare him-
self to re-enter it in a spiritual and immortalized body.
Only when man has learned that mind is but a gift
of God to be used for His glory; that mumined spirit-
ual consciousness can be bestowed upon him only. by
a Power outside of and above mindthrough spiritual
development and ithtiationjnto a higher stage of con-
sciousnesscan he return to his Garden. Only when
we learn that mind is merely the servant of the Real
Self or the superintendent of our Garden unto whom
is given the wise direction of all its forces, yet who
must be responsible to the Lord of Life who is the
real Indweller, can the serpent be turned into the Rod
of Power at whose knock the gates of Eden shall fly
open and admit us to our heritage
4Th. Missag. of Aqsia,ia, Curthi, 397.
RAPTER XIII
tINTTy IN DUALy
"Love Is sdf-compktjo by the union of correspo4j op..
posites in the lame sul*ta and Sex ba Its origIn In the very
neture of Deity." The Per/ed Way, ingafor, 58.
Vfl underlylng reallty which ands UItiato ezpre J
the physical bodies of IndIvkJunJs, Is the prindpl of the poiftIv
and negative foites of the Univems Life Energy, whicj bai
brought afl orgv,frs4 foma Into ethten frorn the corn..
poun of rnhjerJ atoms to man»
The Seventh Seal, Agnes, so.
If we study the book of Nature as a primer in which
the Law of Manifestation is shown worked out for
their beginning in some kind of germ or tiny seed, some
little and seezningiy insignificaj,g happening, often very
remote from the results, just as an entire city may be
devastated by a fire which sprang from a tiny spark
carelessly dropped miles away or by a tidal wave
resulting from an upheaJ in a far-distant ocean. The
city is not destroyej as a punisIjm, but as the out-
working of inexorable laws, both physical and karmic.
Hence it Is the seed-ca which we must find and
counteract if we are to change the results. For karmic
conditjous which may devastate a region, a nation or a
Race, may arise from just such seemingly insignjßcan
142
UNITY IN DUALITY 143
and remote causes. It is a lack of understanding of
such causeswhich results from a lack of proper
moral and religious instructionthat is causing many
thousands today to say: "Let us eat, drink and be
merry, for tomorrow we die."
One of the fundamental laws of Nature which strikes
to the very heart of civilization and all organized so-
ciety is the Law of SeL' And here we must remind
our readers of what we have repeatedly stated else-
where,' namely, that this Earth is a planet purposely
created as a stage upon which is to be worked out a
new scene in the great cosmic drama, a new problem
and test not found on any other planet, i.e., the prob-
lem of the manifestation of the spiritual unity of the
Soul in the duality of the sexes. Hence the Law of
Sex, and all that pertains to it, is the lesson of lessons
for mankind to learn, all others being secondary and
relative. Our failure to learn this lesson, and the con-
sequent misuse and perversion of our creative forces,
is the underlying cause of the troubles and disasters
of all kinds which we are now reaping,' not as a punisl1
ment, but so to awaken man to his dependence upon
the Divine and his need for seeking out and obeying
the Divine Law that his mind can be illuminated to
understand and correct his mistakes or else pass out
of physical incarnation and learn the lesson in the
higher realms.
The Key to the Uråverse, Curtiss, 87.
'See The Vow. of Isij, Curtiss, 46.
'See Coasing World Changes, Curtiss.
144 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
This is the mighty Law which, aitho known from
the beginning to the Initiates and their advanced dis-
ciples, is only now beginning to be recognized and ap-
predated in its true light by the enlightened students
of hitimin progress. But .4hmmtnity will pay attention
and follow this Law only when at least a nucleus of
enlightened Souls are wllling to devote thought and
attention and the mple of their lives to the pro-
mulgation of the fundamental spiritual principles un-
derlying this quetion, and thus take it out of the
realm of mere Rnim2l self-indulgence.
Just as surely as this planet is one expression or
an outbreathing of that God-consciousness which un-
derlies, enfolds and sustains it, thru the interaction
of its positive and negative aspects, just so surely is
he Soul of a man a Ray of that same God-conscious--
ness striving to manifest its Divinity thru two sep-
arated bodies of flesh. These bodies, being of the
earth earthy, naturally obscure and limit the out-
shining of the immortal Soul-consciousness according
to the degree of their density and lack of response
to their Divine Guidance. But these bodies are ne,er-
th1pç absolutely necessary as Instruments by and
thru which the Soul can contact and find expression
in the world of matter. Hence they are neither to be
despised nor their functions belittled, killed out or
perverted. Since they are composed of the same sub-
stances as the Earth, gathered together and built up
by Inner Pattern, these bodies must follow the laws
UNITY IN DUALITY 143
of physical evolution, "under severe penalty of ab-
normal growth, with all its ensuing results."
Since the body is but the Soul's instrument of mani-.
festation, chief importance should be given to Soul
qualities and spiritual principles, instead of to the
mental and bodily functions thru which these Soul
qualifies and spiritual principles must necessarily find
expression. And it is only thru Divine Guidance,
illumination and spiritual realition, and thru divinely
inspired teatthingsnot thru mere intellectual activity
and reasonthat the eternal verities and spiritual
ideals can be apprehended. But once these ideals
are "spiritually discerned" . and presented to the
mind, then thought and reason are responsible for their
outworking and manifestation. Unless we understand
the spirilual basis rand ideals of sex, the mind and
reason can easily be led astray into self-indulgence
and anhmiltcm by all sorts of sophistries which appear
sound and reasonable until checked up and weighed
by the true spiritual ideals or else by the Inevitable
suffering which results from following such sophistries.
As we have explained elsewhere: Man is the mas-
culine Ray or the expression on Earth of the Divine
Father-force, that aspect of the Divine which is ever
fructifying, ever creating and expressing itself in
forms. It is a personallation of that Divine Potency
designated in the Creed as, "God, Father Almighty,
maker of all things visible and invisible." Hence,
since man expresses this Father-ray, he is the positive
pole and his functiòn in life is creafiven. There-
146 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
fore, the foundation of all his love and his seeking for
union with God expresses Itself in the desire to fructify
and create. Woman, on the other band, is the expres-
sion of the divine Mother-force, that which is called
the "Holy Ghost," the "Comforter"; in Egyptian sym-
bology, Isis the Great Mother, and in Hindu philos-
ophy, Vishnu the preserver. Hence the foundation of
all woman's love is divine Motherhood'
The expression of Mother-love is woman's nearest
approach to the divine state; therefore, the more a
woman loves, the more the element of mothering, even
her husband, enters into it. Even though she have
no children she will mother all she loves, for this is
the fundamental wellspring of her very existence as
a separated sex. For this reason we often find that
a woman can live in happiness and express her love
in caresses, cherishing and in motherly solicitude. But
a man has his equally strong and divine love built
upon the great Father-force of creativeness, hence the
more true, sincere and Godlike man grows, the higher,
purer and more intense will be his desire to fructify
and create on all planes. If these two great and funda-
mental laws of the opposite poles of sex-life were bet-
ter understood there would not only be less marital
unhappiness, but the Race as a whole would evolve
much more quickly back to its Edenic oneness'
The great lesson for each to learn is that the func-
tions of sex are Divine and are not a gift given to
man and woman as evolved nininl org2nkmc merely
4See The Ke to the Uiuiverse, Curtha, 88-9.
UNITY IN DUALITY 147
for the purpose of procreation and peopling the Earth,
but are innate God-qualities, the very essence of their
divine oneness which they as immortal Souls must
manifest thru their animal bodies. This is necessary
as a means of informing, purifying and evolving those
nnmil bodies to a state of perfection in which the
complete God-consciousness can flow unimpeded from
one to the other, and they can be as truly one on Earth
in two separated bodies as they were in the higher
worlds, yet with all the experience gained from the
long journey into the far country of embodiment, and
the strength and power of son-hood which has made
them truly "as one of us," the Elohim.'
We see, therefore, that sex in man is not merely an
animal function, for the purpose of propagation of the
species, but inheres in the Soul itself as the Great
Creative Force given it by the Father, and exceeds
the mere procreative powers of the animal to at least
as great a degree as the Soul of man exceeds the ani-
mal. For it is one avenue for the expression of the
spiritually creative power of the incarnating Spirit or
"Living Soul" which inhabits the human animal body.
With it, after many experiences in building up physical
instruments in many incarnations, man must at last
learn how to create a perfect Temple of the Living
God. "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God,
and that the Spirit of God dweileth in you? If any
man defile the temple of God him shall God destroy:
for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are."
'I Cothdtskas, lii, i6, 17.
148 EVOLUTION AND ri BIBLE
The bodily organs, therefore, are but the specialized
avenues for the expression of the positive and negative
creative aspects of the Soul. And their activity is as
pure, natural and normal as the activity of the heart
and lungs. We do not call thought a "mere mihn2l
function" because it haS a physical organ (the brain)
thru which it functions, even tho it can function for
the grossest nnhii'iI ends as well as for the highest
ideals. No more, then, should we say that sex is
"merely an nÇm2I function" because it has physical
organs thru which it manifests physically; for, aitho
they can be used for the grossest nmi1 indulgence,
they can also be used to induce the greatest spiritual
ecstasy. "That which is called sex when operating
thru the sex organs of the body, becomes Divine Cre-
ative Force when operating thru Nature; Creative
Ideation when functioning thru the mind, and the out-
going of the Divine Breath, or the Urge to Manifest,
of the God-creafiv.n, when functioning thru the
Cosm."
The oneness of the two, or Unity in Duality, we
have seen is illustrated by the allegory of Eve being
ten from Adam's side and by the tree in the midst
of the Garden of Eden, which was a symbol of the
great and primary lessoit of sex, i.e., the oneness of
the two who spiritually belong to each other, the one
representing the leaves, the other the seed-bearer or
fruit, yet both the expressions of the one sap. And
only as man learns this lesson aqd it govern his
Th. Key to the UrJverse, Cuzt 34.
11!ij
Phi
g
aLu
"p
h.
;ffII41fr1
I
/i;il
-
q1
4
Iji
*
Igj
/fif/Ñ
ii
S
,,4,4
llIijÌ/,,/,,,
/
11114
!j
i;
h
TIlE TWAIN ONE FLESH 151
two separated Rays of the Divine proceed from the
same Divine Source they can find the perfect expres-
sion of their divinity on Earth only as they find each
other and unite to form the base line of the perfectly
balanced equilateral triangle whose apex is their
Higher Self or the personal Father-in-heaven common
to both. Herein we have plainly pointed out that true
marriage is really made in heaven where the two are
one before their separation on the physical plane. We
have also presented the diagrams3 which give the
geometrical proof that a true marriage cannot take
place between any man and any woman, but only be-
tween one particular man and one particular woman,
namely, the particular individuals who embody the
masculine and feminine Rays from the same Soul or
Higher Self.
This, of course, is no new doctrine, but has been
taught throughout the ages by the great philosophers
and spiritual teachers of practically every age and
every race. Jesus plainly taught this when He said:
"From the beginning of the creation God made them
male and femile.. . . What therefore God bath
joined together, let not man put asunder." $
Only
the two who are manifestations of the one androgynous
Soul or Higher Self and who are already one in the
higher realms "from the beginning of the creation"
are the ones whom God bath joined together, and not
any man and any woman; for it could only be the
'The Key to the Uiiivens, Curdis, 109-110.
'St.Marh,x,24.
152 EVOLUTION AND TIlE BIBLE
particular man and the particular woman who were
true complementary spiritual mates who were joined
"from the beginning of the creation." These are the
ones who may not be put asunder.
In the above quotation Jesus bad just approved of
divorce for those whon God had not joined. Hence
He implied that no mere hnmn ceremony could con-
stitute a true spiritual marriage, for a human cere-
mony cannot join the two "from the beginning of the
creation." It can only give public recognition to and
solemni7.e of two
whom God bath already joined in the higher realms
from the beginning.
The fact that we may feel strongly drawn to several
persons of the opposite sex is not an argument against
the fact that there is but one in particular who is our
mate. It simply mean, that all such are persons with
whom we have set up strong ties hi past lives; ties of
brother and sister, parent and child, friendship, bus!-
ness, personal service, or of man and wife, even when
not mates. When we meet such persons in this life
we naturally feel the vibration of the old attraction
or perhaps antipathy. This attraction is often mis-
ten for that of the true mate, but marriages made
under such conditions can never be satisfactory.
Those who desire promiscuity in this life are those
who have been promiscuous in past lives and have not
yet learned their lesson, hence will have to go thru
the resulting suffering again in this life.
As we have previously explained: If, for instance,
TkLE TWAIN ONE FLESH 153
a masculine personality or expression of the Higher
Self A unites with the fpminine expression of the smne
Higher Self Ato which it could alone truly belong.
as they advance spiritually and evolve upward toward
the Higher Self common to both they must necessarily
grow closer to each other on all planes (see diagram),4
for they are evolving toward union with the 52fl over-
shadowing Higher Self. But if a positive personality
of the Higher Self A should unite with a negative per-
sonalityoftheHighPrSelfofwhichitisnotanem2nJt
donsay of the Higher Selves B or Cthen as each
personality advanced spiritually and evolved upward
along its Ray toward union with its Higher Self, in-
stead of the two personalities growing closer together
on all planes, they must inevitably grow farther and
farther apart on the higher planesand this must ulti-
mately lead to separation on the physical planefor
each one Is evolving toward union with a different
Higher Self.'
Therefore, there may develop great inharmony on
the physical plane in this case, not because they are
becoming less spiritual, but because they are advancing
and being drawn into different currents of force which
do not harmonize or lead to the sni Higher Self.
And as the great Law of Divine Love ever seeks
greater and more perfect expressions of harmony, the
Great Law tends to separate them that each may be
able to ninifest a higher state of harmony. In such
'The Kq to the Uûiverse, Cwths, 109410.
154 EVOLUTION AND rii BIBLE
cases separation' on the physical plane, instead of
being a cnbimity, is a blessing and an absolute neces-
sity for the spiritual advance of each.
Since the masculine and feminine aspects of the Soul
were necessarily separated to enable them to incarnate
in the flesh, naturally the ideal state when thus in-
carnated is for thel two to be united on Earthas they
already are in heavenin the exclusive and God-or-
dained marriage relation. The highest ideal of the
evolution of the Soul in matter is, therefore, the re-
union of the separated aspects of the Soul, and their
learning, hand in hand, the great lessons for which
the Soul comes to Earth.
Unless the marriage relation contained a function,
an experience and a lesson necessary for the Soul's
perfect unfoldment, the all-wise and loving Creator
would never have made such a function a fundamental
law of man's existence: even of Nature itself. No
one, therefore, who advocates celibacy or the killing
out of this function as the ideal, can possibly fulfill
the Law of Duality thereby. But we must have an
adequate conception of the problem and study its
ideals, as revealed through inspiration from the higher
reRlms, if we are to understand how properly to fulfill
the Law.
Thu this study we see that the Law is fulfilled only.
thru Love; for Love, which is God, is the fulfilling of
'See footnote, page 153.
See Chapter on Marriag, and Divorte" In Letter, fro the
Teacher, Ii, Curtis,.
THE TWAIN ONE FLESH 155
the Law, or that purifying, spirituli'Jng, and trans..
muting Divine Radiation which, when truly invoked,
raises the function far above its mere physical aspect
of ztnhnal gratification and procreation to a spiritual
union of Soul with Soul. While the outer man is an
zmimnl he is capable of grasping that which is more
than miinii1; for the presence of the Inner Man made
in the Image of God enables man to raise his concep-
tion of the marriage relation from a mere animal func-
tion to that of a sacred sacrament in which the physi-
cal relation and its sensations are transcended and the
separated personalities are temporarily merged into
the one Spiritual Essence, the Soul, so that the twain
become one flesh, altho in separated bodies.
Sexual union merely for the satisfaction of nnmnl.
passion between any but true mates is a union of body
only and not of Soul. And as their polarities are not
complementary on all planes, even if they are so on
the physical, such a union cannot make the magnetic
conditions so necessary for the inflow of the higher
spiritual currents which produce the spiritual and re-
generative effects. Such a union, therefore, creates
only after the lusts of the flesh, for the true love and
aspiration so necessary to generate the spiritual fin-
pulse which draws down the Divine Firealso neces-
sary to generate children of the New Ageis lacking;
in fact is impossible under such conditions.
Therefore, there can never be true satisfaction, even
physically,.only temporary LniTmLl gratificationbe-
tween the unriAted or thru promiscuous intercourse.
156 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
If the two are not spiritual mates the union can never
bring the perfect satisfaction, harmony and happiness
of Unity in Duality. For there can be no true satis-
faction on Earth except as the hnmnn personality
nme, contact with and temporarily expresses a vi-
bration from the Spiritual or Higher Self, from the
thrill that resuitsirom an unselfish deed, a kind word
or a generous forgiveness, to the ecstasy of conscious
union between true mates with their common Higher
Self. (In the union of such mates, altho animal grat-
ification is not the object or the thought held, the
nninii1 nature is more than satisfied, purely inciden-
tally, for it is engulfed in and uplifted and its con-
sciousness transcended by the vibrations of unity with
the Divine which such a union produces. Also in
such a union there are no psychological obstructions
to the inflow of the higher currents, for there is no
sense of liiun., guilt or impurity to short-circuit such
currents; only an overflowing and all-encompassing
retli,.ation of Divine Love.
In this connection we often hear remarks from so-
called advanced women students that they have "risen
above" or have "outgrown" or 'advand beyond" all
sex desires. Such expressions show a total miscon-
ception of the entire subject which isthe natural out-
come of the false interpretations of the doctrines of.
the "fall of man" and "original sin"; of something
inherently impure in the sex relation. When such
statements are sincere and not the result of self-
righteousness and a desire qf the woman to appear
THE TWAIN ONE FLESH 157
superior to her husband, it shows that her attitude of
mindher attitude of non-co-operation or even aver-
sionbas so short-circuited both the higher spiritual
currents, and even the physical magnetic currents, that
she has become frigid and incapable of response. She
thus makes the ceremony as unsatisfactory to her hqs-
band as to herself.
Through the results of her misunderstanding of this
function and her mistaken attitude of mind concerning
it she has only too often added to the already great
army of unhappy and ineffectual marriages which are
a great factor in holding back the higher unfoldment
of ni,inlrind. And inharmony, suffering and disease
are the result on Earth, while in the higher r&m the
great army of advanced Souls who are seeking the
conditions of understanding, peace, harmony and love
so necessary for their incarnation are crying out, "How
long, 0 Lord? How long?"
To think of the sex relation as a weakness of the
fleshwhichshouldnotbeyieldedtoisaperversion
of both mind and a God-given function. For with-
out the right attitude of mind the mere union of the
bodies cannot produce that m2gztetic and vibratory
hermonyphysicafly, mentally and spirituallywhich
alone can bring down into the body the uplifting and
transforming effects of the Spirit or which can give
incarnation to advanced sensitive Souls.
No woman who is normal physically can be frigid
unic'.' she short-circuits herself by her mental attitude.
If she desires to respond and cannot do so there is
158 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
something abnormal, some physical disabilitysome
contraction, adhesion, misplacement or tumor, etc.
which can usually be easily remedied by her family
physician. All such conditions are physical results
built into the body because of false conceptions of sex
in this and past incarnations: of believing that God
made sex as a temptation to be overcome or as but a
degrading animål function that He was unable to
eliminstte when He created man in His own image and
likeness. We have shown in previous chapters that
sex can never be wiped out or done away with as long
as man manifests on Earth under the Law of Duality.
But it can and must be purified of the false concep-
tions in regard to it and used for its highest ends.
Nor can sin, sickness and disease be overcome and its
further generation stopped until hummity has learned
this lesson; for these things can never be driven from
the Earth as long as niinkind continues to create them
thru the ignorant and perverted use of his creative
powers, due to lack of proper instruction and wrong
thought concerning them.
If a wife is really more "advanced" and more spir-
itually unfolded than her husband, instead of self-
righteously looking down upon him as a mere male
with unspirit'ndbed animal instincts which must be
indulged under protest, she should be the one to lift
his mind above mere animal instincts and teach him
to hold the right thought: the thought that the mar-
riage rite involves something far higher than unlim-
.ited gratification of animal passion. She may look
TIlE TWAIN ONE FLESH 159
upon sex as a mere animal function, but what animal
does not use it normally? or what inimil ever perverts
it into the horrible orgies of lust which some persons
make of it because of a lack of such understanding,
teariling and control as the truly "advanced" woman
should teach her husband? 'What God bath cleansed,
that call not thou common" might better read, "What
God bath cleansed, that make ye not common and un-
clean." "For this is the will of God, even your sancti-
flcation.. . that every one of you should know how
to possess his vessel [body] in sanctification and
honour; not in the lust of concupiscence. . . . For
God bath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto
holiness. He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not
man, but God."
While response of the body is necessary so that even
the body may ultimately awaken in the Image of God,
nevertheless that response is neither the aim nor the
end of the union. The ideal to be held by both is that
the physical union merely completes on the physical
plane the union of the two aspects of the Soul which
are one in the higher realms. For we should under-
stand that the body has been evolved thus far not
merely as a physical covering for the Soul, but must
continue to evolve until it literally expresses the beauty
of holiness of the Divine Indweller. We must 'io sanc-
tify all our acts and thoughts that our whole body
shall be full of light.
The union on all planes can be accomplished only
'1 TkessalowIaiis, 1v 3-7.
160 EVOLUTION AND TILP BIBLE
thru love; that quality of love which, while not ignor-
ing the physical aspect, yet far transcends it; that
quality of love which can exist only between one par-
ticular man and one particular woman who are true
spiritual complements or mates. Only such can form
a magnet which shall draw down the Divine Fire from
heaven to sanctify their union and consume all dross
of sensuality. In 'other words, there must be no
thought or impulse that can act as a barrier between
the twain and the consciousness of the presence of
God-love manifesting between and thru them. Until
this higher consciousness exists, the ideal conditions
have not been attained.
Real marriage is, therefore, truly made in heaven,
and its proper consummation on Earth brings that
heavenly consciousness down to Earth to the extent
of its realtion. And this comes about only thru
pure love and mutual aspiration for union with the
Divine and not merely thru a union of the sexes.
Such truly mated Souls whom God bath joined from
the beginning no man can put asunder. It is only
the man-made marriages not made in heaven or of the
Soulnot made In response to the inner Soul-guidance,
but for all sorts of worldly reasons and the mere lusts
of the fleshthat can and should be put asunder, for
they are not married in the sight of God, hence natur-
ally fall asunder. For nothing can constitute a true
marriage save the call of Divine Love for union of the
separated aspects of the same Soul. This is the
Divine Urge ever working to manifest the Law ol
THE TWAIN ONE FLESH 161
Unity in Duality in hiimðty as in Nature, which
aiiires the twain one flesh.
These are they of whom Jesus spoke: "For when
they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor
are they given in marriage; but are as the angels which
are in heaven." Naturally such true mates neither
marry nor are given in marriage when in the higher
reßllrus, for there they are already one, and have been
so "from the beginning." it is only while tern-
porarily incarnated on Earth that they have been sep-
arated, and therefore need to marry to become one
on Earth.
All harmonious and truly happy marriages are those
between mates, whether recognized as such or not.
And if each Soul truly aspires and asks for its Divine
Guidance in this matter it will ultimately but surely
be brought into touch withits mate if that mate is in
incarnation. Most unhappy and mistb.n marriages
occur either because we do not wait for our guidance
to bring our true mate to us, or because we disregard
it, or because we mistake old karrnlc tiesoften of
brother and sister or mother and son, etc.for the call
of the Soul or because we simply listen to the lusts
of the flesh or yield to the call of the world for wealth,
position, etc. In such cases we must abide by the con-
ditions we have set up, until we are freed by the laws
of the land ere we can seek union with our true mate,
or we will have to reap the results of violation of
the law, either in this or subsequent lives, thus put-
'St. Mark1 xli, 25.
162 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
ting off still longer the duty of true spiritual oneness.
But all marriages even between true mates are not
necessarily a blissful dream lived without friction; for
instead of mates being affinitiesthat is, alikethey
are opposites or complements each of the other, like
the right band and the left, each strong where the
other is weak and hence capable not only of seeing
each other's deficiencies, but helping to remedy them
and being of the greatest help to each other, once they
learn to work together. This is often a most difficult
lesson to learn unless it is recognized that marriage is
a co-partnership in which both must be willing to sac-
rifice, each for the other, toward the attninment of
their common ideal.
Since all persons affect their associates more or less
and derive both rtain rights and certain obligations
from such association, there can be no such thing as
absolute freedom where two or more are concerned.
Therefore, in entering upon the most intimate, sacred
and character-testing of all human relations, both must
recognize that they have voluntarily given up their
former freedom for the higher estate of Unity in
Duality. Henceforth neither has the right to act with-
out regard to the other or without considering the
effects of their acts upon the other. This does not
mean that either should be subordinate to the other,
but subordinate to the best good of the two who are
now one. Without this willing sacrifice of something
of the personality for the good of the duality there
can be no true harmonious union of the two. ,
THE TWAIN ONE FLESH 163
Today there are many who, awakening to the vital
ideal of true marriage, are no longer satisfied with the
mere husks or outer conceptions of life so long con-
sidered satisfying. They realize that in contracting
a marriage the moral and religious aspirations of both
the man and the woman should be centered in the
same ideals, so that as they evolve and advance to-
ward the realizations of these ideals they may grow
ever closer and closer.' On the other hand we hear a
great deal about "sex equality" and "sex freedom,"
which have been made the excuse for the unrestrained
indulgence of mere animal lust by many so-called
"emancipated" women without pretense of love or
marriage. This is one result of the extreme swing of
the pendulum of "woman's rights."
While there should be "sex equality" in that there
should be but one standard of morality for men and
women, this slogan should not be made the excuse for
woman to adopt the double standard of morality from
which she has so bitterly suffered at the hands of man
and for which she has justly blamed him. And while
the normal monthly cycle of physiological activity of
woman's body should naturally give her "sex freedom"
to determine when the sacrament of marriage should
be consummated, "sex freedom" does not mean that
she has the right to indulge her passions with whom-
soever she chooses or because she cbtms to be in
"mental harmony" or "numerical oneness" with the
object of her desire. For woman's true function is to
'The Key to the Uidverse, Curtss, 109.
164 EVOLUTION AND TliE BIBLE
draw down from its Divine Source, and to conserve
and keep to its holiest purposes, the heavenly sap from
the Tree of Life. And this can be accomplished only
thru true love and perfect purity of mind and body
with her own true mate.
- When marriage is entered into with this under-
standing there will be no need to consider such neces-
sarily ineffective palliatives as "trial marriage" or
"companionate marriage" in the place of true spiritual
marriage; palliatives advocated by those so-called au-
thorities whose every statement shows that they have
no conception of the essential piritual nahire of sex
and the union of the polar opposites of the twain who
are one flesh "from the beginning." The highest con-
ception of such authorities seems to be that marriage
means merely the exercise of an animal function or
constitutes merely a biological problem or is but a
social institution.
There is also a moit pernicious doctrine being put
forth in certain quartersmore extensively in Europe
than in this country, howeverand often in the name
of "advanced thought" or "esoteric philosophy," that
each person is part of a group of seven, with any or
all of whom one may have sexual relations without
marriage, because the whole group are "soul mates"!
It only requires a moment's thought and the most ele-
mentary knowledge of morals and philosophy to see
the fallacy of such a claim and how it perverts and
defiles the sublime and spiritual doctrine of Soul Mates
HaVCZOCÆ Eiluzr, Keysertisg, Iisdsay, tc.
TIi TWAIN ONE FLESH 165
as expressed in this volume, and all other truly spiritual
teai1ih'g. No excuse can be found for this doctrine
in either religion or philosophy; for when the sexes
were separated the Law of Dualitynot of multiplicity
came into operation and the androgynous Adam was
divided into two and not into a group of seven or any
other number. 'Male and female created he tlini.
. . Therefore shall a man leave his father and his
mother, and shall cleave unto his wife," that they two
may establish a new home which shall be a center of
Love and harmony thu which the Divine Creative
Force of the Godhead can find expression in humAnity.
These tendencies of the so-called "advanced" or
radical fcmhiicts must be rebuked, discountenanced
and rejected by all t1iinlng and right-minded people
before they spread beyond the limited few moral red-
Icals who espouse theni, or they will lead to the
licentiousness, debauchery and degeneration which
caused the fall of Rome, and every other nation which
tolerated the violation of the marriage rite and ignored
the sacredness of the ideal of the home as the basis
of civilization.
These are the days when In2nInd is reaping that
which be has created thru following the doctrines of
inaterialisyn and the worship of M2nimon, mAng
wealth and indulgence of his nnimt1 self the supreme
attninmpnt of life. Hence many husbands and wives
particularly so-called "modern" womenare nsking
today, not, Do we love, and if so, how shall we sink
unimportant and personal differences in order the bet-
166 EVOLUTION AND TUE BIBLE
ter to co-operate lovingly in the one prime essential,
the best good of the home? But many are making
the division of the family income the sole standard
and basis for continuing the marriage and susbðnhig
the home. No wonder, then, that we bear that "mar-
riage is a failure," and some advocate its aboiWiment
or the ignoring of it. But we should realfre that these
things are but passing phases and extremes which man
kind is reaping as the result of its former misuse and
abuse of the marriage relation. Such ideas cannot en-
dure, for mankind cannot get far away from the age-
old standards of morals and conduct, advocated by all
great religions and found necessary by humanity's ex-
perience in all ages, without disaster.
In the marital relations of the present day these
spiritual lines of force are woefully mixed and tangled,
both thru the Karma of smihr mistakes in the past
and thru allowing other considerations than Divine
Love to bring about a union on the physical plane,
thru marriage or otherwise... . But as we enter into
thecycleofthenewAquarianAgetberemustbea
great readjustment and untangling process carried out
as rapidly as the working out of past relations permits,
so that each may return to his or her true spiritual
allegiance and make straight the crooked paths of
spiritual force, era the Christ-consciousness can come
to each."
When society as a whole has suffered enough from
these perversions of the doctrinb of the "freedom of
'The Key to the U,dvgðse, Curtl.s, 111.
4
14
Of
4e6
0
:
CHAPTER XV
SUMMARY
"A stone becomes a plant; a plant a beast; a beast a man;
a man a God." Aisdent Kabalistic Axiom.
"No nation can rise higher than Its compr.hon of Gad."
The Message ofAquaria, Curtlss, 213.
It is obvious to any careful thinker that this planet,
our solar system and ihe galaxy of universes of which
our universe is a part did not just happen into exist-
ence. And it should be just as obvious to any mind
not already biased and prejudiced by preconceived
opinionsadopted for the most part because inculcated
In youth and not because they have been individually
reasoned outthat back of this stupendous manifested
universe there must be a Cosmic Purp9se, i.e., the per-
fected expression of the Ideal Type which is the pro-
jectùlg cause back of every manifested form.
That consciousness underlies this great Cosmic Pur-
pose and that a Cosmic Mind expressing Cosmic Con-
sciousness thru a definite, infinitely co-ordinated plan
toward a predetermined end, should also be sufficiently
obviòus once attention has been called to the over-
whelining evidence in its favor.
The method of working out the plan for the expres-
sion of the Cosmic Purpose is revealed to us in the
168
SUMMARY 169
Law of Manifestation which we have tried to outline
herein.
The process by which the invisible plan for the per-
fection of each species is worked out is revealed in the
Law of Evolution, i.e., the orderly and progressive-
aitho not absolutely continuousadvance from the
lowest to the highest: from the simple to the complex.
Since the Real Man (Soul) is a spiritual and super-
physical being, he does not evolve, but descends more
and more perfectly into physical manifestation thru
a body which does evolve. This descent or "fall into
matter" was a predestined part of the Divine Plan. It
was not the result either of a mistake on God's part
or of sin on man's part, for it began long before the
se-s were separated.
The body thru which the spiritual man must neces-
sarily find expression in matter is the highest .rarnple
of the animal kingdom, hence does evolve according
to the laws of that kingdom.
While man's body is the highest type of animal and
the earliest human forms were crude, gigantic and ape-
like, man's body did not descend from the ape.
Since man's expression in human form has evolved
from the animal kingdom into the hiininn, so must his
continued evolution ultimately sweep him from the
human into the Super-human kingdom.
Since nothing can manifest on Earth without com-
ing under the Law of Duality, it was inevitable that
the incarnating Man or Soul must manifest his mascu-
line and fenihtne aspects in separated bodies. Sex in
170 EVOLUTION AND riii BIBLE
man, therefore, inheres in the Soul itself and is not a
mere nnimii function.
Since both masculine and feminine expressions of
the Soul are one in essence and have the one Source
common to both, it follows that only the one partic-
ular man and the on particular woman can be true
spiritual mates or manifestations of the one Soul,
separate in minifestation but co-operating for perfect
expression.
Marriage means the union on Earth of the two who -
are already one in the higher worlds and have been
one "since the beginning of the creation." True mar-
riage iv, therefore, the most imporknt and necessary.
event in the Soul's expression on Earth.
A true or spiritual marriage can take place only be-
tween true mates whose marriage has already been
made in heaven, which marriage the hnmnn ceremony
merely corroborates and sanctions according to the
laws of the various countries and communities.
The fact that, by disregarding the inner intuitive
voice of the Soul, so many wrong matings have tnen
place, accounts to a great extent for so many marriages
being failures.
The misuse of the creative forces of both mind and
body by those who are not mates and the perversion
of these forces by wrong thought, lust, etc., is respon-
sible for all the sin, sickness and disease to which the
flesh is heir.
Since the flesh is heir to these results of its own
creation, it can be free from such results only as liii-
SUMMARY 171
inanity recognizes the sanctity of marriage and the
sacredness with which the Divine Creative Force mani-
festing thru man and woman should be used. Only
so can they redeem the evil by overwhelming and
transmuting it with good.
This is a work of education in which woman, with
her superior intuitive powers, should be the leader and
inspirer, and upon her devolves the greater responsi-
bility. Until woman thus takes her true place in
society she is falling to accomplish her mission on
Earth. For as it was woman who led man out of the
Garden in Eden, so must it be woman who must tearb
him how to re-enter it hand in band with her.
Our study of evolution has shown that it is not a
mere medincaI process, but is the physical mecha-
nism by which the invisible Ideal of each type of life
finds expression in forms which ever tend toward the
expression of perfection.
Finally, as we said in the beginnin If we really
understand what evolution means, and if we under-
stand what the Bible really says about the origin of
man, we will find that there is no conflict between
science and religion or between evolution and the
Bible, only between misconceptions on both sides.
'Soe page
SUPPLEMENT
The following chapters were originally issued pri-
vately,1 and while they do not deal directly with evo-
lution or the problems of the Garden in Eden they
do deal 'with the basic concepts of those problems
God and [us manifestation within ushence we feel
they may be properly incorporated in this volume
monthly kons to the students of the School of Rational
Mysticism of The Order oJ Christia,s Mystics.
CHAPTER XVI
GOD
PART I. THE THREE-FOLD FI.AiirzTBE FATHER
"It is true that God manifests thin the gradations of His
spiritual creatures, for the Creator Is omnipresent in His Crea-
tion and Inseparable from it. Therefore, knowledge of the
Creator or true religion, and knowledge of His Creation or
exact 4,iw,, are In their one." Cosspte do Gabalis, 96.
"Above the Celestial Fire there Is an Incorruptible Flame,
ever sparkling, Source of Life, Fountain of all Beings, and
Principle of all things. This Flame produces all, and nothing
perishes save that which It consumes. This Fire cannot be con-
tained in any place; It Is without form and substance. It
girdles the Heavens and from it there proceeds a tiny spark
which makes the whole re of the Sun, Moon and Stars. Seek
not to know more, for this panes thy comprehension, howso-
ever wise thou mayest be. Nevertheless, know that the unjust
and wicked man cannot hide himself from God, nor con craft
nor excuse disguise aught from His piercing eyes. MI is full
of God. God is everywhere." SibyWne Crack.
In these days of growing disbelief1 in all things once
held sacred, how often do we hear the cry: "You must
* "Aix alarming falling off In church membership In Protestant
communlons at the rate of 500000 a year Is noted In the report of
Dr. H. K. Carroll, Secretary of the Continuation Committee of
the Interchurch Conference made public today" WasMagton Post,
July 30, 1927. A later newspaper account of a report of the
federated churches states that among all the Protestant denomina-
tions from one quarter to one third of the churches reported not
a single new convert for the year 1927!
17
176 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
'show me' before I will believe in any of your religiou
theories." Science is mRking such great advances that
many are hopelessly divided between believing in the
f1nental spiritual truths expounded in the Bible,
or believing in a wholly måterialistic interpretation of
the irrefutable facts laid before us by science. Yet,
the more science discovers, the less can thhiking people
accept the orthodox and literal interpretation of the
allegories and seeming fables so long revered as Sacred
Writ. Therefore, a vital and definite explanation that
will include the facts of science is needed.
Among the most fundamental concepts aboul which
there is confusion of mind, and therefore misunder-
standing, is the concept of God. We will, therefore,
try to give the "show me" people, who are sincerely
in earnest in their desire to know, a logical answer
which, because correlated with the proved facts of
science, should be satisfying to their minds as well as
their hearts.
'All great scientists agree that back of all manifes-
tation there must be some mighty Intelligence which
is the unknown Cause of all, and which governs the
universe by definite, purposeful laws which work to-
gether toward a predetermined end. It is in the inter-
pretation and explanation of this unknown Cause and
Its methods of manifestation that the differences of
opinion arise which cause controversy, religion argu-
ing from one standpoint and scien from quite an-
other. Since God is infinite and our minds are finite,
we can only grasp various aspects of God thru an
GODTkLt THREE-FOLD FLAME 177
understanding of some of His manifestations and
creations, and from such understanding speculate
further as to His essence.
The earliest and most universal concept of God is
that which connects Him with light, fire, life and the
Sun, and this is the basic concept expounded in the
Bible, as well as in many of the other great religions
and philosophies of the world.' "The Lord thy God
is a consuming fire" (Deut., iv, 24) and, "In him was
life; and the life was the light of men. And the light
shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended
it not" (St. John, i, 4, 5) are only two of the many
such references. Many scientists of the nineteenth
century said that all such conceptions belonged to the
childhood of the. race and must now be abandoned in
the light of scientific advance. That, however, was
before the discovery of radio-activity and the mys-
teries of the radiant energy of the atom. Today, as
scientists of the Aquarian Age mine the so-called
"childish fables" of the past and the so-called
"heathen" conceptions of God, they find that the in..
spired Seers of bygone days in all religions were truly
Illumined with conceptions of the basic facts of mmii..
festation which the latest scientific researches are only
now proving correct, aitho those inspired conceptions
were often expressed in poetical and allegorical
language.
Letus, therefore7 begin our inquhywith an effort to
find out not Who,but What is God; for God is not a
'S Icson on «DIVII* Fire," Curt3s.
178 EVOLUTION AND TI1J BIBLE
person or being, but rather a self-existing, all-pervading
Source of radio-active Divine Light, Life, Substance,
Consciousness and Love, "whose center is everywhere
and whose circumference is nowhere." The physical
Sun thru all ages has been recognized as the source of
the physical light, warmth and magnetic life-force of
our planet, and thus has naturally and universally been
connected with the idea of God as fire. The Sun,
Moon and stars were considered as but manifested
sparks of the one Divine or Celestial Fire of the Cos-
mos, whose Source was the invisible Spiritual Sun
called "the Sun behind the Sun." SE. Paul tells us,
"There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of
the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star
differeth from another star in glory," S showing that all
are but various manifestations of the one Divine Ra-
- diance, God.
The presence of fire or warmth in some degree is
absolutely essential to every manifestation of life, for
without it all is cold, lifeless and dead. And at abso-
lute zero (-2 730 C.) scientists tell us all manifesta-
tion ceases, the atoms then being entirely at rest.
Therefore, life itself is rightly regarded as a form or
manifestatioú of fire. And since fire is an aspect of
Divine Radiance, all life is a manifestation of God,
so that wherever there is life there is God in man!-
festation. "If I ascend up into heaven thou art there:
if I malie my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If
I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in The
1 Covialkiwss, xv, 41.
GODTI1I ThREE-FOLD FLAME 179
uttermost parts of the sea; even there shall thy band
lead me, and thy right band shall hold me."
This doctrine should not be confused with panthe-
ism, for while God is immanent in all His creations,
since no one creation, nor all of them combined, can
express all of God, He is also transcendent
The Sibylline Oracles tell us that: "There is in
God an immense depth of Flame. The heart must not,
however, fear to touch this adorable Fire nor to be
touchedbyit. Itwillbeinnowiseconsumedbythis
gentle Flame, whose peaceful warmth causes the union,
harmony and duration of the world. Nothing exists
save by this Fire, which is God himself... . This is
God; as for us we are His Messengers. We are but
a little part of God." This may be called a "heathen"
idea of God, yet it is a more illumhiziting and compre-
hensive description of God than the ordinary mind
can gather from many of the Hebrew expressions
about God found in the Bible. There is a very nar-
row, provincial and conceited idea abroad in much of
Çhristendom that all who are not Christians, and all
the countless millions who lived before the Christian
era, are and were "heathen" and therefore not in touch
withor under the care of God. As if God had never
revealed Himself or taught, guided and comforted.
huni2nity before the Christian eral Yet the researches
of comparative religion show that there never was a
time when hiiniinity was not watched over, guided
'Psals, rmT 5, 9.
Compte de Gabalis, 70.
180 EVOLUTION AND iii BIBLE
and Inspired of God. The oniy "heathen" are those
who neglect or refuse to worship their highest concep-
tionof God. Andwe donothaveto go to foreign
countriestoflndtheml
"The Philosophers hold that the relation of the Cre-
ator to His Creation has been the seine in all ages;
that all creeds evolved by man are but man's concept
of this relation and in no wise alter it; that the Truth
regarding the Fatherhood of God, Sonship of His Mes-
sengers, the great Teachers of hnrn2nky, and Brother-
hood of all His creatures, is superior to creeds and
religions, and will unify them when once appre-
hended."
From a study of the ß2nle we may arrive at a better
understanding of the three-fold nature of God or the
Trinity, the one God manifesting in three aspects, but
not persons. Every 11ani has three aspects: (a) the
invisible essence or spirit of the flame, (b) the light
of the flame, and (c) its heatorwarmth. We are
-told that God is Spirit and that we must worship Him
In Spirit and in Truth. This is the "cold flim" of
Divine Radiance which is the unseen Fire of all life,
and is known only by its effects as it gives life to all
things, to each according to the degree of its individual
development. This is the Father aspect of God and
finds its correspondence in the inner, invisible essence
of the flame, from which both its heat and light pro-
Surrotmding this inner, invisible core is the bright,
'See Ioothote page 179.
GODi±i1! THREE-FOLD FLAME 181
vivid light of the flame, which gives it its individuality.
This corresponds to the individiii1i'ed minifestations
of God thru His Son, the Christos, who is very appro-
priately called the Light of the World; that manifesta-
tion which can be seen of men in the physical world
as the Sun in the heavens, which gives light and life
to all physical forms and purifies and redeems those
that are disintegrating. In the spiritual world He is
seen as the Christ, the Avatar, both the Light of the
World and the Redeemer of M,inithid, who is period-
ically miinifested in humin form to give spiritual light
and life to all niiii1ind. This projection of the Divine
to manifest phenomenally as the Son of God inhuman
form among men is possible approximately every 2,000
years when the physical Sun comes into conjunction
with the Spiritual Sun, at which time the influence of
the Spiritual Sun or "the Sun behind the Sun" is most
potent upon the Earth. "Then, gathering to itself the
power of its own Source and trnsmtting it through
our Sun tothis Planet, It is said to send the Sons of
God into the consciousness of the earth sphere that a
new world of thought and emotion may be born in
the minds of men for the stimulation of hnmnity's
spiritual evolution. Such a manifestation marks the
begimiing or end of an epoch upon Earth by the radia-
tion of that divine consciousness known as the Christ
Ray or Paraclete."
The heat of the flame, which alone makes any man!-
festatlon of life possible, corresponds to the warmth
'Co,uspt. de Gabalis, 88.
182 EVOLUTION AND TH BIBLE
of Divine Love, that Immortal Love of the Divine
Mother, the Bringer Forth of ali those manifestations
which were impregnated in the various forms of life
by the Father. This is the Holy Ghost or the Com-
forter of whom Jesus said: "It is expedient that I
go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not
come unto you." Thus the three-fold flame is an
ertmple and illustration of the Trinity; a three-fold
manifestation of the one Divine Radiance which man
calls God.
Quite naturally man's worship of God has followed
three main types, the three Persons of the Trinity.
In the earliest days after his introduction to this newly
made planet, man naturally worshipped God the
Father, the fiery Flame whose mighty power be felt
and the terrific force of whose outbreathing he saw.
It was dimly realized that there was a law back of
all manifestation, the authority of the Father, which
must be obeyed, often in fear and trembling. This
naturally led to the authority of the human father as
the head of the family, whose word was law.
After long ages this form of worship gave way to
the worship of the Divine Mother, as exemplified es-
pecially in Egypt under the name of Isis, in India
under the name of Devaki and in the Christian re-
ligion as Mary. In their aspect as the Bringer Forth,
both Nature and the Earth were worshipped as a
Mother whose products feed and nourish the children
of her bosom as a mother's milk does her babe. Among
'St., Joks, xvi, 7.
GODTith THREE-FOLD FLAME 183
the enlightened this was not a materialistic worship
of Nature itself, but of the Divine Mother as expressed
thru Nature. During the ages when the worship of
the Divine Mother reigned, mankind was guided
largely by inspired priestesses or Sibyls whose oracles
were considered, and often truly were, expressions of
the guidance of the Divine Mother, as the records of
the Oracles dearly show. For divine inspiration has
ever been and ever will continue to be God's chief
avenue of expression for the guidance of humanity.
But it can be given only thru those sincere and de-
voted Souls whose lives and whose unfolded higher
faculties are truly attuned to varying degrees of God-
consciousness, and enable them to reach up into the
higher realms of God-consciousness and bring down to
humanity higher conceptions of eternal principles for
its guidance.
The worship of the Father and the Mother is slowly
superseded by the worship of the Son, which gradually
takes precedence over all other forms; in the Western
world as the worship of Jesus, in Egypt of Horus, in
India of Krishna, Buddha, etc., all of whom are called
"the Light of the World and the Redeemer of Man-
kind." The worship of these three aspects of the
Trinity greatly overlaps each other and hence may be
found simultaneously, not only in humanity in general,
but in the same nation and even in the same religion.
The change from the worship of one aspect to that of
another is thus prophesied by the Oracle at Delphi
shortly before it ceased. "Alas, Tripods! Weep and
184 EVOLUTION AND 11th BIBLE
make funeral oration for your Apollo. He is mortal.
He expires; because the Light of the Celestial Flame
(the Christos) extinguishes him." And, "Eusebius
cites Porphyry as saying that since Jesus began to be
worshipped no man has received any public help or
benefit from the gods";' that is, thru the Sibyls, as
formerly. This is only natural, for, with the man!-
festation of the Christos, the Son of the Father-Mother
the Light of the Flame of the Spiritual Suna new
era bad dawned when hnninity had to recognize and
learn to worship the same one God in the person of
His Son.
The whole universe is, therefore, the produd of
three mighty streams of force that are passing thru
all things like a life-line that is sent out into all the
rellms and all the worlds and all the systems, bringing
with it life and love and understanding. The Father
is the great reservoir of life from which all things
emrnstte and yet which is absolutely void of produc-
tiveness and creation unless joined to the Mother.
The Mother is the great mighty stream of Love, he-
mortal Divine Love; that Love which goes out and
out and out and carries with it the life-stream which
some call the great magnetic stream, vivifying it, elec-
trifying it, making it productive- From this stream
there comes forth that which we call the Son-force,
the result, the product or the thing that is brought
forth by the Father-Mother. This life and love, this
Father-Mother, never ask us to help Them bring forth.
aC._,k de Gabalis, 96.
GODTkIJ THREE-FOLD FLAME 185
They bring forth in us just as They bring forth in
Nature.
Ave should think of these two forces uniting in us
andrealize thatthenwfthinus isborn the Son of
God. We do not have to struggle and pray and ask,
in fact our struggling but delays its manifestation.
Our mental anguish, our arguing with ourselves, our
self-analysis, our complaints, all are but boulders in
the stream, thunming it up and holding it back. Let
it flow. Get the attitude of mind that the Father-
Mother knows what we need. We need the birth
within us of this immortal Son, the Son of God in
humanity. Try to think of ourselves as children of
this Father-Mother force. Try to realize that it is this
force that has brought forth the universe, that It is
this force that is ever perfecting all creation; the
mighty Love of the Mother, the everlasting power of
the Father. Let us say to ourselves: "This universal
everlasting power is in me, it fills me; fills every atom
of my body. There is no particle of sand or earth or
deep place in the universe where this stream of life
and love does not penetrate. Therefore, there is no
spot in my body, my brain, my hands, my heart, that
is not penetrated and filled with this force. Life and
Love fill me. Then why should I be afraid? If Life
and Love are universal they could not be universal
unless they were within me. That would be imperfec-
tion."
Do we ever stcp to think that That which we
call God, the universal Father-Mother, would be fin-
186 EVOLUTION AND TIth BIBLE
perfect without us? If we refuse to let Them fill us;
if we let our little personal ideas, our little worries,
our little arrangements of things in our own minds, if
we let all this dam up the stream, we are depriving
the great loving Mother and the ever-living Father
of that which is Their own. Therefore, since we are
filled with this force and since this force Is and must
be universal, eternal and omnipotent, then let us take
away the barriers and open the little door in our hearts.
This understanding can never come thru the head or
the brain. It must be something in our hearts that
opens and responds.
We are told that "God is a consuming fire," yet also
that "God is Love," and we are apt to think of the
God of Love as the ruler of heaven and God the con-
awning fire as the ruler of hell, until in the minds of
many there seem to be two Gods, one a Supreme Being
and the other His opponent, the devil, to whom more
worship, in the way of propitiation, is given than to
God. The explanation of this paradox is simple if
we remember that God as Love is the feminine, con-
structive, nourishing and integrating aspect of God,
while God as a consuming Fire is that aspect which
is bringing redemption out of disintegration.
Cosmically the forces of the planets manifest cyclic-
ally in a three-fold manner. For instance, the cycle of
this planet began with the projection of a Ray (the
Father aspect) of the Divine Flame which was so uni-
versally worshipped by the ancients. Not only was
this Earth awakened into activity by this Ray of Di-
GODTkth THREE-FOLD FLAME 187
vine Fire, but that invisible Ray guided and moulded
the seething mass of fire-mist from which the physical
planet was condensed,' and prepared it for the other as-
pects of the Flamethe various forms and manifesta-
tions of the Lifewhich were later to be brought forth
upon it. These various stages of preparation con-
sumed vast eons of what man calls time, yet they are
dearly snmmnrized in a few cryptic verses in Genesis.
The cleansing process of the Divine Flame in each
Age has first to prepare the Earth and all hnmzmity
for the New Day during the dark night which precedes
the coming dawn. For only when conditions for its
unobstructed manifestation are prepared can the ador-
able beauty of the Light of the World begin to man!-
fest and be perceived of min1rnd.
How many of us are now ready for the recognition
of the new Manifestation so soon to come? And, if
we are not, how can we prepare ourselves for it?
Among other things we can repeat the Prayer for
Light each day upon awakening and meditate upon
it until we fill ourselves with that Light, that it shall
radiate from us throughout the day. At noon we may
repeat the Prayer to the Divine Mother. And in the
evening, as we see the Sun just touching the horizon
in the west, we can repeat the Evening Prayer and try
to carry the conscknjsness of it with us into the higher
reilmc during sleep. As we thus repeatedly and per-
'See chapter on "World Chains," The Voic, of isis, Curtlee, 204.
See Appendix to Letters from the Teacher, or The Message of
Aquaria, Curtiss.
188 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
sistently correlate our consciousness with the three
aspects or persons of the Godhead, or the three as-
pects of the Divine Flame, we will gradually prepare
ourselves to become Knights of the Holy Grail, that
we may understandingly and wisely help to radiate ot
shed abroad the mystic Blood (the Divine Life-force)
of the Christ, for the redemption of mnnkhtd and the
EarU
PRAYER FOR LIGHT
o Christ! light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That I may dwell forever
In the Radiance of Thy counten2nce
And rest in the Light of Thy smile.
PRAYER TO iiJJ DIVINE MOTHER
o DIvine Mother!
Illumine me with Divine Wisdom,.
Vivify me with Divine Life and
Purify me with Divine Love,
That in all I tMnk and say and do
ImaybemoreandmoreThycbild.
EVENING PRAYER
As the physical Sun disappears from our sight
May the Spiritual Sun arise in our hearts,
Illumine our minds
And shed its radiant blessing
Upon all we contact.
CHAPTER XVII
GOD
'PART II. Tn CuIoTo FipaThE DIVINE
Miux
\
"Behold, thom appered a chariot of fire and horses of
fire . . . and Elijah went up by a whirlwind Into heaven."
II Kings, 5, IL
"Swing low, sweet chariot, comb' for to carry me home.
Swing low, sweet chariot, comln' for to carry me home.
I looked over Jordan and what did I iee?
Comin' for to carry me home?
A band of angels comb' after me, comb' for to carry me
home." Negro Spidtoai.
fl ninniftj takes place according tO definite
cosmic laws. And since physical life is but an outer
mnnifestation of an inner, invisible life-force which
emAnates from the cosmic Source of the universal One
Life, and we see the entire cosmos manifest as though
breathed out by the Breath of God, it is easy to realise
that each phase of manifestation or life-cycle repre-
sents a new cyclic outbreathing or cyclic renewal of
God-expression. Therefore, we do not have to delve
Into abstruse scientific evidence to condude that all
Nature is but one of the manifold expressions of God.
The manifestation of the Spiritual Sun or "Sun be-
189
190 EVOLUTION AND TIJJ BIBLE
hind the Sun" is called the Chariot of the Sun, the
Chariot of Fire or the Fire of the Lord. This Chariot
of Fire periodically descends low to Earth approxi-
mately every 2,000 years. As the first effect of the
Sun in Spring is to melt the banks of snow, thaw out
the ground and purify the Earth of the debris accumu-
lated during the Winter, so the first effect of the
Chariot of Fire is to melt the rigid, set and crystallized
habits, customs, ideas and conditions among niinlðnd:
to melt the heart and purify the minds of huimanity
and bring a new outpouring of the three-fold aspect of
GodDivine Light, Life and Lovewhich shall en-
able the soil of men' hearts to bring forth anew the
seeds of their higher possibilities and powers, to renew
their spiritual life for a new season of growth and ex-
pression. This also carries home to the heart of the
Godhead the fruits of the last Age (Piscean) thru
which the world has just passed.
As this Chariot of Fire draws close to Earth oÇ
necessity mighty changes must take place; thanges
in the Earth itself, comparable to the breaking up of
winter and the thawing of the ground; changes in the
thought, life, customs and institutions of humanity,
comparable to revolution in all phases of life: in sci-
ence, industiy, economics, in society, government and
religion. The chaff of former seasons, the husks or
outer forms which once held grains of truth, must now
be cast aside as the new grain begins to sprout for Uie
New Age. All outgrown forms or expressions of truth
2See CowAug World Chosges, Curthe.
GODTHE CHARIOT OF FIRE 191
whether scientific, philosophical or religiousmust
be gathered up and consumed by the new outbreathing
of the Fire of the Lord, just as the farmer gathers up
and burns the weeds and trash of the past season that
all the good which remainsthe mineral salts of the
ashesmay go to enrich the soil for the coming
season. Just so must the weeds humanity has allowed
to grow and the trash which civilization has allowed
to accumulate be consumed, that whatsoever of good
it contains may go to enrich the soil of mnnlðnd and
help the spiritual seeds of love, compassion, co-opera-
tion and helpful service to spring forth, that the seeds
of good lying dormant in the hearts of even the most
unevolved and the seemingly debased may awaken into
life as man's life and understanding are enriched by
mistakes corrected, faults overcome and trials and
tests bravely borne.
This Chariot of Fire represents the same Power that
enveloped Elijah and carried him up to heaven out of
the sight of RIisht and the fifty sons of the prophets
of Jericho. It is the same Cloud by day and Pillar
of Fire by night that led the Children of Israel thru
the wilderness; the same Cloud of Glory that took
Jesus up out of the sight of His disciples at His ascen-
sion. As in the ca.se of E11s112, only hearts attuned to
the mightiness of this Divine Flame can see or under-
stand the radiance of one who has entered the Chariot
of Fire. For this Chariot is none other than the
descent of the She1rinh, "by which we understand the
presence of the Holy Spirit, speaking and communi-
192 EVOLUTION AND TH BIBLE
cating itself to men by revelation." Its descent as-
sures us of the possibility of our so correlating with
the higher aspects of our Soul qualifies that we can
be lifted up and Illumined as in a Chariot of Fire.
To the Initiates into the Mysteries of all religions
this Chariot of Fire is well known, for there are certain
ceremonies of the Mysteries which cannot be performed
until the priests, by chanting rtain especially ar-
ranged ,nantras and lifting up and attuning their
consciousness to the key-note of the higher realms, are
able to see the Chariot of Fire descend as a Cloud
of Glory over the sanctuary and give them the powers
necessary for the ceremony.
Today as the cosmic Chariot again draws near that
the Son of God, the Light of the World, the Christos,
may step forth among imtnlðnd, its fiery steeds start
down the steep descent which marks the dose of a
cosmic day or Age (the Piscean), and a dark night-
period must be passed ere the Earth can awaken to
the New Day in a new cbtmher of the zodiac
(Aquarius). The decree has been sent forth from on
high: «Gather the grain into the gamer, but burn
the chaff with unquenchable fire." The unquenchable
fire is the Fire of the Lord in its consuming aspect,
which must consume the husks of civilization's past
age: everything that prevents man's spiritual evolution
and a higher and truer expression of God's Divine
Plan. (The great lesson that man must learn, slowly
at first but in all its fullness as the New Age advances,
'CaI..d'z Bib!. DkUo,swy, 821.
GODiii CHARIOT OF FIRE 193
is the true meaning of the Fatherhbod of God, the
Brotherhood of Man thru the presence of His Son, and
the all-pervading, ever-enduring Love and power of
the Divine Mother to bring forth good out of evil.
We speak of the warmth of Love, thus recognizing
it as a manifestation of Divine Fire; the everlasting
Fire that makes the Earth a living thing, bringing
forth in beauty and abundance when the fire of the
Sun is tempered by water; that Fire which will not
consume, but illumine, unfold and manifest the God-
like qualifies of whosoever correlates with it. For this
reason insincere or simulated love, and its corollaries,
false sympathy and compassion, are easily detected by
one who is at all sensitive, for when not genuine they
have no Soul warmth or sparks of Divine Fire in them.
But love can be the most devastating force in the
world in our character, in our lives and in hiimmity
if we turn itoutside in andvilify it; if we call love
something vile; if we identify it with the passions of
the animal body and seek to stifle instead of purify-
ing and uplifting them; if we seek to push it aside
and say: "The mind is all-important The ancient
teachings are all-important." What has brought the
world into the state in which we find it today?
Largely these same ancient teachings that will have
nothing to do with new ideas, new conceptions and
new realizations of God; these, together with the
medieval conceptions of the teachings of Christ; false
interpretations of the message of the God of Love,
which identify love with passion and seek to kill it
194 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
out. Hence we must be open to new nterpretatlons
that are in harmony with the advances of the age in
which we live, if we would progress wisely.
If we seek to confine this Divine Fire to its lowest
avenues of expression, such as love of self, love of pos-
sessions, love of sexual indulgence, etc., it becomes a
devastating and consuming fire; for it so transcends
those limited avenues that it burns them out when
confined to them.
Just so with the Earth. When water (the Love of
the Divine Mother) does not commhigle with the fiery
force of the Sun (Father) the Earth is burned and
becomes a barren desert. Yet even in its burning as-
pect it is still Divine Fire operating thru the Law as
Karma to bring to humanity a realization of the vital
truth which it must ultimately learn, i.e., that the tares
which it has allowed to grow among the wheat must
be consumed, that from their ashes the misdirected
life-force may be redeemed for the good of all.
Therefore, while in one aspect God is a consuming
Fire, we must never forget that He is also Divine
Love; a Love so mighty, so long-suffering and so
capable of seeing the true inwardness of man's intent,
and the reason for his failures, that in Divine Com-
passion man is repeatedly given new opportunities to
respond to that Love. Humanity as a whole is also
periodically given such opportunities. This new
Aquarian Age is just such a new opportunity for man
to face his True Self and on more choose whether
he will ally himself with and be guided by the Love
GODTHE CHARIOT OF FIRE 195
of the inner Divine Self or be led astray by the lower
temporal loves of the temporary and evanescent hu-
man personality. Hence those of the new Aquarian
Age, like those at the begnnhigs of all former Ages,
must face the living Flame of God-the-Father in all
its fiery, demising, transmuting and regenerating as-
By learning this great lesson that "God is Love"
love in all its aspectswe can understand how the
"Fire of the Lord" can consume, transmute and evolve
the base metals of hnmiin frailties into the pure gold
of spiritual attalnment. When the warmth of this
Flame of Divine Love is recognized by a mortal it
arouses a glow of adoration and awe. For the mortal
consciousness has, to that extent, united itself to a
vibration of the Divine. And this response, even
though at first temporary, brings added life, new un-
derstanding, illumined inspiration and protection to all
who recognize and give expression to it. This is one
explanation of the mantra: "Thy banner over me is
love."
While cosmically the Chariot of Fire descends for
the purification, inumimition and regeneration of man-
kind as a whole pnly every 2,000 years, as it is doing
today, yet the rays of its power descend individually
to every heart that attunes itself to the Divine Flame,
no matter how intellectually ignorant or sorrowful or
hopeless that one may be. In fact, it is more often
such so-called simple Souls who are apt to call down
the Fire of the Lord and recognize the touch of the
196 EVOLUTION AND ra BIBLE
Divine Flame than those who have attained great in-
tellectual development and high position in the world
at the expense of their heart qualifies. For to enter
the Chariot of Fire we do not need to scale mountains
of learning or delve deep into the relics of ancient
lore thru ponderous tomes of other men's thoughts,
thru expressions of wisdom suitable for bygone ages
but not for today, nor seek wisdom among the dead
and outgrown conceptions of ancient schools of
thought, seeking the ever-living Flame among the
ashes of the past. We can enter the Chariot by light-
ing the Flame within our own hearts here and now.
There is a well-known yet very primitive song, the
refrain of which is quoted at the head of this lesson,
"Swing low, sweet chariot, comin' for to carry me
home." Tlis song deeply touches the hearts of most
persons. Its simple faith, its primitive pathos and
plaintive melody awaken in them a vibration or
vague memory of something only too apt to be
pushed aside as childish or mere imagination. It
touches the emotions because it awakens a Soul-cry
from the depths of the human heart; the cry of a
Soul lost in the desert of the outer material life; the
cry to be carried back to Its real home, Its spiritual
home.
This Chariot that we ask to swing low is the
mighty on-rushing power of the Shekinstli, the invisible
manifestation of the three-fold Godhead; a living
power that descends from the Throne of God, into
whose current of fiery force we seek to step, there to
GODTHE CHARIOT OF FIRE 197
rest in its wondrous power, be comforted by its tender
love and be renewed by its mighty strength, be our
path or condition in the outer life what itinay.
When things of the outer life no longer satisfy and
former friends fail us, if we cry out from our hearts,
"Swing low, sweet Chariot," the mighty God-love sends
down a Ray of this Chariot into our hearts to lift us up
to the heart of the Divine Mother, the Comforter,
whose tender Love can wipe away all tears, all sorrow,
all trace of sin from our consdonsn.qc, leaving the
Great Law as Karma to work out the outer adjust-
ment. For what is Karma but the working out of
mistakes by giving the Soul a new opportunity, thru
drawing a new breath of Life, to face and solve the
tne problems it failed to solve or to conquer the
temptations to which it yielded before, with the new
strength and understanding gained by a sojourn in
the home of Love, between incarnations?
Once we learn, as all ultimately must, that the Fire
of the Lord is but the outbining of that Divine Radi-
ance destined to consume all evil, purify the good and
transmute the dross Into pure gold, we have learned
one of our chief lessons in life. How eagerly then
will we cry out, "Swing low, sweet Chariot"! For we
realize that it is the living Cloud of Glory which sur-
ruundsthealtaroftheMostHlgb;wbichliftsup
the hearts of all desolate ones out of mortalsight;
which can lift us, the Real Inner Self, out of the
physical body for the time being, out of all sordid
physical conditions and carry us home, home, where
198 EVOLUTION AND TIth BIBLE
we can kneel in the great Temple of the Sun of Suns
while the living Flame licks around our empty bodies
and purifies, refines and glorifies them.
Then the Chariot becomes not a consuming fire from
which we shrink back appalled, but the mighty Flame
of God-love burning in the hearts of all who can recog-
nize it as the warming, life-giving Fire of Love. It
comes to us on the wings of the great Bird of Life at
ourcafl; foritisrealLifetoallwholaydownthe
burdens of self and the attractions of the world and
cry out to be taken to their real home where they can
see Gqd face to face, not after death, but here and
now.: Then the Chariot of Fire fills us with enthusi-
asm instead of fear; with burning zeal to do the will
of the Father; with eager desire to help on the work
of the rniim;mtion and regeneration of hnmtnity; a
willingness that the Flame shall burn from us all per-
sonal faults and failings, whether it carries us into the
thickest of the fray or into the desolate deserts of life.
Once we have entered into this Chariot all our facul-
ties and God-powers are stimulated and begin to
unfold. No longer is our intellect coldly analytical
and critical, but Rniing with love which mÍk our
words of cheer and comfort burn into the hearts of
our hearers. It fills us with life and strength and
vigor. Henforth life is real and earnest, for the
Chariot of Fire has carried us borne, to our true spirit-
ual home, to the heart of the Divine. The spiritual
home of each Soul is not the old-fashioned idea of a
pslm..singing, innocuous bliss where we loaf our time
GODTith CHARIOT OF FIRE 199
away in idleness, but is that higher spiritual conscious-
ness in which we realize the reason for our existence;
realize our real place in life and our true work to ac-
complish in the world, both within ourselves and within
our environment, no matter in what outer circum-
stances we may find ourselves and no matter what
outer trials and difficult experiences we may have to
pass thrq. When we understand this how gladly will
we cry, "Swing low, sweet Chariot, so low that I may
step in, that Thy mighty power may carry me home
to the heart of God where I can see my place and my
part in the Divine Plan and gain the power of the
Flame to accomplish it."
Thus must the Chariot of Fire ever swing low at the
call of the Soul, so close to Earth that It can carry
home those children of Earth who are ready. For only
those who have been carried home and been filled
with Divine Love can in their turn pour out that Love
for the help of niiinlrind; to touch their hearts, bring
hope to the discouraged and comfort and cheer to the
sorrowing. For this worldGod's world which He
loves with a mighty yearning to savecan never be
saved by cold intellectuality, by sarcasm or pompos-
ity or by great dnim or the suggestion of "I am holier
than thou. I am the Chosen One, hence know it all."
God does not say to His children, "Kneel down before
me and worship at my feet." God does not say, "Gaze
upon me and be abased, for I am mighty and you are
insignificant." Rather does God say, "You are my
loved children, made In my Image and after my like-
200 EVOLUTION AND ThE BIBLE
ness." And what is this image' and likeness? It
certainly is not the outer body of flesh and blood, but
is the inner three-fold Flame of Divinity bidden
within the secret rhinaber of our hearts; the Power of
the Father, the Love of the Mother and the Light of
the Christos combined into a three-fold Flame. It
may be but like a babe in a cradle, covered up for a
time perhaps, unknown and unsuspected, yet vitally
alive and capable of being uncovered and developed;
capable of awakening in us Divine Realization and
proving to us that we are Divine; capable of taking
control of our minds and guiding our lives if only
recognized and obeyed.
'See Chapur xix, berein.
HAF1tR m
GOD
PART III. THE CURISTOSTHE SON
'Tor God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten
Son, that whosoever believeth In him should not perish, but
have everlasting life." St. John, lii, 16.
'Afl things are delivered unto me of my Father: and no
man knoweth the Son but the Father; ni4f1.r knoweth any
man the Father, save the Son, and hi to whonssoiver the Son
saW reveal HÎ.*." St. Matthew, 4 27.
In our first lesson on God we considered Him as a
three-fold Flame, the three persons of the Trinity.
We also considered Him as the Father, the Creative
Power which projected ali tliingu into vnnnifestation:
that Power which becomes the transmuting and con-
suming Fire of the Lord for all forms when their cycle
of nannifestation has ended. In the second lesson we
considered God as the Divine Mother, the Chariot of
Fire, which in infinite love and tenderness is sent down
into ninning and sorrowing hmnnnity as the Com-
forter who wekomes to Her bosom all who will look
up and recognize Her and step into Her Chariot, and
who will carry them back to their real home, the lov-
ing Heart of Divinity. There they will be comforted,
refreshed and taught of God. There they will hear
201
202 EVOLUTION AND Tkth BIBLE
Him say, 'Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no
more."
In this lesson we will consider God in His third
aspect, the Christos, the only begotten Son who is sent
forth to manifest in hnmtn form because of the crying
need of His ignorant children for a new realization of
the meaning of EmmtnueI or "God with us," a man!.
festation of God which they can see and touch and
hear with their physical senses.
While we consider God thus under three aspects
for explanatory purposes we must remember that these
three are one, just as we may consider a man as a
kind father watching over, protecting and providing
for his children; and the same man in loving, tender
oneness with his wife, the mother of his children, the
home-maker and comforter, whose loving sympathy
helps him to forget the cares and worries of the day
and whose love, like a Chariot of Fire, carries him into
the peace and comfort of the home where his heart is;
and the same man as a dutiful and obedient son gladly
following in the footsteps of a wise and loving father
whom he reveres. These three markedly different
aspects are not three different men, only three different
aspects of the same man immifested to meet differ-
ent needs and conditions. Just so are the three per-
sons of the Trinity three aspects of the one God.
it is very significant that the word begotten is used
in the Nicene Creed when referring to the Son: "Be-
gotten of the Father . . . begotten, not made, of one
substance with the Father, by whom all things were
GODTIlL! CHRISTOS 203
made." This gives the correct, transcendental and
cosmic view of the Son as a Divine Being; not a mere
mortal who became Illumined, but the universal Prin-
ciple of Divine Light and Life, the Christos.' "In him
was life; and the life was the light of men." This
spiritual Son bears to hnmanity somewhat the same
relation that the physical Sun bears to the planet; for
just as the Sun is the source of all physical light and
heat for die whole planet, so does the spiritual Son
fill with warmth and spiritual light everyone who is
born into the world, whether they recognize and re-
spond to that light or not.
This is the Christ-seed which is planted in the soil
of every heart Aitho it may lie dormant, unrecog-
nized and nnminfested for a long time, some day in
some incarnation there is bound to come a spiritual
Springtime when this Christ-seed ivill begin to put
out shoots and grow and mnnifest in the life and con-
sciousness.
Hence, no one can say be or she is left out because
so humble and insignificant, any more than the hum-
blest weed in the garden is left out of the suncMne
because it is not a cultivated flower. All creation was
intended to work in harmony with and minister to the
evolution of 4ts crowning achievement, man, that he
might awaken to the Light of the ChrIstos within him
"and have dominion over. . . every living thing that
moveth upon the earth."
2For a fuller explanation a Chapter xlv, "Jesus and the
Christ," In L.Um free, the Teether, Curtiss, Vol. Ii.
204 EVOLUTION AND TIth BIBLE
Note how the Power of the Father has provided for
every need of His children: every wholesome thing
to furnish us food, and healing essences of herb and
mineral provided ages in advance for all possible fu-
ture ills. Note how the Love of the Divine Mother
provides the beauties of flower and tree and sky and
sea to thrill us with joy and happiness: how She
comforts us with Her tender Love as a mother nestles
her babe over her heart Every mother who bears
a child carries it in a Chariot of Fire close to her
heartuntil it is ready to enter the sphere of its life in
the outer world, there to partake of the blessings so
bountifully provided. Just so does the Divine Mother
carry us in Her Chariot of Firethe Divine Womb
until we are born spiritually and are willing and eager
to take up the work given us by the Father. Note
how the Light of the Son illmnin.s our mind, expands
our consciousness and enlarges our capacity both to
comprehend that Light and to use all things in the
outer life to manifest His glory.
Go out in the early morning, alter a long drouth has
been broken by a copious rain during the night, and
see how the earth rejoices in its refreshbig. See how
the Sun shines forth as a benison of love, and thrill
at the miracle that has bloomed forth from what but
yesterday was a desolate waste of dry and withered
foliage. Then realize that the uprnhing of the canie
life-force of the Christos which has wrought such a
miracle, when merely diffused throughout Nature, can
perform a still greater miracle when focused in us.
GODm1 CHRISTOS 205
For we are so far advanced beyond all other forms in
Nature that the Christ light and life is individualized
in us and can therefore unfold in and through us the
pattern of the Inner Self, the Divine Man.
Realize that to the degree that we respond to the
urge of the Christ within will It illumine our entire be-
ing, opening the tiny buds of the Christ-consciousness
in usso often lying concealed and dormant in the
sacred centers of our bodiesjust as the Sun opens the
hidden sprouts of the rose until they push out from
a seemingly dead branch, first as buds so tiny, then, as
they drink in the rain and absorb the Sun, gradually
unfold and begin to show their color until the rose
fin2Ily becomes a thing of beauty, and the essence of
its heart perfumes the air to the joy of all. This is
a marvelous lesson for man to learn; for, just as the
physical life-force unfolds the centers of the rose to
the perfection of its inner pattern, so can the spiritual
life-force of the Son of God unfold in us the Image
of God, with all the gifts, faculties and powers which
the Father has built into man's divine pattern.
All these God-powers are built into our bodies as
seeds of Christhood, hidden in the seven sacred cen-
ters, but they remain undeveloped until the outer man
begins to tecognize and correlate with the Christ within.
Then these germs of divinity begin p sprout and put
forth, and ultimately uiifold the Image of God within
until we are able to demonstrate thai we are Sons of
God. "The spirit itself beareth witness with our
spirit, that we are children of God; and if children,
206 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
then heirs: heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ."
This is the only way safely to unfold these sacred
centers; to grow as the flower grows. To open them
forcibly or prematurely thru special exercises, is like
tearing open the bud of the rose.
In the allegorical language of the Bible these sacred
centers in the body constitute the manger or those
centers of life-force to which the animal nature comes
for its food, but in the midst of which the Christ is
laid at the moment of His birth, or when the realiza-
tion of the Christ takes place within our conscious-
ness. This unfoldment is the fruit of the Tree of Life
spinal cordplanted in the midst of our Gar-
den, thru which, if we "feed on it in our hearts with
prayer and thinlrsgiving," we shall attain eternal
life.
To unfold these centers of Christ-force we do not
have to turn our backs upon the beauties of Nature
or forego all the happiness and joys of life with which
God has surrounded us, and the faculties for whose en-
joyment God has built into our mind and body. Much
less do we have to despise the wonderful body God has
given us or starve and abuse the flesh and crucify our-
selves with false conceptions of God's Love and His
desires for us which were thought necessary during
the Dark Ages, any more than we have to follow the
opinions of the Dark Ages now in other fields of life.
Nor do we have to go thru the years of self-immola-
tion, cruel torture and degradation which many ancient
'Roma*r, vii, 16-17.
GODTHE CHRISTOS 207
teachings hold is the only true preparation for Christ-
hood.
For the true mystic there is no elaborate cere-
monial needed, no wearisome series of exercises and
difficult mental concentration necessary; only a con-
stant permitting of his love to flow to the Christ because
he cannot help it: only a lifting up of the Christ
out of the manger where He is now hidden and where
the food for the nninitl man is now doubly blessed
because He has manifested in the midst of it. Then
we must unwrap the swaddling dothes and hold Him
aloft and cry aloud: "Oh, Lord Christ, Thou art the
source of my life, my light, my wisdom and my joy.
Thou art the power which shall unfold my conscious-
ness to realize Thy presence so I can manifest Thy
glory to the world. Unto Thee I dedicate my atoms,
my body, my mind, my service, my life forevermore.
Amen." The real)zation of the Christvithin is the
work for each individual heart, but the embodiment of
the Christos in human form is,a work for hum2nity
as a whole.
If we strive to unfold our mysth centers for their
own sake, for the sake of gaining super-normal pow-
ers; if we force their development thru concentration,
breathing exercises, negative "sitting for development"
with the aid of discarnate astral beings, the centers
thus unfolded will admit us only into the astral or
psychic world. But when we seek their unfoldment
as thannels for service to and the manifestation of
208 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
the Christ within then they admit ns into the Christ-
consciousness and the spiritual world.
Just as the Sun, when shining upon fertile soil well
supplied with waterthe love-force in Naturewill
bring forth perfect fruit, so will the Son, the Spiritual
Sun, shining in our heartsif we open our conscious-
ness to its radiance and water them with the tenderness
of lovebring forth the perfect fruit of the Christ-
seed implanted within all. For he who realizes God in
his heart, God in his mind, God in his body, has health
and strength and understanding and ilJumintioû and
contentment. These are those who find that they do
not have to separate themselves from life to find the
Christ; who do not need learned tearthers, nor abstruse
treatises, nor mysterious, hidden teachings handed
down from long-past ages when the study of higher
truths was pnnisbible by torture and hence they were
taught only thru mysterious symbols and allegories:
teachings which held that mn1cind was too wicked to
live among, hence those who were ready for higher
truths must withdraw into retreats, must sacrifice all
that was beautiful and joyous in life and become ab-
normal. That is not the path of the mystic.
As we enter this new Aquarian Age all that Is neces-
sary is to come, first into an understanding and then
into a re»lizatlon of the Son of God, the beloved Christ
which has been within us and seeking for recognition
from the beginning. All we need to do is to realize,
morning, noon and night, that God is Love, God is
Light, God Is Life, and that this three-fold God is
GODTHE CHRISTOS 209
within us, even though as yet unborn to our conscious
realizttion. Let us say to ourselves: "I will take this
babe, now wrapped in the hampering swaddling clothes
of misconception and misunderstanding, now called by
names that are not His own, who is looked upon by
hmminity as something to be hidden and 1itmed of
or only half expressed, and I will lift Him up in mys
consciousness and support and protect Him with the
strength of a father who would that his child become
a useful and important citizen. I will cherish Him
with Ihe tenderness of a mother who suckles her babe
at her breast."
Isthisdifficulttodo? Itdoesnotrequireasage
or a yogi to understand it. It is so simple that man-
kind has almost lost sight of it under the clouds of
theology that have gathered around it. For the
learned ones have cried: "Give me something mysti-
cal, something great! Tell me bow to climb the
heights, not how to seek in a manger! Tell me how
to trample upon or drive out the nnimzl from the
stable (the natuial functions of the body). Tell me
how to mortify the flesh that I may attain spiritual-
ityl" Theyhave striven to repress all joy in life and
have strivçn to become beggars and hermits. They
have said to themselves, "Here am i in the midst of
a wicked world." And then they have helped to m'tke
it more wicked by separating the gift from the Giver;
by throwing back into His face the Love given them
as a part of Himself; by refusing to enjoy the beau-
tiful world with which He has surrounded them and
210 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
the wonderful body He has proilded for their use.
As well might we strip the buds from a rose and ex-
pect it to bloom.
Let us stop and think who gave us this body, with
all its organs and functions. God Himself. And
surely He did not give it to us to be despised and
abused, but to be used as a vehicle, a physical instru-
ment that is absolutely necessary if the Christ within
is to manifest thru us in Earth conditions. For this
body of ours contains centers thru which we can con-
tact and ultimately express all the God-faculties and
God-powers which wethe Real or Spiritual Self
inherit as sons and daughters of God, created in His
image and after His likeness. If it were not that we
must ultimately manifest these higher faculties and
powers there would have been no need for such centers
to have been built into the body. These sacred cen-
ters are like buttons on our outer garments (bodies)
which button us dose to the body of God. They are
like closed eyes which we must open to see the glory of
God; like gates which open into the Holy Temple, thru
which we may enter into His everlasting life and joy;
like conduits thru which His life, His love, His realiza-
tion and power can flow to us for manifestation in our
lives. This is the work to be accomplished in each
heart and in hnminity as a whole, namely, the realiza-
tion and manifestation of the presence of the Christ.
Ew1i Soul born into Earth life is a coal of fire,
destined ultimately to be laid upon the altar of the
Most High, either gladly thru his own recognition of
GODTki CHRISTOS 211
the Light that lighteth everyone who cometh into the
world, and swallowed up in the Love, giving up its
life in eagerness to help serve and save humanity, or
else, when purified thru suffering in many lives, after
falling back like a dead cinder when it chose to glow
and shine for itself alone, it finds its true place as
willing server of the Christ and humanity. Age after
age have we tried and made some measure of advance.
Age after age have we heard the call of the Christ:
'Listen to the Voice of God! Listen to the little Voice
that spealcs within and obey. Respond to the Love
which is Divine. Realize that God is Love: that
there is no other God but the one God of Love. Thru
Love is the advance of the Race brought about. Seek
ye to find and manifest it truly."
In training children modern tecl'ers have found it
best not to emphasize their faults and threaten punish-
ment, but to have them concentrate on that which is
good and true and beautiful and constructive. And
that is God's method. He tries to save His children
from mistakes and their consequent suffering by hav-
ing them realize the majesty and power of the Father,
the beauty and Love of the Mother and the Light and
life of the Son. Instead of accusing them of their igno-
rance and their faults and pointing out His superiority,
He not only Illumines His chosen ones, but every
2,000 years He sends His only begotten Sonnot a
mortalthe Light of the World, down to Earth to
mingle among the poorest and least learnedfor they
are of an open mind and a warm heartto enlighten
212 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
them and by His aniple show them how to climb the
heights of spiritual attainment and step Into the
Chariot of Fire.
Since Nature, as a material expression of God, re-
ceives a new influx of life and power of expression in
matter every Spring, there must also be higher and
more spiritual expressions or outbreathings of God
which also manifest periodicallÿ and cyclically. For,
just as the rise of the Sun each Spring denotes the
beginning of a new year in Nature, so does the rise of
the Spiritual Sun every 2,000 years mark the begin-
ning of a New Age for humanity: at this time the
beginning of the great Aquarian Age. If we see the
physical Sun rise from the southern hemisphere every
Spring to pour out or sacrifice its life-force that the
Individual forms of life in Nature may have a renewed
expression, we may well believe the world-old teach-
ing that there is a Spiritual Sun which also rises
periodically to bring to the spiritual life of humanity
a period of renewed activity, growth and expression.
Today we stand on the brink of a new and wonder-
ful manifestation, a new demonstration that God is
Love, a Love so great that again He is to send to man-
kind an embodiment of the Cosmic Christos: is to
send "his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth
in Him, should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn
the world; but that the world thru him might be
saveL"
'St. Joha, III, 16-fl.
GODTIlE CHRISTOS 213
Today, as of old, once more are the heavens
openedour higher understandingand the angels
are broadcasting their joyous song to rminlind.
"Glory to God in the highest, and on Earth [and in
the Earth and in the hearts of mencreated in His
Imagebe] peace, good will." Many advanced and
illumined mortals may announce His coming and pro-
claim His message of Divine Love, but no mortal
born of woman can be "He who is to come." For the
Son of God is not a mortal, but the manifestation of a
Divine and Celestial Being in human form: God
Himself manifesting in the flesh.'
He can continue to come to mankind as He does
today, unseen by man, and walk the streets and im-
press The minds of those who are capable of listening
and responding, but Be would do more. The day is
dawning near when there must be a descent into physi-
cal manifestation, where He can demonstrate that
theophania and theopneusty' or the manifestation of
God to men is not merely an age-old teaching, attested
to by the Initiates of all ages, but a practical fact and
the most reasonable thing in the world, and following
the universal Law of Manifestation' or the materiali-
zation of the invisible into the visible.
Those who seek the coming of the Son of God to
Tnanlcind must realize that they must first awaken the
'For details sae letters from the Teacher, Vol. ii, Cnrths Chapter
XLv.
'For details see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtbs, 13.
'Refer to Chapter in, herein.
214 EVOLUTION AND TilE BIBLE
Christ-consciousness in the cradle of their own hearts.
And there must be at least a handful who can accom-
plish this without separating themselves from the
world; for He must manifest in the world, and not
merely in selected retreats far from the haunts of men,
even though He may not walk the streets publidy. By
remaining in the world we can form a Cup or Chalice,
a Holy Grail, which can be so filled with the living
presence of the Godhead that His only begotten Son
can come to Earth in a Chariot of Fire and manifest
to all the world for its. enlightenment, comfort and
salvation.
APTER X
THE IMAGE OF GOD
"And God said, Let us make man In o Iaaje, after enr
So God created man in ble own Image, In the
Image of God created he him; male and female created be
them." Gonad,, 1, 26-27.
"All things were made by Im; sad 'wthont him was not
anything made that was made. In him was life; and the life
was the light of men. AM the lt sMneth in the daxknem;
and the darkness compzrhiwteA It " g John, I, 3-5.
"As we have borne the Image of the earthy, we shall abe
bear the image of the hcavenlyP I Cothdhksg, xv, 49.
At this particular time we hear much about the so-
called New Age, yet few realize that we have now
entered into this new Aquarian Age. Nor do they
understand the chief characteristics of this New Age
and the mighty unfoidments it is destined to bring to
both humtnty and the planet. The chief character-
istic of the New Age, as it turns a new page in the
Book of Life, is that it ushers in a particular era of
spiritual understanding, a new and greater comprehen-
sion of Divine Truth; the Age in which "there is noth-
ing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that
shall not be known." Therefore, let us lay a founda-
tion for this new understanding by going back to the
215
216 EVOLUTION AND Tfi BIBLE
beginning of things. For time is like a huge mill-wheel
the Mill of the Godsforever turning round and
round, and its movement men call the Flight of Time.
As the planet is swept on into new regions in space,
every revolution (Age) of this mighty Wheel of Time
brings up some universal and world-old truth and
grinds out or emphasizes some new aspect or under-
standing of it.
The farmer gathers the grain from what seemed be-
fore its cultivation and planting to be but barren
ground, yet he scarcely gives a thought to the tremen-
dous miracle by which the inert and inorganic soil is
transmuted into food for man. Doubtless the Cave-
man who first found grain good to eat was content to
feed on the wild grain as he found it. But soon the
advisability of crushing it was understood, and finUy
the mill-wheel, turning tirelessly round and round, was
given the task of niairing it into flour as food for man.
Similarly did the early Races of nannirbid nqsmilate
their spiritual food direct from the Divine. But as
the power of reason developed, direct cognition of
Truth became so obscured by the rapidly developing
intellect that only a remnant was left as intuition, so
that the grain of spiritual Truth had to be ground ere
man's intellect could understand and pcshnilate it.
In the beginning, when man was but a child, like
an earthly father God saw that his needs were pro-
vided for, but when he became a man and was given
free-will and personal responsibility he bad to put
away childish things and learn to provide for himself.
THE IMAGE OF GOD 217
Thus in the mighty Mill of the Gods does the Wheel
of Timeas illustrated in the zodiacas cycles after
cycles silently succeed each other, grind the grain of
Truth finer and finer, at each turn n1&ing it more
aimilable for our spiritual natures to feed upon.
HowtrulydidJesussay: "Ihavemeattoeatthatye
know not of.. . . My meat is to do the will of Him
that sent me, and to finish his work."1 This is the
food of which iminkind knows so little, although it is
made up of the vital grains of Truth which were given
him in the beginning. And this spiritual "meat" man
must some day find, eat and accimilate that he may
build its strength and power into his character as
spiritual growth.
As the Wheel slowly turns and generation succeeds
generation, some there be who heed the turns of the
Wheel and note that at each great revolution or Age
the old truths and old ideas given iminirind so long ago
are being ground finer and finer, and new and mighty
bidden aspects of them are being revealed as the old
outer husks of material conceptions and interpreta-
tions, necessary, perhaps, hi less enlightened ages, are
being crushed and discarded and the fine flour of their
inner meaning is being revealed for the spiritual nour-
ishment of the hiimtnty of the New Age. Thus do
we gain a new concept of the truth back of the an-
dent poetic aphorism:
"Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind
-small;
'St. Joku, iv, 32-4.
218 EVOLUTION AND TUE BIBLE
Though with patience He stands waiting, with ex-
actness grinds He all."
As thIs mighty Wheel slowly begins its revolution
for this New Age, let us primine the most fundamental
tesilling given us about man, i.e., that God made man
in His own image. And surely, as the Wheel thms
and the Light of the Spiritual Sun illumines us with a
new understanding, we will see the former grains of
Truth arranging themselves into a new presentation of
this fundamental idea. For no one who thinks seri-
ously believes that the outer and physical form of man
is the Image of God. Even so-called Super-man is
far from being the Image of God, unless we reduce our
idea of God to the anthropomorphic conception of but
a magnified and glorified man.
An image is generally considered to be a more or
less symbolic representation of some great truth or
idea, fashioned and carved in such a way as to ideal-
ize some hidden or mystical truth or conception which
those who study the image must think out and grasp.
And it is this inner truth or Divine Reality, mystically
bidden in man, that is the Image of God. This is
equally true from Cave-man to Super-man.
This mysterious Imsge of God in man was fash-
loned as the crowning achievement of manifestation in
this world of ours, which was created as a new field
of action in which man, thru the learning of many
new and most important lessons not possible on other
planets, should learn to manifest that Image. Indeed,
THE IMAGE OF GOD 219
tills Image was created male and female for this very
purpose. As the Light of Intuition illumines this idea
we should stop and think why such emphasis was
placed upon this point; for the fact of sex would not
be so emphasized were it not a fundamental feature,
and the greatest of all lessons, man came to tbs planet
to work put and learn.
In the higher spiritual realms both the masculine and
feminine aspects of the Image (Soul) were contained
unseparated within the one spiritual, egg-shaped aura.
But wheil the time came for this spiritual Image to
descend into and manifest in matter it had to have an
instrument formed out of the substan or "dust" of
the Earth thru which to contact and function on
Earth. And when fully materialized, this form had to
come under the law of the physical plane, the Law of
Duality, and manifest in separate organisms, male and
female. Hence it has taken the Divine Image count-
less ages and innumerable incarnations to evolve a
body that could even partially yet progressively ex-
press ever new and higher aspects of the Image or
Spiritual Self. For, like the Earth itself, the body,
while a beautiful and wondrous mechanism, was not
and still is not, a perfected and finhed product. Even
yet, after all these ages of evolution, man has as many
hidden mysteries to unfold within himself as has the
Earth within itself. And the Earth reveals her mys-
teries to dian only as he develops the capacity to
understand, and learns the corresponding lessons
within himself.
220 EVOLUTION AND ThE BIBLE
In the early stages of spiritual unfoldniant this
Image of God is like a babe wrapped in swaddling
clothes, yet predestined to manifest in and thru man,
miking him "as one of us, knowing good and evil."
As the masculine and femhine types of mind look at
things from different angles, each must create after.
his or her own way of tbin1ng their individual reali-
zatlon of the Image of God within and strive to bring
It forth in their lives.
As the Wheel of Time grinds on it finds much chaff
and, from the hopperful of certain periods, seemingly
little flour, yet even the chaff is the outer husk of the
grain. And as the chaff, wheil spread upon the ground
or when reduced to ashes, helps to fertilize the ground,
so with the chaff ground out in man's evolution.
Those who cannot and will not accept and follow the
laws of spiritual growth and unfoldment, and those
who persist in evilopposition to the Lawas the
Wheel of Life grinds on are ground out as the chaff of
hmntnity from those who represent the flour, because
the latter are striving to work with the Law, helping
make smooth the way of understanding and helping
to feed niinklnd with spiritual food. In other words,
with the ushering in of this new Aquarian Age the time
has come when those who are spiritually unevolved
and those who refuse to work with God's Law in spite
of all the teachings and helps which' God has given
them, will not be permitted to incarnate again until
those who are advanced and faithful to the Law have
had an opportunity to reach a certain advanced stage
Tkth IMAGE OF GOD 221
of spiritual unfoIihnnt, unhampered by the undevel-
oped and slothful ones. The latter, however, are not
neglected, but for a certain cycle remain in other
re2lm, much as incorrigible children might be shut
away from their law-abiding companions in a special
school or reformatory until they had learned the
needed lessons.
Aitho man brings much inharmony and evil Into the
world, thru his misuse of the materials and forces
created by God which man should use to fashion an
Eden of peace and harmony, nevertheless all inbr-
mony and evil is but temporary; Is but the irritating
chaff which must be separated from the flour, for only
that which is in harmony with Divine Law can endure.
What could be a plainer answer to the oft-repeated
question that since we can conceive of God as creating
only good, how came evil Into the world? God spake
the word and created a world of beauty and harmony
because He spake according to the laws of beauty and
harmony. Man also speaks words which are creating
his world, not only his world within, but his general
atmosphere, his conditions in life and his environment.
And he has to live in that world of his own creation.
If his words have not been constructive, If they have
not been spoken according to the laws of beauty and
harmony, then he finds hmce1f living in a world of
self-created lhharmony which he cäfls evil. And he
must suffer in his self-made world of inharmony until
be learns how to create his true world of beauty and
harmony.
222 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
The very fact that man can create such a world is
proof, that man is created in the Image of God with
the God-given power to create a world of beauty, har-
mony and joy if he will. And be must keep on incar-
nating again and again and reaping the results of his
creations until he learns to create in the Image of
God and not in the image of man.
But if man has created all the evil, sin, sickness and
death from which he suffers, how did be get the power
todoso? AsasonofGod,crèatedinflislmage,he
has as much power as the Wheel has to grind the flour
from out the golden grain and cast the chaff aside.
And as the chaff can be utilized either to bring forth
better crops or can be piled in a useless or harmful
heap, so with man's mistakes and evil creations. They
can be turned to good if he learns the lessons from
the suffering which they bring or they can accumulate
as a great burden which bumpers his evolution until
consumed by the Fire of the Law as the karmic suf-
fering which he must reap, both for himself and for
the world into which he has sent it forth and whose
aura he has tainted with such creations. But out of
the ashis 2 such experiences, in humility and sorrow,
will he gradually bring forth a better and higher un-
derstanding of Divine Law and the Divine Love which
is back of seemingly stern exact justice.
At present that Divine Life which pours iliru us
from the Image of God within, and which St. John
tells us is "the light of men," is the true Spiritual
'St. Johi,, I.
Th IMAGE OF GOD 223
Light which, aitho shining within each Soul born into
the world, is obscured by the darkness of man's in-
harmony, selfishness, disobedience and wrong think-
ing, and "the darkness comprehended it not." Never-
theless, the "life that is the light of men" is still
shining in every heart. But only as man believes this
and asks for help to comprehend and utilize it can
the darkness which hides the Light, like a depse, chill-
ing fog, be dispelled. The Bible sets forth the funda-
mental truths concerning the Image of God and its
Light, and God has given to man the light of reason
with which it Is his duty to analyze, understand, and
make use of thesç truths for himself and all the world,
andnotcryoutforGodtodoitforhim. For,since
each Soul has the "life that is the light of men," each
has at least a spark of understanding which it is his
privilege and duty to fan and expand into a steady
glowing Light which shall illumine his pathway thru
life. Hence man has the power to dissipate the dark-
ness if he will and create a new world for himself.
But, alas, many cry out that the darkness grows
blacker and more dense the more they strive. How
can they see and comprehend, since they were born
into such hampering and limiting Earth conditions?
We must remember that this darkness and these ham-
pering conditions arc the result of our lack of accom-
plishment inthis and past lives during which we
created darkness rather than Light. We find ourselves
in such conditions not as a punishment, but as the best
conditions in which to learn our lessons and unfold
224 EVOLUTION AND ThE BIBLE
the lacking qualities and powers necessary to innifest
the Image of God. For if we will not learn by precept
we must learn by experience. If we refuse to follow
the Divine Law, as set forth by the Great Teachers of
all ages, we must be allowed to find out for ourselves
that unless we use God's gifts as they were intended
to be used we will bring only disappointment, sorrow
and suffering upon ourselves. This Divine Life can
ln2nifest either as a radiant Light leading us onward
and upward or as a fire consuming the chaff which we
have neglected or refused lo dispose of or upon which
we are trying to feed instead of the flour; for we must
- all reap the results of our own creations.
Many have sat down beside the chaff, as the mighty
Wheel grinds out the golden grain, and wondered at
the darkness caused by the dust of is continual show-
ers. Many have made their abiding place in the chaff,
which they call worldly suess or pleasure or self-
aggrandizeni.ntor wealth, because the flakes of chaff
have a golden glitter as they float for the moment in
the snnIliiae as they fall to earth. But when the world
they have built for tliemelves from the chaff grows
old and mouldy, or when the storms beat upon it and
it dissolves in a viscid mass about them and engulfs
them, they bitterly bewail their fate and cry out that
there can be no Image of God within, no Divine Law
or Divine Love, or their world would not be allowed
to get in such a condition. But they forget that while
the substance of the outer conditions (the chaff) was
THE IMAGE OF GOD 225
created by God and should be used to fertilize their
growth and make pleasant and comfortable and hap
their sojourn here on Earth, it was not made for their
permanent abiding place.
While we must live in the world we musi noi iden-
tify ourselves with it or allow it and its concerns to
occupy the supreme place in our consciousness and
life. We should endeavor to use all things and con-
ditions for His glory, to bring forth the Image of God
that is within us and allow it to manifest and Illumine
our lives. We must never blame God for our limita..
lions or our failures, for we alone are to blame. Once
we realize this fundnvntal truth we con-
sciously to redeem our failures and overcome our
limitations by seeking to let the Light of the Image
shine forth; for as long as we have life we have the
Light of God and His power of creativeness within
us.
Since this Image of God is not only the Light of
men, but is also the source of our physical life, it has
built into our very flesh centers or avenues for the
manifestation of all the God-powers and possibilities
which we inherit as Sons of God. He has given us a
mind .with the power of reaching up to the God-
consciousness, as well as to regulate wisely all the af-
fairs of our outer life toward the ultimate outshining
of His Image:/Like the triple Light from which it
sprang and like the triple light of the EarthSun,
Moon andstarsthis nihd of ours is three-fold in its
226 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
aspects: 'the Super-conscious (Sun), Rational (stars),
and Sub-conscious (Moon) mind God also created
man with many other centers of expression, each of
which is three-fold in its nature: one aspect to rule
the physical and bring about peace, harmony and
perfect health and happiness: one to bring him into
conscious touch with the Divine, and one to radiate
the Light, Life and Power of the Image within Thus
is man a trinity of Light which is capable of so man!-
festing in his life as to be a lamp unto my feet, and
a light unto my path," the Path of Illumination and
Attainment
How are we to gain this unfoldment and Illumina-
tion? Not by laboriously practicing various exercises
which are said to unfold centers which the vast major-
ity of persons are not ready to develop and whose
untimely stimulation in the unprepared presents grave
dangers, but by seeking to find and correlate with the
Image of God within, time Christ within our hearts,
and cultivate and radiate all that pertains to that heart
center, and thus create a world wherein love and the
Christ-power shall dominate. For have we not been
told: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto
you"?
Only as we learn to recognize the Christ which is
our life, our light and our guide, can we begin to
manifest the Image of God which is our Real, Divine
'For a full expiUon see The Key to the Uuiverse, Curdss,
259-62.
THE IMAGE OF GOD 227
Self. This can be accomplished, first by going di-
rectly to Him in prayer and aspiration and asking
daily and hourly for His guidance and help, and for
a realization of the truth of the axiom, "As a man
thinketh in his heart so is he." But it must be a
realization of the hearta realization which nothing
can disturb, and not mere affirmations of the head
a realization of the Image of God within
The second step is, thru His guidance and power,
to curb, control and, without despising, wisely use all
the physical centers, faculties and functions, realizing
that in their perfect functioning and wise use we are
obeying the will of God who created them to aid us
in manifesting His Image. For asthey are dominated,
controlled and used in a natural, normal and pure
minnet, their corresponding spiritual aspects will, in
due time, grow, develop and function normally with-
out being forced thru, direct concentration upon them.
The mòst rapid method of aiding this development is
to learn to express love, not love fashioned after man's
conceptionlove of possession, love of power, love of
self-indulgence, etc.for that holds within it the very
darknessselfishness, lust, jealousy, greed, etc.which
real Love is meant to vanquish. It is Divine Love
we must learn to understand and express if we are to
banish the darkness from our lives.
Only as we keep our minds and hearts fixed on the
idea that the end to be achieved is conscious union
The Prayer for Light and the Prayer to the Divine Indweller
are great helps.
228 EVOLUTION AND TilE BIBLE
with God, and tread the path in a normal but inspired
way, guided by the Light from His Image, can we
show by our lives how blessed is the Way, the Truth
and the Life. Thus can we lead others into the full-
ness of the out»clining of that Light and help them to
m2nifest the Image that is within them. The same
laws and processes we see exemplified in Nature, when
the Sun rises alter a night of darkness and when
Spring follows a desolate and bitter winter, are ful-
filled in ourselves. But we can hasten or retard the
dawn of the New Day and the coming of our spiritual
Springtime aording to our response or lack of re.
spouse to that Divine Life which is the Ligft of men
and the resulting mnffestation of the Image of God.
HAPER XX
EMMANUEL
"Behold a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a
son, and they shall call his name Vnim,nuel, which being
Interpreted is, God with us." S. Malt hew, 1, 23.
In these momentous times each awakened person-
ality, and the very Age itself, is passing though a
period when wonderful prophecies are being fulfilled.
Altho allegorically described in the Bible, ere this
Aquarian Age has turned many pages of its life his-
tory, many of the prophecies are destined to be actually
fulfilled.
As applied to himself the mystic interprets the story
of Jesus' life as set forth in the Gospels as an allegory
expkining the birth of the Christ-consciousness in each
heart when the proper stage of Soul-unfoldment is
reached, and the various stages of its manifestation
until the at-one-ment with the Father-in-heaven is at-
tained. It is this emanation of Divinity which lies
buried in the mystical heart-center of each human
being, like a seed in the ground, that must be quick-
ened and awakened from its dormant state by every
virgin heart, that is, by every heart that has been
purified and made ready for this mystical birth.
This law is illustrated in the passage, "The Holy
229
230 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the
Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that
holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called
the Son of God."1 Following out the old medieval
idea of there being something impure in sex, many
students have thought that this passage indicated that
there must be some mysterious way whereby a phys-
ical child could be generated without the use of the
sex function. But since a physical body cannot be
generated without a physical father it is evident that
this passage cannot refer to the generation of a phys-
ical body, but symbolizes the birth of the Christ-con-
sciousness in the heartsymbolized by Maryof all
who have reached the stage of spiritual unfoldment
where they can listen to the inner Voice and respond
to the overshadowing of the Holy Ghost (Mother)
and "the power of the Highest" (Father).1
The word translated virgin is almah, whose root
meaning is "hidden, secret, to conceal." As used in
the text it refers to "one who has never been seen by
man." Mystically interpreted the verse quoted at the
head of this chapter means, Behold, almiili or that
which is concealed, bidden, secret and never seen by
man, shall have a new conception and bring forth a
new and positive (male) m2nifestation of God within
us. The new manifestation is brought forth in the
concealed mystery-chiimber of the spiritual heart
where the Holy Ghost and the Power of the Highest
'SI. Lithe, 0, 3S.
1See Icon The ImINacwJaS. Coiscetiou, Cuiths.
EMMANUEL 231
shall unite to bring forth this new spiritual child whose
name shall be called Emmsmuel or God-within-us.
Altho this passage is usually connected with the
birth of Jesus, it is not properly so connected, for no-
where in the Bible was He ever called Emmmuel.
The prophecy was an announcement of the inevitable
result of the downpouring of the mighty Chjist-force
into the heart that has become virgin pure. /The name
Ejnanup1 therefore refers to the birth of the Christ-
consciousness within each heart, while the
Jesus refers to the manifestation to the world of that
Divine Consciousness which is phenomemilly embodied
in each Age in the person of the Avatar.'
In medieval days it was taught that to worship God
in heaven it was necessary to starve and mortify the
body and degrade as a tempter the God within. Those
misguided ones who followed that doctrine were thus
working directly against bringing forth the Pninitnuel
within them. But as the sweep of cosmic cycles brings
us closer to a renitvition of what the New Age con-
tains for us, and the few who have made their hearts
virgin pure see the Sign of the Son of Man in heaven
and the water-pot of Aquarius pouring out the mystic
Water of Life upon hitmitnity, their vision is mu-
mined, and within their longing hearts they feel the
stirring of a new life, like a babe quickening in its
mother's womb. They feel it struggling to cast off the
hampering swaddling clothes of the outer conscious-
'See "The Doctrine of Avatara," In The Voice oJ Isis Curtbs,
Chapter x.
232 EVOLUTION AND TILE BIBLE
ness, of misconception and misunderstanding. For
when they listen in the Silence they seem to hear a tiny
voice whispering: "I am the living Christ-seed planted
inyourheart. Buticangrowonlyasyounourishme
with your attention and water me with Divine Love.
I am divine even as my Father-in-heaven is divine, and
my presence makes you divine. I am immortal and
my life within you will mtlre you Immortal if you
'feed on me in your heart with prayer and th2n-
giving."
All who would bring forth this wonderful child Em-
manuel so long hidden within must seek Him so ear-
nestly and desire Him so ardently that th'e mystical
centers in which He dwells will be penetrated by and so
filled with aspiration and Christ-love that He will be
awakened from His long sleep. Then they will be so
filled with the overwhelming desire to find Him and
serve im that all their facultiesthe disciplesare
ready to leave all and follow Him. Thus will these
centers be stimulated and quickened and His growth
promoted.
Nothing anyone can do or say an help us to know -
1m.. No matter how Illumined a teacher may be he
can only tell us about Emmjinuel. To know Him for
ourselves He must be born within us and we must
correlate with Him, bring our problems to Him and
let Him guide our lives. It may be that we are born
with a strong sense of dutybrought over from a past
lifeto certain people or to a certain cause. And this
may tend to make us reluctant to cope with the duties
EMMANUEL 233
confronting us today. But we can safely leave the ad-
justment ol past Karma in the bands of the Lords
of Karma, knowing that they will inevitably find a
way for us to fulfill it. Often we fulfill it uncon-
sciously by our reailniss to take up the duty that lies
nearest.
Holding on to some fancied duty of the pasl only
makes our burden heavier, while doing the duty that
is plainly set before us in the present will lift the
burden and leave us free to take new steps onward.
If we believe that te should hold back from some
positive duty confronting us in this life because of
some unfulfilled duty or unlearned lesson of the past,
we should remember that the present day duties are
ours because of that past, hence the past duties an
best be worked out by resolutely fnlfillhig those of the
present.
A still greater mistake is to hold on toany old idea,
thought, habit or seeming duty that is hampering to
the growth and manifestation of the newly awakened
Christ-consciousness within. This is one of the most
important decisions life holds for us, and one which
each awakened Soul must decide for himself. For
many almost fear to believe that they have felt the
stir of the Christ within their hearts; that they have
seen His light or heard His.voice or felt the warmth
of His love within them. (yet we can always recog-
nize the inner guidance if we seek it, for with the
development of intuition and later the opening of our
mjstkceqtrs there comes a surety, a calm conviction
234 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
which quiets all doubts, even though we may not be
unfolded enough to bear the Inner Voice.)
This newly revealed spiritual consciousness or Em-
manuel gives to the entire body a new vibration, and
often a new sensation of glowing warmth, a new power
of endurance, a new realization that we are not alone,
nor weak, nor ignorant. We realize that the "Divinity
that shapes our ends" has been found, and that with
its help we can consciously shape our own ends. Like
the Wise Men of the Bible story we may have long
since seen His star in the East and have journeyed,
footsore and weary, o'er moor and fen, o'er mountain
crag and trackless desert, yet when we have found
and recognized and worshipped Him and have laid the
gifts of all our talents at His feet, we must then re-
turn to our own country. In other words, realization
alone is not enough. From the country of that realiza-
tionthe far country from which we set out upon our
searchwe must bring back into our daily lives the
glow of the living fire of Divinity. /We must let the
power and consciousness of Emmnnuel fill our hearts,
our minds, our bodies and manifest in our lives as a
new ability to understand life and our feilowmen, a
new power to accomplish His will in every-day affairs.
Yet having thus brought forth Pmmstnuel into the
affairs of the outer world we must be careful not to
call attention to Him, not to boast or point to our newly
acquired realization and powers, lest the Herod of a
skeptical world, or the Herod of our old habits of
thought and life, slay the young child. In fact, He
EMMANUEL 235
must remain hidden and unheralded until He is mysti-
cally twelve years of age.' Then He will be able to
meet all the doctors in the temple or all the reason
and logic of our minds and not only protect Himself
but astonish them with His wisdom.
The realization of this new fount of life, love and
power of Emmanuel within us is the true interpreta-
tion of that old revival hymn now so widely condemned
as cannibalistic.
"There is a fountain filled with blood
Drawn from Emmanuel's veins;
And sinners plunged beneath that flood
Lose all their guilty stains."
For since the blood is the carrier of the life-force of
the body it is used to symbolize the spiritual life-force
of the Christ. And since the heart is the source of
that fountain of blood, the heart is the center in which
Emmanuel, the source of the God-within-us, is to be
found. In fact, the true spiritual heart is the cradle
in which the Christ-consciousness is born.
One of the vital differences between man and the
lower animals is that man possesses certain cnjrs
which are only embryonic in the anmals In the
majority of humanity these mystic centers are but lit-
tie developed, hence their functions and possibilities
are scarcely suspected. Especially is this true of the
heart-center. Får while the chief function of the phys-
ical heart is to pump the blood through the body and
'Por expisnatlon see The Key of Destiny, Curtiss, $4.
236 EVOLUTION AND THE BIBLE
keep its physical life force flowing, the spiritual heart
is the center through which man contacts the cosmic
current of the living Christ-force and keeps it flowing
through him. Only as we cultivate this center and let
the Christ-force flow through us unimpeded can we
unfold our other centers one by one until we become
the Lord of Creation and fulfill the mandate given us
when man began his cyde of evolution on this planet:
"Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth,
and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the
sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living
thing that moveth upon the earth."
The body of man is indeed a marvelous creation,
but man himself must find the key which will unlock
the mysterious inner chamber wherein Emmanuel, the
God-within-us, lies hidden. Today many are striving
to unfold these mystic centers through various phys-
ical exercises and yoga practices, but until Emmanuel
is born within the heart such development as may re-
sult can only open the consciousness to the astral
world,' not to the spiritual world. Such an opening to
the astral world not only stimulates all our faculties and
tendencies, both good and evil, but as it opens new
avenues of consciousness it also subjects us to terrible
forces and temptations from the astral. And unless
Rnimstnuel has already been born and begun to rule
within us we are likely to be s*ept away into terrible
conditions of both body and mind, often to complete
mental and physical breakdown, just as the pregnant
'For details a Rwls of the ZIviag Dead, Curtiss.
EMMANUEL 237
mother who does not correlate with the incarnating
Soul is often swept into the currents of inharmony
caused by the conflict of the many undeveloped Souls
who are fighting for incarnation through her, even to
the point of causing what is termed puerperal insanity.
Never forget that the love and wise guidance of Em-
manuel who lovingly waits within must first be un-
folded if we are to unfold the other centers construc-
tively and safely and grow as the flower grows.
Through aspiration, reaflz'tion, understanding and
devotion we must find Emmanuel and, one by one in
sacred awe, unwrap the swaddling bands of miscon-
ception which hide Him from our sight and manifest
Him in our lives. To do this we must understand -
that God is just as truly within us here and now as it
is true that the life-force is in the blood here and now.
And just as the life-force, altho unseen and often un-
recognized, yet potently manifests in the blood to bring
us health, strength, vitality and the power to manifest
physical life, just as surely does the inner spiritual
life-force of Emmanuel, aitho unseen and unrecog-
nized, flow through us, giving us comfort, guidance,
strength and the power to manifest our spiritual life.
From the heart that is spirituaMy unfolded there
goes forth a golden radiance which shines like the
fabled pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. Like
children we hear about, and often dream of finding
this pot of gold, but, alas, we know not how or where
to look. It looks so close, yet when we start out to
find it the journey seems endless. But if we have
238 EVOLUTION AND THE BiBLE
faith and follow our inner guidance and keep our
mind's eye fixed upon the spiritual rainbow, the re-
flection of the color rays produced by the shining of
the Sun of God on our tears as we look up to Him
after a storm, we will realize that all its wondrous
colors come from God or are reflected from the pot
of gold within our hearts, even tho we may see the
colors only after a storm. Some day we will find the
pot of gold, not afar off at the other end of the rain-
bow, but within us, as Rmnl2nuel, the greatest gift of
God to man.
APPENDIX
Prayers of The Order of Chthlias MysSic&
PlAYER ICR LIGHT
0 christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That I may dwell forever in the radiance of Thy countenance
And rest in the Light of Thy smile!
Momma PlAYER
I have within me the power of the Christ!
I can conquer all that comes to me today!
I am strong enough to bear every trial
And accept every joy
And to say
Thy will be done!
HEALING PMYU
o thou loving and he]pful Master Jesus!
Thou who fÇavest to Thy disciples power to heal the sick I
We, recognizing Thee, and realizing Thy divine Presence
with us,
Ask Thee to lay Thy hands (powers) upon us in healing Love
Cleanse US from all OUR sins, and by the divine power of
Omnipotent Life
Drive out the atoms of inharmony and disease, and
Pill our bodies full to overflowing with Life and Love and
Purity.
PlAYER 01 Paozcnox
O Christ! Surround and fill inc and Thy Order with the
Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom.
That it may purify illumine and guide us in all thhgs.
May its Spiritual Fire form a rampart of Living Flame around
me and Thy Order,
To protect us from all harm.
May it radiate to every heart consuming all evil and intensi-
fying all good.
In the name of the Living Christ! Amen.
239
240 APPENDIX
P1AT*1 01 DzxoxsTLsnOx
I am a child of the Living God!
I have within me the all-creating power of the Christ!
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my Courage,
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise,
My Power, my Wisdom, my Understanding,
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my problem;
Knowing th y will be solved in Love and Justice.
(Mention all problems connected with your worldly affairs,
visualize each and conclude with the following words)
0 Lord Christ! I have laid upon Thy altar all my wants
and desires.
I know Thy Love, Thy Wisdom, Thy Power and Thy Gra-
ciousness.
In Thee I peacefully rest knowing that all is well.
For Thy will is my will. Ames.
P1Am TO THE DIVINE IWDWELL
Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou who art myself and yet art God!
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection,
That the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art Within!
Even so, come, 0 Lord. Amen.
PZAYZR TO TUE Diviwi Morma
0 Divine Mother!
Illumine me with Divine Wisdom,
Vivify me with Divine Life and
Purify me with Divine Love,
That in all I think and sayand do
I may be more and more Thy child. Amen.
Caå Bvoa* Mms
I am a creator.
By the power of my spiritualized Will
I consciously gather all the forces from this food,
And use them to create health, strength and harmony.
In all my bodies (physical, astral and mental). -
PSAYU or Davonow
We, Thy chosen servants, to whom Thou bust given the great
privilege of becoming co-workers with the Masters of
Wisdom, ask that we may have Wisdom and Power and
Courage and Humility to carry us through the work of
this day.
APPENDIX 241
We open our hearts that the Divine Love of the Master may
fill us; that all irritation, uiharmony and slothfnlneu
may be transmuted into Love that shall draw us closer
in unity to all our fellow workers both seen and unseen;
that we may grow absolutely one with the force of Wis-
dom and Compassion that is sent forth to accomplish
the great work for humanity.
Give us all things necessary, that there may be no hampering
Lead us through this day, in the name of the Divine, Ever-
living Christ that the will of the Father may be done
in us and through us forevermore. Amen. -
Pa*m von Wcsw Hnasony
Glory and honor and worship be unto Thee, 0 Lord airist
Thou who art the Life and Light of all mankind.
Thou art the ICing of Glory to whom all the peoples of the
Earth should give joyful allegiance and service.
Inspire m2nlrnd with a realization of true Brotherhood.
Teach us the wisdom of peace, harmon and co-operation.
Breathe into our hearts the understanding that only as we see
ourselves as parts of the cue body of huninky can peace,
harmony, success and plenty descend upon' us.
Help us to conquer all manifestations of hiharmony and evil
in ourselves, and in the world.
May all persons and classes and nations cease their conflicts,
and unselfishly strive for peace and good-will.
Bless us all with the radiance of Thy Divine Love and
Wisdom that we may ever wor*hip Thee in the beauty of
holiness.
In the Name of the Living Christ we ask it. Amen.
Pnåm von win Cuazsw Powsa
0 Lord Christ! Thou who hast planted within me
The Immortal Power of Spiritual Love and Forcej
Hdp me so to correlate with Thy divine overshadowing
Presence,
That all hampering conditions shall be swallowed up
In the Light of the Living Christ Power. Amen.
Evzuwc PlATEn
As the physical Sun
Disappears from our sight
May the Spiritual Sun
Arise in our hearts,
Illumine our minds
And shed its radiant blessing
Upon all we contact.
A
Morn, 3$.
Adam, cad Bee, Chapter viii,
androgynous, 83, 109; ex-
pelled, 131, 140; names sal.
nials, 94, 104; not historical,
the first, 50, 67; the eec-
onI, 55-6, 83.
AffinIties, 162.
Agassis, Pro!, quoted, 33.
Age, the Aquarlan, 215-16.
Ages, the Dark, 120-7, 206.
lPInre need of, 38.
Alma, m.nIng of, 230.
Anbk, Adam IIflP 94, 104.
Ape, body like an, 84.
Apple, of discord, 91.
Aquarius, symbol of, 231.
Armageddon, battle of, 123.
Atlantosaurls, 102.
Augustine, St., quoted, 96-7,
109.
Avid., Dr. Jo1.r, quoted, 39.
Aura, the, 219.
Avatar, the, 181, 231.
B
Bars, innhig of, 54.
Brg*rnthg, word for, 36.
Beguiled, word for, 130.
Behaviorism, 105.
Belly, crawling on, 137-8.
Be-rashith, meaning of, 36.
Bible, allegorIcal, 112-13; no
conflict with, xl, 6$.
Bb,et, Pro!, quoted, 37.
Biology, 19.
Black Boy, 22.
Blood, symbol of the, 235-6-7.
Body, iiImI, 56.9; apelIke,
INDEX
243
84; centers In, 111, 206; de-
fective, 67-9, 70; fW,
56; evolving, 49, 66-9, 169;
formed, 52; Instincts of, 102;
not despise, 206; the spirit-
ual, 66-8, 75.
Bose, Sir C., quoted, 41.
Br,I2, 133.
Brains, function of the, 31.
Brass, 127, 132.
Breath, of LIfe, 56.
Buddha, 183.
Bu.hm.n 22.
Buttons, simile of, 210.
C
Caduceus, 133.
CaIn, 80, 131.
Calcium, need of, 39.
Causes, invisible, 34; seed, 142.
Centers, open normally, 139,
206.7, 236.
Chaff, simile of, 221.4.
Change, progress requIres, 75.
Chariot, Swing Low, Sweet,
189, 197, 211-12; cycles of,
'90-s.
Chemle Problem iii Natrliloss,
quoted, 39.
Chemotaxls, 38.
Children of the New Age, 155.
Christ, consciousness, 205, 231;
force, 77, 206; not a mortal,
213; seed, 203.
Christ or, The, 181.4; Chapter
xviii, 201; return of, 212-13.
Cklmt, 199.
Coal, each Soul a, 210-11.
CoWer':, quoted, 17, 25.7.
244 iNDEX
Coining, the Second, 212-13.
Coming World Changes, quoted,
79, 190.
Complex Inferiority, 92.
Corn pIe de Gabalis, quoted,
175-9, 184.
Coidowtnis, Christ, 205, 231;
cosmic, 55, 168; kinds of, 37;
of celis, 37; of plants, 41;
.elf-, 85, 118; Super-, 43;
vast, 32.
-Creation, 44, 54, 119; accounts
of, 55; days of, 63-4; Hier-
archies of, 119; ManIfesting
the, Chapters vI-vil, 66-74.
Creations, constructive, 78-9,
123; destructIve, 78, 122;
God's, 49, 55, 121; man's, 49,
72, 121-2, 221-2.
Creators, two, 121.
Creeds, man-made, xiv, xv, 79,
180; Nlcene, 202.
Cross, 134-S.
CrucIfixion, 68, 134-5.
Currents, shod-cIrcuited, 157.
Curse, of serpent, 136-7.
Cycles, of CharIot, 190.5; plan-
etary, 186.
D
Days, of creatIon, 63-4.
Dinosaur, 102.
Disease, cause of, 122, 158.
Divorce, Jesus and, 152; neces-
sary, 1534.
Duality, Law of, 83, 150, 169,
219; not multiplicity, 165.
Dust, contents of, 1024.
Duty, 233.
Dynamism, doctrine of, 31.
H
East, symbol of, 98, 100.
Men, contents of, 106-7; ex-
pelled from, 131; Garden in,
Chapter lx, 94; located, 77,
140; ivt.nieg of, 109; trees
In, 109.
Eggs, human, 86.
Elijah, 191.
Elisha, 191.
Embryo, human, 19, 20-1, 42;
of whale, 20.
Embryology, teaches, 19.
Emmanuel, Chapter xx, 229;
realize, 234-7.
Encyclopoedia Britannica, quoted,
17, 25.
Energy, doctrine of, 31.
Environment, effect of, 43-5;
surmounted, 106.
Epidemics, cause of, 122.
Evil, good from, 120; meaning
of, 116; orIgin of, 221.
Evolution, hypothesis only, 23;
Law of, 169; new stage of,
72; not complete, 47, 66; not
mechanical, 22, 36, 171; pro-
gressive, 27, 45, 176; tIme of,
46.
Exercises, not Iu.cary, 207,
226, 236.
Eye1 the ThIrd, 116.
F
Facts, Interpretation of, xlv.
Fall, before sex, 61; of man,
60-1.
FertiflmHon, 41.
Fire, Chariot of, 189; necessary,
178; of the Lord, 191-24.
Flame, simile of, 180.
Forum, The, quoted, 113.
Fossils, 20-1.
Freedom, no absolute, 162; of
sex, 163.
FrIgid, 1574.
From the Unconscious to the
Conscious, quoted, 23-5, 31-
3-6, 42, 54-5, 66.
Functions, "mere ,thn21, 148.
Fu'v.mentli,b, right, xv, 49,
55.
C
Garden, banished from, 140; In
Eden, Chapter lx, 94; mean-
ing of, 110; re-enter, 141.
Gardener, the Great, 68.
Gardner, Helen, 88.
Gems of Mystiths, quoted, 77.
Geology, blanks In records, 21.
Ghost, the Eolý, 182, 230.
GW-slits, 19.
Gland, the Pineal, 116, 124.
God, 32, 175; Chapters xvi, nyU,
201; Image of, Chapter
215; 67, 200-5-18; FIre
as, 177; Is Love, 186; pre-
Christian, 96-7, 179; San of,
81-4, 2024; the Father, 175,
184; the Mother, 189; three-
fold, 175; unJust, 113.
Gold, pot of, 237.
Good, all not, 120.
Grill, the HoIy 188 214.
Growth, why It stops, 35.
H
Heathen, 179, 180.
Heaven, rome from, 59; old Idea
of, 198; opened, 213.
Hell, 120-1.
Herb, of field 48.
Hierarchies, creative, 44, 119.
Tllghr Self, 153.
Horse, evolution of, 21.
Harley, Prof., quoted, 17.
I
Ida, 133.
Ideation, DIvine1 55.
Image of God, Chapter xIs, 215;
49, 67, 73.
Immortality, In the flesh, 140.
Incarnation, method of 129; of
Ideals, 90; of SpLrit, 58;
Souls Ierbn& 90.
Indweller, the DIvine1 74-5-9.
InhrIf,ti,., 73, 40-1-5.
iNDEX 245
Initiator, the Great, 114.
Instincts, 102$; superseded, 118.
Intuition, role of, 104.
InvolutIon, 42, 67, 83.
Isis, 182.
I
Jesus, life symbolic, 229; on dI-
vorce, 152.
K
Kabbalat. Unveiled, The, quoted,
150.
Karma, brother and sIster, 61;
race, 1424; reap our, 71,
1424; what Is, 197; world, 68.
Keith, 31' Arthsir, quoted, 23.
Key of Destiny, The, quoted,
235.
Key to the Universe, quoted,
97, 146-8, 150-1-3, 163-6, 226.
Kidney, cells of, 37.
Kingdom, fifth, 56; fourth, 56.
Kingsland, Anna B., quoted, 142.
Knowledge, Tree of, 114.
Krishna, 183.
Knnun, force, 116, 131-2.3;
In brain, 134.
L
Landone, Brown, quoted, 36,
51-4-5, 81, 110-16, 127, 170.
Lathe, Cup of, 114.
Letters from the Teacher, Vol. U,
quoted, 203, 213.
Life, not explained, 27; RIver
of,112;Treeof,xlIl,91, 112-4,
123, 140, 164.
Light, the Prayer for, 188.
Lincoln, Abrakaas, example of,
106.
Lodge, Sir Ol1ver quoted, 28,
44, 120.
Loeb, Dr., quoted, 43.
I.ogography, 104.
Love, devastating, 193; God Ii,
160; hIgher, 160.
246 INDEX
M
Mgn.4imn, InfiltratIon, 39.
Man, banlsbed, 122; SpIritual,
50-1-2, 82, 118; Super-, 117.
Manger, 207.
Mardiestatios., Law of, Chapter
111, 33, 49.
Marriage, authorities on, 164;
from the b.gniIIng, 151;
group, 164; hIghest state, 154;
In heaven, 151,160-1,170; man-
made, 160; of brother and
sitter, 161; object of, 154, 170;
p&rltual, 170; trial, 164; true,
151-160.
Materialism, absurd, 29; bank-
rupt, 28; lImited, 25-6; out
of date, 29.
Mates, complementary, 36-7,
152, 162; from the beginning,
151 not Incarnated, 161;
spIritual, 151; union of, 156.
Message of Aquaria, The, quoted,
xiii, 46, 58, 61, 75-7, 82, 96,
107, 168.
Milhikan, Prof.Robert A.,quoted,
xl, 17, 25-7-8-9.
Mind, above braIn, 31; DivIne,
32, 78; effect of, 85, 107; In-
tuItive, 88; not alI, 31; plas-
tic, xlii; ratIonal, 88; usc of,
117.
Monsters, 85.
Morality, iiec.hy for, 113.
Mother, the DIvine, 70, 182.
Mother 1r41a, quoted, 132-7.
N
NOCIaSh, 127, 130.
Nasha, 130.
Nature, book of, 142.
Noah, 104.
Nod, land of, 81.
0
Oracles, SibyllIne, 175-9.
Organs, veadg}d, 20.
Origen, quoted, 99.
Origins, not explaIned, 28, 45.
Ormosls, 37.
OusJ'e*tshy, Prof, quoted, 26, 30,
66, 73-4.
Over-Soul, 42.
P
Paraclete, 181.
Pattern, Inner, In BIble, 48;
necessity of a, 30-3, 49, 65;
not In seed, 69.
Perfect Way, The, quoted, 142.
Personality, 119.
Pingala, 33.
Plan, predtlned, 22, 46, 168,
176.
Prayer, Per Light, Eveislng, Di-
viae Mother, 188.
Progress, change to, 75; not uni-
form, 22-3.
Promisculty, 152, ur*thfactory,
156.
Psychic Life of Micro-organisms,
quoted, 37.
R
Race, salvation of the, 129.
Races, besides Adam, 81; the
early, 84.
RadIum, 77-8.
Rainbow, simile of, 2374.
Realms of the Living Dead,
quoted, 134, 213, 236.
Rib, symbology of, 87-9, 90.
River of LIfe, 112.
Rivets, of Eden, 97-8, 100-1.
Rod, of Moses, 133-7; of power,
141.
Rome, 165.
S
Sacrifice, Law of, 61, 162.
Samson, 80.
Satisfaction, Law of, 155-6.
School, EhMffr, 52; Jehovistis,
Sdrw", achievements of, 18;
limits of, 26.
Secret Doctrine, The, quoted, 33,
44, 60, 81-5, 94, 115, 128.
Seed, no pattern In, 68.
Self, Wghv, A and B, 153;
Real, 69.
Serpent, cursed, 136; force, 116,
125; meaning of, 114, 126,
130-6; not evil, 125; not sex,
27; Power, Chapters xl, xli,
125, 136.
Seventh Seal, The, quoted, 33,
74, 142.
Sex, aim of, 159, 160; bL.1.d,
128-9; dIvine, 146-74; equal-
Ity, 163; In Soul, 88; -force,
aeative, 119; -force, short
circuIted, 157; not evil, 137;
outgrown, 156; procreatIve,
147; satisfactIon, 155-6.
Sexes, separation of, 84.
Sh.frmnh, 191-6.
SIbyls, 184.
Sin, origInal, 62-3.
Soul, a livIng, 56; as a cell, 43;
each a coal, 210-11.
Souls, rng IncarnatIon, 90.
St. Paul, quoted, 59, 60.
Sututisary, Chapter xv, 168.
Sun, behind the Sun, 190; Spir-
Itual, 203.
Super-man, 117.
Supplement, Chapters xvi to xx,
174.
Sword, the 1nibig, 123, 134.
T
Taft, Ez-P7'eside,st TVm. H.,
quoted, 24.
This, 76.
Temptation, 131.
Tertlwu Organum, quoted, 26,
30, 66, 73-4.
Theophanla, 213.
Theopneusty, 213.
Thinker, the, 31.
INDEX 247
Thought, coustructive, 123; de-
structive, 78, 122.
Thne, Wheel of, 216.
Tree, fruit of, 38, 148-9; leaves
of, 148; of Life, xlii, 91, 112-4,
123, 140, 164; en.ith.,g of, 116.
Tree and Serpent Worship, 125.
Tree of knowledge, 114-3.
Tree of Life, xlii, 91, 1124, 123,
140, 164.
Trees its the Garden1 Chapter
x,109.
Triangle, reflected, ISO-I.
Twaizs One Flesh, Chapter xlv,
150.
Types, Ideal, 34, 44-5, 67.
U
UltImate,, 26.
Unclean, call thou not, 159.
Unity Ii. Duality, Chapter xlii,
142.
Urge, to perfectIon, 72, 80.
V
Virgin, meaning of, 230.
Yoke of 1w, The, quoted, 58,
61, 83+5, 91, 109, 117-8,
120-4-6-9, 180-6-7, 213.
Yoke of the Silence, quoted, 132.
w
Whale, legs of the, 20.
Wheel, MIII, 216.
Will, free, 118.
Woman, leads husband, 1574;
mind of, 88; mission of, 90-1,
146, 157, 171; place of, 87-9,
93, 131; priestess, 91.
Women, "advanced," 56-8; ap-
Ing men, 92.
x
X-ray,, effect of, 41.
V
YaSser, meaning of, 55.
'rhe Curtles Books" Dispel the Mists From Mysft4.m
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIPE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric BflHraI Interpretation
Not cold, Intellectual emays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
ing and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, xpinhg
the resions therefor and how to ma," them. Radiant with prv4kal
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Life's Duties and Bow to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThu
Cycle of t4fiflnnf The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Coini'iL
mentNarcotics, Alcohol and PsycbismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear ExpknHnn of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth In
This Age, exposes the inhfb of the many claimantsA Study of
RglncarnafjonThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Evo-
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Foematin
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,
a clear explanation which reconciles F I2n,tik*s and Liberals-.
The Symbol of the SerpentPnrtIon vs. Di4fitHon_Tbe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
images In the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of A't'n.nt-
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in LifeThe .allng
Prayer, and how to use ItHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alp'bef A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and1
FormThe Word Made FleshIlluminatlon---The Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Vting
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of thu
Order.
"The Cordu Booka" Help You to Help Yoursell
The VOICE OF ISIS
- APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book."Portlaad Oregonian.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
under the observation of the revlewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical Instruction accompanies well reasoned
theory at every turn."Tke Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convincing forte,
New
ed by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Asotk
"It is hvh.,iI an epoch.1rhig volume aid almost every subject of
Importance Is treated. . . and .buMt.d beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authors! Interpretations . . . will be students of Universal
Religlon."Zalpaka Magadsse, India.
"nigh Ideals are given upon sex and generation, aid the book Is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards adviw4ng
hnmnity"The Master Mind, Los Ang
"It Is the practical problems of life. . . that coI1h.h its me and
coiimiv1 It to every earnest student."The Public, Chicago1
"Altogether, this Is a book rich In thought and euggestlon."Tke
A.iakan Theosophid.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the hv"° of
Truth may readily Jay hold upon."Uidty,
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through lb
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read It."Editor The 0. E. Library Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that has appeared .for some time . . . written
In a style both simple and scholarlyrNewport Plain Talk.
"The greatest book since The Secrot Doctrine."J. B.
"The first and only book that gives me a feeling of conp1'te satis-
faction as I read.'Mrs. S. S. B.
"I keep It close and read It as some do their Blblrs"Mrz. C. W.
"For me. your book Is the most Incisive, popular, comprehensive,
sane md b'1i,w,d, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
we of uidentandlnz. sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living frleuL Your spiritual psychology Is unique I It has opened my
eycs."P. R. German edition, $3.00
Eleventh EdItion, 433 Pages, Elaborate Index. Pike, $2.50
German Edition, 3.00
"'The Curtlss Books" Explain the Second Comln(
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a sequel to The Voice of IsIs, but rather a response to the
Uicflt cell for further and more advanced Instruction concerning the
great smiest In world ond'Hons, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satkfrf pry exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Mystic LifeIn nature, so in manbow to react to stimuli from
the Inner world as we now react to the outerThe Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven.
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-races---meanlng of
Uflr end of the workL"Comets and Ecligse,how cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and Its effecthalley's comet
ushered In Aquarlan AgeThe Law of Growthhow the Ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric forceBirtk of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
teachingsjacob and Branmeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripes--is America the seat of
the new rnce?Mastery and the Mastersmeaning of ndeiy and
bow attained ,vi1hi Masterstbe Great White LodgeMother
Earthher alchemyher seven 1ayeror1g1n of Insect pests and plant
blightseflect of blood shed on battlefieldsThe Four Windswe of
4 In the Biblecoming catadywnsTh. Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Rtvelator.Childrea of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces
astral cbIfl.stral diseaseschild tralnlng.tf"Inlng material supply.
Man, know Thysdfdlvslons of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconscious
symbol of the carpenterof Rerodthe crudfixlonO,derly Sequence
effect of order and disorder-TM Spiral of Lifereason for rhitga
In lifeuse of the M..,1' namesLife Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the EaithMessage of the Sphinx--meaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticsaypt beneath the
SphinxThe Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophetsThe Day of Jv4gnaentelgns of His comblg4Law of
Sacriftceiacriflce of the Sun In Nature--value of talismansvalue
of ucrlflceThe Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sheep."The Mystic Oahorlgln and fmirin.i of the dancerhythmic
motion Inreligious servkas.ymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of b&s and the MaypoleDryads and Nalads.The Dia-
mond Hea,$fonnatlon of a diamondforces obtained from a 41*..
rnond,The True Fdesthoodmeanlrig of priest, bleropliant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesusbow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or AvethasA New TestaaseutJesus' new t.""'."t
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
symbology of "the upper chamber"of bloodof the bread and urine.
Crossing Jordanwandering In the wlldernemdivlding the waters.
crossing dry-shod-TabJng Jerkkosymbology of the ram's horm.
why the walls fellThe Vain ShowZadferdhthictlon between Lud-
fer Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schoolthe
Luciferlan SchoolFaith and WorksSun Initiation.Mars--why
Mars 1 redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible Is allegoricaL
The Sýidusial Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
Nlrmanakaya bodyThe Mighty Augd"tbIs same Jesus shall so come
In like method of appearanceconditlom iwi.wyhow
to recognize filmThe So,d's Guerdo*lemon of each Earth-life--
object of IncarnatIonvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etctbe
Lord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volmn wbId ,hoQ%I do
much to Increase still further the wide drcle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order ol Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeal"Th. Occult Review, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with 'The Memage of
Aquaria,' but the book Is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public librarl&'R. H. W.
"The book makes Interesting rea11,g -.. These two authors are ap-
parently aufhcvifho."Sas Francisco JOuflNIL
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and slncere."Oaklaad Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great g" to the world, the omount 4
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard 4
literary finish, together with perfect dtnp)frlfy of language and styls,
make this side of these works (the Curthe books) without a jarring
note."A. 4. B, London.
'What a tremendous work you have .c-pna)ed! How l'n'n."s'ly
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest thality breathes through every ma-
tence. I am .'.4 at the lnunin spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering In them. They are Soul-uplifting to an In-
credible degree! flow blessed you are to receive these 'p"'Iora from
the lnfinl0 Co Inoem direct I You are two Souls specially favored
by Heaven! With the greatest and admiration, your friend."-..
Bare,, Albert Vais dar Nailer,, author of Is the Sanctuwy, etc.
Complete Index. Filth Edition. Price, 2J0
S
"The Cuatlu Books' Oi'. a New Outlook on Lit.
"The Curtlas Boche" Explain the My.tCrles ci Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work Is not only the mod comprehensive and authoritative
book on the and spidtswi iisUryeIatiois of ssuisbers mid
symbols, but its 40 chapters contaIn more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful lafor"'n on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
fthngl, square pentade, Seal of Solomon, the COInTVntIInI1tS, Includ-
ing the esoteric Interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Maso* aymbols, the Trinity, the R1nih,
angelo, mythology, evolution, cycles, Initiations, etc., than many sep.
amte books on those wbjectL".BaUislo?e American.
Not a dry afh,ificaI treatise, nor mere speculative tbeor1.
Illustrations and confirmations from nation at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to inlh.nticul principles, demon-
s*""1'ig that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent In each
Soul follows, step by step, the some order of events that Is followed
In the Covno'"
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Sec.
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansRound Towers
of Irr1and-Tniflns' Use of Feathersthe Orde as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy I Comes Pintthe Letter AlepkTh. Jagglm-
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrozierSoul.
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Secthe Letter Beththe
High Pdestes,Jakln and baaSolar CramVeil of Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
Ills SonsProphets In the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
J'Axnry of the Volce"The Letter GisselThs Æmflus,Origin of
the Square, and Cross, SwastIkathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wllderness-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of Manklnd-4 Stages of Clvilizatlon-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter Doleth
The ÆmerorDIfferenoe between Sabbath and SundayRol. of
SaturnS Pointed Star.Bebbamx's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S Tfl""''s of the SlkhaAntl-
gonus' 'Vision of the PentadeEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
HJThs PokOffering Up Iaaao-6 Days of Creatlon-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the PJ.wntals4be Letter Vas.The hi
of CreatIonthe 7 ElohimMusic of the SpheresColors of the
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-noes--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry.-.
Mine. Blavataky and Number 7the 7 Churches In MlarNumber 7 in
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mini-
tourof Pbaetcn.the 7 PrincIples of Man dearly expoundedthe 7
"The Curds. BOOha" Renew Faith through Knowledge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
and the 7 RlshisMyth of Orionof Nlobethe Letter Zd
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HetkJustice--the Number of InitlatbnApollonha of Tyana
MeditatIonGenII of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9-
Syinbology of a Ropethe 144000the Letter TdkThe Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SandZodiac Formerly bed Only 10 SIgnsDiagram of
the GrOUp-SOU1-MPIIIIg of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of lifethe Joy of CompletionKey-note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"In this book all the lore of nturles that has gathered about the
number from 1 through 10.1. set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail. - . This book Is easily tb. msst complete and satlefactory
bringing together of Information that Is scattered In hundrede of vol-
.bmes not readily ac...1le."The Boston Post.
"It Is the most f'chnflug bock I ever read."De Cameres, New
York Sm,.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the .lgnlSIw of num-
bers, and one well ssrflotted by m,tkomatics end music... . It con-
tains much bedd. the ingenious showing of the curious corampondenco
of numbers."Çpriisgjldd Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual InterpretatIon of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances In this field with illustrations
from moderis science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number... - The treatise presents an amount of well
collected Information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols ran afford to neglect.. . - The general aim Is both ethical and
tellglous."Boston Herald.
"It Is deep and profound. As one goes Into this g" of phi-
losophy one becomes vitally uInrsted, and even awed."Portl4md
Orego,ssws.
"The person who has only an amused cnnteinljt for this sort of
thing will yet jlad agrippÒig interest In contemplating what it baa
pri,Jm..L"Tk. Sw, Fraiscirco Chrouscie.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry.. .. Not a
mathmisk1 dissertation, but replete with occult inforii.riii-"
Maconic New Ape Magazine.
"Easily the most complete ant? satisfactory bringing together of
all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers...
let forth with a perfect wealth of detaiL"Bozton Post.
'Profusely Illustrated with ten full-page plates, posinit of Mrs.
Curtain, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete hider. Fifth and itevhwd Edition. Prior $2.50
lurk. Curths Books" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme Importance, con-
cnIng the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Orristlan religion.
Why Is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations In the Zodiac?
Mi the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 DiscIples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the ZodIac.- But
nowhere in pid have we found any philosophical and sdrnH rca-
son why the division into 12 was chores, suve In this volume. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the pecdllar ulirnult used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace In no way resemble or
even suggest such uithn.k? The reason Is found only In this volume.
Vitally neseary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all Literatwe can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book In Itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this Is more than a myth and why it Is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct rhflnge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refatatios of their chief etches
against the Bible story. Of great Importance to all students of case-
psrative religion, to mmbt and to Bible students generally.
These axe only a few of the many revelations of this truly Wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Bgnihig, the cycle of the advanced Disciple-.
the Lege'wI of Parslfal-he 11 year Astronomical Cycle-the 11 year
Sun Spot Cycle-Gems and the Zodiac-Use of a person's Name-
Number--Reincaruatlon and Transmutation-the Permanent Mom-
Physical Immortality-AttItude for Healing-Cause of Cancer-the He-
brew Letters-the 144QOO-the 11th letter, Kcph-dl.grains of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested Universe-Geometrical Law why the
Zodiac Is 12 fold-DIagram of Zodiac-the Aquarlan Age-Why were
the disciples called "Fishers of Men"?-Orlgln of the 12 TrIbes-
12 Stones from Jordan-the 12 Disdples.-12 Knights of King Arthur-.
the Last Supper-the 12 Baskets of Bread-Jesus at 12 years-When
Is Incarnation Complete?-Incarnatlon In Various Signs-Mystery of
the Gobi Desert-li Hebrew Simple Lettcrs-12 Body Salts-Jesus, the
Plectan Avatar.
The Curtlu Books" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
Tue KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobIfl-
Ing the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Kerynelan
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
Kllling the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCaptuiing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DlomedesSelzlng the
Girdle of Hlppolyte-.-Capturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell Hound_Obt3nhg the Golden Apples of HesperidesChangs
from 10 sIgns to 12Wrestling with AntalosMyaterles of Eleusi.s.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SlgnlflcanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing CardsU Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the Mind-Hawaiian Sacred SharkLevia-
thanJonah--Use of Perfumes.
Number iSBlood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the ISWhy EstablishedCon-
tatting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpIrits_-Enchantuu.nt
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hlerarthles-144,000
Value of HosuscopusDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 19Number of the SunTwice-born--Sun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean LandDruid CollegesSun Initiationthe
t%ilosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development In Deformed Bodies--Description of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe PeinInhi Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavataky's lag
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the OrcleLaw of Co.-
operatlonAquarian AgeProphecies of Dlastem.Establlshlng New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolism of numbers. .. . You will find here a osiUve treasary of in-
formation about bow to climb to the ultimate t""The Boston
Post.
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtim, many ,thg,nis, etc.
Third Edition. 322 Pages. Cosej let. Index. Price, 2J0
The Curtis Boohe" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
11 mmmfrt1on possible? Is there a safe and 1egithnt method?
This book gives a clear, "'4"ffic, satisfying and comforting .rphnfinn
of all after-death conditions, bwludlng a clear epkntlnn of the
problems usssoved by "Raymond"; "Letters fro. a Living Dead
Man"; "PCUCISC* Worth," etc. A rational, 5rlPlIlfi(, all4nchislve philos-
ophy, not a mere i lhinthffr report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know It to be a fact and desire authoritative
Instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of commmifrI'
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message, from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarlan AgeA Mi.gi. from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
You will find all your questions anw4 In this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRiven of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms.
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe Alter-Death Sleepthe
Awfrlg of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersTnd1"s as
Gukles.Earth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amm"n".-
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi-
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LatheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
Darkno.."Weeping and Walling and GntMng of Teeth"Mwes
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComsOberming EntitlesPsychic Cause of
DIkenDeII_RYnp1eI and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impube"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PernonalitleaLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Splrl&'So-cafled "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the Su1cdeRlrn.nta1sthe Furies, Nature Sprites.
Their and PropheciesHow Gold Is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodvSnirits
who 'Progress to Wher Spbezes"the "Han of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. .Elsvstaky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clalmww, CbInent1en Intaition, Insplmth Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Method.
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterializatIon-
Trumpet Speakingthe Oulja Board, Pinpha of Iti Deceptions and
"The Curtha Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. Paul's Directions to Mi Chris.
tians.tbe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThzlllProtrfluig
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslatlonAkashic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Useage from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from UncobiA
Prophecy of the Aquarlan AgeA Message from Saturn.-.the Garden
of Pray unThe Mi.eaags of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered In this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We con very warmly recomin.nd this volumeBy far the mesS
advanced book on the subject.Knkkerbocker Press, Albany, N. Y.
"It is the Christian hereafter that Is described with the rkseffirstlAfl
of the Astral World on a sdeistlßc basls!'New York 71.e&.
"Distinctively smed with the Bible . . . really of ek1 value."-
SgvingJeld Republicaiu.
"One of the most 1nslIs pmages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, Is on the treatment of drunkards and th.
nature of alcohot"Toroisto Sunday World.
"We heartily reco'n"i"d the chapter on Tb. Desire Reeks.
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumshlp. The
chapters on .1.,mp,4à and fairies axe extremely Interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisucs have given us a very vatuabi. coiutdbu-
Lion for occult study."Edltor of AZOSh MagazIne.
"A great deal of edmgIy useful advice Is given to people regard-
'lug their relation to their friends who have passed over. It Is partic-
ularly tsebIe that In these times of death and s&w people should
be familiar with co,ÅiSiono of life on the other side of the veil,
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treathe on the After-Death life 'would be difficult to
find.. . . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their fr2bg
and this work should enhance their already great reputation.
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice. ... The since at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fall
to read this book." The Occult Review (Lmilou).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Pt/ti Edition. With New A?i$eudix on Narcotk,. $2.50
"The Curtlu Books" expound a Cosmic philosophy.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational summary of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volume,
but presenting the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening "the days of tribulation."
chap. IProphecies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle and
many others.
Chap. ILGeological Consider-
ations, the scientific aspect.
Chap. IlLThe Philosophy of
Planetary Changes such as
sank Atlantis, etc.
Chap. IV.The King of the
World and the predicted
Asiatic invasion of Europs.
Chap. VaThe Heart Of the
World. The relation of
America to world condi-
tions.
Chap. VLThe Battle of Ar-
mageddon. Psychic fac-
tors In the World War,
etc.
Chap. VILThe Remedy.
Based on scientific psycho-
logical principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modern mysticism. - . . The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
years before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era. . .
National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
Countless fulfillments of its propheciesexceptional earth-
quakes, floods, droughts, famines, etc..bave occurred since
its first edition.
Third Edition. Art Boards. Price $1.10 5os? paid.
UCurtis, Books" expo&nd the laws of future events
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many years now 'The Curtis, Books' have been w.4cninrd
by all earnest and devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
special value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written .. . on these great changes . . . but few are of equal value
to this one." The Rally (London).
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Books1' this is a deep and scholarly con-
sideration of the subject.. . . An important book . . . and we hope
that each of our readers will semiTe a copy." The Aquaria,, Age
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present tn'l"cies it strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note.... Is it merely a coincidence that seismic and meteorological
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequent and severe?
Needless to say that we consider the course indicated Is one
which is worthy of every unni.-..dati'v,. and that me ca,s heartily
recommend iL' From a four-page editorial review in The Occult
Review (London).
"Even when read with certain reservations as to possibility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deep spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing." Washington Post (D.C.).
"The book is well written and clear; and much credibility in lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress. . . . The book handles the spiritual side of coining world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy.'" Theosophical Messenger
(Oucago).
"Full of deep spirituality." Hull Evening News (Fsigland).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are exceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar fielda field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western sun.
Coming World Changes is a remarkably uteGug volume." Ghost
Stories (New York).
"The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss, as set forth in this little
book, deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." Canadian Th,-
osophist (Toronto).
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the library
of the occultist because of the unusually sincere and constructive na-
ture of the work carried on by the doctor and his wife." The Meg..
sage (Los Angeles).
"Whh the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book' we reasonably xpect
further researches into truth, -and me are not disappointed.
Much spiritual pabulum is developed in their new boolç which we
take pleasure in conunending." Mercury (New York).
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss and his brilliant wife, joint authors of a
number of famous books on philosophy, believe a remarkable chance
is impending.... They have dared to prophesyNational Pictorial
Monthly (New York).
1l curtlan Books" Solve Sex Problems Normally
LETI'ERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christie. Mystic,
In answer to questions vommg f roes earnest and mtelligeut students.
all over the world, touch just thepractical qr that arise In
the daily lives of all who arc .tm.ng to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Volume I
L Spiritual Growth and Dc-
veloi,meiit.
IL The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work.
IlL Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
V. The Astral Plane.
VL Psychic
VIL Dreams and Visions.
VUL Health and Disease.
IX. The Sex Prcbl
W..flvwL
Each volume contains as-
tirely different letters cu,verhig
different phases of the subject
mentioned In the other volume.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $20.
Volume IL Second Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II
L Health and Disease.
If. Psychic Conditions.
'IL The Law of Karma.
Iv. Conting World Changes.
V. Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
VL After Death Cni't-
VI'. Prayer and Its Results.
VIIL Health and Disease.
FinAI1i4I Problems.
P4nTn2i&n
XL The Sex Proble
XII. Marriage and Divorce.
XIIL Discours.'
Jesus and The Christ.
Xv. llan
"The cuetlu Books" $.ba the problema daily Hf.
LETFERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
TMAmoeg the many occult volumes before the public, ning to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true ipirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me"W. .1. Colvilie.
"Many Biblical and other problems are handled dearly and con-
vincuigly in a Inner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in full"I
Ilberty.Mystic Light Library Bulletin
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
sciea."Porgland Oregousan
"The letters of advice, of which this book Is nearl full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought. Sais Francisco
Argonaut. -
"The bock is pervaded with the spirit of loving servine. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have .2i4.Rej
the nquirer."Americaa Theosophirt.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a nnnpr
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the rhqil.-r on
The Sex Problem is rIied there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject Is
Purity. It is the sort of a book list ztudnit unids for refereisce!'-.-
Eduurdr Paul Jones
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychism, and hi frank and
ational discussion of the sex question .. . are to be yiinmnhI,I"......
Editor 0. B. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful dc#i cannot help
but appeal to the soul which Is seeking the higher things of life."
Urns;.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the miunPnt the bock came into my bands like one who bad come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seddng and prafrg and longing. ... iThen one comes into
the realization of ones dearest dreams Imowlulge is instantaneous-.
there is no doubt.".-.M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever rend. They are so
liveable and meet the ttszists of life. Words are so inadequate to en-
press my gratltude."Mrs B. ii. G.
Vol.11 New letters covering other sisbjeds, including secsal chap-
ters a,, ex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
and She coming World Teacher, etc.
Two other important books now published by us
THE SEVENTH SFAL
By JEANETFE AGNES (A student of the O.C.M.)
1st roduci ion. Chapters on What shall we say of matter? Erroneous
concepts and the correct. The Lost Word. Esoteric symbolism of Je-
hovah. "Things which have bees kept secret from the foundation of
the world." Symbolism of the ark, Cherubims, altar, censer. "From
the beginning of the creation God made them male and female."
Search the Scriptures. "To the pure all things are purer Key to the
Interpretation of the Old Testament. Covenant with Levi. "Go In
unto the veil" The Fire of the Lord. Creation among the lower
forms. Masculine and femnine aspects of the Soul. Action of Spirit
on matter. Woman must be allowed the Initiative. Sex not a
of the flesh; not an end In Itself. Control of appetites and desires.
A glance at Jundamentals. "The coming of the Kingdom of Ueaven
on earth must be through the spiritually developed individual." The
Way of Aflaisunent. The Law of Love. The hidden wisdom. Warn-
ings and safe-guards.
"The best exposition of the doctrine of complementary Spiritual
Mates, and that the sex relation is far more than mere nmt pro..
creation. Ample biblical quotations are given In confirmation. Spirit..
ualires the whole subject of sex. In harmony with the Teachings of the
0. C. M. and The Curtiss Books." Dr. Curtis:.
"You have put the entire matter on a high and spiritual plane, and
no reader can miss your mning? Rev. I. Herman Randall, New
York City. P,i. $100 postpaid.
TO WARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MARY KARADJA
Founder of The White Cross Union. Author of King Solomon, The
Seven Sacraments, etc.
The fate and redemption of a suicide told In inspiring blank verse.
"A noble ng' from the Great Beyond." Pall Mall Gazette.
Thia poem Is a powerful meditation on the theme: 'Whatsoever a
man sows that shall he reap.'" Aberdeen Daily Journal.
"The story Is told In dramatic and moving language. There is a
chain of circumstances powerfully described." light.
"Will appeal to the general reader as well as to the MetpyaJdan."
Glasgow Times.
"Her Majesty Queen A1nlra has graciously 1nf1mted her pleasure
In accepting a presentation copy." Light.
King Oscar of Sweden read it aloud at a reception In 1901.
Mr. Stanford of California presented S00 copies to the free libraries
of Australia. Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish and German editions
have anpeared In addition to the English edition.
To the Authors knowledge this goem has saved at least MIecs per-
sons from snicldÊ Price ;iopostpaid.
"The Curtiss Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Se.'on. Handy Pocket Size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curtles.
Gives best simple Insight Into Mysticsm.
L Spiritual Growth. IL Duty. IlL Karma. N. Reincarnation.
V. The Christ. VI. Masters of Wisdom. VIL Mreflineous.
"One might wade through the religious phflnsopblzings of every people
and place and not receive the Inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."Balthmorc Aiserkaiu.
Fourth Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Liw.p Leather, $1.00
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and MeditatIc
"Whatever one's creed, every soul an eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden ,zing, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
freihinent and debght."George Wharton James, Editor "Out Wes&"
Fourth Art Edition. Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most Inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the Sl'ner
Practical working directions given.
The Great SilenceEntering the Silencethe Noon Silence Service.
flkd Editfow. Art Paper, 50 Cent:; LimP Leather, $5.00
German Edition. Paper 75 cents.
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bringer Forththe Midnight Prayerthe
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
Second Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The Curtis: BOOhe
Order "The Curtiss Books" Direct from
TEE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the pzomulga-
tion of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy
which gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of
every phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on
all vital problems sent on the free-will
offering basis.
If the t.rhqgs of the Order presented in this volume
have interested and helped you, the monthly
lessons will also
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.,
3510 Quebec Streçt, N. W.,
Washington, 1). C
JrlinwMpÎp nf t1t
ørrr uf iiMian 'I
