{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__dingle___breath_the_flywheel_of_life.pdf","mytitle":"Breath The Flywheel Of Life","mylang":"de"}
A BOOK FOR ALL THINKING PEOPLE
BREATH
The Flywheel of Life
by EDWIN J. DINGLE
Founder of the Science of Mentalphysics
4
ABOUT THE AUTHOR, EDWIN JOHN DINGLE (Ding Le Mei)
The Science of Mentalphysics was founded by Edwin John
Dingle, himself a true Mystic of the Great Wisdom. Raised in
England and educated in publishing, he spent 21 years in the
Orient, where he built a large publishing company with offices
in Shanghai and Hong Kong. He became the leading economic
and geographic authority on China. Details of his distinguish­
ed achievements are related in his books, “ Across China on
Foot” and “ Borderlands of Eternity.”
Always within him burned the constant desire for deeper
wisdom and he studied all religions and mystic knowledge he
found through teachers in the East. His travels led him to a
Tibetan monastery, where he was privileged to study under a
remarkable Tibetan teacher, a keeper of the Eternal Wisdom.
With the deep knowledge he acquired in years of arduous
study, Rev. Dingle (given the Chinese name of Ding Le Mei)
formulated the Science of Mentalphysics, which reveals the
basic truths that underlie all great religions and philosophies
of both the East and the West. Mentalphysics shows the unity
between all great Spiritual Teachings and their ultimate har­
mony with Science. Through the spiritual rebirth of every
individual lies the way to spiritual rebirth of every nation and
positive peace throughout the world.
2
BREATH
The Flywheel of Life
By EDW IN J . D INGLE, F.R.G.S., R.A.S.
Founder of the Science ofMentalphysics
I
T IS not necessary to spend much time explaining why we
must breathe to live. It is perfectly self-evident that the best
breathers live the longest and get the most out of life. It is
equally self-evident that BREATH IS LIFE . From the first
faint breath of the new-born infant to the last gasp of the dying
man life is a series of breaths.
Breathing is man’s most important function, and when we
stop to think of it — few of us give any thought to the Breath,
however — we find that all our functions and all other com­
ponent parts and functions are dependent upon our Breath. We
can, therefore, say that our Breath is the fly-wheel of our
physical and mental machinery. Every form of life within the
universe could not exist without breath, everything — from the
amoeba to Man. The ancients delcared that the ebb and flow of
the tides were the breathings of the Earth.
TH E IMPORTANCE OF BREATH
Breath is the fount of all Human Power. Radio today can
project sound seven and a half times round the earth in a
second, carrying sound at the inconceivable speed of Light. And
what is this transporting force? It is called ether, and is
everywhere in the atmospheric air. This same powerful ether is
3
in the air we breathe. The power is in us while we live and
breathe.
What should concern every human being is how we may
become conscious of it and utilize its vast resources, as was in­
tended by the Supreme Being. How, then, shall we gain for our
daily life the power out of the ether in the air we breathe 24
hours every day?
In Mentalphysics, the faultless philosophy of life, this im­
portant subject is presented so simply that even a child can
learn and understand. We could go into history and show that
with the advance of civilization men and women have lost their
original power to breathe properly. We could show how diseases
are the result of persistently breathing incorrectly. Let us here
be content by asserting the self-evident Truth that
(a) Our physical health depends materially upon Correct
Breathing;
(b) Our mental health, happiness, self-control, clear-sighted­
ness and morale depend very largely upon how we
breathe.
WHAT AND WHY DO WE BREATH E
Then letus pass on to —
(a) What and why we breathe;
(b) Influence of correct breathing on the health of body and
mind.
We all know that the organs of respiration comprise the lungs
and air passages leading to them. Any doctor will tell you that
unless fresh air in sufficient quantities reaches the lungs, the
foul stream of venous blood cannot be purified, and so, not only
is the body robbed of nourishment by the waste that should
have been eliminated but which is returned to the circulation,
and poisons the whole system, but Death appears on the
horizon. This can be remedied. Proper breathing gives good cir­
culation, good circulation gives* a mental concept of abounding
health and vigor, a clear complexion and a manly and womanly
attitude toward all the demands of everyday life.
With proper breathing physical appearances change. Lines
leave the face. The body takes on a new buoyancy. Men and
women who are good breathers give off the dominating notes of
health. Rejuvenation takes place. Beauty shines through. The
result is a serene happiness, a consciousness of physical and
mental well-being.
4
EXER CISIN G THE INTERNAL ORGANS
Good breathers sire always strong. Correct breathing — which
is given such importance in all forms of physical culture in the
Western world — is the channel through which physical per­
fection comes to us. Occultists, however, have always regarded
correct breathing as vitally important, for it is the only method
by which the internal organs can be exercised. The student
rapidly finds this out for himself as soon as he begins to breathe
properly.
Occultists in all ages and in all lands have always taught their
disciples, usually in secret and by word of mouth, that there was
to be found in the air a substance or principle from which A LL
LIFE is derived. Also in Christian philosophy and Scripture,
“ God made Man and breathed into him an immortal soul.” No
matter what the occult teaching or philosophy, you find the
same theory regarding this force, although the names employed
may vary greatly. In thfe Sanskrit it is called “ Prana,” or Ab­
solute Energy.
We must try to visualize that this Prana, this Vital Force,
this Principle of all Energy is everywhere present. There is no
place where it is not. It is all-pervading. In its operations it
eliminates time, distance and substance. Wherever there is life,
there is Prana — or electricity or ether. Modern science proves
that in every atom, every electron, every ion there is life; then it
is evident that Prana is everywhere and in everything that lives.
PRANA, THE ENERGY THAT THE SOUL U SES
But it is not the Soul or the Ego, that spark of Divine Spirit
around which cluster all matter and energy. No. Prana is the
energy that the Soul uses. Prana may be regarded as the Soul of
Force and Energy in all forms. It is the principle that causes ac­
tivity and accompanies life. Of course, Prana is in the air — but
it is not the air, nor even one of its chemical constituents. All
animals, all plants — ybui and I — breathe it in with the air, yet
if you can imagine such a state as yourself being filled with the
air, and the air containiag no Prana, you would die. Prana is
taken up by our physical system along with the oxygen — yet it
is not the oxygen. All one can say is that Prana is the One
Force, penetrating where the air cannot reach, all-pervading, the
Spirit of the Breath of Life.
Stop and think awhile. Think about Prana and its powers.
5
VITAL IMPORTANCE OF REA L BREATHING
We are constantly inhaling the air charged with Prana, con­
stantly extracting the latter from it. It is for thinking men and
women, people who want to be and do something in life, to learn
how they may, through their breathing, consciously store it up
and control it.
Prana is found in its freest state in the atmospheric air. In or­
dinary breathing men absorb a normal supply, and this is stored
away in the brain and nerve centers to be used when necessary.
But when we know the way we can store up much greater quan­
tities of Prana, just as a storage battery stores up its power.
The many and strange powers accredited to Tibetan and Hindu
Yogis and to those advanced in occult philosophy is largely due
to this knowledge and the intelligent use of this stored-up
energy — Prana.
Now, when we remember that the greater amount of Prana
comes to us through the air we breathe, it is easy to see that,
when we have educated ourselves to breathe correctly, it is a
comparatively simple thing to keep ourselves charged with
Prana, the basic force of all life. As the oxygen in the air is ap­
propriated by the blood and is made use of in the circulatory
system, so Prana is appropriated by the nervous system and is
used in its works; and as the oxygenated blood is carried to all
parts of the system in its work of replenishment and building
up, so Prana is carried to all parts of the nervous system, ad­
ding strength and vitality.
Every one of us uses Prana when we think, when we will to do
anything, when we act and so forth. Indeed, every thought,
every movement of a muscle, every effort of the will uses up
what is called nerve force, which is actually Prana.
How glorious a thought, therefore, that through proper
breathing we may acquire for our own use as great a supply of
Prana as we may wish.
LEADING ON TO THE HIGHER LIFE
In the Breathings as taught in Mentalphysics, we have the
means of bringing Health, Happiness and Youth to thousands
who faithfully put them into practice — we have at our com­
mand the “means by which.” There is no mystery about them.
They are unfailing in their results. The method is a faultless one,
but the student must carry them out whole-heartedly, both men­
tally and physically. Any man who thinks will agree that there
6
need be no ill-health, which by all the different names given to
disease is only a lack of or disturbance or unbalance of Prana.
This writer has proved the Scientific Breathings of Mental-
physics to be revolutionizing in their effect, and there is nothing
like personal experience to bring conviction to the mind. It is
confidentially believed that the man or woman, who, with
regularity and reverent perseverence, will follow these Mental-
physics Breathings will find himself or herself being brought
back to health. Rejuvenation will take place. There will be an ad­
ded physical and mental happiness, and
THE GATE TO THE ROAD OF KNOWLEDGE W ILL
SWING OPEN TO INVITE THE STUDENT TO EN TER
THE HOLY OF H O LIES IN H IS QUEST FOR ST ILL
GREATER KNOW LEDGE OF THE TRUTH.
WHAT M ENTAL PH YSICS DOES
A
GAIN and again students proclaim the methods as
taught in Mentalphysics as true “door-opening” methods.
You are not only led up to the door, but actually given
the key and shown how to use it.
The most that any teacher can wish for is that his Lesson may
bring to his Students a knowledge of their True Nature, for
ninety per cent of the human race are extremely ignorant of the
basic facts and laws of life. All that I ask of the Student is that
he will, through what he learns here, himself seek the truth by
methods clearly shown to him, believing that the Truth shall
make him free. In my Course of Lessons and Instructions I have
avoided words that are unnecessary. I have endeavored to make
the Life live through the Lessons. The result is that he who
really seeks is led on step by step to that point where he finds,
in many cases before he is aware of the effect in his own study
and practice, that the WORLD STEPS ASID E FOR THE
MAN WHO KNOWS W HERE HE IS GOING. Students of
Mentalphysics know where they are going (and why).
BREATH ING SCIEN TIFICA LLY
The Scientific Breathings which are taught in the classes have
been the means of revolutionizing the lives of thousands of
people. They will revolutionize YOURS if you will do the work.
That is the sole secret of Mentalphysics — work. For what? To
discover the basic laws of life. To discover what and where we
are — what we can do — how to possess a perfect mind in a per-
7
feet body — real health and happiness within and without — to
uncover the Divine Power within. The Breathings regain for us
our equilibrium. They provide the urge for us to reach out to the
highest plane of life possible to us.
THE M ANUSCRIPT LESSO N S
The Individual Week-by-Week Lessons, dealing with first
things first, and then leading the Student higher and higher up
the Ladder of Knowledge, are the Key which will unlock the
door and lead us into the Very Holy of Holies. It has been my
good fortune to have spent twenty years in India, Tibet and
China. Much of my own knowledge was received by word of
mouth through teaching given to me in the temples of Asia, and
I believe I am the only white man in the Western world who has
lived for a long period in a Tibetan temple and come out again
actively to mingle in the life of the Occident.
In these lessons we do not deal in words unless to state some
indisputable fact, to inspire the Student to “ learn by works,” or
to induce him really to do his own thinking. We refuse any
longer to be hoodwinked. We are all looking for facts and the
definite “ means by which” we may achieve. Mentalphysics sup­
plies this world-wide need.
BUILDING A NEW CONSCIOUSNESS
In Mentalphysics the Student is not deluged with a full cour­
se of lessons at one gulp, but, commencing with the very fun­
damentals, is supplied each week, for several months, with a
lesson which takes him on one step further in his building of a
New Consciousness. Nothing is left to chance. If the student
will maintain his zeal for study practice, he can confidently look
forward to his entry into the Promised Land of Peace and Plen­
ty-
What I claim to teach is the result of actual demonstration in
my own life. Constantly on the search for Truth, I have
discovered that IT IS TRUE that we are made “ in His Image.”
No unhealth — no pains and aches — no worries — no lack.
These lessons show us how we may scientifically develop power
so transcending as to be considered impossible in the present
mental vibration of most people. Moreover, all that I teach can
be achieved and realized by anyone who sincerely wishes to
achieve. When the Mind knows the Truth, and actually lives in
the spirit of truth, it becomes a perfect mirror, and in con­
sequence will perfectly reflect the true being of Man.
8
TH E SEED OF U NIV ERSAL TRUTH
Mentalphysics is the Faultless Philosophy of Life. It supplies
the Seed of Universal Truth — for every time, for every person,
for every place, for every purpose. If YOU are losing your grip
on life, no matter what the cause, YOU are urged to take ad­
vantage of this invitation. Go within yourself and listen to the
Voice of the Spirit, which will unfailingly speak to you if you are
not too self-satisfied or too proud to listen. As this is written
scores of people just like you are making themselves anew, get­
ting an entirely new slant on life — becoming healthier, happier,
more contented and successful men and women. In linking
Science with Religion, Mentalphysics stands unique.
YOU M UST BE OPEN-MINDED
It may be that YOU, like many others of the human race,
have never given any thought to your Breath. It may be that
you have had your Breath brought before you in a way quite dif­
ferent from that in which you have always regarded it. Do not
fail to give heed to the Voice of the Spirit within you if this be
the case, for it is only when we break from tradition that we are
free to make our own decisions on matters affecting our lives. It
may be — if you are really in earnest — that it is necessary for
you to put aside much that you have learned before about
psychology and many of the multifarious phases of life that you
may have studied.
My own experience in taking up the higher phases of scientific
thought many years ago was that many things to which I
tenaciously held as true were proved later on to be false. I found
that I had been steadfastly believing in a lie in much that was of
vital importance to my own growth.
EA RN ESTLY SEEK IN G THE TRUTH
In Mentalphysics we uncover the Truth and so drive out the
false.
Mentalphysics teaches, however, that all Truth that you have
previously learned cannot be lost or changed — indeed, it will
become all the more real for you. Place yourself in that attitude
of Mind that will allow you, irrespective of creeds or faiths or
dogmas or religions, to be willing and anxious to change your
mind whenever you have good and sufficient reasons for so
doing. In Mentalphysics you are like a Scientist, investigating
9
forces with the same unbiased methods as the scientist investi­
gates all problems of Nature, without fear and without pre­
judice. We are seeking Truth, fearlessly investigating, having
the courage when we PROVE A LL THINGS to grapple our new
knowledge to our minds with hoops of steel so that nothing can
shake it from us.
SCIEN CE AND RELIGION
Science proves that no one fact in Nature is contrary to any
other fact, and, therefore, you cannot learn any single fact in
these lessons which conflicts with any other fact that you know.
But MOST M EN ARE IGNORANT OF TH EIR TRUE
NATURE; yet it is known that our lives are based on laws as
definite in their operation as electricity, heat, light, gravity,
magnetism — all Natural Laws. Though these Great Natural
Laws are invisible to our eyes, we know that they exist, and
that they are powerful.
No one ever SAW gravity or electricity, but we know their ef­
fects.
No one ever saw the force that pulls the compass needles
toward the North Pole, but we know that it does pull it.
You never saw the force that makes you breathe, but you
know that you do breathe. We go, in the practice of these
lessons, to the place where that force resides — in the silence,
and it is from the silence that our knowledge will gradually
break through from the great universal storehouse.
A PERFEC T MIND IN A PERFECT BODY
It is vital, first and foremost, to have a perfect body. These
Lessons, with the Scientific Breathings, will work wonders in
this direction.
If we think of it in this way it may help us: If we are made “ in
His Image” it is self-evident that we have the power resident
within us to be and remain in His Image. The body, then, should
be a reflection of the Image.
As Christian D. Larson says: “ The true being of man is per­
fect, and the Mind is the mirror reflecting the perfection of true
being. When the personality does not manifest the qualities of
true being, we try to change the personality . . . But remove the
defects from the mirror and the reflection will be the exact
likeness of the reality standing before the mirror. When the
Mind properly reflects the real man, the personal man will ex-
10
press the perfection of true being; the personal in man will
manifest the real in Man, and the real in Man is created in the
image of God.”
In Mentalphysics, however, we prefer to get away from all
generalities.
What IS man?
What is H IS MIND?
What is the POWER that enables him to think? What is the
very force that enables him to breathe and live? We shall be con­
cerned in Mentalphysics to discover and understand all these
problems in a manner which will be beyond disputation, and
which will stand the rigid test of scientific investigation.
“For the true conception of the universe we appeal unto
him who is the Giver of peace and happiness unto the
wise and those longing for salvation, the soul of the
animate and inanimate creation. The exquisite design
and arrangement in Nature lead to an idea of the at­
tributes of the Giver of all-knowledge, the all-pervading
cause of the Universe. ”
STAND IN REVERENCE BEFO RE YOUR BREATH
Unless one is prepared to think of the importance of his
Breath he will doubtless feel inclined to pass by what has been
written — if, indeed, he has not already turned away.
Yet we have but to think a moment to realize how Life itself
depends on Breath. Everything in Nature is similarly begirt by
the necessity of breathing to live. We human beings may live a
long time, or a comparatively long time, without food. We can
live for a shorter time, without drink. But the time that we can
go without Breath is very short indeed. Those people who have
never studied their own breath would be astounded at what is
being carried on for them every moment that they live. In the
Western world it is true that physical culture instructors place a
good deal of importance on the Breath, but our conception of
Breath is, generally speaking, as some action of the lungs which
enables us to continue to live. The Westerner rarely looks deeper
than that.
But when we come to know, because we can FE E L, the
changed condition that a scientific application of our Breath
brings about in our physical, mental and spiritual being, we
have to stand in reverent wonder at the marvelous Wisdom that
has created and directs the Universe. The effect of correct
11
breathing cannot be explained — it has to be experienced.
Everyone, however, will readily see that without breath there
would be no life, and without life there would be no Thought
(such as most of us understand Thought). Breath is the basis of
Thought, and probably the greatest occultist that ever lived left
with mankind this transcending sentence to guide him: “A s a
man thinketh, so is he. ”
THE SU BSTANCE OF THOUGHT: WHAT IS IT?
I f you have little force of thought, little power to think, the
beautiful truth contained herein will probably pass you by, but
if you are intuitive enough to sense the very “presence of God”
in this little booklet, then your thought will lead you on and on.
While we know that we think, few of us know what Thought
is, and it is difficult for any teacher precisely to teach his
student what it is — though we all must be aware that we have
at our command and do use a substance when we think — for we
cannot think with “nothing.” Everything has an embodiment, —
some of which we can sense, while others we cannot. Mind sub­
stance is one of those subtle substances that cannot be put un­
der a microscope and investigated. You cannot go into a
laboratory, and place your Thought Substance under a
microscope, and then come to me and say, “ Look, this is my
Thought,” but you CAN sit down and talk to me and SHOW me
the product of that unseen substance that you are using when
you think. The same with many other substances. And Breath is
the basis of it all.
THOUGHT IS U NIVERSAL
The occultists teach, however, that Mind-substance is univer­
sal and omnipresent. You already have your idea of Prana. Well,
Mind-substance may be likened to Prana in the sense that it is
found in every place in the Universe. Its sum total is fixed and
cannot be added to or taken from, and therefore it is un­
changeable. Mind-substance can be regarded, as a matter of
fact, as a higher phase of Energy or Matter, just as Matter may
be considered as a grosser form of Mind-substance or Energy.
The Yogis claim to have proved that Mind-substance was the
First Manifestation, and from it emanated Energy, and from
Energy emanated Matter — so that all form parts of one real
substance — the A LL THAT TH ERE IS. One may say that
there are three manifestations of or emanations of the Absolute.
12
D IFFICU LT TO CONCEIVE
If it were possible for me as a Teacher to exhibit a certain
quantity of Mind-substance and show it in my classes, there
would be no need to try to explain, nor would there be any need
for the student to try properly to make the personal effort to
gain his own conception of its power. But that cannot be done.
We have then to regard Mind-substance as the thing by which is
set into operation the Energy that causes Matter to be in
Motion. Mind-substance can only be KNOWN to us by its
results — Thoughts, Thought-force, etc.
The differences are — and we should get this deeply in the
Mind —
I. MATTER — Is the thing that the Soul uses to clothe it­
self in.
II. ENERGY — Is the thing that the Soul uses to act.
III. MIND-SUBSTANCE — Is the thing that the Soul'uses
to TH INK with.
It is necessary to get this conception if we would approach the
truth that Thought is the ONLY thing that we have and that we
use — everything being dependent upon this, and emanating
from it. In contemplating this truth regarding Breath and Mind
substance, you will see that the mind of each one of us repre­
sents so much Mind-substance, apparently separated from other
substance, you will see that the mind of each one of us represen­
ts so much Mind-substance, apparently separated from other
Mind-substance; yet in reality (though we cannot yet realize it)
each Mind is in touch with other separated Minds — and with
the UNIV ERSAL MIND, of which it forms a part. You can see,
then, that after all THE UNIVERSE IS SIMPLY ONE
GREAT, WONDERFUL, VIBRATING, THINKING THING.
Thinking may vary, as it does in all embodiments from the atom
to the Sun, but there is a universality of Mind-substance, of
which we may use and control just as much as we desire —
when we know the way.
What is the amount of that Thought substance, that Thought
power, that YOU control?
The answer is — “ as a man breathes, so he thinks,” and “ As
a man thinketh, so is he.”
I can only hope that YOU — if you are ready — may revel in
the delights of new knowledge that may await you in Mental-
physics, and that your life will become a much more beautiful
and abundant thing for you through the practices laid down in
this beautiful philosophy. _
Joyously in your Service,
EDW IN J . DINGLE
13
AIM INVITATION TO YOU
The valuable truths given in this
booklet are only a small part of the
teaching of the Science of Mentalphysics,
available to any sincere seeker. The complete study of Mental-
physics leads a student to perfection of body, mind, and spirit
through his own self-development. The student becomes master
of his own life. He learns how to solve all problems. He partakes
of the abundance of the Universe. He lives a life of joy and
gratitude. And he tastes the delights of the spirit in knowledge
and understanding of the Creator of all things.
You are invited to take up the study of the Science of
Mentalphysics, contained in the Initiate Group Course of 26
lessons, the Inner Chamber series of 124 lessons, and the Pre­
ceptor course of 48 lessons. The cost is slight for the begin­
ning lessons—
just enough to pay for the cost of printing,
handling and mailing. The major costs of Mentalphysics are
paid by the many students who have benefited from the
teachings and want to pass them on to others.
30-DAY MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
Use the coupon on the next-to-last page and the first two
lessons and introductory material will be sent to you. The enroll-
enrolling donation for this is $10. Four lessons will be sent
thereafter for a monthly donation of $5. If you choose to
return the first two lessons and introductory material, your $10
will be refunded to you. The lessons may be discontinued at
any time by a simple notification, but most students find the
messages so inspiring and helpful that they eagerly await each
new one.
THE WONDERS OF THE WORLD ARE WITHIN YOU!
The latent powers within you revealed by the Science of
Mentalphysics await only your knowledge of how to command
them. This great Teaching shows the inner meaning of all
worthy religions and philosophies and their reconciliation with
science. It leads to spiritual regeneration of the individual,
which leads to spiritual regeneration of every nation and final
peace throughout the world.
SEND IN THE ENRO LLING COUPON TODAY!
14
Publications Available from Mentalphysics
Borderlands of Eternity
(including "My Life in Tibet")
My Life in Tibet
The Voice of The Logos
Breathing Your Way to Youth
Library of Victorious Living
Part One - - Vols. 1 - 27
Part Two - - Vols. 28 - 50
Food for Thought (cook book)
Information on Diet
Guide to Your Chemical Type
How to Meditate
The Living Word
Supply
Constipation
Your Imagination
Your Eyes
Your Ears
Your Sex Life
Your Mind and Its Mysteries
ASK FOR PUBLICATIONS CATALOG
USE THIS FORM FOR 30-DAY
TEST WITH A NO-RISK
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
Institute of Mentalphysics, P.O. Box 640, Yucca Valley, CA 92284
P' ’ .vo lessons wi■
r, Institute of Mentalphysics, P. O. Box 640, Yucca Valley, CA 92284
E Please send me the first two lessons. The $10.00 enrollment deposit
S required is enclosed. BUT THIS $10.00 IS TO BE RETURNED TO
0 ME if I choose to return the material within 30 days after receiving
1 it. Should I choose to keep the material and continue the study, I
understand that on receipt of my monthly donation of $7.00, you
^ will send me a set of four lessons monthly until I have received all
26 lessons of the Initiate Group Course.
Name________________________________________________________________
Mailing Address______________________________________________________
City or T ow n________________________State _______________Zip ____
Date of B irth________________________ Date M ailed___________________
PUT YOUR SIGNATURE H E R E ___________________________________
It is not safe to send currency through the mail. Send money order, personal
check or bank draft, payable to the INSTITUTE OF MENTALPHYSICS.
15
10 en-
'URN-
ng it.
id that
f four
5roup
THE INSTITUTE OF M ENTALPHYSICS
P. O. BOX 640, YUCCA VALLEY, CA 92284
VIEWS OF THE
HEADQUARTERS
AND THE
TEACHING AND
SPIRITUAL CENTER
I n t h e F i r s t S a n c t u a r y
o f M y s t i c C h r i s t i a n i t y
t h e o u t e r t e a c h i n g o f
t h e S c i e n c e o f M e n t a l -
p h y s i c s i s g i v e n .
T h e P r e c e p t o r y o f
L i g h t i s t h e t e a c h i n g
c e n t e r w h e r e s t u d e n t s
g a t h e r f r o m a l l o v e r
t h e w o r l d .
T h e A d m i n i s t r a t i o n
B u i l d i n g h o u s e s t h e
h e a d q u a r t e r s f o r
M e n t a l p h y s i c s .
