{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__andrea___technique_of_the_master.pdf","mytitle":"Technique Of The Master","mylang":"de"}
m w
&t)C
Cecfjmque of tfje fa s te r
.. or . .
(Efte Wap of Cotfmic
Preparation
By R a y m u n d A n d r e a , F.R.C.
Grand Master of the Roxicrurian Order
for Great Britain
ROS1CRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XIII.
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
R O S I C R U C I A N P R E S S
Printing and Publishing Department
AMORC COLLEGE
Dedicated with Gratitude
to
H a k v e S p e n c e r L ew is
lmperator of the Rosicrucian Order
for North America
V V
The Rosicrucian Library
V V V
V O LU M E
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Com
plete History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and
Business.
III. Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
V. “Unto Thee I Grant.”
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In Preparation.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The Technique of the Master.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete Catalogue.)
CONTENTS
V V
PAGE
Publisher’s P re fa c e ....................................................................... 9
Introduction ................................................................................... 1J
CHAPTER
I. Fundam entals of the Technique......................... 17
II. Preparation for the Technique............................. 27
III. Delusions and the Technique............................... 43
IV . Im personality and the Technique..................... 61
V . The M agic o f the Technique.............................. 83
V I. T he M asters on the Technique— 1..................... 103
V II. The M asters on the Technique— 2 .....................115
V III. V ocation and the Technique................................129
IX. A djustm ent to the Technique................................ 141
X . T he Neophyte and the Technique...................... 155
X I. Probation and the Technique................................ 163
PUBLISHER’S PREFACE
N um erous w riters have glorified the attainm ent
of C osm ic C onsciousness. T h ey have in able
literary style inform ed the student of m ysticism , of
the rew ards aw aiting the postulant of Cosm ic
preparation. Elaborately have they depicted the
distinguishing characteristics between the tw o
spheres— one, the sphere of C osm ic C onsciousness,
the com plete, the absolute, the state of absorption
of personality into the ultim ate, the A ll-know ing
and perfect; the other sphere— the m undane, tern'
poral, em pirical, low ly and finite, related to the
body and its earthly existence. Perhaps it is a
com plim ent to the m anner of expression of their
concept of C osm ic C onsciousness, and its sublim ity,
that they have w idened the gulf betw een it and the
common consciousness of the laym an to such an
extent that the m ind of m ost of their readers is not
able to conceive of the m eans of bridging the void.
Such glorification of a goal to be attained m ay un­
doubtedly be an incentive to the laym an to plunge
from his w orld of reality into an unknow n realm.
[ 9 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
But it provides no technique. T h e technique is
necessary if the student is not to w ander into a
m aze of term s and abstract theories w hich even'
tually detract from the halo and lure of the goal.
T h e student w ho strives for C osm ic C onsciousness
and the evolution of his personality w ithout ade'
quate preparation and a precise technique is left
suspended between a w orld of objective thinking
from which he ventured, and a w orld of idealism
to w hich he has no guide.
It is not that philosophical m editation and reflec'
tion alone are purposeless and a dissipation of
thought, but it is necessary that when the ideal has
been conceived o f by the mind, that it find its
counterpart in form , in action. T ru e m ysticism ,
like true philosophy, can never be limited to a
value in the “ business of living.” Y et, if an ideal
so fa r transcends the possibility of its application
in life, it is purposeless. R esort to philosophy and
m ysticism is, we believe, for the enlightenm ent and
advancem ent o f man as m an. If they but find form
in the m ind of the student only, they are only
partially expressed, as man is both mind and
[ 1 0 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
m atter, and the philosophical or m ystical idea m ust
relate itself in some w ay to the progress of man in
the exoteric, as well as in the esoteric. A technique
for C osm ic attainm ent is a sum total of num erous
actual experiences in reaching the goal. A tech­
nique is not the result of a process of reasoning,
nor a personal belief, faith or theory. It is the
accum ulation of know ledge of w ays and m eans
appropriate to obtain the end w ith the least loss of
effort, both physical and m ental. T h e technique is
the afterm ath of an eventful venture of blazing a
trail through obstacles of ridicule, criticism and
false illusions. It is a critical review of a series of
acts, and an accounting of those which have proven
to be the best.
N o one, w e believe, is m ore ably qualified to give
to the student of m ysticism such a technique as the
author, R aym und A n drea. H e has served in the
capacity of G ran d M aster of the R osicrucian
O rder for the British jurisdiction for years, It has
been his duty and responsibility to guide on the
path of know ledge large num bers of initiates, and to
encourage them in their pursuit. T h e value of his
ow n experiences in preparation fo r C osm ic Con-
( 111
T H E TECHHl^UE OF THE MASTER
sciousness has been m ultiplied m any tim es by the
accounting to him of the experiences of others. H is
treatise here is m asterful; it is not for those w ho
seek a rapid or sim ple w ay. It substitutes a staple
and an assured m ethod fo r the quick practices so
com m only advertised by lecturers on m ystical sub­
jects. T h e quick process places the initiate in a
state of light w here he is unable to adjust his
psychic nature rapidly enough to appreciate his
advancem ent, and he descends w ith preference
from the light into darkness because he is m ore
accustom ed to the latter. T h e technique advanced
by the author recognizes the necessity of the stu ­
dent’s com prehension of each stage of his advance­
ment before he go further. T h u s the psychic and
intellectual developm ent at all tim es com plem ent
each other. T h ere is no conflict, no irritability, and
the harm ony resulting is so gratifyin g to the
student that he can conceive o f only one m ove­
ment, and that, upw ard and onw ard.
R o s i c r u c i a n O r d e r , A M O R C .
San Jose, Calif., U.S.A.
July, 1932.
[ 1 2 ]
INTRODUCTION
T h ere exists, and alw ays has existed, w ithin the
R osicrucian O rder, a technique of peculiar value
when applied to everyday life; and there are men
in every departm ent of life w ho need nothing m ore
than this technique in order to m ake their lives
em inently productive, and conclusive in investiga-
cion and dem onstration. In principle and aim they
are potentially R osicrucian. T h ey possess all the
characteristics of the pioneer in the m ystical and
progressive quality of their m inds. T h ey are actors,
not theorists; but their sphere of action is greatly
curtailed because they lack an organized technique
w hich w ill bring them to a profound understanding
of their constitution, enable them to establish a
ready response betw een the psychic and physical
organizations, and look to Cosm ic sources at once
for inspiration and the w orking pow er to actuate
it im m ediately and locally. It is these men, w ho
are capable of great w ork in this cycle, whom w e
seek to contact, that they m ay have the opportu'
nity of participating in a technique w hich will
r n ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
bring them to conscious know ledge and strength,
the resurrection of latent faculty, and a soul con­
sciousness and personality equipm ent truly Rosi-
crucian in character.
In “ T h e T echnique of the M aster” I have en­
deavoured to approach this subject of the technique
from several related angles and give a com prehen­
sive idea of the use of personality, from the inner
and technical point of view , in its progress on the
path while qualifying for initiation into Cosm ic
con tact and pupilage under a M aster. I have no
tw o opinions about this one fact; that the M asters
w ill use any man w ho can efficiently use their
technique. T h at proposition is basic to all I have
w ritten. W h at he is by profession, w hether he be
highborn or humble, of this race or that, as well as
practically every other consideration— these fac­
tors are incidental. If he can prove him self in the
eyes of the M asters as a sound technician on the
cardinal lines set out herein, he m ay be sure that
he has reached a point in evolution where im port­
ant disclosures aw ait him from their sphere. I am
not dogm atic in this m atter. I am m erely sugges­
tive. I express an opinion. If it is considered of
11*1
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
value it can be used; if not, it can be rejected. But
m y aim has been to offset the idea so prevalent
am ong students that they can attain to high evolu-
tion on the path m ainly through abstract m edita­
tion, and postponing action until they receive a
m andate from a M aster, ill equipped as they are,
to carry out som e m om entous cam paign. N o t by
m editation on the Self, but by using the self, is the
burden of m y theme. I do not em phasize the latter
to the exclusion of the form er. T h e R osicrucian
technique recognizes com pletely the dual aspects
of developm ent. B u t w hilst philosophical m edita­
tion has been the m ain feature of countless cults,
the path of action, in the m ost varied and practical
sense, has ever been distinctly R osicrucian.
W e have only to glance back over the history of
the O rder to realize how profoundly true this is.
T h e discoveries and practical w orks of the Rosi-
crucians of the past stand as a challenge and an
exam ple for all tim e. It is for us to keep this fact
ever in mind and endeavor to apply this technique
w ith all possible urgency and w ith com plete dedica­
tion of all our pow ers in the place w here w e are.
T h a t is w hat the M asters dem and first of all from
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
us. W hen w e have proved our efficiency and
attuned our lives to the C osm ic forces, sym pathetic
response and contact w ill result and our sphere of
service will be correspondingly enlarged.
T h e aspects of the subject I have sketched in
this w ork are all related to the technique;— its
fundam entals, the preparation for it, com m on de'
lusions about it, its im personality and m agic, the
M asters on the technique, vocation in relation to
the technique, personal adjustm ents, the neophyte
and his critics, and in conclusion, the vexed ques-
tion of probation. M y hope is that the book will
be an inspiration and com panion to every student
of m ysticism .
R a y m u n d A n d r e a , F .R .C .
Bristol, England.
[ 16 1
C h a p t e r I.
f u n d a m e n t a l s O F THE t e c h n i q u e
H E technique of the m aster artist has
alw ays been a subject o f engrossing in­
terest for the am bitious student w ho fully
appreciates the beauty and rarity of that
w onderful ease and facility w hich characterize the
execution of great w orks in the realm s of art. W ith
the m easure of understanding he has of the par'
ticular art he follow s and such practical ability
attained in it through conscientious labour, to w it'
ness the m aster projecting w ith perfect abandon
the ideal conception, im peccable in detail and com'
pleteness, fires his soul to the limit and resolves him
to press on to the seem ingly unattainable. A s he
looks or listens he is carried out beyond him self;
he is raised one step nearer this high heaven of
invention; certain lim itations seem to pass aw ay
and the goal appears less rem ote under the con'
trolling influence of the em bodied ideal before him.
N oth in g is so necessary to the aspiring student as
[ 1 7 ]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF THE M A S T E R
the em bodied ideal. Books w ill never educate him
as that can. T h ere is som ething im m ediately urgent
and com pelling in the visible action of the m aster
m ind, w hich takes by violence the faculties of an
appreciative soul and aw akens it by degrees to
clearer com prehension of that unique technique,
and enables it to grasp intuitively fundam ental
principles and m ethods of interpretation which
m erely astonish and overwhelm the passive and
unaspiring adm irer.
N ow , in the technique of the M aster of O ccult'
ism we have a condition analagous to this. H ere
is a man w ho is the flower of hum anity, w ith a
consciousness universalized and expressing at will
a know ledge, m ultiform and vast, and exercising
pow ers and abilities, various and intricate, so inn
pressively and effectively, that only a com parative
few are ready to accept the fact of his actual
existence. Y et it is sufficient that som e do believe
in his existence and th at o f those an increasing
num ber can testify of his existence through pen
sonal contact w ith him. B ut this question is beside
m y purpose. M y purpose is to consider some
aspects of the technique as far as it m ay be dis-
[ 18]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
cerned through personal study of the subject and
from w hat has directly im pressed me during my
investigations and reflections, particularly in con­
nection w ith m y ow n developm ent on the path and
generally in dealing w ith my individual problem s
of students of occultism . T h ese students are, con­
sciously or unconsciously, reflecting in their occult
progress w hat appear to be m anifest signs of cer­
tain phases of the method of procedure which I
term the technique of the M aster. For I hold that
in these days of advanced developm ents along
every line of m ental and spiritual research, the
hum an mind has evolved such exceptional capaci­
ties both of insight and dem onstration, and has
passed so sw iftly and boldly beyond hitherto
jealously guarded frontiers of secret know ledge,
and m ade discoveries so m om entous, as to justify
the opinion that, w here these researches are of an
occult and spiritual character, those m aster m inds
whom we know7 as the M asters o f O ccultism , are
taking the keenest interest in the upw ard progress
of those w ho are prosecuting such researches and
w hose m aturity of soul dem ands a specialised dis­
cipline and personal guidance at their hands. N o r
[ 1 9 ]
THE TECHHIQUE OF THE M ASTER
is this idea difficult to accept if one observes the
confirm ed character, trend o f life and particular
service of m any beautiful souls in the occult w orld
w h o have devotedly follow ed the path through a
long course of years and in whom m ay be perceived
very clear signs of a presiding deity w hich pep
m eates them w ith eagerness and self-abnegation
and a divine thoughtfulness for the w elfare of
others in m anifold w ays, but especially in those
things pertaining to their higher evolution. O n
encountering such souls recognition from the in­
terior aspect is alm ost instantaneous, since it is a
m atter of synchronous vibration and of dedicated
purpose. T h eir w ork on the path has often allied
them closely in the past through the m edium of
m editation and in periods o f w ithdraw al; and
w here they belong objectively to som e special
group of aspirants, on the plane o f the ego they
are one and under the supervision o f a M aster or
his initiates. Indeed, the further w e advance in
our occult w ork the m ore necessary is it and the
m ore n atural does it becom e to m easure those we
contact from this inner stand-point. W e develop
an entirely new scale of values and retreat from
[ 2 0 ]
THE TECHHl^UE OF THE MASTER
the judgm ent of the objective m ind to the certain
intuition of the divine m onitor whose voice grow s
clearer and m ore insistent in proportion as w e
recognize and tru st it. In this w ay w e learn to
detect our true com peers on the path. T h ere tran-
spires in them an indubitable response to the cub
tured and heightened vibration that irradiates and
controls our vehicles of expression as it energises
dow nw ards from the higher centers of the inner
personality. A n d this vibration, so active and
potent in the physical, em otional and m ental
econom y, I conceive it is, that constitutes a distinct
developm ent and denotes, it m ay be, one aspirant
only in a w hole group of students, as having
reached that evolutionary point w here he becom es,
in some degree, an exponent of the technique of
the M aster. I m ake this lim itation of only a possible
one out of m any students all engaged perhaps in
sim ilar w ork on the path because I believe the ex­
ponent of the technique is a com paratively rare
individual even am ong earnest students. Y et the
attainm ent of this inner touch of the M aster’s
method of instruction and m anifold adaptations in
life and circum stances is surely the outcom e of no
{ 2 1 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
favouritism or simple plea for pow er and prestige.
It is the gradual fruition of a rigorous discipline to
that end in the long and continuous struggles of
past existences. Such an aspirant w ill m anifest the
peculiar influence of this past developm ent in all
his life activities. It m ay become m ore and m ore a
conscious possession and pass under greater control
in the course of his studies in this life and his par­
ticular w ork on the path; but even early in his in­
carnation the im m ature effects of the principles
and practice of the technique w ill be observable,
and in his later years im portant results will ensue
w hich will infallibly dem onstrate that he is one of
that esoteric group of aspirants w ho is carrying
out specialized w ork under the direction of a
M aster.
It w ill be understood that I am not w riting for
those w ho dem and proof in the ordinary sense of
the term of this fact of special developm ent in the
individual. It is not susceptible o f this kind of
proof. M oreover, there is no desire to prove the
fact in this w ay. T h e only proof that can be fur­
nished lies in the personal influence and w ork of
him w h o has it. It has been averred that the M aster
[ 2 2 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
him self is often indistinguishable from ordinary
men except through a subtle m agnetic radiation
arising from auric intensity; and it is precisely this
radiation w hich characterizes the man, but in a far
lesser degree, w ho is m agnetically linked with the
M aster in the occult w orld of force. T ru ly , there
are m anifest signs and enough o f this condition
recognizable by those who them selves aspire and
seek the divine in nature and m an. Som e of these
signs m ay be noted, since they are intrinsic and
stable qualities and are so unvarying in character
that they m ay alw ays be predicated of the man we
are denoting. W e shall observe great versatility in
the character, a ripe understanding of the profundi'
ties of hum an nature, an acquaintance, intuitive if
not experim ental, w ith all the crucial depths of hu-
man sorrow , allied w ith a skilful adaptation to the
diversities of tem peram ents and a pow er of appeal
to the soul in men. T hese qualities characterize
the man w ho is called, in the technical phraseology,
a disciple of the M aster. H e m ay be a conscious
disciple, or an unconscious one. H e m ay be con­
sciously aw are of his relationship to and acceptance
by a certain M aster, or he m ay be unconscious of
[ 2 3 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
these facts: the fundam ental position rem ains urn
altered; and it is only a question of tim e and spe­
cific grow th until he w ill becom e as fully aw are of
this relationship and acceptance as of his relation­
ship to and acceptance in his ow n fam ily.
V ery variously have been given in occult trea­
tises w h at are designated the qualifications for
discipleship, but fundam entally they are identical
in character and expression, and w ill be found to
underlie and indeed to be the basic cause of the
developm ent in the m an of the above nam ed quali­
ties. A ll of these qualifications m erit the closest
attention and study by the aspirant w ho is bent
upon soul culture and w ho hopes to equip him self
for dem onstration o f the technique in som e phase
of w orld w ork of the M aster. T h ey m ust be
w rought into the very fabric of the em otional and
m ental life and becom e as truly a part o f the ex­
pressive self as are the ordinary and w ell known
faculties of objective use. O n this point hinges
largely the w hole problem of the technique. It is
com m on to m eet w ith students w ho are discon­
certed because their studies do not culm inate in
som e exceptional crisis in this direction. Know-
[ 2 4 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
ledge they have; their reading is extensive; yet they
are unaw are of any special developm ent indicating
discipleship, or of any outstanding facilities for
putting their know ledge to specific use. T h e diffi­
culty lies here. T h e soul has not m atured to the
point of utilization and dem onstration of its con­
tent, nor has that content the required m easure
of fullness and force; and the M aster cannot accept
and use it, even through the agency of subordinate
initiates, until the necessary m aturity is show n.
T h e decision in this m atter is not arbitrary; it is
based upon occult law . If it w ere only a question
of study there w ould be little difficulty, the objec­
tive w ould be easily obtainable; but the M aster
cooperates w ith his disciples on the basis of inner
soul force. “ T h e w orld of force is the w orld of
occultism and the only one w hither the highest
initiate goes to probe the secrets of b ein g." A n y
advancem ent, then, tow ards the technique m ust
be m ade in accordance w ith the long established
and invariable m ethod of procedure of prolonged
and conscientious study of the m ain subject of
occultism , em bracing as m any branches of related
thought as possible, in conjunction w ith the unfold-
[ 2 5 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
ing in the personality of the various attitudes of
em otional and m ental culture know n as the quali­
fications for discipleship; and a variable period of
experim entation in the use of the spiritual forces
to be generated through introspection, m editation
and service, “ Learn first our law s and educate your
perceptions.”
V V V
[ 2 6 ]
C h a p t e r II.
P R E P A R A T IO N FOR THE TECHNIQUE
■ EjEdf H A T period of duration the institution of
the fundam entals m ay occupy cannot be
^ Jip determ ined. I am anxious not to say any'
thing on this subject of preparation which
m ay appear discouraging to the aspirant w ho hopes
to cover the necessary stages w ithin a short period
in the present incarnation. O n the other hand, no
good purpose is to be served by giving a colourable
construction to a subject of such vast proportions
and rendered intricate by the peculiar discipline
necessary for overcom ing those hindrances and
obstacles inherent in the texture of the personality,
which m ust be gradually remodelled and exalted to
a higher plane of expression. Students often bring
discouragem ent upon them selves in that they are
unable to gauge rightly w here they stand approxi­
m ately in the scale of interior evolution. T h ey
judge of their grow th and assum e their im m ediate
possibilities by w hat a m ore advanced soul is and
[ 2 7 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
can do. T h is inevitably leads to discontent and dis'
couragem ent. N o r is it at all easy to im part to
others an infallible m ethod of judgm ent in these
m atters, since the w hole question practically rests
upon w h at grades of evolution the individual soul
has already taken before it resum es its studies of
the path in this particular life. M y opinion is, that
the student w ho enters upon the stu dy o f the
science in this life for the first tim e cannot expect
to becom e an exponent of the technique in the same
life. T h ere is a hint of corroboration of this in the
w ords of one of the M asters. “ If the psychic idio-
syncrasy is lacking, no culture w ill supply it.” W e
shall find that this psychic idiosyncrasy is a dis­
tinctive trait in the man w ho is the recipient of
higher influences. It has no relationship w ith the
condition o f m edium sbip known as spiritualistic.
It is the polar antithesis of that. T h e man is not a
tool in the hands of intruding entities, or an en­
tranced revelator of the im provised discourses of
guides of doubtful authority. T h e inspiration
which is a feature of the technique com es from
within, from a point o f ascension in the head, from
the sacred precincts of the indw elling divine self,
[ 2 8 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
which im presses directly the prepared and dedi­
cated personality of the aspirant w ith such aspects
of the M aster’s w ork as he is so far com petent to
undertake and advance. T herefore it is am ong
those w ho have early in their incarnation entered
upon the path and in whom the qualifications are
instinctive and an intrinsic part of the character
and tem peram ent, that w e shall expect to find some
selected, after persistent and consolidating effort to
that end, as exponents of the technique.
Let us take the qualities w e have specified as
particularly connoting the m an who has attained
that point in soul evolution w here he is conscious
of certain developm ents indicative of contact w ith
superphysical influences and is being used in the
w ork o f the M aster. T hese qualities, it w as inti­
m ated, included and focussed, so to speak, the
various indispensable qualifications for disciple
ship; not in their fullness and perfection, it m ay
be, yet w ith so m uch precision and effect in their
use in the daily life of the m an as to clearly indicate
that they are fully recognised and fundam ental fac­
tors in conduct and are in continual evolution.
[ 2 9 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
V ersatility in the character derives from a large
m ental content, and is obviously of first im port­
ance, since the versatile technique of the M aster
him self is so large and com prehensive, so mom en­
tous and im posing in its nature and operation, that
w ithout this background o f an extensive mental
activity and consequent facility in the use, re­
ciprocal and instant response w ould be lacking. In
the man of technique this response is im m ediate
and sure. H idden relationships in particular situa­
tions are sw iftly revealed through the unified
action and close consent of all the faculties and
senses. A subject under consideration becom es a
focal point in the mental life, com pelling to itself a
w ealth of associated ideas from the C osm ic reposi­
tory o f thought, so that abundant inform ations and
dictates are forthcom ing, im perative and constrain­
ing, which im part significance and effect to the
prevailing them e; or a hum an soul com es, burdened
and hesitant with a w eight of em otion which
hinders clear thinking, m ystified and perplexed
w ith som e problem lying heavy upon the heart,
w hich the technique sees intuitively and em bodies
in shapes and aspects which raise and dignify and
[ 30]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
give m ental form , and w ith it ease and satisfaction,
to the incom m unicable and oppressive. T hese are
merely indications of the characteristic versatility
the procedure of w hich is intricate and obscure to
the uninitiated observer, yet operates w ith dis­
crim ination and exactness and w ith the prom pti'
tude and effectiveness of a divine afflatus from
concealed sources. It does so because of a long
novitiate, w herein the m ind has habituated itself
to a deeply occult responsiveness to a higher order
of cognition, wherein a path has been m ade in
m ental m atter by an ascending vibration, leading
consciousness gradually upw ard and polarizing it
w ithin that sphere of spiritual im pression rem otely
analagous to, and to some extent recipient of, the
finer sphere of the octave of the M aster. It w ill be
observed how peculiar and special is this quality in
the technician and how greatly it differs from , how
m uch it exceeds in lum inousness and force, that
versatility w hich is objective in character and use
and com m only met w ith in everyday life.
It is from the exercise of this quality th at pro-
found understanding of the human heart becomes
m ore and m ore a cherished possession of the aspi-
[ 3 1 }
THE TECHHIZIVE OF THE MASTER
rant. H e so regards it because it gives him increas­
ing ingenuity and skill in service. T h e hum an soul
draw s him irresistibly; it has a divine fascination
for him ; and his constant aim is to “ understand the
beauty and obscurity o f those other divine frag­
m ents which are struggling side by side w ith him "
that he m ay assist their evolution on the path. T h is
quality, too, has its exoteric and esoteric aspects.
It is com m on enough to meet w ith those w ho are
excellent judges of hum an nature; they classify
tem peram ents and are acquainted w ith their m ani­
fold peculiarities; and there is satisfaction in feeling
that w e are easily understood and that there is
ready response to our personal expression. But the
range o f the technique is of a profounder order. It
has not to search for m otives; it registers them .
T h ey rise in all their conscious strength before the
observant soul; the silent thought speaks and is
answ ered before it finds utterance. “ F or as the in­
dividual has voice, so has that in w hich the indi­
vidual exists. L ife itself has speech and is never
silent.” It is the speech o f life itself that the
technician has studied; it is the voice o f that in
which the individual exists to which he has attuned
[ 32]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
himself during his ascent on the path; and that
voice is single and unerring because it sounds in the
M aster’s presence.
H ere, too, it is that his past intensive m oral
training plays its part. T h rough the persistent
search after reality the soul becom es sensitive and
receptive and sw ift to discrim inate in the kingdom s
of nature and m an. It becom es clairvoyant of the
atm ospheres o f souls, and that w hich is w orking at
the heart of life is transm itted to and declares itself
sym pathetically in the vehicles of the m an. T h ere
is nothing m iraculous in this; it is the law of
reciprocal response and is indifferent in its action.
It m ay be utilised for evil ends as well as fo r good.
B ut only in the well tried aspirant w ho recognises
the sacred value and responsibilities of this facility
wall it unfold to the full dim ensions o f its finest
culture. T h is is a point for special consideration
on the part of those w ho aspire to the technique.
D o you aspire to serve, o r to bend others to your
w ill? W ith this quality w ell developed you can do
either; but it is only legitim ate fo r you to use it in
service. If the desire to play w ith hum an hearts is
greater in you than the desire to serve them , you
[ 53]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
m ust tarry, because the real technique is not w ithin
your reach. Y ou w ill have but a caricature of it.
T h ere is som ething sinister and cruel in the advan c'
ing individual w ho seeks the pow er of the M aster
and uses it in the w ork of the devil. I recollect a
poignant case of this description. A student w as
entrusted w ith the instruction o f a group of
seekers, but betrayed his trust for self••gratification.
T h e law is not m ocked in this w ay. It passes the
man back to the w orld w here he belongs, to bitter
reflection and sorrow , w ith the m isdeed w ritten by
K arm a in his vehicles for an everlasting remem'
brance.
T h is is an extrem e instance; but there are other
w ays of m isuse, less heinous in character, which
yet are not perm issible in a servant of the M aster,
nearly all of which are the direct offspring of
vanity and the desire fo r pow er. Y et the M aster's
ow n technique is so searching and discrim inative
in the choice and use of a disciple, that the aspirant
w ill acquire little facility him self in exercising any
distinct phase of it until these undesirable ten'
dencies have been eradicated from the m ind and
heart. T h e infirm ities of an aspirant are never
[ 3 4 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
cause of condem nation, but so long as they exist in
him the responsibilities o f higher evolution w ill not
devolve upon him, since they w ould but accentuate
those infirm ities. T h ere is only one thing w hich is
justifiable and safe and which is im peratively de­
m anded of him as he draw s closer to the secret life
of hum an hearts, and that is, a com passionate un­
derstanding. A full and restraining com passion
lies at the very heart of the M aster’s ow n technique
in dealing w ith a disciple. T h ere is no coercion, no
autocratic control, no exploitation o f w eakness,
neither fear, nor intolerance, nor sentim ent, in that
great and suffering H U M A N I T Y which lifts and
frees and dignifies the trusting soul that looks up
and gives itself in adoration and love. T h at is the
ideal for the aspirant in his w ork for and w ith
others. “ H e m ust learn to look intelligently into
the hearts of men from an absolutely im personal
point of view , otherw ise his sight is coloured.”
It w ill be observed how com pletely these specific
qualities ram ify through the w hole nature of the
m an, how each includes in itself subsidiary atti­
tudes w hich m ust receive attention and be con­
stantly developed. Im personality is such an
[ 3 5 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
attitude. T h e aspirant m ust be able to stan d back
at w ill from the assertive personal self which
craves recognition and aggrandizem ent, w ould
exercise forbidden pow er, grasp and hold that
which is unlaw ful yet easily within reach and sub­
ject to his influence.
A cqu ain tan ce w ith the depths of hum an sorrow
is a quality closely related to and contingent upon
the last nam ed. W e cannot advance far in the
study of the hum an heart w ithout sensing and
know ing the alm ost intolerable burden of pain in
every im aginable form which rests heavily upon
hum anity and cries aloud fo r deliverance. H ere
again w e note the dual attitude in the aspirant in
his bearing tow ard the pain of life in his fellow-
men. It is a condition of the technique that, in the
man w ho is dem onstrating it, sensitiveness is con­
tinually increasing. “ H e m ust suffer, m ust enjoy
or endure, m ore keenly than other m en.” In the
early stages this condition is particularly difficult
to deal w ith. It is, indeed, a secret cross which
perforce he m ust carry; and the effects in himself
are often of so singular and antagonizing a char­
acter that he is ap t to question the usefulness of
[ 3 6 ]
THE 'TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
subm itting to it. B ut these m oods are fleeting and
contem porary w ith those little crises in thought
and em otion w hich ever assail the advanced man
on the path. T h ey never really deter him; for there
is present the consciousness of persistent right
action in the past, of his intense and abiding aspira-
tion to be of service to the M aster, besides the m any
instances o f interior developm ent w hich compen-
sate a hundredfold for the pain-producing reactions
consequent upon his self-im posed discipline.
N evertheless, there is much of occasional diffi­
culty experienced by the aspirant through this fact
of increasing susceptibility throughout the w hole
econom y o f his expressive self. A s it is a concom it­
ant of his evolving soul life, w hatever tem porary
disquietude or disconcertedness or actual suffering
it entails, will be perm itted to w ork itself out, its
utilisations and possible applications in the service
o f others will be fully noted, and a w ise subm ission
and resignation to w hat is inevitable and m ust be
patiently borne will extract peace from m any a
troubled hour. F or remember, the technician is not
a theorist; he is, literally and truly, in the depths
of his soul a man of sorrow and acquainted w ith
[ 37 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
grief. I have no w ish to cast a som bre hue over this
phase of the subject, but if this thing is true in the
experience of the soul it m ust be faced and ex­
pressed. W h at is the use to stand before a fellow
creature w ho has been w ounded to the soul by
some untow ard circum stances, or is desolated and
helpless through loss and deprivation, and quote to
him a text from the secret doctrine? I have proved
over and over again in such cases that the voice of
a com passionate understanding and o f expressive
affection has been the one and only effective mini­
stration to the soul in affliction. I w ould go so far
as to say th at no aspirant, w hatever his accom plish­
m ents and qualifications, can hope to con tact the
sphere o f the M aster w ithout the priceless quality
of a great hum anity.
T h e next quality is adaptation to the diversities
of tem peram ents. A man w ho is m astering the
technique gradually includes in consciousness,
through the increasing m omentum of vibration in
his vehicles, the vibrational force m easures o f all
other consciousnesses on his ow n level and of those
below th at level. In other w ords, his consciousness
is attuned to certain octaves of vibration; he can
[ 3 8 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
respond at w ill to every keynote w ithin those
octaves; therefore any other consciousness w hich
responds vibrationally to any keynote therein, he
can adjust to and interpret. W e are considering
the esoteric aspect of tem peram ent. In speaking of
tem peram ents generally w e class them sim ply as the
artistic, the scientific, or the legal, and so on. B ut
there is a tem peram ent or atm osphere of the soul.
T h e technique in its operation is esoteric; and its
interpretations and utilizations are concerned w ith
and based upon the expressions, the im presses and
signatures, of the soul. It never relies w holly in its
use upon so m isleading a factor as tem peram ent in
its sim ple exoteric classification. T o do so requires
no superior developm ent, nothing but a fam iliarity
w ith psychology and related sciences; w hereas the
sensitive and developed soul sphere of the tech'
nician reproduces w ithin itself the precise soul
states prevailing in another. T h rou gh the law of
receptivity and response the lesser sphere is con-
tacted and know n as by an inner sense of touch.
N o w ilful effort of the objective self can w ithhold
this transm ission of the vibration of its soul sphere
from the intuitional observation of the technician.
t i9)
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
It acts independently of the will of m an. It is the
m an as he stands in the scale of evolutionary in-
fluence; and th at is w hat the technician is con­
cerned w ith, not w ith the outer personification
w hich is often but a m isleading caricature o f the
self. H ow ever involved and theoretical this m ay
appear to some, it is true in the experience of the
technician. H e know s im m ediately and fairly
accurately— I do not say perfectly, since w e are
not speaking of perfections, and there are m any
grades o f the technique— th e personality and the
soul m easures of those he contacts and w ould assist,
w hether occultly or in any other w ay, and is able
to apply to them th at aspect of his accum ulated
w isdom and experience w hich they instinctively
seek. N o r am I referring to specific m ethods of
m ental influence known to psychology. T h ese have
their place in certain phases o f life experience and
m ay be used for good and legitim ate purposes; but
the pow er and efficiency o f the technique are
neither derived from nor stand in need o f them.
T h ere is a psychology of the soul w hich the aspi­
rant evolves w ithin himself for his ow n use as he
advances in the technique; and w hile the qualifica-
[ 4 0 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
tions are the sam e w hich produce the cardinal
qualities indispensable in every aspirant, the higher
psychological procedure evolved in the soul
through the usage of the technique is an individual
and peculiar one, and w ill vary in character accord'
ing to the M aster sphere he contacts and the kind
of w ork he is fitted to undertake.
T h e aspirant w ho has the above qualities well
developed w ill undoubtedly in som e m easure have
the pow er of appeal to the soul in men. In the
course of his discipline on the path he w ill have
discovered in w hat w ay he is to present his know '
ledge and experience in the service o f his fellow '
men. T h e technique has m anifold lines of usage,
and during the process o f unfoldm ent his particular
line w ill be unm istakably pointed out. It m ay be
in his business relationships or in his professional
life th at the influence of the M aster w ill prevail
upon him to w ork w ith and upon his associates in
higher and beneficent form s; or, if he has that
m ental constitution w hereby he is com petent to
teach and guide others along the path, he m ay find
a field of action for the technique in a school of
occultism or w ith a group of students, to which he
[ 4 1 }
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
is allocated through K arm ic alliance. O ne thing is
certain. T h e technique w ill be unfolded only in the
m an w ho has throughout been steadily bent upon
giving him self unreservedly to the betterm ent of
hum an lives, w ho has pledged him self in m ind and
heart, and studied and struggled w ith the w hole
force of the soul to be w orthy of the attention of
the M aster and to become his efficient representa'
tive. Such a m an will never lack the pow er of
appeal, but will augm ent it at every step of
advance.
V V V
[ 4 2 ]
C h a p t e r III.
DELUSIONS A N D THE TECHNIQUE
T w ill be at once apparent to those stu'
dents w ho have carefully considered the
foregoing reflections and are able to grasp
intuitively the m eaning and potency of
this higher experience, that w e are dealing w ith
the advent in consciousness of a spiritual force
w hich com paratively few are aw are of. I am mak-
ing no singular personal claim s, nor am I depicting
the exponent of the technique as one w ho exercises
a prerogative so rem ote and hidden in character
and function as to m ystify and perplex the aspirant
w ho is sincerely seeking the M aster. N evertheless,
I am dealing w ith th at w hich is so em phatic and
operative in its expression and yet so recondite and
disputable to those w ho are inclined to adopt a
critical attitude, since there is m uch in it that m ay
appear austere and unattractive to those who
prefer theoretical know ledge to practical develop-
m ents, that only in a few am ong recognized stu-
[ 4 3 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
dents o f the occult shall w e expect to meet w ith
its developm ent.
A statem ent of this kind w ill no doubt lead to a
good deal o f serious individual self-questioning and
exam ination, which is good and an excellent aid to
self know ledge. H ap p y is the student w ho can
exercise a ju st discrim ination during the process of
introspection and rightly adjudge his position on
the path o f attainm ent. T h at self appraisal should
give him confidence and hum ility; confidence
through the realization that he has m ade much
progress and notes that the qualifications necessary
for higher w ork are steadily ripening w ithin him;
hum ility in the realization of how m uch is to be
done and overcom e before he can bear those re­
sponsibilities w hich the M aster dem ands th at he
shall consciously accept, w ith all their necessary
im plications, and be com petent to discharge largely
upon his ow n initiative.
A T heosophical leader once rem arked that his
society w as, from top to bottom , full of sponges.
I have no w ish to cast the slightest reflection upon
any body of students. I w rite dispassionately and
uncritically, and introduce the above rem ark be-
[ 4 4 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE MASTER
cause it throw s out in bold relief a profound truth
w hich has a direct bearing upon the subject o f
delusions which hinders the developm ent of the
technique. Indeed, the rem ark might well apply to
m any groups of students other than Theosophical.
U ndoubtedly, there is a large num ber of so-called
occult students w ho are literally but passive re­
ceivers of doctrine which they have neither force
nor initiative to apply in any practical sense.
O ne of the greatest delusions prevalent am ong
students is, that by im bibing doctrine from the lips
of a teacher thoroughly indoctrinated they w ill in
no long tim e be suddenly accepted by a M aster and
be raised to som e nebulous level of sanctity and to
the accom plishm ent of m iraculous w orks. It is
sufficient to ask o f these students, can they instance
any such cases of m iraculous intervention and di­
vine exaltation am ong them selves? If they point
to some of the outstanding personalities in the van ­
guard of certain m ovem ents, their delusion is tw o ­
fold. A ll such instances of exceptional developm ent
on the path are clearly exponents o f the technique
w ho have trodden the long and arduous w ay of
soul culture, w ork and service. It is lam entable to
[ 4 5 ]
THE TECHHIHUE OF THE M ASTER
note the o n esid ed conception that obsesses stu-
dents in this m atter; and the sooner their hope is
shattered regarding it the sooner w ill they begin
to take the first serious steps already outlined.
A large percentage of these sam e students are
entirely devoted to w h at is called the Eastern path
of developm ent. N o intelligent person having
know ledge of that path w ould decry it. It has pro-
duced saints and saviours in abundance. W e know
that som e of the great M asters have taken this
path. B u t a rigid adherence to it by the W estern
student is fraugh t w ith m anifold dangers and as
often as not productive of unbalanced develop­
ment. W e have only to remember that the
W estern aspirant is not constitutionally fitted for
the rapid dem onstration w hich is com paratively
easy of attainm ent in the E ast. T h e ordinary well
know n obstacles and hindrances on the path have
a far greater range of difficulty for the W estern
aspirant, since his very constitution is an obstacle
over and above the specific obstructional tendencies
to be elim inated by aspirants of any nationality.
T h e grasp of the science is not intuitive in the case
of the W estern aspirant as it is in the Eastern. So
[ 4 6 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
m uch is evident to those w ho follow the question­
ings and endeavours of the form er in his studies. If
then the aspirant in the W e st is breaking alm ost
entirely new ground in pursuing the science and
needs so m uch encouragem ent and prom pting and
guidance in his study and effort, it cannot be am iss
to assert that he should be required to dem onstrate
unusual facility before he m ay hope to reap any
real benefits from sincere application. A n d it m ay
be pertinently asked, w h at chance has a passive
imbiber of doctrine of m eeting successfully the
ordeals of the exacting Eastern path? T o think of
being able to do so reveals a basic ignorance of
first principles.
T h is applies equally to the aspirant on the
W estern path, or w ho com bines the m ethods of
the E ast and W est. E very aspirant for attainm ent
m ust at some stage or other m aster the technique
and becom e a living exponent of it. T h ere is no
com pulsion for him to m aster it quickly. H e m ay
enjoy such personal satisfaction as he can from a
theoretical know ledge of occultism and leave the
practical issues to the future; but if he does aspire
to recognition by the M aster, this basic ignorance
[ 4 7 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
m ust be thoroughly elim inated. F or observe w hat
a vast am ount o f developm ent, w hat a range of
experience is involved in effecting the necessary
discrim ination, how full and balanced a conception
is requisite in the m an w ho is using the technique
consciously even in its rudim entary stages. A n y
idea of a short cut to the goal is im m ediately ruled
out. T h e first thing, in fact, tow ards overcom ing
ignorance is a clear idea o f the w ork to be done;
and if the w ork is long and difficult there is no
virtue in fooling ourselves w ith the soothing notion
that it is a sim ple m atter and of short duration—
the passive existence of a sponge.
N o student w ho has given tim e and labour to the
science can say other than that it calls for a soul
of distinct calibre and of m ental qualities o f no
mean order. Even the initial intuitive perception
of a long task ahead requiring the cooperation of
the w hole m an is of vast im portance; because if
that is present, is fully accepted, and there succeeds
a stron g assent of the mind to achieve and a deter'
m ination to m aster the steps of discipline— that,
even at the threshold, is the voice of the Self sound'
ing em phatically though inarticulately w ithin the
{ 4 8 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
aspiring cosm os of the m an and is a prophecy of
success. T o some this perception com es at the
threshold o f study w ith clear and strong and
sudden em phasis; others have nothing of the nature
of this egoic im petus, but often enough only a very
vague and m isleading perception of the w ork be'
fore them. In the case of the form er there is pres-
ent a body of latent grow th and but little applica­
tion and prelim inary study is necessary to set the
aspirant firmly on the path w ith a surprisingly
com prehensive conception o f m ethod and line of
approach; in the latter, a w ell defined plan o f study
has to be entered upon and the basic facts of
occultism assim ilated until a sufficient reason for
prolonged future effort is seen and an interest
strong enough is aw akened to steadily pursue the
initial stages of discipline. If the assertion of his
w ill is sufficiently pow erful to urge him on to the
greater discoveries of self, the prelim inary unsettle-
m ent w hich he w ill experience in the personality
w ill ultim ately pass; a m iniature spiral of evolution
w ill have been achieved, which will give birth to
successive and w ider spirals of related experience.
A peculiarity of these advances is, that they are
[ 4 9 ]
TH E TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
nearly all concerned w ith daily life and a keener
and m ore exacting sense of living. T h e whole pro-
cess of advancem ent, it seems, inheres in an increase
ing stress or tension in the vehicles of expression,
until the observant aspirant com es to realise that it
is m ainly in new and finer contacts, in unlooked for
rearrangem ents o f circum stances, in perplexities
and trials o f the m ental life, in unexpected response
bilities n aturally opening upon him, m ost of which
appear totally unrelated to any glory of spiritual
conquest, that the path to know ledge and right
action and the overcom ing of ignorance, in the
occult sense, consists. W ell is it for him if he can
seise this truth quickly and accept and encourage
its beneficent w orking out upon every plane of his
being; if he can realise that it is his ow n individual
K arm a and none other that com pels.
T h e delusion o f inaction as a factor in occult
attainm ent w hich arises principally from a basic
ignorance of first principles, m erits a conclusive
judgm ent. R ead in g alone w ill not dissipate it, nor
aspiration alone, nor alone the quiet m ind which
refuses to engage and participate in the exigencies
of life and circum stances, nor yet devotion to an
[ TO]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
ideal or a personality. It is by continual dem onstra-
tion of the force of the soul, by the assertion of life
upon every plane, by com pelling vibration to an-
sw er vibration in any aspect of the tum ultuous
w orlds of form , and giving all this in essence back
into the praying hands of the inner man as experi­
ence know n and assim ilated, to enlighten and am ­
eliorate and bless.
A n oth er very prevalent delusion is that con­
nected w ith the overcom ing of the sense of perso­
nality. Students spend precious hours affirming
and w illing the personality out of existence. Let
the serious aspirant observe, that his early efforts in
the science of attainm ent w ill increase the sense of
personality to an unusual degree rather than blot it
out, that is, if he goes whole-heartedly to w ork. It
is obvious th at in his first attem pts to overcom e the
basic delusion of ignorance he m ust take know ­
ledge; and if he does that rightly the range of his
personal vibration w ill extend in every direction.
Should he disallow that extension and resort to the
common practice o f denying reality to his personal­
ity, he m ay ultim ately be reborn upon a higher
plane, but w ithout pow er or initiative and with
[ « ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
nothing to give of practical use to his fellow m en.
It sounds trite enough to say that before w e can
really know a thing w e m ust have intim ate know ­
ledge o f it; yet there exist countless students of the
occult w ho base their ascent to the spiritual upon a
dream y and w eakening denial of that w hich it is
their prim ary business to investigate and under­
stand from every possible aspect.
I consider it of first im portance for the aspirant
that he should take an inventory of his mental
faculties w ith scrupulous exactness. H e should
know their range and strength and the particular
line of activity which they naturally follow w ith
ease and facility, and so indicate his vocation in
life. If, for instance, he has strong faculties for
certain types of Literature, art or science, there is
the m ental foundation and the point of departure
w hich w ill later indicate his path of approach in
occult w ork. T h is should be obvious, yet it is not
sufficiently observed; and through the lack of this
elem entary know ledge of self the aspirant will
often say enthusiastically th at he only w ishes for
illum ination and sits dow n to m editate upon the
self, w hile the personality receives no specialised
[ 52]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
attention. T h ere is only one rem edy for this
hypnotic and fatal condition. K now the personality
and m ake it a tool of pow er. W hen we know a
thing and have taken the m easure of its action and
reaction, then it can be used w ith telling effect. In
this case, it is the m ind we have to know , w ith its
faculties of judgm ent, im agination and reason, the
skilful com bination of these in resourceful daily
action in a m ultitude of common and original
adaptations in life. W e w ant the two-edged sw ord
of the m ind firmly in our grip, to advance or retreat
on the instant, and to apply to any problem di­
rectly and adequately. T h e action of such a mind
is a joy to behold; and it is so because every faculty
has been aw akened to the limit of its function and
operates individually or in conjunction as its de­
veloped technique directs.
T h is idea of the use of the personality m ay be
brought to a focus in the observation of a maxim
of a m aster mind, the R osicrucian Bacon. H e says:
“ T here are and can exist but tw o w ays of investi­
gating and discovering truth. T h e one hurries on
rapidly from the senses and particulars to the m ost
general axiom s, and from them, as principles and
C « ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
their supposed indisputable truth, derives and dis-
covers the interm ediate axiom s. T h is is the w ay
now in use. T h e other constructs its axiom s from
the senses and particulars, but ascending continu-
ally and gradually, till it finally arrives at the
m ost general axiom s, which is the true but un-
attem pted w a y ” N o w the continual and gradual
ascent is the m ethod for the aspirant to adopt in
recording and studying the accum ulated impres-
sions received from the senses and particulars of
m ental action and reaction, so that his know ledge
of personality and its relationship to the w orlds of
form and m ind shall be built up soundly and solidly
and yield a reliable experience of his position in the
w orld o f men and his evolutionary value as related
to other m entalities. T h e Self m ust have a pow er­
ful instrum ent to w ork w ith, a body of inform ation
through realized contacts. F o r of w hat use w ould
be the thoughts and intentions o f the Self to an
unorganized and feeble m ind? W h ere w ould be
the basis for the right discrim ination and use of
these? I com m and this reflection to the ardent
deniers o f the existence of personality. I grant that
there are instances on record of brief and intermit-
[ 54]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
tent contact w ith the Self in those of w eak and un-
balanced m entality, and I am not sure but that they
have been m ore a m enace than a help in the m atter
of the concepts they have dissem inated in the field
of know ledge in w hich they considered them selves
authorities. B ut the orderly unfoldm ent of the
technique w hich is based upon the science of the
soul is calculated to elim inate this kind of spiritual
abortion and specifically indicates a sane and prac-
tical m ethod leading to that personality com pletion
w hereby the Self m ay be scientifically contacted
and the w ill of the M aster be done.
A further delusion is, that by forced and pro-
found breathing the Self is to be contacted and
known, and long stages of the path taken by
violence through athletic procedure. T h e grave
dangers attendant upon this kind of practice should
be obvious to every clear thinking and discrim ina­
tive student. A s an illustration I m ight cite the
lectures of V ivekananda on Y oga. For a long tim e
these lectures w ere a stan dard w ork in the W est.
T h e author of them w as undoubtedly a practical
yogi; but, like a m aster of his subject, he set out
w ith a stride so bold and w ith such com m anding
[ ” ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
authority, that at first sight it appeared the easiest
m atter in the w orld to enjoy the bliss of Sam adhi
in a few m onths. I am of opinion that he w as an
incom petent teacher for W estern students. H e
cam e to the W est w ith the Eastern ideal of Y oga
flaming in his heart, but he failed to adju st his ideas
sufficiently to the W estern m ind. N o one could
doubt o f his devotion, his vision, or his sincerity,
nor of his ow n practical realization and attainm ent
in the science; but his pace w as too sw ift, his ideas
too general and lum inous, to be successfully
w orked ou t to safe practical issues. H e did not
adjust to the m easure of W estern thinking suffi-
ciently to be a patient and sym pathetic educator
of students in the W est. H e dazzled his hearers,
and confuses m ost of his readers, in spite of the
enlightenm ent he brought w ith him ; so m uch so,
that the m ajority of those w ho have taken up
practical Y o g a under his guidance becom e discour­
aged by reason of the sheer m agnitude o f the ideal,
tow ards which, through this or that inability or
incapacity, or w ant of fitting circum stance, they
have m ade scant progress.
[ W ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
O ther and m ore recent w riters have recom-
m ended sim ilar practices for the attainm ent of
Sam adhi, or liberation, m any of which are totally
unfitted for the W estern student and if rigidly
adhered to w ould m ean positive disaster. O ne of
these w riters counsels his readers to continue
breathing practice until a duration for inhalation
and exhalation is reached of between four and
eight m inutes. I have know n a student to take
breathing exercises and com plain of pains in the
body and affection in the head. If n ature’s warn-
ing is not sufficient, w ho can help him? Y et stu­
dents are foolish enough to force their vehicles to
the three m inute indispensable breath of a yogi
teacher w ho finds the task hereditarily easy and
therefore advertises it as a passport to the U nion.
A fam ous occult teacher once confessed that at
one tim e he becam e enthusiastical about the w ork
of V ivekananda and applied him self strenuously to
breathing exercises w ith a view to rapid develop­
m ent; but w ithin a brief tim e he found his etheric
body vibrating to such an abnorm al degree that he
felt him self being lifted out of the physical and
w alking upon air. It w as some tim e before he
[ 57]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
becam e norm al and properly adjusted to his physb
cal body. T h is is but one instance of the extrem e
danger o f follow ing a teacher like V ivekananda
w ithout the strongest com m on sense as to time,
place and values, and a w ise discrim ination per'
taining to the general teachings of Y oga. F or the
average W estern student w ith a breathing capacity
of about tw enty seconds for inspiration and expira'
tion before applying him self to any conscious ex'
tension in connection w ith occult discipline, it m ay
be suggested that he can only safely extend this
capacity to fifty or sixty seconds duration by
gradual practice covering a period of betw een one
and three years. I refer entirely to the physical
aspect and the effect upon the lungs and chest
m uscles. From the inner aspect, a breathing capa'
city extended from tw enty to sixty seconds effects
m any im portant changes; and unless there is a nat'
ural or long habituated m ental control, a student
will be practically helpless before the host of psy-
chic and m ental influences evoked by the accele'
rated vibration in his vehicles. I see no danger in
his attem pting such an increased capacity within
the lim its m entioned, on taking up the discipline,
[ 58]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
provided he is spiritually aspiring, has a sound
sense of m ental proportion, and is devoted to the
ideal of service. T h e extension in itself is but a
branch o f athletics.
T h e effects of scientific breathing upon the emo-
tional and m ental vehicles call for careful study and
calculation. Som e aspirants are of so pow erful an
em otional calibre that anything in the nature of
stim ulation, even of ordinary physical exercise,
vivifies the w hole personality, and a well-directed
suggestion w ould be sufficient to carry them head­
long. So it is w ith those of very active and acute
m entation. U n der the exercise of profound breath­
ing thought form s of increasing m agnitude and
force possess the m ental field, and unless these are
consciously held and disposed o f under the super­
vision o f a certain degree of Self contact, such stu ­
dents becom e the easy victim s of undisciplined
intellect.
W e live in an age of short cuts to suprem acy,
which are none other than a species of hot-house
developm ent, lacking stability, fundam ental experi­
ence, or sincerity as a basic reality. O ne well-born
and self-trained devotee w ho has laid his aspiring
[ 59]
THE TECHHIQUE OF THE M ASTER
soul upon the altar of life through the years and
struggled upw ard through light and darkness, in­
tent upon being a force on the side o f evolution and
a blessing to others, w ill often do m ore real w ork
for the M aster in a day than the short cut aspirant
will accom plish in a lifetim e. It is the law . W e
can build only upon w hat we have; w e can com ­
m unicate only w hat we are. T h e bane of our day
is the w ant of sincerity. T h e short cut is a form
of insincerity; it lacks the force for a true develop­
m ent; it is content w ith superficial achievem ent.
B ut insincerity in the occult aspirant is a sin, and
failure is its rew ard. It is living the fife of the soul
after its ow n law in the everyday w orld and taking
each step of the path w ith infinite care and patience
and hum ility, that unfolds in the aspirant the fine
art of the technique and initiates him into the
sphere of the M aster.
V V V
[60]
C h a p t e r I V.
IMPERSONALITY AND THE TECHNIQUE
H E form ula, “ K now thyself,” has been
paraphrased into countless other form ulas,
all of w hich are fam iliar to the student of
occult literature, and m ost of which
throw m ore or less light and m eaning upon the
prim ary one. T h ese form ulas have a deeply cosm ic
im port and often prove a little disconcerting when
reflectively analyzed. T o know oneself from the
occult point of view is a com prehensive m atter and
one w ith which m ost of us w ill be w ell occupied
for at least the term of our present incarnation.
W e m ust realize that true self know ledge cannot
begin until some degree of egoic response has been
attained. U p to that point in evolution our know ­
ledge is theoretical and speculative.
T h e attainm ent of self know ledge is m ainly the
dem onstration of an increasing m easure of im perso­
nality. Im personality is the secret doctrine of
practically all of the occult classics. N o m atter
[ 61 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
how great is the appeal of their beauty and their
desirableness to the intellect or to the esthetic
sense, w e rem ain but in the outer court until im-
personality becom es a factor in practical life. It is
usually preceded by a long cycle of developm ent
and experience of the m ost varied and often per­
plexing character. T h ere is a w orld of inner ex­
perience to be garnered before w e can become
living exponents of the fact; and only a genuine
occult discipline com pels th at experience and leads
naturally and law fully to a proper dem onstration.
Im personality has m any degrees. T h ey range
from the m inor detachm ents exercised by the
aspirant to that extrem e spiritual aloofness so strik­
ing and n atural in the adept. In w hatever degree
m anifested, there is in its exercise som ething ex­
ceedingly arresting and influential to those who
w itness it. Its nature is so unique, so contrary to
the well known law s of personal expression in the
w orld, th at the aspirant engaged in its culture is
quickly, though tacitly, distinguished from his fel­
low s. It is a departure from the rule of common
life; it originates from a plane outside of that of
everyday thought and observation; its m anifesta-
[ 6 2 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
tions are such as the ordinary consciousness alm ost
refuses to sanction; it m akes us aw are of the di-
vinity overshadow ing hum an consciousness and
invites to a heart surrender to its beneficent
prom ptings. It upsets our preconceived ideas of
thought and action, rejects the lim itations and
pride of the intellectual self and falsifies well
grounded m axim s of a liberal education. A n d
herein is the reason that so few are able or willing
to enter seriously upon a culture the nature of
w hich has a m ore or less forbidding aspect and is
opposed to so much that is firmly established and
prized in the personal life.
Y et w e are considering a condition, a force,
which is of suprem e value in the evolution of con-
sciousness and is im peratively dem anded in the
technician. N oth in g so coordinates the faculties
and enhances the true prestige of m an as this un­
folding sense of higher perception and values. A
m ultitude of anxieties and perturbations which
hitherto held undisputed sw ay in the soul lose their
tyranny and pass aw ay. N o t that w e forsake the
arena of personality and deny the constant inter­
play o f forces therein, but that we stand at a re-
[ 63]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
m ove and survey these from a point of ascension,
w ith a new pow er of seif direction and insight, and
have the ability to harm onise opposing vibrations.
T h e consciousness of this descending harm ony and
peace has a w onderful effect upon the disposition
of the m ental faculties, and its increasing momen-
turn enables us to achieve sw iftly and one'
pointedly the tasks allotted to them . Indeed, it is
only at this stage of developm ent that w e com e to
realise the true strength and beauty of mental
action and create after the law of the spiritual m an.
H itherto, w e w ere very much at the m ercy of the
m ind; it reigned over us w ith the authority of a
tyran t; w e w ere m arshalled hither and thither at
the behest of thought and often involved by it in
painful uncertainty and confusion. B u t the daw n
o f the sense of im personality reverses this condition
of affairs. W e consciously and deliberately im pose
the will of the Self upon the activities o f the varh
ous faculties w ith m arked results. T h e immense
possibilities therefore w hich open before the man
w ho has entered upon this phase of evolution are
obvious.
[ 64]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
Som e of the difficulties w hich have to be sur-
m ounted on the w ay to the attainm ent of im-
personality have been considered in the previous
chapters. W e shall feel little relish for the pro­
longed and conscientious labour necessary for its
developm ent, for the struggle w ith the secret forces
ruling our personal life, until w e have suffered all
too long under their stern dom ination. T h ere is a
definite point in evolution w hen w e become acutely
conscious that w e m ust com e to judgm ent w ithin,
investigate and understand the opposing factors in
our constitution and devote ourselves seriously to
the task of self discipline. Even this prelim inary
self-cognition brings reflections of not the happiest
kind. W e have travelled along the path of least
resistance and taken life m uch as it cam e; w e have
not felt it incum bent upon us to regard too criti­
cally the sw ift stream of thought and em otion, the
action and reaction of these upon self and others.
B u t w ith this aw akening the sense o f security van ­
ishes. T h e stable centre of consciousness around
which our life hitherto revolved and to w hich all
our activities w ere related becom es decentralized.
Stu dy and m editation have produced their inevi-
( 65}
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
table consequences. T h e Self has responded to
aspiration and m ade us aw are of its existence and
suprem acy. T h e first clear sounding of the note
o f the Self in the personal life is of great
im portance. W e become conscious of a division,
of a pain ful discordance between the tw o. T h e
new and stronger vibration causes a certain dis­
ruption, a disorganization am ong the m ental fac-
ulties, w hich pass for the first tim e under the acute
observation of a spiritual critic. A n d , conform ably
w ith the m axim of occult science th at expansion of
consciousness induced by the advent of spiritual
truth produces pain and unrest, w e realize the
responsibility devolving upon us to take up the
task of self-conquest and establish the pow er of the
Self as the dom inant factor in ou r life in the in­
terest of the general evolution.
It is not a sim ple m atter to put aside the physical,
em otional and m ental vehicles of expression, to
rem ain apart and unham pered by their vibration,
poised in the clear and undivided consciousness of
the Self. Y et the difficulty o f the task is a w ise
provision. It is interesting to note in this connec­
tion the m ethod of instruction adopted in the G ita.
[ 6 6 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
T h e m ethod of preparation of the disciple taugh t
therein w as not a sim ple one, at once received and
understood, w hich im parted the qualifications for
recognition. T h e instruction is m any-sided, each
presentation lifting one veil after another and caus­
ing to pass from the pupil one vice and w eakness
after another, until w e have the final declaration
at the m om ent of realisation: “ D estroyed is my
delusion.” N o w the point to be noted is this.
D urin g the series o f presentations of different
aspects of the W isdom the w hole nature of the
pupil passed under review and discipline, resulting
in the acquirem ent of all the necessary qualifica­
tions for initiation. L et us suppose that some
m agical act had been substituted for that gradual
unfoldm ent in him of all the pow ers and w eak­
nesses of his nature, w hereby he had m om entarily
realized the Self apart from the perishable vehicles,
w ould th at have proved sufficient for the arduous
w ork of the path? A ssuredly not. T h e pupil is
show n at the outset the goal to be reached through
an organic process of unfoldm ent of a very special
nature, and several grades of the technique are in­
volved in it. It is only as this process is consciously
[ 67]
THE T E C H H l^U E OF THE M ASTER
undertaken and the vehicles have taken the depth
o f hum an experience and been raised to a higher
pow er th at real im personality is achieved. It takes
every phase o f personal pow er into its province
and m arshals it to the m ain event. A m agic life
has to touch the heart and brain even to rightly
com prehend it; and only the constantly accelerated
pulse o f that inner life can meet the dem ands of it.
It evolves naturally in the vehicles of the aspirant
w ho insists upon steady and ordered progress, w ith
a w illingness to accept unreservedly all that prog'
ress entails. C ategorical denial of the personality
is an aim less and unprofitable procedure, because
very real and persistent are the attachm ents o f the
three vehicles in spite o f their relative unreality.
T h e surgeon’s knife is a danger here. T h e only
safe instrum ent is a patient and loving com pre'
hension, even a willingness to be in bondage to the
contacts o f personality for the tim e being for the
sake of a perfected experience. T h e aspirant in
w hom the technique is developing is as simple,
n atural and expressive as nature herself. T h ere is
som ething so intensely hum an and spontaneously
affectionate in him that w herever he goes there is
[ 68]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
im m ediate recognition and understanding on his
part of every contact, and a certain response of all
to him. H e confronts the w orld as a sane and de-
veloped personality, w ith the Self resting in the
serenity and peace of the M aster’s heart. H e has
a heart full to overflow ing w ith the incom m unh
cable burden of the heart of hum anity, united
firmly w ith precision o f thought, stable em otion
and a hand instant in service.
T h e technique, then, is not a theory, but an in-
tensely practical thing; and while the w hole per-
sonality is involved in its use, the technique itself
is im personal in character. “ H e w ho is desirous to
learn how to benefit hum anity,” says the M aster,
“ and believes him self able to read the characters
of other people, m ust begin first of all to learn to
know him self, to appreciate his ow n character at
its true value.” T h e first thought of m any an
aspirant on reading this w ill be: B ut I do not know
that I have particularly regarded m y developm ent
on the path in this light. I am not m uch concerned
about reading the characters o f other people in
order to learn how to benefit hum anity. I am
anxious to contact a M aster first so that he m ay
[ 69]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M A STER
teach and guide me personally and set me some
great w ork to accom plish. T h at attitude is a com '
mon one. Studen ts read and m editate, and w ait
for the M aster. T h e M aster also w aits. A n d I fail
to understand how any student can ever hope to
obtain any response w hose life conform s to the
above attitude. T h e aspirant in the W est is not
called to a life of contem plation; he is called env
phatically, through the unique environing condi'
tions under w hich he lives, this peculiarly im port'
ant point of racial evolution, to a life o f ever
stronger personal action in service. Im personality
is a w onderful thing; but to strive after it through
contem plation in a life of inaction is to m iss absc^
lutely, through w rong interpretation of the highest
teaching of occultism , the strength and beauty of
true spiritual culture. I beg the aspirant to turn
back and consider the opening thoughts of this
treatise on the m aster artist. C an we conceive such
an artist expressing a high degree of m ental and
m anual technique through sim ply having con tent
plated his goal through the years, how ever passion'
ately and one'pointedly, w ithout subjecting him self
to the m ost crucial labours in perfecting every in'
[ 70]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
strum ent of expression to that end? C an w e con'
ceive him as having sim ply spent his tim e in con'
tem plating a m aster artist, w ith the idea in mind
that all the m anifold stages of discipline leading
up to his fine m astery w ould be som ehow m ysteri'
ously covered during the contem plation, and so in
a few years he, too, w ould attain to the sam e
facility and stand in the rank of m aster artists? T h e
idea is, of course, absurd. O ne som etim es m eets
with students w ho have read voraciously a library
of occult literature yet w ho are profoundly dis-
appointed because, as they say, they are not being
“ used” . O n questioning them as to w hat they are
doing in order to effect any contact as a prelim i'
nary to being used, they confess they have no time
for practical discipline or w ork. T h e obvious com '
ment upon this attitude is: their attainm ent on the
path w ill m easure up to their personal effort, and
no more. A s w ell m ight a man expect to become
a first class journalist through perusing the daily
new spapers, as expect to know anything experi'
m entally of the technique o f the M aster by m erely
reading books on occultism .
[71 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
N o m an can attain and advance in the technique
w ho has not a deep experience in know ledge and
life. Says a M aster: “ R ead and study fo r there is
an object “ Stu dy and prepare.” Preparation, in
relation to the technique, and in connection w ith
doing the M aster’s w ork, m eans experience of life.
T o serve, the aspirant m ust know ; he is to take
know ledge in the fullest sense of the path from
those w ho have trodden it. B ut this know ledge is
not to be regarded as a mere adjunct to his ordinary
m ental content; it is to be an actual expression of
the soul, an im passioned and fervent expression
supporting and anim ating every other m ental pos­
session he has, an expression of the soul w hich is
nothing less than a conscious force w hich spontane­
ously and prom ptly infuses itself into every phase
of life activity. I pu t it in this w ay so as to rule
out absolutely the lifeless m ethod so often adopted
of sim ply adding fact to fact for m echanical repeti­
tion and to point the utter futility of this for attain ­
m ent of the technique. A fine intellectual grasp of
occult truth is com m endable and necessary; ab­
stract thinking and dialectical skill possess a m ag­
netism of their ow n and m ay not be neglected; yet
[ 72]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
these are bu t one aspect of the first cardinal quality
w e have considered— versatility of m ental charac­
ter. A ll know ledge m ust be translated into life. It
m ust be passed dow n, figuratively speaking, from
the intellectual level into the m ystical recesses of
the heart, to be felt and lived and expressed as
experience in the very life blood of the vestures of
personality.
I said that preparation, in relation to the tech­
nique, m eans experience of life. O bviously, I do
not m ean experience of life in the ordinary sense.
A man in big business usually has a vast and valu­
able experience of life, yet his aptitude for the
technique m ay be less than that of a devotional
m aiden w ho m editates daily upon the beatitudes of
C h rist and dispenses sim ple blessings to those in
need. In every possible w ay experience of life
m ust be sought by the aspirant, but it m ust be
appropriated and interpreted by the inner self. For
at this stage of his endeavours the m an w ill be
w orking intim ately and in a very special w ay w ith
his accum ulated K arm a, and it is this fact that
gives added im portance to his daily experience.
Should he fail to keep this fact in mind when meet-
[ 73]
THE T ECH H IilU E OF THE M ASTER
ing experiences of an unusual and perhaps except
tionally testing character, and interpret them from
the ordinary w orldly standpoint, he w ould m iss the
true value of the greatest factors in his develop'
m ent. H e w ould resent and oppose that w hich his
strong initial efforts have invoked. T h is is urn
doubtedly w here m any aspirants fail to equip
them selves sw iftly fo r the technique. T h ey dem and
know ledge of the path and strenuously seek it.
T h ey cultivate steadily the occult attitudes in their
m ental life and feel a certain satisfaction w ith their
grow th in know ledge. A t length this know ledge
becom es a strong and stable m ental content which
insists upon expression in the personal life. T h e
vibration o f the inner personality takes a higher
m easure and becom es a point of attraction for
higher forces. U nconsciously, the m an has becom e
the centre of a new sphere of higher m entation
which attracts to him a new order of experience
necessary for the expression of the vibration which
has now becom e stabilized in his vehicles; and
those experiences w ill have the profoundest signff
ficance fo r him as related to his further advance'
m ent. Should he interpret them from the narrow
[ 74]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
and limited standpoint of the personal self, they
will often appear m eaningless and cruelly retard­
ing; w hereas if they are regarded as the inevitable
concom itants of benignant law w orking for
strength and w isdom , he will w illingly and ex-
pertly m ake continually fresh adjustm ent w hich the
higher life rhythm s dem and.
If the aspirant can accept this view of the neces­
sity of m eeting courageously and dealing firmly
with aspects of exacting K arm a which his earnest
dem and for developm ent will surely bring to him,
any elements of fearful expectancy, w hich ordi­
narily assail him in the face of unusual experiences
in life, w ill gradually be replaced by an attitude of
mind akin to that of the scientific investigator w ho
observes phenom ena w ith m ental collectedness, in­
tent only upon adding some further indisputable
fact to discovered data. W h at m ore fascinating
field of discovery can w e enter upon than this of
self revelation, in which every step of advance
equips us to handle m ore surely the w ork of the
M aster in the w orld of m en? Frankly, it is a task
only for the m entally bold. A discoverer m ust be
prepared to accept w h at comes. T here can be no
[ 7 5 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
antedating of experience. In this fact alone is seen
the possibility of unique personal culture. T h e
invisible im pinges m ore and m ore strongly upon
the visible and forces the pace of life. T h e even
path of the low er levels is transform ed into one of
rugged yet steady ascent. T h e old and w ell know n
landm arks disappear and the only guide now is the
aw akening inner sense and the w ord o f wisdom ,
fast in the m em ory, o f those w ho have passed this
w ay. T h is is one of the hard points of the path
where w e have to realize m ore than ever before the
value of personal inner grow th and reliance upon
the lessons of experience. “ Seek the w a y ,” says
the M aster, “ by testing all experience.” It is pro-
foundly true that all experience will also test the
aspirant. It w ill not be som e exceptional or
m iraculous experiences, but just that of everyday
life arising out o f his im m ediate vocation and
duties and personal contacts; yet a new m eaning
w ill be reflected from it, a new value w ill accorm
pany it, a significant challenge w ill be offered by it,
all dem anding a higher adjustm ent and a unique
handling in the light of the know ledge he has
attained.
[ 76]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
Let u s consider a concrete instance of this. T h e
aspirant to the technique has attained a com m end'
able accession of occult know ledge and is using it
privately or in group w ork w ith others. H e seeks
to exert his influence in the w ay of service in
assisting those less developed than him self either
through correspondence or personal contact. In no
w ay will he m ore quickly adjudge the precise value
of his ow n attainm ents and realise his ow n lim ita­
tions. It will give him an entirely new understand­
ing of him self and his fellowm en. T h is w ork o f
service is absolutely essential to the m an qualifying
for the technique. H e w ill never know himself or
others so long as he sim ply im bibes know ledge and
rem ains m ute; yet the m om ent he essays to teach
and help others on the path he w ill be throw n back
upon his ow n resources in a surprising m anner. H e
w ill realise how inadequate is occult reading in
itself and the am enities of scholarship. H e will find
him self face to face w ith aspiring souls, each with
its burning problem s of a personal nature and de­
m anding ripe understanding and sym pathetic
handling. A spirin g souls in evolution hate plati­
tudes, and if these are all w e have to offer them w e
[ 77]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF TH E M ASTER
are ill equipped for leadership and know nothing
of the depth and intricacies of the technique. T h e
aspirant’s ability in this respect w ill be im m ediately
dem onstrated w hen he essays to deal at first hand
w ith the m anifold problem s o f other souls who
turn to him for assistance. It m ay perhaps be said
that a m an w ill not be called to a task o f this nature
if he is not ready for it. It is true that the m an w ho
is really evolving in the technique is usually of this
ripeness of faculty and does not offer him self ex­
cept upon an insistent urge for the task. It is none
the less true that m any lack discrim ination in this
m atter and offer them selves either in enthusiasm
and w ithout any sound sense of the qualifications
needed, or at the behest o f others w hose discrim ina­
tion is little better than their ow n and w ho are
actuated by som e kind of personal interest. B u t
the unprepared candidate w ill soon be undeceived.
T h ose w ho seek supervision and teaching have an
unerring intuition of the relative value o f those
they interrogate. T h e m ethod and basis of his re­
sponse w ill infallibly declare them selves, since on
this level of evolution it is not sim ply the spoken or
w ritten w ord that signifies, but a psychically per­
n s ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
ceptible vibration w hich inform s the w ord and
gives it m omentum and enduring influence. T h is
need not be insisted upon. It is as palpable as that
specific and original content which distinguishes
the classic and sets it forever apart from the com '
m onplace.
L et the aspirant to the technique ponder upon
this fact. T h ose w ho sincerely seek his help and
supervision are very often not those w ho are
ignorant of the subjects dealt w ith, but those who
have the m aterial before them in one form or an'
other as well as him self, and w ould therefore
appear to be seeking unnecessary assurance. T h e
explanation of this is, that the seeker requires the
sam e truth adapted personally and sym pathetically
to the then existing particular problem of his life
and applied with understanding and insight on the
part of the helper, w ith concrete exam ple and in'
spiration from personal experience bearing upon
the problem . N o w there is one kind of helper w ho
sees nothing further necessary in such a case than
to consult his books and give back fact for fact
w hat some teacher has said on the subject and then
feel that he has m ade an able response. I have been
[ 79]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
the recipient of this kind of response from so-called
leaders, and have never been disposed to consult
them again. It is com m on to meet w ith these leaders
in the occult w orld; but little o f im portance can
they give beyond the established and orthodox text
of doctrine know n and accessible to practically
every student w ho m ight consult them . Practically
the only qualification they possess for assum ing the
position of teachers is that derived from the read­
ing of occult doctrine and speaking out o f the
abundance of their facts. It cannot be gainsaid that
there is m erit in this acquisition. It is infinitely
better to be so inform ed than to be ignorant.
M oreover, there exists a foundation o f know ledge
to build upon, w hich the technique itself w ill de­
m and. B u t the technique it is not, nor w ill it ever
inspire the youn g aspirant to great achievem ent.
H e can read doctrine for himself, and a good deal
better in his ow n w ay.
In introducing here these higher aspects of ex­
perience required in the technician I m ay appear to
be digressing. Im personality and experience are,
how ever, intim ately related; since im personality
can only com e o f a full experience, and experience,
[ 80]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
in the occult sense, and as the m ain factor in the
dem onstration of the technique, derives all its real
strength and value from a pure and im personal
attitude. T h e technique of the M aster is a coordi­
nated expression of the inner personality which
has assim ilated and spiritualized the experience
gathered by the several objective selves of past ex­
istences, and now, at the point of right understand­
ing and use and having m erited certain guidance
and inspiration from the divine psychic plane, is
able to speak and act for others from its own level
o f attained ascension and independently of any
personal considerations and interests of the objec­
tive consciousness. A t this stage the technician
accepts the problem s of his fellowm en as his ow n.
F o r the tim e being those problem s are verily his
problem s. H is sole am bition is to throw his light
upon them to the extent that those perplexed m ay
take a higher and m ore detached view of the re­
lations involved in them in connection w ith their
im m ediate progress. T ru e im personality alone en­
ables the technician to do this. A n d the only in­
fallible criterion of success for him in this task is
the unqualified assurance of those he seeks to assist
[ 8 1 }
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
th at he has w isely and effectively m inistered to
urgent need and facilitated their advancem ent on
the path.
C h a p t e r V .
THE M AGIC OF THE TECHNIQUE
V V c
O R the young aspirant the technique of the
M aster is often veiled in an atm osphere of
glam our and rom ance. For the man quali'
fyin g for discipleship the atm osphere is
done aw ay and the technique is realized as a force
o f the soul expressed in the term s of keener living.
It is interesting to read the m any presentations of
w riters on the subject of the m agical pow er of the
M asters and to allow the im agination full rein in
the realm of w onder and m iracle; and in good tim e
it is well to put them aside and calculate the pres--
ent force of the soul in order to discern w hat range
of application it possesses for w orking upon other
lives in the humble w ay of service. O ne could
alm ost w ish that a good deal that has been w ritten
on the pow ers of the M asters had never passed into
the hands of im m ature aspirants, since it breeds
a sense of easy conquest in the most difficult of all
sciences and inspires a belief in present personal
[ 83]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M A STER
pow er w hich does not exist. It is surprising how
m uch an aspirant som etim es considers him self
capable of achieving in the w ay of m agical pow er,
even before the personality has been initiated into
the first stages of realization o f the force resident
in the soul, w hich m akes advance possible. It is a
fact in the experience of the older aspirant that
once the m agic o f the soul has been grasped by the
personality, the soul steadily dom inates and can be
trusted to carry forw ard the. training of the m an.
B ut the credulity before m entioned— a credulity
fraught w ith danger w hen acted upon— w hich is
common am ong those on the early stages of the
path arises entirely because the personality has not
been self'initiated into the m agic force of the soul;
and until this point is reached any dom inant utility
on the part o f the soul rem ains for the future.
T h e self'initiation o f the personality into the
m agic force of the soul which m akes possible the
application of the technique is the problem before
the aspirant; and the credulity w hich is often so
m arked a characteristic in him is due to non-dis'
crim ination in that he is prone to apply to this
study o f the science of the soul the sam e overbear'
[ 84]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
ing confidence, feeling of certitude and expectation
of im m ediate results habitual w ith him in connec­
tion w ith m atters pertaining to his personal or pro­
fessional life. H ere w e have a trinity o f factors of
undeniable value and of first im portant in the char­
acter, confidence, certitude and expectation of re­
sults, all which w ill be dem anded in the technician
and in harm onious union, in the utilization o f the
force of the soul, but which, in the inexperienced
aspirant, w ill require to be cultured through a
period o f long duration in the m ost ordinary affairs,
as well as in the exigencies, of everyday life. It is
interestir g to note, and it is a part of one’s occult
education to thoroughly realize it, that these basic
qualities in the aspirant w hich are liable to foster
in him all kinds of exaggerated ideas of his personal
possibilities, are slow ly transm uted under occult
discipline through the years and becom e actual
pow ers in his hands for skilful right action. B ut
this is never so for the mere w ishing for it. Indeed,
it is a revelation to the technician w hat keen and
profound experience has been necessary in order
that the m agic of the soul should be grasped by the
personality and utilized in the w ork of the M aster.
[85]
THE TECHHISIUE OF THE M ASTER
A n d the point I w ould em phasize is, that it is the
experience of life w hich has been the m ain factor
in effecting the transm utation, and that this is one
of the last things the aspirant is likely to appreciate.
T h e position is this. T h e aspirant enters upon a
cycle o f occult study, no m atter in w hat particular
school or under w hat name, and the inspiring and
liberating effect of the new know ledge carries him
a good deal further in im agination than his reason
has grasped or his soul experienced, and upon this
illusion of the im agination is based his expectation
of im m ediate results. I have a case in mind, where
an aspirant, having gone a little w ay in the know-
ledge of the science, expected to dem onstrate pen
feet health in the body at will, dissipate the m ental
ills of others likewise, build a sw ift fortune for
him self alm ost by a m agical w ord of pow er, and
thereby annul every law of K arm a decreed and
override all experience to be know n in his members
and destined to force him steadily forw ard to self
m astery. H is program m e of effort w as founded
upon an illusion of the im agination. T h is attitude
is very common am ong aspirants and w orks out
inevitably in disappointm ent at non-achievement
[ 86]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
and subsequent anxious questionings and probable
doubts about the teaching in hand.
O ne of the first effects of serious application to
the science is a certain clarification of m ind and
intensification of em otion. It is a call to the soul to
declare itself in and through the personality; and
according to the tem peram ent and application of
the aspirant will be the nature of the response to
his dem and. It m ay be said that the sw ifter and
stronger the response at this initial stage is, to a
greater degree is the likelihood that the im agination
w ill raise up the illusionary expectation of some
rem arkable dem onstration w ithout prolonged and
conscientious endeavour. It is granted that in some
few cases there m ay be no illusion about the m atter.
It is conceivable, and such cases are know n, that
an aspirant m ay possess a latent capacity and all
the potentialities of a technician, so that even at
the initial stage the force of the soul emerges, is
grasped by the personality, and the man becomes
both pupil and teacher alm ost sim ultaneously. B u t
these are exceptional cases and are noted only for
guidance and encouragem ent. In the m ajority of
instances the aspirant is prone to anticipate unusual
[ 87]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
developm ents at very little pains, and the disap-
pointm ent experienced on realizing the truth of
things constitutes one of his first tests.
T h e clarification of m ind and intensification of
em otion w hich result from the initial efforts should
reveal the need for a revaluation of experience. T h e
settled rhythm s of life are not to be changed in a
day. T h e early efforts on the path do but bring
into the conscious field a realization of their
m easure and force. W h at is their m easure and
force? T h a t know ledge w ill be som ething o f a
guide as to w hat m ay be expected from either brief
or prolonged endeavour. Som e aspirants have the
psychic idiosyncrasy; others have n ot: some have a
predisposition tow ards the spiritual; others are en-
tirely scientific in nature and aim . T h e vibratory
m easure of the personality and the nature o f the
soul force differ in each. V ery often the highly in­
tellectual aspirant will be far less certain of him self
at this stage than the m ystically minded devotee, in
that he im periously dem ands results on a higher
plane com m ensurate w ith the ease w ith w hich he
produces them on the intellectual plane; w hereas
the patient and aspiring devotee, w ith the spirit of
[ 8 8 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
service in his heart, w ill com e to know the force of
the soul quickly and experim entally because of a
reciprocal response w ith the M aster’s sphere. It
has been said that the M aster tests out the tech'
nician in various w ays in order to adjudge the
m easure and force of his reactions to certain cir-
cum stances and when dealing w ith specific prob­
lems. T h is is precisely w hat the aspirant has to do
for him self when he sets out on the path of the
occult. T h e established rhythm s of his life, which
obviously are but the assim ilated experiences of
action and reaction in the objective and subjective
spheres, m ust be brought under close scrutiny and
their value fully appraised in the conscious realm.
T hese rhythm s are largely subconscious in their
action and influence; and only when he begins to
test him self out in regard to them does he realize
w hat a dom inant part they have played in his life.
T h at is one of the early aw akenings on the path;
he finds that his life rhythm s are far too circum ­
scribed for the task he sees before him, since they
arise alm ost w holly from an experience ham pered
by the thoughts of tim e and space. It is the content
of that experience w hich he has to adjust to the
[89]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
study and w ork to be done, and augm ent and
deepen it in perfectly com m onplace w ays in every­
day life.
H ere we arrive at the crucial point. It takes an
aspirant w orth y of the nam e to rightly assess and
wisely adjust him self to the exigencies of the initial
stages, so that there shall transpire neither eccentric
em ergencies in mind or m anners, arrogant assum p­
tion of that w hich he does not possess, nor im ­
patient dem and for that w hich the law cannot give;
but a steady recognition that those life rhythm s can
only safely be extended by sane and norm al living,
here and now, in his ow n place. I am aw are that
there w ill appear to be very little of the m agical or
the sublim e in so com m onplace a conception. But
the fact is, that there is little of the m agical or the
sublim e for the aspirant at this stage. It is his fault
if he adorns the w ord of science put into his hands
w ith the false colours of im agination and straigh t­
w ay thinks in the term s o f transcendental m iracles.
I recently heard of a lady w ho becam e devoted to
the study of T heosophy. Previously she had been
immersed in church w ork, and w as highly appreci­
ated in that sphere. N o w she has retreated from
[ 90]
THE TECHHIQUE OF THE M ASTER
the touch of her friends and insists th at her real
friends are living on a higher plane. T h ere is an
instance of inverted grow th, a forcing of the life
rhythm s beyond the legitim ate sphere through a re­
fusal or inability to take their true m easure and
force, and a subsequent arrestm ent of sane and
orderly developm ent in the personality. T h is is an
extrem e instance; but som ething analagous is often
seen in the aw akening aspirant, and if it is not
quickly offset he is guilty of an offence against
occult law and w ill suffer the penalty of it.
W e are all m ore or less ignorant of the past
career of the soul, even after considerable advance­
m ent on the path. It requires a highly cultured
intuition to discrim inate am ong the contents of
consciousness th at which is the expression of the
enlarging faculties o f the present personality and
that which is resurrected from the past and offers
itself m ature and efficient for im m ediate use. N o r
can it be said at w hat precise point of endeavour
this hidden life w ill begin to emerge. T h e m easure
and force of the aspirant's rhythm s directly he
enters upon his training will, how ever, in som e de­
gree foreshadow the know ledge and grow th in-
[ 9 1 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
herent in the self and aw aiting recognition and use.
It is to be rem em bered that the aspirant is vibrating
between the condition of soul aw areness and form
aw areness. It seem s to m e that certain elements of
the past career of the soul, entering into the recep­
tive consciousness through w ilful endeavour on the
part o f the aspirant are often the cause of this
duality. F o r directly the soul is becom ing active,
w e m ay be certain th at the life rhythm s w e know
so w ell and are adjusted to w ill be unconsciously
accelerated. T h is will result not so m uch from the
facts w e are puttin g into the mind, as from the
force w e are bringing dow n from the self. T h ere
w ill often em erge into consciousness an accession
of know ledge and im pelling force beyond anything
we have calculated or expected, since w e are as
little conscious of its source as w e are able to adju st
to it w ith skill or w isely utilise it. A n d it is this
essential faculty of form er personalities im pinging
upon the present one that w ill give rise in the
aspirant to a good deal of speculation, and perhaps
m isgiving, w hen he feels him self subject to its
pow erful influences.
[ 92]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
T h is applies to the aspirant at the initial stage.
In the case of the m an w ho is graduating in the
technique, w hose vibration is raised and stabilized
and the force of the soul recognized, I believe that
the accum ulated facu lty of the past w ill be w ork'
ing very strongly in consciousness. D iscrim ination
in this m atter w ill be no less difficult at this stage;
but there w ill certainly be m arked effects in con­
sciousness and so vast an advance, relatively, in the
sw eep and content of the life rhythm s as develop­
m ent proceeds, that the concentrated faculties and
abilities of the past career of the soul rise and plead
for recognition and expression through him. I can
put it no less poignantly than this. Y ou, the aspi­
rant, m ay think th at this is an entirely enviable
condition and w ill w elcom e the hour w hen the
assertion of it can be m ade in your case. It is to be
welcom ed, because it signifies advancem ent, and it
is inevitable at some tim e. B u t it brings w ith it in­
finite yearning and large responsibility. T h is m ay
not be invariably so; bu t I think it is likely to be so
w here the man has a fine and full m ental life. I will
refer to a specific type, w hich w ill serve to unfold
and illustrate the concept I have in mind. T h is
[ 9 3 ]
E -
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
type is an initiate and is well along the path; and
the technique of the path is strong and operative
in his personality. H e is a force on the side of
evolution and is aw are of it. H is service is rich and
dem anded by m any w ho feel the influence o f the
M aster through his w ork. H e is well balanced and
attuned on the inner side. N oth ing can turn that
man back from the life of the M asters. H is life is
an inaudible cry to them to hold him up and per'
feet him in their strength. B u t that is not all. T here
are several personalities playing into the man by
virtue of the descent into consciousness of the
storied past w hich is sounding forth from higher
planes; and w hile he plays his humble part within
the present circum scription of tim e and space, and
in so doing appears no doubt to his fellowmen
recollected and able and intent upon the one aim
of dedication and service— nor are they m istaken in
this— he feels th at insistent past striving fo r expres-
sion, too, in an environm ent which does not pro'
vide a m edium for it. T h ere is an orator in that
man w ho has stirred men to action; there is a priest
w ho has m inistered w ith the m ultitude in the
tem ple; there is a m usician w hose transcripts of
[94]
t
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
harm ony com e back w ith haunting em phasis for
reiteration. T h ese hidden personalities are with
him ; they possess his hands, brain and heart, and
w ould live in their fulness again. T h ey m ust not be
slain. T h ey give him keys to the soul of the w orld
and for the interpretation of the hearts of men.
T h a t is w h at I mean by infinite yearning and large
responsibility. It is a phase o f the double vision;
and I conceive it to be one of the hardest stages in
the initiate’s progress. It m ay be that a little
further on, when he steps right out into the light,
a w onderful adjustm ent w ill be made. It m ay be
that, w ith the soul fully dom inant, he w ill have the
pow er to use each of these several personalities at
w ill as a m aster, and at w ill put it aside and remain
in peace. T here are such instances recorded in
occult biography and they indicate a condition of
high initiation. It is sufficient to note that the above
is a possible problem of the graduate in the tech'
nique; and that w hile this strong sense of duality
persists, of the present personality grasping steadily
the m agical technique of the soul and the com bined
personalities of the past active w ithin the soul and
insisting upon a classic expression, there m ust in'
C95 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
evitably be pain and stress and all the m anifest
sym ptom s of the highest am bition pressing forth to
m astery in m any fields of endeavour.
I believe in the fullest endeavour to recognize
and furth er nurture the aw akening m ature faculty
of past personalities. T h e statem ent, “ Kill out
am bition,” w ould seem to run counter to this be'
lief, but I do not accept it in that sense. If our
higher w ork on the path brings into recognition
strong pow ers and evolved faculties, it w ould be a
sin against my deepest intuition to refuse them
the very highest possible expression environm ent
affords. A n d it is ju st because the environm ent of
the technician is often such as im pedes the expres'
sion, that is, through inadequate m eans at his dis­
posal for it, that pain, stress and a divine yearning
accom pany him at every stage. I certainly believe
that this has a highly educative value fo r the man.
It w ould seem, too, that it is precisely the rapid
grow th o f the soul w hich is responsible for this
cum ulative activity in the mental life, that it
throw s into the conscious field so m any lines of
splendid possibility that he cannot see the w isdom
or the justice of deliberately turning aw ay from
[ 96]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
them because they w ill exact som e m easure of
attention and interest in directions w hich are not
purely spiritual in character. O n the contrary, I
feel he has no right to neglect to give com plete
attention to any voice that sounds dom inantly in
the m ental life. I am of course referring to voices
o f a high and idealistic nature, not to any low er
ephem eral voice inconsistent w ith noble living.
T h e idea of slaying that w hich is the finished
product of past fervent am bition does not appeal to
me. I believe in the com pletest personality express
sion; but in the case of the technician I m ake this
distinction. A ll those finished products of the past,
all this beautiful flow ering of the m ental life,
should m inister to the highest. N o r do I think
there w ill be the slightest doubt on this point of
dedicating all to the M aster’s use in the man w ho is
consciously grasping the technique o f the soul.
W h atever he m ay experience o f repression through
environm ent not perm itting him to build into finer
and m ore expressive form s ideal products from the
past, he will not allow this to deflect him in the
least from his central purpose of w ielding all he is
and has into a greater service for others. Indeed,
[ 97]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
he has com e so fa r th at he cannot do other than
this. T h e cries of other souls reach him and de-
m and some note of his evolving w isdom to dissipate
the shadow or strengthen the will, some token of
understanding affection and sym pathetic response;
and know ing his ow n secret travail in the arena of
m any conflicting forces, the pow er w ill be his to
m inister w ith certain effect in practically any in'
stance w hich com es w ithin his legitim ate sphere of
developm ent.
T h e m agical technique of the soul is life express­
ing in larger and m ore pow erful rhythm s of vibra­
tional response. It is not a reposeful contem plation
calculated to pu t a man to sleep; it is an aw akener
which increases his auric intensity to an incalcu­
lable degree. It m akes the m an a focal point for the
reception and transm ission o f m ost potent influ­
ences. Seasons o f quietude there m ust be; but if
they leave the conscious field void o f reactionary
tendencies leading to diverse and increasing activ­
ity, the soul still sleeps. T h e necessary thing is,
that he should not perm it him self to be turned
back by these reactionary tendencies because of any
unusual elem ents in them, or allow the new im-
[ 9 8 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
petus in consciousness to divert him from the path
of sober and law ful action. F or a tim e he has to
m aintain the old rhythm in conjunction w ith the
new ; since it is in sudden and unbridled enthusiasm
and from the inclination for drastic change, that
illusive im agination reveals itself and relative
failure arises. A t this point of aw akening it is
possible for the personality to begin to grasp the
m agic of the soul. T h e results of his coordinated
efforts m ay appear small, but if he is keenly intro­
spective he will realise that there is quite enough
for him to take care of and adjust to in the in­
creased vibrational m easure set up in the perso­
nality. A spiran ts to the technique differ in m ental
calibre. F or the m ajority, a long period m ust elapse
before they becom e safely polarised in the condi­
tions produced by even the first degrees of m agical
force response. Rem em ber, it w ill wor\ out in the
individual fife, and in each m an in a different w ay.
It w ill be like a strong light throw n across the
arena of circum stances, revealing the presence of
m any secret things which prefer to rem ain in semi-
darkness, quickening living entities to assert their
right to dom inate and hold the sphere of their
[99]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
native habitation, bringing w ith it new instrum ents
of thought and action w hich insist upon im m ediate
use for the refinement and culture of the w hole
personality of the m an. It is indeed a day of ju dg'
ment betw een the personality and the soul, and the
trial w ill be long, w ith able w itnesses and pow erful
advocates on both sides.
It is during this tim e of trial that the aspirant
gradually attains to a use of the technique and be'
com es a recipient o f the m agic force of the soul.
H e w ill then be receptive to the influence of the
M aster, w ill have a right intuitive understanding
of the im pressions received, and be able to project
the im parted ideas suitably for service. U n qu es'
tionably, the trial w ill be far advanced before this
objective is in view . T h e keenest contest will have
been fough t and w on before the man m asters the
elem entary technique of the path and renders w ill'
ing obedience to C osm ic decision. B ut, lest the
elem ents of trial should loom too largely before the
aspirant anxiously surveying the prospect or the
more advanced man w ho has impelled him self into
the centre of the arena and is doubtful of the issue,
let it be said for encouragem ent that there is light
[ 100]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
and leading for the right m an, that the austere
silence of the onlooking Pow ers is not indifference
to persistent and w ell directed effort, and that
every step of achievem ent is a com pelling dem and
upon the m agic of the soul to inform his tongue
and descend into his very hands in a kindling fire
o f noble speech and instant action.
V V V
[ 101 ]
i
C h a p t e r V I.
THE M ASTERS O N THE TECHNIQUE.— I
IF E affords no greater privilege than to be
consciously active in som e aspect of the
evolutionary effort. Y et the technique of
the M aster is not easy to understand or to
translate into life. H e know s too well the extrem e
rigour of its law s to dem and from any soul w hat it
has not yet found the pow er and insight to give.
For the first step is entirely a spontaneous one and
arises from a soul vibration w hich is the culm ina'
tion of a m ature experience in psychic response.
T h is experience is usually not an acquirem ent of
the present incarnation, but exists as subjective
m em ory. T h e history of its direct attainm ent is
hidden in the past and is now chiefly show n in
sw ift and sure response to occult truth in any form
and accom panied w ith exceptional ability of som e
nature for its expression. W herever this response
exists and is of a pure and pow erful character,
there w e m ay discern the silent influence of the
C 103 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
M aster’s realm upon an aw akening soul in the far
time. H e is now ready for the technique of the
M aster. T h ere w ill be for him in the scripture of
w isdom a geom etry of the Spirit w hich he w ill de-
light to ponder and apply to the infinite intricacies
of life and character. H um anity, passing and re-
passing betw een the tw o eternities, w ill no longer
appear to him as an uninteresting pageant and un­
related to him self. T h e pow er and passion of its
living blood w ill create a m ighty m usic in his soul,
often very hard to be borne. V ib ran t harm onies
will arise w ithin and sw eep to celestial heights;
strange chords of som bre pitch will m ingle w ith
his song of life. T h e keen breath of a superhum an
strength m ust have touched both heart and brain
to enable him to stand before the know ledge that
this sym phony of a thousand voices of joy and sor­
row is indeed his ow n collective K arm a in m artial
array opening the gates o f self-cognition. It is the
M aster’s response to the soul’s endeavour. It is the
M aster’s technique dem onstrating w ithin him,
w hose inexorable law is: that every latent germ of
good and evil in the personal life shall be aw akened
and declare itself.
I 104]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
M an y are the m isgivings of the aspirant when
that law begins to operate in his life. H e m ay well
think that, far from m aking the good progress ex-
pected, he is on the path of retrogression. “ It is not
enough,” says the M aster, “ to know thoroughly
w hat the disciple is capable of doing or not doing
at the tim e and under the circum stances during
probation. W e have to know of w hat he m ay be
capable under different and every kind of oppor-
tunities.” A stern and exacting law of which the
w orld know s nothing. T herefore the aspirant m ust
be perfectly ready and w illing to w ithstand its criti­
cism. T h ere is nothing intentionally m ystifying in
the procedure; it is sim ply a procedure w hich runs
counter to all other procedures he is conversant
w ith and fo r which he has to develop a rare dis-
crim ination. It cannot be expected that he will be
entrusted w ith new and altogether higher responsi­
bilities in a totally different realm of m entation and
action unless he has been drastically probed and
tested by the searching influences proceeding from
a higher plane. N ew faculties em erge under stress,
not in the unexercised nature of he w ho fears the
consequences of self discovery. T h ere is no sm ooth
[ 105]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M A STER
and easy path of ascent here. W ith that assurance
the aspirant m ust be prepared to find the confi-
dence w hich the M aster w ill certainly dem and in
him fo r the initial trials.
T h e aspirant is here dealing w ith the intangible
self, pregnant w ith undelivered K arm a, and the
w ord of know ledge of the right vibrational value
m ay be all-sufficient to precipitate a phase of cir­
cum stances, perplexing and painful, but w ritten
largely in N a tu re ’s great law and w hich m ust be
met and understood. It is the conscious effort to
progress on the path which is the determ ining fac­
tor. U n til that m om ent life m oves slow ly onw ard
at its appointed pace. T h ere is an established
rhythm in the personality w hich im parts a relative
sense of ease and adjustm ent in the various con­
tacts of life. T h e furniture of the m ind is well
known and thoroughly catalogued, the selection
considered excellent and becom ing, nothing eccen­
tric or revolutionary, nothing at variance w ith the
preconceived scheme to disturb the aesthetic taste
of its possessor. B u t the counterfeit peace of stag­
nation and conform ity is not for the pioneer. T h e
tidal w ave o f evolution w ill surely agitate the still
[ 106]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
w aters in good time and com pel advancem ent. A n d
if, through fervent aspiration the aspirant deliber­
ately seeks the feet of the M aster, sooner or later
the trial com es to the soul, and w ell is it for him
w ho, even through disappointm ent and tears,
recognizes the guiding hand and clasps it in firm
faith. T h e M aster has said, “ T h e m ass of hum an
sin and frailty is distributed throughout the life of
the man w ho is content to rem ain an average
m ortal. It is gathered in and concentrated, so to
say, w ithin one period of the life of a disciple— the
period of probation.”
T h is period of probation is the param ount period
wherein the technique of the M aster is so unex­
pected and penetrating, that the aspirant’s inten­
tion m ust be at once steadfast, pure and spiritual to
intuitionally grasp and personalize it. It is common
to be confronted w ith the lam entations of aspirants
w ho do not realize that occult progress m ust be
slow , that trials met and overcom e are of the very
essence of advancem ent. “ T h e iron rule is,” says
the M aster, “ that w hat pow ers one gets he m ust
him self acquire.” . .. “ H e m ust not even desire too
earnestly or passionately the object he w ould reach;
[ 107]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
else the very w ish w ill prevent the possibility of its
fulfilm ent.” . . . T h e aspirant is w orking upon
himself, upon the texture of his vehicles of expres-
sion, not upon external m atter as an artist fashion'
ing m aterial after his ow n conception. H e has been
so accustom ed in the physical w orld to im pose his
w ill objectively upon men and things and receive
an im m ediate response, that it is long before he
com prehends that the deeper law s of the psychic
and spiritual are alien to this. T h ere is no tim e in
occultism . T h e liquidation of K arm a transpires in
accordance w ith an inner law which it is not in our
will to hasten or delay. T h at is w hy the voice of
the M asters, though often foreboding and tinged
w ith w arning, is ever a voice of encouragem ent.
H e know s that a persistent and courageous spirit
w ill ultim ately trium ph over all. H as he not, as
m ortal man, him self trium phed? In every aspirant
there is that w hich is akin to the M aster’s ow n
im m ortal n ature— the vital, dom inant, irresistible
seed of im m ortality which is destined to bloom into
adeptship. B ut adeptship is a starry altitude diffi­
cult o f attainm ent. A t every step of the w ay the
M aster has progressed scientifically and spiritually
[ 108 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
under the stern im position of iron rule. O bviously
then, no one is better equipped than he to involve
and guide the aspirant through the m anifold im
tricacies of that rule, im perative for his com plete
know ledge and m astery of personal forces. O nly
through ceaseless application and after pains in-
credible do the m asters of the arts and sciences
attain their superb insight and m astery, and inspire
and redeem hum anity from the com m onplace and
trivial, and entrance the dream ing idealist into
ecstatic yearning fo r the Infinite. O nly through
steadfast service and never failing aspiration,
through love and com passion and sacrifice, through
success and failure, through lonely vigil and irrv
passioned adm onition, through all the heights and
depths of thought and em otion of w hich the eager
heart and the aw akened m ind are capable, shall w e
gain a true perspective of the sure and perfect
action, and becom e w orthy exponents of, the
M aster’s technique.
W e m ay expect a very m arked characteristic in
the aspirant as the result o f consciously passing
through such an eventful inner discipline. H e w ill
be spiritually positive. A passive character can
[ 109]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
never hope to handle the w ork of the M aster. It is
not in the nature of things. T h e m aster o f art uses
his vehicle or m aterial of expression w ith pow er.
H e w ill undoubtedly be responsive to superior in-
fluences and often appear to be a tool in the hands
of the genius of his art. B u t there is a w orld of
difference betw een a highly cultured receptivity
and a passivity w ithout strength and poise. T h e
M aster is very direct on this m atter: “ It is not
enough th at w e should set the exam ple o f a pure,
virtuous life and a tolerant spirit; this is but nega­
tive goodness— and for discipleship w ill never do.
Y ou should even as a sim ple member learn that you
m ay teach, acquire spiritual know ledge and
strength that the w eak m ay lean upon you, and the
sorrow ing victim s of ignorance learn from you the
cause and rem edy of their pain.” T h at is one of
the hard sayings of occultism , but it m ust stand.
C onventional goodness, and all the qualities which
constitute a w ell tem pered character, are to be
prized. B u t the aspirant w ho intends to take the
stages o f the occult path m ust possess, or m ust
resolutely cultivate, a certain aggressiveness of
spirit w hich com pels every difficulty to yield its
[ n o ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
secret and grow s stronger for the struggle. I w rite
for the aspirant w ho aspires to be a light and guide
to others, w ho feels this deep call in his nature,
w ho can take defeat in the arena of life and yet
pass on, th at thereby the qualifications for higher
service m ay be b o m and raised to pow er w ithin
him. A n d one of the reasons for this insistence
upon interior assertiveness is, that w e have to deal
subjectively w ith pow ers and influences on other
planes than the visible, w hich w ork actively into
the personal life. “ T h e aspirant is now assailed
entirely upon the psychological side of his n atu re."
. . . “ T h e dark hosts of the Brothers of the Shadow
alw ays on the w atch to perplex and haze the
neophyte’s brain,” is not an im aginary m enace. It
is a K arm ic heritage ranged along the path for
opportune attack, before w hich the strong survive
and the w eak fall back. H ow ever keenly the sensi-
tive nature m ay suffer and recoil before the inimical
and unsuspected vibrations which im pinge upon it,
the inner self m ust have reached that m easure of
strength w hich can do and dare and be silent.
T h rough conscientious study o f him self in the
light o f such reflections as these the aspirant comes
[ in 1
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
to realize the full significance of the outw orking of
K arm a in his life. O n this m atter he cannot be too
rightly introspective and discrim inative. T h e
M aster’s com m ent is: “ T o unlock the gates o f the
m ystery you m ust not only lead a life o f the
strictest probity, but learn to discrim inate truth
from falsehood. Y o u have talked a great deal about
K arm a but have hardly realized the true signify
cance of that doctrine. T h e tim e has com e w hen
you m ust lay the foundation of that strict conduct
— in the individual as w ell as in the collective body
— w hich, ever w akeful, guards against conscious as
w ell as unconscious deception.” T h e aspiran t’s
endeavour on the path will develop this discrimina-
tion and so clarify his vision th at the truth of
things w ill respond to his rightm indedness. F o r the
M aster is truth. H e has no pleasure in the error
of the aspirant; nor w ill he be subject to error if he
persistently tries to identify his thinking w ith the
thought of the M aster. T here is a pregnant
adm onition of the M aster w hich he will profitably
ponder: “ M y chelas m ust never doubt, nor suspect,
nor injure our agents w ith foul thoughts. O ur
m odes of action are strange and unusual, and but
[ m ]
THE TECH H igiUE OF THE MASTER
too often liable to create suspicion. T h e latter is a
snare and a tem ptation. H ap p y is he w hose spir'
itual perceptions ever w hisper truth to him! Ju dge
those directly concerned w ith you by that percept
tion, not according to your w orldly notions of
things.” T h a t spiritual perception is the basis of
the technique. It w ill contradict m uch which the
aspirant has alw ays believed to be true. H e w ill
experience pain in renouncing that which is so
firmly w oven into his w orld of facts. H is greatest
help w ill be dogm atic faith, although his w orld
crum ble around him.
From this new strength indifference to opinion
w ill arise. T h e aspirant m ust let appearances go.
W h at his inm ost heart dictates is the law , not the
urgent voices of external authorities. T h e M aster's
w ord is: “ H e who dam ns him self in his own estb
m ation and agreeably to the recognized and current
code of honour to save a w orthy cause m ay some
day find out that he has reached thereby his loftiest
aspirations. Selfishness and the w ant of selhsacrh
fice are the greatest im pedim ents on the path of
adeptship.” W e can rest our cause im plicitly on
adept assurance. T h ere can be no half m easures in
[ m ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE MASTER
occultism . W e either w ant the M aster life or we
do not. If w e do, there is but one law of conform ity
for us, and the technique of that law em braces
every circum stance of life. It does not com plicate, it
sim plifies life, if the necessary preparation has been
taken.
T h e technique of the M aster ram ifies every
phase o f experience past and to com e. It touches
the inm ost secret of his own suprem e altitude and
passes back to the com m on task of the present
hour. N oth in g is veiled to the eye o f occult omnfi
science; no circum stance that cannot be divinely
adjusted in the evolutionary scheme. W e have to
m ake the adjustm ent, w hether in sorrow or in joy,
and em erge m ore purified from the fire. “ It is w ith
arm ed hand, and ready either to conquer or perish,
that the m odern m ystic can hope to achieve his
object.’’
V V V
[ 1 1 4 ]
C h a p t e r V II.
THE M ASTERS O N THE TECHNIQUE.— 2
H E R E is an im portant and palpable fact
about the personal com m unications of the
M asters, and that is, their com plete and
unassailable expression of the phase of
truth under consideration. W hen the M aster
speaks for the guidance of the soul, w e feel and
know at once and fo r all tim e the indubitable cei'
tainty of his w ord. T h ere is no need to com pare
it w ith any other utterances; no textbook is re'
quired to corroborate it. It is a phrase from Cos-
mic experience and true to the experience of the
evolving soul. W e m ay not be ready to accept it
now, but the time w ill come when w e m ust accept
it if w e w ish to advance. T h is indubitableness of
the M aster’s w ord in its im m ediate or rem ote
relationship to our human experience is a fact
which alw ays appeals to me as unique in literature.
It is not difficult to see w hy it is never open to
question or subject to qualification. T h ere is no
[ 1H ]
THE TECHHI^UE OF THE MASTER
hidden depth of the soul w hich the M aster has not
sounded; no problem w hich he cannot instantly
detach from every ham pering consideration and
observe it in the clear, cool light of illum ined im
tellect. I use the w ord intellect intentionally. I see
no reason for assum ing, as m any seem to assum e,
that the M aster, because of his lofty spirituality,
condescends not to use so poor a tool as intellect.
O bserve the vexations and perplexities that hedge
round our problem s because of the ever fluctuating
and darkening shadow s of the em otional and
m ental life, obstructing the clear light of the think'
ing principle and raising a host of discordant vibra'
tions w hich involve us in sore distress. T h e M aster
is entirely free from that. W hen he surveys the
problem of the soul he stan ds above, not w ithin it;
it is reflected com prehensively and alone upon the
clear and illum ined m irror of the intellect. H e
know s ju st w hat it m eans to us. H e sees the defect
of know ledge or foresight w hich gives it birth, the
keen struggle of the soul to find a solution, or the
resultant reactions upon our future grow th. H ow
often an aspirant questions the w isdom , justice and
com passion of the M aster because the particular
[ H 6]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
burden of life is not at once rem oved for the asking.
B u t if the M aster is a living exam ple of adjusted
K arm ic forces every conceivable problem m ust be
know n to him, and he also know s the beneficent
reactions of every K arm ic problem which beset
us. W e cannot behold the M aster’s countenance,
or those of any of his high initiates, w ithout dis­
cerning deeply charactered there the blessed m e­
m orials of m anhood perfected through ancient
suffering. It is this immense w orld experience, this
agedness of the soul in the M aster, which vibrates
in his w ord of guidance w ith such som bre em phasis
and holds us true to him even in the darkest hour.
I have know n a trem bling soul hang upon the
M aster’s w ord when nothing in life or circum ­
stance seemed to ju stify it; but the soul knew even
though it could not understand, and that link of
im perishable force and sym pathy w as all sufficient.
T h e necessity for specialized culture of the w ill
in occult w ork is a m atter upon which m ost of us
are in agreem ent. In all w orld progress it is the
great driving force. B ut the will to tread the path
is o f a higher nature. It is in reality the inner spir­
itual self acting steadily and unceasingly through
1 117}
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
the personality. A n d when, through study and
m editation and one-pointed determ ination to
achieve m asterhood, this inner self or spiritual w ill
is gradually released and begins to act pow erfully
in the personality, only then do the real problem s
of the path em erge and call for the greatest strength
to deal w ith them . T h en it is that m any grow pro­
foundly doubtful of their progress and are ready to
turn to the form er relative security w hich w as
theirs. So long as w e do not think too deeply or
dem and too m uch, the norm al rhythm s of life re­
main undisturbed; but to have thoroughly visu­
alised the higher possibilities and sent forth a peti­
tion into the M aster’s realm to share in the respon­
sibilities and blessings of a larger service, is a direct
request of the soul to be subjected to that keener
discipline w hich alone will make the greater service
possible.
T h e aspirant w ho is not yet sure of himself, w ho
has not realised fully the depth and reality of his
pledge of allegiance to the M aster, is often greatly
perturbed at the definite changes occurring in his
m ental life and the altered aspect o f circum stances.
Y et this is but one of the tests which sooner or later
[ H 8]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
confronts every aspirant; and if the general trend of
his life has not evolved a m easure of strength and
ripeness in his faculties, he w ill be com pelled to
actively school him self in further w orld experience
in order to successfully m eet the test. T h at life
itself is the great initiator is a profound occult
truth. It can be observed in the w orld of men every
day. T h ere are individuals around us w ho have no
leaning tow ards the occult, yet so intense and
varied are their labours, so strenuous and devoted
are they in m anifold w orks of ideal service for the
race, that they have all the m ental and inner equip'
ment for rapidly passing the tests o f the occult
path. F or these men the w ill has reached its
strength through long and versatile response in
w orld experience; they stand at the point of m ature
m entality w here they can receive the deeper know '
ledge of the soul. T h e sharp conflicts and pain of
life have rounded off a w hole cycle of m inor attach'
m ents and give them clear judgm ent and a high
degree of detachm ent from purely personal issues
w hereby they are able to bear the accelerated vibra'
tion which w ill eventuate w hen they take up the
discipline of the path.
[ H 9]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
T h is is a factor for reflection. If the com m on
experience of life has not been such as to initiate
the aspirant into the true value and force of the
will in some of its higher aspects, his allegiance to
and active w ork for the M aster w ill surely dem and
this at no distant time. H e will be throw n back
upon his ow n inner strength in the very act of de*
m anding that strength from the M aster.
T h e M aster Serapis of the E gyptian Broth er'
hood refers specifically to this m atter of energetic
direction of the w ill. “ F or he who hopes to solve
in tim e the great problem s of the M acrocosm al
W orld and conquer face to face the D w eller, tak'
ing thus by violence the threshold on w hich lie
buried n ature’s m ost m ysterious secrets, m ust try,
first, the energy of his will pow er, the indom itable
resolution to succeed, and bringing out to light all
the hidden m ental faculties of his A tm a and highest
intelligence, get at the problem s of m an’s nature
and solve first the m ysteries of the heart.” It is use'
less for us to attem pt to shirk the issue by saying
that the hum an element is lacking in phraseology
of this kind. If w e are still children and require
our disciplinary instruction well sugared, nay, lived
[ 120]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
for us, the divine adm onition of the M aster w ill
certainly prove too m uch for our hum an nature,
and repel us. It is to be hoped that the aspirant is
beyond that stage; that the experience of life has
com pelled the assertion of his m anhood; that he is
aw are of his deepest need and the need of his fel-
lowm en, and is not likely to turn back from the
path he has studied and the truth he know s because
of w h at m ay appear to be a strain of severity in the
w ord of the M aster w hich foreshadow s a higher
discipline and consequent renunciation perhaps of
certain common interests w hich have had their day
and dissipate his energy. T h ere m ay be m any a
secret struggle between these interests and the
graver aspect of truth w hich silently beckons us on.
It cannot be otherw ise in view of the strong m o­
m entum of unspiritual m entation established du r­
ing the past in the subjective consciousness. T h ose
of us w ho have persistently fought our w ay along
hard phases of the path know well enough the pain­
ful m isgivings, the harassing doubts, the solitary
questionings of the heart, which have beset us. Y et
I believe there are few but w ould testify on em erg­
ing from the shadow , that it is well. W h at m atters
[ m ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
the difficulty if w e have com prehended the w ay,
the truth and the life that the M aster offers us?
T here is no other w ay by which the w ill can reach
its strength, or the M aster w ould certainly have
told us. N o m atter to w h at M aster w e look for
guidance, one adm onition characterises them all in
regard to passing from our w orld into theirs. T h e
necessity for the dom inant force of the spiritual
w ill is ever insisted upon.
T h e technique of the M aster is preem inently
active, not passive. O bserve the leading thoughts
of the above quotation: “ C om pel: take by violence:
try: indom itable resolution: bring out: get out.” —
T h e w hole process is one of intense inner action.
I venture to affirm there is not a great character in
universal history in which this suprem e m otive
pow er is not seen to be a com pelling factor. A t
first sight it m ay not alw ays appear to be so.
A ccordin g to the m anifold types and careers this
central force of the aw akened w ill m ay be strongly
objective or m ore or less underlying, but it is there,
organized, concentrated and potent. O nly, on
occult levels, a different order of experience ensues.
T h e great character on the stage of w orld history
[ 122]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
does not necessarily enter consciously and w ith
specific intent upon the secret dom ain of the Spirit.
H is direction in life is technically unspiritual.
G reat as are his w orks in the m anifold fields of
hum an endeavour, strong as his ray of individual
genius m ay be, he is not an occultist in the
accepted sense of the term , nor is he subject to the
law s of the occult. T h e faculties of intuition and
reason developed to a high degree and directed to
w orldly affairs m ake him w hat he is. H e is not
engaged in a culture the discipline of which w ould
carry him beyond the frontiers of human con-
sciousness. T h e purely occult tests are w ithheld.
From such he m ay as surely shrink as w ould the
average hum an being.
N ow , the M aster exercises all the prerogatives
of genius. A ll the faculties of hum an consciousness
in him are raised to their highest potency, and, in
addition, the spiritual counterparts, so to speak, of
these faculties, are operative and under perfect
control, hence his vast authority and suprem e value
and august ascendency over the highest m anifesta­
tions of hum an genius. It is to the developm ent of
these deeper faculties, the spiritual counterparts of
[ 125}
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
the finest faculties of hum an consciousness, that the
attention of the aspirant to the technique is given.
H ence the note of severity w hich characterizes the
discipline inculcated by the M aster. A n d in
attem pting to pass beyond the frontiers of common
w orldly experience, no m atter to w hat height in
any of its varied form s n atural genius m ay have
carried him w ithin this experience, in the deliberate,
conscious attem pt to take the w ord o f the M aster
and occultly speculate into the silent and m ysterh
ous dom ain of the Super Experience, the w ill is
subjected to the finer and superphysical tests which
are the unalterable law s o f that dom ain. N o man
can offer him self sincerely as a candidate for the
technique w ithout setting up w ithin pow erful re'
actions of a peculiar and intim ate character which
will surely try out w hat sort of man he is. It is the
initial stage of a process of readjustm ent of all his
values.
T h ere is nothing to be feared in the quest. C o n '
scientious study and m editation w ill fit him for it.
N o r has he to prepare to lose that which is dear and
valuable to him, or renounce any talent or prestige
he possesses in the w orld of men, or throw up any
[ 124]
■
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
business or dom estic obligations to w hich he is
com m itted. H e has sim ply to cultivate the strength
to realise himself as he is— w hich im plies far more
than w e usually think. For w hen the force of con-
centrated will is focussed steadily and over a long
period upon the psychic and spiritual self, every
m otive and tendency buried in the heart o f the
aspirant is aw akened to palpitating life and activ*
ity; all that K arm a has w ritten in his members
arises and confronts him. T h a t is one phase of the
great problem to w hich the adm onition o f the
M aster applies; and there it is, before that intim ate
personal disclosure of the man he is, that the aspi'
rant has to stand firm and undism ayed in the face
of m uch th at he w ould hesitate to utter. Is there
then any wisdom in averting the eyes from that
w hich the Spirit dem ands that he should fearlessly
confront and steadily overcom e? W e have called
upon the nam e of the M aster and the answ er comes
in the form of the vital refining fire that descends
w ithin to purge and purify every one of us w ho
aspires after the hidden m ysteries. Shall w e w eakly
decline w hat w e have deliberately invoked and
postpone the blessed w ork of personal redem ption
{ 125 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
because of the im m inent possibility of the m ortal
self w hich we love so well being stretched psychic­
ally up on the cross which rises m ystically on the
path before us? Is there any tragedy in life like
unto that in w hich the aspirant, having taken
know ledge of the w ay, retreats from the call of the
C osm ic when the dark hour com es in w hich he
m ust find his ow n light and press steadfastly on?
It has been my privilege to have this problem again
and again raised by aspirants w ho have stood face
to face with the shadow of the dark night of the
soul to which their strong and persistent efforts on
the path had brought them, and one o f the greatest
inspirations to me has been to note their firm grip
on them selves, their philosophical stand in their
trial and the deep spiritual assurance they have had
that all m ust be well and the goal w ould be
reached. T h ey are right. T h e M aster’s w ord has
not gone forth for naught. W e can prove this by
taking the austere ritual of the conquering w ill
uttered by the Brother and w orking it out in the
silence, until all that is hidden in the inm ost recesses
of the heart is brought to light and understood, and
1 126 ]
■ THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
the baser m etals transm uted into the pure gold of
interior illum ination.
V V V
r 1271
C h a p t e r V III.
VOCATION AND THE TECHNIQUE
S U B JE C T which gives rise to a good deal
of speculation in the m inds of aspirants is
that of vocation. It is not uncommon to
meet w ith those engaged in business or
professional life who, after certain reading in
occultism and association perhaps w ith an occult
group, grow dissatisfied w ith their chosen career
and forthw ith think they have a call to devote
them selves entirely to occult w ork. I w ould not
criticise the good intention of any aspirant, but I
often feel that this attitude is not justified. In m any
cases it arises rather from too little know ledge of
the path than from a sound and balanced concep­
tion of the requirem ents for authoritative leader­
ship in a school or order. N o t seldom it is the de­
sire fo r personal prestige and an ordinary type of
w orldly van ity or am bition which prom pts this
attitude. In either case the strongest indication is
show n that the person has no definite call to
[ 1 2 9 }
THE TECHHISLUE OF THE M ASTER
handle responsible w ork entailing leadership in
occultism . It is well to be frank on this subject be'
cause it m ay save som e from unw isely throw ing
aside a useful task for w hich they are norm ally
fitted and to w hich they are K arm ically bound,
upon the rightful discharge of which their develop'
ment depends.
In the first place, the technique in itself has little
to do w ith the im m ediate vocation of an aspirant.
It is a condition of the soul and m ay underlie any
type of personal activity in the w orld of men.
Further, the technique, to be of real service, as has
been show n, requires the broadest possible basis o f
practical efficiency only obtainable through contact
with som e aspects of daily affairs. T o the average
student the position of leader or teacher has som e'
thing rom antic about it w hich m akes it very de'
sirable to him. T h at is one o f the illusions of
appearance. I believe it to be true that practically
none of those in such positions of responsibility and
trust asked for or expected them. T h e Cosm ic
pow ers placed them there under the law of K arm a
because they had all the necessary qualifications
and the selflessness to law fully fill them . A n d the
[ HO]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
technique dem anded o f them to carry that response
bility and discharge its duties is only slow ly realized
by those w ho contact them . It is silent and deep
in its influence and enables the possessor of it to
fulfill his office w ith a sureness and facility, that
the happy effect upon those w ho profit from it is
apt to lead to one-sided conclusions about it.
I am not suggesting that a student w ho, having
m ade a specialized study of som e branch of know ­
ledge in the occult field, such as healingor astrology,
should not relinquish a vocation he has outgrow n,
or which no longer has interest for him, and spec­
ulate in a m ore desirable direction. H e m ay have
a call to it and be fully equipped for it. B ut the
technique of the M aster, brought to that point of
recognition and efficiency w here it places a m an in
a certain privileged position to be of outstanding
service to his fellowm en, is of a totally different
character. C lose observation of such leaders and
teachers convinces me that they have qualified
severely in the past and gravitated naturally to the
life of service. I believe, too, that nearly all of these
characters have been, early in their present incarna­
tion, more or less unconsciously qualifying in the
[ 151 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M A STER
various vocations they have follow ed for the w ork
and responsibility they eventually assum ed. I could
instance several prom inent in the occult w orld to
day w hose early years w ere spent in business and
professional vocations w hich form ed the sound and
necessary basis for the greater w ork o f the path
that aw aited them . Som e of them had not the
slightest hint of their fu tu re possibilities. B u t they
w ere all serious students in their chosen depart'
m eats. T h ey felt the inner necessity o f self-prepara-
tion. T h eir affiliation w ith the M aster w as ripen'
ing in the silence; and w hen the tim e cam e they
found their election had been m ade and entered
upon their task w ith assurance.
T h ere is a m axim current in occultism w hich is
very difficult to reconcile w ith its apparent anti'
thesis, except after a good deal of reflection and
experience. W e are assured that the M aster takes
thought for the aspirant; w e are also assured that
the M aster is not concerned in the least w ith the
details of the personal life of the aspirant, but only
in his soul life and in so far as he is qualifying for
discipleship. Y et these are not contradictory
m axim s. T h ey are tw o aspects of one fundam ental
[ 132]
THE TECHHIQ.UE OF THE M ASTER
truth to w hich K arm a, vocation and the technique
are related. T h e M aster is interested in the aspi'
rant in a m ost real sense, but not personally until
the developm ent of the technique affords him an
opportunity of contacting the aspirant from that
level whereon the technique is operative. T h e de*
velopm ent of an aspirant is a m atter of graded
ascents in consciousness, and throughout that
period, right up to the tim e w hen his soul appa'
ratus becom es consciously forceful in the occult
sense and capable of original action and initiative,
he receives instruction and guidance and m any
kinds of assistances from appointed deputies of the
M aster. T hese deputies are initiates w ith evolved
technique, agents of the M aster in the w orld of
men, the leaders and teachers to whom the aspirant
is indebted for the steady unfoldm ent of his own
pow ers. T h ey are men w ith certain K arm a liqufi
dated and so are free to devote their lives to service
on the path. T h ey are qualified to inspire and lead
aspirants to evolve the technique in them selves that
they, in turn, w hen K arm a perm its, m ay be simfi
larly elected to position of trust under the M aster.
[ 133]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
It is w ell to recognize this m ethod of graded
responsibility and teaching, from the M aster dow n
to the neophyte on the path. It should help to
elim inate the false idea so prevalent that because
an aspirant is attracted to the path and desires
quickly prestige, and influence in other lives, the
M aster is personally concerned w ith him and there'
fore his desire should be granted. O bservation and
reflection m ay prove to him that this is not so. H e
w ill find that he has m uch to do for a long tim e to
com e even to becom e reasonably conversant with
the technique consciously utilized by the technician
under w hose influence he has com e, before he can
expect to be sensitive to the m ore interior and ex-
acting requirem ents of the M aster w orking directly
with his soul. Y et instances of this m istaken atti­
tude abound am ong students. If for som e reason
their ordinary vocation becomes difficult or fails,
they straightw ay seek for w hat they call an occult
position w here the task is light and agreeable, or
expect the M aster to be personally interested in
their w elfare in this respect and provide some ex­
ceptional opportunity.
C ]
THE TECHNIQUE OP THE M ASTER
It these aspirants w ere taken at their personal
value and im m ediately throw n into the positions
they covet-— they w ould fail, m iserably. But there
is little fear of this happening. A n inexorable law
w ill keep them back from that for w hich they are
not ready, as surely as it w ill hold them to that
concatenation of circum stances through which
alone their K arm a can be fulfilled. T his is where
the apparently contradictory maxim, that the
M aster is not concerned w ith the details of the
personal life of the aspirant, is exemplified. T h e
fact of the inaccessibility of the M aster is a suffi­
cient confirm ation o f this. It has been stated on
good authority that the num ber of accepted
disciples of M asters, those w ho through the m ost
arduous training and trial have w on personal
recognition at their hands and share consciously in
their w ork, is a com parative handful com pared
w ith the num ber of aspirants who seek them. T h at
w ork is so vast and com plicated that it w ould be a
physical and C osm ic im possibility for the per­
sonal lives of these aspirants to receive individual
guidance and fostering by the M asters. D oubtless
some aspirants w ho have built up their own pet
[ i n ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
theory o f occult guidance will resent a statem ent
of this kind. It is so easy to w ish fo r a certain con­
dition of affairs and pass on to the belief th at the
condition exists. I have contacted aspirants of
m any schools of thought, but I have never met
with one w ho could truthfully claim th at a M aster
had becom e a physical plane m entor to him. O b­
serve, I speak of aspirants, not o f those w ho are
inw ardly technicians, or w ho preside over and
execute the plans of certain schools. Indeed, their
personal contact w ith a M aster is the reason for
the existence o f these schools.
It is surely tim e that the m any m isunderstand­
ings about this subject w ere cleared aw ay and the
average aspirant given a chance to find his proper
bearings in relation to it. Personal assum ptions
have been carried to alm ost incredible lengths w ith
nothing but personal w ishes and beliefs to support
them . M asters do not visit the room s of seekers to
teach them personally ju st because they have read
and m editated for a little while and believe them ­
selves w orthy of all acceptation. O ne m ight as w ell
expect the great m asters in art to spend their
precious tim e instructing novices before they have
[ 136]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
had a thorough preparatory grounding under com ­
petent teachers, enabling them to be carried on to
public w ork. T h e vocation of the aspirant is the
preparatory school for the developm ent of his per­
sonality to thoroughly practical issues; and if he is
so privileged as to be w orking under an initiate in
an occult school, he has every opportunity to per­
fect in him self those qualifications w hich w ill m ake
him a w orthy mem ber of the school and extend his
influence in service. In this w ay alone is the tech­
nique m astered.
It is difficult to see on w h at ground the notion is
entertained that those w ho are settled in specific
vocations should not have opportunity therein to
m ake progress on the path at the sam e time. So far
from anything in occult literature to the contrary,
it is enjoined on a student to utilize his vocation in a
very practical w ay to facilitate his progress on the
path. T h e m eans to do so are now in his hands.
W h at he does to obtain a living is im m aterial to the
technique, provided it is honourable. T h e influence
of an unfolding soul cannot be hidden. A studen t’s
vocation, w hatever it is, provides an avenue for its
expression. It is a point w orth y of consideration,
[ 137]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M A STER
that some of the m ost prom inent men in big busi'
ness, as well as artists w ho are w orld fam ous, are
using a m easure of the technique and are fully con­
scious of a m ission of service in and through their
business and art. T h e sam e applies to the unknow n
aspirant in the hum blest vocation. T h e soul has
chosen its field of labour and in fulfilling the task
hum bly and conscientiously larger fields of service
w ill offer them selves as soon as he is ready for them.
T h e disciple of the M aster w hose perfected
technique enables him to w ork chiefly w ith hum an
souls, is a link in the w orld of men betw een the
M aster and the aspirant. H is position is proof that
he has served a long apprenticeship in vocations of
various types. W ith ou t that experience fully
assim ilated he could never be utilized as an occult
force centre in the service o f others. I think it m ay
truly be said that he is also one w ho never covets
positions of office on the path. H e is too conscious
of his ow n shortcom ings and feels too deeply the
need for strenuous w ork upon him self for the effi­
cient discharge of his duties to w aste tim e gazing
f i s »)
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
afar off to the future. It is that m an whom the
M aster can trust to w ork unselfishly in his ow n
place. In so doing he is m aking his election sure.
V V V
[ 159}
C h a p t e r IX ,
ADJUSTM ENT t o THE TECHNIQUE
H E problem of adjustm ent is an ever press'
ing one for the aspirant to the technique.
N o m atter w hat expansion of conscious'
ness he has attained, this problem meets
him. D irectly he begins to seriously m editate the
enem y is in his path. T h e enem y resolves itself
into the new point of view to w hich he has alm ost
unconsciously advanced. H e becom es slightly out
of focus w ith life and experience as he knew and
lived it and m ust consequently restate it in new
term s. O nce again art w ill provide us w ith an an­
alogy, T h e artist passes from one grade o f tech'
nique to another w ith m ore or less rapidity accord'
ing to inborn capacity. E ach grade has its special
difficulty, and requires a fresh adjustm ent of mind
and hand. But there is the sense o f difficulty over­
com e, and that which appeared insuperable in the
early grades becom es autom atic and can be repro­
duced at w ill w ith ease and certainty,
[ 1 4 1 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
A djustm en t and grow th in the technique is like
that. M editation is the instrum ental m eans by
which the aspirant passes from grade to grade.
Each little cycle of grow th produces its character'
istic unsettlem ent in the m ental life. It has been
well said that the first efforts to still the mind pre-
paratory to right m editation has the effect of m ak'
ing it adopt every possible attitude of disobedience
and resentm ent of the restraint im posed upon it.
T h e m ind likes to go on its ow n accustom ed w ay,
uncontrolled and occupied objectively w ith un-
ceasing restlessness w ith every passing m atter of
interest and of no enduring value. W hen the re­
solve com es to set to w ork to overcom e w asteful
activity and confine thought to w ell defined chan­
nels of expression for higher purposes, the mind
takes a determ ined stand to m aintain its old rou­
tine. T h is prelim inary difficulty soon passes w ith
practice, and the real problem is to adjust to the
new ideas, the larger view s, the increasing force
registered by the mind as the inner personality is
com pelled under discipline to im pose its nature
upon it.
f 142]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE MASTER
T h ere is practically a uniform experience am ong
aspirants w hen this unfoldm ent is in progress.
T h ey receive an im petus to speculate along new
lines of m ental activity. In m any cases entirely
new fields of possibility open up to them . T h e self
w ithin, rich w ith the products of m any lives of
struggle and developm ent, begins to declare itself
and project into the conscious field the m ature
pow ers and faculties of the past. T h e aspirant is
aw are of these insistent voices of the past m ingling
w ith the tones of his personal life, strong, perplex-
ing, only half understood, aw akening fervent de­
sire to interpret them rightly and m ake them blend
and harm onize w ith the octave he know s and in
w hich everything, up to the present, has had its
appropriate keynote. B u t a new situation now
arises. T h a t w hich is com ing to him now belongs
to a different octave of the C osm ic keyboard and
dem ands its ow n interpretation. T h e faculties
which he know s and uses m ay receive a fresh im ­
petus and be strengthened for larger uses: and that
is a w holly satisfactory aspect o f the m atter. B ut
his daily discipline is carrying him steadily into the
psychic realm of faculties and forces, and the
[ m i ]
THE TECH H l& V E OF THE M ASTER
silent em ergence of these, as a new dim, tw ilight
consciousness im pinging upon the m ind, brings
with it the constant problem of acceptance and ad'
justm ent to the known factors of m ind, life and
experience. It is like suddenly detecting in one’s
abode, in w hich every article of furniture and om a-
ment is fam iliar to us, strange objects of curious
dim ension and character which henceforth m ust
be recognised and their m eaning and m ission u n d er
stood. T h is is not an experience to be m et once and
finished w ith. It continues throughout the whole
period of the unfoldm ent of the technique. T h e
problem of skilful adjustm ent to these incidents of
expansion of consciousness is ever before the aspi-
rant. T h e period w ill be long or short com m ensur­
able w ith his ability to raise and intensify his
vibration and adapt the physical, em otional and
m ental life to the resulting disclosures.
T h e idea m ay be otherw ise expressed. If it is a
task of som e difficulty to adjust to the life the
aspirant know s before occult training, to control
and direct the m ental and em otional fife he has
built up in this incarnation, w hat kind of task m ay
he expect when he begins to m editate and explore
[ 144 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
the recesses of the inner self w herein lies latent the
experience of m any past lives? I am not one w ho
regards occult training as a sim ple process of
m editation and affirm ation and thereby entering
into possession of unusual sources of pow er and
w isdom at sm all cost and pains. I know that the
enfolded life of the past has to be unfolded into
the present, understood, com pensated for, adjusted
to and thoroughly assim ilated w ith the conscious
experience of today. It takes but a m oment to read
this, but m any years to m ake the w ord a fact. T h e
burden of the w hole them e of the technique is this
of conscientious effort and endurance, exceeding in
character and scope anything required even in the
highly technical fields of the arts and sciences.
I should be frankly doubtful of the progress of
any student w ho did not meet w ith the difficulties
of adjustm ent in one form or another. M an y con'
crete exam ples have com e to my notice. A very
prevalent obstacle encountered is that of the
strength and insistence of the passional nature
during the probational period. T h e student is often
discouraged and thinks there m ust be som ething
radically w rong w ith him because, long after he has
{ 1
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
set his mind upon spiritual culture, he finds unde-
sirable habits and tendencies w hich he hoped had
passed aw ay from him forever reassert them selves
w ith added strength and the dem and for expres'
sion. Y et there is nothing unusual in this, nor
should it be a cause for discouragem ent or self
reproach. T h e em otional nature is by far the
strongest force in man at this stage of evolution,
and it is not to be raised to the spiritual plane of
expression w ithout the cost of long aspiration and
m any tem porary resistances to the w ill nature iriv
posed upon it. W h at the aspirant is apt to over'
look is that the sam e basic problem confronts every'
one on the path, w ith different m odifications, de'
pending upon evolutionary equipm ent and habitu'
ated form s of expression. A large percentage of
students at the present tim e are very strongly
polarized in their em otional nature, and their
studies w ill be approached from and related to the
em otional aspect. It is one of the m ain difficulties
w ith students today that they are unable, w ithout
considerable study and m editation, to shift the
polarity from the em otional to the m ental level and
w ork from that level sim ultaneously in tw o w ays;
[ 146]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
by holding a steadily receptive attitude to the in'
flow of force from the C osm ic plane, and at the
sam e tim e com pel the em otional life to respond in
m easure and intention to higher inspiration and
direction. T h is is alw ays a variable period for the
aspirant, in intensity and duration, com paratively
brief for some, all too prolonged for others. M an y
secret battles are lost and w on during this period,
w ith ever som e increased gain in m ental and m oral
stam ina to the aspirant. L ittle cycles of struggle
w ill succeed those of relative calm and happy prog'
ress, all which bring m ore and m ore into prom i'
nence every tendency and recognized or unrecog­
nized inclination of his nature, w hether of strength
or w eakness. T h e correct adjustm ent to this con­
stan t self-revealing is the problem of every aspirant.
L et us think fo r a m om ent about this intensely
interesting and im portant phase of the subject, the
cycles of the aspirant’s developm ent and his adju st­
m ent thereto. I w ish to avoid criticism of anything
that appears of value to him, anything in any p ar­
ticular teaching or method of approach w hich has
seemed of im portance to him and which he m ay
not feel disposed to consider inadequate for the
t 147]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE MASTER
sim ple reason th at he is fully adjusted to it. I seek
to bring him to a deeper realization o f the require'
m ents w hich the technique dem ands. If he w ill re'
mem ber that it is precisely that v iew p o in t which
antagonizes his ow n which m ay prove on reflection
to be of peculiar value, he w ill then w illingly
com ply w ith the fundam ental canon of true grow th.
T h e one enem y in his path is stagnation of thought;
and m any are in the grip of that enemy, professed
occult students though they be. I refer to textbook
students. If there is one thing the aspirant m ust
assure him self of, it is that the technique of the
M aster is not taugh t in textbooks. H e m ay study
and tabulate them and pride him self upon the
assem blage of facts stored in the m em ory relative
to races, planets and periods, but all this is but the
alphabet of the path. I have know n students w ho
have steeped them selves for years in such facts, yet
before their ow n problem s and those of others they
w ere helpless. T h ey failed to realize that the
accum ulation o f facts is not the developm ent of
esoteric pow er, bu t only a prelim inary to it. T h e
textbooks alm ost invariably contradict one another
regarding these facts. Som e w riters are frank
[ 148]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
enough to remind us that their presentations are
not to be taken as authoritative, but are m erely
their conception of the subject. O thers assure us
that w h at is im parted is only suggestive, that m uch
of w hat is given is problem atical. In a w ord, the
student is throw n back upon his ow n intuition to
seek the esoteric pow er in his ow n w ay. T h a t is
the point w here I endeavour to m eet him in this
treatise on the technique.
I counsel the aspirant to place in the background
for a w hile the burden o f theory and speculation
and sim plify the issue for him self. O nly w hat he
experiences in and for him self is truth for him. T h e
rest can w ait its appointed tim e and nothing w ill
be lost in the w aiting. T o be unm indful of the
suprem e value of the experience o f the present by
throw ing the m ind back upon the stereotyped rec'
ords of rem ote periods, no m atter by whom re'
corded, or forw ard to perfected conditions out of
perspective w ith the living hour, is to m iss the
great opportunity o f self know ledge. T h e tech'
nique is a series of cycles of self'revealing, and the
sw iftness and intensity of these cycles w ill depend
upon the force of the soul. A n d the question for
{ 1 4 9 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
the aspirant is, w h at is this self revealing to m e?
H is m editation should be active to that end. “ Look
for the w arrior, and let him fight in thee.” T h e
aspirant is affording the w arrior, potent and w ise,
holding the secret of all his future evolution, w hose
strength is unknow n and untried, an opportunity
to declare him self on the battlefield of the perso-
nality. T h rough active m editation directed inw ard
and upw ard he opens the path for the w arrior of
the ages to m anifest his pow er and faculties in ever
w idening circles of know ledge and experience in
the personal life.
T herefore the param ount question is, w hat is the
present cycle of grow th revealing to m e and how
am I adjusting to it? W hen a cycle of sufficient
intensity has been reached the reaction of the per­
sonality to the increased force of the soul w ill be
very pronounced. T h e voice o f the personality
w ill be stronger and m ore insistent than ever be­
fore. T h is is often a m atter of surprise to the aspi­
rant. H e thinks that the personality should become
m ore and m ore quiescent as he gives attention to
the soul inform ing it. A t an advanced stage of the
technique this m ay be expected. It is im perative.
[ i?o}
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
T h e personality is then know n, its m easure has
been taken, and its expressive life is controlled and
directed as an obedient vehicle of the soul. B ut
this is not the case in the early stages of training.
E ach little cycle of grow th brings the latent
faculties and recognized am bitions of the personal'
ity into greater prom inence. Som e of these m ust
be brought to full efficiency through close attention
and discipline; others m ust dim inish in force and
pass aw ay from the consciously active state in the
interest of the larger vision of the soul. T h is is a
tw ofold problem requiring continuous assertion of
w ill and the exercise of keen discrim ination. I have
referred to this in the chapter on delusions, w here
the student is enjoined to take an inventory of his
m ental faculties w ith a view to their highest de­
velopm ent. In doing this w hat has been called the
“ curse of ambition'" w ill confront him. I do not
like the term , but it has great significance for the
aspirant as he pursues his path to the technique.
It means that some lines of personal am bition which
were quite consistent w ith his w ay o f life before
entering upon the path, m ust now lose ground or
be transm uted and given a m ore spiritual direction.
[ 1 5 1 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
It is a problem for each aspirant to deal w ith in his
ow n w ay. T h ere are am bitions which w ill acceler-
ate his progress on the path, others which w ill
hinder. T h e cultivation of discrim ination w ill
enable him to calculate the force and value of each,
and to w hat extent it w ill serve him in the future
in the interests of his fellow m en. T h a t is the one
standard by which he will ultim ately have to judge
his m ental acquisitions and forces, since the tech'
nique in its higher stages dem ands the w hole m an
in w orld service. T h at is w hy the anxious problem
of deeper and deeper adjustm ent to the require-
m ents of the unfolding soul is of the highest value
and cannot be spared him in any single phase of its
discipline. T h e objective is a com plete know ledge
of the forces of the soul evolving w ithin the perso'
nality, to enable him to know experim entally any
aspect of that evolution w hich he encounters in
others. W ith that thought and intention firm ly in
m ind throughout his novitiate the w ill nature w ill
com e to its strength, holding him to the task of the
steady enlargem ent of the m ental field, the w hile
his discrim ination is sharpened to discern w h at to
C >52 1
THE TECHHI^UE OF THE MASTER
relinquish and leave behind as no longer w orthy of
or necessary to the developing technique.
T h e flow ering of the personal life com es before
the rare bloom of the technique. T h e garden of the
personality, rich and scent-laden w ith the choice
and cultivated grow th of past lives, has served its
purpose of pleasure and expression in its ow n place
and tim e, and m ust now yield itself in all its force
and beauty to the nourishm ent of the tree of spir­
itual life to dispense know ledge and healing to those
w ho seek the w ay.
V V V
[ 151 ]
C h a p t e r X .
THE NEOPHYTE AND THE TECHNIQUE
H E neophyte w ho has m ade his choice and
is steadily w orking up to the technique,
w ill do w ell to fortify him self against
criticism . C riticism is one o f the m ost
prom inent features of intellectual life in the W est.
It is a tim e honoured national trait. But a national
trait m ay be also a national evil; and w ith us, to a
great extent, the habit of criticism is an evil. U iv
questionably, through every departm ent of culture
there runs a strain of noble and helpful criticism
w hich opens the mind to a real appreciation of the
highest in hum an production. T h ere is, too, an
accom panying strain, stron g and pernicious,
w hich is steadily bent upon a sinister cam paign of
dam nation, the sole object o f w hich is to arrest the
propagation and influence o f unfam iliar truth and
attain for itself a cheap notoriety at the expense of
those w ho w ill not think for them selves. It is this
latter class of criticism w hich, w ith a counterfeit
[ 1 5 5 ]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
air of om niscience, robustly applies its narrow
canons to the revelations of occult science, and in
so doing becom es the object of w ell m erited
contem pt.
It is a truism that the criterion of just criticism
is a know ledge of the principles and practice of the
subject under consideration. B ut the m ain stream
of criticism provoked by occult disclosures has its
sources in a m ost profound ignorance o f even first
principles. W e have grow n so accustom ed to this
purblind treatm ent of advanced research that, for
ourselves, w e are not disquieted. W e recognise its
im potence to stay the upw ard progress of the soul.
B u t there are students w ho are peculiarly suscept­
ible to the im perious onslaughts o f ignorance and
w ho experience no inconsiderable anxiety and
doubt when exposed to cross questioning and
ridicule in their im m ediate circle on account of
their occult persuasions. T h e foothold of these
students is not sure; the period of their proba­
tionary study is not far advanced; they have taken
but a few steps on the path of self know ledge.
D oubts and questionings spring up at every step,
and tim e m ust elapse before the mind can thor-
[ 1*6]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
oughly assim ilate the deeper truth. T h is is the criti-
cal period for the neophyte in occultism and he
m ust prepare to deal w ith it.
If he m eans to progress he m ust cultivate a cool
indifference to this criticism . H e m ust not fear in
the least being proclaim ed a fool for his ideas. N o t
having yet penetrated deeply enough, the edifice of
occult know ledge does not stan d foursquare in his
vision; and because of that lack of grow th his
thought is infirm and he cannot give a satisfactory
account of him self. H is opponents will feel his un-
certainty and take advan tage of it, until he is in­
clined to believe at tim es that he is resting his soul
on a chim era. T h ere is only one thing about which
he needs to be solicitous, his inner unfoldm ent.
A s he w restles w ith the divine facts his thoughts
will grow strong. D efeats m ay conspire against
him, but he m ust get used to them and draw
strength from them. In tim e he w ill realize just
w here he stands in the scheme of things and a new
pow er of speech w ill be his for all emergencies.
W e need to remember again and again that the
unfoldm ent of the technique is different from any
other kind of grow th. W e cannot register our
[ inj
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
progress day by d ay like a student in art. It has
nothing to do with that culture which is often only
a synonym for arrogance. N eith er brilliant accom ­
plishm ents nor social prestige w ill provide the
aspirant w ith a passport. It is no respecter of per­
sons. Jesus w as a carpenter; Buddha w as a prince;
both becam e adepts. T h e thing that avails is a
fervent soul. Learn to serve. T h e adept is a serv­
ant. T h e crucifying struggle of life around you,
inscribing the sign of the cross indelibly in the brow
of hum anity, is it anything to you? Is the sombre
panoram a of the hum an soul, passing and repassing
betw een the tw o eternities, and feeling blindly and
unknow ingly after the great secret, anything to
you? Because here is the basis of the technique.
T h e hum an soul m ust draw you irresistibly. T o be,
to know — these are the angels of aspiration which
m ust stir the w aters of life w ithin and urge you to
activity. T h e suffering of the soul m ust becom e
personal to you. A n d the initial step lies in the
cultivation of the fulness of that broad hum anity
of w hich w e have spoken. A head full of theories
w ill m ake you a tinkling cym bal and known of
m en; but only from real depths of nature proceeds
[ 1*8]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
an understanding sym pathy. Y o u r developm ent
m ay cost an incarnation; nevertheless, the tru e
aspirant forgets the price o f achievem ent. H e
accustom s him self to think in term s of incarnations,
not years. T h e m agnitude of that contem plation
sets its ineffaceable seal upon his thought; and
those w ho cannot appreciate his ideals w ill yet be
unable to forget them.
T h e transform ation w rought in the inner life of
the aspirant, though silent and unperceived by
others, w ill yet affect in m any w ays his relationship
to the w orld at large. H e w ill m ark the change in
him self and, w hether he speak of it or not, others
w ill m ark and question it. T h is is w here he will
meet w ith criticism . H is right to grow w ill be
severely questioned. B y w hose authority does he
aspire to spiritual things? In the opinion of some
this departure from the plain path of conform ity
w ill be rank heresy, calculated to call dow n upon
him the w rath of heaven. W ell, m ost of us on the
path are heretics, and greater heretics have pre­
ceded us. L et him not hesitate to deal w ith these
critics perem ptorily, if need be, once and for all.
L et the aspirant be a heretic and stand out. H e
[ 1»9]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
w ill be tem pted to argue, pro and con, but it w ill
be of little use. H e has gone on before and they
have resolved to stand still, and reconciliation on
these term s is im possible. H e has elected to be a
light in the w orld, w hatever the darkness he m ay
have to pass through, and it w ould be unw ise to
retreat to the open arm s of the m ajority for the
sake of a m erely ephem eral popularity and peace.
T h e aim of the technique is to m ake the aspirant
a spiritual artist, possessed of an exquisite intub
tional aw areness o f inner processes. T h is will
evolve as he gradually m oulds the constitution to
respond to keener and unusual vibrations. H e will
become receptive to a w idening area of psychic in-
fluences. O ne o f the earliest signs of this develop­
m ent is the pronounced occult tone of the perso­
nality. R espon din g now to a higher vibrational
ratio, the breath of life circulates as a peculiar
pow er. H ow ever faintly perceived outw ardly, an
actual spiritualization of self ensues. Sensitiveness
is increased to a rem arkable degree; and w hile it is
not to be im plied that his aim is to becom e so
etherealized as to preclude the enjoym ent of a
natural and healthy existence, it is clearly necessary
[ 160]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
to take thought for m uch w hich form erly did not
concern him. W h atever the objections raised by
those w ho understand nothing of the goal in view
against the ultim ate issue of this process of refine'
m ent, one of the chief aims m ust be the grow th of
sensitiveness. A n d in the pursuit of this, any dis'
com forts incidental to the alchem ical process will
be regarded as inevitable, and not in any sense as
a deterrent. H e w ill know that he is deliberately
fitting him self for the reception of a greater pow er
o f hum an helpfulness to be used in a career of
sublim e service.
L et the aspirant fear no criticism . O nly when
the critics realize that he possesses a m ore precious
gift will they receive the first hint of their blind'
ness. O nly then w ill they realize th at all the
accum ulations of w orldly know ledge are indeed a
very little thing when com pared w ith an insight
w hich is divine, w hen he becom es in all sim plicity
an oracle of the soul and reveals a new scale of
values. N o higher service can he render than that.
N o other rew ard is greater than the rew ard of that
service. Before the contem plation of that ideal the
glories of lesser ideals of men w ill suffer a peaceful
[161]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
eclipse. T h e voice o f criticism will have lost the
pow er to w ound, because his thought has blended
silently w ith the C osm ic purpose, in which is no
variableness, neither shadow of turning.
V V V
r tea?
C h a p t e r X I.
P R O B A T IO N A N D THE TECHNIQUE
P E A K IN G of the inscrutable m ystery of
existence, C arlyle, in a m om ent of true
m ystical insight, said, “ Force, force,
everyw here force; w e ourselves a mys-
terious force in the centre of th at.” . . . T h is is
the basic fact for the technician in philosophy and
practice. T h e technique is the science o f applied
force. W hen a man attains to a scientific use of
this force through concentrated w ill and en­
lightened understanding in w orld service, he is no
longer an aspirant, but a disciple of the M aster.
H e is a conscious m anipulator of the one force of
the C osm os m anifesting through the aw akened
centres of his inner personality. T hrough the long
day of trial and experim ent, of com prehensive liv­
ing experience, he has brought into activity within
a subtle apparatus for the reception and transm is­
sion o f energies infinitely m ore potent than an y­
thing operative on the physical, em otional and men-
C163 3
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M A STER
tal planes of his being. It is a prelim inary attain­
m ent on the path of infinite prom ise— for others.
Is this statu s o f the disciple am ong men an
enviable one? From the w orldly point of view , it
is not. It is not easy living in this W estern w orld
as it is today, surrounded w ith pressing problem s
and perplexities, and its im perious dem and that
every m an should not only be in it, but of it, and
conform to its ideals and participate in its interests.
From the M aster's point o f view , it is otherw ise.
It is a blessed thing that there are men who, in past
incarnations, have passed their novitiate and now
find them selves accepted disciples of the M asters,
w ith a definite m ission to their fellowm en. Links
o f old association have brought them once again in
this life into the secret occult schools to graduate
further in the technique and fill m ore responsible
positions in the Brotherhood of M asters. T h e w orld
know s them not; bu t their com peers throughout
the w orld recognize them by those unm istakable
signs of soul developm ent and personality equip­
m ent referred to in this treatise.
T h e w orld does not know the disciple, but it
does know that he is different from other men. A
[ 164]
THE TECH N IQ UE OF THE M ASTER
m an w ith the m ission of a disciple of the M asters
cannot hide his light under a bushel. W h at he is,
is not know n; that he is different, is. T h at is
enough for him to be m ade a target for criticism
and for his w ay of life to be questioned by those
w ho cannot but recognize that they confront a
different type of m an. “ T h e one w ho has passed
through is unrecognizable until the other and alto'
gether new condition is attained by both ." So says
the scripture, and it is a fact of experience in the
life of the disciple. H is life is a paradox, and any
attem pt to justify it in the eyes of those w ho cannot
understand paradoxes w ill only result in m aking
his life appear the m ore hopelessly contradictory.
T h e disciple m ust accept this condition of his de-
velopm ent w ith com plete understanding. T hrough
certain evolutionary advantages, distinctly his be'
cause earned in the past, he conform s to a code of
ethics and is am enable to law s, foreign to and urn
recognized by his fellow m en. T h a t is w hy the
technique w orking through a disciple so baffles
astute men w ho hold sw ay on the plane of mind.
“ H e has taken on him a duty which does not exist
for other m en." It is sufficient that the disciple
[ 165 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
know s this. T h a t know ledge gives him strength
and ascendency over opposing influences.
W h at, then, has been the m ain factor in bringing
the technician to this point of ascendency and
efficiency in the scale of hum an evolution? I have
given som e idea of the nature of the technique, out'
lined its m ain constituents, and show n the extent
of the discipline w hich has to be undertaken if its
requirem ents are to be fulfilled. N o w , there is a
w ord w hich is ever present to the m ind of the
technician throughout the long period of his train-
ing. It is the w ord, probation. It im plies a condi­
tion w hich is often regarded w ith some suspicion
by students. Y et it is com m on enough to hear of a
person being under probation, or upon his trial. It
sim ply m eans that he has to show his fitness for the
position he aspires to. H e is subm itted to a period
of trial of his abilities to fill it com petently and be
entrusted w ith the pow ers and privileges that
accom pany it. A n d in the occult sense it means
precisely the sam e thing, except that, in the case of
a w orldly office, the probation will be relatively
brief; w hereas the probation of the technique m ay
occupy the m ajor portion o f an incarnation.
[ 166]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
F or years the technician is know n on the inner
side to be graduating in a secret school in which he
is taugh t the correct m anipulation of force. W hen
I say secret school, I do not refer to any special
external organisation w ith w hich he m ay be affili­
ated and in which he is w orking. T h e secret school
lies behind that. H e know s nothing o f it objec­
tively. H is intuition assures him of his alliance
with it. In that school he is know n, has his place,
and is guided silently in his associations in w ork on
the objective plane. O pportunities are afforded
him to liquidate his K arm a, and the w ay in which
he uses these is observed and recorded. T em pta­
tions in the m ost disguised form s offer themselves
to test the stability of his m oral and intellectual
character. T h ey com e to him in alluring personali­
ties and aspects of circum stances, intense in their
appeal and w ith terrible pow er of fascination. H e
w ill be faced again and again w ith these stern alter­
natives of self-gratification or im personal service.
T h e force w hich im pinges upon his sensitive soul
apparatu s from the M aster aw akens the w hole man
to action in every phase of his nature. H e has to
learn how to hold that force as it energizes through
[ 167]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
him and draw s into his sphere other souls w ho un-
derstand it not and seek response from it on their
ow n level of life. H e has to learn how to adapt the
various m easures o f that force to those he contacts
in the w ay of service. T h at m easure which w ould
inspire and raise one w ould as surely antagonize
and overthrow another. F or remember, the tech'
nician does not deal w ith personalities as they fall
into this or that category; he deals w ith souls from
the angle of their evolutionary standpoint. It is
that fact which conditions the entire attitude of
the technician tow ards others in his w ork. H is
aim is to do for others on a lesser scale w h at the
M aster is doing for him. H e perm its an appro-
priate m easure o f his force to play upon them, that
an aw akening and recognition of deeper sources
m ay ensue.
O bserve then the long and exacting probation
w hich is involved in this sim ple fact of the recep­
tion by the technician of the force of the M aster
through the years of novitiate, and the transm ission
of that force by the technician to those pupils asso­
ciated w ith him in occult discipline for their ad ­
vancem ent. T h e psychic centres of the technician
[ 168]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE M ASTER
w ill be active and in rapid evolution, and his volt'
age w ill be correspondingly tense and high, con'
siderably m ore so than is the case w ith the m ajority
in the groups he w orks w ith. I have m entioned how
this peculiar training intensifies everything latent
in the constitution, how strength and w eakness are
brought to the surface in every possible w ay, how
every faculty and ability is brought to light for
recognition and direction. T h e m an stands re'
vealed to him self; and the purpose of the revelation
is to see w hat use he w ill m ake of it. It is in his
pow er to use in service, or m isuse for self, a sacred
trust. C ountless opportunities are his to take the
easy or the m ore difficult path, to direct his forces
consistently on the side of evolution for others in
noble, self-denying service, or deflect it into chan'
nels of selfish aim s, even to the detrim ent of others
w ho look to him for exam ple and guidance. T he
issues are clear to him and the choice is his to make.
It is a stern trial. T h e technician has the oppor'
tunity to prove himself and the issue rests with
him. In his ow n heart lies the battlefield, and how
few , how very few , know anything of the secret
battles fought and w on there1 H e seeks no sym '
[ 1 6 9 ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
pathy from w ith out; he cries for no quarter from
the forces ranged against him, w hether o f perso­
nality or circum stance. T h e m agic of his ow n
dom inant soul has raised them into life for its own
dem onstration of m astery, and rather than lose in
the self-initiated trial between the spiritual w ill and
the K arm ic hosts that w ould dethrone him, he
w ould lose life and any fortune. T h at is indeed
so. T h e love of the disciple for the M aster w ho
know s him and w hom he seeks to know is such,
that when these suprem e tests of his allegiance and
strength com e to him, he does not w ait to count
the loss or the gain, he cares nothing for reputation
or opinion, neither criticism , nor m isunderstanding,
nor opprobrium , or any w orldly consideration
sw ays one iota against the clear issue of proving
him self a faithful servant and w orthy of the trust
reposed in him.
T hese issues, briefly glanced at, arise out o f the
conscious reception by the technician of the force
of the M aster. W h a t of those associated w ith the
technician in occult discipline, who are recipients
of the force consciously transm itted by him ? T h eir
probation proceeds along sim ilar lines, but ob-
l n o ]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE MASTER
viously it is not yet so keen and crucial. In dealing
w ith young aspirants who com e under his observa'
tion and guidance, the technician has the task of
exercising his educated intuition in such a w ay in
their behalf that a truly esoteric probation is
afforded them. It is an intim ate m atter and difficult
to w rite about. I can only say that the technician,
drilled in the intricacies o f his ow n probation,
com es to adapt effectively the M aster’s m ethods,
tem pering them kindly and adequately to the
strength and need of the aspirant; and there is
probably no greater joy known to him than that he
experiences in noting how an eager aspirant grasps
the intim ations and hints o f deeper truth and
quickly m oulds them into his life and developm ent.
A pprop riate sym pathy m ay be show n here, the
im position o f the w ill in hard adm onition m ani'
fested there; patient forbearance in m isunderstand'
ing, silence and w atchfulness w here the aspirant
m ust grow in his ow n w ay; som etim es alm ost in'
difference to the perplexity and pain of mental
experience when that is culturing the young soul
to stability and the beauty of spiritual in sight:—
these are glim pses o f technical adaptation which
[ H I]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE M ASTER
are m atters o f constant personal concern on the
part of the technician.
In giving prom inence to the fact of probation
which is m ethodically adapted in the case of every
aspirant qualifying for the technique, there is this
to be added by w ay of caution. L et the aspirant
accept this fact as undoubtedly true and operative
in his ow n developm ent; but let him not per'
petually w atch him self and everything connected
w ith him in his affairs, w hether of thought or
action, w ith that anxious scrutiny and self'ques'
tioning, that his life becom es a burden to him self
and a nuisance to other people. I have a case in
m ind of a student w ho is a victim of this perverted
idea of probation and developm ent; so m uch so,
that he is m ortally afraid o f him self and of every
contact w ith others, fearing that he is losing grace
in being a n atural human being, and thereby hold'
ing at arm ’s length the conditions that aw ait his
em brace and conquest. H e thus refuses to be put
on trial and defeats the very aim he has in view .
T h e probationary period is not set w ith traps at
every step to m ake the student w alk crooked and
act at cross purposes all his days for fear o f falling
[ 172]
THE TECH NIQ UE OF THE MASTER
into them . T h ere are definite points of crisis along
the w ay, and in all probability he will meet and
decide them in total unconsciousness of their far'
reaching esoteric im port. T h ese crises are not
charted so that he know s beforehand the time of
their precipitation. H e brings them to his own
hands, soon or late, by his steadily onw ard and
expressive living. T h e technician w ill tell him that
often the m om entous crises in his ow n life have
been m et and dealt w ith, w ith no thought of the
issues other than obtaining a solid conquest in the
nam e of m anhood.
T h at is a point for the profound consideration
of the aspirant. Let him observe that the technician
w ith whom he w orks is a m an in the true sense of
the w ord. H e fulfills the duties of his m anhood
according to the law s of occultism . Let the aspi'
rant study those law s and give them practical ex'
pression in a well ordered personality technique
such as is outlined herein. T h e probation he needs
for its perfecting and use w ill evolve naturally and
efficaciously w ithout deliberately seeking it. It will
com e because he has desired w ith fervent heart and
single aim to be an exponent of the technique. H e
[ 173]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
w ill have the strength to surm ount every trial
incident to it if he rem ains steadfast to the ideal of
service in the nam e o f the M aster.
V V V
r i7-« j
Explanatory
T H E R O S I C R U C I A N O R D E R
V
NTICIPATING questions which may be asked
by the readers of this book, the publishers wish
to announce that there is but one universal Rosicru-
cian Order existing in the world today, united in its
various jurisdictions, and having one Supreme Coun­
cil in accordance with the original plan of the ancient
Rosicrucian manifestos.
This international organization retains the ancient
traditions, teachings, principles, and practical helpful­
ness of the Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It
is known as the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae
Crucis, which name is abbreviated for popular use
into AMORC. The North American jurisdiction of
this order maintains National Headquarters at San
Jose, California, with branches distributed throughout
the United States, Canada and Mexico. Those inter­
ested in knowing more of the history and present day
offerings of the Rosicrucians may have a free copy of
the book entitled, "The W ;sdom of the Sages,” by
sending a definite request to Extension Librarian,
AM ORC Temple, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, Cali­
fornia.
V V V
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described in
rhe following pages, and which may be purchased from the
ROSICRUCIAN S U P P L Y B U R E A U , San Jose. CalifornTa.
V V V
[ 176]
V o lu m e I.
Rosicrucian Questions and Answers
With Complete History
of the Order
V
T
HIS Volume contains the first complete, authentic history
of the Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present
day. The history is divided into two sections, dealing with
the traditional facts and the established historical facts, aDd is
replete with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fasci­
nating incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference
and guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding
many mystical and occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the
Roslcrucians were closed against any eyes but the high Initiates.
Even editors of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the
weird, fascinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts
of the world. Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like
a story from the land of the "Arabian Nights."
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions
dealing with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes
ol the Rosicrucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound
in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[ I??]
V o l u m e II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home dnd Business
v
THIS volume contains such principles of practical Rosicru-
cian teachings as are applicable to the solution of the
every-day problems of life in business and in the affairs of the
home. It deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health,
the curing of many of the common ailments, and the attain­
ment of pence and happiness as well as the huildinq up of the
affairs of life that deal with financial condlf'ons. The hook is
filled with hundreds of practical points dealing especially -with
the problems of the average business man or person in business
employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the use of
metaphysical and mystical principles in attracting business,
increasing one's income, promoting business propositions, start­
ing and brinqlng into r"nIizatlon new plans and ideas, and the
attainment of the highest ambitions in life.
"Rosfcnician Principles for the Home and Business" Is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its third edition,
having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not
only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily
stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by busi­
ness organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[178]
V o lu m e III.
Mystical Life of Jesus
V
-IIS is the book that thousands have been waiting for—the
eal Jesus revealed at last! It has been in preparation for
a number of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt
to secure a verification of the strange facts contained in the
ancient Rosicrucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystic symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bound in purple silk and stamped
in gold.
Here is a book that will Inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It will be the most talked-
about book of the year. Read it and be prepared for the dis­
cussions of it that you will hear among men and women of
learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.25.
[ 179]
V o l u m e V .
“Unto Thee I Grant
V
THIS is one of the rarest, Oriental, mystery books known.
It is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and
Disciples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago,
and was hidden in manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con­
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with
the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been
written about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the
Far East and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever
contained the secret teachings found in this book. This book is
divided into many parts, each part containing a large number
of sections or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weak­
nesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are
treated in detail with illuminating simplicity. The book is beau­
tifully printed and bound with stiff cover, and contains also the
strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this
marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
C1 8 0 ]
V olu m e V I.
A Thousand Tears of Yesterdays
v
HERE is a book that will tell you more about the real
facts of reincarnation than anything that was ever written.
It is a story of the soul, and explains in detail how the soul
enters the body and how it leaves, where it goes to and when
it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far
East and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into
book form as a story before this book was printed. That is
why the book has been translated into so many foreign languages
and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia,
Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring — Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to
leave it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals
the mystic principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to
reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the
Incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound w'ith stiff cover, and worthy
of a place in anyone’s library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 85 cents.
[ 181 ]
V o l u m e V II.
Self Mastery and Fate with the
Cycles of Life
v
HIS book is entirely different from any ever issued in
America dealing with the secret periods in the life of each
man and woman wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain
periods to bring success, happiness, health and prosperity into our
lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are not favor­
able for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal
with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but presents a
system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and
which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of
the book with its charts and tables will enable the reader to see
the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone to elimi­
nate "chance" and “luck," to cast aside “fate" and replace these
with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. There is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark­
able manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
paid, $2.00.
affairs.
[ 182]
V o l u m e V III.
Rosicrucian Manual
V
T
HIS practical book contains not only extracts from the
Constitution of the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete
outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and
terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations
of the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of
the principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical
sketches of important characters connected with the work. There
are also special articles on the Great White Lodge and its
existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian
Code of Life with thirty laws and regulations, and a number of
portraits of prominent mystics including Master K. H-, the
Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of
Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it
contains.
The "Rosicrucian Manual" is of large size, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fourth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
I 183 }
V o lu m e IX .
Mystics at Prayer
v
THE first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the
renowned mystics and adepts of all ages. By MANY
C1HLAR, F. R.C., Austrian Philosopher and Mystic.
The book "Mystics at Prayer" explains in simple language
the reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws in-
volved. You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its
full beauty dawns upon you. Whatever your religious beliefs,
this book makes your prayers the application not of words,
but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite
power of prayer. Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It is the
direct means of man's communion with the infinite force of
divinity.
“Mystics at Prayer’’ is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid $1.00
[ 1 8 4 ]
V o l u m e X I.
Mansions of the Soul
V
R
EINCARNATION 1 The world’s greatest disputed doctrine.
The belief in reincarnation has had millions of intelligent,
learned, and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing
through the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers
have always been the words: "Why Are We Here?' Reincar­
nation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred
literature and without verification. This book reveals, however,
in an astounding manner the many facts to support reincarnation.
Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works substantiate reincarnation. This volume PROVES rein­
carnation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book is
without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening
book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story but a
step by step revelation of profound mystical laws. Look at some
of these fascinating, intriguing subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does
Personality Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma
and Personal Evolution; Religion and Biblical Viewpoints;
Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals
and the "Unborn;" Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully
printed, neatly bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to
your library, economically priced. Price per copy, postage pre­
paid, only $2.20.
[ 185]
V o l u m e X II.
Lemuria—The Lost Continent
of the Pacific
V
BENEATH the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgot­
ten civilizations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands,
worn away by terrific pressure are the remnants of a culture little
known to our age of today. Where the mighty Pacific now rolls
in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there was once a vast
continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and its people as
Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and de­
velopments of today. We call them modern, but these ancients
and long-forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as
future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science
has gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and
in this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling
chapters you have ever read. How these people came to be
swept from the face of the earth, except for survivors who have
living descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and explana­
tions of their mystic symbols, maps of the continent, and many
ancient truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird—
read this book—remember, however, this book is not fiction, but
based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization
reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Is the culture and
progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then
returns to start over again? These questions and many more are
answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living descend­
ants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bot­
tom of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants is the
knowledge of the principles which in by-gone centuries made their
forbearers builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, “Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is
beautifully bound, well printed, and contains many, many illus­
trations. It is economically priced at $2.20, postpaid.
[ 186]
H O W T O O R D E R B O O K S
V
If your regular book dealer does not have these books 1c
stock, and you do not care to wait until be secures them for you,
you may save time by sending your order direct, with remit­
tance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
R osicrucian Su p pl y Bu r ea u
- SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
ROSICRUCIAN PARK
