{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__bosman___meaning_and_philosophy_of_numbers.pdf","mytitle":"Meaning And Philosophy Of Numbers","mylang":"de"}
THE MEANING
AND PHILOSOPHY
OF NUMBERS
by
LEONARD BOSMAN
RIDER CO.
Paternoster House, Paternoster Row
London, E.C.4
P R I N T E D I N
GREAT BRITAIN,
AT THE ANCHOR
PRESS, TIPTREE,
:s e sse x : :
x932
PAGE
xi
33
5°
66
70
78
87
96
107
116
I25
138
M3
148
CONTENTS
IN TROD U CTION -
CREATION B Y NUMBER -
THE PREPARATION OF THE COSM IC FIELD -
THE ABSOLUTE, THE N O -N U M BER OR CIRCLE
PO TE N TIA L -
THE NUM BER ONE -
TH E NUM BER T W O , TH E DUAD
TH E NUM BER THREE -
THE NUM BER FOUR -
THE NUM BER FIVE -
THE NUM BER SIX -
THE NUM BER SEVEN -
THE NUM BER EIGH T -
TH E NUM BER NINE -
THE NUM BER TEN
INTRODUCTION
It will probably be conceded that despite the many
books on the subject of numbers there is much
mystery attached to their inner meaning. Almost
all of these innumerable publications appear to have
copied from one another and may all be traced back
to a common origin in the mind of Pythagoras him­
self. Though he did not put his teachings into writ­
ing, yet several of his followers and later writers
attempted the task with more or less success.
The writers of these modern works on numbers,
though they have much to say on the magical
property of such ideas as may be contained in them,
seldom seem to concern themselves with the funda­
mental meaning behind all numbers, nor do they
explain why they attach to them the different mean­
ings accepted blindly by the devotees of the science.
Hence it is hoped that in this work a little of the
true nature of numbers may be unveiled so that it
may be shown not only what they represent in
fact, but also what they are in idea.
At the outset of such a study, however, the first
consideration should be an understanding of the
words and terms used in connection with the science
of numerology. For, although words and terms
in themselves necessarily imply limitation, they
are, nevertheless, the sole clue to the ideas originally
underlying them. To this end an ordinary accept­
ation of the meaning of terms will not carry the
xi
xn Introduction
student very far. Reference after reference to the
ordinary dictionary will leave him all too conscious
of the impossibility of understanding by such means
the depth of meaning and the true idea behind the
term.
It is the involution of language rather than its
evolution with which reckoning has to be made. The
original meaning of a word in the language of its
birth is first to be traced to the very sound of the
letters which form its root. Unless this can be done
many difficulties will arise, for such roots in the course
of time have been blended with others and have
inevitably been misapplied by those who have
not known their original meaning. In this way
words have come to be applied to objects and ideas
which originally they did not represent. Thus the
true meaning has become, as it were, fossilized,
embedded in layer after layer of dissimilar meanings,
so that a thousand years later the birth of the
original root-sound and the meaning it was intended
to convey are all but undiscoverable.
This applies to the roots, but with the words
themselves there is even less chance of unveiling the
ancient meaning, so great are the changes brought
about by pronunciation, dialect, time and environ­
ment, and especially by the development of the
written word.
Primarily considered, numbers are symbols of
the beginning and development of the universe, of
a solar system, or a series of such, or, indeed, of any
rhythmic movement. The terms with which we
have to deal in considering the science of numbers
are figures, symbols, ciphers, arithmetic, and
mathematics.
Introduction x m
The terms “ numbers” and “ figures” are usually con­
sidered as synonymous, but a little thought will show
that this is not a true view. Thus, the figure 3 is
not, strictly speaking, three, nor is it what is termed
a number. It is merely a figure or symbol called
by the name three, having a numerical value which
is triune and representing that which will later be
described as the threeing process of the universe.
A figure is, literally, something made, a shape or
form (Latin = figura, a thing made). This shape or
form acts in the case of the figures 1, 2, 3, etc., as a
symbol (Greek sym, together; hallein, to throw),
something thrown together, or put together, to
form a sign or picture of an idea. Hence a figure
cannot strictly be called a number, though it may
represent it as a symbol.
What, then, is a number ? Skeat states that the
Indo-Germanic root of the word is nem. This is
similar to the Sanskrit nam or nama, the origin of
the word name. To name a thing is to individualize
it or distinguish it (N) from the mass (M), and it is
difficult to understand the difference between name
and number, since the roots are practically the same.
There is, however, a difference, which can be as­
certained by a study of the roots of the two words.
Nem, the root of the word number, is probably
Egyptian, although it may well be only naturalized
in Egypt, being even older than the Egyptian
language, which itself was derived from an earlier
tongue. The Greek form is nemo, to distribute.
Letter by letter nem explains itself : N represents
an emanation or distinguishment, E a rhythmic
progression from the mass, M. In this case the M
symbolizes the completeness of the whole, that
XIV Introduction
which includes all difference, all numbers, within
Itself, which is not one in the sense of the beginning
of all numbers, but that unification, or wholeness,
which includes all numbers in itself as in solution,
that from which all numbers spring in rhythmic
progression.
If, however, as seems probable to the writer, the
root is num rather than nem, the meaning is still
clearer, for the letter U is the sound-symbol of
that which links and makes possible a change of
condition, and is so used in the Hebrew as well as
in other languages. Hence num represents a coming
forth, an emanation (N) from one state to another,
(U) proceeding from universality (M) to differen­
tiation.
The term name, on the other hand, is derived from
the Sanskrit nama, a word formed, as far as can be
seen, from two roots, na and ma, the former meaning
to individualize, to make distinct, and the latter to
measure. This dual root shows the real meaning
most fully, for a name is thus that which distinguishes
a person or thing and measures it, i.e. describes its
kind or quality, its essential nature.
Thus figures, by their shape, represent the original
ideas which they were intended to show forth. The
names given to these figures, or symbols, should,
then, by their sound, convey the same idea as does
the figure by its shape. Hence numbers are names
given to figures and represent the measures, or
rhythms, or rhythmic unfoldment of all things under
the generic title of numbers.
The meaning of the words used to name figures,
one, two, three, etc., is not known in modern
language. In Hebrew the words used to name
Introduction xv
or distinguish numbers can more easily be traced to
their roots, thus making possible an understanding
of their fundamental meaning and showing exactly
why they were so named. Thus the word one does
not merely mean a single thing, nor does the word
two mean two things.
The word one, used to name the figure I, is
derived from the root sound un, as may be seen
in such languages as Latin, French, German, and
English. In Sanskrit and other tongues, however,
the root is given as ek {eka, yek, etc.), and a similar
sound, expressing the same idea, is heard in the
Hebrew word echod, or achod. A comparison of
these roots will clearly demonstrate the different
conceptions of unity as understood by the ancients
who named their numbers in this way.
The generally used European root un shows the
idea of the passing from one state to another, from
that which is symbolized and represented in the
sound of the letter U, to the individualizing process
as heard in the sound of forthcoming, the letter N.
This gives the conception of a distinct and separate
being (en, ens, being or a being), and shows that in
the mind of the originator of this word there was the
idea of a distinct and active individual power,
which was therefore named un.
Whereas the European un, or one, represents
number going forth to produce numbers, the
Sanskrit, Hebrew, and Japanese words for one
convey a conception somewhat different; eka, achad,
and ichi (Japanese) all show the idea of division
arrested, or numbers held in check, according, that
is, to the sound-values of their roots, every letter
having a deep meaning.
XVI Introduction
In the Cosmic Process of becoming, which number
primarily represents, there is the Unconditioned
All. This is not a manifested “ number” — not, that
is, a distinct and individualized number, neither one
nor many, but simply the whole. Co-equal with the
All is a certain potential power, symbolized by a
point, and this point is seen symbolically as a one,
as creation commences. The Point Unmanifest
becomes the Power of manifestation, symbolized as
a single definite stroke and called by the name One,
meaning that which goes forth to produce change.
Thus the i is in the All, the o or Circle Potential,
and acts with it to produce the Universe. The one
in the nought polarizes it, as the human cell is
polarized, and thus arise all numbers, the simple
numbers, I— 9, emanating from the 1 in the o
through this polarization. Hence in the beginning,
the 1 and the o are potentially 10, i.e. complete and
perfect, but have to become unfolded, as symbolized
by the figures 1— 10, before the Perfection innate
within them can be manifested. This will be ex­
plained in the chapters which follow.
As is well known, the Hebrews, unlike the moderns,
had no figures to represent what are called numbers,
the letters of the Hebrew alphabet being themselves
used to act as figures. The first ten letters, Aleph
to Tod, A to I, are used to represent the figures
I to 10; beyond this number other letters are
added to these ten letters to form the higher num­
bers up to 19; then a change occurs, and the
later letters are used to form the multiple numbers,
the letter K standing for 20, the L for 30, the M for
40, and so on, the higher values being expressed
by the final letters.
Introduction XVII
The Hebrews had also various mystic methods of
understanding the sacred scriptures by a system of
translating letters into numbers. Ascertaining the
total value as numbers of any given word or words,
they translated this numerical total into words once
more, and showed deeper meanings in the original
words than were at first apparent. As every letter
had a numerical value, they were able to compare
the numerical value of one word with another, and
when two words had the same numerical value there
was considered to be a deep connection between
them. This method obviously lends itself to char­
latanry and superficial thought, yet so much may be
discovered by the use of it that it is not well to
declare, as some writers have done, that the whole
system is nonsensical.
The Greeks had a similar system, called by some
“ the Greek Kabalah” , a system of numerology by
means of which they endeavoured to understand
Bible and other mysteries. Thus the famous number
of the “ Beast” of Revelations refers neither to Anti-
Christ, nor even to the Kaiser, but when the letters
which are the equivalents of the numbers are set
down, the meaning is made clear. Ho phren, in
Greek, is exactly 666, as is explained by the erudite
author of I be Apocalypse Unsealed, and refers to
the earthly mind of man— mind drawn down into
the vortex of passion and desire— a truly “ beastly”
mind, far less pure than the simple animal nature.
Hence the “ Beast” , whose number, 666, is the same
as that of a man, is nothing but the “ beast” in man,
the lower mind which, left to “ gang its ain gait” ,
will degrade man even beneath the level of the
beasts.
B
XV111 Introduction
“ The fundamental geometrical figure of the
Kabalah,” says Madame Blavatsky (The Secret
Doctrine, vol. iii, section x), “ as given in the Book
of Numbers (no longer extant), that figure which
tradition and the Esoteric Doctrines tell us was given
by the Deity Itself to Moses on Mount Sinai,
contains the key to the universal problem in its
grandiose, because simple, combinations. . . . The
Devanagari (Sanskrit) characters . . . have all that
the Hermetic, Chaldasan, and Hebrew alphabets
have, and in addition the occult significance of the
‘eternal sound’ and the meaning given to every
letter in its relation to spiritual as well as terrestrial
things. As there are only twenty-two letters in the
Hebrew alphabet and ten fundamental numbers,
whilst in the Devanagari there are thirty-five
consonants and sixteen vowels, making altogether
fifty-one simple letters, with numberless combina­
tions in addition, the margin for speculation and
knowledge is in proportion considerably wider.
Every letter has its equivalent in other languages
and its equivalent in a figure or figures of the cal­
culation table. It has also numerous other signifi­
cations, which depend on the special idiosyncrasies
and characteristics of the person, object, or subject
to be studied. As the Hindus claim to have received
these characters from Sarasvati, the inventress of
Sanskrit, the language of the gods or devas (in their
exoteric pantheon), so most of the ancients claimed
the same privilege for the origin of their
letters and tongue. The Kabalah calls the Hebrew
alphabet the ‘letters of the angels’, which were
communicated to the Patriarchs just as the Devana­
gari was to the Rishis by the Devas [Gods or Powers].
Introduction xix
The Chaldaeans found their letters traced in the
sky by the ‘yet unsettled stars and comets’ . . . while
the Phoenicians had a sacred alphabet formed by
the twistings of the sacred serpents.” This is also
found in the hieroglyphics and secret sacerdotal
speech of Egypt, as the same writer remarks.
“ The power and potency of numbers and
characters” , she continues, “ are well known to many
Western occultists as being compounded from all
these systems, but are still unknown to Hindu
students (with some exceptions), if not to their
occultists. In their turn, European Kabalists are
generally ignorant of the alphabetical secrets of
Indian Esotericism. At the same time, the general
reader in the West knows nothing of either: least
of all how deep are the traces left by the Esoteric
numeral systems of the world in the Christian
Churches.
“ Nevertheless, this system of numerals solves the
problem of cosmogony for whomsoever studies it,
while the system of geometrical figures represents
the numbers objectively. . . .
“ All beings, from the first divine emanation, or
‘God manifested’, down to the lowest atomic
existence, ‘have their particular number which
distinguishes them and becomes the source of their
attributes and qualities as of their destiny’. Chance,
as taught by Cornelius Agrippa, is, in reality, only
an unknown progression, and time but a succes­
sion of numbers. Hence, futurity being a com­
pound of chance and time, these are made to
serve occult calculations in order to find the result
of an event, or the future of one’s destiny. Said
Pythagoras:
XX Introduction
“ ‘There is a mysterious connection between the
gods and numbers on which the science of arith-
mancy is based. The soul is a world that is self-
moving : the soul contains in itself and is the
quaternary, the tetraktys, the perfect cube.’ ”
It is to be noted here that Pythagoras is not
reported as saying that the gods are numbers, or
that all things are numbers, as some of his followers
and critics affirm.
Many writers quote the Pythagoreans as stating
that the whole universe and all things within it are
founded on Number. Others say that Nature is
ruled by a Law, of which Number is the form and
measure, and that Number is manifested in all
celestial movements. This idea is correct in the
deepest sense, yet it has at times “ caused the enemy
to blaspheme” . Most people understand numbers
merely as figures, and know only that they may be
used arithmetically, and therefore the idea that the
universe is built on Number is, to them, simply non­
sense, especially when, as is so often the case, such
statements are made without explanation. Chaignet
quotes Philolaus as saying that Number manifests
its active presence in the movements of celestial and
divine bodies, in the being of man, in his life, and
all that which is thereby produced, in the Arts, and,
above all, in Music. Apparently he does not see
that it is not Number which is in all things, but
that which Number represents. Apart from this,
his work, Pythagore et la Philosophic Pythagorienne,
is one of the best on the subject.
The rhythmic progression of the universe and of
all creation is not, then, caused by numbers, nor is
the universe, as some writers state, built on numbers.
Introduction xxi
Moreover, numbers are not to be found everywhere
in Nature, as some enthusiasts declare.
Cosmic activity, staticity and dynamicity, action
and reaction, movement and resistance, are the
basic principles on which all Natural order is founded.
The evolution and growth of a universe or of man,
an idea crystallizing into form— all these have their
stages of progression, definite transitions from state
to state, the rhythms of the universe. These rhyth­
mic progressions are so exact and so certain in their
action that, transformed into earthly reckonings,
they produce the only exact science, that of Mathe­
matics, which is exact inasmuch as it is founded on
cosmic verities.
Some writers consider that the Pythagoreans,
being unable to explain the growth of a system in
words, had recourse to numbers, as symbols of their
ideas. This is, of course, not correct, for numbers
are derived from the ideas themselves, not the ideas
from the numbers, as Aristotle seems to suggest in
his Metaphysic. Aristotle’s ideas, not always in
sympathy with those of Pythagoras, tend to the
belief that the Pythagoreans were so full of numerical
ideas that they changed everything into a number.
Everything with them, says Aristotle (Metaphysics,
xiv, 5), ideas, injustice, separation, mixture, and
even man and the horse, were all numbers. He even
suggests that the number was the very being itself,
which is, of course, absurd. For how can a number
be a being, a horse or a man ? He must surely have
understood the idea that all things progress and grow,
and that growth is a rhythmic series of movements,
and hence perfect and exact, so that when con­
sidered commercially and practically it comes to
XXII Introduction
be known as Arithmetic. Doubtless, in endeavouring
to combat the looseness of thought which comes
from an exaggerated idea of metaphysical things,
and to show the practical way, the scientific method,
he allowed himself to appear to ridicule these ideas.
He says, certainly, that, according to the Pytha­
goreans, heaven and earth were harmony and
therefore numbers, but Pythagoras, it is certain,
taught no such doctrines. What the Master did
teach is that “ there is a mysterious connection
between the gods and numbers, on which the
science of Arithmancy is based. The soul is a world
that is self-moving; the soul contains in itself, and
is, the quaternary, thetetraktys [the perfect cube].”
Other writers also attack the Pythagorean teach­
ing. Asclepiades, quoted by Chaignet, suggested
that it was not the impossibility of describing their
ideas that caused the Pythagoreans to use numbers
in this manner, but an instinctive love of mystery
and a leaning towards a secret knowledge reserved
for the elite. Scarcely a well-balanced judgment !
Moreover, as is well known, Pythagoras was not only
a master of the science of Nature, but a master of
the exact science of Mathematics also. Where these
two are blended there is little fear of error. The
Pythagoreans, says Chaignet, were fundamentally
physicists (vol. ii, p. 33), mathematics being but
the form through which they presented their ideas.
It was not, we may be certain, a love of mystery that
prompted Pythagoras to teach his science in secret,
as some have thought, but rather a knowledge of
human nature and of the peculiar reactions of the
human mind. He understood, doubtless, that too
much knowledge, offered to and accepted by a mind
Introduction xxm
incapable of grasping ideas clearly, tended to develop
erroneous conceptions rather than an understand­
ing of the fullness of the teaching. Hence, all
teaching of a deeper nature must have been graded
to suit the minds of those who sought knowledge.
But men who do not realize that the very growth of
the head may be forced by a too anxious or mentally
greedy acquisitiveness, querulously demand to know
why these matters should be hidden, and why all
this mystery!
It should be noted that Pythagoras taught not only
the science of Nature and of Mathematics, and the
science of Life, but he specially explained his ideas with
reference to Music also. Chaignet, speaking of his
well-known system of music, says that it was, above
all, “ an arithmetic” . If he had said that it was the
“ science of true rhythm” , and, therefore, connected
with the science of Nature, and even with mathe­
matics, he would have been nearer the truth (see
page 105, ii).
These terms— figures, numbers, music, and cosmic
progression— are thus intimately connected, each
expressing one aspect of the Reality which is beyond
them a ll: God. “ Harmonious proportions” , says
H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine, “ guide the
first differentiations of homogeneous substance into
heterogeneous elements.” * And in this pregnant
sentence is summed up the idea which it is intended
to express and explain in these pages.
Since God’s creation is a regular and definite
progression, it may, in one sense, be said to be
perfect, and God may rightly be considered as
creating according to number and form ; and in
Ibid., 3rd edition, vol. iii, p. 436.
XXIV Introduction
this sense He is truly the Grand Geometrician
and Mathematician of the universe.
As far as can be understood, the Pythagoreans, and
those who studied along such lines, used mathe­
matics theoretically and symbolically as well as
practically, and this, probably, because they realized
not only the obvious uses of numbers in mathe­
matics generally, as applied to merely commercial
affairs, but also their deeper sense. Thus they learned
to think in number, i.e. to consider realities in their
progressive states; and to these states they gave
the names of numbers.
This method, as far as it is understood, is used
herein, although it is not claimed that it is explained
with sufficient clearness for all who read to compre­
hend thoroughly. Indeed, it is doubtful whether
the complete knowledge of numbers will be ex­
plained in this difficult age. Many books have been
written on the subject, but no one has as yet
explained its fundamental realities, as signified by
the phrase theoretic arithmetic.
Numbers, as has been said, relate in the first
instance to cosmic creative processes, and in the last
to human physiological pre-natal development.
According to Pythagoras and his followers, Number
is “ the extension of energy of the spermatic reasons
contained in the Monad. Or, otherwise, that which,
prior to all things, subsists in a divine intellect, by
which and from which all things are co-ordinated
and remain connumerated in an indissoluble order.
Hippasius sees Number as the judicial instrument of
the Creator, and others as the ‘first paradigm or
manifestation of mundane fabrication’.” *
* Taylor's Theoretic Arithmetic (1886), p. 3.
Introduction xxv
The writer of these pages, without other authority
than that of reason, suggests that Pythagoras taught
doctrines relating to the birth and growth of the
universe, and that these doctrines were explained
in secret because of the persecution from the
adherents of the orthodox “ state religion” which
their proclamation would have invoked. Hence,
when spoken of outside the Inner Circle, these
doctrines were mentioned very guardedly, numerical
symbols and strange descriptions being used to con­
vey the ideas expressed by Pythagoras concerning
the generation of the worlds, etc. Thus, God
coming forth to produce a universe was called the
Monad or One ; for although this name was seldom
applied to Jupiter or to the Supreme Being, the
students knew of it in that connection, and hence the
One, to them, represented God as Creative Cause, or
Essence.
Cornelius Agrippa states that Nature was prim-
ordially formed by the ideas behind numbers,
and that from these, in turn, arose the quality of the
elements, the revolutions of time, the movement
of the stars, and all the heavenly changes. Numbers
have, he says, very great virtues and powers, and
are at the root and base of all things.* This is, of
course, in line with the doctrines of Pythagoras,
whose followers speak of Number in the rational,
rather than the material, sense.
The Christian Fathers were, also, assured that
there was an admirable and efficacious virtue hidden
in numbers. Agrippa mentions SS. Jerome, Augus­
tine, Erigen, Ambrose, Gregory, Athanasius, Basile,
* Dc Occulta Philosophic (1533), book ii ; now published under the
title L a Philosophic Occulte, by Chacornac of Paris, 1910.
XXVI Introduction
Hilaire, Rabunus, Bede, and several others as con­
forming to this idea, and Hilaire states that the
Psalms were put in order by the Seventy by means of
numbers. Rabunus, says Agrippa, wrote a book on
the virtues of numbers, but the book is, unfortun­
ately, undiscoverable to-day. It is probable, however,
that such writings were for the most part more or less
“ magical” , and no improvement on the Pythagorean
teachings. At present there seems to be no book
extant on numbers the teachings of which cannot
be traced back to Pythagorean sources.
The remarks of Proclus on the teachings of Pytha­
goras and Plato concerning the One and the Many
are, like his commentaries, too involved and intricate
to be considered here. The reader seeking this
deeper philosophy will find it in Book II of The Six
Books of Proclus (1816), translated by the Platonist,
Thomas Taylor.
It may, however, be said that Proclus states that
the One is the principle of all things, and is trans­
cendent ; it is not in itself divided, although it
causes division in all things; remaining the same
throughout, it permeates them all. This is also
the Hindu conception of the Supreme,* and has its
corollary in the Christian doctrine of Immanence
and Transcendence.
H. P. Blavatsky, in The Secret Doctrine, shows that
numbers have very deep meanings, but she gives
little information suitable for the ordinary reader
and leaves much to the intuition of the student.
She says that one represents God as manifested
Deity, i.e. the “ one” which issues from the
* " Having pervaded this whole universe with onefragment ofM yself,
I remain."— B hagavad Gita, x, 42.
Introduction xxvii
“no-number” , the Circle Potential. She does not
explain the number two, but says that the three
represents Father, Mother, and Son, or the triangle.
Number four she describes as a “ female” number
(i.e. an even number) and the root of illusion, the
first solid figure being the quaternary, the Pyramid.
Five she refers, among other things, to the Pentagon,
symbol of the thinking, conscious man, and hints
that it refers also to “ Mind” in the universe, though
she does not make the suggestion entirely clear. She
shows the five as sacred with both the Hindus and
the Greeks, when referring to creation. Number
six is the symbol of Venus, reproduction, or the
“ spagyrization” of matter by triads. Number seven
is the number par excellence, having all the perfec­
tion of the unit. Eight is the symbol of the eternal
and spiral motion of cycles, symbolized in turn by
the Caduceus; it shows the regular breathing of
the Kosmos presided over by the Eight Great Gods—
the Seven from the Primeval Mother, the One and
the Triad. Nine, she says, is the triple ternary, the
third reflexion of that number which reproduces
itself incessantly under all shapes and figures, in
every multiplication, and symbolizes our earth in
its undeveloped state. “ Ten” , she continues,
“ brings all these digits back to unity.” As the One
and the Circle, or Cipher, it represents the Absolute
All manifesting itself in the generative Power of
Creation.
But perhaps the best description of numbers ever
given is contained in the recently published and
extraordinary book, A Dictionary of the Sacred
Language ofA ll Scriptures and Myths. “ Numbers” ,
states the author, “ become symbols because the
XXV111 Introduction
internal universe is on a definite and co-ordinated
plan in which, quantitative relations are repeated
correspondentially through different states and
planes. . . . One is the initial number of the Monad,
the centre of all things. Two represents the inevitable
duality of being on the plane of manifestation.
Three represents completeness of state, the perfect
number of the higher planes. . . . Six also represents
completeness because it adds duality to three” ,
i.e. a duality of a denser development, a duality
of trinities.
It is interesting to note in passing the idea that
to number or to cipher is to make a form, i.e. to
create and make manifest. Gerald Massey states, in
this connection, that the words Cipher, Cyfr,
Chiffre, Sifron, Zephiro, and the Hebrew Sphr are
all derived from an Egyptian word, Khefr, meaning
tofigure, or to make a form. The famous Egyptian
beetle, Khephra, the Scarab, emblem of the reform­
ing principle of Nature, was so called because of its
power of rolling food into a ball (a cipher or figure),
Khep meaning to form or to fashion.
It should be noted in conclusion that there is a
certain danger incurred in the study of the lore of
numbers which cannot be exaggerated, although
it will not be easily understood save by those who
have experienced the result of such study while
morally unprepared. The power which the student
may sometimes draw into himself when trying to
realize the inner meaning of these great names and
powers is sometimes so great as to cause a physical
breakdown. There comes a moment when it seems
as if an abyss of knowledge stretches out before the
student, and in outstretching his arms to clutch
Introduction xxix
what he sees before him he frequently overbalances
and falls into the pit. In extreme cases the end is
insanity. In milder cases a slight mental trouble
may easily result.
So it will be understood that a first-hand ac­
quaintance with these powers is not at all desirable
save to those who have so far perfected themselves
as to be prepared to receive, very gradually, the
enormous flow of power with which they come in
contact. Mental study of such a nature, without
the corresponding moral upliftment, is disastrous,
as is well pointed out by H. P. Blavatsky, who
says :
The mystic characters, alphabets, and numerals, found in
the divisions and sub-divisions of the Great Kabalah, are
perhaps the most dangerous portions in it, and especially the
numerals. We say “ dangerous” , because they are the most
prompt to produce effects and results, and this with or with­
out the experimenter’s will, even without his knowledge.
Some students are apt to doubt this statement, simply
because after manipulating these numerals they have failed
to notice any dire physical manifestation or result. Such
results would be found the least dangerous : it is the moral
causes produced, and the various events developed and
brought to an unforeseen crisis, that would testify to the truth
of what is now stated had the lay student only the power of
discernment.
It is not, however, suggested that the metaphysical
side of numbers is dangerous; the danger exists
rather in relation to the magical side, especially if
studied for personal gain.
In this work, however, it is the spiritual side of
numbers which is under consideration. This being
XXX Introduction
considered the fundamental aspect, practically no
attention will be paid to the “ magical” side of the
subject. It should nevertheless be remembered
that in addition to the arithmetical use of numbers,
and the metaphysical conception of Number, there
is a magical side which cannot be ostracized from
a fuller study of the subject. A knowledge of
the inner reality and power of Number gives rise
to many exceedingly curious speculations, such as
fortune-telling, character-reading, and the like;
and although this lower side of the science of
Number is founded on fact, it is regrettable that it
attracts all too many who seek knowledge for personal
gain. It is this side of numbers which brings its
votaries into difficulties. It is fundamentally
certain, but there are few who understand it at
first hand, and so have to fall back upon books on
the subject, the writers of which but copy from others
and seldom give a true reason for their affirmations.
The arithmetical use of numbers, wonderful,
almost miraculous, as it is, is but a faint reflexion
of the true Inner Reality behind Number, that
Reality, the Rhythm of the Universe, which reflects
itself unerringly in the science of Mathematics.
Fundamentally understood, Number is Rhythm.
Unless this is borne in mind the study of Number
may well be fruitless. Such a study, pursued
reverently and without selfish ends, does not seem
to bring difficulties in its wake. And since it is the
purpose of these pages to treat rather of the deeper
and theoretical side of numbers than the practical
and arithmetical, it is necessary to realize that
numbers, in the deepest sense, represent Cosmic and
Creative processes. They represent states of a
Introduction xxxi
performed act from the ideal conception to com­
pletion of the constructed form in which the Idea
is to dwell, i.e. the states that range from the
potential zero to the completed io. They are the
rhythms of the universe, and show its emanation
or production from out the depths of the boundless
and illimitable space which is God “ in the begin­
ning” .
It is hoped that the reader who considers the
explanation set forth in this work will thereby
understand the fundamental reason for numbers.
Thus he will know exactly why any particular number
used in the science of Numerology means what it
is said to mean by the professors of the art who
merely affirm, but never explain. Here follows,
then, the explanation so far as it has been possible
to the writer.
CH APTER I
CREATION B Y NUM BER
T he fundamental reality behind the idea of Number
can only be accurately understood in its relation to
and connection with the emanation of a universe,
or of other lesser creative acts of God or man.
Such, as has been seen, is the true Pythagorean
teaching; indeed, the Pythagorean system is im­
possible of entire comprehension unless it is primarily
understood in relation to Number. With its help,
however, the deeper meaning of numbers and their
names becomes clearer, and it is more easy to
understand exactly how they represent the growth
of a universe. Though they may be applied and
understood in connection with any conceived plan
carried to completion, it is with this evolution
of a universe from a so-called “ nothing” to which
attention is especially directed.
It might help towards a swifter comprehension
of the matter if it were permissible to coin new
verbs from the names given to numbers. Thus to one
is to be potential, individual, ready to go forth and
begin a work; to two is to polarize oneself from one’s
idea, to differentiate life from substance, to pass
from the stage of one-ness to that of two-ing, or, in
other words, to polarize a one-ness and make
duality. To three would mean, in this sense, to
attract the “ opposites” thus polarized, so that from
the interaction all numbers or offspring might be
developed. To seven, in like manner, means to
consummate, to complete the unfoldment of U nity;
and, in a sense, to return to the place or condition
of starting, i.e. to make a cycle of accomplishment
by means of the interaction of one and two to their
full capacity in a series of progressive movements.
The idea of polarization, or two-ing, can be seen
in the illustration of the man and his idea. Un­
differentiated from the man himself, the idea is
useless; he has, as it were, to become aware of
the idea, to be conscious of it as separate from
himself ; his mind must become as a mirror in which
the idea is reflected as a picture. Then only can
polarization ensue and creation commence; the
man, his idea, and the means by which he makes it
known,* the link between the two, forming the
first human trinity.
Since, then, the true meaning of numbers can
only be fully realized by understanding cosmic
processes, it will be necessary in the following
chapters to offer an explanation of these processes.
In this explanation the reader will notice that all
the ideas relating to Number have placed against
them in brackets the special number to which each
such creative act or rhythm refers. Thus it is
said “ God causes polarization” , and the figure (i) is
added to show that it represents God as causal
Unity. The (2) similarly placed shows that the
act to which reference is made— polarization— is that
to which the number in question is related.
Before proceeding further, it will be necessary to
* The building he erects, the book he writes, or even the child
produced by interaction of the two.
34 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Creation by Number 35
have at least some idea of what is called “ the
Creation” . Naturally, there are only ideas and
concepts to be considered, for there are no
“authorities” , and the pure reason is the only guide
the student can safely follow. In the opinion of
the writer, the ideas here set forth are those held
by the Pythagorean school, those on which were
based the meanings they applied to numbers. This
will become clearer as the study proceeds.
The conception of the Absolute, the All, or ©
Potential, is difficult of comprehension. Moreover,
the idea of an abstract “ hidden Father whom no
man hath seen at any time” is not a satisfactory one,
for man demands, and indeed needs, a God with
whom he may, as it were, enter into relation.
Therefore it seems that God is manifested in a
creation in order that He may be realized through a
focus of matter, i.e. through the worlds He produces.
In this sense, God is only known as His workings in
matter are observed (i). He, it may be said, puts
Himself down into the worlds He “ creates” , “limits”
Himself that we may more easily reach Him, more
easily comprehend Him through His finite mani­
festation (i), and eventually realize through Him
That which is the Infinite All (©J.
This focusing of Himself is a help towards a slow
and gradual realization by humanity of His reality.
An absolute, incognizable essence is inconceivable
to man, but an “ individualized” God, if the term
be permitted, is more satisfying to the human
mind, which, by its inherent nature, cannot merely
be content with concepts, but demands facts. Thus,
God, it may be said, gives Himself an Individuality
(i) by voluntarily circumscribing His Life within
36 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
the system He produces, “ the One in the Nought” ,
the potential io, or completely manifested Unity.
This means that the human mind comes to realize
that if worlds are visible, an Intelligence must be
working through them, guiding and sustaining them
during their evolution. The existence of these
worlds is the “ fact” , the thing accomplished,
through which the Idea, God, is realized. “ Fact”
and Idea thus become one, and God is known by
and through that which He produces.
This, as far as it can be explained here, is the Idea
of the Logos in the Heavens, the manifested God,
or “ Word” made flesh, God’s Life voluntarily
crucifying Itself (i) on the “ opposites” or Cross
of Manifestation (2); it is the Cosmic Christ, God’s
own Self.
Illimitable Space Itself, the “ nought” potential,
being the All, and therefore infinite, has, of necessity,
no beginning, for a beginning can only be posited
of that which is finite. This cannot be proved in
the sense that ordinary facts are proved ; it is not a
“ fact” , though it is none the less true ; it is a concept,
that which is taken into, and conceived by, the mind.
A fact is an appearance, a thing accomplished
(facio, to make or to do) ; it is a phenomenal appear­
ance behind which lies the Idea that produced it.
This Idea is the reality, the noumenon. The fact
is only cognizable by reason of the reality which
gives it form and makes it manifest. A concept
cannot, therefore, be treated as if it were a fact.
To grasp this conception of the non-beginning of
the Infinite, it is necessary to understand the
varying terms used by philosophers. The word
existence, the term most frequently employed,
Creation by Number 37
is used to describe the Reality we call God. Even the
greatest thinkers endeavour to prove the “ existence”
of God, by which they mean that God Is. Again,
God is spoken of as Substance, especially by Spinoza,
whose concepts are almost perfect, although his
terms certainly appear misleading. Existence and
Subsistence are terms used in these pages, as is also
another less frequently met with, viz. Persistence.
Hence a definition of these terms will be necessary.
“ Existence” , from ex and sisto, from or out of, and
to make to stand, is obviously that which “ stands out”
or “ appears” . Hence to say that God exists is not
correct if the literal meaning be accepted, for that
which appears or stands out must necessarily
stand out from, or within, some Reality; must
appear within, or stand out from, the All as if it
were an epitome of the All, a “ reflexion” of It.
It cannot be said to be Infinite, since it is but an
appearance.
Hence, if, as Spinoza proves, and as is here
accepted, God is Infinite, then it cannot possibly
be said that He ex-ists, though it may be said that
creation is a manifestation of His power ; and it is
this creation, this manifestation, which “ stands out”
in Space, and is known to be finite, having a begin­
ning and an ending, as is proved by the observation
of astronomical phenomena. It is this which is
here spoken of as existence.
Yet it may be said guardedly that God exists,
in the sense that He Himself manifests through the
system He produces; but the idea is not clear, nor
specially accurate, for though God may truly
be said to limit Himself by producing worlds and
confining Himself within them, the fact remains
that God, considered as the All, is Infinite, and
therefore does more than merely exist— He persists.
For some reason, the word “ persistence” has not
been much used by philosophers, yet it is not a term
easy to reject. The word is derived from the same
root as “ existence” , viz. sisto, meaning to cause to
stand, the prefix per meaning through, and the two
conjoined giving rise to the conception of that which
“ stands” or endures through all things, which is
beyond and before as well as after ex-istence. It
thus may well be related to that which is called the
Absolute, the All, that which ever Is, which has no
beginning, although within it beginnings and endings
take place. This state of Being, although itself
without circumference, may be symbolized by the
cipher o.
In the word “ subsistence” there is again the root
idea of standing, added, however, to the prefix
sub, meaning literally under; the whole meaning
to stand under, or that which stands under, the
background, as it were, of Existence (2).*
God, therefore, is the One, the All, illimitable,
ever-lasting, That which ever is, ever was, and ever
will be, That which Persists, lasts through and
through. In this sense, “ He” is not “ a” creator,
but is that in which creation arises. The All, as the
All, does not create ; it is itself uncreate and can
do nothing to make itself more or less, can produce
nothing save that which is already within Itself as
a possibility. This is what underlies the idea of
Persistence, the absolute Reality in which all things
appear and seem to disappear, in which, as has been
* The reader w ill find it helpful to refer occasionally to the
later chapters dealing w ith these figures.
38 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Creation by Number 39
said, all things “live and move and have their
being” . It is the o potential, That which persists
before all things, and into which all things are
finally resolved.
The usually accepted idea of creation by God
as a magical act, as the production of a universe from
nothing, is based upon a mistaken interpretation
of the words, “ In the beginning God created the
heavens and the earth” . It is hoped to show in
a later volume that this weird dogma would never
have arisen had the Book of Genesis been properly
understood. Such an idea as the creation of a
universe “ from nothing” is as ridiculous as the
pseudo-scientific explanation of existence as the
result of a “ fortuitous concourse of atoms” .
God, then, as Totality, is Infinite, whereas
“ Creation” — i.e. that which is manifested, which
ex-ists— is finite. The one is Persistence, the
“ nought” potential; the other Existence (i and 2).
Persistence, then, is a nonconditioned, un­
manifest, uncreated Reality which stands beyond
all things. It is “ Space” , the All, before anything
tangible or objective is produced therein. Such
a concept necessarily involves the idea of what the
human mind calls “ nothing” , inasmuch as it relates
to Space with, apparently, nothing within it.
But before worlds are “ created” , before any
material thing appears in Space, there is God, Unity,
necessarily containing everything possible, every­
thing that is to be, within Himself. God is the
Great Potentiality. God persists. God Is. Yet
only by the creation of worlds, of forms, can He
ex-ist, can He show Himself. Herein lies the
difference between Persistence and Existence. It
is the form which exists (2); the Life (1) behind
the form subsists. For existence, something must
appear from within the One through which He may-
manifest. Before, or rather beyond, that all is
Persistence, for when existing forms and worlds are
again resolved into the Oneness, Subsistence and
Existence become once more unified as Persistence.
Before studying beginnings, therefore, it is
necessary to consider That in which they take place.
That is God, as Absolute Persistence, as we have
seen. But if forms come into manifestation, if
worlds appear in Space, there must be within God
that from which He produces the Substance of
which the worlds are formed, i.e. this apparently
empty Space, the o potential, God as Abstract
Potentiality, must contain within Itself all the
potentialities which are later to be viewed as
actualities, as things seen, things manifested.
One of the potentialities of God in His aspect
of Persistence must, therefore, be Substance— His
own Substance out of which He causes matter to
be produced. For if forms and worlds exist, there
must not be only that which sends them forth, but
that also of which they are materially composed.
Thus, although God is Unity, if He chooses to
show Himself forth and ex-ist in and through His
“ creation” , there must be a state as of Duality—
God’s Self as Life, and God’s Self as Substance (2).
He is thus both Energizing Force and Root-Sub­
stance. But it should not be forgotten that these
two are really one, that only for purposes of creation
is the Unity to be thought of as Duality.
Thus, no manifestation is possible while God
remains Unity; manifestation, or creation, neces-
40 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Creation by Number 41
sarily implying the idea of Something working
on Something, for instance, God (i) creating by
means of His own self-sameness, His Substance (2).
For purposes of creation, then, there exists that
condition which science calls polarity, and which
may well be termed “ two-ness” . A good illustration
of this is as follows :
A circular piece of steel, complete and unbroken,
is magnetized. Iron filings are brought near to it,
without result. The circle is then broken, and what
is called a “ horse-shoe magnet” is formed. This
broken circle, or horse-shoe magnet, shows two
poles, one active and the other passive, and the power
which was put into the circle by magnetic touch
or stimulation now shows itself forth by means of
these two opposite ends, or poles. Acting one
against the other, they cause the inherent power to
manifest, so that when iron filings are again brought
near to it, the magnet attracts them. Thus the
unconditioned, the circle, had within it two opposite
powers, positive and negative, which remained
unmanifested whilst in a state of balance : only with
the breaking of the circle could they become
active.
Here is an instance of that which is at the same
time both Unity and Potential Duality. Used as
a symbol of that which occurs when God wills to
manifest, it should explain the processes symbolized
by the X
, 2, and 3 subsisting potentially in the
nought. In this sense, God may be thought of as
the Unbroken Circle containing all things within
Itself, all active and receptive powers, Spirit and
Matter. Unmanifested, God is an unconditioned
Reality, a Persisting Whole ; and before He can
42 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
manifest, can show Himself forth in and as a
Universe, a polarization must take place in this
unconditioned Reality. Thus a duality appears,
“ spirit” (i) and “ matter” (2), the latter being in
a very deep sense God’s Existence, and the Life
sustaining it His Subsistence. Yet the Three are,
it must be remembered, in reality One ; it is only
the human mind which sees the Unity as a Trinity.
This Trinity is the first and ideal Trinity, the only
real and true Idea of which all other Trinities are
but densifications or reflexions.
To consider the All as the All, i.e. as absolute
or unconditioned Reality (God as infinite, or
boundless and illimitable Space and all that is con­
tained potentially therein), is to think of God as
Persistence. On the other hand, to consider the
visible, manifested worlds, and realize the power
within all things, is to think in terms of duality,
of the Universe as seen and the Life beyond and
within it.
This apparent duality must, then, be defined
as Existence and Subsistence. God, as already said,
cannot be said to exist, in the strictest sense of the
term, in spite of Spinoza, unless the worlds be con­
sidered as God, on account of their birth from Him.
It is more correct, however, to speak of God as the
Whole, the Persisting Reality.
It will be noted that the word “ Subsistence” is
here used in two ways: one to describe That which,
as Life, pervades all forms, which sustains and
stands under all things; the other to describe the
Root-essence of Matter, which is called Substance
because it is the root of matter, or stands under
matter.
Creation by Number 43
Thus, as Unconditioned Reality, before Time was,
God persisted as an unbroken “ circle” containing
all potentialities, as ©. But it is obvious that the
worlds and forms now in existence must have
had some derivation ; therefore the idea of a persist­
ing root-cause for Matter is posited, and this root-
cause is called Substance. Similarly, the Life which
is within form must have persisted as Life before
creation. All things were in the Unity, both
material Base and efficient Cause.
It is as if, before Time was,* this infinite Reality
willed to show Itself forth, to embody Itself, and so
by Its Will polarized Itself (2) as This (1) and That
(2), God as God’s Self, and God as God’s Substance,
or Spirit and Matter.!
Within “ Space” , then, before Time, this existing
Substance (2) was everywhere, and with it God,
as Life (1); the two, Causative-Essence and For­
mative-Substance, Father-God and Mother-God,
a Unity, interacting by polarity to produce the
worlds. This great Unity may be imagined as an
infinite Ocean, the “ Deep” of Space, an ocean of
invisible, substantial and plastic stuff, within which,
as an integral part of Itself, or its very nature, was
that Life which had sent it forth.
Through Space, everywhere outspread, was this
ocean of plastic stuff, this untouched virgin sub­
stance, this “ sea” or cosmic flux (2). The ancients
well symbolized it by the term sea ; for water is ever
changing in form as it is moulded to its containing
* This is not to say “ in the beginning", for th e Absolute has
neither beginning nor end, and is continually m anifesting and
“ resting” .
f Or Substance, th at A ither out of which M atter is formed or
w oven'
44 The M eaning and Philosophy o f Numbers
vessel, and is thus a fitting symbol of the plastic
substance from which all forms are to be made.
Using the Latin word, this ocean of Space becomes
the Virgin Mare (the same word as our “ Mary” ),
the Mother-Substance of the whole universe.
God and His Substance are One, therefore He is
one with the Virgin Mare, the pure matrix
from which spring all things. It is, as it were, a
part of Himself, His Sister or Wife, in a strictly
metaphysical sense. Yet since God works within
it to produce the worlds, and “ comes forth from it” ,
within the worlds produced, to ex-ist in and as a
universe, He is, symbolically speaking, the result,
and, hence, the Son. In and through that Substance
or Mother-Stuff which is in reality Himself, he
works, and comes forth into manifestation (4);
and in this sense He is, symbolically speaking,
not only Father but Son also, His own Son. The
Mother-Stuff, the Virgin Mary, is, in like manner,
Wife as well as Mother to her own Husband. These
relationships, however, must never be interpreted
literally, and certainly not anthropomorphically !
Father, Mother, and Son are thus but aspects of
the One Reality, and it is from the fundamental
Idea of these that later conceptions seem to have
arisen, conceptions which, arising in the minds
of people who did not understand the Reality behind,
became “ facts” so-called— as if they were to be
considered “ geographically and not ourano-
graphically” , to use the strange words of Thomas
Vaughan. In this sense, as aspects of the One,
“ no one is greater nor less than another” , Father
(1), Mother (2), and Son (4) being equal and, indeed,
the same.
Creation by Number 45
The idea of the Holy Ghost (3), which is men­
tioned where the Mother is practically ignored, is
not easy of explanation, but the illustration of the
magnet may again serve to explain this also.
The unbroken circle, containing within itself
positive and negative poles as possibilities, sym­
bolizes God, who contains like potentialities. But
in this unbroken Unity lies the power (3) which
causes polarity, or duality, the power which makes
the Unity to appear as a Duality, and which, when
the duality appears, draws the opposites together,
and permits of a relation between them. It is this
power which, even in the cell, divides in order to
unite and form new bodies, divides but to attract
together the parts which really are one. The same
power now makes zero (o) manifest as Trinity.
Thus the two “ opposites” emanate from a common
unity in which both powers of opposite-ness were
held in abeyance, balanced in solution. Polarization
strikes this balance and divides the one-ness into
opposites. In each of these, however, is the same
unifying force as was in that from which they
sprang; and though separated and made into
apparently different parts, and maintaining their
integral differences, they yet seek to unite with
each other.
This affinitizing, polarizing, separating-and-
drawing-together power is the “ power of the Holy
Ghost” ; it holds together all parts so that the
Unity can never be actually broken.
It is well known that when a piece of steel is
placed across the poles of a horse-shoe magnet the
power ceases to act, i.e. manifestation ceases, and
the “ three” once more become “ one” , and in
46 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
quiescence await the opportunity to come forth
anew and recommence activity. Thus the unbroken
circle and the horse-shoe magnet are fitting symbols
of that which is before the emanation of a universe.
In this “ aerial” ocean of cosmic substance (2)
worked the Life (x) of God, the “spirit of God
moving over the face of the waters” . If, however,
instead of using the word “waters” the word
Chaos be used, as it was with the ancients, the idea
is the same ; for this unconditioned substance with
its latent possibilities of becoming, as sketched
very guardedly in Genesis, is the same as that of the
Greek myth. Though understood in one way by
the Greek populace, the real meaning was clearly
known to her philosophers, as Elton’s translation
of Ovid clearly shows :
Ere earth and sea and covering heavens, were known,
Theface of nature, o'er the world, was one :
And men have called it Chaos : formless, rude,
The mass : dead matter's weight, inert and crude :
Where, in m ix'd heap of ill-compounded mould,
The jarring seeds of things confusedly rolled.
It should be noticed that it is not the earth,
our little globe in space, of which mention is made,
the poem dealing with That which was before the
earth existed. This shows that the Greeks held
that there was originally an unconditioned, spatial
Ocean, a flux of Substance, which existed before
the universe was formed.
Over this confusion, according to the Greek
myth, ruled the god Chaos and his consort Nux,
or Night. This is equivalent to saying that
Creation by Number 47
“ darkness was upon the face of the deep” , night and
darkness being similar terms and symbolizing the
same states. Night was, then, upon the face of
Chaos, and the two ruled together. Then Erebus,
literally darkness, their son, was asked to assist his
parents; but instead, he dethroned his father and
married his mother, so that Night (Nux) and
Darkness {Erebus) ruled together. From this
“ iniquitous” union came two beautiful children,
or “ opposites” , respectively named EEther, or
Substance, and Hemera, Day or Light. These two
in their turn seized the ruling power, and together
“ illumined” space by their radiance. They asked
their child to help them to produce the worlds,
to make a Cosmos from Chaos, and Eros (lit. desire
to create) polarized substance and produced further
“ opposites” , called, in this case, Earth and Sea.
Eros is thus the symbol of the polarizing force
which divides to bring together again. He is, of
course, the same as Cupid, the piercer of hearts,
the great affinitizing power of the universe ; and
is also to be viewed as what some thinkers have called
the “ second aspect of God” , i.e. God as the Sus-
tainer of His universe, as that Love which not only
holds the universe together, but is also responsible
for individualizing (separating) the parts. In fact,
it is stated that Eros, being called to help in the
great work, “ pierced” the earthy substance with his
arrows and vivified it, i.e. polarized the substance
itself. This, coming after the polarization by
Chaos and Nux, thus symbolizes the second polar­
ization, of which mention will be made later.
In the Buddhist traditions, this polarizing Force
is almost personified as Fohat (3). This Being
48 j
The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
may be regarded as the Force which causes the
relation and interaction between all such powers
of opposites as are of a common unity; it polarizes
(2) a unity (1), and, having done so, it brings the
individualized parts together for purposes of
creation. It links and binds all atoms, forms, and
beings together, differentiates matter, separating
whilst unifying all things. Fohat is, in fact, the
Buddhistic equivalent of the Holy Ghost, and of
the synthetic power personified by the Greeks as
Eros. In all cases, it is the Divine, Energizing
Force which works in Substance to vivify or link (3),
bring forth and make manifest (4).
In the more ancient Hindu traditions we find
the great sage Manu* propounding the Laws and
Ordinances, beginning with an account of the
emanation of the worlds. The ideas expressed,
although a little obscure in translation, are the same
as those held by many philosophers.
This [universal diffused substance'] existed primarily in the
shape of darkness, unperceived, destitute of distinctive marks
[undifferentiated and without qualities] unattainable by
reasoning, unknowable, wholly immersed, as it were, in deep
sleep. Then the Divine Self-Existent, indiscernible, making
This [the substance in question] the great elements and the
rest discernible [manifest], appeared with irresistible power,
dispelling the darkness.
The words in brackets are not present in the
translation of Buhler, but are introduced here for
the sake of clarity. In Sanskrit, of course, the word
here translated “ darkness” is Tamah, which means
* T h e Code o f M a n u (Sacred B o o k s o f the E a st. Buhler).
Creation by Number 49
much, more than mere darkness, and refers in fact
to everything which is inert, sluggish, dark, resistant;
it is the opposite of Mobile. In another sense,
Darkness is that state in which, or from which,
we look for something to come forth; it is an
unknown quality, an x.
The Hindu tradition also states that the Creator,
desiring to produce, created with a thought the
“ waters” of Space and placed therein the seed which
became the golden egg from which He Himself was
born as Brahma, the manifested Progenitor of the
world. These waters are known to the Hindu as
Narah, or the Supreme Soul-Substance, and He,
Brahma, is called Narayana, the Mover on the Waters,
in exactly the same way as God is spoken of in our
own Scriptures.
These varying teachings may be summarized as
follows: Before time was, God as Logos (i), or
Manifestor, projected Himself as (or into) the ideal
Substance (2) of all things, and was Himself
immanent in that ideal Substance. This Substance,
this infinite ocean in Space, was unconditioned
potentiality, all things being held in it as in solution,
until God’s vivifying power (3), Breath, or Holy
Ghost, prepared it for polarization by brooding,
as it were, over plasticity, generatively working
within or “ over” it. Then God “ said” let there
be a polarization of Substance ; and there broke forth
the Light, the Divine Spark which “ exploded” this
unified element and prepared it for purposes of
existence.
Thus, “ In the beginning God created the heavens
and the earth.”
D
CH APTER II
TH E PREPARATION OF THE COSM IC FIELD
T h e r e is, as will be shown, no idea in this work
of the ordinary orthodox sense of a creation of
something out of nothing. The idea here accepted
is of an emanation or sending-forth of a universe
from a persisting Root-Substance which “ stands
beyond or under” the various degrees of matter
as known.
Now, the word “ create” comes from the Latin
creo, which has been accepted as meaning to create.
This is obviously no translation or explanation,
but merely a repetition of the word creo. The real
meaning of the Latin word, the idea behind it, its
essential nature, has still to be discovered, and it
must be admitted that this is not easy. Certainly
creo does not come from any root meaning to make*
for the Latin equivalent of to make is facio, which
means to form something from a given substance
already in being, an idea clearly visible in its
derivatives fashion and fashioning, which connote the
shaping of something from an already existing
substance, whether material for a woman’s robe
or a robe for Universal Mother Nature. Creo is
not, then, a word meaning to make or to fashion,
and therefore its real signification must be sought
elsewhere.
* It may, of course, be from the Sanskrit root Kr, to d o .
50
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 51
Although it is not here affirmed that all words
are derived from the half-human, half-animal
sounds made by some savages and children, yet the
opinion must be expressed that some words un­
doubtedly arose in that manner. Language has
grown in various ways, and difficult though it must
inevitably be to prove that many roots are descended
from “ sound-language”— i.e. from roots which by
their sound express the Reality behind them—
nevertheless the attempt has to be made, for it is
a part of that logical reasoning which, taken in its
entirety, constitutes proof— proof, that is, for those
who will to understand, who are willing to consider
not merely facts, but concepts also.
The theory of sound-language is that the true
name of a thing should, and originally did, express
the quality shown forth by that thing. In earlier
times names were given with knowledge and
understanding, and the thing named was therefore
called by its proper title. A name was thus rf^wificant,
was a sign or a sound indicative of the real nature
of the thing to which it was applied.
A study of the word “ creation” , or creo, will help
to make this concept clear. The root-sound is RA,
or modified as BR. In the Hebrew word translated
create it appears as BRA, and in the Sanskrit as
Brih. The Hebrew sound-picture, the letter
B, or Beth, means literally house, and was originally
written to represent a house; it connotes some
condition from which something is expected to
come forth, as does a house, that in which there is
both life and movement. It is therefore symbolical
of that from which all matter is produced, the
“ house of God” , or the Swfetance which is with
52 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
God, which is part of God’s nature. As helpful
in this connection, it should be noted that the
sound Be, or B, is not so much forceful and outward­
going as inward and assimilative— a sound, in fact,
as of interior preparation.
Reish, the next letter of the root BRA, is the
symbol of Intelligence,* whilst the third letter, A,
called in Hebrew Aleph, or Bull, is essentially as well
as symbolically the sign of Power. Conjoined as
BRA, these letters form a word meaning “ an inner
preparation by directive Mind, and a sending forth
by power” . The translation of this root as to create is
therefore not quite accurate, since it does not
represent the making of something from nothing
but a coming forth, an emissive rolling out from a
primordial Root-Substance, an evolutionary develop­
ment.
As translated in English, and accepted by
orthodoxy, the word bears many interpretations,
and is used to convey the ideas of to produce, to make,
to create, to form, and even to bring forth, though
it must be obvious that the word does not cover
all these meanings and the processes they indicate.
Certainly in the Sanskrit the idea is more clearly
expressed; the name given to the Creator, Brahma,
from the root Brih, to expand, is much more correct
than the English interpretation as the creation of
something from nothing. Brahma means literally
“ He who expands Himself, who sends forth His own
substance from which to produce the worlds” , the
idea which also underlies the Hebrew root.
Yet even in the word “ create” , or creo, of which
it is a derivative, the same underlying meaning can
* Its so u n d denotes a directive Energy.
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 53
be sensed, and even heard, in the sound, although
the C gives a harsher touch, as if expressive of both
internal assimilation and forth-going. In both
these roots, BRA and CREO, Berrar and Kerrar— a
hint as to their correct pronunciation— the same
emissive, rolling sound is to be caught, and though
each is modified by its suffix and prefix, they remain
radically the same in essence. In Creo there is the
idea of Power and Intelligence working actively
in its depths to produce ; in BRA the same idea of
Power and Intelligence workingly inwardly to
produce.
There is thus very little real difference between
them, and each root may be said to signify what we
call creation, or, better, emanation. The same sound
may be caught in many other words also, as in that
used by the Hindus to describe God as Producer,
i.e. 1stvuara (pervader), in that used to describe God
as Cause, Brahma ; in our own words bring, birth,
born, etc., and in create— all of which signify a
coming forth, from something or somewhere, of
that which was already in being and had to be
manifested or “ created” . The word “ breath” is,
perhaps, even more expressive than any other, and
in the phraseology of some Eastern philosophies
God, symbolically speaking, “ breathes” and the
worlds appear. He withdraws His breath and
they cease to b e ; a very striking and significant
simile.
Such, then, is the idea here accepted of what is
generally called “ creation” . It is a preparation (1)*
of the “field of manifestation” , or, rather, of the
* The reader should note th at the numbers in brackets represent
the processes here described, as already explained.
Ocean of Cosmic Substance (2), within which will
eventually arise the many “ little islands” , or atoms,
from which groups called worlds, but literally great
islands in an iEtheric Ocean, are formed. Creation
is a rollingforth, an emanation (3), after apolarization
(2), and preparation (1) of That in which it arises
and from which it comes forth (©).
The word “ creation” can never be proved to
represent the actual making of something from
nothing. The process is not a making; it is a
preparation for production, a preparation which
necessarily precedes the “ fashioning” symbolized by
the figure 5.
The word “ production” is from the root DUX,
a leader, or DUCO, to lead; the preposition pro
meaning forward. The whole word thus implies
a leading forth, and represents the second aspect of
the Creative Trinity. First there is the preparation
of the Substance, then it is made manifest, is “led
forth” , as it were, to be “ fashioned” into many
grades of matter, and atomized for the building up
of worlds, bodies, and forms of all kinds.
The word “ fashioning” is the only one in the
trinity of Creation-Production-Fashioning carrying
within it the idea of making, though even here
it is not the making of something out of nothing.
The word is from the Latin facio, to make, and is
obviously used correctly in English in the sense of
shaping something from a pre-existing substance.
It can be applied, as already stated, to the idea
of fashioning a robe of woven material for woman,
or a Robe of Matter-Stuff for Mother Nature.
In a previous chapter it was demonstrated how,
when polarization of the Oneness takes place, what
54 The M eaning and Philosophy of Numbers
is called duality arises, and two “ opposites” “ come
forth” , appearing as Subsistence and Existence,
or Causative Life and Formative Substance.
The same idea has now to be considered with
regard to Substance itself. Had this remained
undifferentiated, then there could have been no
resulting formation of atoms, worlds, or forms.
But just as Duality was contained in solution within
the One, so within the oneness of Substance was
contained a power of becoming many different
kinds and qualities of matter. Hence there was
required a further polarization. The Life, which
is God, being everywhere in this Substance, polarized
the oneness, with the result that there arose
different kinds of matter (6). Thus we have solid
matter, liquid, gaseous, and the finer ethers of which
science now has knowledge ; and even finer matter
must be postulated if the Cosmos is to be considered
as a whole.
God’s Life, then, it may be assumed, polarized this
Root-Substance in the same manner as the original
polarization was effected. Exactly how it was done
cannot be thought, much less explained; but that
it has been done is obvious, since manifestation is
impossible unless in matter there are different
grades. That they are here now proves that they
have been produced, and it is therefore logical to
imagine them as inherent “ qualities” in the original
Substance. Had these “ qualities” not appeared
there would be no existence, for a Oneness remains
Itself— simply persisting, isx-istence demands an
apparent duality, an appearance as of opposites
(2); there must be one quality of matter working
against another quality, for it is only by opposition
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 55
56 Phe Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
and resistance, or even friction, that the universe
of form can be “ created” .
Life being presumed everywhere in Substance, hence
the opposite qualities of Substance will, by their
nature, show forth the qualities of the Life (6).
Thus if two kinds of matter are derived from the
one Substance by polarization, the one acting against
the other whilst yet being drawn to it, they may well
be distinguished by calling one kind this and the
other that; or, if more definite descriptions are
needed, they may be described asfiery or active, and
as earthy, sluggish, inactive, or inert— the opposites
having directly opposite properties. But there is a
third quality, which, being formed from the same
One Substance, has relations with each opposite
or tends to bring the two together in itself; this
other quality may be termed blended, rhythmic, or
balanced. These three— the two opposites and the
middle quality which makes relationship between
them possible— are a manifested Unity, a polarized
Unity, every polarized Unity being a Trinity when
existent.*
This Substance, which is posited as being the base
of God’s operations, is at first a primary, un­
conditioned U n ity; it is not chaos in the sense
of dis-order, but chaos as pre-order. Certainly the
translators of the English version of the Bible are not
correct in stating that it was “without form and
void” . Without form it undoubtedly was, but not
by any means void. It was a fullness, a great
potentiality, containing within itself all things
which have since come forth. It was not a chaotic
* The m etaphysical student w ill see in these qualities the Gunas
of Indian Philosophy.
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 57
nothingness, but a fitting base of operations, plastic
and formative.
The great Hebrew grammarian, Fabre D ’Olivet,
gives the Hebrew terms quite another signification.
He states that the Hebrew T H U VaBHU represents
not a void and formless substance, but a Substance
extending almost to incomprehensibility, almost to
annihilation, and exceedingly fine. He gives his
own translation, and says that this Stuff was, as it
were, a germ in a root, or, as he quaintly expresses
it, “ Une existence contingent et potentielle, renfermee
dans une autre existence potentielle” . This, as will
be seen, is the exact essence of the idea here presented.
D ’Olivet’s phrase, however, is one which will repay
much meditation, and should be specially useful
to those who prefer to think things out for them­
selves.
Life, then, considered as Force, must of necessity
show itself in opposite ways. If Life goes forth but
does not return, if it is, that is, unlimited, then
there can be no production of forms, no manifest­
ation. But if Life rushes through Substance and
returns to itself, a “ shape” or abode for the Life is
formed. Force is essentially unity, but it must act
in a dual fashion, going out from a given point
(centrifugally), and pressing back towards that
point (centripetally). Thus the Life, spreading
itself abroad, in and through Substance, has the
power, as it were, of checking itself in order to
prepare forms. Meditation will show that this
apparent limitation is a necessity for purposes of
existence. But for this duality, this limiting of
itself, Force would never become definite, and would
merely continue in a forward and indefinite manner.
58 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
without an end and therefore without achievement
of purpose.
But a force thus polarized to work through
matter will necessarily act as if it were a trinity of
Force (6), for any polarized force shows forth not
only two distinct opposites, but also a state between
these, a neutral zone in which the two are, as it
were, blended (3). This third quality may, perhaps,
be likened to a state midway between motion and
rest, an intermediary stage in which the opposites
are in sympathetic relation with each other.
If, then, we consider Causative Life and
Formative Substance together, we see that wherever
Life is in its three aspects, there it will manifest
Itself through Substance. Therefore the ensouled
Substance will answer to Force, i.e. the “ below”
will reflect the “ above” , and show forth like attributes
(6). Substance is impressed, as it were, with
qualities caused by the trinitized Force working
within i t ; in it arises (5) matter of different qualities,
and from these different qualities of matter the
worlds (10), atoms (7), and all things are fashioned.
It is, then, the “ Divine Spark” , the fiery energy
of God, which, in polarization, exploded or disturbed
the equilibrium of the mass and prepared it for
manifestation, or, in other and more orthodox
words, “ God said let there be light, and there was
light” . God said, “ Let light, the polarizing Force,
be manifest” , is but another way of expressing the
same idea. It should here be noted that this
“light” is not the light of day, for the sun had not
then been created.
Another illustration, interesting to students of
chemistry, may here be given. If oxygen and
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 59
hydrogen in certain proportions be collected in a
bell-jar and blended as one, this jar will obviously
contain a dualized substance, invisible, yet present.
This substance, although unseen, certainly does
exist, just as the Substance of substances, equally
unseen, had its being in Space before the emanation
of the worlds. Now, before this gaseous substance
in the bell-jar can be polarized to create, certain
preparations are necessary: the two must be
separated, even though they are bound, by affinity,
to rush together again. To this end, a lighted taper
is introduced, and an explosion results ; the gases
separate, and in rushing to merge themselves again
they form water— a new substance, and a denser,
and yet one of which the constituent elements are
the same. This phenomenon illustrates helpfully
the concept of polarization and affinity, or
“ threeing” .
Now, if an electric spark be sent into dynamite
placed beneath a material structure, this material
structure, which is a kind of composite unity, will
be broken up or “ destroyed” . This is the making
of an end to previously existing things. But if,
before existence, before “ creation” and the building
of forms, the “ divine dynamic spark” arises within
Substance, it may well prove itself a force in many
ways akin to the other, tearing, rending, and dis­
integrating to destroy the unity but only in the sense
of preparing it by polarization for creative purposes.
The effect of this Power will be to force apart
substance from substance, to produce different
qualities, or grades, in order to build. This is the
real beginning of things (5), somewhat analogous to
the end of things.
6o The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Thus the Law of Polarization seems first to
separate any given substance into parts, and then
to draw these together again. So it may be said that
here is again duality— polarization before creation
becoming afterwards affinity.
The result of this polarization of substance by the
“ Divine Spark” was, as has been said, the production
of different grades of matter which, though actually
the same essentially, were set free to act as if inde­
pendent of each other. As parts of the Unity in
which both had arisen, there was in each the ten­
dency to return to the common source, a tendency
held in check by the polarization that had given to
each its independence. The affinitizing force, unable
to draw them back and cause them to lose their
particular integral quality, drew them together in
order that they might act one upon the other,
to blend, and mingle, and give to each other separ­
ately the quality created by that union. And just as
the mixture of gaseous substance in the bell-jar
illustration gave birth to a “ new” form of matter,
i.e. water, so through the polarization of Substance
by the Divine Spark, a “ new” matter, derived from
the old, was formed— matter which, though par­
taking of the original substance, is yet different in
its way of manifesting.
It is perhaps the first time that this action of God’s
Mind, or “ the Spirit of God moving on the ‘waters’ ” ,
has been described as sending forth the sparkof polari­
zation, yet to call the essence of God’s focused
“ Mind” a Spark is not new, rather is it a tradition
of the ages. Prometheus, as is well known, was said
to have stolen fire from the gods and given it to
man. He was the personified bringer to man of that
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 6l
mind which makes man grow as “ one of Us” . It is
the Divine Spark of mentality which makes of the
human animal a thinking being ; and it has to be
introduced into the body of man, or, rather, educed
from within him, in order that he, too, may be
polarized, may be separated, in a sense, from the body,
the better to function through it, and to realize
himself as a self-conscious, thinking entity.
The mind is thus likened to a “spark” because of
its nature ; it is not, of course, really fire, but it is
akin to fire in its workings ; it is, as it were, bound
up in the body, in the nature of the Life, but when
some great being such as Prometheus, the before­
thinker, “ fires” the brain into activity, it is as if the
vital spark introduced stimulated into activity the
previously latent capacity for thinking. In like
manner, also, the presence of more highly developed
beings than ourselves among us stimulates the mind
in man, causing it to rush forth from quiescence to
potency, from the indefinite to the definite, from
static to dynamic activity.
It is the nature of fire to destroy all things in its
escape from the material in which it has lain latent,
and just as this inward fire contained in all things
rushes forward to mingle with a spark of fire applied
from without and thus cause a conflagration, so the
mind in its uncontrolled and dynamic condition
tends to tear and rend all that comes in contact with
it. Like fire, it can both destroy and create.
The necessity for this polarization of Substance
becomes obvious when the indispensability of limit­
ation is recognized. Without limitation, universes,
worlds, forms, individualized parts of any kind, are
an impossibility. If there were an absolutely
illimitable creation, i.e. creation without limit,
it would merely resolve itself into one-ness again,
and become a flux instead of an existence.
This same idea has to be borne in mind when the
next step in creation, viz. atomization, is con­
sidered. To prevent “ fluxing” , to prevent matter
melting back into its primordial, unconditioned
oneness, finite particles of matter, atomized matter,
are required. This atomizing process is symbolized
by the number 7, as will presently be seen. Spinoza
vaguely suggests the idea of polarization in his
Ethic, prop. 32, wherein he speaks of the attributes
of God— Motion and Rest— from the interaction
of which all things have their rise. This concept
is not difficult of understanding in the light of what
has been said. It may also be explained in con­
sidering human attributes. If, for instance, what is
called Will is at work, it must have some resistance
against which to fling itself; that is, there must be
opposition; and this implies opposites, in this case
the sluggish, inert body and the fiery, active mind
and will. In like manner, the Will in the universe
works in Matter and is opposed by the Resistance
which also works in Matter ; the one, fiery and active,
is in opposition to, and opposed by, its passive, inert,
resistant opposite.
Everywhere in Space, then, previous to creation,
there was a mass of undifferentiated Substance, and
this mass had to be prepared for production and
fashioning. To this end, the balance of the whole
was disturbed by the dynamic energy or “ W ill” of
God, and from this relationship arose the different
qualities or grades of matter. Just as the rainbow is
caused by a breaking-up of the original “white”
6z The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
light into primaries and a septenary, seven colours
from the pre-colour or “white” , so, by analogy, we
may presume the original Substance as being broken
up for creative and formative purposes.
The resultant qualities do not, however, actually
separate matter into distinct and separate parts;
the whole remains a whole, though “ coloured” by
the qualities imparted to i t ; it remains a oneness,
though the power which has caused the qualities to
arise prevents their rushing into each other and
losing their individuality. Yet the power of polariza­
tion allows of free intermixture, and quality blends
with quality in mutual relationship. Only polariza­
tion could produce this consummation.
God and His Substance are one, and as He is not
only the All, but is also everywhere, it is reasonable
to imagine Space as filled with an “ Ocean” of plastic
stuff— Hither, as it is called by the Greeks. However
modified by the Power within it, this Root-Substance
was a flux, a “ solid” mass like unto water, from which
nothing could be built until it was atomized.
Before this process took place there were no distinct
“ drops” in this plastic “Aerial Ocean” , just as there
are no distinct and separate drops in an ordinary
ocean. All Substance, therefore, was atomized, built
up into distinct portions of which each was, as it
were, “a” life in a separate covering of form.
Symbolically speaking, God “ breathed” into the
Ocean of Substance, and this creative breath, or
force, which was dual, literally pushed back Substance
in the same manner as air in water pushes back water
and leaves “ bubbles” . Each water-bubble is an
actual atomized portion of air in w ater; in each
there is a space which is a vacuum as regards water,
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 63
6\ The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
but a plenum, a fullness, as regards the air within the
space. Similarly, when God “ breathed” into
Substance, the ensouling breath, or Force, rushed
into the empty spaces formed by pushing back the
plastic Asther. This Force, though a oneness, yet
works in opposite ways as if it were a duality. The
inherent power of “ outward-going-ness” , that power
which is called centrifugal, is unable to act in­
definitely, as it is held in check by its opposite, the
contractive, centipetal force. It rushes out in space,
but can proceed only so far as the “will” of God, the
dynamic energy behind the whole, permits, and
when that point is reached it must return to itself.
For instance, if the purpose in view is the produc­
tion of atoms of a certain degree of complexity, the
Force sent out by the Divine “ Will” will be in­
hibited by a “thus far and no farther” , with the
result that when that limit is reached the stream
of Force turns back upon itself, and in turning leaves
behind it atoms, individualized portions of Life
surrounded by a wall of substance, like bubbles of air
in water. The globular, spherical atom we know is
the natural result of such a dual force. A figure
cannot, of course, be formed by a straight line, or
even by a curved line ; but if the Force pushed out
returns to its place of starting, it will necessarily
tend to produce a form which is spherical. This
formation of atoms is, then, the “ sevening” process.
All is now ready for definite formation (8). Matter
has been produced, qualified, atomized and separated,
each part from every other part. But the whole
is one, one Substance, and truly incapable of actual
division, just as an ocean remains an ocean, a oneness,
despite its so-called “ drops” . A difference, however,
The Preparation of the Cosmic Field 65
does exist, for whereas drops of water have no
distinct individuality, the atoms of Substance, or
iEther, are distinct— distinct for the purpose of
fashioning the forms in which the universe is to
appear and ex-ist. So that, although there is no actual
separation of Substance and the atoms can only-
remain atoms while God’s Power or “ Will” holds
them to the “ thus far and no farther” , the whole is
yet definitely atomized for purposes of form-building.
At this stage the actual building up of a universe
(8) begins. This is the consummation of the work,
and is symbolized by the number seven, leading
ultimately to the completion represented by the
ten.
Let us now turn to a consideration of the Cosmos
Processes symbolized by the numbers one to ten,
and follow, step by step, the development of a
universe (10) from the Infinite Reality (0).
E
CHAPTER III
TH E ABSOLUTE, THE N O -N U M BER OR CIRCLE PO TEN TIAL
T he reader will by now have realized the idea
behind the theory here presented, namely that
creation is by “ number” , or, rather, rhythmic pro­
gression, and that this can be seen in the study of
any creative act, whether cosmic or microcosmic,
universal or human.
In the beginning, before creation, there is the
X , the Unknown Quality, the Absolute, the Great
Potentiality. All powers and all potentialities are
in this Absolute,* but whilst It remains inactive
creation is impossible, since nothing can exist
whilst It remains unpolarized.
This Unconditioned or Unknown Quality may be
symbolized by the figure or cipher ©, within which
is placed a point to represent Potentiality and to
show that the circle is not barren. The o is used
in arithmetic to represent “ nothing” , and also,
when added to other powers or numbers, to re­
present all things. Without this symbol of “ nothing”
multiplicity cannot extend beyond nine. There­
fore it may well be said that this Circle Potential,
this ©, is the first number in the cosmos, and is
symbolic of the Unknown, the Illimitable. It con­
tains all numbers, i.e. all possibilities, within itself
* The Absolute m ay be considered as the Grand T otality, or even
the T otality of a Solar System which is the absolute to the human
mind.
66
just as the light of the sun contains all colours in its
“whiteness” .
For purposes of creation, the Cosmic Point of
Potentiality becomes active, and from it arises the
First Power in the Universe, that Power called by
some God, or Logos, by others the One, and by the
Pythagoreans the Monad.
Now, Production, or creation, implies Polarity,
or the existence of “ opposites” within the Unity.
Production cannot take place without this polarity
and the resulting interaction of the opposites thus
produced, as is seen especially in the case of Colour,
being evident also in Music.
Thus Light itself is pure white, which is not
a colour, but a solution of all colours, as black is
negation of colour. This pure white, this beyond-
colour or colour-cause, shining through a prism, is
broken up into seven parts, each of which is a distinct
and primary colour in itself, although all seven are
“ one” behind the veil. Thus, if there is a veil of
water, a rainstorm, between the sun and the earth,
the white light of the sun is broken up in passing
through this veil, and we see a rainbow.
Thus, just as the white light is colour unmanifest,
colour in -posse, so also in the Absolute all qualities and
forms are held as in solution, needing the Divine
Spark or “ Word of God” to call, or send, them forth
into manifestation. By reason of their common
unity, their fundamental oneness, there is naturally
a tendency in the three primary colours to coalesce,
to come together, and these three as pigments
produce, in their interaction, seven. Thus, red
and blue rush to combine, blue and yellow, and
yellow and red, also, which gives six colours from the
The Absolute, the No-Number or Circle Potential 67
primary three. The seventh colour is that wherein
all are equally blended, a colour which is practically
a blue, an indigo, an intermediate stage, not even
sufficiently definite to be called a colour. The
same is seen in Music, Fa being the intermediate
stage, or note.
As with Light and its manifestation as seven
colours, so with the universe and its manifestation
as seven numbers, or stages of appearance. But to
explain the qualities shown forth by the different
aspects of Absolute is not easy, for they cannot be
seen : they can only be sensed or intuited. The
adoption of the symbolism of colour may, however,
prove helpful to some.
In Colour, the first place is taken by the fiery
red, the positive, overpowering, glaring state which
seems, like a king, to place all others in the shade ;
in fact, although many prefer the more suave and
gentle blue, red is the Ruler, despite that all do not
approve his rule. In Matter, also, the dominating
quality is of a fiery nature, and in Sanskrit is actually
called by the name given to the Ruler, viz. Rajah,
or Rajas, the Ruler being supposed to show forth
the dominating quality of Rajas, which may be
compared, as a correspondence only, with the “ red”
quality which emanates from the white light.
Now, the active, dominant quality presupposes
the existence of an opposite quality which is neither
active nor dominant, and a third quality produced
by the interaction of these dominant-inert opposites.
Thus we may think of the three primary qualities
of Creation : as the Positive, the fiery, active type,
the one ; its receptive, inert opposite, two ; and
that which, different from either, in some way
68 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Absolute, the No-Number or Circle Potential 69
partakes of both, and, being a state above their
separated condition, is well called rhythmic or
balanced, three. These numbers may thus be related
to Matter as well as Spirit.
The gnostic Marcus, misquoted by the heresy-
hunter Irenaeus, states, according to Mead :
Before all universes there is a source before the primal
source, prior even to that state which is inconceivable, in­
effable, unnameable, which I number as Noughtness. With
this No-numbers consubsists a Power to which I give the
name One-ness.*
The reader will note the similarity of this idea to
that expressed above. The o, or zero, is truly
before all that exists, and contains within Itself the
potentiality of all things. It is, however, passive, and
needs vivification or fructification to produce. Hence
the One, the Point, which becomes a line, enters
into relation with the 0 to bring forth all “ numbers” ,
all Rhythms; and from the association of these two
all Cosmic processes spring.
Fragments o f a Faith Forgotten, p. 373.
CHAPTER IV
THE NUM BER ONE
T he Greek term Monas, or Monad, is generally used
to describe unbroken unity, or, as it is sometimes
called, One. Taylor, in his Theoretic Arithmetic,
states that Archytas or Philolaus spoke indis­
criminately of the Monad or the One; the best
Platonists, however, when referring to “ divine
natures” , speak of the Monad as that which contains
distinct, yet profoundly united, multitude, whereas
one was “the summit of the many” , and therefore
more simple than the Monad.
According to this definition, the one is an indi­
vidualized and distinct part of a whole, the first of
a series which does not exist unless followed by
other “ numbers” ; while the Monad is that which
includes all “ numbers” , holds all division in check,
a wholeness, an Absolute.
This idea of one as the “ summit of the many” is
interesting, and shows that it is the beginning, or
apex, of things, all numbers spreading out from it,
and increasing, until a base is reached (as Ten).
Taylor* seems to think that the Pythagoreans, in
using the names of numbers to describe the creation,
or generation of things and of their cause, did so
only symbolically. Indeed, although the best ex­
ponent of the Pythagorean teachings, Taylor does
* Ibid., p. 164.
70
The Number One 7i
not seem to realize that the fundamental basis of
numbers is Rhythm, and that on this Rhythm the
generation of all things was based.
Numbers are, as already stated, the names or
descriptions of Cosmic Happenings and Ideas.
These Ideas, when reflected in dense matter, come
to be known only as they are applied to utilitarian
and commercial matters. But it was the Cosmic
Happenings at which the Pythagoreans hinted,
though no one seems to have been permitted to give
the full explanation.
When speaking of the Monad, or the One, the
Pythagoreans referred to that which is before crea­
tion ; to them it was a symbol of that which was
complete, undeveloped, and unevolved. The philo­
sophically minded among them called it Primordial
Chaos, and the religious God, but both understood
that the terms applied to the same thing.
According to the different authorities quoted by
Taylor, the One, the Monad, or Primordial Reality,
that which is before all things appear and after they
disappear, was named, by the Pythagoreans, Intellect,
Male and Female, God and Matter, Chaos, Confusion,
Obscurity, Darkness, and Atlas. It was also said to be
recipient, and “ capacious of all things” ; and was
further called the Sun, Pyralios, or Morpho, Tower of
Jupiter, and Spermatic Reason.
Now, the One as a numeral, or commercial value,
when added to the odd makes it even, and when
added to the even makes it odd; hence the Pytha­
goreans, when considering the One as Idea, looked on
it as containing all things within itself, inasmuch as
it partakes of both natures, the so-called odd and
even. And if for these latter words, spirit and matter,
72 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
or creative and receptive, be substituted, the meaning
is clear. Spirit may be called “ odd” , causative, or
positive, inasmuch as it acts on and enters into re­
lation with matter, which is “ even” , or receptively
formative ; and this, the One, entering into relation
with Matter, gives rise to all “ numbers” , all rhythmic
progressions.
This Monad, or “ first number” of the Pythagor­
eans, is equivalent to that which, in modern language,
is called the One, a distinct and active Potential
Energy. But in the science of theoretic Arithmetic,
or Arithmosophie, as Dr. R. Allendy calls it,* the
words One and Unity have by no means the same
meaning. Unity is the All, T hatf which Is, whether
there is a Universe and Individual Beings or not.
Within this Unknown Illimitable, the Advaita, or
“ One without a Second” of Hindu philosophy, the
One, the “ First Number” , arises, and is the “ creator”
or “ cause” of all “ numbers” .
Within this “ Circle” , in which all things live and
move and have their being, arises, for the produc­
tion of the worlds, the “ Point Potential” , the
“ Individualized” Being called God. This, to students
of symbolism, is signified by the statement that the
“ Point” of potentiality becomes, for creative pur­
poses, the “ Line” of actual Being. In other words :
before creation, there must be identification, and
this necessitates what is called individualization.
Thus the one is the first of those rhythmic
happenings in space which are called numbers,
or numberings, i.e. identifications. It is not Unity,
but the beginning of Diversity. As Dr. R. Allendy
* Le Symbolisme des Nombres, p. vii.
f That is the All-Inclusive R eality of Hindu philosophy.
The Number One 73
says, when speaking of the All, the Circle Potential,
“ Unity is not, properly speaking, a number. . . .
It constitutes the irreducible root of all ideas of
number . . . a pure abstraction . . . only considered
as one conventionally” , being in reality “ the All” .*
One, on the other hand, is that which is distinct
and, in a sense, separate from all that which surrounds
it. It carries within itself the first Idea of Individu­
ality in the deepest sense of this much misunder­
stood term— that is to say, it is not an actual and
distinct separateness; it is distinct only in the sense
of acting creatively in an individual manner. It
remains one with the All, just as a family is a Unity,
whilst the individual member is one.
The Infinite, this Unity, is not bound, for the
All is illimitable ; it is not distinct from others,
for there is nothing but Itself. Yet it includes all,
and hence is beyond that which is called one and
described by the term individuality, for individuality
implies a following, a second, and the Unity carries
within it the idea of no second : it is, as we have
seen, “ the one without a second” .
Unity implies synthesis whilst one implies diversity.
A union is a blend of numbers or divers things; an
individual one-ness is separative, distinct, defined.
Singularity expresses the idea of individuality
better than unity, for singularity is not unity.
Unity is unification, the holding together of the
divided onenesses, or individuals ; for unity includes
in itself all diversity.
This difference between Absolute Unity and the
definite one is seldom explained in modern writings.
The Pythagorean teachings in regard to it do not
* Ibid., pp. 1,2.
74 The M eaning and Philosophy of Numbers
seem to have been expressed very clearly by writers
on the subject, though it is beyond doubt that the
idea was taught by Pythagoras himself.
This Monad, “ containing distinct but profoundly
united multitude” , is what is here termed the All,
the Absolute, God, or Unity, That which includes
all numbers, even the One, within Itself. But the
idea of “ distinct but profoundly united multitude” ,
though helpful to thought, is not exact, and it
seems better to speak of the All as a Great Poten­
tiality containing a power of becoming, a power of
appearing as if it were many.
The idea that the fone “ is the summit of the
many” , the origin of all numbers, is seen in the
Hebrew word for One, which is sometimes called
Achad {Unity), and sometimes Chad (One), meaning
an apex, a summit, etc.
Thus the power symbolized by the number I
is the Cause of the making manifest of all numbers,
and the symbol represents generation, as the figure
used clearly shows. The I, Life, in its relation to
Substance (2), is the generator of all things and all
changes, i.e. of all those rhythms called numbers.
These, the one and the two, are primarily Spirit
and Matter, or Life and Form, or God as Causative-
Essence and God as Formative-Substance.
It is obvious that there cannot be creation without
some kind of definition, and this naturally implies
limitation even in a Creative Power. It follows,
therefore, that the Creative Power itself is definitized
and, in a very deep sense, individual, even though
God is not a person.
In Sanskrit, the word used for one, viz. Eka,
represents, according to its letters, a causative and
The Number One 75
life-giving power (E), assimilated (K), defined, and
forth-going (A). The European one, unus, ein, etc.,
and the Egyptian UA, all represent an emanation,
or power of causing the passing from one state to
another, a Principiation, a definition.
In the Hebrew word Chad, or A chad, is seen the
symbol of Causative Power, or Potentiality of all
things and all numbers (A), diversity (D), held in
check, or solution (Ch). This shows how wonder­
fully the secrets of Nature were hidden in letters;
and in this case they themselves tell us what
Unity is. The root of the word, ChD, refers to the
top of a pyramid, to the apex, that from which all
things emanate. The whole refers to diversity (D),
held as it were in solution, held back (Ch) by power
potential (A )— a perfect definition of Unity.
The translation of the word as one is, however,
scarcely broad enough, or sufficiently expressive,
for, as its letters show, it represents Unity. The
definition of the Hebrew letters, however, explain
Fabre D ’Olivet’s reason for describing it as represent­
ing “ division arrested, subjugated by a sort of
effort, as indicated by the two signs D (division)
and Ch {effort)” , governed by the sign of potential
power.
The Unity is thus the All, the Absolute. The
One, the “ first number” , is, on the other hand, the
causative and generating power which is a potentiality
of the A ll; it is the essential Life which has to
become individual and singular; it is the Dynamic
Energy, the creative essence of everything, of God
and of man.
There is a widespread idea, translated from some
of the Pythagorean writers, that odd numbers are
good and even numbers bad ; but this is meaningless
if taken in a literal sense, except perhaps as used in
geomancy, or fortune-telling by numbers. The
actual meaning is, of course, that the ideas repre­
sented by the odd numbers are active, positive,
dynamic, etc., whereas the states represented by
the even numbers are, in a deep sense, receptive,
passive, contingently potential, etc. The states
represented by even numbers need the active or
odd numbers (the unpaired number) for their
further development.
It is not certain that the Pythagorean teachings
with regard to this subject were known to the
ancient Chinese, but in the T i King * a magical
book the origin of which dates back more than
4,000 years, and which is perhaps the oldest work
on numbers which has been traced, though it gives
no explanation of numbers per se, it is said that odd
numbers are light, and even numbers dark and
represented by groups of circles instead of what are
now called figures, or numerals.
In this remarkable work, the meaning of which has
baffled all its translators, the number 8 is used
throughout, the arrangement of the rods, or lines,
used being always in eights. There are 8 x 8 of these
hexagrams, the odd numbers being complete lines,
and the even numbers divided, positive and negative,
male and female. The use of the number 8 is rather
obscurely referred to the idea that these lines
arranged in hexagrams represent all manifested
things in earth and heaven. God is also said to com­
plete His processes in 8 stages.f Legge offers no
76 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
* Legge’s translation. (Sacred Books of the East.)
t Ibid., p. 425.
The Number One 77
explanation of this connection, but the reader may
gain light by reference to what is said of the number
8 in the following pages.
Incidentally, it may be noted that the well-known
arithmetical 15 puzzle is also found in this ancient
book,* which shows the numbers 1 to 9 arranged as
a square, each line of which is equivalent to 15.
* Ibid., p. 18.
CHAPTER V
TH E NUMBER T W O , TH E DUAD
T h e number two, the Duad, was considered from
many points of view by the followers of Pythagoras.
It was termed Matter, the cause of dissimilitude, the
interval between multitude and Monad ; and it
was considered the fountain of all symphony, Erato
among the Muses, and also harmony and patience.
It was a root, though not a root in energy, for this
quality belonged to the One, and was called Isis,
Nature, Rhea, the Mother of Jupiter, and the foun­
tain of distribution.
All these terms are characteristic of Matter, or
Substance, and symbolically describe its powers
and qualities. It was called symphonic and harmonious
because of its plasticity; Nature and Isis because
it was the Mother-Substance of all things. But
inasmuch as Matter is resistant and obstructive, it
was also called ignorance, falsehood, difference, strife,
dissension, Fate, and Death. It was considered as
feminine, obviously because it was the matrix of
all things, and naturally receptive and formative ;
and was known as Cupid and Erato from its desire
for union with Spirit, or the One.
Two thus signifies division, difference, Root-
Substance, that which is polarized, from which all
existing forms, however rare, however fine, are
fashioned. The Sanskrit word Dvi (Two) expresses
The Number Two, the Duad 79
by its sound this idea of polarization or division;
indeed, the letter D and its sound is everywhere
significant of the idea ; and the derived words,
two, zwei, duo, deux, all express it in their sounds,
as also do the words division, difference, difficulty,
danger, divergence, dispute, duality, etc.
The Hebrew term for two, ShN or Shy-ni, re­
presents distinction and becoming, that from which,
by energizing motion (Sh), all things are produced
(N) and made manifest (I).* The same word is also
used in the Egyptian hieroglyphs, viz. SN or Sen-nu
(Two), meaning, as a word, those which are like,
hence Sena, a brother.
It will be noticed that ShNI contains the Yod or I,
the symbol of manifestation, in place of the potential
sign A, and that to this is added the Shee-un (Sh),
emblem of relative duration, and the Nun (N),
representing augmentation and extension, and hav­
ing the special property of spreading out. Growth,
therefore, is the purpose of polarization or division
as symbolized by this number two. It is also a
symbol of “ crossing” , a term which is, by the
way, the French word for growth, accroissement.
The Cross, too, is a well-known symbol of the
duality of things; for two is the opposite of the
One. Whilst the One holds all things in potentia
and in check (as shown by the letter Ch, the very
sound of which is a deterrent), the chief function of
two is growth.
In one sense, all numbers are derived from the
One, yet, as St. Martin states in his posthumous
work, Des Nombres, it is impossible to produce
* A ll Hebrew letters have exterior and interior meanings as
well as sound-value. See the author’s Book of Genesis Unveiled.
8o The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Two from One* Hence, Duality is considered the
actual beginning of manifestation, the One (Life,
Essence, Being, or God) being co-equal with the
two (Substance, Matter, or Form).
The human mind is incapable of realizing Life
apart from form, even if such an idea could be posited.
Hence the first stage of manifestation which can be
realized is polarization, a drawing apart, as it were,
of the Life-God from the Substance-God.
One multiplied by one gives nothing but one ;
hence the one needs the two, Life needs
Substance, for manifestation and multiplication.
Thus one, entering into relation with two,
gives rise to three. Or, in other words, Life,
ensouling Substance, becomes linked (3) to it, after
having been polarized (2) from it (1). Opposites
are essential for any creative purpose whatsoever.
The idea that duality is, in a sense, the first
number, is confirmed by Cornelius Agrippa, who
says that the dual number is the first number because
it is the first multitude, and is the common measure
of all numbers, or, as Pythagoreans term it, a con­
fusion of unities.
For creative purposes this differentiation is
necessary, yet duality is, in the deepest sense, an
illusion; it is not a for-ever persisting Reality.
The Reality is the One behind all opposites, the
blend from which they spring.
“ The error” , says Dr. R. Allendy, “ consists in taking an ap­
parent and relative differentiation for an irreducible oppo­
sition and in misunderstanding the true Unity in which the
opposites are founded.” !
* Ibid., p. 18.
f Le Symbolisms des Nombres, p. 31.
The Number ‘Two, the Duad 81
But, as will be presently seen, there is no absolute
duality, no real or lasting opposition, between
matter or substance and the Life ensouling it.
Much is to be learned from a deep study of this
number. When that which is called the one, the
unit, begins to permeate and produce a universe,
a kind of opposition is necessitated, for without such
contrast as is supplied by opposition there cannot be
manifestation. Hence, God as the One, the Producer
and Cause, polarizes His unity, draws, as it were,
apart from His Substance, and then vivifies it.
Thus arises a possibility of ^-istence, for it is Life
in Form which alone makes “ creation” possible.
The One is, therefore, potentially dual, for, single
whilst unmanifested, it thus reaches that state of
potential duality which leads to Its duality in mani­
festation.
This law of polarity is the rule in all manifested
things, and finds its expression everywhere : in the
magnet, in the sex-opposites, in Sun-positive and
Moon-negative, in Past and Present, in Present and
Future, in the Matter and Form of Aristotle, in
Subject and Object, Subsistence and Existence,
Spirit and Matter, God as God’s Self and God
as God’s Substance, in God the Father and God the
Mother, in action and resistance, good and evil,
God and Satan, and in all the innumerable “ pairs
of opposites” which are so well-known in the universe
that they might well be termed the Scales of Life.
These pairs of opposites are not only necessary
to existence, but constitute existence itself, inasmuch
as the first and greatest pair of all is that from which
no one can escape whilst in being— 'that of Spirit
and Matter, Life and Form. But the would-be
F
82 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
perfect man has to learn not to allow himself to be
thrown from one opposite to another, from one side
of the Scale of Life to the other side. He must rise
above the jurisdiction of the pairs of opposites,
and himself become the Weigher of Things, balancing
one against the other until he reaches the point of
equilibrium, and thus rises above their power.
This duality, then, in a sense, is really the first
number, a dual number ; within the Absolute All
(here understood of the Monad, the O, rather than
of the one, the first number proper), duality has
arisen, the resulting opposites being co-equal and,
though in essence one, are but polarized opposites
of or in the same Reality. Hence the first number,
or that which is represented by the number two, is
a pair, a polarized one. For purposes of de-scription,
these opposites are named One and Two ; it is on
these, on God as God’s Self and God as God’s Sub­
stance, that all manifestation, all existence, is based.
When the Monad, the All, is called the One, the
duality arising within it may be justly described as
an emanation from or showing forth of the One ;
but since in these pages the Monad, Unity, is
called the Circle, or Nought Potential, the polarized
opposites, Life and Substance, arising within it,
are spoken of as One and Two.
That these two are one in essence is obvious from
the terms applied to them, i.e. Spirit and Matter,
Life and Form.
Amongst the many strange expressions used by
the followers of Pythagoras to describe the Monad
as God, the All-Inclusive Reality, was that most
curious definition : “ Intellect, God, and in a certain
respect, matter.”
The Number Two, the Duad 83
Taylor, quoting this, says: “ They very properly
denominated it ‘in a certain respect’ and not wholly
matter, from its similitude to divinity. . . . Hence
matter is said to be dissimilarly similar to divinity.
It is similar so far as it alone subsists by a negation
of all things. It is dissimilarly similar because
divinity is better and beyond all things, but matter
is worse than and below all things.”
This is the conventional view which seeks to under­
stand realities and yet is bound by ecclesiastical
formulas! It is better to see God as Spirit and
Matter, both in, and as, One. The one is no more
divine than the other, for the two are but opposite
poles of one and the same Substantial Reality, one
showing forth its Dynamic, and the other its Static,
nature; one being thus causative and the other form­
ative ; one active, the other resistant or receptive.
Dr. Allendy states that this duality “ is, in fact,
the static base in which may be deduced the essential
dynamic unity [the One] incognizable in itself” ,*
and the differentiation by polarity is the base of all
cosmic manifestation. “ The play of all the multiple
individualities amongst themselves” , he adds, is
only possible “ by means of the opposition of the
agent and the patient, of the positive and negative,
of force and resistance, of expansion and receptivity,
of quality and quantity.” ]"
This law of polarity works everywhere, in all
natural phenomena— magnetically, electrically, and
chemically— an idea which has the support of the
Qabalists, who see everything manifested as male
and female, in the deepest metaphysical sense.
Even in the exoteric Hebrew writings such as Genesis
* Le Symbolisme des Nombres, p. 2 3 . t Ibid., p. 2 4 .
84 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
the idea is clearly expressed, as in the dividing of
the “waters” from the “ waters” , which in this
case represents the polarization of that Substance,
which is the root of Matter— the “ Waters” of
space.
The idea that Spirit and Matter are essentially
one cannot be proved scientifically, although the
fact that Life (Spirit) is working in matter has
already been demonstrated by ordinary scientific
means. Students interested in this aspect of the
subject would do well to study the works by
Professor Bose, M.A., D.Sc., such as Response in the
Living and Non-Living, Electro-Physiology, Plant
Psychology, etc.* In these pages it is taken for granted
that Life subsists in all matter. Proof must be sought
elsewhere.
Since matter exists in such different states as
solids, liquids, gases, and ether, it is reasonable to
conclude that all are differentiations from the One
Substance. Solid matter may be broken up into
its component parts, the elements of earth, water,
air, and fire. From the solid to the liquid, from the
liquid to the gaseous, from the gaseous to the etheric,
is one long unbroken line of continuity. Each type
of matter may be resolved into the finer type above
it, solids into liquids, liquids into gases, gases into
ether, and these into a Substance which eludes the
human mind and to which no description can be
given. But what, it may be asked, is the difference
between this invisible, intangible, and impalpable
Substantial Reality and the Force, Spirit, or Life
* A simpler but comprehensive outline is contained in Professor
Patrick Geddes’ fascinating L ife and Work of Sir J . C. Bose.
(Longmans, Green.)
The Number Two, the Duad 85
proved to be functioning in all matter ? Since
matter can thus be traced to a state which is no
longer material, it is not unreasonable to assume that
its highest and primordial state is merely a densi-
fication of Spirit or Life, Matter being densified
Life, and Life spiritualized Matter, the two blended
as one being the Root Cause of both.
From this viewpoint, Spirit is no more real than
Matter, and Matter no more real than Spirit,
although Matter, as known, is resistant and limiting,
requiring the utmost endeavour to escape its yoke.
We find, as we free ourselves from the dominion of
the denser grades, that the finer grades of matter
assert their hold on us, and never can we escape from
the domain of Matter so long as we exist as indi­
viduals, except only in an “ inner” sense.
Thus there is One Reality, polarized as Thesis
and Anti-thesis, actually a Syn-thesis, and beyond
all a Meta-thesis, i.e. there is a Subjective and an
Objective and That from which both spring.
What matters, therefore, whether it is said that
in Matter is the promise and potency of all life,
or that in Life is the promise and potency of all
matter ? Such definitions are but words where­
with an attempt to express the Inexpressible is
made, as if to measure the Immeasurable.
Quietly meditating, however, the student may
touch That which is beyond all definitions because
beyond all opposites, may himself contact the Self
which is all things and in all things ; reaching
beyond the phenomenon, the appearance, and
contacting the sub-sisting noumenon, and thus
know the Reality beyond both.
But why, it may be asked, do these opposites
exist if they are in reality one ? A valuable hint is
given by Thomas Vaughan in his wonderful work,
Anima Magica Abscondita, and will well repay
meditation. Quoting an anonymous writer to whom
the Brothers of the R(osy) C(ross) gave the name of
Sapiens, he says, “ Thou seest not that Heaven and
the Elements were once but one Substance and
were separated one from another by divine skill for
the generation of thyself and all that is. Didst
thou know this the rest could not escape, unless
indeed thou art devoid of any capacity.”
Vaughan further refers to the idea that Spirit
and Matter are opposite poles or gradations of One
Reality. “ When I consider” , he says, “the system
or the fabric of this world, I find it to be a certain
series, a link or a chain which is extended from
(un)conditioned to unconditioned, from that which
is beneath all apprehension to that which is above
all apprehension . . . the Scala of the great Chaldee
which doth reach from the subternatural darkness
[Matter of the densest] to the supernatural fire
[Spirit].” *
86 ‘Ihe Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
* Lumen de Lumine, ch. iii.
CHAPTER VI
TH E NUMBER THREE
M a n y of the great Hebrew philosophers of the
Middle Ages seem to have been acquainted with the
Pythagorean teachings with regard to Numbers.
Avicebron (1021-70), of Cordova, according to
Myer’s Qabbalah, speaks of the affinity which
exists between the “ to be” and numbers. Three,
he says, is the root of all things, because Form
represents the Unity, and Matter the Duad, and
these, with the Will, the bond between them, result
in a Triad. “ All existing things” , he adds, “ are
constituted after the nature of numbers. . . . The
highest Abstract God is the indivisible, metaphysical
unity.” *
Thus three, relating as it does to the interaction
between two opposites and the synthesizing power
which attracts them for creative purposes, is rightly
considered the’ number of true beginning. It is the
fundamental, mystic number without which no
■ production is possible, for the One, though potential,
can do nothing of itself, and the opposites are, in
their turn, useless unless there is a relation between
them, some synthesizing power which opens the way
for development andjgrowth. This is the power of
the number three.
Gerald Massey states that the word “ three” is
* Ib id ., p. 153.
87
synonymous with “ tree” , and that in many ancient
languages the word used to represent this number
represented also a power of production, growth, etc.
In Egyptian hieroglyphics, the word Khemt,
three, means to think out a matter, i.e. to produce it
in the mind, and this thinking out is itself a “ three-
ing” process, the result of interaction between the
Man, his Mind, and the Idea. In the cosmic Process,
God, Substance, and the Relation form this Trinity.
In the modern word “ three” , the sounds of the
letters convey the ideas of a reciprocal (Th), ener­
gizing interaction (R), preparing for manifesta­
tion (I). Fabre D ’Olivet agrees that the sound of
th represents reciprocity, literally action and re­
action, between opposites; and the idea is streng­
thened by its grammatical use in Hebrew, as in
Atha, literally thou, which represents a being with
whom reciprocal relations are possible, or, as Fabre
D ’Olivet puts it, “ a co-existent being” . The same
idea is expressed even more clearly and simply in
the English thou.
Tracing the word to its base, the Sanskrit Pri,
we find, however, that it represents something
prepared by motion (R), extended and drawn out
(T),* and ready for manifestation, or that which
grows and becomes, as in the word “ tree” .
The Hebrew word for “ three” is Shelishi, which
is spelt ShLUSh. This, according to Fabre D ’Olivet’s
Langue Hebraique (Cosmogony of Moses), is formed
from two contracted roots : the first, ShF, represent­
ing every extraction or subtraction, and the second,
LUSh, curiously enough, its opposite, viz. an
* The French tirer, to draw out, and the English thread, are interest­
ing in this connection.
88 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Three 89
amalgamation, a kneading together. This is in
perfect conformity with the idea that, as held by
the writer, Three represents a mutual attraction
between opposites for purposes of manifestation.
D ’Olivet logically concludes that the dual meaning
of the word ShLUSh, i.e. extraction and subtrac­
tion united with amalgamation, shows that the
number Three represents, under a new form, the
opposed ideas contained in the numbers One and
Two, i.e. the separation or extraction consequent
upon polarization causes them to become “ a kind of
relative unity” . Hence the One, Unity, passes into
the state of Two, polarity, and becomes Three, a
Trinity, when manifesting.
Every Unity must appear as a Trinity when
manifested. Hence in many religions, either exoteric-
ally, or esoterically and metaphysically, the Trinity,
which is always to the fore, is spoken of as the
“ Perfect number” , i.e. the number of true beginning.
The opposites, being thus brought together, or
“three-ed” , a new power, the relation between them,
is made manifest. Thus where the Three is concerned
there is no hard and fast dividing line between the
opposites, which now have between them a gradation
made possible by the relation into which they
have entered. Hence Day and Night, as absolute
opposites, would be separated, whereas as a Trinity,
Dusk, which relates to both, would be included.
Other trinities arising through a neutral centre,
or relation, are : Male-Female-Hermaphrodite,
Male-Female-Affinity, Past-Future-Present, Father-
Spirit-Mother-Matter-Holy (Ghost) vivifying Force,
Positive-Negative-Neutral, Beginning-End-Middle,
the three Primaries in Colour, body-Spirit-soul,
do-si-fa in Music, thesis-antithesis-metathesis, and
the innumerable trinities which may each and
all be considered as manifested unity. Each of
these will, on examination, reveal itself as unity,
unfolded into duality, and synthesized by gradation.
Dr. Allendy describes the action of number three
by the words organization, activity, creation, con­
ception, and series— words which express in the most
concise manner possible all that has already been
said in the foregoing pages, although his valuable
chapter on the Ternary had not been read when these
were written. The chapter itself is, however, so
replete with knowledge of the number three that it
cannot be passed in silence.
He states, when referring to duality as a definite
opposition of parts, that there would be no possibility
of reconciliation between them, since opposites and
contraries can never combine for common action.
Pure duality, if it existed actually instead of rela­
tively (as parts of a whole), would be the negation
of cosmic unity, and establish an abyss between the
opposites impossible to span ; and this irreducible
opposition would never cease to be sterile, inactive,
and static.
“ On the contrary,” he continues, “ the existence
of an intermediary gradation, of a means of passage
(a relation), between the two poles, makes their
opposition fertile by permitting each to act upon
its adversary and to receive the reactions.”
When referred to as the Trinity, the number
three represents the Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva of
the Hindu; the Kether, Chochmah,and Binah of the
Qabalist; in fact, it represents the three aspects of
manifested Deity in all religions, as well as the
90 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Three 91
three reflected aspects in the microcosm, Man.
In other words, the One, represented by the Hebrew
Aleph, or A, is the symbol of the Inner Self, the
Principle, the Lord of all, whether of man or God ;
it is the central pivot, the abstract principle of
anything and everything. The second aspect,
symbolized by the Hebrew Lamed, or L, represents
an out-spreading, uplifting power, the wing of a
bird (the Great Bird), and everywhere tendsj to
extension and elevation. Grammatically, it is the
directive article denoting reunion, and hence is
used as a symbol of spirituality and Intuition in
man. The third aspect, represented by the He, is
symbolic of everything which vivifies, or universal
life and the idea of being, and is therefore appro­
priately used to represent the receptive and life-
giving Substance, as is especially evident in the
further meaning of the letter, H being used to
emphasize and give prominence to things.
These three letters form the Hebrew name of
God, ALH, or Elohei. When the Who, M I,#is added
to them, that is to say when the “ three-ing” stage
is reached, the Elohim, the Seven Spirits before the
Throne, are formed, and “ creation” commences,
as we see in the added letters, M and I, which,
when added to the ALH, form ALH IM , otherwise
Elohim. Now, the I, or Tod, is the symbol of mani­
festation, and the M, or Mem, represents the fruitful,
formative side of Nature : therefore the Elohim
made man androgyne, in Their own image, the
Above always being reflected in the Below.
Thus the term Elohim is not a word in the
ordinary sense, but a collection of symbols repre-*
* The word M i means who, andwhen reversed is a plural ending.
senting the process of becoming, of emanation.
The A, or Aleph, is “ parentless” , and comes from
the Absolute to help make complete, and to work
through, manifestation on the lower planes. In the
highest sense, the word Elohim is neither male nor
female, singular nor plural, but includes all these
opposites within itself.
It is interesting to notice in this connection that
in Chaldaic the name of God is written as three
Yods. These matters are, however, mentioned only-
in passing and must be fully explained elsewhere.
The Masonic meaning of the word “ three” in the
light of the Qabalah is of great importance, but
has not hitherto appeared in public print save in
an article from the pen of the present writer, which
appeared as an editorial in the Freemason.
In the Hebrew word for Two, ShNI, there is but
one Sheeun, whereas in ShLUSh, meaning three,
there are two, showing symbolically that manifesta­
tion is more definite in the “ three-ing” stage, as
indeed it is when the Cosmic Mind comes into
play. This is emphasized even more strongly by the
addition of the Lamed, L, the uplifting power,
which is linked to these two symbols of duration
by the mystery sign, the Vauv, U or V, the link
which joins and the point that separates. It is
interesting to study the number three from the
Masonic point of view, in connection with the five
and seven, for in the roots of ShLUSh we have
three distinct meanings relating to the three
steps— extraction, subtraction, and amalgamation
— which the pupil must take ere he can enter what
is termed The Outer Court. His first step is to
collect his forces together and prepare to learn ;
92 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Three 9 3
his next step to eliminate and subtract the gross
matter, and his last to amalgamate, or synthesize,
the result. This final step of apprenticeship gains
for him the approbation of his master and leads
him to a position in which he is enabled to grasp
his work with his whole nature.
It is said in the Jewish Book of Formation, or
Sepher Tetzirah, that the worlds were formed
by Sepher, Sipher, and Sippur.*§ One translator,
Wynn Westcott, understands this to mean that the
universe was created “ by numbers, letters, and
sounds” (!).
The word used in the Hebrew is SPhR, meaning
a book or a scroll, but the same word, differently
pointed, means also a writer, a story, or a body of
doctrine. The word is thus symbolical of the
fundamental three-in-one, of the three aspects
shown by every manifested being, whether God or
man. The Knower of things (the author) is identical
with that by means of which he knows, and also
with the thing made manifest thereby; therefore
the Knower, the thing known, and that by which
it is known, are one and the same.
In the teaching of the Qabalists and the language
of metaphysics, the Subject, the Object, and the
Instrument linking, or attracting, them are identical.
Hence the word SPhR, meaning equally Author,
Book, and Idea, was perfectly understood by the
Qabalists, and when used by them expressed not only
the threefold idea, but, by means of points placed
below and above the consonants, whichever of the
three aspects they desired to emphasize at the
moment. The word was thus symbolic of world-
emanation : the Author being God, the Book the
94 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
Sea of Substance in which, or on which, he operates
to impress His Story.
In fairy tale and legend, myth and sacred story,
in the Mysteries of old and the Lesser Mysteries
of to-day, the number three is in constant evidence.
In fairy tales there are always the three sons who go
out into the world to seek their fortune, and it is
generally only the third son who succeeds, and it is
interesting to notice, especially in the light of the
teachings regarding the “ Three Outpourings” of
God’s Life, that this younger son, who alone
succeeds, follows the elder two who go before him
to prepare the way.
There is also the widespread superstition, as it
is usually called, that a start in a race, or among
acrobats, must never be made at once. The “ one,
two, three, and away” of the children’s races is
another form of the same idea, as is also the “ turn
round three times and catch whom you may” .
The idea of “ one to be ready, two to be steady,
three to be off” is curiously applicable to what
happens at creation, the “ one to be ready” being
the Idea in the “ Mind” of God, the “ two to be
steady” the sustaining of that Idea in Substance,
and the “ three to be off” the sending forth of the
worlds into manifestation. And though it is true
that such analogies should not be pushed too far,
it will be found that there is generally something
at the back of most “ superstitious” ideas, and this
idea of three attempts is no exception to the rule.
The different religious systems of the world
practically all taught the fundamental Trinity.
Even among the Jews the teaching is of importance,
though there are very few of the orthodox who
The Number Three 95
accept it to-day, on account of the materializing
tendency which has, unfortunately, turned this
metaphysical concept into a personal and earthly
matter. The Book of Zohar, however, distinctly
tells us that “ three emanate from one : one is in
three ; one is in the midst of the two which drew
their sustenance therefrom” ;* and further : “ the
one in the midst, the link, draws from both sides” .
The same idea, just as guardedly expressed,
is found in Thomas Vaughan’s Anthroposophia
Theomagica.i
“ God, the Father,” he says, “ is the Metaphysicall, Super-
celestiall Sun, the Second Person is the Light, the Third is
‘Fiery Love’, or a divine Heate proceeding from both.
Now without the presence of this Heate there is no reception
of the Light, and by consequence no influx from the Father
of Light. For this ‘Love’ is the medium which unites the
Lover to that which is beloved and probably it is the ‘Chief
Daimon’ who doth unite us to the rulers of Spirits. I could
speak much more of the offices of this Loving Spirit but these
are grand Mysteries of God and of Nature and require not
our discusse so much as our reverence.”
Thus this idea of a fundamental Trinity pre­
supposes that condition which was before the worlds
were created. This condition, symbolized by the
Hebrew letters, Beth and Reish, the House of
Substance, or Sea of Substance, in which was the
Head (R) or Motive Principle, was, paradoxically,
unconditioned, but, having polarized Itself, It
gave birth to the One and the Two, and these, by
synthesis and interaction, to the Three.
* Zohar, i, 32b.
f The Works of Thomas Vaughan, b y A . E . W aite, p. 12.
CH APTER VII
THE NUM BER FOUR
T h e One having, in the deeper sense, polarized
Itself, and having then become synthesized as a
trinity, or triad, a foundation for all things is next
prepared by the interaction of the synthesized
opposites which have been conjoined or linked
together by the Power symbolized by the number
three. The rhythmic result is called four, and this
number thus becomes the number of foundation ;
and just as the triangle represents geometrically the
idea of “ three-ing” , so the square is the geometrical
symbol of “ fouring” .
The number three represents the approach of
Idea and Form, the bringing together of the
Thought and the Substance, the “ three-ing”
process characteristic of all creation, whether
cosmic or terrestrial. The opposites having been
thus brought together and synthesized, the next
stage is naturally that of foundation, the “ four-ing”
process.
According to Gaskell’s Dictionary, four is
significant of system and order. Plutarch states,
according to Gaskell, that it is by reason of this
number that every body has its origin. This is,
however, not to be understood as relating to the
building of forms and bodies, which is the function
of the Power of eight, but cosmically, i.e. of the
96
The Number Four 97
preparation of the “ stuff” from which bodies are
fashioned, or woven. Hence four represents the
preparation of bodily covering, the^evolving of
Matter from Root-Substance.
This idea is confirmed by Allendy, who says that
“ if the trinity, or ternaire, reveals to us the creative
function in its essence, the number four, which
follows, ought, logically, to express the result” .
This result, or “ four-ing” process, according to
Allendy, is the preparation “ of the field traced out
by the creative act . . . the form which is intended
to enclose produced being. . . . It is, in fact,
nothing else but that which we call Nature.” He
quotes also the well-known Buffon, who, in his
Vue de la Nature, states that this prepared Sub­
stance “ is that part of the divine power which is
manifested” , which is, in other words, the
“ objectivity” of God. The number four is thus
symbolical of the tendencies, or potentialities, of
this objectivized Nature.
Numerous writers have noticed that in many
languages the name of God is a word of four letters.
The English word, God, is derived from the Persian
Goda, Lord, and is four-lettered in several different
languages : Gott, Guth, Dieu, Alla, Deus, and ThEOS
(the Greek Th being, of course, one letter). The
great God of Egypt, the supposed giver of letters
to that nation, has his name spelt in various ways,
as Tehuti, Thoth, Tut, etc., but the actual Egyptian
word is Thut.
The four-lettered name given to God by the
Hebrews is strong evidence that in ancient times
they either knew these numerical doctrines or
copied them from the Chaldeans and Egyptians.
G
This name, JHVH, may be interpreted in many
ways. It may be pronounced with three breath­
ings ; or used to express the manifestation of
God, literally God’s life thrown down into matter
(HVH meaning tofall) ; or used as a term signifying
he who was, is, and will be; or, with the Yod, as
representing God as the All. Apart from such
orthodox and heterodox meanings, the letters
themselves show that the idea of “ fouring” , or
foundation, was expressed in the name, the
foundation, that is, of all things ; namely, He who
produced all things and without whom nothing was
made, the True Foundation.
The four letters composing the word are the
Yod, the He, the Vauv, and the He, YHVH, or
Jehovah, as it is written in English. The first letter
represents manifested Power and causality; the H
is the source of all life, the symbol of life and being,
plasticity, etc. ; the Vauv is that which unites
opposites, the synthesizer, or “Holy Ghost” ; whilst
the final H shows, as a reflected image, the coming
forth of life and its manifestation. The meaning
of the Four may be materialized as Father, Mother,
Holy Ghost, and Son, although the word Jehovah
in Hebrew cannot be applied to the idea of the
Trinity so grossly anthropomorphized and mis­
understood by certain medieval and untutored
Christian priests.
Now, it is obvious that the polarization of Root-
Substance, unless checked, or “foured” and founded,
will bring about no definite result. Polarization is
merely a beginning of things. It is well symbolized
by the cross, which shows that opposites are alone
in being.
98 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Four 9 9
Dr. Allendy, when comparing the cross with the
square, the two with the four, says that the cross,
being formed on geometrical lines, does not,
theoretically, occupy any surface : its arms may be
prolonged indefinitely, but their only definiteness
is in the central point of crossing. He therefore
considers the cross a symbol of the diversity of
tendencies in Nature, elementary qualities or
tendencies from a certain point of view, but purely
abstract. On the other hand, the square is a closed
figure limiting a definite area, and inasmuch as it
is equal in both dimensions, it expresses, he says,
the reunion of natural tendencies, the combination
of the elementary qualities. Thus the cross, accord­
ing to Allendy, represents the qualities of natural
things; whereas the square represents the ideal form
of materiality ; and the form, or quinaire, the matter
produced. Four is thus the number of solidity,
firmness. It is the first number, according to Philo,
to show the nature of solidity.
It should be noted that it is only when referring
to physical things that four is said to be the number
of firmness and solidity. The idea of solidity cannot
be applied to Root-Substance before it is qualified
and produced, or led forth, as actual Matter.
Nevertheless, the word solidity expresses a com­
pression and a foundation, and in this sense it may
be applied to cosmic beginning, for from this view­
point Four represents what may be termed the
concretion of the Divine Idea working in Substance.
When, in any original substance, distinct qualities
and opposites are produced and interact, unity
manifesting as trinity, the next step will naturally
be that which is typified by the number four.
ioo The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
For example, in the three colour primaries, red,
blue, and yellow, the first interaction will produce
modification, the red and yellow giving rise to green,
and other interactions finally evolving the full
range of seven colours. A fuller explanation of
this will also be given in a later work.
This idea of foundation is shown throughout the
life of Jesus, and throughout both Testaments.
Jesus Himself represented the foundation of a new
alignment of life, and this was obviously known to
those who set down the record of His life, and did
it, moreover, in such a manner as to make all the
happenings therein square, or in four. Thus we
have four Gospels; Jesus was Himself impaled
upon the cross* and represented a figure of four—
head, two outstretched arms, feet nailed together
as one there are four guards who part His
garments, each taking one part; His Name is in­
scribed on the cross in four letters : I.N.R.I. ; the
three women related to Christ who stood at the foot
of the cross complete the quaternary. Other
happenings in the life of Jesus emphasize the
number Four, as at the Transfiguration, when three
disciples were present with Christ; and the raising
of Lazarus, who had lain four days in the tomb.
All these things tend to show that the compilers
of Scripture knew the full significance of this
number.
The Pythagorean teaching relating to the Four,
or Tetrad, as it was called, are not known, but hints
left by those who followed the master have been
* Other records say “ on a tree” , after stoning,
f This last scene also shows the T rin ity : Christ, the Great
Synthesizer, between the tw o thieves, or Opposites.
The Number Four xoi
collected by Thomas Taylor in his Theoretic
Arithmetic, and this is, perhaps, the best work on
the subject.
The Pythagoreans called the Tetrad, or Four, the
greatest miracle, a God “ after another manner
than the Triad” , a manifold, or rather every,
divinity. They also considered it the fountain of
natural effects and the key-bearer of Nature, and
called it the “ son of Maia” , that is to say, the Son
of the Mother-Substance, of the Sea of Cosmic
Substance. It had, they say, the Duad for its
Mother. Thus, just as the Christ may be seen as
the Foundation of a new age, so four may be
regarded as a symbol of the Cosmic Christ, of the
result of the interaction of the cosmic Father and
Mother, Life and Substance.
This idea of the Tetrad as “ a God after another
manner” is peculiarly interesting. God, as the
Individualized Oneness, enters into relation with
His Substance (Seif— Not-Self), and hence, in a
deep sense, is in abscondito, hidden, as it were, in
the Opposites, in the Trinity. As the producer of
worlds from that Substance which is Himself, He
comes forth, figuratively, from His obscurity, and
appears as His own Son. Hence, He is “ God after
another manner than the Triad” , being Himself
the producer of the manifested “ gods” and all
things, all processes, all “ numbers” .
The Pythagoreans also referred to the Tetrad as
being of the nature of Molus, the wind. This
obviously applies to the nature of the prepared
Substance, which is capable of changing, and, like
the wind, “ bloweth where it listeth” , being alike
plastic and changeful. They also called it the first
102 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
depth, as they considered the geometrical tetrad
a solid. These definitions, like the rest, show that
the number Four is the number of foundation,
as already said. It is, moreover, the number of
co-relation, the power without which no substance
could be prepared to ex-ist.
The word used by the Egyptians for Four, Aft,
means, according to its letters, Power (A) goingforth
(F) to a definite end (T). The idea can still be heard
in the sound of the modern words, as in fier, vier,
four, etc. The sound of the Greek term Tetrad
also conveys the idea of a definite (T) rolling forth
(R) towards diversity (D), and is probably derived
from the unpronounceable Chhatri of the Sanskrit
tongue, which has become changed to quattuor,
quatre, and which, later becoming qvatre, may have
been carelessly modified as fier, or vier, and the
Englishfour, by the simple dropping of the q.
A consideration of the meaning of the One, Two,
and Three from another aspect helps considerably
to a fuller understanding of Four. The One, as
has been explained, represents division arrested,
and is therefore the Unity which contains all things
within itself; the Two represents the first pair of
Opposites, and the Three that Link or Relation
between them which is sometimes called the Son,
but is more correctly termed Fohat, the link or
base. This is the beginning of manifestation.
But in order, as it were, to solidify or materialize
and co-ordinate the one, twro, and three, the
“ Square” has to appear, and this square is symbolized
by four.
Now, the word four in Hebrew is Arbo, or
Arbang, and contains the sign of Potentiality,
The Number Four 103
the Directive sign, and the sign of inner development,
added to that most important symbol of materi­
ality, the O, or Awyin. Hence the word is the
emblem of multiplication, of material becoming.
It may be considered as representing the “ pre­
paratory” or lesser completion which foreshadows
the consummation by the seven, and is itself the
prelude to that greater Completion which in­
cludes the whole of manifestation and is symbolized
by the ten.
Fabre D ’Olivet’s description of this is interesting.
It runs:
The root of this mysterious number is RB, which, formed
from the sign of directed movement and from that of
generative (inner) action, includes all ideas of grandeur
and multiplication. If the last character is doubled, as in
RBB, this word requires an infinite numerical extension ;
and if it is followed by the sign of the material sense,
as in RBO, it becomes an expression of solidity, of
physical (material) force, and of all ideas connected with
a cube. It is in this condition that it represents the
number four.*
Even considered arithmetically, four is seen to
be the natural number of foundation, for without it
no progression beyond six is possible, as is easily
evident by blending the numbers one, two, and
three. On the other hand, 1 + 2 = 3, 3 + 1 — 4,
4 + 3 = 7, and so on, until completion is reached
with the 10. In this and other ways, Four is shown
to be the number of foundation.
Thus four is symbolic of the foundation which
La Langue Hebraique Restitute, v. io of Genesis, ch. ii.
comes after polarization, the “ two-ing” process,
and the synthesis, or “three-ing” . Three is, practi­
cally a new unity, the One made manifest, i.e.
divided into distinct, yet “ affinitized” , parts.
These processes may be symbolized geometrically.
Thus the “ point” of potentiality becomes the “ line”
of generation, the One being made manifest as
polarized opposites, two lines going off from a
point, or apex, at right angles to each other. But
two lines thus produced can never lead to a result.
Unless there is affinity between the two as parts of
a complete though polarized one-ness, there will be
nothing to prevent them from rushing out in­
definitely, each in its own direction. No form can
be thus produced, and without form the universe
could not ex-ist. Hence there is that in each which
prevents complete separation, and which reunites
them by the base and so forms a triangle. This
triangle is the beginning of all manifestation, whether
it relates to Substance or Spirit (Life), for both must
be trinitized before blending can be perfectly
attained.
Numbers, signs, and symbols generally, it must
be remembered, are derived from Nature itself,
from God, as will be clearly seen when this mystery
is clearly understood. Therefore the Qabalists
and Pythagoreans expressed the mysterious inner
workings of Nature by means of numbers and
geometrical figures; mundane arithmetic and
geometry being also derived from these cosmic
happenings and Ideas. Hence, in the study of
these ideas and actual inner meanings of numbers,
the fringe of a great mystery is touched— a mystery
whose fullness can only be realized in the deepest
104 Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Four I05
meditation, and which will not find full expression
in the dark age we live in.
Three, then, as species of a new unity, needs the
powers which are within it to enlarge itself, hence
three, working on itself, makes a foundation for
further building, i.e. three, co-operating with one,
produces four. Co-operating with two, the three
produces five ; with the aid of one and two it makes
six, and with the aid of four makes seven, which is
the complete unfolding of Unity, as will be seen in
the chapter dealing with this number.
It should be noticed, however, that the
modifications of Unity and its components, one,
two, and three, cannot produce more than seven
by their interaction and combination. The develop­
ment which is signified by the figure and number
four, the triangle, A , and its emanation, ^
is, therefore, beyond the combined work of the
one, two, and three, for it leads not only to the
consummation of seven, but also to the complete
foundation symbolized by the ten.
If the three components are blended equally
there can be no result beyond six, but if one of them
predominates over the rest, as 3 + I, 3 + 2, etc.,
then the numbers four to seven are generated.
A “ seven-ing” thus represents a cycle of accomplish­
ment, a “ rest” , or “ Sabbathizing” , after creation,
not, of course, a rest in the physical sense, as is
ordinarily understood from the words of the Book
of Genesis, for God, who is Absolute Motion
itself, is necessarily beyond the opposites known to
man as activity and rest.
Thus this new manifestation of the Trinity, the
four, or Son, has to be reflected, i.e. added to itself,
io6 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
or, rather, to its component parts, three plus one,
to produce eight. Five, six, and seven, as seen above,
have already been produced by the interaction of
the four with the three principles, one, two, and
three. Again, four working with the three and
two gives rise to nine, and completion comes
when four is added to all the numbers produced,
as 4 + 3+ 2 + i= ten. This is the end of simple
numeration and becoming, and after it, both
cosmically and arithmetically, all is repetition and
multiplication.
Now, if a cycle of evolution, or of ideas, be con­
sidered as having seven stages, the lowest stage of
descent will always be the fourth. Hence four is,
for this reason also, considered as the number of
depth or foundation, as base, the lowest stage, and
yet the foundation or stage leading to the highest.
The ancients,who understoodthe qualitiescontained
in the number, built their ideas accordingly, and a
full description of the many different quaternaries
which have accordingly arisen is given by Agrippa,
and also, but more completely, by Allendy. The
Hebrews, as we have seen, used four as the number
of foundation, their name for God being itself
four-lettered and conveying this idea. The
Christian conception of Father, Mother, Holy
Ghost, and Son, is also four-square. Other quater­
naries are the four Great Angels who preside over
the quarters of the Universe, the four Great Beings
who rule the elements, the four Beings, the Lion,
the Eagle, the Ox, and the Man, the four Gospels,
the four Seasons, the four fundamental states of
Matter, and many others.
CHAPTER VIII
THE NUMBER FIVE
Five, according to its root meaning, is the number
of harvesting, of arranging the “ sheaves” of the
produced Substance, the hitherto potential sub­
stance which now becomes matter, i.e. becomes
manifest, and from its combinations produces all
the different grades of matter, as known— a process
especially fascinating in its outworking to those who
know the meaning of cosmic numbering and the
arithmetical, progressive phases of the creation and
evolution of a universe.
As the earthly harvest is gathered in by the
farmer, and arranged to suit his need and require­
ment, so, in a deeper sense, God, the Harvester,
having produced Substance and prepared it for the
foundation of worlds, now gathers it to Himself,
the Four to the One, to qualify it, to prepare it
for use and nourishment, to build up forms and
worlds therefrom.
After the correlation of the primordial Substance,
and the foundation by the “ four-ing” process, or
Son, the Logos or manifestation, the “ Word” or
Vibratory Power of God in Nature, “ broods over
the waters of the deep” , over the ocean of plastic
stuff in Space. This brooding, as the Scriptures
term it, is the action of God’s “Mind” (if such a
term is permissible), preparing from the manifested
107
lo8 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
matter (4), grade upon grade, element upon element,
of matter, qualifications from within the previously
potential, affinitized, stabilized Substance.
The “ Mind” of God brooding over this plastic
medium, this manifested matter, produces from it
exteriorized qualities which till then were mere
possibilities locked up within it— locked up, as it
were, in the depths of God and His Substance.
These qualities, resisting in Matter, need the action
of God’s “ Mind” , the “ five-ing” or harvesting
process, to produce them and bring them to ex-
istence.
Five thus represents a kind of spreading-out
process, and may be symbolized by the geometrical
form, the pentagon, with its five points, which is
also the symbol of a perfect humanity. This
spreading-out process produces from the prepared
Substance the modifications called qualities. Hence
five is the symbol of matter produced for purposes
of creation.
If these ideas as to the qualifying of matter are
not familiar to the reader, he may find additional
help towards their understanding in Chapters
I and II. It should clearly be realized that if matter
is to be useful for creative purposes, it must be
polarized, just as the original Life-Substance was
polarized. Thus, through this “ five-ing” process,
there arises a trinity of matter, as before there was
a trinity of Life or Spirit, and by this new trinity
the Root-Matter is spread out and made definitely
manifest; and therefore it is said in The Secret
Doctrine,* “ Five represents the universal quintessence
* Ibid., vol. ii, p. 617.
The Number Five 109
which spreads in every direction and forms all
matter.” *
Dr. Allendy says that five is the symbol of all
forms of matter, and refers especially to the physical
plane. He also quotes a writer who states that this
number of matter possesses five properties, viz.
form, divisibility, impenetrability, dissolubility, and
inertia. Again, it is said that five forms are com­
bined in the different chemical atoms, all of which,
the tetrahedron, the cube, the octohedron, the
dodecahedron, and the isosahedron, have equal
angles, sides, and superficies, and are known as
Pythagorean forms. They are found manifesting
in all crystals.t
Allendy, who further explains the different
properties of manifestation, says that the number
five is the symbol of material existence, or the
objectivity of things, Life in its different degrees.
This, however, obviously refers to Matter rather
than to Life, especially as he considers it necessary
to conceive life in the sense of its extension as a
cosmic principle; yet he separates the ideas of Life
and Matter, and shows that number represents the
relation between these two. The number five
expresses, according to this writer, not a state, but
an act. It is a passage, a transition. Matter is not,
as philosophers have known from the earliest times,
a for-ever fixed and determined condition, but a
transitory arrangement of atomized stuff always
* This is a quotation from a m anuscript by the Freemason Ragon,
who declares it to be the work of M. le Comte de St. Germain,
the distinguished, though unofficial, ambassador between many
European Courts during the French Revolution.
f See especially Occult Chemistry, b y A nnie Besant and C. W .
Leadbeater, a rem arkable book.
n o The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
possible of resolution into its primordial un­
conditionedness.
Whereas, then, four map be considered as the
number of formation and foundation, or con­
ception, five would be the number of birth, of
actual material commencement. As has been said,
and is here taken for granted, there is no life without
form, and no form which does not contain life. But
that Matter should be so ensouled is not sufficient;
it is necessary also that both Matter and Life should
be “ qualified” , should have qualities, that gradation
and diversity may alike result.
Without this qualifying, this “ five-ing” process,
or harvesting, Matter, as we know it, could never
have existed ; and thus five, as Allendy well says,
is the symbol of the creative Power of God, mani­
fested as the “ Word” or Logos, the Trinity, showing
itself forth through the Binary; for these two, the
three and the two, are five, cosmically and arithmeti­
cally. In other words, the Infinite expresses
Itself in the finite, the one added to, and co-opera­
ting with, the four, produces five, Nature itself.
It is interesting in this connection to recall
that Pente, the Greek five, is derived from Pan,
which represents Nature, the All, and was sacred
to Juno, the goddess representing receptivity, or
Substance.
The Hebrew word for five, Ghumisch, is also
extremely helpful in understanding Cosmic be­
coming. D ’Olivet defines it as referring to
“ facultative comprehension” , that is to say, the
faculty for comprehending a collectivity of things
with ease and convenience, a gathering-in, or
arranging. Chapter V of Genesis, it will be noted,
The Number Five i n
contains a description of all the emanated beings,
and is devoted solely to generation ; hence D ’Olivet
calls it the chapter of facultative comprehension.
He evidently does not read it as a history of the
generation of all the beings who followed Adam,
but as a description of generation in a cosmic sense.
Five, in Hebrew, is also said by D ’Olivet to
express a movement of contraction and apprehension
such as would result from the grasping of a thing,
the whole hand, the five fingers, pressing tightly
and warming it. The root of the word, he says,
is dual, the first root, ChM, pointing out the effect
of the second, M S h ; that is to say, the former
depicts the general envelopment, the heat which
results, and the effect of the contractive movement
caused by the latter.
Thus the root, ChM, has the symbol of effort,
Ch, joined to the letter M, which, as the reader
knows, represents the mass, or aggregation, of
Substance ; that from which all is extracted, the
letter being used, even grammatically, to express
the idea oifrom. This root means, literally, warmth,
that which results from contraction. On the other
hand, MSh represents a movement of a mass towards
contraction, and hence gives rise to mass, mess, mush,
etc., as is shown by the word Moses, which means
he who was extracted (M) from the plastic Substance
(MSh), or, literally, he who was drawn out of the water.
Hence, MSh, meaning the mass and a movement,
blended with ChM, warmth, show that this word,
the Hebrew Five, represents a collecting together,
or harvesting, and an arranging by contraction of
the prepared parts of matter. The root MSh also
signifies that which is compact, a crop or harvest,
anything which is extracted, or drawn out from,
an already existing matter, as is shown by its letters
individually.
It is obvious that the meaning of the Hebrew
word for Five is the same as that already expressed
in these pages, and, when referred to cosmic
happenings, relates to the stirring up of the pre­
pared matter, the arranging of it into “ sheaves” ,
as for a harvest. In other words, it refers to the
qualification of matter by the “ Mind” of God, and
the production of a base from which the requisite
grades of matter should result. This harvesting,
or maturing, of the differentiated matter is the
half-way stage of the cosmic processes, and the
result is the definite building up of the atoms,
molecules, and elements from which globes or worlds
will ultimately result.
Even arithmetically, five is seen to be the centre
of all simple numbers, as the reader will find by
studying the numbers I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.
If these are arranged as squares, either as
1 2 3
4 5 6
7 § 9
or
1 4 7
2 5 8
3 6 9
the five is always at the centre. Evidently it was for
these reasons that the Pythagoreans named it
cardiatis, or cordialis, the heart of things manifested,
II2 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Five " 3
the centre of all things and numbers, the heart
being the centre of the body.*
The number was called many strange names by
Pythagorean writers. It was the privation of strife,
the unconquered, change of quality, light and justice,
the lower of Jupiter, a stable axis, etc. These
definitions have caused “ the enemy to blaspheme” ,
and to declare that the Pythagorean doctrines with
regard to numbers are nonsensical; but the terms
are quite clear to those who have the key. Thus
change of quality is stated by an anonymous Pytha­
gorean writer t to represent the Five, that which
“ changes all things triply extended or which have
length, breadth, and depth into the sameness of
a sphere and producing light” . Taylor confirms
this by saying that Five is eminently a circular
number, and spherical, terminating itself, or restoring
itself, in every multiplication.
This idea of change of quality, as applied to the
birth of a universe, confirms all that is set down here
by the present writer, and is undoubtedly correct,
the “ five-ing” period being that of the arranging
and harvesting of the growth, the gathering of the
result of growth in the cosmic field, and the quali­
fying and grading the produce according to quality.
Unless such a change occurs, there can be no
adequate distribution of matter, and no mani­
festation.
The term privation of strife shows that the
opposition which was necessary to produce the
matter required for the building of the universe
has, in a sense, now ceased, that all things which
* Theoretic Arithmetic, b y Thomas Taylor, p. 194.
■f Quoted by Taylor, p. 192.
H
114 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
were founded (4) and separated out are now con­
stituted and re-integrated for the new stage of
change of quality.
The number was apparently called a stable axis
because it stirs up matter whilst itself remaining
firm and definite and, as a power of God, brooding,
selecting, re-arranging, planning-out, and drawing
out the qualities required, sorting out, as it were,
the different grades within the prepared Substance,
changing their condition from latency to patency.
It is also well called the privation of strife, for when
the “five-ing” process is completed, all things,
spirit and matter, life and form, have become
harmoniously blended, linked together, in sympathy.
The anonymous writer quoted by Taylor says
further that the Pentad, the five, was called Nemesis
because it “ distributes in an appropriate manner
things celestial and divine” — which, again, is
confirmatory of all that has been said in these
pages.
According to Agrippa, the number five has a
great power, composed as it is of numbers repre­
senting male and female. It is, moreover, the exact
half of the universal number, or number of com­
pletion, the Ten, and it is consequently called the
number of marriage. It was dedicated to Mercury,
the God of Mind, which is the link between Spirit
and Matter, and this was but natural, since Five
represents the effect of the Mind, or spirit, of God
which after the Foundation (4) came forth to brood
over and prepare the “ waters of space” , i.e. to
“ create” from the base it had produced in the
“ fouring” process.
The Hebrew names of God all show a progression
The Number Five 115
in number. Thus the triple name is ShDI, the
quaternary is YHVH, Jehovah. In later years
the Rosicrucians introduced Sh into the middle of
the word Jehovah, and some people imagine it to
have been done in order to make the word represent
Jesus; but it was merely a “ blind” , the name being
in reality a symbol of God as Saviour. It was
written YHShUH, and pronounced yehushiah, and
was sometimes called the Ineffable Pentagram.
Other Hebrew words are used in this manner, as,
for example, the Three Yods, denoting God as
Abstract Trinitizing Power ;the four-lettered ADNI,
or Lord God, and the well-known ALH, God, and
ALH IM , God as Collectivity of Power. All these
names of God show in a peculiarly illuminating
manner the cosmic unfolding by rhythmic progression.
CHAPTER IX
TH E NUM BER SIX
T he number five, as we have seen, represents that
Cosmic process during which Matter is qualified,
separated into kinds, and arranged, like the harvest,
for use. By this action of God’s “ Mind” , three
fundamental qualities, or, as it were, three colours
or tones, are produced from and within the prepared
matter ; and as there are three qualities of matter,
so there are also three aspects of God or Spirit,
and these now find their reflection in the more
material trinity.
God, or Life, is triple, and has three aspects :
the Will to create, the Wisdom or Love which
contrives and holds together the creation, and the
Creative Activity or Mind which sends forth and
causes the appearance of that which is created.
These Three, known by many and various names
in the different religions of the world, are, however,
considered metaphysically rather than physically in
these pages.
The number six represents that period in the
creative processes in which Matter is prepared as
a triplicity, and Spirit, already a triplicity, ensouls
it. This separation of the one-ness of matter into
manyness results, under the action of the triple
aspects of the one Life, in the production of three
main modes of motion in matter, i.e. three types
116
‘The Number Six 117
of matter having fundamentally different modes of
motion. The appearance or manifestation of these
two trinities of Spirit and Matter, which, it should
be remembered, are but polarized or manifested
unities, is the “ six-ing” process, six— twice three—
representing that which relates the opposites, links
triangle to triangle, trinity of Spirit to trinity of
Matter.
The double triangle is a symbol of this process
of inter-relation. Polarized Life becomes blended
with polarized Matter ; harmonized, and definitely
linked together, they form a combination from
which alone true creation, i.e. the definite
building-up of bodies, can result. Hence six is
the number of balance, harmony, junction, and
proportion; and as the double of three it reflects
the ideas represented by that number. Its symbol
is the so-called Solomon’s Seal, the interlaced
triangles, the symbol, as is well known, of the
junction of Spirit and Matter, Life and Form.
The Pythagorean idea that six is the symbol of
the soul is interesting, and not difficult of under­
standing in the light of the above. As Matter and
Spirit are thus linked, life everywhere ensouls
Matter, a balance is attained between them, and
all is ready for actual creation, the Soul of the
Universe having thus become mingled with all
things. And since it is in much the same manner
that the soul is linked to the body, Six may quite
truly be said to be a symbol of the soul; indeed,
many schools of thought teach that man is a sep­
tenary being, the seventh principle being the Self
within the forms, the Atma, the point in the
“ double triangle” whereby Spirit and Matter are
118 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
blended and synthesized. This view represents
the “ Point” as the Reality behind all things, and
shows Spirit linked to body by means of soul, which
thus becomes the link between man and his higher
Self.
It should not be difficult to understand why the
Greek philosophers called this number, or process,
harmony, the perfection of parts, nuptial, Venus,
peace, friendship, health, and truth, for all these
descriptions signify a coming together, a junction,
a wholeness (health), in short, a synthesizing process.
Six was also called the distinct union of the parts of
the universe, because soul is, as it were, “ the
animated form of formless matter” ,* and was
termed gamos, a marriage, and gamelia, nuptials,
which again convey the idea of junction, or union.
The remarks of Thomas Taylor in his Theoretic
Arithmetic as to the reason for the epithet truth as
applied to this number are very enlightening,
especially to those who understand the stage in
the Cosmic process of becoming which the number
Six represents. “ It was, perhaps, so called” , he says,
“ because truth is the harmonic conjunction of that
which is known with that which knowsV The words
italicized convey precisely the same meaning as that
expressed in this work.
The harmony and blending represented by the
number Six is a blending of opposites, and a
harmony of complementaries. Dr. Allendy evidently
holds the same idea, for he states in his Le Symbolisme
des Nombres that “with the number six is inaugurated
the second half of the series of simple numbers.
* Animated modes in m atter would be a better expression than
animatedform.
The Number Six 119
In virtue of the idea which is attached to the Binary,
the two, the two halves of the series ought to present,
the one by its relation to the other, an opposition
in a general sense. If we consider, in its ensemble,
the first half . . . we see in it the progressive
transformation from the Absolute to the world of
matter and being, it assists us to understand the
ideal steps of creation. The incognizable Cause
(Unity) becomes successively the principle of
differentiation (Binary), of the action of organization
(Ternary), of realized or founded form (Quater­
nary). This is, in a sense, a kind of degradation of
the Absolute, Its dispersion in a multiplicity of
creatures, Its descent into matter. By opposition,
the second half of the series 1-10 ought to point out
the way of return” , that is, the way of return to
complete unity, as symbolized by the 10, the perfect
number, the way towards reintegration, as shown by
the numbers 7, 8, 9, and 10.
Allendy further shows that the number six is a
paired or even number, and that it ought, as such,
to signify a principle of equilibrium, “a static
correspondence between two analogous terms and
not a transitory action or passage from one state to
another. It is the instrument of progression, but
not the progression itself.” This is, of course,
correct, for it is the number seven which represents
this progression, i.e. the atomization of matter
without which all building would be impossible.*
All that has been said herein with regard to the
trinities of Spirit and Matter is confirmed by
Dr. Allendy, though of necessity in different
words. He states that the study of the number six
* See under Chapter X , The Number Seven.
as a double trinity is interesting, as showing the
state of equilibrium which results from the
opposition of the two trinitized organizations, of
two actions— the first represented as I, 2, 3, the
Logos and His phases of creative organization;
and the second, which is opposed to it, or set in
opposition to it, being its reflection in the world
of forms (creatures). Thus, four is the body of
Nature, five represents the productions which
replenish it, whilst six is the action, or interaction,
of the created powers. “ The six thus represents
the opposition of the creature (matter) to the
Creator (Spirit) in an indefinite equilibrium.”
This is the essential nature of the number six.
That this number should be called justice by the
Greeks seems curious until the idea of a balancing
up of all things is remembered. That there is a
Justice ruling all things and persons in the universe,
a “ Law which moves to righteousness, which none
at last can turn aside or stay” , as Sir Edwin Arnold
puts it in his Light of Asia, is an immemorable belief.
The Hindus and Buddhists call it the Law of
Karma, or Cause and Effect; the Christian sums
it up in the belief “ as a man sows, so shall he reap” ,
and the Hebrew by the term Mischpotim, literally
Judgments. It is this Law, the intimate relation
of Cause and Effect, Action and Reaction, Force
and Form, which is symbolized by the Six, the
number of balance.
This number may also be said to represent the
fullness of all things, the extent of materiality, and,
in a sense, Space. Some thinkers consider that there
are but six extensions or directions : up and down,
left and right, before and behind. The relation of
120 j
The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Six 121
Soul to body is also seen as a senary, as by the
Alchemists, who expressed it in the terms Sulphur,
Salt, and Mercury, which, with their polarizations,
make six in all. The Hindu philosophers speak of
three modes or qualities of matter, viz. Sattva,
Rajas, and Tamas, in which work the three modes of
motion; these fill the manifested universe, con­
taining all things and entering into the make-up
of all things, no further qualification being possible,
all other modifications of the universe being seen
as the result of the interaction of these opposites,
trinitized matter and trinitized force. The same idea
may be traced in Colour and Music. All such
senaries, or sixes, have, however, a point of meeting,
a point which unites them, and this point is the
seven, the fundamental number, the number of
numbers, the accomplishment of all things, as will
later be seen.
According to the orthodox interpretation of
Genesis, the world was created in six days; better
terms, however, would be six periods, or pro­
gressions. In any case, it represents the fullness of
creation, as is shown by the “ resting” of God on the
seventh “ day” . In this creation of a Universe, the
One as Spirit and the One as Matter become
trinitized, and these two trinities open the way for
the “ seven-ing” process. This “ seven-ing” process
has, however, no relation to “ rest” ; it shows only
accomplishment.
This word “ accomplishment” conveys practically
the same idea and is a far better explanation, for God,
being Eternal Motion itself, cannot be said to “ rest” .
It should be noted, however, that the Book of
Genesis bears little relation to the creation of our
122 Lhe Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
own globe, except in a very reflected sense,
analogically. It is primarily a history of, or a formula
of the creation of the whole Universe in Space, as
will be explained in a later work, fThe Book of Genesis
Unveiled (II). Meanwhile students may find it in­
teresting to note that each one of the first ten
chapters of Genesis represents one epoch in the
cosmic process of becoming. Each chapter, of the first
ten, will be found to represent one of these creative
epochs, or stages, and in fact the number of the
chapter is as much a key to its meaning as is the
matter treated therein.
Fabre D ’Olivet has pointed out in his La Langue
Hebraique Restituee that the ideas in Chapter I
of Genesis may be summed up under the heading
Principiation; those in Chapter II by Distinction;
those in Chapter III by Extraction; those in Chapter
IV by Divisional Multiplication ; and those in
Chapter V by Facultative Comprehension. Chapter
VI shows by its contents the idea of a balancing of
things for further development (the Flood) ; and this
chapter is described by D ’Olivet as Proportional
Measurement. The remaining chapters are dealt
with in the same way.
As is well known to all Qabalistic students,
the commentaries on Genesis make, as related in
the Sepher Ha-Zohar, a play on the first word
of Genesis, whereby the word BRAShITh is made
to read as BRA, he has created, and ShITh
six,* instead of as a complete word, BRAShITh,
in the beginning, or in Principle, in the sense of
commencement. This is, of course, only a play
* The Hebrew word for " six ” is ShSh, or S h ish i; the Chaldaic,
ShTh, Shisi.
“
The Number Six 123
upon words, but it may be understood from it
that God created by means of “ six-ing” , that is,
by bringing together and balancing the two opposite
trinities of Force and Matter. Indeed, this idea is
the exact inner meaning of the name of the letter
Vauv, which is used as the numeral six in Hebrew,
and is pictured as a link, a hook, and is a symbol
of that which unites in order to change from
one state to another. Hence, probably, the
inventors of the Tarot cards have made the sixth
card represent Love, the great unifier.
Fabre D ’Olivet, apparently the only writer who
has properly translated the words used by the
Hebrews to describe numbers, says that the root of
the Hebrew word for six is ShU, which represents
all ideas of equality, of readiness, of equilibrium.
When this root is added to the symbol Sh,
which represents motion, or, as D ’Olivet calls it,
relative duration, the result, ShSh, or Shishi,
becomes, he says, “ the symbol of every proportional
measure” . The same writer further states that it
is well known that the number six is applied to the
measure of the circle in particular, and in general
to all proportional measures.
Now, six in Hebrew is somewhat difficult of
description, for it contains but one letter twice
repeated, viz. ShSh— that is to say, the sign of
relative duration, or circumscribed motion, doubled.
This shows its relation to three, which also contains
the sign in double. Thus six, ShSh, is a densification
of three, ShLUSh, minus the two signs L and U ;
it is, in fact, a densification of the three Idea (which,
as we have seen, is itself a kind of Unity, containing
Three in One), and its reflection on a lower plane,
showing that equilibrium has been attained. Here
again is a suggestion of the above and the below,
the two triangles interlaced, Spirit and Matter
blended.
When this stage arrives, the Consummation is
at hand, the “ seven-ing” , whether creative (be­
ginning) or destructive (ending), as in the case of
the Flood of the seventh chapter of Genesis. As
Three is a completion, or unity in trinity, of Spirit,
so Six is a completion, a unity in trinity, of
Matter ; and the link between,* the synthesizing
Point, makes Seven, the Consummation.
124 Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
* The Fohat of the Buddhist.
CHAPTER X
TH E NUMBER SEVEN
A c c o r d i n g to Dr. Allendy, the number seven
has very great relation with the number three,
for in virtue of its double reflection it is to the
ternary what the ternary is to Unity. Since three
represents the development of a principle, the seven
ought to represent the principle doubly developed,
that is to say, manifested and objectively realized.
Allendy mentions, in this connection, the three
fundamental colours, red, yellow, and blue, which,
in their combinations, give rise to all shades.
With their intermediaries, these principles follow
a natural serial development in the spectrum,
and give rise to seven definite divisions: (i), the
primary red ; (2), orange, the intermediary between
red and yellow; (3), yellow itself, as a primary
colour ; (4), green, the stage between yellow and
blue ; (5), primary blue. Between red and blue
there are two shades instead of one : (6), indigo,
which is a densified blue, and (7), violet, the true
intermediary. He also notes the seven stages in
Music ; these, like the colours of the spectrum, are
not in any way arbitrarily divided, but respond to
the sounds of Nature and to the natural function of
the human voice. The seven notes may be
considered as proceeding from a fundamental
Trinity of which the parts are in perfect accord,
1
2
5
126 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
ut— mi— sol being produced by means of interme­
diaries, and by a doubling of sol in la (as indigo is a
doubling of blue). He says also that if the limitation
of perceptible sounds is extended to ten octaves,
the musical cycle is composed of seven.
Allendy further points out that the number four
is the measure of phenomena which present them­
selves without cessation during a series, whilst
seven is a measure of evolutionary cycles of which
the succession in Music gives a very exact idea of a
spiral progression which never returns to its original
state. This spiral evolution is, as he says, a very
good symbol of the “ seven-ing” process; seven
representing not a closed and completed circle,
but a cycle, or spiral, preparatory to the completion
of a process.*
The same writer records an interesting fact in
connection with the six-pointed star on a central
point. He says that the Point, the seven, is the
open door between Heaven and Earth, and that
this is the reason why the rainbow and its seven
colours, which was supposed to have appeared after
the deluge, was considered as a sign of the alliance
between^Earth and Heaven. Seven,* he suggests,
is a bridge between the Three Persons of the
Trinity and the three natural principles ; for whilst
six expresses merely a static equilibrium, the
reflection of the Creator in Form (la creature),
seven shows the Creator directing matters by means
of a graded and spiral evolution.t
All this is in perfect accord with what has
already been written in this work, and should be
compared with what is said here regarding the
* Le Sym
bolisms desNombres, p. 172. f Ibid., p. 178.
The Number Seven 127
“ seven-ing” process in which the atomization of
matter proceeds. This process is, as already shown,
by no means a static equilibrium, as in the six
stage, but a violent reaction, a definite, directive
commencement of actual material evolution.
Allendy quotes further the many passages from
the Bible which show that the number seven was
considered in a special sense, and connected with all
holy matters. The reader might trace this for him­
self in the Scriptures ; for though the study of such
passages does not explain the meaning of the number,
the manner in which it was used by the Hebrews
show that they understood its inner significance.
He adds that the Hebrews used the word “ seven” in
the sense of taking an oath, and offers a very
questionable proof of this from Genesis xxi, 30 ;
but of this an explanation will be given later.
Whilst the number six represents harmonious
conjunction, the linking up of Spirit and Matter,
of Life and Form, nevertheless, in this stage, there
are only qualities or kinds of matter, and modes
of motion, or Spirit, working within it. These
opposites, like those of the primordial Trinity—
Three— produce nothing if left to themselves.
Thus the “ seven-ing” process is as necessary to the
polarized and opposite trinities, the blended six,
as the “ four-ing” process was necessary to the
Trinity. In other words, Matter must be atomized
or no building up of forms and bodies can result,
for unless this atomization takes place all remains
in a state of flux. Each particle of Matter has,
therefore, to be individualized, and this necessitates
the production of primordial and ultimate atoms.
Matter, having been prepared by the “ five-ing”
128 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
process, and the balance struck between the opposites
in the “ six-ing” stage, is now ready for perfect pro­
duction, for definite formation. With the disturbing
of the balance, a new stage commences, and this new
stage is the “ seven-ing” process, the process of
atomization. This disturbing of the balance causes
a “ terrible catastrophe” , as symbolized in Chapter
VII of Genesis, which tells of the Flood, the waters
that “ covered the earth” . In like manner, the sudden
changing of Matter into separate, distinct, and
independent particles naturally causes these, by
reason of the energizing life within them, to rush
away from the previous state of balance or uni­
fication in the mass, and become strangers to each
other ; and this is the first stage of Division.
An illustration of this on a small scale is seen when
a body “ dies” . With the withdrawal of the spirit,
there is no power left for holding the unity, the body,
together; and the myriads upon myriads of atoms,
molecules, etc., which constituted a unity as long as
the dynamic energy of the spirit remained as a
central Force holding them in check, now endeavour
to rush away from the unity which formerly con­
tained them, producing, in the act, heat, friction,
vibrations of a peculiar kind, and odours not
sympathetically contacted by a refined nature.
From what happens in this case, we may understand
dimly what happens when the balance between the
polarized trinities of spirit and matter is broken,
and the resulting atomized particles spread out
everywhere— a veritable “ flood” of matter in Space.
As said before, the first ten chapters of the Book
of Genesis show analogically, by their happenings,
what happens at creation, each chapter showing
The Number Seven 129
forth one stage of the Cosmic processes. Thus in
the sixth chapter a preparation is made for the
catastrophe to come in the seventh, viz. the
Flood. Fabre D ’Olivet, describing the happenings
recorded in the seventh chapter, says that this
“ seventh chapter represents consummation; the
equilibrium is broken, a terrible catastrophe follows,
and the Universe is renewed” . He does not say
clearly that this represents a flood of cosmic matter
in Space rather than an earthly engulfment; but
it should be noted that he says it was the “ Universe”
which was renewed, and not the earth. However,
there is little doubt that this chapter and its number,
seven, together represent the idea of a breaking-up
of a mass, or unity, the resulting tumescence, and
the renewal of things which follows it.
The first effect of this disturbance is the apparent
disintegration of all matter : the separated atoms rush
out to enjoy their liberty, but as the Law of Affinity
is working through all, each atom immediately
commences to look for its complement, the fact
being that atoms are differently polarized, some
being positive, some negative, some “ male” and some
“ female” , and others neutral.
Now, the ordinary scientist posits the atom as
the smallest indivisible portion of matter, and,
though unable to see it, proves its existence by many
experiments. There are, however, scientists of a
different school who have seen and thoroughly
examined the atom, and have given their report
on it in such detail, and in such a reasonable and
logical manner, that no unbiased or scientific
mind could possibly dispute their findings, although
it might dispute their claim of examining the
x
130 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
atom at first hand. The work in which these
investigations are recorded, Occult Chemistry, is
the first contribution to what will one day be
a great Science, the Science of the (at present)
unseen. Modern scientists who read this epoch-
making work will assuredly find that it reveals to
them the meaning of matters on which they have
hitherto pondered unsuccessfully, and will help
them to put the knowledge received to practical,
scientific use.
Occult Chemistry shows that the primordial atom
is formed by force flowing into a certain space and
pressing back the undifferentiated stuff, the finest
rudiment of matter, which is everywhere in the
universe and which forms the oval or circular
“wall” of the atom.* It is this atomization of
matter which constitutes the “ seven-ing” process.
Seven, as has already been said, is the fullness of
the unfolding power of manifested unity, showing
itself forth as a trinity of powers, or qualities, the
blending or interaction of which can produce no
more than seven states, or kinds. This is clearly
seen in Colour : from the “ white” light, which is not
a colour, but is the essence of colour, come forth the
three primaries, and from the blending of these
three others are produced, the seventh being the
first step towards a return to nothingness or non­
manifestation. There are thus only seven definite
colours from the one, tertiaries being grades which
tend towards the negation of colour, the densest
shade of which is black, absolute negation. (There
are, of course, many shades of colour, just as there
* A further description of the atom , its w ays and make-up, w ill
be found in the work in question.
are many degrees of matter, but it should be under­
stood that there are only three fundamental grades,
and that the seven unfold from this trinity in unity.)
It is curious to note in this connection that the
name given to the number seven by the Greeks was,
amongst many others, Minerva, the goddess
said to have been born from the head of Jupiter,
the first of the gods, the One. Taylor, commenting
on this, says that as Minerva proceeded from the
head of Jupiter, “ so the heptad proceeds from the
monad which is the head or summit of number” .*
This shows, as is suggested in this work, that the
number seven represents a consummation of things,
i.e. the completion of any cycle whatever, and its
returning upon itself.
That seven is the number which symbolizes Unity
unfolded to its limit and ready for appearance and
manifestation can be seen also by a study of physio­
logical science and genetics. The human foetus,
as is well known, quickens, as a general rule, at the
seventh month, and is actually ready for birth as a
completed body, although it is not normally born
until the end of the ninth (lunar) month. The
number nine, it will be shown, is the number of a
change of condition, whilst the ten represents the
coming forth as a completion. Thus the child is
actually born under the number ten, the sign of
completion, although seven is the period of con­
summation or cyclic completion, the period when
the foetus is a living, pulsating, and completed being.
It is generally accepted that the human body
develops in stages of seven, and renews itself in these
cycles of growth, becoming eventually outworn at
* Theoretic Arithmetic, p. 200.
The Number Seven 131
the completion of the ninth cycle of “ seven-ing” .
This is, of course, only a general rule. The tenth
septenary (ten being the number of completion)
usually marks the end of life, the days of a man
being “threescore years and ten and even by reason
of strength fourscore years” . Seven may be seen
as the number of all creative acts, the consummation
or cyclic completion, examples of which are too well
known and too numerous to be considered here.
The remaining stages after this completion
simply represent the arrangement and maturing of
the created forms, and the coming forth into life
and existence, the perfecting of things, the com­
pletion which contains the cyclic completion or
consummation. Thus in the unfolding of numbers
may be traced the history of any creation, whether
of a whole universe, a world, or the human foetus.
They are the symbols which demonstrate the history
of creation.
Cornelius Agrippa states that seven is a number of
varied and multiple power, being composed of
I + 6, 2 + 5, or 3 + 4, and having the Unity to
balance the double trinity. Hence, as already said,
the double triangle with the synthesizing point
within it, the so-called Solomon’s Seal, or Shield
of David, is a true symbol of this Natural Rhythm,
or number.
“ The virtue of this number” , says Agrippa,
“ serves also for the generation of man, conception,
birth and nourishment and development.” He
shows that all these things are developed on sep­
tenary lines, and points out that the Pythagoreans
call this number the number of virginity, because
it is the first, which can no longer be engendered,
132 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Seven 1 3 3
and which does not itself generate; that is to say,
it is the extreme unfoldment of unity after polar­
ization. “ It cannot be divided into two equal
parts,” says Agrippa, “ inasmuch as it is not built
up from two equal numbers.” He also records
that it was sacred to Pallas, and that it was used by
the Hebrews in the sense of taking an oath, but he
does not explain how the number seven could have
so been used. This explanation will, however, be
forthcoming in its own place.
Medical evidence is not wanting to show that this
“ seven-ing” period is found in all manifested
things. Thus we read in the Medical Review :
There is a harmony of numbers in all nature : in the force
of gravity, in the planetary movements, in the laws of
heat, light and electricity, and chemical affinity, in the forms
of animals and plants, in the perceptions of the mind. The
direction, indeed, of modern natural and physical science
is towards a generalization which shall express the funda­
mental laws of all, by one simple numerical ratio. We would
refer to Professor Whewell’s Philosophy o f the In d u ctive
Science, and to Mr. Hay’sresearches into the laws of harmoni­
ous colouring and form. From these it appears that the
number seven is distinguished in the laws regulating the
harmonious perception of forms, colours, and sounds, and
probably of taste also, if we could analyse our sensations of
this kind with mathematical accuracy.*
The idea that the “ seven-ing” process in the
Universe is that of atomization seems to be confirmed
by Oswald Wirth in his Le Livre Du Compagnon,
the Book of the Fellow-Craft, or Craftsman, of
Freemasonry. “ Seven” , he says, “is the number
* The Medical Review, July 1846.
134 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
of the harmony which results after a just arrangement
between dissimilar elements.” And it is curious
that one may describe the atomization of matter,
in one sense, as a disturbance, and in another as
harmony resulting from such an arrangement,
but such is, of course, the case, paradoxical as it
seems at first sight. Seven is thus the number of
harmony, inasmuch as it symbolizes the completed
process of polarization, as is evident from a study of
the double triangle with the central point which
represents the synthesis of all things.
It is interesting to note that during the six
“ days” of creation of the Book of Genesis, only
Elohim (God) is mentioned, whereas after the
creation of man, on the sixth day, the work is
carried on by Jehovah-Elohim. Jehovah thus
represents God as the Life outpoured for the benefit
of man and creation generally; and means, amongst
other things, the life of God thrown down into,
or immanent in, all things. It should be noted also
that the creation of man, which has been described
in Chapter I as the work of the Elohim (God), is
referred to in Chapter II as the work of Jehovah-
Elohim (Lord-God) ; and that whilst the Elohim
created man “ in his own image” , the Lord-God
breathes into his nostrils the breath of life, to make
him a “living soul” .
This confirms the idea that Jehovah represents
the Life which does not function until Matter is
ready; this occurs only on the “ seventh day” ,
the day on which God is said to “ rest” . The seventh
stage of creation is thus not entirely a new departure,
but a stage or condition in which all the previous
work is summed up. Hence it is only on the seventh
The Number Seven *35
day and after that Jehovah and Elohim appear as
one, and Life works through Creation, or, in
another sense, to be explained more fully in a later
work, that the Creative Powers work in conjunction
with God’s descending life.
PIThe idea that seven is the consummation of all
the stages summed up in six is illustrated in the well-
known jewel of Freemasonry, the Cube, which is
made to open, and unfolds as a cross of four perpen­
dicular and three horizontal squares. This shows
that the six, as the cube, when unfolded or spread out,
itself produces the seven. As in the double triangle
there is the point or Power which is common to
both, so in the unfolded cube there is the point,
or central square, belonging equally to both arms of
the cross.
Railston Skinner, in his brilliant Source ofMeasures,
draws attention to this in a noticeable manner,
although he makes no attempt to explain its sig­
nificance.
“ It is very observable” , he says, “ that while there are
but six faces to a cube, the representation of the cross as
the cube unfolded, as to the cross-bars, displays one face of
the cube as common to two bars and counted as belonging
to either; then while the faces originally represented are
but six, the use of the two bars counts the squares as four
for the upright and three for the crossbar, making seven in
all. Here we have the famous 4 and 3 and 7.” *
Seven is written in Hebrew, ShVO, and pro­
nounced Shveer, or Shve-o; and our English word
swear, through the German schwerin, is, according
* Ibid., p. 50.
to Fabre D ’Olivet, derived from it. He says that in
Hebrew to take a Shveer, to affirm upon the sacred
seven, means to take an oath that a certain thing
shall be accomplished,* the fundamental meanings
of seven and swear being identical.
The root of the word, ShUV or ShV, expresses,
according to the best authorities, the idea of return.
It is sometimes used to denote old age (second child­
hood, which is a return), and also the completion
of a cycle, a consummation, or, as D ’Olivet puts it,
“ a return to the place from which one set out” .
This root is joined to the root OU mean­
ing a cycle, or “ to turn upside down” (Park-
hurst), hence a revolution. Thus the word “ seven”
means not only one thing repeated seven times,
but refers also to a cycle of days, weeks, or ages,
during which a certain work— human, terrestrial,
or cosmic— is consummated, and returns on a higher
spiral, with the additional characteristics moulded
into it during the “ sevening” period, to the status
quo ante. After these periods of “ sevening” , whether
weeks, ages, or periods of evolution, man and the
Universe return to rest to prepare for a new revo­
lution or “ sevening” : this is the ShBTh,the Sabbath,!
or day of consummation.
From this the teachings regarding the “ sevening”
potentiality of man may be understood. He comes
down the ladder of evolution with all his powers
latent, returning gradually, step by step, until the
cycle is completed, and all his powers have become
patent. Now a Master, he takes his place at the head
* Parkhurst says the same.
f Sabbath is not a holy day, but literally a Sevening day (consum­
mation).
136 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
The Number Seven 137
of his lodge, employing and instructing his brethren
in all the arts and crafts. He is now a perfect focus
for the rays of Intuition, the Spiritual Sun, and
capable of giving light to toiling pilgrims who, but
for him, would tread the path in darkness.
The meanings of three, five, and seven show
clearly the instructions for Masonic labourers and
employers. According to the meaning of the word
Three, the apprentice has to prepare himself by
extraction, and to pass from this to liberation, the
freeing from the bond ; the craftsman has to look
for guidance to the 5, i.e. Comprehension ; and the
Master or employer, the self-made man, to the 7,
i.e. Consummation or Return.*
When the various stages of the great becoming
of the Cosmos, symbolized by the numbers one to
seven, have been consummated, the broadening-out
process commences; for this consummation of the
seven is not a completion, but a definite and final
preparation to effect the completion symbolized
by ten.
* The higher meaning is still deeper, and refers to Cosmic Energy
and its “ 3, 5 and 7 Strides" in The Secret Doctrine.
CHAPTER XI
THE NUM BER EIG H T
I n Hebrew the word “ eight” is written ShMNH.
This, as will be seen, has a dual root, ShM and
M UN, the former referring to the act of placing
one thing upon another (D’Olivet), or of joining or
placing a thing (Parkhurst), and the latter to dis­
tinguish by shape (D’Olivet). If spelt without the
omissible U, the meaning is singularly appropriate,
viz. to distribute by number, or by parts, the evolv­
ing of different groupings of the atoms which go to
form the natural elements.
The first seven figure-symbols represent, as has
been seen, the preparation and completion of the
Cosmic Field. Through these processes, the once
formless Matter has become polarized, affinitized,
stabilized, and atomized, stamped with the hallmark
of different rhythms. Now comes eight, the symbol
of the differentiation of definite forms, and the
reflection or double of four, the symbol of founda­
tion, the “ squaring-up” process.
Here the Hermetic axiom “ as above so below” is
singularly appropriate. This is shown clearly in the
Hebrew word, the letter N, joined to the symbols
of duration (Sh), plasticity (M), and life (H), refer­
ring to the process of individualization, the develop­
ment of definiteness, which is the special work of
the epoch symbolized by the number eight.
ShMNH thus gives the key to the fundamental
138
The Number Eight 139
meaning of the ideas expressed in this number—
the heaping of atom upon atom, of molecule upon
molecule, and the aggregation of forms resulting
from this growth of elements and its development.
Now, whereas the number four represents the
foundation of all things in an original Root-Sub­
stance, spread out, as it were, in readiness for crea­
tion, the number eight, its double, represents a
completed foundation in actually atomized and,
therefore, manifested matter.
Numerical stages are thus repeated, and geometry
rather than arithmetic becomes the law. The atoms,
as points, range themselves as lines, and these lines
form up into triangles which, in order to produce
solids, must reflect themselves as fours, because four
is the number of foundation and therefore the first
plan of a solid figure. In this way the atoms formed
into triangles reflect themselves to produce “ foured”
triangles, arranged upon a triangular base, and
thus give rise to what is called the tetrahedron, a
four-sided and solidly triangular figure. Other shapes
are formed in the same manner, as may be proved by
a study of the internal arrangement of the different
atoms forming the base of the various elements.*
The manifestation of solid and enclosing bodies
necessitates what may be termed crystallization, and
this produces many different modifications. It is, of
course, obvious that no actual building of forms is pos­
sible in a universe unless the plastic Substance is separ­
ated into definite and individual parts. These parts,
atoms, or electrons, circular formsyvith centrah‘points”
within them, show again that point-in-the-circle idea
* See especially Occult Chemistry, b y A nnie B esant and C. W '
Leadbeater.
140 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
which is the true symbol of Nature. Without this
atomization, as already seen, all would remain a flux
of undifferentiated Substance ; moreover, the atoms
themselves, left to exercise their independence, could
never build a universe. Held together, however, by
the affinitizing Power within, atom revolves in-
triguingly around atom, and groups of atoms are thus
synthesized and welded into different geometrical
forms, and solid or enclosing figures produced.
Thus the meaning inherent in the Hebrew word
for eight expresses, as a word, the innermost idea of
the eight process.
It should again be noted that there are three
preparations for the formation of solid matter :
the first, as symbolized by the number two, is the
stage in which Root-Substance is polarized from the
One-ness which contains in Itself Life and Substance,
not as separate and definite opposites, but as an
undifferentiated Reality. The second preparation
is the quaternizing process during which this
polarized Substance (Two) is prepared as a founda­
tion for the many degrees of matter eventually
produced from it. The final preparation is in the
eight stage, where matter is heaped upon matter,
and the “ elements” are definitely built up. These
preparations may be symbolized in arithmetic as 2s,
the cube root of 8, the third power of 2, 2 x 2 x 2=8.
After the atomization of matter, the “ seven-
ing” process, all is ready for the building-up of
material forms, and atom is linked to atom to pro­
duce molecules, which are in turn aggregated
as elements. It should be noted that the “ atom” of
modern science is now seen to be an enclosed space
in which electrons, or smaller atoms, revolve round
a central nucleus; it is, in fact, a solar system in
miniature. The actual atom is, however, the pri­
mordial atom, not the atom of the scientists, which
is, as they are discovering, really a collection of atoms.
The power of the number eight was held by the
Greeks to be so great that a proverb was founded upon
it : “ All things are eight.” * It is also curious to
note, since the number is associated with the elemen-
talization of matter, that the late Sir William
Crookes, in his lecture to the Royal Society,!
arranged the elements discovered in lines of “ figures
of eight” , an arrangement which has since been
found to be practically correct.^
The Pythagoreans bestowed many queer names on
this number, not all of which, however, have been
understood. It was called Universal Harmony,
Mother and Rhea, Love and Friendship, Conception,
Law, Immature and Justice. The use of these names
in this connection is to be understood, in some ways,
according to the arithmetical power of the number,
and in others as relating to the creation of the
Universe ; it is, however, the latter only with which
we are here concerned.
Thus the idea of Universal Harmony applied to
the number eight is not difficult to understand when
we remember the grouping of the atoms to produce
the so-called Platonic Solids, and the grouping of
these to the molecules which are the base of all
elements, and which, in their turn, produce the many
different grades of matter, visible and invisible.
In the same way, the word Mother is a correct
The Number Eight 141
* Theoretic Arithmetic, Thomas Taylor, p. 212.
t Proceedings, June 9th, 1898.
1See Occult Chemistry, p. 12, first edition.
142 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
description, and with the word Rhea (Mother Nature)
expresses the idea that all forms proceed from the
process symbolized by this number. Love and
Friendship, Conception, Law and Justice, are, likewise,
all clearly understandable in this connection, and the
idea that the number represented that which was
immature is especially helpful, inasmuch as the process
of aggregation is alone the real beginning of bodies.
It isinteresting to note, in passing, that somewriters
consider that eight represents that Law of Cause and
Effect which is called Karma by the Hindus, Kismet by
the Mohammedans, and Judgments by the Hebrews.
The mode of the creation of geometrical forms
is difficult of understanding without the definite
and rational use of the imagination, the image­
forming faculty of the mind. Thus, let it be imagined
that a certain point (“that which has position but
no magnitude” ) in Space be viewed as from above.
The point, having to produce a form, goes off
“ downwards ” in three lines, at right angles to each
other, and these are founded in the matter below
on a triangular base, thus forming the Tetrahedron,
i.e. four equilateral triangles.
Now, whereas four represents a “ superficial”
foundation, eight symbolizes a solid foundation, and
hence was called the “ First Cube” by the Pytha­
goreans. In other words, eight is the Crystallization
which is prior to Materialization. The whole process
may be summed up as aggregation, or Intassement des
formes, to quote an expression of D ’Olivet’s. More­
over, even the shape of the letter, as originally
written, was itself two squares, one posed upon the
other, %. This became the modern 8, the only
completely closed figure.
CHAPTER XII
THE NUMBER NINE
As the number six symbolizes the balancing-up of
the Spirit-Matter “ opposites” of the Universe for
creative purposes, so, this work completed, atoms,
positive and negative, “ male” and “ female” , are
formed by the “ seven-ing” process, and are then
drawn together, by affinity of origin, and revolve
around each other, forming a relatively stable duality.
Seven being thus the completion of the preparatory
stages of creation, numbering commences anew.
The next phase, that of formation, or intassement
des formes, is symbolized by the number eight. In
this, the atoms, coming together, serve as a basis
for the different elements, matter being heaped
upon matter, atom on atom, and the consequent
aggregations crystallized into geometrical forms
which take shape according to the atomic combina­
tion underlying them, as has been shown.
The number nine represents a new stage in the
development, i.e. the differentiation of elements
into compounds, resulting in seven kinds of matter,
ranging from the finest to the densest. Hence the
number nine is here accepted as representing change,
a trinitized trinity.
TheEnnead, or nine, “was celebrated by the Pytha­
goreans as flowing round the other numbers within
the decad, or ten, like the ocean” . This strange and
143
144 Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
mystical allusion would seem to refer to the fact
that the stage of creation represented by the number
nine is that in which all forms were made ready to
be built up into bodies, and included in themselves
all shapes, and hence all numbers, geometrically
considered. Thus the stage comprehended all
numbers within itself, and so was correctly described
as “ flowing round” them.
Nine was also called the horizon, probably because
it is the approach towards the completion symbolized
by ten, and hence signified that which was
farthest away from the beginning. This idea is
explained arithmetically by the anonymous writer
quoted by Taylor :
That there can be no number beyond the ennead, but
that it circulates all numbers within itself, is evident from
the regression of numbers. For the natural progression of
them is as far as nine, but after it their retrogression take9
place. For io becomes, as it were, again the Monad (the One).
Thus if from each of the numbers io, n , 12, 13,14, 15, 16,
17,18, and 19 the number 9 is subtracted, the numbers that
remain will be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and vice versa the
progression will receive an increase by the addition of nine.
For if to each of the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc., 9 is added,
the numbers produced will be 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, etc. Like­
wise by subtracting from 20 twice 9, from 30 thrice 9, from
40 four times 9, from 50 five times 9, etc., the numbers
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc., will be produced. By taking likewise from
too 11 times 9 we again return to the Monad, and after the
same manner we may proceed to infinity. Hence it is not
possible there should be any elementary number beyond the
ennead (nine). Hence they called it Ocean and Horizon,
because all numbers are comprehended by and revolve within
it.*
* Theoretic Arithmetic, p. 205.
The Number Nine H5
Since this number represents, as a cosmic process,
a distinct change of condition, a turning from the
formless to a bodily creation, it is well named
Terpsichore, although it may also be understood
arithmetically, as Taylor says, quoting his anony­
mous author once more. In this sense, nine was
called Terpsichore, the Dancing Muse, “ because of
its turning and causing the retrogression and con-
vergency of productive principles to circulate like a
dance” .
Nine thus represents the stage wherein a distinct
change is made, and this is seen cosmically in the
perfect balance of all things, three trinities in one.
It represents the perfect balancing of all produced
and atomized matter. Matter, qualified under
number five and atomized under seven, has now to
be arranged into states. As, however, all manifesta­
tion is triune, whether Matter or Spirit, and as
one manifesting as trinity becomes seven, so there
are now seven main gradations of matter, each
atomized. From these all bodies are produced.
These seven are fundamental divisions of matter,
but each of them has, in turn, by combination and
grading, seven sub-divisions. These seven appear
everywhere in a completely manifested universe.
Hence in the process symbolized by the number
nine, seven is a subsidiary arrangement.*
In Hebrew, nine is called TShO. This word
contains the sign of relative duration (Sh) added to
the sign of materiality (O), and governed by the
* The Koran states th at God created 7 Heavens and 7 Earths
( lx v i2 ; xli8 -ir). Sufis speaks of seven planes in Nature, as do
Hindus and Theosophists generally. Islam has its seven inferior
worlds, and Judaism its seven Heavens.
K
Tauf or Tau, which represents reciprocity, perfec­
tion, and the all-embracing Universal Soul. It is,
therefore, a sign that the work of creation is nearing
its completion, and that a change is due. This idea
is mentioned also by H. P. Blavatsky, who says:
The Egyptian Cross, or Tau, is the Alpha and Omega
of the Secret Doctrine Wisdom, which is symbolized by the
initial and final letters of Thot (Hermes). Thot was the
inventor of the Egyptian alphabet, and the letter Tau closed
the alphabets of the Jews and the Samaritans, who called this
character the “ end” or “ perfection” , “ culmination” and
“ security” .*
It is clear from these symbols that nine represents
the final stage of preparation or “ creation” , in which
all things are formed, shaped up, and materialized
ready for the change which leads to completion.
Nine, as we have seen, is a reflection of the Three
on the lowest planes, as six is its reflection in the
intermediate world. Each of these trinities— 3, 6,
and g— represent the same work in different worlds.
The first belongs to the world of Ideation, the
Archetypal or Atzilatic W orld; the second to the
World of Briah, the Creative W orld; and the last
to the dense world of forms.t Their work, whether
in the archetypal or lower worlds of dense matter,
is the same, viz. the connecting and relating of the
“ opposites” by means of Cosmic Energy, the
“ Base” or Connecting Link. Hence the symbol 9
represents, in this respect, the final inter-relating in
146 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
* The Secret Doctrine, vol. ii, p. 614.
t The 12 m ay be referred to the purely physical and lower worlds,
th eA siah.
The Number Nine H 7
the world of forms and the ensuing relationships of
Knower, Known, and Knowledge, of Self, Not-
Self, and the Relation between them.
D ’Olivet saps of this number :
The root ShO (ytv ), which signifies ordinarily chalk,
cem ent, carries with it all ideas of cementing, of consolidation,
restoration, preservation, etc. The verb yjty (ShUO),
which is derived from it, expresses the action of cementing,
coating, or carefully closing. Therefore the name of the
number in question being clearly composed of this root,
yty (ShO), governed by the sign of reciprocity, ought to
be understood as a cementing or mutual consolidation.
It bears a very intimate relation with the number three,
of which it is a power, comprising likewise the ideas of
preservation and salvation.
CH APTER XIII
TH E NUM BER TEN
T he Decad, ten, was called many strange names by
the Pythagoreans, such as the world, heaven unwearied,
fate, eternity, Atlas, strength, necessity. It was named
Decad because it contains all things in itself, and the
world because all things are arranged according to it,
both partially and universally. It was also the uni­
versal recipient, the boundary of all things, and
unwearied.* Hence it was called eternity, because
it contains all things in itself, and probably for the
same reason was named Atlas, he who, according to
the Greek myth, bears the whole world on his
shoulders. It was called strength because it was the
completion of all things, matter expanded into
physicality, hence solid and strong.
Ten denotes the completion of building, whether
the body of man or the universe, and the emanation
of the Beings who ensoul such bodies. It is thus the
number of a complete but complex unity, a being or
thing, a body which is unique and yet contains in
itself innumerable parts, each of which, although
belonging to the common unity, is also complete in
itself. It is thus the completed Process. After it,
the same series is repeated, but the fundamental idea
is ever the same.
The complete unfolding of creation is clearly a
* Theoretic Arithmetic, Taylor, p. 208.
148
The Number Ten 1 4 9
series of progressions, or numbers, ending in ten,
which is a new kind of collective unity, different
from the one which begins all things, inasmuch as
it is One fully developed as a unified collectivity,
a many-ness, and yet a oneness. Hence, although
the stage of ten represents completion it is
itself an effect, and, as such, a new generating cause,
as may be easily understood by considering man as
a symbol of this process, for man is the result of such
a series, as a study of embryology and biology will
show. He is a result, a ten, and as such he becomes a
cause, as parent of similar numberings, or genetic
progressions. In this way, Man, the smaller world,
may justly be compared with the Universe, the
greater world.
Ten therefore represents the stage when all is
complete. It shows the formation of bodies and
actual forms, whether of man or of the worlds in
Space. It is, in a sense, an end of creation, yet as there
is no absolute end and no absolute beginning in
That which is Illimitable, it is at once an end and a
beginning, an effect and the new cause which arises
therefrom.
Hence ten cannot be called the “ complete num­
ber” in the sense of an absolute end. Rather is it the
Perfect Number. Dr. Allendy calls it the collective
being, unity realized, and the universe itself. These
descriptions exactly coincide with what has been
stated herein. He confirms also what has been said
regarding the two kinds of Unity expressed in the
one and the ten :
“ It is well” , he says, “ to make a distinction
between the synthetic unity expressed by the number
one and the composite ten. Both may serve to
150 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
designate composites in any particular individuality ;
the organic molecule formed of atoms, the living
cell formed from molecules, the organism itself
formed from cells, etc. Each of these unities is a
relative unity or singularity, comprehending only
a part of the sub-unities which exist in the world,
and which are themselves found to be comprised
in a whole of a still superior order ; but the difference
between them corresponds to the fact that simple
unity is an odd number and the unity of the ten an
even number.”
It should, however, be noted that although
seven is the full extent of Unity unfolded, it is
not generative, as is the complete ten. This is made
very clear in Fabre D ’Olivet’s table, as will be
seen.
Ten is the symbol of completion, the completion
of a whole process, and therefore distinct from the
completion of a part, which is the result of the
“ seven-ing” process, or consummation, and is repre­
sented by the number 7. Man, the microcosm, is
sevenfold, and his work is to synthesize his seven
“ principles” and know himself as one. This is “ peace
and consummation sweet” ; but until he has also
realized the Monad and its triple powers, he cannot
complete the cycle and become the ten. Thus the
Perfect Man is the Seven, and the God-man the
ten. There may be a final step in the direction of
the 12, which is the four-fold completion, but of
this we have no adequate knowledge.
The interested reader is referred to the descrip­
tion of the different numbers given in The Secret
Doctrine. The meanings given them herein have
been evolved upon other lines, complementary,
The Number Ten 151
it is true, though to the superficial eye totally
unrelated. But it is well to remember that The
Secret Doctrine is the book of all modern “occult”
books, and its dicta the dicta of a master in the
Science of Numbers. Dealing with the word ten,
H. P. Blavatsky says:
Ten, or the Decad, brings all these digits back to unity,
and ends the Pythagorean table. Hence this figure— unity
within zero— was the symbol of Deity, of the Universe, and
of Man. Such is the secret meaning of “ the strong grip of
the lion’s paw, of the tribe of Judah” (the master-mason’s
grip) between two hands, the joint number of whose fingers
is ten.
This Decad, representing the Universe and its evolution
out of Silence and the unknown depths of the Spiritual
Soul or Anima Mundi, presented two sides or aspects to the
student. It could be, and was at first, applied to the Macro­
cosm, after which it descended to the Microcosm, or man.
There was, then, the purely materialistic or “surface science” ,
both of which could be expounded by and contained in the
Decad. It could be studied, in short, both by the deductive
method of Plato, and the inductive method of Aristotle.
The former started from a divine comprehension, when the
plurality proceeded from unity, or the digits of the Decad
appeared, only to be finally reabsorbed, lost in the infinite
Circle. The latter depended on sensuous perception, when
the Decad could be regarded either as the unity that multi­
plies, or matter which differentiates ; its study being limited
to the plane surface, to the cross, or the seven which proceed
from the ten, or the perfect number, on Earth as in Heaven.*
“ Only with the eyes closed” , i.e. by deep medita­
tion, said the ancient Qabalists, “ can Three be
The Secret Doctrine, vol. ii, pp. 614 and 605.
_ fp~i X ' * 5! —
. ■ • f . ^ - .
152 Phe Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
seen as One,” and only in the same way can the inner
meaning of the Ten be fully comprehended. Yet it
is possible to give some explanation of the mystery
by means of the letters OSR which form
the word. The governing sign, O, is a symbol of
materiality or aggregation, the former being its
meaning on the lower planes, and the latter on the
higher; the S is the sign of relative duration and
movement, and the R of progress, of the fire which
tends ever upwards, and of the renewal of things.
Hence it is not difficult to realize that Pen is the
symbol of Completion, whether the preparatory
completion before the beginning (as in the foetus),
or the completion after a “ beginning” or birth.
The symbols of aggregation, relative duration,
progress, and renewal are therefore rightly used to
form the word Pen.
It should be remembered and clearly understood
that a completion must come before the birth or
beginning, as well as after it, whether on the physical
or on formless levels. In the cosmic “ birth” , we
find that until the Ten Sephiroth, the Ten Prajapati,
are emanated, no “ creation” is possible, and likewise,
before the nine months have passed, the child is
not born as a complete individual. This shows also
that each completed revolution, each Pen, has
within it the potency of a new round of manifesta­
tion.
It is interesting to note that one of the root mean­
ings of this word, viz. SR, or Seer, means to govern,
to direct, to rule, hence our word Seer in the sense of
Prophet. More wonderful still is its other meaning,
especially when it is remembered that one comple­
tion has in it that which is attached to the seed of a
The Number Ben 153
new revolution. This meaning, “ umbilical cord” ,*
gives a deep hint as to the relation of the foetus and
its development to the birth and development of the
Cosmos.
D ’Olivet tells us that the word OSR refers to the
collecting together of power, of the elementary
motive force. Its root, OS, refers to aggregation,
and from it we get the verb OSUH, to do, to make.
The second root, SR, is the moving principle of
anything, and it gives us the verb SUR, meaning
to direct, togovern. Ten is, according to this authority,
aggregation and reformative power.
There is certainly some strong connection between
this Hebrew word for ten (OSR) and the Egyptian
Osiris, which is spelt in various ways: User, Oser,
As-ar, and Usr-Rd. The last has nearly the same
letters as the Hebrew, with the addition of the vowel,
which is an interpolation. Osiris, or Usra, was the
Egyptian “ god of the dead” , and ten, it will be
remembered, is the symbol of death and resurrec­
tion, i.e. birth into other conditions. In later times,
according to Wallis Budge,t Osiris was called
Unnefer, which means “ he who makes manifest the
good” , and is the sign of the regenerator. This
is seen from a verse in the Book of the Dead, where
certain words are put into the mouth of the God :
“ I am Yesterday, and I am To-day ; and I have the
power to be born a second time. I, the hidden soul,
create the gods, and I give sepulchral meals to the
divine beings in Amenti and in heaven.” J
The idea of destruction and regeneration is also seen
in the legend of Osiris and Typhon. Typhon finds
* Ezek. xvi, 4. P ro v .iii, 8.
t Gods of the Egyptians, vol. ii, p. 114. | Ibid., p. 116.
the body of Osiris, which has been hidden by Isis,
and he dismembers it and scatters the fragments;
but “his limbs had been reconstructed and he had
become immortal . . . his body never decayed like
the bodies of ordinary men” ,* and it never diminished,
even in death. Here is a deep teaching for those who
know the Secret Doctrine !
It is easy to realize that the Hebrews spoiled the
Egyptians of much that was of value, since here is a
most precious jewel, the ten, OSR, taken from the
name Osiris, symbol of death, of resurrection, and
of completion, the perfection of man.
This mystery of creation and completion sym­
bolized by the number ten is also told in guarded
language in the tenth chapter of the Book of Genesis,
a chapter which contains secrets and mysteries said
to be confided in fullness only during Initiation.
The verses relating to the progeny of Noah (here
symbolizing the Manu or God) tell of the functions
of the different Orders of Beings, and their Armies
of Helpers, the Cosmic Hierarchy, whose appearance
and make-up is explained in such a manner as to be
ever hidden from all save those who have the
key.
The letter Yod, which in Hebrew stands for ten,
well represents, as a figure, the Primordial Point
which contains all things in potentia. It is the sign
of manifestation par excellence, and means, literally,
hand or pointing finger. All the Hebrew letters are
made from it and all things emanate from it, for
as ten, or Completion, it contains all numbers in
itself (i + 2 + 3 + 4= io ). It is the Lingam (i)
and Yoni (o) combined, the Divine Hermaphrodite,
154 The Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
* Ibid., vol. ii, p. 140.
The Number Ten 155
the actual point from which all flows, even on the
physical plane. It is also a picture of the sperm-cell
which fertilizes the ovum. This shows that in the
Yod is contained the Secret of Evolution and the
Purpose of Life.
Fabre D ’Olivet says:
The number ten has this peculiarity in the language of
numbers, that it is a t once fin a l and in it ia l; that is to say
it term inates the fir s t decade and commences the second, thus
enclosing two expressions, and presenting itself at the same
time as term and principle. I beg the reader to examine the
following example of a thing which is difficult to understand
otherwise.
F ir st D e c a d e Second D e c a d e T h ird D e c a d e
1 2 3 4 5 67 8 910 11 12 13 14 15 1617 18 1920 21 22 23 24 25 etc.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 13 14 15 16 etc.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 etc.
We see in this example that the number ten of the first
decade corresponds to the number 1 of the second ; in such
wise that if we follow the arithmetical progression from one
to another we find that the corresponding numbers are
10 and 1,11 and 2,12 and 3, etc., always adding the members
of the complex numbers in order to form a simple number.
Now I ought to say for those of my readers who do not
fear new or profound ideas that the first ten chapters of
Genesis do not correspond to the first decade as explained
above, but to the second : it is as if the idea were that this
book had a beginning composed of nine chapters of which
the first of Genesis formed the tenth. This commencement
was consecrated to Theogony, and turned upon the essence
of Divinity. I have strong reasons for thinking that Moses,
having received from the sanctuary of Thebes these theo-
gonic principles, suppressed them, not thinking, with good
156 Phe Meaning and Philosophy of Numbers
reason, that the Hebrews were in any way able to comprehend
them.*
That this number Ten represents Completion and
Perfection is also shown by the fact that it is the
complete and final number, all others being evolved
from it, or from its components. All numbers are
built up from the primordial one, two, and three,
and the first step from this trinity, the junction of
one and three, gives four, and from these all numbers
originate, their total being ten. Without a manifested
trinity of number nothing can be produced, for
i + 2= 3, 3 + I = 4> 3 + 2= 5, 3+ 2 + 1=6, 4 + 3 -7 ,
4 + 3 + 1— 8, 3+ 2 + 4=9, 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10. Beyond
this all is repetition and multiplication. Hence 10 is
rightly named the Perfect Number, for all numbers
subsist therein.
Ten is thus the symbol of Completion and of a
new beginning, of coming and going, of Pralaya
and Manvantara, of Rest and Activity, and, as such,
is a fitting symbol wherewith to end this work.
For it is itself in the nature of a Pen, complete in
itself, yet unending, since it contains within it
the seeds of further Pens which abler students may
bring to completion. If it has that result, it will
have served its purpose.
* L a Langue HSbraique Restitute, vol. ii.
FINIS
