{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__agarwal___reminiscences_of_col_olcott.pdf","mytitle":"Reminiscences Of Col Olcott","mylang":"de"}
$/->(, 7.
tk/y t
REMINISCENCES OF
COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT
BY
VARIOUS WRITERS
*
COMPILED BY
HRIDAYA NARAIN AGARWAL, M.A., LL.B.
r~
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
A d y ar, M ad ras, India
1932
L.3t.
THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY
591100 A
ASTOR, LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
If 1932 L
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
MOST of these Reminiscences have been
reprinted from various journals with the kind
permission of the Editors. References are
indicated in the table of Contents.
H. S. OLCOTT
an. officer in the Federal Army, in the early part of the
Civil War in U.S.A. 1861—1865.
PREFACE
-Jf
J
i
IA*
I
J
j
TO many the name of Colonel H. S. Olcott
merely recalls the fact that he was President
of the Theosophical Society, but the intrinsic
value of his work is not adequately recognised.
Truly, Madame H. P. Blavatsky was the
teacher and the originator of Theosophy, but
the credit for the propagation of the Theo-
sqphical truths goes largely to Colonel Olcott.
Undoubtedly, without him the mere existence
of those truths was certain, but the splendid
Organisation—The Theosophical Society-—is
chiefly due to his great zeal and earnest
endeavours.
^ To remind us, therefore, of the great part
tD "played by him in the organisation of the
Theosophical Society, I have ventured to
w , . 1
1 compile this little book as a loving tribute to his
q q , memory, on the occasion of the Founders’
Convention of the Society held at Adyar in
December, 1931. Madame H. P. Blavatsky was
born on August 11, 1831, and Colonel Olcott
on August 2, 1832. There is already a
compilation giving the tributes of those who
knew Madame Blavatsky well. This work,
which records the tributes of those who knew
Colonel Olcott, is published to give an insight
into his manifold activities for human welfare.
The first two letters record the judgment
passed on Colonel Olcott by his Master, the
Master M., and by the Master K. H. who along
with the Master M. inspired Madame Blavatsky
to found the Society to check the overwhelming
tide of materialism.
H. N. AGARWAL
Adyar, December, 1931.
CONTENTS
PAGE
Preface . ................................. V
I. (From The Letters from the Masters
of the Wisdom, Second Series,
Letter 26) . . . . 1
II. (From The Mahatma Letters) 5
III. By H. P. Blavatsky (From The Theo-
sophist, August, 1931) . 6
IV. Colonel Henry Steel Olcott, by Annie
Besant (From The Theosophist,
March, 1907) . . . . . 12
V
. Henry Steel Olcott, by C
» W. Lead-
beater (From The Theosophist,
May, 1909) . . . . . 23
V
I. Lest We Forget, by M. R. H. (From
The Theosophist, February, 1930) . 34
VII. The President-Founder, by A. P.
Sinnett (From Vahan, March, 1907) 40
VIIL In Memoriam, by Upendra Nath
Basu (From Theosophy in India,
March, 1907) . . . . . 42
V lll
PAGE
TX Personal Reminiscences of Colonel
H. S. Olcott, by A. P. Warrington
(From The Theosophist, March, s
1929) . . . . . . 46 4
X. Henry Steel Olcott, by A. Schwarz
(From The Theosophist, December,
x 1931) . . . . . . 51
XI. Colonel Olcott as a Great Mesmerist,
by B. Ranga Reddy . . . 59
XII. Some Reminiscences of Colonel
Olcott, by Sarah E. Palmer (From
Theosophy in India, December,
1913) . . . . . • 62
XIII. More Reminiscences of Colonel
Olcott, by J. Harry Carnes (From
The Adyar Notes and News,
* February 14, 1929) . . . 67
XIV. By A. K. Sitarama Shastri, (From
The Adyar Notes and News, May 24,
‘ 1928) . . . . . . 7 0 |
XV. Faithful unto Death, by C. W. Lead-
beater (From The Theosophic
Messenger, November, 1908) . . 71
■
■
■
. t m
Last Message of the President- f >' T j| i
Founder. . c . . . 81
REMINISCENCES OP
COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT
I
AT Upasika’s prayer, I hereby state the follow­
ing facts: No letter blaming Henry Olcott,
accusing him of incompetency, or entrusting
the management of the T. S.’s affairs to
Mr. S. G. L. Fox, has ever been sent by me,
or received by him, whether in London or
elsewhere.
The last page of a long business letter
written in October 1884 and addressed by me
to Upasika—a woman who served me faithfully
—contained a para (2-3rd of a page) concern­
ing Mr. L. Fox ; and agreeably with her instruc­
tions, she sent it to the latter asking for it back
and burning it. The rest of my letter was not
2
shown nor has he been allowed to either see or
touch it. Therefore he knows nothing of it.
In the aforesaid para he was told of the
advisability to return forthwith to India for
purposes of influencing in the right direction
the disturbed minds of the Anglo-Indian *
bara-sahabs1 and thereby helping his own
(L. Fox’s) karma. It is for this purpose—no
other—that he was asked to go. Any other
construction made upon what was written (by
Mr. L. Fox or anyone else) is false.
It is my desire that anyone, who heard
Mr. L. Fox blame the “ Founder ” Olcott, those
who have listened to the cruel words of censure
directed again at Henry Olcott by Mr. L. Fox,
should now hear too w hat I have to say of him.
If Henry has erred, it is because he is
human, and being human, often believed in
false and foolish advisers more “ incompetent ”
than he whom they so blamed.
If he is “ ignorant ” of many things, so are
his accusers, and because he remains still
uninitiated the reason for which is very plain:
to this day he has preferred the good of the
many to his own personal benefit. Having
1 Hindustani for **big folk **.
given up the advantages derived from
steady, serious chelaship by those who devote
themselves to it, for his work for other people—
these are those who now turn against him.
Let Mr. S. G. L. Fox know what I now say:
whatever Henry Olcott’s shortcomings we are
well pleased with, and thank him. Let it be
known to all what I think, and now state
(under) my own signature. Henry Olcott has
served and followed his Master “ to the last gasp
with truth and loyalty As another great
but as erratic English genius truly puts it,
“ Fools are they who believe in every lying
report and have not the energy to admit i t ;
fools they who disbelieve in such and have not
the courage to proclaim it. Shy and cowardly,
vicious and hypocritical those whom calumny
can alarm or who will lend a willing ear to it.
*Looks like truth ’—they say; does it ? Do
they forget that ‘a lie is never more successful
than when she baits her hook with truth *?”
Fools, fools! who do not see that all Asura-
dugpas are at work for the destruction of the
Society,1 their only, their last enemy of
1The attack of the Christian Missionaries using the
Coulombs, with the subsequent denunciation of H. P. B.
as a fraud by the Society for Psychical Research.
4
Salvation on the present troubled waters of
Kali-yug 1Blind are they who see and perceive
not. Their karma is spun ; but what Masters
can or shall help those who refuse to help
themselves.
M.\
V
.
II
Him we can trust under all circumstances,
and his faithful service is pledged to us come
well—come ill . . . Where can we find
an equal devotion ? He is one who never
questions, but obeys ; who may make innumer­
able mistakes out of excessive zeal, but never
is unwilling to repair his fault even at the cost
of the greatest self-humiliation ; who esteems
the sacrifice of comfort and even life something
to be cheerfully risked whenever necessary;
who will eat any food, or even go without;
sleep on any bed, work in any place, fraternise
with any outcast, endure any privation for
the cause.
K. H.
I l l
By H. P. Bl a v a t s k y
“ TRUTH does not .depend on show of
hands ” ; but in the case of the much abused
President-Founder, Colonel H. S. Olcott, it must
depend on the show of fa cts. Thorny and
full of pitfalls was the steep path he had to
climb up, alone and unaided, for the first
years. Terrible was the opposition outside the
Society he had to build ; sickening and dis­
heartening the treachery he often encountered
within the H eadquarters; enemies gnashing
their teeth in his face around ; those whom he
regarded as his staunchest friends and co-
workers betraying him and the Cause on the
slightest provocation. Still, where hundreds
in his place would have collapsed and given
up the whole undertaking in despair, he,
unmoved and unmovable, w ent on climbing
up and toiling as before, unrelenting and
7
undismayed, supported by that one thought and
conviction that he was doing his duty. What
other inducement has the Founder ever had
but his Theosophical pledge and the sense of
his duty towards THOSE he had promised to
serve to the end of his life ? There was but
one beacon for him—the hand that had first
pointed to him his way up: the hand of the
Master he loves and reveres so well, and
serves so devotedly, though occasionally, per-
haps, unwisely.
President, elected for life, he has neverthe­
less offered more than once to resign in favour
of anyone found worthier than him. but was
never permitted to do so by the majority—not
of “ show of hands ” but show of hearts,
literally—as few are more beloved than he is,
even by most of those who may criticise
occasionally his actions. And this is only
natural: for cleverer in administrative capa­
cities, more learned in philosophy, subtler in
casuistry, in metaphysics or daily life policy,
there may be many around him ; but the
whole globe may be searched through and
through and no one found stauncher to his
friends, truer to his word, or more devoted
8
to real, practical Theosophy—than the Presi­
dent-Founder ; and these are the chief re­
quisites in a leader of such a movement—one
that aims to become a Brotherhood of men. The
Society needs no Loyolas ; it has to shun any­
thing approaching casuistry ; nor ought we to
tolerate too subtle casuists. There, where every
individual has to work out his own Karma, the
judgment of a casuist who takes upon himself
the duty of pronouncing upon the state of a
brother’s soul, or guide his conscience, is of
no use, and may become positively injurious.
The Founder claims no more rights than every
one else in the Society: the right of private
judgment, which, whenever it is found to
disagree with Branches or individuals, is quietly
set aside and ignored—as shown hy the com­
plainants themselves. This, then, is the sole
crime of the would-be culprit, and no worse
than this can be laid at his door.
And yet what is the reward of that kind
man ? He, who has never refused a service—
outside what he considers his official duties—
to any living being; he who has redeemed
dozens of men, young and old, from dissipated,
often immoral lives, and saved others from
9
terrible scrapes by giving them a safe refuge in
the Society ; he who has placed others again on
the pinnacle of Saintship through their status
in that Society, when otherwise they would
have indeed found themselves now in the
meshes of “ worldliness ” and perhaps worse ;
he, that true friend of every Theosophist, and
verily “ the readiest to serve and as unconsci­
ous of the service ”—he is now taken to task
for what ?—for insignificant blunders, for
useless “ special orders,” a childish, rather than
untheosophical love of display, out of pure
devotion to his Society.
Is then human nature to be viewed so
uncharitably by us, as to call untheosophical,
worldly and sjnful the natural impulse of a
mother to dress up her child and parade it to
the best advantages ? The comparison may be
laughed at, but if it is, it will be only by him
who would—like the fanatical Christian of old,
or the naked, dishevelled Yogi of India—have
no more charity for the smallest human weak­
ness. Yet the similae1is quite correct; since
the Society is the child, the beloved creation of
the Founder, he may well be forgiven for his
1So in manuscript.
10
too exaggerated love for that for which he has
suffered and toiled more than all other Theo-
sophists put together. He is called “ worldly,”
“ ambitious of power,” and untheosophical for it.
Very well; let, then, any impartial judge
compare the life of the Founder with those of
most of his critics, and see which was the
most Theosophical, ever since the Society
sprung into existence. If no better results have
been achieved, it is not the President who
ought to be taken to task for it, but the
members themselves; as he has been ever
trying to promote its growth, and the majority
of “ Fellows ” have either done nothing, or
created obstacles in the way of its progress,
through sins of omission as of commission.
Better unwise activity, than an overdose of too
wise inactivity, apathy or indifference which
are always the death of an undertaking.
Nevertheless, it is the members who now
seek to sit in Solomon's seat, and they tell us
that the Society is useless, its President positive­
ly mischievous, and that the Headquarters
ought to be done away with, as the organi­
sation called Theosophical presents many
features seriously obstructive to the progress of
11
Theosophy. Trees, however, have to be judged
by their fruits. It was just shown that no
“ special orders ” issuing from the “ Centre of
Power,” called Adyar, could affect in any way
whatever either Branch or individual; and
therefore any Theosophist bent on “ self-culture,”
“ self-involution,” or any kind of selfness,
is at liberty to a c t; and if, instead of using his
rights, he will apply his brain power to
criticise other people’s actions, then it is he
who becomes the obstructionist and not at all
the “ Organisation called Theosophical For,
if Theosophy is anywhere practised on this
globe it is at Adyar, at the Headquarters. Let
" those interested in the progress of true
Theosophy ” look around them and judge.
IV
COLONEL HENRY STEEL OLCOTT
By A n n ie Besant
H. S. OLCOTT, who cam© from an old English
Puritan family settled for many generations in
the United States, and whose grandmother was
a descendant from one of the early members of
the Dutch East India Company, was born in
Orange, New Jersey, on August 2nd, 1832. He
was only twenty-three when his success in the
model farm of Scientific Agriculture, near
Newark, led the Greek Government to offer him
the Chair of Agriculture in the University of
Athens. The young man declined the honour,
and in the same year he founded, with Mr. Vail
of New Jersey, “ The Westchester Farm School,”
near Mount Vernon, New York, a School
regarded in the States as one of the pioneers of
the present system of national agricultural
13
education. He there interested himself in the
cultivation of sorghum, just brought to the
United States, and produced his first book,
Sorgho and Imphee, the Chinese and African
Sugarcanes, which ran through seven editions
and was placed by the State of Illinois in its
school libraries. This book brought him the
offer of the Directorship of the Agricultural
Bureau at Washington, an offer which he
declined, as he also declined offers of the
managership of two immense properties.
In 1858 Mr. Olcott paid his first visit to
Europe, still bent on the improvement of
agriculture, and his report of what he saw was
published in Appleton’s American Cyclopaedia.
Recognised as an expert, he became the
American correspondent of the well-known
Mark Lane Express (London), Associate
Agricultural Editor of the famous New York
Tribune, and published two more books on
Agriculture.
This phase of his life concluded with the
outbreak of the American Civil War, when his
passion for liberty drove him to enlist in the
Northern Army, and he went through the
whole of the North Carolina Campaign under
14
General Burnside, and was invalided to New
York, stricken with fever. As soon as he
recovered, he prepared to start again for the
front, but the Government, noting his ability
and courage, chose him to conduct an enquiry
into some suspected frauds at the New York
Mustering and Disbursing Office. Every means
was adopted to stop his resolute investigation,
but neither bribes nor threats could check the
determined young officer in his conduct of a
campaign more dangerous than the facing of
Southern bullets in the field. His physical
courage had shone out in the North Carolina
Expedition ; his moral courage shone out yet
more brightly as he fought for four years
through a storm of opposition and calumny,
till he sent the worst criminal to Sing Sing
Prison for ten years, and received from the
Government a telegram declaring that this
conviction was as “ important to Government
as the winning of a great battle *\ Secretary
Stanton declared that he had given him
unlimited authority because he “ found that
he had made no mistakes that called for
correction ”, Assistant Secretary Fox wrote
that he wished to 4
6bear testimony to the great
15
zeal and fidelity which have characterised
your conduct under circumstances very trying
to the integrity of an officer *\ The Assistant
Secretary of W ar w rote: “ You will have
from your fellow-citizens the respect which is
due to your patriotism and honourable service
to the Government during the rebellion.” The
Judge Advocate-General of the Army wrote:
“ I cannot permit the occasion to pass without
frankly expressing to you my high appreciation
of the services which you have rendered while
holding the difficult and responsible position
from which you are about to retire. These
services were signally marked by zeal, ability
and uncompromising faithfulness to duty.”
These words signalise the qualities most
characteristic of H. S. Olcott’s life.
Mr. Olcott now became Colonel Olcott, and
Special Commissioner of the War Department.
After two years, the Secretary of the Navy
begged for the loan of his services, to crush out
the abuses of the Navy Yards, and he was
made Special Commissioner of the Navy
Department. With resolute and unsparing
zeal, he plunged into his work, purified the
Department, reformed the system of accounts,
16
and at the end received the following official
testimony : “ I wish to say that I have never
met with a gentleman intrusted with important
duties, of more capacity, rapidity and reliability
than have been exhibited by you throughout.
More than all, I desire to bear testimony to
your entire uprightness and integrity of
character, which I am sure have characterised
your whole career, and which to my knowledge
have never been assailed. That you have
thus escaped with no stain upon your reputation,
when we consider xhe corruption, audacity and
power of the many villains in high position
whom you have prosecuted and punished, is a
tribute of which you may well be proud, and
which no other man occupying a similar
position and performing similar services in this
country has ever achieved.”
. This was the man to whom Madame
Blavatsky was sent by her Master to the
United States to find, chosen by Them to found
with her the Theosophical Society, and then to
spend the remainder of his life in organising it
all over the world. He brought to his task his
unsullied record of public services rendered
to his country, his keen capacity, his enormous
17
powers of work, and an unselfishness which,
his colleague declared, she had never seen
equalled outside the Ashrama of the Masters.
He was found by Madame Blavatsky at the
Eddy’s Farm, whither he had been sent by the
New York Sun and the New York Qraphic,
to report on the extraordinary spiritualistic
manifestations which were there taking place.
So valuable were his articles that no less than
seven different publishers contended for the
right to publish them in book form. So keen
was the interest aroused that the papers sold
at a dollar (Rs. 3) a copy, and he was said
to divide public attention with the second
election of General Grant to the Presidency.
The two brave hearts recognized each other,
and the two clasped hands in a life-long union,
terminated on earth when H. P. Blavatsky
left in 1891, but not terminated, so they both
believed, by the trivial incident of death,
but to be carried on upon the other side,
and when returned again to birth in this
I world.
Colonel Olcott, who had resigned from the
War Department, and had been admitted to
the Bar, was earning a large income as Counsel
2
18
in Customs and Revenue cases when the call
came. He abandoned his practice, and in the
following year founded the Theosophical
Society, of which he was appointed by the
Masters President for life, and of which he
delivered the inaugural address on November
17th, 1875, in New York. He studied with
Madame Blavatsky, and largely Englished for
her her great work Isis Unveiled, one of the
classics of the Society.
In 1878, the colleagues left for India, and
for a time fixed their residence in Bombay.
There Colonel Olcott inspired the first exhibi­
tion of Indian products, urging on Indians the
use of their own goods in preference to those
of foreign manufacture ; at the first Conven­
tion of the Theosophical Society in India,
Svadeshism was first proclaimed, as at a later
Convention the Congress was begotten. A
vigorous propaganda was now carried on all
over India, much hindered by Government
hostility, but welcomed by the masses of
Hindus and Parsis.
In 1880, began the great Buddhist revi­
val in Ceylon, which has now 3 colleges and
205 schools, 177 of which received Government
COLONEL OLCOTT IN 1875
19
grants this year [1907]; 25,856 children
were in attendance in these schools on
June 30th, 1906. This work is due to the
whole-hearted energy and devotion of Colonel
I Olcott, himself a professed Buddhist. Another
great service to Buddhism was rendered by
his visit to Japan in 1889, during which
he addressed 25,000 persons, and succeeded in
drawing up fourteen fundamental propositions,
which form the basis of union between the long
divided Northern and Southern Churches of
Buddhism.
In 1882, the Founders bought, almost entirely
with their own money, the beautiful estate of
Adyar, near Madras, which they established
as the Headquarters of the Theosophical
Society. The work done from 1875 to 1906 may
be best judged by the fact that up to the year
1906, the President had issued 893 charters to
branches all over the world, the majority
grouped in eleven Territorial Sections, and the
rest scattered over countries in which the
branches are not yet sufficiently numerous to
form a Section. The most northerly branch is
in the Arctic Circle, and the southernmost in
Dunedin, New Zealand.
20
His time, his thoughts, his money, were all
given to his beloved Society. One day I said
to him : “ Henry, I believe you would cut off
your right hand for the Society.” “ Cut off
my right hand !” he cried ; “ I ’d cut myself
into little pieces if it would do the Society
any good.” And so, verily, would he have done.
He travelled all the world over with cease­
less and strenuous activity, and the doctors
impute the heart-failure, while his body was
still splendidly vigorous, to the overstrain put
on the heart by the exertion of too many
lectures crowded into too short a time. “ You
will die as I am dying,” he said to me lately ;
“ they drive you just as hard.” To the
furthest north, to the furthest south, he
went, cheering, encouraging, advising, organis­
ing. And ever joyously he returned to his
beloved Adyar, to rest and recuperate.
Many difficulties have confronted this lion-
hearted man, during these thirty-one years.
He stood unflinchingly through the discredit­
able attack on Madame Blavatsky by the
Society for Psychical Research, and has lived
to see Dr. Hodson accept more marvels than
he then denounced. He steered the Society
21
through the crisis which rent from it for a
time nearly the whole American Section, to
see that Section welcome him to his native
land with pride and exultation. He saw his
colleague pass away from his side, and bore
the burden alone, steadfastly and bravely for
another sixteen years, knitting hands with
Annie Besant, her favourite pupil, as loyally
and firmly as with herself. Through good
report and evil report he has worked unwaver­
ingly, until his Master’s voice has called him
home. At that same order, he appointed his
colleague Annie Besant as his successor, to
bear the burden H. P. Blavatsky and he had
borne. He endured his last prolonged sufferings
bravely and patiently, facing death as stead­
fastly as he had faced life, and cheered in the
last weeks of his illness by the visits of the
great Indian Sages, to whom he had given the
strength of his manhood, the devotion of his
life. He has passed away from earth, and left
behind him a splendid monument of noble
work, and on the other side he still will work,
till the time comes for his return.1
1[On White Lotus Day, 1928, referring to H. S. Olcott,
Dr. Annie Besant said that in his new body be had just
joined the Theosophical Society.]
22
India has had no more faithful helper in the
revival of her religions than this noble
American, and she may well send her blessing
to the man who loved and served her.
V
HENRY STEEL OLCOTT
BY C. W. LEADBEATER
I , \ ' ( i * r* '
IN any account of prominent Theosophists the
name of H. P. Blavatsky must inevitably stand
first; but just as certainly the second name
on the list must be that of Henry Steel Olcott.
He shared with her the honour of founding the
Society, and if through her came the teaching,
the spreading of which was the object of its
existence, it was his administrative ability
which made that existence possible, his hand
which steered the Theosophical ship over many
a stormy sea and through many a difficult
passage. He had been prepared for his posi­
tion not only by the special work of the earlier
years of this life, but also by previous incar­
nations in different parts of the world in which
he had held positions curiously parallel—always
24
connected with the preaching of a great re­
ligion, yet never himself the preacher, but the
administrative officer whose work made the
teaching possible.
He was born—this time—at Orange, in the
State of New Jersey, on August 2nd, 1832.
He appears to have devoted himself at first to
agriculture, not merely theoretically but very
practically as well. I remember his showing
me a ring which he told me had been broken
on his finger while actually holding the plough.
He appears to have worked upon the model
farm of Scientific Agriculture at Newark,
and with sufficient success to attract attention,
since at the early age of twenty-three the
Greek Government offered him the Chair of
Agriculture at the University of Athens—
which, however, he did not accept. Indeed,
he declined several good positions which were
offered to him, even the directorship of the
Agricultural Bureau at Washington. He did,
however, accept a post as Associate Agricultural
Editor of the New York Tribune, and (though
we can hardly suppose that to have been in­
cluded in his agricultural duties) he represent­
ed that newspaper at the execution of the
25
celebrated John Brown—thereby unquestion*
ably risking his life for its sake.
The outbreak of the Civil War turned his
thoughts from the tilled field to the field of
battle. He joined the northern army, and
fought through the North Carolina Campaign,
but after that the Government withdrew him
from active service, and set him the far more
dangerous task of investigating frauds in some
of the military departments. He spent some
years in this work, in which he was most
successful. He received thanks and testimonials
from very high officials for the thorough-
ness and honesty with which he carried
through the very difficult business entrusted to
him. He was appointed Special Commissioner
first of the War, and then of the Navy Depart­
ment, and his services were as highly appre­
ciated in the latter as in the former. When
his work there was done, with the marvellous
versatility of the American he made yet
another complete change of profession, and
became a very successful lawyer. At the same
time he still continued to do occasional literary
work, for it was when he was reporting
the Eddy manifestations that he first met
26
Madame Blavatsky, and thus inaugurated
the final stage of his life for which all these
others had been but preparatory.
His first Theosophical work seems to have
been to help Madame Blavatsky in the writing
of the great book, Isis Unveiled—an experience
during which he acquired an immense mass of
varied information. The two companions
worked together for three years in America,
and a very wonderful time it was, as may be
read in the first volume of Old Diary Leaves.
Madame Blavatsky was at this time constantly
performing some of the extraordinary pheno­
mena which were afterwards so grossly misun­
derstood and misrepresented, and as the Colonel
always took the keenest interest in such things
he revelled in the unparalleled opportunity
offered to him. During this time also he had
the privilege of meeting again the Master whom
he had known so well and served so faithfully
in far-off lands and in other lives; and from
this time onward his devotion to that Master
never faltered or failed, but remained ever the
strongest characteristic of a strong unselfish life.
In 1878 the Founders of the Society decided
to move its Headquarters to India, where they
27
were received with great enthusiasm. This
move brought a great change into the Colonel’s
life. In America he had been chiefly engaged
in desk work, and learning and assimilating
the wonderful new philosophy which altered so
entirely his outlook on life. Now he had to
teach as well as to learn, to come out before
the public as a lecturer, as the director and
organiser of a great Society which spread with
remarkable rapidity. He devoted himself
utterly to the welfare of that Society for the
remaining twenty-nine years of his life, and
they were twenty-nine years of very hard
work, of almost incessant travelling and
lecturing in all parts of the civilised world. In
the intervals which he allowed himself to spend
at his *home in beautiful Adyar he was no less
incessant in his labours, constantly planning
for the improvement of the Headquarters, pull­
ing down, rebuilding, adding a room here
and a new department there, reaching always
towards the great ideal of a spiritual and edu­
cational centre which he had ever in his mind.
To him was due the formation of the Adyar
Library [in 1886], and the erection of the stately
building in which it is housed ; it was he who
28
arranged the impressive opening ceremony of
that library—a ceremony actually unique in
the world’s history up to that date, because of
the willing co-operation of representatives of
all the great religions—except one. Buddhist
Monks from Ceylon, Hindu Pujaris from one
of the great southern temples, Zoroastrian
Mobeds from Bombay, and Muhammadan
Midlas from the Deccan, all joined to bless the
new venture, each performing the ceremony
of consecration according to the rites of his
own religion, but also each joining in the rites
of the others, fully admitting them as standing
on an equality with his own. The omission of
the Christian religion on this occasion was no
fault of the Colonel’s, for he asked certain
priests to attend as representatives, but received
the discouraging answer that the other people
were heathens, and that it would therefore be
impossible to appear with them in public and
take part in their ceremonies !
Another piece of work, the importance of
which has never been properly appreciated by
the majority of the Society, was the drawing
together of the two great divisions of the
Buddhist Church. The Northern and Southern
29
Churches had been separated for ages in
doctrine as w ell as in practice, and it is due
solely to the Colonel’s exertions that they stand
now upon a common platform, for he drew up
a declaration of the fourteen essential points of
the Buddhist faith, and obtained to this the
signatures of the leaders of both Churches. He
also arranged th a t a certain number of the
young men wishing to enter the Order of
Monks in either of the Churches should be sent
to study under the teachers of the other, in
order to bring about fuller knowledge by each
of the other, and greater mutual comprehension.
Few people in western lands have any idea of
the importance of this result. If the Pope and
the Archbishop of Canterbury could be induced
each to acknowledge the other as of the true
faith and in every w ay his equal, and if they
could agree upon a creed to which both would
attach their signatures as containing every*
thing essential in Christian doctrine, we
should regard it as a historical event of the
first order and of world-wide im port; yet the
number of people who would be affected by
such a rapprochement would be only about half
as great as the number of those brought
30
into religious harmony by this one act of
Colonel Olcott’s.
He was always a great friend to education*
To him was due the great Buddhist educational
movement in Ceylon, which has founded three
colleges and over two hundred schools, at which
some twenty-six thousand children are now
being taught. Ever the champion of the poor,
the despised and the oppressed, he also took up
enthusiastically the question of.the education
of the neglected Pariahs; and though this
movement is as yet but in its infancy, it has
already five schools1working very effectively
in Madras. When people in the West can be
brought' to understand what it is that is being
done for the Pariah, and how sore is the need
of it, there can be little doubt that funds will
flow in as they should for the endowment of
these schools, in which, by the very nature of
the case* the pupils can never pay for them­
selves. <
t Another very prominent characteristic in.
him was his strong sense of the duty of
impartiality in his position as President of the
' } [This was in 1909; since then three schools within
the Municipal limits have been taken up by the Madras
Corporation.] - ' :i
31
Society. A man of intense and definite con­
victions on most points of public policy and
social progress, he was yet meticulously careful
never to pledge the Society to any of his own
opinions—never even to express those opinions
when speaking in its name.
Naturally many important and difficult
questions came before him for decision, and I
myself can bear testimony to the painstaking
care which he devoted to their considera­
tion, and the amount of thought which
he lavished upon them before pronouncing
judgment.
The Colonel’s final illness was a long one,
for his physical body was strong, and he sank
but gradually into the peace of death. He
endured most patiently and bravely much
suffering and weariness, but through it all his
one thought was always for the welfare of the
Society which he so loved. His last days
were cheered by frequent astral visits from bis
old colleague H. P. Blavatsky, and on several
.occasions by the gracious presence of the
Masters whom he had so faithfully served.
And when, on February 17th, 1907, at last
came the moment at which he was to lay
32
•down the burden of the flesh, the Great Ones
came and stood around his bed ; all who had
at different periods of his life directed his
studies—the Kingly Teacher under whose
•orders both he and Madame Blavatsky had
specially worked, together with the gentle
Brahmana to whose erudition The Secret
Doctrine owes so much, and the Egyptian
Master who had taken charge of the Colonel
in the earlier days—all these, with H. P. Bla­
vatsky herself, were there to receive him and
•to welcome him as he returned victorious from
the battle of his earthly life. Soon he will
come again to carry on to greater heights the
work which he has so well begun, and those
who laboured under him this time may well
have the opportunity of serving with him then,
if they but take to heart the lesson of his life
—the lesson of unswerving loyalty and whole-
souled devotion to the Great Cause which was
always for him the one thing to which all else
must yield, for which he stood ever ready to
sacrifice ease and comfort and even life itself.
Faithful unto death in this life as in that other
lived so long ago, he stands before us as an
examplar of courage, loyalty and unselfishness.
For the great Masters he lived, he lives and he
will live; when once more he raises Their
banner, may we have strength to follow him
as he has followed Them !
3
VI
LEST WE FORGET
BY M. R. H.
On the 17th of February, 1907, there occurred
the passing of our beloved President-Founder,
Colonel Henry Steel Olcott, at Adyar.
What a flood of memories and affection
sweeps over me as I recall the event—memories
of my constant wonderment of him during the
months prior to his death, and affection that
has been hallowed by the ages !
There is no use chronicling here the events
associated with his founding and serving the
Theosophical Society, for they are so well
known; but I wish that every one could know
the details of many important things that
happened in the long last days when that
great soul was passing from our midst, depart­
ing with the promise of his Master (made at
35
his death-bed) to take him to His home in the
Himalayas for a long rest, and then to find
him a new body in which he might continue
his work for the Society.
In glancing back to those eventful months
preceding his death, it is difficult to choose two
or three of the many events to relate here, as
they were all so impressive. Sometime I shall
describe them fully in print and thus share
them with all Theosophists.
It might be thought that since the Colonel
seemed so long dying by inches, his environ­
ment was filled with sadness. Not afc all. He
would not allow us even to look sad. As soon
as he thought there were sad feelings around,
he would begin to tease us, tell humorous stories
(even though in constant pain), recite odd bits
of poetry, and otherwise divert our thoughts.
He was particularly anxious not to leave
this life without righting every possible wrong
of which he felt he might have been the cause.
He sent letters of apology, had people come to
see him and “ talk it over,” and finally said :
“ I can’t think of anyone else that I might
have wronged, and I feel so happy and full of
affection for them all.”
36
His courage and faith as he felt death draw­
ing nearer and nearer were truly marvellous.
In fact, he yearned to die. On several occa­
sions he tried to will himself free, whispering,
over and over again ; “ I must go, I will go,
take me, Master.” He talked so joyously and
radiantly of what -work he was going to do
“ up there ” for the members when they came
there during sleep, and all that he expected
to accomplish when he came back. He
made a very wry face and some witty remarks
about the dreaded “ baby stage ” of a new
body, which provoked no end of mirth.
And so the days passed up to the last few,
and there was no cessation of his humour,
kindness and tender solicitation for all of us
who nursed and helped him in other ways.
Very beautiful indeed were the companion­
ship and affection that blossomed between
himself and Mrs. Besant during the long weeks
that she remained at his bedside like a
ministering angel. Long hours, day and night,
she would sit by his side, for he was always
very happy and contented when she was near.
One of the last pronouncements which he
dictated to me for publication was about her.
37
and it should always remain a living appeal to
all members. It read, in p art: “ I rejoice
more and more day by day that the Masters
wished her (Mrs. Besant) to succeed me, for I
feel sure that she is the only person at
present so well fitted to be your President. I
ask you all, in memory of me, to be loyally
devoted to her as your leader, because her
ideals are also mine and she will work for our
Society’s welfare so long as she lives. Be
devoted to her also because I wish to ask you
to help, in some measure, to repay her for her
constant tender devotion and care during my
last illness.”
The outstanding events of all those wonder­
ful days were the visits of the Great Ones to
his bedside. On one such occasion They
suddenly appeared. It was evening, and
Mrs. Besant was holding a large meeting on
the flat roof just outside the entrance doors of
his apartment. It might have seemed at first
that the Great Ones were only there astrally,
but subsequent events proved that They were
in tangible, physical bodies.
When Colonel saw Them he sprang from
his bed unaided (though it usually took two
38
or three of us to lift him), prostrated himself
with hi3 arms about M aster M.’s feet, thrilled
with joy. The Master lifted him tenderly and
placed him on the bed, and M aster K. H.
arranged the pillow under his head.
Long, important and profoundly impressive
were the conversations among them, and many
were the words of praise and gratitude uttered
by the Masters.
At another of Their visits the Colonel
complained feelingly to Master M. about one
of the members who had caused him and the
Society a great deal of trouble, and ended by
saying that the person was a very dangerous,
evil enemy. The Master K. H. put His hand
on the Colonel’s shoulder, and with a divine
tenderness in His voice, said : “ Then he
has all the more need of your love and
compassion !”
I feel sure that Colonel Olcott will not mind
my drawing aside the veil for only a few
moments from the sacredness of those visits of
the Masters. It is done purposely, because
doubt has arisen in the minds of some of the
members as to the existence of the Masters and
Their overshadowing the Society.
39
Instead of doubting, remember that our two
Founders were the soul of honour and bear the
Masters witness. As Their willing servants,
they brought us Theosophy and the Theosophi-
cal Society. What greater boon could have
been given us, left us as a sacred heritage,
than that of aiding to transmit to others the
knowledge of Theosophy—the essence of all
Truth.
VII
THE PRESIDENT-FOUNDER
By a . P. S innett
DATING the beginning of his Theosophical
activity from the year 1875, when the Society
was first established, he has thus devoted
thirty-two years of strenuous life to the noble
purpose of extending the influence of the
Society all over the world. Very few of its
members now living can have known him longer
or more intimately than myself, as I made his
acquaintance in the year 1879 in the infancy
of the movement, and have been in close touch
with him ever since, and I venture to say
that by none can his single-minded, unselfish
devotion to the cause the Society represents be
more cordially and appreciatively recognised
than by myself.
41
I affirm from long knowledge of the fact
that he was never actuated in any course
he ever took from the beginning to the
close of his Theosophical career by any other
than the purest motives, while the universal
affection in which he was held throughout the
Society was enough to show how widely hie
character was understood, how unreservedly
it commanded admiration. The work he did
has given rise to a structure of colossal
magnitude. In all quarters of the globe its
solid results are apparent. But for those who
knew him best it is not so much for what he
did as for what he was that his memory will
be cherished with the tenderest regard.
VIII
IN MEMORIAM
By Upendra Nath Basu
The second of the two Founders of the
Theosophical Society has just passed away from
our midst, and with him has set one of the
brightest stars of the religious world. True to
his lifelong faith in the occult power of the
number 7, Colonel Olcott chose for his departure
from this sublunary sphere the hour of 7 in the
morning on the 17th day of February in the
year 1907. So the time must have been very
auspicious for him. Looked at from the point
of view of the Hindus too, he should have a
splendid future: for his translation occurred in
the day time, during the bright fortnight of
the moon and the northerly course of the sun.
And how could it be otherwise, seeing that his
life was one of willing sacrifice to the noblest
ideals that have ever inspired mankind ?
43
My acquaintance with this great soul com­
menced as early as the year 1879, when he
first came to India, and when I had the proud
privilege of serving as his interpreter at an
address which he gave to the pandits of
Benares, I was only a youth of sixteen at the
time, but even then I felt a mysterious attach­
ment for him—an attachm ent which soon
developed into ties of Theosophical Brother­
hood, and later on into warm friendship en­
during to the last day of his life ; and I shall
cherish the fond memory of his affection for
ever. So magnanimous was his heart that,
although he was old enough to be my grand­
father, he never turned a deaf ear to any of
my appeals to him, and I never failed to find
ready redress for any of my grievances. In his
private relations he was simple as a child
and kind as the kindest of mothers; and yet
withal brave and strong, and possessed of an
organising capacity that may well arouse the
admiration of generals and ministers.
These, however, were his minor qualifications.
It was as President of the Theosophical Society,
as founder and leader of a world-wide move­
ment, endeavouring to work out the ideal of
44
the Universal Brotherhood of Man, almost
utopian in its loftiness, that he shone out
radiantly among his contemporaries. In him
the Society found its unity, in his even-handed
justice was preserved its solidarity. This ideal
of Brotherhood, it is true, was not new, almost
every great religious reformer was animated
by it. But it remained only a dream with
most of them ; and it turned into sect at the
point of realisation with others. But to him
belonged the credit of giving it practical and
definite shape. His was the glorious achieve­
ment of bringing together into fraternal co­
operation and harmonious relation men and
women from the far East and tne far West,
from the remote North and the distant South,
men and women of all faiths and creeds—
Buddhist, Christians, Hindus, Parsis, Mussal-
mans, and even Freethinkers, and beforehe died
there were over 16,000 persons on the roll of his
Society, scattered all over the civilised world.
And these persons are recruited from all ranks
and grades of the social scale; one counts
among them princes, noblemen, judges, magfs- J
orates, scientists, philosophers, politicians, law­
yers, physicians, poets, novelists and the like.
45
V
and all of them looked up to him as their
leader—their final referee on all questions
of constitution, their highest peacemaker.
Of course he was not perfect: for no man in
flesh and blood can be perfect; and we have
heard criticisms against his financial adminis­
tration, his injudicious selection of subordinates,
and trivial things of that sort, but never a breath
has stirred against his impartiality, his uniform
regard for all faiths, his equal treatment of the
followers of all creeds. In fact he maintained
the eclecticism of the Society in a most admir­
able manner, and as such has proved himself to
be an ideal President of the T. S. His loss,
therefore,- to us is irreparable, and it is more
than doubtful if we shall ever find a successor
to his office imbued through and through with
the same spirit of tolerance, hand in hand with
the same love of religion in the true sense of
that word. How then can we close this
humble tribute to his memory, except with the
prayer th at his soul may spread its protecting
wings over the Society to whom his best energy
and profoundest devotion were given while in
the body !
IX
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES OF
COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT
By A. P. W arrington
I REMEMBER well my first touch with the
Colonel. It was in the early part of the
present century following hard upon a tour
which had just been made by Mr. Leadbeater.
I had gone from my home in Virginia to
Washington expressly to meet him. I had
learned that he was to give a lecture on “ Per­
sonal Magnetism,” or something of the sort,
in some hall in Washington, and I made
it my business to attend. When he entered
the hall I remember distinctly being impressed
by two things: first, his royal carriage as he
marched with splendid dignity and self-con­
fidence down the aisle to the platform; and
47
the other, his shortness of stSture, that is to
say, shorter than his manner would suggest.
T he C olonel g a v e a n in te re stin g lectu re, an d
a fte rw a rd s sh o o k h a n d s w ith m an y people*
O ne e ld e rly la d y cam e up to h im to be healed.
She c o m p la in e d of sufferin g som e kind of pain
or a ilm e n t in th e lo w er p a rt of h er back. The
C olonel w as se a te d a t th e m om ent and said to
h e r : “ G iv e m e y o u r h an d k erch ief.” The lady
did so. H e p laced th e han d k erch ief upon th e
in d ic a te d spot on h e r back an d proceeded t o
blow on it w ith a deep breath tw o or three
tim es. H e th e n rem oved the handkerchief*
h a n d in g it b ack to h er w ith some rem ark about
feelin g b etter.
W h e n w e le ft th e h a ll I joined th e p a rty and
th e C olonel said th e re w as one th in g h e
w ish e d v e ry m uch to hav e, an d th a t was a
d rin k of A m erican soda w ater. “ W arrington*
X h a v e n o t h a d a d rin k of A m erican soda w ater
fo r tw e n ty -fiv e years. T ake m e to th e nearest,
d ru g sto re a n d le t’s have one together.”
T he n e x t d a y w e w en t together to Mt..
V ern o n . I t w as m y first visit, by the w ay, to
o u r N a tio n a l A m erican shrine, and, therefore,
i t w as a double pleasure th a t I could go th ere
48
with Colonel Olcott. He seemed to enjoy the
visit almost as a boy would do. All the old-
fashioned gardens with the borders of boxbush,
unchanged since they were planted in the
eighteenth century ; the old kitchen fire-place
and the antique utensils; the various treasures
of the house of Washington, especially interest­
ed him ; but above all, I think, he was capti­
vated most by the beauty of Mt. Vernon as an
admirable and rare place of residence, for he
said to me a number of times what a beautiful
model it was for a country gentleman’s home,
with its charming old residence, its great trees
and lawn, and especially the exquisite location
upon the river.
I can say to you from experience that the
■Colonel was an early riser. As a matter of
fact I was not such, and never had been. I
had always valued my sleep of the sunrise
hours ; but during the visit at the Masso house,
morning after morning the Colonel would come
to my window which opened on the patio, and
standing there in his pyjamas would recite
poetry to me, thus making sleep impossible. I
seem to remember now at this distance of time
the tones of his voice rolling into my window
49
soon after sunrise : “ Arise, Awake, Seek out
the Great Ones and Get Understanding.”
From the day of my birth to the present
moment it has been very difficult for me to
make the electric battery of my body do its pro­
per duty, and during those weeks with Colonel
Olcott I had an excellent opportunity to see
for myself what a dynamo of energy was his
body. He was fully aware of the inefficiency
of my body, and he kept me near him much of
the time. As he sat close beside me I could
feel the superabundant energy of his power­
ful body flowing into mine and energising
it, giving it its proper feeling of well­
being.
The Colonel had a little box. In that little
box he had some useful trinkets which he
showed to me over and again. He seemed as
proud of these curious little things as a small
boy of his strings and toys. I knew then that
he was a man of very wide scope of sympa­
thies, for he could be at once the boy or the
great organiser and leader. It is my opinion
anyhow that the best men never grow up. If
they did, they would simply be some sort of an
adult machine.
4
50
I count it as having been one of the greatest
privileges of my life that I could have come
into touch with this striking personage of our
Theosophical history. A kindlier man there
never was, nor ever a friendlier one, nor one
more thoroughly devoted to his ideals. To
him the Masters of the Wisdom were living
presences. In no sense were They in his life
the far-off deities of an act of Sunday Worship.
They lived in his every thought and speech,
and his entire life turned upon the axis of
Their being.
It would be hard to believe that anyone
who had created an organisation in which he
had become so thoroughly enwrapped as the
Colonel with the Theosophical Society, would
not soon again find his way into that Society
by an immediate rebirth. I hope, therefore,
that some day we shall have the honour
once again of looking to him as the Society’s
leader and organiser; for few can put the
amount of zeal, continued interest and reverent
thought into a work that can be given by him
who created it, whose child it is.
X
HENRY STEEL OLCOTT
By a . Schwarz
THE memory of Colonel Olcott calls up the
picture of a unique personality, striking in
appearance, a bom organiser, independent,
open-minded, large-hearted, of a lovable and
joyous disposition, possessing in a remarkable
degree the qualities which eminently fitted
him for the office of President of the Theo-
sopical Society, and accounted for a splendid
record of public work in his earlier career.
I had my first glimpse of him in 1893, when
he came to Ceylon to meet Mrs. Annie Besant
on her first visit to the East, and when he
presided at a lecture on “ Karma ” which she
gave in the Public Hall of Colombo. That
lecture was my introduction to Theosophy, but
I little dreamed at the time that in later years
52
I should become closely associated both with
Mrs. Besant and Colonel Olcott. During the
next few years, w henever I passed through
Madras I took the opportunity of calling at
Adyar for the purpose of buying books and also
in the hope of m aking the personal acquaint­
ance of Colonel Olcott. As ill-luck would have
it, he was absent on the first two or three
occasions and I did not m eet him till February
18th, 1897, a date I had forgotten and only
discovered accidentally when, looking through
his Diaries some years ago, I found my visiting
card pasted in a t th at date.
A dyar has the complete set of these Diaries,
in which, from 1878 to 1907, the Colonel
briefly entered every evening the principal
events of the day, pinning or pasting in
visiting cards, notices of lectures, invitations,
menus of dinners, newspaper reports, also a
few letters—in one of which I discovered a
long-forgotten dollar-note—and stating his
judgment in succinct remarks about events and
people, serious, humorous, sometimes caustic,
even interspersed w ith a few jokes he had
heard and wished to remember. These served
him in later years as the basis of his Old
53
Diary Leaves, originally published monthly in
The Theosophist and later in book-form.
Unfortunately he passed away before he could
bring his reminiscences up to date, and so we
miss a great deal of interesting information on
the history of the Theosophical Society, which
the Diaries would have called up in the
Colonel’s mind, but which no one else can
completely reconstruct from his short entries.
The five published volumes bring the history of
the Society up to the year 1898, and younger
members especially should not fail to read
these fascinating reminiscences, valuable both
as a historical record and because through
them Colonel Olcott becomes a living personal­
ity to the reader.
I have a happy recollection of that first
meeting with him, for it was the beginning of
a lasting friendship. I had, however, to
remodel my preconceived notion of what the
President of the Theosophical Society might be
like. I had pictured him as a solemn old
gentleman who would talk to me about Theo­
sophy, the Masters, the Society, instead of which
I found him to be a man of the world, jovial,
frank, leading the conversation on to topics of
54
the day, yet at the same time revealing in
some undefinable way the serious and deeper
side of his nature. Before I left he was good
enough to depute Dr. English to show me, at
my perhaps somewhat bold request, the paint­
ings by Schmiechen of our two Masters, a
favour which I greatly appreciated.
From that time onward I had many
opportunities of coming into ever closer
touch with him, for on his frequent visits
to Colombo he usually stayed in my bunga­
low, and my appreciation of our President-
Founder grew, as I learned to know the
real man. Often, when in the mood, he
would talk to me till late at night about
H. P. B., the Masters, and the early days of
the Society, his frankness and love of truth
being so apparent that his testimony regard­
ing the existence of the Masters and H.P.B.’s
relation with Them has ever since carried
supreme weight with me. Through his work
for the revival of Buddhism and of education
he had immense influence with the Buddhists
of Ceylon. His genial ways and real friend­
ship for the people endeared him to them to
such an extent that his name became a
55
household word in the Island, as well as in
many places in India. I remember how for
years after his death the quickest way to find
our Headquarters at Adyar, or the Colonel’s
bungalow “ Gulistan ” in Ootacamund, was
not by asking for the Theosophical Society or
Gulistan, but for Olcott Bungalow, his name
being the better known.
From 1899 till his death I attended most of
the Annual Conventions at Adyar, events to
which I always looked forward with keen
anticipation both of a spiritual refreshment
and a physical rest. The combination of
Mrs. Besant as teacher, giving her magnificent
lectures on “ Avataras,” “ The Pedigree of Man,”
“ The Bhagavad-Gita,” etc., and of Colonel
Olcott as President, keeping every one in good
humour with his friendly, jocular remarks, was a
happy one indeed. Compared with our present-
day larger Conventions, those early ones were
more in the nature of large family-gatherings.
This gave them a peculiar charm, for members
got to know each other, and year after year one
met the same old friends. The few Europeans
were usually housed at Headquarters in
cadjan (palm-leaf) huts or cubicles on the roof;
56
the Indians in one or two large cadjan sheds.
Many of them however settled down at night
in the spacious Headquarters Hall, which then
served as a dormitory, and was usually filled
with rows of figures sleeping side by side on the
floor. In the morning, the bedding was rolled
up and piled against the walls. The Colonel
was an ideal host. He knew his Theosophical
family, personally received his guests (literally
embracing his older friends), looked after the
comfort of every one, and always presided at
the European table in the old dining-room
which in those days could easily accommodate
the small number of Europeans and Parsis
who attended. Meal-time offered a great
opportunity for his jokes and he was fond of
teasing his more intimate friends.
Convention visitors were considered guests
of Headquarters, but a collection was made to
cover expenses as far as possible, the well-to-do
brothers being expected to pay for the poorer
ones. At these collections the Colonel proved
an excellent auctioneer. “ Who will give
Rs. 100 for an armchair in Devachan ?” and
similar jocular remarks kept the audience in
roars of laughter and brought many a currency
57
note from its hiding-place. Being a good
organiser he naturally had an eye to business.
Some years before I settled at Adyar, I
confided to him during one of my visits that it
was my wish to work for the Society in some
way after retiring from business, but that, not
being a writer or lecturer, I did not see in
what capacity I might be useful. Promptly
came his reply that it was always possible to
work by proxy, by paying for a lecturer or
efficient worker who could not support himself.
I did not take his very practical advice, but
bided my time, and not long after, at the time
of his death, the problem solved itself when I
was offered the office of Treasurer which
fortunately I did not need to work “ by proxy ”.
I wonder whether newer members realise
how much the Society owes to its President-
Founder, what courage, hard work and self-
sacrifice were needed to start and guide the
Movement, how his organising capacity was
indispensable to H. P. B. for the spreading
of her teachings. Madame Blavatsky was
the teacher and occultist; Colonel Olcott
the organiser. He never claimed to be
an occultist, but his writings and lectures
58
disclose the possession of a great deal
of occult knowledge, and deserve careful
study, for no one can have a complete insight
into the foundation, growth and problems of
the Theosophical Society who has not read
them. He was fond of saying that he had
been bidden by his Master to be the doorkeeper
of the Society and that position he meant
to and did hold to his end. That he considered
his special Dharma ; in its fulfilment he found
his satisfaction and inspiration, setting an
example to all of us.
Such was Colonel Olcott as I knew him, an
outstanding personality whose greatness large­
ly overbalanced a few weaknesses, and whose
memory I cherish not only for his personal
friendship but also for his invaluable
services to the Theosophical Society and to the
world. What more could any of us wish for
than to have to our credit a life of service
and aspiration such as has been that of the
President-Founder ?
COLONEL OLCOTT IN 1883
XI
COLONEL OLCOTT AS A GREAT
MESMERIST
b y B. R a n g a Re d d y
I CAME to know about Colonel H. S. Olcott,
the President-Founder of the Theosophical
Society, when he and his co-worker, H.P.B.,
visited Nellore in the month of May,
1882, to form a Theosophical Lodge there.
They stayed there for three days, and
admitted nearly forty persons as members of
the Theosophical Society.
On the evening of the first day Colonel
Olcott delivered a lecture on “ Mesmerism”.
An hour or two after, some of the newly
joined members requested him to illustrate
what Mesmerism was. He asked them (they
were about fifteen or twenty members) to
stand before him in a semicircle, made some
passes on the face of every one, asked them to
60
close their eyes firmly and said : “ You can’t
open your eyes; try if you can.” All opened
their eyes except three. One of these three
was a District Court Vakil, the second an
Assistant Surgeon of the District, and the third
was about sixteen years old son of a District
Munsif. Then the Colonel said that these
were the sensitive persons and asked the
District Munsif to bring his boy next night so
that he might mesmerise him and show the
effects of mesmerism to others. Next night
the Munsif did not bring his boy as the mother
objected. But the other two members who had
been found sensitive attended along with other
members. All these sat in front of Colonel
Olcott. The Assistant Surgeon asked the
Colonel if he could cure the pain which he had
had in his knee for a long time. Colonel made
some passes on the knee and the pain disappear­
ed. Then the Colonel turned his attention to
the sensitive Vakil, made some passes on his
body and said : “ You cannot move your legs.”
The Vakil tried his best to get up but could
not. The Colonel, then, made some more
passes on the Vakil’s face and said: “ You
cannot say your name.” We all asked him to
61
say what his name was ; but he could not say
his name though he was speaking other words.
Then the Colonel dismissed all of us and
we went to our houses admiring the work of
Colonel Olcott.
Colonel Olcott was an excellent lecturer.
When he first delivered a lecture in Madras on
“ The Scientific Basis of All Religions ” he called
the B.A.’s and M.A.’s “ Bad Aryans ” and “ Mad
Aryans ” as their views were materialistic.
Every year I used to attend the Convention
meetings at Adyar. The delegates used to
take their meals in a cadjan shed put up near
the Indian Section building. Sometimes
there were heavy rains, causing much incon­
venience to sit in the shed for taking meals.
Two or three years before the Colonel passed
away I went to him to take leave of him after
attending the Convention. He embraced me
and said : “ Would it not be nice to have a
Dharamshala in the T.S. compound ?” I said
“ Yes,” and went away. It so happened that
immediately after the Colonel’s death I had to
come to Adyar and construct the building now
called the Bhojanashala, where the residents
and visitors take their meals conveniently.
XII
SOME REMINISCENCES OF
COLONEL OLCOTT
By Sarah E. Palm er
MANY have written about the character and
work of the President-Founder. The chief
events of his life are well known to most Theo-
sophists, especially to the readers of Old
Diary Leaves. It seems to me, however, that the
picture is incomplete without1depicting the
human, fun-loving, side of the Colonel’s nature.
He well deserves to be placed on a pedestal for
the largeness of his individuality as indicated
by his great work in life. His personality also
was much in evidence, and those who knew
him best were his staunchest friends. Per­
haps some Boswell will yet appear to show the
Colonel as he was. A few little items will
be enough to reveal his innate goodness
63
and geniality. Three years spent at Head­
quarters, beginning fifteen years ago, give me
this opportunity of writing about him. If the
solemnity of the subject is not manifest in this
production it will doubtless be due to karmic
limitation either on the part of the Colonel or
the scribe.
In those days Colonel Olcott boasted that he
had never yet felt tired. His physical en­
durance would have been remarkable even for
a young man. He had been accustomed to
attend to his own correspondence and thought
nothing, of writing seventeen letters on foreign
post day. The whole compound and its
activities had the benefit of his personal
supervision, and the servants were kindly
treated and were devoted to his service.
Trivedi, his right-hand man, a Pariah, was
always trusted with the transportation of bank
deposits, an object-lesson in itself for those
who despised these outcasts.
Someone spoke of a clever swimmer who
could smoke a cigar while floating on the
water. The Colonel said he could do better
than that himself, and was challenged to try.
Trivedi found his bathing suit and had the
64
Adyar river-bed cleaned out for some distance.
The next morning all were summoned to the
bank whence we saw the Colonel tranquilly
floating about while smoking a cigar and
reading his newspaper.
In the evening he liked to sit on the flat roof
and read. If the book pleased him he often
read aloud. He was, however, happiest when
singing old-fashioned songs. One was a
rollicking Irish ditty requiring some action.
A chance visitor with a good voice was very
welcome at Headquarters, for Adyar was a
very quiet place in those days.
After giving a lecture he usually allowed
questions. Once a man in the audience asked
whether the Logos manifested of his own
volition or was compelled to manifest. The
Colonel replied that he could not say as to that,
he was “ not on speaking terms with the
Logos ”. A man asked if he must give up
smoking. He answered: “ It is this w ay: if
you can stop you needn’t, if you can’t stop you
must.”
In an old number of The Theosophist I came
across a misprint. It spoke of the Mtwo
flounders of the Society ”. I asked the Colonel
65
if he had noticed it. He said : “ Noticed i t ! I
should think I have.” He said the melancholy
feature of the case was that he himself had
read the proof.
Two people who had read a little about
occultism told him that they had selected him
as their guru and had come to Headquarters
to place themselves under his spiritual in­
fluence, and receive occult instruction. He
assured them it was not his line. They per­
sisted, so he called for his joke-book, a scrap­
book containing newspaper jokes he had been
collecting for years. He handed it to them and
told them to read it, it would do them good.
He once spoke of having been out of in­
carnation for 2,000 years. He said: “ I hope
they will not keep me out so long next time.”
He was broad in his sympathies and faithful
to his friends. A few will remember how
Prince Harisinghji was poisoned with coal gas
while in Benares at Convention time nine
years ago. The Colonel would have hurried
back to Adyar to supervise the publication of
the Convention documents, but he remained at
his friend’s bed-side and wept when the Prince
died several days later.
6
66
When Madame Blavatsky’s statue was made
and placed in the Headquarters Hall, he
pointed to another alcove and said: “ When
Annie passes over I will place her statue
there.” *
A Hindu astrologer in Madras had told him
he would die from the effects of a fall from a
height. He said this was not the first time he
had been told this. He did not quite believe it
but was a little more careful in going about
the roof when it was dark. Some places then
were unprotected by a parapet wall. The fall,
however, was destined to be far away from
India. 3
-n He was in his element when Adyar was full
of Theosophists at Convention time. He had a
good memory for names and faces and to him
the gathering was a veritable reunion. It does
not seem strange th at he will sometimes
revisit his beloved A dyar again, though he
must come half the w ay round the earth to
reach it.
XIII
MOBE BEMINISCENCES OF
COLONEL OLCOTT ; '
By j . Harry Carnes
‘ • / j f £ \ V * • L I v * •. m l v ( « J *
I FOUNDl the Colonel to be an exceedingly
lovable and kindly individual. Merely from
outer appearance one could almost feel his per­
sonal honesty and uprightness. In this respect
he was the most unique individual I have ever
met, and I regard the occasion as one of an
unusual privilege for myself. I also remem­
ber well what seemed to me to be his regal
manner, and on more than one occasion he
peremptorily ordered me around as though I
had been his slave, these orders involving
considerable personal inconvenience and also
an expenditure of money. It never occurred
to me to feel offended, nor did I feel in the
slightest way any resentment because of these
68
orders, or the manner in which they had been
given. I know of no other person who could
“ get by " the way he did with me.
I well rememberColonel’s visitto Washington
and his lecture there on “ Magnetic Healing”.
For the most part it had to do with his own
personal experiences in making cures in India,
by showing where the centres were in thebody
and how to arrange his hands upon thempreli­
minary to pouring into the person his ow
n
magnetism. For this purpose he would call
up a person in the audience and graphically
disclose the precise location of these centres.
He also told the circumstances under which
he came to make any cures. The one that
I remember was that he was travelling in
India when certain Christian emissaries for
the purpose of propaganda made cures onthe
Indians by invoking the name of the Christ
This stirred the ire of the Colonel, w
ho
proceeded immediately to join the assemblage,
and to state that he too would make cures,bat
in the name of the Lord Buddha. The Colonel
stated 1hat up to that time he had never made $
any. His success, however, was immediate
and had the usual consequences. Upon the
69
advice of his Teacher, however, and after the
lapse of about a year in making numerous
cures, he gave up this method of healing.
When he was in Chicago the Colonel’s beard
attracted the attention of the street gamins,
who saw a fancy resemblance between him
and the, at that time, prominent individual
called Dowie. This notoriety greatly annoyed
the Colonel. It rather amused me, because it
presented a situation in which there was no
possible come-back for the Colonel, since he
could not prevent the boys from orally heck­
ling him.
*:
)
XIV
BY A. K. SlTARAMA SHASTRI
In the summer of 1893 I was spending a few
weeks in Adyar. Colonel Olcott gave mesom
e
proofs and asked me to correct them. That
business, at that time, was considered by m
e
a dirty job. When the President-Founder
gave me the proofs to read I boasted that even
in the Government offices I would not do this
“dirty” work, and pleaded that I might be
given some other work. To this the President-
Founder said: “ Sitarambabu, if you want to
serve the Masters you should not call any of
Their work ‘dirty,’ and inasmuch as you
have aversion for this work your Master will
so arrange that you will be in the printing
press.” These may not be the exact words but
the gist of what he said. The President-
Founder prophesied and his successor put me in
charge of printing work [Vasanta Press]. The
moral is: “ Do not have aversion for any sort
of work In His Service.”
XV
FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH
BY C. W . LEADBEATER
A MILLION years ago in old Atlantis, in the
great City of the Golden Gate, there reigned
a mighty King. One day there came to him
a soldier whom he had sent out to head an
expedition against a troublesome tribe on the
borders of that vast empire. The soldier
reported victory, and as a reward the King
gave him the position of Captain of the
Palace Guard, and placed specially in his
charge the life of his own only son, the
heir-apparent to his throne. Not long after­
wards the newly appointed captain had an
opportunity of proving his faithfulness to his
trust, for when he was alone with the young
Prince in the palace gardens a band of
conspirators rushed upon them and tried to
72
assassinate his charge. The captain fought
bravely against heavy odds, and though
mortally wounded succeeding in protecting
the Prince from serious harm until help
arrived, and the two were borne together
into the presence of the King. The Monarch
heard the story and, turning to his dying
captain, said : “ What can I do for you who
have given your life for me ? ” The captain
replied: “ Grant me to serve you and your
son for ever in future lives, since now there is
the bond of blood between us.” And with a last
effort he dipped his finger in the blood which
flowed so fast from his wounds, and touched
with it the feet of his sovereign and the fore­
head of the still unconscious Prince. The
King held out his hand in benediction, and
replied: “ By the blood that has been shed for
me and mine, I promise that both you and he
shall serve me to the end.”
So was the first link forged between three
leaders of men of whom we all have heard;
for that great King is now the Master M., the
Prince, his son, has been known to us as Helena
Petrovna Blavatsky, and the Captain of the
Guard as Henry Steel Olcott. Through all the
73
ages since, through many strange vicissitudes,
the link has been kept unbroken and the
service has been rendered, as we know, and
it will be through the ages yet to come.
Since then as Gushtasp, King of Persia, he
protected and assisted in the foundation of the
present form of Zoroastrianism, and later as the
world-renowned King Asoka he issued those
wonderful edicts which remain until this day
graven upon rocks and pillars in India to show
how real were his zeal and his devotion. And,
when at the end of that long and strenuous
life he looked back upon it with sorrow to see
how far short of his intentions even his
wonderful achievements had fallen, his Master
showed him, for his encouragement, two
visions, one of the past and one of the future.
The vision of the past was the scene in Atlantis
when the link between them was forged ; the
vision of the future showed the Master as
the Manu of the Sixth Root-Race and our
President-Founder as a lieutenant serving under
Him in the exalted work of that high office.
So Asoka died content in the certainty that
the closest of all earthly ties, that between the
Master and His pupil, would never be severed.
74
Having thus taken a prominent part intb
spreading of the two great religions of th
world, Zoroastrianism and Buddhism, it w
as
appropriate that he should be socloselyassociat­
ed with the work of this great m
ovem
ent
which synthesises all religions—the T
heo*
sophical Society. Never himself the spiritual
teacher, he has always been the practical
organiser who made the teacher’s workpossible.
In this life as in all those others, his ruling
principle was always that of passionateloyalty
to his Master and to the work which he hadto
do. When first I met him a quarter of a
century ago that was the dominant featurein
his character; through all the years that I
have known him that above all other motives
ruled his actions.
, If we turn to the outward details of this
past life of his, we still find the same keynote
of devotion to duty. The Assistant Secretary
of the United States Treasury wrote to him
with regard to his public work for the Govern­
ment :
“ I wish to say that I have never met with
a gentleman intrusted with important duties,
of more capacity* rapidity and reliability than
75
have been exhibited by you throughout. More
than all, I desire to bear testimony to your
entire uprightness and integrity of character,
which I am sure have characterised your whole
career, and which to my knowledge have never
been assailed. • That you have thus escaped
with no stain upon your reputation, when we
consider the corruption, audacity and power of
the many villains in high position whom you
have prosecuted and punished, is a tribute of
which you may well be proud, and which no
other man occupying a similar position and
performing similar services in this country
has ever achieved.”
He showed the same energy and capacity
in his work for the Theosophical Society.
Few of our members realise the extent and the
success of his labours, for much of what he did
can be properly appreciated only by those who
have travelled in those Eastern lands which he
loved so well. To his untiring exertion was
due the rebuilding and enlargement of the
Society’s Headquarters at Adyar. It was he
who founded the great library there, and on
the occasion of its opening gathered together
to bless its inception priests of all the leading
76
religions of the world—the first occasion in
history on which such representations had met
in fraternal accord, each freely acknowledging
the others as standing on an equal footing
with himself. .
To him is due the great movement for
Buddhist education in the island of Ceylon, in
consequence of which up to the present [1908],
287 Buddhist schools have been founded, in
which over 35,000 children are being taught.
He it was who brought together on a common
platform of belief the Northern and Southern
Schools of Buddhism, separated for more than
a thousand years ; he it was who took up tho
education of the neglected Pariah class.
. Many and great were the difficulties in his
way in holding together and directing so
complex a movement as the Theosophical
Society; yet in every land he was always
popular, by every nation he was eagerly wel­
comed. His utter devotion to the welfare of
his Society and the transparent honesty of his
purpose could not fail to impress all who met
him. I speak of him with feeling, for I had
special opportunities of knowing him well, I
shall never forget his fatherly kindness to me.
when as a comparatively young man, quite
new to Indian life, I first went to reside at the
Headquarters at Adyar. Since then I have
met him in many countries; I have passed
weeks alone with him (except for an inter­
preter and a servant) in a bullock-cart in the
jungles of Ceylon ; I went with him on the
journey which carried Theosophy into Burma
in 1885. Under circumstances like these one
quickly gets to know a man with far greater
intimacy than is afforded by years of ordinary
social life, and I can unreservedly bear testi­
mony to the whole-souled devotion of the
man—to the fact that during all this time
his one anxiety was the furthering of
the Theosophical work, his one thought how to
please the Master by doing with all his might
that which had been given to him.
We all know how courageously he bore his
sufferings, how all through his illness his
constant thought was still the welfare of the
dear Society to which his life had been devoted.
We remember how when the time came for
him to leave the body three of the great
Masters stood beside him, as well as his old
colleague and friend, H.P. Blavatsky. His
78
cremation was a grand and worthy ceremony.
The pyre was of sandal-wood, and his body
was covered with the American flag and the
Buddhist flag, the latter a standard which he
himself had invented, bearing in their right
order the special colours of the aura of the
Lord Buddha.
He was unconscious for a while after death,
but is now fully awake and active. As I was
always deeply attached to him, his Master told
me to act as a kind of guide to him when
necessary, and to explain to him whatever he
wished. He had always been keenly interested
in the powers and possibilities of the astral
plane,,and as soon as he could see it clearly he
was full of eager and insatiable desire to know
how everything is done, to understand the
rationale of it, and to learn to do it himself.
He has an unusually strong will in certain
directions, and that made many of the
experiments easy to him even when they were
quite new. He is most at home in work which
involves the use of power in some way—to
fight, to cure, to defend. He is full of big
schemes for the future and is just as enthu­
siastic as ever about the Society which he loves.
79
His attention has been attracted by the
strong thought about him involved in writing
this; he stands beside me now, and insists that
I shall convey to the members his most earnest
advice to give whole-hearted loyalty and
support to his noble successor, to put aside at
once and for ever all pitiable squabbling' over
personalities, all unprofitable wrangling over
matters which are not their business and which
they cannot be expected to understand, and to
turn their attention to the one and only matter
of importance-^-the work which the Society has
to do in the world. His message to them isp
Forget yourself, your limitations and your
prejudices and spread the truths of Theosophy.
Of his future we can say little as yet. His
own wish is to take another body quickly soas
to work along with Madame Blavatsky1in her
present incarnation, but I do not yet know
whether this can be arranged. It depends
partly upon the stage of his own development,
and partly upon when and where the Masters
think that he will be most useful. His great
talent is organisation, and we have seen that
1[On White Lotus Day, 1928 (May 8), Dr. Annie
Besant, in a speech about H. P. B., said that she is now
a learned Pandit living in North India.] 591100 A
80
he has already practised it in Zoroastrianism,
in the great missionary enterprise of Buddhism
and in the foundation of the Theosophical
Society. No doubt he may have similar work
to do in connection with the next religion, and
again at the establishment of the Sixth Root-
Race, but as yet we do not know exactly
when these events will take place. Be they
when they may, the great man whom in this
life we know as Henry Steel Olcott will be
ready to bear his part in them, to lead us as he
led us before, devoted as ever to the service
of his Master, faithful as ever through life and
through death.
LAST MESSAGE OF THE
PRESIDENT-FOUNDER
TO m y beloved brethren in the physical body,
1bid you farewell. In memory of me, carry
on the grand work of proclaiming and living
the brotherhood of religions. To my beloved
brothers on the higher planes, I greet and come
to you, and implore you to help me to impress
on all men on earth that there is no religion
higher than truth, and that in the brotherhood
of religions lies the peace and progress of
humanity.
February 2, 1907. H. S. OLCOTT
flflted by A. K. Sitarama Shastri, at the Vasanta Press,
Adyar, Madras.
