{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__besant___the_masters.pdf","mytitle":"The Masters","mylang":"de"}
THE MASTERS
BY
ANNIE BESANT
AUTHOR OF
The AnCJient Wisdom, Brahmavidya. Dharma,
Esoterie Christianity. Hints on the Study of
the Bhagavad-Gita, In the Outer Court,
An lntroduetion to Yoga, MystiCJism,
The Path of DisCJipleship,
A Study in Conseiousness,
The Wisdom of the
Upanishads,
etCJ.
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
1932
_ ..'t • ~ ~ ,-a.
·· Fh-st Edition-: ·'1912 "
Seeond Edition: 1918
Third Edition : 1932
FOREWORD
EVER the tdea of the Masters of the White Lodge,
the Elder Brothers of Humanity, sends a thrill
through the human heart, and any words about
Them are eagerly and gladly welcomed. The idea
of there being anything grotesque in the concep-
tion of these great Beings, these perfected Men,
has quite passed away from the West, as though it
had not been. It is now realised that the existence
of such Beings is natural, and that, given evolution,
these highest products of evolution are a natural
necessity. Many are beginning to see in the
grandiose figures of the past, evidence that such
Men are, and as reason recognises Them 1n the
past, hope springs forward to find Them in the
present.
More : there is an increasing number of persons
amongst us, both in the ~ast and the West, who
have succeeded in finding the Masters, and from
whose minds, therefore, doubt of Their existence
has for ever been swept away. The Way to Them
is open, and those who seek shall find.
May this booklet arouse some to the seeking of
the great Teachers. I, who know Them, can do no
greater service to my brethren, than to inspire
them to be~in a search which will give them a prize
beyond all telling.
ANNIE BESANT
·"
..
CONTENTS
PAGE
FOREWORD
THE PERFECT MAN :
The Perfect Man, a Link in the Chain of Evolution;
Commands: Outer and Inner; The First Initiation;
The Second Initiation·; The Third Initiation; The
Dark Night of the Soul ; 'the Glory of Perfection ;
The Inspiring Ideal.
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS: .
. (
The Place of the Fighter; ·Th.e· Testimony of Reli-
~ions ; A Theory; Historical Evidence; First-Hand
Experience; How Can We Find the Masters? H. P.
Blavatsky; "The Secret Doctrine"; ''The Voice of
the Silence;" Personal Knowledge; The Way to
Adeptship ; Reincarnation; To Live Nobly; Brother-
hood ; The Sense of Unity; A Sublime Ideal.
THE ADEPTS:
Who is the Master? The Perfect Man: His Place
in Evolution; The Master Jesus; The Master Hila-
rion; The Masters M. and K. H.; The Master
Rakoczi. and Others; Where Do They Live ? Their
Work; The World-Teacher.
t
17
55
COPYRIGHT
Translation and other rights
reserved by the Publishers
THE PERFECT MAN
PERFECT MAN: A LINK IN THE CHAIN
OF EVOLUTION
THERE is a stage in human evolution which im-
mediately precedes the goal of human effort, and
when this stage is passed throui!h, man, as man,
has nothing more to accomplish. He has become
perfect; his human career is over. The great
religions bestow on this Perfect Man different
names, but, whatever the name, the same idea.
is beneath it ; He is Mithra, Osiris, KNht:ta.
BuQQha, Christ-but He ever symbolises the Man
made perfect. He does not belong to a single
religion, a single nation, a single human family;
He is not stifled in the wrappings of a single creed ;
everywhere He is the most noble, the most perfect
ideal. Every religion proclaims Him ; all creeds
have in Him their justification; He is the ideal
towards which every belief strives, and each religion
fulfils effectively its mission according to the
clearness with which it illumines, and the precision
with which it teaches the road whereby He may be
reached. The name of Christ, used for the Perfect
M. 1
2 THE MASTERS
Man throughout Christendom, is the name of a
atate, more than the name of a man ;
11
Christ in
you, the hope of glory," is the Christian teacher's
thought. Men, in the long course of evolution,
reach the Christ state, for all accomplish in time
the centuried pilgrimage, and He with whom the
name is specially connected in Western lands is one
of the " Sons of God " who have reached the final
goal of humanity. The word has ever carried the
connotation of a state; it is " the anointed ". Each
must reach the state : " Look within thee ; thou art
BuQ.Q.ha." " Till the Christ be formed in you."
As he who would become a musical artist should
listen to the masterpieces of music, as he should
steep himself in the melodies of the master-artists,
so should we, the children born of humanity, lift up
our eyes and our hearts, in ever-renewed contempla-
tion, to the mountains, on which dwell the Perfect
Men of our race. What we are, They were; what
They are, we shall be. All the sons of men can do
what a Son of Man has accomplished, and we see
in Them the pledge of our own triumph; the
development of like divinity in us is but a question
of evolution.
-
COMMANDS: OUTER AND INNER
I have sometimes divided interior evolution into
sub-moral, moral, and super-moral ; sub-moral,
wherein the distin·ctions between right and wrong
THE PERFECT MAN
are not seen, and man follows his desires, without
question, without scruple ; moral, wherein right and
wrong are seen, become ever more defined and
inclusive, and obedience to law is striven after;
super-moral, wherein external law is transcended,
because the divine nature rules its vehicles. In the
moral condition, law is recognised as a legitimate
barrier, a salutary restraint; " Do this" ; "Avoid
that" ; the man struggles to obey, and :here is a
constant combat between the higher and lower
natures. In the super-moral state the divine life in
man finds its natural expression without external
direction ; he loves, not beaause he ought to love, but
beeause he is love. He aats, to quote the noble
·words of a Christian Initiate, "not after the law
of a carnal commandment, but by the power of
an endless life ". Morality is transeended when
all the powers of the man turn to the Good as
the magnetised needle turns to the north; when
divinity in man seeks ever the best for all. There
1s no more eombat, for the victory is won ; the
Christ has reaehed His perfect stature only when
He has become the Christ triumphant, Master of
life and death.
THE FIRST INITIATION
This stage of the Christ-life, the Buc}qha-life, is
entered by the first of the great Initiations, in
which the Initiate is "the little child," sometimes
4 THE MASTERS
the " babe," sometimes the " little child: three years
old". The man must "regain the child-state he
hath lost" ; he must "become a little child " in
order to " enter the kingdom ". Passing through
that portal. he is born into the Christ-life, and,
treading the "way of the Cross," he passes onwards
through the successive gateways on the Path ; at
the end, he is definitely liberated from the life of
limitations, of bondage, he dies to time to live in
eternity, and he becomes conscious of himself as
life rather than as form.
There is no doubt that in early Christianity this
stage of evolution was definitely recognised as
be.fore every individual Christian. The anxiety
expressed by S. Paul that Christ might be born in
his converts bears sufficient testimony to this fact,
leaving aside other passages that might be quoted;
even if this verse stood alone it would suffice to
show that in the Christian ideal the Christ-stage
was regarded as an inner condition, the final period
of evolution for every believer. And it is well that
Christians should recognise this, and not regard the
life of the disciple, ending in the Perfect Man, as an
exotic, planted in Western soil, but native only in
far Eastern lands. This ideal is part of all true and
spiritual Christianity, and the birth of the Christ in
each Christian soul is the object of Christian
teaching. The very object of religion is to bring
about this birth, and if it could be that this mystic
teaching could slip out of Christianity, that faith
THE PERFECT MAN 5
could no longer raise to divinity those who
practise it.
The first of the great Initiations is the birth of
the Christ, of the BuQ.Q.ha, in the human conscious-
ness, the transcending of the I-consciousnes·s, the
falling away of limitations. As is well known
to all students, there are four degrees of develop-
ment covered by the Christ-stage, between the
thoroughly good man and the triumphant Master.
Each of these degrees is·entered by an Initiation,
and during these degrees of evolution consciousness
is to expand, to grow, to reach the limits possible
within the restrictions imposed by the human body.
In the first of these, the change experienced is the
awakening of consciousness in the spiritual world,
in the world where consciousness identifies itself
with the life, and ceases to identify itself with the
forms in which the life may at the moment be
imprisoned. The characteristic of this awakening
is a feeling of sudden expansion, and of widening
out beyond the habitual limits of the life, the re-
cognition of a Self, divine and puissant which is life.
not form; joy, not sorrow; tbe feeling of ~
marvellous peace, passing all of which the world
can dream. With the falling away of limitations
comes an increased intensity of life, as though
life flowed in from every side rejoicing over
the barriers removed, so vivid a feeling of
reality that all life in a form seems as
death, and earthly light as darkness. It 1s
6 THE MASTERS
an expansion so marvellous in its nature, that
consCiousness feels as though it had never known
itself before, for all it had regarded as con-
sciousness is as unconsciousness in the presence
of this upwelling 1ife. Self-consciousness, which
commenced to germinate in child-humanity, which
has developed, grown, expanded ever within the
limitations of form, thinking itself separate, feel-
ing ever .. 1," speaking ever of "me" and "mine"-
this Self-consciousness suddenly feels all selves as
Self, all forms as common property. He sees that
limitations were necessary for the building of a
centre of Selfhood in which Self-identity might
persist, and at the same time he feels that the
form is only an instrument he uses while he
himself, the living consciousness, is one in all that
lives. He knows the full meaning of the oft-spoken
phrase the " unity of humanity," and feels what it
is to live in all that lives and moves, and this con-
sciousness is accompanied with an immense joy.
that joy of life which even in its faint reflections
upon earth is one of the keenest ecstasies known to
man. The unity is not only seen by the intellect, but
it is felt as satisfying the yearning for union which
all know who have loved ; it is a unity felt from
within, not seen from without; it is not a con-
ception but a life.
In many pages of old, but ever on the same
lines, has the birth of the Christ in man been
figured. And yet how all words shaped for the
THE PERFECT MAN 7
world of forms fail to image forth the world of
I
life.
But the child must grow into the perfect man,
and there is much to do, much weariness to face,
many sufferings to endure, many combats to wage,
many obstacles to overcome, ere the Christ born
in the feebleness of infancy may reach the stature
of the Perfect Man. There is the life of labour
among his brother-men ; there is the facing of
ridicule and suspicion ; there is the delivery of
a despised message; there is the agony of deser-
tion, and the passion of the cross, and the dark...
ness of the tomb. All these lie before him in the
path on which he has entered.
By continual practice, the disciple must learn to
assimilate the _
consciousness of others, and to
centre his own consciousness in life, not in form,
so that he may pass beyond the " heresy of
separateness," which makes him regard others as
different from himself. He has to expand his
consciousness by daily practice, until its normal
state is that which he temporarily experienced at
his first Initiation. ·To this end he will endeavour
in his everyday life to identify his consciousness
with the consciousness of those with whom he
comes into contact day by day ; he will strive to
feel as they feel, to think as they think, to rejoice
as they rejoice, to suffer as they suffer. Gradually
he must develop a perfect sympathy, a sympathy
which can vibrate in harmony with every string of
8 THE MASTERS
the human lyre. Gradually he must learn to
answer, as if it were his own, to every sensation of
another, however high he may be or however low.
Gradually, by constant practice, he must identify
himself with others in all the varied circumstances
of their different lives. He must learn the lesson
of joy and the lesson of tears, and this is only
possible when he has transcended the separated
self, when he no longer asks aught for himself,
but understands that he must henceforth live in
life alone.
His first sharp struggle is to put aside all that
up to this point has been for him life, conscious-
ness, reality, and walk forth alone, naked, no longer
identifying himself with any form. He has to
Jearn the law of life, by which alone the inner
divinity can manifest, the law which is the anti-
thesis of his past. The law of form is taking ;
the law of life is giving. Life grows by pouring
itself out through form, fed by the inexhaustible
source of 1ife at the heart of the universe ; ~he
more the life pours itself out the greater the inflow
from within. It .seems at first to the young Christ
as though all his life were leaving him, as though
his hands were left empty after outpouring their
gifts on a thankless world ; only when the lower
nature has been definitely sacrificed is the eternal
life experienced, and that which seemed the death
of being is found to be a birth into a fuller
life.
THE PERFECT MAN
THE SECOND INITIATION
9
Thus consciousness develops, until the first stage
.
of the path is trodden, and the disciple sees before
him the second Portal of Initiation, symbolised in
the Christian Scriptures as the Baptism of the
Christ. At this, as he descends into the waters of
the world's sorrows, the river that every Saviour of
men must be baptised in, a new flood of divine life
is poured out upon him ; his consciousness realises
itself as the Son, in whom the life of the Father
finds fit expression. He feels the life of the
Monad, his Father in Heaven, flowing into his con-
sciousness, and realises that he is one, not with
men only, but also with his heavenly Father, and
that he lives on earth only to be the expression of
the Father's will, His manifested organism. Hence-
forth is his ministry to men the most patent fact of
his life. He is the Son, to whom men should listen,
because from him the hidden life flows forth, and
he has become a channel through which that hidden
life can reach the outer world. He is the priest of
the Mystery God, who has entered within the veil,
and comes forth with the glory shining from his
face, which is the reflection of the light in the
sanctuary.
It is there that he begins that work of love
symbolised in the outer ministry by his willing-
ness to heal and to relieve ; round him press the
souls seeking light and life, attracted by his inner
10 THE MASTERS
force and by the divine life manifested In the
accredited Son of the Father. Hungry souls come
to him. and he gives them bread; souls suffering
'
from the disease of sin come, and he heals them
by his living word ; souls blinded by ignorance
come, and he illuminates them by wisdom. It.
is one of the signs of a Christ in his ministry,.
that the abandoned and the poor, the desperate
and the degraded, come to him without the sense.
of separation. They feel a welcoming sympathy
and not a repelling ; for kindness radiates from
his person, and the love that understands flows
out around him. Truly the ignorant know not
that he is an evolving Christ, but they feel a.
power that raises, a life which vitalises, and in.
his atmosphere they inbreathe new strength, new
hope.
THE THIRD INITIATION
The third Portal ·is before him, which admits him.
to another stage of his progress, and he has a brief'
moment of peace, of glory, of illumination,
symbolised in Christian writings by the Transfigura-
tion. It is a pause in his life, a brief cessation of
his active service, a journey to the Mountain
whereon broods the peace of heaven, and there-
side by side with some who have recognised his
evolving divinity-that divinity shines forth for a.
moment in its transcendent beauty. During this.
THE PERFECT MAN tt
lull in the combat, he sees his future; a series of
pictures unrolls before his eyes ; he beholds the
sufferings which lie .before him, the solitude of
Gethsemane, the agony of Calvary. Thenceforth
his face is set steadfastly towards Jerusalem, to-
wards the darkness he is to enter for the love of
m·ankind. He understands that ere he can reach
the perfect realisation of unity he must experience
the quintessence of solitude. Hitherto, while con·
scious of the growing life, it has seemed to him to
come to him from without; now he is to realise that
its centre is within him ; in solitude of heart he
must experience the true unity of the Father and
the Son, an interior and not an outer unity, and
then the loss even of the Father's Face; and for this
all external contact with men, and even with God,
must be cut off, that within his own Spirit he may
find the One.
THE DARK NIGHT OF THE SOUL
As the dark hour. approaches, he is more and more
appalled by the failure of the human sympathies
on which he has been wont to rely during the past
years of life and service, and when, in the critical
moment of his need, he looks around for comfort
and sees his friends wrapt in indifferent slumber, it
seems to him that aJI human ties are broken, that
all human love is a mockery, all human faith a
betrayal ; he is flung back upon himself to learn
12 THE MASTERS
that only the tie with his Father in heaven remains,
that all embodied aid is useless. It has been said
that in this hour of solitude the soul is filled with
bitterness, and that rarely a soul passes over this
gulf of voidness without a cry of anguish ; it is then
that bursts forth the agonised reproach : " Couldst
thou not watch with me one hour? "-·but no human
hand may clasp another in that· Gethsemane of
desolation.
When this darkness of human desertion is over-
past, then, despite the shrinking of the human
nature from the cup, comes the deeper darkness of
the hour when a gulf seems to open between the
Father and the Son, between the life embodied and
the life infinite. The Father, who was yet realised
in Gethsemane when all human friends were
slumbering, is veiled in the passion of the Cross. It
is the bitterest of all the ordeals of the Initiate,
when even the consciousness of the life of sonship
is lost, and the hour of the hoped-for triumph
becomes that of the deepest ignominy. He sees his
enemies exultant around him; he sees himself
abandoned by his ft•iends and his lovers ; he feels
the divine support crumble away beneath his feet;
and he drinks to the last drop the cup of solitude,
of isolation, no contact with man or God bridging
the void in which hangs his helpless soul. Then
from the heart that feels itself deserted even by the
Father rings out the cry: ''My God l my God t why
hast Thou forsaken me ? "
THE PERFECT MAN .. 18
Why this last proof, this last ordeal, this most
cruel of all illusions? Illusion, for the dying Christ
is nearest of all to the divine Heart.
Because the Son must know himself to be one
with the Father he seeks, must find God not
only within him but as his innermost Self; only
when he knows that the Eternal is himself and
he the Eternal, is he beyond the possibility of
the sense of separation. Then, and then only, can
he perfectly help his race, and become a conscious
part of the uplifting energy.
THE GLORY OF PERFECTION
The Christ triumphant, the Christ of the Re-
surrection and Ascension, ha~ felt the bitterness
of death. has known all human suffering, and
has risen above it by the power of His own divinity:
What now can trouble His peace, or check His
outstretched hand of help? During his evolution
He learned to receive into Himself the currents of
human troubles and to send them forth again as
currents of peace and joy. Within the circle of His
then activity, this was His work, to transmute
forces of discord into forces of harmony. Now He
must do it for the world, for the humanity out of
which He has flowered. The Christs and their
disciples, each in the measure of his evolution, thus
protect and help the world, and far bitterer would
be the struggles, far more desperate the combats of
14 THE MASTERS
humanity, were it not for the presence of these in
its midst, whose hands bear up "the heavy karma
of the world''.
Even those who are at the earliest stage of the
Path become lifting forces in evolution, as in truth
are all who unselfishly work for others, though
these more deliberately and continuously. But the
Christ triumphant does completely what others do
at varying stages of imperfectien, and therefore is
He called a " Saviour," and this characteristic in
Him is perfect. He saves, not by substituting Him-
self for us, but by sharing with us His life. He
is wise, and all men are the wiser for His wisdom,
for His life flows into all men's veins and pulses,
in all men's hearts. He is not tied to a form, nor
separate from any. He is the Ideal Man, the
Perfect Man; each human being is a cell in His
body, and each cell is nourished by His life.
Surely it had not been worth while to suffer
<>n the Cross and to tread the Path that leads
thereto, simply to win a little earlier His own
liberation, to be at rest a little sooner. The
cost would have been too heavy for such a
11ain, the strife too bitter for such a prize. Nay,
but in his triumph humanity is exalted, and the
path trodden by all feet is rendered a little shorter.
The evolution of the whole race is accelerated; the
pilgrimage of each is made less long. This was the
thought that inspired Him in the violence of the
-combat, that sustained his strength, that softened
•
THE PERFECT MAN 15
the pangs of loss. Not one being, however feeble,
however degraded, however ignorant, however
:sinful, who is not a little nearer to the light when a
Son of the Highest has finished His course. How
the speed of evolution will be quickened as more
and more of these Sons rise triumphant, and enter
into conscious life eternal. How swiftly will turn
the wheel which lifts man into divinity as more and
.more men become consciously divine.
THE INSPIRING IDEAL
Herein lies the stimulus for each of us who,
in our noblest moments. have felt the attraction
of the life poured out for love of men. Let us
think of the sufferings of the world that knows
not why it suffers; of the misery, the despair
of men who know not why they live, and why
they die; who, day after day, year after year,
-see sufferings fall upon themselves and others
and understand not their reason ; who fight with
desperate courage, or who furiously revolt against
conditions they cannot comprehend or justify. Let
us think of the agony born of blindness, of the
darkness in which they grope, without hope,
without aspiration, without knowledge of the true
life, and of the beauty beyond the veil. Let us
think of the millions of our brothers in the dark-
ness, and then of the uplifting energies born of
our sufferings, our struggles, and our sacrifices. We
16 THE MASTERS
can ra1se them a step towards the light, alleviate
their pains; diminish their ignorance, abridge .
their journey towards the knowledge which is light
and life. Who of us that knows even a little, that
will not give himself for these who know naught?
We know by the Law immutable, by Truth
unswerving, by the endless Life and God, that all
divinity is within us, and that though it be now
but little evolved, all is there of infinite capacity,
'
available for the uplifting of the world. Surely
then there is not one, able to feel the pulsing of
the Divine Life, that is not attracted by the hope
to help and bless. And if this Life be felt, however
feebly, for however brief a time, it is because in
the heart there is the first thrill of that which
will unfold as the Christ-life, because the time
approaches for the birth of the Christ-babe, because
in such a one humanity is seeking to flower.
\ THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND
IDEALS 1
THE PLACE OF THE FIGHTER
MR. SINNETT AND FRIENDS-Almost a year
ago I stood on this same platform to address, in
this hall~ an audience on my.return from the Indian
land. Since then much has happened. Myself I
have travelled far and wide-to the other side
of the world, to the lands that we may say lie
beneath our feet ; back from those lands to India,
and travelling through India once again from
the South to the farthest North ; and then back
again from India here, knowing that while I
was away there had been much of attack, much
of difficulty, much of disturbance ; hearing first
a rumour in the far-off Antipodes of doubt and
of challenge, of so-called exposure, and of virulent
abuse. And then when I came nearer, as far as
India, gaining more particulars, hearing details
of the attack, but still too far away to take
effective part in the struggle, and, bound by other
duty, unable to come at once back to the land
1
A lecture delivered in 1895. Chairman: Mr. A. P. Sinnett.
M2
18 THE MASTERS
where, outwardly at least, the struggle was at its
hottest. When the time came that engagements
permitted me to return, when the time came that
once again I could stand in this hall to face an
English audience, I thought it well to choose for my
subject that point round which the reality of the
attack had raged, and to take up in the first words
that I should speak in this country, the most really
important matter at which the comments had been
levelled while I was away.
For I know that wherever there is dif~iculty .
there is the place where the brave soldier
should be found ; and I did not forget that a
writer in our English tongue had spo~en of
some who stood by religion when she walked in
silver slippers in the sunshine amid applause,
but were ashamed to stand beside her in shadow
and under outrage, ashamed when she was clothed
in rags instead of in purple. But I have learned
in a stormy life that the moment for defence is the
moment of attack; that not when there is sunshine
is one's word so necessary as when the storm-clouds
gather and when difficulties are on every side. For
the time to be loyal to truth is when truth is
attacked ; the time to be faithful to knowleqge is
when knowledge is assailed ; and I should deem
that those of us who know the truth of the existence
of the MahatmAs were traitors to truth and renegades
to their responsibility, if they allowed themselves to
be silent because laughed into silence by ridicule,
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 19
or allowed themselves to deny their knowledge
because the fact with which that knowledge is con-
nected has been outraged by fraud and assailed by
unfair dealing. Therefore, I choose the subject for
my first address; therefore I come to lay before
you evidence that I think worthy of your considera-
tion, and to ask for it your patient attention and
your thoughtful and deliberate weighing.
. THE TESTIMONY OF RELIGIONS
.. The Masters. as Facts and ldeals."-1 have
taken the double ·title, for there are some who
know Them not as facts, to whom yet the ideal
is valuable, precious, and inspiring. Not every
member of our Society believes in the existence
of Mahatma.s. There are many and many who
are within the limits of the Society who have
•no knowledge and no belief upon the subject;
and it is the rule of our Society that no de-
claration of faith shall be asked from anyone
who enters, save in the Brotherhood of man,
without the distinctions that on the surface are
set up. So that within the limits of the Society
you may have alike believer and non-believer in
the present existence or the past existence of
these great Teachers. But I, who believe in Them,
and know Them to exist, speak here not in the
name of the Society which has no creed, but
tn my own and in the name of others who
20 THE MASTERS
share this belief or this knowledge with myself;
and before you I am going to place what I
believe to be rational evidence worthy of con-
sideration-evidence that you can think over at
leisure and make up your minds upon as you
will ; and I speak also for the sake of the ideal,
for the ideals of the race are precious, and
cannot lightly be either outraged or denied.
For great is this ideal of the Mahatma. despite
the idle laughter that has been used-fo·r the
name is merely the Samskrt for Great Spirit
-despite the laughter and the ridicule and the
foolish talk which have gathered round the name.
This mockery is a danger to a great ideal. valu-
able far beyond the bounds of the Theosophical
Society.
For there is not one great religion that
has raised and elevated the minds of men,
there is not one mighty faith that has led
millions to a knowledge of the spiritual life and
the possibilities of human growth, there is not
one that has not founded that belief on a Divine
Man. there is not one that does not look back,
as its Founder, to one of these mighty Souls
who have brought knowledge of spiritual truth
to the world. Look back to the past as you
will, take what faith you choose. Every one of
them is founded on this sa~e ideal, and looks
backward for its Teacher to a Man who is divine
,.
in His life. Around this ideal gather aJl the
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 21
ho.pes of men, around this ideal gather the
future destinies of humanity. For unless man be
a spiritual Being, unless he have within himself
the possibility of spiritual unfoldment, unless there
be some evidence available that men have become
perfect, that it is not only a dream of the future, but
a reality which the race has already realised, unless
it be true that for you and for me there are open
the same mighty possibilities that have been
proved possible in the past by those who have
achieved, then the hopes of men rest on no
foundation, the longings of men after perfection
have in them no certainty of realisation, humanity
remains but the thing of a day, instead of being
heir to a boundless immortality. That man may
become divine, that it is which has inspired the
greatest of our race, which has cheered the
miserable in their agony, and has glorified the
future with a hope which is not a lie. That is
why I defend the ideal. For what is the Maha.tmA?
He is the man who has become perfect, He is
the man who has reached union with the Divine,
He is the man who by slow degrees has develop-
ed the possibilities of the spiritual nature,
and stands triumphant where we are struggling
to-day. Every religion, I said, has borne witness
to Him. You find that every religion of the
world looks back to a Divine Teacher. You
may
of
have
Manu
the name of
tn India, of
Zoroaster in Persia,
the BuQ.Q.ha in later
22 THE MASTERS
days. of the Christ in Palestine, every one
of them the Divine Man. who has brought
the certainty of human perfection to those who
have come within the range of His influence.
That is the ideal which is being outraged to-day,
and for the sake of that ideal it is that I stand to
speak before you to-night.
A THEORY
And now what shall be the line of our evidence?
I propose first to suggest that the theory is a
probable theory on the lines of natural evolution;
that very briefly, in order to lead the way to
the positive evidence. Then I propose to turn
to the evidence for the existence of these per-
fected Divine Men in the past ; then to come
on from that to the evidence for Their existence
in the present ; then-because without this last
part the lecture would remain unpractical for
us-then to show how it is possible for men to
become perfect. a slight sketch at least of the
methods by which the Divine Man becomes.
First, then, for the theory that the existence
of Masters is in itself probable and in accordance
with the analogy of nature as we see it around
us, as we know it in the past. Few to-day,
probably, will dispute the fact of evolution. Few
will deny that our race progresses, and that
cycle after cycle you will find nations advancing
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 23
and reaching higher and higher pinnacles of
knowledge, higher and higher pinnacles in growth
and in development. Theoretically there is nothing
impossible or absurd in the theory that taking
into consideration the vast periods of time which
have elapsed since man first trod this earth, taking
into consideration the enormous differences that
we see to-day between the lowest savage and the
highest man as he is generally known, taking
these differences in the present, and the vast
spaces of time for evolution that lie behind us
in the past, it is not, at least, irrational or absurd
that there may have been evolution carried to
a point in the case of some individuals as much
above the evolution of the higher civilised man
of to-day, as he is higher than the lowest type
of savage in existence still.
Nor is that all. It is not only that we have enor-
mous ranges of time behind us, but that there are
traces of mighty civilisations which show that the
race had climbed high in knowledge, high in philo-
sophy, high in science and in religion, thousands
upon thousands of years ago, nay ! I might say
centuries of thousands of years. For looking
backwards you see traces of mighty civilisations
which imply the presence of men of a most
advanced type, and it is scarcely rational to
suppose that the so much talked-of evolution
has been nothing more than a mere ebb and
flow, leaving nothing as result, nothing more
•
24 THE MASTERS
than successive periods of high civilisation and
then of utter barbarism, and civilisation again
re-begun with no links to preserve continuity of
knowledge. It is not at least impossible, and
in a moment we shall see signs that it is prob-
able, that out of that mighty past some will have
grown upwards, advancing higher and higher and
perfecting the human race in individuals, as slowly
the general race will in its turn become perfect.
Not impossible, not even improbable, remembering
that progress is the law of nature, and the vast
spaces of time during which humanity has lived.
HISTORICAL EVIDENCE
But from that mere possibility, which I take
because it is well to clear out of the way at
the outset the idea that the theory is in itself
impossible and absurd, turning from that mere
possibility, let us take historical evidence and
let us see whether history does not, from time
to time, show some gigantic human figures which
stand out above and beyond the men of their
time and the ordinary height of humanity ; whether
there is not evidence which cannot be denied
that such Men are not merely the products of
popular imagination, that They are not merely
men of the past, exaggerated by popular tradition
and seen magnified, as it were, through the haze
of centuries. 1 speak of those Great Ones to
...
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 25
whom I alluded who have been the Founders
of the great religions of the world. It is not
only that there is unbroken tradition, and that
the religions remain which these Men builded,
but there is more than tradition, there is more
than a religion which has grown; there is a
literature, marked, definite, distinct, whose antiquity
no scholar denies, although some may claim
for it a vaster antiquity than others may
be ready to concede. Take the later dates ;
they will serve my purpose, though I do
not regard them as accurate. Take the later
dates that would be given you by the Oriental-
ists who have studied the literature of China,
of Persia, of India, to say nothing of later
times. You have there certain books regard-
ed as sacred, books for which the religion
has claimed what may fairly be termed an
immemorial antiquity. You have amongst the
Chinese their ancient sacred books ; you have
amongst- the PArsts, the followers of Zoroaster,
their books, also now translated into your own
tongue. You have from India the Veqas, the
Upanishats, to say nothing of the later works, and
I might, without possibility of challenge, give you
long lists of mighty works which are held as
Scriptures by the believers in these faiths. Who
wrote those works, and whence the knowledge?
That they exist is obvious. That they must have
authors can scarcely be denied. And yet those
26 THE MASTERS
works from a far-off antiquity show a depth of
spiritual knowledge, a depth of philosophic thought,
a depth of insight into human nature, and a depth
of moral teaching so magnificent, that the greatest
minds of our own day, both in morals and in philo-
sophy, must admit that those writings are greater
than they can produce, and that the modern world
aan show nothing which even approaches them in
sublimity.
· It is not a question of tradition, but of books; not
a question of theory, but of fact ; for if the books are
so great, the morality so pure, the philosophy so
sublime, and the knowledge so vast, their authors
must have had the knowledge which therein you
find incorporated. And the testimony of milJions
upon millions of human beings answers to the
reality of the spiritual "
truth, and nations are guided
by the teachings that thus have come down. Nor
is that all. These teachings are similar wherever
you find them. The same teaahing of the unity of
the Divine Life out of which the universe has
grown ; the same teaching of the identity of the
Spirit in man with the Spirit from which the
universe has come; the same teaching that man
by certain methods may develop the spiritual
Life in himself and come into positive knowledge
of divinity, and not only hope and faith. So that
you have, coming down from far-off times. at least
this fact which cannot be denied : that some men
lived in the far-off past whose thought was great
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND I·DEALS 27
enough, whose morality was pure enough, whose
philosophy was sublime enough, to outlast the
wrecks of civilisation and the destructive force of
time, and that to-day your Orientalists are trans-
lating for the teaching of the modern world that
which mighty men of old once taught, and find the
grandest thoughts to which the race has given birth
in these Scriptures that have come down from the
most ancient times.
That some then have lived far greater than our-
selves, that some have lived whose knowledge goes
far beyond the knowledge that we possess, that
we still learn in philosophy and in spiritual matters
from these far-off Teachers who spoke millenniums
ago ; that is a fact that cannot be denied. That
there have been Divine Men in the past that we
speak of as MahAtmAs, that they have left the
testimony to Their existence in this mighty
and sublime literature, that is the first line of
argument-the establishment of the existence in
the past, the proof that such Men have lived
and have taught, and that by Their teaching They
have guided and helped millions of the human race.
That Their teaching has been identical in its main
outlines, that Their teaching is identical in its
moral force, that the spiritual truths enunciat-
ed have come down unchanged through the
centuries : so far, at least, can we speak with
certainty, the ground so far is solid beneath our
feet.
28 THE MASTERS
The statements in this literature appeal to
human experience. They not only say that certain
things are, but they say these things can be known.
They not only declare the reality of the Soul, but
they say that that reality can be proved; so that
the teaching stands in this position, that it
announces certain alleged facts which remain
verifiable for all time, thereby affording a con-
tinually accumulating proof of the reality of the
knowledge of Those who first gave the statements
to the world.
FIRST-HAND EXPERIENCE
Pass from that to the next point in the argu-
ment-that these statements have been verified
by experience and are being verified to-day. Take.
for instance, such a land as India. There you have
an unbroken tradition, a tradition which comes
down to the present time, a tradition that there
always have been Teachers who may be found.
Teachers who possess the knowledge which is
hinted at in the books of which I speak, who
can add the practical teaching to the theoretical
statement, and enable people to verify by experi-
ment that which is said to be true in the literature
to which I have alluded. Ask any Indian of to-day
what is his belief on this question, and he will tell
you, if he has not been westernised, and you can
gain his confidence. that always in his land there has
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 29
remained the belief that these Men have existed in
the past and have not passed out of existence in the
present ; that They have more and more withdrawn
from the ordinary haunts of men, that They have
become more and more difficult to discover as
materiality has made its way and spirituality has
diminished ; but that still They can occasionally be
found, that still the first steps of the Path are open.
And not only is there that belief, but you will
find scattered throughout India many, many men
who, while they have not reached the point of
Mahn.tma.ship, have taken certain steps above
the physical plane, and hfive developed in them-
.selves powers and capacities which the ordinary
Westerner would look on as absolutely impossible
of attainment. I do not now speak of .the
MahAtmas, but of the hundreds of so-called yogts
scattered through the jungles and the mountains of
India, some of whom habitually exercise remark-
able powers-powers which here would seem
incredible, but of which there is ever-accumulating
testimony coming to you from the mouths of
travellers who collect and who record the facts with
which they themselves have come in contact. For
the earlier stages of the development of the inner
man are not so difficult of attainment, and in a
country like India, where there is not the difficulty
of scepticism to overcome. because there the belief
has existed for thousands of years, you will find
many and many a man who exercises the lower
so THE MASTERS
psychical powers, and a few who have gone far beyond
that stage and exercise either the higher psychic
faculties or the really spiritual powers of man.
And you can find some who have personal
experience, some who have individual knowledge of
Teachers, of Masters, who train Their pupils in the
higher path of what is called the Raja, or the
Kingly, Yoga, that is, the Yoga which primarily
trains the mind rather than the body, which works
by concentration of the mind, by meditation and by
the evolution of the higher mental faculties. on
which there is so much discussion here, and who by
a definite system of trainin~ are able to consciously
use powers of the mind which enable the possessor
to pass beyond physical limitations, and passing out
of ,the body to receive instruction which he is able
then to bring back to the lower consciousness and
impress on the physical brain, proving by his
knowled~e the reality of his teachin~, and prov-
ing the existence of his Master by his knowledge
which from Him he has obtained.
That then would be the ·next line of evidence
available. Not available, you may fairly retort,
to the majority of yourselves. But then you are
surely bound to remember, as reasonable men
and women, that if you desire knowledge you
must seek it where the knowledge is to be found,
and that it is as absurd for a number of men,
who have never investigated. who have never even
tried to investigate, who have never travelled, to
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 31
sit here in a London office and write on that of
which they have no knowledge, as it would be
for some ignorant Indian, who has never had the
slightest experience of your Western experiments,
say in the Royal Institution, to sit down and
declare that those are absolutely impossible
and ludicrous, because he himself has not tra-
velled here and has not had the oppor-
tunity of seeing them performed. You must deal
with evidence on rational lines, and if you
cannot yourselves come into contact with certain
acts, with certain phases of human life, you
must either remain ignorant-and then you should
be silent-or you ·should take the testimony of
those who have carefully investigated, and have
laid the result of their investigations before you.·
HOW CAN WE FIND THE MASTERS?
And that leads me to my next line of argument.
Suppose such Men existed. in the past, suppose
we admit, as every religion admits for its own
.Founder-though it may deny as to the Founders
of other religions-suppose we admit that in the
past Divine Men have lived, suppose that, be-
lieving in the immortality of the Spirit, we are
bound to admit that They must still exist some-
where if They ever existed at all ; then the
next question will be : Do these Men of the
past exist 1n the present? ~an They be reached ?
S2 THE MASTERS
Can They be known ? And are there others who
have reached a similar point, whose existence
may be supported by evidence which at least is
worthy of consideration ? Do They still exist ?
Here I am going into a line of thought which
I should adopt if I were trying to prove to you
the existence of any person living in a country
which you had not visited, living under conditions
which you had not yourself experienced. That
it can be absolutely demonstrated in every case
I admit to be impossible. I cannot demonstrate
to you,
Tolstoi.
for instance, the existence of Count
If fyou do not travel to Russia, if he
does not happen to come here, and you do not
happen to meet him, I cannot show you as an
absolute matter of demonstration that he exists.
But I could bring you evidence that would con·
vince any reasonable man ; I could show you
evidence which would be admitted in any Court of
Law; I could show you that there is no reason
for denying his existence merely because you have
not personally met him, and therefore obtained
what you would call ocular proof of his existence.
H. P. BLAVATSKY
Now what is the proof for the existence of
Divine, of Perfect Men living at the present time,
reachable under certain conditions ? What evidence
can I submit to you for that? There are many
THE MASTERS AS ·FACTS AND IDEALS 33
of you probably who will object to my first
witness ; but ::1ot for the objection am I going
to hold back her name- I speak of H. P. Blavatsky.
I know the attacks that from every side have
been made upon her. I have read the latest
attacks that, while I was away, were brought
against her, and in face of those, having read,
and read them carefully, I say that there remains
enough evidence coming through her, untouched
by those attacks, sufficient to put before you for
your consideration, and sufficient to win the assent
of rational men. H. P. Blavatsky is accused of
fraud, accused of evil conduct, accused of being
nothing more than ro~ue and charlatan and impostor;
but there are certain facts remaining;which you will
have to deal with even if you believe, as I do not
believe, in the truth of these exaggerated charges
that are brought against her. Take if you will, for
a moment-though I should deny it-take if you
will some of the worst of those charges-that she
had no contact with the Mahatmg,s at all, that she
invented Them, that They did not exist outside her
imagination, and that everything she said was false-
hood, everythin~ that she said and did was intended
to mislead. Still you have to deal with the facts of
her life. and with the facts of her books.
II THE SECRET DOCTRINE"
You have to deal with the book known as The
Seeret Doetrine, and if you want to understand that
M3
54 THE MASTERS
you must read it before you waive it aside, and
study it before you laugh at it. And I say
this on purpose. because I have read the
Appendix in which Mr. Coleman says it is full of
plagiarisms, that he can prove here, there, and
everywhere that she has borrowed from other
books her knowledge; he says that would ac-
count for the knowledge therein displayed. But
what you have to consider is this : that she
never claimed that she discovered the knowledge
she gave to the world ; that her contention is that
~his knowledge comes down from a far-off past,
is found in every Scripture, in every philosophy ;
and the very purpose of that book is to quote
from every direction, from the Scriptures of every
religion, from the writings of every. people, in
order to show the identity of the teaching and
to prove the antiquity of the doctrine. What is
new in the book is not facts that therein you
find. What is new in the book is not what has
been found by Orientalists, and may be pointed to
in one or another sacred book of the world. What
is new is the knowledge which enabled her to
select from the whole of these the facts which build
up a single, mighty conception of the evolution
of the universe, the evolution of man, the co-
herent synthesis of the whole cosmogony. And
that is her title to be the greatest Teacher of
our time, because she had real knowledge, not
mere book-learning, knowledge which enabled
THE MASTER~ AS FACT$ AND IDEALS 85
her to collect from scattered books the truths
which, fitted together, made one mighty whole;
because she held the clue which she ·was able to
follow with unerring accuracy through the maze,
~pd show that all th~ scattered materials contained
within them the possibility of the single building.
And her work i& the mor~ wonderful because she
did it no~ being a scholar; because she did it
~ot having had the education which would hav~
enabled her to. some extent to piece this knowledgtl
~ogether ~ because she did what no Orientalists hav~
qone with 4ll1 their learnjpg ; wh~t ~ot all thtl
Orienta,lists together have done with all the help,91
their knowle,dge of Ea~tern tqng~~& an,d their stuqy;
qf Eas.teri\ liter~t.\lre. There is no.t one o.~ the~
who Qut of that tangled mass brought 04t that
mighty synthesis~ pot. Qlle of them who QU~ of th~~
chao,s wa$ aple to. build up ~ cos111o~. But thia
Russif;1n wo.man with lit~h~ ed\lc.aation,. thts Russia~
woman who was no saholar, and pretended to b~
~one, somewh~re or other she gained' knowledge
that enabled her to do what none of your ~eholars.
can QO~ somewhere or other she had a teaching
which enabled her tq reduce this chaos to order,
and tq. bring out a mighty scheme of evoll,ltion
which makes us understand the universe and man.
She said it was not hers~ she ~ever claimed to
have originated it ; she was always speaking of her
own want of knQwledge and referring to Tho~e who
taught her.
36 THE MASTERS
But the fact you have to meet is this-the
knowledge is .there, and stands there for criti-
cism. Not one other person has done it, although
the same materials that Mr. Coleman says she used
are open to the whole of the world. And my
answer is : Give us then some others who can do
as she did. Let us have some more of this plagia-
rism which is able to gather from so many sources ·
everything that is necessary for a mighty philo-
sophy. Let your boasted scholars do it, and help us
to understand, as she helps us to understand, the
religions of the world. Let them show us the
identity. let them show us the reality, and then we
may begin perhaps to revise our opinion of her;
but until that is done her claim remains un-
shaken, even though you should prove that she
may have erred in much, and even although stones
may be thrown at her by those who can never rival
her in unselfishness, in self-sacrifice and in know-
led~e.
And the reason that you cannot shake us in our
belief in this is because she helped us to knowl~dge,
because we gained from her teaching that which
none other gave, because she opened up to us ways of
gaining further knowledge along the same lines, and
from the same Teachers who had taught her. That
is why we remain such fools as people think us, in
clinging to her and Qlinging to her memory, for we
owe her a debt of gratitude that we never shall be
able to pay, and never shall stone be cast upon her
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 87
grave which I will not try to lift off it, for the sake
of the knowled~e to which she led me, and the
priceless benefits that she gave me in the teaching
which she began.
Now the evidence that 1 ask you to take from her
is not the evidence of phenomena. 1 put that on
one side. It is not the evidence of scholarship.
She had none, she never pretended to it. It is not
the question as to whether or not her life from her
childhood was perfect. It is that she had certain
definite knowledge acquired somehow, which cannot
be accounted for by ordinary education, which she
obtained in a comparatively short space of time,
which astonished her own family and friends when
first she produced it, and which she said she got
from certain Teachers-the important fact being
that she possessed it, however it may have come
into her possession. That is the evidence that l
want to lay stress upon, because that is the point
which cannot be shaken, and it removes her testi-
mony for the moment from the whole question of
fraud of any sort ; it remains above it and beyond
it. And I say that even if you think the evidence
against her convincing that she went at times be-
yond the truth-1 am not saying it is so, but I am
saying, suppose you think the evidence convincing
-what then ? There remains the fact of this know-
ledge embodied in The Seeret Doetrine, which
stands there as a witness to her, and which I
venture to say cannot be overthrown; and the more
sa THE MASTERS
you degrade her, the less you make of her, the
more you prove the existence of and exalt the
Great Ones who worked through her, a.nd gave her
what she produced.
"THE VOICE OF THE SILENCE"
Now, there is another point about another book
of hers which is to me bf special interest; a book
that you may know, The Voiee of the Silenee :
that book happened to be written while l was with
her at Fontainebleau. It is a small book, and in
what I am going to say I spea.k only ot the book
itself : I am not speaking of the notes ; those were
done afterwards. The b6ok itself is what may be
called a prose poem in three divisions. She wrote
it at Fontainebleau, and the greater part was done
when I was with her, and I sat in the room while
she was writing it. I know that she did not write
it referring to any books, but she wrote it down
steadily, hour after hour, exactly as though she
were writin~ either from memory or from reading
it where no book was. She produced, in the eve-
ning, that manuscript that I saw her write as I sat
with her, and asked myself and others to correct
it for English: for she said that she had written it
so quickly that it was sure to be bad. We did not
alter in that more than a few words, and it remains
as a specimen of marvellously beautiful literary
work, putting everything else aside.
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 39
Now Mr. Coleman says that he can find this in a
number of other books. I can only hope he did
not read the book before making that statement.
For the book is, as I said, a prose poem, tull of
spiritual inspiration, full of food for the heart,
stimulating the loftiest virtue and containing the
noblest ideals. It is not a hotch-potch drawn from
various sources, but a coherent, ethical whole. It
moves us, not by a statement of facts gathered from
books, but by an appeal to the divinest instincts of
our nature : it is its own best testimony to the
source whence it came.
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE
Pass now from Madame Blavatsky herself to
those she taught. Our Chairman is one of them.
Many others are living, here and elsewhere, whom
she taught at first, and who have passed from her
training into and under the training of her
Teachers. And here you have an accumulating
testimony of men and women who, of their own
authority, by first-hand evidence, out of their own
experience, testify to the reality of the existence of
these Teachers, and to their own personal know-
ledge of Them, and of the teaching which they have
personally received from Them.
I have mentioned during the last week in two of
your papers a slnall part of my owrt evidence.
Mr. Sinnett to-day in his opening speech has
40 THE MASTERS
alluded to evidence extending in his own case
over fifteen years. Many others have done the
same, like Countess Wachtmeister, like Colonel
Olcott, like others who have ~iven their own
individual testimony. Are you going to say that
all these people are frauds ? With what right
do you so condemn them? Are you going to say
that they are all fools ? But they are men and
women living the ordinary life, men and women
who amongst those who know them stand as
persons of education, of intelli~ence, showing the
ordinary powers of discrimination and of knowledge
that others possess. Are you going to say tha-t we
are all mad? That is rather a rash assertion to
make against constantly growing numbers of
apparently reasonable men and women. What
other sort of evidence can you demand for the
existence of anyone save the evidence of those who
know him, of persons of integrity and of honour
who are living amongst yourselves? We bear to
These our personal testimony. not founded on docu-
ments, not founded on writings, not founded simply
on letters, and so on, on which there is always
possibility of deception arising, but on individual
communion with individual Teachers. and teaching
received which otherwise we could not have ~ained.
That is the kind of evidence you have to deal with ;
and no case of proving fraud against one or two or
three people will upset the accumulating testimony
of reasonable men and women, who are coming into
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 41
connection with those Teachers, and who bear
testimony to ~hat they themselves know. That is
the kind of evidence that you have to meet, that
the kind of testimony that you have to overthrow.
And however much you may be amused at smart
and clever writing, which takes advantage of the
deception practised by one in order to discredit the
whole, you can no more discredit this mass of
testimony by proving one man to be fraudulent,
than you can challenge, say, the reality of real coin
because a forger may circulate some false coin in a
community, and people may pass the coin for the
moment, and may be deceived into believing that it
is real.
But you may say: We want first-hand evidence
for ourselves. You can have it ; but you must
take the way. You can have the evidence
amounting to demonstration for yourselves if you
choose to take the trouble, if you choose to give
the·time. Not an unreasonable demand.
If you want to verify for yourselves the ex-
periments of some great chemist, can you do it
by simply going into a laboratory and mixing
together the things that you find there? If you
want to verify some of the latest experiments
in chemical science, do you suppose that you
can do it for yourselves, without giving years
of trouble and of study to master the science
in which you want to carry out a critical ex-
periment? And what would you think of the value
42 THE MASTERS
of the criticism of some person absolutely ignorant
of chemistry, if he said the experiment could not be
performed, merely because he was not able to do it
without training and without knowledge?
THE WAY TO ADEPTSHIP
Therefore I said that I would tell you how
the MahAtma. becomes. For only those who are
willing to aim at that goal can obtain the absolute
demonstration of the existence of Those who have
achieved. That is the price that has to be paid.
And without this only probability? Yes, reasonable
probability ; testimony of others which you would
accept on any other matter, on which, in a law-
court, you would pass vast sums of money, lar~e
estates, or anything else ; that you can have by
simply looking into the available evidence of which
I have been sketching merely the outline.. But per-
sonal demonstration ? For that you must begin
yourselves to develop in the way in which Their
development has been made ; and in order that
anyone who desires may begin to follow that line
and follow it to its natural ending, there have been
published to the world the preliminary steps upon
the Path, the steps that are taken by those who
attain the knowledge, the steps that anyone may
begin to take, and by which he in his turn may
acquire a certs.inty similar to that which some
of us possess. Two little books, especially, have
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 48
been published, which trace the beginnings of the
Path, one called Light on the Path, the other, the
one to which I before alluded, The Voiee of the
Silenee; and in addition to those there are many
hints scattered through Theosophical literature,
and becoming more and more numerous as the
individual experience of disciples increases as the
years go on.
How then should ordinary men or women begin?
If they desire to get evidence for themselves as
to the possibility of this development, which in the
end will make the Perfect Man- the man become
•
Divine-the first, the early steps, are those which
every religion has taught-carefulness and un-
selfishness in life, discharge of duty in whatever
place in life man or woman may happen to be.
To use the phrase which is used in this book 1
:
'' Follow the wheel of life ; follow the wheel of
<iuty to race and kin " ; that is a preliminary.
For those who would gain knowledge of the Soul
must begin in this way, which has ever been
taught, by the leaving off of evil ways, and by the
following of good ; by purity in life, by service to
men, by the unselfish effort, continually repeated,
to be useful in whatever place one may be in by the
law of nature. The endeavour to discharge to the
fullest every obligation, the endeavour to live a life
which shall leave the world better than it was found,
the endeavour to live nobly, unselfishly, and purely-
1 The Voiee of the Silenee.
_
;--
44 THE MASTERS
these are conditions laid down for those who would
find the Path.
REINCARNATION
And here let me say that unless reincarnation
be true, then most certainly this development is
not possible. In no one human life could that
long Path be trodden ; in no new-born Soul could
be developed these divine possibilities ; unless it be
true that the Soul of man comes back life after life
to earth, bringing with it to every new life the
experiencm of the lives behind, building up higher
and higher character life after life, then indeed the
Mahtitmii would be an impossibility, and the
perfection of man would be but the dream of the
poet. Reincarnation is taken for granted in the
whole of this teaching, as a fundamental fact in
nature, on which the perfection of the individual
must depend.
TO LIVE NOBLY
First then, a man through many lives must
set himself to live well, to live usefully, to
live nobly, so that he may be born time after
time with higher and higher qualities, with nobler
and nobler faculties. Next, there is a stage in this
human evolution, marked and definite, where the
Soul, having long been struggling upwards, raises
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEAL~ 45
itself a little beyond the ordinary evolution of man.
There are men and women who are exceptionally
unselfish, who show exceptional capacities, ex-
ceptional intuitions, exceptional love for spiritual
things, exceptional devotion to the service of
mankind; when those exceptional qualities begin to
manifest themselves, then comes the time when one
of the great Teachers takes that person in hand
individually, in order to guide the further evolution
and to train the evolving Soul. The earlier efforts
must be made in concert with the great spiritual
~orces which spread through all the world. But
when those have· been utilised, when men and
women have done their best, as it were, along this
line of general spiritual growth, then comes the
stage when the Teacher comes.forward to guide the
further evolution, and certain definite demands are
made, if this further evolution is to proceed.
· These are l~id down in the books to which I allud-
ed. Summed up in a phrase, or rather in two phrases.-
they might be called "the realisation of non-sepa-
rateness," which I will explain in a moment, and
"rigid self-discipline ". Non-separateness on the
one side, self-discipline upon the other. Now "non-
separateness" is a technical word, which means
this : that you realise that you are one funda-
mentally . with all that lives and breathes, that you
do not separate yourself from any living thing, that
you separate yourself neitper from the sinner nor
from the saint, neither from the highest nor from
46 I THE MASTERS
the lowest of mankind. Nay, not even from the
lower farms of living things, and things called
non-living, which you recognise as being one in
e,5sence, and one with your innermost Self. How
shall it be shown? It is shown. by the deliberate
attempt and training to begin to identify yourself
with the sufferings, with the feelings, and with the
wants of man. You are told : " Let thy soul lend
its ear to every cry of pain like as the lotus bares
its heart to drink the morning sun. Let not the
fierce sun dry one tear of pain, before thyself hast
wiped it from the sufferer's eye." But that is not
all. '' Let each burning human tear drop on thy
heart and there remain; nor ever brush it off, until
th~ pain that caused it is removed." 1 There is the
first note\ Go out to the sufferer and relieve his
pain ; but relieving his pain, let it wring your own
heart, and let it remain there as a constant suffer-
ing until the cause of that pain has been removed.
That is the first stage of non-separateness. Identify
yourself with the sorrows and the joys of the world;
let the sorrow of every one be your sorrow, the pain
of every one your pain, the joy of every one your
joy. Your heart, you are told, must answer to
every thrill in other hearts, as the string gives back
the note of music to which it has been attuned.
You must feel the pain, you must feel the agony;
nay, you must feel the sin and the shame as your
1 The Voiee of the Silen ee. The other quotations are fPom
the same book.
THE MASTERS AS FACT$ AND IDEALS 47
sain and you~ shf\me, e,nc;i make it part of your own
con~ciou~ness, and bear it, and never try to escape
therefroJll. You must train yourself in a sensitive-
ness whicn will anawer to every sufferini! of
mankind, and you must carry that out in deed
as well fl.S in feeling; for you are told again that
" Inaction in a deed of mercy becomes an action
in a deadly sin." But you ml:lst not only realise
the pain of the world and make it yours; you
must be as hard to yourself as you are tender
to those around. You have no time to spend
on y.~ur- own troubles, if the trouble of the worlq
is to become youfs. You pave no strength to wast~
an laments over yo~r awn gt"ief, if you are to be
\dentified with the sorrow!ii of mankind. And so it
~s said that yqu must be as hf\rd as the stone of the .
fnangq-frui~ to your Qwn pains and sorrows, while
soft as its pulp to ~he P,Sin.s ~pq ~qrrqw~ of
Qther tQe.n.
BRQTMERHOOD
And thus life after life you mu&t be trained, life
after life becoming more and more identified with
all, and breaking down everything that separate~
man from m~n. That is why brotherhood is our
only condition; because the recognition of that is
the firs~ step tqwards this reali~$tion of non-
separateness, which is necessary if the disaiple is
to progress. And the definite training of the disciple
48 THE MASTERS
is a training which makes him sensitive to the
sorrows of all, in order that, feeling, he may be
ready to help, and which trains him in this self-
identification ,with the whole, in order that he may
at last become one of the Saviours of the world.
For as this training proceeds life after life, there
~radually develops in this human being an ever-
growing sympathy, an ever-deepening compassion,
a charity which nothing can stain, and a tolerance
which nothing can shake. No injury can give
offence, for the sorrow is for the one who does the
injury, and not for the blow which is struck at
oneself. No anger can arise against any wrong, for
you understand why the wrong is done, and you
sorrow for the doer and have no time to waste in
• anger. You will not condone wrong, you will not
s·ay that wrong is right, you will not pretend that
good is evil, for that would be the greatest cruelty
and would make the progress of the race impossible.
But while recognising the evil, there will be no
anger against the evil-doer, for he is one with your
own Soul, and you recognise no separation between
yourself and him.
To what end? Because, as this growth proceeds,
memory and knowledge will grow; because, as
this growth proceeds, the developing life of the
Spirit within the disciple will show itself out
more and more In the walks of men, and
gradually he will become marked out as a worker
for man, a helper for man, a toiler for man,
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 49
working for him to enlighten his ignorance, to
bring him knowledge, and to show him the
reality that underlies all the illusions in the
world. And he must be hard to himself be-
cause he is to stand between man and evil,
because he 1s to stand between his weaker
brothers and the dark powers that otherwise
might crush them. The illustrations given here
of what the disciple must be are that he is to be
like a star which gives light to all, but takes
from none; that he is to be like the snow which
takes on itself the frost and the biting winds,
in order that the seeds below may sleep uninjured
by the cold, and have the possibility of growth
when the season for growth shall come. There is
the training to which submission is demanded by
these Divine Teachers; there what they claim
from men who desire to be disciples. Not
accomplishment at first, but endeavour; not
perfection at first, but effort ; not certainly the
showing out of the ideal, but the striving after it
amid whatever failure and atnid whatever error.
And I ask you if those of us who realise this as
ideal, and who know that this is the demand which
our Teachers make upon us, is it likely that we
should act for the injury of society, or be anything
save the servants of men in obedience to Those
whose law we strive to obey?
And then, as I said, life after life these quali-
ties develop, until there comes at last a time
M4
/
..
50 THE MASTERS
when the weaknesses of men have fallen away,
when the frailties of human nature have gradually
been overcome, when a comp~ssion that no-
thit?g can shake, a purity that nothing can
soil, a knowledge mighty in its scope, and a
spirituality · that makes itself felt-when these
are the qualities that mark the disciple who is
nearing the threshold of Jiberation; until the day
dawns when the treading of this Path is finished,
the time comes when the disciple's course is over,
and the last possibility of the Perfect Man opens
before his eyes. And then for a while the earth, as
it were, drops into the background ; he stands-the
liberated Soul as he is called, the Soul that has won
his freedom, the Soul that has conquered human
limitations-he,stands on the threshold of NirvliQa,
~f that perfect consciousness and bliss which go
beyond possibility of human thought, which go be-
yond possibility of our limited consciousness. And
as he stands there it has been said that there is
silence; silence in Nature, one of whose children
is rising beyond her, silence which nothing for a
time may break, when the liberated Soul has
accomplished his freedom. Silence-and it is
broken by a voice: it is a voice that unites into
one mighty cry the whole of the misery of the
world which has been left behind. A cry from the
world in its darkness, in its misery, in its spiritual
starvation, in its moral degradation. And in that
silence surrounding the liberated Soul, the cry that
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 51
comes ·across is the cry of misery from the human
race to the Soul that' has gone beyond his brothers,
to the Soul that is free while they are left In
chains.
THE SENSE OF UNITY
How shall he go further? Life after life he has
learned to identify himself with man ; life after life
he has learned to answer to every cry of pain. Can
he go onward freed. and leave others in chains?
Can he go onward into bliss. and leave the world
in• sorrow? He whom we call the Maha~mA is the
liberated Soul who has the right to go onward, but
for Love's sake turns back, who brings His know-
ledge to the helping of ignorance, brings His purity
to the cleansing of foulness, brings His light to the
chasing away of darkness, and takes up again the
burden of the flesh till all the race of men shall be
free with Him, and He shall go onward not alone,
but as father of a mighty family, bringing humanity
with Him to share the common·goal and the com-
mon bliss in NiPVAI).a. That is the Mahatm-a. Life
after life of effort crowned with supreme renuncia-
tion ; perfection gained by struggle and by toil, and
then brought back to help others till they stand
where He is standing. Every Soul that stretches
out. its hands, His hand is ready to help. Of every
brother of His race that asks for guidance, His
heart answers to the cry ; and They stand there
r
52 THE MASTERS
waiting until we are willing to be taught, and give
Them the opportunity which They have renounced
NirvAI).a to secure.
A SUBLIME IDEAL
Is that an ideal for scoffing, for laughter, for idle
ridicule? If it be only a dream, it is the noblest
dream that humanity has ever dreamed ; the fullest
of self-sacrifice, and the most inspiring of ideals.
To some a fact-a fact more real than life. But to
those to whom it is no fact it might be an ideal ; an
ideal of self-sacrifice, of knowledge, and of loVe.
That such Men are, some of us know. But even if
you believe not in Them, there is nothing in the
ideal that is not noble, and by thinking of which
you may not grow higher and higher towards the
light.
The Christian has the same ideal in his Christ ;
the Buqqhist the same ideal in his Buqqha. Every
faith has the same ideal in the Man whom it regards
as Divine. And we stand as witness to all religions
that their faith is real and not false ; their Teachers
a reality, and not a dream ; for the Teacher is the
realisation of the promise in the disciple, the
realisation of the ideal that we adore. And so to
some of us these Divine Teachers, whom we know
to live, are a daily inspiration. We can only come
in contact with Them as we strive to purify our-
selves. We can only learn more as we practise
THE MASTERS AS FACTS AND IDEALS 58
what already They have taught. And if I have
spoken here to-night at first of a theory, then of
the historical past, then of the witness that we bear
you in the present, and lastly of the steps that all
may take if they will, it is because I want to lift the
ideal out of all the ridicule that has been heaped
upon it, away from all the mud that has been cast
upon it, out of the jar and the strife which has been
made to surround it.
Bla.me us as you will, but leave that noble ideal
of human perfection untouched. Laugh at us as
you will, but do not laugh at the Perfect Man, the
man made God, in whom, after all, the most of you
believe. Do not, you who are Christians, be false
to your own religion, and leave your Christ only as
a matter of faith and not of living reality, as many
of you know that He is to-day. And remember that
whatever the name, the ideal is the same, whatever
the title, the thought that underlies it is identical.
And as you think, you develop ; as is your ideal,
so gradually your lives will become. For there is
this transforming power in thought, that if your
ideals are paltry your lives will be paltry ; if your
ideals are material your lives will be material.
Take then this ideal and think of it, and your lives
will become penetrated by its purity ; you will be-
come the nobler men and the nobler women,
because it forms a subject of your thought, and the
thought transforms you into its own likeness. It
is true that men become like that they worship; it
r
54 THE MASTERS
is true that men become like that on which they
think. And this ideal of the Perfect Man has in it
the hope for the future of the race. Therefo-
re 1
plead for it to you to-day, and I point you to the
Path by which from an ideal it may become a living
reality, turning from a hope into a living Teacher,
and from a lofty ideal for aspiration into the Friend
and the Master to whom you may give your life.
THE ADEPTS
WHO IS THE MASTER?
AMONG the many questions to which Theosophy
gives rise, none perhaps awakens more interest and
arouses more enquiry than that of the Masters.
What is indicated by the term ? Who are They ?
Where do They live ? What do They do ? These, and
many other questions, are constantly heard. Let
me try to throw a little light on these questions, to
answer them, at least, partially.
A Master is a term applied by Theosophists to
denote certain human· beings, who have completed
their human evolution, have attained human
perfection, have nothing more to learn so far as our
part of the solar ·system is concerned, have reached
what the Christians call " Salvation," and the
Hinqns and Buqqhists " Liberation ". When the
Christian Church still kept "the faith once deliver-
ed to the Saints'' in its fulness, salvation meant
much more than escape from everlasting damna-
tion. It meant the release from compulsory
reincarnation, safety from all possibility of failure
in evolution. "To hitn that overcometh" was the
...
56 THE MASTERS
promise that he should be "a pillar in the Temple
of my God, and he Bhall go out no more". He that
had overcome was '' saved ".
The conception of evolution, which implies a
gradual expansion of consciousness, embodied in
ever-improving material forms, underlies the con-
ception of Masterhood. The perfection it connotes
is to be reached by every human being, and clearly
perfection cannot be gained in the course of one
brief human life. The differences between man
and man, between genius and dolt, between saint
and criminal, between athlete and cripple, are only
reconcilable with the divine justice if each human
being is in course of growth from savagery to
nobility. and if these differences are merely the
signs of differing stages of that growth. At the
apex of such a long evolution stands the " Master,"
embodying in himself the highest results possible to
man of intellectual, moral: and spiritual develop-
ment. He has learned all the lessons that
humanity can assimilate, and the value of all the
experience the world can give is His. Beyond this
point, evolution is superhuman ; if the conqueror
returns to human life it is a voluntary action, for
neither birth can seize him nor death touch him,
save by his own consent.
We must add something to this for the full
conception of Masterhood. The Master must be
in a human body, must be incarnate. Many who
reach this level no longer take up the burden
THE ADEPTS 57
of the flesh, but using only "the spiritual body,.
pass out of touch with this earth, and inhabit
only loftier realms of existence. Further, a Master
-as the name implies-takes pupils, and in
strictness the term should only be applied to
those who discharge the special function of helping
less advanced men and women to tread the arduous
road which takes them "by a short cut" to the
summit of human evolution, far in advance of the
bulk of their fellow-men. Evolution has been
compared to a road winding round and round a
hill in an ascending spiral, and along that road
humanity slowly advances ; there is a short cut to
the top of the hill, straight, narrow, rugged and
steep, and " few there be that find it ". Those few
are the pupils, or "disciples" of the Masters. As
in the days of the Christ, they must "forsake all
and follow Him".
Those who are at this level, but do not take
pupils, are concerned in other lines of service
to the world, whereof something will presently
be said. There is no English name to distinguish
these from the teachers, and so, perforce, the
word Master is applied to them also. ln India,
where these various functions are known as coming
down from a remote antiquity, there are different
names for the different functions, but it would be
difficult to popularise these in English.
We may take, then, as a definition of a Master: a
human being who has perfected himself and has
58 THE MASTERS
nothing more to learn on earth, who lives in a
physical body on earth for the helping of man, who
·takes pupils that desire to evolve more rapidly than
their race, in order to serve it, and are willing to
forsake all for this purpose.
THE PERFECT MAN: HlS PLACE
IN EVOLUTION
It may, perhaps, be necessary to add, for the
information of those who are not familiar with the
Theosophical conception of evolution, that when we
say " a perfect man " we mean a good deal more
than is generally connoted by the phrase. We
mean a consciousness which is able to function
unbrokenly through the five great spheres in which
evolution is proceeding : the physical, intermediate
and heavenly worlds, to which all men are now
related, and in addition to these the two higher
heavens-St. Paul, it may be remembered, speaks
of the "third heaven "-which ordinary humanity
cannot as yet enter. A Master's consciousness is
at home in all these and includes them all, and his
refined and subtle bodies function freely in them
all, so that he can at any time know and act at will
in any part of any one of them.
The ~rade occupied by the Masters is the fifth in
the great Brotherhood, the members of which have
outpaced normal evolution. The four lower grades
consist of initiated disciples, who live and labour
THE ADEPTS 5Q
for the most part unknown in the everyday world,
carrying on the work assigned 'to them by their·
superiors. At certain times in human history, in
serious crises, in the transitions from one type of
civilisation to another, members of the Occult
Hierarchy, Masters and even loftier Beings, come
out into the world ; normally, although incarnate,
they remain in retired and secluded spots, away
from the tumult of human life, in order to carry on .
the helpful work which would be impossible of
accomplishment in the crowded haunts of men.
•
THE MASTER JESUS
Jesus-during the first thirty years of His life,
before His baptism, when the " Spirit of God"
descended upon Him' and thenceforth abode in
Him, raising the human body' to be the Temple
of the incarnate Christ -was the purest and
holiest of disciples, and thereafter, as m'an, achiev-
ed Masterhood, and became the Lord and Master
of the Church founded by the Christ. It is signifi.
cant that in the Church belief, the reality of the
continuing human body is laid stress upon, "wher-e-
with He ascended into heaven ". Through all the
troubled ages of Christianity, the Master Jesus has
been the Guardian and Shepherd of His Church,
guiding, inspiring, disciplining, purifying, century
after century, and now pouring forth the stream of
mystic Christianity which is watering the garden
...
60 THE MASTERS
of Christendom and causing fair blossoms to
flower forth once more. Clothed in a body
He has taken from Syria, He is waiting the
time for His reappearance in the open life of
men.
THE MASTER HILARION
Hilarion-once lamblichus of the Nee-Platonic
Schools, who gave through M. C. Light on the
Path, and through H. P. Blavatsky T,he Voiee of
the Silenee, skilled craftsman in poetic English
prose and in melodious utterance--is labouring also
for the coming time, and will play his part in the
drama of the New Age.
THE MASTERS M. AND K. H.
Those who are named M. and K.H. in Th~ Oeeult
World by · Mr. Sinnett were the two Masters who
founded the Theosophical Society, using Colonel
H. S. Olcott and H. P. Blavatsky, both disciples of
M., to lay its foundation ; and who gave to
Mr. Sinnett the materials from which he wrote his
famou3 books-the one named above, and Esoterie
Buddhism-which brought the light of Theosophy
to thousands in the West. H. P. Blavatsky has
told how she met the Master M. on the bank
of the Serpentine, when she visited London
in 1851.
THE ADEPTS 61
THE MASTER RAKOCZI AND OTHERS
The last survivor of the Royal House of Rakoczi,
known as the Comte de S. Germain in the history
of the eighteenth century; as Bacon in the seven-
teenth ; as Robertus, the monk, in the sixteenth ;
as Hunyadi Janos in the fifteenth; as Christian
Rosencreuz in the fourteenth-to take a few of his
incarnations-was disciple through these laborious
lives and now has achieved Masterhood, the
" Hungarian Adept " of The Oeeult World, and
known to some of us in that Hungarian body.
And there is "the Venetian," and .. Serapis" who
taught Colonel Olcott for a while, and "the Old
Gentleman of Tiruvallur," that H. P. Blavatsky
named thus quaintly, visited in his Nilgiri retreat
by Subba Row and C. W. Leadbeater, the retreat
some eighty miles from Adyar. where he lives
secluded, watching the world as it changes, and
plunging deeply into the abstruser sciences of which
chemistry and astronomy are the outer shells.
These are some of the Masters, more or less
publicly known, and to be known more publicly ere
the present century is numbered with the past.
WHERE DO THEY LIVE ? 1
They live in different countries, scattered over
the world. The M~ster Jesus lives mostly in the
1
[A fuller account is given in The Masters and the Path
by C. W. Leadbeater.]
62 THE MASTERS
mountains of Lebanon; the Master Hilarion in
Egypt-he wears a Cretan body ; the Masters
M. and K. H. in Tibet, near Shigatse, both using
Indian bodies; the Master Rakoezi in Hungary, but
travelling mueh ; I do not know the dwelling-plaees
of "the Venetian" and the Master "Serapis ".
Dwelling-plaees of the physieal body seem to mean
so little when the swift movements of the subtle
body, freed at will from the grosser one, earry the
owner whither he wills at any time. " Plaee '' loses
its ordinary signifieanee to those who are free
denizens of spaee, earning and going at will. And
though one knows that they have abiding-plaees
where dwells usually the physieal body, that body
is so mueh of a vesture. at any moment to be
readily laid aside, that the " where" loses its
interest to a great extent.
THEIR WORK
They aid, in countless ways, the progress of
humanity. From the highest sphere they shed
down light and life on all the world, that may be
taken up and assimilated, as freely as the sunshine,
by all who are receptive enough to take it in. As
the physieal world 1ives by the life of God, focused
by the sun, so does the spiritual world live by that
same life, focused by the Occult Hierarehy. Next,
the Masters specially connectea with religions use
these reilgions as reservoirs into which they pour
THE ADEPTS 68
spiritual energy, to be distributed to the faithful in
each religion through the duly appointed "means of
grace ". Next comes the great intellectual work,
wherein the Masters send out thought-forms of high
intellectual power to be caught up by men of
genius, assimilated by them and given out to the
world ; on this level also they send out their wishes
to their disciples, notifying them of the tasks to
which they should set their hands. Then comes
the work in the lower mental world, the generation
of the thought-forms which influence the concrete .
mind and guide it along useful lines of activity in this
world, and the teaching of those who are living in
the heavenly world. Then the large activities of
the intermediate world, the helping of the so-called
dead, the general direction and supervision of the
teaching of the younger pupils and the sending of
aid in numberless eases of need.. In the physical
world the watching of the tendencies of events, the
correction and neutralising, as far as law permits, of
evil currents, the constant balancing of the forces
that work for and against evolution, the strengthen-
ing of the good, the weakening of the evil. In
conjunction with the Angels of the Nations also
they work, guiding the spiritual forces as the others
guide the material, choosing and rejecting actors in
the great Drama, influencing the councils of men,
supplying needful impulses in the right direction.
These are but a few of the activities ceaselessly
carried on in every sphere. by. the Guardians of
64 THE MASTERS
humanity, some of the activities which come within
our limited vision. They stand as a Guardian Wall
around humanity, within which it can progress,
uncrushed by the tremendous eosmic forces which
play around our planetary house. From time to
to time, one of them comes forth into the world of
men, as a great religious teacher, to carry on the
task of spreading a new form of the Eternal
Verities, a form suitable to a new race or civilisa-
tion. Their ranks include all the greatest Prophets
of the Faiths of the world, and while a religion lives
one of these great Ones is ever at its head, watching
over it as His special charge.
THE WORLD-TEACHER
During the present century. one of those great
crises in the history of humanity will occur, which
mark the conception of a new civilisation. He
whom in the East men call the Wisdom-Truth,
the World-Teacher, and whom in the West men
call the Christ, will ere long return incarnate upon
earth and move once more among the busy crowds
of men. With Him will come several of the Masters,
to aid His work and spread abroad His message.
The hurrying rush of present events, the intoler-
able burdens crushin~ down the peoples, menace
of war, the chaos of opinions, political, social, and
religious; all these and many more are the signs
of the changing times, of the passing away of the
THE ADEPTS 65
old, of the birthing of the new. It will, indeed, be
a new world on which the eyes of the infants of
to-day will gaze in their maturity; for again is
ringing forth the ancient saying : " BeJ'lold I I create
a new heaven and a new earth. Behold I I make
all things new."
Printed and published by A. K. Sitarama Shaatri,
at the Vasanta Press, Adyar, Madras.
