{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__maxwell___science_of_mastership.pdf","mytitle":"Science Of Mastership","mylang":"de"}
THE
SCIENCE OF MASTERSHIP
BY
SAMUEL ROBERT MAXWELL
Suite 418
LYON AND HEALY BUILDING
CHICAGO
Copyright, 1931
By M. L. MAXWELL
Printed in U. S. A.
THE JORDAN & MORE PRESS
S. R. MAXWELL
0
^Hhv ,
~^nvJk.
0*v& QjwfecL on*,
Pa^c
Zpl
379128
NOV 1 4 1931
FOREWORD
HE purpose of this Book is to show the reader
How a man becomes that which he is. If a
man knows how he has become that which
he is this knowledge gives him freedom. If a man
knows how he has become that which he is He can
make himself over again.
We live in a law ordered Universe. If we want
anything we must obey law to obtain it.
Clear brained Scientists have discovered the
laws that govern the Forces of the Universe that lie
outside of man and harnessed them to human use.
The aim of the Author of this Book is to explain the
laws of the Forces that are within man so that he
can control and direct these Forces and attain Self
mastery.
It is of great importance that we understand and
control the Forces of the Universe without but it is
of much greater importance that we understand and
control the forces that are within man. Without the
knowledge and control of the Forces within man we
cannot use the Forces that are without to the best
advantage.
In fact we have been using these Forces to destroy
instead of to save. This destructive use is due to
the fact that these superior machines are in the
hands of inferior men. Men who lack the power of
self control and self mastery.
Foreword — Continued
We must bring human character up to a high level
of intellectual and moral power so that the agencies
that Science has handed over to us shall be used to
make this world a better place wherein to live, work
and play.
To this great end this Book is dedicated.
The Author
INTRODUCTION
HERE is a principle which is a bar against
all information, which is a proof against all
argument, and which cannot fail to keep a
man in everlasting ignorance. That principle is
CONDEMNATION BEFORE INVESTIGATION."
Bacon said, "There are some books that are to
be tasted, others are to be chewed while others are
to be chewed and digested." I have read this Book
and I assure the reader that it belongs to the last
class, it can be chewed, digested and absorbed. In
other words the contents of this Book can be used
by any normal person.
Every normal person is seeking wider mental free
dom, greater personal efficiency, health and prosperi
ty. This Book reveals the principles and gives a
simple and comprehensive understanding of the
laws underlying these valuable possessions. A
wise teacher once said, "Seek ye first the Kingdom
of God and his righteousness and all these things
shall be added unto you." When a man is in the
Kingdom of God he has unfolded the highest qualities
known to man. When these qualities are developed
to the highest point of power and efficiency the best
things in life automatically follow.
This Book shows the reader how to develop these
qualities.
— Herbert Spencer
Introduction—Continued
In vocational training we generally start at the
wrong end. We attempt to put on the roof before
we have laid the foundation. We attempt to train
a man in the effective use of his tools instead of first
improving the man. We aim to make a man a good
accountant, carpenter, brickmason, salesman etc.,
instead of first increasing and developing his physical,
mental and spiritual qualities. When this is done
it will be much easier to train him in the technique
of his trade.
The writer of this Book puts strong and emphatic
emphasis upon this supremely important fact
THAT THE EFFICIENT MAN IS THE FOUN
DATION OF EFFICIENT ACHIEVEMENT.
When the efficient man appears all things necessary
to successful accomplishment follow. Every in
stitution amongst man is the lengthened shadow of
some strong personality.
THE MAN OF POWER and EFFICIENCY is the
CHIEF thing, the born dwarf can never do the work
of the giant. A man must BE before he can know
and do.
So then there are two phases of EFFICIENCY,
the personal and the vocational.
Personal ability must be developed FIRST. When
this is done vocational efficiency follows. If a man
has a good head he won't be long without a hat.
The Author of this Book places strong emphasis
on the importance of BEING and he shows HOW
the power to think, to know, to will and to do is based
in the last analysis on BEING.
Introduction— Conclud ed
If you want to know the laws of the forces that are
within you and how to increase control and direct
these forces you will find complete information in
this Book.
It will open to you the doors of your own mind, con
duct you through your own Kingdom revealing its
immense resources and invaluable treasures.
This Book is scientific and at the same time simple
and practical. There is nothing mystical or mys
terious in its pages. It deals only with the laws that
have been demonstrated and you can demonstrate
for yourself.
If you want to know HOW YOU HAVE BECOME
THAT WHICH YOU ARE this book will give you
the KEY. If you know how you have become that
which you are this knowledge will give you freedom
and put you in possession of the power to change
your character and rise into the heights of a power
ful personality.
In possession of this knowledge you will know how
all varieties of human character are developed. Such
knowledge will give you a broad tolerance and you
will have no desire to criticize, judge or condemn
your neighbor. You can look down upon all types
of human character not in the spirit of supercilious
disdain but in the spirit of a sympathetic under
standing.
Caroline Brown
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I PAGE
The Human Body an Electrical Machine . 1
CHAPTER H
The Brain and the Nervous System ... 17
CHAPTER IE
How the Power that Cures Disease Works . 59
CHAPTER IV
The Science of Food 85
CHAPTER V
The Science of Breath 109
CHAPTER VI
The Law of Habit or How Character is Built . 123
CHAPTER VII
Telepathy, Automatic Writing, Mind Reading,
Dreams, Suppressed Instincts . . . 173
CHAPTER VIII
The Instincts in Human History . . . . 205
THE HUMAN BODY AN ELECTRICAL
MACHINE
THE SCIENCE OF MASTERSHIP
Chapter One
THE HUMAN BODY AN ELECTRICAL MACHINE.
CCORDING to recent science, electrons con
stitute the elemental stuff out of which the
material universe is built. An electron is a
unit of electricity. There are two forms of this
energy, the electron which is positive and the
proton which is negative.
Science declares that the material universe at large
is built up of these units. If this is true, then the
universe in all its movements must be explained in
terms of electric law. The sun is a great electric
dynamo revolving in its own magnetic field. This
immense dynamo, 1,300,000 times larger than the
earth, must create a vast magnetic field extending
beyond the limits of the solar system. Within these
limits the planets revolve in their own local magnetic
fields, receiving their power to revolve from the central
dynamo, the sun.
According to this theory, then, the universe lives,
moves and has its being in an all-pervading atmos
phere of electricity. In fact, there is nothing apart
from electricity. All forms of energy, motion, light
and heat are expressions of electricity. The magnetic
fields surrounding the sun and the planets within
which they revolve, are storehouses in space of
electric energy.
2 The Science of Mastership
The difference between dead matter, or the in
organic, and living matter, or the organic, can be
understood on the basis of electrical exchange.
Electrical exchange is present where there is electrical
potential or pressure. To illustrate the action of
electrical exchange, imagine two containers, one full
of water, the other half full, connected with a pipe.
When the spigot in the pipe is opened the water will
flow from the full tank to the one that is half full until
a level is attained. Then the movement of the
water ceases. Movement ceases when balance is
attained. The pressure which causes the water to
flow illustrates electrical potential or pressure.
In a stone, there is no electrical potential because
the positive and negative electrons are balanced.
There is no flow of energy from one to the other.
The stone is inert or dead.
In a living cell or a combination of living cells,
there is movement because of the presence of elec
trical potential or pressure between the positive and
negative electrons. This difference in electrical
pressure causes a flow of energy from the one to the
other; thus you have a release of energy. SO
THEN ELECTRICAL EXCHANGE IS THE FUN
DAMENTAL BASIS FOR THE EXPRESSION OF
LIFE.
This transfer and release of energy is not life or
thought but it forms the basis for the expression of
life and thought.
All material things, then, are made up of electrical
units of energy. Some of these units have more and
The Human Body 3
some less of this energy. In a stone, these units
are at peace because all the units have the same
amount. In all inorganic elements, the units are
in equilibrium. In a plant or animal, however, there
is a constant movement of energy from one unit to
the other throughout the entire mass. So long as
this movement obtains, the conditions for the ex
pression of life are present. When the exchange is
completely effected, and balance is attained, then
death occurs. Why? Because the means whereby
life comes into contact with its environment is gone.
Life cannot express itself. LIFE IS CORRE
SPONDENCE WITH ENVIRONMENT and, when
the means whereby life comes into correspondence
with environment is not present, life cannot manifest
itself.
Dead matter can become the basis of life when you
upset the balance between the electrons that com
pose it. In other words, dead matter can become
living substance by introducing the element of
electrical exchange. Oxygen, according to science,
is the disturber of this balance and the power that
wakes up the electrons in dead matter and puts them
to work. We know, also, that the conditions for
the expression of life and power are impossible
without oxygen.
Since the universe, in all its forms, is electricity
in different states of electrical balance, then oxygen
itself is a form of electricity — and, since it is a gas,
the electrons that compose it are in a state of tre
mendous activity. When a stream of electrons in
4 The Science of Mastership
intense activity moves into a group of electrons that
are resting in perfect balance, I can easily see how
completely this stream would upset their com
placency and get them into action. Dead matter,
then, can be made to surrender power and become
the basis for the expression of life through the agency
of oxygen. OXYGEN wakes up the sleeping electrons
and puts them to work.
The release of power. A piece of coal is condensed
solar energy, and solar energy is electrical energy in
a state of tremendous activity. Ages ago this solar
energy, in company with oxygen, lifted dead matter
into forests of living trees. A convulsion came and
buried the forest beneath tons of rock. Heat and
pressure turned these trees into coal beds. A piece
of coal, then, is a condensed mass of electrons that
have reached a condition of balance. Lying latent
in this piece of coal is immense energy. When the
electrical balance is destroyed by the application
of heat and the introduction of oxygen, the coal gives
up this energy in heat and flame. In the steam
engine, this energy is communicated to water — the
movements of the electrons in the water are in
creased to a terrific speed — the water becomes
steam. So the steam engine is harnessed solar
energy or harnessed electric energy.
There is another way of obtaining electric power.
When we rotate a coil of wire between the poles of
a magnet, the coil cutting through the lines of force
in the magnetic field creates a steady current of
electricity. Such a mechanism is called a dynamo
The Human Body 5
or motor and the capacity of the motor can be in
creased by winding more wire on the coil. The
supply of force in this case is inexhaustible — and
where does this inexhaustible supply of power come
from? It conies from the magnetic field and the
magnetic field is a storehouse of limitless power.
This limitless power must reside in the interior of
atoms. Dr. Le Bon says, "Matter being easily dis
associated and constituting an immense reservoir
of intra-atomic energy, it is enough to admit that the
lines of force seized upon and cut through by the
coils causing them to flow in a current of electricity
are constantly replaced at the expense of inter
atomic energy. This latter being relatively in-
haustible, a single magnet can furnish an almost
infinite number of lines of force." It has been
computed that one pound of common soil contains
inter-atomic energy equal, in destructive power, to
more than a million tons of dynamite. Considering
the low intellectual and moral level of the people
on this planet, let us hope that the scientists will not
be able to harness this infinite power until we have
intelligence enough to know how to use it for the
good of humanity.
THE HUMAN BODY AN ELECTRIC MACHINE.
"Cogito ergo sum." I think, therefore I am, said
Descartes; and he made this statement the basis
of a great philosophy. In this philosophy, he at
tempted to account for all physical phenomena by
6 The Science of Mastership
his conception of atoms moving under the laws of
pressure and repulsion. He invested these atoms
with intelligence and self motion. He said that
man's body was a self moving and intelligent machine
and that, back of that machine and pervading that
machine, was the presence of Almighty God, who gave
those atoms the power of intelligence and self move
ment. Descartes was born in 1596. At that time
the science of electricity was not known.
It is true that the thinker within cannot express his
thoughts without a proper instrument. He cannot
function in a material universe without a fitting
vehicle. An automobile is a machine so constructed
that it can create and use power, but it cannot carry
the man inside where he wants to go unless he sits
at the wheel and directs it. The man inside pos
sesses something that the automobile does not
possess — DIRECTIVE INTELLIGENCE. The gas
oline in the tank is condensed electric energy. The
spark from the battery is released electric energy.
The steel frame, the engine and all other parts
of the car consist of electrons in a state of balance.
The entire machine is electricity in some form,
but the machine is not intelligent. It has no will
of its own. It cannot direct itself. It cannot repair
itself. The man at the wheel can build the auto
mobile, he can repair
it,
he can direct it. The man
at the wheel possesses something that the electric
energy in the automobile does not possess and that
SOMETHING
is
MIND POWER, or INTEL
LIGENCE. HE THINKS.
The Human Body 7
But the man at the wheel must have a fitting
vehicle through which he can function. He has.
The human body is an electric machine composed
of trillions of exquisitely small electric cells. What
is an electric cell? In order to make it plain, let us
see how an electric battery is made and how an
electric current is created in this battery. Take an
earthenware cup containing zinc sulphate. Place
within this a zinc plate. Place this in a larger cup
containing copper sulphate and a copper plate. The
two solutions are kept separate by the inner cup.
The two metals constitute the two poles of the
battery, the zinc being negative and the copper
positive. Now, in the internal circuit of this battery,
there is a rise in potential or electrical pressure from
the zinc to the copper. This pressure rises in steps
from the zinc solution to the zinc plate and from the
copper solution to the copper plate. Now, if the two
plates are connected with a wire, a current of elec
tricity will flow from the copper to the zinc. The
solution around the copper becomes acid, that around
the zinc becomes alkaline. The next question arises
— how is an animal cell constructed and what are
its elements? All animal cells have a central nucleus
containing an acid constituent, within which is sup
posed to be the germs containing all the hereditary
trends of the animal. Surrounding this nucleus,
is the cytoplasm containing the alkaline constituent.
Each of these is surrounded with a semi-permeable
membrane of low conductivity. The nucleus rep
resents the positive pole and the cytoplasm the
8 The Science of Mastership
negative pole. So then, the animal cell is a mecha
nism for the creation of electricity. It is an ex
ceedingly small electric battery and the difference
in electrical potential or pressure between the two
poles of the cells creates a current of electricity which
we call nerve force. NERVE FORCE OR ELEC
TRICITY, then, is THE ENABLING POWER OF
THE PHYSICAL MAN.
According to Sir Arthur Thompson, there are 28
trillions (28,000,000,000,000) cells in the human
body. If these cells were opened up and spread out
they would cover nine acres. Imagine nine acres
of surface made up into tiny electric batteries all
connected in series. What a current of power they
would produce. The human body needs this vast
stream of power to do its work.
Recently, Fritz Grunewald, in a series of investi
gations, demonstrated that the magnetic needle can
be deflected by the human hand. That the action
was magnetic was proved by the fact that when the
person experimented upon pushed his hand through
a coil of copper wire, a current of electricity was
produced which was measured by the ammeter.
He spread a lot of iron filings on a glass plate and
caused the individual to place his hand beneath the
plate ; the filings slowly arranged themselves in lines
of magnetic force, with the two poles distinctly out
lined. He also discovered that the deflection of the
magnetic needle above the hand would increase
during inspiration and decrease during expiration
of the breath.
The Human Body 9
In 1909 Dr. Veraguth of Berlin, in a series of ex
periments, showed that the human emotions are
accompanied by electrical discharges from the
central nervous system down through the nerves to
the muscles and the glands.
Dr. A. D. Waller, who died 1922 and who was, at
the time of his death, director of the Physiological
Laboratory of the University of London, has shown,
by a number of experiments, that the resistance to
the passage of a current of electricity decreases in
the presence of pain. His experiments prove that all
negative and destructive emotions decrease the
resistance of the nerves to the passage of electric
currents. He discovered that, in highly sensitized
persons, the MERE THOUGHT of a pin prick
produced a wider movement of the galvanometer
than the actual injury, while a mere suggestion of
being burnt with a red-hot poker sent the bead of light
in the galvanometer up to the limit. Concealed or
controlled emotions acted more powerfully on the
galvanometer than when they were relieved by
weeping.
Professor Ralph S. Lillie of the University of
Chicago has presented data which show that, in
cases of uplifting emotions, the cell membranes
through which the emotions pass expand. This
expansion allows a larger stream of electrons to pass,
while, in the case of depressing emotions, the cells
contract lessening the stream of electrons that pass.
Sir Jagadis Bose, a Hindu scientist of Calcutta,
India, has shown, by his exquisitely sensitized
10 The Science of Mastership
galvanometer and his marvellous magnetic cresco-
graph, which magnifies the movement of plants from
one to more than ten million times, that, if there is
the slightest degree of life present in an organism,
it will give an electrical response. He has also shown
that the response of the cells varies according to
their age.
For many centuries it has been a common belief
that the human body was surrounded by an aura.
Certain individuals claim to be able to see this aura.
Scientists generally laughed at the claim, taking the
position that no such phenomenon existed therefore
no explanation was necessary. Mr. Walter J.
Kilner, however, late electrician of the St. Thomas
Hospital of London, has brought this supposed
psychic phenomenon within the range of the objective
senses. He prepared a screen and treated it with
a certain coal tar dye known as dicyanin and, when
other stipulated conditions were complied with,
any person of normal vision can see this aura. He
found that this aura has three envelopes and that the
size and strength of this atmosphere varies according
to age, sex, physical characteristics or health. When
a person was placed on an insulated stool and elec
trified, the intensity of the aura increased. This
aura is the magnetic field of the individual and is
due to the presence of electric currents flowing in
the nerves of the body.
To become a machine for the creation of electricity,
the body must be a chemical laboratory. Chemical
compounds furnish the conditions for electric cur
The Human Body 11
rents and electric currents create chemical com
pounds. Thome in his book entitled "Structural
and Physiological Botany" says, "The chemical
processes within the cells of a plant, the molecular
movements connected with growth and the internal
changes on which the activity of the protoplasm
depends, whether exhibited in the formation of new
cells or in motility, are connected with the disturbance
of electrical balance. The fluids of different chemical
properties in the adjoining cells, their decomposition,
the evolution of oxygen from cells containing chloro
phyll, the function of carbon dioxide in growing
organs, the process of transpiration, all these vital
processes, produce electric currents." Iron and
oxygen in combination with the salts of the blood,
as an exciting solution, are capable of and do produce
electric currents. Mineral salts play a very vital
part in all life processes and the reason is plain.
The presence of these salts in the solution that sur
round the cells is necessary to produce electric cur
rents. In the blood stream, the haemoglobin carries
iron. This iron unites with oxygen forming oxy-
haemoglobin. In this combination, the iron carries
this activating negatively charged gas to all the cells
of the body. In the leaves of plants, chlorophyll
utilizes manganese in the presence of iron to draw,
with the aid of the sunlight, a continuous stream of
electricity from the earth, the water and the air.
So then it is a fact sustained by numerous
experiments that the^lungs, the stomach, the kid
neys, etc., are all special laboratories where electric
12 The Science of Mastership
action produces chemical compounds essential to
health.
The Endocrine system, with its twelve glands, is
a chemical mechanism with special departments
where electrical action produces chemical compounds
that are necessary to physical well being. Each of
these twelve Endocrine glands secretes a transparent
fluid known as Endocrine. These secretions are
poured into the blood stream and, in the course of
their travels, they pick up through electric affinity
other endocrines to form hormones. These hormones
will pick up normal proportions of chemicals to furnish
the necessary electric energy for perfect metabolism.
The process of breathing is an electric phenomenon.
The lungs composed of millions of electric cells, in
a condition of unstable electrical equilibrium, are
continually furnishing electrical energy.
The food we eat is condensed solar or electric
energy. In the chemical process of digestion the
electrical balance of the food substances is upset,
energy is released and distributed for use in the
human machine.
The aim of medicine, in all its schools, through all
the weary centuries of sickness and plague, has been
to find out what this "vis medicatrix naturae" or life
energy is and how to control and direct it. It is
impossible to control or direct a force unless you know
what it is and the laws that govern it. We know now
what it is and we know its laws. The individual
can learn how to control and direct this force. He
can learn how to increase it over and above the normal
The Human Body 13
needs of the machine and he can learn how to send
this surplus to any part of the machine that needs it.
In our private lessons, we furnish the student of this
science a mental and physical technique which en
ables him to accomplish this and thus heal himself.
THE BRAIN AND THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM
Chapter Two
THE BRAIN AND THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
THE
human body, then, is a magnificent mobile
machine built for the exercise of the mental
and physical powers of the driver — THE
THINKER inside.
The mechanists of our day say that this machine
is all there is to man; there is NO THINKER within.
These gentlemen explain all human achievements
and conduct by saying that they are the result of
"hitting back." The rebounds of the organism
from the impacts of its environment — thus they
invest chemical reactions with marvellous powers.
According to this theory, all the great religions
that man has invented, Buddhism, Christianity, Juda
ism, Mohammedanism, are the results of chemical
reactions in the brains of the founders, and I presume
that the differences in these religions is the difference
in the chemicals that produced the reaction. Maho
met had more iron in his makeup than Christ. Bud
dha may have had an excess of potassium, while
Moses and Christ had an excess of some other
chemical. All the magnificent achievements of the
philosopher, the artist, painter, sculptor, architect,
musician and statesman come from the amazing
womb of chemical and electric reactions. The
vibrations of light from the falling apple struck that
mass of cells we call Newton and, behold, a chemical
reaction was produced. The mass of cells kicked
18 The Science of Mastership
back something, and that something was THE
PRINCIPIA. No thought was required to write
the principia or formulate the law of gravitation.
Chemical and electric reactions did it all.
Raphael? There was no such entity. The thing
that sat at the easel blending colors in imperishable
art was simply a mechanism inspired by the joy
of chemical reactions. Michelangelo did not need
any mind. The thing that chiselled the marble into
beautiful forms, erected great cathedrals and adorned
them with superb paintings was a reacting mass of
electrons. Beethoven was a bundle of musical cells
that sat at the organ and struck back at his environ
ment in magnificent symphonies. Aristotle just
another combination of chemicals so arranged that
their reactions produced philosophy. Demosthenes?
Just a name we give a mass of chemical cells which
when struck by their environment gave forth great
orations. Edison? That combination of cells we
call Edison was so organized that, when they were
hit by environment, reacted in great inventions.
It is too great a tax on my credulity to believe such
a theory.
When a man denies the existence of a directing
intelligence in the universe or in man, what strange
and ridiculous theories he invents to account for
them!
The human body is a splendid machine, but within
this machine is a THINKER that directs and co
ordinates its movements. It is a combination of
electric cells but no combination of electric cells
The Brain and Nervous System 19
ever produced life or intelligence. Life has no
qualities similar to matter. No chemical, magnetic
or electric force can produce life. No scientist can
create it in his laboratory. Life is positive in relation
to matter. It seizes
it,
endows
it
with movement,
and organizes
it
toward definite ends. Life has the
power of assimilation. It is
a
combining power.
It is co-ordinating power. It has the power of growth
and reproduction. The principle of electric exchange
furnishes the conditions for life to discharge its
functions but electric exchange
is
not life.
Professor Bascom says, "Life
is
not force,
it
is
combining power.
A
capacity to use force for definite
ends."
Carpentar says, "The convertibility of electric
and chemical forces and their correlation with the
vital and the intricacy of the nexus between bodily
and mental, which cannot be analyzed, all lead up
to one and the same conclusion, the SOURCE OF
ALL POWER IS MIND."
Herbert Spencer, in his discussion of the relation
between the MIND AND THE BRAIN, says, "Here,
indeed, we arrive at the barrier which needs to be
perpetually pointed out, alike to those who seek
materialistic explanations of mental phenomena and
those who are alarmed lest such explanations may
be found. The last class prove by their fears as the
first prove by their hopes that they believe that mind
may possibly be interpreted in terms of matter,
WHEREAS THERE IS NOT THE REMOTEST
POSSIBILITY OF SO INTERPRETING IT."
20 The Science of Mastership
Crichton Brown says, "We must hold fast to the
truth that matter and mind are DISTINCT ES
SENCES — irreconcilable in their nature but myste
riously accordant in their operations."
Edison, the greatest of electric inventors, when he
was asked by a reporter if he believed in God said,
"I believe in an eternal reason that pervades all
things and co-ordinates all things, beyond this, my
brain cannot go."
The universe, at large, is in a state of unstable
equilibrium. Electrical exchange is present every
where. This electric exchange releases energy,
is the creator of force, furnishes the conditions of life
growth and reproduction. Without
it,
we would have
a
dead and motionless universe. Utilizing this
principle of the difference of pressure between the
positive and negative electrons, the ETERNAL
REASON pervades, builds and directs the universe.
The operation of this principle
is
manifest every
where. Everything is in motion. The sun is the
prime mover. It revolves with terrific velocity.
The elements that compose
it
are all volatile, even the
metals have become gas. The planets rush around
their orbits with varying speeds. The waters of the
ocean ebb and flow and rush past the shores of the
continents in great streams. The sun picks up the
water vaporizing
it
into clouds, the busy winds carry
the clouds to the mountain peaks, the cold air of these
heights condenses them into rain and the rivers carry
the water back to the ocean. The winds are never
still, they move in regular circuits. The seasons
The Brain and Nervous System 21
revolve. The granite mountains are in the process
of slow disintegration. The summer foliage dis
appears in the withering blasts of winter to reappear
in the warm sunshine of next year. Dead matter
becomes living matter which, in turn, becomes dead
matter in endless round. Heat and cold follow each
other in regular succession.
In human life, we see the operation of the same
principle. Movement everywhere, nothing at rest,
living multitudes moving along crowded streets both
ways. Civilizations rise from barbarism with great
cities, populations, armies, battles, conquest, ex
tension, trade, philosophy, culture — then comes
equilibrium and death. Out of the ruins, another
civilization arises to pass through the same cycle.
The tide of speculation rises in Wall Street, reaches
the peak of tremendous activity, then recedes, leaving
thousands stranded and the market dead. In busi
ness, we have periodic cycles. A few years of rising
prosperity — money is easy and plenty, exchange
is rapid, heavy buying, lavish spending. Then the
cycle changes — hard times, scores of firms bankrupt,
employment scarce, suicides, robberies and universal
depression. There is nothing stable. Governments
that have stood for centuries overturned in a night.
China in a state of national equilibrium for centuries
— now in the throes of an exciting revolution. Noth
ing is secure. The man who has a million today has
nothing tomorrow, while the man with nothing today
may have a million tomorrow. All this to my mind
can be traced back to this electrical and mental flow
22 The Science of Mastership
of energy. It seems to me that the only CHANGE
LESS ELEMENT amidst all these changes is the
power that creates this element of change. There
are two poles of power — the positive and the nega
tive. The pressure between the two is unequal and
the flow of energy continues. This principle of
electric exchange is the means whereby power, in
infinite measure, is produced and the material
universe is kept in constant motion. But behind and
within this changing universe, stands this ETERNAL
REASON directing and co-ordinating its movements.
This co-ordinating power I call God. I am aware
that the biologist cannot find God with his microscope.
The astronomer cannot locate him with his telescope.
The surgeon cannot find him at the point of his
knife. The philosopher cannot apprehend him in
the highest reaches of his thought. The logician
cannot prove that HE IS through his syllogism. You
cannot discover God with the clumsy tools of the
intellect. Man through his reason and logic can
come up to the edge of the ultimate but he cannot
go any further. Man, however, has another power —
the power of intuition — the power of direct spiritual
vision. The material man cannot penetrate into
the realities of the spiritual realm. Such a realm is
non-existent to him, because he does not possess the
spiritual faculty to perceive it. The man who has
good eyesight needs no logic to prove the existence
of light. Light, to him, is its own demonstration.
The man who has good ears needs no logic to prove
the existence of music. When the melody falls upon
The Brain and Nervous System 23
his ears, music becomes its own demonstration.
So to the man who has spiritual intuition, God is a
self-evident fact and, as the spiritual intuition un
folds the existence of God becomes clearer and more
definite. When a man denies the existence of God,
this denial becomes a self revelation. The denial
of the spiritual universe and its realities is the af
firmation of the coarse materialism of the man who
utters it. Would you empty a bag of pearls into a
swine's trough? Certainly not because you know
that the swine want nothing but swill and they do
not appreciate the value of pearls. Knowledge of
the highest truth is only possible to those who have
developed the highest within them. A man must
BE before he can KNOW.
Scientists tell us that the atom is a miniature solar
system — the central nucleus representing the sun
and the electrons revolving around
it,
the planets.
They tell us that the atoms that compose all elements
are small solar systems. So, then, nature repeats
herself in all her parts. The human body, then,
must be constructed on the plan of the universe.
It
is the universe in small compass —
a
mobile
machine and, within this machine,
a
directing in
telligence.
(1) . MAN, then, is dual — THE THINKER and
the machine.
(2) . THE THINKER employs thought force as
the instrument of his achievements.
(3) . The machine is the medium through which
THE THINKER operates.
24 The Science of Mastership
(4) . THE THINKER controls the machine through
the agency of released electric energy.
(5) . The blending of thought force with electric
energy constitutes the coupling link between THE
THINKER and the machine.
When we know the law of the forces that are in
man, then, and only then, can we learn to control
these forces and attain self mastery. In this book,
I make a plea for the application of creative intel
ligence to all human problems. We have applied
creative intelligence to the WORLD OUTSIDE of
man. We have explored
it,
discovered the laws that
govern its forces and brought them under control.
The time has come when we must apply the same
creative intelligence to the WORLD INSIDE of
man, explore this realm, find out the laws that govern
its forces and bring them under control. This volume
is
dedicated to this task.
Now let us see how this creative intelligence has
tamed and harnessed the forces of the outer uni
verse. Man
is
naturally lazy. He never did and
never will enjoy hard work. So, in the early dawn
of human history, some bright thinker, to save work,
lassoed one of the wild horses of the plains, tamed
him and yoked him to the plough. Then some other
thinker, who hated the labor of pounding the corn,
conceived the idea of harnessing the winds. So he
built
a
windmill and had the wind do the corn grind
ing. Later on, some thinker, who disliked work,
built
a
dam across the river, constructed
a
water
wheel and made the falling water grind|the corn.
The Brain and Nervous System 25
As time went on, another thinker watched the
steam as it lifted the lid on the kettle and he said,
"Why not put the steam to work?" So he harnessed
the steam up in the steam engine. Still another
thinker watched the lightning crash through the big
oak tree and shatter it into a thousand splinters,
and he decided that it would be a fine thing to harness
this power. It took quite a number of thinkers to
perfect the harness. Finally, they succeeded and
we have the lightnings harnessed in the motor. We
also have it harnessed so that it gives light and heat.
Another lazy fellow, who hated the toil of writing
long manuscripts, decided that it would be a good
thing to invent a machine to write for him, so he
invented movable type; other thinkers, following
in his steps, perfected his rude printing press and,
today, we have the linotype and vast printing presses,
that print, fold and bind tens of thousands of news
papers by the hour. Another thinker, who hated
to walk and thought that trains were dusty and hot
and automobiles too slow, imagined he would like
to fly, so he built the first glider. Others followed
improving on the rude original, and so today the air
is full of aeroplanes and dirigibles. Another lazy
thinker, lying on his back on a clear night, looking
up at the stars and wondering, took a piece of curved
glass and fastened it to the end of a rough tube,—
found that he could see the stars better and more
of them. This was the beginning of the telescope.
Now we have powerful instruments and, with them,
the human eye can penetrate far into the depths
26 The Science of Mastership
of space, tabulate millions of suns, map the canals
on Mars and measure the mountains on the moon.
In addition to these achievements, man has through
creative thinking, chiseled the marble into forms
divine, made the canvas speak, constructed great
railroads extending for miles over mountain and
marsh, water and wilderness. He has explored the
earth and conquered the poles. He has weighed the
atom and isolated the electron. He has analyzed
light and measured its speed. He has condensed
the air into liquid. He has abolished wires and
utilizes the waves of electric energy to send his voice
and his photograph to any part of the world.
WHAT MAN CAN IMAGINE MAN CAN DO.
All these and other marvellous achievements, in
harnessing the forces in the universe outside of man,
were the result of creative thinking on the part of a
few. The millions of humanity who participated
in the benefits of these discoveries and inventions
did not create them. The great mass of the people
do not think. Had it not been for the creative
thinking of the few the human race would still be a
horde of barbarians.
So, then, we have discovered the laws of the forces
of nature, built our machines in accordance with these
laws and harnessed these forces to do the work of
the world, but man himself is still untamed. The
world outside of man has been explored and mastered
but the world inside of man remains to be conquered.
The Brain and Nervous System 27
Scientific thinking has revolutionized the conditions
of human life, but human life itself is not improved.
Our mechanical advance is going forward, but the
human race is going backward. We have made
superb machines but shoddy men.
It is the business of the physician, the theologian,
the teacher and the statesman to improve the race
but they have been fumbling with the problem for
centuries and accomplished nothing. The reason
for their failure is that these gentlemen were not
capable of creative thinking.
What is creative thinking? The illustrious few
who have given us the discoveries and inventions
that have transformed the outer world have furnished
us with the model of creative thinking. It is the
free intellect in action. It refuses to recognize tra
dition. It will not bend in the presence of the au
thorities of the past or the enthroned stupidities of
the present. It cuts away all red tape and flings into
the rubbish heap the grave clothes of custom and
superstition.
CREATIVE INTELLIGENCE.
First, starts with the facts.
Second, discovers the law or the how of the facts.
Third, in accordance with this law, it builds the
machine, or formulates the method. The men
who have given us everything of value in invention,
astronomy, geology, biology, discovery and govern
ment have been creative thinkers.
28 The Science of Mastership
Has this method been employed in solving the
human problems? No. We have used it in con
quering the forces of the outer world, but we have
not used it in conquering the forces of the inner
world. Who is to blame? We must place the blame
where it belongs — on the shoulders of those into
whose hands we have committed the task of human
redemption.
We have turned over to the physician the task of
keeping the human body in good health so that the
thinker within can function efficiently. He has been
in charge of this task for centuries. What has he
been doing these many years? What is he doing
now? Simply fumbling. There is no agreement
amongst the medical schools as to what disease is
or how to cure it. They differ as to what the life
force is and how to direct it. There is no such thing
as the science of medicine. It is the realm of con
fusion and will continue to be the realm of confusion
until it is rescued by creative thinking. Our physical
saviors need saving, our doctors need to cure their
own disordered systems of cure before they attempt
to cure the disorders of humanity.
We have turned over to the theologian the task
of saving our souls. They have been at this task for
centuries. What have they accomplished? They
have succeeded in erecting a Heaven away out some
where in the deep blue. They have built a purgatory
and a hell away, down, deep in dark flaming caverns.
They have formulated many different definitions
of God. They have been successful in enlisting
The Brain and Nervous System 29
millions of followers and dividing them up into
hundreds of warring groups, they have built great
churches, amassed billions in property values, organ
ized great Hierarchies to perpetuate their power.
They have established schools and colleges, written
many useless creeds, dumped on the brain of man
millions of tons of useless literature. I am aware
that they have done great things for themselves but
what have they done in the matter of human re
demption? Has the lever of their methods lifted man
nearer to God? Have they taught man the science
of how to build a healthy, clean, strong, efficient
personality? What has been the net result of this
vast expenditure of men and millions on the moral
character of the race? Almost nothing. On the
contrary, the results have been destructive because
the central idea, in all theology, is NEGATIVE.
The doctrine of vicarious atonement — Jesus never
taught this doctrine. His teaching was positive,
dynamic, virile. His philosophy of the conduct that
saves was that of ACTION. Paul was the gentle
man who first formulated the doctrine of the vicarious
atonement. It was wrought into a system by Au
gustine, modified by Calvin in his penal substitution
theory and again modified by Arminius in his con
ditional theory. The doctrine broadly interpreted is
this — all the work of human redemption is already
accomplished for you. You do not need to do any
work — just believe. The golden crown of immortal
bliss is yours for the taking. This negative idea has
been preached for centuries and is being preached
30 The Science of Mastership
in tens of thousands of pulpits today. The Christian
world is literally steeped in it.
Man is naturally a lazy animal. He likes to have
things done for him. Marvellously shrewd are our
spiritual instructors. They have given the people
what they want. If you give the people what they
want, they will crown you. If you give them what
they need, they will crucify you. Our spiritual
leaders would much rather be crowned than crucified.
This doctrine of salvation by proxy has been ex
tremely lucrative to its successful salesmen. But
what is the result of this negative theology on humani
ty? Millions of negative people who are incapable
of independent thinking or independent action, weak,
soft, flabby spiritual and mental parasites — easy
prey for the keen, economic exploiters who work
under the cloak of spiritual instructors. Must this
continue? It will continue until some great, dynamic,
creative thinker like Jesus comes and sweeps away
all this negative rubbish and restores the positive,
creative doctrines of an untarnished Christianity.
Into the hands of the teachers and professors,
we have committed the task of abolishing ignorance
and extending intelligence. To accomplish this
important task billions in money has been freely
given by donation and surrendered by taxation.
Schools, academies, colleges and universities have
been built by the ten thousand. A great army of
professors and teachers employed. What finer
investment of men and money can be imagined than
that of enriching the brains of the people with free
The Brain and Nervous System 31
intelligence? Because our government is based on
the consent of the people, an educated and intel
ligent citizenry is of basic importance. Has this
tremendous investment in men and money made the
masses intelligent? It has not. Millions can neither
read nor write. The big majority of our adult
population are children in mentality. Under these
circumstances, the masses become the prey of
scheming politicians and the slaves of KING
MOB.
But have our teachers EDUCATED those they have
taught? What is education? Education is the form
ing of those mental habits that enables an individual
to react adequately in any real situation. Education
in other words is to so draw out and strengthen the
mental powers of the individual that he can do his
own thinking and come to his own conclusions.
Education, then, is the unfoldment of creative in
telligence. Where are the evidences that the masses
taught are capable of creative thinking? The evi
dence is all the other way. Our teachers make no
distinctions in individuals. They line up all the
scholars on the banks of the river of information
and spray them wholesale with the waters of
wisdom. They fuse them all together in the furnace
of knowledge and then pour them into similar moulds.
When they harden, they all look alike. That all
men are born equal is not true. There is a wide
variance in capacity. Professor Thorndike of Co
lumbia University says that the human mind ex
presses itself in three forms of intelligence. The
32 The Science of Mastership
mechanical, the abstract and the social — to which
may be added the musical and the artistic. Here is
where the difference in individuals appears. The
trend of one person may be towards mechanics, that
of another towards philosophy, that of another
towards social service, another music and another
painting.
Emerson said, "Like a boat on a river every in
dividual runs against obstructions on every side but
one, on that side all obstructions are taken away and
he sweeps serenely on over a deepening channel into
an infinite sea." Every individual is potentially
a creative thinker in some direction. Have our
teachers recognized this difference in capacity in
their methods of instruction? They have not. Like
our physicians, into whose hands we have delivered
our bodies, and our theologians into whose hands
we committed our souls, our teachers, into whose
hands we have committed our brains, have failed
because they lack creative intelligence.
Into the hands of our statesmen we have com
mitted the task of formulating our laws and directing
our government. These gentlemen have promised
us as they raised their good right hand to Heaven
that, if elected, they would put the principles and
provisions of our government into full, dynamic
action. They said that they would give us a govern
ment that would stand guard over the rights of the
weakest as well as over the rights of the strongest.
A government, responsible in all its parts to the
people's will, a government that would refuse to
The Brain and Nervous System 33
embark in any enterprise unless it was sustained
by the enlightened will of the majority, a govern
ment that would, with sympathetic patience, listen
to the complaint of the citizen and, instead of throw
ing him into jail, would endeavor to remove the cause,
a government that would levy the taxes in accordance
with the principle that the heaviest end of the burden
would rest on the shoulders of those best able to bear
it. A government so even handed in its justice, that
it would not be afraid of criticism. A government so
clean, in its conduct of public affairs, that it would
welcome the light of publicity. A government whose
officials would be as careful in the spending of the
people's money as they would be when spending
their own. A government so bathed in honesty that
it would conduct all its affairs in the open, a govern
ment that would stand four square against all opponents
and deny special privileges to any class. A govern
ment that could not be bought or sold, that would
enact laws for the common good and would compel
the rich as well as the poor to obey them. A govern
ment that would look upon all men as equal before
the law where wealth could not obtain immunity
nor poverty special favor. A government so wise and
just that it would give every man an equal opportuni
ty to express the best that is in him, that would, by
effective penalty, prevent any man or group of men
from taking that which they have not earned and, on
the other hand, would give to every man or group
of men that which they have earned and protect them
in the ownership. A government where the rights
34 The Science of Mastership
of the minority are as much respected as the rights
of the majority, for they are parts of the same organ
ism. A government that would so order the conduct
of education that the child of wealth would have no
advantage over the child of poverty. A government
that would operate on the principle that the govern
ment that governs least governs best. A government
that would keep the field of opportunity open to every
citizen; that refuses to enter that field itself in any
form of state enterprise or monopoly and, at the same
time, refuses to allow any citizen or group of citizens
to abridge the liberty of others by a monopoly therein.
A government so true to the spirit and purpose of
the founders of this republic that it would not be
false to any man — whose promises would always be
carried into performance. A government whose
officials would scorn to stoop so low as to use their
power to gratify personal revenge, enhance the
fortunes of political favorites or build up a party
machine. A government so broad in its political
horizons that it would not submit to control by faction
but would overlook the whole country and call into
its councils representatives of all classes and all
interests. Our servants, the statesmen, whom we
elected to office promised us such a government.
To this they solemnly pledged their sacred honor.
Have they carried out their promises? Have they
not on the other hand bestowed upon us a reversal
of their promises? They have been very busy
passing about sixty thousand or so laws a year.
Most of them of no value. The corridors of the halls
The Brain and Nervous System 35
of justice are so full of useless laws that justice has
no room to express itself. They have so amended
the constitution that it bears no resemblance to its
original form. Driven like a pack of cowards under
the lash of sincere, but narrow minded fanaticism,
they have passed a sumptuary law which aims to
destroy a natural appetite, a law that has converted
themselves, the law makers, into hypocrites and
liars. A law that has repealed the central principle
of the constitution itself and rendered its provisions
for freedom in the realm of personal habits null and
void. A law that the majority, including the law
makers themselves, disobey and nobody save the
bootlegger and the sincere fanatic respects. A law
that has saturated the nation with the poison of
deceit, suspicion and hypocrisy and created an army
of paid spies and snoopers. A law that has created
disrespect for all law and created a league of crime
between the underworld and public officials. A law
that has created a vast army of lawbreakers, an empire
of bootleggers with its army of gunmen, its own
tribunals, its own methods of swift and terrible
retribution. Collecting a revenue greater than that
of the government itself. This law created this
empire of desperadoes because, before its enactment,
it did not exist. This empire of crime with its
bombers, its gunmen, its methods of intimidation
and its blackmailing, is the supreme menace of the
age — more destructive to America than the Mafia
ever was to Italy. It is stronger than the govern
ment. The government by law and the government
36 The Science of Mastership
outside of the law cannot exist side by side. One
or the other must go.
If our statesmen had been guided by creative
thinking, such a law never would have been passed.
A natural instinct cannot be destroyed by legislation.
Natural instincts may be guided by legislation. A
law that can be enforced, must be sustained by the
conscience of the majority. If all the violators of
this law were known, two thirds of the population
would be in jail. This law to my mind is the climax
of political stupidity. I have sometimes thought that
it would be a good thing if our senators, congress
men and legislators would take a long vacation so as
to give the nation a chance to regulate itself.
Why have our political leaders failed? They have
failed because they have not been in possession of
the power to think creatively, and they have refused
to accept advice from the men who are in possession
of creative intelligence. On the shelves of our
libraries, there are hundreds of volumes on human
life and its problems, written by men who possessed
creative intelligence, men who used the scientific
method in their investigations. This invaluable
information is in the congressional libraries adjoining
the halls of Congress, and in the libraries of our
various state capitals. Volumes of creative thought
and fact — the very things that our political leaders
need in their work of government and law making.
Have they drawn upon this bank of intelligence and
scientific fact? Evidently they have not.
Democracy or representative government, meas
The Brain and Nervous System 37
ured by its results on human life, is an admitted
failure — not because of the inherent weakness of its
principles but because creative intelligence has not
been employed in the administration of these princi
ples. The men who make our laws and administer
the principles of our government must change their
methods. Other countries, admitting failure, have
selected dictators. This is another form of autocracy
and autocracy, in all its forms, is, in the last analysis,
destructive.
Nothing can take the place of creative intelligence.
Its marvellous results are seen in the realms of
biology, chemistry, astronomy, geology and psy
chology. We have the results of this creative in
telligence in volumes of rare value in our libraries.
THERE IS ENOUGH CREATIVE KNOWLEDGE
NOW IN EXISTENCE TO RECONSTRUCT THE
WORLD OF MEN AND WOMEN AND PRODUCE
THE SUPER NATION, BUT IT IS NOT DIS
TRIBUTED. The distribution of creative knowledge
has always met the determined opposition of en
throned stupidity. The creative thinker has been
whipped, jailed and executed. Because of this, prog
ress is slow and painful. A lie can pass around
the world ten times while truth is lacing her boots.
Pursuing our purpose in applying the results of
creative thinking to the conquest and control of the
forces within man, we are now ready to take up the
matter of how the thinker in the machine functions
within the machine and, through the machine, in the
universe.
38 The Science of Mastership
We have seen that the human body is an electric
machine and that this machine creates a current of
organic electricity. We have stated that within
this machine is something that directs and controls
this machine and that this something uses this
electric current in directing and controlling the
machine. We have called this something THE
THINKER.
What is this thinker? Science does not profess
to know. We may speculate all we please. We
may say that, just as a drop of sea water is an in
dividualized part of the ocean and contains within
itself all the elements of the ocean in small compass,
so this thinker is an individualized part of the uni
versal mind containing, within himself, in a finite
measure, all the elements of the universal mind.
Science, however, does not speculate. Science
deals with happenings. When things happen, it is
the duty of science to tell HOW they happen. Science
can say THIS IS THE WAY that this thing happened.
But when it comes to the nature of the power that
made the thing happen, science is silent. In the
realm of electricity science can tell HOW electricity
works but science does not know what electricity
IS.
We know that within the machine there is some
thing that is different from and greater than the
electric current, because this something uses the
electric current in the machine to direct and control
it. And this something working through the machine
has filled the world with the results of THOUGHT
The Brain and Nervous System 39
both bad and good, and, at the present moment,
this something is causing innumerable things to
happen for the good and for the injury of
humanity.
This something within the machine uses science
to discover HOW things happen. Science is in
ductive thinking. There could be no science with
out the power to think. This something, then, within
the machine must be a THINKER. Again this
something within the machine must be a THINKER
because it changes the raw material of unorganized
sensations into organized and intelligent perceptions.
For instance — here is an apple. The nostrils catch
the odor and the nerves carry this odor back to the
brain, the tongue tastes the flavor and the sensation
is flashed back to the brain, the eye perceives the
color and this is flashed back, the fingers and hand
detect the texture and shape and this is flashed back,
this something in the brain co-ordinates these sen
sations into a perception. And this something,
having located this perception in time and space,
says, this is an apple. It takes a THINKER to
change sensations into thought. A multitude of
sensations come in through the nerves or electric
wires of the machine, a medley of messengers all
crowding into the brain. Plato called them "the
rabble of the senses" and, left to themselves, they
would remain a rabble. But there is a law giver
for this mob in the brain, a directing and co-ordinating
power that receives these numerous sensations and
moulds them into sense.
40 The Science of Mastership
So, then, somewhere, in the brain, is the SEAT of
THE THINKER and, from this seat, THE THINKER
through various operating departments, controls and
directs all the movements of the machine both
voluntary and involuntary. This THINKER also
functions mentally; selects sensations, transforms
them into perceptions, conceptions, forms of thought,
methods, systems and sciences.
Dr. Schofield in his book on The Unconscious
Mind says, "Besides the obvious divisions of the
brain into greater and or lesser, or cerebrum and
cerebellum, and into left and right, we may divide
the brain into three regions consisting from above
downward of surface brain, mid brain and lower brain,
each of these containing a large proportion of the
active agent of grey matter which consists of masses
of cells. The lower brain connects the spinal cord
below with the mid brain above and is as, Herbert
Spencer says, the co-ordinating centre for most of
the associated movements. It is, in fact, the organ
izing centre for carrying on all the processes connected
with the passive or vegetative life of the body. All the
processes carried on here are far below the threshold
of consciousness. In this mid brain we see the organ
ization of the functions of the animal life subject to
the highest centres and conducted below the level of
consciousness. Lastly we come to the surface brain,
the seat of conscious mental life and the source of all
voluntary action."
(1) The brain, then, is a vast collection of electric
cells connected in series.
The Brain and Nervous System 41
(2) It is the operating headquarters for the machine
with innumerable nerves or wires running out to
every part thereof and back again, completing the
circuit.
(3) This operating headquarters has two divisions
— the voluntary or conscious and the involuntary or
subconscious.
(4) THE THINKER we suppose has his seat in
the front portion of the pituitary body which is a small
gland located at the base of the brain about the centre
and directly back of a point midway between the eyes.
The back portion of this body seems to be the con
centration point for the electric energy of the machine.
When he wants more driving power, THE THINKER
can press this button.
(5) Through these two operating departments, one
governed by the will and the other automatic, THE
THINKER directs all the movements of the machine,
receives all the messages from the outside universe
in different forms of sensation. He selects, from
this multitude of sensations, and, from them, creates
perceptions, conceptions and systems of thought.
In addition to being a receiver and manufacturer of
thought THE THINKER is, also, a sender.
(6) Each of the departments in the brain, the con
scious governed by the will and the sub-conscious
which is automatic, has its own system of nerves or
wires. The conscious has a big cord of wires running
down through the spinal column and out to every
muscle of the body. This system is called the volun
42 The Science of Mastership
tary system. The sub-conscious has a system which
has a centre in the solar-plexus which lies close to
the spinal column, back of the stomach. This
system is called the involuntary or sympathetic and
is connected with all the organs and glands of the
body. There is a constant flow of electric current
from the brain, down through the voluntary system,
to the various organs and glands of the body and
back again to the brain through the involuntary
system.
(7) The brain, then, is positive in reference to all
other groups of cells in the body. The principle
of electric exchange, which operates in each single
cell in the body, operates in much greater volume
between the brain and the other groups of cells in
the body. There is, therefore, a constant flow of
current from the brain to these groups of cells and
back again from them to the brain. If this flow should
reach a state of equilibrium, death would result.
Electrical exchange is the condition demanded
before life can manifest and function on the visible
plane. To keep up this exchange so as to have
life continue to function, there must be more elec
tricity in the brain than there is in any of the groups
of cells in the other parts of the body. With these
preliminary statements we will now see HOW THE
THINKER WORKS and what he does through these
operating departments.
The Brain, and Nervous System 43
THE SUB-CONSCIOUS.
First — the machinery of the sub-conscious acts au
tomatically. The WILL of THE THINKER has noth
ing to do with it directly. The stomach digests the food.
The various structures in the body are built and
repaired. The heart pumps the blood. The blood
circulates. The various glands secrete their chemical
compounds and pour them into the blood stream.
The lungs extract oxygen from the air and discharge
carbonic acid gas. The body adjusts itself to the
changing temperature. The waste matter is elimi
nated. In short, all the physical functions of the
body are performed with intelligent precision, automati
cally, without any effort on the part of THE THINKER.
In hours of sleep or hours of wakefulness, through
the long years of life, this automatic machinery per
forms its numerous tasks with an amazing intel
ligence. What a marvellously wise provision this is.
Because of this arrangement, THE THINKER is
left free to act in the realm of consciousness where
his time is fully occupied in obtaining and selecting
food-stuff to build his body and thought-stuff to
build his character.
The sub-conscious is composed of millions of
electric cells connected in series — an exquisitely
sensitized mass — and every organ and gland in the
body has a group of those cells that preside over its
functions. This automatic machinery, in the sub
conscious, has a double action, physical and mental.
44 The Science of Mastership
In fact, every part of the machine has this double
action.
THE THINKER, from his throne room in the con
scious department, selects food, chews and swallows
it. This act completed, the sub-conscious takes the
food, digests it and builds it into the tissues and
structures of the body. THE THINKER, then,
ought to know enough about food to select the food
that contains the elements that the body needs.
THE THINKER, in the conscious department, also
selects thought stuff to build character in fact, this is
his supreme task. Every man is the builder of his
own character and the son of his own deeds. He
builds his own Heaven and his own hell all out of the
thought stuff that he selects. THE THINKER sends
this selected thought stuff down to the sub-conscious
and the automatic machinery immediately seizes it
and builds it into character.
BUT HOW? I think that it happens this way.
When THE THINKER, up in the conscious depart
ment, gets a clear conception of something attractive
and he says, "I want that and I am going to get it,"
then this decision on the part of THE THINKER sets
up a vibration in the electric cells of the conscious
brain corresponding to the nature of the decision.
This decision immediately reaches the sub-con
scious and a corresponding vibration is set up in its
electric cells, giving them a trend in a certain di
rection. This trend tends to become permanent.
So then, the WORD CAN BECOME FLESH and it
is also true that if you sow a thought you reap an
The Brain and Nervous System 45
act; sow an act, you reap a brain attitude; sow a brain
attitude, you reap a character; sow a character, you
reap a destiny. This is an inflexible, unchange
able law. We cannot change the law but we can
change the thought stuff that we give it to work into
character.
Second — this sub-conscious automatic machinery
guards the citadel of life. All its energies are leagued
against death. With seemingly unlimited power at
its command, it provides for and protects THE
THINKER and, through him, the family and the
human race. In every normal individual, there are
three powerful INSTINCTS, first, self preservation —
second, the preservation of the family or the sex
instinct and — third, the preservation of the group
such as the tribe, church or nation, the herd instinct.
The second and third are extensions of the first
because, if the family and the group is preserved, the
individual is preserved. These instincts are all ex
pressed through the sub-conscious. These instincts
are rooted in the universal energy of the universe.
They are the fundamentals of our make-up. This
business of preserving the individual, the perpetuation
of the race and the protection of the group to which
the individual belongs, is of paramount importance.
To provide for this protection there is a reservoir
of almost unlimited power available in the deeps of
the sub-conscious. In the case of a drowning man,
his first efforts to save himself are conscious. After
vain struggles of a few moments, he loses con
sciousness, then the involuntary, automatic action
46 The Science of Mastership
of the sub-conscious is brought into action and he
automatically seizes his rescuer with the death
grip, a grip more powerful than steel, and drags
him down to death with him. I could multiply
instances showing how the sub-conscious has used
this immense power in saving the individual, members
of his family, or members of his group. The ex
hibitions of muscular power through the conscious
are as nothing when compared with the exhibitions of
muscular power through the sub-conscious. The
marvellous feats of strength put forth in times of
emergency by men and women of ordinary strength
were all sub-conscious. If the thinker in the machine
could control and direct this immense reserve power,
as the general controls and directs the reserve forces
of his army, he could conquer weakness and disease
and gain perfect health without the assistance of a
doctor.
Third — the biologist tells us that the body of the
child, before it emerges through the gateway of birth,
passes through all the stages of animal life — the
fish, the reptile, the animal, the human. So, in the
brain, we have the entire history of the human race
recorded in its upward path from the lowest form of
life to the present. If we understood the steps in
the unfoldment of the brain, we would understand
how THE THINKER expressed himself in every stage
of his past progress. Without a brain THE THINKER
could not express himself. If he desires to express
himself in higher forms of life and thought, THE
THINKER must develop a brain that is capable of
The Brain and Nervous System 47
these higher forms of expression. If the brain
contains the cell groups through which THE
THINKER has expressed himself in all the stages
of his past development, then each individual carries
with him, in his brain, the animal, the cave-man,
the savage and the barbarian. Science tells us that
they are alive and active, very much so at times,
and every man and woman can testify that, some
times, these rough fellows take charge and create
havoc. How to handle these rough associates and
make them behave will be discussed later on in this
book.
Fourth— since THE THINKER in the conscious de
partment, selects and hands down to the sub-conscious
food-stuff to build the body and thought-stuff to
built character, we can say that the sub-conscious
is governed through suggestion. What is suggestion?
Suggestion includes a wide class of thought vibrations.
They are conveyed to the sub-conscious and if ac
cepted create new trends in the nerve cells or
strengthen trends already established. These
thought vibrations even when communicated by
others must come through THE THINKER himself.
We must remember, however, that the sub
conscious will not respond to all kinds of suggestions.
We have seen that the mechanism of the sub-con
scious is organized to provide for and protect life ; so
then, any suggestion that would injure the life of the
individual, his family, or group would be rejected.
The individual who commits suicide, the mother who
kills herself and her children, are not normal. They
48 The Science of Mastership
are abnormal and, in their abnormal state, they have
overcome the resistance of the sub-conscious. The
suggestion that they have given themselves, that
death is better than life, is more powerful than the
resistance of the sub-conscious and, in the presence
of the more powerful suggestion, the sub-conscious
yields.
Again we have seen how habits are formed by
giving the cells in the sub-conscious a certain auto
matic trend. Any suggestion therefore that would
run counter to well established habits would be
rejected on first presentation. It is possible, how
ever, by a continual repetition of those suggestions
to change this trend in the cells and create new habits.
There is, in the sub-conscious, a tremendous upward
urge. The urge of life for greater expansion and wider
horizons. Because of this urge, suggestions of
health, prosperity, power, wealth and freedom are
greedily accepted. In this analysis of the functions
of the sub-conscious, I am simply stating principles.
Later on in this book I will show how suggestion
wrecks or builds human health and character.
Fifth — the sub-conscious, as we have seen,
contains the entire history of the past of the in
dividual and of the race. It is the repository of
all the past experiences of the individual. Its
cell convolutions are the leaves upon which are
recorded all his thoughts, acts and experiences. We
have the testimony of many individuals who were
saved from drowning and these individuals say that
just as they were losing consciousness all the events
The Brain and Nervous System 49
in their past history passed in review before them.
Every individual, then, carries, within himself, his
own record and it is exactly accurate. So, then,
in the sub-conscious, THE THINKER NEVER
FORGETS. Some of our past acts and experiences
are so unpleasant that we wish they were blotted out
forever. But no, they are still with us in the deeps of
the sub-conscious. The psychoanalyst says that they
are very much alive and sometimes they give us a lot
of trouble. They create what he calls complexes of
various kinds and these complexes become storm
centres that create brain storms. A man cannot run
away from his shadow and the record, in the sub
conscious, is the shadow from which no man can
escape. In the private course of lessons we give the
student a technique which enables him to sublimate
these trouble makers and render them harmless.
Sixth — in the sub-conscious, THE THINKER
NEVER SLEEPS. THE THINKER sleeps when he
steps down from the conscious department of the brain
into the sub-conscious. The conscious is the realm
of effort and THE THINKER gets tired after working
all day, so he leaves the upper workshop and comes
down into the sub-conscious and stays there all
night. The next morning he climbs back into the
operating department of the conscious to commence
another day of the weary grind. In restful sleep the
entire body is recuperated because the energy that
was used up in the activities of the conscious brain,
during the hours of wakefulness, is switched to the
sub-conscious during the hours of sleep.
so The Science of Mastership
THE CONSCIOUS.
The conscious is that department of the brain where
THE THINKER is alert, awake and conscious, ac
cording to Maynert, there are one billion two hundred
million cells in the well developed conscious brain.
This portion of the brain lies in convolutions outside
of the sub-conscious and around the inner surface
of the skull. If the cells, composing this part of
the brain, were spread out they would cover an area
of thirty-six square feet. Thirty-six square feet of
surface material made up into tiny electric cells would
deliver a powerful current of electric energy. THE
THINKER needs a powerful current to perform the
work that he does in this department.
The surface area of the brain, in any person, is
the measure of that person's mental power. Elec
tricity is an unlimited energy but it is limited by the
capacity of the motor through which it passes. We
have the one horse, the ten horse, the fifty horse,
the thousand horse, the ten thousand horse motor and
so on up. The number of the electric cells in the
brain of any individual measures his mental CA
PACITY, because the energy created furnishes the
conditions and the motive power for the exercise
of his intelligence. So we have brains of different
capacity, ranging from that of the average man up
to the brain of a Newton or an Einstein. The en
abling power of THE THINKER is thought energy.
The enabling power in the brain is electric energy.
If the electric current is weak, THE THINKER
The Brain and Nervous System 51
cannot accomplish much. He may be an intellectual
giant but his performances are limited by the electric
energy at his command.
When man was an animal, he must have had a
small conscious brain, but the life energy, in the sub
conscious, pushing upwards, created new cells and,
as new additions were made, he moved upwards
to the cave man and, from the cave man, to the
savage, from the savage, to the barbarian and, from
the barbarian, to the civilized man of today. It is
an unfortunate thing for a race or for an individual
when brain development is arrested. In that case,
progress ceases. We have numerous instances of
arrested development amongst races and individuals.
With these remarks, we will now consider HOW THE
THINKER functions in this department of the brain.
First — the conscious brain is the department
where THE THINKER selects food stuff to build
the body and thought stuff to build character, from
all throughout the universe, vibrations of light, heat,
color and motion impinge on the nerve ends of his
body. Thousands of objects send their messages
demanding attention. THE THINKER cannot give
all this multitude his attention at the same time. He
selects a few for consideration. Out of the few, he can
only examine one at a time. From these sensations
he formulates his conceptions of the universe. In
addition to these vibrations that come to him from
the universe at large, a multitude of thoughts and
suggestions come to him from people, events, news
papers, magazines and books. Out of this multitude
52 The Science of Mastership
he must select one at a time for consideration and
decide as to whether he will accept or reject it.
He must decide for himself as to what is best for him.
He is free to accept or reject. So then, the seat of
authority for truth is in THE THINKER himself.
The trained thinker is fully equipped to do this im
portant work because he can reason inductively
or deductively. He can separate sensations and he
can combine them. By the use of these powers, he
can inspect, sift and formulate all impressions from
without or within. This department is the realm
of creative intelligence. It is the customs house in
the province of man — the Ellis Island in the human
republic. The child comes into life without this
brain. So the child, when, it emerges, is a bundle
of unconscious movements. All its actions are
automatic, The process of building this depart
ment of the brain begins, however, at once because
the child must have it to function in the conscious
universe. The bones of the skull are left open at
two points and the sutures are soft, so as to allow
for expansion as this brain grows. As this section
of the brain gradually grows, the child gradually
attains consciousness and his knowledge of the
conscious universe widens. Tennyson, describing
this development says, in his great poem In Memo-
riam,
The baby new to earth and sky
What time his tender hand has pressed
Against the circle of the breast
Has never known that this is I.
The Brain and Nervous System 53
But, as he grows, he gathers much
And learns the use of I and me
And learns I am not the things I touch
And other than the things I see.
So rounds he to a separate mind
From whence clear memory doth begin,
And, through the frame that binds him in,
He, isolated, grows denned.
If this brain is only partially developed we have a low
type of mentality. When we speak of an individual as
being "weak in the upper story" we state a scientific
fact.
Second — the WILL OF THE THINKER is ex
pressed in this department of the brain. It is ex
pressed in two ways — the physical and the mental.
In the physical expression, it controls the movements
of the body through six hundred muscles, in the
mental expression, it makes decisions. Embedded
in these muscles, are the nerves that carry the
electric current. These nerves terminate in the
conscious brain. This gives THE THINKER com
plete control over all the voluntary muscles. This is
essential because he must be able to walk, run, sit
or lie down, jump, play or fight. The marvellous
performances of the athlete, the gymnast and the
dancer show how completely the muscles can be
dominated by the will. In this realm THE THINKER
says NO or YES. I will or I won't. It is therefore
the realm of responsibility. It is here where the
54 The Science of Mastership
thought-stuff is gathered from all sources, selected
and sent down to the sub-conscious to be manu
factured into what THE THINKER calls my creed,
my philosophy, my conclusions, my religion, my
character.
Third — this department is the registering centre
for all sensations. If the point of the finest cambric
needle is inserted into the muscles in any part of
the body, the sensation is carried by the electric
current in the nerves of sensation to the conscious
brain. THE THINKER sends a command down
the nerves of motion moving the body away from the
disturbing factor. If the conscious brain was stripped
off, THE THINKER might live, but if he did he would
be incapable of feeling. When the associated group
of nerve cells in the conscious brain that control any
set of muscles is paralyzed, those muscles lose all
sense of feeling. All anesthetics seem to possess
the power, through chemical affinity, of temporarily
paralyzing the cells of the conscious brain, so they
cannot act. In that case, THE THINKER'S power
to register sensations is destroyed. There is a large
amount of albumen in the make up of the cells of the
conscious brain. Albumen is the chief constituent
in the white of an egg. If you will take the white
of an egg and put it in a glass, and then pour alcohol
into the glass and stir the contents, the albumen
becomes hard and cheesy. So, when THE
THINKER drinks booze, the alcohol flies to his
conscious brain and cheeses up the cells, THE
THINKER loses control of his muscles and he rolls
The Brain and Nervous System 55
into the ditch. The vile, bootleg stuff mixed with
ether and chloroform that is dispensed under the
auspices of "our noble experiment," the Volstead
act, has paralyzed thousands of THINKERS all over
the country and thousands more have died because
the paralysis reached the sub-conscious centres that
govern the vital machinery of the body.
Fourth — in this department of the brain, THE
THINKER can only entertain one idea at a time.
Because our mental movements are so quick, we
imagine that we can concentrate on a number of ideas
at once. But THE THINKER cannot focus his at
tention on two or more ideas at the same time.
When he concentrates all his mental power upon an
idea, he has no power left to use in any other direction.
If you could succeed in keeping the thinker's at
tention concentrated upon an idea or object, for a
time, then you could slip a suggestion into the sub
conscious department without his knowing it. This
is called "the psychological moment" in salesman
ship and business transactions.
From these considerations, it will be seen that
THE THINKER is master in this realm. In fact
the realm of consciousness is the only world THE
THINKER lives in. The limits of his universe are
the limits of his own consciousness and his associates
are the ideas that he entertains there. He has the
power to cast out of his consciousness any undesirable
idea. If he welcomes into this world of his con
sciousness, the negative thoughts of defeat, failure
poverty, or disease, the sub-conscious will weave
56 The Science of Mastership
these ideas into his life. If, on the other hand, he
welcomes the positive thoughts of success, health,
and power, the sub-conscious will translate these
into accomplishment. So then, the nature of the
ideas that we entertain in this realm is of para
mount importance.
HOW THE POWER THAT CURES
DISEASE WORKS
Chapter Three
HOW THE POWER THAT CURES DISEASE
WORKS.
OW to cure disease is a problem that has
occupied the attention of man for long and
weary centuries. The problem was so im
portant that, long ages ago, humanity set apart a cer
tain class of men and instructed them to devote all
their time and talents to the solution of this problem.
For many centuries, this class has been busy — mostly
experimenting. In the earlier history, they employed
magical formulas, relics, superstitions, nostrums and
strange concoctions. Later on, they thought that if
they could cut the body open and find out how it was
put together this knowledge might hasten a solu
tion of the problem. So they cut up thousands of
bodies, counted the bones, traced the course of the
nerves, veins and arteries, analyzed the blood, located
the glands and examined the brain. In fact, they
mapped, measured, weighed and named all the parts
of the body. It seems, though, that this did not help
in the solution mostly because this knowledge was
mechanical. Disease and its cure still remained an
unsolved puzzle.
I wonder if it has ever dawned upon the doctors
that this universe is governed by law and that disease
is the penalty for violated law. There are certain
forces in man. These forces are obedient to some
law. If the doctors knew how these forces work,
60 The Science of Mastership
they could direct and control these forces and bring
about a cure.
It is admitted now by the doctors of all the schools
that the forces that cure a person are the forces that
are in that person, and they all say that it is their aim
to assist these forces in effecting a cure. Science
ferrets out HOW things happen. The doctors do
not know how disease happens. They do not know
how health happens, because they do not know HOW
the forces that are in man work.
Because they do not know, medicine is not a science,
it is still in the experimental stage. The realm of
cure is the realm of confusion, where conflict is the
law and controversy is the custom. The men, whose
business it is to restore harmony in the body, wage
continual war amongst themselves. Members of
rival schools call each other quacks. Theory wars
with theory and method condemns method.
The warring sects in medicine may be classified
into three groups.
First, the material groups.
Second, the mental groups.
Third, the faith prayer and relic groups. The
distinguishing and ridiculous feature amongst these
warring groups is that each group makes the claim
that they, and they alone, are the custodians of THE
TRUTH in the realm of cure. It is no wonder that
the body remains sick and the soul sinful when the
sects in medicine and the sects in religion waste their
time and energy in fighting each other.
To show the extent of this war in the realm of
How the Power Cures Disease 61
cure I will briefly outline the substance of the theories
advanced by these various groups.
First. The allopathic group. This is the oldest
and most powerful group. Because they are the
oldest, they think they ought to be respected. Many
centuries ago a man by the name of Esculapius
originated the method of cure championed by this
group. Its central principle is contained in the
Latin phrase "Contraria contrariis curantur." This
is the doctrine of opposites. The allopath believes
that, if a patient is afflicted with a disease, the
quickest way to cure him is to give him a drug that
will produce symptoms exactly opposite to the symp
toms he exhibits. In other words the allopath
creates one disorder in order to cure another. When
a man is afflicted with constipation, the allopath
gives him a dose of calomel. Calomel is a poison
and its presence in the stomach and intestines
causes them to pour out increased streams of fluid
to wash out the poison. This flood of fluid washes
out the poison and the accumulated waste matter
in the intestines with it. This process weakens the
body because it uses up its reserve power. The
disease returns and the last state of the patient is
worse than the first. So that, instead of scienti
fically directing the resident forces that are in man,
the allopath whips them into action like a man whip
ping an overloaded horse.
Second. The next group is the homeopaths.
Homeopathy is hostile to allopathy at every point.
The two words allopathy and homeopathy mutually
62 The Science of Mastership
destroy each other. Like two fighting stags when
their horns become hopelessly locked, they die
together. The theory of the homeopath is the
doctrine of similars. "Similia similibus curantur"
or, like cures like. When the homeopath is called
in a case of sickness, he examines the symptoms and
then prescribes a drug that will produce symptoms
similar to the symptoms exhibited. His theory is
that no two diseases can exist at the same time and
the same place. Two similiar diseases like two
negatives in the English language mutually destroy
each other. The homeopath aims to produce similar
symptoms — the allopath aims to produce opposite
symptoms. These groups have been engaged in
incessant war for many years and are still fighting.
The homeopaths refuse to agree amongst themselves.
The high potential homeopath quarrels with the low
potential homeopath.
Third. We have the champions of the microbe
theory. The defenders of this theory say that the
visible universe is filled with countless millions of
microbes. These microbes are so small that ten
millions of them could find more room to disport
themselves on a ten cent piece than a frog could in
Lake Michigan. These microbes create all the
diseases wherewith humanity is afflicted. Every
disease has its own microbe. Any new disease is the
work of some new microbe. To cure disease, these
microbes must be destroyed. Just as the tough
old Roman Senator Cato, at the end of every speech
cried out, "Delendo est Carthago." Carthage must
How the Power Cures Disease 63
be destroyed, so the champions of this theory cry
out "Delendo est microbe — the microbe must be
destroyed. To do this, these microbes must be
isolated and identified. Then we must find the
particular poison that will kill that microbe." When
a person is afflicted with a disease, these gentle
men examine his blood to find the microbe that is
causing the trouble. When found they cry out "Aha,
we have found the offender. Now we will execute
him and all his associates." So they inject, into the
patient's blood stream, a serum that will run down and
kill the criminals. And where do these gentlemen
obtain this serum? They get it from the blood of
horses that have been inoculated with that disease
and restored to health. This group has become
wealthy and powerful. They have invested heavily
in stables, many horses, and numerous serum
factories. It is hard on the horses but it is a very
profitable business, and the mantle of profit covers
many sins. To cure any disease all you need is a
shot or two in the arm. I wonder what happens when
the wrong serum is injected into the blood stream.
Does the patient die or does the microbe die? Some
of these days the champions of this group will identify
the germ of lying, then they will discover an anti
toxin to kill
it,
then they will announce that one shot
of this anti-prevaricator injected under the tongue of
any liarwill destroy his taste for lies and make him love
the truth. In view of the fact that these serums are
obtained from horses,
it
may be that that phrase "giv
ing them the horse laugh" arose from this practice.
64 The Science of Mastership
Fourth. Then we have the osteopathic group.
This is an unfortunate name ; osteo means bone and
pathos cure. Osteopathy is not bone cure. The
osteopath is a decent gentleman and I like him
because he has no sympathy with drug medication
and no patience with the microbe theory. He says
that man's body is a splendid machine. Two hundred
bones constitute the framework of this machine, and
act as braces and supports. This frame work is held
in place by six hundred muscles, nerves and blood
vessels are distributed all throughout this frame
work. The blood carries the material for the repair
of the machine and the nerves convey the energy.
When the machine is working smoothly and the
blood and nerve energy flows easily, health is the
result. When there is any obstruction to the flow
of blood or nerve energy, disease follows. To cure
the disease remove the obstruction. So the osteo
path, because of his expert knowledge of the structure
of the machine, finds the cause of the obstruction.
By expert manipulation and using the bones as levers,
he removes the obstruction allowing the freed forces
of the body to effect the cure. The big word in
osteopathy is adjustment. Adjustment is health
and life. Mal-adjustment is disease and death.
Instead of calling himself an osteopath, the osteo
path ought to call himself an adjuster. This method
of cure is entirely mechanical and completely material.
Fifth. The hydropathic group or water curists.
Their theory is opposed to all other theories. They
say that the human body is made up of various
How the Power Cures Disease 65
mineral salts held in solution. When the body is
burned, only a small residue in ash remains, the bulk
goes up in vapor. Seventy-five per cent of the body
therefore is water. Water is the element that carries
to the cells the various elements that are needed.
It is the element that carries out of the body all the
waste matter through the skin, the kidneys and the
intestines. The retention of the waste matter in
the tissues is the cause of disease. The way to
cure disease is to wash out of the system, this waste
matter. Water is the universal solvent. When
the hydropath is called upon to treat a sick person,
he fills him with water. He rinses out his bowels
with water, makes him lie prostrate in water, rolls
him up in blankets saturated with water. The
purpose of all this is to wash out all the waste matter
and the disease is cured.
Sixth. Then we have the sifted sunlight group.
These gentlemen are our modern sun worshippers.
Their theory is this. The sun is the source of all
life and energy. Take the sun away and all life on
this planet would be extinct. When plants are
deprived of sunlight, they turn pale and die. Disease
is the result of insufficient sunlight. So these
gentlemen have analyzed the sunlight and they tell
us that the sun sends out a number of rays at varying
rates of speed. They claim that they have identified
a group of rays which they have named actinic, they
say that they have demonstrated by numerous ex
periments that these actinic rays are man's eternal
rejuvenators. So the champions of this theory sell
66 The Science of Mastership
sifted sunlight to a sick world. They build, far up
on the mountain tops and on the roof of tall buildings,
wide and pleasant rooms flooded with sifted sunlight.
They say that the vulgar heat rays of the sun are not
good. So they construct huge reflectors to which
is attached an ingenious arrangement which absorbs
the heat rays and allows the actinic rays to pass
through. Then they strip their patients and place
them on comfortable divans and concentrate the
actinic rays upon the diseased portion of their bodies.
Their claim is that these rays produce changes in the
tissues, rebuild the cells and the patient recovers.
Other amongst this group, to supply the market for
sifted sunlight, have utilized the electric current and
have invented various machines for producing
actinic rays. The country is flooded with advertise
ments accompanied by numerous testimonials pro
claiming the virtues of these machines. Hundreds
of thousands are sold and the business is extremely
profitable. If the dollars in profits were counted, I
wonder how it would compare with the cures wrought.
Seventh. Then we have the immense group of
patent medicine vendors. According to the claims
of the respective discoverers of these remedies, they
can cure any disease from a case of cholera morbus
to an itching for office.
THE MENTAL GROUPS.
The champions of the material methods of cure
refuse to recognize the action of mind and, when they
How the Power Cures Disease 67
are confronted with instances of the cure of disease
through mental action alone, they say that the persons
cured were not sick they just imagined that they were
sick, and they furthermore declare that there never
was a case of genuine disease cured by mental action
alone. And so the conflict between the materialist
and the mentalist rages with increasing violence.
First at the head of the mental groups stands Christian
Science. This organization is well organized, well
managed and well financed. Some names are
charged with dynamic power. Christian and Science
are two of the most powerful names in the English
language. And the founder of this system was wise
when she named it Christian Science. This group
is strong and the central source of its strength lies
in the acknowledged infallibility of its founder.
The central source of the strength and influence of
the Catholic Church is the belief in the minds of the
millions of its devotees in the infallibility of the
Pope. If this belief was destroyed, in the minds
of the millions of Catholics, that giant organization
would disintegrate at once. The supreme and
central source of strength in the Christian Science
movement is the unquestioning belief in the minds of
its adherents in the infallibility of its founder. If
each member of this church was allowed to think
for himself and exercise that privilege, the church
would not last six months. According to the founder
the book Science and Health with Key to the Scrip
tures was communicated directly to her from God
himself, so that every letter, word, syllable, sentence
68 The Science of Mastership
and paragraph are sacred parts of a complete divine
revelation. Because of this, nothing can be added
to it or subtracted from it. The ideas of this book
in regard to God, man and the universe and the
inter-blending relations of all three are the ideas
of God himself therefore they are absolute truth,
infallible, complete and final. And as the Moham
medan general who commanded that the vast col
lection of valuable books in the library at Alexandria
be taken out and burned, when he was asked to give
his reasons said, "If they do not agree with the
Koran, they ought to be burned and if they do agree
with the Koran, the Koran is sufficient without
them," so all systems of thought that are not in ac
cord with Science and Health are so much useless
rubbish and, if there are any ideas in these systems
of thought, that are in accord with this book the book
is sufficient without them. When half a million
persons believe this in every fibre of their being
and carry it out into action, you must admit that the
founder was marvellously wise when she organized
her movement on this idea of infallibility. It was
a master stroke to get the Almighty to underwrite
her proposition. I have noticed, however, in my
study of the history of the human mind that it is an
exceedingly difficult task to imprison all minds in a
thought tight compartment and keep them there.
There is a type of negative mind that will gladly
remain there but there is another type — the positive
— that will smash down the confining walls and step
forth into freedom. The founder in building her
How the Power Cures Disease 69
organization had a host of trouble with these positive
mentalities who refused to be cooped up. The
strength of any movement is its weakness. The
claim of infallibility in the Christian Science move
ment is the rock on which the ship will be wrecked.
The psycho-analyst would say that Christian Science
is a defence mechanism. The founder was an
exquisitely sensitized individual. The presence of
poverty, privation, misery, sin, sickness and death
disturbed her so she erected a thought fortress at
once beautiful and peaceful and retired behind its
walls to shut out these disagreeable and disturbing
facts. This thought fortress is shrewdly built, it is
built in accordance with the wish that is in every
body's heart. Everybody wishes to escape the stern
and disagreeable facts of real life and hide in some
beautiful thought castle. The founder of Christian
Science is not the only person that has erected a
thought castle and retired behind its walls to shut
out the woes and weariness of life. The thought
mansions of philosophy, the dream worlds of poetry,
the gorgeous heavens of religion and the day dream-
ings of most of us are all thought castles, behind
whose magic walls we all wish to retire, to get away
from the nasty and disagreeable things of life. If
the founder of Christian Science can separate the
sick man from his sickess or the miserable man
from his misery by inviting him into her dream
castle, I have no objection. But I do object when
she claims that her system, and her system alone,
is the truth.
70 The Science of Mastership
Second — in addition to Christian Science, there
are a number of smaller groups engaged in the busi
ness of curing disease by mental methods, such as
Divine Science, The Master Key, Supermind Science,
Auto-Science, Yogi Science, New Thought, Christian
Psychology, Scientific Christianity, Spiritualism,
Psychiana, Mental Therapeutics, Unity and others.
Witnessing the marvellous growth and success of
Christian Science, these groups have incorporated
into their teaching and methods much of the doctrine
and technique of that system. And like Christian
Science, they clothe their theories with the mantle
of divine respectability by claiming that their teaching
and methods are identical with those used by Jesus.
They do not attempt to prove this claim, they just
affirm it and their adherents swallow the claim whole
without question. Jesus, himself, is silent on the
merits of the claim. When they are confronted with
the records of his miracles, and asked if they ever
walked on the water, turned water into wine, fed
thousands on a few loaves and fishes or raised the
dead, they admit that they have never been able
to do these things yet, but that they hope to be able
to do them and other things more wonderful when
they become as powerful as he was. Since they
claim that their methods are Christ's methods, they
ought to be able to do what he did and, if they cannot,
their claim is rendered false by their failure.
Third — we have magical formulas, holy wells,
healing springs, magic waters, relics, ugly idols, the
How the Power Cures Disease 71
king's touch, compositions of metal and many other
strange methods too numerous to mention.
In ancient times, when medicine and magic were
synonymous terms, a word scrawled on parchment
would cure fevers. Two lines from Homer would
cure gout. Rheumatism vanished when the sufferer
repeated a verse from Lamentations. The remedies,
in those days, could not fail in producing powerful
emotions in the mind of the patient. What sufferer
could refrain from having powerful emotional cur
rents stream through his body when the doctor would
dose him with an extraction squeezed from the brain
of a murderer, or a tincture made from venomous
bugs, or a pill made from the dried liver of a bat,
or a powder made from the head and legs of a spider?
These ancient magician doctors performed many and
marvellous cures through the use of these disgusting
compounds.
In Ireland, we have the famous Spa Wells. The
waters in these wells have been analyzed. Analyses
show that there is no medicinal elements in them.
The ignorant peasants believe, however, that St.
Patrick, Ireland's patron saint, blessed these wells
and imparted curative value to them. Thousands
of sick persons have visited these wells and gone
away cured. It is the custom of the cured to hang,
upon the bushes that surround these wells, memen
toes of the cure wrought. These bushes are literally
covered with pieces of clothing, crutches, splints and
canes, each one an evidence of the cures wrought by
these waters.
72 The Science of Mastership
At Lourdes, France, there is a spring and the
ignorant people believe that the Virgin Mary herself
blessed it and invested it with miraculous, curative
power. Hundreds of thousands of sick persons
have gone there in the past and thousands go there
to this day to be cured of their diseases.
The river Ganges, in India, is called the holy river.
For many centuries, the ignorant masses of India
have believed that the waters of this river are invested
with the power to heal disease. Acting on this belief,
thousands upon thousands have bathed in its waters
and have been healed.
Not many centuries ago, people believed that the
king was the living representative of God and, there
fore, the medium for the expression of Divine Power.
In those^days "The King's Touch" could cure disease.
The king himself believed that he possessed this
power and, at certain times, he would arrange for
the sick persons in his kingdom to come and be
healed. All kinds of diseases vanished at the king's
touch. In fact so remarkable were the results, that
Surgeon Wiseman of London, one of the most dis
tinguished surgeons and physicians of his day,
said, "I myself have been an eye witness of many
thousands of cures wrought by his majesty's touch
alone, without any medicine or surgery, and these,
many of them, had tired out the endeavors of able
surgeons and, " he adds, "I must needs profess that
what I write will little more than show the weakness
of our ability when compared with his majesty's
who cureth more in one year than all the surgeons
How the Power Cures Disease 73
of London have done in an age." It was indeed a
sad day for the king and the ignorant sufferers when
the belief in his divinity was destroyed by the advance
of democracy. His touch lost its power.
About one hundred years ago in New England, an
ignorant blacksmith named Elijah Perkins imagined
that, if he could weld together a number of metals in
certain proportions, they would possess magnetic
qualities and, when attached to the human body,
would, by magnetic attraction, draw disease out
of the body. After long and patient work, he an
nounced that he had succeeded and he exhibited
what he called his "metallic tractors" — a pair of tongs
about six inches long, one of brass and the other steel.
He applied these tongs over or near the diseased
parts always in a downward direction. They were
tried in all kinds of diseases and demonstrated
curative power so wonderful that thousands believed
they were invested with divine energy. The demand
for "tractors" became so great that Elijah was
swamped with orders. The fame of these healing
tongs spread to England and continental Europe and,
it has been stated that, within a brief period more
that a million cures were reported from Europe alone.
Lydia Pinkham had nothing on Elijah Perkins.
When the fame of Perkins and his tongs was at its
height, Dr. Haygarth of London determined to find
whether the cures wrought were the result of mental
action in the patient, induced by his belief, or the
magnetic action of the tongs. So he constructed
tongs out of ordinary wood and painted them so they
74 The Science of Mastership
would look like the original. With much pomp and
ceremony he attached these wooden tongs to the body
of sick persons who had been previously prepared
to expect something extraordinary. The effects
were astonishing. Obstinate pains in the limbs
vanished, joints that had long been stiff were restored
to motion, in short, except the renewal of lost parts
or a change in mechanical structure, nothing, in the
shape of disease, was beyond their curative power.
Haygarth punctured the golden bubble of Perkins
because he proved that the cures were wrought,
not by the tongs, but by the forces within the patient,
roused into action by the patient's belief.
Should you ask a Christian Scientist or a leader
in any of the other groups who employ mental methods
purely, how do the forces that you set in motion by
your methods work in the cure of disease, they cannot
tell you. In fact, they think that such a question is
profane. They say it is outside of the range of our
ability to find out how the work is done. This is
God's work and we do not profess to know how he
does it. So they cover the modus operandi with the
veil of mystery. They crowd into the consciousness
of the patient, certain affirmations, such as God is all
— God is spirit, truth, life, love — man is God's idea
— being God's idea man is perfect, sinless, disease-
less, deathless. But when you ask them to explain
HOW these affirmations work, they look upon you
with high spiritual contempt and say, it would be
presumption on our part to attempt to explain how
they work. Should you push your inquiry further
How the Power Cures Disease 75
and say, these affirmations, crowded into the conscious
brain of the patient, must give the cells of the sub
conscious, which control and direct the functions of
the body, a certain trend or slant in accordance with
the nature of the affirmations, the Christian Scientist
would say, there is no conscious or sub-conscious
brain and, if you think you have a brain of any kind,
you are the victim of delusion. But you say, if I
have no brain, how can I accept your ideas? He
would answer, my friend you must rise above the
delusions of your physical senses. There is no truth
in the knowledge that your senses bring you. Our
philosophy is the philosophy of the immortal mind.
It is a complete reversal of the philosophy of the
human mind. The brain you suppose you have says
that you have a brain. Forget
it,
you haven't. Ac
cept our science and you will find that
it
works like
mathematics. But HOW?
I
can follow the working
of a problem in mathematics from the start to the
finish and
I
would like to follow the working of these
affirmations, you ask me to repeat, from the start
to the finish, and, when
I
ask you to tell me HOW
they work, you ask me to surrender my brain.
I
am afraid
I
would have to be deprived of my brain
to accept such
a
strange philosophy.
I
doubt whether the leaders in any of these other
groups of mentalists could give
a
satisfactory answer
as to HOW these affirmations work. In fact, this
question cannot be answered satisfactorily from the
standpointof pure mental actionalone. Onthis plane of
manifestation, we have life and form, THE THINKER
76 The Science of Mastership
and his MACHINE, the mind and the body and they
operate together. By a desperate mental effort, it
is possible to conceive of a spiritual entity without a
material body. This, however, is an abstract con
ception. We cannot deal with it. We cannot pull
it down out of the clouds and analyze it. We are
functioning in a concrete universe, of mind and
body, where mental action creates physical motion
in the cells of the sub-conscious giving them a cer
tain slant or tendency, creating habits which, when
repeated, tend to become permanent. The Chris
tian Scientist himself is a demonstration of HOW
this law works.
I have given this rough summary of the various
groups that are engaged in the task of curing the body
to show that the realm of medicine is the realm of
fierce and bitter controversy. The battle field is as
wide as humanity and stretches down through the
centuries. The waste of energy in this struggle
is enormous. What are they fighting for? They
are fighting for the enthronement of their theories.
Since the thing of PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE
is, HOW is disease produced and HOW can it be
cured, it seems to me that these groups ought to
throw down their weapons, forget their theories,
unite on ground that is common to them all.
WHAT IS THIS COMMON GROUND? It is
this. First, all the doctors and healers, without
exception, agree that there is A POWER that cures
disease. The material groups call this power "The
Vis Medicatrix Naturae," the healing life of nature.
How the Power Cures Disease 77
The mental groups give this power different names
such as the immortal mind, the universal mind, the
omnipotent energy, the infinite I am, the supreme
force, the sub-conscious mind, the supermind.
Second, without exception, they all agree that it is
their business to clear the way for this POWER to
effect the cure. The drug and serum doctor gives
a drug or serum. The POWER that works for
health in the body recognizes these as enemies and
proceeds to throw them out. The disease is thrown
out with them. The doctors and surgeons who
oppose the use of drugs and serums say they are
clearing the way for this POWER when they remove
obstructions, in the body, by mechanical methods and
cutting out diseased portions. The hydropath says
that he is clearing the way for this POWER to operate
when he washes out the poisons. The Christian
Scientist says that he himself has no power to heal.
His business is to clear the mind of the patient of
a lot of mental rubbish so that this omnipotent
POWER can work. The healers in the other mental
groups say the same thing. They declare that they
have no power to cure disease. They say that it is
their business to free the mind of the patient of every
thought that would interfere with the free movement
of this infinite POWER. If these groups thought
more of the supreme task of relieving suffering
humanity and less of their powerless theories, they
would get together on this common ground, find out
HOW THIS POWER WORKS, formulate their
technique both mental and physical in accordance
78 The Science of Mastership
with the way this POWER works and, thus, evolve
the SCIENCE OF MEDICINE. It is my purpose in
this chapter to show HOW this can be done.
In the first place, notwithstanding the fact that all
these groups are in a continual fight over each other's
theories and methods, nevertheless we must admit
that each group have a large number of cures to their
credit.
The POWER that effects a cure works in ac
cordance with the law of its own nature. It does not
operate in a thousand ways. It operates one way
irrespective of the theories advanced to account for
it. Beliefs and theories cannot change its method
of operation. In fact, this power sometimes works
much more effectively without any assistance. The
methods that will assist this POWER are the methods
that are in accordance with the law of its movements.
When any cures are wrought under the treatments
of any of these healers and doctors, they must have
unknowingly aroused this POWER and brought it
into action. In fact, this POWER works, and cures
are wrought by
it,
under the strangest, crudest and
craziest methods. Methods that could not have
had any connection with the cause of the cure. For
instance we know that there
is
no special curative
power in the waters of The Irish Spa Wells, or in the
waters at the Holy Grotto in Lourdes, or in the
waters of the river Ganges. Notwithstanding that,
hundreds of thousands have and are being cured at
these waters. We know that there was no curative
power in the king's touch. Many thousands, how
How the Power Cures Disease 79
ever, have been cured thereby. We know that there
was no healing power in the magnetic tongs of Elijah
Perkins, yet they were credited with millions of
verified cures. Cures have been and are being
wrought by seemingly sensible means and through
means that are positively ridiculous.
Now, as I have said before, it is the business of
SCIENCE, when things happen, to find out HOW
THEY HAPPEN. That being known we can make
them happen again. In answering the question,
HOW DOES THIS POWER WORK, we must be
careful to make a distinction between the OCCASION
and the CAUSE of a thing. The occasion of a thing
is never the cause. It operates, however, to bring
the cause into action. To illustrate — some years
ago there was, in the middle of North River near the
city of New York, an immense rock, this rock pre
vented navigation. The authorities decided to re
move it. The contractor bored deep holes in the
rock and placed therein sticks of dynamite. Elec
tric wires were connected with the dynamite and
carried to the office of the engineer in charge. At
a certain time, the engineer's little daughter three
years old touched an electric button. There was a
great explosion. Tens of thousands of tons of rock
went up in shivered masses and the river was cleared.
THE OCCASION of the explosion was the touch of
the little girl's finger but THE CAUSE was the re
lease of the tremendous energy in the dynamite.
In the cure of disease, the CAUSE lies in the
POWER that resides in the human body, THE OC
80 The Science of Mastership
CASION is the means employed to arouse and bring
this POWER into action. In this book, in the chapter
on the brain and nervous system, I have shown —
First — that the human body is an electric machine
composed of electric cells that are constantly deliver
ing currents of organic electricity. That these
currents of energy are obtained from the chemical
compounds furnished in the food we eat and extracted
from the air we breathe.
Second — that this energy is the power used by
THE THINKER in receiving messages from the
outside world and in directing the movements of the
machine.
Third — that the nerves of sensation and motion,
embedded in the muscles and terminating in the
brain, carry messages to THE THINKER and convey
his commands and decisions to every part of the
machine.
Fourth — that there are two operating departments
in the brain, the conscious, governed by the will, and
the sub-conscious which is automatic. The sub
conscious builds the machine, repairs it and governs
all its functions.
Fifth — that the sub-conscious carries into effect
without question all the affirmations, commands and
decisions arrived at by THE THINKER in the
conscious department.
Sixth — when THE THINKER sends down into
the sub-conscious certain affirmations, these af
firmations create vibrations in the cells of the sub
conscious corresponding to the nature of the af
How the Power Cures Disease 81
firmation. Constantly repeated, the nerve cells are
given a certain tendency to act automatically in
producing the condition affirmed in the body. There
are only two kinds of affirmation possible, the positive
and the negative. Health is positive. Disease is
negative. With this explanation, the reader can see
how this POWER works with or without means and
even through ridiculous means. In the last analysis,
everything depends on the mental attitude of THE
THINKER.
Since the sub-conscious is organized to build and
repair the body, to provide for and protect THE
THINKER, it is always reaching out for better things.
Consequently any affirmation that promises freedom,
health, wealth, prosperity or power will be greedily
accepted and worked into shape.
It must be remembered at all times that this
POWER that resides in the body is, of necessity,
limited. It is manufactured within the limits of the
human body and the energy is obtained through the
chemical disintegration of the food we eat and ex
tracted from the air we breathe.
This power, then, is human power and limited by
the brain and manufacturing capacity of the cells
of the body. We are not all equal in capacity. We
can say, however, that this power will accomplish
all things for us within the limits of our capacity and
we all have an equal opportunity for increasing our
capacity.
Some mental healers assert that this power within
is divine and therefore capable of accomplishing all
82 The Science of Mastership
things. Admitting that it is divine, we must
remember that the amount we can use is limited by
the capacity we possess. The power of steam is un
limited but the amount we can use is limited by the
capacity of the steam engine. No matter what our
capacity may be, there are certain things this power
cannot do. It cannot keep the body in good running
order if THE THINKER continues to dope himself
with poisonous drugs and serums. It cannot keep
the body in health if THE THINKER does not select
the right kind of food. It cannot sustain the functions
of the body in smooth harmony if THE THINKER
fills his lungs with impure air or does not breathe
correctly. It cannot restore a lost member or a
destroyed organ. It can postpone death for a long
time but it cannot prevent it. Like all human
powers, it operates within well defined limits but,
within these limits, the knowledge that enables a
person to increase, control and direct it is the most
valuable thing in the world.
THE SCIENCE OF FOOD
Chapter Four
THE SCIENCE OF FOOD.
HE reader who has read and understood the
preceding chapters will know why the thinker
must eat. Besides THE THINKER, there
are two other things in the machine. First — the
structural elements such as bone, muscle, nerve, hair,
nails, brain and cell tissues. Second — the electric
energy supplied by the cells.
Science tells us that the softer parts of the machine
are completely renewed every eleven months and
the bony structure every seven years. So we have
an entirely new machine every seven years. It
takes quite a lot of material to keep up the wear and
tear and at the same time build a completely new
machine. This material is taken in from the out
side world in the shape of food. In addition to this,
the machine consumes a vast amount of electric
energy. It is never idle for a moment. The sub
conscious machinery, which builds, repairs and keeps
the vital organs going, uses up an immense amount
of energy. For instance consider the amount of
work done by the heart. In the average human
body, there is about twelve pounds of blood. All
the blood in the body passes through the heart 2,880
times in twenty-four hours, so a day's work for the
heart is to pump seventeen tons of blood through the
body and back again. In addition to this, all the other
vital organs require a certain amount of energy
in the performance of their functions.
86 The Science of Mastership
THE THINKER, in the conscious department of
the brain, while he is awake, is using up large amounts
of energy in moving the machine about from place
to place, in doing his daily work and in his mental
processes of thinking and deciding.
To supply this constant demand for energy, THE
THINKER must take in from the outside world
the food stuffs that will supply the proper chemicals
to create this electric energy. We saw, in our
discussion in the preceding chapter, that, in the tiny
electric cells of the machine, there is an acid and an
alkaline constituent. The continual exchange from
one to the other pole in these cells creates a constant
electric current. To supply the enormous amount
of energy demanded by the machine, acids and
alkalies must be furnished in abundance. THE
THINKER, then, as he operates through the con
scious department of the brain, selects the FOOD
STUFFS. He is responsible for the kind of food
that goes into the stomach. If the food he selects
does not contain a sufficient amount of all the elements
the machine needs, he cannot expect the machine
to run smoothly.
THE THINKER OUGHT TO KNOW SOME
THING ABOUT THE CONSTITUENT ELEMENTS
IN FOOD SUBSTANCES. It is my purpose, in
this chapter, to furnish him, in condensed form, with
some of the latest information on this important
subject. The sun is the source of all the energy
in our solar system. Food substances, of all kinds
both vegetable and animal, consist of condensed
The Science of Food 87
solar energy. The disintegration of food substances
in the process of digestion is a chemica process.
There is no release of energy apart from chemical
action. A complete statement of the chemical
changes which take place in food stuffs as they pass
through the alimentary canal would require a large
volume; I will present in brief form a statement of
the essentials.
In all food substances there are about five digestible
elements — starch, albumen or protein, fats, sugars
and salts. There are five digesters — the mouth,
the stomach, the small intestine, the colon and the
liver. There are five digestive fluids — the saliva,
the gastric juice, the bile, the pancreatic juice and
the intestinal juice. The saliva digests starch, the
gastric juice digests protein, the pancreatic juice di
gests starch, protein and fats, the intestinal juice
digests all food substances. The salts are digested
by the several digestive juices.
The process of disintegration commences in the
mouth. There, the food stuff is ground into smaller
fragments by the teeth and, at the same time, softened
by the saliva. This process of grinding sets all the
automatic machinery of the food laboratories to work
to prepare for the food that they know is coming.
When the jaws begin to move, the salivary glands
pour out saliva, the gastric glands secrete gastric
juice and all the other glands prepare for the work
they have to do and, besides this, the movements
which carry the food into the stomach, while de
positing the food stuff in this chamber for future
88 The Science of Mastership
attention, sends on beyond the stomach peristaltic
waves which reach the colon. This organ gets busy
with such vigor that its contents of waste matter
move forwards four times as fast during the eating
of a meal as in the intervals between meals.
Digestion at all its stages, is a process of chemical
change. The various digestive juices, with the
assistance of oxygen, are the active agents in the
process. So, then, the chemical changes produced
in the process of digestion release electric energy and,
at the same time, furnish the acid and alkaline ele
ments for the electric cells as well as providing the
necessary elements needed to repair and build the
structural parts of the machine.
A normal human body weighing one hundred and
fifty pounds is composed of about
90 lbs. of oxygen
36 lbs. of carbon
14 lbs. of hydrogen
3 lbs. 8 oz. of nitrogen
3 lbs. 12 oz. of calcium
1 lbs. 14 oz. of phosphorus
4 oz. of chlorine
3% oz. of sulphur
3 oz. of potassium
2}4 oz. of sodium
2 oz. of fluorene
1}4 oz. of magnesium
34 oz. of silicon
}/g
oz. of iron
The Science of Food 89
and traces of manganese, iodine, aluminum and
arsenic. These elements lying inert in the physical
world constitute dead or inorganic matter. The
electrons in their composition are in a state of stable
equilibrium. There is no electrical pressure between
them, therefore no electrical exchange. Before
they can be used or absorbed by the body, they must
be lifted up out of the inorganic kingdom into the
organic. This dead matter must be made into a
living cell before it is fit to be used as food.
This important work is done by three powerful
forces.
First — THE LIFE PRINCIPLE in the seed.
Second — THE ELECTRIC ENERGY of the sun's
rays.
Third — THE ACTION OF OXYGEN. These
three factors, co-operating in nature's great lab
oratories, transmutes the dead matter into living
cells and prepares them for human food. The
great fields of corn, wheat, rye and barley, the or
chards of peach, apple, apricot, pear and other
fruits, the vineyards purple with grape clusters,
the groves of pineapple, orange and grapefruit, the
groves of pecans, hazel nuts and walnuts, the fields
of potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips and other root
crops, the fields of beans and peas, cabbage, cauli
flower, rhubarb and asparagus — these, and many
others, are the results of the work of the three great
chemists, LIFE, SUNLIGHT and OXYGEN in trans
forming dead matter into living food for man and
beast.
90 The Science of Mastership
Agriculture, then, is the BASIC INDUSTRY and
I think that the time has come when creative thinking
ought to be applied in this matter of food supply.
We need pure food and we need pure soil to grow
the pure cereals, vegetables, fruit and nuts.
The old methods of preparing the soil for the
growing of plants are unscientific and ineffective.
Millions of acres have been exhausted of all the
chemical elements that go into the construction of
trees, plants and vegetables. SOIL IS A CON
VENIENT RECEPTACLE FOR HOLDING PLANT
FOOD IN SOLUTION. Plants do not chew, they
suck up the elements through their roots by magnetic
attraction. When the same kind of crops are planted
year after year on the same soil, the chemical elements
are exhausted. The customary method of replenish
ing the soil with the necessary chemical elements is
to dope it with artificial fertilizer and barn yard
manure. Artificial fertilizer is at best a make-shift
and an experiment and barn yard manure, in its
fresh state, is poisonous to vegetation. Before it
can be absorbed by the crops, it must pass through
a chemical change. I have noticed that animal
droppings kill the grass beneath it. I have also
noticed that around the edges of these droppings the
grass grows tall and rank but the cows and the horses
never touch this tall grass. Guided by unerring
instinct they must know that this tall grass has
sucked up poisonous elements that makes it unfit
for food.
How does nature build soil structures and how does
The Science of Food 91
she supply these structures with the chemical ele
ments essential for the growth of healthy trees,
plants and vegetables. All the chemical elements
essential for the growth of healthy crops are found
in THE PRIMARY ROCKS. Intense cold froze
the moisture in these rocks, expanding and splitting
up the molecules, then the giant iceberg, weighing
millions of tons, ground these molecules into still
finer particles. The waters of a thousand streams
deposited these particles in the valleys forming the
soil. This work is still going on.
We have another very valuable, standing illus
tration of nature's methods of providing the chemical
elements in soil building and soil restoration in the
valley of the Nile River. For many centuries, the
Egyptians have grown healthy crops without using
an ounce of fertilizer or a pound of manure. The
River Nile has two branches. One branch rises
in the ranges of the mountains of Abyssinia. These
mountains are composed of PRIMARY ROCKS, the
frosts of the winter expand the moisture in these
rocks splitting them up into fine particles, then the
thaw, in the springtime, comes, the snows melt and
the water laden with these precious chemical elements
ground from nature's compost heaps, the primary
rocks, are carried down in a great flood, the Nile
overflows its banks and deposits this natural fertilizer
all over the valley of Egypt.
So, instead of using artificial fertilizer and barn
yard manure, the scientific farmer of the future will
grind up the primary rocks and incorporate this into
92 The Science of Mastership
the soil to furnish the mineral salts which the crops
need. In addition to this, the soil needs humus. He
can furnish this by growing crops of peas and plowing
them in. When they are disintegrated, they will
furnish the nitrogen and other essential chemical
elements. Creative intelligence follows nature's
methods and when this is applied to the problem
of growing healthy crops the present unscientific
and destructive methods will be abolished.
Healthy soil, containing all the elements that crops
need, is not infested with soil scavengers such as the
boll weavil, the cut worm, the bug or the borer.
These scavengers are evidences of the fact that the
soil is deficient in the essential elements for the
growth of healthy crops. Healthy soil is alkaline
and is charged with positive electricity. Unhealthy
soil is acid and is negatively charged. Agriculture
is sick. The farmer is sick. The basic reason for
this is that the soil is sick, and the only remedy is
to apply creative intelligence to the problem by
adopting nature's methods.
It is the business of THE THINKER to select
the FOOD STUFF, that the machine needs, in its
purest form. Its purest form is in the shape of
vegetables, fruit and nuts grown on healthy soil.
To be sure, THE THINKER can kill the animal
and eat its flesh and obtain the elements his body
needs that way but, he must remember, that food
stuff in the flesh of a dead animal is SECOND
HAND MATERIAL. Second-hand stuff, as a general
rule, is soiled. In meat of any kind the life principle
The Science of Food 93
has departed and the disintegration process has
begun. Is it wise to load into the stomach portions
of a decaying carcass? Besides, the animal may have
been the victim of a disease before it was killed.
The tissues of the meat are in that case, filled with
acid poisons. When THE THINKER takes that
poison into his system, he swallows disease and
invites death.
Furthermore, if it was intended that THE
THINKER should get his food stuff by eating meat,
nature would have equipped him with digestive
machinery altogether different from that which he
now has. Nature would have given him the digestive
machinery of a dog, a tiger or a lion. These animals
eat meat and, because it rots quickly, the unused
portion or waste must be gotten rid of rapidly. There
fore, nature equips these animals with short intestines.
Vegetables, nuts and fruits do not rot like meat.
They disintegrate slowly. Nature gave man much
longer intestines than she gave flesh eating animals,
showing that vegetables, fruit and nuts are man's
proper food. An examination of man's body shows
that he does not belong to the carnivorous animal
group. This group is equipped with teeth and claws
for rending and tearing. They have no sweat
glands and they have short intestines. Man's
teeth were made to grind. He has no claws to rend
or tear and he is in possession of sweat glands.
A physical examination of man's body shows,
throughout all its structure, that, physically, he is
related to that group of animals known as anthropoid
94 The Science of Mastership
apes, and we know that this group eats nothing else
save nuts, fruit and vegetables. In so far as strength
is concerned, the gorilla is one of the strongest
animals of its size in the world.
In organizing and building the bodies of flesh
eating animals, nature did not provide for sweat
glands. There is a reason for this. The flesh
they consume contains uric acid and when taken into
the digestive tract this acid content increases. This
acid is held in solution in the fluids of the body.
If the fluids were allowed to escape through sweat
glands, this acid would be precipitated in crystals
and kill the animal.
Man is equipped with sweat glands, meat con
tains uric acid, and when taken into the body, this
acid content increases. It is held in solution in
the fluids of the body. These fluids escape in large
quantities through the sweat glands, with the result
in the case of the meat eating THINKER that he
is troubled with gall stones, rheumatism, diabetes
and Bright's disease.
The meat business in America is immense and
powerful. We have sixteen hundred slaughtering
houses and one hundred and twenty million of in
nocent animals are killed every year to meet the
demand for flesh. However, the innocent victims
have their revenge. They kill their killers by the
ten thousand through toxic poisoning. Eating meat
is a perversion of man's natural tendencies. It is
a violation of physiological law and punishment
sooner or later is inevitable.
The Science of Food 95
Vegetables, fruit and nuts, when grown on pure
soil, contain in the purest form all the elements
that THE THINKER needs to build and repair the
machine and supply the energy. These elements
unite in different chemical combinations. These
chemical combinations are carried by the blood
stream to all parts of the machine to supply the
invisible builders with material and to supply the
electric cells with the chemicals to furnish the energy.
The reader can see what a marvellous adjustment
there is in these arrangements for food supply.
THE PRIMARY ROCKS contain all the mineral
elements that are in the body. THE FROST AND
ICE of the winter disintegrate these rocks and re
lease these mineral elements. THE THAW in
the early springtime carries these elements down to
the valley where man lives and toils. THE LIFE
PRINCIPLE in the seed, the ELECTRIC ENERGY
of the sun, and OXYGEN combine to build up these
mineral elements into the living cells in cereals,
vegetables, fruit and nuts supplying stores of food
for man and beast. These arrangements are, to
my mind, ample proof of Edison's statement when he
said, "I believe in the existence of AN ETERNAL
REASON that pervades and co-ordinates all things."
To present a full statement of all the information
we possess on rational food, would require a large
volume. In this chapter, I am stating general
principles and fundamental facts only.
All the mineral salts, in organic form, are carried
in the BLOOD STREAM to every part of the machine.
96 The Science of Mastership
IRON. The man who has a sufficient amount
of organic iron in his blood is a strong man and there
is a reason for his strength. The hemoglobin in the
blood carries iron, the red corpuscles of the blood
contain hemoglobin. Because of the strong affinity
that iron has for oxygen, the iron in the blood attracts
oxygen and carries it to all the electric cells of the
body increasing their power to release energy. The
plant or the tree takes the iron from the soil, and by
magnetic attraction, conveys it to the leaves. There,
through the action of oxygen and sunlight, it creates
chlorophyll or the green coloring matter of nature.
So that the green leaves of vegetables contain four
times as much iron as the white leaves contain.
Organic iron is found in whole wheat, whole oats,
whole rye, beans, spinach, carrots, cabbage, fruits,
parsnips, radishes, celery, onions, garlic and rhubarb.
SODIUM. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with sodium. Chloride of sodium is the
chemical name for SALT. Common table salt is
inorganic and while the body can use it in this form
its use is often accompanied with destructive effects.
It is always best to supply the body with sodium in
its organic form. Sodium, combined with chlorine,
produces the salty fluid in the blood. The blood
carries this chemical compound to the electric cells
to supply the means to furnish the electric current.
Sodium also performs an important work in holding
the salts of lime and magnesia soluble in the blood.
If sodium is not present in the blood in sufficient
quantity, the lime and magnesia is deposited along
The Science of Food 97
the inside walls of the arteries, causing hardness of
the arteries, and in the cells thus obstructing the
blood flow. Sodium is an important element in the
saliva, the pancreatic juice and the bile. Insufficient
sodium is, therefore, the cause of derangements in
the digestive system. Sodium is furnished in eggs,
potatoes, beans, milk, carrots, peas, parsnips, rad
ishes, whole grain, spinach, peaches, figs, celery
and nuts.
CALCIUM. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with calcium. Calcium is another name
for lime. It is claimed that fifty per cent of the
structure of the human machine is made up of lime
salts. The blood stream carries this element to
every part of the skeleton and teeth to build them up
and repair them. If THE THINKER does not
supply the machine with enough organic lime to
do this work, he will lose his teeth and the bones of
the body will become fragile and rickety. Tooth
powder and tooth brushes are poor substitutes for
a lack of lime salts.
Dr. Royal S. Copeland said recently, "Civilized
people today sin against nature by eliminating foods
containing the precious vitamins, mineral salts and
roughage. We damage our bodies permanently
by using too many soft foods. There is danger of
Americans a few generations from now having
smaller jaws and quite a different physical ap
pearance than they have today. This subject was
discussed recently at the annual meeting of the
dental society of New York. It was said that eighty
98 The Science of Mastership
per cent of the population are suffering from faulty
development of the teeth and jaw bones. Faulty
diet is the cause. It is mighty important what you
eat. There are two vital chemicals, lime and phos
phorus. They are required in the proper develop
ment of the teeth, jaw bones and other bones of the
body. Give your jaw bones and teeth something
to do. Eat the coarser and harder foods and chew
them well."
Lime enters into the composition of all vegetation.
It is one of the essential elements in the construction
of the stems and the leaves. Fruit trees and vines
contain almost one hundred pounds of lime carbonate
to the ton of wood. Carbonate of lime is the neces
sary chemical compound in the formation of starch
and sugar in the growth of vegetables and fruits.
It is essential especially in the construction of fruit
cells. Fruit grown on soil rich in carbonate of lime
are bigger, healthier, sweeter and much more de
licious than those grown on soil treated with manure.
Calcium, then, is found in spinach, beet leaves and
stems, oats, whole wheat, whole rye, beans, fruits
of all kinds, radishes, onions, garlic and rhubarb.
MAGNESIUM. THE THINKER must furnish
the machine with magnesium. This element is
present in the blood stream in the shape of phosphate
of magnesium. It is an important element in the
construction of the bones and the teeth. It imparts
firmness to the bones and gives the necessary hard
ness to the teeth. The ivory tusks of the elephant
contain two per cent of phosphate of magnesium.
The Science of Food 99
Billiard balls made from them are almost indestruc
tible. The teeth of carnivorous animals contain
about five per cent of phosphate of magnesium.
Armed with such powerful teeth, these animals can
crush the bones of their prey with the greatest of ease.
To obtain the lime and magnesium, these flesh
eating animals grind up the bones of their victims.
THE THINKER may be able to crack a nut or grind
a stalk of sugar cane with his teeth to obtain the
organic lime and magnesium salts but he cannot
crack and grind bones. This is another proof that
man was not built to eat meat. Magnesium asso
ciated with lime, iron and sulphur are important
elements in the albumen of the blood. It is present
in large amounts in the muscular tissues and in the
cells of the brain, nerves and lungs. It also acts
in the process of eliminating from the system all
foreign and waste matter.
Magnesium is formed in citrus fruits of all kinds,
kohlrabis, leeks, onions are rich in magnesium.
It is found in apples, cherries, grapes, raisins, nuts,
peaches, whole grain and green vegetables.
POTASSIUM. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with potassium. This element enters into
the construction of all muscular tissues giving the
muscles elasticity and pliancy. If THE THINKER
has stiff muscles it is due to the fact that he has not
supplied his body with a sufficient amount of potas
sium. It also plays an important part in forming all
the synthetic chemical compounds of the body.
Without the action of the salts of potassium, glycogen
100 The Science of Mastership
could not be obtained from glucose, nor fats from
glycogen nor proteins from peptones. The liver is
the laboratory where glycogen is made. It there
fore must have large supplies of potassium. This
element is present in large quantities in the red
corpuscles of the blood and in the cells of the
brain.
Potassium is found in potatoes between the skin
and the outer surface. When the cook peels the
potato in preparation for cooking she throws away
this precious mineral salt with the peelings. In
Ireland, the great potato country, the potatoes are
eaten with the skins on. The main meal there is
potatoes with their skins on and sour buttermilk.
Potassium as I have said gives elasticity and pliancy
to the muscles, the Irish are great fighters and
athletes. England is the home of the race horse.
The owners of these valuable animals send to the
Balkans to get oats that are grown on lands rich in
potassium to feed them so as to supply the muscles
with spring, power and pliancy. Potassium is found
in eggs, milk, peas, carrots, radishes, spinach, pars
nips, cottage cheese, beans, peas, nuts, asparagus
and fresh fruits and berries.
MANGANESE. THE THINKER must supply
the machine with manganese. In its physical and
chemical properties, this element resembles iron.
Like iron it forms a part of the red corpuscles. It
seems to have a decided influence in the functions
of digestion and in cell building. It acts in the
various glands improving the qualities of their
The Science of Food 101
secretions. This element is found in all green
vegetables, fruits and nuts.
ALUMINUM. This chemical is found in the body
in minute quantities as aluminum oxide, its action
is similar to that of magnesium. It is found in all
vegetables.
PHOSPHORUS. THE THINKER must supply
the machine with phosphorus. It goes into the con
struction of the bones, the muscular tissues, the
nervous system and the brain. Because of the large
amount of phosphorus used in the makeup of the
nervous system and the brain, phosphorus is of great
importance. Without it the brain could not function.
This element is supplied in eggs, milk, carrots, cheese,
turnips, spinach, raw cabbage, whole grains, parsnips,
beans, peas, nuts, asparagus and fruits.
SULPHUR. THE THINKER must furnish the
machine with sulphur. Organic sulphuric acid salts
act as an antiseptic and cleansing agency in the body.
It is an important element in the hemoglobin of the
blood, where it serves as an oxidizing agent. It also
enters into the composition of all the tissues of the
body increasing the resistant powers, making it
positive. Sulphur is found in cabbage, onions,
garlic, radishes and eggs.
CHLORINE. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with chlorine, and he must supply it in
organic form to get the best effects. This chemical
salt plays an important part in the functions of the
body. It assists in the formation of all the digestive
juices. It supplies the electric cells of the body with
102 The Science of Mastership
the essential chemicals to create energy. It assists
in eliminating from the body the unused portions
of protein. This element is furnished in all fresh
vegetables, fruits, fresh cow's milk, and eggs.
FLUORENE. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with fiuorene. This element enters into the
composition of the enamel of the teeth and it also
enters into the structure of the skeleton. Without
it,
the delicate structure of the iris of the eye could
not be built. When this element
is
not supplied in
sufficient quantities we have premature decay of
the teeth, curvature of the spine and weakening of
the eyesight. This element
is
supplied in the yolk
of eggs and in milk also in the outer coats of cereals
especially rye. It
is
also found in fresh vegetables,
onions, garlic and fruits.
SILICON. THE THINKER must supply the
machine with silicon. Silicon
is
the chemical name
for sand. Organic silicon is
a
protective agent
against disintegration. It
is
the essential element
in the structure of the nails and the hair. It
is
a
splendid insulator. It is one of the main elements
in the pancreatic juice. It
is
supplied in vegetables
and fruits. There
it
is
combined with cellulose and
forms the outside coats of vegetables and skins of
fruits. The mineral matter in the outside coats
of rice kernels
is
eighty per cent silicon. In modern
manufacturing and in the usual methods of preparing
food in the average home this skin is removed and
this gives rise to many deficiency diseases.
IODINE. THE THINKER must supply the
The Science of Food 103
machine with iodine. Iodine is one of the important
elements in the body. It is a non-metallic element
and seems to have the effect of stimulating all the
nutritive and circulatory functions of the body.
It is present in the thyroid glands and is essential
in the formation of an organic iodine compound
called thyroxin. A lack of this element in the body
is the cause of goitre which is an enlargement of
the thyroid gland. This disease is common in the
European Alps and the Rocky Mountains due to a
lack of iodine in the soil where the crops, fruits and
vegetables are grown. Sea water contains iodine
and for this reason all sea plants such as Irish dulse,
algae and agar-agar contain it. It is also present in
minute quantities in many fruits and vegetables such
as cabbage, asparagus, leeks, garlic, onions and
sorrel.
THE THINKER, if he is desirous of having a
smooth running machine or in other words a healthy
body, must be careful in the selection of food stuffs.
WHAT IS DISEASE? DISEASE, IN REALITY,
IS AN ATTEMPT ON THE PART OF THE HEAL
ING POWER IN THE BODY TO CAST OUT OR
BURN UP THE ABNORMAL QUANTITIES OF
WASTE POISONS WHICH ARE TAKEN INTO
THE BODY THROUGH IGNORANCE OF RATION
AL FEEDING. That marvellous energy in the body
which is known as the life force is organized for
health and automatically every moment works to
that end, when THE THINKER continues to load
the body up with poisonous food stuffs, the life force
104 The Science of Mastership
protests and, when the poisons accumulate to such
an extent that death is threatened, then the life force
proceeds to burn up the poisons. Fevers of all
kinds are the evidences of this burning process.
Disease is a house cleaning process and the house
cleaner is the life force. When the energy of the
life force is exhausted in the process, death occurs.
How can the life force protect the body if it is not
furnished with the proper elements for building and
renewing its structure and the proper chemical
elements for supplying the vital electricity? Doping
the body with drugs and serums, in the most of cases,
makes the task for the life force heavier. What is
the testimony of some of the leading doctors on the
use of drugs?
Dr. Wm. Osier of Johns Hopkins Hospital says,
"Most drugs have no effect on the disease for which
they are administered."
Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes says, "If all the medi
cine in the world was thrown into the sea, it would
be bad for the fish and good for humanity."
Dr. Elmer Lee of New York says, "The present
state of medicine is scientific insanity."
Dr. Weir Mitchell says, "Back of disease lies a
cause and that cause no drug can reach."
Dr. L. W. Edwards of Omaha, Nebraska, says,
"Poisonous drugs poison the human system and weak
drugs have no effect upon it."
Dr. J. H. Hurty of the Indiana State Board of
Health says, "There is not a single medicine in the
world that does not carry harm in its molecules."
The Science of Food 105
Bostwick's History of Medicine says, "Every dose
of medicine is a blind experiment on the vitality of
the patient."
Arthur Brisbane in one of his editorials says,
"Some day men will learn how to feed themselves
then the average length of life will be one hundred
and forty years."
The doctors have named four hundred and seven
diseases. These four hundred and seven are just
so many outward expressions of the attempt on the
part of the healing force to get rid of accumulated
poisons and waste material. Drugs and serums
can only make the matter worse by increasing the
poisons in the system.
The economic loss due to the prevalence of disease
is enormous. Dr. Irving Fisher of Yale University
finds that only about one percent of the population
of the United States are well and about one half of
the population is sub-normal and that the country
suffers a loss of one billion five hundred millions
($1,500,000,000) each year from sickness that could
be prevented. Statistics show that seventy percent
of the school children have either physical or mental
defects, thirty percent of the young men are deficient
physically and mentally, sixty percent of all men and
women over forty years of age are suffering with some
disease. To take care of this vast multitude of in
valids we employ 200,000 doctors and nurses and we
maintain hospitals and asylums by the ten thousand.
In addition to this, a large percentage of our criminals
are made in this factory of disease and crime costing
106 The Science of Mastership
as ten billions each year. A large percentage of this
suffering, waste and crime could be abolished if our
doctors and health officers would apply creative in
telligence to this problem. We have enough creative
and constructive thought in existence now which if
it was distributed and applied would banish a large
proportion of this deplorable condition and begin
the task of creating a new race of men and women.
In their mad race to accumulate dollars our food
purveyors and manufacturers, in spite of The Federal
Pure Food Act, are still engaged in the business of
using poisonous preservatives and unhealthy coloring
in the preparation of food products. They use
Alum Formaldehyde
Benzoic acid Formic acid
Benzoate of soda Salicylic acid
Coal tar dyes Salt petre
Boron compounds Sodium chloride
Copper sulphate Sulphurous acid.
Every one of these elements introduces acid poisons
into the system and THE THINKER, in his selection
of food stuffs, should reject any and all food prepa
rations where these are used to preserve or color
them. This chapter only contains general principles
and fundamental facts on the subject of rational
feeding. If the reader is desirous of obtaining fuller
information, there are numerous books on the market
written by expert dietitians containing instructions
and menus covering every phase of this question.*
* See Appendix,
THE SCIENCE OF BREATH
Chapter Five
THE SCIENCE OF BREATH.
HE earth revolves and carries with it an en
velope of air. Like the fish in the sea, all
forms of life are bathed in this envelope and all
forms of life, both vegetable and animal, must breathe
to live. Every cell in the body of man must have air.
The air inside of the body is balanced by the air out
side. The air pressure on the outside of the body is
about fifteen pounds to the square inch. Above this
envelope of air, life, as we know
it,
would be im
possible. Man can ascend into the atmosphere
a
few miles.
If
he goes up beyond
a
certain distance,
the pressure of the air within
is
so great that
it
ex
pands and bursts the arteries and cells of the body.
Man must, therefore, in his movements, keep close
to the earth.
THE THINKER in his machine may live for
a
short
time without food or water, but he cannot live but
for
a
few minutes without breathing. Man enters
this life by taking
a
long breath. He departs from
life by ceasing to breathe and, from the moment of
birth to the moment of death, life is
a
series of
breaths. All the physical functions of life, both
internal and external as well as all the processes of
thinking, are dependent on breathing.
This envelope of air carried by the earth in its
revolutions
is
marvellously adapted to the work of
110 The Science of Mastership
providing for and protecting life. Without this
envelope of air, we would have no light, no heat or
power. The production of light, heat and power
is due to the presence of this air envelope. The
earth is negative; the sun is positive. The rays of
the sun are electric rays. When they strike this
envelope of air on their way to the earth, they must
force their way through. In doing this, they break
forth into light, heat and power. Beyond this en
velope of air, these rays pass through a region of dark
ness and intense cold. So, without this light, heat
and power, we could have no manifestations of life
or activity on this planet. It has been estimated
that the amount of energy delivered by the sun to
the earth is four thousand horse power to the acre.
The late Charles P. Steinmetz, one of the greatest
electrical engineers of all time, said in an interview,
"In reality all the energy that we use today is the
energy of the sunlight. The heat of the sun's rays
evaporates the water, the water vaporizes in the
clouds, condenses and comes down in rain feeding
the rivers which gives us the water power and thus
the energy that raises the water and the power we
get from the water falls is the energy of the sunlight.
When we burn coal, it is again the energy of the sun
light that we use, but it is from the rays of sunlight
that were condensed millions of ages ago in the
primeval forests of the carboniferous period when the
earth was still young. Then the trees stored away
the sun's energy in their wooden structures which
was turned to coal through pressure and heat.
The Science of Breath 111
"Some time in the future when the coal resources
are exhausted and all the water power developed,
when the babbling brook and the roaring cataract will
be gone and sluggish pools extend from power house
to power house to feed the demand of an ever-
increasing population, some may wonder and say,
'What other energy supply can be opened up?'
Oil and gas will long have vanished. Indeed, they
will be the first to go. Winds and tides and wave
power may be used as far as possible but their total
is so insignificant that it does not come into con
sideration. There is only one other source of
energy left and that is the energy of the sunlight and
this is the greatest of all energies. In fact, it is the
sole source of all energies. The next task for the
creative engineers of the future is to harness this
immense energy. The amount of energy falling on
the surface of the United States from the sun is over
two hundred thousand millions of horse power.
When this is harnessed, there never will be any more
lack of power.
"But there is another field where this energy can
be harnessed — the field of biology. The power
that lifts up the inorganic matter into the trunks,
branches and leaves of billions of trees and into the
stalks and leaves of all forms of vegetation is the
energy of the sunlight. Why could not the engineers of
the future develop new forms of vegetation that would
collect the energy of the sunlight a hundred times
more rapidly than nature does today? By this method
we could create energy crops and then compel them
112 The Science of Mastership
to surrender this energy without going through the
transformation of heat. In addition to supplying
power quickly and abundantly, this method would
also supply food stuffs quickly in unlimited quanti
ties. All this can be accomplished when creative
thinkers obtain conscious and intelligent control of
nature's forces."
So, within the realm of this amazing envelope, this
airy home of man, we have a power house for light,
heat and energy with possibilities that are inex
haustible.
My purpose, in making these statements, is to show
THE THINKER some of the remarkable properties
that are in the air we breathe and to show him that
air is one of the basic conditions of all life and activity
on this planet. So THE THINKER in his machine
must have air and, just as he needs pure food grown
on pure soil, so he needs pure air warmed and ener
gized by the sun's rays.
We boast of our advanced civilization. To be sure
it has its blessings but it also has its curses. Its
curses are impure air and improper methods of
breathing. In the streets of our great cities, the air
is filled with poisonous gases from the exhaust of
tens of thousands of automobiles and trucks. Smoke
from thousands of chimney stacks of mills and
factories and the unbearable stench of slaughtering
houses fill the air with impurities. During working
hours, this is the only kind of air available for the
average city dweller. After working hours when he
leaves the congested area and comes home for the
The Science of Breath 113
night in the suburbs, the air is purer. Breathing
this impure air imposes a heavy burden upon the
lungs and is the cause of that dread scourge tubercu
losis, the disease of civilization. In addition to this
the average man does not know HOW to breathe
to get the fullest and best results. Only a small
portion of the lungs is used, consequently only a small
quantity of the blood is purified and energized.
In order that THE THINKER shall have a clear
conception of what takes place in the act of breathing,
we will consider the MECHANICS OF THE ACT.
The organs of breathing consist of the lungs and the
air passages leading to them. The lungs are two in
number and are located in the lung chamber of the
chest, one on each side of the middle line and, be
tween them, lies the heart, the larger air tubes and
blood vessels. The lungs are made up of millions
of cells. If the air cells in the lungs were spread
out they would cover a space of fourteen thousand
square feet. The lungs are like big sponges. Their
tissues are very elastic and strong. They are en
closed in a strong sack known as the pleura which
is a form of mucus membrane. The air passages
consist of the nasal passages, the pharynx, larynx,
windpipe or trachea and the bronchial tubes. The
bronchial tubes divide and sub-divide into still
smaller tubes which terminate in the lung cells, so
that not one cell is denied access to the air.
Air is drawn into the lungs through the action of
the diaphragm, a flat, powerful muscle like a shelf
that divides the chest box from the abdomen. This
114 The Science of Mastership
muscle is geared up to the voluntary as well as to the
involuntary system of nerves. By this arrangement,
its action can be increased or lessened by the will.
When the diaphragm expands, a vacuum is created
in the lung chamber and air rushes in to fill this
vacuum. When it contracts, the chamber becomes
smaller and the air is forced out. The lungs are the
place where the air and the blood meet and an im
portant exchange takes place between them.
The heart is a pump of marvellous construction
that operates automatically. After the stream of
blood has made its circuit of the body, it goes to the
right auricle of the heart. When this auricle is filled,
it contracts and forces the blood into the right ventri
cle which contracts and sends it into the lungs where it
is distributed through all the air cells. After passing
through the lungs, it reaches the left auricle and when
this is full it contracts and sends it to the left ventricle
which in turn sends it out on its continual journey.
It has been estimated that thirty-five thousand pints
of blood is pumped through the lungs in the body of
an average person every twenty-four hours.
The BLOOD STREAM, as we have already seen,
carries all the elements that the body needs to build
and repair the tissues and to supply the chemicals
to furnish the electric energy. When the blood
starts out on its journey through the arteries to supply
the builders with the necessary elements for their
work, it is bright red and full of vital electric energy.
When it returns through the veins having deposited
its supplies, it is blue and lifeless and charged with
The Science of Breath 115
a lot of waste material. It starts out positive, it
returns negative. It starts out alkaline, it returns acid.
What happens to the blood in the lungs? Well we
know that the blood is composed of electrons in a
state of unstable equilibrium. In other words, there
is electric exchange between the electrons. When
the blood returns from its circuit, the electric ex
change is at a low ebb. Air is filled with oxygen.
Oxygen is composed of electrons in a high state of
excitement. The electric exchange going on is
rapid. When a breath of air is inhaled, the electric
energy in the oxygen rushes through the thin walls
of the lung cells and rejuvenates the electrons in the
blood giving them large supplies of new energy.
In all cases of electric exchange, there must be
chemical action. The chemical action, in this case,
is that the blood takes up oxygen and releases carbonic
acid gas. Thus the twelve pounds of blood in the
average person who breathes pure air and fills his
lungs is purified and energized 2,880 times every
twenty-four hours. Arterial blood, when every part
of it has been in contact with the air, contains about
twenty-five percent of pure oxygen. Not only does
the oxygen energize the blood itself, it also acts
upon the chemical salts supplied by the food and gives
them the necessary electrical vitality to discharge
their functions. Weak lungs and poor digestion
always go together.
THE THINKER can see clearly that pure air is
the supreme basic essential in health and, since the
elements supplied by the food must be energized
116 The Science of Mastership
by the oxygen before they are fit to be used, THE
THINKER can see how he can live without food
or water for a time but he cannot survive but for a
few minutes without air. THE BREATHING MECH
ANISM is so arranged that THE THINKER can
breathe through the mouth or the nose. It is al
lowable in an emergency to breathe through the
mouth but mouth breathing is a dangerous habit
because there is nothing in the mouth to warm the
column of air or to filter from it the dust and im
purities. The protective apparatus is in the nose.
The nostrils are two narrow winding channels filled
with hairs which act as a sieve or filter to catch the
dust and other impurities that are in the air. Besides
this, the column of air is warmed as it passes through
these winding channels on its way to the lungs.
Nature has supplied THE THINKER with a
splendid system of mechanical arrangements to get
the fullest and best results from correct breathing.
The lung cells are elastic and powerful. The lungs
are protected by the bony framework of the chest.
At the back, is the spinal column. In the front, is the
breast bone ; at the sides are the ribs.
The ribs are twenty-four in number, twelve on
each side, and they are fastened to the spinal column.
The upper seven are called the true ribs and are
fastened in front to the breast bone. The lower
five are called floating ribs because they are not so
fastened. The upper two are fastened by cartilage
to the other ribs, the lower three are free at the
forward ends.
The Science of Breath 117
The intercostal muscles move the ribs in respi
ration. In the act of respiration they expand, the
intercostal muscles lift the ribs, the chest box is
enlarged and a vacuum is produced. In accordance
with the law that nature abhors a vacuum, the air
rushes in. The amount of lung expansion depends
upon the ability of THE THINKER to create a
vacuum by the use of the respiratory muscles.
There are only four kinds of breathing possible.
THE THINKER can use the top of the lungs only;
this is called collarbone or clavicular breathing.
In this case, the only part of the lungs used is the
upper part. The diaphragm is lifted and there is
no expansion in the lower part of the lungs con
sequently a large part of the lungs is not used. The
blood in that part is not energized and returns to the
body full of acid, poisons and impurities.
The second method is intercostal breathing. In
this case, the ribs are expanded but the diaphragm
is pushed upward. This method is an improvement
on the collar-bone method. More of the lungs are
filled with air but there is still a large section of the
lungs that do not get any air.
The third method is known as abdominal or deep
breathing. In this form of breathing, the diaphragm
is moved downward and the lower ribs outward
opening a still larger section of the lungs for the en
trance of the air. High breathing fills the upper
portion of the lungs, mid breathing the middle
portion and deep breathing the lower portion.
The fourth method is called complete breathing
118 The Science of Mastership
and this form combines all three. In this method,
the entire machinery of respiration is brought into
action, the upper ribs, the mid ribs, the lower ribs
and the diaphragm. The chest cavity is increased
to its normal limits in all directions and every part
of the lungs is filled with air, thus every drop of blood
is energized. In normal breathing where THE
THINKER employs the average amount of air, he
can learn to distribute it to every part of the lungs
by this method.
THE THINKER is bathed in nature. Its forces
and the laws of these forces inter penetrate every part
of his body. Everything then is in a state of motion.
There is no place in nature where there is absolute
rest. Fixed points do not exist. Everything every
where is moving somewhere. The universal work
of the universe is wrought through the agency of
constant movement. Matter is being constantly
lifted into motion through imparted energy producing
numerous living forms. These forms begin to change
the moment they are formed and so in infinite
succession. The human form is only one of these
and it is constantly changing.
In all these changes, however, we can detect a
certain rhythm. Rhythm pervades the universe.
The rhythm of music, the rhythm of poetry, the swing
of the pendulum, the ebb and flow of the tides, the
circuit of the winds, the movement of the waters
from the ocean to the mountains and back. Breathing
is a manifestation of this law of rhythm. So, by
breathing rhythmically, we keep in step with the
The Science of Breath 119
forces of the universe. If we are out of step, we can,
by the use of the will, bring our breathing back into
harmony with the rhythm of the universe and gather,
into our system, a measure of its power. How this
can be done is taught in our private classes.
THE LAW OF HABIT OR HOW
CHARACTER IS BUILT
Chapter Six
THE LAW OF HABIT OR HOW CHARACTER IS
BUILT.
HE mind and the body work together. We can
not construct a science of THE THINKER'S
"**
activities apart from the BRAIN and NERV
OUS SYSTEMS. THE THINKER and his MA
CHINE are interblended at every point, they clasp
hands in every cell. They vibrate together as one.
POSITIVE THINKING, transmuted into action, gives
vibrancy, power and health. NEGATIVE THINK
ING, carried into action, is destructive. It weakens,
and opens the way for disease.
THE THINKER, as we have already seen in the
chapter on the BRAIN, holds all the cells in the
machine together as one, co-ordinates and directs
its movements through two departments of the
brain, the conscious and the sub-conscious; the
sub-conscious being automatic in its functions.
When THE THINKER emerges through the gate
way of birth into life, he comes fully endowed with
all the NATURAL INSTINCTS and the necessary
automatic machinery in the sub-conscious through
which these instincts express themselves. The
various combinations of nerve cells through which
they express themselves may be called NATURAL
COMPLEXES. A complex may be defined as a
group of cells in the sub-conscious that have a
tendency to vibrate or work in a certain way.
124 The Science of Mastership
A prominent Chicago physician and scientist in a
book he has recently published divides these natural
instincts into four groups.
I. The life urge or the instinct of self-preservation,
II. The sex urge or the instinct of reproduction,
III. The worship urge or the religious instinct,
IV. The social urge or the desire to unite in groups.
To my mind, all of these can be resolved into one —
the preservation of life. The sex urge provides for
the continuance and protection of life. The worship
urge has the same end in view because all forms of
religion are organized to protect and save life. The
social urge drives individuals together in groups
for the mutual protection of life. The physical
action of the automatic machinery of the sub-con
scious, which was in action on the other side of the
gateway of birth, continues its work on this side with
one end in view — THE PRESERVATION OF LIFE.
The upbuilding of the body, the circulation of the
blood, the secretion of the fluids in the glands, the
digestion of the food, the creation of the electric
energy in the cells, the elimination of the waste
material goes on with marvellous precision providing
for and protecting life.
This automatic work which is carried on through
the cell groups or NATURAL COMPLEXES of the
sub-conscious, while it cannot be suppressed by the
will of THE THINKER, can be modified. It is
possible, however, when life becomes so stale, fiat
and miserable that the desire for death becomes
The Law of Habit 125
stronger than the desire for life that THE THINKER
can wreck the machine and die.
In addition to the cell groups or natural com
plexes that build, provide for, protect and move the
vital organs, there are in the sub-conscious, other
groups of cells through which THE THINKER acts
in a certain way. There is a group through which
he SEES, another through which he HEARS,
another through which he SMELLS, another through
which he TASTES, another through which he FEELS.
Unlike the groups that keep the vital organs in action,
these groups are geared up to both the conscious and
sub-conscious departments of the brain. These
groups are also natural complexes and, while the
work of these complexes cannot be suppressed by
the will of THE THINKER, it can be modified.
In other words the eye, the ear, the smell, the taste,
and the touch can be educated and trained.
At this point, I desire to convey to THE THINKER
this fact — That psychology or the way the mind
works cannot be built up out of naked mental con
cepts. The mind works in and with the body.
In fact, they are so fused that they act as one. The
physical scientist is a materialist no longer. He sees
that mind and matter are two manifestations of one
living energy.
A short time ago, Robert A. Millikan, physicist
extraordinary and Nobel prize winner, made (in
substance) the following statements.
"A century ago the house of physics was divided
into six sharply separated rooms. They were
126 The Science of Mastership
Mechanics
Molecular physics
Heat
Sound
Light
Electricity.
One by one, the walls separating these six rooms
have been torn down. Over seventy-five years ago
it was discovered that molecular motion and heat
were identical. The next wall that came down was
the wall between heat and light. Heat is light and
light is heat, both are waves of motion of different
lengths. Then the wall between electricity, heat and
light came down because it was discovered that they
were the same the only difference being in the wave
length. At this point the scientists threw three
rooms of the old house into one big room called
ether-physics and, in this room, they housed heat,
light, electricity and molecular motion as one. So
they now had three rooms sharply separated called
ether physics, matter physics and current electricity,
but these separating walls came down one after the
other. The wall between matter physics and current
electricity came down when it was discovered that
matter physics and current electricity were both the
motion of electrons and, finally, the wall between
ether physics and matter physics came down when
they found that ether and matter are both electrons
in motion. The result of all this is that the move
ments of electrons are the one and only energy in
the physical universe expressing itself in a multitude
The Law of Habit 127
of forms." This statement made by this great
scientist gives strength to the claim I make in this
book that the principle of electric exchange furnishes
the basic conditions for the expression of life in all
its manifestations.
Without this energy in the machine.THETHINKER
would be powerless. With it he can move the
machine, he can select the proper food stuffs to keep it
in running order, he can select the thought stuffs to
feed his mind. He can modify and train the natural
complexes through which the senses operate and he
can modify the complexes through which the natural
instincts function. THE THINKER is therefore in a
position to build a strong body through rational diet,
bring all the animal instincts under control, train and
educate the senses and thus construct a strong, free
and efficient character.
THE THINKER, within the realm of his own mind
and body, is KING. Nature has handed him the
royal sceptre of authority and clothed him with the
royal purple. From his throne room in the CON
SCIOUS brain, he is free to accept or reject any
thought or idea that seeks entrance. He is free to
select his associates, read any book, accept any
creed, join any church, connect himself with any
political party or champion any cause he pleases.
He is free to eat any kind of food or drink any kind
of liquid. The wide field of opportunity is open to
him. He can save himself or he can destroy him
self. He has the right to abdicate bis throne and
allow it to be occupied by others. He can become
128 The Science of Mastership
a slave in his own realm. He can submit himself
to the authority of ignorance, superstition or tra
dition. He can allow his animal passions to master
him. He can create destructive habits and allow
them to slay him.
The forces that build are the forces that wreck.
ALL ENERGY AT ITS SOURCE IS PURE. In
other words, it is neither good nor bad. It becomes
good or bad in its manifestations. If it improves
life, it is good, if it injures life, it is bad.
So, then, everything in this matter of direction,
control and use depends upon the mental attitude
of THE THINKER. "As a man thinketh in his
heart so is he." In our study of the BRAIN and its
functions, we have seen how this law works. The
food stuffs selected by THE THINKER are built,
by the automatic machinery, into the tissues of the
body. The thought stuff is built by the same ma
chinery into the structure of the character. This law
works constantly. Ignorance of the law excuses
no one. The act of taking food stuffs and thought
stuffs, when repeated, creates complexes in the cell
groups of the sub-conscious which in time become
the physical basis of habits. A complex might be
called a group of educated cells. So we have all
kinds of habits, habits of eating, drinking, walking,
sleeping, speaking, habits of health, disease, cheer
fulness, grumbling, hoarding, political habits, religious
habits, social habits. A man is a bundle of habits.
Society is governed by habits. Apart from habits,
a law has no power.
The Law of Habit 129
It is difficult and painful to change a bad habit.
The law that produced the complex that became the
basis of a bad habit cannot be changed. The only
way the habit can be changed is to change the kind
of thought that the law works on. The sub-con
scious is like an automatic weaving loom. It will
weave, into the web, any pattern or material that is
given to it. THE THINKER is responsible. It is
his business to select the material and the
pattern.
A prominent Chicago physician and scientist says,
"It is one of the fundamental laws of psychology that
our sensations, feelings, ideas, movements and
visceral functions of all kinds, when frequently
repeated or when accompanied by any unusual
emotion, become bound together. This binding
together of ideas and emotions, actions and memories
is known in psychology as complex formations. It is
dependent upon the ability of the mind to associate
ideas and memories and is one of the links in the
chain which explains habit. Good complexes result
in the formation of good habits. Bad complexes
result in bad habits of thinking and acting, worry,
obsessions and even fixed delusions. In the normal
man, the majority of these complexes are health
ful and useful. They involve memory both of mental
processes and muscular activity and illustrations
of them are found in these exceedingly intricate
complexes involved in writing, piano playing and other
delicate muscular movements involving intimate
association of ideas and physical processes." This
130 The Science of Mastership
statement lends confirmation to the ideas I present
in this book.
We have, in the city of Chicago, at 64 East Jack
son Boulevard, an institution devoted to the task of
training the eyes. The founder of this institution is
Miss Caroline Brown. The optometrist in charge is
Dr. Roy Payment. These persons make the claim
that wearing glasses is merely a habit. That, in the
majority of cases, the optic nerve and the group of
cells through which THE THINKER sees are healthy
and in good condition. Living as we do in an atmos
phere of rapid movement and nervous strain, reading
on trains, busses and streetcars, the eyes begin to
feel the strain. The delicate muscles lose their
pliancy. The eyeball loses its ability to adjust itself.
When this happens, we go to an oculist and he pro
vides us with a pair of glasses. We wear the glasses
and, after a time, a complex is formed in the group of
cells that controls sight and wearing glasses becomes
a habit. The founder of this OCULAR DIDACTIC
SYSTEM of eye training says that the law that pro
duced the bad habit can produce a good habit. So,
in their institution, through the use of certain mechan
ical apparatus they train the eyes and the mind by a
series of repeated exercises which in time creates a
new complex and a new habit. The results they
have accomplished amply justify the claim they make.
Theoretically, THE THINKER is free to use his
own reason in selecting the thought stuff to build
his character. Actually, however, his character in
the majority of cases is moulded for him by the
The Law of Habit 131
thought atmospheres of his times and group. We
get our characters as we get measles or smallpox —
by infection. What is character? The word charac
ter comes from the Greek word charasein which
originally signified a tool for engraving or the en
graving made by it. The thoughts of THE THINKER
carried into actions cuts grooves in the sub-conscious
cell groups. When these grooves become deep the
mind flows automatically in them.
Character is the combination of properties, qualities
or peculiarities which distinguishes one person or
thing or a group of persons or things from others —
specifically, the sum total of the inherited and ac
quired traits which gives a person his moral indi
viduality. The kind of character a man has, depends,
in the majority of cases, upon the nature of the
thought atmosphere into which he was born and in
which he lives up to the age of ten or twelve.
RELIGIOUS COMPLEXES.
In the matter of religion, for instance — a child is
bora into a strict Mohammedan family. The very
moment he emerges he is bathed in an atmosphere
of Mohammedan religious thought. When he be
comes conscious of himself, he is taught that there is
one God Allah, that Mahomet is his prophet and that
The Koran is the only divine revelation of truth.
The rituals, the continual prayers, the readings
from The Koran, the feast and fast days, the garments
of the priests, the mosques and pilgrimages, in fact,
132 The Science of Mastership
the entire paraphernalia of teaching and worship
creates an atmosphere of religious thought so strong
that it sweeps into his conscious and sub-conscious
brains in mighty waves giving the cell groups therein
a Mohammedan religious trend. Complexes are
created in these cell groups filled with Mohammedan
religious thought, sensations, and memories After
he reaches a certain age, this becomes permanent.
Anything that he sees, hears, smells, tastes or feels
that is not in accordance with his creed is repulsive
to him. He absorbed his religion as he did his
language. In fact, he could not do otherwise for
there was nothing else in the atmosphere that sur
rounded him. His complexes become automatic,
his habits permanent. He is proud of his religion,
he is convinced that he and his crowd are the only
people in the world that have the truth.
Again take a child born into a strict Orthodox
Jewish family. As soon as he emerges, he is enclosed
in an atmosphere of strict Judaism. As soon as he
becomes aware of himself, he is taught that Jehovah
is the only God and Moses is his prophet and that the
Jewish Scriptures are the only divine revelation.
He goes with prompt regularity to the synagogue,
listens to the ritual, repeats the prayers and learns
the precepts of Judaism. He is taught that the
Jews are God's favorite people. He absorbs all the
ideas in the atmosphere without question and becomes
a strict unbending Orthodox Jew. The cell groups
in his sub-conscious are stained with Orthodox Jewish
thought. They become complexes and the man
The Law of Habit 133
settles down into fixed habits. How often I have
noticed old Jews who have reached the stage of
permanency. The garments, the beard, the features,
the walk, in fact, the entire physical appearance all
reveal the truth of this law. The old man has become
the incarnation of his creed. Any system of ideas
that are not in accordance with the complexes in that
old Jew's brain are repugnant to him. The incessant
war between the Jew and the Arabian can be ex
plained on this basis.
ATHEISTIC COMPLEXES. Take a child born
into the family of a strict thorough-going Atheist.
The moment this child emerges, he is bathed in an
atmosphere of intense atheistic ideas. As soon as
he is awakened to consciousness, he is taught that
there is no God. That all religions are so much
rubbish. Preachers and priests are so many useless
parasites preying on a gullible public. There is no
future life, death is complete extinction. In this case
the enveloping atmosphere of the child is cold,
negative, intolerant and destructive, the child absorbs
it. ATHEISTIC COMPLEXES are formed in the
cell groups of his sub-conscious brain. After a time,
they become permanent and any system of ideas
that collide with these complexes arouses intense
opposition. I have noticed that thorough-going —
Atheists are always ready for an argument. see
In every instance where THE THINKER allows oik*X ^
the complex to take charge of his activities, he is LOa^is
soon buried in his complex as the cheese mite is -ho
in the mass of cheese. The cheese mite eats cheese,
134 The Science of Mastership
digests cheese and is composed of cheese. Its
world is bound on the North, South, East and West
by cheese, so when THE THINKER is lost in his
complex, he eats
it,
he digests
it,
he
is
composed of
it,
he is bounded by
it
on all sides. In
it
he lives, moves
and has his being. If there
is
anything else in the
universe besides his ideas, he knows nothing about
it
and cares nothing for
it
because he
is
entirely
satisfied.
I
am not analyzing any form of religion.
I
am
simply showing how a man's religious or non-religious
creed can be written in indelible ink on the structure
of his sub-conscious brain cells and thus become the
living dominant force in his life.
If his system of beliefs are true and in accordance
with the laws of the universe, such a man
is
to be
envied. If his beliefs are false, the law works them
into complexes just the same and the penalty is en
forced. "Whatsoever
a
man soweth that shall he
also reap." The writer of the Book of John
said in reference to Christ, "THE WORD BECAME
FLESH AND DWELT AMONGST US AND WE
BEHELD HIS GLORY."
The founder of any form of religion becomes the
incarnation of his own system of ideas. He does not
simply possess them; the ideas possess him. The
automatic machinery of the sub-conscious weaves
the ideas into the cell structures of his brain and they
become the commanding power in his life. So
powerful is this dominance that he will surrender
his life rather than give them up.
The Law of Habit 135
The same law operates in the case of those who
accept his leadership and absorb his teachings.
They conceive themselves as being completely
identified with him. Their vision of his person is
photographed on the nerve cells of their sub-conscious
brains and his words are woven into these cells.
He becomes their supreme and only master and their
loyalty to him and his teachings is so complete that
they will suffer anything — go through the most
terrible privations and accept death in its most
excruciating form before they will surrender their
allegiance to him or give up his teachings. Religious
complexes are more powerful than any other form
not excepting the sex complex. All the great religions,
Christianity, Buddhism, Mohammedanism, Judaism
each have their galleries of heroes, martyrs and saints.
Even Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism,
rather than give up his religion, surrendered his life.
His followers suffered the fiercest persecutions and
passed through the direst privations and many gave
up their lives in defence of his teachings.
It makes no difference whether the religious creed
is true or false. Once it becomes a complex in the
sub-conscious and is joined to the motive power of
the religious instinct, it becomes dearer than life
itself.
PATRIOTIC COMPLEXES. This law also oper
ates in the formation of NATIONAL COMPLEXES
and explains patriotism or love of country. One
illustration will be sufficient to show how it works.
A child is born into the bosom of a loyal French
136 The Science of Mastership
family. An atmosphere filled with French ideas and
the French spirit presses upon every part of the child's
impressionable body and brain. He absorbs this
atmosphere with his mother's milk. As he grows up,
he gradually absorbs the language. The food that
he eats and builds into his body is grown on French
soil. The air he breathes is French, the water he
drinks comes from French wells. He goes to school
and college, there he moves in an intenser French
atmosphere. The thoughts and ideas that he takes
into his brain are furnished by French thinkers.
When he becomes a man, he is a FRENCHMAN
through and through. Down beneath the threshold
of his consciousness the automatic machinery of the
sub-conscious through all the years, has been weaving
the French pattern into the sub-conscious brain cells.
The French complex has been formed. Ever after
wards, France to him is the greatest country in the
world. France is his mother and father country.
Its language is the most perfect, its women are the
most beautiful, its music the sweetest, its history
the most heroic, in short, to him France, in all things,
marches at the head of the procession of nations.
The map of France and its flag are written into the
cells of the French complex in his sub-conscious
brain. And this complex is so powerful that it
assumes control of his life. So we have all kinds
of PATRIOTIC COMPLEXES. These complexes
are joined up to the powerful instinct that provides
for the preservation of life.
The World War was the clash of patriotic com
The Law of Habit 137
plexes. The nations were obsessed, they became
abnormal. Each one was afraid of losing its national
identity or life. The complexes took the throne in
the brains of the national leaders and the people
of each nation, wild emotion rising from the deep
fountains of the instinct for self-preservation, took
charge and overwhelmed intelligence. The world
went mad and almost destroyed itself.
Many years will elapse, I think, before the inter
national complex will be formed in the brains of the
leaders of the nations. This international complex
will be formed when the leaders of the nations are
capable of creative thinking. When these men,
into whose hands we have committed the power
to declare war, employ creative thinking and carry
it into action, this new complex will be formed.
Treaties and compacts for disarmament may assist
by lodging the idea of peace within the realms of
their consciousness. But the proper and dynamic
place to write a treaty of peace is on the cell groups
of their sub-conscious brains. When creative think
ing succeeds in forming an international complex in
the sub-conscious brain cells of our war makers,
war is effectively outlawed.
Humanity is a unit. National distinctions are
surface differences. Our common home is this
planet. We are warmed by the same sun, our
bodies are built of the same food stuff, we have the
same kind and number of vital organs, we are all
constructed on the same plan, we all breathe a com
mon atmosphere, we are afflicted with the same
138 The Science of Mastership
diseases, we digest and eliminate the same way, we
all pass into life through the gateway of birth and
we all depart through the gateway of death. Why
should we quarrel and kill each other? Each nation
is a living organ in the body of humanity. The de
struction of any one nation weakens all nations
because it is a destruction of a part of themselves.
The oppression of one is the oppression of all. The
welfare of humanity as a whole is of much greater
importance than the welfare of any of its parts. It
is stupid folly to destroy all nations to enrich and
strengthen one. The rights of MAN are greater
than the rights of nations. Things should, at all
times, be made subservient to life. Nations ought
to organize on a large scale to provide for and protect
life instead of organizing to destroy it. The most
effective way to protect the individual nation is to
protect all nations. When this kind of thinking
penetrates the dull consciousness of the men who
make war and is transmuted into the structure of the
living cell groups of their sub-conscious brains,
creating an international complex, war ceases auto
matically.
PHILOSOPHIC COMPLEXES. It is possible
that a great many of our philosophies, if not all, are
the result of the operation of the same law. We are
certain of one thing that, without a brain, we could
have no philosophies. All our philosophies came
through some brain.
What does philosophy propose to do? Philosophy
differs from science. Science takes things to pieces
The Law of Habit 139
and examines each part to see how it works. Science
does not inquire into the values or ideal possibility
of things nor into their total and final meaning.
It deals with the processes of things as they are.
It follows nature step by step as she does her work
to see how she does it. The scientist keeps himself
separate from his work and aims to give an exact
report of how things happen.
The philosopher has a wider range and goes
further than science. Philosophy aims to see the
universe as it is in all its relations, to get a clear
vision of the ultimate cause and its manifestations.
Philosophy brings man into the picture and endeavors
to give a correct conception of man's relations to the
universe and how man can best adapt himself to the
universe and express in the highest form the best that
is in him. Because of this, philosophy includes
logic which is the study of the best method in the
activities of the intellect, ethics which is the study
of the highest form in conduct, aesthetics which is
the study of the best form in the arts, politics which
aims to present the best form in government. Back
of all this, philosophy seeks to contact the power
that interpenetrates and co-ordinates all the parts
of the universe. It is the aim of the philosopher to
photograph the universe as it is with no retouching.
We know that we can have different attitudes of the
same object taken from different view points, so we
may have different philosophies but they are supposed
to be pictures of the universe from different view
points. In taking these pictures, the philosopher
140 The Science of Mastership
must not blur the picture with his own shadow,
attempt to retouch it or mix his own emotions or
conclusions with it. The philosopher is a reporter
interviewing nature. He must report with careful
accuracy and exact precision what she is and what
she says.
In reality, however, it is impossible to divorce the
philosopher from his interpretation, therefore it has
come to pass that, in the majority of philosophies
if not all, the philosophy is a photograph of the phi
losopher himself. He interprets the universe and
life in the terms of his own life and experience. This
philosophical diagnosis of himself may be true so far
as he is concerned but it is not true of some other
philosopher or of humanity in general.
A MAN SEES WHAT HE IS. If a man has the
jaundice everything he looks at is yellow. A MAN IS
THE SUM TOTAL OF HIS INHERITED AND
ACQUIRED HABITS. A habit as we have seen is
a complex in the brain cells of the sub-conscious.
A complex is a group of cells that act automatically.
Because of this action, it may happen that, when the
philosopher looks out upon the universe, he sees in
the universe his own thoughts, qualities and pro
pensities. "To the pure, all things are pure." If
he is an optimist, all things will be bathed in light.
If he is a pessimist, all things will be shrouded in
gloom. So we have numerous philosophies because
we have numerous philosophers. Take any phi
losopher. It can be shown that his brain complex
or his mental habit of looking at things was created
The Law of Habit 141
by the mental and emotional atmosphere of the age in
which he lived. The philosopher, as he advances to
interpret the world and life, must start with a theory
and he must get that theory from his own conscious
ness. We know that the philosopher is influenced
by the atmosphere of his times and the theory he
starts out with to explain the world and life may be
the dominant note in that atmosphere or a reaction
from it.
As an illustration, take Schopenhauer the philosopher
of pessimism. He was born in Dantzig, 1788, and
lived until 1860. He emerged into a world of storm,
shock, and revolution. During the period of his life,
he saw Napoleon, the incarnation of will, rise and
move with the embattled hosts of France over Europe
overturning empires and nations and leaving, in his
wake, windrows of slaughtered men, wrecked cities
and villages and seas of blood. Following these
wars, came the aftermath of pillage, pestilence,
famine and death. All Europe lay prostrate, the best
men slain, the worst left to reproduce their kind.
Farms deserted, factories dismantled, churches
empty. God dead or blind. Despair and destruction
everywhere. With a strain of insanity in his blood,
his grandfather died insane and his father committed
suicide, Schopenhauer lived in this atmosphere of
enshrouding gloom, hope was dead, no light any
where. This atmosphere invaded his sensitive brain,
took possession of his thought processes and created
the COMPLEX OF PESSIMISM. This habit of
thought became the dominant power in his life and,
142 The Science of Mastership
when he looked out upon the world, he could see
nothing but evil. In his book '
'The World as Will and
Idea," published in 1818, we have his philosophy.
It is a terrible picture. He can see nothing good in
the world or life. His name for will is desire and his
complex leads him to say, "Desire is like the alms
thrown to a beggar which keeps him alive today
that his misery may be prolonged tomorrow." Dante
he said took the material to form his hell from our
actual world and, when he came to picture heaven,
the world could furnish him no material. "Optimism
says he is a bitter mockery of man's woes." And,
in regard to death, he says, "If death bides its time
it is but playing with us as a cat does with a mouse."
He was analyzing his own complex when he said,
"The intellect may seem at times to lead desire but
only as a guide leads its master. Desire is the strong
blind man that carries the lame man who can see."
"We do not want a thing because we have found rea
sons for it, we find reasons for it because we want it."
He lived the life of a morose bachelor and hated
women. In reference to women, he said, "It is only
a man whose intellect is clouded by his sexual im
pulse that would give the name of FAIR SEX to that
undersized, narrow shouldered, broad hipped, short
legged race." He said that the only way to escape
life's miseries was to destroy the desire to live, and
when this is completely annihilated then the soul can
have peace.
Dominated as he was by a blind, unreasoning
complex, he was an egotist of the exaggerated type.
The Law of Habit 143
He said concerning his book, "It is no mere rehash
of old ideas but a highly coherent structure of original
thought clearly intelligible, vigorous and not without
beauty. A book which will be hereafter the source
and occasion of a hundred other books." Now we
know that it was a restatement of the philosophy of
Buddha and that there was nothing original in it.
He was so sure of having solved the problem of life
that he had his signet ring carved with an image of
the Sphinx, throwing herself down an abyss, as she
promised to do, when some one had solved her riddle.
He said, "A book like this is a mirror. If an ass looks
in, you cannot expect an angel to look out."
I use Schopenhauer as an illustration to show how
THE THINKER CAN ALLOW the thought contents
of the atmosphere of his times to take possession
of his brain — and create a complex which became
so powerful that it dominates his life and regulates
every detail of his existence. Schopenhauer was a
slave, in the domain of his own brain, to a complex
which he himself created. There are many like him
who have vacated the throne of reason to allow a
usurper to occupy it. Schopenhauer lived eighty-
two years and, through all these years, he was un
happy. But this atmosphere of gloom was his own
creation. He had the power of choice and selection
and he selected the thought material to build his own
hell, when he could have built his own heaven.
THE FEAR COMPLEX. This fear complex is
in all of us. It was formed in the brain away back
in the history of the race. In his early history, man
144 The Science of Mastership
was ignorant of the nature of his surroundings.
The storm, the flood, the earthquake, the thunder,
the lightnings were forces that threatened his life.
He was afraid of them. He could not overcome
them and he did not understand them, so he made
them gods and, in groveling fear, worshipped them.
His religion was a religion of fear. In addition to
these imaginary foes, he was surrounded with actual
enemies. Wild animals threatened his life and that
of his family. He was compelled to defend himself
against his own kind. He was never sure of where
or how he was going to get his next meal. In fact,
he himself might be the next meal for some wild
beast or stronger man. Primitive man was, there
fore, bathed morning, noon and night in an atmosphere
of fear. Fear is connected with and forms a part of
the instinct of self preservation. In the presence
of his enemies, whether they are real or imaginary,
man must protect himself in one of two ways — by
FIGHT or FLIGHT, and he must have increased
strength to do either. Scientists tell us that nature
has equipped him with a mechanism to furnish this
strength automatically. This mechanism is in the
sympathetic nerve system and the adrenalin gland.
When the fear complex is agitated, the sympathetic
nerves convey the agitation to the adrenalin gland
and it pours a small quantity of adrenalin into the
blood stream. The effect is immediate the muscles
become tense, the heart beats faster, the breathing
becomes more rapid and the entire body is filled with
increased strength.
The Law of Habit 145
Now if the enemies are real and the man must run
or fight, this increased strength is used up, the tension
is released in a natural way and he feels better. If,
on the other hand, they are imaginary, the increased
strength finding no channel for expression reacts upon
the nervous system and, if continued, eventually
wrecks it. Suppose you turn in a false alarm of
fire. All the fire departments of that district rush
out, and down the streets they come thinking it is a
real fire. So, when the fear complex sends in an
alarm of an imaginary danger, this defence mechanism
goes into action to provide the strength to meet the
supposed danger and, since there is nothing there
from which to run or to fight, we have muscular
tension, mental anxiety, throbbing heart, shortness
of breath, trembling knees, inexplicable weakness,
choking sensations, dizziness and nausea. All this
is the back action of unused energy. The adrenal
secretion is the most powerful stimulant known.
And it is a dangerous thing to call it into action
if there is nothing for it to do. If there is no danger
there to fly from or fight, it will find somebody to
wreak its vengeance on and that somebody is the
person that turned in the false alarm.
Primitive man was governed, to a large extent,
by this fear complex. It found channels of expression
in a multitude of ways, through his weapons, his
religions, his customs and manner of life. This
emotion of fear was stenciled on the cells of his sub
conscious brain and became a permanent part thereof.
This complex became the physical counterpart of
146 The Science of Mastership
the fear thought. A large part of the history of man
on this planet could be written in terms of fear. It
enters into his religions, his wars, his taboos, his
customs, his philosophies. It explains his navies,
armies and secret diplomacies. It produced his
tariffs and restrictive immigration laws, his armies
of police and detectives, judges and jails. In fact,
it is the creator of all the defence mechanisms of the
nations against each other.
Creative intelligence is the only power that can
destroy fear and all its creations. Creative intel
ligence, as I have said before, is the untrammeled
reason of man on the throne in free action. Creative
intelligence refuses to consort with superstition,
rejects the conclusions of custom or tradition, will
not bend in the presence of authority, ignores the
opinions of ignorance. Creative intelligence goes
to the source of all truth — nature herself, listens to
her voice, traces her methods out patiently and on
the basis of all the facts and the laws of the facts,
formulates the method and outlines the program.
Creative intelligence takes the fear complex down
from the throne, dissects it and demands the reason
for its existence. Creative intelligence sees nothing
in the world or in life to be afraid of. All things
work together for good to the person who thinks
right and acts right. The negative complexes that
govern humanity are the creations of ignorance.
What humanity needs is to create positive complexes
through creative thinking and invest them with
directive power. The power that has given us the
The Law of Habit 147
small measure of victory over fear that we have has
been creative intelligence and complete victory over
fear will only come when it is enthroned in the seats
of directive control and its methods are employed in
the solution of all human problems. When this
happens all the defence mechanism of the nations
will disappear. They will be needed no longer
because creative thinking will be its own defence.
We have, as I have said before, enough creative
knowledge now in existence to destroy fear and all
its complexes but it is not distributed.
In the case of the individual, the fear complex
reveals itself in a number of ways. Stage fright —
the most of people manifest all the symptoms of fear
when called upon to appear before an audience.
The knees tremble, the throat is dry, the breath is
labored, the heart beats faster. Others are afraid
of the darkness. This is very often the result of
ghost stories told in the childhood days. Such
stories create fear complexes in the brain which
remain to torment the child when he gets older.
Some are afraid of microbes and are forever cleaning,
scouring and fumigating. Others won't sit down
at a table with thirteen or do anything on Friday the
thirteenth. Others refuse to walk under a ladder.
Others think that something awful will happen when
they break a looking glass. Others will not continue
their journey if a black cat crosses their path. Others
are afraid of catching disease. There are all kinds
of fears, fear of storms, fear of criticism, fear that
something terrible is going to happen, and indefinable
148 The Science of Mastership
dread, fear of failure, fear of death and a multitude
of other worries, anxieties and dreads. In addition
to this our complex civilization and intense nervous
strain in connection with our stupidity are constantly
creating new scares and new complexes.
In this book in the chapter on the brain, I have
shown how these complexes are formed. Some are
inherited; the rest are formed by the individual
himself.
THE THINKER on his throne in the conscious
brain has the power to select the thoughts to be
woven into the brain complexes of the sub-conscious.
He also possesses the power to modify and transform
the inherited complexes. If he is dominated by
fear, then the thought element in the complex is the
fear thought. He cannot change the action of the
machine. If he desires freedom, he must change
the kind of thought that he is feeding into the machine.
In fact, he must shift from the negative to the positive,
from the destructive to the constructive.
Some scientist has coined the word NEUROGRAM
to explain what happens in the sub-conscious brain
when a thought is carried into action. NEURON means
cell and GRAMMA, to write. So THE THINKER,
in the conscious realm of the brain, dictates the
words, the sub-conscious is the stenographer and
it writes, deep into the neurons or cells, the substance
of the words. In this way all complexes are formed.
Of one thing THE THINKER can be certain. The
mighty urge of the sub-conscious is against every
thing destructive and for everything that is con
The Law of Habit 149
structive. It is against fear and for courage, it is
against disease, weakness, failure, poverty, ignorance
and death and for health, strength, success, prosperity
and life. It is, therefore, eager to co-operate with
THE THINKER in working into the character the
highest and the best.
THE MONEY COMPLEX. The supreme driving
power in the sub-conscious is the desire for self
preservation and self expansion, in other words
protection and freedom. This desire for better
protection and wider opportunity for movement
explains the universal desire for MONEY. MONEY
IS CONDENSED ENERGY. Money means power.
Money commands all things. If I have ten cents
I am lord over all men to the extent of that ten cents.
I can command cooks to feed me, philosophers to
teach me and kings to mount guard over me to the
extent of that ten cents. Money means freedom
from poverty and toil. It means a splendid home,
servants, automobiles, social position, honor, friends,
emoluments, travel and all life's material good. The
man without money is looked upon as a slave.
The man with millions is looked upon as an uncrowned
king.
The great god of our civilization is gold. We all
bow at his footstool and worship in his temple. We
value all things in terms of money. What is your
hog worth? What is your horse worth? What is
the man worth? Success is measured by dollars.
The grades in society are built up out of money.
All things are colored yellow. Everybody is preach
150 The Science of Mastership
ing the gospel of gold. The pulpit, the press, the
bank, the bar, the school, the university, the maga
zine and the advertisement. The motto of our times
is, "Get the money, boy, and get it when the getting
is good." "Do the other fellow and do him first or
he will do you." We are all immersed in this
atmosphere of money worship. America is this
god's great cathedral and its aisles are crowded day
and night with millions of worshippers seeking his
favor. Some of the worshippers will do anything
to get money ; they will rob, cheat, lie or kill. If we
could look into the sub-conscious brains of these
dollar worshippers, we would see the deep impress
of the dollar in the cells thereof. THE MONEY
COMPLEX masters and controls all their energies.
The brain cells are colored yellow, the color of gold.
THIS DESIRE FOR MONEY IS NATURAL AND
GOOD WHEN IT IS SOUGHT AS A MEANS AND
NOT AS AN END. This desire is commendable
when THE THINKER seeks money as a means to
secure a larger and nobler life. But, when it is
sought as an end itself, it becomes a blistering curse.
It is impossible for the average man to own a million.
The million will own him. The million will take
the seat of conscious thought, harness the man, put
a bridle on him, and a gold bit in his mouth, and lash
him to work day after day, and year after year in the
field of toil. THE MONEY COMPLEX is a cruel
tyrant and a conscienceless driver. Everywhere in
America, we can see hundreds of thousands of tired
business men who have surrendered the control of
The Law of Habit 151
their lives to the MONEY COMPLEX, whipped to
their daily drudgery in the fields of sordid gain. Life
is ruthlessly sacrificed on the altar of gain. As a
result, an element of sadness pervades all our activi
ties. Our existence is flat, joyless and stale. The
homes where happiness reigned are fast disappearing
and, in their place, we have the stuffy hotel, the
stupid flat, the dark tenement house and the grimy
slum. From these places in the morning, come
millions with tired step to go to their daily grind in
the shop, the office, the store and the factory. At
night, they return dragged out to spend the weary
night in fitful sleep. Our mills and factories are built
like prisons. In fact, they are prisons for the workers
are chained to the machines. The joy of life has long
departed from them and nothing is left but the dreary
empty shell of existence. It is true that giant forces
are at work, but these forces are the forces of steam,
gasoline and electricity. The activity we see is the
activity of the machine. It is true that everywhere
is the noise of motion but it is the noise of street cars,
automobiles, trip hammers, locomotives and factories.
Our age is entirely mechanical. The activity of the
machine has replaced the activity of life. The noise
of the machine has drowned the laughter of life.
The factory has abolished the play ground. We have
invented great machines and chained ourselves to
them. We have built great cities filled with joy
less inhabitants. What is the cause of all this? We
have allowed THINGS TO USURP THE THRONE
OF LIFE. We have created the MONEY COM
1 52 The Science of Mastership
PLEX and this complex has taken complete control
of our lives.
We have a powerful illustration of the consequences
of the mastery of the money complex furnished by
Greek mythology, The Case of Midas. Midas
prayed earnestly to the gods for money and the sub
stance of his prayer was, "Oh ye gods give me money;
grant that everything I touch shall turn to gold."
The gods are in the sub-conscious and they always
answer prayer. His prayer was answered one night
and when he came down in the morning and sat down
to breakfast he touched the bread and it turned to
gold, he touched the wine and the fruit and they
turned to gold, he kissed his little daughter and she
turned to gold. He approached his wife and she
turned to gold. Realizing his awful mistake, he
entreated the gods to take this awful power away
from him. It was too late. The gods laughed
derisively and placed upon his head a pair of donkey's
ears. The profound meaning of this fable is this:
when a man surrenders his life to the business of
amassing money as an end in itself, he loses all
interest in the higher, nobler and grander things of
life such as affection, love, friendship, art, music,
the pleasure of reading, the joys of home. It is a
tragedy when a man creates a MONEY COMPLEX
and allows that complex to master and turn his brain
into a machine for coining dollars. Such a man is
not fit companion for his children or his wife. He is
incapable of friendship. His life is cold, flat, insipid
and dead. Music, art, poetry, literature or nature
The Law of Habit 153
find no response in his gold chilled brain. Such a
man is bound in chains of his own forging and, when
he drops dead, his relatives ought to inscribe on
his tombstone — SLAIN BY A MONEY COMPLEX.
I am not opposed to making money. THE
THINKER, if he has the ability, ought to make it and
then use it as a means to secure larger freedom and
a nobler life for himself and others. THE THINKER
must at all times stand out FREE from all entangling
alliances with material accumulations. These things
are only life's scaffoldings. They do not form a part
of the real man. Money is not manhood. Money
is manhood's tool. WHAT A MAN IS IS THE
BIG THING, NOT WHAT HE HAS. Being is
of supreme importance, not having. If a man is,
he will have. THE THINKER has the power to
obtain control over the kingdom of his own brain
and he ought to exercise this power at all times,
remembering that "eternal vigilance is the price
of liberty."
DOUBLE PERSONALITY. R. L. Stevenson, the
noted novelist, wrote a story called the Strange Case
of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. This story is the
biography of one man who lived two lives. Dr.
Jekyll was a noble, upright man while Hyde was a
brute and a murderer. The man shifted from one
personality to the other through the use of a drug.
On the basis of the formation of complexes, we can
understand how this is possible. When a complex is
completely formed it becomes a personality in itself
and, when aroused into action, it can take complete
154 The Science of Mastership
possession of the activities of the individual. It
can disassociate itself from all other tendencies and
act independently or it can engage in stormy conflict
with other tendencies and make life miserable.
There are a number of instances of double personal
ity on record where the individual has wandered off
and been under the control of the secondary personal
ity and then, after weeks, months and sometimes
years, returned not knowing where they had been
or what had occurred. A girl, for instance, under the
control of one personality, went into the woods and
gathered garter snakes and brought them home in
boxes addressed to her other personality, to enjoy
the terror of the other individual when the boxes
were opened and the snakes wriggled out. We have
hundred of illustrations on record where it has been
shown that one personality may think and act, and
know nothing of the existence of the other personality
dwelling in the same brain. The marvellous per
formances of the sleep walker has demonstrated the
perfect automatic action of the sub-conscious and
shown that the individual can think, reason and act
and have no consciousness of what he is doing. The
entire plot of Stevenson's story of Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde was given to him in his sleep. The dream
was so startlingly clear and he saw it so vividly that
he uttered exclamations of horror and moaned in
anguish. It was absolutely real to him. His wife
heard his groans and woke him up. The entire
story stood out in his mind in all its details and he
wrote it down just as it was revealed to him in his
The Law of Habit 155
sleep. This illustrates the marvellous power of
the sub-conscious and shows how it can act inde
pendently of the conscious.
The apostle Paul, in his letter to the Church at
Rome, confesses that he was conscious of two persons
within himself, the carnal man and the spiritual man,
the bad man and the good man. Paul did not know
how complexes were formed in the sub-conscious
brain. His consciousness of the existence of two
persons, in constant struggle for control, proves that
there was, in his brain, two complexes created by
opposite systems of thought. One was formed before
he became a Christian. He was born into the atmos
phere of the strictest Judaism. Bathed in that
atmosphere of thought and thoroughly educated in
Judaism at the feet of the famous Jewish teacher
Gamaliel, a strong, dominating, religious complex
was formed distinctively Jewish. This complex
took control of his life.
Christianity was a new religion and its teachings
differed from the teachings of Judaism. Paul whose
name was Saul hated the new religion, he could not
control his hate. "He breathed out threatening
and slaughter against the church." This was the
complex in action and the climax of its hate was
reached when it forced Saul to assist in the murder
of Stephen.
Now we have seen in our study of the sub-conscious
how the thoughts, sensations and experiences of a
man are transferred to the brain cells of the sub
conscious and written thereon to remain. When
156 The Science of Mastership
THE THINKER accepts a new system of thought
and transfers it down to the sub-conscious to create
a new complex, a conflict between the new and the
old begins and rages violently until one or the other
is subdued.
Saul of Tarsus was A THINKER and he began to
examine the claims of Christianity and the nature
and results of its teachings. Slowly, he arrived at
the conclusion that it was better than Judaism.
He had a vision of The Founder and an interview
with him. Whether this was objective or subjective
does not concern us, to Saul it was real. Following
this he decided to become a defender of the new
religion. The new ideas carried into action began
the creation of a new complex. The conflict began
between the new and the old. Paul is perfectly
frank about this fight and tells us all about it in this
letter to the Romans. He said that he was conscious
of two forces or laws warring in his soul, the law
of the flesh and the law of the spirit; two distinct
personalities, the old man and the new man, Saul
the Jew against Paul the Christian. The conflict
was agonizing and in his misery he cried out, "Oh
wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from
this body of death?" The victory was complete when
the new complex was substituted for the old and the
picture of Christ took the place of the picture of Moses
in the brain cells of his sub-conscious. In his old
age Paul said, "I live, yet not I but Christ liveth in
me." Whether it was the real Christ or his mental
conception of Christ that lived in him does not concern
The Law of Habit 157
us. We know that, to Paul, Christ's presence in
him was real. The new complex was on the throne
of his conscious brain and became the commanding
power in his life. Every ounce of his energy and
moment of his time was given over to the new master.
In Paul's experience we can see how a determined
THINKER can destroy an old complex and create
a new one. The process involves a painful conflict.
As the conflict rages, two personalities may ap
parently exist in the same person and fight for su
premacy, and that different systems of thought can
produce different types of character or personalities.
What a wide difference there was between Saul of
Tarsus, the intolerant Jew, the murderer, and Paul
the apostle, who poured out his life in service to his
fellows.
We can clearly see now how the foundations for
different personalities may be built up in a man's
brain. We will take another instance. A man is
born in Sweden. He marries and rears a family.
He has absorbed the Swedish language and is bathed
in the Swedish thought atmosphere. And, down
deep in his sub-conscious brain, a complex is formed,
a perfect Swedish complex, a unit thinking entity
endowed with all the characteristics of a personality.
This man emigrates to America and, on his arrival,
he is bathed in a totally different atmosphere and
hears a totally different language. He slowly absorbs
the ideas and the spirit of America and, at the same
time, absorbs the language. He marries and raises
a second family. He creates another complex — an
158 The Science of Mastership
American complex. A unit thinking entity fitted to
function in a new environment. In such a case,
we have a person who can act as two personalities,
the Swede and the American. He can switch from
one to the other. In fact, a personality of any type
consists of layer after layer of thoughts, sensations
and feelings laid down year after year and then
combined into a complex whole under the control
and direction of THE THINKER.
In every case, however, it is of the greatest im
portance that THE THINKER shall obtain and
maintain supreme control in his own domain. He
should not allow any entity carnate or discarnate,
external or internal, self-created or otherwise to
usurp the throne and take possession of his con
sciousness. I admire old John Knox of Scotland
who, when the Queen of England demanded that the
covenanters submit themselves to her in matters
of religion, drew a circle around himself and declared
that no King, Queen or Parliament had a right to step
over that line, to dictate the kind of creed he must
accept or interfere with any arrangement he chose
to make with his God. Within this circle, he was
free and independent and he demanded this for every
covenanter and won. So THE THINKER must
draw a sacred circle around his own domain and
refuse to allow any other person or power to step
over the line and dictate to him the course to pursue.
Advice or assistance is always to be received thank
fully but dominance is at all times to be rejected.
In the majority of cases, when a person or entity,
The Law of Habit 159
whether self-created or otherwise seeks to gain
control and use the powers or faculties of another
it is always for purposes of exploitation. It is a
dangerous thing for THE THINKER to lend his
MACHINE to somebody else. It does him no good
and the person to whom he lends it uses it for his
own benefit and very often lands it in the ditch a
wreck. The ranks of Spiritualism are full of persons
who lend their bodies and brains to all kinds of entities
self-created and otherwise; negative thought forms
and destructive entities crowd in one after the other
using the brain and body of the medium as their
instrument to express all kinds of destructive emotions
and sensations. I have seen the medium shiver
with cold, burn up with fever, choke with asthma,
cough with tuberculosis, suffer with pain, tremble
with weakness. I have heard them curse and swear,
get angry, call for strong drink or drugs and fall to
the floor foaming at the mouth. Whether these so
called entities that produce such effects are self-
created or otherwise does not concern me at this time.
I am simply showing that all such performances are
destructive and are the prolific source of all kinds
of bodily diseases, mental disturbances and in
sanities. The sub-conscious can produce any kind
of a thought form and make it appear to the medium
in the conscious brain as a genuine spirit. The
medium is an exquisitely sensitized person and can
catch all kinds of thoughts and sensations from the
audience. These thoughts and sensations are
changed by the sub-conscious into thought forms
160 The Science of Mastership
and the medium sees them as spirits. Her own spirit
guides may be thought forms which originate in
the various complexes that she has created in her
own sub-conscious brain. The medium is perfectly
honest. She does see these forms. They do act
as living thought entities. She hears them speak.
The sub-conscious can play tricks on the child as it
builds around him an imaginary world and it may
deceive the medium by creating thought forms and
then presenting them as genuine spirits.
SELF DECEPTION. THE THINKER must not
allow his sub-conscious to terrorize him or tyrannize
over him. He must not allow it or its complexes
to master or deceive him. In the conscious realm
of the brain, as we have seen, THE THINKER is
invested with the power of supreme control. He
can select or reject. He can be strong by assuming
a positive attitude or weak by a negative attitude.
He can throw open all the doors and invite all kinds
of thought devils into his home or he can close the door
and admit the best only. He can associate with the
worst characters in life or history and become like
them or he can associate with the best and absorb
their wisdom and goodness. And, in regard to the
thought entities or complexes that he has inherited
or acquired, he can control, modify or change them
into conformity with his purpose. He can educate
them, sublimate them or destroy them. The in
formation furnished in this book is given to assist
THE THINKER in the great task of obtaining and
maintaining control in his own kingdom.
The Law of Habit 161
SELF DECEPTION. To show how it is possible
for the sub-conscious to deceive THE THINKER,
we must go back and consider the psychology of
the child mind. The child, as we have already seen,
is born without the conscious brain. The process
of building this brain begins at birth and continues
slowly as the child grows older. In his earlier years,
the child is under the control of the sub-conscious
and continues under this control more or less up to
the voting age. This brain is governed by ideas
given through suggestion in a variety of ways, the
thought atmosphere of the home, the pictures on the
walls, suggestions direct or indirect, the actions of
the parents or other members of the household, the
language used, the stories told, all these furnish ideas
that are greedily absorbed by the sub-conscious.
This brain does not possess the power of critical
analysis. It is a receiver. It accepts all given to
it without question. Children accept every idea that
is given them as true.
This brain possesses the power of CREATIVE
IMAGINATION and, from the ideas it receives, it
creates symbols, pictures and thought forms of all
kinds. All these become REAL to the child. This
transformation of the UNREAL TO THE REAL
makes SELF DECEPTION possible. Through this
imaging power, the child, with the assistance of his
parents, builds an imaginary world filled with marvel
lous beings doing impossible things. Kriss Kringle,
his sled filled with gifts for good children, driving
reindeers, coming down the chimney; Jack, the
162 The Science of Mastership
giant killer, climbing the bean stalk into the country
of the giants, killing the giants and bringing home their
treasures of gold; the magic carpet flying through
the clouds performing many startling things; the
fairies dancing in the moonlight leading the child
to treasures of diamonds in the cave ; wild and blood
curdling ghost stories, headless men, haunted houses
and hundreds of other stories help to build the world
in which the child lives.
This imaginary world is real to the child. He sees
it and he identifies himself with all the actors therein.
He becomes a soldier, a pirate, a robber, a hero,
a king, a lover, a hunter, an explorer. He owns
castles and horses and servants. He loves and
hates. He is brave. He is frightened. In short,
all his emotions are aroused into action. He gets
all the thrills of real life. These unreal thought
forms driven by powerful emotions create a complex
in the child's brain. This complex MAY CON
TINUE TO DECEIVE HIM when he becomes a man.
There is no identity between the imaginary world
of the child and the cold hard actual world of men and
women. Fairies, flying carpets, magic wands do
not exists in the real world of brutal facts. When
the child grows up and becomes a man, he must
bring this power of imagination under control. He
must square it with the real facts of life.
I presume that this is the reason why the poet,
the artist, the musician, the philosopher never make
a success in the business of making money. The
most of them barely exist. The poet's thoughts, the
The Law of Habit 163
artist's pictures, the musician's harmony, the phi
losopher's system are all ideals in the realm of imagi
nation. They do not exist in the actual world of
life. Every man must have imagination to succeed
but it must be chastened, modified and regulated
by the facts.
Many are not strong enough to bring their imagi
nation under conscious control. The childish com
plex continues to rule them. But the methods that
succeed in the world of imagination will never succeed
in the actual world, so they fail and fail repeatedly
and develop what is known as the inferiority complex.
THE INFERIORITY COMPLEX. The inferiority
complex then may be created by successive failures
due to the application of childish methods in the
solution of the problems of life. It may also be the
result of the presence of a defective organ in the body.
In either case, the individual fails as he attempts
to solve life's problems and his sense of inferiority
increases with each failure. The consequences
differ with different individuals. Some become sour
and cynical and throw the blame for their failures
on others or on circumstances. Many become
pessimists, anarchists or communists. They create
an imaginary thing called THE SYSTEM and they
use up their energies in cursing it. This gives them
a chance to praise themselves and damn everybody
else. Others stoically accept themselves as failures
and become wandering tramps. Others become
drunkards and dope users hoping to find in these
relief from the sense of inferiority. Some give up the
164 The Science of Mastership
hopeless fight and commit suicide. Still others,
realizing their inferiority, turn their attention, con
sciously and unconsciously, to themselves and they
use up all their energies to try to make up for the
deficiency. They tell themselves a thousand lies
and they use up so much energy in bolstering them
selves up that there is none left to meet life's prob
lems. Such people become the victims of all kinds
of mental and nervous disturbances and generally
wind up in the lunatic asylum.
Fear and cowardice are the thought elements in
the inferiority complex and every defence mechanism
invented to hide this inferiority is composed of the
same elements. It is, therefore, wrong to fill a
child's mind with false conceptions of life or to
surround him with a bristling fence of don'ts and
can'ts. The child ought to be furnished with the
facts of real life and he ought to be inspired to think
for himself and to act with decision.
A human life is a CREATIVE EFFORT, a bundle
of amazing potentialities. These potentialities ought
to be drawn out and exercised by a scientific education
based on an accurate knowledge of the powers
and functions of THE THINKER in the conscious
and sub-conscious brains. Life is an adjustment
of internal powers to external conditions. A success
ful life is one where THE THINKER has such
complete control over the forces that are in him that
he can adjust them to any emergency that may arise
in his inner or outer life and win the victory.
The main element in the life of any successful
The Law of Habit 165
individual is COURAGE. There are three main
problems that face every human being. His oc
cupation — here is where he gets his bread and
butter, his relations to others — this is co-operation,
and marriage. To be successful in these three
relations, requires courage and the ability to co
operate.
Courage is a calm, steady, well-balanced determi
nation to go through with the task or overcome the
difficulty. The courageous man will not allow
circumstances to defeat him. He will force circum
stances into line with his purpose. He will not make
any excuses for his failures ; he will learn to succeed
through his mistakes. He will not evade responsi
bility; he will welcome it as an opportunity to do
something worth while. He will never pity himself
or make any claims for special consideration; he
will be so fully occupied with his work that he has
no time to spend seeking sympathy. He has no time
or disposition to sit down in solitary grief with him
self and cry over his own weakness and he will not
perform "the baby act" in public. He will never
brag. The braggart is a coward. His loud claim
of courage is an attempt to make up for his coward
ice.
The development of THE COURAGE COMPLEX
therefore in the child is of supreme importance and,
when this element is made a part of himself, it will
give him power and success when he becomes a man.
TRANSFERRED COMPLEXES. We have seen
how THETHINKER can send thoughts and sensations
166 The Science of Mastership
into the sub-conscious forming complexes and we
have seen how these complexes become unit thinking
entities demanding recognition. These self-created
entities can, when strong enough, reverse the ma
chinery of the sub-conscious and send up into the
conscious thoughts, emotions and pictures that may
appear to THE THINKER as REALITIES. THE
THINKER can, in turn, project these thoughts,
emotions or pictures to the outside world and clothe
any object, person or phenomena with the thought
content of the complex. This business of projecting
the creations of the sub-conscious is going on con
stantly. Our standards of morality are largely the
projections of the CONSCIOUS COMPLEXES of
other people.
The advocates of Sunday as a day of complete
cessation from all work would like to have their
Sunday complex written into the constitution of the
United States. We have a fanatical complex in the
constitution now that has given us a national sick
headache. The original Constitution was the ex
pression of creative intelligence. Every intolerant
group in the country would like to have their com
plexes added to it in the shape of amendments. A
fully formed complex is blind, unreasonable and
intolerant.
A Frenchman works out a new pattern in dress
and hands it down to the sub-conscious and, behold,
it becomes a FASHION COMPLEX and he projects it
into the world and it becomes the standard for women.
The DRESS COMPLEX of the Prince of Wales
The Law of Habit 167
becomes the standard for men. The complex of
the group leader becomes the accepted creed amongst
his followers. The customs, taboos, conventions
and shibboleths of society are all projected complexes.
Primitive man transferred his inward ideas and
emotions to the phenomena of nature investing the
sun, moon and stars, the wind, clouds and water
falls with personality. The gods of Greece, Rome,
Egypt and all the primitive races were all projected
complexes. These complexes were all formed in
the sub-conscious brains of their priests and broad
casted amongst the people. This same power is
in constant use today.
A man has built into his sub-conscious a bad
complex. It becomes powerful. He is ashamed of
it. He does not want the world to know that he
possesses
it,
so he determines to suppress it. Every
time
it
tries to get into action he forces
it
back and
down into the sub-conscious. He has invested
it
with life and
it
vehemently rebels and demands
expression. To gratify this demand the man transfers
it
to some other person and then gives himself relief
by cursing the man to whom he has transferred it.
For instance, here
is
a
man who has an abnormal
sex complex. He lives
a
licentious life and feeds
this vicious instinct until
it
becomes powerful. He
is
converted, but the complex is still there demanding
expression. He becomes
a
reformer. To gratify
this demand he organizes a PURITY LEAGUE and
engages in
a
savage campaign against obscene books,
pictures and loose morals. The complex finds
168 The Science of Mastership
abundant gratification in hunting down and working
with salaciousness and the reformer finds relief in
denouncing and jailing the offenders. So the man
who is lewd internally is loud in his denunciation of
lewdness. The man who is constitutionally dishonest
is always talking about his own honesty. Everybody
else is dishonest. The man who is a coward within
is always boasting about his bravery. Hart says,
"We may express the psychological process seen in
these cases as follows, the fault constitutes a complex
which is repugnant to the personality as a whole and
its presence would naturally lead to that particular
form of conflict known as self-reproach. The person
ality avoids this conflict however by projecting
the offending complex on to some other person where
it can be efficiently rebuked without that painful
emotion which inevitably accompanies the recognition
of deficiencies in ourselves. That is to say the
personality reacts to the repugnant complex by exag
geratedly reproaching the same facts in other people
thereby concealing the skeleton in its own cupboard.
The more comfortable expedient of rebuking one's
neighbor is substituted for the unpleasant experience
of self-reproach." So then we attempt to deceive
ourselves by transferring our own meanness to
somebody else to avoid conflict and enjoy the pleasure
of denouncing it.
My aim in writing this book is to assist the reader
to attain the highest and best and to discover the
kingdom of power and joy that is within him. Bacon
said, "Seek ye first the good things in the kingdom
The Law of Habit 169
of the mind and the rest will be supplied or its loss
will not be felt." The bee and the wasp both suck
nectar from the same flower. The bee turns the
nectar into honey while the wasp changes it into
poison. Two lily plants are subjected to the sun's
rays, one has its roots in the ground and is well
watered the other has been pulled up and its roots
are exposed. The same sun causes the first one to
unfold into greater beauty while it withers and
destroys the second. THE MENTAL ATTITUDE
OF THE THINKER IS THE CHIEF THING. He
must assume a positive attitude that means he must
be optimistic, independent, creative, intelligent and
sympathetic. He must remain unafraid, unattached
and uncommitted. As he moves through life, he
must not allow things to master him. He must not
allow riches or poverty, honor or dishonor, the
plaudits of the crowd or their curses to affect him.
All these things are transitory. He must climb up
on the serene heights at times and look down upon
the human scene not in the spirit of disdain or cynicism
but in the spirit of sympathetic understanding. He
must fellowship with the great master thinkers of
the past, drink in their words and spirit until they
are part of himself. THE THINKER must always
keep in the forefront of his mind that he is here to
achieve the only freedom possible to man. The
surrender to passion is human bondage, obedience
to reason is human liberty. We are free only as
we know. Men who are good under the guidance
of reason seek what is useful to them and whatever
170 The Science of Mastership
they desire for themselves they also desire for the
rest of mankind. To be great, is not to be placed
above humanity in the chair of power but to stand
above all the partialities and selfish stupidities of
uninformed desire and to rule in the domain of the
mind. Spinoza said, "After all, the greatest good is
to know that the mind is in union with all nature."
TELEPATHY, AUTOMATIC WRITING,
MIND READING, DREAMS, SUP
PRESSED INSTINCTS
Chapter Seven
TELEPATHY, AUTOMATIC WRITING, MIND
READING, DREAMS, SUPPRESSED INSTINCTS.
MAN
can transmit his thoughts and pictures to
almost any distance and he can receive them
when transmitted without the use of visible
means. This has been completely demonstrated
by radio and television which is a form of radio. The
invention of radio is the result of creative intelli
gence. Tradition or authority were incapable of
inventing it. The only thing they are capable of doing
is to reproduce a dead past. They always have op
posed progress and, when they had the power, they
have jailed and murdered the creative thinker in
every age.
Maxwell, Faraday, Hertz, Marconi, De Forrest
and Edison are magnificent examples of creative
intelligence. These men broke with the dead past,
examined the facts of electricity, discovered the laws
of these facts and built their machines in accordance
with these laws and gave us radio and television.
These saviours of humanity opened a new world.
One that was utterly unknown before to scientists —
the unseen world. The five senses cannot know this
world. These senses have the power to bring us
sensations from the material universe but they do
not possess the power to respond to the rapid vi
brations of the radio waves.
The eye, for instance, is built to respond to the
174 The Science of Mastership
vibrations of light rays within a certain range. This
range consists of violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow,
orange and red. When light moves at a certain rate
of vibration the color is violet, a little slower it is
indigo, still slower it is blue and, as it slows down,
it becomes green, yellow, orange and red. The eye
operates within this narrow range. Above the violet,
we have the X-ray and so on up in faster vibrations.
Below the red, we have slower rays and on down in
slower vibrations. The eye, however, is not built
to respond to any rays above the violet or below the
red. The rays above the violet go so fast that nothing
can stop them. They pay no attention to walls or
material barriers, they pass through them as though
they did not exist. They pay small attention to time
or space. Time and space are almost wiped out of
existence in the presence of radio waves.
It has been proven that light and electricity are
identical. Therefore, light, in all its vibrations, is
electrons in motion. It is these vibrations that the
radio scientist has harnessed in his wonderful ma
chines. I said that through radio the door has been
flung open to a new universe — the invisible. The
real universe is the invisible universe. Thought is
invisible, electricity is invisible. Consciousness is
invisible and intangible. Growth is invisible. Gravi
tation is invisible. Decay is invisible. All processes
take place in essence and are forever invisible and
unrelated to any of our five senses. All causes are
invisible. Time is invisible. Space is invisible.
The universe is made up of the invisible electrons.
Telepathy 175
The cause of all motion is invisible. Everything
that is in THE THINKER and in his MACHINE was
abstracted from the invisible and built up into the
visible machine.
In fact, it is my opinion that everything visible
within and around the thinker was built up by him
by converting the swift vibrations of the invisible
into slower forms. Invisible steam in the room
becomes visible frost on the window pane when the
cold slows down its vibrations. It is, therefore,
probable that the brain, the nerves and the five senses
slow down the vibrations that come from the invisible
universe and thus the visible universe is created.
If this is a fact, then the visible universe is only a
temporary scaffolding. The real universe is the
invisible universe and this universe will be the
theatre for the greatest achievements of creative
intelligence.
The radio scientist then is operating in the real
universe. In the radio machine, he converts sound
waves into electrical waves and then he converts
these electrical waves back into sound waves. In
the television machine, he converts light waves into
electrical waves and then converts the electrical
waves back into light waves. In my opinion, sound
and light are both manifestations of electric vibration.
The only difference is in the wave length. So the
radio and television machines, like the human body,
are simply arrangements to slow down or speed up
electrical vibrations.
How does this happen? In radio for instance we
176 The Science of Mastership
have the sending machine or broadcasting station
and the receiving machine. In the broadcasting
station, there are a number of powerful electric bat
teries capable of delivering from 5,000 to 50,000 watts.
The current from these batteries is sent through a
series of coils, condensers, lights and transformers
out into a series of wires strung outside between two
poles. From these wires, the vibrations of the
current radiate in a series of waves in all directions.
The condensers and coils regulate the wave length.
This wave is called THE CARRIER WAVE. The
microphone is an instrument through which the sound
vibrations from the speaker or the orchestra are
changed into electrical waves and sent out on the
carrier wave modifying it in a multitude of ways.
The receiving machine consists of batteries, coils,
condensers, transformers and lights. A single wire
on the roof catches the vibrations from the broad
casting station. It passes through the coils, con
densers and transformers to the loud speaker where
the message or the music in the electrical waves is
converted back into sound waves. By operating
the condenser in the receiving machine, the wave
length of the station desired is obtained. The
television machine operates in the same way, the
only difference being that, instead of converting
sound waves into electric waves and back again, it
converts light waves into electric waves and back
again. So, then, both machines are arrangements
for slowing down and speeding up vibrations.
The television machine is an extension of the power
Telepathy 177
of the eye to see, as the radio machine is an extension
of the power of the ear to hear.
The principle of electrical exchange, which I
discussed in the chapter on "the human body an
electric machine," is present at every stage in the
workings of radio and television. The sending station
is positive and active, the receiving station is negative
and passive. To receive the message, the music
or the picture, the receiving machine must be tuned
to the same wave length as the sending machine.
In these machines then, we have the completed
demonstration that man can and does transmit
thought, music and pictures without the use of visible
means. Man's ear can now hear sounds from all
parts of the world and his eye can now see events
in all parts of the world. It looks like a thing im
possible that a short piece of wire, strung on the roof,
hanging out of the window or lying on the carpet,
can record and carry the speeches and music sent
out by four or five hundred broadcasting stations
and, out of these hundreds, the person at the receiver
by moving the dial of the condenser can select the
program that he desires and completely shut out
all the rest.
We know that TELEPATHY or the power to
transmit thoughts, emotions and pictures and the
power to receive them without the assistance of radio
or television is a fact there are thousands of verified
cases on record in the files of the psychical societies
of England and America. But, if we had only one
verified case of thought transference and reception
178 The Science of Mastership
on record, it is the business of science to explain HOW
it happened. A gruff denial or a supercilious sneer
is not science.
There is, in the human body, all the necessary
elements and forces to transmit emotions, thoughts
or pictures to a distance and to receive them. What
are these elements and forces? To transmit a
message we must have A SENDER. He must have
the POWER at his command to send the message
and there must be a MEDIUM through which the
message can be sent. To receive a message, we
must have the same conditions with this difference
when messages are sent, THE SENDER must assume
a POSITIVE attitude and THE RECEIVER must
assume a NEGATIVE attitude. In this book, I have
already shown that these elements are all present
in the human machine. We have THE THINKER
who has the power to formulate the message and send
it. POWER is present in the ELECTRIC ENERGY
which is furnished in large quantities by the electric
cells in the body. THE MEDIUM for the con
veyance of the message is the sub-conscious brain
and the electric atmosphere in which all things are
immersed. In receiving the message, THE THINKER
in the receiving machine must assume a receptive
attitude and both must vibrate on the same wave
length.
A scientist by the name of LAZARION of the
Moscow Technical Institute, after twenty years
of experiment, has completed an apparatus to register
thoughts. He claims that he has proved by this
Telepathy 179
apparatus that all excitement of the brain is due to
the accumulation of electrified ions at the termination
of the nerve ends. When the brain becomes excited,
a chemical action occurs accompanied by electrical
activity. This activity sends out thought waves into
the surrounding atmosphere, that the air is full of
thoughts and that mankind will soon be able to listen
in on each other.
The eminent German philosopher, Kant, has given
us the story of Swedenborg, the noted chemist
and mystic. Swedenborg was at a dinner 220 miles
away from his home in Stockholm, Sweden. He
became very much disturbed and told his fellow
guests that he saw a fire raging in Stockholm moving
in the direction of his home. He was very much
upset and could not eat. After a while he became
calm and said that the fire had been subdued within
a short distance of his property. Some time after
wards, the mail from Stockholm confirmed his de
scription in detail.
The late Luther Burbank, the great plant scientist,
reported his experiences in telepathy in Hearst's In
ternational Magazine June, 1923. He said, in this
article, that he, his mother and sister had practised
telepathy for decades. He said that, up to the time
the article was written, he had refused to let the world
know anything about his experiences in this direction
because such incidents would have been attributed
to mendacity, insanity or the supernatural. He
related a number of instances proving thought
transference and reception. He said, "I believe that
180 The Science of Mastership
we have been broadcasting and receiving from the
beginning of human thought and that those who can
send messages to particular persons differ from the
others in that they can concentrate and direct their
thoughts. The greater part of humanity only broad
casts." He also says, "Thoughts are things we have
long been told so but, until the coming of radio,
this seemed more like a bit of rhetoric than a fragment
of truth. Thoughts are unquestionably accompanied
by discharges of electricity. Radio messages are
sent by discharges of electrical energy. The two
things are the same except that the human machine
is infinitely more wonderful and capable of incom
parably greater achievements."
Dr. Von David says, "The electrical disturbances,
within the person's mind as generated by the de
composition of his brain cells during a thought process,
have their individual effects upon every nerve cell
and gland of the body. These effects tend to raise
or lower the person's electrical resistance in the same
manner as resistance coils shunted in or out of a circuit
will affect the applied current." The foregoing state
ments tend to confirm the position I have outlined
in this book.
The western races have spent their time and
energies in subduing the forces of the outer universe
and have built up a great external civilization. They
never exercised their powers in exploring the mys
teries of the inner universe, consequently their
powers of spiritual discernment were never developed.
On the other hand, the oriental races spent their time
Automatic Writing 181
and energy in exploring the mysteries of the inner
universe and, from these people, have come great
religions, mysticisms and philosophies. Amongst
them, telepathy has been brought to a high state
of perfection and has been practiced by the Yogis of
India for centuries.
AUTOMATIC WRITING. Automatic action is
constantly being performed in the human machine.
We have seen how the natural or inherited complexes
automatically attend to the important and vital task
of building and sustaining the body. This work
goes on unceasingly, irrespective of the will of THE
THINKER leaving him free to attend to other matters.
The acquired complexes automatically take care
of walking, speaking, skating, piano playing and
hundreds of other habits leaving THE THINKER
free to think and act as he pleases.
We have also learned that a complex fully formed
becomes a separate entity with full power to think
and act independently of the will or attention of
THE THINKER. So, then, automatic writing may
be an acquired complex in action. A person can
walk along a crowded side walk and not collide with
anybody while, at the same time, he may be thinking
out an abstruse problem. An expert piano player
can continue playing a difficult piece of music and,
at the same time, converse with a companion. Auto
matic writing can be acquired in the same way as any
other habit can be acquired. We know that auto
matic writing requires practise.
182 The Science of Mastership
The following is a sketch of the rules generally
given in teaching automatic writing. Take a piece
of paper and a pencil. Place the pencil between
the thumb and forefinger with the point just touching
the paper. Make yourself perfectly passive and try
not to think of writing consciously. Now raise your
elbow and wrist slightly so that neither touches the
table top at all. Wait patiently. Do not under any
circumstances consciously move the pencil. In a
few minutes a sense of fatigue will be noticed in the
arm and hand and muscular movements will take
place. Pay no attention to these movements let
them be what they will even if only scrawls or mean
ingless words are formed. After a while through
continued practice, whole sentences will be written
out. Patience is necessary. Never sit longer than
twenty minutes and always start at the same time
each day. If a person obeys these rules he will
develop an automatic writing complex. This com
plex, when formed and fixed, will assume the form
of a personality separate from THE THINKER
and will answer questions, write articles, poems and
treatises on almost any subject.
The information may come from the sub-conscious
which is a library containing all the experiences of
the person or it may come from the universal reason
which pervades all things and knows all things in
which the sub-conscious is immersed.
Sometimes ignorant persons will write in French
or some other language utterly unknown to them.
This is made possible by the fact that the sub-con
Automatic Writing 183
scious retains all that has been impressed upon it.
There is a case on record of an ignorant servant
girl in Germany who was very ill with fever ac
companied by delirium and unconsciousness. In
her excited ravings, she recited long passages from
classical and rabbinical authors in Hebrew, which
excited the wonder and even terror on the part of
those that heard her. Most of them thought she
was possessed of a good or evil spirit. The passages
she recited were written down and were found to
correspond literally with extracts from learned books.
When inquiries were made concerning the history
of her life, it was found that, several years before,
she had lived in the family of an old and learned
minister who was in the habit of reading aloud
favorite passages from the very writers in whose
works these extracts were found. The girl evidently
heard the old man read these passages and they were
automatically recorded in the cells of her sub-con
scious brain. The excitement of the fever stimulated
the cells and the passages were reproduced.
Reverend Timothy Flint in his "Recollections"
says that, when he was prostrated by malarial fever,
he repeated long passages from Virgil and Homer
which he had never formally committed to memory
and of which before and after the fever he could not
repeat a word. The act of reading these passages
caused them to be written into the cells of his sub
conscious brain and the fever stimulated these cells
into action and they were reproduced. The sub
conscious brain cells of even an ignorant person
184 The Science of Mastership
may contain stores of knowledge that may be drawn
upon by automatic writing.
Some people believe that automatic writing is
produced by a discarnate intelligence which takes
possession of the person's body and writes the mes
sage. It is my opinion that, when any phenomenon
can be explained by the operation of the forces that
are in man, it becomes unnecessary to introduce the
supernatural. The automatic writing complex as
we have seen can play the role of a secondary person
ality and project itself into the consciousness of the
medium as a real person.
MIND READING. The records of the Psychical
Research Societies of England and America contain
hundreds of verified cases of mind reading. How
ever if there was only one verified case on record,
it would be the duty of science to explain HOW IT
HAPPENED. Denial of a fact is not science,
ignoring a fact is not science. Any scientist who
denies or ignores a fact ought to take down his sign.
Instead of one verified case, we have hundreds.
It is not necessary to introduce a disembodied spirit
to explain this phenomenon. A prominent scientist
says in one of his books, "If telepathy or mind
reading was based on natural law then any person,
by mastering these laws, could practice it. When
radium was discovered by Curie the description of
the process of its detection was sufficient to enable
any other chemist having the same materials to secure
the same product. When Jenner published his
Mind Reading 185
discovery of vaccination, any other physician could
perform the operation. When anti-toxin was dis
covered, every intelligent physician was in a position
to use it successfully, and when telepathy and mind
reading is scientifically proved, then any and all
psychologists can practise it. Natural laws are
universal in their application."
There is an element of scepticism running through
this statement and it ill becomes a scientist when
confronted with the facts to make such a statement.
The cases recited, such as the discovery of radium,
vaccination and anti-toxin, are not parallel in any
way with telepathy or mind reading. When other
cases are introduced to prove or disprove a case these
cases must be identical with the case in question
in every particular. If not, they are not relevant
and are valueless.
Again it must be understood that the conditions
for successful mind reading cannot be complied with
by everybody. Some people are naturally equipped
with all the necessary qualifications for mind reading.
Others must pursue patiently a regular course of
exercise in order to develop it. Natural psychics
in the western world, amidst the roar of machines
and the noise of external movement, are few and far
between.
The forces and conditions making mind reading
possible are in man. To read anything, you must
FIRST, have the RECORD in writing,
SECOND, you must have THE READER,
THIRD, you must have THE MEDIUM through
186 The Science of Mastership
which the reader contacts the writing. In man's
body, THE THINKER is the READER. The
RECORD is in the sub-conscious which contains
a permanent record of all the experiences of the
individual. The MEDIUM is the electric energy
in which the sub-conscious part of all life is immersed.
In successful mind reading, the READER and the
person whose brain record is read must be tuned to
the same wave frequency for good results.
Anything that can be taught and practiced is lifted
out of the realm of mystery and becomes natural and
scientific. The technique of mind reading can be
learned and the art practiced by any person of average
intelligence. Mind reading, however, is impossible
in an atmosphere of scepticism. All things, within
the limits of the capacity of the participants, are
possible to the believers, while nothing can be done
by those who have no faith. In view of the fact
that the sub-conscious possesses the power of
imagination, it will be seen how thought forms
pictures and symbols can arise from the ideas in the
sub-conscious. These thought forms can assume
the form of persons and the mind reader can be
perfectly honest in saying that he sees them.
When the mind reading complex is formed, like
all other complexes, it can assume personality with
full power to think and use the brain powers of the
individual. Now the cell centres of sight and hearing
are in the sub-conscious, therefore, the successful
mind reader or medium cannot alone see the thought
forms, but he can identify them with dead relatives
Dreams 187
and hear their voices in messages. So CLAIR
VOYANCE and CLAIRAUDIENCE are both natural
powers of the sub-conscious brain and it is not neces
sary to introduce the supernatural to explain them.
DREAMS. Dreams are impossible apart from the
brain and nervous system. Dreams are not possible
in hours of intense conscious activity. To DREAM,
THE THINKER MUST SLEEP. The realm of
conscious activity is the realm of EFFORT. In this
realm THE THINKER'S instrument is THE WILL.
He must WILL to move the machine or any of its
parts. He must WILL to think, to select and to
decide. All the work he does in this realm is the
result of EFFORT. He uses up a large amount of
energy in his daily work and at night he is tired and
must have rest and recuperation, so he steps down
into the sub-conscious ; this act is a habit. The result
of an inherited complex. In this realm he has
nothing to do but rest. We know that the sub
conscious is an entity in itself, a separate plant which
runs automatically day and night like the water and
light plant of a city. This work, as we have seen,
has two phases, physical and mental. Physical in
building the food stuffs into the body and mental
in weaving the thought stuffs into cell trends in the
brain forming habits. So in sleep THE THINKER
steps down into this effortless realm for rest and
recuperation.
The sub-conscious, as we have seen, contains the
inherited complexes. All the powerful instincts
188 The Science of Mastership
which co-operate together to provide for and protect
life function through these complexes. It also
contains all the acquired complexes, that is, all the
habits that THE THINKER has built up himself.
In addition to this its cells contain the record of all
the experiences that THE THINKER has passed
through. Furthermore, it is the source of all motive
power and the centre from which arise all the power
ful urges or desires of THE THINKER suppressed or
in expression. Again it possesses the power of
imagination; by the use of this power it can create
all sorts of thought forms, symbols and imaginary
realms peopled with all kinds of actors. So then,
we can see that the sub-conscious is a well equipped
plant with an abundance of thought material, plenty
of motive power and the power to create any kind
of a thought world through imagination. We have
seen that the sub-conscious is under the control
of THE THINKER in the conscious realm and that it
takes all orders from him without question. In
sleep, however, THE THINKER has vacated the
throne of reason and judgment in the conscious realm.
He is down in the sub-conscious resting and recuper
ating. The RIGHTFUL DIRECTOR OF AFFAIRS
is resting and does not care to be disturbed.
It is my opinion that dreaming is a continual
performance and that the dreams remembered are
parts of the performance that shake THE THINKER
into consciousness. When THE THINKER is not
present on the director's throne, the sub-conscious
takes orders from other sources. These orders may
Dreams 189
come from WITHOUT or from WITHIN. The sub
conscious acts under suggestion. It does not possess
the power to investigate the nature of the suggestion,
true or false, good or bad, uncouth or otherwise,
if they are in harmony with the trends in the brain,
it accepts them and carries them out.
With these considerations before us we can see
how DREAMS COME. They come in a perfectly
natural way through STIMULI FROM WITH
OUT OR WITHIN APPLIED TO THE COM
PLEXES IN THE SUB-CONSCIOUS BRAIN. To
illustrate, it is a bitter cold night, the thermometer
is hovering near zero and THE THINKER is asleep,
as he unconsciously turns over he throws the bed
clothes to one side exposing his body. The cold air
coming into contact with his skin conveys the sug
gestion of cold to the sub-conscious brain cells through
the nerves of sensation. The imagination gets busy
and THE THINKER has a vision of the arctic region,
the aurora lights, polar bears, esquimaux' huts and he
sees himself sleeping on an iceberg covered with
snow. He wakes up with this vision shivering.
Or THE THINKER eats a heavy supper; the
stomach is overloaded with rich viands and gravies.
He goes to sleep after giving the digestive system
this heavy and painful task to perform. The di
gestive juices and the forces of the digestive system
struggle to disintegrate this unhealthy mass of
material. The pneumogastric nerves feel the pres
sure and it conveys the news of the struggle to the
sub-conscious brain. The imagination gets busy
190 The Science of Mastership
and THE THINKER sees the devil sitting astride
of his stomach gouging him with a red hot pitchfork.
He wakes up with a nightmare.
At an exhibition of spirit pictures in New York
a few years ago, a railroad builder told how spirits
had furnished him, in his dreams, with the plans for
more than 3,000 miles of track which he had con
structed. The man's name was Arthur E. Still-
well, a leading figure in railway circles in Chicago.
He has been president of many railroads and was,
for seven years, president of The National Surety
Co. He said, "I have built more than 3,000 miles
of railroad and that is more than any other man has
built. Every part of every route has been de
termined by spirits who have come to me in my dreams
and told me how to do it." When he was building
The Kansas City Southern, he said he was warned
by the spirits not to build the Terminal at Galveston,
Texas, as was planned as that would lead to disaster,
but to terminate it at Lake Sabine where he built
the Terminal of Port Arthur named after himself.
"Four days after it was completed," he said, "Gal
veston was wiped out by the hurricane." Mr. Stillwell
said, "Today I am telling everything. I do not care
whether I am called 'A Nut' or not. I receive com
munications from spirits. I do not know how many.
The engineering plans I have put in effect have all
come from an engineer who has been long dead."
I have no desire to deprive any person of his belief
in spirits. It is my opinion that it is not necessary
to introduce a disembodied spirit to explain how Mr.
Dreams 191
Stillwell received all his railway construction plans
in his dreams. Mr. Stillwell, by persistent thinking,
carried into action, created an engineering complex
in his sub-conscious brain cells. This constituted
what I call HIS ENGINEERING SELF. This
became a separate entity with full power to act and
use all the marvellous powers of his sub-conscious,
together with its gathered data and engineering ex
periences. The instructions given in regard to where
the Terminal for the Kansas City Southern should be
built to avoid disaster can be explained on the basis
of the fact that the sub-conscious is in contact with
the UNIVERSAL MIND which knows all things.
When Stillwell went to sleep at night, he carried
down with him into his sub-conscious the suggestion
of building the railroad. When he went to sleep,
this suggestion started all the automatic machinery
of the sub-conscious to work to perfect the plans.
Mr. Stillwell was perfectly honest in saying that these
engineering plans were given to him by the spirit
of a dead engineer. His subconsious brain created
this thought form. The work, however, was all
done in his own sub-conscious brain and the en
gineering complex that did the work was created by
Mr. Stillwell himself.
In reality, whether a man is asleep or awake it is
the business of the sub-conscious to carry out the
orders of THE THINKER and weave the thought
material furnished by him into plans, systems,
methods, inventions, treatises and so forth. With
out the intervention of spirits this work goes on con
192 The Science of Mastership
stantly in every person that lives. The only function
THE THINKER can perform in the conscious de
partment of the brain is to gather the material and
hand it down to the sub-conscious with directions
as to what he wants done with it and the sub-conscious
carries the orders into effect with automatic precision.
If THE THINKER desires to write a poem, paint
a picture, build a temple, invent a machine, write
a novel, conceive a philosophy, float a business, build
a railroad, found an institution, or build a character
he must first gather the thought material for his
purpose. This is done in the conscious realm of
action. When gathered and approved, it is handed
down to the silent worker in the sub-conscious and
there the pattern is shaped and finished.
R. L. Stevenson, the great novelist, tells us that,
when he commenced to write stories for publication,
they were furnished to him in his dreams. He says,
"My Brownies, God bless them, do one half my work
for me while I am fast asleep and, in all human likeli
hood, do the rest for me while I am wide awake
and fondly suppose I am doing it for myself. I had
long been wanting to write a book on man's double
being. For two days I went about, racking my brain
for a plot of some sort and the second night I dreamt
the scene in Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde at the window
and the scene afterwards split in two in which Hyde
took the powder and underwent the change in the
presence of his pursuer. In Ottala the Count, the
mother, Ottala's chamber, the meeting on the stairs,
the broken window were all given to me in bulk and
Suppressed Instincts 193
in detail in my dreams." Stevenson, by persistent
thinking, carried into action created a story telling
complex which used all the resources of his sub
conscious brain in completing his plots. The work
done by the sub-conscious during sleep is a mani
festation of how it works at all times whether THE
THINKER sleeps or is awake.
Dreams may be caused by thoughts which we take
down with us at night into the sub-conscious. These
thoughts may be the results of experiences we passed
through or scenes we witnessed during the day.
We have seen that the sub-conscious possesses
resources and power to use these resources. It
contains all the accumulated knowledge and ex
periences of the past life. It is THE THINKER'S
REFERENCE LIBRARY. It also contains complex
after complex both inherited and acquired and any
one of these complexes can, if given a chance, assume
the role of a personality and this chance is given when
THE THINKER is absent from the director's chair
in the conscious realm.
SUPPRESSED INSTINCTS.
A dream may be the attempt to give EXPRESSION
TO A REPRESSED INSTINCT OR EMOTION.
In sleep, THE THINKER is not in the director's
chair. The way, therefore, is open for any of the
suppressed instincts or habits to express themselves
and they certainly take advantage of it. "When
the cat is away the mice will play." When the jailer
194 The Science of Mastership
is asleep the prisoners can steal the keys and escape
to freedom. These instincts and habits, when re
pressed, become rebellious and, when the restraint
is removed, out they come and sometimes the realms
of the sub-conscious is the scene of a riot. Down
the streets they rush crying "Come on, boys, let us
have a good time — Whoopee."
In our dreams, we become animals again and we
do things that we would be ashamed of in our wake
ful hours. We fight, murder, steal and swear and
do many other disgraceful things without the slightest
sense of shame. We also do ridiculous and impos
sible things as if they were perfectly natural. We
get ourselves into all kinds of predicaments and
perilous positions. We see all kinds of scenes and
picture ourselves performing the most amazing deeds.
This dream world is certainly a strange world. It is
so different from the strait laced, regular, prudish,
conscious world of creed, custom and convention.
The dream world is a world of unbridled license
where all things are natural and relief is given to all
suppressed instincts and habits to enjoy themselves.
The SEX INSTINCT, THE PUGNACIOUS IN
STINCT, THE POWER INSTINCT, THE SELFISH
INSTINCT, THE WORSHIP INSTINCT, THE
HERD INSTINCT and the ACQUIRED INSTINCTS
all have their turn in dreams. Sometimes they engage
in a brawl amongst themselves and the streets of the
sub-conscious are like a Donnybrook Fair in Ireland.
But the question arises CAN DREAMS BE REGU
LATED? They can if THE THINKER cares to
Suppressed Instincts 195
exercise HIS POWER. He can exercise his power
by SUPPRESSING the instinct. When THE
THINKER becomes a tyrant, and uses his power
to suppress the instinct he adds to its strength and
makes it a stronger rebel. If it is refused freedom
to express itself in a natural way, it becomes a REVO
LUTIONIST and, when THE THINKER is asleep,
as we have seen it will go on a rampage in his dreams
or it will blow up the works and wreck the nervous
system and bring about hysteria, obsession, nervous
collapse and many forms of insanity and crime. If
it does not express itself in any of the above forms,
it will express itself in others equally as destructive
to the individual and society.
As an illustration, take the instinct of PUGNACITY
or the desire to fight and kill. MAN MUST GIVE
EXPRESSION to this instinct in some form. He is
pre-eminently a fighting animal. His entire history
is one of battle and bloodshed. This instinct is
aroused in the presence of enemies real or imaginary.
Primitive man killed his enemies and then feasted
on their bodies. In fact, he had this to do or be
killed and eaten himself. Later on this desire to
kill found expression in bloody gladiatorial combats
in vast coliseums where the ELITE of Rome gratified
this instinct without danger to themselves. Today,
great crowds fill vast amphitheatres and pay fancy
prices for tickets to see low-browed pugilists try
to kill each other. Every person in the crowd enjoys
the spectacle because it gives him a chance to give
expression to the instinct of pugnacity without doing
196 The Science of Mastership
the actual fighting himself. Gang murders and
negro lynchings are all expressions of this animal
instinct. A moving picture must have a fight in it
somewhere to attract the crowd. Sitting comfortably
in a cushioned seat, the spectator identifies himself
with the hero and fights with him and, in this way,
the animal instinct finds expression.
In civilized society, we are not allowed to fight or
kill our enemies. We have organized our courts,
police and law systems to settle disputes. If a man
attempts to settle his disputes by fighting, he is
arrested and fined or jailed. If he kills his enemy,
he is a murderer and society, through its officers,
kills him. Civilized society is ashamed of this
animal instinct and attempts to dam up the energy
that creates it. It breaks forth, however, in many
destructive channels.
Civilized nations are ashamed of it and they at
tempt to prevent its expression by treaties, compacts,
agreements, gentleman understandings and ambas
sadors of good will, while, at the same time, they
increase its energy by tariffs, restriction, armies,
navies and inculcations of national pride. Finally,
the dam breaks as it did in The World War. PUG
NACITY long suppressed, burst forth to revel in
wholesale killing. Reason and religion were swept
away in the red tide of blood. PUGNACITY WAS
KING AND MURDER BECAME A VIRTUE.
Almost everybody wanted to kill somebody else.
Even Christ became a battle stained warrior thirst
ing for blood. There were a few cool individuals
Suppressed Instincts 197
governed by reason who opposed the killing; they were
either jailed for life or promptly shot. The nations
were NOT CONSCIOUS, they were under the
complete control of a BLIND, UNCONSCIOUS
passion. It was a bloody nightmare from which
they did not awake for four long years. I have
recited these instances to show that A REPRESSED
INSTINCT MUST FIND A WAY TO EXPRESS
ITSELF.
The SEX INSTINCT is one of the most powerful
instincts in man's makeup. It is closely associated
with the instinct of pugnacity. The males amongst
animals fight to the death in the mating season.
Nature has decreed that life must be perpetuated
and she has delegated this task to the SEX IN
STINCT. The instinct of self preservation is es
sentially selfish. The sex instinct is altruistic.
It may be that the sex instinct is the source of religion.
Primitive man gave expression to this instinct in his
various forms of Phallic Worship. The religious
rites and ceremonies connected with this worship
gave the worshippers an opportunity of expressing
this instinct. Civilized society is ashamed of this
instinct. This shame is largely the result of centuries
of false teaching. The Theologians in every age
have taught that the sex instinct is an unclean thing.
These men invented the so called celibacy of the
priests and organized the monastery system. Pre
sumably, no woman ever darkened the door of a
monastery. They also organized the nunnery sys
tem for women and no priest was supposed to enter
198 The Science of Mastership
a nunnery. They formulated strict marriage and
divorce laws. The SHAME COMPLEX of organized
society is the result of this teaching and this shame
complex is responsible for all forms of regulation
and suppression.
This POWERFUL INSTINCT, HOWEVER, RE
FUSES TO BE SUPPRESSED. It is a natural law
and it will sweep to the one side all forms of unnatural
regulation and find a way to express itself. It ex
presses itself today in the sex novel and the sex play.
Moving pictures are saturated with the sex impulse.
The readers of the sex novel and the spectators of
the sex play or moving picture find expression for
this instinct by proxy. Prostitution in all its forms
is an expression of this instinct. It also declares
itself in trial marriages, parades itself before packed
crowds in divorce courts and behaves itself with un
becoming levity in dreams.
During the World War, all regulations were swept
away and it expressed itself in all forms of un
bridled license. This instinct refused to be sup
pressed and, like any other powerful instinct, if THE
THINKER becomes a tyrant and puts it into a strait
jacket of complete suppression, it becomes a revo
lutionist and throws an explosive bomb into the
delicate machinery of the nervous system causing all
kinds of destruction such as melancholy, gloom, fear,
dread, worry, hysteria and certain types of insanity.
HOW CAN THE THINKER BRING THESE
INSTINCTS UNDER CONTROL so that he will not
be disturbed by them in his dreams or in his daily
Suppressed Instincts 199
life? THE THINKER must formulate A PATTERN
OR PICTURE of the highest type of character he
can conceive of and make this HIS IDEAL. THIS
IDEAL IS THE WORKING MODEL which he must
hand over to the sub-conscious with instructions
to cany it out. Co-ordination is impossible without
a central purpose. To lift the lower into the higher
THE THINKER must have a high ideal. The lower
animal instincts cannot be co-ordinated and trans
muted into something higher without a lofty ideal and
a persistent determination to carry it out.
THE THINKER can be assured of two things.
FIRST the sub-conscious will accept the MODEL
and will build into it the thought material which
he supplies. SECOND, and this is of great im
portance to THE THINKER, THE ENERGY THAT
SURGES THROUGH THESE INSTINCTS SEEKS
GREATER PROTECTION AND WIDER FREE
DOM. The law of life IS MOVEMENT UPWARD
IN THE FORM OF EXPRESSION.
ALL ENERGY AT ITS SOURCE IS PURE. It is
motion. The entire universe is in motion, going
somewhere — nobody knows where. Man is a part
of this moving COSMOS. Every cell and atom in
his makeup is in motion. THE ENERGY that rises
up through the complexes of the various instincts
is a part of THE UNIVERSAL ENERGY that moves
the UNIVERSE. It is ELECTRIC and MENTAL,
power and directive intelligence. It is neither GOOD
NOR BAD. It becomes GOOD OR BAD when it
emerges into visible action in the conscious world.
200 The Science of Mastership
The conscious world is the world of laws, regulations,
customs, taboos, inhibitions and prohibitions, stupid
and otherwise, mostly stupid. Organized society
is formed in the conscious realm. These forms
differ in different countries and in different ages of
history. So that what is called good in one country
or age, may be called bad in another. This is also
true in the case of individuals. One man's meat
may be another man's poison. Broadly speaking,
we may say that ENERGY CAN EXPRESS ITSELF
IN TWO FORMS, CONSTRUCTIVE OR DE
STRUCTIVE; constructive, if it is beneficial to life
and increases happiness and well being, destructive
if it increases misery and injures life.
THE THINKER is invested with the power of
direction. He cannot create this energy but he can
determine the form of its expression. The surge of
power that rises up through these instincts as I have
said is seeking wider freedom and THE THINKER
must guide it and provide THE MODEL for its
expression. This energy can be educated, trained,
modified or sublimated. The energy that produced
the murderer can produce the saint. The power
that makes the miser can make the philanthropist.
The supreme NEED of the times in the individual
and in the individuals that are in the chairs of authori
ty as I have said before is CREATIVE and CON
STRUCTIVE INTELLIGENCE. Possessed of this,
we can direct this energy into the wisest and best
channels. Without
it,
we will continue our stupid
stumbling as we have done for ages.
Suppressed Instincts 201
THE THINKER has the power to open, close or
change the sluicegates through which this energy
flows. He can repress or ignore the instinct. This
is fraught with danger. He can direct it into another
field of action. He can modify it or he can transmute
it into higher forms of activity.
The doctor ought to be able to teach his patients
how to direct this energy in the cure of disease.
The teacher ought to be able to instruct his pupils
how to direct and modify it in educating the mind.
The preacher ought to be able to tell his hearers
how to lift it into higher forms of activity in salvation
and the law maker ought to know how to wisely
regulate it by law.
To save ourselves and the world we must begin
our redemptive processes at the source. It is stupid
to lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
Our leaders in the church, state, newspaper desk,
industrial establishment, business office, and uni
versity are still asleep in the chambers of tradition.
They do not know that the sun is shining and a new
day has dawned. Science has given us a new world.
We have new problems — industrial, educational,
religious and governmental. These new problems
cannot be solved by the old methods. We need new
forms for the expression of the new spirit. The
brains of our leaders must be reconstructed. They
are sleepy and soggy, saturated with the dope of
dead customs. We must have new types of thinking
to solve the new problems. Glenn Frank, president
of The University of Wisconsin, says in substance,
202 The Science of Mastership
"To solve the problems that confront us, we need
a new type of mind in first class men. THE FREE
MIND, a mind that knows no loyalty save loyalty to
the truth which it seeks to see clearly and without
bias in the cold light of facts, a mind that resists
enslavement to passion or prejudice, which brings
to the bar of disinterested judgment the pleas of all
parties and all powers and ceaselessly searches out
the motives that coin the catch words of all classes,
all cliques and all clans, a mind that turns a deaf
ear alike to democracy when it becomes demagogic
and to plutocracy when it becomes selfish, a mind
that stands free from the influence of tyrannical
majorities and of tirading minorities when the truth
resides in neither, a mind that considers all traditions,
business, political or industrial, solely in terms of
service to human life, a mind that serves the crowd
without bowing to its idolatries and without listening
to its flatteries." It was this type of mind that
brought the forces of the universe outside of man
under control and it is this type of mind, and this
alone, that can bring the forces that are inside of
man under control. My purpose in this book is
to contribute something to further this great and
important task.
THE INSTINCTS IN HUMAN HISTORY
Chapter Eight
THE INSTINCTS IN HUMAN HISTORY.
HOSE who have read this book and absorbed
its contents will begin to see how man ad-
**" vances to higher forms of expression. We
cannot understand the mystery of life and its move
ments by examining the forces outside of man and
neglecting the forces inside. To be sure both must be
studied for it is unquestionably true that the mind
modifies external phenomena and external phenomena
stimulate and influence the mind. As a general
rule, however, mind is positive and active, while ex
ternal phenomena are passive and receptive. The
within and the without are counterparts of each other.
The world within is the key, the world without is the
lock. One is the tenon, the other the mortise.
When we know the world within we have the key
to the world without.
"Know thyself" is an expression of the highest
wisdom. This book is an examination of the world
within in the light of recent scientific information. As
a result of our examination, we have arrived at this
conclusion, that DESIRE IS THE VERY ESSENCE
OF MAN and the motive and inspiration of all that
he is and all that he has thought and wrought during
his history. This conclusion however is not original.
Nearly all the leading philosophers and thinkers of
the past, after exhaustive study, came to the same
206 The Science of Mastership
conclusion. MAN, THEN, IS A BUNDLE OF
WANTS. THE UNIVERSE IS A STOREHOUSE
OF SUPPLIES.
LAMARCK said that all growth and evolution and
all forms of life, living structures and their organs
of expression, was due to DESIRE. We know that
desire must have a physical medium through which
its demands are expressed. The human body is
such a medium. All its organs, the brain and nervous
systems are means whereby the desires are gratified.
The brain complexes through which the vital instincts
and habits express themselves were furnished in
response to DESIRE.
DESIRE has its source in the deeps of the sub
conscious. DESIRE is mental and the power that
it uses is electric. Nature is revelation and science
reads that revelation. Science tells us how nature
works and explains her processes. Nature's way
of doing things is TRUTH and it is by knowing the
truth and obeying its laws that we become free.
Science tells us that animals and birds are governed
by instinct. They do not possess the power of re
flection or reason. They do not have to learn —
they know and their knowledge is infallible. So,
then, they are living expressions of nature in action.
When we study the actions of animals or birds we
are studying nature herself.
As I sat in my study looking out of the window in
the springtime, I watched two birds building a nest
in the fork of a tree just within the range of my vision.
With marvellous skill and unerring wisdom, they
The Instincts in Human History 207
twisted pieces of slender roots, string, leaves, and
twigs into circular form, layer upon layer until the
rough external of the nest was completed and, while
they were doing this, they anchored it firmly to the
tree.
Then, with pieces of soft down, cotton and light
feathers, they lined the nest within. When the nest
was finished, I looked at the marvellous piece of
architecture and said, "This structure composed
of twigs, roots, strings and downy substances is a
preparation for something higher." "It is a prepa
ration for coming life." This is nature herself at
work in a limited area but it reveals her method in
the wider sweep of the universe as down through
the long centuries the earth was being prepared for
life. After a few days, I saw four blue eggs in the
nest.
I then said, "These eggs contain the future life
and again my mind swept back through the long ages
to the time when the earth was cool enough to receive
the germs of life from which man evolved." In a
few days, the mother bird brooded over the eggs
imparting to the latent life within the heat of her own
body giving it strength to break the shell and emerge
into a new world. As she sat there day after day in
maternal anticipation, my mind went back over the
long ages of time when mother nature brooded over
the forms of life through which man was slowly
emerging into larger life. One day I looked out and
saw four tiny naked birds with wide open yellow
beaks receiving their due portion of the means of
208 The Science of Mastership
life from the parent birds. Then I thought of the
provisions that mother nature has furnished as the
means of life for man, enough for all, enough for
each, enough forevermore and I thought of the
millions of nature's children, starving amidst un
limited abundance.
Nature had given the mother bird instinct — the
instinct that instructs her to take care of her young
until they are strong enough to take care of them
selves, protect them from the struggle for existence
until they have reached the point in their unfold-
ment when they can successfully engage in the
struggle. She does not drive them out of the nest
and compel them to gather a surplus of worms to
sell to other birds, neither does she hire them out
to gather grubs. Her purpose is to develop a full,
vigorous, self reliant, self equipped life in each of the
four. Led by unerring instinct, this is the end of all
her activities.
Then I thought of what man, who claims to be
endowed with intellect, does with his children.
He allows millions of them to emerge into life through
slums and tenement houses reeking with filth,
disease and crime, starves them amidst abundance
and then forces these millions of starved stunted,
undeveloped lives into mills and factories and compels
them to work at low wages through long hours to
produce dividends for soulless corporations. This
is an outrage on life and perpetual murder.
I watched the four lusty youngsters grow. They
seemed to have a perpetual appetite. They were
The Instincts in Human History 209
always ready to eat and the supply was always at
hand. They grew more beautiful every day. The
ugly body soon vanished under a beautiful coat of
gleaming feathers. The ugly beak became firm and
well rounded. The wobbling legs became strong.
All the inherent qualities of a splendid life were
brought forward on an even breasted march. Then
one day they became of age. Their inward powers
were unfolded to the point where the individual
could meet, master and control the external con
ditions outside of the nest. They felt, within them
selves, the power of SELF DETERMINATION and
they decided to leave the nest. One by one, they
poised themselves on the edge of the nest, shook
their wings and, with a note of joy, rose into the
atmosphere and began a life of independence and
freedom. Back behind them was the broken shells,
the old nest and the forks of the tree. These were
merely the external accessories of the unfolding life.
In themselves, they had no value whatsoever. The
only value they ever did possess was to be found in
the assistance they rendered life as it advanced
towards perfection. Nature speaks to us in the
activities of the mother bird. To be sure it is only
a small part of the great circle of nature's movements.
It is, however, a miniature of the whole.
What, then, are the principles of this method?
FIRST — the aim is the unfoldment of a strong,
self reliant life in each individual.
SECOND — to prepare the individual for in
dependence. It is amply provided for in the home.
210 The Science of Mastership
THIRD — when the inward powers are strong
enough to engage successfully in the struggle against
outward conditions, home protection is withdrawn
and the individual engages in the struggle itself.
FOURTH — in this struggle for existence, life is
shaped into strength, power, independence, self
reliance and efficiency.
FIFTH — in this arena of struggle equal op
portunity of access to the means of life, is granted
each individual. If he fails, then it is his own fault.
If he wins, he wins on his own merits.
There is a philosophy of life being widely taught
today which boldly declares that there is no such
thing as the creative action of life or mind in the
universe or in human history. Life and mind, ac
cording to advocates of this doctrine, are properties
of matter. The universe was created by matter.
This planet, the theatre of man's activities, is a mass
of matter. It was brought into existence by the
slowing down of the movements of electrons. Away
back countless millions of years ago, in the centre
of this system where the sun now is, there was a great
cloud of nebulous matter composed of whirling
electrons. Time after time companies of these
moving electrons joined themselves together into
a closer union, separated from the main body and
established an independence of their own by revolving
in an orbit of their own. It was in this way that our
earth came into existence. At first, the electrons
revolved with terrific rapidity in a big ball of flame.
As time passed, the heat escaped into the surrounding
The Instincts in Human History 211
universe. When the cooling process reached a
certain stage, certain electrons came together in
new combinations producing the different forms of
vegetable life. As the cooling process continued,
other electrons came together in more complex
combinations and produced the first forms of animal
life. As the centuries rolled on, other electrons
came together in more complex combinations creating
higher forms of life. Finally, as the climax of the
creative acts of the electrons, a number of very highly
specialized electrons combined and created man.
According to these pseudo scientists, there is nothing
in this universe but electrons and their combinations.
Life, in all its forms, is a combination of electrons in
different proportions. Intellect, in all its mani
festations, is an electronic process. Love is electronic
attraction. Hate is electronic repulsion. Patriot
ism is the electronic affinity that the electrons in
the body have for the soil from which they came.
When THE THINKER falls in love, it is the work of
the electrons. When he hates, it is the action of
the electrons. When he fights for his country, it
is the electrons that fight. Music is the harmonious
movement of electronic vibrations. Beethoven's
body and brain were composed of musical electrons.
When they made up their minds, a symphony was
produced. Mark Twain's body and brain were
composed of humorous electrons. When they moved
into action, "Tom Sawyer," "The Jumping Frog"
and "Innocents Abroad" were written. Every elec
tron in Shakespeare's brain was an actor. When
212 The Science of Mastership
they vibrated in unison, they expressed themselves
in matchless drama. Every electron in Napoleon's
brain was a fighter. When they agreed that it was
time to fight, all Europe was bathed in blood. New
ton's and Einstein's brains were composed of mathe
matical electrons. When they decided to act, they
produced the principia and the theory of relativity.
The electrons in Raphael's brain loved the blending
of colors and produced his masterpieces. The
electrons in Kant's brain were philosophers and
produced "The Critique of Pure Reason." These
boys must have a god, so they put the electron on
the throne of the universe and it becomes the creator
of all things.
Electrons, in all the forms of their activity, create
the conditions for the expression of life and mind.
They also furnish the power in the human machine
and THE THINKER uses and directs this power, but
the electrons are not life, they are not desire, they
are not thought.
The teachers and expounders of this dreary
philosophy can furnish no proof that their theory
is scientific. They cannot prove that electricity is
intelligent. Yet, with bold effrontery, they attempt
to show that every step that man has made in his
struggle up from cannibalism to civilization was the
result of the reactions of the electronic organism to
its environment.
The DESIRE and INTELLECT of man lifted him
from the depths to the heights. The first social
structure was cannibalism. The business conducted
The Instincts in Human History 213
under this system was traffic in human flesh. The
drinking cups were made of human skulls, weapons
were huge clubs. Food consisted of steaks cut from
well conditioned human bodies. According to this
theory, the electrons in the body and brains of these
human flesh eaters were all cannibals. Combined
in an organism, they could not do otherwise but kill
and eat men.
Cannibalism was the expression of the lowest type
of brain. It was the outcome of the animal mind.
The next step up was from cannibalism to slavery.
This was the result of an advanced type of thinking.
Some cannibal chief made the discovery that it was
a more profitable plan to allow his captives to live
and make them produce goods by hunting, fishing
and tilling the soil than by killing and eating them.
This chief HAD MORE BRAINS than any of his
contemporaries.
The next step was from slavery to feudalism; this
was the result of advancing intelligence. Some
powerful chief with a BIGGER AND STRONGER
BRAIN became a baron and took forcible possession
of a great estate in land, built for himself a great
castle, surrounded it with a moat, organized a band
of retainers and armed them with battle axe, clay
more and broad sword. Then he organized a band
of men called serfs, to hunt, fish and till the soil,
who gave portion of the products of their toil to him.
The men who perfected this system had bigger and
stronger brains than their predecessors.
The next step was from feudalism to capitalism.
214 The Science of Mastership
Capitalism is the system that prevails today. It is
a vast and powerful system with its machines,
factories, corporations, railways, telegraph and tele
phone systems, radio, banks, cities and the vast
army of wage earners. This system was the result
of the invention of the steam engine, the cotton
gin and other machines and the men who created
this system were men of SUPERIOR BRAIN
POWER. In all of these steps upward, we discover
two forces — DESIRE and INTELLECT. Desire,
apart from intellect, runs wild. Desire may be
likened to the power of steam but intellect is needed
to build the engine, to utilize it and the tracks wherein
it shall run in useful service. Desire turns energy
loose. Intellect harnesses it and puts it to work.
Desire and intellect has given us everything of value
in history. The history of man is made up by two
kinds of action, the action that smashes and the action
that constructs. Desire is the power that smashes,
intellect is the power that constructs.
When any form, social, governmental, religious or
philosophical, becomes too small for the life of man,
then desire makes its demand for more room and,
if it is not granted, desire smashes the form and calls
upon the intellect to construct a new and wider form.
After a while, this wider form becomes too narrow
for the demands of life. Desire again wrecks the
form and intellect constructs a still wider form.
This process goes on in every department of human
activity and makes up the history of man. Human
life, urged onwards by this imperious desire for more
The Instincts in Human History 215
room, smashed its way up from the stone age through
structure after structure up to its present heights.
Every step upwards was produced by men who had
INCREASED CONSCIOUS BRAIN POWER. The
mass of humanity does not think. All human advance
is the result of the creative and constructive intel
ligence of the few. Emerson said, when a thinker
is turned loose on this planet, all things are in danger.
Led by clear visioned thinkers, man has moved up
wards towards self determination through the wrecked
forms of the patriarchal, aristocratic, autocratic to
democracy.
Pushed on by this motive, the geologist goes back
through the long ages and, lifting up the leaves of
the rocks with the clear eye of intelligence, he reads
the story of how the earth was built. Following in
his footsteps, urged by the same desire, the biologist,
from these same rocky leaves, reads the story of life
in its upward struggle to higher forms. On the
wings of a sublime imagination, the astronomer,
urged to action by the same demand, soars into the
heavens, measures and weighs the stars and by exact
methods of thought, formulates the laws that govern
their movements. Animated by the same urge, the
chemist, in his laboratory, penetrates the minute and,
with unwearied intelligence, isolates the electron
and places out, in the clear light of common knowl
edge, the laws of its movements. Moved to action
by the same desire, the inventor studies the forces
of nature, steam, electricity, water and air and,
through the power of a trained intellect and in ac
216 The Science of Mastership
cordance with the laws of these forces, he builds his
machine and harnesses them in human service.
Caught by the same passion, the artist flings upon the
canvas the creations of his brain, while the sculptor,
under the same spell, carves the rough marble into
forms divine. Inspired by the same ideal, the
founders of religion attempt to define the relations
of man to the Infinite and map out his location and
condition in the world beyond the grave. Stirred
by the same impulse, the philosopher attempts to
reduce all things to unity and bring all the sciences
into one comprehensive system. Suffused by the
same desire, the poet reproduces the beauty of nature
in his poems, while the musician catches her harmony
and delights us with his symphonies.
All these achievements of man are the direct
result of these two creative factors. The DESIRE
for FREEDOM, and INTELLIGENCE. Freedom
is the ideal, desire the motive and intelligence the
instrument of its attainment. But the question
arises: Is the present system of wealth production
and distribution an expression of this desire for
freedom? Unhesitatingly, I answer yes.
The present system of wealth production and
distribution was built up by the human intellect in
response to the DESIRE for freedom. The great
factories, the machines that seem to be endowed with
an intelligence almost human, the rapid methods of
transportation on sea, land and air, the almost in
stantaneous means of communication, the facile
methods of exchange, all these are creations of the
The Instincts in Human History 217
intellect and their object is to supply man abundantly
with the means of life so he can obtain and enjoy free
dom.
We could set up here in the United States a COM
MONWEALTH so complete in all its equipments
for each citizen that it would be a heaven upon
earth. We have the DESIRE. It is always present
— INSISTENT and COMMANDING. We have
THE MATERIAL in rich abundance, a continent
into which nature has packed her choicest treasures
of material supply in unlimited quantities. We have
THE CAPACITY lying latent in the BRAIN ready to
respond to attractive appeals. We have the IN
DUSTRIAL system that represents the energy of
tens of thousands of capable brains so amazing in
its productive power that we could furnish the world.
We have the LANGUAGE into which the greatest
thinkers have poured their thoughts. A language
so rich in thought that a single word contains a
volume of wisdom. We have INVENTIONS rep
resenting the genius of the greatest inventors of the
world. Into our lap, the scientist has poured his
discoveries, the philosopher, his thoughts, the poet,
his stanzas, the artist, his dream, the seer, his vision,
the musician, his melody, the statesman, his principles
and the hero, the freedom purchased with his blood.
How have we used these gifts? Have we used
them as instruments of emancipation or instruments
of enslavement? Have we made the agents of profit
instead of agents of service? Have we used them to
enrich the few and despoil the many? Have we used
218 The Science of Mastership
them to build up great fortunes instead of great
lives?
To answer these questions I would refer the
reader to the report of "The Industrial Relations
Committee." This authorized government report,
gathered from the testimony of one thousand trained
observers in all walks of life, proves that we have
used these gifts destructively. We have used them
to create a hell here for millions instead of a heaven.
When we compare the actual conditions that obtain,
with the ideal and promise contained in the preamble
of the constitution of the United States, our leaders
ought to be thoroughly ashamed of themselves.
"We, the PEOPLE of the United States, in order
to form a MORE PERFECT UNION, establish
JUSTICE, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for
the COMMON DEFENSE, promote the GENERAL
WELFARE and secure the blessings of LIBERTY
to OURSELVES and POSTERITY, do ordain and
establish this constitution of the United States of
America." We, THE PEOPLE of the United States,
ordain and establish this constitution. The consti
tution was the expression of THE DESIRE of the
PEOPLE and this DESIRE was formulated by THE
INTELLECT into a guaranteed DEMAND for all
time.
Note the CONTENT of this DEMAND. FIRST —
A PERFECT UNION. This union was harmony
in all the relationships of life amongst the citizens
based upon the establishment of the other elements
contained in the demand.
The Instincts in Human History 219
SECOND — JUSTICE was to be established.
This meant a square deal to each citizen.
THIRD — DOMESTIC TRANQUILLITY — this
follows the establishment of JUSTICE. Without
justice tranquillity is impossible.
FOURTH — COMMON DEFENSE — this means
united effort to defend the nation against a foreign
enemy, also that the right of the citizen to live, to
work and to enjoy the fruit of his own toil shall be
guarded.
FIFTH — GENERAL WELFARE — this means
the general diffusion of WEALTH and means that
MONOPOLY of any kind is intolerable.
SIXTH — LIBERTY — this means freedom of
OPPORTUNITY, FREEDOM of ACCESS TO THE
MEANS OF LIFE, freedom to think, to act, to speak,
to move; the only limitation being the freedom of
others. The constitution contains the EXPRESSED
PURPOSE of the PEOPLE for themselves and for
the POSTERITY. Its master aim is to secure
GENERAL WELFARE for all the people. The
report of The Industrial Relations Committee reveals
the ACTUAL conditions of life amongst millions,
a condition of GENERAL ILLFARE and demonstrates
that we have utterly failed to carry out the purposes
of the constitution.
We cannot place the blame for this dismal reversal
on the constitution itself. This instrument contains
all the principles that can make a nation great. It
was brewed from the brains of the world's greatest
statesmen. It contains, in condensed form, the best
220 The Science of Mastership
thought of the centuries on government. It is big
enough to fit the world. It is as deep as human needs,
broad as human conception and high as human
aspiration. There is no problem in national life
beyond its scope and no problem that it cannot meet.
Being the creation of the BEST BRAINS in response
to a SANE DESIRE, it fits every stage of human
advance.
I can put my finger directly on the cause of this
dismal failure. It is due to the action of SELFISH,
CUNNING, SCHEMING THINKING.
AS A MAN THINKETH IN HIS HEART, SO IS
HE. AS THE LEADERS IN A NATION THINK,
SO IS THE NATION. There are two kinds of
THINKING — SELFISH THINKING and UN
SELFISH THINKING, thinking for profit and think
ing for service, thinking for the individual good and
thinking for the common good. In regard to un
selfish thinking, Balzac, the great French novelist,
says, "Intellectual work or labor in the upper regions
of mental effort is one of the grandest achievements
of man. That which deserves real glory in art, and
by art we must understand every creation of the mind,
is courage above all things. A sort of courage of
which the vulgar can have no conception. The artist
must work. Perpetual work is the LAW OF ART
because it IS THE LAW OF LIFE. ART IS IDEAL
IZED CREATION, hence GREAT ARTISTS AND
POETS WAIT NEITHER FOR COMMISSIONS
NOR PURCHASERS. They are constantly
CREATING, today, tomorrow, always."
The Instincts in Human History 221
Since all that man has thought and wrought has
come through the brain, one can easily see that
EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVE THAT POS
SESSES CONSTRUCTIVE VALUE IS THE RESULT
OF UNSELFISH, CONSTRUCTIVE THINKING
AND EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVE THAT IS
DESTRUCTIVE COMES THROUGH SELFISH
THINKING.
The high class thinker, who is moved by the creative
impulse, works on in the spirit of joy. His reward
is inward gratification. He never thinks of profits
or commissions. The men who created the con
stitution of the United States did not work for profit
nor pay. The glory of their work was not tarnished
by the fat, pudgy, dirty hand of graft nor was the
spirit of their work poisoned by self seeking.
Everything that we have that is good, true and
beautiful, everything that we have, that means up
lift and benefit to all, came through the lofty thinking
of a very few high class men and women who thought,
not of themselves, but of their work and the joy of
creation. The inventors, the scientists, the phi
losophers, the scholars and statesmen have furnished
us with the means of material wealth and were robbed
of the right to share it. In every age, the shrewd,
keen, cunning, selfish thinker has stolen the in
ventions and utilized the creations of these unselfish
thinkers for his own aggrandizement and profit.
It takes brains to be a successful robber.
It is very interesting to make a study of how the
so-called leading families of the world came into
222 The Science of Mastership
being. When I speak of leading families, I am
thinking of the autocrats and aristocrats of the past
and present. The form may differ but the essence
is the same. The autocrat in the palace and the
autocrat in the industrial realm are different forms of
the same spirit. This spirit is cold, cunning selfish
ness.
Let us see how autocracy originated and was
established as an institution amongst men. It owes
its existence to the destruction of life. It was
fathered by robbers, cradled in human blood and un
folded itself into strength by the destruction of human
liberties. The cost of its freedom is the blood of
slaves. The cost of its wealth is the poverty of
millions. The cost of its ease is the toil of the masses.
To burnish its crown it caught up the tears of women
and the purple of its royal robes was extracted from
the veins of children.
It declares that its right to rule is based upon
MIGHT. It does not base its right to rule on wisdom,
reason, justice or consent. It sneers at wisdom,
spurns reason, over-rides justice, crushes consent
and compels obedience because it is in possession of
superior strength. Its language is "You must obey
me or I will destroy you." In its claim, then, it
cancels all human rights, destroys freedom, renders
self expression impossible and paralyzes all the
finer sensibilities of the soul.
The first autocrat was a huge giant armed with a
murderous weapon towering over cowering captives.
And what was the motive of his claim? Why does
The Instincts in Human History 223
the autocrat, in his superior strength, claim the right
to rule? He assumes that power in order to exploit
the ruled. He awes into submission in order to rob.
He frightens that he may fleece. Take the profits
away from the possession of power and it would
cease to be attractive. If the spoils did not go to
the victors, few would wish to be victorious. Divorce
indemnities and additions of territory from war, and
few would demand the trial of battle. Separate
graft from war contracts and patriotism is diminished.
Deprive advantage of its chance to steal, and you
reduce the number of those who seek it. If in times
of war there were no juicy plums in sight save one
dollar a year, I wonder if patriots would crowd each
other in their eagerness to serve the nation.
To give supreme sanction to his claim, the autocrat
in every age declared that his right to rule was patented
in Heaven and certified to by Almighty God him
self. Such a claim would be accepted by ignorant
and superstitious slaves but, in the blazing light
of this age of intelligence, it is the summit of ab
surdity.
But strangely even today in democratic countries,
autocrats make the same claim. Baer, the anthracite
coal magnate, said, in his testimony before the court,
"I am a trustee of the Almighty." God had invested
him with power to own the coal and distribute it to the
people and, incidentally, amass millions for himself
at the people's expense. The autocrat, in every age,
seeks to sanctify his robbery by hiding behind the
robes of deity. The God of every autocrat is an
224 The Science of Mastership
enlarged duplicate of himself, elevated to the throne
of the universe.
I have also noticed that the autocrat has created
an instrument whereby he hands down his power
and wealth to his offspring, thus perpetuating the fami
ly. This instrument is THE LAW OF PRIMO
GENITURE. What is this law? The eldest son
of the eldest son becomes the channel through which
this divine right flows, and remains in the family.
This law is the avenue down which has come the
entire brood of kings and nobilities that have lived or
now live to burden weary humanity — the Guelphs,
the Stuarts, the Bourbons, the Romanoffs, the
Hapsburgs, the Hohenzollerns and many others too
numerous to mention. And what terrible crimes
in king's palaces and in the residences of the nobility
have been committed because of this law. What
jealousies, hatreds, treacheries and deceits have
arisen on account of it. What terrible wars deluging
countries in blood for years resulted from it. What
poisonings, hangings, imprisonments and banish
ments have been perpetrated in its name. Who
can record the number or the extent of the crimes
against innocent life traceable to this infamous law!
The floors of kings' palaces are still dark with the
blood of the disinherited. The walls of dungeons
are still wet with their tears and the fields of Europe
are fertile with the decaying remains of innocent
millions who died to establish the false claims of
their masters. What supreme blasphemy it is to
claim that Almighty God gave his sanction to such
The Instincts in Human History 225
a grewsome catalog. Nay, worse, that he invented
it,
certified
it
and handed
it
to these royal monsters.
What
is
the central THOUGHT that inheres in the
structure of the autocrat's brain? It is this — that
one man can own another man and therefore can rule
and exploit him. Where did this thought originate?
It arose amongst the lowest race of men — the can
nibals — the men hunters and men eaters. When
these cannibals met in battle the victors feasted on
the bodies of the vanquished. Public opinion in
those days sustained the practice, and why not?
Were the vanquished not the legitimate prey of the
victors? Later on, however, as we have said,
it
was
discovered by some shrewd leader that instead of
eating their captives
it
would be BETTER BUSINESS
to spread the PROFITS over
a
number of years by
making them work for them. Thus slavery arose.
The slave was
a
living machine owned by his master.
He could sell him, kill him or do as he pleased with
him. The element that made cannibalism attractive
is
the same element that makes hunting attractive.
The hunter receives benefit from the sport. The
joy of pursuing the animals and the pleasure of
eating them when captured.
Remove the benefits and you destroy the incentive.
The same element makes slave owning attractive.
Remove all benefits and who would want to own
slaves? Autocracy in all its forms has its roots in
the SAME SOIL. It
is
a
flowering out in
a
politer
form of the same vile element that made cannibal
ism and slavery attractive. The autocrat looks out
226 The Science of Mastership
over his realm and says, "This is my realm, these are
my people, this is my army, yonder is my navy. All
this exists for me. I am absolute master. So long
as I retain control so long am I assured of power and
wealth." The principle that makes cannibalism,
slave owning or autocracy, in all of its forms, attractive
is that each of them puts a man in such a position of
advantage over his fellows that he owns them.
The advantage of the cannibal lies in his superior
strength, so he lives by consuming the man. The
advantage of the slave owner lies in the fact that the
slave is ignorant of his rights and so his master takes
what he produces. The advantage of the autocrat
lies in tradition, precedent and custom, so he lives
and sustains his splendid establishments through
taxation. The principle that runs through these
systems is the same.
In this country, we know that NO MAN CAN
OWN PROPERTY IN MAN. The civil war settled
this forever. Each man owns his own life and the
inference that flows from this truth is that every
man owns all that he produces and, when any man,
whether he be cannibal, slave owner, autocrat or
industrial magnate, uses his position of advantage
to take the result of another man's toil, he is a robber
and ought to be shot.
The spirit of autocracy, when it first appeared
in human history, assumed the form of a giant savage
almost naked armed with a huge blood stained club.
This club was the mainstay of the autocrat. With
out this club, he could not inspire his followers or
The Instincts in Human History 227
his captives with fear. The language of the club
was the only language they could understand. The
club guaranteed and supported his claim to absolute
authority.
In the age following, the autocrat improved his
insignia of authority. He now appears seated on
a powerful horse clad in steel. At his side, hangs
a heavy skull-cleaving battle axe, and in his right
hand is a long spear. He is surrounded with a host
of armed retainers on foot armed with battle axe,
claymore and spear. Instead of a cave or tent, he
now owns a strong castle with turrets, towers and
barred windows, surrounded with a thick wall. The
opening to the main entrance to the castle is closed
with a huge wooden door armored with bars of iron.
Around the walls, runs a deep, wide ditch filled with
water and the entrance is over a drawbridge that is
drawn up every night. He now owns a vast estate
in land that spreads away on all sides from the castle.
This estate is cultivated by serfs who are looked upon
as parts of the soil and exchanged therewith when the
estate is sold. The club has now become the castle,
armor, battle axe, spear, sword and armed retainers.
These are the efficient sustainers of the autocrats' as
sumptions. They are all expressions of force and
the only language that the ignorant masses of that
rough age could understand.
MUSCULAR POWER WAS STILL THE MARK
OF SUPERIORITY and, while this stage was the
result of increased brain power, the brain was still
savage and selfish. The animal was still in the
228 The Science of Mastership
ascendancy. The invention of gun powder did away
with the superiority based on muscular strength.
It lifted the weak man to a position of equality with
the strong man. When both were armed with a gun,
the chances were equal. Before the advent of the
gun and the machine, MUSCLE, MOVED BY A
SELFISH BRAIN, was king. The coming of the
MACHINE age was preceded by an increase in
BRAIN POWER, but this brain power still remains
selfish and brutal and MONEY, which is another
name for POWER, advanced to the ascendancy.
The possession of MONEY in this age gives the
position of ADVANTAGE. In the preceding para
graphs, I have given a rapid sketch of how the ruling
families of humanity have arisen. It is very simple
and natural.
FIRST — an increase in BRAIN POWER.
SECOND — this increase in BRAIN POWER
enabled its possessors to EXPLOIT LIFE and
NATURAL RESOURCES, to increase their power
and enforce their claims. The great masses of the
people, in every age and in every country, have been
enslaved and exploited by the powerful and selfish
few.
There is no such thing in human history as the
decline and fall of empires.. We have the decline
and fall of ruling families. The masses were never
lifted. They have always been down. Their ex
ploitation by the powerful few was the natural con
sequence of their own ignorance.
It is BRAIN POWER that has given man his
The Instincts in Human History 229
supremacy amongst animals and it is BRAIN POWER
SHREWD, KEEN and CUNNING that has given the
RULING FAMILIES their ability to enslave the
masses and rob them of the results of their toil.
History, as I see
it,
is largely the record of war
between the ruling families for supremacy. The
common man was never consulted. His opinion
was of no value because of his ignorance. When
commanded to fight, he had to obey. The change
in rulers did not affect his condition. THIS IS
NATURAL and
is
the outward expression of the law
of the strongest. IF YOU MAKE YOURSELF AN
ASS, EVERYBODY WILL THROW HIS SACK ON
YOUR BACK.
It
is
not my intention to present an analysis of how
the ruling families of the United States rose into
power. This has been done ably by others. The
history of lumber, steel, oil, rubber, railways, auto
mobiles and real estate is the history of war. It was
a
battle of BRAINS — SELFISH, CUNNING
BRAINS. Out of this war has arisen our leading
families. We have the records to show that the
CHIEFTAINS, in this fight, resorted to anything
in the catalog of crime to win, but, gentle reader,
you must know that WAR SANCTIFIES ALL
THINGS. We honor these chieftains in America,
look upon them as conspicuous examples of SUCCESS.
We ask them to instruct us on how to win and rejoice
with them when they succeed in marrying their sons
and daughters to the scions of the decayed royalties
of Europe. ALL THIS IS NATURAL AND WE
230 The Science of Mastership
HAVE CREATED THE CONDITIONS THAT MAKE
IT POSSIBLE.
James W. Gerard, who was our ambassador to
Germany and who is himself one of the leading
American capitalists, has given us the names of
SIXTY-FOUR men who rule the destinies of America.
He says, "These men rule by virtue of their ABILITY.
They themselves are too busy to hold political office.
BUT THEY DETERMINE WHO SHALL HOLD
SUCH OFFICE. The actual 'power behind the
throne' is wielded by men whose wealth and im
portant industrial positions in the nation give them
a PERMANENT INFLUENCE in American life,
whereas statesmen, diplomats and politicians owe
their influence to the offices which they hold and are
usually shorn of their power when they retire."
Should the reader wish to know who these sixty-four
rulers of America are, furnished by a man from the
inside, he can obtain the list from the Literary Digest
of September sixth, 1930.
Gerard has furnished us with an illustration of a
UNIVERSAL LAW. "TO HIM THAT HATH
SHALL BE GIVEN AND HE SHALL HAVE MUCH
MORE ABUNDANCE AND FROM HIM THAT
HATH NOT SHALL BE TAKEN AWAY EVEN
THAT WHICH HE HATH." Seemingly, it is a
cruel law, nevertheless it is a NATURAL LAW.
POWER FLOWS NATURALLY into the hands of
those who control the WEALTH of the country and
it is perfectly NATURAL for them to EXERCISE IT
FOR THEIR OWN ADVANTAGE. The actions
The Instincts in Human History 23 1
of the ruling families, in every nation and in every
age, reveals the operation of this law.
The ACQUISITIVE INSTINCT operating through
SUPERIOR BRAINS, first obtains CONTROL OF
THE NATURAL .RESOURCES of the country.
When this is done, the exploitation of life, the control
of government and all other agencies of society
follow. In India for instance, the Brahmins were
the ruling class. Superior BRAIN POWER enabled
them to obtain control of the WEALTH of the country.
The MEANS OF LIFE being in their hands, the
Brahmins were in complete control of government,
law, life and property and they exercised this control
to add to their wealth and power and to reduce the
common people to a condition of abject poverty and
slavery. To the great body of the common people, the
name Sudras was given and the laws were so framed
that a Sudra could never rise from his abject position.
If a member of this despised class presumed to
occupy the same seat as his superiors, he was exiled
or put in a dungeon for a number of years. If he
spoke of them in contempt, his mouth was burned
with a hot iron. If he insulted them, his tongue
was slit open. If he molested a Brahmin, he was
put to death. If he sat on the same carpet with a
Brahmin, he was maimed for life. If he listened
to the reading of the sacred books, burning oil was
poured into his ears. If he committed them to
memory, he was killed. If he was murdered, the
penalty was the same as that for killing a dog, a cat
or a crow. He was not allowed to own anything
232 The Science of Mastership
and even if his master gave him freedom he was to
remain a slave.
These laws show how the ruling class used their
power to their own advantage. For thousands of
years, the masses in India, in the midst of abundance,
have been in abject poverty and slavery. On the
one hand, vast temples filled with treasures, gorgeous
rituals, golden altars, retinues of fat priests, magni
ficent palaces, princes rolling in wealth, on the other
hand millions in misery reeking in filth, rags and
disease.
The masses of the people in India count for nothing.
The reason is apparent — INFERIOR BRAIN
POWER and, for thousands of years they have been
deprived of the opportunity to develop brain power.
Because of this lack of brain power, they have
had no voice in the management of the state, no
control over the wealth their own industry created.
Their only business has been to toil and their only
duty to obey. Through long centuries, there has
thus been generated amongst them a habit of tame and
servile submission from which they could not escape.
Their annals furnish no instance of their having
turned upon their rulers, no war of classes, no popular
insurrections. There have been many changes but
all were from above, none from below. Changes
from below were impossible. The BRAINS WERE
ABSENT.
History reveals the operation of the same law in
Egypt. SUPERIOR BRAIN POWER enabled the
ruling classes to OBTAIN CONTROL of the WEALTH
The Instincts in Human History 233
of the country and then they used this power to
control everything else and enslave the masses.
The ruling classes, instead of using their power to
enlighten the masses and lift them to higher levels,
used it to keep them in ignorance and thus per
petuate their slavery and keep themselves in affluence.
In short, the history of the so-called civilizations of
India, Egypt, Babylon, Rome, Mexico and Peru
were all of the same type and are illustrations of the
same law. THE MANY were sacrificed to en
throne and enrich the FEW. It was THE SELF
PRESERVATION INSTINCT carried to EXCESS
by THE FEW who possessed THE BRAIN POWER
that produced these so-called civilizations.
There is.in man.however, anotherINSTINCT— THE
PRESERVATION of the RACE. This instinct is
the fountain from which flows the spirit of unselfish
ness. The spirit that inspires the mother to give
her life to save her child, or the patriot to give his
life to save his country. It is the spirit that inspires
a person to plunge into the water to save a drowning
man. It gives the captain the courage to go down
with his ship or the general to die with his soldiers.
It is this instinct that has united us into families,
tribes and nations and it is this instinct that will
eventually unite humanity into one great common
wealth.
It is this instinct that has given us the visions of
the great poets and novelists, the dreams of the great
philosophers, the discoveries of the great scientists,
the creations of the great statesmen and the teaching
234 The Science of Mastership
of the great seers. This instinct has given us all
that we have in history that has permanent value.
These poets, novelists, philosophers, scientists, states
men and seers think on the highest planes they
produce, without any thought of pay or profit; their
vision is undimmed by selfishness. To them LIFE
is the SUPREME THING. Everything else is sub
servient to it.
All these great thinkers are INTERPRETERS of
NATURE. They have given us a NEW WORLD,
they have shown us HOW NATURE WORKS and
they have commanded us to follow her footsteps in
solving the problems of this new age. The biologist
tells us that each cell in the human body is an in
dependent entity in itself and that it lives, moves and
has its being in AN ATMOSPHERE OF FREEDOM.
It has, as its special task, the unfoldment of its own
life. These cells are associated in groups. Each
group of cells moves in an atmosphere of freedom
and each cell cooperates with every other cell in the
group in the discharge of some function essential
to the growth and development of the body. The
same principles of action direct the movements of
all the groups of cells and theMASTER PURPOSE that
animates and directs all the infinite variety of move
ments of these cells and associated groups is the
protection and welfare of the whole body so that it
shall become an efficient instrument for the expression
of the highest quality of life, namely SERVICE.
Nature's model of good government lies open before
us and our leaders can study it and put it into practice.
The Instincts in Human History 235
A study of this MODEL shows us FIRST — THE
SELF DETERMINATION of the INDIVIDUAL.
Each cell has control over its own internal processes
and has free access to the supplies carried by the
blood. FREEDOM and SELF DETERMINATION
are the inherent rights of each cell. This is the
CENTRAL PRINCIPLE of all character and good
government. Any government that denies freedom
of access to the MEANS OF LIFE or interferes with
the internal processes of the CONSCIENCE OR
INTELLECT or abridges the right of self determi
nation, violates an all pervading law of nature and
brings on all kinds of disorders.
SECOND — CO-OPERATION. These cells co
operate in groups for the purpose of discharging some
special duty necessary to the well being of the entire
body and each group is granted freedom of access
to the blood supply essential to the full discharge of
its function and the right of self determination in
its own internal processes. No one group attempts
to assume exclusive control of the government of
the body. The groups do not clash in angry contro
versy. They do not engage in war and destroy
millions of cells to gratify the ambition of a few cells
who desire to enrich themselves at the expense of
the rest. They co-operate peacefully together, all
for each and each for all. When one group of cells
is weakened, another group takes up part of its work.
When a cell or group is injured, all the groups lend
their assistance to repair the injury.
THIRD — MONOPOLY IS PENALIZED. When
236 The Science of Mastership
any group of cells receives more than its share of
blood, congestion is the result. Thus the group that
is receiving more than its share, is punished and the
groups that are robbed suffer. One is burnt out by
the excess of heat and the others are dwarfed by an
excess of cold.
WEALTH IS THE BLOOD SUPPLY of the body
politic and it is the function of a true government
to see that it is distributed wisely. When any cell
or groups of cells get more than their supply, con
gestion follows and the whole body suffers. The
individual or groups of individuals that get more than
their share are cursed by the excess. They become
plethoric, fat and diseased, spreading the poison to
all the adjoining cells. The individuals and groups
that are robbed are also cursed. They are poor,
thin and discontented. They preach anarchy and
create revolutions. When a government fails to take
steps to distribute the stream of WEALTH equitably
or fails to give each individual equal freedom of
access to the means of life, such a government is
a curse to society and ought to be abolished.
SALVATION FOR THE INDIVIDUAL OR THE
NATION CAN ONLY COME THROUGH OBEDI
ENCE TO THE LAWS OF NATURE. Find out
HOW nature does things and then do as she does.
TAKE CONSCIOUS CONTROL OF NATURE'S
LAWS TO SAVE THE INDIVIDUAL AND HUMANI
TY. THERE IS NO OTHER WAY.
Nature has pronounced and executed a curse on
the civilizations of India, Babylon, Egypt, Rome,
The Instincts in Human History 237
Peru and Mexico. Why? Because they violated
the LAW OF LIFE. The law of life is the pres
ervation of the race. It is nature's purpose to give
EVERY INDIVIDUAL an opportunity to develop a
great life and she will destroy any system that pre
vents it.
The desire for self preservation is normal and good.
When it is carried to EXCESS, it becomes abnormal
and self destructive.
When the POWERFUL FEW, in their desire to
preserve themselves, carry this desire to the point
where they enslave and exploit the MANY, such a
civilization contains the elements of its own de
struction. A civilization of this type is built on
exploitation and exploitation is parasitism. A PARA
SITE is an organism that seeks TO ESCAPE WORK
by living on the labor of others. NATURE abhors
an exploiting organism in any form, whether plant,
animal, man or system, and she has so arranged
things that the exploiting organism, instead of building
up its own life, degenerates itself and is finally
destroyed by its own acts. Its evasion of the law
of work deprives it of the power to work. The living
that it takes from others, weakens it and robs it of
the power to make a living for itself. Its refusal
to pay for the protection it takes from others deprives
it of the power to protect itself. For every good it
steals a double portion is taken from it. Thus it is
finally destroyed by its own habits. So all these so-
called great civilizations, built upon the slavery of
the masses, destroyed themselves and there is
238 The Science of Mastership
nothing left of their great cities, palaces and temples
but masses of ruins — the abiding place of the jackal
and the owl.
What is a great civilization? The same element
that builds a great man builds a great civilization.
A great civilization is composed of great individuals.
To measure a man's greatness don't put your tape
line around his biceps. This measures the greatness
of the animal. Don't put your tape line around his
brains because it takes powerful brains to be a
successful burglar or gangster. Don't put your tape
line around his estate because a man's estate is
what HE HAS and not WHAT HE IS, and many
estates are obtained by robbery. PUT YOUR TAPE
LINE AROUND HIS HEART. Measure the width
of his SYMPATHY. This alone is the true measure
of greatness. How much is he willing to give?
The truly great man is not the man that has the world
to serve him. HE IS THE MAN WHO SERVES
THE WORLD. THIS SYMPATHY IS BASED ON
CREATIVE AND INTELLIGENT THINKING.
Moses is called a great man. Unquestionably he
was a great man when measured by the standards
of his age. But his sympathy did not extend beyond
the confines of the Jewish race. The religion that he
formulated — its rituals, its bloody sacrifices, its
temple, its sacred books and its God were limited
to the Jewish people. All other nations were ex
cluded from its benefits. There are certain elements
in this religion such as the ten commandments that
are universal in the scope of their application. The
The Instincts in Human History 239
system, however, as a whole, is NEGATIVE. IT
IS A SYSTEM OF LEGAL PROHIBITIONS emi
nently fitted for the childhood of a race but altogether
out of date in this age of science and intelligence.
Besides Moses recognized and endorsed SLAVERY.
CONFUCIUS is called a great man. He was a
great man from the standpoint of JUSTICE. His
system of morals was the EXPRESSION of JUSTICE.
His superior man was a polished and exquisitely
correct Chinese gentleman. His rule of conduct
was "DO NOT UNTO OTHERS WHAT YOU
WOULD NOT WISH THEM TO DO UNTO YOU."
This was the NEGATIVE STATEMENT of the golden
rule. This rule of conduct explains why China
remained non-progressive for long centuries. Con
tact with the western races and the introduction of
the positive precepts of Christianity and democracy
has brought about the revolution that is going on in
China today. The system of Confucius is COLD
JUSTICE. It is CORRECT, PRECISE, CAREFUL,
MODERATE, REGULAR and SYSTEMATIC. It
aims to improve by the application of external rules.
In fact, it is the external expression of the character
of Confucius himself. Like all other EXTERNAL
SYSTEMS OF CONDUCT, it is beautiful but EX
TREMELY COLD.
BUDDHA was a great man and is considered by
many to be equal if not superior to Christ. He was
an exquisitely sensitized man. As the result of this
exquisitely sensitized nature, he was extremely un
happy as he considered the appalling misery of the
240 The Science of Mastership
MASSES of India. To do away with this misery,
he formulated a philosophy, organized and trained
a company of teachers to carry his MESSAGE to the
people. His MESSAGE WAS AS follows — DESIRE
IS THE CAUSE OF ALL SUFFERING. TO ABOL
ISH THE EFFECT THE CAUSE MUST BE
ABOLISHED. TO GET RID OF DESIRE, A MAN
MUST LOSE HIMSELF IN THE ABSOLUTE.
When a man is completely identified with the absolute
and is conscious of this oneness, he has lost all desire
for personal existence or personal immortality.
The things that men strive for such as position, power,
wealth, have no attraction for him whatsoever. All
his animal instincts are so purified and transformed
that there is no selfishness in them. He breathes
a UNIVERSAL LOVE. All life is sacred to him.
Having no desire to preserve himself, all his energies
are devoted to the supreme task of serving others.
Buddhism was a PROTEST against the cor
ruptions of Bramanism. For awhile it remained pure,
but, like all other noble systems, it lost its spirit and
its simplicity and became corrupt. Today Buddh
ism is INTROVERSION carried to the extreme.
It aims to destroy the instincts instead of transforming
and co-ordinating them. Its teachers sit cross-
legged in caves in the mountains concentrating on
their navels, seeking NIRVANA while MILLIONS
cry for deliverance.
Buddha laid too much emphasis upon the IN
TERNAL and too little on THE EXTERNAL. He
considered that the external had no value, that the
The Instincts in Human History 241
only thing of value was the INTERNAL WORLD
of the SOUL. In his desire to escape suffering, he
despised all external things. The aim of his phi
losophy was to EXPLORE THE INTERNAL WORLD
OF THE SOUL and discover the laws that govern
its movements. He failed to recognize the fact that
THE EXTERNAL WORLD has its PLACE and its
VALUE. THE HUMAN BODY has its functions to
perform and its VALUE on this PLANE OF EX
ISTENCE. THE THINKER AND HIS BODY
BOTH MUST BE PROVIDED FOR AND DE
VELOPED. I must admit that the teachers of this
philosophy have made marvellous discoveries in
the realms of the invisible and have unfolded
great spiritual power, but they have accomplished
very little in bringing the forces of the external
world under control or in providing for the physical
sustenance and general health of the population.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF BUDDHA IS A GREAT
SYSTEM BUT IT LEANS TOO MUCH TO THE
SPIRITUAL. IT IS NOT BALANCED.
MAHOMET has been called a great man. He
claimed that he obtained the Koran by direct rev
elation from God. He claimed that this book con
tains all TRUTH and that he was divinely com
missioned TO FORCE THE WORLD TO ACCEPT
IT. In chapter XLVII of the Koran he says, "When
you encounter the unbelievers, strike off their heads
until you have made a great slaughter amongst them
and bind them in bonds and either give them a free
dismission afterwards or exact a ransom until the
242 The Science of Mastership
war shall have laid down its arms. This shall ye do.
Verily, if God pleased, he could take vengeance upon
them without your assistance but he has commanded
you to fight his battles that he may prove the one of
you by the other. Oh true believers, if you assist
God by fighting for his religion, he will assist you
against your enemies." In chapter four he says,
"Fight for the religion of God. Part with the present
life in exchange for that to come, for whosoever
fighteth for the religion of God whether he be slain
or victorious we will surely give him great
reward."
MAHOMET'S MOTTO WAS, ACCEPT THE
KORAN AND LIVE. REFUSE TO ACCEPT IT
AND DIE. There are, in this strange book, some
beautiful precepts. The substance of its teachings
is largely taken from the Old Testament. Mahomet
followed the example of David and Solomon in the
practice of polygamy. In chapter four he says,
"Take in marriage of such women as please you two,
three, or more but if you fear that you cannot act
equitably towards so many, take one only or the
slaves you may acquire." So he placed no limit on
the number. Mahomet declared that he was the
representative of God to force the world to accept
his religion. So he organized an army and, at the
head of that army, he proceeded to force the world
to accept it at the point of the sword.
Mahomet was controlled by a FANATICAL COM
PLEX. His religion, in the main, with its harems,
seraglios on earth, and licentious heaven, was, to a
The Instincts in Human History 243
large extent, the sex instinct on a rampage. Like
all true fanatics, he was the essence of intolerance.
There was no allowance for freedom of expression
in his system. There was no remedy suggested for
the emancipation of the common man or the freedom
of women.
Aristotle was a great man. He wrote hundreds,
some say thousands of volumes. First, we have
his treatises on Logic, Categories, Topics, Prior and
Posterior Analytics, Propositions, and Sophistical
Refutations. These constituted his famous organon,
an instrument which lays down the rules for correct
thinking. Secondly, we have his Scientific works,
Physics, On the Heavens, Growth and Decay,
Meteorology, Natural History, On the Soul, The
Movements of Animals, The Parts of Animals, The
Generation of Animals. Thirdly, his Esthetic works,
Rhetoric and Poetics. Fourthly, his Philosophic
works, Ethics, Politics and Metaphysics. This man
discussed everything under the sun and ruled the
minds of the leaders of thought in Europe up to the
days of Roger and Francis Bacon. He gave the world
the most marvellous system of thought ever put
together by a single mind. Every later age drew
upon him and stood on his shoulders to see the truth.
His system however is a SYSTEM OF COLD LOGIC.
It is beautiful and scintillates in intellectual bril
liancy, BUT IT IS AS COLD AS THE ICICLES IN
WINTER TIME. The warmth of human sympathy
is absent. There is no plan in any of his writings
for the uplift of the common man. He aimed to
244 The Science of Mastership
combine all knowledge into one system, but he had
no vision of a united humanity. He accepts slavery
as a fact and says in regard to the common man,
"The great majority of men are natural dunces and
sluggards and they must be ruled in politics and
directed in industry with their consent, if possible,
without it if necessary." - "From the hour of then-
birth some are marked out for slavery and others
for command." "For he who can foresee with his
mind is by nature intended to be lord and master
and he who can work only with his body is by nature
a slave. The slave is to the master, what the body
is to the mind and, as the body should be subject to
the mind, so it is better for all inferiors that they
should be under the rule of a master."
Aristotle was an aristocrat and was a profound
believer in ruling families. He taught Alexander,
the son of Philip of Macedon, and Alexander is called
great. Alexander had a vision of world unity.
A world empire based on FORCE with himself on the
throne. He organized a great army and proceeded
to make his vision a REALITY. In accomplishing
his purpose, he wrecked cities and villages, ruth
lessly slew tens of thousands, made the earth red
with their blood to gratify his selfish ambition. This
vision of his became a brutal, selfish complex in his
brain. It ruled him to the exclusion of everything
else. The only thing that was sacred to him was his
blind ambition and, like all other destructive com
plexes, it finally destroyed him. He died a young man
in a drunken debauch. If this man was great, he
The Instincts in Human History 245
was a great destroyer, but we must not forget that
he was the product of his age.
Ghengis Khan, Caesar, Charlemagne and Napoleon
were men of the same type. Every one of these men
had a vision of WORLD EMPIRE based on FORCE
with themselves on the throne. If they did any
constructive work, it was done with a selfish purpose.
There was no love for humanity in anything they did.
They were willing to destroy humanity that they and
their posterity might live. They created, in their
own BRAINS, A SELFISH COMPLEX which
destroyed them.
How marvellously just in their operation are the
laws of nature. Nature's purpose is the PRES
ERVATION and UNFOLDMENT of THE RACE.
The individual or group or individuals who start
out to PRESERVE THEMSELVES and THEIR
POSTERITY by EXPLOITING THE REST OF
HUMANITY create the conditions that bring about
their own destruction. History is full of illustrations
of this law. When Napoleon was banished from
Europe to an island of naked rocks in the Atlantic
Ocean, he is reported to have expressed in sub
stance to his servant the following, "I like Alexander
and Caesar and others started out to build an empire
on FORCE. They failed and I have failed miserably.
Here I am who at one time was master of Europe,
with millions of wealth at my command, with nothing
left, nothing but a naked rock for my throne and not
a friend in the world. But two thousand years ago
Christ without an army or any of the equipment of
246 The Science of Mastership
war started out to build an empire on LOVE. He
succeeded and today he in enthroned in the hearts
of millions and these millions would die for him."
CHRIST appeared and began to proclaim his mes
sage at the time when the Roman Empire had about
reached the zenith of its power and glory. At the
time, Rome, the capital city, had a population of a
million. From its centre, thirty-one well paved roads
stretched out to the furthest confines of the far flung
empire. The name Caesar was given to the Emperor.
He was the source of all political power and the
Pontifex Maximus or supreme ruler in the realm of
religion. In fact, he was looked upon as the rep
resentative of God upon earth. All authority, all
glory, all power was his. Under him, in the realm
of government, were provincial governors and, under
him in religion, were the high priests of Paganism.
It was a well organized system. A system of ex
ternal splendor — apparently a magnificent civil
ization. It was built, however, like a pyramid.
At the apex were the favored few who had THE
BRAINS, beneath them, the MASSES in SLAVERY.
The FEW at the top made it their business to see
that the MASSES should never have a chance to de
velop their BRAINS. Out of the million of Rome'spopu-
lation, nine hundred thousand were slaves with no
rights whatsoever; they were tied to the plough in
the fields. They were chained to the oar as galley
slaves. They were sacrificed by the thousand in
the Coliseum to gratify the brutal tastes of their
masters. They were not allowed to own property,
The Instincts in Human History 247
and could never arise out of a condition of servi
tude.
SUPERIOR BRAIN POWER ANIMATED BY
CUNNING SELFISHNESS on the part of the
RULING classes built up this FALSE CIVILIZATION.
THE MASSES WERE SACRIFICED TO SUSTAIN
THE FEW IN SPLENDID AFFLUENCE. Such a
structure may last for awhile but, as we have seen,
it contains the elements of its own destruction.
In the midst of this cold and heartless civilization,
a lone voice was heard proclaiming the PRINCIPLES
of a NEW SOCIAL ORDER. The author of these
principles sprang from the ranks of the disinherited
and taught his principles in an obscure province of
this great empire. All great movements fraught
with uplift to humanity begin in obscurity. Jesus
was the son of a carpenter and Palestine was an
obscure province.
THE CENTRAL PRINCIPLE OF HIS TEACHING
WAS THE OPPOSITE OF THAT ON WHICH
THE CIVILIZATIONS OF THE WORLD WERE
BUILT. That principle was SACRIFICE THE MASS
ES THAT THE FEW MAY LIVE. The BASIC
PRINCIPLE OF HIS SYSTEM WAS THE CA
PABLE FEW MUST SURRENDER THEm ALL IN
SERVICE TO ELEVATE THE MASSES.
There is and can be no stable social order, no
security, no peace, no happiness, no righteous leader
ship unless THE LEADERS IN HUMAN SOCIETY
FHIST LOSE THEMSELVES IN SOMETHING
GREATER THAN THEIR OWN SELFISH IN
248 The Science of Mastership
TERESTS. The preservation and unfoldment of
the race is the LARGER PURPOSE. ABOUNDING
LIFE AND HAPPINESS IS FOUND ONLY WHEN
THE INDIVIDUAL FORGETS HIMSELF AND
SURRENDERS ALL HIS ENERGEES TO THE
LARGER TASK OF SAVING THE RACE. "Who
soever would save his life shall lose it and whosoever
will lose his life for the sake of humanity shall save
it." A life devoted to selfish interests robs itself.
A life surrendered and given in service to others
enriches itself. A selfish life creates a hell of misery.
An unselfish life creates a heaven of happiness.
HISTORY DOES NOT FURNISH US WITH A
SINGLE INSTANCE OF AN EMPIRE OR NATION
BUILT ON THIS PRINCIPLE. They were all built
on the opposite principle. Having violated the order
of nature they have created widespread misery
instead of widespread happiness.
The individual becomes strong by lifting others.
He becomes wise by imparting his wisdom. He
becomes happy by making others happy. He is
enriched by giving. He obtains abundant life by
surrendering his life. In making this PRINCIPLE
THE BASIS of his TEACHING, JESUS SWEPT
AWAY THE FALSE STANDARDS OF HIS
AGE, REFUSED TO LISTEN TO THE VOICE OF
AUTHORITY, DENIED TRADITION and SUPER
STITION and became to my mind THE GREATEST
CREATIVE THINKER OF THE CENTURIES.
HE WAS, IN HIMSELF, THE INCARNATION OF
THIS PRINCIPLE. IT WAS IN HIM A BRAIN
The Instincts in Human History 249
COMPLEX AND EXPLAINS EVERY THOUGHT
AND ACT OF HIS LIFE.
Ernest Renan, the French philosopher, said in
regard to Jesus, "This sublime person who each day
still presides over the destiny of the world may be
called DIVINE not in the sense that he has absorbed
all the divine but in the sense that he is the person
who has impelled his fellows to make the greatest
step towards the divine. Humanity, in its totality,
presents an assemblage of LOW BEINGS —
SELFISH — SUPERIOR TO THE ANIMAL ONLY
IN THE SINGLE PARTICULAR THAT ITS
SELFISHNESS IS MORE REFLECTIVE. Still
from the midst of this uniform depravity pillars rise
towards the sky and testify to a nobler destiny.
JESUS IS THE HIGHEST OF THESE PILLARS
and shows to man whence he comes and whither he
ought to tend." Science tells us that the preservation
and development of the race is the law of nature.
The central principle of Christ's teachings is an ex
pression of this law of nature and is therefore SCIEN
TIFIC. PUT INTO OPERATION," IT WILL GIVE
US SUPERIOR MEN AND WOMEN and a NEW
SOCIAL ORDER where all problems would be auto
matically solved. When I speak of THE TEACH
ING OF CHRIST I mean that and nothing else. I
am in accord with his teaching when it is given
without addition, subtraction, multiplication, division
or fractionalization. His character and work was
the expression of his own philosophy, and science
knows that a SOCIAL ORDER composed of
250 The Science of Mastership
individuals animated in every thought and act
by his spirit would be "a thing of beauty and a joy
forever."
UNADULTERATED Christianity is POSITIVE
NOT NEGATIVE. The Sermon on the Mount is
a positive document all the way through. There is
an OUTGOING SPIRIT OF LOVE flowing through
everything that Christ taught or commanded. The
Christianity of Christ is a LIFE — not a theory,
a creed, a system, a definition or a formula. Christ
never wrote anything. He lived a MAGNIFICENT
LIFE. THEOLOGIANS INSTEAD OF GIVING
EXPRESSION IN LIFE TO THE SPIRIT AND
PRINCIPLES OF CHRIST HAVE USED UP THEIR
ENERGY IN THEORIZING, CREEDALIZING
SYSTEMATIZING, DEFINING and FORMU
LATING not what he taught but what THEY
THOUGHT he taught. As a result, the realm of
theology is the realm of confusion and its history
is the history of bitter war. It was not the purpose
of Christ to put his spirit and principles into creeds
and definitions. Creeds and definitions become
coffins for a dead Christ.
It was his purpose to put his spirit and principles
into LIVING MEN AND WOMEN clothed in the
living tissue of flesh, blood and brain complex.
These men and women, transformed into his like
ness, would create a new social order.
The Christianity of Christ is ACTION. LIFE IS
ACTION — NOT BELIEF MERELY. BELIEF,
apart from action, has no value. The theologians
The Instincts in Human History 251
tell us that, in the matter of salvation, we have
nothing to do but rest in the belief that everything
is done for us. This is a complete reversal of the
teaching of Christ. His own life was one of CEASE
LESS ACTIVITY. He said, "Wist ye not that I
must be about my Father's business?" "I must
work the works of him that sent me while it is day
for the night cometh when no man can work." He
was scientific when he made DOING the condition
of KNOWING. "If any man will DO HIS WILL
HE SHALL KNOW of the doctrine whether it be of
GOD." He was also scientific in the parable of the
TALENTS; the man who used his talents was re
warded and the man who refused to use his talents
was deprived of the talents he had. He was sci
entific in his description of the Judgment. Those
who preached and did not act were condemned.
Those who did not preach but acted, were rewarded.
It is not a man's creed nor his theology nor his belief
that is the determining factor in judgment BUT THE
KIND OF LIFE HE LIVES — THE NATURE AND
RESULT OF HIS ACTIONS.
The Christianity of Christ is not a philosophy of
the FUTURE LIFE. It is a SCIENTIFIC PHI
LOSOPHY of the PRESENT LIFE. His purpose,
in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, was not to show
that the inequalities of the present life are evened up
in the next life but to show THAT SELFISHNESS
CREATED ITS OWN HELL. THE ACT OF DIVES
IN REFUSING TO FEED LAZARUS was ANTI
SOCIAL and carried within itself the FIRES of HELL
252 The Science of Mastership
from which Dives could not escape in this life or in
the next.
Christ did not locate HEAVEN on the OUTSIDE
or IN THE FUTURE. He said "The Kingdom of
God is within you." His conception was that the
FORCES THAT SAVE A MAN ARE IN HIM. The
spirit and principles of Christ, when accepted and
carried into action by a man, will transform and co
ordinate all his inherited instincts and inspire him
to devote all his energy to the great task of improving
the PRESENT LIFE. It is a religion of PRINCIPLES
EMBODIED IN MEN AND WOMEN. Great
cathedrals and temples, sacred places, sacred days
and sacred vestments constitute no part of it. It is
not an EXTERNAL SOMETHING outside of man.
It is an INTERNAL ENERGY inside of man, trans
forming his life. In his conversation with the woman
at the well, Jesus said, "Woman, believe me the hour
cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor
yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. But the hour
cometh and now is when the true worshippers shall
worship the Father in spirit and in truth."
"IN SPIRIT AND IN TRUTH." The temple of
TRUTH IS WITHIN THE SPIRIT OF THE IN
DIVIDUAL. THE AUTHORITY FOR TRUTH IS
WITHIN THE CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE
THINKER. The GREAT LIFE is a self develop
ment, an evolution from within. The kingdom of
power, of wisdom, of truth, of joy, of harmony, of
peace, of health, is within, waiting to be expressed in
terms of SERVICE TO HUMANITY. EXPRES
The Instincts in Human History 253
SION OF THE HIGHEST THAT IS WITHIN A
MAN IS SALVATION. REPRESSION IS DAM
NATION.
It is DEMOCRATIC. Its central principle makes
it democratic. The strong are to use their strength
to lift the weak. The wise are to share their wisdom
with the ignorant. The wealthy are to use their
wealth to lift the poor. Jesus identified himself
with the down trodden masses in order to elevate
them. HUMAN DISTINCTIONS BASED ON
ARTIFICIAL GROUNDS ARE NOT RECOGNIZED.
God is the Father of all men and all are his children.
In the presence of this fact, the ARISTOCRACY
OF WEALTH, THE ARISTOCRACY OF BRAINS,
THE ARISTOCRACY OF BIRTH are all swept
away. Sex distinctions and national distinctions
are all obliterated. THE PRINCIPLES OF THE
NEW ORDER PUTS ALL MEN ON A COMMON
LEVEL — EQUAL RIGHTS TO ALL AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGES TO NONE. Every individual has
the right to develop himself to the point where he is
conscious that he is a citizen of the kingdom of God.
THIS CONSCIOUSNESS IS THE NEW BIRTH.
There is nothing arbitrary in the teaching of Christ.
When Pilate asked him if he was a king he said,
"To this end was I born and for this cause came I
into the world that I might bear witness to the truth,
and he that is of the truth heareth my voice." THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO LIVES IN TRUTH RESPONDS
TO THE VOICE OF TRUTH. This is a psychological
law and Jesus places the acceptance of his teachings
254 The Science of Mastership
on this law. If a man cannot receive the teachings
of Christ, he cannot be forced to accept them. Ability
to accept the truth does not come through EXTERNAL
PRESSURE it comes through INTERNAL UNFOLD-
MENT. The Christianity of Christ, then, is FREE
FROM ANY FORM OF INTOLERANCE. If a
man is not ready to receive the teaching of Christ,
and he is forced to accept it under penalty he becomes
a hypocrite and lives a false life.
There is an IDENTITY OF PURPOSE IN THE
CHRIST IDEAL AND THE AMERICAN IDEAL.
Christ said, "I am come that men might HAVE LIFE
IN ABUNDANCE." The Declaration of Inde
pendence begins with the statement — All men are
born free and equal and have the RIGHT TO LIFE,
LIBERTY and the PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.
Is the American IDEAL a political party? NO.
A political party is THE POLITICAL EXPRESSION
OF THE ECONOMIC DEMANDS OF A GROUP.
It is, therefore, limited, fragmentary and sectional.
Is it a SYSTEM? NO. A system is a mechanism
constructed by interested parties and owned by them.
It has the marks of the tool on it. It is something
that stands outside of the people and apart from them.
It has no vital connection with them. The in
terested parties who framed it and own it would
pour the plastic life of the people into its moulds and
thus shape them into conformity with their plans and
purposes. System is the coffin of the American
ideal. Educational systems, military systems, in
dustrial systems, theological systems, governmental
The Instincts in Human History 255
systems are all mechanical contrivances built by the
powers that rule to CONFINE LIFE WITHIN
LIMITS PRESCRIBED BY AN ARBITRARY WILL.
The AMERICAN IDEAL IS A LIVING GARMENT
woven out of the life of the people themselves.
It fits them and grows as they grow.
Is the constitution the American ideal? NO.
The IDEAL PRECEDED THE CONSTITUTION
and is its CREATOR. The power that creates is not
the thing created and the power that creates has the
power to amend, improve, change or annul its creation.
Is the American ideal the vast body of laws, court
decisions and commentaries made by Congress,
state legislators, aldermen and judges? NO. These
ought to contain the ideal. Some of them do contain
the spirit of the ideal but thousands of them are a
complete reversal of it. Quite a number of them are
out of date and deal with matters that are obsolete.
Other thousands have reference to acts outside the
domain of legislative procedure, unwarranted inter
ference with personal liberties and freedom of
contract.
Is the American ideal embodied in Congress?
It was the intention of the founders of this govern
ment that the people's representatives in Congress
should, in all their acts, express this ideal. It was
intended that they should be THE VOICE of this
ideal, but ALAS "The voice is the voice of Jacob
but the hands are the hands of Esau." The hands
that these gentlemen stretch out to us in glad welcome
during election as they seek our votes are the hands
256 The Science of Mastership
of Esau, the son of the people, hairy, rough and sun
tanned but the voice that speaks in the acts of Con
gress is the smooth voice of Jacob, the SON OF
PRIVILEGE. What then is THE AMERICAN
IDEAL?
It is
FIRST — THE WILL of the people functioning in
an ATMOSPHERE OF FREEDOM through laws
that guarantee protection, defense and accommodation
to each citizen,
SECOND — THE INTELLECT of the people
functioning in an ATMOSPHERE OF FREEDOM,
creating institutions that give equal opportunity of
access TO THE MEANS OF LIFE to each citizen,
THIRD — THE CONSCIENCE of the people
functioning in an ATMOSPHERE OF FREEDOM
that gives complete liberty to each citizen to do his
own thinking and live his own life in his own way in
sofar as he does not interfere with his neighbor
doing the same thing,
FOURTH — THE VOICE of the people declaring
itself in AN ATMOSPHERE OF FREEDOM through
speech, book, essay, magazine, newspaper or as
sembly, unabashed in the presence of authority and
unawed by the commands of a censor.
The American IDEAL, then, demands freedom
for the action of the WILL, THE INTELLECT, THE
CONSCIENCE AND SPEECH. This freedom is
INHERENT IN THE NATURE OF LIFE. It cannot
be imparted by franchise or law and any government
that assails or abridges it is an enemy to mankind.
The Instincts in Human History 257
We have seen that there is only ONE ENERGY
in the universe. The energy of LIFE. This energy
individualizes and expresses itself through living
forms. It reaches its highest form of expression
in men and women. In men and women, life is
ever seeking higher levels. To reach these higher
levels, FREEDOM IS ESSENTIAL. A great nation
can never be developed in an atmosphere of FEAR
or SUPPRESSION.
Government, in all its forms, is afraid of PURPOSE
that is free, fearless and progressive. The powers
that rule are leagued against freedom. The theo
logian imposes his creed, the class, its caste; the
profession imposes its tradition, the moralist, his
fear, the libertine, his folly, superstition, its taboo,
the politician, his shibboleth. Under the heavy
burden of these impositions, independent thought,
independent action, independent speech is lost.
Every man's brain becomes a storehouse for ideas
that are not his own. He is moved to action by a force
that is foreign to himself. He assumes a purpose
that is not his own. He becomes a mere echo — an
automaton. THE FIRST ESSENTIAL in building
a great nation is FREEDOM. A great nation is
only possible when its component parts are great and
the truly great man is the man who stands out in the
wide open, capable of independent thought and
action.
FREEDOM, then, is of primary importance —
freedom to think, freedom to believe, freedom to
strive, freedom to work, freedom to develop. The
258 The Science of Mastership
employer who refuses this opportunity to those under
him, denies the American ideal. The Laborer who
attempts to abridge the freedom of the employer,
violates the spirit of the ideal. When capital op
presses labor, the ideal is denied. When labor
dominates capital, the ideal is denied. The man
who enjoys freedom of thought, purpose and action
is free though he may be a pauper. He is free to
choose whether to build or destroy. The man who
is bound by any tie that dictates his thought, belief
or action is a slave. The man who lacks the power
to do his own thinking, who thinks other men's
thoughts, whose will is submerged in the will of
another, whose intellect is chained to a dogma,
a custom, a tradition or a superstition, whose con
science is shackled by fear and whose speech is
muzzled by law or public opinion is a slave though
he may be as rich as Croesus. A great nation can
not be built out of slaves or cowards.
Salvation by proxy is impossible. One man cannot
build another man's life. The only thing he can do
is to rouse the dormant forces that are within him.
Apart from his own co-operation, a government can
not emancipate a man. If external appeal does not
awaken internal response, nothing is accomplished.
An atmosphere of FREEDOM is the supreme appeal
to the forces within. This atmosphere is necessary.
It gives room for the expression of the inward powers.
If they are present, they will rush into action. Their
absence will also be revealed. Freedom is value
less to a man who is a slave within. FREEDOM
The Instincts in Human History 259
GIVES OPPORTUNITY TO CAPACITY. Freedom
is a revealer. It reveals the presence or absence
of capacity. Government cannot supply BRAINS
but it can furnish an atmosphere of freedom for the
revelation, display and exercise of BRAINS. In the
light of the American IDEAL, it is the supreme
function of government, in all its laws, institutions
and arrangements, to furnish each individual with
an atmosphere of freedom to pursue his own purpose,
build his own life and determine his own destiny.
The protection of the individual in this freedom
protects every other individual in the same freedom.
A government that guarantees more than this
violates the purpose of the ideal. A government
that guarantees less destroys the ideal. The supreme
duty of a government, organized on the American
ideal, is to give EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY
to each individual to unfold or refuse to unfold a
creative and constructive life.
As a proof of the splendid heights to which the
HUMAN MIND can rise in all departments of thought
and action in an atmosphere of FREEDOM, consider
Athens between the years 490 B. C. and 338 B. C. —
a period of one hundred and fifty years. Athens was
a democracy. In this inspiring atmosphere of free
dom and opportunity, THDATY GREAT MEN ap
peared. In the realm of philosophy, SOCRATES,
PLATO and ARISTOTLE — the history of thought
furnishes no greater names than these. In dramatic
art, AESCHYLUS, SOPHOCLES and EURIPIDES,
all masters of classic drama, and ARISTOPHANES
260 The Science of Mastership
the founder of the world's comedy. In history
THTTCYDIDES who has perhaps no rival, while
XENOPHON has but few. In sculpture, within
this period appeared PHIDIAS and PRAXITELES,
while MYRON and SCOPAS occupy high places, in
architecture, within this period appeared ICTINIUS,
and CALLICRATES who built the PARTHENON
while MNESICLES constructed the Propylaea. These
great architects produced the most perfect buildings
in the world and gave inspiration to all succeeding
architects. In painting, POLYGNOTUS did work
that cannot be rivalled. Within this period, in
oratory, DEMOSTHENES thundered and roused
the Athenians against Philip, while AESCHINES,
LYSIAS and ISOCRATES almost equalled him in
power of public address. Within this period, in
statesmanship, PERICLES and THEMISTOCLES
proclaimed eternal principles of government, while
in generalship MILTIADES the hero of the Marathon
and NICIAS the leader in the Spartan wars are names
that cannot be forgotten. Besides these, within this
period, ALCD3IADES, CLEON, THRASYBULUS,
LYCURGUS and MYRONIDES flourished — thirty
great men, each a MASTER in his own realm. Thirty
master intellects unfolded within a period of one
hundred and fifty years in an atmosphere of freedom
and opportunity.
Would these choice flowers of genius have grown
and unfolded into full bloom under the desolating
heel of enthroned privilege? Would these intellects
have expanded into strength if they had been chained
The Instincts in Human History 261
to a machine? Could these men have poured into
the stream of the world's thought their volumes
of wisdom had they been slaves? If the government
at Athens had been one where property was enthroned
by privilege and life chained to the galley oars of
dividends would these intellects ever have emerged?
Would these roses have bloomed in the chilling air
of conventionalism or sent forth their perfume in the
stuffy atmosphere of bureaucracy? All this advance
of the intellect, all these distillations of exquisite
wisdom, all these flowers of oratory, all this skill of
the dramatist, all these beautiful creations of thought
revealed in structure, marble and canvas, were
wooed to perfection of expression in an atmosphere
of FREEDOM.
Some may object to my conclusion that FREE
DOM was the cause of this marvellous expansion
of the Greek intellect in Athens and say that it was
the result of LEISURE, that the government of
Athens was a democracy of the aristocrats, gentle
men of leisure who lived in the city and owned farms
in the neighborhood and these farms were operated
by slaves. This gave these members of the de
mocracy abundant leisure for the cultivation of the
mind. I answer this objection by saying that
LEISURE IS ANOTHER WORD FOR FREEDOM
and if the AMERICAN IDEAL was in full operation
in this country everybody would have ample LEISURE
for the cultivation of the mind. If within a period
of one hundred and fifty years, within the limits
of a small city, FREEDOM can show such splendid
262 The Science of Mastership
results in the development of the highest type of
men, it could multiply these results in America by
a thousand within the same length of time if it was
not for the fact that we interpret THE AMERICAN
IDEAL IN TERMS OF MONEY INSTEAD OF
MEN.
One of the saddest chapters in human history is
that one which records the eclipse of the Greek in
tellect. Imperialism came like a desolating storm
and overthrew the FREEDOM of ATHENS, hurled
the splendid creations of her architects into splintered
ruins, shattered the dreams of her sculptors en
shrined in marble, tore from their frames the price
less products of the artist's brain, stilled the music
of the orator's voice, buried beneath the debris the
wisdom of her philosophers, then, having DE
STROYED FREEDOM, the condition and inspiration
of advance, REACTION erected its throne on the
grave of FREEDOM and the midnight of mental
darkness settled down upon the earth.
In this chapter, I have shown how THE INSTINCT
OF SELF PRESERVATION carried to EXCESS by
individuals who possessed superior BRAIN POWER
have produced our RULING FAMILIES, in every
civilization and in every age. I have also shown
that these RULING FAMILIES have obtained their
POWER by monopolizing the NATURAL RE
SOURCES of the country and maintained it by
EXPLOITING the MASSES. I have shown that
this development was NATURAL and was made
possible by the fact that the MASSES did not have
The Instincts in Human History 263
the BRAIN POWER to assert their RIGHTS. Histo
ry shows that NATURE has pronounced and ex
ecuted her penalty upon the so-called civilizations
built on this plan. NATURE'S supreme purpose
is the PRESERVATION and UNFOLDMENT OF
THE RACE and the individual or groups of indi
viduals who interfere with this purpose, create,
within themselves, the conditions which destroy
them. NATURE REFUSES TO HAVE HER PUR
POSE REVERSED. There is profound philosophy
in the statement "Give him rope enough and he will
hang himself."
I have also shown that there is another INSTINCT
in MAN which provides for THE PRESERVATION
AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE RACE. THIS
SEEMS TO BE NATURE'S SUPREME PURPOSE.
THE INDIVIDUAL FINDS HIS GREATEST HAP
PINESS and rises into TRUE GREATNESS when he
forgets himself and co-operates with nature in this
LARGER PROGRAM. This was Christ's IDEAL
and he made this PRINCIPLE THE INSPIRATION
and BASIS OF A NEW SOCIAL ORDER. It was
also THE IDEAL OF THE FOUNDERS OF THIS
REPUBLIC. THIS IDEAL ENTHRONES LD7E
and makes everything ELSE SUBSERVD2NT TO IT.
WASHINGTON, the FATHER of this Republic,
and LINCOLN, its PRESERVER, were both em
bodiments of this IDEAL. But we have departed
from the IDEAL OF CHRIST and the FOUNDERS
OF THIS REPUBLIC.
HISTORY SHOWS US THAT EVERY GREAT
264 The Science of Mastership
MOVEMENT FRAUGHT WITH PRINCIPLES OF
HUMAN UPLIFT HAS BEEN SEIZED BY
GROUPS WHO POSSESSED KEEN, CUNNING,
POWERFUL BRAINS and perverted it to their own
SELFISH PURPOSES.
On one occasion some years ago, I was invited
by a man who owned an apple ranch in the heart
of the Blue Ridge Mountains to visit him. I ac
cepted the invitation. I arrived late in the evening.
Next morning I said to my host, "I would like to
have a good drink of mountain water." "Well,"
said he, "you can have all you want. Two-thirds
up the mountain there is a big spring which pours
out from beneath the rocks. It comes down the
mountain and pours out through a big pipe in my
back yard. It is perfectly pure and cold as ice."
So together we went out and looked at the water
coming out of the pipe. It was yellow with MUD.
I said, "My friend, do you call that mountain water?
I expected cold, clear, sparkling water. What is the
matter with it?" "Well," said he, "I know what is
the matter. The damned hogs have gotten into the
stream." "How are we going to get a drink?"
said I. "We must go up and drive the hogs out,"
said he. So we began to climb up the mountain;
finally we came to where the hogs were, four big
fat hogs lying side by side grunting with delight as
the cool waters flowed over their hot, steaming
sides. The hogs grunted out their objections to
being driven out. We had to use force.
When this Republic was founded, there sprang
The Instincts in Human History 265
from the rocks of truth a stream of FREEDOM as
pure as snow and sparkling in its brilliancy and
beauty. It came down the mountains of time to
quench the thirst of the waiting millions of common
folks, not alone in America, but in the world. But
look at the water today as it pours out through the
pipes of Congress, and state legislatures. It is
yellow with MUD. What is the matter with the
water? The hogs have gotten into the stream.
Look at these hogs. Here they are wallowing in
the stream— PRIVILEGE, INTOLERANCE, GRAFT
AND MONOPOLY. To give the nations a pure satis
fying drink WE MUST DRIVE OUT THE HOGS.
THE STREAM OF MORAL TRUTH THAT
FLOWED FROM CHRIST AND THE STREAM
OF POLITICAL TRUTH THAT FLOWED FROM
THE FOUNDERS OF OUR REPUBLIC ARE BOTH
POLLUTED BY THE HOGS. THE MISSION
OF THESE TWO INSTITUTIONS CANNOT BE
CARRIED OUT UNLESS THE HOGS ARE DRIVEN
OUT. It is PERFECTLY NATURAL for the hogs
to seek a cooling stream on a hot day and it is PER
FECTLY NATURAL that they should RESENT being
driven out. But they MUST BE DRIVEN OUT
by CONSCIOUS EFFORT or they WILL be driven
out by REVOLUTION, for nature refuses to have
her purpose REVERSED. The stream of TRUTH
and FREEDOM was intended for all the people of
the WORLD. We cannot afford to have it polluted
by a few hogs. The MISSION of America is TWO
FOLD.
266 The Science of Mastership
FIRST — To live the principles of pure Christianity
and
SECOND — To proclaim the principles of an un
polluted freedom. But we must be the national
incarnation of both before we can present them to
the world. It is only in an atmosphere of freedom
that pure Christianity can do its work in transforming
men and women.
THE CROSS REPRESENTS THE FIRST AND
THE FLAG THE SECOND. BOTH SYMBOLIZE
THE SPIRIT AND PRINCIPLE OF THE NEW
SOCIAL ORDER. THAT SPIRIT IS SELF SACRI
FICE and THAT PRINCIPLE IS SERVICE.
Everybody admits that CHRIST was one of the
greatest if not THE GREATEST CHARACTER in
HUMAN HISTORY. The spirit and principles
that made him great will make any individual great.
The American IDEAL — EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
TO EACH INDIVIDUAL TO BE and DO HIS BEST
— is the atmosphere, where the finest type of
CHRISTIAN can be developed. A LIFE UN
FOLDED INTO GREATNESS THROUGH
SERVING HUMANITY IS THE MOST VALUABLE
THING ON EARTH. WHO CAN MEASURE ITS
VALUE? In my opinion the development of men
and women of this type is the GRAND END towards
which nature has been working for centuries.
What has SCIENCE to say about this? Professor
ARTHUR COMPTON of the Chicago University,
the winner of the Nobel Prize, in a recent interview
said, "To the PHYSICIST it has become clear that
The Instincts in Human History 267
the chances are INFINITESIMAL that a universe,
filled with atoms having random properties, would
develop into a world with the infinite variety that
we find about us. This strongly suggests that the
evolutionary process is not a CHANCE ONE but is
DIRECTED TOWARD SOME DEFINITE END.
If we suggest that evolution is directed, we imply
THAT THERE IS AN INTELLIGENCE DIRECTING
IT. It thus becomes reasonable to suppose that
INTELLIGENT MINDS may be the END towards
which such AN INTELLIGENT EVOLUTION is
proceeding.
A survey of the physical universe indicates that
MANKIND is very possibly NATURE'S HIGHEST
ACHIEVEMENT in this direction. Though as
tronomers tell us that there are millions and millions
of stars in the sky A PLANET IS OF VERY RARE
OCCURRENCE, AND A PLANET ON WHICH
LIFE CAN EXIST IS EVEN MORE RARE.
We found strong reasons for believing that, in
spite of his physical insignificance, man, as an IN
TELLIGENT BEING, may be of EXTRAORDINARY
IMPORTANCE in the cosmic scheme.
If we were to use our own best judgment what
would we say is the most important thing about a
NOBLE MAN? Would we not place first THE
BEAUTY of HIS CHARACTER? It takes a whole
lifetime to build the character of a noble man. The
adventures and discipline of youth, the struggles and
failures and successes, the pains and pleasures of
maturity, the loneliness and tranquillity of age —
268 The Science of Mastership
these make up the fire through which he must pass
to bring out the pure gold of his soul. Having been
thus far perfected, what shall nature do with him?
Annihilate him? What infinite waste." This state
ment tends to confirm the conclusions arrived at
in this book. There is, in the universe at large, a
DIRECTIVE INTELLIGENCE. EVOLUTION IS
THE METHOD EMPLOYED BY THIS DIRECTIVE
INTELLIGENCE TO PRODUCE INTELLIGENT
MEN AND WOMEN WHO WILL UNFOLD INTO
GREATNESS BY CO-OPERATING WITH NATURE
IN HER GREAT PROGRAM.
APPENDIX
I most heartily recommend to those who desire
to study dietetics in a thoroughly practical manner
to procure the seven remarkable books published by
John Maxwell, nationally known Dietitian, Lecturer,
and director of a large Vegetarian Restaurant in
Chicago.
These are written in clear, lucid, precise, in
telligible language, showing how a rational, natural,
undenatured, vegetarian diet is capable of curing
almost every human ill.
No. 1. Tuberculosis, its cause and cure.
No. 2. Gall Bladder Troubles and Kidney Affections.
No. 3. Gout, Rheumatism, Arthritis, Sciatica, Lum
bago.
No. 4. Asthma, Bronchitis, Hay Fever.
No. 5. The Perils of a Meat Diet.
No. 6. Diabetes.
No. 7. Constipation.
The whole of the 7 books sent express paid on
receipt of $3.50. Address:
JOHN MAXWELL, 35 E. Van Buren Street,
Chicago, 111.
