{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__whitney___creed_of_the_dauntless.pdf","mytitle":"Creed Of The Dauntless","mylang":"de"}
Creed of the Dauntless
by
FRANK B. WHITNEY
Second Edition
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
1931
CREED OF THE DAUNTLESS
A presentation of constructive thought and
principles for those who would be undaunted, un-
affected by adverse beliefs or by external things,
victorious in the realization of their innate power
to overcome.
Dedicated
to the reader who, at this moment, is beginning- to
affirm the credo of the overcomer.
THE CREED OF HEAVEN
\LHESE times when there are many creeds
And. many rival spires
And arguments are just as hot
As old satanic fires
And each religious potentate
Exclusive rights would claim
Confused* I T&onder* "What is Truflt?"
I asJc in heaven 's name.
The door of heaven opens wide,
But not a voice is heard.
(Ijudge there cannot be a creed,
Since heaven is not stirred/)
And then a single ray of light
Comes beaming through the strife,
And in that light I read the answer:
"Light and Love and Life!"
if you find theology
Too hard to understand*
Cease thinking of all man-made creeds,
Opinions now at hand,
And turn to God in your distress,
And see the light He'll give.
His creed is such a simple one:
"Be radiant! Love and Live!"
CONTENTS
LIVING VICTORIOUSLY
Creed of the Dauntless 11
The Chant of the On-Goers (poem) 15
Mightier Than Circumstances 16
Through Eyes of God (poem) 18
Untouched by Events 19
He's Standing by Me All the While . .
(poem) 23
Meeting the Issue 24
Today Was Made for You (poem) 28
"None of These Things Move Me" 29
Little Town of No-More-Care (poem) 32
Standing Firm 33
Keep Trusting (poem) 37
Impersonalize Your Personal Devil 38
Since God Is All in All (poem) 42
Getting Along with People 43
Let's Be Friends (poem) 48
Conscious of no Limitations . 49
Omnipresence (poem) 53
Gaining the Right Perspective 54
Finding Ourselves in Heaven (poem) .... 58
The Divine Law of Adjustment 59
Count Your Blessings (poem) 64
Detachment 65
Singing in the Rain (poem) 69
The Soul's Birthday 70
I Forgive Myself (poem) 74
Station L-O-V-E Broadcasting 75
RELAXATION AND PRAYER
Relaxation 81
Shift the Burden (poem) 84
"Silence!" 85
God Himself now Blesses You (poem) .... 89
The Silence of Heaven 90
The Mystical Altar (poem) 95
Guarding Your Thoughts 96
Only the Absolute . - 100
From Prayer to Demonstration 101
HEALTH AND DEMONSTRATION
Into the Silence, into Health 107
I've Just Heard a Secret about You ....
(poem) 112
Silence and Health 113
Forgive Him Now (poem) 118
A Definite Clew to Healing 119
Trusting and Eesting (poem) 125
The Prayer That Actually Heals 126
And Then the Sun Came Out (poem) 131
Subconscious Healing 132
To the One Who Would Be Critic (poem) . . 136
Within You Is Healing Power 137
The Test of Love (poem) 141
Is It Right to Be Unhealthy? 142
Only God-and-I (poem) 146
Becoming Health-Minded 147
SMILES AND HAPPINESS
Smiling at Life 155
My Heart Is Smiling Smiles Today
(poem) 159
The Smiling Heart 160
The Friend Who Understands (poem) .... 165
Keep Looking Up 166
Why Friendship Must Endure (poem) .... 170
Constantly Happy 171
Optimists and Pessimists (poem) 176
Keeping Happy 177
To Insure Happiness (poem) 181
Finding and Keeping Happiness 182
Just Keep Cool (poem) 186
The Religion of Loving Hearts and Smiling
Faces 187
Onward and Upward (poem) 192
How to Have a Year of Happiness ...... 193
LIVING VICTORIOUSLY
CREED OF THE DAUNTLESS
BELIEVE in Love, Truth, and Life
God! I believe in the power of God's
love within me as mighty to wipe out
every appearance of fear or hate in my
life. I believe in God's Truth, the universal
truth, the truth of my being, as mighty to lift
me out of ignorance, falsehood, and supersti-
tion. I believe in God's life, my life, as mighty
to overthrow every belief in disease or death.
I believe in my higher self, my divine self,
Christ within me ! I believe that the Christ im-
planted within me at the beginning is now com-
ing forth, casting out all that is unlike Himself
and manifesting His fullness and perfection.
I believe that I am the son of God ! I believe
that I am made in His image and after His like-
ness. I believe that through me, His son, God
is now doing mighty things.
THE TWELVE FACULTIES
I believe that the faith now being increased"
in my consciousness is mighty to remove all
doubt and disbelief. All belief in adversity and
limitation must yield to my faith, quickened to
believe in only God, the good.
I believe in the judgment of God, my own
good judgment, my power to judge wisely and
well, my ability to discriminate between the evil
and the good, the false and the true.
I believe in the omnipotence of love. I know
that all that is unlike God, all that is opposed to
11
12 Creed of the Dauntless
love, must yield itself to the divine command
to love.
I believe in the strength of God now appear-
ing in my mind and in my body, casting out all
belief in weakness and appearing as my own
indomitable strength*
I believe in the power of God now express-
ing itself as my power and dominion over
things and situations of the external world, I
know that He that is within me is mightier than
all things of the world.
I believe in my ability to behold perfection
and beauty. In the face of seeming adversity I
can visualize Truth, God, in manifestation.
Through spiritualized imagination I behold the
real, the true.
I believe in man's power, my power, to
understand the deeper things of God. I recog-
nize nothing in my world as incomprehensible.
I understand! I see! I know! Infinite wisdom
is revealed to me through my spiritual con-
sciousness, my oneness with Spirit.
I believe in the will of God as powerful to
subjugate all personal will. I am willing that
God's will be done in me. God's will is always
good will, and through His will His desires for
me are executed.
I believe in divine order. The orderliness
of Spirit is now removing all confusion and dis-
order from my life and all things are in divine
order. I no longer believe in disorder, because
my thoughts and my affairs are arranged in an
orderly manner and my whole world is adjusted
harmoniously.
I believe in my ability to eliminate from my
Creed of the Dauntless 18
life all that is undesirable. By denying
the untrue, I make room for the true. By
affirming the good, I cause it to manifest.
I believe in the zeal and enthusiasm of
Spirit. I am zealous for every good thing. I
know that my zeal for good is but a foreshadow-
ing of the coming of good.
I believe in the purifying, renewing life of
Spirit, abiding at the very heart of my being
and manifesting through me as my life. I be-
lieve that this life is mighty to cleanse and to
regenerate me.
THE BODY
I believe that my body is the temple of the
living God. I believe that the Spirit of God fills
and thrills my body with life and health. This
belief wipes out all thought that my body is
.material, and restores me to the truth that my.
body is spiritual and perfect.
I believe that my eyes are the eyes of Spirit.
Through the power to behold perfection in all
things I have power to see perfection in the
manifest world. I see without strain or effort.
I behold God's world of joy and beauty.
I believe that my ears are attuned to har-
mony and that I have power to hear the har-
monious voice of Spirit. My ears are blessed by
the Spirit of Christ and I hear welL
I believe that my heart expresses the love of
God. Through it courses pure and rich blood.
There are no hardened conditions in my arter-
ies, because they manifest the youth and love
of Spirit.
I believe that my lungs breathe the pure
14 Creed of the Dauntless
ether of God. I breathe deeply, knowing that I
inhale holy breath. My body is fed by the pure
ether of Spirit.
I believe that my stomach is healthy and
strong. I am wise and moderate in my eating.
I bless my food and know that it is transformed
into strong and healthy cells, nerves, muscles,
glands, and bones.
AFFAIRS AND PROSPERITY
I believe that all my affairs are in the keep-
ing of Spirit. I believe that my finances are
under the management of the law of justice,
order, increase, and prosperity. All sense of
lack and failure is removed from my conscious-
ness and from my business. I am blessed with
success and plenty.
I believe that my whole environment is im-
pregnated with prosperity, love, and peace. My
world and my affairs are blessed through the
presence of God, who showers on me His richest
gifts. As His son, I am heir to all that He is
and has. I live in a world of plenty and peace.
I believe in my mastery over all things of
the external world. The great Within, the
mighty I AM, subjugates all external things to
itself. Greater is this inner power than any-
thing in the universe. Mightier is God, the
mighty I AM, than that which appears to
be.^
Greater is the power of reality than the illusion'
and the shadow.
I believe in my power to go forth this day,
mighty to do all things according to the bidding
of God within me.
THE CHANT OF THE ON-GOERS
X HEY walk upon illumined paths,
A pageantry of light ;
They chant the song of men made free,
They sing of health and might.
Now, in the Great Ongoing,
There can be no note of fear,
For only God as Love exists ;
To them as Love He's near.
To them there is no evil nigh,
These chanters of the good ;
To them naught tut the good exists
For God is understood.
And, in the Great Ongoing,
There are never evil things
For only God as Good exists ;
Of Him the chanter sings.
And so these Sons of Light press on,
And forward, upward, go ;
They sing their song: "God is! I am
I love ! I see ! I know !"
And in the Great Ongoing,
God and man are one somehow,
For man with God, the One, exists
As they exist, here, now.
15
MIGHTIER THAN CIRCUMSTANCES
|HERE is something within man which
seems to say to him : "You are mightier
than any situation or experience which
can come to you. There is within you
that which can master any adverse circum-
stance which appears in your life." Even
though one has not discovered this power and
utilized it, yet the thing is possible. At least,
there is no one who would not want to find it
and make it of service in handling situations.
Even the phrase, "Mightier than circum-
stance," conveys power. We feel that almost
the speaking of such powerful words in time of
adversity would scatter all trouble. The words,
when we speak them, seem to issue from the
voice of God within us. They seem to lift us
far above the vexing experiences which one
often meets in daily life.
"Mightier than circumstances." Man,
knowing the truth of his unity with God, is
mightier than any external situation which can
arise in his life. He is mightier than the evil
doings of any person. He is mightier than any-
thing outside of him.
"Mightier than circumstances." The Truth
of God is mightier than all belief in adversity
and disease. There is no condition in the phys-
ical body which is mightier than God's healing
Truth. The truth about man's supreme perfec-
tion is mighty to destroy any pathological con-
dition.
16
Creed of the Dauntless 17
"Mightier than circumstances." Man is
mightier than any disorder or injustice which
can appear in his affairs or in his environment.
Man's consciousness of Christ within him is
mighty to dispel any adverse condition which
can appear as his own.
If an experience comes to any one, that per-
son can master it. There is no personal prob-
lem which the individual cannot solve. There
is no deception which Truth cannot reveal.
There is no disease which the truth of God can-
not remove or heaL
When man even begins to think of his
mightiness he finds that it begins to develop.
He finds that the might of God supercharges
him with power and with courage to defeat
anything in his sphere of action. He discovers
that even his words about mightiness seem to
summon the aid of God to his side. He finds
that the words seem to raise his mind and his
body to a higher degree of resistance.
He who gives much thought to this mighti-
ness over experiences and situations can never
again let himself believe that he is a victim of
circumstances or the pawn of fate. He cannot
think of himself as weak or as subordinated to
any external will or power.
"Mightier than circumstances." In this
realization we rest, in the assurance that God is
with us at each and every moment of the day,
lifting us higher and still higher to a conscious-
ness of our invincible sonship. "Mightier than
circumstances." Yes, mightier than any ad-
verse condition, because God within us is all
power and all might.
THROUGH EYES OF GOD
I PRAYED that I might have the power
To see the real and true,
To penetrate adverse beliefs
And see the good shine through ;
Then, as I prayed a prayer for light
That I be holy, wise
I knew that I was one with God :
I saw through holy eyes.
I viewed the sinful, suffering,
The ones whom men call bad;
Through eyes of God I saw their good
The good they'd always had ;
Then God within directed me
To see them whole and free,
To help them see themselves as He
Knew they could only be.
They caught the vision that I had ;
They saw themselves made whole ;
They caught the vision of the Christ
Within their inmost soul ;
For through God's eyes they saw them-
selves ;
They knew they could arise
And be the perfect sons of God ^
And, too, see through His eyes.
18
UNTOUCHED BY EVENTS
JOW I wish that things were just the
same as they were before it hap-
pened!" Have you ever heard some
one make this cry from the very
depths of his soul and, understanding exactly
the whole situation, have you not longed to re-
store that person to the peace and harmony
that he had enjoyed before some unkind word
had been spoken or some unpleasant event had
occurred?
Think how ridiculous it is to give to one lit-
tle word the power to change a career or to de-
stroy a friendship! Can we not see that the
force of events lies entirely in the power that
we give to them? Do we not see that any situa-
tion or circumstance can affect us only to the
extent that we surround it with power or fear?
A person's first reaction to a situation is
most important. He needs to be careful that
his reaction be a desirable one, for, if it is not
desirable, it may cause him to build up an ad-
verse state of consciousness. When he comes
to a place where he must control the situation
and treat it metaphysically, he is brought face
to face with the fact that he has built up a
negative state of consciousness and must over-
come it.
The secret in handling events without being
touched by them lies in one's preparation. If a
person builds up a strong consciousness of
Truth, he can rely upon it to resist the old belief
19
20 Creed of the Dauntless
that events can master him or can affect his
well-being. If he realizes that he is mightier
than circumstances, greater than the situations
of the external world, he will know that he has
power to rise above events and to live in that
consciousness in which there are no accidents,
no misunderstandings, no power in negative
words or adverse situations.
The person living in a high consciousness of
Truth does not attract negative situations.
Living in the consciousness of love, he does not
attract situations in which hate and fear are
dominant. He lives in a world superior to the
happenings of that state of consciousness in
which personality and personal disturbances
reign.
Many persons give great power to the effect
of negative words and, consequently, a negative
word is able easily to subjugate them to itself.
In fact, they give more power to negative words
than to words of Truth and, therefore, have lit-
tle faith in the power of a word of Truth to
neutralize the seeming power of the negative.
We should teach ourselves to react to a sit-
uation through the same consciousness that we
had before it happened. If we permit a hasty
word to mar a lifelong friendship we are
brought to the fact that such friendship was
not founded upon truth and love. If, fortified
by a substantial friendship and a consciousness
of Truth, we are brought face to face with an
adverse personal situation, we have really no
recourse but to disregard the unpleasant situa-
tion and react through friendship, love, and
Truth.
Creed of the Dauntless 21
If a person's motives are right when he says
something that may displease another, that per-
son knows that he has recourse to something
that will bring the other back to friendship and
love. If love is really back of the motive, love
will continue to thrive. There are no misunder-
standings in love. Love is untouched by false
events.
Have you often longed to be back where you
were before some unpleasant situation took
place? And yet something within you, through
those hours or days of worry, tried to tell you
that in Truth the whole thing never happened.
Something seemed to tell you that in God's book
of life there was no blot and that your name and
that of your friend were still written upon a
clean white page, immaculate, still radiant with
love.
What a comfort that was to you ! Possibly
you wondered how to convey this thought to the
other person. Then the way was revealed to
you : If you wanted to be back in the former
relation with this friend, then you must cease
to think of recent unpleasant events. You must
return to the consciousness of love and Truth
that you formerly enjoyed.
Quite likely you felt that you were almost
free from the situation; then the appalling
thought came to you: How about the friend?
Would he view it in the same light? Possibly
he was not a student of Truth. Quite likely he
was not. Then the second realization came to
you that, regardless of the situation or the
person, you must continue to dwell in the high
22 Creed of the Dauntless
consciousness of Truth wherein all events can
be rightly handled and shaped.
Things and events of the external world
cannot affect us or mar our happiness when we
are established in the high consciousness of
Truth in which there are no lapses from love
and understanding. If we build up a strong
consciousness of the power of Truth and love,
then we cannot be swayed by the belief that
hate, fear, or personality can govern our world.
Love and Truth endure. What we know as
human events and personal misunderstandings
change and disappear, but love and Truth con-
tinue to exist.
Our only solution in handling annoying per-
sonal situations lies entirely in realizing Truth.
If we would restore ourselves or another to an
original state of happiness, we must first make
that restoration in the consciousness of love and
Truth. How insistent the words of Paul are in
this respect, and the very familiar lines offer
just the right solution of such a problem : "If a
man be overtaken in any trespass, ye who are
spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of
gentleness ; looking to thyself, lest thou also be
tempted/'
Untouched by events ! Knowing this truth,
we free ourselves from all belief in the power
of external circumstances. The love of God
never fails and is untouched by personal events.
HE'S STANDING BY ME
ALL THE WHILE
'S standing by me all the while ;
He'd have me look to Him and smile,
To look away from doubt and fear,
And know that He is standing near.
And sometimes when the shadows fall,
I need to know that God is All,
But need no longer be afraid,
For Jesus is at hand to aid.
He's standing by me all the time ;
It matters not the hour or clime ;
I cannot falter, cannot fail;
His love forever will prevail.
I'll not complain, my lot bemoan;
I'll ne'er again think I'm alone.
For Jesus stands at hand to cheer
And have me know He's very near.
He's standing by me night and day;
I sometimes think I hear Him say :
"Just lean on Me and have no fear
And some good blessing will appear ;
Just lift your thought to Me and know
That naught but Truth can e'er be so."
I always feel that I can try
When I know Jesus is near by.
23
MEETING THE ISSUE
IE OFTEN find ourselves in circum-
stances in which the next step seems
to be difficult. Confusion and inde-
cision may contribute to make the case
more difficult. How often some one explains
his problem to us and then asks : "What shall
I do? Which way shall I turn? How shall I
meet the issue?" At such a time we may think
back to the time when we had such a problem
on our hands. If we have been disciplined in
the study of Truth, we subconsciously say,
Meet it through Truth."
Meeting- the issue through exercising the
consciousness of Truth means applying Truth,
love, wisdom, and good judgment to problems
involving hate, falsehood, ignorance, injustice,
and unfairness. These problems are legion.
Virtually all the problems centering around the
personal equation belong in this category,
A person may remark at this point, "If one
did not meet the issue through Truth, how else
would it be met?"
If hate is met with hate, if injustice is met
with injustice, if falsehood is met with false-
hood, the problem is not solved according to
Truth. Keep this truth in mind: Fire will
never extinguish fire. If the hot flame of hate
is raging, hate will not extinguish it.
If, over night, a friend of yours turns into
an enemy, you cannot remedy the situation by
becoming an enemy to him. If he refuses to
24
Creed of the Dauntless 26
radiate friendliness, you cannot meet the issue
by following his example. Your duty is to
radiate enough friendliness for both of you.
You are in the same position as the wayfarer
who finds that his companion has become
crippled and must be carried for a while. You
do not want such a burden? Then your friend-
ship has been put to the test and you have
proved that you cannot meet the issue*
Do you believe that your employer is unjust
and unfair? Have you secretly planned to give
him a dose of his own medicine and to pay
him back in the same coin? Would that be
meeting the issue? Would that kind of fire
serve to extinguish the flame of bitterness that
is beginning to rage in your mind? Why not
meet the issue? Why not rise above the whole
thing? Show him that you are a bigger man
than to attempt to deal in unfairness and in-
justice. Show him that you can meet the issue
between you and him just as he would want
you to meet it in affairs of the firm.
Do you grasp the significance of meeting the
issues of life by exercising Truth, by applying
the great Principle underlying all life and all
personal contact? Do you not see that in this
simple message lies the solution to virtually
all personal problems? Does not your own per-
sonal problem simply solve itself while you are
reading this? Is not this truth that is here
explained to you the very one that deep down
in your heart you know will have to be applied?
No, the way of Truth is not a hard one.
Cease to think that the way of Christ is one
of difficulty and sacrifice. You go the way of
26 Creed of the Dauntless
sharp rocks and bleeding feet only when you
choose to turn from the path of love, fairness,
and justice: the way of Truth. When you try
to meet the issues of life by applying a mortal
standard one of hate, injustice, and death
you go the stony way.
When your friend or employer seems to be
in the power of the devil of mortal beliefs
beliefs that he can win out through thinking
and doing evil your duty as a friend or a
faithful employee is to help him to clear his
own mind of such wrong thinking. In such a
case, as previously advised, you must think
enough thoughts of Truth love, justice, and
wisdom for both of you. Possibly you have
come into his life to help him clear his mind
of such beliefs. You are his healer. Through
the work of Spirit within you, you can help him
to correct his thought.
If you get the full meaning of the thought,
"One fire does not put out another," you have
caught the very spirit of this lesson. If you
see the truth that you cannot rise through
taking the downward path of another, the way
of hate and injustice, you will not be tempted
to follow in his footsteps. When you think that
another is thinking thoughts of injustice, free
yourself from all belief that you must retaliate
with injustice.
Are you meeting the issue right now? You
are if you are letting the truth of this message
to you clear your consciousness of all belief
that you must drop to the level of the one who
thinks thoughts of injustice in order to lift
himself up. If you think thoughts of justice
Creed of the Dauntless 27
sincerely enough he will be compelled to relin-
quish his position and rise to your heights.
Does it not seem strange to you that we ever
have thought that we could meet such issues
through taking an adverse or combative posi-
tion? How could adverse thoughts on our part
ever cause another to think thoughts of justice
and good? How could the token of injustice
ever buy for us the justice that we crave?
How could hate attract love? How could the
old belief that we must give another the bitter
dose that he has prescribed for us ever provide
a cure?
Does the issue seem hard to meet now?
Does the little personal problem still remain
unsolved? It could not be so if you have really
met the issue in your own consciousness. If
your thought has been corrected, then the sit-
uation is already remedied.
The person who thinks fairly, squarely, and
justly is bound to solve all his personal prob-
lems. Such problems cannot hold any place
in the world of the person whose thought is
centered in Truth. Prove this statement for
yourself.
As you meet little issues day by day, in the
Truth way, the larger ones will take care of
themselves. Eventually you will find that there
are no issues to be met. You will have arrived
at that consciousness in which there is no hate
or injustice. Only good can exist for you when
you are fully centered in Truth. Go your way
this day rejoicing that you have met the issue
at hand.
TODAY WAS MADE FOR YOU
WHAT matters whether rain or shine?
What care you wliat the place or clime?
Today was made for you.
The cloud that lingers in the sky,
The sun that's smiling from on high,
Will bless you e'er the day goes by.
Today was made for you.
It has no memVies of the past,
No thought of joys that did not last ;
Today was made for you.
Without a thought of coming days
(For is the future else but haze?).
It lives! Today! Live, sing, and praise!
Today was made for you.
Today youVe power to claim your health;
Fulfill desires for heaven's wealth!
Today was made for you.
If you will cease to pine and grieve,
You will from it good gifts receive.
Be friendly to Today! Believe!
Today was made for you.
28
"NONE OF THESE THINGS
MOVE ME"
Let us lye unaffected by limitations and
things of tke external
OULD you like to live a life of detach-
ment, a life in which you were unaf-
fected by people and things, one in
which you ceased to vibrate to un-
pleasant situations, one in which you actually
lived lived the ideal, radiant life you have al-
ways visualized? Of course, you have had this
longing
1
and, no doubt, even at times when you
seemed most attached to unhappy situations
and to people who misunderstood and harassed
you, you have felt down within yourself that in
some way or other you really were above petty
situations and master over things of your
world.
There are many students of Truth who
know how to apply the teachings of Jesus to
problems of health and of finance, yet have to
learn how to* get into that consciousness in
which they will not be affected by people and
things. The personal equation seems to be more
difficult to them than the problems bearing
upon health and prosperity. No doubt many
persons would easily make their demonstra-
tions if they would learn to handle personal
problems.
29
30 Creed of the Dauntless
The first thing for you to learn when trying
to make the personal demonstration is that God
in the midst of you is all-in-all, greater than
all else in the universe. If you think of ex-
ternal things or of people as having greater
power over you or your life than you have
through your consciousness of God within you,
then you get into a state of being dual-minded,
and of thinking of gods many.
Have you ever thought that this matter of
letting people and things affect you is entirely
a matter of personal consciousness? Do you
know that the whole situation does not concern
people and things but that it evolves around
your belief in the power of the external?
Change your thought about the external and
it has no power over you; it can no longer
make you uncomfortable or give you a feeling
of distress. The admonition of Jesus, "Love
your enemies," has a psychological aspect which
is not often recognized. From the standpoint
of mind we can see that what takes place is not
love for the persons who have been represented
as enemies, but an exchange of loving thought
for the thought of enmity which has been held.
Is there some one in your life who disturbs
your peace of mind? Possibly you answer yes
but this answer is not altogether true. In the
world of appearances some one appears to dis-
turb you. Explained according to Truth, the
situation is solely one in which you are enter-
taining a thought which makes you unhappy.
Possibly this person has done nothing to harm
you. Possibly you have been mesmerizing
yourself with a belief which has no foundation.
Creed of the Dauntless 31
In Truth this is just what has taken place.
The person has not been harming* you; nor
could he possibly do so.
What is the proof of all this? Change your
mental attitude and prove it for yourself. If
you think that some person has power to harm
you and is doing so, change your thought. Re-
verse the mental attitude. Think of him just
as you think of one whom you love very much.
You need not think of him in a personal way.
You must entertain the same quality of thought
that you entertain for your friends.
You are not able to do this? Another proof
that you are in personal consciousness, bur-
dened by personal beliefs, beliefs that persons
and external things affect you. Can you
say,
"
'None of these things move me.' No one
in the world has power to make me unhappy.
Christ within me is all power, all love, and I
share my love with all the world" and mean it?
When trying to make a demonstration over
persons and things, cease to think of them as
things external to you. Give your whole atten-
tion to redeeming your thought about them.
You need not even seek to change them through
your right thought. Change your thought and
see what happens. Your conception of people
and things will change and you will find that
they have changed too.
"
'None of these things move me.9
That
within me which is high and noble refuses to
be debased by the belief that external things
have power. Through eyes of Spirit I see my-
self master over my world, a world of love and
understanding."
LITTLE TOWN OF
NO-MORE-CARE
You ask me where I'm living now?
A town called No-more-care,
A little town set on a kill
WKere all is bright and fair,
High up above the fogs and winds
Where joy will never cease,
Where there is no more worrying,
But just eternal peace.
Come up and be my neighbor, friend,
And live in No-more-care ;
A very easy place to find ;
First thing you know, you're there.
You build a ladder by your thought,
You learn to trust the true,
And then ascend to No-more-care;
With worrying you're through.
Outside the open gate you'll find
A valley deep and wide
Where each his worrying must leave
And cast his care aside ;
I now suspect it heaven is,
This town of heav'nly air,
For heaven's a place of harmony,
Like little No-more-care.
32
STANDING FIRM
I EARN to stand firm in the face of ad-
verse situations. Stand firm, in the
consciousness of the power of God
within you. Stand firm in the knowl-
edge that you are mightier than any of the vex-
ing situations of the world. Stand firm in the
realization that Christ within you is mightier
than adverse appearances.
What is the secret of standing firm? It is
in gaining the consciousness that the power of
God within us cannot be affected by outer ap-
pearances ; in knowing the truth that in Spirit
there is nothing to oppose us, since God is all
in all; in finding within us the substance of
Spirit that exists like a tower of strength in the
face of opposing forces.
Turning to the concordance in the Bible we
are directed to so many passages that are help-
ful in our standing firm that the Scriptures be-
come a veritable textbook on the subject.
Prominent in the Bible are these passages:
"Fear ye not, stand still." "Stand still and
see." "The house of the righteous shall stand."
"The word of our God shall stand forever."
"By faith into this grace wherein we stand."
"He shall be made to stand; for the Lord hath
power to make him stand." "He that standeth
stedfast in his heart . . . shall do well." "For in
faith ye stand fast." "Having done all, to stand.
Stand therefore, having girded your loins with
truth." "That ye stand fast in one spirit."
38
84 Creed of the Dauntless
"That ye may stand perfect and fully assured
in all the will of God."
The conflict that one experiences in learn-
ing to stand firm lies entirely upon the mental
and spiritual plane; it is not a physical battle.
The belief in the power of persons, things, and
external circumstances must meet defeat by the
truth that nothing of the external world can
withstand the power of Christ within man.
Many persons do not stand firm in time of
necessity because they think of the situation as
one of peculiar importance and significance.
How often we hear some one say, "Truth is all
right in your case, but in my own there are so
many conflicting situations that they cannot be
transformed or corrected by meditation and
prayer !" Just as if the nature of any situation
gave it a power exceeding the power of God!
Just as if one person's problem were more
weighty than another's. The fact is that one
person's problem is handled by the same means
as is another's. Those who know how to stand
firm in Truth do not waver because of the
nature of their demonstration. God is never
less powerful in times of emergency and stress
than in times of peace and easy sailing.
Stand firm! Eise to the consciousness that
there is something within you that is unmoved
by things of the world. Find the power within
you that is like a strong tower of defense, an
immovable pillar. Enter into the high con-
sciousness from which you cannot be swerved
by things of the outer world. Know the truth
that no person or thing can take from you the
all-conquering Spirit of God within you.
Creed of the Dauntless 85
Stand firm ! When a belief in disease, con-
tagion, or weakness is voiced in your ears,
stand firm in the realization that only the truth
about God is eternally true the truth of your
own eternal being. When adverse beliefs seem
to be stronger than absolute Truth, stand firm.
You will be well compensated. You will be re-
warded for your stand.
When your environment seems to be one of
inharmony, when you are almost ready to de-
spair because things of the world seem to crowd
upon you, stand firm in your faith in the power
of God, the good. Every thought that you give
to believing in the power of evil but detracts
from your ability to stand firm. Every belief
that you entertain that harm can come to you
is but a point in favor of so-called adversity.
On the other hand every belief in the power
of God calls you away from beholding adverse
appearances and brings you to a realization of
the truth about the situation at hand.
Stand firm ! When it would seem that you
are about to be engulfed in failure and lack,
stand firm in the consciousness of God's abun-
dance. When money would seem to be lack-
ing, stand firm in the truth that God's bounty
is appearing. When you are deluged by urgent
needs, keep standing firm. Every deluge must
give way to the sun. Every need will be met.
Every desire will be fulfilled.
Stand firm! If falsehoods seem more
powerful than Truth, if the evil word seems
stronger than the word of Truth, keep standing
firm. Every false note attests to the truth of
harmony. Every discord serves but to magnify
86 Creed, of the Dauntless
the beauty and concord of harmonious tones.
Every evidence of falsehood, gossip, and malice
becomes a guidepost to Truth.
Standing firm is but loyalty to Truth. Re-
fusing to believe in the power of evil is simply
loyalty to God, the good. Those who stand with
God never stand alone, while those who take the
stand for evil have nothing to stand with them
and nothing in Truth to support them.
Even the thought of standing firm causes us
to rise to the grandeur of our divine sonship.
We feel something within us that is never
touched by winds of chance and caprice. There
is something within us that is never changed
by outer conditions, something upon which we
can always rely, something telling us that it is
Spirit, eternal, immovable.
Those who stand with God, those who are
loyal to Truth, those who stand firm when
Truth is on trial, have nothing to lose. They
shall see the power of so-called adversity ren-
dered powerless; they shall see the haughty
head of the Adversary bow before the might of
God; they shall see the nothingness of that
which has falsely called itself something.
Why does this message of standing firm ap-
peal to us? Because the Spirit of truth within
us is witness to its truth. Standing firm is but
taking a stand for God, keeping faithful and
loyal to Him, standing witness to His omnip-
otence, attesting to the appearing of Christ.
KEEP TRUSTING
-T\.T tlie time wlien faith is tested,
When it seems that you are bested;
Keep trusting.
When it seems that love is routed
And before your eyes it's flouted ;
Keep trusting.
When men seem to doubt the Master,
He will fly to you much faster ;
Keep trusting.
Nothing's gained when faith is yielded,
Keep your faith; thereby, be shielded;
Keep trusting.
Now the load's begun to lighten
And your path's begun to brighten;
Keep trusting.
37
IMPERSONALIZE YOUR PERSONAL
DEVIL
I HE ONLY difference between the
words, evil and devil, is just one little
letter. According to metaphysics, evil
is simply a belief contrary to good
and Truth. What has been called the devil is
this evil belief acting as a personal being or as
an evil personality.
In this age of enlightenment the world has
pretty well freed itself from the old belief in a
personal devil, a power working for evil in op-
position to God, the good. We speak of a per-
sonal devil as the evildoer who was the terror
of theologians of the past. At that time a dis-
belief in a personal devil was a mark of dis-
loyalty to the Christian religion. Now we
should consider a belief in the power of any
entity which would set itself up as opposing
God or Christ as a belief disloyal to the one and
only Power in the universe.
In the last decade or so religion has given
us a new interpretation of itself and of life.
Looking beyond the theology and ecclesiasti-
cism of the past, we have found the religion of
present-day enlightenment, the religion of
Truth. The belief in a personal devil has
changed entirely. Truth has revealed to us
that there cannot be a devil, since God is alone
in supremacy. However, the world still goes
on believing in personal devils, even though
they be of a different sort.
38
Creed of the Dauntless 39
If a person does not rise in a business office
as rapidly as he thinks that he should, he may
blame his failure on a personal devil. A co-
worker who was formerly a friend is viewed
with suspicion and alarm. It must be he who
is working the mischief. Then the personal
devil enters into the life of the suspicious per-
son. Evil has taken on a personality and has
become a devil. The false belief has been per-
sonified. When we want to make evil just a
little worse than it is, the personal element in
us personifies evil. What a creation !
The discussion of devils could not be a
wholesome one, neither could the belief that
they are at work in our midst be wholesome.
Even as we have given clean white pages to a
matter of inky darkness, so must we clear all
inky beliefs from our thought and clear our
minds of all belief that evil can interpret itself
to us as a personality.
We are inclined to smile at the belief in
witchcraft that prevailed in this country in
colonial days. But, in this age, I have heard
bright, intelligent persons voice a belief in per-
sonal devils that was an insult to present-day
enlightenment.
Recently in talking to a woman who was not
succeeding in her work because of a deep-seated
belief that a certain person was working
against her, I gave her this advice: "Imper-
sonalize your personal devil. Cease thinking
that any person is working evil in your life or
could possibly do so. See these situations as
having come about through your own adverse
thinking and correct them through thinking
40 Creed of the Dauntless
higher. Think Godward. In Truth you will
find that you cannot succeed or fail through the
machinations of another. In Truth you will
learn that God alone can lift you higher and
higher in your work."
Had this woman continued to try to help
herself through concentrating upon the one
whom she called a devil, she would have aggra-
vated and intensified the situation. Why? Be-
cause she would have acknowledged to herself
some power without herself, When a person
acknowledges an external power he cannot re-
sort to the almightiness of God within himself.
This woman could not resort to the power of
All-good so long as she believed in the influence
of evil.
Possibly, if this woman were asked by her
minister if she believed in a personal devil, she
would answer emphatically, "No!" However,
in her own consciousness she held such a be-
lief. She believed that evil personified was
working against her highest interests. She be-
lieved that some external power was greater
than the power of her indwelling Spirit. She
believed that there was something besides the
allness of God.
Sometimes it would seem as if the most
cowardly attitude that a person can take is
that of believing that his failure is due to the
evil workings of another. Can you imagine
God's creating man as master over everything
in his world and then placing man at the mercy
of all the other men in the world? Can you not
see that the whole matter of a person's belief
in a personal devil of this sort is simply a mat-
Creed of the Dauntless 41
ter of ignorance and unenlightenment on his
part, which will remain until the light of Truth
dawns in his consciousness?
If we believe in the power of any person to
injure us we cannot enter into the great uni-
versal, impersonal consciousness in which we
know the reality and the power of God. There
is no doubt but that the mark of the overcomer
is his ability to throw off what may be called
personal thoughts the beliefs that other per-
sons can make him unhappy or can cause his
failure.
Impersonalize your personal devil ! Detach
evil from personality and you will find that
there is no devil. Remove your belief in evil
from the person whom you have considered an
evil influence and you may find that he is your
best friend. If you just must personalize some-
thing, personalize some one with good and find,
thereby, that you have been entertaining an
angel unawares.
What a gloomy subject this subject of
devils is! How laughable the whole thing is
when the belief has been corrected in our
thought. In these days of modern enlighten-
ment yes, days of electric lights one never
hears of ghosts. A simple turn of the light
switch would reveal their falsity. And so just
a light ray of intelligence scatters the belief in
personal devils. Let us start today and see
how many angels we can find.
SINCE GOD IS ALL IN ALL
SINGE God is all in all to me
There is no Kate or fear.
For love is all there is to see
And God as love is near.
If God is really all I know
And all that -fillff my life,
In Truth, there is no evil thing
No pain, no fear, no strife.
Since God is all in all to me
There is no lack of health,
For He supplies my life with good
And manifests as wealth.
If God is really all I know,
I give no thought to sin ;
No impure thought, unholy deed,
Can touch the Christ within.
Since God is all in all to me
There is no time, no past,
No vain regret of days gone by,
No foy that did not last.
If God is really all I know,
\Vith Him I'm satisfied.
And in His love I rest secure
And in His peace abide,
42
GETTING ALONG WITH PEOPLE
"Ah!" you say* "there is my difficulty, I
seemingly have everything in the tvorJd
but the ability to get along tuith
IGHT at the start we must reveal to
you the way to get along with people:
Get out of personal consciousness! If
you are in the attitude of mind in
which you think of people as working against
you, as misunderstanding you, as being incon-
siderate of what you do, then the first step must
be that of getting the right perspective of life.
Here is an astounding fact: The person in
this state of mind need not have any one ac-
tually working against him. The chances are
that he does not have* But, being in personal
consciousness, he is in the state of mind in
which he believes a person is working against
him and he will eventually look upon some one
as the one who he thinks- is doing so. Do you
grasp what personal consciousness will do to
you if allowed full sway?
Why will getting the right perspective of
life change the consciousness and cause one to
rise out of the realm in which false personali-
ties move back and forth across the mental
stage? Because the higher consciousness re-
veals the great, universal unity which joins all
living creatures. In this unity there can be no
43
44 Creed of the Dauntless
fighting for existence, no hates and no jeal-
ousies, no misunderstandings.
When next you feel a seeming obsession to
dislike a certain person, clear this individual
of all relation to the matter that prompts your
dislike. Simply recognize that you need free-
dom from personal consciousness, and set about
adjusting your thought.
In the higher consciousness exists the truth
that no one has power to harm you. In this
consciousness you realize that no one has a de-
sire to injure you. In the heavens of the mind
your fellow beings exist as angels. Even this
one whom you have seen through personal con-
sciousness exists in this heavenly realm and,
possibly, right now he is unconscious of your
dislike and is planning to bless you in some
way. Such a situation often has happened.
Once in an unguarded moment you spoke
unkindly of this friend and your words trav-
eled and you have been fearing them ever since.
But remember that the thought and the word
of love will travel much faster! Never allow
yourself to despair over personal situations.
The power of Truth and of love will rectify
every error of the past.
If you would free yourself from the past,
forget about it and begin to do good. Do good
to the one whom you have injured. The heal-
ing, constructive power of doing good will do a
mighty work in repairing the old, personal
wounds.
Possibly you have gone through a very try-
ing experience, which you have brought upon
yourself because you did not realize that you
Creed of the Dauntless 45
must never discuss people in a negative way.
When you discuss the shortcomings of another
to his face, as we say, or to his friends, you
are handling dynamite. You are also putting
yourself to the inescapable task of generating
more love for the person than you have gener-
ated ill will by your malicious tongue.
There are those who believe that Christ is
within man that is to say, within themselves,
but not in the other fellow. They say, "Christ
is in me and I have all power over every one."
We can see that if others held the same thought
war would soon be on. Truth never encourages
or licenses us to walk over the other fellow.
Centuries ago a wise man, wise in the
knowledge of the lack of forbearance that men
often display toward one another, spoke a great
truth, a truth which no one in all these years
has been able to improve upon: "All things
therefore whatsoever ye would that men should
do unto you, even so do ye also unto them." If
a person takes this for his rule he is assured of
success in getting along with people.
We can see that the problem of getting
along with people is one that is solved by leav-
ing others and our limited thoughts about
them out of the question for a while. We need
to learn how to think rightly about them be-
fore we attempt to think of them at all. Be-
fore you can relieve yourself of the inharmony
which personal animosity has brought into
your life, you must take a very decided stand.
You may have to reverse your whole thought
process.
The person whom you have disliked must
46 Creed of the Dauntless
appear to you as one whom you love. Remember
that love Is impersonal. The love that you feel
for a member of your own family is the same
love that you must feel for other people.
"But/' you say, "I have literally showered
love upon this person and still it does no good."
Love does no good? Showers of love do no
good? You believe such a thing as this? Then
change the quality and quantity of your love.
Shower more loving love and shower in greater
showers. There is no other remedy, so you
must administer the only one there is. Never
miss an opportunity to think lovingly and to
speak lovingly of this person whom you have
not been loving.
Your unkind words caused disaster. Now
send loving words to overtake them. Hereto-
fore you discussed personal limitations; now
compliment this person upon his or her good
points. Of course, tact is necessary in rectify-
ing personal situations. Why? Because the
lack of tact probably was the cause of the
trouble.
Formerly you disregarded the Christ in the
one whom we are discussing. Now you must
take the opposite stand. You must behold the
Christ in him. At one time this person prob-
ably symbolized to you the personification of
Satan. Now you are dealing with opposites
and you must see the opposite of Satan. You
must see Christ in him. What will this do for
you? It will help you to behold more and more
of Christ in others : that which we are all seek-
ing to do.
What is the secret of those persons who get
Creed of the Dauntless 47
along easily with other people? They respect
a certain something in others. They respect
the Christ. They have no desire to be unEnd
to those in whom the Christ is content to dwell.
If you could but get a glimpse of some of
the difficulties that another may have in his
life, you would not be so quick to misjudge and
to dislike him. Why not take the stand of help-
ing him even though in the past he has ap-
peared to be inconsiderate of you. In the great
ongoing what matters it if, for the time being,
he appears unresponsive? Just go forward
content to know that as a prince of the realm of
heaven your conduct is princely and that you
are gentle toward all others of the court of the
Lord.
Oh, how we admire and love princely peo-
ple, those who never condescend to engage in
little, narrow situations of personal conscious-
ness! They always get along with people and
people, in turn, are happy to get along with
them.
Now, we come to the point. This thing of
getting along with people resolves itself into a
matter of living above the vexing situations of
personal consciousness. Dwelling upon the
mountain top of Truth, we are high above the
shadows of the valley. Gaining the high real-
ization that in Truth each man is the son of
God, we have no desire to malign or to injure
this son.
LET'S BE FRIENDS
JlF there*8 one who stands apart
From your love and from your heart,
Trust the Lord to find a way,
Go to him this day and say :
"Let's be friends"
Not another sun should rise
Till you look into his eyes,
Grasp his hand, all malice still,
Saying, with your heart a-thrill:
"Let's \>e friends"
Comes a time when he and you
Are again like lovers two,
When he will recall the day
You had courage just to say:
"Lets be friends"
Who can estimate the good
To be done through brotherhood?
Love in Christ will right each wrong
When your Spirit sings its song:
"Let's be friends."
48
CONSCIOUS OF NO LIMITATIONS
OW WOULD you like to live in a world
in which there were no limitations
placed upon you no beliefs that any
person or thing could limit or restrict
you? Can you imagine a more heavenly situa-
tion than that which would obtain if you were
free from personal consciousness from the
belief that persons could take your joy from
you and liberated from the thought that
things of the outer world could distress you?
Have you ever considered why the world is
so emphatically denounced by religious leaders
and spiritual teachers? It is because the belief
that external things have power causes the
average individual to lose sight of the power
of Spirit within him. The race thought that
persons and things and outer situations can rob
the individual of his peace, health, justice, and
success is responsible for a large proportion of
the individual's unhappiness, physical weak-
ness, or financial failure.
We think of heaven as a state in which God
and the manifestation of His love and goodness
are all that exist, a state in which the individual
would cease to be conscious of evil, disease, and
adversity. In such a heaven the individual
would cease to think of evil and limitations, be-
cause he would have found that in heaven these
have no reality, being, or presence.
If in heaven, in God, in absolute Truth, in
Spirit there are no limitations upon man, then
49
50 Creed of the Dauntless
in reality there are none, there never have been
any, and there never will be any. If in the
sight of God man is without limitations, then
man, conscious of beholding himself as God sees
him without fault or restrictions, is for all
time, through all ages, without limitation.
The facts of human experience do not com-
prise the absolute truth and science of man's
being. Man may think of himself as bound to
a world of limitation, he may go about shackled
and fettered by such human beliefs as will bring
about a sense of unhappiness, disease, and fail-
ure, but the truth of God the truth about him-
selfis still Truth.
In human experience man is continually
busy discarding apparent fact for truth. He
is compelled to give up the belief that he is
earth-bound for the truth that he can fly. He
must yield the age-old thought that he cannot
hear at a distance for the recently revealed
truth that in Spirit there is neither distance,
nor delay, nor separation, nor impossibilities.
(Recently a n6w radio was installed for the
writer during his absence from home. When
he returned to his apartment in Kansas City
and turned on the instrument, the first sound
that issued from the radio was music from the
Church of the Madeleine in Paris !)
Material science is doing a great missionary
work in converting spiritual aspirants to the
truth of Spirit. Scientific discoveries and in-
ventions such as the airplane and radio have
compelled us to see man's supremacy over mat-
ter and the things of earth. Noah traveled by
ark because he was in the ark consciousness.
Creed of the Dauntless 51
He was more conscious of the limitations of the
ark than he was conscious of the supremacy of
an airplane over the ark. He, too, would have
traveled by airplane if he had been airplane-
minded.
You who think of external conditions and
material affairs as having power to limit you
or bind you to them are just as unprogressive
as if you were traveling today by ark. You are
material-minded to the extent that you think
of matter as binding you to itself. You believe
in the power of the external world to the ex-
tent that you allow it to convert you to itself
and to deprive you of the power of Spirit.
If you do not believe in the power of mind
ideas over matter, the power of Spirit over
the world, then you might as well deny that
radio, which is a manifestation of an idea for
annihilating the belief in distance, can permit
you to hear at this moment conversations tak-
ing place on the other side of the world. Con-
sidered from a metaphysical standpoint, radio
is but a makeshift. Conscious of limitations,
man discovered the facts that made radio pos-
sible in its present unperfected stage. Even in
the joy of being able to hear at a distance, man
became conscious of a limitation : he could not
see. He promptly set to work to overcome this
limitation, and television resulted. Man is at
his best when he permits no limitations and is
conscious that there are none of them in his
life. Man's keynote is freedom, absolute free-
dom from restrictions, limitations, and inhibi-
tions. He will fight prohibitions placed upon
him even though deep down in his heart he may
52 Creed of the Dauntless
realize that the thing prohibited is denied him
for his highest good.
The only way to get rid of the limitations
that you place upon yourself is to rise in your
consciousness about them. Your only way out
is through the higher mental and spiritual
realms. Mental freedom must precede physical
freedom. The thought that binds must drop
from your consciousness before freedom in the
body or in the environment can result.
By thought you can bind yourself to limita-
tions and live in a world hedged in by self-
imposed restrictions, or else you can free your-
self and live in a world in which limitations are
unknown. The world takes on the aspect of
hell to the extent that we look upon it as a place
of bondage. We are then prompted to visualize
heaven as a place of perfect freedom and, con-
sequently, a place where there are no limita-
tions placed upon us.
Your life is incomplete and hampered to the
extent that you believe in limitations. Dissolve
all limitations back into a mental state, then
free yourself from the thought that binds. Be-
come conscious that in absolute Truth man has
no limitations, and then know that you are this
free, unlimited man of God. Know the truth of
your freedom and it will appear. Become un-
conscious of limitations and they will cease to
exist.
OMNIPRESENCE
1 FIND God in the quietness,
I miss Him in the noise;
I never see Him in the frowns,
He smiles at me in joys;
I know that He is not in death
For He is life's rare wine,
And He is not apart from me
But is right here as mine.
I know He's m the peace profound,
Not in the battle's roar;
I know He never ceased to live,
But lives forevermore ;
He never shows Himself in hate,
This Champion of love,
And though I drop my eyes to earth
I'm sure to look above.
My God is omnipresent, true,
In Truth He's everywhere;
Why is He not in fear and hate
And noise, disease, and care?
Because these things are not of God;
Fictitious they must be,
For God, my omnipresent good,
Is just Reality.
53
GAINING THERIGHT PERSPECTIVE
AVE YOU gained the right perspective
of life? Are you able to take the right
mental view of a situation? Can you
t the little circumstances of the
day and see all things in their right proportion?
The word "perspective" is defined as "the
interrelation in which parts of a subject are
mentally viewed; the aspect of an object of
thought from a particular standpoint." We
gain the right perspective when we reach that
point of view in which we see all things in their
true proportion. In this point of view we do
not exaggerate the importance of insignificant
matters, we do not see persons and things out of
proportion in their relation to ourselves.
The painter thinks of perspective as the art
or science of representing on a plane surface,
his canvas, natural objects as they actually ap-
pear to his eye. He appreciates the apparent
relative distances of objects. Understanding
perspective, he is able to give depth to his pic-
ture, We cease to see a canvas and see that
which he intends us to see for instance, a path
before us extending into the distance.
Those who gain the right perspective of life
are able to look at life through the mind's eye,
the eye of Spirit. The picture of life that they
see is in true proportion. It is not discolored
by extreme opinions. There are no unwar-
ranted uses of flaming reds heavy passions,
54
Creed of the Dauntless 55
of offending yellows jealousies, or of depres-
sing blacks unforgettable griefs.
The person who does not have the right per-
spective of life beholds a strange vista. The
people of his world are given power to affect
his own life; hence on his canvas persons are
out of proportion to the rest of the picture.
His mental canvas lacks depth. He fails to give
the right place and importance to those things
that matter most. The path that his picture
unfolds to us is not one that invites us to tread
it. It really does not look like a path to us,
since something within us tells us that it is not
the true way.
We are inclined to view his picture of life
with doubt because it betrays a mind that ap-
pears to lack depth, feeling, warmth, and the
right perspective of life. We are not mentally
akin to him; hence his canvas does not inspire
us or stir us to sympathetic appreciation.
The artist who paints a beautiful picture
must have beheld it through contemplating the
beauty of life. He must know life and its
beauty. He must be able to see all things in
their true proportion and must have the power
to portray the right perspective. Self-control
must eliminate the tendency to use too much
color where color is not needed. He must fathom
the secret of gaining depth in his picture by
having all the objects in it built around depth.
Nothing must interfere with his perspective.
Personal tendencies to exaggerate must not be
permitted to sway him to the point of sacrific-
ing perspective and proportion.
The person who appears to be mentally un-
56 Creed of the Dauntless
balanced is one who has permitted some pet
idea to develop out of proportion to other ideas.
If he believes that another person has the
power to keep him from advancing or has the
ability to limit his happiness, he puts this other
person in the picture in such a position that
true proportion and perspective are lost. Such
an individual would not be very successful as
an artist if he allowed the theme of his picture
thus to be overshadowed by nonessentials.
The person with a so-called complex is- one
who has a strange hallucination about persons
and things in their relation to himself. Some
passing dislike of some trivial situation or
thing may grow into a deeply established hate,
until he is able to excuse his unreasonable atti-
tude only by giving it a modern appellation,
"complex."
In order to gain the right perspective of life
several things are necessary. First, you should
discipline yourself to get the right viewpoint of
life from your indwelling Spirit. Learn to be-
hold life as it is seen through the eyes of Spirit.
Second, hold steadily to the vision that you be-
hold. Do not change your spiritual sense of
values and proportions. Third, keep yourself
out of the picture. By this we mean that you
should cease looking to other persons and things
only as they contribute to your own happiness
or adversity.
We can readily see that personal conscious-
ness is responsible for poor perspectives and
wrong proportions as they are observed in our
view of life. Personal consciousness keeps, a
person from getting the spiritual viewpoint of
Creed of the Dauntless 57
life; it causes him to put himself into the pic-
ture to the extent of crowding out those things
that should beautify his life.
How does this subject of perspectives and
proportions apply to your personal problem?
Possibly your problem is the interference of an-
other person with your happiness. Your prob-
lem, let us say, is based upon the belief that an-
other person can limit your joy and the full ex-
pression of your inner powers. Do you not see
that upon your mental canvas you are painting
this person in a too conspicuous place and in a
size out of proportion to the scheme of life?
If the mouse assumes elephantine propor-
tions upon your mental canvas, to you the
mouse is an elephant. If in your mind's eye
your neighbor is a demon, then every time he
comes to your mind he will come in character-
istic satanic attire and fashion. Nevertheless-,
in reality the mouse is still a mouse, the neigh-
bor still a human being like yourself.
I once saw an artist in Switzerland paint-
ing from a reflection in a mirror. Since his
finished canvas would be a flat surface he re-
sorted to a mirror to see the right perspective
on a plane surface. What I saw him doing was
this :
painting the thing not as it appeared but
as it was mirrored. If we would see things not
as they seem to be but as they exist in the mir-
ror of Truth, our reflections our meditations
in Spirit would always supply us with the
right perspective of life. Our canvases would
be masterpieces both of perspective and of cor-
rect proportion.
FINDING OURSELVES
IN HEAVEN
IF this old world should change tonight
Into a heavenly place,
And all your friends and kin should change
To some angelic race,
If dawn should find a perfect world
From sea to mountain range,
Consider long, and well : Would you
Be ready for the change?
If you should live in such a world,
A world of perfect joy,
No thought of yours would be allowed
Such peace to harm, alloy,
For any thought of hate or fear,
Disease or grim despair,
Would tut attest that you were not
Entitled to be there.
So, don't you think that if we should
Aspire to heaven here
We first must guard our every thought
And cast out hate and fear?
And, possibly, when we, through Truth,
Shall think the perfect thought,
We'll soon discover heaven's here !
Its vision will be caught.
58
THE DIVINE LAW OF ADJUSTMENT
UMAN experiences often make demand
for some relief and change, because
one characteristic of all things human
is a measure of unrest and, often,
maladjustment. Since in human experiences
we are always in a state of evolving- heav-
enward, unfolding outwardly from within, a
certain amount of confusion seems to present
itself and just so is adjustment often necessary.
The individual stands in a place where he
may observe two adjustments as essential : the
adjusting of himself to Spirit within him and
the adjusting of his life to all outer conditions.
Of course, but one adjustment really takes place
because, when he adjusts himself to Spirit, all
else is accomplished. His uniting himself to
Spirit within him brings into action a spiritual
force that adjusts every factor in life.
Quite often the beginner in the study of
Truth makes the fruitless attempt of trying to
make an outer adjustment a correction of a
certain state of affairs in his environment or
outer life without having first made an inner
adjustment. He tries to force the action of
Spirit in adjusting external conditions without
first relating himself to Spirit within himself,
or without consciously knowing of his relation
to Spirit.
God's law of adjustment can only be ob-
served in action by the individual when he has
reached the high consciousness in which the
59
60 Creed of the Dauntless
law of God is perceived as powerful to correct,
adjust, and regulate every disorder in human
experience. In this consciousness, he knows
that the divine law is supreme. He realizes
that there are no situations or circumstances
wherein the law of God fails to operate.
In order to reach the high consciousness in
which we may know God as law, several things
are necessary. First of all, understanding is
necessary. When we have an immediate need
for demonstration, when divine help must
manifest itself speedily, we have little time to
spare in learning to understand Truth. The
basic principles of understanding should have
been studied and understood beforehand. Pre-
paredness is seldom so essential as in such
instances.
Second comes faith in the law. We might
define faith, in such cases, as the ability to
pledge all to God and to stand firm with Him.
Faith in the law of God must not be compro-
mised by even the slightest belief in lesser laws.
Third comes confident conviction. After
reaching the place in consciousness wherein we
understand the working of the divine law and
have faith in it, we then come to the place
wherein we are willing to relax from all worry,
tension, and anxiety and just let God's work be
done without any tendency on our part to give
the law a "shove" or a "boost."
Sometimes, when you have been trying to
exercise faith in the law, pledging your whole
trust in God, do you secretly try to give God or
His law a little human help? After all has been
said and done and you have proudly declared
Creed of the Dauntless 61
that the government is on His shoulders, do you
take a few little human precautions just to give
God a good send-off on the work that He has to
do? Then your faith is not unqualified and you
have not reached the consciousness of confident
conviction you have not attained freedom
from worry and fear.
Do you give much thought to the immu-
tability of physical and material laws? There
are many instances recorded in the Bible
wherein the action of physical law was set aside
and annulled by the action of divine law. If
material things are not satisfactory in your
life, then you must begin to think of them from
the standpoint of the spiritual. You must rec-
ognize the law of Spirit as sharing its power
with no other law, not even the law that to
human senses appears to be all-exacting and
unchanging.
The law of gravity became inactive when
Moses commanded the waters to stand like
walls that the children of Israel might pass
through. Joshua disregarded so-called laws of
nature when he commanded the sun to stand
still. Both Moses and Joshua knew of a higher
law than those that we refer to as physical or
material laws. God alone is supreme, and His
law is superior to material laws and the so-
called laws of the race.
When the outer man, the you that stands
as an identity in the world of manifestation
and effects, makes its adjustment to the inner
man the you that is invisible, spiritual, and
invincible then you perceive that nothing in
reality can stand between the manifest you and
62 Creed of the Dauntless
your spiritual self, Spirit within you. Every
belief in the power of external things must be
surmounted in order to vault over or break
down the appearance of barriers. Your ad-
justment to God, the blending of yourself with
Spirit, can come about only through your know-
ing that in Truth there is no separation and
that you are one with Spirit.
This consciousness brings you to the real-
ization that your external affairs have a spirit-
ual significance back of the appearance that
they present in the material world. You cease
to live in the belief that the material world has
power to affect you ! You no longer live in an
inharmonious atmosphere, or in an environ-
ment where there is need for adjustment. You
find that the law of adjustment that operates
in spiritual consciousness is the same law that
operates in your world of external manifesta-
tion, when you know the truth about the world
material and spiritual, outer and inner.
The need for an adjustment in your affairs
but shows the need of an inner adjustment. If
inharmony manifests, you may know that in
consciousness you are not harmoniously re-
lated and adjusted to Spirit, not conscious of
harmony and divine adjustment.
God's law of adjustment is the divine princi-
ple that corrects, adjusts, and regulates the ap-
pearances of disorder, confusion, and inhar-
mony. Every evidence of the operation of a
cause and effect of disorder, inharmony, in-
justice, and lack but shows the need for spir-
itual realization, the necessity for ascending
into the high consciousness in which you realize
Creed of the Dauntless 6
that God alone reigns and His law is supreme.
Remember, there is but one God, and but
one law exists in heaven. As in heaven, so it
is on earth. As in spiritual consciousness, so
must it be in your body, your life, your environ-
ment, your world. One law the law of health,
order, justice, peace, and all-sufficiency the
law of adjustment, the law compelling you to
recognize the order and supremacy of heaven.
The divine law of adjustment regulates all per-
sonal relationships. All misunderstandings,
jealousies, and animosities must recognize the
rule of God's law the law of harmony, love,
and understanding.
The operation of God's law is the governing
of the creations of God by the universal or
divine law of life, love, and Truth. Nothing
less can act as law in the presence of God,
supreme law. Evil and adversity cannot pre-
sume to be our law when we consciously know
that God alone is law.
God is the law of our whole existence the
law of order, health, love, and prosperity. Ev-
ery semblance of disorder, disease, hate, fear,
or lack must be corrected through the adjust-
ing power of God as law. Situations that ap-
pear huge to us are most insignificant in the
sight of God.
God is the law of your life. In Spirit, Truth
and love alone rule you. Love corrects every
inharmonious situation, and Truth adjusts and
regulates every circumstance. Recognize no
law but the law of God, and nothing but that
which is good can come to you.
COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS
1 F YOU find some one who's sad,
Says the world is somehow wrong,
Show him that it's not all bad.
Have him sing with you this song :
"Count your blessings"
It will take away his thought
From disease and lack and strain ;
It will set these things at naught.
Sing with him the sweet refrain :
"Count your blessings"
Let him name his blessings o'er,
Praise them once or twice or thrice ;
They will increase more and more
When he follows this advice :
"Count your blessings"
After all, the world is good !
Growing better day by day !
More of love and brotherhood
Makes the heart rejoice and say:
"Count your blessings"
64
DETACHMENT
REVIOUSLY we gave instructions on
how to get results in holding the si-
lence, on applying the power of the
silence to health and prosperity, and
on how to get along with other persons. In
this article we shall consider the matter of de-
taching ourselves from the petty annoyances of
the external world. What more fitting title
could we use than the simple word, "Detach-
ment"?
Recently a woman in Massachusetts, one
who has been a metaphysical healer for a quar-
ter of a century, wrote to us that demonstra-
tion was a very simple thing to her in all in-
stances except in her own relation to external
things. She said that she would be in heaven
if she could find some way to keep from being
moved and affected by other persons and by ex-
ternal things. Her letter was answered by just
one word; that was, as you may have guessed,
"detachment."
There is magic in that word. In fact, the
whole Christian religion is built upon the foun-
dation of man's detaching himseljLfrQiELthings
that do not matter an*d relating himself to Real-
ity, to God within. Was there magic for this
woman in this simple word? Not yet. She
had not reached the clear realization necessary
to make a metaphysical demonstration for her-
self. In our next letter she was given instruc-
tions which hold a very great secret for making
65
G6 Creed of the Dauntless
a demonstration in this matter of detaching
ourselves from external things. To the person
who is sensitive to what people say or do, we
give this statement in most emphatic language :
Detach yourself from your own argument
that people or external things can regulate your
life.
How can a person do this? By ceasing to
turn over the argument in his own mind. When
he thinks about it, when he lets this argument
keep at work, he finds that the argument in-
creases and that the case is decided against
him. Of course, in order to detach himself
from such an argument there must be a reason
for his doing so. Moreover, he must be thor-
oughly convinced in the matter.
According to Truth, God made man com-
plete in himself. He gave man the power to
think Truth and to develop into perfection.
God did not give one man power over another.
He gave man power over himself. God did not
give any other man power to speak maliciously
of you, power to subjugate you to himself,
power to make you unhappy, or to do anything
to affect your well-being.
If you do not see this according to Truth,
you think of other persons and of things of the
external world as having power over you. You
think of the taunting or accusing words of an-
other as having power. You think of the state
of external things, the condition of the weather,
the rise and fall of finances, as something which
can affect or harm you. Many persons of this
kind are like barometers, in that they register
Creed of the Dauntless 67
the state of external things. Man is not a ba-
rometer. Why cheapen yourself by substitut-
ing yourself, so to speak, for a barometer?
Personal consciousness may be defined as
that state of consciousness in which the indi-
vidual regards other persons or external things
as sharing the might of God. One who is in
personal consciousness lives in a world of per-
sons, a world in which he sees persons reacting
upon each other's lives.
The person who is in spiritual consciousness
utterly detaches himself from other persons,
from their opinions, their malicious thoughts,
their gossip, and their limitations. He lives
within himself and in conscious relation with
his own indwelling Spirit. Other persons are
nothing in his life; their thoughts and opinions
are nothing; external things are nothing. He
knows that the world with its limited ideas
passes away, but that Gad^endures forever.
If he has a thought about some person in
his world, he must regard it as his own thought.
For no reason whatever can he blame any
other person for his own thought about that
person. He must keep detached from others
and must correct his own thinking. He must
detach himself from the belief that other per-
sons have anything to do with the argument
that external influences disturb his quiet. He
must think of the argument as his own personal
problem, to be corrected through substituting
Truth for it.
Do you not see what great good is to be
gained by detachment? Can you not see that,
by detaching yourself from the belief that ex-
68 Creed of the Dauntless
ternal things can harm you, you awake to the
realization that there is a world of love that in-
finitely transcends the world of jealousy, schem-
ing, prejudice, and personality?
Mystics and holy persons have long known
the power of detachment. The Hindus turn
from the world of illusion to find the great
Reality within them.
How can you get results from these instruc-
tions? If, within the next hour or so, the
thought comes to you that another should not
have done or said what he did do or say, you
must sever all connection with that thought.
You must keep aspiring and ascending in
thought until you are in the state of conscious-
ness that perceives only God and you.
Challenge the accusing thought with the
simple but effective word, "detachment/' That
will serve to inform the thought that you are
detached from it and that you will have none
of it.
Detachment is easy to practice and it gives
astounding results. Through the practice of
detachment your life can be regenerated. Your
health, success, and happiness lie in your abil-
ity to go forward undaunted by personal con-
sciousness, but alive and awake to your con-
scious relation to Spirit within you.
SINGING IN THE RAIN
JL HE TREES on kills and flowers in vales
Keep singing in the rain;
The more it rains, tne more they sing,
The sweeter their refrain;
The rain can ne'er their plans upset ;
It only joys them more ;
They plan to have their picnics when
The rain begins to pour.
Their life is quite impersonal,
This life of tree and flower ;
The weather never makes them cross,
However the clouds may lower;
I wonder if impersonal life,
And not the pattering rain,
Can make the trees so very strong,
The lovely flowers sustain?
And if, to us, it seems to rain
More lack or more of bad,
Perhaps, if we'll sing through the rain,
We'll find ourselves quite glad ;
And, if we're more impersonal,
Think less of loss or gain,
We'll find the very thing we need,
While singing in the rain.
THE SOUL'S BIRTHDAY
"At sun-rise every soul is born anew
9 '
HIS day 1 rise to a new consciousness of
my new life in Christ. My soul un-
folds its wings and rises to grander
and better things.
Today I give up all unpleasant memories
of the past. I yield to the past its own. I give
to it all the beliefs in limitation that I have en-
tertained about myself or others. To the past
I give all my old thoughts of doubt, hate, fear,
and disease. I cast from my mind all thought
of age and death.
Today I enter a new world, a world of light,
hope, faith, love, happiness, understanding, and
health.
In the world of light there are no shadows
of adversity. The light of God shines within
me and about me, dispelling every shadow*
There is no darkness within me because God,
the light of Truth, shines from the innermost
depths of my being. My soul rejoices in
the light of God and is radiant with rays of
spiritual glory. My mind and my body re-
spond to the light of Spirit, and I am mentally
and physically illumined.
In this new world, hope and faith hold sway.
Doubt and faithlessness have no place in my
world. I abide in a world of trust and loyalty,
fidelity and faith. I have faith in God, the
70
Creed of the Dauntless 71
principle of Truth, now governing and direct-
ing me and all my affairs. I have faith in my-
self, because I express Spirit in this new world
of faith. My soul is quickened through spiritual
faith, and I press forward with courage and
faithfulness.
My soul looks upon a world of love, a world
freed from the throes of hate and fear. I am
at peace with all persons and all things ; conse-
quently I do not hate or fear anything in the
external. Peace and love rule my consciousness
and I abide in heavenly harmony here and now.
My mind and my body are filled with the peace
and the love of God, and I abide in heaven.
My soul looks upon a world of joy and hap-
piness. There are no sorrows, no depressing
thoughts, no vain regrets in my world. There
is no sadness or sorrow in my world of joy. My
soul rejoices in the joy of Spirit within me.
My mind and my body respond to the joyful
thought, and I am mentally and physically filled
with the joy of the Lord. I rejoice to live in
this world of joy. I rejoice to make those about
me happy.
I understand my friends and they under-
stand me. In my world there is perfect under-
standing. Our hearts are unified in the truth
of God and there can be no misunderstandings,
no personal grievances, no ill will. I under-
stand my friends, my relatives, and my busi-
ness acquaintances. I know that each one is
striving to do his best in life and I am willing
to help him to that end. My soul rejoices today
to be reborn into a world of perfect understand-
ing.
72 Creed of the Dauntless
My world is a world of health. Life,
strength, and vitality are everywhere evident.
I think thoughts of spiritual health and I am
lifted to a consciousness of my wholeness in
Christ. My soul, rising above all belief in
weakness, lays hold of infinite strength. I am
reborn into a world of strength and life. My
whole body manifests the health and strength
of God within me.
Today my soul is reborn into a world of
newness. "At sunrise every soul is born anew."
Henceforth, at the dawning of each day, my
soul will greet a day in which all things are
made new. Each day my soul celebrates its
birthday because each day it greets a new world
and partakes of newer and better things.
Today my soul is reborn into a world of
new people. I see my every friend of yesterday
daily renewed. I see him freed from my past
conceptions of him. I see form freed from his
own limited beliefs of the past. I behold his
soul reborn into my perfect world of light,
hope, faith, love, peace, happiness, understand-
ing, and health.
Each day my soul communes with the Spirit
of God within me. My soul is daily nourished
by divine substance. I have lifted my eyes to
God and I behold myself one with Him in di-
vine sonship.
Each morning the glory of the Lord greets
me. The brightness and glory of the sun are
incomparable to the light and glory of the
Lord which shine within me. My soul is filled
with the warmth of Spirit and I am one with
all living things in the unity of universal life.
Creed of the Dauntless 73
I look upon a world of beauty. I am lifted
to a consciousness of noble and beautiful things.
I see my world filled with that which is beauti-
ful and blessed. I see the people and the things
of my world expressing and manifesting the
beauty of God back of all life.
My soul is reborn to a world in which ideals
are fulfilled. All my desires and ambitions for
higher and finer things are now fulfilled. I am
free to live my life as I have always wanted
to live it. I am free to express the will of God
within me, free to express here and now the
best that is within me.
What is my soul? All that I know of God
the Spirit of life, truth, and love. Each day
my soul develops, grows, and expands. Each
day I know more of God and I grow in His
grace. When my soul is full-grown it will be
one with the Spirit of God, for such in reality
I am.
My soul is daily regenerated, purified, and
renewed. Each day I take a firmer hold on
life, clearing myself of false beliefs and rising
to the heights in which God stands supreme.
My soul is vibrant with the presence of God
and shines with the splendor of God's eternal
being.
Thus, my soul is born and reborn each mo-
ment of the day, born into the glorious- presence
of Christ, from which I shall never depart.
Each moment I celebrate my soul's birthday.
Each moment my soul is renewed and refreshed
by the presence of Christ.
I FORGIVE MYSELF
I FORGIVE myself! and then,
Forgiven, look not back ;
Gone the past with its mistakes
And seeming sense of lack ;
In my very heart of hearts
The Christ has called my name :
"Son of God, forgive thyself.
In Truth there is no blame/*
I forgive myself! for, since
The Christ forgives me, too
Holds me not in thought of wrong
IVe nothing else to do ;
I refuse to bind my soul
To faults of yesterday;
In the great Forgiving Love
All sin is washed away.
I forgive myself! and ne'er
Again shall I accuse
Ghrist-of-God-in-me of wrong,
Or this high vision lose :
Christ in me can never fall;
In Truth there is no wrong ;
I forgive myself! and make
Forgiveness my heart's song.
74
STATION IX>VJB BROADCASTING
F THERE is too much lurid music or
static coming from your radio, just
turn the dial. Presto ! It is done I It
is so easy to tune out the discord and
to find harmony!
If there are too many discordant thoughts
racing through your mind, learn the trick of
tuning out discord. Harmony will take its
place. Mental static can be tuned out easily
when you know the secret of doing so.
If there is static in the air, a simple adjust-
ment of the machine will tune it out. If there
are discordant thoughts in your mental life,
just "turn the dial/*
You may need to experiment for a while,
just as the novice does in getting acquainted
with his radio. While you are trying to make
the adjustment you may get stations H-A-T-E,
P-A-I-N, F-E-A-R, and some of the other sta-
tions that always have seemed to you to be on
the air. But be patient 1 When you have tuned
them out, you can get the station you want.
Possibly, you will have to listen very closely
to get station L-O-V-E, but it is always broad-
casting. Just bring your ear a little closer if
at first it does not seem to come in dear and
strong. Your inner ears will hear its voice at
the very center of your being. At first, you
may hear just a faint "L-O-V-E" but you will
rejoice and will want to "set the dial" so that
you can get L-O-V-E at any time.
75
76 Creed of the Dauntless
Remember, L-O-V-E is a powerful station.
You cannot get F-E-A-R or P-A-I-N if you
have properly tuned in for L-O-V-E. There are
those who keep the "dial" set at L-O-V-E all the
time. L-O-V-E is always broadcasting for
them. They in turn become broadcasters for
L-O-V-E.
Now, L-O-V-E is on a chain and often one
may pick up L-I-F-E, P-L-E-N-T-Y, or J-O-Y
when L-O-V-E is broadcasting. It seems as if
Station L-O-V-E knows just what its listeners
want and need, and then broadcasts the right
program at the right time. Only one thing is
necessary: to keep the dial set for L-O-V-E;
then one will get the right program.
You must have an aerial that pierces the
very heights of heaven in order to get this sta-
tion. To get the music of the spheres, your
aerial must reach high into heaven, below into
heaven, and to all sides into heaven. Your
aerial must have countless little points extend-
ing into heaven, heaven everywhere. Some
folks lack a good aerial and L-O-V-E for them
does not have much force. Their aerial extends
in the wrong direction.
Some folks let their receiving sets become
fouled. They do not keep their contacts clean.
L-O-V-E keeps broadcasting, nevertheless, and
comes in as strong as possible over the instru-
ment provided.
Sometimes, a set next door may be tuned in
on N-0-I-S-E, but station N-O-I-S-E soon
ceases when L-O-V-E is broadcasting. There
may be a roomful of sets variously tuned in : to
P-A-I-N, loudly voicing its program; to D-I-S-
Creed, of the Dauntless 77
E-A-S-E, shouting its false message; to
L-A-C-K, trying hard to make itself heard.
When L-O-V-E is broadcasting these other sta-
tions just quit in despair. They seem to say:
"There is L-O-V-E on the wire. H-E-A-L-T-H,
J-O-Y, and P-L-E-N-T-Y are linked up with it
tonight, so we might as well sign off. It is too
powerful a station for us. Its wave length is
too much for us."
This little story about station L-O-V-E has
a big lesson in it for all of us. It shows us
how easily we can tune out noise, pain, fear,
hate, and lack. We just turn the dial ; reverse
the thought. We discover that when pain and
lack and fear would make themselves heard we
need only to "turn the dial." We find that we
can tune out "jazzy" noises and static by the
simple process of reversing the thought. We
find that when we are mentally attuned to love,
no discordant thoughts can find place in us. We
no longer vibrate to hate and fear when we are
attuned to love.
If we go into a room where disease and fear
are being voiced, where propaganda adverse to
love is afloat, the situation soon changes if we
broadcast love. We find that pain and disease,
hate and fear, cannot be broadcast when we are
broadcasting love. We find that health and joy
and plenty radiate from us when we are at-
tuned to love.
When we hear long and vivid tales of the
power of adversity and evil, what a privilege
it is just to say silently within ourselves "Sta-
tion L-O-V-E broadcasting" ! When hate makes
its appearance we have only to say silently to
78 Creed of the Dauntless
it, "L-O-V-E." Hate and fear cannot exist in
the field where Love exists.
If our aerial extends to heaven, if our
thought pierces to heights of spiritual con-
sciousness, we can always be assured that we
are tuned in properly to have love broadcast in
our lives. If our aerial extends in every direc-
tion, if we are universal in our conception of
life, then love dawns upon us more clearly. If
our contact with Spirit is not fouled by adverse
beliefs we can always receive the broadcastings
of love from the station L-O-V-E, eternal in the
heavens. We need not fear that L-O-V-E will
sign off, when we realize that the spirit of love
within and about us is eternally at work broad-
casting love and its blessings for us.
Realizing the power of love, we can neutral-
ize the power of hate and of fear. These are
"tuned out" of our lives when we broadcast
love. They simply do not exist in the realm in
which we live that realm wherein only the
voice of heaven, the voice of Truth, is heard
and felt.
God is love. We are creations of His love
and He lives as love at the very center of our
being. He continues to broadcast His love in
and through us. He never ceases to love us and
to cause us to turn from pain, disease, sin, fear,
hate, and lack. He would have us turn from
the noise and nothingness of all these. He
would have us tune in to Him at all times.
RELAXATION AND PRAYER
RELAXATION
|HERE is a demand among students of
metaphysics for methods and instruc-
tions on how to relax. Occasionally a
student becomes so interested in study
and in concentration that he later finds it not
easy to let go, mentally and physically, and to
relax. He has learned to use his mind in a new
way, and thought discipline, in some wise, has
seemed to bring with it a sense of tension.
A very successful method is to get as still as
is possible at the time, and then, in mind, to go
over various parts of the body. One may as-
sume an easy position in a chair, or lie down if
one feels more comfortable in doing so.
First, unburden the mind of all anxiety
about persons and things. If you are anxious
about some person, place him in the keeping of
God. If there is injustice or disorder in your
affairs, realize that only justice and order can
prevail. If you are worrying about the future,
try to attain the consciousness wherein you
know that there is only the eternal now.
Think of your eyes as free from all strain
and tension. Make this an easy, peaceful
thought. Do not try to concentrate. Just let
your mind easily and freely linger on the
thought of relaxation in the eyes. Relax the
muscles and the nerves by knowing that there
is nothing in all the world which necessitates
worry or strain.
Think of your neck, especially the back part
81
82 Creed of the Dauntless
of it, as relieved of all tension and as perfectly
relaxed. Do not be tense in your thought.
Relax the muscles of your face. Let the
hardened muscles relax into smiles. Loosen up
your jaws. Do not be too determined and too
self-willed in your treatment for relaxation.
Think of your shoulders as free from all
tendency to try to carry the burdens of the
world upon them. Shake off these burdens,
whatever they may be. Shake off financial wor-
ries. Shake off the inclination to do tomorrow's
work today. Sometimes students find that
their shoulder muscles have not been relaxed
for days or for weeks. When relaxation begins,
the muscles seem almost to creak as the tension
is broken.
Relax the arms and the hands. One would
naturally think of the upper arms as subjects
for relaxation before the hands, but such is not
the case. Quite often if one relaxes the hands
first, a relaxation of the arms will easily follow.
Free the hands of all sense of grasping. Per-
sons with clenched hands who complain of
rheumatism are sometimes very much inclined
to want to grasp or to hold on to things which
rightfully belong to others. In the mind's eye,
see the hands perfectly limp.
Think of the muscles and the organs of the
thorax and abdomen as relaxed. Relax tension
in the stomach and the solar plexus. Give lungs
and kidneys a thought of purity and of peace.
The small of the back usually calls for a
thorough treatment. Even the strong muscles
of this region may sometimes become so tense
that they do not serve us well.
Creed of the Dauntless 83
The thighs and the knees should come next
for treatment for relaxation. Quite often those
who have weak knees find that a certain shaki-
ness is caused by strain and tension and not by
weakness. Public speakers have found that re-
laxation will speedily cause weak knees to stop
their shaking.
Some students have practiced this method
of relaxation so thoroughly that they can speak
the word "relax" to parts of the body and those
parts respond very readily. The main point is
that a person must be relaxed in thought; if he
tries to concentrate, he loses his consciousness
of relaxation.
A treatment of this kind should be given the
body before sleep. One should not think hard
before going to sleep. To do so causes the blood
to flow to the brain, which condition is not con-
ducive to sleep. One cannot derive much re-
freshment from sleep if the body is on a strain*
If the position is not a comfortable one, the
freedom of the blood circulation is interfered
with and unpleasant dreams result.
After one makes this physical preparation
for sleep, the next step is a spiritual prepara-
tion. With mind and body ready, one should
take up a spiritual treatment before entering
the sleep world. Each one has some favorite
metaphysical affirmation or prayer for this pur-
pose. The Lord's Prayer is used a great deal
by students of metaphysics and by other Chris-
tians.
Relaxation gives us strength. In the still-
ness and quietness of the inner realms of mind,
we find peace and refreshment.
SHIFT THE BURDEN
./\_RE your shoulders bowed by trouble?
Do your worries seem to double?
Siiift the burden.
Of the cares that you are bearing
Responsibilities you're sharing
Not a one is worth the caring.
Shift the burden.
Burdened now by careless thinking?
From the future are you shrinking?
Shift the burden.
Of the worries, cares, and fearing
For the friends that are endearing,
And the crisis that seems nearing,
Shift the burden.
Stop the worrying and fretting;
Help divine you are forgetting.
Shift the burden.
From the Lord your thought's- been straying ;
Learn to drop the load that's weighing
On your heart, and do some graying!
Shift the burden!
84
"SILENCE"
AY "SILENCE!" to every disturbing
thought. Be not distressed by the be-
lief that any person, thing, or circum-
stance can disturb the calm peace of
your mind. "Regardless of the argument that
the inharmonious thought may present, refuse
to entertain it. Refuse to yield peace of mind
for inharmony.
"Silence!" Say "Silence!" with firmness
and conviction. Let not the nature of the dis-
turbing belief cause you to look upon it with
fear and trembling. If you give it audience it
will attempt to charm you away from your
peace and poise. You will begin to look upon
inharmony as having weight and substance;
you will begin to see inharmony as real and as
something belonging to you ; you will find your-
self exchanging sweet peace for it.
The thought that another can disturb your
peace, what of it? Is it to be entertained? Will
it yield to your powerful word, "Silence!"?
Those who have not grasped the truth of the
impersonal life are easily affected by the belief
that another person can take their joy from
them. They may be enjoying perfect peace,
but if another so much as "crooks his little lin-
ger" at them or speaks the most insignificant
little word their harmony leaves them and they
may be disturbed for the rest of the day.
Your ability to say "Silence!" with convic-
tion and power depends upon your under-
85
86 Creed of the Dauntless
standing and consciousness. Of course, if you
would prove the nothingness of the claim pre-
sented, you must sincerely and truly believe in
its nothingness. If you believe that the adverse
belief has reality and power over you, if you
think that persons and external things can mas-
ter you, your attempt to render them power-
less through a mere word will be fruitless.
The person in command is the only one who
has power to speak the word of authority. Were
the subject greater than the king, the king's
word could not command or silence him. If you
believe that some external power is mightier
than Christ within you, then your Christ-en-
dowed word will be met with scorn. Do not
attempt to command something that you can-
not conscientiously place beneath you. Do not
place yourself in ridicule in your own eyes by
trying to govern through your word something
that you think governs you mind, soul, and
body. It is true that your word would in time
serve to lessen the hold that external things
seem to have over you. But how much better
and easier it is for you to correct erroneous be-
liefs in your mind before trying to handle them
through words of power.
"Silence!" Knowing that disease has no
power over you, realizing that it has neither re-
ality nor substance in Truth, silence the belief
in it when it comes to you. Your consciousness
of health will support your word. Your inner
conviction that the health, strength, and per-
fection of Christ within you are greater than
any belief to the contrary will cause you to
speak the word and to gain results.
Creed of the Dauntless 87
"Silence!" Let your inner conviction that
you are untouched by outer beliefs put to si-
lence all thought of disease. Silence these be-
liefs the first moment they seem to presume
that they can merit your attention. The earlier
you denounce their claim the easier it is for
you to do so*
When fear presents itself, what should be
your step? Rise to the consciousness that in
Christ you are established in fearlessness and
perfect courage. Know that the power of
Christ within you is all in all in your life. Know
that this power is unaffected by the claims of
external powers. Say "Silence!" to the
thought that would make you believe other-
wise. "Be silent, all flesh, before Jehovah."
When you are established in inner quiet-
ness, no external thing can move you. No
thought of fear of external things can control
you when you listen to the voice of Spirit within
you that says, "Whosoever hearkeneth unto me
shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear
of evil." You will not yield to the belief in the
power of external things when the voice within
you speaks through you and commands, "Si-
lence!"
You can truly look upon all external situa-
tions, even in the midst of turmoil and confu-
sion, and say, "Hold thy peace at the presence
of the Lord Jehovah; for the day of Jehovah is
at hand." External situations, conditions, and
circumstances can all be quieted and silenced
by the presence of the Lord appearing in your
word of power.
"Silence!" To the belief in hard luck, the
88 Creed of the Dauntless
thought that you are bound by heredity or mis-
fortune, say "Silence !" In Spirit and in Truth,
you are the child of God, unfettered by mortal
beliefs in limitation. Enter the high conscious-
ness in which belief in misfortune and adver-
sity is rendered powerless. You will find that
merely your consciousness of Truth will silence
the belief in adversity that is trying to estab-
lish itself as Truth.
To the myriad beliefs that sin, evil, disease,
death, and poverty have reality, presence, sub-
stance, or truth, say "Silence!" Let your con-
sciousness of the presence of God the omni-
presence of good, health, life, and plenty
break down and dissolve every opposing belief.
Speak the word without hesitation, anxiety,
or strain. Do not feel that your own personal
might is involved in the demonstration. Let
Truth demonstrate itself. Let God take care
of the situation. Let the Spirit of truth speak
the word through you and establish quietness,
stillness, and silence in your external world.
Rising to the might of Spirit within you, you
can command all things of your world.
As you develop the consciousness of the
power of Christ within you to silence the con-
fusion of the world without you, you will find
that in reality the world without you has no
power to harm you. You will find the universe
of Truth manifest as your perfect world.
GOD HIMSELF NOW
BLESSES YOU
WHEN next you feel downcast and blue,
Just raise your eyes and upward gaze
And, if the past's been very dark,
Why, see tke bright and sunny days.
What though some friend has failed the test,
If countless other friends are true ?
Why blame yourself for yesterday
When God Himself now blesses you?
Why hug so close the yesterday
When it has gone and left the now?
Why question if your good will come ?
You know it will. Why wonder how?
Why wonder what the future holds?
Today is fair. The skies are blue.
Why think about tomorrow's gain
When God Himself now blesses you?
And so you'll find, if you would know
The peace that faith and love bestow,
You'll look not to the future day,
The past, the far, the high, the low,
But realize that here and now
You have abundant work to do
To keep account of all your joys
While God Himself now blesses you.
THE SILENCE OF HEAVEN
'There followed a silence m heaven about
the sfiace of half an hour"
IT THIS moment the Spirit of Christ is
right at your side; His arm is about
you; His love is infolding you; His
voice speaks to the inner ear of your
soul: "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are
heavy laden, and I will give you rest." Blame
not the discordant noises of the world, blame
not people of the world, neither blame things
about you if you do not feel the heavenly pres-
ence or do not hear the voice.
Back of this world of discord and confusion,
inharmony and unrest, disease and lack, back
of all this haze and shadow there is another
world. Back of the self of you which seems
to be so inharmonious and confused, there is
another self. Back of all this mist and fog
of life are the real and the true there are
light and beauty! There are quietness and
peace I There is heaven!
Is the kingdom of heaven right here, now?
Is it right where you are? Yes and no. It is
not the world of fog and shadow, inharmony
and unrest, pain and disease, worries and mis-
understandings, bitterness and war, in which
you sometimes find yourself engulfed. You ask,
"Is there a kingdom of heaven, a place of heav-
enly rest and silence, right where we are, back
90
Creed of the Dauntless 91
of all this world of jangle?" Let us give you
an illustration in the natural world. The little
radio wave lives in a world of etheric thought.
To the little wave there are no three-dimen-
sional barriers, no hindrances to its move-
ments. To the world of the radio there is no
world of stone walls, of impenetrable iron and
steel.
Are these two worlds (the world of radio
and the world of three dimensions) two sepa-
rate worlds? Yes and no. In the sense that
they are of different quality, interpenetrating
each other, we may call them separate and
distinct; but there is a relation between them
in the sense that the radio wave requires the
radio outfit, and the outfit requires the wave,
to be of value.
So the higher world of thought, the heaven
of peace, requires the three-dimensional you,
your physical manifestation; and you, if you
are not to be swallowed up in the vortex of
worldly confusion, need the radio wave of
Truth, the peace of heaven.
Are there times when you do not feel the
presence of Christ about you and within you,
times when you do not hear His voice, do not
realize the comfort of words of Truth? Then
you are intrenching yourself in the "stone
walls," believing in the hard, material things
of the outer world, and not living in the world
of the spiritual radio.
In the world of "stone walls" you will think
of yourself as material like the stones, like the
dust, and you will become dust. If through
spiritual consciousness you keep yourself in
92 Creed of the Dauntless
tune with the peace and silence of heaven, you
will be a thing of heaven, always thinking love
and truth, manifesting a healthy body in what
will become a manifest world of health and
beauty.
Living in heaven, you can put to silence all
belief in worldly discord. Your thought^
will
be in that rarefied sphere in which there is no
ignoble thought. The world of confusion will
cease to exist for you. Heaven will give you
a world of love, beauty, and health in which
to live. The power of the silence of heaven will
have caused your thought to become purified
and regenerated. You will give up old values
and old beliefs. Those old inclinations to worry
and to become involved in personal problems
will be silenced forever. You will move in the
glorious company of heaven.
With the arm of Christ, the mystical arm
of love and protection, about you, you will move
through the world untouched by the things of
the world. Oh, how often you have longed to
be in the world but not of it! Now you will
be neither affected by personalities nor moved
by worldly discords. These will find no re-
sponse in your soul. The silence of heaven
will hush all belief in worry and irritation,
jangle and disease.
Had you gone through a physical death
to reach this heaven of peace and silence, you
might have lost a certain contact with old
friends; but in the heaven of spiritual con-
sciousness the Spirit of truth has shown you
your old friends through new eyes. As the
Spirit of truth directs you to old friends you
Creed of the Dauntless 93
will find them changed because your concept
of them has undergone change. The very
silence of heaven will silence those old thoughts
of hate and fear, those old personal beliefs in
the limitations of your friends.
As you go about your daily work you will
find that you perform your daily tasks and
handle your business in a new way. Will you
be fearful in finances? Will you fear compe-
tition? Will you be undecided about the best
move to make? No, the silence of heaven, the
confidence of spiritual consciousness, will put
indecision, failure, and fear to flight. Some
strange but welcome power will enter into your
affairs and a holy hush will silence all opposi-
tion to your success. Knowing the truth of
your relationship to all the good things of the
world, you will find that this knowledge will
silence the old fears and doubts.
Do you recall how you used to try to enter
the silence? Now you find that the greatest
silence of all is the consciousness in which you
abide in the peaceful presence of Christ. Down
deep within you you have always felt that some
mystic presence was right with you. At times
it seemed to hush your clamoring thoughts. At
times when you were alone you had the ex-
perience of feeling that all the people and things
of the world were as nothing and the presence
was all that was real and true. And now you
know that this something, this mystic presence
of Christ, this reality within and about you,
within and about the real- things of life, is all
there ever can be.
How did you find this silence ? Just by turn-
94 Creed of the Dauntless
ing away in thought from the jangling confu-
sion of the world ; going deeper and deeper in
thought until you found the quietness of heaven
back of the confusion of the world. There
you found God, yourself, heavenly silence, rest,
and refreshment.
So we who believe in the presence of Christ
cannot permit ourselves to become involved in
adverse beliefs: beliefs in inharmony, disease,
and adversity in various forms. We have but
to turn to heaven in thought, to enter into the
silence of heaven to see the carnality of the
world disappear and to behold the presence of
Christ.
The silence of heaven will silence the wicked '
tongue. When we know the power of heavenly
silence, we cannot speak ill of ourselves or of
others, neither can they speak maliciously of
us.
The silence of heaven will still all mortal
belief, all pain, all war, revealing to us the
mystic presence of Christ here and now, dis-
closing to us the beauties of heaven all about
us. Turn toward heaven and its silence will
harmonize every condition in your life, stilling
troubled waters, revealing the truth of your
heavenly citizenship.
THE MYSTICAL ALTAR
BEFORE me stood an altar-
Candles, flowers, and beauty there !
The sacramental Host enthroned,
With radiance filled the air ;
An incense settled o'er my head
Like benediction rare;
A Sanctus bell called forth a hush
Before the Presence fair.
I then discovered in my soul
An altar all my own ;
The Sanctus bell of love rang out
With loving, peaceful tone ;
The Christ within me was enthroned,
All else I would disown;
Before His presence I laid all,
And looked to Him alone.
This mystic Presence shone within
And filled me with delight ;
My mind and body freed from darkness
Sensed His mystic light;
The candles in the church burned down,
Within they burned more bright ;
The mystic Presence still shines forth
Within ! both day and night.
95
GUARDING YOUR THOUGHTS
IRE YOU disturbed by the thinking of
adverse thoughts? Do you seem to be
unable to discipline your mind and to
rule out those thoughts that make for
mental and physical inharmony? Then learn
the very, very simple trick of guarding your
thoughts. Learn how to discipline your think-
ing so that you will think just what you want
to think.
Here is a woman who is thinking adverse
thoughts about another woman. Seemingly
without any self-control whatever, she falls
into the habit of thinking thoughts of jealousy
and envy about this other woman. She has
prayed and concentrated and treated the situa-
tion; she has tried to send the woman love
thoughts, but the adverse thoughts persist.
What is the solution? How shall we instruct
her to discipline her thinking and guard her
thoughts of love and Truth from being over-
come by evil ones?
In the first place, we must recognize that
trying to win the cause through a battle of
thoughts is almost futile. Trying to think good
thoughts harder and faster than we think
thoughts of evil is a process that involves men-
tal tension. Such a battle cannot be won en-
tirely by psychology. When adverse thoughts
seem to obsess the mind, the will appears to
be almost powerless.
What is the right process of guarding the
Creed of the Dauntless 97
thoughts? If mind power is not to be exercised,
what power can we call into play? What is the
power that will work the change without our
driving our own mental energies at full speed?
How will the power of Spirit be permitted to do
its perfect work?
It is a very, very simple process. As a
student of metaphysics and spiritual Truth, you
have often witnessed the work of Spirit. It has
operated in you and in your affairs as divine
intelligence. It has revealed to you the useless-
ness of trying to work through personal con-
sciousness. You have seen that trying to hate
others or attempting to entertain thoughts of
evil about them will do almost everything but
reveal the heavenly way to you. You have seen
that working from the standpoint of mind alone
cannot give you the things of Spirit peace,
love, and happiness. Spirit has often shown
you that you think thoughts of evil because
you allow yourself to get into a state of mind in
which evil thoughts exist.
During your instruction under the tutelage
of Spirit, you have been shown that you must
take the impersonal attitude in order to make
personal demonstrations, those involving your
relations with other persons. The impersonal
attitude is the only antidote to the working of
personal consciousness. You have been shown
that personal situations do not involve other
persons in your own demonstration, but in-
dicate to you that you are in personal con-
sciousness. Regardless of how other persons
appear to affect your own well-being or seem to
stand in your light, as a student of Truth you
98 Creed of the Dauntless
must cease to blame persons or things or to
think oflEem^mvolved in your own failure
to overcome. You must recognize your demon-
stration as your demonstration, just as if there
were no other person in the world but you and
you were thinking evil, personal thoughts !
How will you guard your thoughts? Be
not anxious about thoughts. Be more concerned
about your loyalty to Spirit. Do you not accept
as Truth the things of Truth that Spirit has re-
vealed to you? Were Jesus Christ to appear be-
fore you and say to you, "Look to Spirit instead
of to personality," would you not do so? Could
the Spirit of truth in Jesus, in person, mean
more to you than the Spirit of the impersonal
Christ, of impersonal Truth?
Cease to look to persons and things as they
^appear. Cease to think of your seeming separa-
tion from Spirit as caused by the intervention
of some personality. Cease to struggle with
thoughts. Just give it all up and cast your
burden upon the Lord. In the maze of personal
consciousness you cannot find your way out
through thinking personal thoughts. You just
have to give up the whole thing and turn to
Spirit, instead.
But what is the simple process of guarding
your thoughts? The simplest thing in the
world the business of doing nothing, of ab-
solute personal detachment from the whole sit-
uation.
If you think that another dislikes you, cease
to think about him for a while. The very sit-
uation shows that you are in personal conscious-
ness. Do not try to think about him or to treat
Creed of the Dauntless 99
the situation while in this attitude of mind.
Give it all up just as if he and the situation had
never existed. Neither the personal man nor
the personal situation ever existed in Spirit,
Turn in thought to God. Live for a while
in the realm where there are no thoughts of
persons, personal limitations, and personal
shortcomings. This experience will refresh
your mind and guard it from the thoughts that
you would avoid. You will have attained your
purpose just by doing nothing about the very
thing that has caused worry and tension. You
will be resting in the presence of Spirit.
Out of this experience of giving up personal
thoughts and just resting in the presence of
God will come power power to handle any sit-
uation, power to correct existing evils, power to
overcome. From it you will see yourself, the
world, and all your fellow beings in a new light.
You will be free from the old worries, fears,
hates, and feuds. No longer will they exist for
you, since they do not exist in Spirit and in
Truth.
The Spirit of truth will stand guard over
your thoughts. You will not need to struggle
and strain to deny evil and to grasp the good.
You will exist in heaven, where there is only
good. You will cease to live on the personal
plane, where you must be busy sorting
thoughts, killing out one kind and nourishing
the other. This is the way of Spirit, the way of
freedom, the way now open to you.
ONLY THE ABSOLUTE
GOD, the One, is the only Being;
The Allness of Good is the only Presence ;
The Principle of Truth is the only Law ;
Divine Mind is the only Intelligence ;
Eternal Life is the only Existence ;
Universal Love is the only Power ;
The Eternal Now is the only Time ;
The Omnipresence of Heaven is the only
Place;
The Substance of God is the only Supply ;
The Truth about Man is the only Reality ;
The Temple of the Living God is the only
Body;
Christ in Us is the only Man.
100
FROM PRAYER TO
DEMONSTRATION
How to bridge the gajt between spiritual
treatment and physical manifestation
JCCASIONALLY some one says, "I
know how to pray, I can give a good
metaphysical treatment, but, somehow,
I do not get results." In such cases
there would seem to be something lacking in the
spiritual treatment if results are not forthcom-
ing. Let us see what this might be.
Virtually every Christian thinks that he
knows how to pray, so we shall concern our-
selves not with the ordinary technique of
prayer but with the mystical "something**
which, added to prayer, makes it a living and
efficacious thing, makes it yield fruit. What is
this something that makes prayer alive? What
is this thing that one person can put into his
prayer so as to cause results to appear, while
another person may seem to pray just as
earnestly and still not get results?
First of all, remember that prayer should
not be a form of beseeching. In prayer, do not
take the attitude that you are begging for some-
thing. Oh, no ! That is not true prayer. Un-
derstanding the nature of spiritual man, know-
ing that you are heir to all the bless-
ings of the Father and that these blessings are
yours to enjoy now and here, you seek through
101
102 Creed of the Dauntless
prayer to realize their presence. In order to
do this you must remove from mind all belief
that you lack these blessings or that they are
not yours. You must reach the place in con-
sciousness where you cannot perceive lack. You
must enter spiritually the very presence and
possession of the things for which you are pray-
ing.
Occasionally we see some spiritual healer
whose success in healing is only spasmodic. The
question presents itself, "Why is he not always
successful in healing?" The answer is obvious :
"He conceives of disease as a reality, and seeks
to remove it." If we pray such prayers as this,
"O God, cure me of this powerful disease," we
have not prayed the true prayer. We need to
think of disease as belonging solely to the world
of illusion, no matter how real it seems to be.
In prayer, are you able to drop all belief in
the power or presence of the adverse thought
that you are entertaining? This ability must
be strengthened. In the early stages of prayer
you must utterly wipe out such a belief. If you
are to know the power of God and to bring it
into manifestation in your life you must give
up all belief in opposite powers. If God is to be
the one reality in your life you must give up
all belief in the reality of disease or of lack.
In prayer you must enter the high con-
sciousness in which you behold yourself freed
from every belief in negative things. You will
behold yourself in the presence of God, cleansed
of all worldly beliefs, standing clean and spot-
less. You will feel the power and presence of
God penetrating your mind and body as if you
Creed of the Dauntless 103
had never known disease or limitation. You
will feel at one with God.
When you leave the silence of the presence
of God, you will feel so full of this conscious-
ness, this realization of your health and perfec-
tion, that you will actually
made jvhole. Can there be any gap between
prayer and demonstration when you pray thus?
One thing must be faithfully observed. You
must carry from the silence such a realization
of health that nothing in the outer world can
separate you from it. Memories of pain or dis-
ease before your time of prayer must not be
allowed to crowd in upon you. You must keep
your mind unsullied by such memories. You
have consecrated yourself to God and you must
keep mind and body true to the high ideal that
you have beheld in prayer.
*
Having met God "in the secret place of the
Most High," having been assured that health is
true and that disease is not true, having felt the
regenerating influence of God actually at work
in your body, how can you doubt the healing
power of prayer? How can you lapse into the
old way of thinking, the old beliefs in disease?
Keep true to the high ideals that God has shown
you in the silence.
Between prayer and demonstration, is there
a gap? Are not the two so closely interrelated
that we cannot separate them? Is not demon-
stration but the conclusion of eifective prayer?
The secret of this message is this: Keep
your vision clear* Aim to look with spiritual
eyes away from the thing that you seek to re-
move from your life. Lift your vision to the
104 Creed of the Dauntless
highest ideal within you, to the innate perfec-
tion that has never been touched by adversity.
Have you found the "something" within you
that is never diseased, never weakened, never
defeated? Do you not feel that this something
is mightier than all the diseases that man dis-
cusses and propagates? This something is the
power of God within you, and you have but to
tern to it to feel yourself lifted up and away
from negative things that appear to be real.
The external things that would draw you away
from God must cease to lure you. The old be-
liefs in disease must be given up if you are to
discover this Great Something within you and
hold steadily to it.
On the way from prayer to demonstration
there are mighty changes taking place within
the one who prays. He gives up the adverse
beliefs which have bound him, and he finds God.
He gives up viewpoints that are ages old, but
finds the Truth that is eternal, that Truth upon
which his own life is established.
This revelation of your perfection in God
and of the ease with which it can be realized is
worth more than anything else in the world to
you. Youcan do all things throu^
ing it, Kecause you can ddlBTTHngs through
Christ, the Great Something, within you.
Keep your vision fixed upon the unchanging
One within you, your constant God, and upon
your own likeness to God. Hold steadily to this
vision until you clearly see the thing for which
you pray come right into visible manifestation.
God Himself is the answer to your prayer.
HEALTH AND
DEMONSTRATION
INTO THE SILENCE, INTO HEALTH
*Tett me how to go into the silence and how
to demonstrate health"
HERE is no mystery attached to the
process or practice of going
1
into the
silence. Young students are inclined
to look upon the silence as some
strange and mysterious state of mind to which
only adepts may hope to aspire. The expression
"going into the silence" is very frequently
found in the study of practical Christianity and
often a writer takes it for granted that the
reader or student has the knowledge of just
how one enters the silence. Eastern adepts
and Christian mystics have claimed that the
silence has power to give one relief from the
disturbances and inharmonies of life and has
power to bring one into a consciousness of bliss
eternal.
There is magic in the very familiar line:
\ "Be still, and know that I am God." Even our
reading it seems to cause us to still our ad-
verse beliefs and to bring us to a realization
that God alone is true and all in all. Instinc-
tively we feel that silence closes the door upon
those inharmonies of the world from which
we have always wanted freedom; we feel that
silence opens the way to God and shows us
heavenly blessings.
Jesus thought of the silence in this way and
107
108 Creed of the Dauntless
gave some very specific instructions, which may
be summarized thus :
1. When is the best time for the silence?
"When thou prayest" The time for the silence,
the time for prayer, should be when one feels
a desire or a need to get away from the con-
fusion of the world, away from worry or
troubled thought, away from sorrow or pain.
2. What is the best place for the
"Enter into thine inner chamber/' D
rect your prayers to gods or to outer tEmgs.
Cease thinking of external things. Go into
the^
heavenly realm within yourself, direct you*
thoughts to the very center of your being.
3. How shall I get away from the sights,
sounds, worries, and pains of the manifest
world? "Shut thy door." Take the attitude
'that your heavenly Father has given you power
to close a door that will silence all noise and
clamorings in the manifest world. When you
shut this mystical door upon the world, turn
and face the Father of quietness, peace, love,
and healthjwithin you.
You havenow entered the holy of holies, the
place of silence, prayer, and realization. If
you let the "door*' come open just the least bit,
your silence will be disturbed, so you must keep
very quiet, free from thinking anything but
that which is harmonious and exalting. When
you first come into the holy of holies you may
expect to see things and to hear and feel things.
You have trained yourself in the world of
sensation to expect to have your senses played
upon, but in this still and holy place your phys-
ical senses will not register. You will discover
Creed of the Dauntless 109
that you have another set of senses, those which
are spiritual, and by them you will sense tho-
presence of God peace and love.
4. What will you do, now that you stand in
the very presence of God? "Pray to thy Father
who is in secret." He is in secret because mortal
eyes and senses do not behold or feel Him.
Possibly, all your life you have thought about
being alone with God and have thought about
what you would say to Him. Have you
thought how you would explain your actions,
possibly justify yourself, tell God something
which you have thought He ought to know?
Now that you are in His presence you will have
a different idea of what you will think or say.
Being relaxed from the tense and heated
thoughts^of* the world, your mind will seem
to be diverted into a new channel of thinking.
Old values will pass away and you will begin
to see things in a new light. Possibly you have
thought that you would be almost overwhelmed
by the majesty of God, that you would scarcely
have courage to ask for the things you want.
When you start to think in the new way, you
will have thoughts different from those that
you have previously entertained. You will begin
to think of yourself as peaceful, joyous, happy,
and strong. Are you praying to the Father?
Yes, for you are entering into a consciousness
of your oneness with Him, oneness with His
life and strength.
5. Have you wondered what Spirit will do
when you are in the inner place of silence?
"Thy Father . . . shall recompense thee."
After all, you will find that the peace and health
110 Creed, of the Dauntless
which come to you in the silence are but God's
blessings for you, His recompense to you for
coming to Him.
We can easily see that, divested of the mys-
tery in which the silence often is clothed, it
is nothing but the state of quietness which man
experiences when he is alone with his God.
God is his life, health, and strength and when
he is with God he is unified with all these.
How does one demonstrate health? He does
not actually demonstrate it. He discovers that
he has health. In the silence he so completely
forgets the old life with its pains and aches,
he so successfully closes the door upon these,
he comes into such a clear realization of one-
ness with God life, health, and strength that
he comes out of the silence either cured of his
maladies or else with the firm realization that
his healing is rapidly taking place.
It is not difficult to understand why Chris-
tian metaphysicians place so much stress upon
the silence. It is lifee a vestibule between two
worlds or two lives. In that vestibule one
divests oneself of the old beliefs and enters
into a new life of health and strength. In that
silence man stands alone with God, alone with
the Truth of Ms being. He finds that the light/
of Truth, the great searchlight of Spirit, pene-
trates his very being and he sees himself as he(
is in Truth.
Those who do not know what the silence
is think that it is a process by which man at-
tempts to hypnotize himself into believing that
he is well when he is ill. Those who under-
Creed of the Dauntless 111
stand the silence know that by it man finds
himself and discovers his divine sonship.
The jazz of the sensual life, the noise of the
world, and pain in the physical body are all
on the same plane. Each one belongs in the
realm of sensation and "is of the earth, earthy."
By the silence man finds himself in the con-
sciousness in which stillness and health alone
can be found. By the silence he knows how to
be still and to know that God is^God and that
J3gjsjone with God. He discovers thelneaning
of the words of Jesus Christ :
"When thou prayest, enter into thine inner
chamber, and having shut thy door, pray to thy
Father who is in secret, and thy Father who
seeth in secret shall recompense thee."
Away from the confusion of the senses,
away from confused beliefs and disease! Into
the silence, into peace and truth, into health!
You will emerge from the silence divested of
all doubt, worry, and pain. You will have found
the peace "which passeth all understanding/*
the "pearl of great price," your divine self.
So we emphasize to you the necessity of
resorting to prayer, to the silence, when you
need healing. In the secret place of the Most
High you will find quiet, freedom, relaxation,
and healing. In this quiet you will find your
real self and, best of all, God and health.
I'VE JUST HEARD A SECRET
ABOUT YOU
JL 'VE just heard a secret about you ;
I'm sure there is Truth in each word;
I know you'll not mind if I mention
The secret that I nave just Heard.
(It seems for some time youVe teen thinking
That things have the power to oppress,
That persons about you are vexing,
That both often cause you distress;
And often you feel quite unhappy,
And fail when you should best succeed,
Because you are not always looking
And watching each thought, word, and deed.)
And, now, shall I tell you the secret
A secret that's best not concealed?
I know it's the secret of secrets,
Though always it's best when revealed:
There s not any truth in the thinking
That persons or things can {perturb
Or that situations external
Have ower your eace to disturb.
In Truth, you are higher and grander
Than all that is found in the earth.
For in you was planted God's Spirit
Before you were given your birth,
Now, isn't this quite a good secret
A secret worth far more than gold?
Now, find some one else who may need it.
This secret that's best when it's told.
112
SILENCE AND HEALTH
"Be silent, all flesh, before JeJiovah"
AVE you ever wished that you might so
contact the very peace and silence of
heaven that such heavenly blessedness
would cause your whole being to relax
into quietness and health? Possibly at a time
when unpleasant thoughts were clamoring,
each one trying to get an audience with you,
at a time when your mind and body seemed
to be full of noise, tension, and pain, you just
felt that you wanted to shout, "Silence, in the
name of Jesus Christ." We instinctively know
and feel that there is a relation between silence
and health.
Students of practical Christianity seek to
enter the silence, the secret place of the Most
High, because they know that in the mystical
silence they are brought closer to God, closer
to a realization of the truth about themselves,
nearer to health and perfection. In the silence
the noisy, clamoring thoughts which cause
physical discomfort must give way to the
thoughts of peace, and health, and God.
The first step in demonstrating health is
that of establishing mental health: peace of
mind, freedom from peace-destroying and
disease-creating thoughts. The mind which
seeks to become unified with the mind of God
must give up all tendency to think dark and
heated thoughts, thoughts of hate and fear,
113
114 Creed of the Dauntless
thoughts of weakness and disease. He who
would demonstrate metaphysical healing must
turn away from evil thinking if he would as-
cend to the heights where he hopes to see him-
self revealed as the perfect son of God.
If you would rid yourself of headaches and
the myriad other physical aches you must first
enter into the high consciousness in which you
can no longer think those thoughts which cause
mental cross currents. You must ascend into
heaven, into the high consciousness wherein
you will know and feel that you are one with
God, one with His peace and love.
If you would be free from eye strain, you
will need to look upon other persons and upon
things with a new set of eyes, eyes of Spirit,
eyes of love. You will need to cease looking at
unholy things and to cease thinking of them as
having any part in your world. You will need
to say, "Silence," when even the thought of evil
appearances presents itself.
If you would have strong lungs, you must
silence the belief that your lungs can be weak
or diseased. You will need to silence the belief
that cares and worries depress you and keep
you from inhaling the free-flowing air and life
of God. You must learn literally to fill yourself
with the atmosphere of heaven, the omnipres-
ent ether which fills us and unifies us with all
living things.
If you would strengthen your heart you
must put to silence aU belief that your love can
be limited in any way. Give up the secret
belief, the subconscious thought, that some
persons do not love you, that some one hates
Creed of the Dauntless 115
you; give up the belief that you stand alone
and that you must fight for a place in the world.
Replace such beliefs with the truth and the
knowledge that God loves you and that He is
quickening all people to share their love with
you. Know that you rest in the love of God
and that from His sacred heart love flows to
you in unlimited measure.
If you would be cured of stomach trouble,
silence the belief that things of the outer world
can cause you distress. Learn to unify yourself
with the outer world. Silence the belief that
food can cause you distress. Know that you are
unified with the food you eat, because God has
blessed it for your use.
Does insomnia claim your peace? Then
learn to silence those secret thoughts which
disturb your subconsciousness. What are some
of these thoughts? The thought that some one
has been unkind to you during the day, the
thought that tomorrow may bring a climax
of unpleasant situations, the thought that you
are quarreling with a late dinner. Again,
silence! Before you retire, practice the silence.
Cease thinking of persons, the past, or the
future, food combinations, and gastric symp-
toms.
You can see how easy it is to make a list
of physical inharmonies and the thoughts that
correspond and cause such disturbances to ap-
pear. One could make a large complete list of
causes and effects but these would still be just
causes and effects, still of the world of appear-
ances, the world from which man must look
116 Creed of the Dauntless
away if he is to unify himself with the silence
of heaven and the life of God.
The student of Truth learns very early
which thoughts are the ones he must silence.
He learns that thoughts of hate, fear, worry,
and tension must be dropped from mind. He
learns how to fill his mind with peaceful and
health-producing thoughts.
After he has practiced the silence for some
time he discovers how easy it is to think
heavenward instead of downward toward dis-
ease and failure. He discovers that when a
thought comes to mind the thought is at first
timid and not very confident of itself. He
discovers that he has power to turn it out of
his mind right at that instant. He finds that
the thought gains in power and resistance as
it is permitted to remain. He finds that think-
ing a thought of good will cause the evil
thought to shrivel and to disappear.
Do you know some one who needs the mes-
sage of silence and health? Then give it to
him. Give it to him lovingly and thoughtfully.
If need be, give it to him silently* Possibly his
mind is quite disturbed with the dark and
heated thoughts which are expressing in his
physical organism as pain, weakness, or dis-
ease. Do not try to preach a sermon on healing
to him. Keep yourself as quiet as possible and
let your inner stillness reach hfrn-
Many a minister or healer has been able to
lift a sick person to health by causing him to
feel the quietness of Spirit. When one goes to
another person's aid in case that person needs
help, the very presence and stillness of Christ
Creed of the Dauntless 117
are represented. When one succeeds in inter-
esting a sick person in quietness, when that
person's mind is turned from clamoring
thoughts, health is on the way.
When the heavy thoughts of fear and dis-
ease are lifted from the mind of the invalid,
the clamps upon the free-flowing life of Christ
within that individual are released. Some-
where within, the very life and health of Christ
issue forth.
Where is the mystery of healing? There is
no mystery. Healing results when man_stegs
aside. When man is willing to get himseTFancr
Tiis malicious thoughts out of the way, when
he has discovered in the silence the presence
of God, he has found health.
If we would learn to live so close to God
that we could see God's works in our lives to
the exclusion of all else, we would dwell in
such a heavenly silence that we would be lit-
erally detached from the jangle and disease of
the world. We would live eternally in the con-
sciousness that our health could not change or
depart from us. We approach such an ideal
and many of our friends are discovering the
health that abides in the silence.
FORGIVE HIM NOW
THAT little slight of yesterday,
Don't let it spoil your day ;
That little word,"that little shrug,
Last night they passed away ;
Between the sunset and the dawn,
God blotted out the slight;
To clear the past of its mistates,
God used the ink of night.
Last night when all was very still,
The Christ came to your bed ;
He said to you, "Forgive him, child/'
His hand was on your head;
And then He said, "He's dear to me,
He's mine the same as you.
He tries so hard to do the right.
This is not hard to do."
Then in your dream you smiled a smile.
The Christ was happy, too;
He knew that He could count on you,
That you'd begin anew,
That in the night that slight offense
Was lifted from your brow,
That you will love that friend again,
That you'll forgive him now.
118
A DEFINITE CLEW TO HEALING
ANY a person has studied practical
Christianity and metaphysical healing
for years but still finds that he has not
yet found the something which will
bring him health. He patiently searches for
some truth or revelation which will give him a
more tangible hold upon Truth and his own
health.
We have a very important clew to healing
to share with you. Possibly if you have studied
Truth for some time you have almost sensed
the truth that has been revealed to us. We hope
to make this truth so clear to you that you will
desire to practice it immediately.
We take for granted that you already know
that ill health comes from adverse thinking;
that when the offending thought hate, fear,
belief in disease, or whatever the adverse
thought may be is erased from mind, the bar-
rier between God and man is broken down ; that
when man's ignorance and adverse thinking
are out of the way, the healing power of God
rushes to his aid ; that this healing takes place
first through the mental and spiritual, later in
the manifest and physical.
We believe that previous to reading this you
have gained the realization that we live in the
now, the glorious now, the present second ; that
to some extent you have freed yourself from
the habit of trying to live in the past or the
future. We presume that you understand mind
119
120 Creed of the Dauntless
substance and know that the thoughts you en-
tertain make their impress upon this substance
and, thereby, give you one kind of mind or
another, make you either unhappy and un-
healthy or else cause you to know your perfec-
tion in Christ.
Since your salvation must come first
through right thinking, through mind, you must
protect your mind substance, that of the pres-
ent moment, this very moment, this very sec-
ond, from being sullied by the adverse thoughts
of the previous moment.
The diseased person, one who has been en-
tertaining adverse thoughts, must keep those
thoughts in the past until they fade out of exist-
ence. They cannot live unless they are allowed
to come into the present and feed upon new
and fresh mind substance. His relief can come
only through his grasping the present and the
new clean mind substance and by his keeping
this unharmed by his past thinking and by ad-
verse thoughts.
Each moment you are born anew into the
kingdom of God, the kingdom of perfection and
health right in your very midst. There is noth-
ing in the immaculate vision of Truth, in the
sight of God, to relate or to limit you to any
adversity or disease of the past, the previous
moment.
Right now you have fresh mind substance,
fresh in this new moment of your existence,
and the God-given power to use it absolutely
to renew, regenerate, and spiritualize your
Creed of the Dauntless 121
mind and body. If you let your old fears, per-
sonal feelings, and negative beliefs of the previ-
ous moment bridge the interval of time and
feed upon the substance of the present instant,
you are not living in the now, with its new be-
ginnings, its new opportunities to take new
hold upon life and health. Where are you liv-
ing? If you harbor thoughts of the past, think-
ing disease and adversity, just as you did in the
previous moment, you are living in the past !
Each new second you have an opportunity to
p^l yourself out of the mire of despondency and
ill health. God Himself, who gives you the
bread of life (new mind substance), is trying to
plant your feet on higher ground.
Grasp the freshness and newness of the
present second, with its new thoughts and in-
spirations. You are reborn as a healthy babe,
each glorious moment. The hand of God, work-
ing as man's present knowledge of Truth in-
spired by the Spirit of Christ, is ever ready to
exalt those who live in the present moment. If
they look back they are crystallized by the past.
This fresh mind substance is the very germ
of life, strength, and health. The phantoms of
the past, your old thoughts, your former beliefs
about yourself, will feed upon this life and sub-
stance. For this reason you must live in the
now and let your new thoughts be nourished by
this spiritual bread, this manna from heaven,
this fresh substance from the mind of God.
Give your mind substance to Truth working
in you right at this moment. Give it to Truth
122 Creed of the Dauntless
working in you the succeeding moment when
that time arrives as the now, but give no sub-
stance to the adverse beliefs of the past.
This is not a message which concerns itself
alone with the teaching, often heard, that we
must not live in the past. This message to you
goes far beyond that. It urges you to take a new
hold upon life at every second of the day. It
urges you to break with the adverse thoughts of
the past. It urges you to sever all relations with
even the adverse thinking of a second ago, be-
cause it is this time which will relate you to the
past!
What will this new process do for you? It
will help you get out of the old grooves of think-
ing disease, thereby lifting you right out of dis-
ease itself. It will help you to establish new
thought habits. It will make you free to choose
your thoughts, to think what you please, to
think Truth.
When you have learned to break with the
adverse thoughts of the past, when you have
discovered how to turn the flood of your adverse
thoughts of the past away from your mind, you
will find that the negative things of yesterday
cannot discolor or injure your thoughts of to-
day. Keep in mind the fact that the past
can relate itself to you and to the present mo-
ment only by your letting the adverse thoughts
of a moment ago affect you.
Why should you not be born anew at every
moment of your life? Why should you not be
free to think the truth which you know at this
moment instead of being overwhelmed by the
negative state of consciousness you have built
Creed, of the Dauntless 123
up in the past? Why should you not be free to
approach each new moment of your life with
clear-mindedness, a clear outlook upon life, with
your body strong and healthy, with the knowl-
edge that you see everything in life from a
newer, brighter, and higher viewpoint?
Your business failures of the past, your per-
sonal animosities, and all the myriad things
which seem to pull you back have absolutely no
power when you know the truth of this new
gospel of keeping your mind unrelated to ad-
verse beliefs that you have previously enter-
tained.
Why is such a radical mental stand neces-
sary? Because this is the only step you can take
to clear away the adverse state of consciousness
which stands between you and freedom, be-
tween you and health, between you and heaven
here and now, between you and God. When you
have taken this initial step you will find the
action of God taking place. Once your mind is
a fit and ready receptacle for Spirit you will be-
gin having high, exalted, and spiritual
thoughts. You will find yourself nearer and
nearer God.
You can approach God only with a clean
mind. The old-time evangelists who sought to
bring about a change of heart in their converts
knew of a mighty truth. Only when the mind
is cleared of adverse thoughts, such as the de-
sire to sin and the belief in satanic power, can
one approach God.
The student of practical Christianity and
metaphysical healing needs to learn how to
keep his mind pure and free from the negative
124 Creed of the Dauntless
thoughts that he has entertained about himself.
How does the invalid know but that the next
second in his life will bring him health? Pos-
sibly it will. That second has in it power and
authority to cast off disease and to take hold of
health. He should grasp every new second
with the knowledge and realization that therein
are new life, new breath, new nerve force, new
substance to rebuild his body.
Learn to live in the present moment. Let
your thought be related neither to what you
have thought nor to things you fear may hap-
pen. You need not fear the future if you are
thinking heavenward at the present time.
There could be no higher truth revealed to
man than the truth that he is, in the sight of
God, at each new moment, reborn and purified,
whole and perfect. There is no teaching truer
than this. Here you have a mighty truth which
can be demonstrated and proved. This gospel
of the present moment, the gospel of constant
rebirth, has the very power of God backof it.
Grasp the bright, shining substance of the
glorious now, the clean mind substance fresh
from heaven, and place upon it your stamp of
approval of this gospel. You can begin life all
over, with everything new. You can approach
each new moment with the consciousness that
you are the glorified child of God, for such you
are. When? Always; at the present moment
and ever afterward.
TRUSTING AND RESTING
JUST TRUSTING, friend, and resting
In a knowing real ana true
That all Is well with your afiairs
Will bring the good to view.
Just confidently trusting,
With conviction that some aid
Will come to you, will bring relief,
And make you unafraid.
By simply trusting in the good,
Forgetting evil's claim
(It may be lack, disease, or fear,
Or things of kindred name),
You'll see the good appear as yours ;
You'll .11
your world with cheer
If you will simply trust and rest
And keep your vision clear.
When things seem most to frighten you,
The world seems evil-bound,
Just trust and rest ! God's in His world !
Within you He'll be found!
You'll find, if you will trust and rest,
The good will come to you ;
Keep trusting, friend, and resting
In a knowing real and true.
125
PRAYER THAT ACTUALLY HEALS
The Harmonious Consciousness Produces
Physical Harmony
|O YOU recall your former impressions
of prayer? Possibly your old concep-
tions were quite different from your
present knowledge of it. I once heard
& man say that when he prayed he either knelt
or else felt that he was prostrated before an in-
visible throne on which God was seated. He said
that many times he was thoroughly exhausted
from trying to get his desires across to God and
from trying to feel that some answer was com-
ing to him.
Our old method of supplicating and beseech-
ing something apart fromjus or away from us
had many unsatisfactory features. The very
attitude*of beseeching some one, whom we
thougffE more powerful than we were, placed us
in a position to think of that one as a sort of
spiritual Nero. The attitude of mind which we
have thought of as one of humility and meek-
ness finally brought us to the realization that
we could hardly rise to the majesty of divine
sonship while we took a position of groveling
before some invisible and unknown power, >-
Then came the realization of the /simplicity.
of prayer. Possibly you had been brought up
to look upon prayer through the eyes of ortho-
doxy and fundamentalism. You might have
126
Creed of the Dauntless 127
been quite carried away with the ritualism
which sometimes accompanies prayer. Pos-
sibly this simplicity was revealed to you at a
time when dogmas and ritualism had grown de-
pressing and, as you sat alone, you seemed to
be apart from even the externals of religion.
Possibly at this time you were in a mental
and physical upheaval and you had desperately
tried to pray. You were even tired of what you
had thought religion was. You just wanted to
get away from everything, almost from life it-
self, at least from life as it, to you, had seemed
to be. Then you just let go ; you quit trying to
supplicate something that did not seem to hear
or respond. Do you remember what happened?
Doubtless you will never forget the experience,
for it meant the turning point in your life.
When the mental anxiety you felt in your
supplication left you, when you ceased looking
into the dark invisible for God, when you
yielded to the dark its own begotten ignorance
and superstitions about religion, you seemed
bereft of almost everything. There were left
.only you and God. Do you remember how the
very sense of material things seemed to leave
you? Do you recall how time seemed timeless?
Possibly mighty changes took place in you in a
few moments and you seemed to think that cen-
turies had rolled back and you were once more
in your Father's house. Possibly what seemed
a few minutes turned out to be hours and hours.
You were alone with God. Somehow, you
had always expected to be and you had won-
dered if you would be afraid. Now you did not
see God where you had formerly looked. An
128 Creed of the Dauntless
inner sense seemed to be opening up and at the
very heart of your befog you felt and saw, with
spiritual eyes, God as a great, dazzling light.
You forgot your mental tension and physical
distress. You felt that you had never known
anything but light. There seemed to be no
"you," no world, no troubles, no material
things. There was just beautiful light and you
were part of it. You were in it. God was with
you. You seemed to be individualized, some-
how, in it, and you could feel yourself. Golden
sunshine seemed to penetrate you. Possibly all
the peace, harmony, and love in the world
seemed to be dissolved back into light, back into
God, right in you.
You seemed to be away back in some realm
where worlds are made, where love and life in
their virgin purity first burst forth, where the
sunshine of God's light makes its first dawning.
Perhaps a bell or a call interrupted your
silence. How changed all things were to you
now! How changed you were yourself! You
went merrily about your workaday world with
a sense of having had a thorough regeneration
in mind, soul, and body. No more mental ten-
sion and anxiety; no more financial troubles and
belief in failure; no more physical pain and ten-
sion. In place of these you had a mental and
physical peace which passes all understanding.
Had you found God? Had you found how to
pray? Had you been healed? Had you dis-
covered the secret of prayer and healing? What
had happened?
When you gave up your belief in external
things, when you ceased to look without for
Creed of the Dauntless 129
God, when you quit supplicating, you did the
natural thing. Somewhere within yourself you
found something which you had not known
existed. You felt the same sympathetic bond
between you and it that exists between two good
friends. You felt that this something was come
ing to you as you turned to it. You found that
it was the end of all your seeking in life ; that it
was the ultimate blessing. You found that it
was God.
Do you recall now the mental peace and the
physical relaxation which followed this discov-
ery? You felt as if you were relaxing from a
whole lifetime of straining for something out-
side and beyond you. This relaxation caused
you to give up thinking the dark, heavy, heated
thoughts and you just seemed to let the mind of
God think its beautiful, harmonious, loving, and
healing thoughts in you. How your mind felt
exhilarated as this new force began its purify-
ing, renewing, regenerating, and healing work !
Do you remember how those tense muscles
relaxed, how those starved nerves were nour-
ished, how your body cells seemed to feel they
were glistening when that golden sunlight of
Spirit radiated to the very circumference of
your body? What a velvety feeling you had in-
side as you had the experience of having every
little cell tenderly massaged, lovingly fed, and
strengthened by the power of Spirit.
You had discovered that the true prayer is
but a simple and quiet communion with God,
that this One is never apart or away from you.
You found that physical harmony and healing
come when the peace and the harmony of God
SUBCONSCIOUS HEALING
AVE YOU ever had the experience of
feeling how free from mental and
physical distress you would be if you
could just discover and remove some
offending thing which seemed to be pres-
ent down deep within you? No doubt you
have felt that peace of mind and perfect health
would be yours if you could just reach down
within yourself somewhere and pluck out the
"thorn in the flesh." Now we have said it:
something that we had thought but did not
think could be put into human language. It
is a "thorn in the flesh." Now the subcon-
scious and unconscious process is working and
we have succeeded in bringing to conscious-
ness a thought which has been buried in the
deeper mind, in the memory mind, in the
mind where mental operations take place with-
out our being conscious of them.
We have called this a "thorn in the flesh."
Let us not think of it as meaning "flesh" in the
physical sense, altogether. We often think of
the mind and the body as being inseparably
unified. So let us think of this "thorn" as be-
ing in that place which unites mind and body,
in the deeper mind, the subconsciousness.
Possibly weeks or years ago a thought of
hate or fear which made a very vivid impres-
sion upon you sank back into subconsciousness.
The thought was not neutralized and denied
through a knowledge of Truth; it still lives in
132
Creed of the Dauntless 133
the depths of your mind. Sometimes you may
recall even now that you had such an adverse
experience. To your consciousness this thought
cctaies as a sea monster comes to the surface
of the water.
If you have studied psychology you have
had a desire to probe into the subconscious
realm. If you have heard of psychoanalysis,
you have wanted to be psychoanalyzed. The
willingness to let some one else discover the
"thorn" for you comes from a certain modesty
that you have which would cause you to re-
fuse to believe you could hold such adverse
thoughts. But you do not need another to
discover this "thorn" and hold it before your
eyes.
The matter of subconsciousness-probing is
one which is far from delightful. It may lead
one into a mental state which is far from de-
sirable. Considering the nature of the sub-
conscious process, man would do well to pro-
ceed cautiously in dealing with it. Otherwise,
the mental adjustments may be thrown out of
balance.
However, there is a very easy and whole-
some way in which one may deal with the sub-
consciousness. It is a method which cannot be
used by those who deal entirely with mind
alone or by those who have the impression that
their major work is finding faults and secret
sins. The process that we have in mind is one
which comes from studying Christian healing
and practical Christianity. This process deals
not altogether with mind; it deals consider-
1S4 Creed of the Dauntless
ably with the deeper forces of Spirit within
man,
By following this process a person avoids
going through the unhealthy stage of behold-
ing himself a sinner in the grip of sinful states
of mind. Quite often a person given to much
introspection falls into a very unhappy state
and, instead of taking a step higher day by
day, is found to sink deeper and deeper .into
harmful subconscious moods.
Christian healing offers a distinct method
of cleansing the subconsciousness. The method
may be briefly described in this way: Since
the "thorn/
1
the evil thought, dropped from the
consciousness into the subconsciousness, then
the way to remove the thorn is to know the
truth and to send a powerful, good thought
down into the subconsciousness to pluck out
the thorn.
The method works in this fashion: The
individual studies Truth until he is able to be-
hold the perfect, ideal man which he is in the
sight of God. He learns the power of love over
hate and fear. He learns the power of God
over adverse thoughts. The Truth thoughts
sink deeper and deeper into his consciousness
until the old adverse states of mind are entirely
neutralized.
He gets a strong consciousness ofjgve. The
love consciousness may filter down into the
subconsciousness so completely that he may
never be conscious of the time when the thorn
is removed. He may simply feel himself grow-
ing more peaceful and more happy day by day.
Again, it may happen that he has been
Creed, of the Dauntless 185
meditating- upon his divine sonship and per-
fection. He may have had a high realization
of this truth. Suddenly, he will feel as if some-
thing from the very depths of his being is be-
ing expelled and he will feel the old mental state
come to the surface.
Possibly at a time when he has had a
strong realization of fearlessness and courage
he may be sitting in the silence and an impres-
sion of some subconscious fear may come to
him. He may actually see the picture of the
day in the past when he was afraid and his
whole being shook with fear. But, at this time
of his strength, he stands as an onlooker. He
is now mighty within himself, in his true self.
He feels himself developing a great strength
and fearlessness. He feels that this powerful
courage reaches down within himself and with
powerful, sinewy hands removes the old fear.
Jehovah said, "I will put my law in their in-
ward parts." Paul had this deep cleansing and
renewing process in mind when he said, "Our
inward man is renewed day by day."
If you want a thorough healing, get such a
spiritual understanding and such a realization
of your perfection that all adverse thoughts in
the subconsciousness will be neutralized. The
power of Spirit is with the person who sets
about to destroy the thorns in the flesh and to
make himself a holy and a living expression of
God.
TO THE ONE WHO WOULD
BE CRITIC
LJO NOT stand as an accuser
At the bar of mortal thought;
Do not be a rasK condemner
Of the good that has been wrought ;
Trying to reveal the evil
In another's world and life
Will but emphasize its presence,
In your world will stir up strife.
They who seek to point out evil
In another's life and ways
Find that when it is discovered
No such seeking ever pays,
For the faulty or imperfect
That they think too long concealed
Grows to large and great proportions
When its presence is revealed.
If you want to play the critic,
Would be a superior one,
Try to find the good and noble
That another one has done ;
If you are alert and willing
To reveal the good and true,
You will know the Judge of Judges
Is at work in what you do.
136
WITHIN YOU IS HEALING POWER
HEN YOU were created perfect in the
sight of God there was placed in you
the power that is mighty to keep you
perfect. This is the ever renewing,
ever cleansing, ever regenerating, ever healing
power of Christ within you. Indeed, you would
not be a perfect creation, one with the eternal
perfection and life of God, if as a matter of
course you could fall into imperfection, decay,
and disintegration.
Do not think of yourself as having any rela-
tion to the race idea of disease and death. Think
of yourself as a divine creation, for such you
are. Think of yourself as too holy to be touched
by unholy thought. Think often of yourself as
created in the image and likeness, the perfec-
tion and divinity, of Christ.
The power of God in you is healing power.
The life of God in you is eternal life. This
health and this life cannot be compared to
worldly standards of health and life. The
world looks upon health as something fleeting,
something that exists today and is changed to-
morrow. The world looks upon life as some-
thing that may terminate at any second. The
health and the life of Christ within you are un-
changeable. They endure forever. You must
know this truth to the exclusion of all contrary
belief and regardless of all opposing argument
if you would make your demonstration of
abounding health and eternal life.
137
138 Creed of the Dauntless
If you should lose consciousness of the life
and the presence of God within you, if thereby
you should cause yourself to become weak or
diseased, your first move should be to turn in
thought to God and to center your thought upon
His holy presence, His strength and His life,
within you. You must do this to such an ex-
tent that you get away from all belief in weak-
ness and disease. Remember that you cannot
make a demonstration of health if you persist
in looking upon disease as a reality or a power.
Above all, do not think of any disease as your
disease. Do not claim anything that you do not
wish to have. There is a psychological reason
for taking this attitude.
You will find that by turning from things of
the outer world, by turning from believing in
the power of external things, you will rob these
things of all power to harm you or to bring you
physical discomfort. Give up the old race ideas
that things external can harm you in any way.
Cease to think of the adverse power of things
external, but place your thought on the con-
structive and healing power of Spirit within
you.
Reading and thinking about the effect of
disease will not bring you to health. You must
dismiss disease from your mind as a thing that
does not exist in your world. It does not exist
in your world of life, health, and strength
your world of Truth in which there are only
God and you.
Your first realization of the healing power
of Spirit will come at a time of silence, at a
time when you have ceased to think of disease
Creed of the Dauntless 189
and the world, at a time when your whole
thought is directed to the presence of God
within you, the presence of abounding health.
There is power in silence. Why? Because
silence stills the clamoring voice of the things
without you. Silence is the door to the Great
Within, the great storehouse of life and health,
the very presence of God the Great Physician.
Has your reading this brought you to the
realization that you must actually give up ad-
verse thinking in order to be ushered into the
healing presence of God? Do you see that you
cannot enter this mystical presence so long as
your thought is unclean or impure, sullied by
the belief that fear or hate or disease has actual
presence in your life?
In order to enter the temple of the mystical
presence you must leave unholy thoughts at the
door. If you would enter the presence of God
you must not believe that anything else in all
the world has presence or power. You must not
believe that God has any opposite. You must
think of God as- all in all. You must know that
He is omnipotent in your life the only Power
and the only Presence !
Within you is healing power, power able to
erase every evidence of disease, power able to
cause the very presence of God within you to
manifest in your physical body as health and
strength. Give up all belief that the might of
God is without you or in some distant celestial
sphere. The power of God is wherever you are.
It is in the very midst of you. At this very
moment it is coining forth in you as quickening
life and healing vitality.
140 Creed, of the Dauntless
Within you is healing power now and here.
Give up the belief that healing belonged to some
distant age. The very fact that you are living
now you, the perfect creation of God is suf-
ficient proof that the healing, restoring power is
still at work.
When shall you be healed? There is no fixed
time in the great timeless age of Spirit. Lift
your thought to God at any time and feel His
mystical and healing presence. Lift your eyes
in hope and in faith. Clear your mind of all
belief in things adverse or darkened. Let your
eyes rest upon the perfect image of God now
expressed in His son, His child. You are that
person, that perfect one. Within you is healing
power, healing you at this very moment.
Behold within yourself the very perfection
of God, appearing as perfect man or as perfect
woman. Stand witness to the appearing of
vibrant health, bountiful strength, and eternal
life within you. See through spiritual eyes the
coming forth of God in your physical body.
Look with spiritual eyes and see the clouds of
adverse beliefs beliefs in sin, disease, and
death pass away before the shining of the
radiant sun of Spirit. This sun reveals to you
your divine sonship. This sun discloses you to
yourself as you appear in the sight of God.
Lift up your vision. See more clearly day
by day the realities of Spirit shining through
the mist of things that appear.
THE TEST OF LOVE
(I Corinthians 13)
JLF you claim to love another,
Tlien your love must stand the test ;
If it's love, then in the proving
Naught will change the love confessed.
Nor will matter what the loved one
Seems to say or fain would do ;
If it's love, you will not waver:
You with love can still be true.
You will not behave unseemly
Toward the one you love aright ;
Not a jealous thought or envy
E'er will put your love to flight ;
Not a thought of grim suspicion,
No unkind or cruel word
Will you think or feel or utter,
Nor will gossip's voice be heard.
You will be a mighty fortress,
In your heart your friend will find
Always faith and understanding,
Never thoughts that doubt or bind.
Aye enduring, never failing,
Love in you will see the best
In the one whom you are loving;
Thus your love will meet the test.
141
IS IT RIGHT TO BE UNHEALTHY?
OES not our present-day understanding
of the relation between psychology and
health give us such a conviction that
the thinking of evil thoughts- produces
disease that ultimately the race will consider
it wrong to be unhealthy? When that which
metaphysicians know at present becomes uni-
versal knowledge, will not disease become the
badge of a wrong and unhealthy thinker?
Since the metaphysician proves for himself
that the thinking of good and spiritual thoughts
will restore him to health, does he not at the
same time prove that unhealthiness is the prod-
uct of wrong thought? Instead of the present-
day habit of discussing diseases and operations,
will not conversations in the future avoid refer-
ence to these evidences that one has been guilty
of wrong thinking?
Do you not think that universal knowledge
of the relation between wrong thought and dis-
ease will eventually cause the person who
manifests disease to want to keep his friends
from knowing that he has thought evil thoughts
and, thereby, has caused unhealthiness, disease,
and weakness to appear in himself? If thoughts
of hate, envy, selfishness, or lust have caused
his heart to be weak, a tumor, to develop, his
eyesight to be dimmed, can he take any interest
or pride in pointing to his infirmities, or hope
thereby to elicit the sympathy of his friends?
Will the person whose hoggish thoughts and
142
Creed of the Dauntless 143
appetite have caused him to be hoggishly fat
be considered "as fat and as healthy as a little
pig/' or will this evidence of his unbridled
appetite classify him to all observers as one of
the selfish and the greedy? Will not the person
whose avaricious thought causes enormous
growths in his body be led to see that removing
the growth will not change the mind that has
produced it?
In the future will not the minister who is
unhealthy have difficulty in convincing his flock
that he lives close to God, when God is univer-
sally recognized as life and health? Will not
the religious worker whose physical appearance
is forbidding fail to convince his followers that
he knows Truth and his divine sonship?
Is not present-day intelligence of the rela-
tion between psychology and health, mind and
body, bringing us to the place where we see
that there can be no separation between the
science of health and the philosophy of religion?
Will not living near to God bring us a perfection
of health that we have always idealized? Will
not unhealthiness in us be universally recog-
nized as a result of our living apart from God,
regardless of what we would have others think
concerning our spirituality?
Will not future generations think of the
Bible not simply as a book of morals but as a
book of morals and of health? Will not the
deeper teachings of the book now recognized
by the few be universally understood? Will not
this mystery book, with undusted cover, become
the storehouse of all wisdom, offering the solu-
tion to all man's problems, showing him the
144 Creed of the Dauntless
way to peace and plenty, disclosing to him his
divine sonship and his right to perfect health?
If it is good for man to think heavenward
and to show forth physical perfection, is it not
wrong to think earthward and to be unhealthy?
Will not the future give us more doctors of
the mind and of the soul, and fewer doctors
of disease? Will not healing in the future be
concerned not with healing or changing only
the physical but with healing and changing first
the thought?
Will not the newly discovered truths of the
Bible and of practical Christianity give us
fewer "walking graveyards" and more "pic-
tures of health"? Will not the unhealthy person
be the exception rather than one of the ma-
jority? Will not the day come when the dis-
eased person is as much a rarity as a horse
and a buggy in a modern city are now?
When it becomes universally recognized that
it is wrong to be unhealthy, shall we not be
forced to discipline our thinking? Will not the
person who cannot or does not think good
thoughts be an outcast? Will not the person
who thinks himself into disease find that he
is denied the companionship of those friends
who think good and wholesome thoughts?
Do you know that the healing truths of
Jesus that were formerly recognized and em-
phasized only by what was called "a healing
cult" are now accepted and promulgated by
intelligent educators, writers, and ministers?
Do you recognize the fact that practical Chris-
tianity is taking the world by storm, and that
Creed of the Dauntless 145
its truths of health are being shouted from the
housetops?
Have you seen that your obligation to this
movement that preaches the doctrine of health
and practical Christianity is a very serious one
and that you need to understand these teachings
and to make your physical demonstration right
now? Do you realize that those who are the
advance guard of this knowledge must wipe
from their lives every evidence of disease and
unhealthiness?
If you are the image and likeness of God,
can you be content to have that image and
likeness appear as the image and likeness of
acne, pyorrhea, rheumatism, or gout? Since
you know the law of right thought and spiritual
power, can you allow yourself to be over-
powered by beliefs that weaken the body and
cause it to go the way of disintegration and
death?
Does not the very consciousness of good,
health, and life forever remove any belief in
your mind that it is not wrong for you to be
unhealthy? Do you not innately feel that your
body can be lifted up as you go higher and
higher in your understanding of spiritual truth,
just as the body goes down into the grave for
him who fails to understand and to apply
Truth?
Is it right to be unhealthy?
You must answer this question yourself,
for yourself.
ONLY GOD-ANIM
IN ALL tkis world so large, so old,
Tkere's only God-and-I,
For God, tke good, we know, is kere
And there tke low, tke kigk ;
Tkere's only good in all my world,
For God exists alone,
And God, tke real, tke good, tke true,
Rules now upon His tkrone.
Are tkere no persons in my world?
Are tkere no people tkere?
TkereVe only sons of God, Dear Heart,
And tkey are everywkere.
In tkem God now skows fortk Himself,
So God is all I see,
And everywkere I look I see
God smiling back at me.
And I am just a part of God,
So really tkere's no "me"
Since God is indivisible,
Witk Him Til always be;
But, knowing God's my great I AM,
On Him I will rely
And be content to know, witk Him,
Tkere's only God-and-I.
146
BECOMING HEALTH-MINDED
LMOST OVER NIGHT, it seems, we
have become used to a new expression,
"being air-minded." The expression
explains so much in a few words and is
so directly to the point that we have accepted it
readily and have made it a part of our vocabu-
lary.
When the art of flying was in its infancy,
there were few people who were air-minded;
there were but a few who grasped the almost
astounding proposition of the possibility of fly-
ing in the air ! Those who rose above doubt and
perceived the truth about flying, filling their
minds with thoughts of achievements, in the air,
living in a world in which flying engrossed their
attention to a considerable extent, became air-
minded.
How often we hear some one exclaim :
"Oh,
why didn't people learn to fly sooner than this?
Why weren't great discoveries made a genera-
tion ago? Why didn't our forefathers enjoy all
these advantages?" What other reply can be
made to the question, "Why didn't people learn
to fly before this?" than the simple answer,
"Because they were not air-minded." A gen-
eration ago men were thinking of other things
than flying in the air. Success in flying de-
pended upon an age in which men would be-
come almost obsessed with the idea ; an age in
which the possibility would become a reality;
147
148 Creed of the Dauntless
thus men would live in a world where flying
was both belief and fact.
A generation ago there were no Wrights
and Lindberghs and Eckeners, because no one
became air-minded to such an extent. The
metaphysician may say, "No one perceived the
reality of flying. No one got the consciousness
of rising above the so-called claims of gravity."
The air-minded person, then, is flying-con-
scious. He has more faith in flying than he has
doubt in it. He lives in a world in which flying
is possibility, belief, and reality!
Edison became the greatest inventor of the
age because he became invention-minded, in-
vention-conscious. His mind is like a receiving
set erected high above the earth, extending into
the heavens, attuned to new ideas. Thinking so
steadily about electricity and kindred subjects,
he enters into a mental world in which ideas
about electricity and inventions are alive.
The young girl who becomes a talented
musician is, first, music-minded, music-con-
scious. She seemingly lives apart from her
associates and lives in a sphere wherein she is
music-minded. Everything in her life contrib-
utes to her thought about music and to her
talent. She may become a composer of excep-
tional rank if she be able to bring from the
invisible world of harmony the music that she
hears there.
Possibly, at this time, you are more inter-
ested in something other than flying, electricity,
new inventions, and music. You may want
health. You may wonder how certain persons
whom you know demonstrate health through
Creed of the Dauntless 149
studying Unity and the Bible. The purpose of
this message is to show you how.
If you would be healthy, you first must be-
come health-minded. You must give up every
thought that you are bound to a world of dis-
ease. You must learn to soar above thoughts of
disease, weakness, and pain. You must become
health-conscious. The doctor and the nurse who
move through wards of contagion do not be-
come ill because they are health-minded.
They have an inner assurance of their own
personal health that cannot be weakened or de-
feated by any belief in disease.
Why do those who study Christian healing
become healthy? Is it not logical that the force
of accumulated thoughts of health and strength
faith in the indwelling Christ builds up a
consciousness of health impregnable to disease?
Could there be any better way to become health-
conscious, health-minded, than through living
mentally in a world of health? The person who
would become health-minded must mentally
perceive himself rising out of disease and living
in a world of health. Health must become, not
mere possibility and belief, but reality and
truth. When health becomes a reality to the
consciousness, the consciousness cannot accept
disease as true. The person who becomes
health-conscious naturally ceases to be disease-
minded.
Carnally minded persons are those who live
in the lusts, sensations, and diseases of material
flesh. They may be almost obsessed with carnal
thoughts, disease thoughts, thoughts with a
general trend toward one end carnality.
150 Creed of the Dauntless
Spiritually minded persons live in a world free
from carnal and disease thoughts, and exist
in a world of life, love, and health.
"They that are after the flesh do mind the
things of the flesh ; but they that are after the
Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be
carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually
minded is life and peace; Because the carnal
mind is enmity against God: for it is not
subject to the law of God, neither indeed can
be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot
please God. But ye are not in the flesh, but
in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God
dwell in you."
Becoming health-minded is a matter of be-
coming mentally saturated with thoughts of
health. The health-minded person naturally
emerges right into a world of health. Thoughts-
of health, strength, love, and life are mighty
forces that cause the thinker to be borne out
of disease, fear, and death. Back of every con-
structive and healthy thought is the power of
health, the power of Spirit, the power of the
indwelling Christ.
Just as the flyer must turn out of Ms mind
every belief in failure or fear, so must the
health-minded person erase every thought
about failing to demonstrate health. If you
see some fellow student fail in his demonstra-
tion, do you accept his failure as your own?
Does his failure prove the fallacy of the healing
principle? Then take a lesson from the flyer.
He may see his best friend crash to the ground
or he may almost have such an experience him-
self. Thoughts of failure and fear may rise
Creed of the Dauntless 151
up and seem to engulf him, but he must be true
to the traditions of flying. He must fly! He
must instantly prove to himself his power over
thoughts of fear and failure. He must show
himself in times of test and trial that he is
courage-minded, success-minded. What a les-
son for the student of Truth, the demonstrator
of Christian healing, the person who would re-
main health-minded even in the face of seeming
failures !
Why do students of Truth study so persist-
ently, seek to live close to Spirit and to demon-
strate the teachings of Christ? Because
thoughts of Spirit alone can make them free
from thoughts of disease, keep them strong in
the consciousness of health make them health-
minded. Being health-minded results in phys-
ical health. The Truth student living in the
rarefied air of Spirit is, indeed, air-minded.
Like the flyer, he must prove to himself his own
power to demonstrate Principle even in the
face of adverse appearances. As a whole world
is unconsciously tending to air-mindedness, so
will the universe become health-conscious. The
world will become true to Christ, true to Truth,
and, incidentally, radiant with health.
SMILES AND HAPPINESS
SMILING AT LIFE
YOU KNOW those who smile at life?
Have you questioned how they do it?
Have you wanted to join their ranks?
How refreshing it is, after contact-
ing one who believes that the world daily is
growing worse, to find the person who rejoices
to be alive ! After seeing one who thinks that
the world owes him a living, how delightful to
find one who seeks to contribute generously to
the world's happiness ! Those who frown at life
live in a consciousness that the persons, things,
and events of life have power to make them un-
happy. They feel that the world is upon their
shoulders and that its woes are depressing
them. Their philosophy of life is very simple :
the world is all wrong.
Those who smile at life see mirrored in the
world the smile of their own contented hearts.
Is it any wonder that they smile? The light
within them shines to the very circumference
of their world and makes it one of joy and
brightness. Those who smile at life can rightly
do so because they have mastered life. It no
longer has power to defeat and to crush them.
It must dance at their bidding. It must sing
its happiest song for them. It must yield its
most coveted blessings.
Smiling at life may be resolved into a mental
attitude that is sunny. Can you smile men-
tally? Mental smiling is very simple; it con-
sists in merely entertaining sunny thoughts.
155
156 Creed of the Dauntless
You cannot do this mental smiling very long
without having your countenance and whole life
wreathed in smiles. Your world will be alive
with smiles and every one who comes to you
will greet you with a smile.
"Of course/' you may say, "if those who can
smile so beautifully at life had my problems
they would not be able to smile either." But,
remember, those who smile at life have risen
above the state of mind in which there are
smiles for some occasions and frowns and tears
for others. Just as God "maketh his sun to rise
on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on
the just and the unjust," so must he who has
learned to smile at life scatter his smiles with-
out discrimination.
The little personal situations, those in which
a person becomes alarmed or grieved over what
another says or does, lose their gravity and im-
portance when we enter the impersonal con-
sciousness and cease to fight and to resist per-
sons and affairs. We learn that others cannot
harm us by what they think, say, or do. We
even learn to smile at the things that otherwise
might grieve us. There may be occasions when
we must keep the smile invisible, but we can
still keep smiling deep down within our hearts.
Think of a whole community where every
one would smile. What better advertisement
or slogan for a city than "the city of smiles"?
In such a city, the death rate would be low.
Business would be in an ideal state because good
fellowship and cooperation would make it so.
Such a city would become known far and wide
as "a city of health and prosperity." Its popu-
Creed of the Dauntless 157
lation would grow in a way not previously
thought possible by home-town boosters. Per-
sons would flock to this magical city just to live
in an atmosphere of peace, joy, love, smiles,
health, and plenty. What mighty things could
be accomplished just by hearty and sincere
smiling !
Formerly we thought of the countenance as
the place where smiles originate, but now we
know that this place is the heart. The heart
symbolizes to us the very depths of conscious-
ness. It is the heart that first must smile at life.
The person who has learned to smile aright
never smiles at a time when or in a place where
his smile would prove an irritation to others.
His smile is always a smile of inspiration and
healing. He may continue to smile at life and
still be a messenger of good. Those who smile
only on the surface often lose control of them-
selves because their smiling is superficial.
Those who can smile at life have smiles that are
anchored in the heart, smiles under the control
of wisdom and judgment.
Laughing at life appeals to all of us. How
life at times has seemed to be master over us !
Now that the philosophy of optimism is under-
stood, how insignificant seem those things that
formerly suppressed our smiles.
When we smile at life, the world becomes
transformed. We see it from a new angle be-
cause the optimistic viewpoint displays to us a
world quite different from the old world that we
knew. We find friends and opportunities every-
where. We see a smiling world, a world com-
mensurate with our inner world of smiles. If
158 Creed of the Dauntless
the race had been taught that it must smile and
love and be healthy just as it must eat, breathe,
and sleep, we would have a race of people smil-
ing and loving and joyous. As it is, the race
must be reeducated and the doctrine of opti-
mism must be given its important place in the
philosophy of life.
If there is some little subtle thought lurking
in your mind that keeps you unhappy, view it
through the light of Spirit and of Truth and
see how powerless it really is to make you un-
happy. Think how ridiculous it is to harbor the
memory of something that some one said or did
and to let it make you distressed. What do you
care about what another said or did ten minutes
ago? Think of your so deifying another that
you give his word or his act power to influence
adversely your life and well-being! Is there
any ignorance equal to this? Think of God's
creating a man perfect but with the proviso
that he lose his equilibrium when another man
says "Boo!"
There is no better opportunity to demon-
strate the power of a smile than that which
presents itself today. If you would assure
yourself of happiness tomorrow it must begin
at this moment. If even the thought of smiling
irritates you, smile at your irritation, but do
smile. Preach the gospel of smiling. Be a
messenger of optimism. Scatter sunshine.
MY HEART IS SMILING
SMILES TODAY
JVlY HEART is smiling smiles today,
Suck smiles as bring good cheer ;
It laughs and smiles because it knows
The nothingness of fear ;
It smiles because the world is good
There's nothing else to do,
For in my heart the Spirit smiles
And Christ is smiling, too.
My heart is smiling smiles today,
Because there's love within,
And youth and joy are prompting smiles
Their smiles are bound to win.
It smiles because it smiles with God
As glory fills the air,
And sunshine, glory, and good cheer
Are really everywhere.
My heart is smiling smiles today,
Of sunshine it partakes ;
There's not a wrinkle in my heart
But those that smiling makes.
How can I e'er reflect a frown
Or think good meets defeat?
My heart is smiling smiles today !
In smiles my world's complete.
159
THE SMILING HEART
IF YOU should have the slightest diffi-
culty in keeping a smile upon your
face, just keep your heart smiling.
When the heart smiles, one is so filled
with smiles and happiness that the countenance
just breaks forth into smiling. The smiles of
the smiling heart are not cold or assumed ; con-
sequently when the warm, generous smiles of
the smiling heart express themselves, smiles
radiate in every direction.
If you would have a smiling heart, first
retreat from things of the outer world and turn
within. If you have been viewing things from
the standpoint of the outer, if you have been
seeing things as capable of giving you distress,
you will need to turn from such things and
such thoughts. At the center of your being
you will find your real self: you will find God.
Possibly at this moment you are not smiling.
Possibly there seem to be situations in your
life which stir up feelings quite different from
those which come from the smiling heart. Do
you know that the smiling heart has power to
change situations, power to transform the most
adverse circumstances, power to bring one to
a consciousness of Truth?
The frown has no place in God's world. The
frown is the badge worn by those who are
out of line with the great universal scheme.
He who wears a frown has a frowning heart;
160
Creed, of the Dauntless 161
he has frowning thoughts. He is a pessimist
and travels the hard road.
In the smiling heart we know that Truth
is firmly established. We know that one who
has the smiling heart has found himself and
God inseparably united. The one who has a
smiling heart has within himself a sun more
powerful than any external light. This sun
casts its rays all about him and all who come
into his presence are quickened to the light
and are inspired to smile.
In the smiling heart is love. Yes, love,
because there is God. No trace of hate or fear
is there, because God as love fills the smiling
heart with His smiling presence. Can such a
love be narrowed to a few persons or limited
by personal consciousness? No, the one with
the smiling heart, the one who is established
in the love of God, sheds his love upon all per-
sons and all things. He loves just as God loves.
Of course, there is joy in the smiling heart.
This joy breaks forth just as the early dawn
witnesses the breaking forth of the sun. Could
such a joy be reserved for stated occasions?
Could the one with a smiling heart save his joy
and his smiles for times when there were no
appearances of adversity? Possibly the smiling
heart has no consciousness of adversity because
it continues to smile regardless of situations
and appearances.
The smiling heart is a fountain of life and
health. Once the invalid discovers that he has
a smiling heart he is on the road to recovery.
His frown and his disease can no longer hold
162 Creed of the Dauntless
him down. He is smiling with God. He is on
God's side.
Personal problems are solved when the
smiling heart begins its magical work. Those
who disagree and contend cease to battle when
an arbiter with a smiling heart comes into
their midst. A smiling heart seems to have
power to turn adversity and disputes to insig-
nificance when its battery of heavenly smiles
is set into action.
Have you, too, found that your heart can
smile? Have you discovered that your heart is
something more than a physical organ? Have
you found the spiritual character of your
heart? Have you discovered that it can ac-
tually smile? Those who frown, shrivel up,
and tire of life have failed to find the smiling
heart. Possibly their hearts wrinkle just as
their faces do. So, if you would keep wrinkles
from your face, keep your heart from frown-
ing and wrinkling. Keep it laughing!
There are those who take life seriously.
They do not smile because they seem to be deep
thinkers, great philosophers. Does God want
us to think so deeply and live life so seriously?
Can we not know the deeper truths of life and
still keep joy deep within our hearts? Can we
not go laughingly through life?
Did you ever brood over some personal
slight for weeks and weeks and then recite
your tale to some friend, embellishing your
story with all the vividness and ugliness which
such stories require, expecting to rouse this
friend to righteous indignation and sympathy,
only to have him look at you lovingly and
Creed of the Dauntless 163
smile? Do you recall how the smile caused
the personal offense to shrink to nothing and
how something inside of you seemed to say,
"How ridiculous I have been to harbor such
thoughts!"?
There is curative power in the smiling
heart. It has power to free us from all the
old hatreds, power to cause us to forgive and
to forget, power to cause us to restore ourselves
and others to the heavenly blessedness which
existed before personal offenses marred our
heaven.
You say that one would need to temper this
doctrine of the smiling heart. You think that
it would be dangerous to take life in such a
smiling fashion. You think that wisdom would
need to be used, else a person would smile when
he should grieve, laugh when he should sigh.
Possibly the smiling heart can solve these
problems as it solves others. If a person keeps
his heart smiling and laughing he may find
that there are no situations in his world which
would cause him to sigh and to grieve.
Just imagine at this moment that all the
people in the world are smiling. Just think
of the joy there would be if every one had a
smiling heart. Think of living in a world in
which each one greeted his fellow with a smile.
A smile from the shop girl, a smile from the
taxicab driver, a smile from the traffic "cop"
and a smile from the minister!
There is a way in which to get a smile from
every one a person meets. When he learns how
to smile deep within himself, when he knows
how to keep his heart smiling and laughing, he
164 Creed of the Dauntless
will have discovered that wherever he goes he
finds the reflection of his own smiling heart.
Does it not make your heart feel youthful
just to know that it is smiling? Could one who
has a smiling heart have a hardened heart or
arteriosclerosis at the same time? The elusive
remedy for hardened arteries will be found in
the smiling heart. The fountain of eternal
youth lies there because one who has a smiling
heart can never grow old. In the great scheme
of nature there is always a place for useful
things. The most useful thing on earth is the
man with the smiling heart.
Smile on, smile on! Look at the world
through eyes of God and keep those eyes smil-
ing. You will draw many friends to your side.
They will want to sit in the presence of your
smiling heart. Their jewels and treasures will
seem worthless to them in comparison with
your smiling heart. Their pessimism and
frowns will be laid upon the altar of sacrifice
but such a slight sacrifice! They, too, will
find that their hearts can smile and they will go
forth from you like missionaries to fields of
darkness, sent forth to preach the light, the
doctrine of the smiling heart.
Is your heart smiling now? Keep it smil-
ing. You cannot overwork it by letting it smile.
It smiles to know that it can smile and that you
will let it smile. It smiles at the world right
now and even smiles at you.
THE FRIEND WHO
UNDERSTANDS
I THINK that God had me in mind
And that He tried His best to find
The thing for me He best could do,
When He made such a friend as you ;
My fryend, you understand?
'Tis sweet to know you see the good
And that I'm ne'er misunderstood;
That I can throw away the mask,
Just be myself, and do my task;
Of course, you understand.
You understand each thing I say :
My meaning's always clear as day;
You do not watch my q's and p's,
You do not make me ill at ease,
You always understand,
Somehow, I feel the world would grow
Much better, if each one could know
A friend who understands, who sings,
Who sees the brighter side of things,
Like you; you understand.
165
KEEP LOOKING UP
OME TIME ago I saw this thought ex-
pressed: "If the outlook is not bright,
try the uplook. See things right."
There seemed to be such good meta-
physics in the epigram that the truth of it has
stayed with me all this time.
When the outlook Is not bright, we may
know that we have been looking out too much,
giving ourselves too much to external appear-
ances. Possibly we are discouraged and look-
ing down, looking to things earthly, looking
away from heaven. The solution lies in look-
ing in, not out ; in looking up, not down.
Looking in, we face the Christ in ourselves.
We look to the higher self in us which is always
bright and shining. If things of the external
do not appear to be bright, we have but to turn
to this inner brightness, the light of Spirit, in
order to see darkness dispelled and light flood-
ing us and all our affairs.
Looking up, we direct our vision away from
the limited beliefs of the world. We no longer
see ourselves or our affairs according to the
limited viewpoint of the world. We free our-
selves from the opinion of the world that we
cannot do this or cannot do that.
Looking up, we lift our eyes to the hills.
We behold ourselves and our affairs as we ex-
ist in Truth, in perfection, in God. We see
worry and care in their native nothingness.
We behold the thing which seemed to stand
166
Creed of the Dauntless 167
like a mountain before us become as transpar-
ent as the very air. We see disease and lack
not as things, but as absences of life and
plenty. We see the health and the abundance
of God filling us to completion.
After we have learned the secret of looking
up, something within us seems to say, "Keep
looking up." Our eyes may droop for a second
but this inspiring voice says : "Lift your vision.
Keep looking up."
How's the outlook today, friend? Not so
good? Have you been looking down and look-
ing out again? Have you been indulging in
looking earthward? Have you tried looking in
and looking up? Have you tried looking heav-
enward? "Keep looking up."
In heaven, right here and now, lie your
peace, happiness, health, and prosperity. Look
into heaven and behold yourself in possession
of the joy and strength and plenty that you
desire. "Keep looking up."
Do you know that many persons lack hap-
piness, health, and plenty because their outlook
is not what it should be? Do you not recall
that at the time when you felt most bound to
the power of persons and things of the ex-
ternal world you were least conscious of your
strength and happiness? Do you remember
that, when you looked away from outer things,
you increased in the power of your own might,
the might of God within you?
The man of strong character, he who lives
a successful life, cannot feel overpowered by
things, persons, or conditions of the world.
The illusions, claims, and limitations of the
168 Creed of the Dauntless
world do not charm him away from the con-
sciousness of his own greatness as the son of
God.
His vision cannot be directed to limited be-
liefs of the world, because he beholds the ideals
of heaven. He knows that there is power in
the Christ man within him. He knows the
power of looking up !
When you look up, you disregard the ap-
pearances of limitation. These cannot exist in
your world if you discountenance them. Re-
member that the Spirit of God in you is "of
purer eyes than to behold evil." The eyes of
your spiritual vision have power to look
through the things that the world calls evil and
powerful and to behold reality and the pres-
ence of your most needed blessings in place
of them.
As you look heavenward you will behold the
dissolution of all worldly beliefs and claims.
"Seeing that these things are thus all to be dis-
solved, what manner of persons ought ye to be
in oil holy living and godliness?" All your
cares and fears will be lifted from your mind.
A new peace will fill your mind and your body.
You will behold yourself as you exist in God
whole and perfect. So, "keep looking up" !
Only by looking upward can you receive
the light of heaven. Your upward gaze will
cause your whole being to become flooded with
the glory and sunshine of heaven. Happiness
and optimism will fill your mind and your soul.
Healing and strength will manifest in your
body.
Have you grasped the simple philosophy of
Creed of the Dauntless 169
the upward vision? Does not the very act of
looking up fill you with renewed hope? Are
you not in a better position to see your deliv-
erance from limitation when your eyes are
lifted up? Can you not look the world in the
eye and know that "greater is he that is in you
than he that is in the world" ?
Go forth today true to this teaching- of the
uplifted vision. Let your eyes no longer be
cast down. Let your gaze not be upon the mat-
ter of the world but upon the substance of
Spirit. Look not to limitations and disappoint-
ments, but to the perfect working of Spirit.
"But," you say, "it looks as if ." What
"looks as if "? Is there something else in
your world besides you and God? "It" will
look as you look at it. Your part is to look
away from the "its" in life and to keep your
eyes on Truth. If "it" looks dark, remember
to try the uplook. "Keep looking up."
With your eyes centered upon the truth of
your inner being, you will find that nothing in
all this world can rise up against you or defeat
you. You will find that you can turn away from
the appearance of disease and failure and, in
their stead, behold the heavenly vision of health
and success. You can see through the seeming
and behold the truth, the truth of your one-
ness with God.
"Keep looking up."
WHY FRIENDSHIP
MUST ENDURE
IN SPITE of all the whisperings,
TTis friendship that endures ;
Although the voice of malice speaks,
Still friendship lasts and cures ;
For friendship never sees the faults
Or scandalous word repeats,
For back of friendship still a heart
Of understanding beats.
Now he who has the kind of friend
Who always understands
Has back of him sustaining trust;
The world is in his hands.
The Friend of Friends, e'en Jesus Christ,
Is back of all such friends,
And when the friend most understands,
Tis Christ who comprehends.
Thus can we see why friendship lasts,
Why it must constant be,
For, oftentimes, the Friend of Friends
Must stand most valiantly
Right at our side in trying times
As one in friendship's name,
For he who is our friend-in-need
And Christ are just the same.
170
CONSTANTLY HAPPY
OOK at the thousands of faces to be
seen in a city street and you will see
intense need of happiness. The few
faces lighted by smiles seem to stand
out in the crowd like rays of sunshine emerging
from inky blackness. As you look at the frowns
and expressions of pain, you may wonder re-
garding the cause of them; you may think that
they who are sons of God have allowed them-
selves to become sons of sorrow, they who
should be walking in heaven are treading the
path of despair.
One need seems paramount, the need of
happiness. You long to give those whom you
see the understanding that will free them from
unhappiness and despair. You would whisper
to them the Truth and see their faces beam with
joy. You would tell them the simple truth that
in reality no person, thing, or circumstance can
affect them, since God is all in all.
Here is one son of God who seems to be dis-
guising himself with a mask of frowns. Pos-
sibly when he left home this morning the
world was looking rosy and the skies were blue.
He wore no mask then; he was just himself.
His heart sang the song of dawn, in which the
glory of a new day was celebrated and glorified.
He was planning just what to do as soon as he
reached the office. When he arrived he picked
up the telephone and found that something had
interfered with his plans. Then that hard
171
172 Creed of the Dauntless
mask appeared. He is now on the street again,
spreading his propaganda of frowns, attesting
to his belief that affairs of the world have
power to limit his joy.
Here is another son of God, a woman who is
always joyful when things go right. But an-
other woman has just looked at her in a
"funny" sort of way. Now Number One walks
for blocks, accusing herself of every conceiv-
able wrongdoing that might have given Num-
ber Two occasion to act that way. Possibly
the day is spoiled.
Another passes along who is not digesting
his breakfast well because he has just read yes-
terday's market reports and found the news
not at all to his satisfaction. The frowning
breakfast is now broadcasting a general com-
plaint from his countenance. The desire to
make money quickly is interfering with both
health and happiness.
Are you wondering when men and women
will be free from sorrow and depression? Can
anything deliver them but their realizing the
actual truth of their freedom? Is any truth
more necessary than that of their spiritual de-
tachment from people, things, and situations of
the outer world? Could deliverance come
through any other understanding than the
knowledge that God within them is all in all,
eternally constant, and unaffected by the outer
world?
Does heaven, the ideal of all existence, mean
anything less than constant happiness ? Think
of the joy of going through life with this bless-
ing bestowed upon you : You are unable to let
Creed of the Dauntless 173
people, things, and circumstances of the outer
world affect your joy and happiness. Would
the world become heaven to you if a fairy wand
were waved over your head and that blessing
were literally bestowed upon you? Then re-
member, the spirit of God continually seeks to
bless you in this way.
Those who have learned the way of happi-
ness are not assuming- a mask of happiness.
Such a mask would ill become the one who
knows real happiness. Those who are truly
happy are happy from the very center of their
being. Their happiness is implanted so deeply
within them that it cannot be affected or moved.
The power of the mystic and the compla-
cency of the nun show us the virtue of detach-
ment from outer things. We look upon the
face of the mystic and silently question,
"Wherein lies your power ?" The silent an-
swer comes to us : "Knowledge that people and
things have no power. Knowledge that God
within me is omnipotent."
Constant happiness is not fickle or tempera-
mental. When man learns the secret of happi-
ness, the secret is his for all time. He is happy
not only when there is nothing to make him un-
happy; he is happy not only when he thinks
that no one is thinking, speaking, or acting
against him. He is constantly happy; his hap-
piness endures and endures, regardless of ex-
ternal things and conditions.
The way of happiness is the way of God
the way of light, peace, love, and health. The
way may seem to be hidden at times, but as we
174 Creed of the Dauntless
brush our dark thoughts aside, the path is re-
vealed to us. It is a road of joy.
Somehow, we seem to feel closer to God
when we are happy. The reason for this is that
our close relation to God has made us happy.
As we draw close to Spirit within us, we draw
farther and farther from the things of the
world that have seemed to have power to dis-
turb us. This gives us a clew to happiness.
When persons or things seem to make us un-
happy, we should turn our thought within. We
should turn to the truth that God within us is
all in all. In His world there can be no disturb-
ing thoughts. In His kingdom we live a life of
perpetual joy, a life of constant happiness.
Happiness is natural to the spiritual man,
and such we are in truth. The spiritual man
lives close to Spirit, the very Spirit of happi-
ness. He lives right where happiness is made,
and it comes to him first-hand.
Happiness does its part in bringing about
health and prosperity. Happiness stirs one's
physical forces, and health results. Stagna-
tion and crystallization in the body are soon re-
lieved when the joy and the life of Spirit do
their healing work. One's environment and
business take on a prosperous air when joy is
radiating from one's heart.
Instead of belonging to the few, happiness
is the property of all, of all who know its se-
cret. Those who learn to detach themselves
from disturbing circumstances find happiness
within themselves. They discover that the son
of God is unaffected by outer conditions. They,
like God, do not worry or frown. Neither do
Creed of the Dauntless 175
they give to persons or things the ability to
steal their happiness.
The impersonal consciousness has power to
free us from the belief that persons can take the
joy out of our life. In the personal conscious-
ness, we think that others can affect and harm
us. In the impersonal, universal consciousness
we have no desire to disturb others, neither do
we impute to them the desire or the power to
disturb us. Events of the world can never rise
above a certain level. They cannot reach those
who abide on the mountain heights, the peaks
of spiritual understanding.
Can you picture to yourself the joy of living
unaffected by what others think, say, or do?
Do you not see that you can just as easily think
the truth of your relation to God as you can
think the false thought of your unpleasant re-
lation to things? Only by your unifying your-
self with Spirit within you can you bring
things of the outer world to a satisfactory basis.
You cannot regulate things of the world by your
fear of them. You cannot adjust matters of the
world when you are unhappy about them. You
must rise to the consciousness wherein you
know that Christ within you is master over all
things, at all times, and under all circumstances.
In this happiness of Spirit you will be su-
premely happy. You will rejoice over your
freedom from the seeming power of things.
OPTIMISTS AND
PESSIMISTS
THE OPTIMIST will see ike sun,
The pessimist tlie fog ;
To one, life is a paradise ;
To one, it is a bog.
The idealist will find a flower,
The botanist a cell;
The mystic sees a heaven,
The reformer sees a hell.
The pessimist can see no sun,
His eyes behold no light;
He would convince the optimist
The outlook is not bright;
The mystic cannot see a sin,
A pain, an evil hell ;
His eyes are firmly fixed on God;
He knows that all is well.
Now if you are a pessimist
And want to change your view,
First discipline your mind and eyes
To see the good and true.
Your plaintive song will turn to joy,
Your knocks will change to cheer ;
Youll find, where once you saw the bad,
That heaven will appear.
176
KEEPING HAPPY
HE SECRET of happiness will be dis-
closed at the very beginning of this
article :
// we would be happy we must
rule out of mind any thought that
would destroy happiness! We must enter the
high state of consciousness in which we are
above depressing beliefs. We must abide in the
state of mind in which adverse thoughts gain
no admittance.
When we begin to entertain some subtle be-
lief that something can take our joy from us,
we begin to betray ourselves into the hands of
the adversary. To believe that any person,
thing, or circumstance has power to depress us
is to give it power to do so. Let us drop out of
mind all belief that the thing itself has power
over us and realize, in treatment, that only the
belief in its power can affect us. We can then
see readily that only our mental reaction to a
situation can give us joy or pain.
If you had planned some little excursion for
a sunny day and it was raining that morning
when you woke, were you unhappy? Did you
let innocent little raindrops spoil your day?
Did you let the belief that raindrops could make
you unhappy cause your joy to be changed to
sorrow? What if you had been on guard and
had refused to be depressed? What if you had
realized that raindrops could not dampen your
spirits? What if you had realized that your
177
178 Creed of the Dauntless
spirit of joy could not be affected by weather or
by beliefs in weather?
Remember that happiness is your natural
state. Do not take the attitude that your nor-
mal state is depression and that happiness
comes to you only at rare intervals. In Truth
you are God's perfect expression of happiness
and joy. In reality nothing of the external
world neither person, thing, nor event can
interfere with God's manifestation. There is
only one thing that can cause you to lack joy,
and that is your belief that external things can
take joy from you. Remember that your reliev-
ing yourself of depression comes through your
recognizing that you must deal with beliefs. At
the very onset of an attack of depression you
must change your thought. You must ex-
change the belief in depression for the truth
about your eternal joy in Christ!
Prominent among the beliefs that tend to
destroy happiness are those centered around
other persons. The thought that other persons
can distress us often takes joy from us, if we
have not learned the truth of the situation.
Then there is the belief that what another
thinks, says, or does can displease us. This
needs to be corrected through our knowing that
in Truth we live in a world independent of per-
sons. In Truth we live in the impersonal world,
a world in which there are no personalities, a
world in which there are only spiritual beings,
always loving and ready to bestow joy upon us
through the spirit of joy in them akin to the
spirit of joy within us.
As we learn to live in the universal, imper-
Creed of the Dauntless 179
sonal consciousness, we find that other persons
cannot disturb us. We are not envious or jeal-
ous, of them. We know that nothing that they
say or do, neither their successes nor their ac-
complishments, can diminish our own joy. We
do not resist them, since in Truth we know the
way of nonresistance, which is the path of
peace and happiness.
The person who learns to leave the valley of
personal beliefs soon finds himself on the moun-
tain top. Beliefs that others can affect his joy
are exchanged for the heavenly Truth. The
claim of personality is given up for the broader
life, the universal.
What if at this moment, when you are feel-
ing so full of joy that it radiates from the
very center of your being, the garage manager
telephones and tells you that your car cannot
be delivered to you? Possibly all your plans
are made for a trip in your car and this mes-
sage comes like a thunderbolt. What now? A
panic? A brain storm? Will your world totter
and your joy leave, or will you remain calm and
peaceful? Remember that if you are to keep
joyful you must rule out of mind every belief
that would destroy happiness. You cannot af-
ford to give the garage man the power
to speak any word that will diminish
your joy. You cannot afford to give an auto-
mobile power to cause your tears- to flow.
Your joy must remain constant. You must
keep cool-headed. Your way out of the situa-
tion is to declare joyfully that persons and
things can bring you only joy.
The joyful person possesses in his joyful-
180 Creed of the Dauntless
ness a key that unlocks many locks, that is the
solution to many problems. Through his high
consciousness he is able to look beyond appear-
ances and to see things as they exist in Spirit
and in Truth. He is not disturbed by things,
not distressed by persons, is unmoved by the ap-
pearance of disaster* He has learned how to
rule out of mind any belief that would destroy
happiness. He has found that his joy does not
depend upon persons and things ; nor is his joy
affected by the status of persons or things.
The student of Truth has a good hold upon
joy because of his consciousness of time. He
lives in the timeless time of Spirit, consequently
he is not affected by the past or the future. He
does not live in unpleasant memories of yester-
day or in anticipations of tomorrow. He en-
joys the ecstasy of the present moment?
Do you catch the vision of how to keep
happy? Do you realize that you must guard
your thought and refuse to entertain beliefs
that would destroy joy? If you catch this vi-
sion and experience this realization, then you
have grasped the secret of happiness. You have
found peace with your indwelling Spirit. You
are not dependent upon other persons or upon
things of the external world for joy or pain.
You live in a world far above personal beliefs.
You abide in heaven the realm of perfect
peace and therein you are eternally estab-
lished in unchanging joy. This day you will be
filled with great joy.
TO INSURE HAPPINESS
I ODAY will be a happy day
If, first, you find some time to pray ;
If, first, alone, you go apart
From worldly things, and, in your heart,
You make resolve to do your best
And then to God you leave the rest.
For God will take the hate and fear
Of yesterday and yesteryear
And, in their place, He'll make you feel
The light and love He would reveal.
Yes, this will be a happy day
If, friend, right now, you'll stop to pray.
181
FINDING AND KEEPING HAPPINESS
Revealing the royal road to haziness
F happiness were a commodity which
one could buy at so much a pound, what
a market for it there would be ! Next
to health, we treasure happiness. Till
a person finds happiness and knows how to keep
happy, he despondently cries out: "Which way?
Which way?" Yes, there is a way to happiness,
a most reliable way.
The student of Truth should not find the
way to happiness a difficult one. Why? Be-
cause he has learned certain values and rela-
tionships which are of service to him in ac-
quiring and maintaining happiness. He has
learned not to depend upon those things which
others find do not make for happiness. His
knowledge of Truth gives him a reliable stand-
ard and a never failing rule.
Many persons are unhappy because nothing
occurs in their lives to make them happy. They
are unhappy because there is no occasion to
be happy. They wait patiently day by day for
some circumstance which will bring happiness
to them. They are willing to be convinced that
there is happiness in the world and are ready
to participate in it. They fail to be happy
because they are too passive.
The subtle propaganda of the race that
other persons or things of the outer world can
182
Creed of the Dauntless 183
make one happy is responsible for much un-
happiness. If a person thinks that other per-
sons have power to make him happy, he also
will be of the opinion that other persons can
make him unhappy; therefore he will not find
happiness in personal consciousness or in de-
pendence upon other persons.
We can see that to be happy a person must
not be passive or lazy. He must take an active
hold upon life if he would possess happiness.
We can see that he must not place his trust
in others to make him happy. He needs to find
happiness elsewhere than in the world of
effects, the world of personality, the world of
phantoms. Where should he turn? Within
himself. The royal road points in that direc-
tion.
If a person realizes that other persons and
things cannot make him unhappy, he at least
arrives at the place where he is not unhappy,
even though he may not be happy. He has
eliminated the elements in his life which pro-
duce unhappiness. He has found that the things
which promised happiness cannot produce it.
The secret in being happy lies in the
knowledge of one's relation to the universe.
He who feels that things or persons of the outer
world can master him or make him unhappy,
who thinks of himself as subordinated to others
or to things, will almost always be unhappy.
If, on the other hand, he knows the truth of
his freedom from all the things of the world,
if he realizes his oneness with the joy of his
indwelling Spirit, he is sure to manifest happi-
ness.
Creed of the Dauntless
Man is happy or unhappy according to his
view of life. If he views life from an unhappy
angle he is unhappy; if he sees things from a
happy viewpoint, he is happy. One process is
just as easy as the other. The unhappy person
will find that he can be happy just as easily as
he can be unhappy.
The student of Truth finds happiness easily
because he learns to turn out of his mind those
thoughts which are depressing and pessimistic.
Truth gives him a standard for his thinking
and he makes all his thoughts conform to this
standard. He keeps his happiness because he
keeps his thought centered upon the unchang-
ing joy of Spirit within him.
When you find yourself unhappy, change
the whole tenor of your thinking. Instead of
thinking of people as opposing you, of things
as crowding in upon you, of the future as offer-
ing few attractions for you, begin to look at
life from a new angle. Cease to look to the
manifest world for your happiness and you will
remove from it the power to make you un-
happy.
Learn to look at the world as made up
entirely of God and His blessings. Cease to
think of people and their adverse thoughts,
of things of the three-dimensional world, of
fears of the future. Look at the world through
new eyes, the eyes of Spirit, the eyes of Truth.
Instead of cringing beneath the weight of the
world, surmount it and look down at it from
the mountain tops.
Nothing to make you happy? Dear friend,
stop right now and count the things for which
Creed of the Dauntless 185
you are thankful and happy. Have you none?
Just try to count them and you will see how
many you have,
In the first place, be happy because you
know Truth. Be happy because, to some ex-
tent, you know your relationship,God and the
universe. Be happy because of the health you
have. Your health is not very good? Just try
being happy for the health you have and, for
the time, forget about your weaknesses or
pains. Your gratitude for health will cause it
to increase and, eventually, you will realize that
you are perfectly healthy.
Be happy on account of the blessings that
you have and, finally, you will see your life
filled with blessings. Your happiness will be
such that nothing can take it from you. You
will find that your happiness is permanent be-
cause it is founded upon Truth, that which will
not pass away.
When you have found the inner happiness,
things of the outer world will take on a new
meaning to you. You will be master over them
and they will strive to yield their best to you.
Everything in the universe will seem to rise
to bless you when you have found happiness
within. You will be happy because you will
have reached the consciousness wherein being
unhappy is an impossibility. You will be one
with infinite joy.
JUST KEEP COOL
WHEN others think the day is hot
And tliat the weather's bad,
Just try to think of other things,
The things for which youVe glad ;
In summer days when others fret,
Just find a shady pool,
Refresh your mind, and rest your soul.
In other words :
Keefi cool!
And, if there is no pool at hand,
Not e'en a shady brook,
Just look about for any place
That makes a quiet nook;
For, after all, it matters not
The time, the place, the spot ;
If you're determined to keep cool,
There^s naught can make you hot.
You do not need thermometers
To tell you when it's cold ;
When others say, "It's hot today,"
Be sure you do not scold ;
You 11 never mind the summer days,
Or be the weather's tool,
If you can stay all cool inside
And let your thought keep cool,
186
THE RELIGION OF LOVING HEARTS
AND SMILING FACES
F A LOVING heart and a smiling coun-
tenance were prerequisites to member-
ship in the Christian religion, would
you belong? In the past, Christianity
has not always been associated with smiling
faces. The religion of medieval times and even
that of our immediate forefathers seemed to be
one in which smiles had no place and joy was
discouraged.
I recall leaving a church one morning after
a sermon on some subject such as "The Sorrow-
ing Christ/' in which Jesus was depicted as a
man of sorrow and tears and we were exhorted
to follow in His footsteps. A little girl in the
vestibule of the church looked up at her mother
and said, "Mother, didn't Jesus ever, ever
smile?" The simple question came as a chal-
lenge and a rebuke to the pessimistic philosophy
that had just been disseminated from the
pulpit. Of course, everybody that heard her
smiled. The child, innocent little messenger
of Truth, was like a beam of sunshine shining
through musty walls of ecclesiasticism.
The pictures of Jesus usually take on the
national characteristics of the persons who
have painted Him. Similarly, the person with
darkened countenance, he who goes the stony
path in life, is sure to paint a word picture
of Jesus as sad and sorrowing. He easily
187
188 Creed of the Dauntless
follows in the footsteps of his "master." The
truth is that he but goes Ms own way, the way
of suffering and sorrow, and seeks to take Jesus
with him.
When Jesus came to a race bound to self-
imposed beliefs in evil and disease, and saw
how easily He could disillusion man regarding
the power of evil, do you not imagine that deep
down in His heart He smiled? Even though
your heart is filled with compassion for the
little child who has false and bewildering no-
tions about life, do you not often smile at its
beliefs?
A man once told me that during some occult
studies and experiences he left his body. He
said that the things- that he saw his friends do
and the emphasis that they gave to trivial mat-
ters were appalling. Previous to this experience
he had been quite a pessimist, a man of sorrow.
In his peculiar situation he saw life from an
entirely new angle. He saw the nothingness
of fear, hate, and evil. He tried, while in his
disembodied condition, to convince his friends
of their mistakes, but they could not hear him.
They were so weighed down by beliefs in evil
that they could not hear the truth. He said
that when he went back into his body he also
found himself again in a certain heavy-minded-
ness, a state of mind heavy with material be-
liefs. Then he resolved to throw off this heavi-
ness by changing his beliefs. With difficulty
he succeeded in catching the view of life that
he had had when out of the body.
Having left the body like a person in death,
he made the occasion one in which he took hold
Creed of the Dauntless 189
of life anew. He was like a person who be-
comes reincarnated. He refused to be a pessi-
mist. He refused to believe in evil, hate, fear,
disease, and death. He was no more a man of
sorrow. His Christianity was no longer a re-
ligion of adversity. His Master was no longer
downcast and downtrodden. His Jesus was a
Christ of love, life, and joy. He followed in
His footsteps. He had found a religion of lov-
ing hearts and smiling faces. He had discov-
ered the truth and the joy of Christianity.
The belief that some person or some event
can make you unhappy, the fear of the future,
the subconscious dislike for some one who has
not done as you thought he should do, the belief
in nerves, the belief that you must suffer these
beliefs belong to the philosophy of darkness, the
religion of pessimism. Shake them off! Refuse
to let your mind, soul, and body accept the
ignorance of the past, the superstitions of re-
ligion and of medicine, as Truth. If your
friends accept Jesus Christ as a man of sorrow
and choose to go the stony way, you should go
in the opposite direction. Go the way of love,
life, and joy the way of heaven. Take Jesus
Christ as a companion of love and joy, regard-
less of arguments to the contrary.
Educate yourself to laugh and smile at the
foolish beliefs of the race. You will find that
your smile will cause the clouds of despair to
vanish. At the heart of your being, the sun
of Truth will be shining through you. The
very Christ of God within you will smile.
You will be like a person on a sun-tipped
peak who feels himself above the clouds in the
190 Creed of the Dauntless
valley. The consciousness of love and joy can-
not be dimmed. The religion of a loving heart
and a smiling face will be for you an open-
sesame to all the blessings in life.
What would it profit a Christian to know
all the dogmas and traditions of Christianity
if he did not know the religion of love and
happiness? What is of greater value, the
knowledge of how to live the sunny life or the
knowledge of dogma? Remember that the
religion of pessimism is also the religion of
disease and death. The religion of love and
joy is life eternal.
Do you know that you know life and the
world only through your thoughts and reac-
tions? Your mind makes contact with the world
about you. If your thought is darkened and
your attitude one of pessimism, how can you
expect the sunshine of life to flood your soul?
If you look at the world through the dark
glasses of prejudice and pessimism, how can
you see life in its true beauty?
If you are so engaged in looking upon the
crucified Jesus that you cannot see the risen
Christ, if you are so busy looking earthward
that you never gaze heavenward, how can you
behold the glory and joy of a radiant life?
Make your mind an open and unobstructed
channel through which the joy of the Lord can
be expressed, and you will find yourself filled
with joy.
Physiologists tell us that sorrow is depress-
ing and that it slows down the life forces of
the body. Those who become the victims of
grief find that they manifest ill health. We can
Creed of the Dauntless 191
readily see that a religion that emphasizes sor-
row could not be a religion of health.
Have you ever noticed the love and the sun-
shine expressed by a person who discovers
Truth? The newly found teaching: dissolves-
all his adverse beliefs. He has no black and
heavy thoughts about life. His mind is like a
crystal through which sunshine passes.
Not long ago a person said to me, "I believe
the world has had enough of Pollyannaism and
this- business of smile-and-the-world-will-smile-
back-at-you !" I agreed with him to a certain
extent, because his point was based upon super-
ficial smiling. The set and frozen smile that
does not have back of it real love and joy is
as unpleasing as Victor Hugo's laughing man.
But even the manufactured smile shows a de-
termination to smile at trouble, despite the fact
that there is not the understanding of Truth
back of it. Smiling at little situations in life
will give us power to smile at those that are
more serious.
If our religion is deep in the heart, firmly
established in love and Truth, smiles will easily
come. It is easy to smile when we know why
we are smiling. It is easy to love when we
realize that love is the power that overcomes
and transforms into good all that is unlike
itself. Keep loving and keep smiling!
ONWARD AND UPWARD
u UST know the past is but a dream ;
Forgive the slight of yesterday ;
Forget mistakes, erase ill will,
And face the day with head erect.
Lift up your eyes, salute the dawn;
Lift up your chest and drink in life ;
With hands upturned, receive your gifts,
Such blessings rare are showered on you.
First, one step forward ; now, one up ;
You must go onward, higher rise;
Your joy today on you depends ;
The world is at your feet. Amen.
192
HOW TO HAVE A YEAR OF
HAPPINESS
The way to assure ourselves that we shaft
have 365 days filled with fieace and joy
JHE SECRET of finding how to be happy
lies in getting the right viewpoint
of life. Many persons are unhappy
because they look at life from the
wrong angle. They think of themselves as
privileged to be unhappy, when as sons of God
they have no right to be unhappy or to make
the lives of others unhappy.
Have you ever realized that you should take
the stand of being happy because, in Truth,
there is nothing else for you to do? Dear
friend, you should be so happy that the old
argument of being unhappy could not possibly
touch you. Think of the son of God's giving per-
sons or external things any power to make him
downcast ! Can you, the son of God, ever again
admit that you are unhappy? Not happy, and
the son of God? What would it take to make
you happy if your divine sonship will not do it?
Of course, you can go through the somewhat
tedious process of denying unhappiness and
affirming happiness in its place. But, if you
once grasp the truth that you are the son of
God and rejoice in the happiness of this truth,
you will not need to deny little unhappinesses
the rest of your life or treat yourself to be
193
194 Creed of the Dauntless
happy. Will not this realization assure you of
happiness now and for the rest of eternity?
As the son of God you are far above the
petty annoyances which otherwise would seem
to make you unhappy. You, as a prince of the
realm of heavenly thing's, cannot stoop to be
annoyed by things earthly.
As the son of God, knowing the Truth of the
great within and of your oneness with the
Father, you cannot be affected by things of the
outer world. If you give anxious thought to
things of the world you show that you are not
secure in your knowledge that God is within
you and that you are one with Him.
As the son of God, you are not inferior in
rank to any other person in the world. You
and all others belong to the celestial order to
which only the sons of God belong, or, let us
say, to which those who know themselves to be
the sons of God belong.
Knowing the truth about your divine son-
ship, you should be so happy that you radiate
happiness to the very ends of the earth. Do
you not have health, prosperity, and every
other conceivable blessing right at hand ? Even
if some blessing has not appeared, as God's son
you know how to bring it into manifestation.
If you grasp the mighty truth that we are
revealing to you at this moment, can you not
keep it uppermost in mind for the next hour,
yes, for the next twenty-four hours? Can you
not keep the realization clear for 365 days?
Time is nothing in the sight of Spirit. If your
realization is high and noble, it will not pass
away with fleeting time. Time will seem to
Creed of the Dauntless 195
stand still and your realization of happiness
will continue to grow and expand.
Live in a world in which only supreme hap-
piness can be found, a world in which person-
ality and personal limitations cannot exist, a
world in which you know that personal limita-
tions and claims have ceased to be. Live in a
world in which there is only God God in you,
God in all other men, God in all things. Only
God everywhere! If there seems to be about
things or persons that which is ungodlike,
unlike God, know that it has no place in your
world, the world of happiness, the world of God.
What an assurance this realization will
bring you! Your heart will sing its song of
happiness 365 days a year. Every year will be
filled with new joys, new ideas, new life, new
happinesses.
Your spirit of happiness will draw to you
many joys the joys of harmony, of health, and
of prosperity ! Every joy to which man is heir
will become your joy. You will find happiness
and good cheer on every hand. Every person
whom you meet will contribute his share of joy
to your life. You will share joy with him and
you will become happier through doing so.
Go forth this day in the realization of your
divine sonship, too exalted to be debased by
mortal thought or mortal things, too high in
consciousness to think any but the high and
noble thoughts of God. Resting in this con-
sdousness, you will radiate the joys of heaven,
the blessings of God, the happiness of spiritual
realization. You will have found yourself and
you will be supremely happy.
CREDIT
The articles and the poems found in this book
are reprinted from Unity Daily Word, a monthly
magazine of daily studies in Christian metaphysics.
I IN U. S. A
