{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__lloyd___karezza_method.pdf","mytitle":"Karezza Method","mylang":"de"}
C he “
Ka^ezza C
D
ecwo©
or
CDAGTOGACIOTl
m
Che Art of Connubial Cove
b9
J. H ) l £ £ I A C D £ £ O ^ C
The Lover is the cArtist in Touch
K arozza In its p e rfe c t form is n a tu ra l
m arriag e - th a t clinging, satisfied
union of body and soul w hich tru e
love ever crav es and In w hich ideal
m arriage consists - and w ith every'
rep etitio n of th e a c t th e lovers a re
rem arried , th e ir unity renew ed, d eep ­
ened. intensified.
'Privately “
Printed for the Author
1931
c o m & n G S
P r e f a c e ...............................................4
Poem—Soul-Blending.......................... 5
What is Karezza?................................. 7
M agnctation.......................................16
Cleanness............................................... . 1 9
Sex and Soul.......................................20
When Sex S a tisfie s......................... 20
Duality and Spirituality in Sex . . . 2 1
Sex-Commerce and the Elixir of Life . 25
The Wine of S ex ................................27
The Karezza M ethod................................29
The Woman’s Part in Karezza . . . 33
The Woman’s Time of Great Desire . 37
Does Woman Need the Orgasm ? . . 3 9
The Woman’s Shock................................40
Psychic Im p o te n c e ................................42
Karezza the Beautifier. . . . . . 48
The Danger of Excess................................50
Final Considerations................................53
Appendix....................................................60
3
souc-'BCE'n'Drne
And still beyond the embrace that begets the body is the
embrace that begets tlie soul, that invokes the soul
from the Soul.
The wonderful embraces, sacred, occult and unspeakably
tender, pure as prayer;
The hour-long, longer, indwelling of him within her, con­
ceiving her again like a child, the hour-long, longer,
over-closing of her upon him, bearing him again like
a babe in her womb.
The infinite understanding of each by the other, the trans­
cendent uplift of each by the other;
No tumult orgasmal here; not because crushed out, simply
because not desired, simply because this is beyond
that, a saner, broader joy; the great currents, flowing
thru wider channels, rage not nor whirl, for where
the greater is there the lesser is not demonstrative.
Here is harmony too sweet for violence, osmosis of soul
within soul, rhythmically blending, inflowing, outflow­
ing ; singing without words, silent music of divine in­
strument.
Symphony of sex of nerve, heart, thought, and soul in
touch, at-one-ing.
Absolute peace, realized heaven, the joy that never dis­
appoints, that exceeds imagination, that cannot be
described.
The love ineffable, the inspiration of brain, the energizing
of muscle, the illumination of feature, the healing of
body, the expression of soul.
Spiritual sex-exchanging; the masculine in her uttering',
tKe feminine in him receiving, positive and negative
alternating at will.
3
1 C A < R E 2 ; £ A
It is my hope that in this work I shall be able to give the
world a plain, practical little guide-book to what I consider
the most important sexual discovery and practice in all
human history.
WHAT IS KAREZZA?
Karezza is controlled non-seminal intercourse. The word
Karezza (pronounced Ka-ret-za) is from the Italian and
means a caress. Alice B. Stockham, M.D., was the first
one who applied it as the distinctive name of the art and
method of sexual relations without orgasmal conclusion.
But the art and method itself was discovered in 1844 by
John Humphrey Noyes, the founder of the Oneida Com­
munity, by experiences and experiments in his own marital
life. He called it Male Continence. Afterwards George
N. Miller, a member of the Community, gave it the name
of Zugassent’s Discovery, in a work of fiction. The Strike
of a Sex. There are objections to both these names. Zu-
gassent was not a real person, therefore did not discover
it. It was Noyes’ Discovery, in fact. Continence, as Dr.
Stockham points out, has come to mean abstinence from
all intercourse. The Oneida Communists do not appear to
have opposed the female orgasm, therefore it was well
enough for them to name it Male Continence, but Dr.
Stockham and I agree that in the highest form and best ex­
pression of the art neither man nor woman has or desires
to have the orgasm, therefore it is no more male than fe­
male continence. And a single-word name is always more
convenient than a compound. For which reasons I have
accepted Dr. Stockham's musical term, which is besides,
beautifully suggestive and descriptive. Another writer on
this art (I first heard of it thru him; he deriving it from
Noyes) was Albert Chavannes, who in a little book on it,
called it Magnetaiion, a name which I coined for him.
It is perhaps not a bad name, but I now think Karezza
better.
7
Psychology of Sex, is more instructed and favorable, but
appears to have derived his knowledge almost entirely
from the Oneida Communists, not at all at first hand.
And the general ignorance, indifference, or aversion, even
to any experiment, among men, is simply amazing. Most
men say at once that it is impossible, most physicians that
it is injurious, tho with no kind of real knowledge. Most
women, on the other hand, who have had any experience
of it, eulogize it in unmeasured terms, as the very salvation
of their sexual life, the very art and poetry of love, which
indeed it is, but as most men will not attempt it. most
women are necessarily kept in ignorance of its inestimable
benefits to their sex.
The first objection that is certain to meet one who would
recommend Karezza is that it is “unnatural." Noyes con­
fronts this objection very ably, and it is indeed absurd,
when you came to think of it, to hear men who drink
alcohol, smoke, use tea and coffee, take milk, tho adults,
eat cooked food, live in heated houses, wear clothes, write
books, shave their faces, use machinery, and do a thousand
and one things which the natural man, the true aborigine,
knew nothing of, condemn a mere act of moderation and
self-control in pleasure as “unnatural.”
They do not stop to think that if their appeal is to orig­
inal or animal nature, then they must never have inter­
course with the female at all, except when she invites it,
is in a certain condition, at certain seasons of the year, and
for precreation only. For all intercourse as a love act is
clearly “unnatural” in their use of the term. How would
they relish that?
These same men will recommend and have their
women use douches, drugs, and all sorts of mechanical
means to nullify the natural consequences of their act,
with never a lisp of protest at the unnaturalness of it all.
As a matter of fact, Karezza is absolutely natural. It
employs Nature only and from first to last. To check any
act which prudence suggests, or experience has shown,
likely to have undesired consequences, is something con­
stantly done thruout all Nature, even among the lowest
animals. Karezza is such a check. It is simply prudence
and skill in the sexual realm, changing its form and direc­
tion of activity in such wise that the desired pleasure may
9
often that which merely coincides is asserted to hold a re­
lation of cause and effect. However I think I can see how,
very easily, the ignorant or imperfect use of this art might
lead to the above-described bad results. In ideal and suc­
cessful Karezza the sexual passion is transmuted and
sublimated, to a greater or less degree, into tenderness and
love, and the thought is maintained that the orgasm is not
desired or desirable. Now if a man, on the contrary, en­
tered the embrace with the thought that he terribly desired
the orgasm, but by the sheer force of will must prevent
it; if he excited himself and his partner to the utmost
sexual furore, but at last denied it culmination; caring
nothing for love at any time, but for sex only all the time,
I can see how, very reasonably, his denied passion might
react disastrously on his nervous system, just as any
strongly repressed emotion may. Just as a man who in­
dulges in the most furious thoughts of rage, but clenches
his fists and shuts his mouth tight, rather than express it,
may burst a blood vessel or get an apoplexy. This may
indeed be a sort of "male continence,” on the physical side,
but real Karezza, as I know it and would present it, is
veiy different.
Real Karezza requires preparatory' mental exercise. It
requires first the understanding and conviction that the
spiritual, the caressive, the tender side of the relation is
much more important, much more productive of pleasure
in fact, than the merely sexual, and that thruout the whole
relation the sexual is to be held subordinate to this love
side as its tool, its agent, its feeder. Sex is indeed required
to furnish all it has to the feast, but strictly under the
leadership of and to the glory of love.
It requires, second, the understanding and profound con­
viction that in this kind of love-feast the orgasm is a mar­
plot, a kill-joy, an awkward and clumsy accident, and the
end of everything for the time, therefore most undesired.
It requires, third, an understanding of the psychological
law that all emotions are to a considerable extent capable of
being "sublimated,” that is expressed in a different direction
and with reference to another object than that first intended.
We have all seen orators or actors first arouse an audience
to emotional intensity and then direct that emotion at pleas­
ure to laughter or tears, to love or hate, revenge or pity, lust
and touch. In Karezza, both by reason of its intense inti­
macy and of the long time of contact, besides the peculiar
fitness of the organs themselves for the work, this ex­
change reaches its maximum of realization—it is vital ex­
change in its most satisfying expression—wherefore it is
really the thing for which all love is reaching, wishing.
Apparently, in the love-contact of two, some of this life-
food is released in each and reabsorbed in each, but more
of it is given to the other partner. Men and women in
love are thus veritable cannibals and feed each on each, and
each gives to the other the stored-up life-food, charged with
the personal qualities of maleness or femaleness of the in­
dividual sex. Apparently my lover and I may live on our
life-foods to some extent, but each finds the life-food of
the other the more stimulating and nutritious. In Karezza
we feed each other “baby food."
Explain the process as we may, this fact is sure, that in
successful Karezza the sex-organs become quiet, satisfied,
demagnetized, as perfectly as by the orgasm, while the
rest of the body of each partner glows with a wonderful
vigor and conscious joy, or else with a deep, sweet, content­
ment, as after a happy play; tending to irradiate the whole
being with romantic love; and always with an after-feeling
of health, purity and wellbeing. We arc most happy and
good-humored as after a full meal. Whereas, if there has
been an orgasm, it is the common experience that there is a
sense of loss, weakness, and dispelled illusion, following
quickly on the first grateful feeling of relief. There has
been a momentary joy, but too brief and epileptic to make
much impression on consciousness, and now it is gone, leav­
ing no memory. The lights have gone out, the music has
stopped. The weakness is often so severe as to cause
pallor, faintness, vertigo, dyspepsia, disgust, irritability,
shame, dislike, or other pathological or unloving symptoms.
This especially on the man’s part, but perhaps to some ex­
tent on the woman’s part too. Even if no more, there is
lassitude, sudden indifference, a wish to sleep. A wet blan­
ket has fallen, for the time at least, on the flame of love.
Romance drops and crawls like a winged bird.
In Karezza, on the contrary, the partners unfold and
separate reluctantly, lingeringly, kissing, clinging, petting
to the last, thrilled with' and rehearsing memories, glowing
13
ing of its exercise between those who are naturally fitted to
respond and who really love each other, who honor their
bodies and would not knowingly abuse them. As a mere
sex-experiment it might be of little value or satisfaction.
It appears to be perfect or poor, just about in proportion
to the greater or less amount of heart-love involved. At
least it imperatively demands kindness, tenderness, chivalry
on the man’s part, a pleased acceptance and relaxation on
the woman’s ; and the more refinement, poetry of feeling
and mutual romance the better—any amount can be uti­
lized. The gross, reckless and lustful may as well let it
alone—it is not for them.
As a nerve sedative its effect is remarkable. I have
known it to instantly cure a violent, even agonizing nerv­
ous headache, a restful nap following upon the cessation
of pain. Under a strong, gentle magnetic man, a nervous
woman often falls into a baby-like sleep, in the very midst
of the embrace, and this is felt to be a peculiar luxury and
coveted experience. Many women call Karezza “The
Peace” ; others call it "Heaven.” This alone is a testimony
worth volumes.
S. G. Lewis, of Grass Valley, California, in his Hints
and Keys to Conjugal Felicity, is especially rich in testi­
mony to the spiritual and romantic value of Karezza, but
his fine little work is long out of print.
Now I do not apprehend, from all I have seen of life,
that Karezza will ever come into vogue from the male side
of the world. Men seem united in their dull, lethargic in­
difference to it. Helplessly or selfishly they say it is im­
possible, and let it go at that, rather than make the little
effort required to perfect themselves in it. They would
preferably choose, or rather oblige their women to choose,
something out of the nerve-shocking, disgusting, disease-
producing outfit of douches, drugs, tampons, plugs, pes­
saries, shields, condoms, and save them all further respon­
sibility in the matter, altho the highest authorities admit
none of these resources are really safe, that is sure, contra-
ceptics, and most of them are decidedly injurious. Only
the absence of semen is safe, and that is iound in Karezza
and in Karezza alone. But perhaps the most clinching
condemnation of these methods, to a refined person, is that
pronounced by a fine woman of my acquaintance, “There
13
tive to the female, who is negative to him, and the mascu­
line organs are positive to the feminine organs. This may
be called the normal or usual relation, but it is possible
to voluntarily or involuntarily reverse this, and in most
cases, between lovers in close contact, certain parts in each
are negative to the contacting ]>arts of the other, which may
be positive to them. This fact, that the entire personality,
in all its parts, is not necessarily positive or negative at the
same time, is one important to remember, for it explains
much and is like a key to the whole art of Karezza. Thus
a woman mav be very positive and even dominant in her
love, while her body remains most alluringly passive. Or
she may open her eyes and make them positive while the
rest remains negative. Or she may put positiveness into the
caress of her hands alone, or will it into some other part of
her being, or entirely assume and play the masculine, posi­
tive part, while the man assumes the feminine. Of this
more will be said later.
But in general, tho the woman allures and makes herself
a drawing lodestone, it is the man who takes and should
take the active, positive role and is "the artist in touch.”
The man who would succeed in Karezza, then, must culti­
vate the art of magnetic touch. He should learn to think
of himself as an electric battery, of which it may be said
that the right hand is the positive pole (in right-handed
people only, of course), and the left hand the negative,
capable of transmitting to other and receptive human be­
ings an electric current. If both his hands are in contact
with some one, he must feel the current flowing from his
right hand thru the body he touches into his left hand, and
he must learn how to reverse this and send a current at will
from his left hand to his right hand. If he touches with
only ,one hand, or one part, then he must feel that he
touches positively and the flesh he touches is negative or
receptive to him. He must learn to will the current he
gives thru the body he touches, thru its nerves, to any part
he wishes to electrify, to thrill or to soothe, and to feel con­
vincingly that he is doing 90. In Karezza his organs must
ordinarily be felt to be positive, and the woman’s negative,
for the best results to both. He may even practice on him­
self, learning to feel his own magnetism, to test it. and how
to cure various pains and ailments by his own touch.
17
O touch me, touch me right! she said—
(O God, how often womanhood hath said I)
That we two ones as one be wed.
That all with all, thru-out, we wed.
Close, dose and tender close 1 she said.
The touch that knows, O Man! she said—
O touch me,.touch me right I she said.
The ideal of the woman should be to apprehend with
exquisite intuition every mood of the man almost before he
knows it himself and to meet it with sympathy, comprehen­
sion and response — relaxing, revivifying, restraining, ap­
plauding, reenforcing, encouraging, quieting or thrilling as
his need may be. She must realize that her love and ad­
miration are really the psychic basis of the whole relation.
The ideal of the man must be to manifest a glorious
strength, and passion, held, as a rider would hold a mettled
stallion, under an equally glorious control — to prove him-
self as skillful and chivalrous as heroic. Thus each will be
irradiated by the glowing admiration of the other, which is
the highest bliss of love.
Probably the most untellably delightful of all human
sensations is to touch the flesh of a perfectly mated lover,
where the soul is innocent, the heart satisfied, and the mag­
netic currents seem divinely strong.
There is so much, so much.
In human touch I
CLEANNESS
Always in the sexual life there should be cleanness—that
innocence, kindness, justice of feeling which instinctively
prefers any sacrifice of immediate passional pleasure rather
than befoul or degrade a high ideal, or to jeopardize the
physical or spiritual health of the beloved, or of self, or of
the tenderly considered, possible unborn.
Cleanness expresses itself in a reverent regard and con­
siderate self-control at all times, concerning all things,
thoughts, motions and relations of sex, and the conscienti­
ous use of all organs and functions in the service of the
soul’s ideal.
The clean may be mistaken, but whatever they do they
cannot be impure.
19
Sex only satisfies when on both sides there are kindness,
innocence, consideration—a love that is goodness in expres­
sion, that gives and blesses.
Sex only satisfies the finer natures when it unites souls,
not merely copulates bodies for a thrill.
An atmosphere of frivolity, recklessness, mere hedonism
and indulgence about sex, invariably reacts in disgust—the
conscience instantly stamps this as “sin.”
Sex having two offices — to unite souls and propagate
bodies — there are for these offices two unions — Karezza-
union for the deeper love, orgasmal-union for physical be­
getting. Do not make the mistake of using the latter for
the former.
But sex is also like a food, and sexual contact with vital
magnetic exchange at certain not-too-long intervals, vary­
ing with different temperaments, conditions and times of
life, seems necessary for health and satisfying living and
is also a perfectly valid and justifying reason for sexual
embraces and caresses, even where there is only innocent
need on one side and tender kindness on the other, or where
on both sides there is only need and kindness. There is
biological reason to suppose that the function of sex to
mysteriously feed and rejuvenate is its oldest and ]>erhaps
most essential function, antedating its reproductive func­
tion a long, long time. N
Starting then from the beginning, the functions of sex
may be read as three — First: to feed and rejuvenate by
contact-pressure (perhaps by a sort of catalysis) and a
mysterious generation, interchange and mutual exchange
of subtle processes and forces.
Second: physical reproduction — child-creation.
Third: soul-union, the mystery of love, affection, spir- ,
itual-companionship, mental-inspiration.
In all its normal aspects sex is creative and uniting, kind
and life-giving in function.
Unless we recognize that sex is spiritual as well as phys­
ical, we shall not understand how it is the great agent of
love. For love is the uniting principle in the universe, and
DUALITY AND SPIRITUALITY IN SEX
21
This has a very practical relation to Karezza. In its long,
blending, intimate embrace of body and soul a great deal
more than the more obvious sex-organs and functions are
concerned. A similar sexual interchange takes place be­
tween all corresponding parts of body and mind, every
function and every thought. Thus while her pelvis may be
feminine to his, her bosom may be masculine to his breast;
his hands may be more masculine than hers, but her mouth
and tongue more positive than his. His intellect may be
dominatingly masculine to her mind and yet in emotion and
feeling she may control. And this may at any moment be
all reversed. And this may be true not only of regions, but
of small parts of regions, single muscles or nerves in one
being masculine or feminine, according to health or stimu­
lus, without regard to the possibly opposite condition of tire
surrounding parts. So of every thought, emotion or word.
Could anyone view the two lovers physically, I fancy he
would see streams of sex-force flowing from each to the
other from every part, eagerly received, drank up and re­
turned, till it would be hard to tell which one was the most
masculine or feminine. If the streams of magnetism were
objectified to the eye, they would appear like filaments,
making the two forms appear to be literally sewn and tied,
netted and interwoven together by innumerable millions of
little threads of electrical love and commerce. No wonder
love is called "attachment.”
But more tlian this—an unconscious change of mood or
thought, or a conscious effort of the will, can reverse the
sex of any part and make that instantly feminine which be­
fore was masculine, or turn feminine to masculine. This
may be done skillfully and with delightful effect by those
trained in sex-expression. The sexual motions and mag­
netisms, the touch of the skin, of the hands, the glance of
the eyes, the kiss of the lips, the tones of the voice, all
these can be instantly reversed from a tender, yielding,
clinging, drawing, appealing receptiveness to a bold, posi­
tive, thrilling bestowal of vital force. It is plain, then, that
the more points on which two lovers are unlike, yet capable
of easy and loving exchange, the greater their capacity to
give each other joy.
Those who aspire to sexual genius and mastership should
take deep note of this, for it is very important: One's
SEX-COMMERCE AND THE ELIXIR OF LIFE
I believe that sex runs thru all life, animal and vegetable
—perhaps thru the inorganic world also. And that the
sexes are cannibals, feeding on each other—the sexes are
food to each other.
I believe that both sexes are in the simplest uni-cell. That
afterwards, as life evolves, there is a tendency to a division
of labor—to separate the sexes into two persons, but that
always the two sexes are more or less in one—always the
male is part female, the female part male, in varying de­
grees of more or less.
I believe that the processes of life require as an essential
a frequent, if not constant interchange of maleness with
femaleness. I believe this takes place within the organism
constantly and in proportion to its perfection there is
beauty and health. In every cell there is this interchange,
and between different cells of the organism there is such
an exchange.
But just as in-and-in breeding finally “runs out” the
strain, and leads to deterioration, so in-and-in exchange of
maleness and femaleness—really the same thing—leads to
deterioration at last, tho many things may assist to delay
and postpone the process—change in nourishment, in en­
vironment, etc.
Therefore the maleness of one person needs exchange
with the femaleness of some other person; the femaleness
of one with the maleness o£ another.
Homosexuality bases partly on the fact that this ex­
change may be effected, with more or less satisfaction,
sometimes, with persons of the same sex (who, as both
sexes arc in one are, more or less, persons of the opposite
sex also) but this too is a form of in-and-in exchange,
therefore the normal and best exchange is with persons
whose sex is visibly and predominantly opposite to one’s
own. Man normally goes to woman, woman to man. And
even here very opposite temperaments are usually pre­
ferred, the smooth by the hairy, the red-headed by the
black-haired, the fat by the lean, etc., because these have
existed under very different environments, have fed on
diffrent nourishment, which they exchange thru sex, and
so still further put away in-and-in exchange and comple-
25
of love, above alluded to, if intense enough, by somewhat
the same process, seems to vitalize like Karezza.
This may not ultimately prove scientific, but I am in­
clined to accept it and reconcile it with the preceding—to
believe that love is a process of self-feeding and redistribu­
tion of elements within the organism as well as of mutual
feeding and exchange between lovers.
And I believe that all human love that naturally seeks
expression in embracing is, at least largely, moved by and
based upon this homan need of vital exchange and sexual-
rejuvenation.
Moreover, morally, we need to recognize that this de­
sire of the sexes for hugging, kissing, caressing, contact,
closeness and the most pressing and intimate touch, is not
vicious or suspicious, but a physiological, a food desire.
One needs meals of sexual touch, just as one needs meals
of food, only not so often. The fullest life cannot be lived
without them. However, there can be sexual gluttony, just
as there can be food gluttony. And there can be foul, poi­
sonous, unhealthy sexual touches and contacts, just as there
can be poisonous, foul, unhealthy viands. Intelligence, se­
lection, self-control, refinement, hygienic wisdom and edu­
cation, and a sensitive conscience, arc needed with both.
But neither should be regarded from the attitude of preju­
dice or mere sentiment, or convention, but from that of
science, common-sense and the ideal.
THE WINE OF SEX
The sexual elixir, essence, magnetism, whatever it is, in
the human blood, is the true natural stimulant and joy-
giver of life. It is this that gives the “illusion,” the
“glamor," the “romance," the “blindness,” the "madness,”
the “thrill,” and all the rest of which the lore of love tell
us. All other stimulants are artificial—this one is abso­
lutely natural; all other stimulants are poisons—this one is
food; all others have reactions, are finally narcotics and
depressants—this one has no reactions; reaction only ap­
pears in its absence, when it is lost or wasted.
It is esurage, wit, sparkle, radiance, imagination, high
spirits, enthusiasm, creative-passion, religious fervor —
everything that lifts life above the clod and the monotonous
On the other hand, to have frequent orgasmal embraces,
as most married lovers do, is to keep the wine in the sexual
beakers low by constant spilling, to thus kill all romance
and delight and finally starve and tire out love itself.
Here comes in the application and immense value of
Karezza. It is perfect self-control, and yet, once under­
stood and rightly practiced, it is such a perfect and com­
plete satisfaction to all the nerves and appetites concerned
that all sense of denial or restriction is lost in one of higher,
larger, sweeter expression. It brews and fills every vessel
with the sexual wine of ambition, charm, enchantment, as
nothing else can, and maintains it steadily at a high tide,
preventing all losses by preventing all reaction, thus mak­
ing life continuous romance, genius and joy.
It avoids alike the waste of starvation and the waste of
excess, the wastefulness of self-torture and self-battle to
overcome a perfectly natural .and wholesome hunger for
sexual contact and closeness—it not only avoids all these
wastes, it cultivates the grape and presses the wine into the
cup of life which is alone capable of giving man normal
inspiration and poetic happiness.
THE KAREZZA METHOD
Whoso would succeed with Karezza must begin with the
mental and spiritual values. Both the man and the woman,
and perhaps especially the woman, must resolve that they
do not zvish the orgasm—that there is a greater spiritual
and physical unity and emotional bliss to be obtained with­
out it, besides the sense of safety. This must be the fixed
thought and ideal of Karezza.
If you are novices, choose a time when you can both be
all alone, unhurried and free from interruptions. Concen­
trate yourselves entirely on your love and joy and the
blending of yourselves into one.
Let the room be warm, the surroundings pleasant and
esthetic, and be as unhampered by clothing as possible. Let
both of you think more about your love than your passion;
translate your sex-passion as much as possible into heart-
passion; be sensitively alive to the charm of each other’s
forms, tones, touch and fragrances; let the thought of
29
I
t hold the thought of Peace. Yet for her to hold the thought
“I will help him!” -Mould help. Do not worry and do nut
mind how long you have to wait before strength and self
control return and you can go on. Finally the stress sub­
sides and you can continue. If she suffers pain, caress her
with your hands, pity her, and be tender and very sympa­
thetic, but reassure her and go on. She berself does not
i wish you to stop or to fail. Reassure and help each other.
I When you do finally pass the gates and enter the Hall of
the Feast and the Holy of Holies, the worst of the battle
will lie over and self-control much easier. Penetration can
now he perfect and complete.
Now let her put her arms around you and sweetly kiss
you. but with heart-love, not yet passion. Pour out your
soul to her in extravagance of out-gushing, poetic love.
Praise her with every epithet you can honestly use. Give
her your soul’s best, always your best—and call out the best
and purest from her.
At other times—and this is most important—be silent
and quiet, but try to feel yourself a magnetic battery, with
the Finger of Love as the positive pole, and pour out your
vital electricity to her and consciously direct it to her
womb, her ovaries, her breasts, lips, limbs, everywhere—
filling her in every nerve and fiber with your magnetism,
your life, love, strength, calmness and peace. This attitude
of marmetaiion is the important thing in Karczza, its secret
of sweetest success. In proportion as you acquire the habit
and power of withdrawing the electric qualities from your
sexual stores and giving them out in blessing to your part­
ner from your sex-organs, hands, lips, skin, everywhere;
from your eves and the tones of your voice: will you ac­
quire the power to diffuse and bestow the sex-glory, en­
velop yourselves in its halo and aura, and to satisfy your­
self and satisfy her without an orgasm. Soon you will not
even think of self-control, because you will have no desire
for the orgasm, nor will she. You will both regard it as an
awkward and interrupting accident. And the practice of
Magnetation will beautify and strengthen every organ in
your*body that you thus use to express it, as well as hers.
It is the great beautifier. Every look from your eyes, yes,
every touch of your hands, and the tones of your voice will
become vibrant with magnetic charm.
31
anything but ultimate and ideal success. It is right here,
after one or two failures, that most men give up and de­
clare the whole thing impossible. Yet it is right here, and
after such failures, that success becomes easiest, because
the discharges have lessened the seminal pressure. If the
attempt is renewed just as often as potency can be renewed,
success is certain. Any man can succeed if he will perse­
vere.
When you have fully acquired the power you will go on
from strength to strength. You will amaze yourself and
your partner by what is easily possible to you. You will
be able to make any motion you please, that anybody can
make anywhere, yet with no failures. You can take the
most unusual positions and change places with your part­
ner. You can allow her to be as active as she pleases, or
to have the orgasm herself, if she greatly desires it, with
no danger to your equilibrium. You can continue the em­
brace for half an hour, an hour, or even two hours. You
can repeat it twice, or perhaps three times, in twenty-four
hours, with no sensation of excess. And so on. But keep
the spiritual on top, dominant—loving is the first thing,
and at-one-ment in the highest fruition of your souls, your
real end. Sex-passion as an end in itself will degrade you—
make it a tool of your spirit.
Karezza is the embrace—The Embrace—the most per­
fect and satisfying thing in human life, between two mates
who truly love. All other caresses point to this and are
unsatisfactory because they are not it. It is the only em­
brace for the truly refined and poetic, as an adequate ex­
pression of their insatiable longing to be at one. It is
Heaven, on earth.
THE WOMAN’S PART IN KAREZZA
The opinion prevails that in Karezza the man does it all
and the woman’s co-operation is negligible. This error may
have arisen in part from the old name, "Male Continence,”
for the method.
On the contrary, her co-operation, or at least acquies­
cence, is indispensible, and it is probable that a reckless
woman, or one who deliberately and skillfully seeks to do
so, can break the control of the most expert man in the art.
be very wefl, but in Karezza the man must be her chief and
her hero or the relation leaves both dissatisfied. In the or­
dinary, orgasmal, procreative embrace the woman may
dominate and be successful, at least become impregnated,
tho her pleasure is usually imperfect, but Karczza is a
different matter. And this is because in Karezza the woman
is happy in proportion to her fulfilled femininity, the man
in proportion to his realized masculinity, and each happy
in realizing this in the intimate touch of the other.
There is a physical help which the woman may render
at the very outset which is important. It often happens at
the beginning of penetration that the labia, one or both of
them, are infolded, or pushed in, acting as an impediment
and lessening pleasure or causing a disagreeable sensation.
If the woman, before penetration begins, will, with her
fingers, reach in and open wide the lips, drawing them up­
ward and outward the fullest extent, she will greatly
facilitate entrance, and,if she will several times repeat this
during the Karezza, each time drawing the inner labia out­
ward, while her partner presses inward, it will be found
greatly to increase the contact-surface and conscious enjoy­
ment, giving a greater sense of ease and attainment.
If a woman by intuitional genius or acquired skill does
the right thing, her passion is a food and a stimulus to
the man, filling him with a triumphant pride. He is lifted,
as it were, by a deep tide, on which he floats buoyantly
and exultantly, like a seabird on a wave. Under such con •
ditions both parties become exalted by an enthusiasm ap­
proaching ecstasy, a feeling of glorious power and perfect
'safety no words can adequately describe. And this, I insist,
depends mainly on the woman.
Under such conditions of realized power and ability al­
most any movements, on either side, are possible, provided
they arc orderly, expected, and carrying a sort of rhythm.
Remember that Karezza is, in its way, a form of the dance.
But no movement should be too often repeated without a
break. Change is in every way pleasing and desirable.
Steady repetition excites to the-orgasm, or tires, satiates,
chafes or bruises. No movement at any time should be
jerky or unexpectedly sudden. Lawless, nervous, unregu- •
lated floimcings and wrigglings should be barred as from a
waltz. They properly belong to the $emi-epileptic states of
33
proach may sicken 4 sensitive partner as well as herself,
and cause him genital injury.
Remember that Karezza is passionate emotion guided by
the intellect and sweetened by the sanction of the soul. It is
an art and belongs to the world of the beautiful. It is be­
cause it is so controlled and sanctioned that it appeals so
to the higher minds—the noble, the poetic and the refined.
Exactly as music and poetry exploit some emotional epi­
sode in beautiful detail of rhythmic expression long drawn
out, so Karezza exploits, in the rhythmic, changeful figures
of a clinging dance, the beauty and bliss of the sexual
episode.
Karezza is the art of love in its perfect flower, its ful­
fillment of the ideal dream.
THE WOMAN’S TIME OF GREAT DESIRE
The desire of a woman is seldom so comparatively con­
stant and steady as with a man, but fickle and variable,
often latent, tho the practice in Karezza tends to equalize
the sexes in this, but there are times when, from various
reasons, a wave of intense craving suddenly sweeps over
her. Particularly is this likely to happen just before the
appearance of the menses. And at such times the woman’s
desire is very likely to exceed in wild, fiery force that of
an ordinary man. Wherefore it follows that very few
women at such times*get complete satisfaction, leading to
great disappointments and marital unhappiness. The un­
expected violence of the woman’s emotion upsets the man’s
nerves and causes either a "too quick” orgasm, or complete
psychic impotence.
Now I think the Karezza-man seldom has any difficulty
with the woman whose desire he has himself aroused by
caresses and wooing. But when the desire arises spontane­
ously in her, her natural tendency appears to be to abandon
herself to it, to abdicate all self-control, forget everything
else and recklessly, fiercely, almost madly demand sensual
gratification. This attitude is a very difficult one indeed for
the Karezza-lover to meet, because just in proportion to
his fineness, sensitiveness, and real fitness to be a Karezza
artist is his susceptibility, almost to telepathy, to the
woman's moods. If he meets her on her own plane, the
37
And always this should be remembered: The more heart-
love the more sex-joy.
DOES THE WOMAN NEED THE ORGASM?
A lady physician of my acquaintance thinks that a
woman would be left congested in her sexual organs,
probably, by Karezza, did she not have the orgasm, and the
result would finally be disease.
I have not found it so in practice, and the criticism
would almost appear to have come from one who had not
known Karezza in its perfect form. If valid, it would
apply to the man as well and would destroy all force of
the case for Karezza for either sex, which is far from what
my critic desires.
In Dr. Max Huner’s Disorders of the Sexual System,
a work in which the woman’s need of the orgasm is
strongly insisted on, I find these significant words: "When­
ever a woman states that she remains dry after coitus it
generally means a lack of orgasm.” In other words, it is
very common in the ordinary orgasmal embrace, for the
man to have an orgasm in a few moments and depart, leav­
ing the woman entirely unsatisfied in every way. The ordin­
ary husband-and-wife embrace, anyway, is purely sexual,
and based on his demand to get rid of a surplus. There is
little or no thought to make it esthetic or affectional—it is
merely animal. If the husband stays long enough and ex­
cites his wife sufficiently to have an orgasm, then she lias a
gushing out of fluids that relieves the congestion brought
on by his approaches, and on the physical plane, at least,
she is relieved and satisfied, the same as he. If not, “she
remains dry.” Her moisture or dryness, then, are a pretty
good index of her physical satisfaction and relief of con­
gestion, or the reverse.
But what happensTn Karezza? Here, if she really loves
her partner, her whole nature is attuned to his, in delicious
docility, expectation and rapport. Every nerve-vibrates in
sweet gratitude and response to his touch. There is a mar­
vellously sweet blending and reconciliation of the voluptu­
ous and the spiritual that satisfies both her body and her
soul at once and makes her exquisitely sensitive to every­
thing poetic or esthetic in his acts. In this state, when inter-
39
And always this should be remembered: The more heart-
love the more sex-joy.
DOES THE WOMAN NEED THE ORGASM?
A lady physician of my acquaintance thinks that a
woman would be left congested in her sexual organs,
probably, by Karezza, did she not have the orgasm, and the
result would finally be disease.
I have not found it so in practice, and the criticism
would almost appear to have come from one who had not
known Karezza in its perfect form. If valid, it would
apply to the man as well and would destroy all force of
the case for Karezza for either sex, which is far from what
my critic desires.
In Dr. Max Huner’s Disorders of the Sexual System,
a work in which the woman’s need of the orgasm is
strongly insisted on, I find these significant words: "When­
ever a woman states that she remains dry after coitus it
generally means a lack of orgasm.” In other words, it is
very common in the ordinary orgasmal embrace, for the
man to have an orgasm in a few moments and depart, leav­
ing the woman entirely unsatisfied in every way. The ordin­
ary husband-and-wife embrace, anyway, is purely sexual,
and based on his demand to get rid of a surplus. There is
little or no thought to make it esthetic or affectional—it is
merely animal. If the husband stays long enough and ex­
cites his wife sufficiently to have an orgasm, then she has a
gushing out of fluids that relieves the congestion brought
on by his approaches, and on the physical plane, at least,
she is relieved and satisfied, the same as he. If not, "she
remains dry.” Her moisture or dryness, then, are a pretty
good index of her physical satisfaction and relief of con­
gestion, or the reverse.
But what happens-in Karezza ? Here, if she really loves
her partner, her whole nature is attuned to his, in delicious
docility, expectation and rapport. Every nerve vibrates in
sweet gratitude and response to his touch. There is a mar­
vellously sweet blending and reconciliation of the voluptu­
ous and the spiritual that satisfies both her body and her
soul at once and makes her exquisitely sensitive to every­
thing poetic or esthetic in his acts. In this state, when inter-
39
whole thing off so sweetly and lovingly that it is dearly
seen to be the trivial accident which it truly is. These do
not seem to be shocked, or to suffer, and soon restore and
woo the lover back to his normal passion and ability, thus
helping themselves as much as him.
Now the cause and remedy here can be instantly revealed
if we remember that in Karezza all hinges on love. Karez-
za is easy and successful just in proportion to the abun­
dance of mutual love—hard and difficult just in proportion
as mere sex-craving dominates love. If the woman loves
her mate so much that his mere presence, voice, touch, are
a heaven of joy to her, so much that the sex-relation is only
an adjunct and she could be happy if entirely without it,
then, by a sort of paradox, not only does she enjoy it twice
as exquisitely as her merely sex-craving sister, but can let
it go at any moment without a pang. On the other hand
the more the man rises above mere sex-hunger in ddidous
perfection of romantic love, the more easy and natural and
effortless becomes Karezza-control and the less likely is be
to have a failure; and the more the woman loves him, al­
most to forgetting of sex, the more she assists him to be
perfect in sex-power and control, while the less she cares
if he does fail. In every way and on every side, absence of
love, or a break in the tender stream of romantic rapport
and adoration and soul-blending, makes the mechanical
technique of Karezza difficult, awkward, unsatisfactory or
impossible.
Remember this: If a woman does not love her man with
heart or soul, or at least an innocent sense of need that
arouses in her a tender gratitude for his service, but merely
craves sex-sensation, her avid and animal passion, sensed
by his sexual nerves on contact, will arouse in him a lust
as soulless as her own, or will render him impotent, or will
give him an initial power and then demand so imperiously
of his centers that denial and control will be impossible
and helplessly he will fail. Just so if he comes to her only
for her sex, not in tender love or sympathy, he will find he
cannot hold.
It is the predominance of the finer emotions, the capture
of the' body by the soul and the joyous devotion of every
function to that dear service, that alone renders Karezza
easy and divinely satisfying.
41
The very worst of it is the mental effect upon the victim.
For ages the man human has dreaded to be called “im­
potent." His manly power is the dearest attribute of man.
There are no words to describe the agony, the shame, the
bitter self-reproach, the helplessness, the awful despair,
that may overwhelm an innocent, loving and otherwise per­
fect man when the fear comes upon him that his virility has
left him and that he may perhaps always disappoint and ap­
pear a weakling in the eyes of the woman whose embraces
may be dearer and more desired than aught else in life.
Just as nothing else gives a man such pride, courage, in­
spiration and exaltation as to be able to perfectly embrace
and satisfy the woman he loves, so nothing else has such
power to crush, sadden, sicken and embitter a man as sex­
ual failure. It drives many and many a man to solitude,
old-bachelorhood, misanthropy, misogyny, insanity or sui­
cide. How much of the bitterness and gall of Carlyle’s
writings may have come from this and the agony of his
volcanic and morbid soul under its torture, who can tell ?
Now because of the sufferings of my sex from this cause
and, incidentally, of the women who love them, I have writ­
ten this chapter. And it is because I wish to speak a help­
ing word that 1 preface it with the frank confession (which
I would otherwise dread to make) that I have myself, at
different times and places, suffered enough from this nerv­
ous inability to give me a vivid glimpse of its tortures and a
true sympathy with its victims. Even a very few and fleet­
ing experiences can do this. Therefore I have studied it
with a personal as well as general interest and believe my
conclusions are of value.
And first I want to correct many common misconcep­
tions. Psychic impotence, tho of course not normal, is not
pathologic. It is not a proof of ill-health. It is not an evi­
dence of weakness, even of sexual weakness. I speak posi­
tively when I say that the man completely impotent at night
may be absolutely potent in the morning, or vice versa, the
man who fails with one woman may within the hour be a
marvel of manly power with another. It is not a proof of
a lack of love but often of the opposite. It is not in the
least an evidence of sterility'. A man quite sterile may liave
no trace of psychic impotence and the man troubled by it
may be most virile. I knew a man who completely failed
potenee. The coarse, sensual, selfish man, concerned only
with his own passions and their glut, is little likely to feel
it. The man who asks only opportunity, not consent, the
man who can rape, is safe from it. But the man who rever­
ences womanhood, the man who adores his mistress, the
man deeply and passionately in love, so that every thought
and suggestion from his loved one sways him like a com­
pelling power, is easily overcome. We must remember
that there is probably no time when a strong man is so ut­
terly suggestible as when he is completely in love. His
whole nature is then melted, sensitive, impressible (especi­
ally by Her) to a degree otherwise impossible with him.
This is why usually coarse men temporarily exalted by a
great love may spend a whole evening in the close compan­
ionship of a beloved and reverenced woman and never con­
sciously think of sex. This is why a man hitherto perfectly
successful with prostitutes and voluptuous women (who
appeal only to sex-passion) when he comes to the bridal-
bed with some shrinking and nervous and spiritual girl,
who knows nothing of sex and to whom the heart love is
everything, may suddenly find his sex efforts imperfect.
The very nervousness and fright of his companion, her ig­
norance, her excitement, her dread of the unknown thing
about to happen, all this may react on a man and quite un­
nerve him, and all the more in proportion to his real love
for and rapport with her. Often at such a time the excite­
ment, fatigue and dread of the girl have taken away all sex-
desire from her and she only fears being hurt, and this scx-
negativenes may infect her lover subconsciously and de­
magnetize him. Even where the beginning is all right a
single cry of pain from the bride may unman the groom.
How can he go on and hurt her!
A woman should know that impotence is often the great­
est proof a man can offer of the depth, purity and spiritu­
ality of his love for her, of his tenderness and considera­
tion and of the probability’ of his being a life-long lover.
For we must remember that heart-love, spiritual love,
that dear and tender at-one-ing and companioning which
romantic love now idealizes and desires, represents an evo­
lution. The original love was simply’ fierce sexual passion,
hungry, physical, selfish, concerned only with its own grati­
fication. And to this day these two loves are generally
45
her favors in cold contempt. Even if not conscious of this
fear it may affect a man, or it may exist as a race-memory,
and act on his subconsciousness. In some cases I think the
sudden nymphomania of the woman causes disturbed nerv­
ous vibrations which upset the nervous balance of the man.
But I admit there are some examples of this form, for
which I have as yet no explanation. The consoling fact is
that this form is usually very ephemeral and occasional
only.
Sometimes the heart-love is so stTong and motherly in a
woman, that the man comes completely under its domin­
ance, and tho the two may have great happiness and even
sensuous joy in each other’s embraces, the local sex-organs
fail to become completely aroused. This is particularly
likely to happen in a woman no longer young, who is near
the turn of life, and is quite normal.
Now as the causes of this thing are mostly psychic, so
should the remedies be. Nourishing diet, especially of
shellfish, milk, eggs, may assist; running, horseback riding
and muscle-beating over the lower spine, nates, hips, thighs,
and abdomen, by way of a local tonic; with abundant sleep.
But the chief need is to establish the right relation between
the psychic natures of the lovers themselves. Especially
does this depend upon the woman. If she is patient, ten­
der, loving, considerate; if she can prove to him that she
is so happy in his tenderness, his unity, his devotion, that
the sex-union is really a very secondary and comparatively
unimportant matter with her and she can wait any neces­
sary time for its consummation without distress; especially
if she daintily and wisely cultivates in herself a touch of the
coquettish, sensuous, voluptuous — appealing subtly and
luxuriously to his passions and their stimulus—success is
seldom long in coming.
There is nothing that so arouses, supports and sustains
the normal sex-passion in a man as for a strongly-sexed
woman to fill her aura toward him with a strong, steady,
self-controlled appeal—tender, loving, admiring, yet de­
liciously sensuous and esthctically voluptuous; pure, yet
deep, warm, alluring. To most men this is an instant and
permanent cure. The lover is lifted as a strong swimmer is
by some deep and briny tide, and floats deliciously at ease,
lathed in bliss, and in the consciousness of perfect power.
• 47
f
, into a sweet, contented lassitude and child-like slumber.
But even to the last moment of consciousness there is a
most clinging and tender affectionateness and desire to be
close to the loved one, gratitude for the gift of such joy;
nothing of that indifference or revulsion usually concluding
the orgasmal embraces. And this continues after parting,
even for days, so that one walks in a heavenly dream, and
where the embrace is often repeated, tends to become a
fixed and continuous habit, resulting in the most ideal love;
if the parting is permanent, remaining in the memory for
years, causing ever a gentle and tender reminisence to
pervade the thought of the loved one.
t It is because of this that Karezza, tho a sex act, so won­
derfully increases and makes enduring the heart love. It is
the embrace of the angels; sex sublimed by soul.
And because of all this it excels all other forces or in­
fluences as a beautifier. The faces of those who practice it
tend to become exceedingly beautiful, on the spiritual plane
especially; that is to say, it is the beauty of expression that
is developed, rather than that of feature, tho the features
surely but more slowly follow, a serene, sweet light in the
eye, a delicacy and refinement of line, a radiance and play
of feature, a glad timbre in the voice, that vibrates an in­
expressible magnetism and makes even the plainest person­
ality fascinating.
Owing to the blending of the two natures, their mutual
exaltation and reception of each other’s moral qualities, it
is soon to be noted that lovers who practice Karezza dis­
play the fruits of such inspiration and transmutation. The
woman becomes strong, proud, confident, logical—display­
ing the finer masculine—while the man becomes gentle,
considerate, compassionate, sympathetic, intuitive—reveal­
ing the finer feminine. Thus the sexes spiritually change
and interweave and become at-one.
Is it any wonder if this most vitalizing of all elixirs, thus
habitually fed to them, should make the organs receiving it,
or thru which it passes, beautiful, magnetic, graceful, radi­
ant with life? Look at the lips, eyes, cheeks of a happy
bride and find your answer. Joy is the greatest beautifier on
earth and there is no joy like sex-joy. I prophesy that
when Karezza becomes the habit of the people, made easy
and perfect by inheritance developing into instinct, that the
49
tion, is the peril of excess. And sex shares this danger
with the rest.
The reproach of excess, in many cases, is the result of
mere prejudice. There is still an immense amount of theo­
logical odium attached to sex in the popular mind. It is a
thing apart, to be kept secret and mentioned with bated
breath, a thing doubtful and suspicious, if not certainly
vile. To those who think thus, all frank interest in and at­
tention to sex is excessive. And there is another large class
who have themselves only abnormal interest in sex, know­
ing it only from experience of lust. To them all interest in
sex borders on debauch. A man who studies sex. or writes
on sex, is sure to be denounced by such people as "obsessed
by sex,” yet there is no more reason why a sexologist
should not devote himself to the study and elucidation of
sexual phenomena, than there is why an astronomer should
not study stars or a geologist rocks.
But as sex is interwoven with our deepest feelings, the
fountain-head of some of our strongest emotions, it is cer­
tainly liable to excess and far be it from me to deny this.
There is a very real peril that those who are very loving
and strongly sexed may give too much of themselves to
the absorbing concerns of passion. A due proportion and
balance is necessary in everything.
It is perfectly true that the wine of sex may sometimes
go to the head and lead to a preoccupation with sex border­
ing on satyriasis or nymphomania, just as any other passion
may become an emotional intoxication. Love and sex are
subject to the universal laws of excess and satiation. Love
and the thrill of sex are delightful feelings and we strive
to hold them and intensify—this is natural and right within
reason, but if continued too long the inevitable result is that
the nerves become powerless to appreciate or respond. We
may drain the reserves of the other faculties by diverting
them all to sex—may thus indirectly weaken and atrophy
them and finally may end by devitalizing love and sex
themselves. And lovers are prone to spend time and money
lavishly on their delight and may thus waste. Loss of sleep
is a common source of love-waste too little considered.
And in the man there are often the crude losses of the or­
gasm. There may be a feverish state of the system devel­
oped in which appetite and digestion are impaired and ap-
91
careful regard for the conditions of health and useful liv­
ing, and a dominant conviction that all physical acts should
express beauty of soul, there need be no fear. Excess is
only where the act is individually or socially detrimental.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
It will be noticed that I lay great stress upon the value
of love in Karezza and of refined feeling. For success there
cannot be too much of both. Great love and poetry of feel­
ing represent the ideal in the practice of the art of love.
But I never forget the limitations of real life. Not all peo­
ple can be poets. And I quite recognize that it often hap­
pens that very good people wish to marry or unite their
lives, because they are lonely or physically starving, who
yet have not and never could have any great, mutual, ro­
mantic love. The practical question is: Can such success­
fully or beneficially practice Karezza? Certainly. The mere
skeleton or essential farmework of Karezza is this: That the
parties be honest and kind toward each other, sexually
healthy, the woman willing, the man potent, mutually at
peace in their consciences about the matter, and united in
their desire that there shall be no orgasm on tl»e man's part.
On this basis they can succeed and with benefit, but their
happiness and peace will be very inferior compared to what
it would be if deeper and higher emotions could be in­
cluded. But when two pure and trustful friends once begin
a relation of this kind, it seldom fails to go on to more
beautiful attainments. Karezza seems to create inevitably
a tendency to caress and be tender. It is a sort of natural
marriage ceremony, which marries more and more with
every repetition.
In relation to Karezza the question of the orgasm con­
tinually arises. The early writers on male continence, I be­
lieve, all argued that the seminal secretion resembled that
of the tears, was normally secreted and reabsorbed and
need never be discharged, except for procreation. Other
physiologists, of a later date, declared that the semen, once
secreted, could never be reabsorbed and must find dis­
charge, thus denying those who have contended that re­
absorbed semen was what gave the “illusion,” the thrill,
the virile feeling, the strongly sexed man knows. It is now
Karezza couple because, first the woman has the relation so
frequently and so satisfyingly that she can well afford an
occasional lapse, and, secondly, she knows that in a few
hours, perhaps in a single hour, she may have it again,
usually rather better than ordinarily, therefore has no ex­
cuse for nervousness. Just as the man must always be kind
to the woman and stop the relation at any moment if she
grows weary, or for any other reason wishes it, so the
woman must be kind to him, cheerful, sweet and patient
if he sometimes fails, and by this calling up of her affec-
tional nature effectually cures the morbid self-pity which
might make her nervously ill. Most men feel that they
must have the orgasm at certain intervals, and there are
scientists who have claimed to have discovered a sexual
rhythm or periodicity in man which would seem to support
this. But this sexual cycle in man appears to occur from
once in four day to once a month, according to the indi­
vidual. -On the other hand almost all women want inter­
course very frequently and long and leisurely each time,
and sexual scientists support this too. It is admitted also
by the highest authorities {they do not know Karezza) (hat
coitus interruptus is the surest of all ways to avoid unde­
sired pregnancy, while the contraceptics are none of them
safe. Now all these things ean be reconciled in Karezza,
Let the man learn Karezza and his wife can have inter­
course as often and as long as she likes, while the occasional
failure gives him the relief of the orgasm at the time of
his “period," or some other time.
And there is the question of the woman's orgasm. It is
held by quite a good many men, some women, and many
physicians say the same, that a woman also needs the or­
gasm, and that if she does not have it her health suffers.
It is also commonly claimed that the woman’s orgasm is
essential in conception for the best results.
With these contentions I disagree. I consider the female
orgasm an acquired habit and not natural:
The male needs the orgasm to expel the sperm, but the
female has no analogous need—her orgasm has nothing to
do Vith expelling the ovum.
In all the animal embraces I have been able to witness,
while the orgasm of the male was evident, I could see no
evidence of a female orgasm. If the female orgasm is not
55
and that in this state it is less fit for impregnation than if
there had been no orgasm—but this may be mere theory.
I believe, too, that the ideal way in the procreative em­
brace is for the man to waive all attempt at pleasure or to
prolong the embrace, but to have his orgasm as quickly and
forcefully as possible, directing all his magnetism into the
seed and drawing nothing of her vital-force from tlie
woman, but leaving it all for the child, and then to come
immediately away and entirely withdraw from the room.
The woman to have no orgasm, and to remain after the act
quiet and recumbent for an hour or more. This also is
theory, but at least I can say that where my advice was
asked and followed pregnancy occurred where before was
sterility.
And this I know, that a woman can conceive without
herself having an orgasm. There is every probability, I
would say, considering the sexual lives of the average, that
the majority of women conceive without it. I believe she
conceives more easily and surely without it, for it is reason­
able to infer that the spasmodic motions and abdominal
contractions of the orgasm would tend to expel the sperm
and then leave the parts negative and flaccid, instead of
avid and receptive.
I know that a woman can have conception without hav­
ing an orgasm, have a normal pregnancy and easy parturi­
tion, give birth to s perfect child, destined to grow up
beautiful and healthy in body and a genius in mind. What
more or better can any mother do? There remains the
further question of Karezza in pregnancy: I feel sure the
woman is better off in pregnancy without the usual orgas-
mal intercourse. It is liable on the man’s part to be too
violent and to cause her injury. And for the woman her­
self to have an orgasm might certainly bring a miscarriage.
But on the other hand, I believe an occasional very gentle
and quiet and tender Karezza (the man being careful of his
weight) is most beneficial to the pregnant woman, and even
to the unborn babe which is thus bathed in the magnetic
aura and enfolded in the love of both its parents.
The .woman feels it a very great comfort to have her
husband’s love embrace at such a time and often peculiarly
longs for it. I have never seen or heard of any bad re­
sults from it and I recommend its considerate use.
37
k
\
Where properly and successfully performed between the
well-mated it gives the most absolute and perfect satisfac­
tion without the orgasm.
Withdrawing the sexual electricity from the merely sex-
organs, distributing it thruout the system and discharging
it from every part toward the loved one, exchanging with
that loved one, every part so used is electrified and vital­
ized and becomes more beautiful—Karezza is the greatest
beautifier.
And this satisfaction, joy and perfected love inevitably
react to increase the general physical health and mental
vigor—Karezza maintains youth and is one of the best of
the health exercises.
►
►
I
t
59
where men have been sterilized by accident, disease, or intentional
operation in such a way that the testicles are left unharmed, but the
semen is cut-off from its natural outlet. After being once secreted
only two things are possible—either it must be absorbed or it will
form a swelling. It does NOT form a swelling, therefore it certainly
is absorbed.
And the orgasm is not essentially a discharge of semen, for it
is possible for a man to have an orgasm with no discharge of semen,
and women, who have no semen, can have orgasms as violently as
any man. An orgasm is essentially a violent emotional discharge
of energy or nervous force. Fits of rage, weeping, etc., arc often
truly orgasmal, and in many cases serve as substitutes for sexual
orgasms, as in hysterics. Where the ductless glands are excited
to more than usual activity, energy accumulates in the nerves and
a demand is felt for its discharge. If the thoughts are then sexually
excited there will be a demand for a sexual discharge, especially if the
excitation has been of a sort to cause the energy to accumulate in
the sexual centers, causing congestion. For wherever the nervous
energy flows the blood flows also and remains congested unless the
energy is discharged or withdrawn.
Now observers report very differently as to after effects of
orgasms. Some “feel like a sick dog," or report dizziness, lassitude,
weakness, dimness of vision, perhaps vomiting or fainting, while
others only feel relaxed and soothed or declare energy and buoy­
ancy increased. Some can endure only one orgasm at long intervals
of perhaps a month or more, others glory in daily orgasms or even
a number at one interview. Even the same individual often experiences
a wide range in power or in good or bad effects. How explain these
differences in the testimony of good witnesses? I think an under­
standing of the ductless glands explains all.
There are those in whom these glands work with more titan
usual power and if the energy thus received takes the direction of
the genitals for an outlet, such a one feels a tremendous need of an
orgasm, and, if he has it, he feels it relieves and benefits him. and
if his glands are excited by the sexual embrace they may rush more
energy into the vacuum, even an increased amount, making repeti­
tions possible until the pressure is lowered. During this the con­
tagion of his emotions may excite the glands of the woman and she
also may have multiple orgasms, or may have them anyhow because
of her own endocrine flow.
On the other hand a man in whom the flow of cndocrincs, or
hormones, is only normal may feel quite spent after an orgasm,
demagnetized, and must rest before a repetition. If his glandular
61
conditions, and not at all from continence. I think where the sub­
limation and absorbtion are carried to the right degree there is no
leakage, but I think it possible that it occurs where the excitement
exceeds the sublimation.
I am willing to concede that where the intercourse is of such a
nature as to cause a congestion that is not sublimated, or where
sexual congestion occurs and sublimation and magnetation arc not
available, the orgasm may have a neccessary place. Perhaps it must
be admitted that everything has somewhere its use.
The idea that when once the usual amount of semen has been
secreted, secretion largely or completely ceases, only enough being
secreted usually to replace what is absorbed, and this even under
frequent or habitual sexual exdtment, is, I believe, probably correct,
and agrees with my own understanding of the matter. But ever and
anon, with the usual man, a surplus does accumulate, is not subli­
mated, and an orgasm occurs.
The question of whether the woman’s orgasm is essential to the
best conception seems to have a new side-light thrown upon it by the
discussion concerning birth-marks and prenatal influence.
If, as most modern physicians seem to agree, there is no truth
in the old theory of prenatal influence; if the germplasm is something
separate, of which the individual sex-partner is only a carrier, as a
postman carries a letter, but with the message within which he has
nothing to do, then it would appear that the woman’s orgasm or non-
orgasm has as little influence as any other prenatal factor. Just as it
woutd not really matter, so far as the message in the letter was con­
cerned, provided it was delivered, whether the postman was quiet
and normal, or had an epileptic fit at the moment of delivery, so it
would not matter what the woman, or the man either, did or did not
do, provided the ovum and sperm-cell were safely gotten together.
Their motives and emotional states, according to this theory, do
not count. Which would explain how a woman could be im­
pregnated by the semen from a syringe; or bear a normal child even if
raped; or if in a drug-sleep.
Again it must not be forgotten that conception, scientifically
speaking, is the penetration of the ovum by the sperm-cell and their
coalescing. This rarely, if ever, occurs at the moment when the
carriers are having their orgasm, but sometime after, often hours
or even days after, at the moment when the sperm-cell reaches the
waiting egg. How can the previous orgasm have any effect then?
to devitalize him. '
The idea that a child begotten where the mother has an orgasm
would be more passionate or robust than where the mother has none
63
I
THE PRACTICE OF YOGA - $2.50
As Taught in the East and the West with 42 Exercises —by a
Life-Long Student of Yoga —12 line drawings —giving full in­
structions. This folio has been over a year in preparation and
consists of 86 heavy white mimeographed pages — large print
with a specially designed cover and back. This unique folio will
supply the demand for more and more information on Yoga —yet
give the busy person a quick grasp of this subject in a short
time. All of the important books on Yoga have been incorporated
into this ONE — CONCISE FOLIO —No wasted Padding —the
Meat Only!
The following texts have been compiled into the folio above :
Theos Bernard —Hindu Philosophy; Claude Bragdon —Yoga for
You; Alain Danielou —Yoga; Forever Young, Forever Healthy;
Desmond Dunne —Yoga for Everyman; Felix Guyot — Yoga;
Science of Self-Mastery; Muriel Haskell —Scientific Breathing;
> Christian Humphreys —Concentration & Meditation; Patanjali —
I jhorisms; Hamacharaka —Hindu-Yoga Science of Breath; S. D.
Hamayandas —Bhakti Yoga —First Steps in Yoga; Vivekenanda—
Bhakti Yoga, Karma Yoga; Raja Yoga; Ernest Wood —Great
Systems of Yoga; Practical Yoga; Paramhansa Yoganada —Auto­
biography of a Yogi & Sri Yukteswar —The Holy Science......plus
the personal experience of the author —nothing has been left
out that will make this an outstanding folio on the mysterious,
healthful subject of YOGA.
Many people have experienced benefits from this system of ex­
ercise and breathing. Olivia De Havillond says Yoga keeps her
slim, trim, etc. The star who now lives in Paris, specializes in
standing on her head. “ That's why I feel so wonderful. The ex­
ercises keep me in shape," she says. “ I practice them every
day at home —starting with the lotus position and working up to
standing on my head. It is all based on breathing, circulation
and relaxation of muscles and joints," she explains.
The following successful people use Yoga to combat modern day
stress, strain and fatigue: Greta Garbo, Robert Ryan, Serge
Koussevitsky, Ruth St. Denis, Jennifer Jones, Gloria Swanson
and many others. If you seek health, pep and a new personality
why not try YOGA today. The exercises are fully illustrated —
nothing complicated —no special apparatus—you can do this in
a hotel room—or in the desert with absolute privacy! Rush your
:2.50 and we will send this giant folio by return mail!
CHIRC7IHERAFY - A Text Ch Joint Movements $2.S0
By Dr. Phillips DeHesse, H.T.R., rh .7 ., Fh.D., N.D., L.C., D.O. Another
remarkable, outstanding bocx on healing! Ideal for Masseurn, fo r the Here - a
M
UST for a ll Chiropractors! learn how a lai-ge amount of bleed energy is con­
verted to v ita l energy by the brain and th is energy is conveyed to a ll parr-
of the body needing v ita lity by tire nerves and the spinal nerd. 23 fu ll page
photographs showing technique. 71 pages, lig h t cardboard covers.
CHRISTIAN SCIDICE HEALING - Its Principles and Practice $10.00
By Prances Lord (1888) With Full Explanations for Home Students: Help for
Body, Mind and Estate. This is one important ccntributicn c. the subject of
mental healing. Dr. Quirrtoy developed the silen t method of healing which is
>ncs.Ti today as the Science of Health which Mrs. Baker Eddy : rrowed during her
stay in Portland, Maine as Quinby's patient. I f you are inn-rested in mental
and sp iritu a l - th is bock is for you.
Some of the contents: Laying cr. of Hands; Intuitions; Absent Treatments;
Affirmations; Alchemist; Angels, Animals - clairvoyant, clair-audient; Astrolo­
gy; A stral Body; At-ore-irent; Jacob Soehae; Cause o f Incre.- ed Illn ess; How
Change May Be Brought About; Self-healing; Casting Out Error; Christian Science
Aims a t S piritual Change; Healing, way opened up; Magnetic txiditicns; Con-
fusion; A Genuine Cure Affected Through the Laws of Nature; Works of the Devil;
Mrs, Eddy - Science and Health; Faith Cure; Christian Scieri'.v Healing; Fasting;
Healing - Christian Science Explained; Bands of Healing S p irits; In itiatio n ;
Insight; Insanity; Law of God, cr Good; Law of Life; Messer ism; Obsessed; Oc­
cultism; One Kind; Oneness with S p irit; Creeping Paralysis; Perfect Way; Si­
lence Opens Faculties; S piritual Teachers; The Guide; Spiritualism ; Stories of
Healing; Hew to Deal With Symbols; Ihfoldnent; You Can All Heal and Be Healed,
etc. 471 indexed pages, lig h t cardboard covers, sp ira l binding.
CLEAN CULTURE _ $4.00
By Raymond Bernard, A.B., M.A., Bi.D. - Revised £ Enlarged from the works
of Sampson Morgan, Pioneer of the Organic Movement, who f irs t raised Ids Voice
in England against the Use of Chemical F ertilizers and Sprays. The New Soil
Science - An Original and S cientific Treatise on Clean Culture, the Mineral­
ize d-Humus Method of Soil F ertilization Without the Use of Animal Manure. With
Introductions by Dr. Raymond Bernard and John Maxwell, N.D. 77 mimeographed
pages, Light cardboard cover;.
CLEAN UP TOE BLOOD STREAK AND LIVE $1.50
By L illian Taylor. 4 x 8V' - light cardboard covers.
CUMATOIEGY $1.50
3y Karl Vcn Schilling. Colors; Astroleg,", Influences. 12 ndmeograthed
pages, lig h t cardxxard covers.
TOE CODICIL TO M
Y WILL $7.00
By Fr. Sebastian Kneipp, Privy Cha^xerlain to the Pep-' 5 Pastor of Wocr-
sihofen, 3avaria. (1897) 429 pages, ligf.t cardboard covers, ;piral binding.
COLES AND RELATED SUBJECTS $3.00
Carpiled from Doctors Shelton, Tilden, White, Swick, etc. 65 pages,
mimeographed, lij£vt carcboard covers.
THE 00LD W
ATER CURE - Its Principles, Theory 6 Practice $6.50
Vincent P riessnitz (Of Graefenberg, in S ilesia) (1943; 51 finely
printed pages - by the Discoverer of Cold Water Cure. Fhotc of P riessnitz,
with a short history. Stapled
LETTERS BY INEZ PERRY ON USING THE CELL SALTS -
Collected S Compiled by Lorena Gardenhire, a per­
sonal friend of long standing. 345 8^ x 11 mimeo.
pages, light cardboard, spirals (1973) $12.00
TWELVE LESSONS IN THE ASTRO-BIOCHEMIC SYSTEM OF
BODY BUILDING By Inez Eudora Perry. This was a
private course issued to her pupils. 90 pages,
mimeographed, 8%Sc 11. $7.00
VITAMIN AND MINERAL DEFICIENCIES - Robert E. Corn­
ish, Ph.D. Many do not knew that most diseases
are caused by poor eating habits. Approx. 140 ind.
pages, 8% x 11, typewritten format. $6.00
FLOATING AIR By Joseph Ccnboie (1941-1944). The
author claims there is nothing rrysterious about
respiratory diseases. 195 pages, spirals. $5.00
ACUTE DISEASES: Their Uniform Treatment by Natural
Methods (Part I) and Mental, Emotional and Psychic
Disorders (Part II) By H. Lindlahr, M.D. (1918)
54 pages, facsimile. $2.50
PIONEER TEACHERS By F. H. Behncke, Traveler, Writ­
er, Lecturer - Dedicated to the Healers of America
- 114 indexed pages, facsimile $3.50
PSYCHOLOGY - The Cultivation and Development of
Mind and Will by Positive and Negative Processes__
- By F. H. Randall (1904) 193 pages $4.00
YOUR SIGHT AND HEARING By Merle A.' Wilson (1967)
Hundreds have inpairment of sight and hearing -
here is a book which teaches you how you oould
regain these by natural methods - many have bene­
fited. 135 pages (We make no claim for cure)$3.50
RAW POOD MENU AND RECIPE BOOK - By Dr. E. L. Mor­
aine Estes (N.D., D.O., D.C., Ph.D.) 2.00
Please include" postage, insurance and sales tax.
