{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__stead___lessons_from_the_beyond.pdf","mytitle":"Lessons From The Beyond","mylang":"de"}
LESSONS FROM
THE BEYOND
by
''JULIA"
Writer of "Letters from Julia",
through the hand of W. T. STEA.D
LONDON : RIDER & CO.
PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.
MCMXXXI
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
AT THE AHCKO& naa, TIPTU•, USilZ
CONTENTS
PREFACE II
I. GOD IS LOVE 1 I
II. SPIRITUAL PROGRESSION 1 S
III. PROGRESS THROUGH ASPIRATION - 29
IV. CONSCIOUS UNION 33
V. THE MEANING OF LIFE 37
VI. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILI1Y 43
VII. NECESSITY FOR PREPARATION 49
VIII. THE LESSON OF FAITH S~
IX. WHAT ARE YOU SEEKING ? - 59
X. WHERE THE SEA AND RIVER MEET - 63
XI. THE OCEAN OF LIFE - 69
XII. AN EASTER MESSAGE 73
XIII. SERVICE 79
XIV. ''LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE
BEFORE MEN" - 8~
XV. THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 89
XVI. IN THE WORLD, BUT NOT OF IT 95
.
X1
CONTENTS
CJIAJ"mml •AGII
XVII. REINCARNATION: I 99
XVIII. REINCARNATION : II lOS
XIX. "IN THE MIDST OF LIFE WE ARE IN
DEATH'' - III
XX. FROM DEATH TO LIFE IIS
XXI. THE STREAM OF LIFE - 119
PREFACE
PEOPLE all over the wo.tld know "Julia", and
have read her letters. These letters, given
through to my father by Julia A. Ames in the
'nineties, were first published in Borderlantl,*
They were issued in book form in 1896, under
the title, Lettersfrom Julia. t
They have brought comfort and consolation
to thousands. They have been translated into
several languages, and have run into many
editions. My father often said that when he was
forgotten for many things he had done, he would
be remembered as the "amanuensis" for Julia's
letters.
The story of how he came into touch with
Julia, and how the letters came to b.e written,
*Apsychic quarterly edited and published by myfather during
the years 1894-97.
t Later, when more Letters were added, the tide was altered to
Aft~r D111th.
II
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
is given in the preface to After Death. It was
Julia who first suggested a Bureau of Com-
munication. In 1 894, after she had been writing
through his hand for several months, she made
the following very definite request that some-
thing should be done to meet what she felt to
be a very pressing need :
I want to ask ifyou can help me at all in a matter
in which I am much interested. I have long wanted
to ejtablish a place where those who have passed over
could communicate with the loved ones left behind.
Atpresent the worldisfull ofspirits longing to speak
to those from whom they have been parted, just as I
longed to speak to you, but without finding a hand to
enable them to write.
It is a strange spectacle. Onyour side, soulsfull of
anguish for bereavement,· on this side, souls full of
sadness because they cannot communicate with those
whom they love. What can be done to bring those
sombre, sorr01JJ-Iaden persons together? To do so
requires something which we alone cannot supp!J.
You musthelp-buthow? It is not impossible. When
it is done, death will have lost its sting, and the gratJe
its victQry.
12
PREFACE
After many years of waiting, clifficulties
cleared away, money was provided, and "Julia's
Bureau" was started in I 909, and the way for
communication was opened out for many. There
were those who were scandalized and horrified,
but there is no doubt that good work was done,
and many found comfort and consolation through
"Julia's Bureau" during the three years it was
working.
When the "Titanic" struck an iceberg and sank
in mid-ocean in April, I 9I 2, and Father joined
Julia on the Other Side, the Bureau had to be
closed for want of funds to carry it on. Both
Father and Julia told me then, when I was dis-
appointed and sad at having to close, that at
the right time, when it would be badly needed,
it would be opened again; and in I914, just after
war broke out, when it was indeed badly needed,
a lady came forward and provided the means for
reopening. This lady, Mrs. Bayley Worthington,
has been our loved and honoured president from
the day we reopened, and she has helped us
constandy ever since.
The Bureau was reopened under my father's
name. By Julia's request we called it "T~e
13
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
W. T. Stead Borderland Library and Bureau"
He has since given me this further information
with reference to their work together.
The love and unselfishness of the workers, the joy of
those on both sides united again through the conditions
and power around Cambridge House (the headquarters
ofthe Bureau) were all shown in the building correspond-
ing to it on this Side. The effect of Julia's Bureau on this
building was marvellous. It was almost transparent and of
a rose-pink colour. It was explained that it had been
specially sanctified through the work· carried on there.
I, they told me, had been specially chosen with Julia for
this work. When it had reached a certain stage, it had been
necessary for the work that I should be on this side.
Cambridge House, alone of the places I had known on
earth, was surrounded by a great white light. Through it
I beheld the vastness of the work in which we have been
privileged to be connected by our activities in the house
of which I now saw the spiritual counterpart.
I turned to the one who was with me, awe and wonder
filling my soul at this expression of God's goodness to
me. "My brother", he said, "this work was entrusted to
you andJulia. Itwas hard and difficult. It was not a smooth
and easy path, but you proved worthy of it. You have
helped to bring understanding to many in the past. You
have been allowed now to see the vastness and wonder of
the work, and the power of the workers on this side, and
this, my brother, is only the beginning".
Myfather left me his Library of Psychic Books,
and these made the nucleus for the start of the
14
PREFACE
"Borderland Library", which now consists of
over one thousand books, all ofwhich, exc:epting
rare books of reference, can be borro-wred by
members. We have had our headquarters in
many places since we reopened, and arc~ now
housed in No. 5, Smith Square, in the house in
which Father spent the last years of his life
here.
Father and Julia are our Presidents in Spirit
Life. They guide, direct, take a keen intexest in
and keep in touch with all that happens.
During the year I 927, I received imprc~ssions
and messages from Father and Julia, indicating
that Julia had ready a further series of letters
which she was anxious to give out to the ·world,
and only awaited the channel through which to
give them. There seemed to be a difficulty in
getting the right channel, owing to the fact that it
was necessary to find an amanuensis on the
Other Side as well as on this. The reason for this
is explained in Julia's letter, given later.
I waited, knowing that they would fu1d the
necessary clear channel, and it was not long before
they did.
They chose Corelli Green to write do~vn the
I'
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
messages on this side, and her daughter May, who
passed on in her eighteenth yeat in 192I, to act
as Julia's amanuensis on the Other Side.
There is a very close link between May and her
mother. Soon after her passing May was able
to write through her mother's hand. She has
given many messages in this way, and some ofthe
first, telling of her arrival and the work she and
her brothers* are doing, are published in a little
book called Ufe in the Summerland.t The sim-
plicity and naturalness of these messages have -
brought hope and comfort to many a mother, and
have opened the way for them to get into touch
with their own children.
Four years ago May's father joined herand her
brothers, and the mother is left with a son and a
daughter on this side. They were always a united
and loving family; their love has bridged the
grave, and there has been no real sense of a
break. Those on the Other Side always keep
in touch with their loved ones here, and are
continually writing of what they are doing, and
all are working together to bring the truth of
*May has three brothers with her: one passed on as a little boy,
and the other two through the war.
t Obtainable from "The Borderland Library", price 6d.
16
PREFACE
life after death, and the reality of communion,
to the many who have not yet realized the
wonder of it. Dan, one of May's brothers,
who was shot by a sniper in Mesopotamia,
on February 25th, 1917, first pierced the veil
and got through to his mother on Peace
Day, 1919. He kept on impressing her until she
took up a pencil, and he wrote through her. His
words, bringing as they did the assurance of his
continued life, and his ability to communicate,
brought great joy and happiness to that home.
May was on this side then ; it was not till four
years later that she joined her brothers. Before
she passed she developed great psychic power,
and through her the loved brothers and others
were able to communicate. The next life became
a very real one to her, and she passed to it
prepared and ready for what it would bring
her.
Mrs. Green was brought to the Borderland
Library by a mutual friend soon after Dan had
"broken through". We felt in sympathy as soon
as we met, and we have been close friends ever
.
smce.
The receiving and giving of these further
B
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
letters, or "Lessons", as Julia prefers to call
them, has been a joy and a pleasure to all con-
cerned.
Soon after Julia had selected May for her
amanuensis, I received the following from
Mrs. Green:
May says, "julia gives me the joJJowing":
It is many years, in the way you reckon in your earth
time, since I wrote through the hand of our dear friend
W. T. Stead, who is now nearer in spirit and one with me
in the work for God over here. I should now like, with
the help ofa channel such as we have on this side in your
daughter, through your hand, to write to WilHam's
daughter, Stella.
I have many lessons from the greater heights to give
my dear friend and fellow-worker, and if you can soon
arrange to take them, it will be a gratification to myself
and to your dear and loving father, who works so hard
in the cause ofhumanity.
Since he allowed me the use of his hand and brain, I
have learnt more and progressed further, but I still may
write, I still may help the earth people, and I still may
teach the greatest ofall lessons, the lesson understood more
fully and more wonderfully when we stand on the upper
planes, move in the Presence of the Christ. That Lesson
is Love.
While sojourning in material conditions, the Master
was my greatest Light. Now in the direct Presence ofHis
18
PREFACE
Glory, that Light surpasses anything I can possibly
explain. We work here without a shadow ofevil. Nothing
but purity, light and love surrounds us. I( we were not
attuned to these conditions, we could not face the beauty
of the majestic purity of our King in His own
Kingdom.
There are many lessons to be learnt. I would like
to give them while there is yet an opportunity. It is more
difficult to come into direct contact for written messages
as we progress, but we can pass through many channels,
and the present one seems an easy medium, for there is the
help ofmany workers, and May is a blessed spirit ofYouth,
watching ever near her mother.
There are many kinds of churches, and many mansions
in the Spiritual Realms. According as we are able to beat
them, so we make our natural progression thither. In
the Christ Realm, the white and beautiful realm, to which
all followers of the Christ strive to be attuned, we meet
under His Personal Aura and stand in the immedlate glory
of His Love.
Dear friend, I am proud and grateful for the way in
which you strive to follow your Spirit Presidents' instruc-
tions. When we cannot get all through, we wait, knowing
that in the sincerity and love of your own true heart,
you will feel sooner or later the impressions we send you.
Your dear father is still the same impetuous man, but
here he is learning to acquire the watchful, patient spirit
which must be maintained by all who are chosen for God's
work.
I will come again. This is just a line to encourage and to
help.
Your ever loving friend,
juLIA AMBS.
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
So we sat, Mrs. Green and I on this side,
Julia and May on the other, for the Lessons to
be given through. Their presence was very real
to us. One lesson was given at each sitting.
We feel that those who have read the letters
given by Julia through my father's hand will
recognize the same personality behind these.
That these may, likewise, be a source of
comfort to all who read them, is the sincere wish
of all who are being used for the purpose of
giving and getting them through.
E. W. STEAD.
July, 1930.
2.0
Lessons from the Beyond
CHAPTER I
GOD IS LOVE
THE greatest lesson of all is Love, whether it
comes from the Earth Plane, from the Summer-
land, or from the Lower Astrals ; but above all,
the lesson from the higher altitudes of life is
still in a greater and more beautiful degree Love ;
and in this chapter we want to take Love as the
one subject above all others. Upon the beautiful
hills of the Christ Sphere the light of Love
permeates everywhere, through every being,
through every thought. The roseate hues are
blending with the golden lights
EARTH-LOVE from the Christ figure. Oh, dear
INTENSIFIED friends, however can I describe to
you the figure of the Master I
Love is known on your side of life, com-
mencing from your earliest days with the love of
21
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
parenthood, and, to some extent, the child-mind
grasps the all-powerful love which is brought
into his little being from t~e Creator. If'you
could imagine the greatest power that Love can
bring on your side, pause a moment and try to
intensify it a thousand-fold, and even then you
cannot realize the true meaning of Love on this
side.
When first I gazed on my Master face
to face, I felt the overflowing of His Love
into my whole soul. I could not speak.
Tears of joy welled forth. I felt that all was
Love, pl.u'e and beautiful. Look over the great
white cities where we dwell.
coLoUR Come in spirit and stand beside
MANIFESTATioN me. The thoughts sent forth by
oF THOUGHT the many who dwell here become
increasingly beautiful as they
progress, and give the hue that colours in beauty
the wonderful scene. What you must learn on
your side is the Love which knows no self. I
mean by this, that no Love which is brought
forth in any self-glory can be used for the Master.
His is the work we are sent forth to carry out, and
we must start by humility. On your side many
22
GOD IS LOVE
hearts throw out loving thoughts, and many
homes are made happier for it. But-ru1d this is
an important point-so many feel the pride that
has made others respond to their all-important
work. The work here knows no satisfaction
except the pure love which prompts it, and the
Master's smile ; the Master's blessing is all we
.
reqwre.
If you could stand within our Temple and
join in the praise·which is carried forth on vibra-
tions which grow in strength ~til they reach the
very fountainhead, you would know what I say
is true. Love and only Love can prompt such
thanksgiving.
There are many lessons prepared from this
height, and many that will be given quite easily ;
but iri this first chapter I feel that I must impress
on all who may read, that nothing we do, or
think, or say will be ofany use without the roseate
hues of love.
Before we finish, take a little picture. The dawn
has shown a grey clear sky, and then a streak is
sent up, and another, and another of brightening
hue, until the sun all resplendent in power and
glory bursts forth.
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
The grey is the opening of the day .in our
souls. The roseate hues are shoots ofLove, until
our lives are made brilliant by the Light of God's
own Love.
Now this will do. It is just a little opening to
lead the way to other lessons.
jULIA.
CHAPTER ll
SPIRITUAL PROGRESSION
THE progression of the Spirit is one which
is very absorbing to us who watch it from the
earth condition till it reaches the higher states
of consciousness, the higher planes of life.
In this chapter it is the intention to give an
idea ofthe progression from the earthly life-not
to consider the various progressions through
reincarnation ; that will be dealt with in another
chapter.
You can understand to some extent how
anxiouslywe watch the dear ones left behind, how
we feel for the struggling spirit
ASPIRATION in its earthly body, and how we
ESSENTIAL TO understand the difficulties, the
PROGRESS OF many misunderstandings that rna-
THE SPIRIT terial conditions give to the en-
cased spirit. When a babe first
sees the light, it has little of the spirit that stands
z.'
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
by, watching and gently guiding the tiny actions.
It is later that the full control is taken ofthe body,
when the incarnation fully takes place, and full
power to use the body is gained, and not only
body, b~t mind. As soon as the spiritual outlook
is gained, many are slow in grasping its purport,
while others see dimly that progress is being
made. There is only one way to gain the real
progression, and that is by aspiration towards
the Light, towards the realms of higher con-
sciousness. This is a most important truth.
Remember, friends, you will never progress
towards the spheres of spiritual conditions except
by upliftment in aspirations. Begin to realize
howeveryday and every hour-nay, everyminute
of your life should be lived, by your conscious
uplifting to higher vib~ations than those of the
material and physical world.
Spirit encased in matter needs to raise itself by
loving aspiration and thanksgiving to its Maker,
the Father of all spirits. How true are the
words : "God is a Spirit, and they that
worship Him must worship Him in spirit and
in truth".
From this Sphere, where we can see the real
26
SPIRITUAL PROGRESSION
actions, not the material side, we are greatly
concerned with those whom we have left behind.
You cannot understand how we watch, and when
we see the backwardness of the spirits whom we
long to help, how sad we are bound to feel.
You must tty to understand. But we guide, we
pray, we impress with every loving thought;
and in the end we are generally made happy, if
not from the earth-plane, then from the plane
into which the friend has come by his or her own
condition. You need never be on a plane that
you would not choose, and yet this is too often
achieved. The spirit released from the material
body ·
finds himself in darkness, not because he
wantonly sinned, but very often, and far, far too
often, because he never realized anything beyond
material conditions. Thoughts are
LIMITLESS things. Thoughts give more to the
POWER OF condition ofthe spiritthananyamount
THOUGHT of words. Many creeds, many spoken
declarations offaith, many sermons--
and yet do they really give what the sp.iJ:it needs?
Thoughts pure and holy send the spirit to realms
of peace and shining glory. Thoughts crude and
vicious send the sp.iJ:it to the lowest hells. See
27
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
how much may depend, nay, does depend, on the
attitude ofmind.
When we touch on the reincarnation of spirit,
you will understand more about the changes that
each life must bring, and how a slowly-d~veloped
spirit has to be brought again and again into
contact with the school of matter, to leam to
overcome the lessons which have been set and
which it has failed to learn.
We arestillprogressingoverhere,everprogress-
ing, and even here many different stages are
reached in different periods. You cannot under-
stand the periods, because time an dspace are,
later, non-existent, and you in your finite n:Und
could not learn yet.
The way of the spirit is a glorious way when
followed in the manner taught. The progression
is never finished,untilin aeons ofages wereach the
Godhead to be rejuvenated, and again sent forth.
There will be more on this subject, but it is
a difficult one, and what I want to teach you now
is that only by aspiration to higher things can
any progress be made.
God bless all my friends.
jULIA.
z8
CHAPTER III
PROGRESS THROUGH ASPIRATION
THE message prepared to follow the last, is one
which I hope will give practical help in the way
ofteaching a little about methods connected with
the aspiration of the spirit. I told you, friends,
that you must never forget that all progression
must come through aspiration ; therefore it
behoves me to try and give some advice on the
method of aspiration.
I can teach no new lessons, I can bring no new
truths, for all has been taught before ; but what
I endeavour to do is to put things in a new light,
perhaps, and from a different angle, from these
realms of life from which I come.
You all know the text, "Pray without ceasing",
which is another way of
WHAT "UNCEASING saying "Aspire to the higher
PRAYER" MEANS vibrations". It is obvious
that one cannot always be
onone's knees. No human being cad spend his or
.t9
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
-
her earthly life upon the knees ; therefore this
unceasing prayer must be an ever-conscious
link with the Divine, must be a never-ceasing
aspiring after the higher vibrations, and by so
doing linking up one's whole soul with the
Divine and higher consciousness. We come from
realms where all endeavour to lift up their being
in ever-increasing response to the call which
comes from the Christ. We are all consciously
linked with Father, Son and Holy Ghost when w~
are on the higher planes of being. And as we are
.
so linked, you can link with us and also reach
the Christ Sphere with your spiritual desires.
"Pray without ceasing", therefore, means throw
out your whole spirit in conscious union with
the Divine. By a thought on to the ether,
the spirit intercourse is touched. As a stone
is thrown into a pool of water, so a thought
of upliftment can be thrown into the vibra-
tions of ether, and circles of light flow out to
raise it with you into the right upliftment of
spirit.
Let your first thought in the morning be one
of praise. Let your song of praise continue all
day and keep in that spiritual condition, and
30
PROGRESS THROUGH ASPIRATION
let your last thought at night be another Te
Deum to the God ofall spirits.
I should like to take you with me through the
planes of spiritual progression from the Summer-
land to the Realm in which I live and have my
being linked with the most perfect vibrations of
the Christ. When you touch the Summerland,
peace is the first wonder that fills your soul-
such a peace as the earthly life never could
bring. But I do not say that it
nm ATr.AINMENT is impossible to live in that
OF DIVINE peace, even while in the physi-
PEACE cal condition, for it is possible,
though scarcely ever attained.
After you have let the peace sink into your soul,
the love which is surrounding you is realized,
and then you know that all is well; you are for
ever in such a condition of conscious union with
the Divine.
Now what you must learn while still in the
material school is to get that link prepared and
strengthened. That is done by your own efforts
to reach up ever higher, ever consciously-for
the link of the vibrations must be a conscious
one. Should you sink to a lower level, your link
31
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
will drag you down, down, down, simply because
you have no resistance and no desire to rise.
My friends, remember that prayer is the inner
voice of the spirit. It has nothing to do with
material things, it must be the uplifting of the
soul's voice to its Father and Mother God.
I shall hope to give you a very concise explana-
tion ofour worship here, but it is only a beautiful
combination of all spirits uniting together in
one great harmonious whole. If you on earth
could only be harmonious, what a different vibra-
tion would the earth-plane feel, what a magni-
ficent Te Deum would vibrate to the higher
source of consciousness I
Remember the threelessons I have now tried to
bring more pointedly before you. Love, perfect
Love. Progression only attained through aspiring
to the higher things of life. Aspiration-the
prayer without ceasing, which means a conscious
upliftment and union with the Divine.
God bless all our efforts.
jULIA.
-
CHAPTER IV
CONSCIOUS UNION
WE have now to consider the inner consciousness,
and realize in which way this wonderful con-
nection O! link with the Divine is made. Prayer,
aspiration, love-nothing can be done without
all these. But what I want to emphasize this time
is the consdoiiS union with the Divine, the con-
scious link with our Father and Mother God.
The God of Love is always with us, the all-
pervading presence can never be absent from His
PROGRESS CHECKED
BY NOT REALIZING
THE EVER-PRESENCE
OF GOD
children. What we do
get away from is the con-
sciousness, the inner ful-
filment of the Divine
essence through our own
blindness. The blindness
ofthe men and women on earth is appalling. The
great love which surrounds them is ignored.
c
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
The never-failing providence which supplies all
their needs is forgotten, or never realized at all.
Now, how can a spirit progress without this
knowledge, without the link, the conscious link
with the Divine?
A mother tends her infant, and the babe is
happy, quite unconscious of the source of its
happiness. You people on earth can be happy with
all your wants supplied in a material sense, but
there is no lasting happiness unless the conscious-
ness of the unbroken link with the Divine is
known. There are many stages through which
we live, and there are various stages ofevolution.
Now what we have to learn-alas, through
many tribulations, often through much heart-
searching-is the truth of the glow of the eternal
spark, alive, palpitating and beaming in our
very being throughout our very lives. H I
tell you to love God, to praise Him for all His
goodness, you may try, you may even lift up
your spirits and try to get into the higher vibra-
tions ; but that is not enough. We have to know
that the God of Love is within. We have to feel
His spirit meeting ours. We must realize that
it is our life which is His life, and when we
34
CONSCIOUS UNION
come into living contact with this knowledge,
then we know what it means to be in conscious
union with the Divine.
As I told you before, no progression can be
made withoutaspiration, never-ceasingaspiration;
so I tell you now that through this aspiration we
have to learn and feel the link which unites us to
the·Godhead, and no spirit can progress unless
this link is made fast. How many lives are spoilt
for the want of a clearer knowledge of God,
how many spirits arrive this side, not because their
deeds are evil, but becausethey know not God and
have never known that the Divine Spark ..was
within their own being, to be made brighter and
clearer through the con-
CHRIST MANIFESTED scious union with the Divine
KINSHIP OF MAN Head. Christ is the mani-
WITH GOD festation of this Divine
Head. Christ knew the
meaning of the ever conscious reality of Divine
unity. Christ is our example. He never forgot
that He manifested His Father. He never forgot
that He and His Father are One. Why do we,
His brethren, forget this? Oh, friends, realize
while on the earth-plane that the blessed hope of
3S
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
your calling is the union with your Father.
Realize that with this knowledge nothing is
impossible-for with God all things are possible,
and you are a branch of the great vine. When
Jesus said, "I am the Vine and ye are the
branches", He was speaking for His Father.
God is the one great Vine, ye are all the branches.
May no branch be dead that should bear fruit.
May your inner consciousness grow so that your
share of the work, that your branch, may be a
worthy one, making a fitting union with the
great whole.
With juLIA's love.
"
CHAPTER V
THE MEANING OF LIFE
FRIENDS, I have a question to ask and a question
to try to answer-namely, "What is the meaning
of life?''
Have you ever asked yourselves seriously what
the meaning of life is in reality ? What is life ?
Thereisno beginning and no end-
GOD IS LIFE, ing to life. God is life, ~temal,
ETERNAL, EVER- everlastinglife, and HisLifeForce
LASTING LIFE hasbrought you,everyoneofyou,
tothe consciousness oflife. You
always lived in Him. He has brought you forth
through many, many evolutions until you
reached the conscious existence of your being.
From the life-source of the Creator, from the
bosom of the Mother and Father God, you have
evolved the full consciousness of life. Now,
what is the meaning of this life ? What will
37
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
you do to fulfil the manifestation of the God
force in you ? Before you reached your present
evolution you were in a passive state, just a
life force without a conscious effort of living.
Now you are after the fashion of your Maker,
after the fashion of the word which was made
flesh, which was manifested from the Fatherhood
to give a clearer vision of the manhood to be
upheld by you. What, then, is the meaning of
life?
Life has to flow according to the law ofnature,
the universal law of the cosmos. Life is in
every section of the great universal scheme of
God's creation, and you, yes you, my friends,
are all individual manifestations of that life force,
and conscious manifestations, so that you must
follow out the laws according to the Creator's
dictates. But there are two ways of following
life : one to keep as near to the manifestations
of God's real purpose, the other to drift along
according to the natural laws of being, but
marring everything by keeping on the lower
plane ofliving and thought, and falling away from
the great manifesting Spirit of the Master. We
cannot drift on in aimless wandering through
38
THE MEANING OF LIFE
the life of the physical plane and find ourselves
progressing on the spiritual planes. Therefore,
I want you to determine what life means to you.
I have a word to say about the poverty ofmind
we find in many individuals who do not
necessarily drift consciously, who even are
considered good Christian people. Oh, friends,
guard against this poverty of mind ; there is
no need for. it. With God as our life-force,
the Christ Spirit as the word made flesh for our
example, how can we drift on without the real
meaning ofa great life being radiated throughout
our beings ; and when a great life is realized,
surely the love, the prayer, the consciousness
of the unity with the Divine must be felt by one
and all ? Yet it is not felt by so
DISASTRous many, and why? They know not
POVERTY the meaning of life. If life is
OF MIND to be realized, then the soul must
be uplifted to learn its lesson from
the higher vibrations than those in which the
physical world vibrates. That is why spirit
must raise-itself to spiritual realms.
Now learn from these vibrations, and I will
help you.
39
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
God is a Spirit. His word is Spirit. His
children are Spirit. He placed you, for a short
period of evolution, into a physical school,
a school of matter, because His purpose has to
be learnt in all stages of evolution, and the
physical stages are most important. I do not
mean the all-important, but a very firm link
in the chain of evolution. He had a grand
purpose for your evolution, even th~ scheme
of life which He Himself ordained. Are you
fu1611ing the part you have to play in the universal
scheme ? You have many lessons to learn,
among them Love, Humi1ity, great Joy in the
service of the Godhead, and an overwhelniing
responsibility in the manifesting of the God-
force.
It is hard to give all I should like from this
side, but this you can understand : ifyou mar one
smallest part of the great Weaver's design,
it will have to be unpicked and re-arranged
and worked over and over again until you have
made good where you failed. Unfortunately,
you cannot fail alone. If you err in your work
there are others you have caused to err in theirs
and they, with you, must remake, remodel.the
40
THE MEANING OF LIFE
life-work you have been placed on earth to
achieve. Hence we have to learn that the
Spirit .reincarnates until the design is corrected
and made good.
Now, what is the meaning of life? It is an
everlasting progression to work out an etemal
design, planned, sustained and given by the
greatest Weaver, the Father and Mother of all,
the God of Love.
Now think over this lesson ; it shall be
continued.
Love from
JULIA.
CHAPTER VI
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
FRoM the threshold ofthe higher realms we stand
to meet you on your Borderland, and so the
two conditions of life can meet, can converse
and interchange ideas. This is a part of the
life of the Creator's plan, and a part of the
meaning of life is here also shown~ As you
lift up your eyes to the heights, we from the
nearer heights stoop down to meet you ; and
as the spirits from the lower heights rise o.r
aspire to the still higher vibrations, so they
receive the lessons brought down to them.
In these talks I always want to be practical.
High-flown language may carry the emotional
instinct to a greater height, but that will not
last. It is the practical use of the lessons which
is going to help you, and, friends, I desire to
be practical. You have been told of the
43
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
aspirations of the spirit and the use of the same
for the progression of your
PERSONAL
spiritual upliftment ; now con-
RESPONSIBILITY tinue with the practical side
IN SOUL of the meaning of life. Take
DEVELOPMENT your own life, for instance.
You have been placed in a
certain environment, you think perhaps by
accident, but this is not so. It is the environment
in which your progression placed you, in which
your further evolution has to continue. You
are shown certain lessons, certain truths which
you have to learn. But it is up to you whether
you learn them or not. Some people seem
blind to the many openings which show along
their life's road, and others are so evolved that
the unreasoning power of faith leads them on.
It is good, but still betterwhen a certainreasoning
is followed and the work of God shown forth
by those who can learn, not by intellect only,
but by an intellect God-given added to faith.
We meet.you on the threshold of your earth's
developing school, and we lead you by many
paths, in diverse manner, to follow out the line
of life which you have attained unto. Take,
44
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILI1Y
for example, your youthful ambitions. It is
·right to have ambitions, but it is not right to
go blindly at them without prayer, without
the conscious union with the Divine. It is not
right to ride roughshod over everything to
attain your own ends.
Many a young man and woman, hom with
gifts that are developed from a previous existence,
come into their new state of evolution and go
blindly forward, hitting their heads against
brick walls and doing nothing for their evolution.
Now to continue a steady path of evolution, it
is necessary, absolutely necessary, to aspire,
to pray, to follow by faith the hand
HELP 1s of God, and the hand of God is
ALWAYS shown ve.ty clearly in the lessons of
AT HAND the Master. You have only to take
the Christ example and be a Christ
yourself; then the path will broaden, will
lighten, your daily duties will become daily
achievements. Your help from the spirit realms
will be to you a reality, not some distant life to
be lived in a possible future, but the past, the
future, will be the present.
Take this lesson now. Think of all the days
4S
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
and years in your short span in the earthly
school and see whether you are really achieving,
through prayer and faith, the lessons which
you came to learn. The greatest lesson is Love,
and if that is properly learnt the other work
needs no learning, for Love is the teacher of
all good, and, as you have already been told,
let Love reign supreme.
I have often watched a life and striven to guide
a young man's steps, which I have seen going
blindly down the hill. But there is great diffi-
culty from the Sphere in which I now live to
make contact with the lower instincts ofman,and
it is only by our prayers for help from the
higher sources, and through messengers from
the nearer planes, that we can really progress in
this matter.
The lesson which I want to impress now, is
that you are here on earth for a definite purpose,
for a definite period, and if you do not follow
out your lesson, and correct your faults in that
given period, there will be more and it may be
harder times, harder lessons to retum to, and
your evolution is kept back, your progress in
spiritual realms greatly retarded.
46
-.roo-- - - .. ~
PERSONAL RESPONSffiiLITY
Consider how you are placed, see what your
duty is, andfind whatgifts you have had bestowed
upon you, and as the gifts are used, so more
will be added. As lessons are learnt, so the
cleaner page is turned ove.r, and as you progress
spiritually, so will you be ready to enter into a
high state ofconsciousness in more p~ect union
with the higher realms. A greater love will
radiat~ your being than evet you have felt
before.
God bless you all.
jULIA
47
CHAPTER VII
NECESSITY FOR PREPARATION
AGAIN the meeting of the Two Worlds, again
the conversing of spirit to spirit, and again,
dear friends, I greet you with words of hope and
cheer. Our Temple of Love stands high upon
the hills of the Sphere of many mansions, and
in the Sphere where I am, the ·Christ·followers
a.ll go to prepare themselves for His work,
for His messages, into the sanctuary of His
Temple of Love. I want this time to impress
ESSENTIAL
PREPARATION
FOR GOD'S
WORK
upon you all the necessity of
preparation for the Master's work.
When we come to give you these
messages, we do not come un-
prepared~ Apart from the writing
of the Script, which is prepared
already, we have to prepare for the giving forth
of the same, and before every lesson we go into
49 D
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
the sanctuary of the Christ Temple of Love,
and prepare ourselves by prayer and uplifting
of the spirit to the great Master Spirit.
When you have work to do, remember the
necessity of this preparation. It may be a
seemingly small piece of work which has been
given you, or it may be an important message
to give forth ; yet in every case there must be
a clear channel, and only a special preparation
for the work will make it satisfactory.
Now follow me while I try to show you,
in a small degree as perforce it must be, how we
prepare. The Temple stands, a glistening build-
ing of alabaster, white on the heights of the
higher realms, so that all .who dwell there may
be in constanttouch withits wonderful vibrations.
We enter to the soft strains of heavenly music,
harmonies that fall into our being and melodies
that vibrate through all our thoughts. We
take our accustomed places and wait for inspira-
tion, which never fails to come. We raise our
aspirations to the Master, and to our Fathe.r and
Mother God. Kneeling there we .receive the
strength, the enlightenment which neve.r fails
to guide us to enable us to follow out the service
so
NECESSITY FOR PREPARATION
for which we have made our petition, as well as
thanksgiving.
Now I want you to realize that your work is
as important as ours, and needs the same
preparation, the same thanksgiving, in order
that you may be channels of the God of Love
to do His behests, even as we can be from the
higher realms of consciousness. Never fo:r a
moment lose the consciousness of your complete
unity with us and--above us-with the Divine
Head. There is joy, perfect joy, in the service
of the Master, and only those who experience
it can know the perfect union which such service
brings. The whole universe would unite in
thanksgiving if only this perfect union could
be thoroughly realized, but, alas, we have to tum
from the brighter·side too often and are made
to feel that there is a terrible Bridge ofSighs.
We speak of our beautiful
COMFORT Bridge of Love, but there is
FOR MOURNERS another picture that too f:requendy
reveals itself, and that may be
called the Bridge of Sighs. It is up to us and
to you, dear friends, who have found the Bridge
of Love to go out in the fulness of that love to
51
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
help those in the shadows of the Bridge of
Sighs-the mourners who see no light because
an earthly body has been dropped and a spirit
taken to the spiritual realms. How can you
stand by and not cross that shadowy bridge of
theirs, to help and gather in the mourners to
the bright and shining way across which your
Bridge of Love is thrown I
There are those among you who understand,
and those who should understand but stand
in vague doubt. Go into your Temples of
Love. Prepare yourselves for God's vineyard,
for the harvest is ready and the workers are too
few. I watch the sorrows of the earth and then
I tum to the Summerland where all the children
grow in love and brightness, and again lift up
my spirit to the hills of the upper realms where
it is still brighter, and I have an intense yearning
that those who dwell on earth around their
bridges of sighs might see even for one second
the many mansions on this side.
You who are still on the ·earth-plane must
work and work hard, for you who have seen the
Love light from the realms of spirit cannot with-
hold the truth ; but when you work, remember
'1
NECESSITY FOR PREPARATION
that you must wait upon God in your Temples
of Love, and then your souls will have the
inspiration that is needed for the work to which
you are called.
God Bless our efforts.
jULIA.
CHAPTER VIII
THE LESSON OF FAITH
WE have now discussed a little on Love, Prayer,
Progression through Aspiration, the True Union
of the Spirit with the Divine, the Meaning of
Life, and the Preparation for the Services of
the Creator and the Master Christ. Now I
will take a definite subject for our lesson, a
difficult subject, but one very necessary-namely,
the Lesson of Faith.
There are people in spiritualistic circles who
say that faith is unnecessary, that all is proved
by facts, and that faith is not to be reckoned with
when so much can be proved by phenomena.
But let me tell you that faith is all-important.
Faith alone will guide you into these all-
spiritual realms. Phenomena proves the existence
ss
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
of the Hereafter. Phenomena brings com-
FAITH IN GOD'S
PURPOSE IS
ESSENTIAL
fort in a definite shape to many
a sorrowing heatt, but if faith
is not kept cleat and shining,
there will be no real progress,
no real joy, no real happiness
in the outlook of the future. So, my friendsj
it is by faith we reach out unto the unknown and
for the higher teachings of the Spirit. God,
in His great universal plan of the cosmos, gave
all His creatures power to manifest in various
manner His Divine Laws, but no one has ever
seen God, so it is by faith we say we know
Him. It is by faith we trust Him, and it is by
the hand offaith that we must and do take all His
gifts. Phenomena has given a wonderful rung
to our ladder of faith, for it has proved to us on
the first step of all that there is a higher state,
an after-life to reach out to. And as we mount
step by step this ladder, thrown down to us from
Heaven itself, we gradually let go the first
lessons received from ph~nomena and mount
to the spiritual and higher vibrations where
all is attained through faith.
Take, for example, a child who learns from his
~6
THE LESSON OF FAITH
parents to take the gifts offered from their loving
hands. Gradually rising from the infant life
to the maturer stages of manhood, he is left by
the parents and helpers of his childhood and has
to remember the lessons taught and carry on his
own development by a faith in the unseen. He
may not realize this himself, but it is true, never-
theless.
We either step up rung by rung the ladder
from earth to heaven and g.row spiritually, or
we remain on the bottom rung. You who are
growing day by day are growing by faith,
otherwise you must remain where you are. Do
you realize my point ? You do not analyze the
meaning of the growth by which you are being
raised, but if you will consider just a moment,
it must be obvious, surely, that no spiritual height
can be reached except by faith. The angels
themselves must trust, and by perfect trust show
their faith in the great hierarchy of the greatest
of all spheres, the Sphere of the Fountain-head
of the Divine. Where is that Sphere ? Where
is that Fountain-head ? Who can tell ? Only
the eye of faith can raise itself towards such
wonder ; only the ear of faith can listen to the
~7
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
lessons sent forth to the universe of God's
creation.
You must all live by faith, but thanks to our
loving Father it is possible to be given strength
from plane to plane, from sphere to sphere,
by which the eye of Faith is made perfect by
knowledge and the ear of faith is attuned to the.
next step of our progression by the fulfilment of
the lessons it has already received. You will
never know what our spiritual realms are like
until you reach them. We cannot give you the
real beauty in the descriptions that we strive
to give in your earthly language ; and your
brain is not able to grasp the infinite or the
.higher spheres ·in all their loveliness, because
your finite minds have still to be opened and
other dimensions shown.
The lesson to carry home to your hearts now
is : Live in the faith of a faithful Father-a loving
Father and Mother God.
Love from
jULIA.
CHAPTER IX
WHAT ARE YOU SEEKING ?
AGAIN we meet from the higher altitudes to
come into contact with the friends still dwelling
on the··earth-plane, and I wish you, dear friends,
would realize more entirely the beautiful com-
munion of spirits between two worlds that can
be touched from the heights.
I have now to ask a question. What is it
you are seeking in this spiritualistic movement
of ours·? What come ye out for to see? Is it
phenomena alone ? Is it the rending of the veil
to the clear and open vision? Or is it for the
spiritual progression ? What are you seeking ?
Ifit is purely phenomena, close the book. Shut
down the window. Leave the visions that you
cannot raise above a material basis. We on
these higherplanes also have our communications,
our clairvoyance and other mediumship into
S9
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
higher realms than ours, and when we tum to
the lower realm or the earth-plane, it is to minister
to and to serve those whom our Master
came to serve, for whom the
WILLING Father sends out His willing roes-
BEARERS OF sengers, and we are His willing
THE TRUTH messengers, in various degrees of
work. It is this that makes His
work so beautiful. Unless we are willing
workers it is of no use to try to enter into His
service. He would only give others the work
that He offered to us.
Now, what are you seeking in this wonderful
communion from plane to plane, from sphere
to sphere ? We give you the truth. We give
you the reality of the work that is needed, and
if you are not seeking in this movement to carry
out this work on the right lines, close the chapter,
dear friends, you are not ready for God's
manifestations. Phenomena is the A.B.C.' of
Spiritualism, the bottom rung of your ladder.
Give it to those who mourn, and then raise them
up step by stet> to realms that have not yet been
dreamed of, but that God in His wonderful love
is trying to lead you up yourself to realize. If
6o
WHAT ARE YOU SEEKING?
your lessons are given in the right spirit, and in
the true love and sympathy to those you help,
you will be as a light in the darkness of
materialism, as a beacon to a drowning world.
These lessons are given to help you raise your
lamp aloft.
I have been in touch with great spiritual
beings in Spheres above my own, and
RISE BY know how truly the power from above
FAITH can be poured down and enter into the
soul. I now in my humble way wish
you to realize the love and power that can be
brought by me with other spirit helpers, all
working willingly and gladly for the Master
whose servants we are. Never let doubts cloud
the faith by which you have risen. Never let
the shadow of uncertainty stain the beautiful
way along which you are being led so carefully.
Seek not phenomena. Seek God's Truth. Seek
not material things. Seek after the teachings
of the spirit. Seek not self-indulgence or vain-
glory, but seek after the spiritual vibrations-
the upliftment of spirit from a world of matter.
You have all been placed in your right en-
vironment. It is for you to learn the truth and
61
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
then teach it. When you have learnt and taught
that which you were placed in the School of
Matter to attainto, you will again reach the purely
spiritual condition. Then think seriously, friends,
as you travel along, what are you seeking ?
The Master sought His Father's work, and
performed that work to the bitter end, and He
attained His position back into the Spirit-world
from whence He was sent forth. You have been
sent forth from alower evolution, but you have
to attain a higher state; and there must be no
mistake, either on this side or on the earth-plane,
as to what you are seeking, otherwise you will
only be sent forth again and again.
Now to be practical. The lessons for you to
take with these thoughts are : Seek nothing but
what is pleasing to the God who loves you.
Let there be no self in the work, but all the
spirit of service. Let none who come to you
for help go away without the real truth, the real
teachings of spiritual progression, and, above all,
let no lesson, no help be given without the
Light ofLove.
6z
Love from
jULIA.
CHAPTER X
WHERE THE SEA AND RIVER MEET
WE feel in these our little talks that it is a time
in which we can come apart and rest awhile, and
it is my great desire that this is to be the case for
all who read my messages.
"Come ye apart and rest awhile", said out
Master to His followers, and surely n~ followers
ever needed it more than those who are living
on the earth-plane in these days of rush and
nervous energy. So dear friends who come to
.read my letters, use them as a means of resting,
and while you rest, contemplate on the lessons I
am bringing.
This time my subject sounds a strange one,
"Where the Sea and River
"WHERE HAS Meet". You can regard your
THE RIVER life as the flowing of a stream
BROUGHT YOU?" to the river, and the river to
the sea. The earlydays ofyouth
are spent very often in almost aimless running
63
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
between pleasant banks and bright surroundings.
The later years, broadened to the river oflife, may
be still between green banks, may be along
muddy paths where all is not so bright ; but in
any case, the iiyer of life runs on, and there at
the mouth the sea receives it into the turmoil
o.r the many-sided places of a larger, greater
ocean. This ocean has untold possibilities,
but first let us pause before we enter the greater
life and see where the river has brought us, on
what lines the life has been developed.
The progression of the spirit, the fulfilment of
promises given to us by a Father, will either
be developed by us or left alone, passed by.
Unless we have attained the full consciousness
of unity with the Divine, we are not ready for
the gr~t unfolding in the ocean we have reached.
While still living on earth, see that your pro-
gression is not warped, is not hindered by too
much self, by not enough union with the spirit
side of life. You cannot get away from the
spiritual world, hide your lights, as it were, hide
the Divine which is within ; it will be of no
use, the spirit of yourself will always live, and
nothing can change that fact.
64
WHERE THE SEA AND RIVER MEET
Let us face the question of the life that has
been given you. You will never realize fully
the meaning of lite by merely being active.
Activity in God's service is essential. No
servant, no child of His can sleep, but the time
when you must come apart and rest awhile is
vety important, and, as I said before, it is for
those times.
, those precious moments, that I
write these letters to my friends and the many
seekers after truth on the earth-plane.
Your life, as symbolized by the river, has
a wide course to cover. You have to bear many
other lives along with yours. You have to
leam to keep flowing, to keep helpful, even when
dark shadows overshadow you and your waters
are sorely troubled. The day is coming when
you will stand and look out towards the sea, ·
where sea and river meet. In what way are you
preparing to meet that greater, fuller life-that
sea with its limitless possibilities and its ocean
of work ? God holds out His hand. You
can leave the narrow passes of the river-and
join the great host waiting to guide you over
safely, over the ocean that still has to be crossed.
Now, dear friends, cross over with your
65 E
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
conscious mind, not with an indefinite sense of
leaving the pleasant shades of earth behind,
fearful of what is before, but in conscious union
with the great host of spiritual beings, a happy
meeting of spirits for greater work, for higher
service ; then indeed your ocean will be a glorious
one. Your hitherto limited life will be one
of vast endeavour--all made perfect, however,
by the way in which you have progressed during
the river time--all made happier by the happiness
you have endeavoured to create during the time
your possibilities were unfolding.
You cannot recall the many stages that it has
been seen fit for you to pass through, but there
have been many stages and many
THE DIVINE degrees of life. Some of you fear
PLAN the doctrine of reincarnation ; so
did I once when on earth, but you
cannot alter the great scheme laid out by the
Creator of the Universe, your own scheme of
life made clear as everything else in the Cosmos,
and you have your development in many stages.
I am not going to force anything fresh in this
1etter, but I want you all to take your resting
times, to watch the stream, the river, and, finally,
66
WHERE THE SEA AND RIVER MEET
to stand'where sea and river meet. I am sure that
with these thoughts you will be able with prayer
to see for yourselves more clearly the scheme of
your own existence. If you are not weaving out
the pattem correctly, the way, the meaning of
your life is changed, therefore another trial must
be the result, and you will be made to return to
your lesson again. For those who reach the sea
with a conscious union with the Divine, their
return to the evolution of life on earth will be
grander and better, and they will have been spared
the lessons so many must learn, and become
teachers of men. So come ye apart and rest
awhile.
Love from
jULIA•
•
..
CHAPTER XI
THE OCEAN OF LIFE
THE message of the previous week I intended
for the younger people who had come up the
stream of life, and had entered the broader
course of the river in sight of the ocean that has
to be faced by all those who live their full span
in the material conditions. To-night I wish
to speak more of the ocean-with its ceaseless
ebb and flow, many dangers, and smoother waters
as the harbour is reached in the sunset of life's
little day.
Dear friends, you who have reached that fuller
life, where is it leading you ? Are you drifting
with the tide, are you floating hither and thither ?
Is your life just an aimless wandering, or have
you a decided goal, and are you doing all in your
'
power to reach that goal ? Where is the goal to
69
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
the fuller life, the life of the great hereafter ?
You can only reach it by trusting yourself to the
guide of your ship, to the great
POVERTY OF Father of your existence. Heaven
AIMLESS is your goal ; call it Heaven ;
LIVES call itthe Summerland; call it the
Higher Spheres, but let your goal
be the Christ of whom we leam, for He is the
manifestation of the God-head, and through the
Christ Sphere we shall eventually reach the full
Godhead.
There is so much to be learnt on the earth
plane that I want to help you to avoid the mistakes
that so many make. You do not know how
long you will be permitted to run your earthly
span. You cannot tell when the call will come for
you to pass on,. so make sure now that you are
preparing for the call for the greater, fuller life
of spirit. Your spiritual condition here will
depend so much on the condition in which you
left your earth home, not the condition that
you meant to come over and pick up on this
side, but the condition you are now spiritually
living in. It is obvious to those who consider,
that life on both sides ofthe veil must be spiritual,
70
THE OCEAN OF LIFE
and you are just as much spirits now as you will
be when you pass over.
I stand and look down from this altitude of
spirit and see you all as spirits in the denser
material world, but simply spirit all
"MAN IS A the time heavily clothed with physical
SPIRIT" bodies. To some the physical vibra-
tions are getting lighter and the
spirit is enabled to be loosened to a very consider-
able degree. This makes it much easier for those
to feel the union of Divine power from the
Godhead. The heavily clothed in matter can very
seldom feel the conscious union so necessary for
progression, they are weighted down by the
grosset matter, the heavier vibrations. By
making the conscious effort with faith and love,
seeking only for the progression and upliftment
of spirit, we are able to loosen our physical
conditions by raising our spiritual, and soaring
above the earthly condition into the sublimer and
lighter vibrations.
Now, dear friends, who have reached the ocean
and have such a strong current to contend with,
make sure that you have not such a weight over
the spirit that you will be dragged down, for
71
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
when once in a heavy sea, you will find it very
difficult to keep afloat if you have become
weighted with heavy and clumsy vibrations.
I use the word "clumsy", for the body of earth
becomes excessively clumsy by the way in which
you live. There is danger in the sea of life.
Your river may have been very pleasant. You
may have had the sunny days of youth without
a great strain on the spirit, for the stream which
brought you to the river may have been a pure
clear channel.
The river learns more ofthe life that is coming,
but the sea is a dangerous material setting, and
I pray of you to prepare yourselves for the goal
which gets nearer and nearer, for the harbour
which opens out in the eventide. Th~e you may
come into quiet waters, and th~e, if your spirit
is in conscious union with the Divine, you will
pass out into the great beyond, loosened of all
earthly clay, unweighted by physical conditions,
at peace with yourself and the Father Who has
given the power to make this possible. Therefore,
friends, letthe spirit become loosened from matter
even while in the sea of your life.
Love from JULIA.
CHAPTER XII
AN EASTER MESSAGE
WE have met together to write our message, and,
my dear friends, as your Eastertide is so near, I
want to give the message I had prepared for this
time, and if it will help you to live through the
beautiful seasons of all the coming Easter-
tides, then indeed shall I be thankful.
There is no Death. Never in any other period
of the Church's seasons is such a lesson given,
and never in any period ofyour lives
LIFE can you real.tte this better than when
CONTINUES you read, think and ponder on the
first great Easter morn. It is wonder-
ful that you can reach out to us more easily at
this time than at any other to receive the lessons
of the continuity of life more fully. There has
never been a possibility for you to do so before.
There is no death : this is taught you by your
own loved ones ; by the messengers that come
73
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
from the realms of spirit, and more than ever
can you learn this from the Master of your life,
from the Master of the spirits who live in His
own beautiful Sphere-the Christ Sphere. He
taught this by words and by practical living, both
before and after His resurrection. He says to you
all now : While you are yet on the earth remem-
ber the words that I taught-remember the fact
that I rose, and remember my empty tomb. There
is no Death.
I want to give an illustration of our services
here that we shall hold, and do hold so fre-
quendy. The Temple in the Christ Sphere is of
pure white. It stands on a height so that all can
see it, and its pillars glisten with the purity of its
complete whiteness. We congregate around in
many tiers, to use your earth language, and take
our allotted seats in preparation for the mani-
festation which must surely come to all who
wait.
We make ourselves ready by prayer and con-
~nttation, raising ourselves to the highest
vibration of purity with the Love-light of the
Christ all around. The music is soft and melo-
dious. I cannot tell you how wonderful are the
74
AN EASTER MESSAGE
hannonies, and as you .in your churches at Easter
meet and celebrate the communion of Christ,
linking yourselves with higher vibrations, and
by so doing getting into communion with the
saints and all your loved ones who have pro-
gressed, so we link up to still higher vibrations
than our own, and the flood of light from more
celestial cities is poured around.
Colour invades not only our Temple but our
beings. These wonderful shades are thrown off
to quite a distance, so that the higher vibra-
tions are linked with ours, and your lower realms
are reached by these colours, these beautiful love
rays, which even though they grow dimmer as
they reach the denser matter near your earth
conditions, are still beautiful and helpful to those
who watch.
After our vibrations have so linked up with
the higher and lower, we ourselves are ready
for the teachers who appear to prepare
CHRIST's us for the coming of the greatest
MESSAGE Teacher. When He appears, we can
OF LOVE only bow ourselves to receive His
blessing and message. And there is no
greater lesson that He can give us than "Love".
7'
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
His whole being sheds Love, His whole message
is Love, and in that .Love we learn and can
teach you your Easter lesson that there is no
Death.
Our Temple is grander, greater than anything
you will ever conceive. Our message is also
grander, greater than any that has yet been given
since the world began. It is the message of God
through His loved Son, and that message from us
· has first come from God through many Spheres,
through many Planes. It took form in the Christ
Sphere. It became flesh on the Earth Sphere.
The Word of God, the great Word of Love.
Love made manifest. Love incarnate. Love
dwelt on earth. Love suffered, died in the physical
sense, but never died in the spirit. Love was
manifested in the flesh. Love left the flesh.
Love left the tomb, and Love reigns above in the
great spiritual union of all the great Universe.
That spirit of Love rose, and that Spirit teaches
that there is, and can be no Death. The body of
earth, made only for the spirit to dwell in, is
simply a wrapping. We cast that off with joy.
We rise to heights you cannot dream of. And
all the lessons we learn, all the lessons we would
76
AN EASTER MESSAGE
teach, come through the great lesson-the Great
Manifesting Spirit, the Love which is God and
the Love Manifestation which we love to gaze on,
the Son of God, the Christ.
77
Love from
jULIA.
CHAPTER XIll
SERVICE
As I have said before, we have no new lesson
to teach, no new doctrine to put forward ; but
from a different angle we consider the lessons
which our Master taught while living on the
Earth-plane, and still teaches through his mes-
sengers and servants. I am proud to be His
servant, His humble messenger.
You have considered with me Love, Prayer,
Progression, and other lessons. Now we want to
put some of the practical uses before you, and
this time I want you to consider what service
to the Master means : what obedience to the
Fatherhood may mean to us all.
To begin from the earth-plane standard : you
have, we take it, become followers of the Christ,
19
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
you have taken up the task of Love, and
will carry your cross as He was made to carry
His to teach His followers how this can be
faithfully done. I want you each
ALL WORK IS to feel you have a great privilege
SERVICE FOR given you in the life-work of yow:
CHRIST earthly time. You havea particula.t
work, or works, to carry out, but
you must remember always there will be many
crosses, many thorns before you can reach the
crown which is offered you, the crown of Love.
Remember, always-"No Cross, no Crown". To
those who desire an easy lifeinthe physical body ;
to those who would shirk all sorrow, I can only
repeat, "No Cross, no Crown". To the servants
of the Master I can truly say, as He carried
His cross, so you must carry yours ; then
from His loving hands you will receive your
crown.
Have you ever realized that people who go
through the greatest tribulations are those who
can best understand the love of God ? Of those
who have given of their best, to those God has
given a radiant hope which none can remove.
I have watched this from the spiritual side over
8o
SERVICE
and ovet again. The war taught this in its many
bereavements : mothers, fathers, wives and
children, all giving of their dearest ; but in most
cases perfect Love, which is sent from the
Christ Sphere, found a dwelling place in the
bereaved hearts, and the mourners consciously
and unconsciously have been raised to see more
light.
Your service to the Master is made perfect by
. His spirit shedding its rays about each little act
that is done in His name. It is not in the great
deeds that He looks for service ; it is not in the
great sacrifices only that He needs your work.
It is in the everyday deeds, in the small cups of
water to His children, the smile, the kind action,
the ready helping hand, in the small acts that
the greatest service is done.
I want all you friends who may find my lessons
useful, to bear in mind that every day is full of
work for the Master.
HELP AND INSPIRATION To you to whom SO
GIVEN FROM THE much is given ; to you
HIGHER SPHERES who know the great up-
lifting of the conscious
llJlion with the Divine, there should be no need
81 p
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
to tell you of the service expected, for unto you
much has been given, and therefore it is a smaJJ
thing that much should be expected. I like to
feel that as we, the servants ofthe higher Spheres,
can serve in the fuller joy of service, so we help
you to serve in your present ca11ing on the Earth-
sphere. We can meet, we can partake ofthe same
work, and, oh, friends, is any work too small~
norany work too great, that is done for the loving
Master?
It is not every child who can realize the joy
of service, and believe me, there is no greater joy
in all the spheres of never-ending life than that
of the service to our Creator and to our Master.
As the Master said that He and His Father are
one, so we, His followers, are linked to the Father
through the manifesting spirit of the Son, Son
of God and Son of Man.
Begin each day by lifting your spirit in aspira-
tion to the Fatherhood, to the Divine Head,
then ask that truth may be shown you, the truth
of real service, and the Spirit of the Master
will descend .through many Planes and help
those who ask and really desire His aid.
Now, never think the smallest act, neVet think
8.t
SERVICE
the smallest thought for a child along life's road
too insignificant, because as ye do it for them, so
it is done for our Master.
Love&om
JULIA.
CHAPTER XIV
"LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE BEFORE MEN"
I HAVE come to the end of my second cycle of
seven, and before we start on Part Three,
as it is to be arranged, I want you to link up
the lessons that you have already received, con-
nect them all together with a golden link, and
let your shining light go before you to shine
before men as your Master ~as already taught
you.
How will you show your light ? Not by stand-
ing in the matket-places of publicity as the Phari-
sees of old ; not by making long prayers and the
singing of psalms. That is not the way to keep
your light burning for the Master and to help
men.
I want to take you to a beautiful building and to
show you the lovely vibrations created by the
spiritual forces. This is above the plane on which
ss
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
you dwell, and it is necessary for you to link up
very closely with us to the
llADIANCE FROM higher realms that you may get
THE mGHER a glimpse into this lovely place.
SPHERES The lights of spiritual beings
are indeed burning. They are
spirits which spend their entire existence in
waiting on the Master, and their Master's light is
burning. The beautiful colours are shed forth
from each servant there who is ministering to
those for whom they work. The way they show
their light is by loving service, quiet loving
devotion, and each act, each individual work,
is lit by a radiance which you cannot see until
you too can enter into this place of work and
service. To show you the various rooms is well-
nigh impossible. Every cubicle, every room,·has
its own particular branch of work, and as the
ministering spirits send forth their light, so the
light is spread and diffused until it has covered
a large area, often reaching to the lowest
planes, and even there raising a glimmer ot
hope and love. This is to teach you that
now, while you are linking up your different
spheres of work, there should be a radiant
86
"LET YOUR UGHT SO SHINE" ·
Bame of light and colour more helpful than
any words, for such flames can only be fully lit
by the presence of the God of Love, and shed
around in His most glorious scheme of life.
You have come ·through faith to the higher
teachings of life. I have tried to show you how
the God-consciousness, the union with theDivine,
can be tt;1ade petfect. I wish, dear friends, you
would all make this union truly perfect, and then
think how the light would be shining I If you
all had the perfect knowledge of a conscious
union with your God, if the
DIFFUSE HAPPINESS God-force in you were made
FROM YOUR INNER more clearly definite by yout
STORE own conscious link, should
we have to teach you to let
your light so shine before men? No, all your
being would be radiating with the Divine Light.
My constant repetition of the word "conscious"
is madewitha definitemeaning. Youarealllinked
to the Godhead, whether you choose to have it
so or not ; but the link is of little avail to you if
you are not conscious of it, and therefore it is
most necessary that with prayer you .definitely
learn the inflow ofthe uplifting spirit ofconscious
87
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
union. Let your whole life be light. You can
never cllifuse what you do not possess yourself;
you will never help others unless you have first
allowed the Father to help you. And when you
have realized that inflow from the Godhead,
then you will be ready to let your light so shine
before men that they will see and glorify your
Father in Heaven.
Now take a practical lesson. Never go about
with a dismal face ; you cannot, if you feel the,
God power within. Never think that by many
prayers you will have done your duty, because
the duty comes from Love. The only duty that
really counts must be done inLove,andLovecan
only come from the God of Love ; therefore
your light must be Love, for no light will bumin
a pure clear flame except it is a light of Love.
These lessons should teach you to link up every
day, and all day, with the higher vibrations, and
when you learn to stand firmly inGod's Light, His
Love will be your stay, and you will be sure to
throw yours out through the power within you.
For as a child of the Father, so you must show
your inner consciousness ofthe Law of Love.
Love from JULIA.
88
CHAPTER XV
THE GIFTS OP THE SPIRIT
WB will consider the Gifts ofthe Spirit. I wonder
how many.of you realize the many gifts that can
be yours just for the watching and waiting for
the manifestation which God will always bring
to those who love Him and consciously wait His
manifold blessing. The gi#s are various and
numerous. This time I want to consider with
you the gifts that are possible to you. We see
truth in all God's purpose, and if truth is surely
found, then every gift you possess must manifest
truth. It is important, nay, absolutely necessary,
that you cultivate every gift that you have been
endowed with. Thegifts are at first undeveloped;
it is up to each of you, with God's guidance, to
develop your gifts prayerfully. If you develop
89
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
in the real purpose of God's plan for you, there
must also be sincerity, and the
YOUR TALENTS truth of the Creator's purpose
ARB "GIFTS" will be manifest. If you allow
PROM GOD your gifts to be unheeded, and
seek only the pleasures of earth,
then you will have neglected God's truth and
your gifts will be made ofno avail.
There is the gift qfProphecy. We often mistake
this gift ofprophecy as only meaning the writings
ofgreat prophets, and yet nearly everyone may be
a prophet if we only realize it. The gift of intui-
tion is often the gift of prophecy. The intuitive
mind often unconsciously reaches out to things
which will be manifested, and you think this a
small matter. My friends, it is a great gift,.
and all should try to cultivate it to the best
possible degree, for the intuitive mind is the
prophet's mind to a larger or smaller degree.
I am sure few of you have realized this, but it
is so, and I wish to point out the importance of
this wonderful gift which shows forth God's
truth in no uncertain language.
Many an earth-dweller has repeatedly said,
"I knew it would be so, I tole! you so". What
90
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT
made them know ? What told them so ? Their
own intuition. Their gift ofthe vision ofcoming
events, and hence the gift ofprophecy. Cultivate
your gifts, which are many, and God means you
to make full use ofthem. We have various other
gifts. There is practically nobody who only
possesses one gift, for we are all part of our
Creator, we are all from the God-force and part
ofit, and it is impossible to be a part ofthe great
ruling creative spirit without holding and possess-
ing, at any rate in the embryo state, a great many
of His gifts. Take the gift of Vision : some call
it clairvoyance. I call it the
GOD EXPECTS clearer, open vision. How
YOUR CULnv.ATION do you cultivate this ? The
OF HIS GIFTS truths of the Creator are to
be told in no uncertain voice
when the gift ofthe open vision is made manifest.
There is the open ear, the clairaudience. How
do you use this gift? There are truths to be told,
also ofgreat force, great dynamic power for those
who have the gift of clear hearing. There are
the gifts of Thanksgiving, and Prayer, and Love
-many, many truths to be shown, and I am only
just pointing out how important it is for·each of
91
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
you to realize your own particular share in these
gifts, so that you may be giving what God has
meant you to give and to be, thus manifesting
His truths.
The God-force runs right through the whole
creation-theCosmos-thegreatuniversalscheme
uses the force of its Creator, and we have a large
share in this God-force. Use the word "good"
force, and see what it means. You can never get
away from the all-seeing eye, for the great good is
in you and around you. If you are consciously
connected with this force, all power is yours,
and the gifts which flow from such a source
must be yow:s. Ask and ye shall receive. The
Christ knew to the full the powet of the
God-force within Him, and He used the gifts
of the spirit to manifest the truth of God's
purpose.
One gift above all others, about which I shall
have more to say later, is. the Gift of Healing ;
but now I am only touching on the subject to
prepare you, friends, who read my messages, for
coming talks on the Gifts of God. You will
learn much if you will concentrate and pray for
light on your own gifts, and I would earnestly
9%
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT
beseech you not to let another take what was
intended for you.
God-given gifts are,for use, and iffor use, then
the opportunity for use is given. Ifthe opportu-
nity is neglected God allows another to do His
work, and, friends, can you let Him pass you by ?
Love from
jULIA.
CHAPTER XVI
IN THE WORLD, BUT NOT OP IT
You will all have realized that the lessons we
bring come from a much higher altitude than you
are now dwelling in, and yet it is possible for
everyone of you to reach out and function on
the Spiritual Planes, far, far be-
DEVELOP THE yond your earth-plane. And now
SPIRIT WHILE it is this that I want you to learn
·oN EARTH in this lesson. You can be in the
world, but not of it. You can
be living in a physical body, and yet dwelling on
a spiritual plane. Your Master taught this in the
beautiful example He left, and we can follow
Him in every aspect of His physical life while
we are in the material body. I do not say that
anyone has ever reached that wonderful uplift-
ment that He showed, I only say it is possible.
Now, dear friends, how will you live in the
world and yet keep yourselves untainted by its
9'
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
sins and physical lusts, the desires of the flesh,
and the worldliness of the life around you ?
Are you prepared to be in this world of yours,
and yet not of it ? If so, there is only one road
to follow, only one path to tread; the same
your Master trod. This road can only be followed
by keeping in communion with the Higher Power.
By keeping the open vision towards the Godhead,
and the great white mansions of the Father.
To do this, realize that prayer is the medium to
keep open the doot of communication. Only by
the steadfast eye of faith can we follow after
Truth.
The power to lead this life is within you, for
God is within. All power can be yours if you
.realize this. No doubt need assail you. Nothing
is impossible, for God-given power is yours.
To keep yourselves unspotted from the world
needs great faith and a great love. Without these,
you will never stretch out to these .realms where
the glory of God is .revealed.
You have great responsibilities, for you have
been given the unlimited power of God, and if
you close yourselves and shut out this manifesta-
tion of the spirit from you.r own channels and
96
SIN THE WORLD, BUT NOT OF IT
from the vision which is given you, then indeed
you are to be pitied, for no more will you be with
the higher teachers from the Realms ofLight, but
among the darkened spirits who molest the
growth of the Vi~n.
Now, friends, again-how will you live in the
world and yet be stretching out to, aye, and
functioning on the spiritual ? Simply by being
a follower of the Christ and becoming a Christ
yourself. In love you must tend the many who
need your help. In love you must
LOVE GUIDES give out of the great store which
THE DAILY has been given you. In love you
LIFE must guide the etting footsteps and
bring back the wanderers to the
paths from which they have strayed. And in
love hold up the Cross which to you will prove
a Crown.
You have the daily life to lead in business or
the home. You have had your battle in the stream
oflife. You have to face the tumult oftempestu-
ous waters. The river meets the sea, as we
have learnt before ; but when you reach the sea,
wait for the Master's presence, and He will say
"Peace" to the rising waters, and then, above the
97 G
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
storms of life, your own heart will feel the peace
that only He can teach from within.
You do not realize this sufficiently, that all
comes from within-the whispering voice of
conscience. The messages must be taught by
those who can enter into your being when
God's power is with you. Drawing from His
fountain you will learn His gifts, and Peace, which
.
1S yours.
By this conscious link you will know that it is
only a physical body that belongs to this physical
world, and yo11 will be living on the Spiritual
Plane.
Love from
JULIA.
CHAPTER xvn
REINCARNATION : I
SoME of you, my friends, are afraid of the word
"'reincarnation". Some of you decline to think
about it, but, believe me, this must be faced, and
though I hold no fast rules for anyone, I want
you all to realize that our short few years in the
present state of evolution cannot serve the
purpose of God's great plan. And if you will
only glance back over the years and centuries
that have gone, you will surely realize that yow:
present state is a very different one from the early
fathers', or even from those who are not so far
evolved in this present time. You, and we all,
live on different planes. We meet, we converse,
we touch one another along the road of life.
But we live alone for the most part, working out
99
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
our own evolution, and so living on many planes
of separate conditions.
Is it not obvious that we must return and
return to fulfil the whole plan of the Creator's
weaving ? Can you feel that you
THE NEED FOR have reached the point ofevolu-
llEINCARNAnoN tion on which the Master trod?
JUSTIFIED Or even, looking closer, can
you honestly say that your state
is on the same heights that so many saints have
reached?
Reincarnation is a fact, but here I would add
there is freewill to a large extent. You are
shown your position when you reach this side.
You are given a long time, to use your own
phrase, to get ready for your next visit to the
physical plane. Some choose to return at once,
but this is very seldom allowed. The higher
growth and progression which we go through in
many, many years of earth-time adds to the
strength and readiness to progress when we are
ready for the life on the physical plane again ;
and then we can choose with a deeper and wider
knowledge the work and environment to which
we shall return. There is nothing to be afraid of.
100
REINCARNATION
When you, my friends, ate ptepated for the life
over here, you ate ready for a wider field of
work. Your God-given gifts are developed to a
clearer, purer state, and you are ready to learn
and to work. Forthe degraded it is very different,
and it is almost an impossibility at first to make
him realize his lesson.
Now I am anxious for you all to take this
lesson in such a way that you may understand
simply the plan on which you
REINCARNATION must work to be ready for the
THE CONTINUous lessons which you will im-
LIFE mediately receive when you
come to the full consciousness
of the change you call death. You, who have
··learnt in your present state to get that change
in a natural manner, waking as it were from sleep
to the brighter light of heaven's day; those of
you who have learnt that Love has brought you
to the glorious portals, will be ready to enter and
meet the bright spirits who will teach still
gr~ter truths ; andthen you willprogress far, and
if it is necessary to work again at the lesson not
yet finished, you will come to the environment
that the laws of duty will lead you to by your
IOI
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
own choice, and the truth of reincarnation will
lead you on to higher ground.
To prepare yourselves to reach the height
from which you will never have to function in
the flesh again, you must learn from the Master
in the words He gave His disciples. And when
this lesson is learnt in its full meaning as He learnt
it, you will be complete for the spirit sphere.
The lesson must be taken in these words :
"I and My Father are One". We say it very often,
but the real, full meaning must be yours before
you have reached the understanding of the
great plan. "I and My Father are One". That is
a great lesson, a great ideal, and many of you are
learning it and can realize it, but not yet in the
full meaning in which it is meant. For that can-
not yet be grasped in these days of earth's story.
Christ's spirit had learnt it many zons of ages,
but for the good ofthe world He took possession
of the pure body of Jesus and functioned as a
man.
You, dear friends, can rise to these heights,
and when you do, the plan of your evolution
will be complete as far as the physical body and
life on earth go.
102.
REINCARNATION
This is a hard lesson, but it is a lesson oflove,
and for the Love that gave such opportunities
to the sons of men, we thank our Heavenly
Father.
Love from
jULIA.
-
CHAPTER XVIIT
REINCARNATION : II
MY friends, we must follow on a little over the
last chapter, as I feel you want more thought
about the reincamation, and though in one way
it is a difficult subject, in another sense it is the
easiest and the most obvious way in which to
understand the love of the Father and the
progression of His creatures.
You stand at a very important stage of the
history of the earth-plane, and at a stage where,
as never before; the spiritual
THE DAWN OF wo.rld is consciously being _
re-
UNDERSTANDING cognized, the tea~hing of Christ
being unfolded in a far more
definite manner. There is nothing in all the
psychic phenomena, in all the teaching we are
getting through from the Sphere on which I
dwell, that He, our Master, did not teach Himself.
In His day, however, ears were deaf, the eyes
blind ; and it is only at this present stage of the
10,
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
world's history that the teaching of spiritualism
can be given. This does not mean that you
are all on the same plane of evolution ; far from
it. There are many who have sadly kept th:em-
selves back on the scale on which they should
be evolving, and there are many who never
seem to realize that there is any need for pro-
gression. I am not speaking only of the lower
instincts and minds, but of the Church itself,
which in too many cases keeps the Bible as the
book which meant all. In after life there need
be no further progression if this were so, for the
whole oflife is one, on your side and on this-all
one great advance, all one great forward move-
ment; or a slipping down the ladder-then you
have to remount in another incarnation.
You must realize the love that has prompted
this greatplanofprogression. Withoutthe power
to try afresh, where would the poo~ soul in
darkness end ? Dear friends, it is a beautiful
decree ofalovingFather that every child canreach
the topmost rung of earth's ladder, and having
reached that, progression on this side must be
onelongand wonderful roadtothegreatFountain-
~ead ofwhich we can now have no knowledge.
106
REINCARNATION
That there is always the rejuvenating force,
we know ; and with that knowledge our finite
minds must wait until we touch the infinite.
How little we can understand on earth, you are
beginning to realize ; but I want you to learn
the fuller realization of the God consciousness-
to feel the great truth of oneness with theCosmic
Mind We here may understand a little more
than you, but it is only a grade or so higher in
the school of knowledge. We are able to
contactthe higherlessons, and so pass them down
in a very inadequate manner to you.
It is many years in your earth time since I
first met my Master face to face. I hardly dare
think even now of that rapturous moment with-
out tears of}oy, and with that meeting I dedicated
myself afresh to His service and have progressed
along the spiritual path. It is with the deeper
knowledge that progression.gives, that I bring
the help to you.
I want to be practical, and while you are
making headway on the earth-plane, I would
have you take the lessons both in as practical
as well as spiritual a manner as possible. Love
rules. You must realize that in yow: many
107
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
stages of evolution, in the incarnations·that take
place, Love rules. H this were not so, your
progression would be of little avail. There can
be no progression without Love. H you grasp
the truth that the God of Love has His dwelling
within you-if you can open your store that
comes from the Great Store of Love, and let
it Bow out in sympathy to all you come into
contact with, you will have reached the near end
ofyour work ofprogression on the earth plane.
The Love that knows no bounds is the Love
that has no limit. If you possess the limitless
Love, I question whether you will ever have
another reincarnation.
That is my lesson this time. The finish of
the earthly road of life is the boundless mani-
festation of love. You can consciously unite
with all the love that comes from greater heights,
the boundless love of the universe.
Now pause. If such love is yours, you have
reached the Christ-life. You have
STRIVING; become one with the Father.
PROGRESSING j y . d . h th Co .
LOVING. OU are untte Wlt... e Sm.lC
Mind in the truest sense of the
word, and all is yours, for your attitude is one
108
•
REINCARNATION
of the chosen, made perfect in love. Can
anyone rise beyond such an ideal ? When love
is thus perfected, you are ready to progress in
spiritual realm salone, working in the fuller life,
working among the angels. you ask, who are
the angels? Even they, ~y friends, who have
passed through much tribulation,and have proved
themselves by the love that makes all men whole.
Now, remember, reincarnation means pro-
gression. And as God willed you to dwell
on earth for the lessons He desired you to leam,
so He will require a perfected life of love, and
where can you prove it better than among the
sorrows, the tears, the trials of earth ?
If you can develop on the earth in love to a
perfect cons~mmation of the same, then indeed
you are fit for the glory of the Heavens.
God bless you.
Love from
jULIA.
.CHAPTER XIX
"IN THE MIDST OF LIFE WE ARE IN DEATH"
"IN the midst of Life we are in Death." I want
to point out the wonderful truth in that saying,
but we have to look from a very different angle
to that from which the
THE TRUE MEAN- meaning is generally applied.
lNG OF "LIFE"
AND ''DEATH''
On this side of life we see
the people in the physical
world, clothed in the flesh,
walking in death ; and round about them,
though they know it not, is life, full radiant life,
coming from the spiritual side.
The world is full of men and women with
starved spirits, starved souls, who are living
as they think, in life. Oh, dear friends, what
a death is this !-Death to all spirituality. Death
is the real meaning of the word life, and death
indeed amidst all the wonders of life.
III
•
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
Think over these words : "In the midst of
Death we are in Life", and ponder them from
our side of life. Picture to yourself the radiance
I
of the colour, the vibrant tones of the music,
the great White City sending forth its light all
over the world where it can find a responsive
heart. Think of the workers working for the
God of Love, all radiant with desire to help
and raise mankind, and say whether this is not
Life. Then tum your thoughts to the darket'
side. Think of the poor homes where there
is no response to this life ; not the homes where
poverty of the material sense is found, but in
the homes, and even palaces, where the worldly
dwell, where the so-called rich are trying to
work out an existence with immoral practices,
pleasure-seeking, and empty of soul truths.
This is death as we see it. This is the bitter
contrast to life. And with those two pictures,
turn your mind to the necessity of teaching this
truth wherever you go : "In the midst ofLife we
are in Death".
There is work abundant, workfor every servant
of the Master, every child who has the good of
humanity in his mind. We are anxious, more
112.
"IN THE MIDST OF LIFE"
than ever before, to release your world from
death. There has been a great reaction on every
plane of thought, and while it has raised many
from the lower vibrations and has shown them
life, it has the opposite effect on the misunder-
standing souls who live not for humanity,
not for their God, but for the desires of the
flesh.
Teach where you can, dear friends, that the
harvest truly is ripening, but that the labourers
are too few. I want you for
ALL WHO ASPIRE a space to come over in spirit
WILL ACHIEVE to the beautiful vibrations that
REVELATION govern the higher thoughts
and impulses of men. When
you gaze around, a light is thrown across to you
to enable you to reach out further into the land
oflife, where you will realize the vibrant note of
all the conditions that strike you. The peace of
this life is beyond your understanding until you
experienceit. Thedreadful unrestoftheDeathin
Life is beyond our understanding, who cannot
touch it. Butforallthis, peace can be found, and
this "Life" be reached. You must discard the
physical desires. You must know the Christ
113 H
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
Life if you would reach the plane where all is
satisfying in life.
The fleshly desires will never satisfy. The
spiritual aspirations will be the one upliftment
in a world of Death.
When you come back to the spiritual realms
after your period on the earth, how will you
feel ? Where will you have built your mansion ?
That will be seen by the way in which you have
conquered death, and whether you have realized
life.
This lesson is meant for you to ponder over ;
to be followed by practical help in the next
chapter.
I leave these thoughts for those of you who
teach ; for those who would progress ; for those
who are feeling the urge to learn oftrue life.
114
Love from
]ULIA.e
..
CHAPTER XX
FROM DEAm TO LIFE
LIFE inDeath : DeathinLife :that is what we are
thinkingabout. Andnowto getpractical help.
I want you to follow me while we consider
how to catty Life, Lifein its full meaning, through
the barriers of Death, to annihilate Death and
make Life victorious-not only on out side, but
on your earth plane.
I cannot at present talk to you about the lower
state of life which is worse than death. I ask
you now· to study life from our higher realms,
and to let your own vibrations respond by
overcoming death on your plane. I speak of
"planes" on your side, because
MANY DEGREES there are so many degrees of
OF SPIRITUAL mental activity that there really
DEVELOPMENT ate a vast numberofplanes which,
ON EARm unadvisedly, we collectively call
the earth-plane. Can you con-
sider the many various stages of mentality, and
II'
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
of spirituality, and then think of each degree
as being on one plane ? No, you have a great
number of planes on the earth, many of which
are higher than the first astrals, as also many are
below them.
Well, dear friends, in your conditions, death
can be seen in life, but what we must consider
is the possibility on your planes of abolishing
death. There are two views to be taken, one
of the death of the body, and the other of
the death of the soul, or the outlook of the
spirit.
First we will consider the latter. Until
men realize the poverty and miserable develop-
ment of mind, we cannot expect to cure
that poverty-stricken condition, and so abolish
the death of the spirit, a death caused by
darkened conditions.
The lessons have to be learnt, and all cannot
learn. I teach those who can take my words
and ponder, learning more than actualword~ can
give. Be sure, dear friends, that you, in your
tum, teach ; there is so much to be done by
teaching. These lessons are to be taken for that
purpose.
116
FROM DEATH TO LIFE
The lesson of the Master is "Learn of Me",
CHRIST,
THE SUPREME
TEACHER, SAYS:
"LEARN OF ME"
and you cannot improve on
that example. "Learn of Me,
for I am meek and lowly of
heart, and ye shall find rest
unto your soul". Could any
more beautiful example be
given to raise you from Death to Life? Let
us ponder deeply on that "Learn of Me".
He was surrounded by the dead and dying,
by the arrogant, the scoffers, the hypocrites.
He was surrounded by unbelievers, by those who
sought to kill His spirit as well as His body.
Nothing could arrest the progression ofthat spirit,
nothing corrupt that body. He kept His spirit
pure andfree by the constant and consciou~ union
with His Father, and by His leavingallinthehigher
realms where His spirit dwelt, His body became
a purified temple and could not be destroyed ;
for the elements took unto themselves the matter
that came from those same elements.
This is your example ; this is my practical
lesson. Learn to live in spirit in your Father's
home ; He dwells within you, you dwell in Him.
Learn to know this consciously, to feel it day by
117
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
day, hour by hour, moment by moment. You
are in the Everlasting Arms, and in those Arms
you draw to yourself the strength of the Divine
Creator, your Father and Mother God. Lose
for a second the consciousness of this Divine
Power, and you will realize that once you have
realized the union, you cannot live alone. This
is the way in which you keep the spirit in full
life, in the full energy that can know no death.
Then to know how to refine the body so that
it need not die in the way we have all, so far,
understood death. By the refiningofthetissues,
the electrons taking their order from the elec-
tricity that is brought on waves of ether, we
can by degrees learn, through thought, how
to use a spiritual force. As all matter comes
from spirit in the first place, there is no need to
grow coarse and heavy. From the investigations-
of the scientists you will learn how to have the
body so refined and so well poised, that as the
. Master disintegrated, so can you.
My friends, the great lesson is : "Learn of
Me".
118
Love from
jULIA.
CHAPTER XXI
THE STREAM OF LIFE
"THE Stream of Life" is the subject for the
concluding chapter of my first small volume.
I trust that it is only the first cycle of many
chapters. I have thought much on this last
chapter, for I commenced on Love,thefoundation
of all life, of all power, of all the usefulness of
life, and of the source of all life. From that
subject of Love, we have followed the road
LIFE'S
MEANING, AND
ITS PURPOSE
thr<_:>ugh many developments
of life's lesson. We have
learnt, to some extent, the
attitude towards the Source of
Life, and now just a short
talk to follow the Stream of Life.
As you know, words are quite powerless to
give the full ~eaning to the lessons we should
like to reveal. It is only by your own opening
vision, by your own reception of the unfolding
of the spiritual truths, that you will understand
119
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
more and more as you read and re-read these
lessons that I tty to bring.
The Stream of Life commences from the
Fountain-head. This Source cannot be under-
stood by finite minds, for how can the Infinite
be understood by the finite ? You must take
on trust, and by the inner voice which can
only be heard by faith, the actuality of the
great Fountain from which, in never-failing
supply, comes the unceasing Stream of Life.
As a drop from that Fountain you were sent
forth to evolve through many stages into
the conscious being, which the present state of
your evolution has brought you. Not all have
reached the same plane, not all the same con-
sciousness ; and you must try to follow, each
according to his or her capacity on which
wave of the ever-flowing stream you are en-
deavouring to live.
Your bodies of earth are too heavy to follow
the poise of the rising spirit ; therefore, as the
life-givenforce is manifesting spiritually, touching
higher sources, try and realize in the physical
condition that the flesh is composed of atoms
and electrons hom of spirit. That all matter
12.0
THE STREAM OF LIFE
is evolved from spirit, and by the refining process
of spirit the body can be made a much better
temple for spirit than many understand at present.
Do not imagine, dear friends, that I am talking
of some impractical manifestation; for all, is the
Law of God, and God's laws are all made clear
for those who understandandleave their channels
open for the inflow ofthe spiritual forces. Ifyou
receive the spiritual forces with trust, and in love,
all things are made clear to your understanding.
The Stream of Life bears many along its
waters in company, and we need the companion-
ship of others to form our own characters and
to teach us the true . lessons of life. There
are some who meet you along that stream as
ships that touch, exchange greetings, and part.
In the exchange of greetings be sure you ·give
EXPRESS
THE DIVINE
IN YOU
out the love that will always
be remembered as a beacon to
those who passed your way.
Although along the stream you
BY GIVING ouT may never meet again, your
LOVE light of love, that beautiful ray,
will never fade entirely from the
inner v1s1on of those who felt it. This is a·
12.1
LESSONS FROM THE BEYOND
beautiful thought, and not only a thought, but
a reality. Such meetings are daily occurrences ;
therefore, dear friends, never forget the Christ
life which is your example of Love.
Then we come into closer communication with
the friends who are more intimately connected,
some for all our earthly life, some for shorter
periods. All these tteate opportunities for you
to manifest. We may touch one who will
continue to be our companion, and will accom-
pany us from one incarnation to another. This
is the perfect union, and will never be divided
or made to diverge from the ultimate meeting
at the fountain.
Now, dear friends, I have simply touched the
surfaceoflife in its ever-flowing stream, andwhat
is important for us all is to understand its
purpose and the fn161ment of God's desi~.
You are a portion of an immense whole. We
are all linked up over many evolutions, and
if we could see the plan of the Weaver
laid out, we should often regret our very in-
efficient weaving when our work ~ manifested.
Look well at this comer where you stand. Have
you to learn the lesson of Love ? See that you
I%%
THE STREAM OF LIFE
radiate it wherever you go. Is your special
lesson Patience ? Learn Love, and Patience will
follow. Do you need to learn how to suffer
fools gladly ? Learn Love. In all and every
lesson, as we pass along this crowded, ever-
flowing Stream of Life-learn Love, and then
you will overcome every lesson to be learnt by
learning the beginning and the ending of all
lessons-Love.
Now, in the Master's name, I pray that the
Fountain-head of the Stream of Life will bless
the words of this little book, and help us to
understand that all our life and all our work
is made perfect by the conscious blending with
the Father of Love, for, dear friends, you are
one with the God Who is Love.
Love and all fond wishes,
jULIA.
THE END
