{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__ramatherio___light_of_egypt.pdf","mytitle":"Light Of Egypt","mylang":"de"}
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT
The Strange S+ory of the
ROSICRUCIANS
By Sr¡. Ramatherio
FOURTEENTH EDITION
Copyright 1931
By A M O R C
Privately Issued by Perm¡ss¡on of The Department
of Publication of the American Ministraro for
A M O R C
T R A D E M A R K
The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae
Crucis, Jurisdiction of North America
Supreme Grand Lodge
R O SIC R U C IA N PARK, SAN JO SE, C A LIF O R N IA
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION NUMBER FIFTEEN SEPTEMBER 195X
iMn
’/num\
Sir F r a n g ís B a c o n , K . R . C .
IMPERATOR OF THE ROSICRUCIANS IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
(A modern pen-sketch of the Grrat Philosopher)
A M ESSA G E O F FELLO W SH IP
A N D H O PE
i
Have you cvcr fclt that somewhere in the world thcre was onc who could aid
yon in the problems that beset you, and whose felJowship wouJd bring bcJp, inspi-
ration, and hope?
Thousands of raen and women in every part of the world have realized this
need in every year of history's past. It has been the universal cali for feJJowship,
the common, human plea for sympathetic understanding and mutual help.
You have tasted of some of life's swcets. and you have found the bitterness
in life. So it is with most of us. It is not true that there are more sorrows than
joys in life, or more failures than victories. It is simply that we find so many ready
to share in our happiness and so few to share our tvorries.
Have there not been times in your life—even very reccntly—vvbcn a simple
explanation by one who knew, or a willingness to assist by one who was prepared,
would have solved your problems or provided a key for practical use?
A FRIENDLY HELP
Your problems are these which have affected many, and many times have they
been met and overcome. But no man or woman can cope with these things alono.
unaided and unadvised. The wealthy and the unfortunate have found it advisable
to seek guidance and dependable assistance in the protecticn of their interests; their
means and their circumstances make this possible and necessary. The average man
and woman, even of considerable education and training, cannot always command
the knowledge and the experience necessary to bring imraediate relief.
It does require knowledge and experience, and these give you a POWER that
can conquer the obstacles before you.
All through the ages man has sought direct and practical advice or help in the
time of his adversities. For this reason certain men became learned in the principies
of nature and the laws of the universe which gave man the power to master the
conditions that confronted him.
"Wise men,” they were called: they were honored, respected, and beloved. They
were credited by the superstitious with supematural abilities, The thinkiny ones
4 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
soon found that these wise men were in possession of nothing more unusual than a
true understanding of man and his natural and spiritual powcrs.
REMOVING YOUR FEARS
True knowledge becomes a great power in the hands of thinkers.
Real knowledge by man ¿ibout man is, today, the greatest power any man can
possess.
In your youth you feared things which you later carne to recognize as harmless
and really useful.
In your days of develeping observation, you were puzzled by the unknown
eíements of life. It seemed to you that there were more elements of the unknown
than of the known.
It is always the unknown in every day's activities that causes us worry, concern,
perplexity, and even suffering. In years since your youth you have become well
acquainted with things onoe unknown. Today you know them; you can see them,
sense them, prepare for them, long before they approach your affairs.
Such knowledge is power; it is a power no one can take from you.
Are you fully prepared, however, to meet all the obstacles of life, and sweep
them aside, or surmount them easily?
ARE YOU THE ONE ?
Statistics say that only one man in a thousand—only one woman in a thou-
sand—is truly prepared to fight the gamc of life.
Life is a game. It is the most interesting, intense, serious game in the world.
It is filled with so-called "chances”; and what man calis luck often seems to be th '
only help that the average person depends upon.
But—one in a thousand knows better. One in a thousand knows that luck and
chance are misleading ñames for manifestations of certain definite laws. To those
who do not know the laws, all is chance; even our birth, our place here on earth,
our mission in life, our victory in transition.
Such persons are going through life, blind, unhappy, and unsuccessful. Even
their temporary rises and good fortune in life simply add to their worries of the
unknown element that may be willing to change everything for thein.
It has always been so. Ages ago, in Egypt, the country which was the most
advanced in all learning, in all arts and scienccs, there were fewr wise men and
women, the one in each thousand, and the multitudes of hopeless ones.
YOUR INHERITANCE
Man was not born to remain in ignorance. Knowledge is the Divine Heritage
of all of God s creatures. The real [all of man has been his fall from Infinite Wis-
dom. In ignorance of the law did man eat of the tree of false knowledge.”
Your forbears—those men and women of the past whose blood flows in your
veins were inquirers and seekers for knowledge. Soine of them probably contacted
the great work of the master teachers, and learned how to be masters of their lives.
Tracing backward through the generations of man we find the same quest, the
same dominating desire in the Soul of man—the desire to know how to master each
problem of life and prevent the unforeseen, the unknown, and the weaknesses of the
flesh, from subjecting him to their dictates.
You inherited at birth the Divine Heritage of Infinite Wisdom and unlimited
mind power. What has become of it? What are you able to do with it? These
are questions which have occupied the minds of men for a thousand years or more.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 5
Has the question ever been answered? The successes in life which have been
notable in all ages prove to us that thousands have found the answer and have risen
above the conditicns which enslave others.
MAN DISCOVERS SECRET
When, and where, did man begin to manifest his essential pow'er over the
kingdoms of mortal things? We can find traces of his conquering trait in the earliest
achievements of civilization. But, we find the most definite form of mutual help for
individual progress, in the first arcane schools of Egypt.
In that land of mystery and romance, ignorance and wisdoin, traditicn and inno-
vation, thousands sought the Light that would lead them out of bondage into the
freedom of self-reliance.
There in the midst of what wr
as considered pagan darkness, the first great Light
of man's Divine Powr
ers burst forth in a prívate hall of a secluded Temple. The
spirit of brotherhood and fellowship, of human sonship with God, and universal
hope, was made manifest, and a movement was started for the bettennent of man
that has never ceased to carry on.
HELP WHEN YOU WANT IT
Just as you want to help when help seems futile; just as you want the power
to cast aside the obstacles that stand between you and the realization of your desires;
jhst as you want health, happiness, success in your undertakings, and the fellowship
or advice of those who know just what to do; so, men and women in the centuries
past wanted these things and sought for them.
In this way carne about the formation of a great brotherhood. a great movement
based upen fellowship and mutual co-operation. Knowledge and Experience were the
tools with which the movement worked; love and human understanding were the
forces which energized the labors.
Howr great is our need tod.\
y for such a movement? The work started in these
ancient times spread throughout the world and became the leading hand for millions
of men and women. proving the universal pica in every land. Today the Rosicrucians
continué their unbroken faith with all mankind and extend the hand of fellowship and
service.
YOUR NEEDS AND MINE
You and I have common interests; for your sorrows as well as your joys, may
come to me also. Your success in life and your peace and happiness determine
whether you will help others in their struggle for the world's blessings, or whether
you will become despondent, discouraged, and incapable of contributing to the world's
great work.
Among the most necessary things in life are health and the ability to change
those conditions which limit our actions or hold us in undesirable circumstances.
Health, and the power to master our lives; this is my need, it is your need, it is the
need of those dependent on you. Tcgether must w?
e strive to bring the same power to
those who look to us for that wisdOín which proteets and creates.
WHY ARE WE HERE ?
Why are we here on earth, and what must be our real mission? Why are some
so poor, in health, in worldly things, and in the ability to create? Not luck or chance
6 THE LIGHT OF EGYPT
will explain the differences, and no form of philosophical bclief will change the con-
ditions we sense each hour of the day.
The mind of man—your mind and mine—is capable of unlimited thought and
unmeasurable iinaginaticn. Mentally we can create the things we desire and the things
we need. and it is possible to turn these mental images into concrete realities. We know
that some are able to de this, why not you?
Life has taught us that man has conquered the worlds of his dreams in thousands
of ways. Men who have been born poor ha\e achieved fortunes, men who were dis-
abled, or poor in health, have attained health and success. Men and women of lowly
stations in Ufe, by the sheer power of their wills, have risen to eminence and social
recognition.
CHANGING YOUR LIFE
There is no secret about the methods which God and nature have provided for
man to use. There is no miracle in the changing of a life of want to a life of aban-
dance. Man’s environment and circumstances are exactly what he permits them to
be. A Iack of knowledge of the laws. a lack of experience in the application of his
inner powers, are the only barriers to mastership.
Only one in a thousand is efficiently using these powers. But. those thousands
who are using them, and who have proved them to be depcndable, have learned that
by sharing their knowledge, through fellowship and mutual co-operation, a gr>ater
degree of success and happiness is attained.
Henee the foundaticn of the Rcsicrucian movement, the brotherhood of seekers
for Light. Li[e, and Love. "It was as though the voice of God spoke in the wilder-
ness and infused a few of His creatures with His Infinite Wisdom and Divine Plans
for the salvation of the races of men,” writes one historian in telling of the founda-
tion of the Arcane Schools of Truth in the land of Egypt. "Like the blinding flash
in the midst of utter darkness," is the way another historian of Egyptian progress
speaks of the movement started for the illuminaticn of the minds of men.
"A halo of glory has surrounded the Rosicrucians," says Lord Bulwer Lytton in
his books dealing with the unique movement, and "nothing has ever come into the
lives of Progressive men and women in the whole history of civilization that equals
the nobleness and altruistic wcrk of the Rosicrucians, says a modern writer of world
events.
THE PRACTICAL WAY
In all the w'ritings of eminent authors of histories, philosophical essays, world
events, and humanitarian activities, we find exalted testimony to the goodness, prac­
tical service. and untiring efforts of the Rosicrucians. Novelists for many centuries
have referred to their achievements, scientists have paid homage to the researches
and findings of the workers in the Rosicrucian bodies, and newspapers and magazines
have published long and enthusiastic accounts of the valued contributions made by
the Rosicrucians to the welfare of mankind.
YOUR PROBLEMS IN LIFE
In the Proverbs we read, "With all thy getting, get understanding.” We are also
told, "understanding is a well-spring of life unto him that hath it."
It is true that our one big problem in life is to understand life, its purposes, and
its complex situations.
We need not be learned in all the wisdom of the world, and in fact need not
be w'orldly wise, to have real understanding.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 7
Most of the problems that face us in life are serious because we cannot under-
stand them. Life itself often seems beyond understanding to the pcrson who has not
become familiar with the simple fundamental truths.
The misfortunes that suddenly rise in the path of a happy career often seem
associated with elements or conditions which appear to be beyond understanding.
We seek to find how and why these sudden events occur, and even a little under­
standing of their causes, aids us in mastering them. It is when we cannot fathom
the causes, cannot understand the principies involved, that we become enslaved by
them and suffer.
The sudden loss of properíy, the unexpcctcd rejection of sclicited íavors, the un-
desired collapse of a big business, like the crash of carefülly built plans and hopes,
leaves us perplexed, needing immediate advice, help. and dependable methods, for re-
creating the former status of affairs.
WHEN YOUR PLANS FAIL
The continued frustration of every move to better our conditions, the lack of
response to our petitions, the endless struggle to make ends meet when we deserve
better things, cause us to wonder and ask: "What is wrong and why can we not
understand the forces that are at work?”
"I can't understand it!" is the time oíd cry of mankind in all adversity. And,
when understanding comes, there also comes an end of worry and a hopeful attitude
that brings a pow’er to accomplish the desires of life.
You may believe that there is a Divine part of you that is ever attuned with
constructive forces and in loving consideration of your needs. Yet, other forces in the
universe, other powers of a worldly nature, attack you, limit your fulfillment of plans,
and hamper you in your ambitions. It seems almost impossible to understand why the
Divine Self within cannot overcome the forces from without, and why the mind cannot'
over-rule the things of the flesh and the world.
COSMIC LAWS AFFECT YOU.
It was found, long ago, that man is affected by many principies and forces, oper-
ating according to laws, and easily understood, but which continué through life to
influence his health, his mental efficiency, his natural tendencies and his reaction
toward the events of life.
Man is a free agent in every sense of the word; he has the power to reason,
judge, and come to a conclusión. He has the privilege to decide between two impulses,
two desires, two methods—and act accordingly. He must abide by the results of his
decisión—but he has the freedom to decide. In this sense, is man a [roe agent; his
ultímate accountability to God and man for his acts, does not alter the fact that he is
free to act.
But, man is constantly being urged. tempted, impelled, and prodded to impulses
from around him and from within his being. From without him come the impulses of
the world and its ¡Husory or transxtory conditions; from without him come the more
conservative, rational, dependable urges of the Cosmic Mind, and the still. small voice.
Like the pendulum of a clock, swinging from side to side, man's freedom to act
vacillates in yielding to the urges from the world around him, to the urges from
within. He is constantly faced with the questicn, "What shall I do? Which is best
for me to do?”
5 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
CREATIVE FORCES WITHIN YOU
Within man there are constructive, creativo forces always at work and always
attuned with the most perfect wisdom of the Immortal Self. These forces must repair
the damage done to the body, overcome the strains and stresses upon the mental
system, and guide the indecisión of man's mind in the right directicn. From the natural
forces operating throughout the universe certain harmonic vibrations, ethical energies,
and vitalizing powers contact man’s being and change the nature of his physical body
or react upen his mental efficiency. This man is hourly a complex being. influenced
by forces and potent principies of a serious and important nature.
Man must understand these things if he is to become a success in life and use
his freedom to act in a wise manner. Man must either live completely in harmony
with the forces in hiin and aronnd him, or at variance with them. There is no middle
course. Not if health, success, and happiness are to be attained.
Understanding of the natural, spiritual, and mental laws is the only means for
mastership of life. There is no substituto for this understanding. College educaticn,
scientific training, great book learning. and other mental attainments, DO NOT CON-
STITUTE THE NECESSARY UNDERSTANDING.
IT HAS BEEN PROVED
For hundreds of years the work of the Rosicrucians has proved that men and
women graduates of universities, and men and wcmen in the highest professional walks
of life, are not better qualified to master their careers and attain complex control over
the affairs of their lives, than those who have received just a common school edu-
cation.
Intuition, for instance, is a natural, inherent, attribute of the inner-self, or the
metaphysical part of man. It is highly developed in soine. and almost dormant in
others. And, despite the fact that it is one of the faculties which enables men and
women to accomplish more vital changos in their lives than any other faculty, there
is no college course of study, no scientific school of learning. that even attempts to
develop and enlarge this faculty in man.
The ability to create mental images of things desired and to transmute these
images into mental forces that will affect all our activities and bring them into har-
monious realization, is another mental or psychic faculty of the inner-self that is tre-
mendously active in every successful business man and woman, but it is not developed
through college or scientific courses of study.
THESE POWERS ARE YOURS
Both intuition and mental creation, are faculties and processes given to man by
Cosmic law, but the Rosicrucians lcarned long ago that these must be careíuliy devel­
oped and brought to a point of practical application like the faculties of seeing, hear-
ing, and feeling.
' As a man thinketh, so is he,” is a popular proverb; but, what shall he think, and
how shall he think? These are the important points.
To think properly of the problems of life. and to think constructively in order
to solve those problems, man MUST UNDERSTAND the nature of his being, the
diversity of the faculties and functioning of the mental and metaphysical powers within
him. He must know the natural laws of all creation, the spiritual laws which govern
him, and the material laws which are meant to SERVE him and not ENSLAVE him.
Man must rise above his fall through ignocance, which made him subject to
worldly limitations, sufferings, defeats, and constant changes, and become the master
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 9
of the worlcliy principies and captain of his ship on the seas of life. It can be done,
has been done, and is being done by thousands who fcllow the Rosicrucian methods
and accept the Rosicrucian hand of fellowship and service.
THE MYSTICS OF THE ORIENT
The Rosicrucian ideas originated, as we have said, in the oriental lands among
the wise men and women who found through observation the effect on man of many
of the natural and spiritual laws unknowr
n to the masses. Prívate schools were estab-
lished, and with true altruism and humanitarianism, the work was carried on to other
lands.
Throughout the Christian era the Arcane Schools of the Brotherhood operated
widely among the progressive minds, always leading them on to greater heights and
contributing to the uplift of man in general.
History is replete with the incidents of the great work accomplished by the
Essenes, the Therapeuti, the Nazarenes, and others who were actually branch organi-
zations of the Great White Brotherhood of Rosicrucians. Manuscripts and records
still preserved in foreign librarles show that in the eleventh and twelfth centuries A. D.,
the Rosicrucian movement was established in many parts of Europe and attracted
world-wide attention.
EMINENT MEN APPROVE
In the sketches of the life work of eminent men of physiology, anatomy, surgery,
medicine, chemistry, astronomy, biology, physics, and ontology, we find that those who
made the greatest discoveries, or who outlined the most serviceable explanations of
natural laws for man’s betterment, wr
ere Rosicrucians. This is so noticeable that one
modern historian says, “If we elimínate the contributions to man’s mastership of him-
self and his conditions made by the Rosicrucians in the past, it would be equal to
eliminating the contributions to art made by the devotees of religión, we would have
very little left.”
By the middle of the eighteenth century we find the Rosicrucian movement solidi-
fíed into one international organizatíon, permanently established in every civilized land,
and having the most eminent leaders of man’s progress as its heads. In England the
famous leader of the advancement of knowledge, Sir Francis Bacon, was its cbief
executive; and under a plan evolved by him long before his passing, the work spread
to America in 1694.
GREAT AMERICAN MEMBERS
In America, during the years 1694 to 1800, the work of the Rosicrucians had
more direct bearing upon the feunding of the American system of progressive living
than any other institution. Its members, including Thomas Jefferson. were instrumental
in bringíng greater freedom to the American peoples, and such men as Benjamín Frank-
lin, aided the Rosicrucians to spread their teachíngs into every home.
Eminent clergymen, priests, ministers oí various denominations, educators and
lecturers took up the high ideáis of the Rosicrucian movement, and today the work
in America, Cañada, and México, is perfectly organized in every large city or section
of each state and province, all operating under one Chartcr granted by the Interna­
tional Council, and working in harmony with the official organization throughout the
world.
THE TRUE ROSICRUCIANS
Therefore, there is today just ONE Rosicrucian movement throughout the world,
operating as a unit, free from religious or political distinctions, and abiding by the
10 THE UGHT OF EGYPT
ancient rules which prohibit any form of commercialism, fanaticism, extravagancc, or
preposterous pretentions. Under one ñame, one symbol, and one guiding Council, the
Rosicrucian ntovement is kncwn today by its symbolical, abbreviated ñame, AMORC.
That there should be some forms of limitation, some pretenders, who would make
use of the ñame and high repute of the movement, is regrettable. There are not many,
and their existence may be taken as a compliment to the high regard in which the
Rosicrucians have bccn held for so many centuries. The distinguishing featurc between
these pretendíng bcdies and the real Rosicrucian organization is found in the fact that
the AMORC bodies throughout the world do not sell their teachings, do not claim
to have books teaching the arts and "secrets" of Rosicrucianism, and do not indulge
in fortune-telling by astrolcgy or crystal-gazing, and do not claim to have a personal
leader who "discovered" the teachings and to whom allegiance and adoration must be
given as a demigod.
V V V
Solving Your Problems
At some time into the lives of all men and women, there comes an urge to learn
more about themselves and the Spiritual or Metaphysical laws which they have come
to realize affect their Health, Happiness, and Success. Sometimes this desire for greater
knowledge is brought about by a problem of health which has not yielded to ordinary
methods of correction. Again, it may be unhappiness; but more often than not it is a
problem of failure in the quest for the things which are necessary to comfort, conveni-
ence and security.
Most of us have applied to these problems all of the purely objective knowledge
and intelligence which wc have acquired over a period of years, yet without avail.
therefore, there is left to us one other method—that is an appeal to the Spiritual
or Metaphysical Laws of the Universe. We may be a devoted member of some church,
or we may be a student of ene of the many differing forms of psychology, philosophy,
or metaphysical studies. In any case, it is to studies of this character that we must
tura our thoughts for all learning and hope offered by the material world has become
unresponsive and ineffective in prcducing the kind of results we earnestly seek.
As we cast about for the true and perfect methods of solving our difficulties we
find it very hard to make a selection of the system which will unfold to our conscious-
ness the wisdom and understanding we must have. In this connection, a suggestion
may be given you which will be most helpful in coming to a conclusión either about
the studies you are now pursuing or the instruction you may be contemplating as
suiting your needs.
TRY THIS TEST
The first step to be taken is to analyze your needs with great carc. This may
be done by considering a number of questions and setting down the answers. This will
give you an exact index to your particular requirements. If you will read the following
questions carefully and then mentally set down the answer to each one you will
quickly realize your own necessities:
Do you understand the Law responsible for the manifestation of health or sickness?
Are you entirely happy?
Do you understand the Law which governs happiness, peace, and prosperity?
Are you successful?
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 11
Do you understand the Law of success?
Do you realize that all Laws of the material world are designatcd soleJy for the
purpose of protecting the rights of all?
Do you realize that Spiritual Laws also exist which control and govern your every
thought and act?
Do you realize that every thought entertained and every act committed must
bring about certain definite and well-established results?
Do you realize that when your thoughts and acts are in conformity with Cosmic
Laws that the results are Good, and that when they viólate these same Laws,
that the results will be otherwise?
Are your mental images, desires, and dominating longings brought into any form
of realization?
Can you intuitively foresee and sense the right course to take in any action
or plan?
Are you forced to submit to sudden changes in your life’s work, or can you over­
eóme situations as they arise?
V V V
M EM BERSHIP A T H O M E
WHAT AMORC OFFERS YOU
Wherever you may live, and whatever may be your situation in life, the AMORC
reaches out with a kindly offering and invites you to share in its great work.
While in some of the larger cities there are lodges and temples with classes and
lectures conducted by various Masters on many nights of the week, there is the oppor-
tunity also for those living in any part of North America to receive the instructions
and benefits of membership if attendance at a lodge is impossible or undesirable for
any reason.
COMPLETE HOME STUDY
Those who wish to study at home at their convenience will find that the AMORC
offers them all of the benefits of mental, spiritual, and metaphysical contact with thou-
sands of other minds and Souls attuned to the same ideáis and the same purposes.
Physical contact and physical association is not necessary for mental, spiritual, and
metaphysical grovvth, under the methods used by the AMORC. and which have proved
so successful to study alone and privately develop their faculites and mental powers
to a high degree.
A NEW PLAN FOR AMERICA
At one of the national conventions of the Order held in this country the Grand
Master of New York presented a plan to the delegates for the establishment of a
"National Lodge," which would invite correspondence members from any section of
the North American jurisdiction who could not find it possible to attend the session
of a local Lodge.
The proposal was discussed and voted upon and finally adopted. It permitted the
Supreme Lodge of the Order for North America to establish what might be called an
extensión course of personal, prívate instruction in the teachings of the Order upon a
distinctly unique basis. The plan required several years to evolve, and today this
plan is being adopted in many foreign jurisdictions.
12 THE LIGHT OF EGYPT
FASCINATING METHOD OF STUDY
This plan of prívate instruction at home is so unique and so new to this country
that it must be explained so that it will not be compared to the so-callcd correspond-
ence courses” issued by correspondence schools in America, or the issuance of pam-
phlet lessons.
First of all, it was recognized at once that such lessons as were to be sent to
nation-wide students COULD NOT BE IN PRINTED PAMPHLETS, for two excel-
lent reasons: first, the time-honored injunction against any of the lessons of the Order
in any land being issued in book form; secondly, the continued changes, iinprovemcnts,
amendments, and modem adaptation of the teachings, would prevent their preparation
in text-book or printed form of any permanent nature.
It is common for a correspondence school to send its students a set of text-books
accompanied by monthly printed reading lessons analyzing the various chapters of
the text-books. Year after year the same instructions, the same bcoks and pamphlets,
are sent to the thousands of students. This is possible in presenting such subjects
as Law, English, Mathematics. History, or some of the sciences. It would not do.
could not do, in presenting the teachings of the Rosicrucians, for such teachings are
continually improving in subject matter, application to human affairs, and relation to
recent discoveries by the Master of the instruction.
HOW THE LESSONS ARE PREPARED
So the first principie insisted upon by the Imperator of the Order was that the
lesson to be sent to the home study members must be specially made and prepared
from month to month to keep them up to the minute with the findings, discoveries and
elabórate experiments on the part of the highest workers in the Order in this country
and in other lands. That meant tremendous work, great cost, and a staff of master
teachers continually working upon the lessons.
It is because the Order is able to keep its members informed in advance of im­
portan! matters, and give its members knowledge which outsiders cannot obtain, that
it enables them to overcome obstacles, meet oncoming conditions, and prepare for
future circumstances. The world outside of the Order is just now trying to discover
and evolve certain principies regarding health, disease, and the prolonging of life,
which Rosicrucians have known and practiced for centuries. The same can be said
regarding new ‘ discoveries” in the various methods of using the mind to attain suc­
cess in life.
HOW THE LESSONS ARE ISSUED
Therefore, the Imperator appointed a staff to prepare and issue the prívate lessons
for those members who would be admitted to the Home Study Classes.
Such members were to be INVITED to join by sending them, upon recommen-
dation, an application blank. After the answers in this form were examined and an
investigation made of the applicant’s sincerity, he or she was to be notified to prepare
for the preliminary, fundamental lessons. A plan was finally adopted, based upon
an oíd system used by the early Rosicrucians, whereby such members arranged to use
one part of some room—usually a sleeping room—as their "study córner” or prívate
"Lodge córner.” By the use of prívate instructions in typewritten, personal forms, the
members prepare for the first surprising lessons. The many thousands in America today
who have used these instructions—men and women of all walks of life from the highest
positions in the country to humble workers in the home—have found the lessons, ex­
planations, simple experiments, and practical tests, more fascinating and alluring each
week than the best dramas or works of fiction.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 13
NATURE OF THE LESSONS
Such lessons are not mere speculative statements or points of philosophy, but
carefully writtcn and edited explanations of laws, beginning with the fundamental and
simple ones, worded in language which any can understand, and illastrated by analo-
gies, examples, common referentes and every-day experiences. Then several experi-
ments are given to be practiced at convenient times throughout the week. In this way,
week after week, month after month, special lessons, always being revised and amended,
are sent to each member covering the whole system of private Rosicrucian teachings,
developing faculties and powers the members never realized they póssessed.
ARRANGED IN EASY STEPS
The lessons are arranged in Grades or Degrees, like unto classes or grades in a
school. There is no better way to spend an evening than by reading the.se fascinating
lectures, lessons, and explanations. It is like having the heart and Soul of the REAL
mysteries of life opened to you in a picturesque, intriguing manner.
At the cióse of each series of the lürst three grades of lectures there is a self-
examination to be sent to the Master of the class so that he can see wherein you have
succeeded or failed to grasp a clear understanding of each point and may send you
additional information. These examinations are easily passed if the lectures have been
properly read—not laboriously studied.
V V V
The Instructions
SUBJECTS TREATED IN THE LESSONS
It would be impossible to give an index to the subjects contained in the hundreds
of lessons. Such an index would make a very large book and the reading of it would
be of little valué. However, we may briefly state that the following iinportant subjects
are covered in the various graded lessons sent to all correspondence members.
FIRST GRADE
Explanation of the dual forms of consciousness with which man has to deal;
namely, the mortal, temporary, and unreliable objective consciousness and the Divine,
positive, dependable Cosmic Consciousness; complete explanation of the functioning
of the brain, the mind, spirit forces, and Soul in the human body; experiments and
demonstrations easily made in connection with our daily affairs which prove the un-
reliability of objective consciousness, the mortal existence of matter, the delusions and
illusions of our faculties, and the methods for development of intuition, and the proper
attunement with true knowledge; the law of vibratíons, thought forms, harmonies,
rhythm, and other spiritual and mental forces and powers in the universe, proper
thinking, and proper realization; fundamental principies of health and disease, and the
alleviation of physical suffering; methods for using the Law of the Triangle, and other
laws for the mastership of conditions and circumstances in our daily lives; experiments
to prove and test various laws in our daily affairs so as to demónstrate mastership in
connection with the material problems of life.
14 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
SECOND GRADE
Explanation of the ego, and its relationship to the highest principies and forces
in the universe; what Jesús and the great Masters of the past taught and secretly
revealed; the development of psychic centers and the aura; experiments with breathing
and with mystical sounds, music, harmony, and Divine laws: the control of forces in
the human body and around the human body through the proper use of mind; the
various oriental principies and modern systems, including psycholcgy, Christian Sci­
ence, metaphysics and other spiritual principies in relationship to the fundamental
laws of the universe; the duality of life, and its relationship to mental and spiritual
power, proper living, proper diet, and proper mastership of conditions in the mind
and body; experiments proving and testing the various laws, and the development of
mental powers for the control of conditions which affect our daily affairs.
THIRD GRADE
The false illusions of matter, and the manner in which we may be deceived and
affected by them; experiments in mental control and mental directing of physical and
mental conditions: the vitalitv of life, its nature, and its use in the human body, and
experiments for the control of it in many important matters of our existence: mental
creativa powers of man’s mind, and experiments in using these; the false beliefs about
black magic, hypnotism, and other misleading principies which really enslave men and
the development of harmonious relationships with higher principies and powers;
methods for instantly diagnosing inharinonious conditions in the body; methods for
discovering the errors in the affairs of our daily lives which are preventing success
and prosperity; methods and experiments in receiving Cosmic Illumination and the
increasing of psychic attunement.
FOURTH AND HIGHER GRADES
From the Fourth Grade onward, the work is devoted to the personal affairs of
the student and designed to instruct him in the most practical methods for meeting
his daily problems and in mastering the situations of life as they arise. The lessons
in each grade are filled with a review of all the teachings of a spiritual, mystical.
metaphysical nature included in every other school or system of thought of ancient
and modern times, which have proved to be good, and which are useful today. Noth-
ing is left out of any of the graded teachings from any school or system which would
be of help.. Step by step each law is fully explained. each principie plainly stated and
illustrated, and methods for experiment, test, and application given in detail. The work
is graded like a university course, but in each lesson are found practical things to do
so that each member may benefít himself and his condition while mastering each law
and principie.
Bear in mind that these subjects stated above are but a few of the hundreds, and
each subject is treated in detail in many different lessons, from many different angles,
and always with a practical application to our daily life and its problems. Nearly all
of the subjects mentioned above, and many more like them, are treated as completely
as though a separate book on the subject was included in the studies. The subjects of
the various lessons review and include everything that was taught by the ancients, or
is taught today in any and all of the other schools of metaphysical or spiritual thought.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 15
A W eekly Lesson
The ¡Ilustration above shows just how' each weekly lesson is sent to each member.
First, there are the personal letters—as many each week or month as are neces­
sary to answer your questions and help you solve your personal problems. Intímate,
precise faets are given in these letters, dictated by a number of experts who keep a
careful record of your progress, your needs, and your desires.
Second, the weekly lecture. This Iecture, containíng a number of typewritten
pages, is carefully prepared by the various teachers and graded so as to prepare you
step by stop in the mastership of the Rosicrucian laws and principies. Each lecture
contains not only full explanation cf laws which ycu wish to use in your personal
affairs, but also experiments and tests whereby you can PROVE and DEMON­
STRATE to yourself, the efficacy of the principies. This makes the lectures different
from printed pamphlet lessons containing only theories and philosophical essays.
Third. whenever necessary, charts and diagrarns of the laws and principies are
sent with the lessons to help make every point clear, and to save the purchase oí
further reference charts.
THE TRUTH UNVEILED TO THE MEMBERS
Without avoiding the faets that should be revealed, without veiling the truths so
that none can comprehend, and without flowery W
’ords or elegant oratory which leaves
the student unaequaínted with the fundamentáis, the prívate, typewritten, specíalíy pre­
pared lessons of the AMORC are given to its members, its students. in a manner be-
yond description or realization unless one has lived with them for a few weeks and
found the great changes, the wonderful powers that manifest in every affair of our
earthly activities.
16 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
Remember, AMORC offers its carefully selected members not only the method
and the plan of developing privately and effectively, but it offers its members all the
advantages of association with those master minds of the laws of nature, who have
held the reputation of being the most highly trained teachers, philosophers, scientists,
and workers in the uplift of the race of man—the Members of the Order Rosae Crucís
—the Brethren of the Rosy Cross.
NO COLLEGE EDUCATION NECESSARY
"Fliese interesting lessons begin with the very fundamentáis of nature's laws as
they relate to man and the universe, and explain and make plain all men's secret
powers, possibilities, and potential activities. The lessons are carefully graded. No
college, academic, or even high school education is necessary to understand the les­
sons, for they have been prepared by some of the best educators in various lands for
the purpose of meeting the general mind.
NO MEMORIZING REQUIRED
Various educational boards have said that the system employed by AMORC in
teaching and instructing is the ideal system, for it does not require memorizing, and
through the examples, illustrations, and experiments used the student comprehends and
remembers without the least effort. Mere ccncentration upon words being read and a
few moments’ meditation upon each principie or law makes them stand out in the mind
and consciousness for all time.
MASTERY AT EACH STEP
There never was and never will be a more systematic, a more detailed and com­
plete course of personal-development study than this. The student becomes a master
of certain laws and principies each week and before the first few months have passed
he no longer desires to hurry and goes no more rapidly than the system provides. It
is not like a course of study which must be entirely finished before it may be put into
practical operation. Most of our members discover die truc valué and efficiency of
Hie work after the first month of reading and experiment, and derive help from the
very first lessons.
SIMPLICITY, SYSTEM, PRIVACY
The graded lessons are mailed in sealed envelops complete with every aid, plan,
suggestion or illustration necessary. Lessons are mailed each week with a system and
regularity that is pleasing and dependable. Others need not know what you are study-
ing or what you are associated with unless you desire to interest them.
V V V
A Sample Lesson
To give you an idea of how the various important laws and principies are ex-
plained and how they help each member of the organization to use this knowledge in
understanding and mastering the situation and conditions arising in everyday life, we
outline, herewith, a sample lesson typical of the many that are sent out weekly to
every member of the organization. The following specimen lesson is based upon one
that is sent early in the first grade of instruction and was selected because of the
present day discussion throughout the world regarding the precise meaning of Soul.
body, and spirit.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 17
Please bear in mind that such a lesson as the one outlined below is received by
the members in a sealed envelope, in typewritten form, and is read in the privacy of
the member s home-study room. The lesson, consisting of many pages, is so worded
that it is like a personal talk by the Master of the class to the student. It is easy
to read, interesting and fascinating in its mannerism of speech, attractive in its arous-
ing of many thoughts and ideas, and at the same time it establishes an attunement
between the student, the teacher, and the thousands of other sudents who are study-
ing similar lessons at the same time in all parts of the country. The lesson given here-
wúth is very greatly condensed, and is merely an ontline so that you may see the
subject matter which is covered in such a typical lesson.
V V V V V
The subject for tonight’s discussion touches upon one of the very fundamental
principies which you must understand if you are going to be properly conscious of
your relationship to all other living beings and of your rclationship to the universe
and the various forces, encrgies, and laws operating in this universe.
We have been taught in many doctrines and schools that we should lose our-
selves in the thought that we are at one with all in the universe and at one with God.
This statement is too broad to be either of Service or benefit to the average person
and is very apt to lead the devoted student to think that he must lose all personality
and all individuality of character, and be as similar and like unto all other creatures
as one blade in a great lawn is like all the other blades of grass. This is contrary to
the scheme of things in the universe, for whether we accept the idea of some material-
istic scientists that the law of the “survival of the fíttest” is true or not, the fact
remains that the development of character and the development of those distinct traits
of personality and individuality which God and nature have given us, is really the
great scheme of life and the one thing that will make man greater and more useful in
this world. Artists must become better artists, musicians must become better musicians,
men and women with inventive talent must be devcloped into inventors, men and
women who have mechanical, electrical. medical, or other tastes and talents, must be
encouraged and strengthened in those things to such a degree that they become dis-
tinctly different from those w
-ho do not have such talents. Those who are thinkers
and can utilize mental powers and abilities to create and to achieve great accomplish-
ments must be strengthened in those abilities and become different from those other
useful persons in the world who are creators w'ith the hands and makers of material
things in a physical wr
ay.
Some philosophical schools or teachers say briefly that since all of us have the
same Divine essence within us, we are essentially alike. That is equivalent to say-
ing since the sun shines on one half of the world at the same time, all of the people,
and all of the lands, on that half of the world are enjoying the same degree and the
same amount of brilliancy, heat, and quality of sunlight. Anyone who has been on
the top of the Alps in the month of June and has then journeyed through Italy and
across the Mediterranean to Alexandria and through Egypt to Luxor during the same
month will realize that the sunlight, sun heat, and sun vitality are not the same in the
different cities or localities visited during the same month. Even in America the mov-
ing picture industry has discovered that the sunlight is different on the Pacific coast
than it is on the Atlantic coast, on any day in any month of the year. You may argüe
that at their source and in their true nature the sunlight, sun heat, and sun vitality
are the same everywhere on the same day, and that the differences we notice are due
to local conditions which affect the light, the heat, and the vitality of the sun rays.
IS THE UGHT OF EGYPT
I-et us accept this as being truc; but it only proves the argument we are making;
namely, that while the Divine essence in us may be the same in its source and in its
nature, it does manifest differently in each one of us, due to the local physical condi­
tions of our mentality and our bodies. Therefore, there is a difference in the manner
in which the Soul manifests what we cali a personality or distinct character for each
living being. Nothing would be gained by forcing an artificial change of conditions
in each one of us to make each one of us alike. That would be the ruination of civili­
zaron, because it would be the ruination of individual efforts, individual accomplish-
ments and individual achievements.
Let us show you, now, in our lesson for tonight how the Rosicrucians have under-
stood the true principies of this matter for many ages. Tonight we are going to take
up the fírst principie of what is called the "Rosicrucian Ontology. The word On-
tology means science of being. There have been only a few books written in the
past centuries dcaling with this very important subject. And the few that have been
written have been so complicated, so involved, and so difficult to understand that only
a few of the learned scientists and philosophers have mastered the subject. But here
again we find that the Rosicrucians have a very happy and simple methed for reveal-
ing the great truths in a manner easily understood. The "Rosicrucian Ontology”
starts with the fundamental principie, or fundamental statement, that we happen to find
used in the Christian Bible but which was used in other sacred or mystical writings
long before the Christian Bible was compiled or arranged. The Jewish teachers used
this ancient statement from the ancient writings, and that is how it carne to be included
in the Oíd Testament section of the Bible.
This fundamental principie says that, ”God formed man out of the dust of the
earth and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living Soul.'
Now, to properly analyze this statement in a manner in which you may never have
thought of before, we want you to pay very strict attention to the exact words in
the statement quoted. It says in the fírst place that God created man out of the DUST
of the earth. This statement was written by the ancient scientists, wise men, and ex-
perimenters, of Egypt and the Orient who had carefully studied man’s body in its
chemical and physical nature and knew all we know today about diets, biological
principies, human chemistry, and similar subjects. They knew the statement to be abso-
lutely true. Man’s physical body is composed of the earthly elements or the dust of
the earth. Before man’s physical body is born, the little unborn body is being com­
posed of chemical elements from the food and liquids digested by the mother. After
birth the physical body of man continúes to change month by month, hour by hour,
as a result of the things he eats and drinks. The entire part of man’s physical body
has been chemically analyzed and found to be composed of only a few chemical ele­
ments which are found in the earth and are part of the earth's substances. Therefore,
man’s body was and still is composed of the dust and clay of material elements of the
earth. Now, notice the second part of the statement we quoted above. It says that
after this physical body had been fonned God added a second part, or nature added
a second part, to the body, which is called the breath of life. In other words, a new
form or additional form of vitality had to be added to the physical body and it is
called the "breath of life” because it was found by the ancients and is known to the
scientists today that this vitality comes into the body only through breathing. But,
notice that although there are two parts to the body. the physical, earthly part and the
vital forcé, man became a "living Soul'' and not a living body. In other words, the
combination of vitality and physical body did not make a living body but a living
Soul. If we takc a lot of iron and copper wire and form it into a piece of machinery
THE tlG H T OF EGYPT 10
and thcn add the vital forcé of electricity to it, we do not produce a living machine
but a motor. In other words, the emphasis is given to the most important thing that
results from adding the vitality to the piece of machinery. The same is true about
man's existence. Man is not a living body, or a living being, or a mass of living
earthly elements, but a living Soul. He may be dual in nature, composed of body and
Soul, but while they are united here on the earth plañe, the important part of man is
the Soul; and the body is merely a secondary part. We might say the same thing
about a home. The important part of the home is not the walls, but the occupants and
the personality of tbe persons that live within the walls. Therefore, we see that man
is not only dual, but that in all of our thinking, and all of our planning, and in all
of our considerations of man and for man, we should keep in mind that man is a
living Soul.
(Here follows a long explanation of the nature of the Soul, the Soul essence,
and how the Soul comes into the body through the process of breathing.)
The matter which composes man's physical body is also alive with a vitality or
an essence that is separate from the Soul. There is vitality in rocks, in trees, in leaves,
and in soil. When a seed that is dry and lifeless is planted in the soil and comes in
contact with moisture, heat, and other vital forces there. it bursts into life. The vitality
that it gets from the soil is not soul essence but a vitality that is in all matter every-
where. This vitality the ancients called spirit and it is called spirit in all of our Rosi­
crucian teachings today. The word spirit, in its original meaning, has nothing to do
with Soul, or ghosts, or the Divine part of man, or with God’s consciousness, except
that God’s consciousness is in everything. The word spirit simply means an invisible
vitality that is in all matter throughout the universe. Therefore, spirit is in man's body
and the earthly elements that composed his body before the Soul was breathed into it.
We can see that man’s body by itself is composed of earthly elements and spirit. This
gives us a different understanding of matter and makes matter itself dual in composition.
(Here follows a long explanation showing how spirit in all matter is the vitality
that keeps it active, keeps it growing, and is responsible for the difference between a
rose and an ear of corn, a blade of grass and a thistle. An explanation is also given as
to how spirit is responsible for the colors in nature, and for health and disease in the
physical body, for harmony, and for other conditions with which man has to deai.)
Now we have man as a combínation of three elements: matter in its material form
and nature, and spirit with its vitalizing effect upon matter to keep it growing, keep
it healthy, and to help it to reproduce itself; and, lastly, the Soul in the body of man
to act as a guide, a teacher, and a Creative power to enable man to do the great things
in life that God and nature intended man to do.
(Here follows a long explanation telling the students why the Soul has such
great wisdom and knowledge and what Creative powers it gives man, and why a Soul
is in man's body. This enables the student to realize at once that by developing the
Soul's powers and faculties and permitting them to function as they should, he will
turn his physical body into an instrument to serve the Soul in becoming a masteríul
creator or producer in the affairs of life. The lesson then ends with a number of
practical experiments and things to do which will help in the development of the Soul's
faculties and will help the student to be more successful in certain things during the
week, associated with the work and daily activities of his usual routine in a very prac-
tical manner.)
V V V
As we have said, the foregoing is just an outline of one of the many weekly lee-
tures, each one of them ending with practical benefits and helps; and each one giving
20 THE LIGHT OF EGYPT
the student more real food for thought and more real help in the process of mastership
and development of his own personality and character than will be found in many
books. Note how simple and complete each statement is and how easy it is to under­
stand some of the principies and laws which other schools have made very difficult
and very profound, and which many persons have never been able to understand.
V V V
The W ay to Power
A LODGE AT HOME
Members are asked to reserve part of one night of the week to be their "Lodge
night" at home. Whether it be every Wednesday night, every Thursday night, or
every Friday night, thousands of other members will be studying, practicing and ex-
perimenting in attunement with you. We prefer that each member select an early or
late part of Thursday evening for his or her Lodge night at home; for this is the Rosi­
crucian Night throughout the world and it means greater power through the multitudes
who are thusly attuned. But any other evening will do in case you find it necessary on
certain occasions to change your selected weekly Lodge night at home, or in the pri-
vacy of a room elsewhere.
TIME REQUIRED FOR STUDY
As stated above, we recommend that each member select one evening of the
week for a definite study evening. On that evening, one hour to one hour and thirty
minutes is sufficient time for the reading of the new lesson, the testing of the new
principies, and a complete understanding of the work for the week. Then throughout
the following days in spare moments while resting, walking, riding, or even during the
busy hours of work, the member can test the new principies in connection with the
many incidents of daily life and the solving of serious, personal, problems. In this way
the oíd principies of the previous weeks, and the new ones, are constantly applied and
used and made more familiar. Such testing and application of the principies and laws
do not interfere with any of your daily affairs but actually help you to inake the day
more successful and profitable in whatever you are trying to accomplish.
Whether you are traveling or always at home, the one study period for a careful
reading of the new lesson each week is easily arranged; many thousands of students
have proved this to be so during the past twenty years. It is the most valuable hour
or two they spend in each week, as they themselves voluntarily write us.
You do not have to carry your lesson around with you, for just reading it once,
carefully, will fill your mind with the fascinating faets, and dozens of times each day
certain incidents of your activities, at home or in the business world, will remind you
of some law or principie which you can use at once to excellent and surprising ad-
vantage.
STUDENTS PRO0RESS GIVEN PERSONAL ATTENTION
Soon after passing through the preliminary and foundation lessons which enable
the member to perform many remarkable demonstrations in his daily affairs, his stand-
ing is passed upon by many special instructors in consultation with the Master who
has been directing his studies. If the member is making the proper progress, he is
assigned to a special high teacher for personal guidance thereafter.
THE L1GHT OF EGYPT 21
From that time onward the lessons sent to the member each week have a personal
touch. The member not only receives special personal letters from his teacher, but the
correspondence between them on points of special knowledge, problems in his life and
helps required by the member.
PERSONAL WELFARE SERVICE
Letters and telegrams come daily to headquarters from students to their teachers
here asking for immediate and special help in illness, business problems, help for others,
and guidance in times of perplexity. Such personal help sent at once is one of the
remarkable points of service rendered by the Order to its members, and without any
fees for such service.
In this way the "National Lodge" permits men and women in all walks of life,
and with just ordinary school education, to have the full advantage of Rosicrucian
membership regardless of where they live.
ATTAINING HEALTH, PROSPERITY, HAPPINESS
These three elements are God's privilege to man—-
as a gift. But man knows not
how to accept that which is offered. God and nature provide for man being well born
—when the parents live as nature seeks to instruct—and from the moment of birth
HEALTH, not disease, is man's most natural endowment from all the forces and ele­
ments of the universe.
PROSPERITY, too, is a natural acquisition, conforming to all the ethical,
spiritual, and beneficent laws of the universe. God made man in His own image, with
the same faculties foi perception, retention, and reconstruction which vitalize the Crea­
tive powers of the universe. All nature prospers and enjoys the abundance of all that
exists, because nature is in harmony with the Creative principie. Man alone, the high-
est creation of all, falls short of his rightful and privileged possessions because he
does not always know how to live in harmony with all that creates, masters, Controls,
attracts, and retains.
Prosperity is the result of attraction, poverty is the perfect manifestaron of repul­
sión and negation. Not only is it true that man is as he thinks, but he enjoys and
possesses that which he attracts. Laboring to earn that which one desires is not the
only application of the law of demand, command, and supply; it is merely substituting
man's crude method of exchanging labor for life’s essentials. To dcserve, either through
labor, worthiness, sincerity of purpose, goodness of motive, or altruism of intention, is
but the fírst step. The next step is to attract to one s self that which is desired, and
such attraction on the part of the man is only possible when the inner self is permitted
to function, to manifest and direct the forces of the outer self.
Just as the flower bends its body tow’ard the sun, that it may more efficiently
attract the sunlight; just as the multi-colored pansy lifts its head from the leaves of
green to attract the admiration and attention of the passersby; so must the inner man,
the mind within the Soul, the heart within the self, lift itself above and beyond the
commonplace of life and attract, demand, and draw unto itself the abundance of this
life, the riches of existence and the wealth of the universe.
Prosperity in material things is happiness, health, power to direct, power to
control, power to will and become; assuring success of venture, attainment of ambi-
ticms, and the blotting out of all unhappiness, ill-health, and misfortune. This pros­
perity is man's rightful, divine privilege, and naught but man's ignorance of laws and
principies, misguided belief in the falsities of limiting creeds and dogmas keep him
from being PROSPEROUS in every sense of the world.
22 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
THE ROSICRUCIAN WAY
Know the laws and principies! Study nature's secret teachings! Master fate’s
decrees which operate only with the unprepared, the undeveloped, and the unknowing.
Attune yourself with those who are successful and happy. Co-operate with nature's
laws and revel in the power that comes into your home, office, or place of pleasure
and meditation!
The successful man dominates the situations as they arise, directs with dynamic
mind the course of his life in home, business, and social affairs through knowing the
laws that make possible a release of his inner powers and metaphysical abilities.
The brilliant woman is the woman who knows her possibilities, her dormant
faculties and magnetic, mental strength, and uses every personal, subconscious, potent
factor of her existence, to raise herself to the supreme mastership of worldly matters.
Sitting in one’s home, carefully examining the simple, PRIVATE lessons and
testing the simple laws. one by one, is the process offered by the AMORC to those
who seek this unusual method—more efficient than the reading of books which daré
not tell the facts, which never contain nature’s secret laws, and which are sold for any
price you are willing to pay.
With lessons graded for easy mastership, arranged in weekly subjects and experi-
ences, made practical with principies and laws to use every day and in every way
—this is the system the AMORC uses to help those who would make their home a
sanctum of attunement, a home of prívate instruction, a place of uplift, development
and mastership.
NON-SECTARIAN AND TOLERANT
T"he AMORC is absolutely non-sectarian in its teachings and prácticos, and free
from sex and race liinitations. It recognizes the universality of the brotherhood of
mankind. It takes cognizance of the fact that we are NOT at all created alike except in
Soul essence and Divine Consciousness; but this very exception is the keynote of its
broad, tolerant, and sympathetic operations.
With a universal brotherhood which has its devout students and workers also in
England, France, Germany, Holland, China, Japan, India, Persia, and other countries,
with sincere and enthusiastic men and women in countries of every creed and race,
and with every form of creed or religious belief, sectarian teachings would be impos-
sible. Any system of metaphysical, mystical teaching based upon sectarian principies
cannot be universal and cannot, therefore, be Rosicrucian in spirit.
A [irm conviction of the existence of a Supreme Being, Great Architect, Divine
Mind, or Omnipotent intelligence, is absolutely necessary. however, on the part of any
applicant for membership in the AMORC.
WHO MAY UNITE WITH AMORC BY INVITATION
The portáis of AMORC are open to any man or woman over eighteen years of
age, of any race or any religious belief, being free from allegiance to any semi-political
despot or organization which limits the freedom of man’s mind and inner development.
Those who know that there is a Divine Mind ruling the universe, who are clean in
thinking and living, have never been guilty of treason in any country, ñor engaged in
any unlawful occupation, are eligible to full membership in the AMORC, by invitation.
WHO MAY NOT UNITE WITH AMORC
The portáis of AMORC are closed to infidels, atheists, agnostics, fanatics of any
kind, drones, political conspirators, objectors to law and order, bigots, the insincere,
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 23
the frivolous, doubters, idle investigators, ' conscientious” (?) objectors to defending
their country or flag in times of emergency or Government cali, those seeking to buy
power of influence with money, or those whose moral code is weak or negligible. All
these, or any one of them, cannot unite with AMORC, regardless of recommendations
or inducements of any kind.
WHAT THE AMORC DOES NOT DEMAND
The AMORC is not a body of fanatics or extremists of any kind or class. It
has in its ranks men and women of every school of therapeutics, including, for instance,
professors and international authorities on all of the subjects of medicine, chemistry,
botany, physiology, physics, and allied sciences. It has members in every art. pro-
fession. trade, business, hobby, and avocation.
No demand is made upen its members that they adopt any change in religión,
business or social matters, except those which each member finds are best for his or her
individual advancement.
■ V V V
Rosicrucian Authority
THE TRUE ORGANIZATION
Many persons believe that the word "Rosicrucian" is a generic word that may
be applied to any system of instruction or method of spiritual development that is
unique or beyond the common-place. This wrong belief is responsible for a number
of small movements in various parts of the world composed of men and women study-
ing various arcane philosophies calling themselves “Rosicrucian students.”
There is but one true Rosicrucian organization throughout the world, whose
founders invented the word "Rosicrucian” as a definition of their original symbol, con-
sisting of the Rose on the Cross. These founders have perpetuated the true Rosicru-
cian organization through all ages by insisting that each successive Master or Grand
Master and Imperator of each branch of the organization shall be a blood descendant
by transfusión of the original founders. Thus the original organization has perpetuated
itself in all lands and has retained its secret archives and preserved its teachings ex-
clusively for its members, and has successfully prevented any of its real teachings and
instructions from ever being printed or issued in public books, or sold by publishing
companies or groups not chartered and sponsored by the true organization.
Regardless of the claims made by Rosicrucian societies, fellowships, or publishing
companies, which use a ñame that is different from the true ñame of the organization
and use a symbol that is slightly different from the true symbol. the fact remains that
the genuine Rosicrucian organization throughout the world has only one headquarters
in each country, and all of these are operated under a universal or International
Supreme Council, composed of the high officers in every land, and maintaining an
International Secretary and headquarters in Europe near the location of the original
European foundation.
Unless any Rosicrucian movement is an adherent to, or a member of, the
International Supreme Council and has on its official documents the International
seal, the group or organization is not teaching the true Rosicrucian instructions, ñor
has it access to the wonderfu! archives and librarles or secret and rare manuscripts
preserved and added to since antiquity.
24 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
THE INTERNATIONAL ÑAME
The Order uses the same oíd ancient ñame that is found in the oldest records.
That ñame, in its complete Latin form, is:
Antiquae Arcanae Ordinis Rosae Rubae et Aureae Crucis.
Translations and abbreviations of this ñame are used in the various jurisdictions
to meet the requirements of the local tongue. In America, and some other English-
speaking lands, the ñame is shortened to Ancient, Mystical Order Rosae Crucis. This
form retains the ancient Latin words Rosae Crucis, which mean; of the Rosy Cross.
For the sake of veiling the full ñame the initials of the short ñame are used, as;
A. M. O. R. C. or AMORC. Even in some Latin countries we have the Spanish form
of the ñames thus: Antiqua y Mystica Orden Rosae Crucis, giving us the initials again
of AMORC. In some other lands the complete ñame is used or abbreviated to A. A.
Ordinis Rosae A. A. Crucis, or AAORROC, or "A. A. O." or "A. O." However.
such abbreviations are used only when public papers or other matters are to be veiled.
but not in connection with official documents. And, always, the symbol of the Order
is a cross with one red rose in its center. The use of a number of roses on various
crosses or around a cross, does not make the official, ancient emblem. Such modifica-
tions indícate that the person or group of persons using them are not connected with
the above Order—The AMORC.
The Order of the Rosy Cross (Latin, Rosae Crucis), as the organization has been
officially known for so many centuries, derived its ñame from the early symbol of the
society.
The symbol is composed of a cross with a red rose in its center. A great many
persons believe that the cross as a symbol had its origin ín the early day of Christi-
anity. That is a mistake. It can be found on the walls of tombs and temples in Egypt,
and may be seen on the two obelisks that were sent from Heliopolis to London and
New York City. The cross has always had several meanings, closely related. To
the mystics of Egypt or the Orient who were the fírst to use it, it meant man's body
in either a posture of salutation to the rising sun (with arms held out in horizontal
position) or man s body being crucified by the labors, triáis, tests and sufferings of life.
The rose w
r
as considered symbolical of the inner consciousness, the spirit, the
SOUL of man. The fact that the rose gradually opened from a tightly closed bud into
full bloom and expression. and then slowly faded, drooped and passed out of sight,
made itself suggestive of the Soul of man which comes into the youthful body impris-
oned, slowly evolves to manifestation and beauty, and slowly weakens in its exprés-
sion until it seems to be no more. The evolution of the rose seemed to typify the
evolution of man's Soul. Years of observation convinced these sages that the tests
and triáis of life, the experiences, lessons learned and suffering endured. contributed to
the evolution of the Soul; to them it seemed that the Soul of man was evolving through
the experiences of the body. Since the cross had ever been to them the symbol of the
body of man in its suffering, they added the rose to the cross and created the symbol
which has but one explanation. That is:
The Rose (Soul) evolves and gains beauty and fragrance
while being crucified upon the Cross (the body).
From this symbol and the term Rosy Cross, we have the term Rosicrucian as the
English form of the ñame of the organization which now exists in every civilized land.
Through the experience of life man’s Soul and understanding evolves: through the
united experiences of thousands of members in one brotherhood the Soul of the group
of persons or even of a national affair.
SU
PREM
E
T
E
M
P
L
E
,
EGYPTIAN
M
U
S
E
U
M
.
LIBRARY
AND
F
RA
N
C
IS
BACON
A
U
D
I
T
O
R
I
U
M
These
are
but
a
fe
w
of
the
Buildings
at
the
National
Headquarters,
Rosicrucian
Park,
San
José,
California
26 THE LIGHT OF EGYPT
That is the explanation of the symbol and the ñame. It is age-old, honored.
respected, and gloriñed in every clime, and in its ñame has man achieved and suc-
ceeded beyond his fondest dreams.
THE PRESENT AMERICAN ORGANIZATION
The year 1909 was a very important year in the ¿ictivities of many Rosicrucian
jurisdictions, and in the history of many metaphysical organizaticns. To the Rosicru-
cians it was the year of new birth.
For several years prior to 1909 many men, and several women, of profound meta­
physical training and preparation journeyed to Europe, and in either France or Eng-
land, received Initiation into the Rosicrucian Order to enable them to assist in the
newer activities for America.
Two characters stand out in the history of the present American organization.
One of these is Mrs. Col. May Banks-Stacey, a descendant of the D'Arcys of France,
and through blood relationship with the nobility of England, a high Initiate of the
oldest Rosicrucian organization of London and Paris. She was also an initiate of the
Order in India, and was appointed an American Legate of the Indian Jurisdiction.
The other is Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, formerly President for many years of the
New York Institute for Psychical Research, editor of several metaphysical magazines,
and a co-worker with Elbert (Fra) Hubbard of Roycroft fame, and Mrs. Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, both of whom were desirous of helping in the Rosicrucian work, and rendered
unusual services.
Dr. Lewis went to France in the summer of 1909, and after consultation with the
Supreme Master of the French Jurisdiction, was placed under the directicn of the Euro-
pean Supreme Council, whose sessions finally agreed to the plans for America, and
authorized the French Jurisdiction to sponsor them.
Dr. Lewis returned from Europe and began at once his official activities. In the
winter of 1909 he held coníerences with a number of those who had been initiated
abroad, and who were familiar with the rules and regulations ol the foreign jurisdic-
tions and acquaínted with the Supreme Officers.
V V V V V
In the summer of 1916 the work of the Order had spread so rapidly in America,
and so many new branches were in operation, that a national convention of all officers
and delegates was held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for one week. At this convention
the principal officers of every American branch and the delegates from every State
were present. Sessions were held during the day and evening with lectures, demon-
strations, and discussions.
It was at this great convention that a committee composed of leading characters
in many other fraternal organizations, devoted their time to a study of the national
constitution of the new Order as it had been worked out by the supreme officers in
the years preceding. On the last day of the convention the committee read the pro-
posed constitution and it was adopted, paragraph by paragraph, by the delegates
assembled. Other matters of great importance to the Order were detinitely settled at
this convention, and at the one held in New York in the summer of 1918.
THE GREAT WORK TODAY
The North American continent constitutes the largest of all the jurisdictions of
the Rosicrucians which operate throughout the world under the ñame of AMORC.
In the United States, Cañada, México, and the dependencies of the United States,
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 27
there are College, University, and Lodge Branches, as well as study groups in every
ímportant city and town, with many reading rooms and study halls always open to
those who are associated with the work. National conventions have been held in the
United States, and hundreds of newspaper and magazine articles have appeared in
the public prcss, within the last twenty years, referring to the unusual features offered
by the Rosicrucian system of education and evolution.
V V V
How You May Become a Member
READ VERY CAREFULLY
WHAT MEMBERSHIP MEANS
Membership in the AMORC means all that is included in most other fraternities,
plus many features not offered by any other.
Fraternal membership has so many valúes that it has been popular for ages. Both
men and women of the present day are rapidly filling the ranks of hundreds of asso-
ciations solely because of the personal, direct and indirect. benefits to be derived.
Perhaps this desire for alliance and association with others of like mind is born of the
human tendeney toward the formation of clans, which tendeney is responsible for the
building of hamlets, towns, cities, countries, and nations.
Membership in the AMORC means that each member is affiliated with a large
and incrcasing body of Progressive men and women whose solé purpose in life centers
around the desire to advance, succeed, and become unusually contented with the build-
ing of a better life and the enjoyment of the rich blessings of life.
Each member is part of the great work. The work is to master the obstacles in
life and make the world better for the individual. Each member, therefore, is kept in
contact with all the progressive methods for bringing about such results.
In other words, each member is kept informed through his or her Lodge, of all
the information. advice. and help that the Order possesses which will help them in
their personal affairs. Through correspondence. through the monthly magazine, The
Rosicrucian Digest, and through contact with members, unusual help is offered by
those who have had all kinds of experiences in life and are ready to help others to
master similar ones.
In traveling from city to city, in planning large or small affairs of life, in seeking
to impreve one's business or improve the home life, and in thousands of other affairs,
the association with organization offers aid and advice.
THE FREE INSTRUCTIONS AND LESSONS
In addition to all the other benefits, the AMORC offers to its members a special
help. This is its graded course of instruction. The AMORC is not a correspondence
school. Its lessons and prívate instructions are not for sale on any basis. They are
given freely to those who desire them. Not all members are pursuing the courses of
instruction: for many of them have been through the grades, have long since completed
the regular courses of study and are not on the student lists at all. They retain their
active membership in AMORC because of the very benefits to be derived from asso­
ciation and intímate contact with the Order.
28 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
INVITATION TO BECOME MEMBER
Those to whom this book is sent receive a letter usually inviting them to become
3 Member of the Order. None are invited to become mere students of a course of
instruction. As a member of the Order you are entitled to every benefit of any kind
the Order has to offer and which it may add in the future.
By filling out the enclosed application form—which should accompany this book
—you accept our invitation to unite with us. That application will be examined by a
Committee and passed upon. If for any reason you cannot be accepted you will be
notified. Otherwise, you will be accepted and a formal notice sent.
BECOMING A STUDENT
When an application appears to be acceptable, it is turned over to one of the
Class Masters and Secretarles for personal attention.
SECOND. the applicant is immediately notified of the acceptance and is sent with-
out any delay the preliminary Secret Mandamus Number One, which contains valu-
able information, enabling the applicant to immediately attune himself and relate him-
self with certain fundamental principies of the organization. While the applicant is
studying this very important, prívate document, the Master of his class and certain
scribes of the Order make further investigations to determine how best to proceed with
the applicant in order to give him or her the very best instruction and personal help.
This results in a Second Mandamus sent to the applicant the second week and other
similar prívate documents are sent each week for six weeks, thereby giving the new
member an excellent foundation for personal development and experience with import­
ant laws and Cosmic principies.
THIRD, the applicant also receives a Membership Identification Card, number,
and certain signs and words as he advances, whereby he becomes recognized as an
initiated member of the organization.
FOURTH, thereafter he receives weekly the specially prepared prívate instruc-
tions, lectures, and lessons, with daily and weekly experiments and exercises which
enable him to master each step easily and properly. The lessons and lectures each
week require a part of one evening of the week for study or reading (there being noth-
ing to memorize—everything remains in the mind through the unique method used by
the Rosicrucians to teach its laws), and the exercises and experiments require only a
few minutes each night, morning or noontime, at the members convenience. These
exercises and experiments develop certain faculties from the very first lessons.
FIFTH, the lessons relate to life’s immediate problems as well as the future needs
of the member. They help the members to master the obstacles and overcome condi­
tions from the very start. Not vague theories, no speculations about conditions in the
"ethereal realms" that have no bearing upon riur present life, but laws and principies
that men and women must use here and now in very practical ways.
SIXTH, the monthly prívate magazine, called "The Rosicrucian Digest," is sent
to each member each month without additional fee. It contains special instructions
and lessons on general life problems, and the questions and answers relating to new
principies as well as reports from other members and articles by leading persons in
the country on what the Rosicrucian Order is doing for them.
SEVENTH, each member, regardless of the study course, is entitled to the many
departmental services of the Order, which includes help by correspondence and
through our metaphysical methods, as well as additional information by mail on
points in the lectures, aid in health or related matters, without any additional fees.
THE LIGHT OF EGYPT 29
EIGHTH, the privilege of mecting with other members in the same locality as
xoon as a certain stage of the work is reached where the members can come together
once a week in our own Temple in various cities, cr in special meeting places for
mutual discussion and help.
The graded, systematic lessons, lectures and experiments continué week after
week with special helps to make each member proficient, until the member completes
the first grade.
From this point onward the member may proceed with the higher lessons grade
after grade through all the grades of the Work. Thus the course of study is as com­
plete as any offered by the largest universities so far as length of time and devotion to
development are concerned.
V V V
Fees and Dues
The Order is strictly a brotherhood operating as do all other fraternities in the
world. Membership in the Rosicrucian Order carries with it the many benefits distinct
to aII fraternities and many others quite unique. Like unto all fraternities there are
membership dues. payable menthly. And. there is a nominal "registration fee." This
fee and the monthly dues of a small amount are the contributions on the part of mem­
bers to the general operating funds of the Order, and take care of its propaganda
expenses, its building funds, national and international humanitarian activities, and its
donations to many scientific expeditions and methods of research and investigaron.
Such fees and dues have nothing to do with the source of instruction offered to
members.
In addition to the general activities of the Order, the Rosicrucians conduct the
courses as outlined on previous pages. These courses of study are given frecly and
without charge or fees of any kind to members of the Order. Therefore we wish you
to keep in mind that the study and instruction work is a separate and distinct feature
of the Order, not found in any other fraternal organization. and for which our mem­
bers do not pay.
The Supreme Council has purposely made the "Registration Fee" very nominal.
It is fíve dollars. payable with the application. The momhly dues are two dollars,
payable on the first of each month. These fees include all the benefits of the Order’s
activities. There are no other fees or assessments, or books which must be purchased
in order to study, and no limitations to the degree of advancement that members may
make in their studies. The monthly magazine, "The Rosicrucian Digest,” is also given
free to all members who are taking the course of study by correspondence from the
Supreme Lodge.
The monthly dues are to be paid by members only so long as they desire to retain
active membership in the Order. Frecly you may imite with AM ORC—freely you
may withdraw at any time.
30 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
T H E E G Y P T I A N
C A R T O U C H E
SOM E RO SIC RU C IA N SYM BOLS
<T>
C : i ^ >
<L'
T H E
R O S Y C R O S S
W
ív^í^v)
T H E R . C .
T R I A N G L E
S E A L O F T H E
S U P R E M E C O U N C I L
In all recent International conventions or Council sessions held in foreign lands,
the AMORC of America has been invited to particípate with the other AMORC
Jurisdiction.s, and tbe American AMORC is the only Rosicrucian organization in
America ever invited to have a part in these sessions.
Today the AMORC in many lands is operating in a new cycle and in cióse
affiliation and co-operation, and the American branch is an inseparable part of this
unique body of Rosicrucian workers.
V V V
Final Instructions
VERY IMPORTANT
There are several ways in which this book may have come into your hands. I’he
book is intended to be a prívate one, carefully and discreetly distributed to only those
who seem to be worthy of admission into the Order.
It may have been handed to you by someone who wishes you to realize that
there is something in life that may answer your desires and end your quest. It may
have been passed along to you by a friend or acquaintance who feels that it will
arouse an inquiry in your mind. Therefore, there may be no application blank or letter
of invitation with the book, and in that case if you feel interested you should write
at once to the Supreme Secretary and ask for an application form. If your inquiry
appears to be sincere the Secretary will invite you to file an application with him.
On the other hand, you may have written to headquarters for this book and it
may have come to you by mail or otherwise, accompanied by a letter and an Applica­
tion Blank. In such a case the letter will invite you to become a member. It is a
direct invitation issued after your request has been properly considered.
HOW TO PROCEED
FIRST: Fill out the Application Blank very carefully. Bear in mind that YOU
ARE BEING INVITED and not solicited in the ordinary way as with schools or
some other movement.
THE L1GHT OF EGYPT 31
Therefore, DO NOT LAY THIS INVITATION ASIDE without writing a
letter to the Supreme Secretary and telling him just what you expect to do. The safest
way is to send your Application Blank at once and make sure cf your membership
before the privilege is automatically withdrawn.
SECOND: Having answered all the questions in the Application Blank, sign it
properly and endose with it the Registration Fee of Five Dollars. If for any reason
you cannot endose the Registration Fee at once, be sure to send the Application
Blank and state why you do not endose the Fee. Your application in such a case will
be passed upon and you will be notified of your admission or rejection. The pre-
payment of the Fee W ILL SAVE YOU MUCH TIME in starting with the studies
and immediate benefits of the various welfare departments.
THIRD: Mail your Application Blank and Registration Fee promptly to the
Supreme Secretary. Register your letter if it contains cash, and if you send a check
or money order make it payable to AMORC FUNDS.
Acknowledgement should reach you within ten days or less. If you do not hear
from the Secretary in that time, write him in detail. If your application is rejected
for any reason whatsoever your Registration Fee will be réturned to vou with a
frank explanation.
V V V
ADDRESS ALL MAIL TO
Rosicrucian Brotherhood A M O R C
R O S IC R U C IA N PA R K , SA N JO SE. C A L IF O R N IA
Long Distance Telephones: Ballard 8295, 8296
International Cable Address: "AMORC.O" Radio Station 6KZ
32 THE L1GHT OF EGYPT
A M O R C Directory
The following national and international branches of the Rosi­
crucian Order throughout the world are affiliated with the Interna­
tional Fraternity known from antiquitv as A N T IQ U A E A R C A N A E
O R D IN IS R O S A E R U B E A E ET A U R E A E C R U C IS . The organ­
ization is not affiliated or connected in any way with any other society
or with any cult or movement.
THE NORTH AMERICAN JURISDfCTION
( Including the United States, Dominion of Cañada, Alaska, México,
Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Republic of Panama,
the W est Indies, Lower California, and all land under the protection
of the United States of America.)
Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C ..........-
.................................... ...............
........................... Dean of the University and Imperator of the Order
Ralph M . Lewis, F. R. C .................................... Supreme Grand Secretary
Charles Dana Dean, F. R. C .................................. National Grand Master
Dr. Arthur B. Bell, F. R. C ....... . Director of the W elfare Department
A. León Batchelor, F. R. C ............................ Director of Correspondence
Harry L. Shibley, F. R. C ...............Director of the Editorial Department
Divisional Secretaries with Grand Lodges of the Order are located
in: New York City; Boston, Massachusetts: W aterbury, Connecticut:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Tampa, Florida; San Antonio. Texas;
Chicago, Illinois; San Francisco, California: Vancouver. Cañada; St.
Louis, Missouri; W ashington, D. C., and other cities.
Spanish-American Section, conducting the work of the Order in
English and Spanish, includes the Latin-American countries of North
and South America, with headquarters in Puerto Rico, and Grand
Lodges in México and other countries.
Chartered Branches exist in nearly every large city of the United
StB 1
0S
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
Grand Lodges and their branches are in active operation in all
civilized lands, the most important Grand Lodges being located in
England, Denmark, Holland, France, Germany, Austria, Russia, China,
Japan, East Indies, Australia, Switzerland, and India.
The College of the Order in the Orient is located in India.
Public Lectures and Free Reading Rooms
are to be found in many of the larger cities of the East and W est in
the United States. Addresses will be given upon application.
To reach the Administration Halls and Supreme Lodges of the
Order in North America, address all mail as follows:
AMORC, Rosicrucian Park, San José, California
o /w4
aUL> m
w :
V i
C23
.
(Entns
Registered U. S. Patent Office
The matter contained in thi* book is officially issued through
the Supreme Council of AMORC under the protection of the above
emblem. as are all the sealed, secret and private lectures, lessons,
diagrams, dissertations, scientific postulations, philosophical dis-
courses, and academic studies of the Fratemity. The above Synv-
bols were duly registered scdely for the protection of the work oí
the Rosicrucian Order in North America, and the AMORC is the
only Rosicrucian organization authorized to use thi* Registered
imprint and symbols in the United States»
F R I N 1 I D I N T H E U . O . A .
R O S I C R U C I A N P R I S I . L T D . ------S A N J O O S . C A L I F O R N I A
_
_ -
