{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__jacoby_spirit_wakamussen___immortality_of_the_soul.pdf","mytitle":"Immortality Of The Soul","mylang":"de"}
-. • .-
• . ... •
The
Immortality of the Soul
Written down by Samuel A. Jacoby and Inspired
by Henry K. Wakamussen in Spirit.
This is a spiritual message to humanity which we
hope will enlighten the material world to a better
understanding of Spiritual Unfoldment.
THE AUSTIN PUBLISHING CO.
LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA.
Tt^UstUjUugy
P-
SAMUEL A JACOBY
Copyright 1931
By SAMUEL A. JACOBT.
To my loving sweetheart and wife who
has helped to bring the spirit world to
me, in loving affection, I dedicate
this book.
7876! 6
Received by Inspiration
from
DR. HENRY K. WAKAMUSSEN
In Spirit
"The God- Within that is in me may He live with me in all
Eternity."
"May the love of God that is mine within my heart be
consecrated to Him to all the world therein."
"May the Effulgence of His Heart be as mine to shine
within me as the noonday sun shines for all."
"May the Illumination of His name be mine to bring to
all the world the love that echoes in my heart for
all mankind."
"May His glory be mine to lighten my footsteps to bring
the joy of His love to all God's children who be
lieve in Him and who hear my (our) voice, and
read our inspired book, 'The Immortality of the
Soul.'
"
From the "Spirit World"
GIVEN TO ME THRU "INSPIRATION" AND WRITTEN
BY ME EXACTLY AS IT CAME BY SPIRITUAL
RADIO — A LATENT FORCE.
"The World" is eagerly looking for and awaiting the
return of "Jesus the Christ." When the "Christ-mind"
is in spiritual fiber of each soul, each man "The God with
in each soul contains the God attribute called the "Christ-
mind": the highest spirit form of intelligence, born into
the seed of each soul at birth and before conception takes
form. "The Christ-seed is implanted in all men at their
birth, hence each man, each soul, is of God" and the
Christ-mind-within.
Samuel A. Jacoby.
Los Angeles, 6-8-31
8:50 P.M.
'What Gain?"
What were the gain if all the world you won,
And lost the soul God gave, or left undone
The work God meant, as mortals, you should do?
Throughout eternity what were the gain to you?
What were the gain if all be bitter loss?
What gain were cur's but for Jesus' cross !
Then should you whine if one with the Divine
You lose the world, but save this soul of thine?
What were the loss if but the world you gain,
And thrust back into God's hand but your soul's pain !
What were the loss if heaven receives you not?
What is the world, then, if this be your lot?
William Shakespeare, in spirit.
The
Immortality of the Soul
CHAPTER I.
Every man is a soul. Every man has a soul. Every
body should so live as to realize that eternal life is within
the soul and manifest in every fibre the Divinity of himself,
and the Immortality of the Soul. We can so enlighten
ourselves by right, clean living that we should be able to
see more than the material essence of things, more than
the material side of life. There is the spiritual side which
has been too much neglected since the dawn of the new era.
The Christ life must prevail in Man in the fulfillment
of the Law, and the evolution of mankind must go on in
his Immortality and Spiritual Unfoldment.
We should take unto ourselves the Symbols of Christ's
teaching as I have been guided in all things; especially
since my dearly beloved wife and soul mate passed on a
short time ago, when a great light came to me in reality
of God, and the real meaning of life for man, and his up-
liftment for the Soul. A great joy came to me indescrib
able in words. I saw a halo in everything. To me a ser
mon was in everything, a stone, a tree, a flower, a build
ing, all, all seemed to echo the great sublime joy and glad
ness of heart, and the tears, first of sadness, then of glad
ness of a great something—filled me with an abounding
desire to speak and lecture to the people in the world, and
tell them what I found. It seemed to me that everyone
8 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ought to know what great joy is in store for them when
they find God, the God within, when in reality they are
finding themselves which in reality is seeing the Light,
and getting the understanding of life and truth and happi
ness and peace of mind.
Jesus said, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth
shall set you free." Truly then, here is man's liberation
from bondage, and the glory of God is at once made mani
fest to him who will see, who desires to know, and under
stand Christ's parables .Christ's teachings.
So many people wish to "die," when left alone, after
their loved ones pass on. I was also morose for a short
time, when my dearly beloved spoke to me in a spiritualist's
meeting and quickly said—I am not dead... I live. There is
no death." Later on when I was debating with myself
what to do with the ashes of my dearly beloved one, she
quickly disposed of that by telling me to put them in our
lot which is located in Woodlawn Cemetery, and again
cautioned me by saying "/ am not dead, just deposit the
receptacle in the grave and put a marker, or small stone,
for identification thereon. Do not put up a stone." And
so the light began and the skies cleared for me and I sold
and gave away all my household effects and departed
October 24th, 1930, for Los Angeles, California. But while
I was debating with myself how to come to Los Angeles,
my dearly beloved again came to my rescue of mind and
said, "You are going via Columbus," meaning Colombia,
the first port of call, after our ship left New York City.
(We made about ten stops on our way to Los Angeles,)
where I arrived November 20th and as quickly as I could
locate a spiritualistic church, I attended it and found an
added joy in that. I got messages from not only my own
dearly beloved one but my dear parents, came and brought
me many messages, all love and words of cheer from our
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 9
dearly beloved friend and advisor, "Jesus the Christ.'*
"Be of Good Cheer," what wonderful words of soul unfold-
ment! What joy in upliftment! And then a great peace
came to me of understanding of life in its fulness and joy
of living! I wanted to live and live for a hundred years and
more and expound this great legacy ! Truly that was left to
me by my own dear beloved mate on earth now living in
spirit, who is always near, always with me, always helping
me in my thoughts and actions. What a great soul inspira
tion she is to me—always encouraging me and telling me
how happy she is by my goodness to her all our years to
gether, and my efforts in that direction to others; and that
they all (in spirit) know what I am doing, and they are all
pleased with me, and they all say I make them "so happy."
I use their exact words, and so it is easy for me to see and
know and believe that we live all the time, that we do not
die, "there is no death," and what we call death is a lib
eration of "our real self." The soul is free to go on and
learn to see God in all His firmament of grandeur and
beauty! Oh, my many friends, every where, the joy of
living is in death! Yes, death to the body, when we are
through with it, and when we enter the spirit land we
greet all our loved ones and our many friends come to
visit us in our own domain, wherein we will dwell for a
long time, and we all truly find a peace—that peace of
understanding that does not come to anyone, except we
who have lost a soul mate —a true heart's Love!
"God is Good," He does not visit any dire thing or evil
upon us, His children, His loved ones. What human
parent desires evil to come to his offspring? Truly, then,
we, you and I, are God's offspring. We are made in the
image and likeness of Him who transcends all things.
Who knows all and sees all. Who brings all things to us
for our good in every way. We must have faith in God,
10 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
in all things. We must have faith in ourselves as the next
step in the great scheme of life. A most wonderful
thing, some call it an adventure, and what wonderful
things are here for us when we begin to see the light, and
when light comes we get understanding, the darkness dis
appears, a great joy of supreme happiness surrounds us
in every thing we do and think about and in everyone we
see and meet, and talk to. "Heaven is here," all around
us, we see the flowers with a new beauty in leaf and color,
we hear the birds sing with a more beautiful voice, we see
a fullness in life, the joy of living, and we seek the sun
shine to walk therein and see God and feel His presence,
and we know the happiness that is meant for us! We
want to impart this great joy to all, to every one we
meet, and then your face lights up and God takes posses
sion of your soul. The light, the smile on your face shines
out and people see and know and recognize something per
haps strange, but it is good to look upon.
Truly, my friends, God is good and to know God, the
God within us, is to have all His bounty, and to share with
Him— "all that the Father has," and all that the Father
has is ours. But who believes that statement ever thought
it is a fact? Oh, ye men of little faith, groping about in
the darkness of this earth's existence, satisfied with the
crumbs of life when you might have the "Fullness of Life"
even Bread from Heaven, the "Manna of Heaven," the light
and understanding of all things for the asking.
"Ask and thou shalt receive." "Knock and it shall be
opened unto you."
Ask God within yourself to bring, to give you the light
in all things that you may see and know and understand your
place and your duties in this life, and as you listen the voice
will speak and you will hear the commands as it has been
given to me, and many others before me, and you will know
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 11
what is right in Love and Justice to your fellow men ! God
said, "Love one another" —Truly a most beautiful command,
and if we live up to this thought what a happy world there
would be—all peace, all harmony, all comfort, all joy. Strife
would cease among families, wars would cease among
nations; harmony and understanding would prevail in all
the world, and in all its people and God's great abound
ing Love would so shine out in all and bring to us added
Love for our fellow men to make at once a land, truly that
flows with "milk and honey," a land of perpetual sunshine
—a veritable Paradise on Earth, and when we knock the
door opens to each and all of us, God's own children, we
ask for light, for enlightenment and we quickly see and
feel Him answering our call. He is ever present and with
us, and we do the things meant for us to do with a glad
ness of heart and a willingness of joy in every fiber of our
bodies. We hasten to help and assist in all the good we
can do and see as our duty and more.
Unlimited powers come to us and the desires of the
soul and the heart beat quickly with a gladsomeness never
felt before and the love of doing and the love of giving be
comes our first and foremost thought, and our hearts beat
with a new love for God and His only begotten Son, Jesus
the Christ. Love transcends all things we think about.
Love transcends all material thoughts and things, and a
great sense of happiness prevails in our whole being, a joy
of life comes quickly, and we see all things in a new light
—a light more beautiful than any thing we ever dreamed
of before. We hear the golden strains of music, to me
etherial tones of love and gladness; my heart beats with
a rapture of that fulness of life that man knows not on
this earth unless he has "asked" and "knocked" and knows
that God in His fulness for mankind is ever present
with His abundant supply, and all is for the asking, all is
12 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ours, all is within the breast of man, in the heart and in
the soul. What heart will beat and not know God, the God
within that lives in us and for us!
"I and the Father within" are one and inseperable,"
who will believe that? Who will believe that "with God
all things are possible," and most surely all things for man
are not only possible but within his reach, they are in
man's hands, they are his very own, they are surely his for
the asking, if you believe. If you believe in Him, you also
trust in Him, the Father who is within your self, now, al
ways and forever —God is within your soul —and your soul
is you —the Spirit of God who is always within you, and
dwells within your breast.
Oh ! My dear friends, everywhere, as I sit in the early
hours of the morning and keep my appointment with my
noble friend in Spirit Land, he is thinking of men and
bringing to me the inspiration of God to write this book
for humanity that it may reach all mankind for their good
and upliftment, and I bring to all through the Great Love
of God, for you and me, for us all everywhere.
The Love of God that I have in my breast I share
with you and all mankind, that you may also find therein
a ray of Him, a ray of the Light that is mine, the Light
that transcends all, the light that will raise up each heart
to a better understanding of God and Jesus —the Way
Showers, as they have been to me in all ways and at all
times.
I will now tell you of a great light that came to me
not long ago when leaving the steps of a spiritualistic
church one beautiful Sunday afternoon. As I walked
down the street towards my car, I happened to look down
on the sidewalk and there lay for me a little white paper
covered pamphlet, much trampled upon, and there it was,
for me, an added gift. I picked it up, shook off the dust
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 13
and clay and looked at the words on the cover, and behold,
the words stood out like diadems in the sky of blue —"Tell
Them of Me." At once I associated these beautiful words
with my good friend and associate, "Jesus the Christ" and
my heart bounded with joy, a great joy, a happiness that
fairly shook my whole being. I could feel something new,
something added, something coming to me from God, and
those in spirit land, who are always in me and in my life,
and in my thoughts. I quickly put the little pamphlet in
my coat pocket, as I would a treasure from Heaven ; I knew
and felt a joy that was supreme. I felt that the words
therein had a great meaning for me, if for no one else, and
as I rode in my car I felt my face light up as if the words
were written for me and for a good and added purpose for
my fellow man, and truly my friends, the tears welled up
in my heart and in my eyes when I quickly sensed a feel
ing that perhaps my own dear beloved sweetheart directed
my steps to that little booklet, and that it was meant for me,
to help me over the rough places in my sadness of heart,
and as soon as I reached my hotel I quickly sat down
and read over and over the beautiful title—"Tell Them of
Me," and as I read this little booklet I soon found it was
somewhat different from the words, (in a way only) that
I readily or so quickly attached to it, and if anything, pos
sibly more beautiful, the story related to a maiden who was
in the throes of consumption. She was in darkness, fear
ing death and saying over and over to herself and to those
around her, "I am going to hell ! I am going to hell !" and
as she lay in bed in great pain and suffering, in reality the
tortures of hell, she asked for a dear friend, a nurse, and
after a while this nurse came and saw her and calmed her,
and told her she was not "going to hell." That if she
would think of God and Jesus they would come and visit
her in her sick chamber and help her to see them both, and
14 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
believe that God and Jesus really existed for her and in
her, and that they would show her the light, the Light and
Life of understanding. The nurse remained that day and
all that night and eased her pains by telling her there was
no hell, and that there was no death; that death meant a
cleansing and a liberation of her soul —"a new Life." After
several days the darkness seemed to clear somewhat for
this lovely maiden sick in the throes of death, but as the
end drew near and nearer, she called out again, "I am go
ing to hell, I am going to hell!" The nurse again quickly
said, "No, my dear, there is no hell, believe in God
and Jesus, that His only begotten Son died for you, and
washed away your sins." In a few moments this maiden
passed on to that bourne where the Light begins to shine
for all weary souls who do not begin to see the light here.
The errors (we call sins) are before us and the awakening
begins in real earnest and we begin to see with spiritual
eyes, and to hear with spiritual ears. The rays of cosmic
consciousness enter our mind—the soul, and the awakening
comes with the first rays of God's spiritual sun, the pene
trating ether of the gladsome event of liberation from the
bondage of our body and the earth and our past material
life.
CHAPTER II.
"Eyes have they but they do not see. Ears have they
but they will not hear."
And Paul the Apostle said thus to the Galatians —
"Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which
are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness ;
considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.
"Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law
of Christ.
"For if a man think himself to be something, when he
is nothing, he deceiveth himself.
"But let every man prove his own work and then shall
he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.
"For every man shall bear his own burden."
Jesus said: Nevertheless I tell you the truth, for if
I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you:
but if I go, I will send him unto you. And he, when he is
come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of
righteousness, and of judgment: of sin, because they be
lieve not on me, of righteousness, because I go to the
Father, and ye behold me no more., of judgment, because
the Prince of this world hath been judged. I have yet
many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.
"Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth, is come, he
shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak
from himself: but what things soever he shall hear, these
shall he speak: and he shall declare unto you the things
that are to come.
"He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and
shall declare it unto you.
15
16 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
"All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine:
therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and shall declare
it unto you. A little while and ye behold me no more ; and
again a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I
go to the Father.
"They said therefore, What is this that he saith, a
little while? We know not what he saith. Jesus perceived
that they were desirous to ask him, and he said unto them,
"Do ye inquire among yourselves concerning this, that
I said, a little while, and ye behold me not, and again a
little while, and ye shall see me? Verily, verily, I say unto
you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall re
joice: ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be
turned into joy.
"A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because
her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child,
she remembereth no more the anguish, for the joy that a
man is born into the world, and ye therefore now have
sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall re
joice, and your joy no one taketh away from you.
"And in that day ye shall ask me no question. Verily,
verily, I say unto you, If ye shall ask anything of the
Father, he will give it you in my name. Hitherto have ye
asked nothing in my name : ask, and ye shall receive, that
your joy may be made full."
In the name of God—your Father-God, and in the
name of Jesus Christ, His Son —ask of God, for His bounty
for all mankind. Ask for that which is nearest your
heart; ask Jesus for anything you want. And God told
Jesus to say unto the people :
"Ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be
made full." When men have received the light of under
standing, when men truly see God, and believe that Jesus
was sent as a first born from God to bring to the peopde
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 17
who sorely needed a guide to lead them out of the wilder
ness of their blindness, the mind blinded with lust and
serving false gods, when the belief really comes that all
this is true, when men are willing to open their eyes
to the great light of the Divinity of God—the Divinity
of Jesus who came to save the world and all the people
therein; when men are willing to give up riotous lives
and think of something other than their material exist
ence; when men are willing to truly live a clean, noble,
wholesome life; when men are willing to abide by God's
laws and to see the light of understanding of all good
therein ; when men will ask for light to see the better side
of themselves in everything material —then and then only,
will come the spiritual light —the light that brings a faith
in a Supreme Being, a Higher Power, a Master Light will
come into being in man's mind, and he will see as he has
never seen before, and he will recognize that he himself
has a light of something not in his imagination in years
gone before, a new light ; perhaps a strange thought will be
awakened in him, that he is more than an animal, more
than an offspring of a monkey or other species of that
kind. He will begin to think, to reason, to see for himself,
and if men will think for themselves and not rely on others,
the thoughts will quickly come, of the real man, that he
has a power not known before, and the intelligence of that
power soon manifests itself, and as the light comes, so the
darkness of his mind goes and an understanding more clear
than before possesses the man's whole being and the vast
powers of "God" become attuned to him, and "a some
thing" fills his thinking body of being able to do and ac
complish the things he wished to do for a long time., and
so finally the man is believing something he never felt
could be true; he is beginning to believe in himself more
and more; he is now using this light, this new under
18 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
standing, this new found mental power, this new thought
of being able to think his own thoughts, with the help of
this new found power—a new God in his thinking mo
ments —has revealed to him a new source of supply, things
are coming to him that were impossible to his former
mind. Every thing is turning to his advantage, and oppor
tunities not within his reach are now coming to his hand.
A new joy has found place in his heart, and gladness has
come with this new light, a light of happiness, and peace
has come and God lives in the man's being; his heart is
glad with living, and what has the man found? He has
found that man is, truly, a creature of ability, a great
thinking power; that with thinking and reason and learn
ing he can accomplish anything his heart desires. The new
light that has come to this man is one of individuality, a
belief in himself. He has created within himself a new
personality, a new man born of God with a new under
standing, a vision perhaps of big things, of greater things
to do not alone for himself, but for the world.
Imagination comes into the mind and problems are
solved, hitherto unknown; books are found never within
his grasp; people every where are glad to meet this man
who possesses a magnet that draws master minds to him
and shows him what he is and what he is to do. He opens
up a new field of energy, new thought, new powers are
his in all things—there is no limit to what man can do.
He is beginning to see for himself, the light is becoming
clearer and clearer, a new vision is coming; he can think
for himself, and with these new thoughts of faith in him
self, with success and prosperity his very own, to think his
own thoughts, which come from God, who is always with
us, man has truly found the Pearl of Great Price—the God
—within himself ,and the priceless gift, called Faith has
come—the faith that has enabled the man to overcome all
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 19
obstacles ; he believes in himself, he can do what he wishes ;
he can go where he likes ; nothing is beyond his reach, for
God is within the man and God was always there; God is
always within the reach of every man —of us all. God
lives in the heart of every man; God is the soul attribute
of every man ; God is in every thing that is good for man.
Man possesses the Divinity of God. Jesus possessed the
greatest Divinity of God. Jesus possessed the soul like
ness of God, and recognized God as his Father from whom
he came into being conceived by God, and born as man,
with Joseph and Mary; and God sent Jesus to bring a
light to mankind of that day.
A light was much needed to bring to the people a
realization of the darkness in their lives, of the falseness
and the errors. And the licentiousness of the people was
fast destroying mankind then —as we are doing today—
and Jesus came in reality to save not only the people of
that day from utter destruction of themselves as men, but
to save their souls, as children of God, and Jesus conquer
ed in the name of Him who sent him, and saved man from
his own destruction and final extinction
When Jesus came he found the people serving material
gods who were set up in their minds and hearts as gods of
idolatry in all forms. And God was wrath with the peo
ple because they had destroyed His laws that he gave to
Moses on the tables of stone, for His people, the children
of Israel; they were living unclean lives, and lust and
greed for gold were every where seen in this land of
plenty. And people set up gods for their own destruction,
exactly as we are doing today. The people had forgotten
about Moses and the Ten Commandments, and were fast
drifting on the rocks of annihilation, exactly as we are
doing today. The people were deaf to the Voice of God,
had hitherto manifested Himself as a spirit Voice to
20 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
man in his need for guidance, and for his prosperity. But
the spirit of God was always with man, and God breathed
into man His spirit of Life, and man was Divine. When
God found that man was setting up false gods, gods of
materiality, gods of destruction, such as gods of gold, for
lust, greed, selfishness, self aggrandizement, and other gods
of false beliefs, false hopes, then God manifested Himself
to man —for his salvation, and God in His All Wisdom
wished to save His children whom He had caused to be
born of Himself from utter destruction; so God came, the
Father-Mother-God of all mankind, came Himself, in the
personality of Jesus, God came to save the world and all
mankind, and all therein.
God came with Love in His heart for His dear chil
dren who had strayed from the path of righteousness, and
clean living, for clean thoughts and clean hearts were then
unknown; so God came in the personality of His Beloved
Son, Jesus —and Jesus was born as a man—of woman —
in the womb of Mary—even as you and I. God manifested
Himself in Jesus as a Great Light, a Great Power, that
He was to show mankind forever. And God left Jesus with
us, as a symbol of His great Love for all mankind. And
Jesus is with us today in our hearts, in our souls, and in
our body, as a spirit, as God Himself—for God manifested
in Jesus as the Father of all mankind, and Jesus brought
God's Love to show the people who were blind, the false
ness of their lives and the error of their way, that the
Father had not forsaken them, and still loved them, and
Jesus told them how to live, and that if they would live as
God directed they would be happy and would prosper and
God would deliver them from bondage of their enemies,
and raise them up out of the despair of their souls, which
they did not recognize because they had forsaken God, the
God of their Fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 21
Jesus brought a new light, a new vision, a new hope,
for the salvation of the people in the parables of the law
as God told him to do. And Jesus spoke of Him as the
Father-God, of all mankind who dearly loves His children.
And Jesus gave His life for mankind —in the saving of
God's children. And God sent Jesus to us that day, and
God lives in Jesus and Jesus lives in God, even as you and I
do today.
Jesus lives in the spirit of all men, and without that
spirit in all mankind the world today would be in utter
darkness and no living thing would be. Jesus brought the
spirit of God within himself for all mankind everywhere
for the salvation of man and his soul.
The spirit of God is in man's soul which is the God
within man, for man's prosperity is in God. If man will
believe this statement, the coming of Jesus was a direct act
of Love from God, for God so loved His children that He
sent His only Son to earth to save man from himself and to
bring a new light of guidance, the Light of Love and un
derstanding to all mankind, of a God who wishes happiness,
peace, joy, abundant supply and all good things to be a
bounty to all who will love Him, revere His name and to all
who will live a clean life and be a credit to the Father-
Mother-God. To him, as even unto Jesus, will be given
Everlasting Life and Dominion.
CHAPTER III.
Job 4:20. And Job in his affliction was sad and be
wailed his fate brought upon him by the death of his
family, seven sons and three daughters, and the loss of his
worldly treasurers, material all.
Job 3:3. And Job said: "Let the day perish in which
I was born."
Job 3 :20. "Wherefore is light given to him that is in
misery, and life unto the bitter in soul?"
Job 3 :21. "Who long for death but it cometh not. And
dig for it more than for hid treasures."
Job 3 :22. "Who rejoice exceedingly and are glad, when
they can find the grave?"
My friends : Look into this affliction of Job and his
lamentations, the loss of his seven sons and three daugh
ters and the further loss of all his worldly goods. Apply
it to your own losses in your life. What lesson will you
derive from Job's lamentations, and what was the cause for
it all ? Will you look into your life and find a reason there
in for Job's afflictions? Surely there was a reason, cause
and effect, and so let us think about all this, first by finding
out within ourselves if the same causes existed that took
our loved ones in what may seem to us as untimely deaths,
and a possible further loss of our material things we re
garded as valuables. // "cause and effect" are established
in your minds as facts, as they are in ours, surely then Job
gained nothing by bewailing his loss, for either he com
mitted sins in his past lives for which he must pay or his
present life of which we now speak, and these were of
such magnitude as to lose his entire family, a calamity of
22
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 23
such proportions that it seemed to destroy his faith in a
living God.
The other side of this momentous thought is: what
were the sins of the seven sons and three daughters? As
suredly it is that we destroy ourselves by our own wrong
doing, our wrong thinking, hence our wrong living and
our lives are thus shortened on earth wherein we find the
school of life, the school of experience for the soul pro
gression. When we shorten our lives here by these very
acts of sinful deeds we have sinned against our very soul,
the soul within, the Spirit of God within each soul, each
man, and we have brought much pain and suffering upon
ourselves in which God had no hand, for our God is a God
of Love, and not a God of vengeance, as many of you may
or do think. Our God wishes all His children to live and
to prosper, and to be happy, and to fully enjoy life and to
have all the bounties He has showered upon us all, and we
abuse these great gifts of abundant supply that God gave
to all mankind, and by destroying these countless and price
less treasures, men begin to destroy themselves by setting
up a cause of ill effect upon their heads and all those de
pendent upon them.
And Job said: "Let the day perish in which I was
born." Such a remark availeth a man nothing and Job
was a man full of the storehouse of knowledge, but he
transgressed the laws of God and dire punishment did he
bring down upon his house and his whole family. By
atonement only can we bring ourselves back to God and
not by foolish remarks and lamentations, which are for the
winds only and no one heareth.
And Job said : "Wherefore is light given to him that
is in misery," and our answer to this is, Light is given to
man to lighten his pathway thru earth life ,to see all things
for his good and to lighten his burdens and to make good
24 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
use of the light that brings understanding and happiness
and the comforts of life, peace and prosperity to the soul.
Light is given to man for a good purpose only; the light
that comes to man scatters the darkness of his mind, and
the illumination of that light that comes from God bright
ens his life in manifold ways from the cradle to the grave.
The light that comes to man that fills his heart to over
flowing joy at the thought that his life is worth while,
is the man who recognizes something within. A safety valve
has been created within that man. We shall call it a con
sciousness of a force, a spirit force, a power of great crea
tive value, a reality of a dominion of spiritual Light or
Great Illumination, we call God, and God abides in the
spiritual consciousness of all men who seek this light,
this power of great illumination, and God dwells
forever in the soul of man.. When the Light of God comes
to the man in misery, instead of complaining or lamenting
and covering the head or body or clothes with ashes of
despair and discouragement as Job did, let us reflect and
think and remove forever the cause and causes and ask
God for forgiveness in prayer and a cheerful heart, and
seek added light in overcoming these burdens of affliction
for further discouragement only closes the doors for help,
and the light goes out more and more and darkness again
sets in, and your misery becomes more pronounced by your
lack of Faith in God, and His Power to remove your afflic
tions.
And Job said: (3:20) "And life unto the bitter in
sold." Why was Job with all his knowledge bitter against
God in his soul? What had God to do with the faults or
sins or causes set in motion by Job that brought all this
affliction upon him? In the first place we are sure that
Job caused these ill effects and not God, because God is a
God of Love and Justice to all mankind, and God wants
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 26
all men to save themselves from misery and its attendant
afflictions by doing right and saving the soul for further
lives and progression towards ultimate prefection.
And Job said : (8:9) "For we are but of yesterday and
know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow."
We have this to say, That the first part of this paragraph
is not true. Job did not have the spirit of God within him
self when he allowed his faith of understanding to depart
and his light went out of him, and darkness was his.
We are not a part of yesterday, which is dead and
gone, we are always of today, meaning the light of to
day, the new dawn that always brings a new light, a new
understanding and a new understanding brings God closer
to our hearts, to ourselves and to our souls, and if we rec
ognize God in this renewing of the light each day we be
gin a new day of life and our life is renewed to the extent
of the light we see and believe we see, and our hopes and
aspirations are again awakened and with this new vision
we bring all things that we attract and God is again in our
hearts and the trials and tribulations of yesterday are
forgotten today. With a renewed faith established in our
hearts that we can bring to ourselves everything our
hearts desire.
And Job said: "We know nothing," that also is not
true today; a remark of that kind is born of a man with
out faith in himself and in a God of light—which should
be in every man. "Seek and ye shall find—Knock and it
shall be open unto you." When Job said he knew noth
ing, the light of understanding departed from him, and he
had forgotten the best that was in him. because his heart
was sore and his intellect weak and his sorrows brought
suffering and lamentations which avail us naught. Job
was inclined to say and cry out: "because our days upon
earth are a shadow."
26 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
If man will walk in the light of God from sunrise to
sunset, the light will bring peace of mind, peace of under
standing and the Way the Truth and the Light will follow
him, not a shadow, but as a constant beacon to show him
the Way and the Truth. The Truth is not in man today,
because the average man does not in reality live to see or
know the truth that would make him happy. Man has not
as yet accepted God as a God of Love, as a God of Wisdom,
as a God of Light, that will give him all that he needs for
this life's existence. When man will accept God in faith,
all the shadows of yesterday that Job spoke of will disap
pear like chaff in the wind, for our shadows are but the
darkness of the mind, and we have but darkened our in
tellect just to that degree, but if man will bring faith to
his mind, a faith in himself that he can see and feel, a
faith of understanding that a Super Power does exist that
works for him, his intellect will quickly show him that a
Master Mind is at hand that brought him into existence,
and brought him "the fish in the sea," the birds of the air,"
and all living things are his on the earth, and that the vast
riches therein are his to have and to hold.
And God said: "Let there be light and there was
light," and if man will see this light, this great power of
wisdom all contained in the effulgence of God who ordain
ed all for man, the great Light operates for mankind just
to the degree that each man absorbs his share of that light.
Man lives in his own light and understanding and his share
of this world's goods and his happiness and peace of mind
are measured only as he accepts God, and all men are ex
actly where they are in all things in this world, according
to their light and understanding; and when men, like Job,
lament over their misfortunes they have not accepted the
light in its fulness; they have not accepted the way and
the truth that Jesus brought from God, the God of all Wis-
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 27
dom. Jesus said : "We shall know the truth, and the truth
shall set us free." Man wants neither the Truth and the
Way of the Truth, or the Way of the Light. Man prefers
to live in darkness, and the darkness brings him pain and
suffering and remorse and hell, right here, and now and
today. Just so long as man prefers to live in his darkness
of mind and shuts out the light of a beautiful God-given
Life, and all its manifold happiness and peace that brings
that fulness of a perfect day, just so long will man suffer
in pain and travail of heart. Just as long as man shuts
out the light of understanding that should be his for the
asking, just so long will he abide here in a life of lamen
tation and he will live in a state bordering on purgatory
of his own design, brought on by his own ignorance and
his own arrogance of spirit, a mind full of the shadows of
a hell brought down upon his head by refusing to see the
splendors of today, and the reflection of God in all things,
if not in himself. Men are blind to the things they should
see, men are blind to the things they should know and men
are blind to the beauties in Nature —the hills and the dales,
the valleys and the streams, the waterfalls and the moun
tains. Man in his arrogance destroys and man kills the
birds of the air that would feed on the insects that now
and for many years have destroyed our cotton and other
crops that are meant for mankind, which are all for his
benefit, and man in his ignorance or arrogance of mind,
persists in killing every living thing that should live as he
lives for a purpose and a purpose he knows nothing of, for
man is still groping his way in semi-dimness, if not com
plete darkness of mind.
God said: "Thou shalt not kill." That command
should bring a thought of wisdom into the minds of man,
for God knew that man would kill all living things in the
darkness of his mind, and when God said: "Let there be
28 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
light, and there was light," man did not see the light that
was meant for him ; man did not and has, as yet, not com
prehended the true light that should be his. Man has ac
cepted the material light only, and, therefore, his days are
full of pain and suffering because he prefers to live in the
materiality of darkness, and his lamentations will increase,
and his travail will multiply until man himself, the best in
man, the spirit in man, the God within, cries out, and the
soul in man demands the Light of spirituality, and the
heaven within the soul, that is God in man, is aroused to
such heights that the spiritual becomes predominant, and
man sees God for the first time in a great light of under
standing. And when that light becomes a dominion, the
soul in man asserts itself and he has a dominion over
himself and all his acts. He thinks with a new power, his
clearness of mind and perception is at once apparent to
him in all things and the world is made better and bright
er for him, and all mankind is lifted up in his new light
and understanding that God lives and breathes in all of us
—His Blessed children. Man should have dominion over
all things, not only the material dominion, but the spirit
ual dominion over our minds and our hearts and our
thoughts and in every act; and when man believes that
God lives within the hearts of all men, then will begin the
dawn of a new day, and Jesus will again come into the
hearts of men and happiness and peace will reign and wars
will cease among nations and strife and turmoil will be a
thing of the past in all the affairs of man. When that
time comes, and not before then, will man live in the ful
ness of life as God wishes man to live.
CHAPTER IV.
"// a man die shall he live again?" This is the ques
tion of the ages that humanity has been trying to solve
since the Book of Genesis was translated from the original
tongues. We shall answer this momentous question to
day for all mankind in the progress that man has made so
far in his evolution, not only of himself as a human being,
but as a conception of God in human body. The great minds
of antiquity, Socrates, Plato, Pythagoras and Aristotle
were firm in their belief in the Immortality of the Soul.
Egyptian masters of wisdom taught the doctrine of
the immortality of the individual being. The Divine Mas
ter of arcane knowledge, "Christ," proclaimed the same.
In the Likeness and Image of Spirit man is progress
ing today and will continue to progress in and with the
Light and Understanding of God that comes to him as he
advances, always seeking the light, and with the seeking
comes more light and understanding of what he wants,
what his heart desires in attainment of the soul, the spirit
of man that is of God, the spirit of God that is always in
man, and man would not be without this spirit which is
the life in man, and in all living things as expressed in the
soul. This is that Spiritual Force that gives man his driv
ing power, the real essence of God, the Divinity of man is
self assertive in his expression of the things he does as
a human being.
The creative power of God is the creative power of
man for good, as expressed in the Spirit of God in man,
and this spirit is the Dynamic or Magnetic essence or force
that is the life expression possessed by man in the degree
or proportion of his light and understanding of his power,
29
30 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
and in his relation let us say, Spiritual relation to God, the
Fountain head of all Light, Understanding, Knowledge
and Wisdom. When man with his light and understand
ing finds himself endowed with this spirit, and believes
himself to be a part of God, this light is his for his own de
velopment, and he then begins to use these forces latent in
every man, that is in the seed at conception, and it is al
ways there for man's development and uses. And to the
use he makes of this light when he finds it in his latent
forces, just so comes his progress in human form, and de
velopment as a man. The spiritual force in man when rec
ognized will dominate his mind and desires and bring him
to the greatest attainment and aspirations; if he will be
lieve that all is possible to him, and that nothing is im
possible to man he will create all things for the benefit of
mankind that are for his good and well being.
"Faith is the substance of all things unseen." Faith
in himself is the first essential that brings the forces to
uses of the creative power which in reality is the spiritual
existence in man of God. When man finds within himself
this existing reality he has at once begun to build a some
thing out of these latent forces or powers we shall call
Ability. This ability always present in man will show him
what is best to do for his expression and progress, and
there is no higher attainment for man than to help himself
at all times, and the sooner he comes to this understand
ing that he must stand alone in his progression the sooner
will he attain what is uppermost in his mind, and all prog
ress is his in whatever field he has selected and his progress
will be advanced by unseen forces always ready and at
hand to help him.
The spirit of God always within the heart and soul of
man, abiding, helping, pushing, driving him on to loftier
and higher attainment towards the Image and Likeness of
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 31
Jesus, who attained the highest form of God in man. So,
my many friends, it is incumbent upon us to show you
that man always lived in spirit, in one form or another,
on one planet or another, always making progress, and
when man did not live on an earth or world of material
matter, he passed on to a spirit world or realm of con
sciousness for the further or higher development of the
soul, where the expression of God was in spirit form.
When man lives on earth he expresses in material
form the density of the earth world, and his progress is
made along the lines of that denseness found in earth
forms: where even the spirit of God exists and where he
grows, as all things grow, to attainment and perfection of
the spirit. The latent forces in the earth, as in man, are
always there in great abundance, and the virility of man
brings out all things for his good and well being, as man
desires in his light and understanding and progress
towards the goal of his desire. The latent forces in the
air that man puts to his own use, such as electricity is
but a latent force, always at hand; a spirit force, or ele
ment, or essence in another form of expression of God>
for man and for man's further expression, or use for man
kind, showing the Love of God, always in expression for
man and his spiritual welfare, always uppermost in
the mind of the Supreme Master of all wisdom, the
All Highest Power for good, to bring to the mind of man
the creative value inherent in all latent forces existing
everywhere. The dawn of a new day begins when man
finds these powerful, inherent, latent forces in his soul,
and brings them to expression in advancement and en
hancement of riches in both spiritual and material forms.
The latent force we speak of here is all a part of the
spiritual design, a vast spiritual law, brought into con
sciousness of being or reality by the Holy Spirit, God,
82 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Divine Essence, Divine Power, all Wisdom, the Supreme
Manifestation of all Good for man, and so as these things
are explained in concise form and spirit, that life in its
expression every where, in all things, is co-existent with
Light, Growth, Air, Water, Substance in all; all of which
brings to man, a thinking man, with a semblance of light
and understanding, a reality that as he believes and ac
cording to his faith, that man always was in form and
spirit a part of the Great Creative Force. Then of necessity,
Man always was; man is now'; and man witt always Be.
So to comply with God's Laws, man, himself, being a
counterpart of God, and made in His Image and Likeness
which is the highest form of spirit—or conscious Intelli
gence. Man being spirit, and as spirit cannot change or
die, death only comes to his earth body, or material ex
pression while here on earth. But the spirit in man, the
God Within, he takes with him, in the form of Mind,
Character and Soul. All of which is embodied in the name
of our Book : "The Immortality of the Soul," and the soul,
the spirit of God, that was in the expression called earth
life has passed to a spiritual residence for another expres
sion of that man, "who never dies and always lives."
This spiritual realm is only one of many of his pil
grimages from the spirit realm to earth form and back
again, until man has learned to do the things expected of
him and he becomes a man in reality, a spiritual man in
the image and likeness of God, as Jesus, when He came to
us in the fulness of the Holy Spirit, in the land flowing
with milk and honey! a Garden of Eden made by God in
Love, for His children to have and to hold and to enjoy
in peace and happiness for ages to come for all humanity
every where.
The Breath of Life that God breathed into the nos
trils of man, was the Spirt of God in the soul of man, His
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 33
own child, there to remain and that breath contained all
the spirit of Life, that will be to man, as everlasting as the
rays of the sun, a perpetual light; a warmth of which
comes to man and his earth, an everlasting storehouse of
God's riches, made in the fulness of the Father-Mother-God
for the the love of all mankind. Man lives and breathes
the Spirit of God from the cradle to the grave, and as he
grows to manhood, this manhood is increased in the spirit
of the fulness of God's Love for him, in the knowledge that
he is a man, a human being, the highest attribute or mani
festation of Him who breathed the spirit of life, love, com
passion, humility, strength, power and wisdom into his
body; and man with all the attributes of God Himself, be
ing made perfect, in the image and likeness of God must
maintain that spirit of Divinity and grow into a fuller
realization that his life here is not to be merely a growth of
material matter, but he is to learn step by step that his
life is but a stepping stone to a realization that God inten
ded him for a great purpose; the purpose of which his
mind will soon tell him in his consciousness of the spirit—
the soul within; the thinking man will attract the knowl
edge his heart desires, and he grows and grows, and grad
ually the material growth falls away and the former
growth of early life losses its strength of material desires,
and a new ray of light comes to him in the growth of life,
a new vision of a better life opens before his eyes and he
finds new ideas of great value in his mind, always build
ing; building higher in thought and aspiration, and by
leaps and bounds he mounts these steps attaining success
by strength of mind and will and purpose. God is behind
him always urging him on and on to a greater success and
achievement all contained in the spirit of God, in man.
Man realizing the potentiality of his great nearness to
God—living in the spirit of faith in himself and his many
34 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
accomplishments, attracts all the God given powers to him
self that Jesus spoke of when he said : "If thy faith be as
a grain of mustard seed." And so with an abundance of
faith in ourselves, and in our understanding of life, and
with the light in our hearts, there is nothing we cannot do
for our advancement, and the welfare of all mankind.
Faith in a God of Love brings faith in ourselves and
we live in that faith, and prosperity comes to man, just
to the degree that he believes in God, and believes in him
self. "All things whatsoever ye shall ask in my name
that shall ye also have." Believing: first in the statement
of Jesus when he said, "Whatsoever the Father (God)
hath is mine," and so it should be apparent to all man
kind, that with faith in God, and faith in ourselves to ask,
thru achievement or work that all we desire that is for our
good is already in our hands, and our life is made com
plete by our achievements, and the abundant supply every
where manifest that we have attracted to us, and we are
made whole and happiness reigns in our hearts.
If our life has been built up step by step in the ma
terial success of well-being, we then find God within us in
spirit force, bringing the spiritual Light of Life in a new
Ray —a new Vision comes to us, and the God in man mani
fests so called miracles, in a heavenly Inspiration to do
things, not for ourselves but for Love of God, and for all
humanity, and when that time comes, man has raised him-
scelf out of the bondage of his material life, and he sees
God in a new .light —the spirit of God —always within
comes quickly and brings happiness to the soul and then
man begins to live a new life, seeing the spirit of God with
in, recognizing the holiness of his temple, his body, his
being, all vibrating a new life, new happiness, new
thoughts of aspiration, all loftier than when his material
was uppermost. And he begins to vibrate a God essence,
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 35
his mind turns to things spiritual and he walks in the path
way of God Himself, a man of wisdom, a man of Love, a
man of Humility, a man of Meekness, all God attributes of
the highest, the noblest, the best; all that man takes with
him, are these God like-Man like-Man Made Attainments
called character—that is his name —when he goes to his
earth life, and that man, that sterling character, does not
die, that man lives, he has made his life worthwhile. He
has not thrown it away from time to time as all too many
do—not with one life but with many—too many, and when
the man with character, we speak of here, departs this
earth life he leaves behind his body which is of yester
day, dead and buried, and a new life begins in the spirit
world—the same spirit that God breathed into him at birth
in his mother's womb is there—the same spirit that was in
the man from the cradle to the grave, in the body of this
man—manifests itself in a higher form and a higher realm
—he has graduated into an academy of higher vibrations
of higher thoughts, of higher learning and his mind.
which he took along, is eager to see and to learn and to
improve on all the things he did while on earth, and he
looks forward to greater possibilities and greater achieve
ments, and his soul quickens his desires for the better
things to come in his spiritual life, which is but another
school of experience in his onward march to perfection.
God is always present to help him onward in his aspira
tions, and the schools of learning are conducted by Old
Souls of Wisdom; who quickly manifest themselves to all
who come there in the right spirit and are willing to learn.
Teachers, tutors, principals, professors —all graduates
of the higher spiritual colleges are ever ready to help you
onward and upward in the spiritual realm of your next
life, which will be spiritual attainments —fitting you for
what is best suited to your talents; all vocations of what
36 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ever nature for your best welfare are carefully looked into.
Academies of great learning are at hand. Music, the
fine arts, architecture, singing, philosophy, religion—
and poetry, chemistry design and allied industries, all the
great design of a God of Love, all prepared long in ad
vance of our coming and our home in spirit land is
a home of our own design, our own making. Yes, my
friends, you will take all these beautiful things with you,
just as you have built them all right here for yourself in
your earth life, your own choosing, your own making,
your own heart's desires, are now just beginning to mani
fest themselves for you in your new start in the great
scheme of things that you called "The Great Adventure,"
and so your life really begins now. Do you understand
what we are saying to you, here, now?....We are trying
to point out to you that you cannot do the things you
want — that are not good for you, because you cannot
"get away with it" and live; you cannot fool God any more
than you can fool yourselves and you cannot fool yourself,
any more than you can fool God, for your God is a God of
all Wisdom, and God knows all you do: God is God of
Infinite Love and Wisdom and Justice and Compassion and
a God of Long Suffering.
God gave to Moses on Mount Sinai a tablet of stone
containing the ten commandments for man's good and wel
fare and understanding, and they were good laws for his
conduct and well-being while on earth, and man cast aside
this tablet all too soon and has set up Idols ever since ; idols
of idolatry in vicious forms such as greed for gold, greed
far power, greed for profits, lustful lives, committing
adultery without restraint and our God of Love saw
that man was fast losing himself in the mire of
earth's filth and the spiritual essence was fast departing,
and God came to man's rescue, as He has many, many,
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 37
times before and God sent "A new Light," "A new Mes
senger," came to the people to lead them up and out of
the darkness of hell—in which they were then living; to
show them the error of their ways, which was not the way
of our God of Love, who had ordained all for man (that
was for his good), and so Jesus came in the name of God,
Infinite Intelligence. The Great Master of all Wisdom
and Light and Power, to bring to the people God's own
children, who had strayed away from the fold of the
Father-Mother-God.
Jesus brought the Laws of God in a new light, in a
new understanding of Love, that God implanted in Jesus
for man's light and understanding to walk upright, to do
the things for his spiritual welfare, as well as the materi
al, which was then predominant, to lead clean, wholesome
lives, and to cast out all evil that the people had brought
down upon their heads, and so Jesus came as an Immacu
late Conception of God —meaning purity in heart, purity
in body, purity in mind, and with the soul of God —all
manifested in Love for His children to save them from
themselves, so that His children would again come to Him,
come home to the fold in a spirit of cleanliness we shall
call Immaculate Lives from earth form.
Jesus walked about in the land of God's chosen people
living with them, and teaching or showing them how to
live and do the things necessary to lead them out of the
wilderness of evil they were then living in and fast losing
their lives. No man can live here a life of impurity and
expect to save his soul from a hell existence. God in His
Infinite mercy for mankind sent Jesus to save His children
from this hell condition, and the destruction of the people
brought on themelves by a life of visciousness which we
have in our midst today.
The Immaculate Conception of Jesus, born of God, as
38 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
all mankind, in a spirit of truth and love, must be in all of
us at birth, as it was with Mary and with the spirit of
God, which is the spirit of Love and Truth in their hearts.
Parents can, by their heart's desire and a Love concep
tion bring into the world a Jesus child, their offspring,
their Love offering to God, and all children of mankind,
are God's chosen ones, who truly come into the world born
with that germ of Love, the one and only true essence and
spirit of God. This Love spirit was uppermost or strong
est in Jesus when He came to show, and to bring to the
people of the Holy lands, a new law, a new understanding
of God, which was the Way, the Truth, and the Light
of God being born in Jesus, is the light and understand
ing for all mankind, for all time. Jesus asked the people
to accept God when they both saw and heard him in the
temples, and on the highways
Jesus was tempted in all things, exactly as we are,
yet without sin. Jesus did not fall by the wayside, but
with the light of God always uppermost in his mind and
soul, Jesus moved about among the people with the Love
of God in his heart, bringing to them the Voice of His
Father who sent him with a message of good cheer to all,
explaining that he came to redeem the people from their
iniquities, and to abandon the evils in their hearts, and
shun the darkness of their souls and put out all corrupt
ness from their hearts.
Jesus found a people full of lust and spoke to them as
of God; and Isaiah said: Come now and let us reason
together, tho' your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as
white as snow ; though they be red like crimson, they shall
be as wool. If ye be willing and obedient ye shall eat the
good of the land, but if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be
devoured with the sword, and the shadow of death was
upon the people, when Jesus came to save them from utter
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 39
annihilation by their own hands, and brought to them the
Light of God, in a new understanding of life, and how to
redeem their souls from everlasting punishment, for the
chosen ones were but a remnant of a once mighty host,
fallen from the grace of God. Their unfaithfulness was
paramount in their hearts, and they listened to false
prophets; yet God in His Infinite Mercy remembered His
Covenant with this people in their youth, and Jesus came
to bring the care and help of a new shepherd to lead them
in the true pathway of God and salvation ; and Jesus said :
"Think not that I came to destroy the law or the prophets :
I came not to destroy but to fulfill. For verily I say unto
you, Till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle
shall in no wise pass away from the law, the ten com
mandments, till all things be accomplished. Whosoever
therefore shall break one of these least Commandments,
and shall teach men so, shall be called least in the king
dom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them,
he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I
say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed
the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in
no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven." And Jesus
brought more Light unto the people by saying: "When
therefore thou doest alms, sound not a trumpet before thee,
as the hypocrites do in the synagogues, and in the streets,
that they may have the glory of men. Verily I say unto you,
They have received their reward. But when thou doest alms,
let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:
that thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father who
seeth in secret shall recompense thee openly. Your reward
is in yourself. And when ye pray, ye shall not be as hypo
crites, as in this day, for they love to stand and pray in
the synagogues and sit in the churches of today that they
may be seen of men and women, for true prayer begins in
40 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
the heart and not in the book, and virtue being its own re
ward, has no reward of a material nature. And Jesus
spoke in parables because the multitudes were not of clean
minds, and did not walk in the way of God. and would
not understand their own language for the spirit of God
within them was in darkness in their minds and the light
of understanding was not in them —nor do the people of
today have the light and understanding of God in their
hearts, and darkness is within the understanding of men
today and their souls are sad, while looking for the com
ing of another Jesus to lead them out again of the bondage
of their material lives. For God is not in their hearts,
in their acts nor their speech. But if men will look with
in their conscience, they will find the soul of God, accord
ing to their desires to do the things for the welfare of
their fellow-man, and happiness will be in the hearts of
all mankind and when men truly seek the Pearl of Great
Price the Light and Understanding of God, that is always
within the heart and soul of man, then, and not until then,
will they find the God within, and Jesus the Christ will be
in the hearts of all mankind and the coming of this Jesus
in the hearts of all men will bring the desired liberation
from the bondage of the souls of mankind from the ma
teriality of today, and the great Pearl of Wisdom will
shine in the effulgence of God and the Jesus Christ in man
will bring eternal life to all mankind ; and man will live on
earth, as it is in Heaven.
The spiritual unfoldment of Jesus the Christ will be
manifest in the minds of men, and the light of under
standing will bring to him a spiritual desire to be of help
to his fellow man, and the beginning of a new dawn for
man will come when this spiritual Light of the Golden
Rule comes into the heart of mankind. When the Jesus
Mind enters the souls of all men, He will be there to glad
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 41
den his heart and help him bring God into his life, for
man without God is nothing. For God so loved man
kind that He gave us Jesus —His only Begotten Son, whose
earth life was sacrificed at an early age to save all men
from their own material and spiritual destruction, and
when Jesus went to His Father, the God-Father of all man
kind, Jesus left the spirit of God with the disciples in the
parables of his tongue, and the all Wisdom of God was
in them for all mankind, and men live and breathe within
their hearts and souls the Love of God for His children
that Jesus exemplified, when they do the things that Jesus
taught, both by word and deed, and men will live, and
never die, just so long as they live in the Light and Under
standing of Love for their fellowman and justice to all.
Then will come the dawn of the "Brotherhood of Man"
when swords will be turned into ploughshares, when guns
will be stilled forever, and gunpowder will be utilized for
fertilizer to scatter seeds of charity, kindness, good will
and good cheer will be over all the lands of the earth.
Whatever or whoever God is as a Supreme Being or
Deity, is, as man in his limited sphere of understanding
or conception, is best exemplified in the statement, that
whatever attribute man attaches to God as that Great
Infinite Intelligence is at once in himself as a man, as an
entity, as a human being : no more, no less, and according
ly to man's light and understanding of his own intelligence
and love and faith in God and all mankind, as his Broth
ers, and God as his Father, who gave him his life—just
to that degree will man come into his rightful heritage as
a son of God with the same attributes as was in Jesus the
Christ when He came on earth almost 2000 years ago and
when men will believe that God is no respecter of Souls or
Persons and that all men are children of the one source
42 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
of Intelligence — namely our Father-Mother-God : The
Highest Form of Love that at once embraces the vibration
of harmony, health, happiness, peace of mind, joy, comfort
and wealth, which are the highest conception of an all
Embracing paradise; then, man will begin to live and see
God, not with a material mind, but with the highest at
tribute in man, his spiritual mind, the soul within every
man —which is the kingdom of God that we hear of in
Christ's teachings; and this Kingdom is in every man, in
every man's soul, and is best exemplified in our words
that the Kingdom of God is God Himself in the Subjec
tive Mind.
The Spirit of God nearest to man's heart and man's
soul, and man must in his progress become acquainted
with his Inner Being —the Spiritual Essence or Attribute
that was in Jesus, and that he left as a heritage or legacy
for all mankind.
The soul in man is that direct inner, integral, spiritu
al connection that is closest to God in reality, his only
Father-Mother source who gave life to all mankind, and
all living things. The life in matter, in all inanimate
things from the mineral to flowers, from fish and birds
and animals to all mankind, all contains the genesis of
God's abounding Love, and this Great Love is all contain
ed in the expression of the purpose of each and all in their
own forms, and God is in all expression as an attribute of
the creative principle of Divine Law and Wisdom of all
creation.
The soul in man is the indwelling consciousness when
man begins to awaken to his divine potentiality and be
gins to think and reason for himself when confidence en
ters into his inner realms begetting faith and trust, grad
ually building character, so essential to the well-being of
the man and his soul.
CHAPTER V.
"The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Surely
goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life ;
and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever." Psalm
23:1-6.
If mankind will believe in this beautiful Psalm that
God is always our Father-Mother Shepherd, and that He
will forever lead us in the Way, the Truth and the Light
of our life, if mankind will believe as Isaiah so wonder
fully believed, when he said : and the Lord shall guide thee
continually. What great abundance of His supply will be
always at our door of life—at the door of our hearts de
sire, and at the door of our every command, and as Jesus
so wonderfully said to the people: "Ask and thou shalt re
ceive. Ask of the Father in my name." The Father-God
knows what is best for us always and the same is ours that
is His just exactly to the extent of our belief in the state
ments of Jesus, the son of our God-Father who sent him to
tell us of the wonderful gifts in store for His children —
you and me, all mankind. And if man will believe in his
heart that all things come from God, just so will all things
come to him in the same measure that we measure our trust
and belief in the truth of the words of Jesus who is of God
when he said: "Verily, verily, I say unto you (all people)
He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do
also; and greater works (accomplishments) than these
shall he do."
. If man will see the works of our God-Father, the
Great Creator of all things for the welfare of man. If man
will look up and see the firmament with the sun, the moon
43
44 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
and the stars, if man will see the wonders in the great
bodies of waters, and man will see His wonders in the
great mountains abounding on earth with all the great
storehouse of riches—not only gold and silver, but many
precious stones for the adornment of mankind; if man
will consider the abundance in the earth on which he lives
and that they are all his, that came forth at the command
of his Father-God for his well-being, and out of the abun
dant Love of Him who sent Jesus to us that we may see
and believe, truly all is ours, and man should live and be
happy in the belief and knowledge that the Great Creator
in His All Wisdom intended all these mightly things for
us, and if man will so live and recognize "God as his
Father"—on whose bounty he must depend at all times,
just so will the bountiful things of our Father-God be al
ways within himself, as he recognizes the spiritual help
that Jesus brought in the messages to mankind and for
mankind every where. For God is within the soul of every
man. God is the spirit in mankind that shines in the way,
the truth and the life of all men. God is everlasting Life
to all mankind, and God lives in the heart of all men who
live an upright life; who walk in the pathway of justice
to his fellowmen, whose sons will be a credit to their father
on earth and whose meekness and humility of heart will
bring great riches to mankind.
"I and the Father within are one, and inseparable."
Just so long as man will believe and trust in these beautiful
words, all of God's bounty are his. Just so long as man
will hold within himself the fact that he is a part of God,
that the Father within is a part of himself —one in fact
as well as name—that all that the Father has is his, as
Jesus so beautifully exemplified in the many manifesta
tions of God's will by signs and miracles of healing and
raising up the dead, and by bringing them to life again.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 45
Just so long as man believes in the Word and power of
Jesus that God is in man, and man a part of God, and in
separable in all ways, just in that belief will man live in the
heart and soul of God and man will want nothing that he
shall ask in his heart; happiness will dwell within his soul
and peace will be his soul's inheritance from the time that
he accepts the teaching and the Law that is his guide thru
life, that Jesus the Christ, the Saviour of all mankind,
brought to him for his guidance thru his earth life that
he may see the spiritual light, and live in the realms of
happiness and peace of mind, so much needed today thru-
out the material world. Mankind should know and feel
that there is something more than merely the material
life or existence that they see in the present form of life,
and that this life is an expression of a form of many things
in growth in all the things that grow.
Surely there is evidence on all sides that as plants and
trees and other living things grow and multiply, man, the
highest type of growth and life, must possess more in every
way than all other forms we see. Man must possess a
power not seen or felt in other living things, that raises
him up and out of the lower elements of living things call
ed animal life or the lowest forms of a thinking man, pre
paratory to coming into the higher evolution of a man
state, a consciousness that he possesses a mind to think
and reason. When these facts become apparent to him, man
uses these elements of power for his progress through
earth life, and as he grows within his mind, man thinks
and sees and reasons, and in this material growth he pro
gresses in the light that comes to him, in his desires to do
what he finds at hand, and as he grows in the material
light, at first very dim, coming out of the darkness of his
former existence, man of necessity must think in an earth
of dense form, and he must separate the wheat from the
46 THE IMMORTALITY OP THE SOUL
chaff, the light from darkness, the separation takes place
in the dawn of his new earth life, or existence in this body
as a man —a thinking entity, and in this great thinking
element, appears a great reasoning element, a force, dis
tinct and separate from that of all other life expressions.
As the man grows in years he finds an expression called
"Conscience," another form of power in his growth, and
as he finds this consciousness man must realize his
strength as a further outstanding form of expression, that
is for his good, and with this element of power, comes ad-
|
ded light of understanding that he has creative forces
within his thinking and reasoning, and with more light
and less darkness in his body a clarity of mind begins to
form and the man sees more clearly; he begins to see for
himself again, he thinks for himself, he reasons, he knows,
and feels something perhaps different from other men.
He forms opinions and then ideas come to him. He has
begun to shake off the animal, but, he still lives in the ma
terial , and there he grows, and grows, and thinks in the
objective state, a form of expression of the coming man
on earth as he lives today and as his progression or growth
continues he finds he desires a mate, or life partner and
takes unto himself an added expression to keep him in his
progression in this form, and together they live and
breathe as one, and their earth expression should be com
plete as a manifestation of the conscience within, the
source of all growth, strength and power, the real breath
in all mankind, the God within, that brought to fruition
the highest form of God's Love within the soul of man.
In all this growth, this expression, this form called
man, God is always present. He lives within the soul,
and consciousness of this man. He keeps him onward and
upward in his daily efforts and in all his pursuits for bJs
common good, and His Love for his fellowman.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 47
The power in man—we call God—is all sufficient, just
as quickly as he will recognize the light that comes within
his thinking mind. and as he reasons all things his light
grows, and then his strength and purpose in this life grows
with him and he begins to realize more and more that
within him there must be a force that urges him on to
higher ideals and gradually the material shell of his form
er hardness, his darkness of mind, drops away.
The soft glow of something comes from within and
the man can see all things in a form of life that are beauti
ful, a growth of mind that begins to take on a new grand
eur of purpose, and his ideals take form and an expression
we call "Love" comes to this man. He then begins to
see—to know, that other things are in this life beside the
coarse and material. He gradually drops the gross things
in his life called earthly desires, and pleasures of the car
nal mind. Man does not begin to live his life in this ex
pression until he comes into the inner realization that
Jife means more than the material desires in whatever
form he manifests them in flesh desires, call them carnal,
call them greed, in whatever form; call them self-ex
ploitation, self-aggrandizement, selfishness in all forms.
Man must rise up, and see, and feel, and think in a
higher form of expression each day of his life, as his
growth comes to him, with the realization that he is grow
ing better and better, and expanding in every way, the
light of understanding is being developed within, his
powers take on a new form, and he visions big things in
this life never before attained by him at any time in any
expression of life. What has come to this man of ordinary
mortal existence? He has reached out for the higher
things in this expression of earth life. He has
opened the doors of knowledge; he has knocked, and to
48 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
him who knocks, to him shall the doors open to the higher
learning of. life, for God is always there, God is always
within the inner man; God is within the soul, the con
sciousness, the Life and the Breath of man; always ready,
always within call to the man who seeks the Light, the
Way. The Truth of Life that takes him up towards the
goal of His great purpose for man. Attainment of the Soul,
success comes to all men who have this purpose in life,
success in whatever form of hearts desire comes to the
man who has an achievement or attainment in his mind.
Success in Love, a soul desire in man for love of all
mankind is a great force for good, for God, for himself,
and this form of expression brings to man a spiritual reali
zation that he is more than material form, that he is more
than mere flesh and blood, and that something more must
exist within himself than what his eyes behold. The ad
ded light of understanding soon brings to him a fuller
realization that there must be a higher life than this earth
expression, he soon realizes from within that he has a
force always impelling, always urging him upward and
onward towards a new heart desire, and this expression of
love, as we call
it,
is always the impelling force of Jesus
in man, a sympathy,
a
charity for all mankind,
a
spiritual
desire comes to man to raise up his fellow man, and as he
raises up within his mind—his fellowbeing —he
is
raising
himself up in every way! His success
is
assured within
himself; his life's purpose has coime into view; his ideals
are taking form;
a
new form of attainment; not material
but spiritual achievement
is
his and the Christ spirit, that
Jesus left for all mankind as a great heritage,
is
within the
heart of this man, and his soul rejoices with
a
gladness,
of a new found Love of the God within, a fuller realization
that this life holds for him and for all mankind, a new
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 49
realization that God wishes and desires for all mankind.
The Love to be in the life of all men that He gave to
Jesus—for you and me and all mankind, and for the Im
mortality of the soul, the God within each man, that man
should so live as to perpetuate his earth life into the spir
itual life even here on earth, in man's expression, and
when man so lives that his purpose in life is for the en
noblement of his soul, the God within, then man has surely
reached the portals of his own Heaven.
When he leaves this earth expression this man does
not die; this man surely lives and his spirit—always within
him when on this earth—will see God in his own expres
sion of a Heaven life, in a new form of spiritual existence,
and this man's Heaven will follow him and lighten the path
of others not so fortunate, and he will be a teacher and a
guide to those who are groping their way in the selfsame
expression of darkness, that they lived here on this earth.
The darkness of the earth life continues and prevails
just so long as man leaves out the spiritual and magnifies
the mental, the material life and thought, and to the de
gree that thoughts are things or cause and effect, just so
long will man suffer here on earth with his mental hell,
which he magnifies in his daily life, and his environment
being one of his own making, is his hell life, or his Heaven
life to the degree that he desires and fosters what we
call the Great Light or Understanding of God, to come to
him from his inner heart desire with a feeling that he
wishes to rise above the common element of people living
this careless, indifferent, free and easy intellectual every
day existence we call the material life of coldness without
warmth and without any spirit or manifestation except
ing that of self and selfishness. This life is a constant
preparation for the greater life to come, and man cannot
afford to be indifferent and callous to his future abode and
50 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
his future life, regardless of where it happens to be, or
of what nature he thinks it will be—if he thinks of it at
all.
Each problem in man's life as it comes to him, has its
own solution and must be seen and felt by him in its true
aspect, and with light and understanding that is his in his
daily progress in life, he rises above with each solution and
as he recognizes the fact that each problem is for him to
surmount. His intelligence, his mind, his spiritual forces,
are thereby quickened, and his soul profits most, and the
man takes on a state of being that will bring him to an
essence called great happiness in mind, body and spirit,
that Jesus spoke of in his daily utterances for the founda
tion of all mankind. Each man, each human being brings
his own life with him from the life so lived here before,
from an earth existence of happiness or unhappiness,
Heaven or hell, that they carried with them to their home
in the spirit world; and to the degree that they worked
out their progress towards an environment of soul progress
or salvation of the spirit of God within the soul of man,
just that home will the new babe, the new man, the soul
in the babe find in its new physical environment, all of its
own making, from the previous life in earth form. In the
natural course of life and its events this man, this archi
tect, with his own design all planned out far ahead —lives
his life again on an earth planet of his own selection-
just as he selects his own material food to suit his own
desire and taste, but the material food is not the only food
man needs in his progress with this temple of God, he is
now again living in earth form, or existence! Man must
have also a plentiful supply of what we will call spiritual
food that rightly taken into the system will blend easily
with his material life, and raise him up and out and away
from the dull,meaningless life of the wholly material and
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 51
intellectual man, who lives on the husks of earth life, and
who is already dead before he dies, or leaves this earth
existence.
This man of whom we now speak predominates both
in this earth life and the life he continues to live in his
own sphere, or environment of hell or purgatory, in the
spirit world, where all is activity as it is here, all is soul
progress, and man being foremost; the essence, or breath
of God being the spirit of God, and made in the image and
likeness of the All Wise Creator in human form must of
necessity live a God-like, a spiritual life, exemplified in the
life of Jesus, and bring to himself the spiritual food that
Jesus brought for the salvation of all mankind, and for
the salvation of man's soul and his soul progress again ex
emplified in the great spiritual progress made by Jesus in
the Immortality of His soul, and His nearness to God
Himself, as the Way shower to Love, Peace, Harmony
and Friendship, and the Great Fulfillment of the Wonder
ful purpose of all mankind, as He taught in the Golden
Rule.
When man finds within himself that he is hungry for
Spiritual Food he has begun to see the need, in the forth
coming heart-felt desire for the light that Jesus brought
for the fulfillment of his earth life and its perpetuation
thru all lives, both here and hereafter. This hunger is
the beginning of a spiritual religion always alive in the
spirit of mankind, given to him by his All Wise Creator,
the Father-God of all mankind. This spiritual food is in
the hearts of all men ; it is born in the seed ; in the womb
of all mankind; it has no beginning; it has no end; it is
omnipresent; it is omniscient; it is ever present in God
to man for his daily soul maintenance for his daily pro
gress thruout all lives; It is always in evidence from the
cradle to the grave, and the desire for spiritual food
52 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
grows in man as he grows with the understanding of life,
and with the light that is his in his daily pursuits.
Spiritual food contains all the elements for the sus
tenance of man's soul, and his well-being is best sustained
by the essence found in Love. The Love that God po
ssesses for man as exemplified in Jesus, who brought this
spiritual food to man to save him from destruction and
utter annihiliation from himself and his material life,
which predominated at that time, and is more in evidence
today. Man must find himself in the spiritual "Bread of
Life" that is in his heart that Jesus left behind as a legacy
for all mankind that God Himself gave to man in His
Great Love for all mankind.
Love is the essence of all things unseen.
Love has no beginning and no end, as Life.
Love is in all things, seen and unseen.
Love is at once the Greatest force in the world and in
Heaven as it is on earth.
Love is the greatest creative power for good and
transcends all material lives.
When the Love of God —which is in man —finds itself
in Ijhe heart of man for mankind, then, and then only will
man begin to find himself and with this love he finds his
share of spiritual food that is his awakening that he is
more than a mere man —a body of merely flesh and blood.
His awakening is quickened by the spiritual elements in
his new food, and his soul finds expression in new ideas,
new ideals of a spiritual nature ,and God has found a place
in his heart, and his soul, and he responds to the vibrations
of this new food—which has all the essence of the Love
that brought to us our Beloved Friend and Saviour of all
mankind, Jesus the Christ.
When man finds in his recognition of God that Love
is the greatest force for good, he attracts all good (God)
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 63
to himself, first for spiritual progress and then for ma
terial progress, and man's new ideas, and new ideals are
those of God for the welfare and wellbeing for man and
all mankind. Man cannot rise from the bondage of the
flesh and this body without first thinking of his fellow-
man. Man does not attain anything for himself until his
mind, his soul, and himself has included in his desires for
upliftment, that of his brothers everywhere.
Attainment and success in life here, today, is reached
only when Love comes into the heart of man, for without
this God essence man cannot achieve spiritual success in
any undertaking. Without Love in his heart any so called
success is of the material character and it does not last.
This worldly success means failure, and brings an empti
ness into his life. He has builded without God, without
Faith, without Love. Love must be in everything that we
do and say. Love is the foundation of the world. Love
is in the Word of God. Love is the Breath of God for all
mankind, breathed into man at birth, and that Love, be
ing the spirit of God, is the strength and power in man
always ready and at hand to accomplish his desires.
When Love comes into the heart of man, God helps him to
build with a security the foundation of which is everlast
ing strength and the power and the glory in this founda
tion is the spirit that Jesus brought from God; for without
God as a foundation, the corner stone will be of sand and
all his labors shall be that of a fool, unwise and barren.
Man cannot build by material bread alone, he must
have God in his mind, in his plans, and in his structure;
his design must embrace perfect alignment on all sides
and be on the square (and the level) as Solomon's Temple
to God. The foundation of any good thought; of any good
plan; of any good design; of any worthy cause or object is
built on the rock called faith, and where faith exists, Love
64 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
has entered into the plans and the design has taken on a
form of strength and power not found in material things.
Man has always within himself the spirit of God, and if he
will use this spirit for his foundation he will find all things
at his command and his achievements are absolutely his;
his house of designs, being built in the spirit of God —the
foundation of which is Love and Faith—he can rest as
sured that all is well and he goes forward building his Tem
ple of the Mind, and his soul is glad. The God within him
has found expression in form and the man comes to life in
this foundation ready to do anything —there is no barrier,
no limits to his success, his achievements are already his
in his mind, in the design rooted in his soul, the temple of
himself.
Jesus said: "Ask ye anything in my name —of the
Father-God within—and as the Father-God already in
your heart of desires knows what is best for you that
desire shall be fulfilled. Love for His children, all man
kind, having inherited all the earth, man already has re
ceived in this Great Love all the possessions in the world
in which he lives and breathes. Man comes into this in
heritance of possession when he finds within himself the
desire for a clean, upright and noble life; this desire must
be born of love for his fellow man; all thoughts of self
and selfishness must be eliminated in this growth, other
wise this inheritance will not be his and his possessions
will vanish like chaff in the wind.
The poor in heart are poor indeed. That man is in
deed poor who has no love in his heart, even though his
material possessions reached around the world. Love is
the greatest attraction in the world and the universe of
spirit. Man attracts by his love for others all spiritual
success, and he rises in this love to a consciousness of
material success in whatever field of endeavour he chooses.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 55
His contact with the forces of Love surrounding him is so
complete that God in His Great Love has already endowed
this man and all men who come in contact with this great
power to heights of ideals that bring great designs and
opportunity into being. When men knock at the door of
Love, God is there with a greater force to help him attain
his desires which are for the betterment of all mankind.
The Divine Power of our God-Father-Mother is ever
present in His Great Love for us and if we but bring into
our thoughts, into our mind, into our daily consciousness
of being, the desire of this great force always within us
to help us onward; we attract the intelligent cooperation
of all forces surrounding this force called Love, and every
thing moves forward within us to achieve even greater
things, because we have found that Love and Faith go
hand in hand. Our love has brought us the greatest thing
in the world—a consciousness of God—the Divine Essence
within us that every thing is within our power; that all
we see is ours ; that every thing is instantly available ; that
out of the great abundant supply we have taken our share
and more. The glory of God has entered our minds; the
potentiality of man in his nearness to God is manifest in
these material achievements, and God is brought to man,
and man to God. Nothing is impossible to man in this
life when he has taken God as his best friend and partner
in his pursuits. But they must include Love for mankind
in his desire for all attainments ; then and then only is the
power called Love exercised in its fulness and understand
ing that behind this Love is the power; the union of all
embracing forces that bring the greatest material bless
ings to mankind; as Jesus so beautifully portrayed in one
of His parables: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that
believeth on me (God), the works (things) that I do shall
56 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
he do also, and greater works (things) than these shall he
do."
To the man with Love in his heart; to the man with
faith in his heart, and intelligence to do; nothing is with
held from the man, or mankind anywhere; to achieve his
greatest desires, because God is with him in all things for
the progress of man and the universe is bound up within
the heart and soul of God —who is all Love, all Power and
all Wisdom.
When men find God in their hearts in a spirit of Love
for others—all these attributes are his; his emancipation
from pain, sickness, ignorance and poverty is certain, and
his soul consciousness manifests itself in all the higher
elements of life, and he becomes a universal soul in his
progress to help others in their hearts desires to find the
God within; the essence of Divine Power in all mankind
always at hand and ready to raise up men who in their
hearts desire this soul upliftment.
The soul of man, being immortal, must of necessity,
by his thoughts and actions progress in his life. Man
should know that all is Cause and Effect, and to reach any
goal in his life he must set up thoughts arising by himself,
and from himself and by his own free will he exercises a
God given freedom of action for which he alone is respon
sible, not today, not yesterday, not tomorrow, but in his
past lives on earth and in all lives to come, for man suc
ceeds himself as an entity always. When not in the flesh
(as a human being) then when he lives in spirit form, man
always exists, because it is the desire of God that man
should live and prosper and be happy and it is a duty
most profound that man becoming of age should realize
by thought and action his great responsibility to God, him
self and his soul by education, and this begins in the
hearts of the parents, who are always equally responsible
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 67
for the children, and their welfare should always be upper
most and a pride to see their children walk in the way that
Jesus taught, even as a child : "Honor thy Father and thy
Mother," a most beautiful commandment for all parents
to study and to think about, and if we think hard enough,
and use our soul intelligence we will readily find that by
evolution, or cause and effect, our Fathers and Mothers go
back to the days of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and to
Moses, and the Garden of Eden in history, and when our
penetrating Soul Intelligence is fully awakened we per
ceive and know that the real beginning exists in the Great
Creator —God—the first Intelligence or Principle of all
Wisdom—all Power; all Light; the Divine Essence, from
whom all living things derive the spirit of Life. As man
in his education finds himself he should know that the first
principle in his study of life is Honor; and it is for the
parents likewise to honor their parents, to see to it that all
children growing to manhood are taught that honor and
integrity form the first lesson in the growth of all children.
It is a responsibility they owe not alone to the child, but a
great responsibility they owe to themselves as guardians,
and this parentage brings a responsibility to God—who ex
pects all parents to recognize the duties of allegiance to
their Father-Mother-God.
The Soul of Honor must always be the spirit principle
in the teachings of our children at all times, and if they
are so taught, the child will grow to be an honor to his
parents, and an honorable son will be a soul product of
God; that son will always honor his parents by an ennobl
ing life, and his progress goes forward as an inspiration
to others. His integrity will bring rank, fame and fortune.
Success is written in this man's book of life, happiness,
peace of mind, comforts, joy, and a nearness to the source
of all things is at once apparent in the growth of this
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
man, and he has found his soul in this great happiness;
this man has found the source of his abundant supply in
his growth as a worthy citizen of his country. He has be
come an integral entity by recognizing within himself a
spirit of confidence ; a spirit of faith ; a spirit of Love that
brought enthusiasm, ambition, circumspection, music, wit,
the arts and sciences into his being, all at one and the same
time; through his recognition of the principle of honor in
all things and to be an honorable man in the sight of God.
To be a credit to his parents, and to justify himself to
those who brought him into the world, so that his name
will be justified as a man, and in this growth, man rises
as a soul ; as an integral potentiality of his spirit, which is
his "Father-Mother-God" and as man grows in material
intelligence, he finds within himself the light and under
standing of spiritual thoughts, and he is awakened to an
intelligence through Love that brings him into a realm of
spiritual desire which is for the upliftment of mankind—
which lifts his soul into a spiritual intelligence of great
strength and power to do the things of a Jesus mind. This
man has found the God within himself and everything he
desires to do is within his power; his accomplishments are
his; his hearts desires are at once manifest through the
soul desire to achieve ; this man's soul rises within himself,
having justified himself in faith, in loving kindness in his
ideals for mankind.
This man having found riches within himself, has
found within his soul growth —the all abounding desire
to follow the teachings of "Jesus the Christ," when he
said: "What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole
world and thereby lose his own soul?" An abundance
of;
food for thought
is
expressed here, and if man will analyze
this precept, this great abounding law of justice to and
within himself for his own salvation, not for his soul alone,
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 59
but for himself as a man, and an integral entity of God,
he will find within himself a responsibility, and his think
ing powers begin to awaken a sense of the Golden Rule
to all mankind and his understanding of life, with its
knowledge for good, brings honorable thoughts and desires,
and he is awakened to a sense of justice in all things that
make him the soul of honor.
When we deal with men, we deal with God.
When we wrong men, we wrong God.
When we love mankind, we Love God.
When we hate men, we hate God.
When we despise men, we despise God.
When we hate living creatures, we hate God and so on
to the wanton who deliberately destroys a blade of grass
wherein the spirit of God is always manifest as in all liv
ing things. When man realizes the hand of the Master is
in all things, his responsibility begins, and he soon finds
that his thoughts and actions are his own and that he
makes his own life, and environment, and that each life is
a school in the progress of his soul.
The soul of man contains the Kingdom of God within
himself; when found man soon realizes he is some thing
more than flesh and blood, and his spirit tells him
that he has a conscience that will direct him if he so de
sires. Man must and will come into the understanding of
spiritual knowledge that sooner or later he will suffer for
his actions according to their results. As his growth goes
forward his life becomes brighter and his thoughts up
ward will lead him in the pathway of justice to all men,
and a lasting success will be his.
The only thing of real value to a man is his soul.
Take away everything within that man that is known of
him today, and you have left the soul, the spirit of God,
the life consciousness within the man that departs from
60 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
him when he separates himself from the material body
called by man death. The only part of the man that lives
and goes on and on in the spirit form is the soul. The
Life Essence of God in man that goes to a spiritual world
for redemption; for reclamation; for a spiritual cleansing
that takes thousands of years, according to his iniquities
on this earth.
Life means progression from the beginning of under
standing, until eternity in each life. As man grows into
consciousness of being ; into a consciousness that he is per
haps more than a thinking animal, he has taken on an
other responsibility greater than any others he has found,
and that is the personal, or as we shall say, the spiritual
care of the God within him, his soul in the Sovereignty of
God his real Father-Mother who gave him his life, the
spirit within his body. Our life was not given to us to
take, to destroy by the hand of man, either in one sense
or another. Our life belongs to God, who gave us this life
to perpetuate and not to destroy. Man cannot look upon
his body with impunity and do with it as he pleases in
ignorance or arrogance of mind.
Man's body contains the soul, the real Life Essence
or spirit of the Father that dwells within all mankind, and
woe and desolation to him who mutilates the temple of
God; who in any way refuses to recognize the holiness of
this vast temple; his empire of the only reality he knows.
Ignorance of man's laws is no excuse if he disobeys them;
he must pay the penalty by loss of freedom in his country's
jails or penitentiaries. His material standing among his
fellow men is perhaps reduced or taken away according to
his crime, and according to his education or light and un
derstanding at that period of existence, he suffers by this
enforced incarceration of his body, and mind, and an inner
rebellion begins to form, by an awakening of the spark
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 61
always inherent in man; the spirit within rebels, and calls
out for freedom. The soul of the prisoner is in jail; the
man is forgotten there. He has but a number. The man's
progress has been stopped for a while and he has brought
a condition called hell into his life, and into his heart, and
into the consciousness of his soul, for which he has not
even begun to pay, even though he thinks he has paid for
his freedom by serving his term, though it be all his earthly
years, according to his crime and its severity. The integ
rity of the soul has been grossly maligned ; the agony of the
soul, the God inherent spirit within man cries out in pain ;
the soul suffers in agonies indescribable in the intelligence
of that culprit, and all others not in jail.
Man cannot defile the holy temple of God (his body)
even by incarceration, and think he can remit any further
sentence for his crime. Man must obey the Laws of God.
Man in his arrogance cannot set up one code for himself
and one for God, if he recognizes any degree higher than
himself. God in His Love and Wisdom gave Jesus great
er laws than were given Moses on Mt. Sinai; and it is a
solemn duty for each man to find out in his own way what
these laws are, and how he is to apply them in his daily
life and progress. Jesus said: "Render unto Caeser what
belongs to him, and render unto God what belongs to God,
your real Father."
Man can render unto his material self his material
life, what belongs to the material, just so long as he main
tains his self respect, his soul integrity and his honor.
When man forgets in his arrogance of mind, or spirit,
which he has debased, by foul things and deeds, and there
by loses his liberty, he has committed a sinj a great crime
against God. His spiritual well being is stunted in growth
and his soul will pay the penalty of a darkness in a pur
62 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
gatory of his own making, and a condition of hell is his for
wantonly thinking he can do as he pleases with his life.
"Honor thy Father and thy Mother."
This is the commandment for all children to be taught
in their childhood and for man to follow as he grows into
a fuller manhood of the reality of life. Our Father and
Mother —in this beautiful reality is God, the great First
Principle, Infinite Intelligence, and the only "God or
Power" there is, is a God of manifestation in Love and
Wisdom imparted to man in his seed at birth, that gives
to man his reality as a human being ; his reason and power
in thinking to do all things in wisdom of intelligence.
Man cannot destroy; man must build. Man cannot
commit sin after sin and think he can get away with
it.
The memory of the soul contains a daily record of all
events; your memory lives on and on within the confines
of your inner soul —the real you. So
it
behooves every
man to live a clean life; to be upright in his daily
thoughts and actions to his fellow man, and keep out
of
jail; both the material jail and the spiritual jail of soul
suffering.
God will not be mocked
;
God does not punish any one
of you
;
God does not inflict any degree of punishment on
any of His beloved children; we are all His offspring.
Man by his misdeeds punishes himself when he com
mits
a
sin or
a
crime of whatever form or nature
it
may
be; as an act against his fellow man or God.
Man
is
endowed with freedom of action
;
with freedom
of spirit, and with freedom of desire. These are the
spheres in which all men live and move and think and all
men must come to a realization that these spheres cannot
be impugned in any way; nor can man for himself set up
in any way or form, his own life, other than to be guided
by his best friends: God and Jesus, and the immutable
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 63
laws of man's self government and for his spiritual direc
tion first, and then the material. Man must forever realize
that there is more in life than this material existence. We
speak of life on this earth, for all life is progression, and
so when the body, the material part of us , goes into the
crematory or the ground burial what is in reality left is
that part of us we call the soul ,the God within departs to
take up a new life, just where we left off, and if we wish
to go to Heaven , as we call it, we must of necessity, live
a good, clean life on earth. We must be real upright men
and women and live a heaven life here. If we obey God's
Laws and man's laws, we are at once law abiding citizens
and self respecting men and women in our communities;
as we so live, so we progress in every way and instead of
pain and suffering here, and remorse for wrong doing to
our fellowman, we have good health; we have success, and
prosperity attends our every thought, and act and desire,
and peace is within our hearts and the soul is happy and
glad, because we have made God happy also. God is our
only Father, our real Father.
When the realization comes to man that he cannot de
liberately do wrongs by desultory acts against God and his
fellow man, when the light of understanding fills the heart
of all mankind everywhere that all is cause and effect, and
as we sow so do we reap; when man learns through his un
derstanding of what is right to do and what is wrong in
thought and act; when man learns that Love is the only
basis of life; that Love is the only foundation for this
world and all therein; that God is Supreme, and that all
comes from Him; when man learns in his freedom of
thought and mind and action, that he cannot set aside this
great thing called Love, and in his arrogance sets up hate
and selfishness and pride of a haughty spirit, so widely
known and seen today; when men learn that they must
64 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
respect God and themselves by honest dealings with their
fellow man and not cheat each other in usurious ways (all
of which must be paid for sooner or later) ; when men
learn that Laws are made for men, and not men for laws;
when men learn that Honesty is the best policy, that should
govern their lives throughout; when he learns that the
Golden Rule must be enforced within himself, and that the
only purpose in. his life is one of Love for all mankind and
Justice to all; first to God, his Real Father, then, and then
only, will man come into a realization of his nearness to
God, and he will see the progress of his soul in his happi
ness and prosperity, and he will realize for the first time
in any life, his Likeness and Image of God, spoken of in
his Bible.
When this time comes into your life—when this reali
zation comes of light and understanding, you have made
great progress for your soul, and you will be born again,
a new man, in the spirit and likeness of Him who gave
you your life. But when you find men who are blind,
deaf, dumb —without hands, without arms, without feet
and without legs; men who are not perfect in body and
limb, otherwise, when you find men deprived of the neces
sities of life. Men who are continually sore at them
selves and unhappy, sore with the world, as we call
it,
when you find men who are always disgusted with them
selves and their neighbors; when you see men and women
who are beggars for gain only, and they exist in the busi
ness world by greed, and in the highways all over the
world; let us repeat, and repeat again —lest you forget
it,
when you see the blind and the maimed and the armless
and the legless, and the so-called unfortunate, that these
men and women committed sins against their very souls.
They have brought down upon themselves their own dire
punishment for the evil inflicted upon others in some
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 65
life in the past, or in this one at some time, they have
cheated some soul, they have stolen something held dearly
by their fellow man, your brother ; they have abused some
one's confidence in anothers home, they have borne false
witness against another, they have taken a life (in some
form) be it another man's wife, or in murder in another
form.
Man cannot trample others in the dust or shambles of
ignorance or arrogance of intellectuality or a superiority of
mind born of contempt for God or man, we are one. Man
cannot so live that he is a Caeser, or a Nero, or a Kaiser,
all to himself. They are all soon humbled in the dust
and mire of contempt and become despised of men. What
greater punishment is in store for any man who deliber
ately defies God and his laws; for man's advancement, for
his happiness and peace and prosperity. Selfishness and
greed of heart bring dire results to the men and women
of the world. Jesus warns you to behave yourself and
live in peace with your neighbors and with your several
countries, for who shall fight with the sword, shall perish
with the sword. Read the Ten Commandments, and take
them into your hearts and into your souls. Read the
Parables of God, as submitted by Jesus to all mankind,
let them be as stepping stones in your life and a foundation
for your future lives to come. Make your soul happy and
free by knowing God and Jesus.
Stop defiling your lives by wrong doing. Save your
souls for future lives, and keep yourself out of hell here
and in your next life in the spirit world. Make of your
present existence a heaven world. You can do it if you
will—if you so desire.
The Immortality of your soul must be perpetuated at
all times, and in all lives to come—thru to eternity. See to
66 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
it, it is up to you—to each one of us everywhere, in all
countries, of whatever race or creed or color, we are all
children of one source, one Father-Mother-God. Beware.
Look out, stop, look and listen, and heed the warnings of
your inner man, the spirit within, your conscience ,and
your subjective mind will always direct you. God will
always be with you as long as you have Love in your heart.
God never forsakes any one entirely. Don't forsake Him
at any time. Always listen for the inner voice, the God
within you, the best in you, the noblest in you, the Jesus
mind, the Christ Mind. Live a spiritual life and keep your
faculties, all, lest you, yourself destroy them, together with
your soul and your Immortality of the God within your very
life, your soul, your heritage of God and Jesus, the Im
maculate Son who gave his life, who sacrificed the best
years of his life to save you from soul damnation.
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." —Matt 22, 37.
"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." —Matt. 22,
39.
"Where Love is there God is also."
What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world,
and thereby lose his own soul?"
Letters to Relatives from
Samuel A. Jacoby
"May the Love of God that is mine within my heart,
be consecrated to Him to all the world therein. May the
effulgence of His heart be as mine to shine as the noon
day sun, shines in me for all mankind."
"May the Illumination of His name be mine to bring
to all the world the Love that echoes in my heart for all
humanity."
"May His glory be mine to lighten my footsteps in my
life's journey in many lands, to bring this message of His
Love , His Joy, His Comfort, His Prosperity, His happi
ness, and His Abundant supply to all His beloved children,
every where, Amen." For I bring the Way the Truth and
the Light.
Samuel A. Jacoby.
My Dear Sister and Niece:
There were seven of us—four women and three men,
including myself, and as the number seven carries a high
vibration according to the science of numbers, we were
assured of a most wonderful trumpet circle, full of spirit
ual magnetism, by virtue of a spirit of Love and Harmony
and Friendship, that we are supposed to bring with us at
these most wonderful trumpet circles, always held in a
darkened room. We open the meeting by an invocation,
then the Lord's Prayer, and spiritual hymns or songs, then
concentration and silence, and almost instantly we see a
glow or illumination of the various trumpets on the floor
which are in an upright position.
We see moving lights that are Ethereal or Spiritual,
and waves or forms, perhaps materialization of our loved
«7
68 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ones in spirit come to us to bring added joys and comfort
in proof that they heard our voices in singing. We begin
to speak and with the added vibration of our combined
magnetic forces, we draw or bring into added being- the
loved ones or friends, and the spiritual guides of those
present speak, with the same voice they used when earthly.
We recognize the spiritual voice by its vibration and
if not, we quickly ask the name, and it is always given.
The spirit voice talks, and often sings a song, bringing
added happiness for whom it is meant in the circle.
Conversations actually take place and when the voice of
the spirit is clear and well denned, all present often hear
the conversation in detail. Sometimes the voices are husky
(as if one had a cold or sore throat) and if the spirit is
not afraid to speak into a trumpet, the voice is naturally
clear and resonant. My own sweetheart, Blanche, is always
first in my presence to assure me that she is with me even
now, as when in the flesh. I quickly sense or recognize
her spirit presence, and she always calls me by my first
name "Samuel," and then "Sweetheart" and we enter
quickly into a rapid talk of our love and devotion while to
gether on this plane, and she tells me how happy she al
ways is in my vibration in these circles. When I sit for
messages elsewhere she speaks into the trumpet which she
holds up to my ear veiy closely, and I hear every word
distinctly.
Blanche told me of being with all our dear loved ones
in spirit, and said the family loved ones are always to
gether like, as if in a group as when on earth, and to ascer
tain this, I asked Blanche if she saw my former friends
Mary and Charlie Zane, whom I knew for over thirty
years, and who lived in Atlantic City, N. J., and if Tod
was in the spirit world? Blanche quickly answered and
said she had seen the Zanes, but they were with their own
in spirit land, but as Tod was not with them, he evidently
is still on our plane, perhaps in a hospital in either Atlantic
City or Philadelphia, Pa.
Blanche told me she was making progress in her
studies in music, singing and the harp, and I quickly re
plied and said, "Blanche, dear heart, God bless you, will you
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 69
play the harp?" After a few moments pause, it seemed to
all of us as if we heard the tuning of a harp key (familiar
to me) and the faint sounds of string music. But it soon
became apparent to her that we were not satisfied with her
effort, and she quickly said, "Listen sweetheart, I haven't
played on a harp for some time, but will promise to do
better very soon." I thanked her most fervently and spoke
very sweetly, as rapidly as I could convey all I wished to
say including all the pet names I had for her when on the
earth plane, and she replied by saying how much she loved
me, and how much she still loves me—and always will. and
as I do her—and always will.
All this was so real, my dear loved ones, that for the
moment, I might have swooned but in the gladness and
spirituality of it all, I recognized the fulness of Love's
ecstasy, and if Heaven could be brought to one on earth
more closely, than these circles, I would like to know where
and what it is.
As I said in my last letter to you, my dearest sweet
heart Blanche is with our dearest Mother and sister in
spirit form practically all the time, when not in her
studies, and this manifestation is now made clear to my
understanding by the coming, also tonight, by the spirit
presence of your own dear Michael again, who upon my
questioning, freely and frankly said: "Blanche brought a
most wonderful psychic force of Love and understanding
with her to spirit land, and surrounded all those whom I
love, seemingly, those in my vibration.
I am clearing up many so-called mysteries as we call
them on earth, and I am fast learning the life and modes
of Progression in Spirit Land, or should I say Heaven?
for surely there is a Heaven where so much Love and har
mony prevail, as they all tell me from time to time, as I
receive messages and attend these trumpet circles.
After what appeared like ten minutes, and after my
sweetheart, repeatedly kissed me, and said "Good night and
God bless you, Sam," she again admonished me to always
be of good cheer, as much was in store for me, and to
watch my physical condition and remain in good health,
and not read too much, nor study too hard, she kissed me
70 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
again and as quickly as she came, she left, and then quick
ly appeared in a form like vapor, our dear sister who pass
ed on long ago, she spoke quite clearly and wished me to
recall the many, many things I did for her, and the chil
dren, (our smaller brothers and sisters) to whom she and
I were as Mother and Father, and she could not say enough
about the great loving vibration of my dear. Blanche, and I
spoke to her quickly of our sweet ten years of happy, bliss
ful life, and what a very short time we were together here,
and our dear sister was so overjoyed when I told her of the
great progress her girl-child had made under your tutelage,
and she was overjoyed and told "hie she was watching her
progress and fervently hoped she would marry a good,
noble man; she wished for me great success in my spirit
ual unfoldment and heard my lectures here in Los Angjeles,
both in churches and in homes and elsewhere. She quickly
kissed me, asked me to call her again in my circles and
said I was always a kind and loving brother to her and the
family.
Then came your own dear husband and daddy, who
quickly said: "Hello, Sam, this is Mike; how are you?" and
before I could reply he very quickly said he was greatly
improved in every way and progressing in the higher na
ture of things, "spiritually," of course, and as soon as I
could speak in reply, I said, "I am writing long letters to
you both," and he said as quickly: "That's right, keep it
up. All of them need clearing of their vision. You are
doing good work to all of them, and I wish to again say
and emphasize that your dear Blanche is helping us all
here by bringing the light of a clearer spiritual understand
ing of all things, that we did not have when we came here."
He again said : "She is the most wonderful spirit and is
always willing to help everybody, all of us, as you are doing
now, and we are all so happy in your new field of work and
endeavor, and you will succeed beyond your fondest dreams,
in speaking and bringing your wonderful message to the
people," and said, "God bless you, Sam, you have helped
us all most wonderfully, good night and come again real
often."
In our circle was a Madame L. who then felt the pres
ence of one near her, and she began to sing a familiar and
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 71
popular French song. Who should speak but Rudolph Val
entino, the famous movie star. He joined almost at once
in this song, and together they sang it, and to me it was
heavenly. They finished the song, which I joined in the
chorous, and then quickly they spoke in French and German
and English, and then in turn came the spirit loved ones
for all present, and then my own dear Blanche came again,
and repeatedly touched the top of my head, my both knees,
and sat in my lap, of course in spirit form. All of this was
clearly seen by all six present, but while I felt the spiritual
presence of my dearest sweetheart I did not as yet actually
see her, (as the more experienced did) but I feel assured,
as I develop, I will see her very plainly.
All of those present told me what a most wonderful
spiritual force surrounded me at these meetings, denoting
Love and Harmony in my vibrations at all times. They
also told me they saw an old couple, the man had a long,
white beard, and a kind face, below medium size "old lady,"
both sat in front of me, rocking themselves in chairs and
appeared very happy to be near me, and in my presence,
and one of the older mediums remarked, "It is most won
derful to be able to attract all those at one time," and spoke
of my wonderful force. One of the Thaw family then
came to our circle in his aeroplane, said a few words, and
showed to us his powerful motor in which he passed on,
some years ago in an accident. Then came several "Indian
Chiefs" among whom "Chief Buffalo" always spoke very
loudly almost as if he was calling to someone on the desert,
and always very cheerful and always addressed the men
present as chiefs, and the women present as squaws, quite
interesting.
Then spoke my two Indian guides — "Silver Moon,"
who always came in singing that old refrain, Silvery Moon,
and said he would be at my side and protect me. Then
"Gray Wolf," another Indian guide, just reported, also came
to say he would always be near me and protect me. "God
bless you —Chief," and quickly departed to make way for
others.
Mme. L. then spoke softly and asked for her dear
mother, and almost instantly her mother spoke up and
72 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
called her endearing names ; kissed her and departed. My
little Indian squaw guide then quickly came. I will tell you
her name is "Little Beet"—and her voice sounds like the
tinkle of a silver bell, but more sweet and heavenly, said
she will always be near me and protect me from all harm;
to be of good cheer and to take care of my health.
We were in this seance perhaps for an hour and forty
five minutes, and to say that I am in the seventh heaven of
delight is of course putting it very lightly, and I will always
look forward to these loving meetings of God's wonderful
forces, coming not alone to me, but in me, so that I may
soon be able to attract (perhaps) in the silence and seclu
sion of my own rooms, my dearest sweetheart, my heart's
love, whom I will always cherish and love with me in all
my travels, as well as our own dear family loved ones, all,
in spirit land. With much love, your own,
SAMUEL.
My Dear Helen :
I was invited to a dance and card affair last night,
(Saturday) but as I do not do either, attended the usual
circle for Spiritual food, and to my surprise found eight
visitors like myself always hungry for something most
needed, but little asked for, by the uninitiated.
So about 8:20 p.m. we darkened the sitting room, as
usual, began by an "Invocation" allotted to me, and sang
beautiful hymns which attract very quickly, and with four
aluminum trumpets on the floor, standing on end, the ser
vices were performed. We sang for perhaps fifteen min
utes. All the while we could easily perceive our trumpets
glowing and being moved about by the spirits of our loved
ones, who are always anxious to show their presence by
picking them up and tapping our heads and faces and arms
and knees.
By the time we had finished the songs the room was
fairly abounding with the vibrations of the spirit forms,
and in a few seconds one of the older mediums contact a
spirit voice trying to come in our circle, and we ask for the
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 73
name ; of course the first one was my own sweetheart, your
dear Aunt Blanche, who in fact, is almost always at my
side, both indoors and when I am on the street, or railways,
protecting her sweetheart for his great work in the spirit
ual field. Of course there are times when she is with her
professors in singing, the harp, mandolin and guitar, just
as she was when here on earth with me.
You see, Helen dear, there is really very little differ
ence in the life here and in the Spirit World. Here on
Earth we carry around the body or physical self, and op
erate in an objective sphere, and when in spirit form, or
Essence, we move about and live and breathe in a spirit
world of subjective activity, based on spiritual life, or the
higher forms or realms of tiie spirit world progressing in
schools, academies and the higher forms of spiritual knowl
edge which should be begun on earth in this form of life,
or experience, which very few think or care anything about.
Don't shrug your shoulders and doubt anything I say,
because I am imparting to you the facts from time to time,
and I want you to know of these things all because your
dear daddy wishes you to know them. And so I will just
say that the various talents such as herein named, that
Aunt Blanche was interested in, were of necessity, not com
pleted (by her early demise) and as her great desire was
to forge ahead in these talents, why the desire was carried
along in the spirit or soul mind, which is the only thing you
really take with you when you depart from this earth plane
of expression; hence, Aunt Blanche is busy attending the
schools of "Soul Expression" in the spirit world and she
tells me from time to time at these meetings and elsewhere,
that she is making good progress—and so you will readily
see everyone has their own work cut out for them to do
in the spirit world as well as here.
If she does not return to an Earth life, she will be a
teacher in her various expressions of her talents to those
who come there and need her vibration along those lines of
thought. If we have to return here for another life ex
pression, I hope and trust we can come along about the same
74 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
time, because something tells me we, Blanche and I, belong
together as Soul-mates. Aunt Blanche spoke very softly at
first as if she didn't wish anyone else to hear our conversa
tion, so I quickly said, "Please come closer, sweetheart,"
and in a twinkling of an eyelash she was right at my ear
and I heard every word, and to prove to myself that the
voice was really Blanche, I said, "Tell me to whom I spoke
at the beach, while I was on the sand, before I went into
the surf," and she replied quickly, "Mrs. Haskell and her
young son and you had some stale rye bread and figs and
raisins and a book on philosophy, which you got from the
library the day before," all of which is the gospel truth. I
then spoke of writing a nice lengthy letter to her mother
in Chicago and was eagerly awaiting a reply in answer to
mine for Easter, which contained a resume of all my visits
with Aunt Blanche for months, and my entrance into
Spiritualism and a church here etc., all of which may not
"set" well, as she is of the Catholic faith. And "Aunt
Blanche" quickly replied, "Have patience, sweetheart mine,
you will get a letter. You know Mama never did hurry
in answering my letters when I wrote to her and I believe
Mama will be very happy that you conversed with me even
here where I see my dear Father at my will. My dearest
sweetheart then quickly said, "Sam, all your brothers
are here and they wish to speak to you, so I will make way
for them and come back and speak again just as soon as
they have finished."
First to speak softly was your dear daddy, who said,
"It's Mike. Hello, Sammy Boy; God bless you; you are
wholesome and we all need your help and co-operation here
by your spiritual force as much as we can help you at times
by our 'Spiritual Desire Force'." They can help only in
a limited form and I am of the opinion, from my observa
tion of these combined messages and conversations that I
have had these few months, that I can really help those
of our dear ones there more than they can help me while
here.
You see, Helen, dear, what I am doing in a spiritual
sense must carry with it spiritual vibrations that reach to
the spirit world and all who are within my reach will in>
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 75
bibe that force of good that is absorbed by us here in turn
of, let us say, "Love, Harmony and Friendship." I must
also tell you that in my growth and understanding of spirit
ualism I find that of all the people I talk to both in and out
of the church, that I have yet to find one who really under
stands the real things to be both accomplished and under
stood in the vast field of spiritualism, and the real connec
tion between the two worlds.
My field of endeavor co-ordinates with my great desire
to be of spiritual help to humanity for the rest of my days
here on this plane, brought a message from the spirit world
that tomorrow night it will be made apparent to me by my
"Hindu Lecture Bearer what I am to do and so I await
with great joy and eagerness the hour to arrive that will
show me perhaps, greater work to do, both for myself and
all mankind, because Jesus did say, "Greater works than
these shall you do," and I firmly believe in these parables
and all statements made by this wonderful soul.
I asked my dear sweetheart in a round-about way to
verify something of this big thing and she quickly replied
she couldn't say anything about it, because my guides prob
ably ten in number, various departments of the Higher
Realms of spiritual education, located in colleges and sem
inaries, all have their respective roles to perform, both for
those in spirit and on earth as great "Soul Teachers" for
all humanity, and as they have me under spiritual control
or vibration, she was not yet able to say what I was selected
to do, but to wait and abide my Hindu Guide and my spirit
ual appointment called for tomorrow night, when all would
be made manifest.
Now I will resume with Daddy Mike. He is always
very happy when he comes to these meetings, as he said,
"Sam, be happy, and we are all happy; but if you are sad,
we are sad. That's exactly the way it works. Be cheerful
and keep well." Daddy again said, "Sam, you are a won
derful man. We know what you are doing in your own way
and your force works here in the same manner you give to
others where you are." I asked him how his health is and
he replied, "I am all right now, and getting stronger every
day. That's exactly how your force helps us." I then
76 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
quickly told him I received the letter from your mother
that he said was in the mail and that it made me very, very
happy, as I was most anxious to get a reply to my first
letter carrying the glad tidings that I could report a verbal
connection with you in spirit, and Daddy quickly replied,
"Write often to your sister, because your letters are like
gold both to us here and all at home, New York City."
Everything seems to be in the order of a radio connec
tion, but you must understand that these conversations are
of the highest vibration or understanding as yet known to
but few, but should be known to all who wish to enjoy them,
and some day when the real facts are known and fully un
derstood of what spiritualism as a religion means, this be
lief will predominate thruout the world. My conversations
with those in the spirit world are but a spiritual radio or
connecting Link, formed by those who have Love as a basis
in their hearts and possibly a further desire to be of some
good for upliftment to the "poor in mind" as my good
friend, Jesus the Christ, quoted.
I could tell you a great deal more than what I set forth
in my letters but I do not wish to shock you all at once, but
I promise to tell you more, much more, when I visit you
possibly late this fall or early in 1932. I promised Daddy
I would write quite often to you and mother and he said,
"it made him very happy," and stepped aside to allow your
Uncle David to speak, who quickly took up the trumpet and
said, "Here's David. Hello, Sam. It's Dave." I said,
"come closer, Dave," and Uncle David said he was with me
today in my local bank where I go several times a month
to get my financial mail and he heard me speak to one of
the officials there concerning spiritual matters, and that he
enjoyed all these talks that I give from time to time, and
said "I was very bright" or intelligent and that I was an
honor to the family and that I would soon exert a great
force in my chosen field, all of which made me very happy
also as it does to all there.
I told him I wrote a long letter to Louis and he said
he knew it as well as everything that the letter contained,
and it made him very, very happy. I told Uncle David to
speak to all the members of our family in spirit heaven
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 77
and use their combined force for you, of what I had in mind
and he quickly replied. He had my thought instantly —
and it will be done.
Uncle David then kissed me and said many times,
"God bless you, my dear brother. Give our love to all to
whom you write and say we are with them always." Just
like a telephone, isn't it, Helen? Then Uncle Henry con
tacted with me with a somewhat heavy voice and I quickly
replied by saying, "Speak clearer, Henry, and come closer,"
and he did at once. I said, "How do you feel?" and Uncle
Henry said, "I am getting better each day. You know,
Sam, I was a pretty sick man for quite a while, and you
were not in New York city during my long illness, and when
I passed out, but I am getting better now, thanks to you
and Blanche, who is a most wonderful help and force to us.
She told me, Sam, that she loves you more and more each
day (as you call it) and that she always loved you and al
ways will, and that you were so wonderful to her in helping
onward her many talents and in every other way as only a
good husband can do." Uncle Henry also said I had a most
interesting and wonderful book that I carried with me in
my pocket when on a car or train and read very often, and
that he saw and read it also, and it contained beautiful
quotations. (I might say here that it is a small pocket size
book of St. John, a part of the Holy Bible.)
After more conversation on the life in spirit Uncle
Henry kissed me for my goodness and kindness to all—
"Good night, Sam, be of good cheer."
Then came "Silver Moon" and "Grey Wolf" my Indian
chiefs, my spiritual helpers and guides who take great de
light in being my personal physical guides, as true born
Americans, which they are. Both men were chiefs of their
respective tribes, Comanche and Cherokee. Then came my
little Indian maiden, Little Beet, also a guide for my pro
tection while on the earth plane, and she is always very
happy when she comes to talk and her voice sounds like a
waterfall or silvery bell in softness. It seems to me I can
see her smile and she brings to me a most wonderful calm
or poise, with a feeling of love for me in her sweet voice.
Little Beet said, "Aunt Blanche is here too, Mr. Jacoby.
78 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
She loves you and we all love her too." Then some of the
others here present contact their loved ones and guides, as
I said in mother's letter. We have a Madame L. who also
visits these circles and as she knew Rudy Valentino, she
draws him to us and we speak to him and sing his songs.
He said he visited many in Hollywood and enjoyed to see
those who loved him, and that he was progressing in the
spirit world and that he was a "universal spirit," meaning
he can vibrate or contact all he knew in the picture world
and the theatre. Valentino asked us to sing a German
song and he would join in, and we heard his voice quite
distinctly. He then quickly made way for others to speak,
and after many conversations to those present we were
all
startled with
a
great swishing sound, a cold wind or wave
of cold air was felt by all present and rattled the windows
in our seance room, and one of the mediums remarked, "It
was the sinking of the Titanic," when this huge vessel
struck an iceburg in mid-ocean and right quickly we
all
heard a voice, the spirit of William Stead spoke of the dis
aster in detail and many other matters too numerous
to
mention at this time. And on his departure Mr. Straus,
of R. H. Macy
&
Co., spoke and said, "He was better
off
than we, and that he wouldn't change places with us, even
though we all looked happy sitting calmly in this
at
mosphere."
Then came John Jacob Astor, who deplored his life on
earth because he had been
a
very rich man and born
to
great wealth, and said his life was useless etc., that man
was born to evolve into
a
character, and he deplored the
chance which he missed. Of course, Helen, dear,Ido not
agree with Mr. Astor that a man of great material wealth
can be of no value on this earth plane, because money can
be used for great service to all mankind, and the Mr.
Straus
I
here spoke of was
a
shining example of what
a
man can do for others who has
a
vast amount of money,
and when men learn in their arrogance that their wealth
in reality does not belong to them, but
is
only loaned to us,
like our bodies from time to time and in earth life, then
Man will in reality enjoy his life which he does not today.
Let me say in conclusion that all
I
here reported to you
is
absolutely true in each and every detail to which
I
will
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 79
at any time make an affidavit if necessary, regarding its
authenticity.
P. S. President Roosevelt came last night and said he
was glad to come to our circle because it represented Love,
Harmony and Friendship and said he just wanted to leave
something for us to think about and made a short speech he
used many times in his career, of which the following is an
abstract :
"The Truth should be kefrt constantly in mind by every
free people desiring to preserve the sanctity and poise in-
dispensible to the permanent success of self-government."
We could hear every word as distinct as you can read my
writing. Think about all this, Helen, dear, and you may tell
it to your friends who have some understanding. Au Revoir.
My love to mother and all enquiring,
Your dear Uncle Samuel.
My Dear Sister:
It again gives me unbounded pleasure to say that I was
rewarded for my patience, in that I got our dear brother
Isidore, who has been in the spirit world these many years,
and perhaps in semi-darkness, as all are who go there from
here without some education along spiritual enlightenment
and who live primarily in the objective sense of earth life,
unconsciously.
Last week I called him out of the ether and was told
by one of the spirit guides that my dear brother would be
brought to me the next time I came to these meetings, as he
would have to be instructed to speak in a trumpt as he prob
ably would find it a novelty and perhaps fear the outcome;
and so, my dear sweetheart, always anxious to please me,
and more so since living in the spirit world and being in
possession of a wonderful psychic force, sought him out
with the aid of our own dear ones (but who had no knowl
edge of any subjective forces) instructed him how to come
to us in these circles (as she had instructed the other mem
bers of our dear ones there) . So at first our dear brother
was quite reluctant to visit me in these circles on the earth
plane, but his fear was soon overcome by the added assur
80 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ance of dear Blanche, ably assisted by almost all the other
members of our dear family there, that they had all visited
me here many times and actually spoken to me, and that no
harm would come to him, and that she was my dear wife
and loved me for many years, and to convince him still fur
ther, she had to bring our dear parents who readily showed
him how safe and easy it was to speak into a trumpet, and
so I quickly sensed a new vibration in the room and said
"Isidore are you there?" and almost instantly he spoke, but
with a tremulous voice and this is what he said: "Yes,
Sam, I am here. I was taught to come here and meet you
face to face and speak to you through the Love efforts of
your own dear Blanche, whom we now all see and love most
dearly. All of your dear ones are here with me ; all very
happy in your work of spiritual unfoldment and I must tell
you that this is all very strange to me, and when we come
here at first we are all afraid and all is darkness, and unless
you have some one like your own dear wife to teach you and
show you the Way and the Light, everything is blank, and
our darkness lasts for a long, long time, until a Higher Vi
bration like yours (mine) becomes manifest to those in the
spirit world. So from now on be sure and count me in as
one of your regular 'spiritual visitors' and please ask for me
as there is much to speak about for your knowledge con
cerning our spirit home." He wished to be remembered to
you and all here and asked God to help me in every way in
my new field ; kissed me thru the trumpet and departed, but
only to let others of our dear ones come in and speak
Isn't this a beautiful experience for all of us? My
dearest sweetheart always comes first and after our usual
love conversations she opens the way for your dear husband,
then our other dear brothers, and lastly our dear sister
Bertha, who is fast learning not to be afraid to speak, and
comes now with an eagerness to see me and say that she is
growing stronger spiritually more and more every day thru
my work both in the spiritual world and on the earth plane.
We have a new visitor from the spirit realms. He just
announces himself as the "Mysterious Spirit," and calls him
self a Universal Spirit, and on questioning him all he would
say was that he was killed very early in the World War and
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 81
that he believed in spiritualism before he passed on to the
spirit heaven. And so he comes in, gives us a short lecture
on philosophy and the soul ; blesses us most wonderfully and
remarks that our high vibration draws his soul to us in love
and a spirit of friendship, and just concludes by saying Au
Revoir until next time.
We had with us again Mme. L. who comes into our
circles, and as usual Valentino comes, and at times asks us
to help strengthen his stay by singing his songs, to which
he always joins in, and we can distinctly hear his words
and the rise and fall of his singing voice.
A former well known and very popular President of
the United States came again for a few minutes and ad
monished the party in power to lay aside all personal and
pecuniary feelings and work for the interest of the people as
a whole in this era of depression, and warned this nation
to mind its own business and steer clear of foreign entangle
ments and not to fear any other power, but to "trust im
plicitly in God, who would help us, as we helped ourselves,
without fear or favor of anyone, and blessed our little circle
by saying he would come again.
Did I convey to you the wonderful news (in my last
letter) that I am now writing with the aid and assistance of
my spirit guide, by Inspiration of Henry K. Wakamussen,
a Hindu Philosopher in the spirit world, for about 670 years,
as he told me.
I have about 25 sheets of manuscript written to date,
which comes to me by direct contact with his mind, which
is none other than the Hand of God helping me do this noble
work for all humanity. I must tell you that Mr. Wakamus
sen calls me Samuel and I call him Henry so that we do not
waste time in talking to each other in these circles, and as
time is the essence of most things we use it to superb ad
vantage always.
Henry told me to call our book "The Immortality of the
Soul," and my appointment was made for seven A. M. each
day until further notice.
I arise at about six o'clock, go through my morning ex
ercises and a bath and sit down at my desk, and after pray
82 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
ers and concentration on God and our loved ones in spirit
I look at my little clock, and when the hour of seven arrives
I am ready to write, having brought the subjective, or spirit
ual mind in contact with Henry, and I feel a glow about my
face and head and at other times my right arm is magnetized
and my whole being is charged with an ethereal or electrical
essence, very poorly described in our language. I will admit
that at first, even though my brain was crowded with noble
thoughts, it is one thing to have thoughts in my mind and
brain and quite another to put them on paper and adjust
them to the minds of the world for their enlightenment
But as hope springs eternal in the human breast I gained
confidence in myself as each day comes with the dawn and
I look forward to doing this great work for God, Jesus,
Henry and Humanity, without thought of myself or any
pecuniary profit from our book. And so I tune in each dawn
and can hardly await the hour of seven to begin to contact
the Unseen World and its manifold mysteries. I am writ
ing almost as freely now as the water goes over the Niagara
Falls, and at each circle we talk about what I (we) wrote
between spirit conversations and so far Henry is well pleased
with me and my promptness to work with God and for all
mankind. I do not read any contemporary writings or en
gage in material debates or pursuits, but hold myself almost
always in readiness to receive spiritual communications
from Henry and the spirit forces. And if the English
language will suffice let me say that I am a very, very happy
man in the knowledge that I have at last found some of my
latent forces, or inherent desires perhaps brought over from
other incarnations; and I am led to believe within myself
that I will write many books and lecture on the spiritual un-
foldment of man, and bring all mankind to realize that
"Man is a Soul," the nearest spiritual force to God and the
God within man. And it is my firm conviction that man
must come back to an earth plane again and again until he
has overcome the evil or false desires of his material periods
of earth existence. And just as long as men live in an
arrogant spirit or mind of objectivity which predominates
all else in their life, just to that extent—and until man is
willing to live within the principles brought to us and left
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 83
by Jesus, just so long will man return to an earth plane of
pain, sorrow and travail and suffering for perhaps thou
sands of years in the spirit world or spirit school of ex
perience.
And so, my dear sister, it behooves all of us, you and
me, to take time by the fetlock, to watch our step daily, to do
all things that will please God, which will be for our best
welfare, to help all others whenever possible and to practice
the Golden Rule; and for the upliftment of those about us.
It might interest you to know that in a spiritualist church
some months ago (before I was appraised by the spirit world
that I would write a book) that my book, which I would
write, would be copied into all languages and that I would
travel all the world over and lecture on its substance, and
furthermore that I would be able to speak all these foreign
tongues wherever I went>— truly a most remarkable state
ment, showing that all things are possible to man; to the
degree that man works with God or God's principles, as
given to man from time to time since the Book of Genesis.
One medium as late as March last, told me she saw me in
Palestine speaking exactly as Jesus did and that I had on
a long white robe and the multitudes were again gathered
listening to the Parables as He spoke them. "Can this be
meant for me?" If so, I am ready to go when I am called.
In the meantime I am working with God and the "Immor
tality of the Soul" and perhaps when that work is finished
I may depart and begin my lectures, who knows? This
book must be sold at a nominal price, so it reaches the mul
titude especially in this period of material depression and
if I do not make any profit on its sale, at least I will have
the satisfaction in the knowledge that I have been of some
service to God and Humanity everywhere. Amen.
My Dear Nephew and Nieces :
You have perhaps no idea how happy I was when I got
the letter of the 20th inst. and that you planted the Ivy all
over the grave. Of course Aunt Blanche is not there any
more than the king of Siam or what-not of India, but for
those who like to visit cemeteries and cry over a mound of
84 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
earth and stone, it will look nice. Mind you, Louis, I am not
criticising anyone, or anybody, any where, as I told you in
former letters, everybody to their taste, light and under
standing. And so I am most anxious and happy to again
say your dear dad and your Uncle Samuel had several visits
since I wrote last and your dear dad is getting stronger in
spiritual voice and understanding, all owing perhaps to his
being more happy in finding himself in the new world in
which he will remain for perhaps 1500 to 2000 years, and as
soon as he has broadened out with a desire to find out, or a
soul desire for the spiritual development, which he didn't
take with him, just to the degree that he learns his lessons
from day to day; just to that degree will his soul find the
spiritual food so much needed in man's real progress there
as well as here.
Did I mention in any of my former letters that I was
commissioned to write a book ; and that the substance would
come from God through "inspiration" ; and would be handed
to me by contact with a Hindu Philosopher who is now in
the spirit world where your dear dad now lives and goes to
schools of advancement? Well, Louis, it must seem some
what strange to a mortal being to be told that he would
write a book in the first instance, not even knowing its text,
but to be appraised that he would speak to those in spirit
form and listen to unheard words, brought to him by Spirit
ual Radio, at once, opens up a new form of communication
to the material world of thought and science. And so I
meet my spirit guide from three to four times a week, at
night in these circles, and we go over the pages of manu
script and so far he is well pleased with my work in our
contact of Mind Forces working in harmony. His name is
Henry K. Wakamussen and he is a Hindu philosopher, lec
ture bearer and teacher of the spiritual side of God's phil
osophy of the Soul of Man and man's advancement etc.
Our appointment for contact and writing begins promptly at
seven each morning and I am always ready and eager to be
gin another day's work for God and the upliftment of
all
Humanity.
I
tune in with Henry by contacting his vibra
tion or spirit force in harmony with my mind or soul, which
is
really my soul's foremost desire, and after the connection
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 86
is made, similar to the proper material connection in talk
ing on a telephone, I can write quite freely now and without
any hesitation. As I understand this spiritual connection
it might be interesting to you to know that it enters my
brain when I am ready to receive it, or my subjective mind
is ready etc., and of course just at present this is all Greek
to you, but when I see you I will be able to explain it per
haps more to your satisfaction, but I think I made it clear.
My spirit guide, as a philosopher in the special depart
ment of soul advancement, retained his name (as all do)
which is viz. Henry K. Wakamussen, a Hindu, who was
probably selected to be my guide in writing and perhaps
lecturing as I was told by a number of mediums in spirit
ualist churches both in Los Angeles and in the East last fall,
before I departed for the coast. And so my spirit friend
informed me in a trumpet circle about April 18th. that I
should drop all reading and hold myself in readiness to write
a book with him, and he would give me the text and the de
tails at the following circle meeting. And of course he
kept his appointment with me and I was there and most
eager to listen to a startling communication.
When all was in readiness to begin he told me to take
pencil and paper and write, and this is what he said (after
the verbal explanation of the text of our book) : "The Im
mortality of the Soul" written by Samuel A. Jacoby. This
book inspired by Henry K. Wakamussen in spirit. "This
is a spiritual message to humanity which we hope will en
lighten the material world to a better understanding of
spiritual unfoldment." And so I am a real happy man in
that I have at last found my life's real work and happiness
fills my soul in my new field of endeavor.
Well, Louis, I told dad I had a letter from you quite
recently, and of course he knew all about the contents, what
you said and what you wished to know, and he quickly re
plied that he saw you making advancement, and he wished
me to assist you from time to time in my letters on soul pro
gress, which includes material progress and advancement
in life. He especially asked me to point out to you to find
the spiritual things in this earth life, that is, the things he,
86 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
and millions of others fail to see and learn, and to the degree
that we carry the Light of Understanding with us to the
spirit world —just to that degree do we find added light,
peace and spiritual understanding and the knowledge of
God's own world of spiritual harmony and gladness. We
must all make a supreme effort to forget self and self-
aggrandizement, to hold aloof as much as possible from
material debasement of our soul in our life's progress. Man
must always do his own thinking for himself, especially in
religious matters and things of great portent in soul ad
vancement. Your dear father asked me to help you sep
arate the chaff from the wheat, in other words, Louis, you
must realize that you have not only a duty to your little
family but you have a duty to God, a duty to your dear
parents in the spirit world, a duty to yourself, which in
reality is your own sold that you take with you when you
depart from this earth school of experience and to the de
gree that you build for yourself a noble character. You at
once build a real name that you take with you when you
will meet your dear parents and loved ones in the spirit
world, and let me again emphasize this fact but little known
in our world of materiality today, and that is that the "de
gree of character" that you lived here, and take hence, is
just that degree of heaven which you will find awaiting you
there, and which you made here —a condition made here is
exactly the condition you made for yourself in your spirit
world. What will it be? Heaven or Hell ? Light or dark
ness? This is not of necessity an admonition for you any
more than it is for every man in this country and thruout
the world of materiality. Might I say, being of my own
flesh and blood, I want to see you arise in your own estima
tion as a man, and as a soul, an attribute of God, having
the spirit of God always in your consciousness. For you
are a Son of God exactly as our Great Teacher and Disciple
Jesus the Christ in human form when He came to the Jews
of Bible days 1964 years age. If you cannot believe in
Jesus as a Man and that he lived for about thirty-three years
and spoke the words of God in His Parables, at least be kind
to yourself and believe in the principles he left to us all as
a World Legacy for peace, for happiness, for health, for
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 87
strength, for contentment, for love and humility and meek
ness—these wonderful attributes together with prosperity
man can have for the asking and the getting of God's all
abundant supply.
Help yourself in your own way, which is in reality, your
light and understanding of God and your spiritual nature.
Our real Father-Mother is God, from whose bosom we came
and to whom we go when we depart this sphere of activity ;
does it not seem strange to you by this time, has it not open
ed your thinking mind, that what I have found, that perhaps
you may have the same substance in your foundation ? Has
it not occurred to you from reading my letters that perhaps
you can find the real truth of things ; that I shall now call
"The Pearl of Great Price?"
Well, Louis, you have this Pearl within you as I have,
and if I cannot impart it to you in my letters, perhaps you
will find it in the book of God, Wakamussen and Jacoby,
which you will read when off the press.
Jesus said : "If two minds will act as one ye shall move
mountains." Let us all unite in the hope that our book
"The Immortality of the Soul" will move the people of the
world to read it and profit by its teachings, and may it bring
comfort, peace, joy, light and understanding to the millions
eagerly seeking a way out of the bondage of materiality,
and the dawn of a new day or awakening to the Christ with
in each man, each soul in the spirit world and the world we
live in.
The Bible says : "And the spirit of God moved upon the
waters, and God said, Let there be Light, and there was
Light, and God saw the Light, that it was good, and God
divided the Light from the darkness." And so mankind, as 1
see it must also divide the light from the darkness of mind,
and bring to himself by spiritual desire the light of under
standing to his soul, to himself and the meaning of the
Higher Intelligence, the Father-Mother-God of all humanity.
The potential rays of the sun is at once the illumination of
God Himself for all mankind. Let us all embrace a single
ray and be lifted up to Him in its spiritual warmth, and
come closer each time we ascend to the spirit world, so that
the time will soon come to us, that we can all remain within
88 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
His halo and breathe the "Breath of Christ," the highest
potentiality of the richness and magnanimity of our God of
Love, who loves all mankind and all living things. Your
father is at my side helping me to write this epistle of your
dear Uncle Samuel Love to all.
My Dear Nephew and Nieces:
I am very glad indeed and also very happy with the
contents of your last air-mail letter and I told your dear
dad that I had another letter from you, and he said he knew
of its contents. You see, Louis, dad and all over there seem
to know our very souls, they know our intentions ; they know
our thoughts and our desires almost before we realize we
know them ourselves. This phase of the spirit world is
puzzling me, and I am thinking out a spiritual solution of
just why this should or can be, and with deep silent think
ing and concentration on matters uppermost of the spiritual
phenomena of life in all its phases. I am quite a busy
man these days, although out of the business world entirely
as I think I wrote last month.
From the contents of your last letters, I realize your
grasp on my language on matters spiritual is not a very
firm one, and even though you do not understand me now,
I feel secure within myself, and somehow rely on your
openness of mind and high character, that before you see
me again I will get a letter from you that I have witt
God's help ably assisted by your dead dad and all in spirit
heaven, opened your mind's eye and you will gladly say:
"Uncle Sam, I am beginning to see the light you speak of,
and shall follow you in your noble teachings and reach
up and get my share of God's abundant supply of spiritual
food for my education."
You see, Louis, if I have a duty to perform to you
and your sisters, and the remaining members of our fam
ily, it would ill become me if I would not at least try and
show them the way and the light, and get a better under
standing of things to do, to see, to know, and to feel in the
complexities of our earth life, in both its material aspect
and the spiritual or the God within of each human soul;
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL *9
the only attribute we really take with us when we leave
this earth body..
The soul is the spirit consciousness of the life, the
essence of what is left when the body is laid to rest, or
cremated as the case may be. The soul contains the residue
or the spirit life that was manifest in the body at birth in
the seed that gave it life in its mother's womb, and of itself
contains the "God Within" each soul manifest in love and
its highest attribute, God, the Infinite Intelligence. That
is a clear definition of what you are in reality as a human
soul, or human being; a potential god yourself; as also all
men and all humanity likewise.
Let us reason together and say the soul may be termed
after a final analysis, in sum total, "character," or a man
of character, a very high and potential name denoting "A
Noble Soul." So then your soul may be called a "character
analysis" of your life as you lived it while here and its
final results are all imbedded into that something called
the matrix of the brain, in the memory, and we have then
the memory that you and I, all, each one of us takes with
us on our departure when we leave this body for weal or
woe. You have then to start with in the spirit form of
life, a soul, or God attribute to begin all over again to build
a new and firmer foundation and design for yourself while
there, a new thought foundation for your life here, and so
here is the place to find yourself; to know why you are
here, and to build the foundation of a heaven place or con
dition of soul, to build a mansion instead of a hovel, or
shambles, where the fool and profligate are willing to re
side, in what we might call hell's gutters, and these places
are all in man's mind today exactly as he (or she) desires
to live here; and exactly again do we take these forms of
residence with us on our departure. These statements are
facts and admit of no argument, either by the tramp or
tramp mind, or the intellectual drunkard, all too much in
evidence today brought on by the 18th. Amendment.
The world is always awaiting a material happening.
When we have but to think, to look within and ask the
subjective mind for assistance, the best within us, within
reach of every man, is within himself and no where else.
90 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Faith is a most vulnerable essence and we can attract
to us just what we ask for, be it good, bad or indifferent.
Have faith in yourselves, abide by the inner voice, call it
conscience, reason, anything you like best, but be sure and
think first always think first, and try and be sure that what
you do is for your best interest; always of course being
based on good motive, arising from a heart desire, without
harm to anyone. The essence of understanding is within
the soul of all men and women and it is for us to seek out
through our soul consciousness the degree of intelligence
we most desire and we can rise to any height we wish to
attain, exactly to the degree of our soul desire-
Sit quietly in the seclusion of your room several times
a week; ask yourself silently, in thought of course, and
very soon you will find your questions answered, perhaps
instantly. You tune in with your guardian angels or your
spirit guides, or perhaps with your own dear parents who
are now more than ever most anxious to direct and help
you to advancement in your material welfare and your
spiritual unfoldment. Remember that all life is progress,
from the cradle to the grave, or in other words, from the
first inception of the seed, or thought of God in man, to
the present evolution of the human being, which is best
exemplified as the soul attribute; the soul in each human
form of expression.
There is a reason, there must be a reason, why we are
all here today, and for some time, perhaps many years. I
have asked myself, my subjective mind, the God within my
soul, "Where did I come from? Why am I here, and
where am I going?" And as I know where I came from,
in a spiritual sense, having lived in previous lives for count
less years on various planets or worlds before coming here,
my next step was to find out "Why I came here now in my
evolution of things, or life's consciousness, of the material
and spiritual?" and I find that the spiritual life is the best
one to bring me to a full realization of this expression of
my life in its reality and in its fullness thereof.
And so I joined a spiritualist church in this city and
the spirit in me, my soul consciousness, took possession or
directed me. My mind, my subjective, was awakened to a
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 91
fuller realization of the God within myself and a deter
mination to work for Him and all mankind at once became
apparent, because I listened to the "Inner Voice," the soul
within myself. I found a great light, an understanding, a
clarity of all things came to me. It seemed that all my
questions were being answered at one and the same time,
and I saw or perceived things perhaps differently than all
people I met, and my very heart and soul cried out in pain
and tears for all mankind when I realize what I had found
that others had not as yet discovered, although within their
reach. And I became happy, very happy, if these words
will define my great joy. And I said to myself, "Truly,
Samuel, you have found the Pearl of Great Price, you have
found not only knowledge and wisdom, but you have found
that the source of all power of thinking and reason and
eternal peace is within yourself, now that you have linked
yourself, your soul, with God and Jesus, the Christ."
I found a new joy in the thought that what I found
was in reality one of the most outstanding parables of
Christ : "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make ye free." A knowledge that all the money, together
with all the precious stones in the world could not buy.
The Truth of God, the truth as preached in the parables
of my Friend and Teacher, Jesus the Christ, a Jew, whom
Jews for 1931 years have refused to recognize as the God
mind in every man and in their very souls. He came to
bring them the Light that I found since my dearly beloved
sweetheart and soul-mate departed from her material body
for the next place of advancement, or the continuation of
her dear soul and the Immortality of Life.
And so, my dear children, I know it will please all our
loved ones in the spirit world when they know and see
that I am making an effort in thought and act for the up-
liftment of humanity everywhere. And the great Light
that I found will best be exemplified by the help of my
spiritual guides, many in number, who have concentrated
on my close association with my "Inspiration" in writing
with the personal but spiritual assistance of Henry K.
Wakamussen, who is now personally directing our book
92 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
"The Immortality of the Soul," which we all hope will
reach around the world.
Man is a soul always, and God is the over-soul of us
all, His children, who are potential gods in the making
according to our light and understanding of life. We are
born with that spark of life when we come in a seed that
brings the life in the babe, and the soul is the life, the babe
itself, the beginning of a new personality, the God within
that seed that comes as a part of the heritage of God Him
self, our Father-Mother. For God did say, truly : "Let us
make man in our image and likeness of ourselves" ; and we,
all of us, have the attributes of His likeness in our soul
consciousness to do the things that are best for us and that
will be the best for Him. And when we do these things,
we get that light and understanding that Jesus had that
He brought with Him in His soul consciousness for the
enlightenment of all mankind when He expounded the
great laws in His parables that but very few to this day
understand, or are willing to have as a guide, even with
all our vaunted intelligence and with all the knowledge,
so called, that people possess.
Look at all the pain and suffering and strife in the
world today.. What does it all mean? Why do we have
wars that exterminate millions of people, God's own
children? And the suffering in body and soul of millions
more every where? What is the reason for all these
calamities and the world depression of today?
Man's inability to recognize God and to live in har
mony with the Christ Mind is foremost in my thought as
a student of the philosophy of the soul and life. Man's
inability to see the Light of Reason, is now, today, groping
around in hell, the darkness of this life, without under
standing and perhaps without caring to know what life
is all about; what this life means to him and to all others
around him. Who cares anything about where he is going
from here? Who really wants to know anything about a
future life? Surely all is progress, and when we die the
body only of ourselves goes into a grave or is cremated.
It seems to us, or in reality it is known to us, that
men seek uppermost the material aspect of things in this
earth life, whereas little thought is given to the spiritual
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 93
side of life today. Hence all the trouble and confusion as
evident in the world today. And we are trying to show
here in our writing in Samuel, as our beloved instrument
and willing helper to all humanity, that all their evils can
be overcome by a clearer understanding of the source of
all light, all wisdom and the abundance of all things for all
mankind, through recognition of God within ourselves..
Just so long as man will live in the material mind of
his life to the exclusion of the spiritual essence of the God
within himself, in reality the God within his soul, just so
long will man suffer for his material errors or mistakes or
sins, and the pain and suffering go on and on until the soul
has found his atonement with God.
This is rather a long letter, or should I say a sermon,
my dear children, and let me ask you to retain this and
read it over and over many times as I know that our
heavenly Father-Mother has given me not only the Light,
but has shown me the Way and the Truth of things for
your benefit as well as my own.
Be of good cheer always and with love to all I am
Your dear teacher,
UNCLE SAM.
My Dear Frances :
I must tell you of a beautiful demonstration I had of
the power of God and my thoughts together when linked
with Him. This morning on arising a most wonderful
impression came quickly out of the subconscious, perhaps
my theme for our book, and so, no doubt, my noble soul,
who is inspiring we to write for you and for humanity,
said: "Samuel, all things are possible with God." To me
a most beautiful thought.
And so while dressing to sit down at my writing table,
I glanced at your package mailed to me lately, and saw the
cookies therein —but what impressed me more was your
most gladsome Easter wishes on the card that I found in
the box.
You know, Frances, it is what we call the little things
in life that are truly most interesting; the so-called things
94 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
in this short life are those things that we do that are fre
quently of great moment or the most momentous. And
so I am again reading the card in the box, and you say you
are sending to me a somewhat belated Easter offering.
The thought alone is worth a king's ransom.
Just stop and think for only a moment what a belated
offering, a belated gift means. Say to one in pain or dis
tress, to one in suffering, to have a belated something come
that will ease their want, their needs, perchance their very
life, would be saved by a belated gift that comes from God.
So we learn something every day and what we call the
little things are the things in reality that God brings to us
to do, and when we do them we are one with Him, who
doeth all things well. If we do them with our whole heart
and soul we give ourselves, we give of that part of our
selves unselfishly, and the giving is one of joy and happi
ness and we are glad, very glad. And our Father in
heaven, the great Master of all wisdom, Infinite Intelligence,
looks with favor even on a belated gift and is happier
therein.
And so, Frances, let us all strive to our uttermost and
make others happy who surround us in our daily thoughts,
by acts of kindness, and as the Bible says —"Who gives
quickly —gives thrice." Let us all be happy in the thought
that with God all is possible and believe that quotation—
"All things are possible with God." If you believe that
all
things are possible to man and all mankind.
And so in my humble way with thoughts for you and
for your advancement in soul education and for our dear
ones in the family,
I
am trying always with God's help,
with His great love for you and me that
is
always near us,
yes, within us,
I
am trying to bring to you
a
belated gift,
an offering of great power, of great light and understand
ing all reflected in me for you, so that before you leave this
earth this world of trials and tribulations, you may yet
get
a
glimpse perchance of what
I
wish to impart to you
and Helen and our very dear nephews and nieces that live
in your midst.
You know, my dear sister, life
is
complex at best. We
live in
a
material world, in all its aspects, and always the
THE IMMORTALITY OP THE SOUL 95
material looms up before us, and we do not always know
just what to do. And instead of waiting if only for a
moment to think what might be the right thing, the best
thing, we plunge headlong (in thought) without thinking,
without waiting for that still small voice, the Voice of God,
the God within all of us, the subconscious mind, the voice
we should always listen to. And it is true that God Him
self will answer all questions. He will unravel all the
mysteries of our material minds, He will bring order out
of chaos ; He will bring joy to our hearts and to our hands.
But we do not trust in Him, for man is still of little faith,
and we are yet groping around in the darkness of mind
and we are continually stumbling in our apparent blindness
for lack of faith in God who will joyfully bring the Light
to all who really wish to see with an understanding soul
and an understanding heart.
Man lacks the power of reason and discernment, be
cause he puts his trust in the materiality of life instead of
blending the material with the spiritual, and getting the
best out of life, as God has ordained we should.
To me, as I have travelled thru life, I find as a student
of human nature, that one of the foremost of man's errors
(or sins) is arrogance of mind, a most grievous mistake,
and one that will take years and years to eliminate from
the consciousness of his soul, and much pain and suffering
is in store for that man when he passes to the Great Be
yond.
When men, with deliberation and a clear mind, break
God's laws they set in motion at once a cause for punish
ment which may be years of suffering, pain and anguish
of mind, and if not completely atoned for in the spirit
world, they will bring the effect with them in their school
of evolution or incarnation. Rest assured all must be paid
for according to the law of cause and effect. For no man
can look upon God's laws with impunity. It cannot be
done. There is no escape for any soul, and we punish our
selves just to the degree that we have that lesson to learn.
The sooner we profit by our mistakes by the punishment
we brought upon us, and deserve, the better for our well-
being and the upliftment of our sou.l All errors of the
96 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
mind (or sins) must be obliterated from our soul-con
sciousness before we can see God and really be happy
mortals. If by these mistakes of judgment and the re
sulting failure we become discouraged, we shut the door
at once to God's help and the days become as nights, for
our errors have shut out the light of day and the light of
reason has gone out of our minds and the soul suffers in
the darkness of these errors and is sad. And only when
man finds real penitence in his heart and ready and willing
to atone within his soul-consciousness and asK God for
forgiveness in reality and not with a makeshift plea, then,
and then only, will God in His merciful love and goodness
and justice to all mankind, help this man to forgiveness,
always providing this man's atonement is from his soul
and from his heart, and God will in His abounding love
forgive all men just to the degree that they will make a
supreme soul effort to return to Him for God's will is al
ways dominant in all matters of man's soul and his well-
being.
We are all God's children and if in our hearts we will
believe the Bible quotation : "That all the Father hath is
mine"; and if in our daily prayer will say: "The Lord is
my shepherd, I shall not want" ; and believe what we say,
truly we shall begin to attract to ourselves all that is good
for us, and if we first ask for light and understanding and
wisdom for good measure, and if in our hearts we truly
believe that all good comes from God, and God's domain
of abundant supply, all is ours for the asking. And as we
seek so shall we find, and if we are deserving we will find
all the material desires of our heart fulfilled, as well as
heaping riches of spiritual desire for the well-being of our
soul, which spells happiness, comfort, joy, prosperity and
peace of mind, with a gladsome heart. Amen.
May God be with you always is the fervent wish of
all in the spirit world and may the light of all your latent
powers come to you real soon in the light and understand
ing of this earth expression. And this is your reward for
your beautiful Easter card and your heartfelt belated gift
and the sweet contents in the box.
THE IMMORTALITY OP THE SOUL 97
With sincere wishes for your good health as this leaves
me in your debt. As always
Your dear brother,
SAMUEL.
My Dear Frances and Helen:
I have your very dear letter of April 26th. air mail,
and am overjoyed with its contents and feel that as I read
and re-read your words of comfort and happiness in my
many letters to you, in which I bring you joy and peace of
mind, by bringing to you the many spiritual messages from
those who have long ago departed for another world. I
believe I am the one who is to be congratulated, as I am
the medium between the spirit world and the earth world.
The knowledge that I can be of so much help and comfort
to you and bring to you the words of all our dear departed
ones who are still with us—and in fact never left us in
spirit —should be a very great comfort and joy to you for
your remaining days in your earth life. And as your dear
letter said you felt as if heaven was near, that alone brings
to me added happiness and comfort, that I have brought
to you now the knowledge that there is no death. That
thought alone is worth more to me (and also to all those
in spirit) than you will ever know, and it makes all those
over there very happy indeed, that I am making progress,
in that I am able to prove to you that we always live, and
that as we live here we take our heaven with us, or the
reverse.
And so I believe I am the happiest of all our dear ones
everywhere in that I have really come into a heritage from
God, the great Infinite Intelligence, who knows all, is in
all and loves all.
If I have brought to you and all in our midst the Way
and the Light of God's own domain, and if I have opened
your eyes to see and know something of God you did not
comprehend before in all your many years on this earth,
and if I have gladly brought you in touch with the real
words of your own dear Michael, your dear mother, your
dear father, your dear sister Bertha, your dear brothers,
all, Isidor, David, Henry and our dear Jennie, and our
98 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
little sweetheart niece Janet : What does all this prove to
me and to you? Namely: "If a man die—shall he live
again?" Absolutely —most certainly —of a surety. Man
never dies. Man cannot die; the real man is the soul in
man, the spirit in man, the God in man, the God within
man is the soul; the God within is the soul within; the
spirit within is the God within all mankind and in all
humanity. God is all—God is everywhere and cannot die.
Man then cannot die because he is of God, a child of God.
God is—always was, and always will be in us and every
where. God brings us heaven here if we obey natural
laws, and these laws will bring us all we desire for pur
own good and for the good of those we love and associate
with. What more happiness can we desire than to have
our share of God's bounty and abundant supply, which He
has brought to us if we recognize Him as the source of all
good.
The greatest source of happiness I find in my new
work is the knowledge that I am near Him and know Him,
and I also know that as I do His works and bring to hu
manity everywhere the added knowledge of my messages
with the ones in spirit, more light and understanding will
come and the people will know and see God perhaps in a
new way and in a new light that will bring them all closer
to a realization of God, of Jesus, of the spirit world and the
place called Heaven.
If man will but read his Bible and try and get a
glimpse of the scriptures and read all about the birth and
life of Jesus the Christ, and His wonderful truths all con
tained in the parables that contain the laws of God for
all mankind, and live the life of right thinking and right
doing, truly, "Heaven is here"—and we do not have to die,
or pass on to even a spirit world to find it.
Heaven is here, now, if people will but do the things
that will bring a heaven condition into their very lives to
day not only for themselves but for all their family and
dear ones. Happiness, joy, good health, all the comforts
of life, prosperity are but a condition called Heaven, and
man has that condition in his very grasp, but for the ask
ing. In reality everything is easy to attain. We have but
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 99
to reach out in the right way to receive all the blessings
that are in store for mankind. May the peace of God al
ways be yours as it is mine today.
Your dear brother,
SAMUEL.
My Dear Jimmy:
On reading your letter of recent date I find you need
light, much light, as your understanding of God and His
manifold ways for good are very much dimmed. And so
it is up to me to help you see the light more clearly (in
perhaps the same manner) as Jesus did when here in the
flesh as a man even as you and me. So I will begin by re
citing chapter 14 of the Book of John.
And Jesus said: "Let not your heart be troubled: ye
believe in God, believe in me."
"In my Father's house are many mansions : if it were
not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for
you."
"And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again and receive you into myself, that where I am, there
ye may be also."
"And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know."
Thomas said unto Jesus : "Lord, we know not whither
thou goest, and how can we know the way?" Jesus said
unto him : "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life : no man
cometh unto the Father (God) but by me."
"If ye had known me, ye should have known my
Father also, and from henceforth ye know Him and have
seen Him." And Philip said unto Jesus, "Lord, show us
the Father, and it sufficeth us."
Jesus said unto him, "Have I been so long time with
you and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that
hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou
then, show us the Father?"
"Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the
Father in me? The words that I speak unto you I speak
not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me, He doeth
the works (all things)."
100 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
"Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father
in me : or else believe me for the 'Very Works' sake."
"Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on
me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater
works than these shall he do because I go unto my
Father."
"And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name that will I
do, that the Father may be glorified in the son."
"If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it."
"If ye love me, keep my commandments."
"And I will pray the Father and He shall give you
another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever."
"Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot re
ceive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but
ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in
you."
"But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost (the
good spirit in man ) whom the Father will send in my name
(Faith) he shall teach you all things, and bring all things
to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you."
"Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not
as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart
be troubled, neither let it be afraid."
"Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away and
come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice,
because I said, I go unto the Father, for my Father is
greater than I."
And so, my dear fellow student, I will add just another
parable and I will then begin to bring to you the light, the
great light of understanding yourself, as a child of God,
and the light of life as you must see it, in order to have the
things you need, what you most desire, and that is, peace
of mind, then happiness, which is the same thing. All the
comforts of life, which is what we call prosperity, and per
haps I should have said at first, love; the love of your
fellow man.. And as Jesus admonished his disciples and
the people everywhere in his life here,"Love one another."
So if we live our life as God would have us do we will ac
quire all our hearts desire and good health and happiness
will be ours for the asking. So you can see what riches
are really ours by right thinking and by right doing and
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 101
by clean living. I will here quote Parable Number 5, of
chapter Number 15, which I will ask you to memorize:
"I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth
in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit,
for without me ye can do nothing."
Jimmy, your letter states I understand the meaning
contained in the quotations you so kindly sent me but not
being emotional I cannot rely solely upon faith, and then
to make your remark more ridiculous you say "I want to
know the why of a thing?" Well, first of all you think too
much of the materiality of life. You give too much
thought and weight to the material things in life. Your
life as you see it or live it or know it. And so I would
suggest right now that you cut out reading material things
such as scientific books or papers that befuddle your in
tellect. You will have to have a thorough house-cleaning
of your mind. You will have to purge your mind and your
memory, your thinking apparatus, your store house of
whatever junk you have been reading and absorbing and
try and forget the so-called scientific element of God and
life and all it means to you, that has poisoned your in
tellect, that has destroyed your faith in God and Jesus, and
the many beautiful thoughts he uttered, and in the com
mandments he brought from God, the Infinite Intelligence,
the great Over Lord of all wisdom, for the manifold peace
and happiness for all humanity.
Have a good house-cleaning, start afresh. Read my
letter many, many times; memorize each word; read the
parables of Jesus I have herein enumerated for your es
pecial benefit. Think on them, ponder well, that is, think
of God and in connection with God, your real Father, who
really brought you into the world with a love thought.
Think of the real meaning hidden in the words of
Jesus, your preceptor from God in which he admonished the
people, the Jews especially, as the so-called chosen people
from God to live a clean life—to do unto others as they
would have all others do unto them —to keep holy the tem
ple of God (man himself) by casting out of their minds
idolatry of gold as a god—a man made god ; if you wish to
cast out of their lives all adultery and to live and
practice the Golden Rule in all life and in all things
102 IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
pertaining thereto. And now to come to your greatest
stumbling block, as you call it, your lack of faith. First,
to understand yourself. It seems to me you are too tense,
of too positive a mind, and what are you so positive about
when you do not recognize the first principle in man's wel
fare, the first real principle of life—and that is faith in
yourself, faith in what you are, faith in your ability to do
even the small things in life, faith to admit God in your
life and in all your affairs and in your business.
Jesus said many, many, many time, all thru His very
short life, and he admonished his disciples and the people
every where he spoke : "Oh ye men of little faith." Read
chapter 14, parable 10, 11, 12 and if you can read English
surely you can find the Truth in those noble beautiful words
—and so let me tell you again and again —without faith in
God as your real Father, without faith in Jesus, who came
direct from the Father-God to bring to you and me life
abundant which means to a thinking man all that we should
have for our own good. Jesus brought to us all His great
knowledge as contained in the laws and the parables for
our guidance. Jesus said, "Of myself, I do nothing, that
all came from God, the I am."
You must have the faith of understanding and I must
bring to you and your positive mind a new light, a ray of
something that will sweep the cobwebs of darkness out of
you entirely by asking you to believe in God as your real
Father-God and that God only knows all, and what you
most need, and God will surely provide means for you to
know how best to acquire everything in your life here.
Think of the word, or axiom, called Attainment. As
piration is another word or attribute, which bunched to
gether builds up a real man, who has character and the
latter characteristics is all that you take with you when
you die, or really pass on to a place called the spirit world,
or where you live and go thru another process called spir
itual evolution of the mind, you, your real self, the God
in you.
The Immortality of the Soul predominates and the
crucible of your earth life or experience becomes intensified
to the degree that you really are yourself as you were on
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 103
earth, thru this experience called earth life. And so you
must drop as much as possible material thoughts, material
books, scientific books and things that have bemuddled
your brain. Think of spiritual things, try and live as
spiritual as you can. You cannot live a hundred per cent
spiritual life today in a beastly material city, or this world
for that matter, but you can live a clean life such as conies
to your mind and intelligence from the aspect of what you
wish your life to represent.
If you will let God direct your thoughts, try and live
in the subjective, the consciousness of the soul, the spirit
within, the God within yourself that is always dominant,
if you will but give it a chance ; but from the tone of your
letter you allow the material, called in this instance the
objective part of you, become your master, hence you do
not know where you are. I am not scolding you, I am only
trying (unselfishly) to help you by pointing out your weak
spots and by showing to your intellect how to think and
perhaps reason. And the sooner you can take God to your
bosom, or heart, and believe in Jesus or the works that he
did as part of God, whom he represented on earth 1964
years ago, the sooner will you make headway to a much
clearer understanding of your life and its great purpose.
We are all here for a reason, everything operates under a
law of divine justice and we are all here of a law called
Cause and Effect, of which we are all a component part or
atom in life. We, as an atom, have a God attribute called
the spirit of God within us that makes us all a part of
Him—and God said : "Let us make man in our image, alter
our likeness," which means, perhaps, that we have a joint
likeness in everything perfect, good, lovable, likeable, ma
terial, spiritual and any other perfect attribute you can
think of for yourself. And so when we come into the
world as a babe, we come perfect and the parents very
often begin by spoiling or pampering the little tot and so
on up to his 14th. year, when the child begins to think in
reality for itself and then begins the matrix in the brain
to absorb the good, the bad, and the indifferent, and the
impressions begin to take effect of all you and I do—and
so begins the life ; life's impressions, right on up, including
104 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
the day when you pass on, or die, as you may call
it,
the
sum total of life, as you thought and acted in you. Your
character and your soul life, the spirit of you
;
and accord
ing to that matrix your mind or soul self-expression, you
will dwell for thousands of years in
a
heaven or hell, just
as you lived
it
here, and left
it
here. And if you can take
the condition called Heaven with you, why that's what you
will find in the next dwelling place.
I
call
it
the spirit
world. And if you take
a
mean material life expression
with you on passing over, that character expression will
bring you to hell or
a
life in Sheol, the pit of sadness, re
morse, pain and suffering, which means self-degredation
will be your lot. You will be shunned by your loved ones
both in the spirit life and those you left behind, because
you made of yourself a worthless character, hard or cold-
boiled, as some wish to call themselves. Arrogance
is
an
other name for
a
sin that man acquires, look out for it-
it
is
like
a
tentacle that fastens itself on man when he isn't
looking. These
I
might call false impressions of the ma
terial life. Try and look for the spiritual side in and
of
all things, and success will surely be yours in all your de
sires and undertakings.
My sincere wishes for your advancement will always
be included in mine.
Sincerely yours,
SAMUEL A. JACOBY.
My Dear Helen:
I
am overjoyed with your last letter spiritually, and
will be more than satisfied
if
you will accept this short
letter from me this time as
I
am
a
very busy man these
days and nights.
I
must first tell you that if ever
I
was
a
happy mortal
it
was last night.
I
was at our usual meet
ing place chatting about current events when in came
a
friend of the hostess who quickly joined in our vibration
on spiritual lines, and they asked me to talk, and they told
me
I
gave them an inspirational message of great value.
These inspirations now come at very frequent inter
vals by and through my spirit teacher and associates
in
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 105
the spirit world, for which I am duly thankful and very
happy.
After the message was given we conceived the idea of
trying our combined mediumistic powers or psychic forces,
in a trumpet circle, without a trumpet medium. We
darkened our sitting room, put the trumpet on the floor
in an upright position, and after I gave an invocation we
began to sing hymns, and then asked our Father-God, in
silence, to help us, and bring our loved ones to us tonight
so that we could impart happiness and peace of mind to all
in the spirit heaven where all live and breathe harmony
and love.
In a few minutes we heard the trumpets move and they
became luminous, and I distinctly felt love taps on my
hands and arms and knees and then on my head and the
sides of my face, and I felt the vibration of a spirit pres
ence, and called out, "Sweetheart, Blanche, dear, is that
you?" and my darling wife quickly responded in like man
ner and voice, and sweetly said, "Yes, my sweetheart, this
is indeed your own dear Blanche. I am here. I am so
happy, happy dear, wherever you have these beautiful
meetings which all of us love to come to, as they denote
love, peace and harmony. And we are all here, very happy
and glad to come to you always, knowing that you are
making wonderful progress in spiritual development."
I began to wonder if I found a new source of power
within myself that I, or we, could draw the spirits from
the spirit world without a regular trumpet medium, who
heretofore was regularly present and quickly there arose
in my mind and heart the thought, "Everything is possible
with God," so why not with man. Surely this was enough
evidence that this Biblical quotation was true, and I at once
became overjoyed if that word will suffice for your intelli
gence.
Aunt Blanche and I had quite a conversation, then she
kissed me many times and said quickly, "I will return to
you before you close the meeting. I wish to let others
talk." I then called Michael, "Dear Mike, please come and
speak to me. I have a letter containing questions I want
you to answer." And almost instantly your dead daddy
106 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Michael said, "Hello, Sam, how are you? This is Michael.
I am well and growing stronger each day, thanks to your
spiritual help, which is a marvelous thing for you, and I
wish I had understood some of it before I came to the spirit
world.. Be of good cheer. You have helped us all to de
velop spiritually so that we could come and talk to you
whenever you desire. I then quickly told him I had just
received a letter from you, his daughter, and you wished
to know if he was happy concerning your welfare and per
sonal matters in general, to which your daddy quickly said,
"Yes, dear Samuel, tell Helen she is doing all right and not
to worry about anything. I know she is a good girl in
every way and I see that she is progressing wonderfully
from your many helpful spiritual letters, and we here will
do our best for her in every way ; and remind her to always
be of good cheer and I will come to both of them as often
as I can and help them spiritually. Tell them to relax
physically, to get more sleep and to be happy, that I and
all here in spirit are happy if they are happy and exactly
in proportion are we sad or happy in turn. Tell them not
to be morose or discouraged, as we feel it in the same man
ner as you on the earth plane of existence." These words
are exactly by voice as your dear daddy gave them to me
through the trumpet.
And so I let dear Michael go to make way for others
in spirit for the visitors who were also here, and after, per
haps what seemed like fifteen minutes, my dear Blanche
caused her vibration to come to me by touching my legs
with a trumpet, and I quickly said, "Blanche, dear, is that
you?" And she very quickly said, "Yes, my dearest lover
man, sweetheart." (These were her very dear pet names
for me when in the earth life). I was so overjoyed so far
with this most wonderful demonstration of God's will and
love for me, or for us, that I quickly said to my dear
Blanche, "Listen, honey girl, I will get a trumpet very soon
and try if I can bring you to me alone." To which she
quickly replied, "I will always come as I am always near
you at all times." I thanked her most fervently and sent
kisses through the ether waves of our spirit force and Aunt
Blanche kissed me many times in the same manner, and I
quickly called out, "David, David, please come and speak
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 107
to your dear brother Sam." And in less than one second
dear Uncle David appeared and said, "It's Dave, God bless
you, Sam. You are a good brother to me and to my dear
children also. You are making wonderful headway, and
your book will be a success. So be happy as we are all
happy with you, and be of good cheer and do not worry
about anything. Send our love to all the children and tell
them I will help them as much as I can and all the others
too."
I then called out in a spirit of great joy, "Mama,
Mama, dearest mother," and after perhaps two or three
seconds my mother spoke to me and said, "I ame here, my
dear son, Samuel. I and all here are very proud of you.
God bless you. Your book will be a great success. Keep
in good health. I love you. We all love you. You were
always a good boy and a good son at home, and you helped
me live by your most loving care when I was so ill many
years ago, and God will reward you. So be happy always.
We wish it for you. Good night to you and all your fam
ily."
I then called out, "Janice, Janice, dear, my little sweet
heart. please come and speak to your dear Uncle Sam.''
And after a few short seconds Janice quickly said, "Hello,
Uncle Sam." And I, overcome with joy, quickly replied,
"Janice, dear, how did you come so quickly, after I called
out your name?" At which it appeared to me she was
happily surprised and said, "Why, Uncle Sam, you called
out my name and here I am, and you should see what a
big girl I am now." And I quickly replied, in loving words
of great happiness to us both, and I told her to see her dear
father and report our conversation, and she said she would.
She then kissed me and said, "Aunt Blanche teaches me
many things and how to talk thru the trumpet, and how
to come quickly whenever I call her or when she is in my
vibration in a circle, and she laughed and was a very happy
child. Then Dr. Fredericks announced himself to us, said
he was always happy to come in a circle that denoted love
and harmony and would heal our ailments and those of our
loved ones and friends and left.
This closed our little demonstration of an hour and
we thanked God for showing us the way, the light and the
108 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
truth of His great powers and the spiritual phenomena of
the power in Christ when he healed the sick; made the
blind see, and raised the dead. I might also tell you that
one of the visiting mediums present told me that I would
lecture in Hollywood and elsewhere and that I would not
change any of my manuscript, and that our book would be
a great success, and she saw me writing many books. Amen.
My Dear Frances :
All during the night my subconscious mind (we have
an objective and a subjective mind) was coaching me on
what I was to say to you this beautiful God-like May day.
And so I must tell you of a most wonderful spiritual phe
nomenon that must be to you by this time a most powerful
demonstration of the wonderful spiritual force or power
brought to us all by the Almighty Father-God, Infinite In
telligence, our most worshipful Master of all highest wis
dom of light, our God of love and affection for all humanity,
who knows all and who imparts all to those of his children
(you and I) who love Him and do His works unselfishly
for all humanity. As I wrote to you quite recently on my
first visit to our friends here, and as I was talking to them
about my entrance into spiritual work and my spiritual
unfoldment and what I was trying to accomplish with my
lectures, and the writing of our book, our friend decided
it was of so much importance and absorbing interest that
it would interest their friends who lived in the same apart
ment house, that he quickly telephoned Mr. K. and his wife
and told them to come up. And when these people entered
the apartment and after the usual introduction, I quickly
retraced my steps about my work here and my interest in
the spiritual field of endeavor so they could more readily
understand what I was going to talk about.
I then began to tell them of the wonderful spiritual
phenomena of God with me and my work and associated
spiritual interests since I arrived in Los Angeles, Calif.,
and I told them all about Dr. Fredericks visiting you in
your home in New York City, and that you* dear Michael,
now in spirit form, went with Dr. Fredericks and another
spirit who usually travels in a spirit aeroplane, and how
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 109
they actually and truthfully visited you at midnight about
two weeks ago and relieved you of some nervous or other
ailment, and in which you replied to my query as to
whether you felt any forces around you that night in ques
tion and you quickly replied in a letter that you actually
did know and feel forces around you that you never had
felt before ; that a doctor did treat you that night spiritually
and that you did feel better and much relieved when you
awoke the following morning. And so Mr. K. asked me
if I could be of any help to his wife, who is partially deaf,
to which I replied that God, Dr. Fredericks and myself (as
intermediary would help her and that if she would believe
in me (as the material medium) do as I directed as far
as the material was required, she would be benefited at
once, and according to her faith in God she would be
healed; and I told her to sit quietly and fully relaxed and
at ease about 9 p. m. when I expected Dr. Fredericks to
visit us as usual in spirit and ask for people to visit and
heal spiritually.
But it so happened that we had an extra large circle
Saturday night and Dr. Fredericks (who is as you know in
spirit) did not for some occult reason visit us, (as usual)
because we had some unusual minds of skepticism and hard
boiled material subjects, such as Jimmy (who is too posi
tive along science of which he knows absolutely nothing)
and so I could not speak to Dr. Fredericks as I do when he
comes to us regularly, and I was sorely disappointed think
ing that perhaps all four would make light of my promises
and call it a bad name, as only ignorant people might do.
And just as Dr. Fredericks came into our circle last night
(Monday) I was about to enquire why he didn't come Sat
urday night, and having in my mind the appointment made
with Mr. K. and wife, Dr. Fredericks anticipated my
thought and quickly appeased my mind by saying, "He was
there and found them very tense, very positive, and not
amenable to treatment."
I was nevertheless very happy that he could read my
mind and visited that home and carried out my thoughts
for help without actually speaking to him in our circle, all
of which impressed me beyond human or material thought,
and again impressed me with the proof of the real existence
110 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
of God or a supreme power; an Infinite Intelligence who
works thru those who believe in Him and directs all spirit
ual agencies or forces to help or assist in any shape or
form. And so Dr. Fredericks will meet me in either the
K. or P. apartment Thursday night of this week when I
will have dinner with the family, and I will again instruct
the K's what to do and help to straighten them out materi
ally so that Dr. Fredericks and I can bring about the help
needed, and I will beforehand bring to their attention this
most wonderful phenomena of God and in whose love He
will send Dr. Fredericks, thru me, by my request, to allevi
ate the deafness and the palsy which is a state of mental
fear, which will be cured, according to their faith in that
God will cure them, as Jesus did when on this earth plane.
And it is my firm belief that all illness, ailments or what
is termed disease, is primarily of the mind, as a first in
stance or causative material wrong impression, set up in
the minds of people in general first: thru fear of lack of
some substance missing (objectively) which in turn I will
term "lack of faith" ; second : a lack of faith in God, whom
very few people recognize in any form as supreme power
or intelligence, and a substantial lack of faith in and of
themselves; and at once the individual sets in motion an
objective condition, a nervous state, a condition I will call
a breaking down of brain cells; weakening in turn the
spinal fluids and spinal nerve centers, radiating all thru
the human system, which finally reaches the most potent
weak spot in the individual, according to its location. The
M. D. fastens upon the said individual a something he calls
disease, and in turn then, the M. D. who is always working
along material lines of thought in treatment, again, by
suggestion, fastens upon his victims (who seemingly trust
him) and who have lost all faith in the power of God, in
the spoken word of Jesus, that by our faith shall we be
healed, and have all things. And so the bulk of humanity
put their faith in doctors of medicine who rarely, if ever,
cure them of these so-called ailments or diseases; being
mostly of the mind, which, of course, medicine cannot
reach.
It should be apparent to you by this time that lack of
faith in God as our first Helper, is often, if not always, our
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 111
downfall in not alone health but our very peace of mind,
prosperity and all other lack including our desires, com
forts and surroundings called environment in our earth
existence. If we could (all of us) in the beginning of our
youth be instilled with the idea of a first principle, a most
wonderful power of Infinite Intelligence called Love, who
would be with us at all times and who would be in us as a
love principle, a directing force of good, and who would
help us in all ways thru life's existence. And although we
could not see this force, we could readily feel it, or some
thing in our daily thought and pursuits. And if the child-
mind were properly directed, first by the parents, then by
the school tutor, who should be themselves instilled by this
great force, or power, in the mind, and who would be com
petent to direct the little brain cells of thought in his pupils.
Consider what a great element of divine power would be
set up in the beginning of millions of our little ones, God's
own Vineyard of Humanity.
It shall come to me to help and direct this mighty God
force, to be a component part of school structure and cur
riculum just as soon as I can, and I know God, Jesus, and
my spiritual guides will help me in doing this work for all
humanity, both in our book called the "Immortality of the
Soul" and in lecture work and other ways of performance,
and God will be with me always as He is with all of His
children who trust and believe in Him implicitly.
And now I must tell you that your own dear Michael
came again last night and visited me, and dear Mike
thanked all present for helping me to help all those in
spirit land and here, and Mike was acquiring a stronger
voice, which denotes a happy state of mind, or spiritual
existence and so I can promise to you and Helen a won
derful message again of abundant love, good health and
best wishes not only from dear Mike but also from Ma,
Pa, David, Henry, Bertha, Janice and lastly Isidor. Our
dear Father was most anxious to commend me in many
ways and congratulated me very profusely for being so
spiritual in a land of materiality and corruption, and said
that by my conduct, my writings and lectures, I would
surely find my just reward. That all our dear ones in
112 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
spirit world are all very happy in my account of my ac
complishments, and thought of humanity in attracting to
myself such wonderful spiritual guides who enabled and
assisted me spiritually in writing our book which will be
read far and wide
Then my own darling sweetheart quickly came with
her usual sweet salutations of love and affection and came
and went only three times, always kissing me and promis
ing to be with me always—and all in spirit send love and
kisses to all on the earth plane which should make you
very happy in the thought that God has made all this pos
sible for you and me.
And so again I must try and point out to you that the
greatest force in the world, if not the entire universe, is
love, a love that reaches into and vibrates every atom, no
matter how small or how large, and this love as you should
know and understand it, is of God our supreme being of
Infinite Intelligence, who brings to us His power in all
things which we inherit in each earth existence. Amen.
Love and kisses always,
SAMUEL.
My Dear Helen:
I have your very dear letter of most recent date and
we, my selected old spiritual souls of philosophy who are
guiding my hands and my heart and my soul intelligence,
together with all of our dear loved ones, who are now so
journing in spirit realms with God, are well pleased, if not
very happy, all of them, with my soul efforts for you, your
dear mother and our loved ones, all, still here, on the earth
plane. And so if I can bring you added happiness and
peace of mind may I say this is all from God, Infinite In
telligence, the Master of all wisdom, who in His great love
is always ready and at hand within us to bring to us His
rays of wisdom, and the great light of truth and under
standing. All is here now, today, for us, that is for our
good, our enoblement of our daily life and finally out of
all
comes an enoblement of the soul in man.
Man
is
a
soul. The soul attribute of God. The spirit
of man
is
God. The life in man
is
the spirit within. God
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 113
is within the soul of man, all men; and all men possess
this intelligence called God and all men should so live to
see the God within and feel His presence at all times. For
God never leaves man until man leaves God. And even
then God is aluxiys within the soul of man, ever present,
always abiding within the heart in love, for our God is
our Father always, loving us and keeping aflame the divine
essence of love, which is our life here. For we are truly a
part of God; we are God in essence and being. And God
said: "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness
and let him have dominion over the fish of the sea, and
over the fowl of the air, and oyer the cattle, and over all
the earth, and over every creeping thing upon the earth."
And God created man in His own image; in the image of
God created he him; male and female, created he them.
And God blessed them; and God said unto them, "Be
fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue
it and have dominion."
I recite here only for reference a small part of the
Book of Genesis, calling attention to the fact established
of the close relation of God to man as His image and like
ness and that the same is the spirit of God in man, and
that this essence of spirit in man is the soul which lives
forever, always both in man in the body and when he de
parts this earth plane in spirit form for further progress,
in reality soul progressing. And the "Immortality of the
Soul" must be preserved in all of us at all times in every
way, and if we have, as God has promised us, dominion
over all we see as related in the Book of Genesis, most as
suredly is it upon us to have dominion over our thoughts,
our acts, our deeds, and our life, here, today; and according
to all this we are measured in the book of life, our own
soul's progress. When man so lives that he does not have
dominion over his earth progress; when man so lives that
he forgets that he is a part of God and shuts out the Way,
the Truth and the Light; and when man becomes sinful
and wicked and shuts God out of his life and shuns not
only man's laws but God's laws, brought to us first by
Moses and then by Jesus, who gave His life that we may be
saved; and when we lay in pain and suffer; and when we
go hungry and without a home and friends and we beseech
114 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
a God we do not see or recognize to help us in our dire
need and our faith is like that of a broken reed; where
shall we turn —to whom shall we call for help when all
have shunned us as a leper is shunned. Then is the time
to look within to see the dying spark of hunger, the real
soul hunger gnawing at your heart; calling to you to see
God who in all His glory and majesty has not forsaken
you. And in your pain and suffering will come the words
of God, the words of Jesus, "Be of good cheer, for
lo,
I
am with you always." And when that spark
is
rekindled
and you feel
a
warmth coming into you and your body, and
your heart
is
again made glad, know that the spirit of God
is
again within your heart, and will feed you, both spiritual
food and material food will find its way to your body and
you will see the glow and the majesty of Him who
is
the
real God, the real Father of all men, of all humanity.
And God said: "Let there be Light, and there was
light"—and if man will shut out the light and live in dark
ness and suffering, and commit willingly and wilfully all
manner of acts of sin, of degrading his body, his life and
the lives of others
;
if
man in his ignorance and arrogance
of mind will wilfully debase his soul, surely then not only
will he suffer here, for his days on earth may yet be many
but his days and years will be reckoned by the thousands,
and each day and night will be as thousands in hell or pur
gatory. And his soul will cry out in pain and his suffering
will bring him into the suffering of countless others
in
this hell he has taken with him from earth—and this hell
condition will follow him thru many earth lives, on each
return, and when finally he has thru all this pain and suf
fering and remorse and travail of heart and soul learned
to see the light, the way and the truth, perhaps the dawn
of
a
new day,
a
spark rekindled of the God in his soul, will
be awakened and the resurrection of Jesus will come
to
him. He will be cleansed of all sin and God will be happy,
God will be joyful that
a
sinner has returned to the fold
of the chosen ones, His mankind, His children, that He
loves so well. And so, my many friends, let me make
it
clear, very clear, that we, you and
I,
must expiate, or pay
for our sins, for all our acts, both against our God, our
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 115
thoughts of evil, ill-will to others and in desultory acts
against our fellow-man.
Every wrong to others, regardless of thought or deed,
must and will be paid for, both in spirit and on return to
earth in the next incarnation. Every debt must and will
be paid for with interest, in other words, let me explain
more clearly to the minds that are spiritually closed, to
the arrogant minds that have set up a form of material
life that supercedes all else; to the minds that are spirit
ually blind, deaf and dumb and sad to relate even blue ; the
latter class or element of human beings predominate in
this form all over this fair land. Bear in mind every one
of you that will read our book, that every dollar wrong
fully kept from, taken, stolen or otherwise appropriated
from any other human being, individually or collectively,
in small amounts or large sums, will be paid by the culprit
or thief both in spirit form, first by intense pain and suf
fering, a condition of darkness beyond the vision of the
thief, the culprit, be it petty larceny or grand larceny, the
hell condition surrounding that man and woman is at once
so intensified by the degree of crime committed which has
not been expiated or minimized in any degree or form by
years of jail imprisonment, but must and will be paid for
in spirit by those who willingly transgressed the laws of
God and with impunity broke all commandments for his
benefit in the earth life. The condition of hell that you
take with you will become to you apparent the moment
you take leave of your earth body, the body of flesh and
blood in which you lived here for many years, which will
be but a few years to the hell you will find in the place
you will live and abide for many thousands of years. You
will not be able to shake off any part of the hell condition
and the hell life even in spirit form until you have had such
an intense suffering that everything of crime or wrong
doing in the material existence is paid for in your own
purgatory, built up within you while here. And the con
dition of darkness in which you live for many thousands of
years will be so intensified with pain, suffering and remorse
that you finally break down in spirit, mind and soul and
you begin to then see the wrongs you have done, and your
ignorance, your arrogance, only begins to leave you, the
116 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
real you. And having suffered beyond the imagination of
the human intellect, being warped by years of one's under
standing of God —God's laws become apparent finally, and
then when you have cleansed your soul, your spirit, you,
always living and never dead, begin to enter the world
again; you are born as a babe once again in a mother's
womb; your earth life begins all over again and many,
many times you come back as a cripple. You are born
not only deaf, but dumb and blind, and you begin again a
further cleansing process of the sins committed in your
past life not fully paid for in the hell you left. You see,
you feel, you know, that of the many thousands about you
who are born perfect in body and limb, you have for some
reason been singled out for this condition of deformity, and
you know not why, and in your ignorance and arrogance
still in your mind which has not left you while out of the
last body, or earth existence, you creep, you crawl on your
hands and feet, suffering if not in body form then in your
soul always crying out loudly for your reformation. And
let me tell you, my many friends everywhere, in every nook
and corner of the world, that there is no God or power
you recognize that will or can help you out of this hell con
dition until you have in every way paid, and paid well;
yes, paid for by compound interest. Every banker, every
absconder, every broker, every clerk, every offender against
the laws of God, first by Moses and then by Jesus, will pay
by untold agony of the spirit and the soul until all is paid
for and the real cleansing begins when the offender gets
thru his suffering a ray of light, the God light of under
standing that a God does live; a God of love; a God of
life; a God of kindness; a God so great in every way that
his soul finally awakens after thousands and thousands of
years, both in hell and on earth coming and going. Coming
and going, always living, never dead, always living and in
pain, great pain and suffering, until hell departs and a
heaven, a condition called heaven, begins to come with the
renewed man, the renewed soul. And finally a new born
man comes into being and the Immortality of the Soul is
again apparent to this man and he sees God in a new light
and when finally the process of life begins all over again.
The soul, the real man, manifests itself, and gladness, a
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 117
new joy, finds a place in the human heart of this renewing.
And the man who formerly was the thief, the culprit, the
wrong-doer who lived in evil thoughts and deeds, comes
back with tears in his heart; but the tears are tears of
happiness; the tears are tears of great joy at being able
to undo all the wrongs of the past. And God in His mani
fold goodness for all human souls, His own children, takes
into the fold the wayward son who strayed from Him, in
lives past, and he is again taken into the family of God's
own beloved sons, a renewed son of God, a coming Jesus.
And as the man grows up in the new life now again on
earth he knows something has happened to him, his soul,
and he is an honest man; he shuns all sin and wickedness,
and he walks straight in the pathway of God; he walks in
the pathway of light and understanding and as he seeks
the light the light comes, and as he seeks the understand
ing of life understanding comes. And with understanding
and light comes wisdom; and with wisdom comes perfect
bliss, an understanding heart becomes at once possessed of
great happiness and great joy fastens itself upon the man
and he lives again in God's domain.
He lives again an earth life and his days are filled
from the granaries of God whom he has again taken unto
himself, and he has found heaven here; a paradise comes
into his soul and he goes about with a new light, a new
step, he has taken his share of God's bounty, the abundant
supply that God in His infinite wisdom has ready for all
men who will seek, and if you truly seek, so shall it be
rendered unto you. "Seek and you shall find—knock and
it shall be opened unto you." And God said: "He that
seeketh me, there shall I always be." And out of the cru
cible of past lives that were rendered to satan comes the
man of God, a firm believer in a God that lives, always has
lived and will live forever, even as you and I. For man
himself never dies; man cannot die; his soul never dies,
and the real man is in his soul, his spirit, the spirit of
God.
God is always within the heart of mankind everywhere
in all humanity, regardless of creed or color, and as long
as man recognizes a higher form of spirit and life than his
own earth existence and when man comes into the spiritual
118 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
recognition that the spiritual life must have dominion over
the material life here in his daily life, just to that extent
will man live in heaven here and he shall have everything
his heart desires. He shall live in a land of perpetual
sunshine filled with happiness; gladness of heart; a new
found peace of mind and the riches of a Croesus will be as
nothing, as his life in a new form; in God's own heaven
on earth for all men ; a land filled with milk and honey.
These are truly tidings of joy to all men ; may they see
and listen and hear the words over again as brought to us
all by Jesus the Christ. Amen
God be with you all at home.
Always your dear Uncle Samuel.
My Dearest Helen:
I am impressed with the thought this beautiful April
morning that perhaps I am in debt to you with another
epistle of Uncle Samuel, and I cannot think of a more ele
vating thought than to again tell you of my many wonder
ful gifts of spiritual phenomena which is in reality a fur
ther demonstration of the illumination of added seeing of
the acts of God. In no other way can I contemplate all
these most beautiful and wonderful happenings to me since
I have again taken up my abode in this God's country.
And no doubt you have read and perhaps re-read all the
God-like help inspired letters to your dear mother, contain
ing the gladsome news of the many visits and conversations
I have regularly with all our dear ones in spiritland, who
really live and breathe the essence of God's own spirit do
main. And when my own dearest girl, your own dearest
Aunt Blanche comes and talks to me in sweet spirit lang
uage, it seems to me that with her voice comes a smile
showing to me how really happy she always is with me,
and I know and feel that I am doing the many things that
please God, who in His infinite wisdom ordains all things
for our own good, and though Aunt Blanche is not now in
the body, I know she is with me always in spirit, and per
haps you may get a glimpse of what I mean when I say
that all in spirit who really love us can be of much help to
us by pointing out the way which leads to added intelli
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 119
gence of the physical body and many kindred physical
things not in the realms of our daily thoughts. I am in
formed and believe that we can help all our loved ones
in spirit in return for these most wonderful gifts and at
each spiritual trumpet circle, when all our loved ones come
and speak thru this wonderful agency. Your most dear
daddy comes and blesses me and says I have helped him
in many, many ways, since he passed on, and that I have
helped him by helping your mother and your dear self in
my many ways of enlightenment and bringing to you the
light of understanding of life on earth today. And so I
have been a medium between heaven and our own abode
called earth, and I know I am the happiest mortal on earth
today if only that I can show to others the gifts that have
come to me as a most wonderful legacy, all since my darling
wife and sweetheart went to prepare a place for me—a
home among God's mansions—not made by human hands.
I must tell you that I can impart to those who dwell
in the spirit very, very much love and happiness and added
peace of mind, which they tell me adds to their spiritual
progress and they are made supremely happy with and by
me. All this happiness that is mine I am able to impart
to all those of you who are in my thought, and it all proves
that when we really seek the light, the rays of the inner
light, the illumination of God, the God within us, the spirit
made manifest in man in the beginning, all will come to
us if we recognize the spiritual potentiality of man is God
and Jesus. And if I am attracting to myself the attributes
of these highest intelligences; if I am living the thoughts
of the very highest, what more beautiful creative thoughts
can I aspire to in noble action than by imparting to my
own loved ones, in spirit and here on earth, the many at
tributes and thoughts of God and Jesus the Christ, whom
I am proud to say are my coadjutors in my work today
and who I know are leading me on and on to a still greater
light and understanding. And if I am to make a sacrifice
in so doing I know that when I am called to my Father in
heaven the golden gate will swing ajar and they will say,
"Well done, Samuel, our faithful son shall sit with us in
council." And God's happiness will surely be mine.
120 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
I am asking only for wisdom that comes with light
and understanding and so I will ask you to pray with a
heart desire to see the light and come within reach of Him
who will show you the way and the light. God is good.
Trust in Him. Have faith in God and with that faith
much good will come to you.
To know God is to love Him. Love God then with all
your heart, with all your soul and with all your might,
which is the desire of your potentiality of your conscious
ness, your subjective mind, the real spirit that is in you of
God. Be yourself. Be God's own child and manifest it
all thru your life and assuredly God will be with you in
all things. It is so. It is true. We must take God in
our life and in our business affairs and practice the golden
rule if we expect Him to be with us and near us at all
times —and if we desire prosperity and happiness we can
not attract these wonderful things to ourselves unless we
have God as a partner. I know from experience, because
I have taken God and Jesus into my heart and into my soul
and into my thoughts, and into my work, and they are
both here now, with me, helping me to even write this
epistle to you (my own flesh and blood) a child of God,
blessed with a mind and reason, to see and to know all
things even as Jesus the Christ.
God brings love to those who love Him. God brings
happiness and peace of mind to whosoever walk in His
ways, and prosperity comes to those who seek the light of
Him, who is always within us, with an illumination not
seen with our two eyes. Jesus said : "I am the Way and
the Light. For judgment came I into this world, that
they that see not may see, and that they that see may be
come blind." Those of the Pharisees who were with Him
heard these things and said unto Him: "Are we also
blind?" Jesus said unto them: "// ye were blind, ye
would have no sin, but now ye say we see, your sin re-
maineth."
I am the way and the light to you and all my dear
ones who will listen to the way of Him who came, who saw,
and who conquered ; who left the way open to all who will
follow Him, and walk in the way of God's laws, brought to
us in the parables of Jesus the Christ. And if we walk in
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 121
His ways and do the things we should do, the light comes
to all, and we perceive the way that leads to truth, to
health, to happiness and prosperity. And when the time
conies to pass on to the spiritual world we take our light
with us, even as the darkness is behind us, and the many
things that are in store for us are the result of reflection
on life here, and the many good things we did for others
not born of a selfish desire for praise or gain.
All these things are for soul unfoldment and the pro
gression of the soul, and when we go hence from here our
soul will be glad and rejoice in a new found haven of rest,
and a great peace comes to us as if heaven born. We have
found that which the blind have not seen and the darkness
of earth life leaves all too many in blindess, which they
take with them as they pass on into the next world, and
the blind, the sightless see nothing but pain and suffering.
"Eyes they have, but they see not." Jesus was right.
The eyes are the windows of the soul, and people all over
the world, yes even nations, go about in utter darkness and
trample down the laws of God and expect peace, happiness
and prosperity, whereas dire distress is over our land and
sickness of mind is everywhere apparent. People cry put
to God in their afflictions and unhappiness and in their im
poverished conditions, and all the while in their contempt
of Him, who brings His abundant supply for all, we have
been blind like the mole in the ground, and our eyes were
covered with the slime of greed, selfishness and unholy
desire for profit only, and the thought of our fellowman
was like that of a leper and misunderstanding and wilful
neglect of thinking and reflection of God and the parables
of Jesus, even by our ministers of the gospel, who have
commercialized God and made our churches a place of
idolatry and a haven of material thought and politics.
Jesus said to those Jews who had believed on Him :
"If ye abide in my Word, then are ye truly my disciples
and ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall make
you free. He that is of God heareth the words of God.
For this cause ye hear them not , because ye are not of
God."
All these many, many years in all my travels, I have
yet to hear from one minister of the gospel, who preached
122 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
a sermon in any church, in any denomination, the truth of
the parables and Christ's teachings that He brought from
God for the light and the way, for the liberation of all man
kind, in the bondage of darkness, that man has lived since
the days of Genesis and our present day Bible.
We have eyes that they may see, but they see not, and
darkness is in the eyes of man, and his soul cries out for
the light, the light that he will not see, and his suffering
discourages his soul and he thinks God has deserted him.
But man, in his ignorance of God's laws, has but brought
his own punishment upon himself, and in his suffering per
chance he may cleanse himself and purge his soul of sin.
Wisdom, knowledge and understanding is within the
soul of every man, and within his thinking element, if he
desires while in the body. Man, having every attribute of
God, has every faculty within, wherewith to progress in
every way spiritually and materially, and soul advancement
or the progression of life from within of necessity must
begin here in the body on this earth plane. His advance
ment begins when he reaches the thinking stage of life,
and he then begins to build his own environment in the
school of life.
To reach mastery each soul must live up to the life
and the conception of truth as revealed to him in his own
religion, nation and environment, and in his understanding
of the God within himself.
With love to mother and your dear self and all the
kiddies, I am, with sincere wishes, always, from all in
spirit heaven and myself,
UNCLE SAM.
Letters From Relatives
My dear Uncle Sam:
Your letters always arrive at the right time. What
with this mental and material depression and its resultant
"daily illnesses" in the business world, one has many mis
givings if left to the material side only. But your letters
always come with a "halo of light" that dispels the vagaries
of the material and brings at once a something that you
would call "spiritual essence" or a higher understanding
of life and its meaning. I feel that "spiritual success" is
not attained without a struggle within and the unselfish
glorification of God and the wonders of "His" working.
I feel the help of "His" hand already, and I know,
buoyed up by your kind thoughts at all times for my wel
fare, I shall not falter in the Faith you have found in your
work and that you wish to impart to me, so that I can find
"God" himself in all things. I understand the many spirit
ual letters you have sent both to Mother and me, and as I
read and re-read them all very carefully and often, and
read the purport of the wonderful messages you have so
far received from the platform and in circles of the various
spiritual churches you visit in Los Angeles, I realize what
there is to know in "spiritualism" or in "spiritual unfold-
ment" as you call your sense of "Development" ; and I also
realize that as you go on and on in this development, much
good will come to you and to us.
I also realize that from your "talks" to us here before
your departure, that you had "something" we did not have,
and I was eagerly awaiting your development, feeling sure
you would find it in the land of sunshine that you like so
well; and so, after a few months of sojourning in God's
country, you have truly found your life's work, thanks to
God; and in your many letters to Mother and me, we read
123
124 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
of a "happiness" somewhat strange, if that is the correct
appellation of a discovery of a mind distant from yours
in space only, and so when you sent us your dear darling
photograph, we at once associated our feeling of your let
ters with the happy expression therein, and so we became
"spiritually" happy also—and the net result so far is that
I can say "I have done some good so far outside of our fam
ily," and I can see the change coming slowly but surely.
I realize that your talks and letters to Mother, and my fur
ther explanation of them to her, have helped so much that
it seems almost impossible to believe.
I—as you know never think in terms of years, except
to reflect that as the years pass we must hurry along the
right path of thinking so that we may accomplish more
for the years allotted to us on this earth.
Everyone marvels at Mother —her youthful appear
ance—her "pep," her "cheeriness," her "spirit," but / do
not marvel—I know that we have both helped to bring the
change so much needed, and so she is indeed today a real
"pal" more than ever before, even though many of your
words were beyond our understanding.
Uncle Sam, dear, I marvel so on receipt of each of
your dear letters and am proud to be the possessor of such
a library of worthwhile thoughts. It makes me happy to
see the progress you are making and hope that it will be
given to me some day to have your perfect understanding
of the living and those souls that have passed on to the
beautiful world of the sphere beyond. How I wish, dear,
that I might be there to study along with you, and get on
with my work quicker. But then, you will be doubly
proud of me if I accomplish everything alone —just alone
physically, for I always feel your presence beside me in
thought. It will be the better test of me if I meet life's
questions by debating alone, within myself, so that some
day I can come to you smiling because of my accomplish
ments. Your dear face on my dresser reminds me of your
talks and messages and each day as I walk part or all of
the way to the office, I truly glance up to the sky and in
voke God's blessing for the day's material trials—and how
it helps me. I walk along breathing the marvelous air and
smile while I think of "Him" —and that's the way I try to
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 126
start my day. I admit I do not always succeed in over
coming the petty annoyances that crop up during a day
where foreign thoughts surround a commercial atmosphere,
but I feel I shall win out in the end. I, too, shall clench
my fists and decide that I shall succeed in conquering my
self and the business obstacles that beset me today. Things
are still very unsettled but I have recovered my moment
arily lost faith and am carrying on knowing that something
better will await me "around the corner," as you ad
monished me in your last beautiful message.
Please keep on, dear, and tell me more of your thoughts
which come to you from "God's" own domain—the great
Infinite Intelligence —wisdom—storehouse for mankind
when we are truly ready for these gifts—you have found.
We all send you our love. You know you are in our
heart always.
Your own niece,
"H."
My Dear Brother:
Words—mere words—will never express the great joy
at receiving your recent letter that you are in spiritual
communication with all our dear loved ones in the spirit
land. I am very sure you must be happy indeed in the
knowledge that you have found God, as you express your
self, and that He has shown you the way to talk to your
dear wife and sweetheart, who you assure us in not dead,
as we here always understood. I am overjoyed that you
have talked with my dear husband and that you were able
to have a conversation with a doctor also in the spirit
world, and who speaks to you regularly regarding your
own physical condition and whom you told me in your re
cent letters will help or assist physically as a physician
anyone whom you may want him to assist. And I want
to say here and now that I felt the presence of spiritual
visitors such as you described would visit me. Also my
dear Michael. It seemed as if he touched me on the face
and shoulders and smiled at me, and I felt a thrill such as
I have never experienced in my many years on this earth.
126 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
I also feel and must tell you that since you have been
writing to me regarding your spiritual unfoldment and its
greater life, I have felt happier and more joyful than at any
time in my life and that I am more contented and feel a
thrill whenever I get a letter from you as if heaven itself
was opening to me and I know our dear loved ones in
spirit must be very happy in the knowledge that at least
one in our large family is able to see and feel and know
that there is more to this earth life than the common ma
terial. Your joy should be great indeed even though sad
in heart, but as you say God has recompensed you in the
knowledge that when one door closes another door opens.
And surely from the tenor of your letters and the joyful
smile on your photograph you are, my dear brother, happy
in all your vast knowledge of the spirit world that you
visit regularly.
I am sure that in your many, many conversations with
our dear loved ones in spirit you must have and possess
something denied to us whom you know have not that great
joy and experience, and I pray our heavenly Father-God
that you will be spared to us so that you can bring to
all
of us here in New York City a demonstration of what you
know and have found since your dear wife and sweetheart
left for the spirit world, with whom you speak so often.
I
have dropped many years from my shoulders since you
began to tell me of the many wonderful discoveries to
be
found in living the spiritual more than the material life-
But, my dear brother, people do not seem to care, or
to think about anything but the material side of life as
it
is
lived today, hence the knowledge that you have must
give you
a
new lease of life and your work will redound
to your credit in both worlds, of that
I
am sure. Your
dear niece
is
always overjoyed too when your interesting
letters come and we read and read them over to ourselves,
and speak of their wholesome contents to all who visit us
that know you. And what
a
marvelous demonstration
of
God's powers to be shown all these many phases of spirit
ual unfoldment that
is
yours, and ours, as you say, and
I
feel that although
I
may not have many more years on this
earth plane,
I
feel very, very happy in the knowledge that
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 127
you have found God, and have helped our dear loved ones
in spirit land in your new field of service to Him and all
humanity.
Your devoted sister, "F."
My dear Samuel :
I was indeed again very happy to receive your dear
lines (air mail) and the other letter, by regular mail. Your
letters made me very happy and the contents were so in
teresting. I certainly was thrilled beyond anything I can
say at this time, as each letter brings more and more to
me the great spiritual advancement you are making in Los
Angeles, and the fact that you have regular voice com
munication with our dear father and mother and all our
dear brothers and sister and niece, is most remarkable to
all of us here at home, and is certainly a miracle and a
great spiritual demonstration of God's gifts to man when
he lives the spiritual life as you do, and you are a wonder
ful man to be in condition to receive all this knowledge.
And it is certainly a great blessing to know all of what you
tell us in your remarkable letters. Oh, how I would like
to hear them talk as you do. I am glad dear Mike spoke
to you and told you to tell me not to wear black clothes
for him, and to assure me that he was not "dead" but living
and that he was now in good health and making spiritual
progress slowly, and that you helped him see the light of
the spiritual side of life eternal and that the "Immortality
of the Soul" would some day be recognized and understood.
I cannot understand how our dear mother speaks
English so fluently, whereas she always spoke German to
us children. It is too wonderful for words. Be sure, my
dear Sam, please tell me all. I am interested in your let-
ters and am quite excited about what you can tell us and
my thoughts are all happy ones that our dear departed are
not dead, but alive, and see us daily in our various pursuits
and that we can help them by being happy which in turn
makes them very happy. Truly, my dear brother, you are
certainly blessed in this great gift or knowledge of what
ever you have found. You are certainly fortunate in being
able to speak to your dear Blanche at your will and that
128 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
fact alone should make you a very rich if not the happiest
mortal on this earth.
We are always looking forward to your very interest
ing letters, so please write to us all just as often as you
can. And in closing I want to assure you that I feel many
years younger than when you left us last October for Los
Angeles, the country you love so much with its glorious
sunshine. All here wish to be remembered and be sure
to give our love to all with whom you speak in the spirit
world. With an abundance of love,
Your devoted sister, "F."
My Dear Brother Sam:
I have your very dear letters before me of the 18th.
and 19th. and have read them many times. Oh, the joy
of all you say. They sent tears to my heart and to my
eyes, that you had messages from all our beloved ones in
spirit land, and that you are in condition to hold conversa
tion with them all for an hour. I am so overjoyed and
felt heaven so near that it made me happy, peace ful and
contented with all the world and all mankind. I cannot
describe that feeling that came over me. But it was glori
ous. I can just imagine how you feel. You spoke to my
darling Michael again. Be sure and tell him always that
we love him and miss him and his advice which was always
good to us. Surely all this to us is most heavenly and
God is indeed good to you, and in turn good to us, that we
can at this great distance know and speak to those we al
ways loved and cherished while here.
Your letters are always so instructing, so please write
as often as your work will permit.
Your letter states your dear Blanche has helped all
our dear ones in spirit—so interesting —and with our
meagre knowledge of what you can impart of the spiritual
development of this life that we will be more eager to get
your dear letters, that it makes one wonder why all do not
seek the light that you have found. You stated in your
last letter that you would soon have another circle wherein
you would again contact Nathan Straus and Wm. T. Stead,
both of whom went down on the ill-fated steamship
THE IMMORTALITY OP THE SOUL 12d
Titanic, and we will await with much eagerness your many
conversations with these men and many others who will
speak to you so freely. May God bless you in your new
field of endeavor and speed you on to greater works, is the
fervent wish of your devoted sister and niece.
My Dear Darling Brother:
I was very happy to receive your ever interesting and
lovely letters all. How to begin to answer them is beyond
me. One is more interesting than the other, as I have
three of them here within the space of a few days, also the
box of figs. Many thanks.
You have no idea the change in me since I am begin
ning to get that great understanding. It is most marvel
ous to describe. Your last of yesterday (air mail) made
me cry. It just went through me. It is simply marvel
ous. The power of God in man to know of these direct
communications with our own loved ones whom we can
help and who can help us, by pointing out the ways that are
dark to us in our material senses, and to think you got a
message from our beloved Janice. Oh, how marvelous.
You must be very happy and contented with your new
life and with constant messages from your dear Blanche—
such satisfaction to be able to talk at will with your sweet
heart can be only a gift to you from God on high.
As I read and re-read all your most wonderful letters
that I keep so sacred, I must tell you that I have always
believed quite firmly that our beloved dead are always with
us and I never felt, or feel alone. I know dear Michael
is at all times with me and our dear niece, and that
thought alone has helped me so much these many years
that he departed for the spirit world and in this thought
that you enlarged upon since you arrived in Los Angeles,
brings to my mind his spirit protection and his love which
is always ours, so that our burdens of life are lightened
with God's assurance through you that we are never dead,
but that we always live, either in spirit form or the ma
terial earthly existence.
I can truly say that with your many letters of life's
understanding and the spirit world, and what it all means
130 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
to us, that I am at peace with the world and am very
happy.
Your letters all have helped me so much. I feel so
near heaven and God Almighty. He be praised.
I am at all times looking forward to your letters with
longings to get more messages from our dear beloved ones
who must indeed be very happy with you in your spiritual
development, and the fact that they speak to you with
their own voices must be a great spiritual happiness to
them as well as to you, and the added spiritual knowledge
that you will convey all these spoken words to us here in
New York, must bring to all within our family a great
source of happiness, peace and contentment. Surely, my
dear brother, you are truly blessed of God and your de
velopment along spiritual lines has brought you in touch
with the great Infinite Intelligence who does all things well
and for our good. And I must also tell you that I feel the
presence of my dear Michael at various times when asleep,
and I felt as if he kissed me as you said he did last week.
That knowledge which I will carry with me always is too
sweet for words.
All of us here discuss your dear wonderful letters and
marvel at its contents and our fervent wish is always that
God will keep you with us, to bring the many love thoughts
between the spirit world and you, our dear brother, who
is the happy medium between the two worlds. Amen.
May God bless you and give you strength to carry on
your good work. The Lord is my shepherd. We shall not
want.
Your fond and devoted sister "F."
Dear Uncle Sam:
Thank you many, many times over for the picture of
your dear self, which shows you looking the picture of
health and goodness. It was such a happy surprise to re
ceive it and all your dear ones here, as well as myself,
were soo glad to see you almost in the flesh. You look so
well and strong and hearty, all of which helps to make my
yet uneducated brain understand more and more of your
wise teachings.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 131
Truly I believe your saying when you write: "I and
the Father are one and inseparable. Live a clean, honor
able life, think happily of your own power and will within"
—all of this that you have told me I do try to follow. Mes
sages that you have received from our beloved ones, I feel
and know reach only the ears of one who believes and un
derstands. You have told me wonderful things and you
have truly helped my good spirits, and we, all of us here,
thank you so much for all your unselfish efforts for those in
the two worlds unseen by most people.
Take very good care of yourself. We all do miss you
and your spiritual companionship. Amen.
Your loving nephew and nieces all.
Dear Uncle Sam:
I response to your very dear letter of last week and
also the one I just received this evening, I hasten to an
swer to tell you that I do (rather I should say we do) ap
preciate your many wise teachings, and while some of it
may be more than I can yet understand, it all sounds good,
and true and happy. And I do want you to know that we
your nieces, and I, do love you and miss you, and I more
than all the rest, do thank you very much for the lots
of help that you have put in your teaching to me. My
father (bless his soul) was always so close to me and I
loved him so very much, and I know he loved me the same
way: if you in your wonderful way can help him, as you
have helped us, what a phenomenal thing that would be for
all.
From your letters even I can see that you have pro
gressed in your good work and I can see that you are
happy in your work, which no doubt is a blessing bestowed
upon you for your good work to others.
May God bless you always and may you be a help to
all who need your teaching, is the fervent wish of your
Dear Nephew and Nieces.
Dear Uncle Sam :
A few days ago H. P. and myself received your very
welcome letters but today I received another letter from
132 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
you, and I wish to tell you at the start, it was the finest
and dearest letter you have as yet written.
Perhaps I am getting to understand you and your
teachings more and more. However your last letter made
more of an impression upon me than any of your teach
ings heretofore received. I do believe that our dear ones
are alive in the spiritual world, the everlasting world in
deed : I do believe that they know our every action ; and I
do believe that my dad knows and sees that I loved him
and do love him now. And with your good letters of com
fort to us bringing to us regularly the conversations you
have with all our dear ones who are in the spirit world,
especially, our dear parents whom we miss so much. Surely
God has come to our heart's relief through you and your
most wonderful gifts since you entered the field of spiritual
development, and we shall always look forward with great
eagerness to the arrival of letters that will fill us all with
a heartfelt joy when you can tell us in plain English the
conversations you had with our dear loved ones in the
spirit fold. And with your teachings in my mind I hope
to make a grand success with my own new field in the
commercial world, always keeping in mind the Golden Rule.
And I have faith in God and faith in myself in all my un
dertakings, and so with love from us all to you and our
dear ones who talk to you, I am your loving nephew.
Dear Uncle Sam:
Though the hour is late, I feel that I must make some
reply to your last letter before another week passes.
One of the objects of this letter is to tell you how amazed
I was at the recital of your "talk" with my Daddy dear.
Though, because of my lack of study of the subject you are
so vitally interested in, I find it difficult to believe the al
most miraculous experiences you are having —yet because
of your constant recital of them —I find my mind more
clarified regarding them to the extent of almost believing.
So far as my own Daddy is concerned—unconsciously
I have been communicating with him for years. Surely, my
years of communion with him at times of indecision, and
my unwavering devotion for this man who loved me so
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 133
dearly and gave me so much in my life, must bear fruit
when I seek a message from him. I have always felt that
he is watching and guiding me; surely it is he who has
helped me to overcome all of my problems, for it is almost
uncanny how something unknown within me (some knowl
edge I never knew I had) has always been revealed to me
in time to solve the most difficult questions that I have so
often had to contend with alone.
To you, all of the above must seem very clear, because
of your mature understanding and you will be happy to
know that I am giving more attention to the study of the
spiritual aspect of Life, looking forward to the future with
a beautiful Faith —knowing that if one thinks and acts
right, we cannot fail to reach our ultimate goal of Peace
and Happiness. I know now that this end can only be at
tained from within oneself—self-introspection and study—
and never from without. If I am able to so guide myself I
know there can be nothing but ultimate happiness within
for me.
With much love to you and thanks for your beautiful
letters, I am,
Your fond niece, "H."
Spirit Messages
My Dear Friends Everywhere:
In order to acquaint you with the real value of this
brochure on the "Immortality of the Soul," I herewith
present to you a series of messages from my dear wife and
sweetheart, who is my soul-mate now living in the spirit
world, and who you will admit is very much alive and with
me at all times, when not busy in her studies and progress
ing in her talents of music, singing and the harp. She
passed on June 20, 1930, in New York City and on June
24, 1930, I visited a Spiritualist church and in response
to my bouquet of roses the medium quickly said: "Your
wife, Blanche, is here and says, 'I am not dead. I live and
am here with you and will always be with you and will
always help you."
In Atlantic City, N. J., Sept. 17th. to 25th, 1930, on
visiting a Spiritualist church, a message was given me
that I would meet an elderly man with white hair in 1931.
This man is my worthy publisher whom the spirit world
told me, May 25, 1931, to see at once when our book "The
Immortality of the Soul" was ready to be reviewed and put
in bookform. The messages I received in Atlantic City
said I would travel a great deal and lecture from platforms
and to look out for my throat. I was smoking at the time
and this spirit message contained good advice as I became
imbued with speaking and lectured in Los Angeles during
the Spring of 1931. The above messages also said to look
in many books of our library and I would find underscored
many worthy passages of great interest for my future
work and welfare and on my ocean voyage to California.
I read all these books and found exactly what was pointed
out for me by my dear wife and sweetheart.
134
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 136
Oct. 3, 1931—New York City.
My dear wife came again in a Spiritualist church and
said she was getting well and strong again, and that I had
nothing to worry about and that my future was with God
and that the spirit world would all help me, and that I
would leave for the west very soon, and that I would meet
with all success in my work and to have faith that all is
well with me.
Oct 5, 1930, New York City.
The spiritualist medium said in two weeks a new door
will open for me and that my dear wife, in spirit, stood by
my side and was very happy that the spirit world had
decided for me—and that I would soon purchase a ticket
for my long ocean trip, which would very greatly benefit
my health and bring me into a new life. My Indian guides,
Silver Moon and Grey Wolf, appeared to the medium and
also were very happy and said everything points to good
results and abundant success.
Oct. 7, 1930—New York City.
In a Spiritualist church my dear wife said she was
very happy that I am taking up, or am interested in, spirit
ualism, and that the future holds very much for me in my
new field of philosophy and religion. My dear wife then
said I should not be so lonely or lonesome but to gather
myself together in thought, relax and prepare myself for
what life to come will hold most dear to my heart, and
that all in the spirit world will follow me and will always
be with me no matter where I am. The medium then said,
after a slight pause, my wife is interested in and is sing
ing for me "Lead Kindly Light" —Amen.
Oct. 8, 1930, New York City.
The medium picked up my bouquet of roses and said
to me: "Your wife is here. She gives me the name of
Blanche. She said very soon now it will be decided what
you are to do." Then the medium said Columbus appeared
for some reason and I should sit quietly and decide what
I want to do and whatever it is it will be O. K. and my
guides will favor it.
136 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Oct. 11, 1930—New York City.
The medium on picking up my bouquet of roses quickly
said : "Your wife is here. She appears enveloped in a halo
of happiness and says she is now happy that you have
made up your mind to leave New Ytork City and go to the
Coast again, and that she will be with you on your trip
and while there, and that brand new avenues will be opened
up for you for great activity and success." And as the
medium was giving this message to me she was trying to
undo the wire around the roses and the medium then
smiled and said : "Blanche told me to leave these roses
alone; to leave them just as they are; they are hers and
yours; and to be sure and give them all back to him and
tell him to put them in the vase alongside my photograph
so I can see them on my visits to his apartment."
Oct. 13, 1930—New York City
The medium picked up my flowers as usual, and said:
"Blanche is here. She is wearing a blue and gold shawl
and riding horseback and making great spiritual progress
in her studies, and not to worry about anything, that you
will leave very soon, and that the months of November,
December, January and February, 1931, will mean very
much to you." Three mothers appeared and all were very
happy that they saw me making preparations for my de
parture and all success was in store for me.
Oct. 15, 1930—New York City.
The medium again picked up my bouquet of roses and
said: "Blanche is here; also your dear mother Helene and
your wife's grandma." All were very happy with me and
my vibration. Blanche then played on a piano and sang
"Nearer My God to Thee." Then my guides, three in num
ber, said they are planning something for the latter part
of January and February. That I should take good care
of myself and see that I do not catch colds of any descrip
tion, emphasizing this very strongly. And not to worry
about my business affairs left in New York ; that my spirit
guides would take good care of everything and that I would
remain in Los Angeles during 1931, visit New York City
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 137
in 1932 again, but return to California to continue my
spiritual work, etc.
Oct. 20, 1930—New York City.
The medium again picked up my bouquet of roses and
smiled broadly and said : "I guess I had better not disturb
them—your dear wife is here now with her father who
proceeded your wife in the spirit world by many years.
He is also very happy in your vibration and said he loved
children and would always be with you in your future work
which the spirit forces seem to have well planned. Your
dear wife speaks to me and said with other spirits the door
was open to go ahead ; make the trip to the Coast and they
would attend to everything else. Blanche said we are free
in spirit; we are not limited in thought; we become bright
er, more intelligent in spirit land; outlook very good for
me, emphasized again, in November, December, January
and February.
Oct. 22, 1930—New York City.
The medium again picked up my bouquet of roses,
smiled at me, and quickly said : "Your wife, Mary Blanche,
is here. Is that correct?" And I replied, "Yes. My wife's
name is Mary Blanche. We always called her Blanche,
who said all of our dear ones in spirit are very happy with
me and my departure and they are all very anxious to see
me leave for my new work that means so much to me and
to them."
My brother David and Isidor and Henry appeared and
were very happy that they could be here also. Then four
European relatives came that I have not seen or known;
my guides, many in number, appeared, and said in unison
all my appeals or prayers would be answered; to go for
ward and they would all help me in many ways—and that
I am to visit Canada. Then my dear wife again came and
for me to know that all children who pass on very early
in life grow up to manhood and womanhood.
Oct. 24, 1930—New York City.
The medium said these beautiful flowers attract here.
There is a spirit lady here singing "Praise God from whom
138 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
all blessings flow." New plans register right with the
spirit world; there is nothing to worry about, except to
take good care of myself. The lady spirit says : "Good ad
vice, good advice. We have cared for you in the past and
will not fail at the present time. We are always here
guiding, leading and directing you."
The medium looked up and said: "The person I am
reading is making a sudden change that will prove worth
while and this first change will bring another which will
take place in January, 1931. There is someone who is
writing this message in a book and wants you to write it
in a book also, to remember it. Good night. Au Revoir."
I sailed on October 25th. for Los Angeles, by steamer,
through the Panama Canal, and arrived there November
20th., and after visiting old friends began to visit churches
and attended quite regularly.
January 4, 1931 —Los Angeles.
In response to my flowers which I found attract my
vibrations of love and affection which in turn attract those
of our loved ones, I received responsive love messages of
greater length and more often than had I just laid some
trivial trinket to be read from on the table for such read
ings or messages and in that way I always brought a living
thing that possessed a soul which flowers do especially.
Roses which my dear wife greatly treasured viz: message
from platform: my dear sweetheart and my dear mother
came together in a loving embrace and were very happy
to visit me here in Los Angeles, and to assure me that all
is well and to keep right on with what I am doing and
reading and that soon everything would change for the
better, and to be patient, keep well and be happy. My
dear wife said she could hear me as I spoke to her daily in
front of her photograph which was on a radio stand in my
room in my hotel, and which caused her great happiness
and joy. She said she had great love for me and would
help me in my work and oherwise help me to direct my
efforts in writing, my talks and pamphlets and that I would
meet with a great success very soon.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 139
January 8, 1931 —Private Reading in L. A.
My dear mother and beloved wife and her younger
brother came together today and all brought abundant love
and affection and again told me to keep right on in my
studies in philosophy and religion and to develop myself
in my own way, and that later on all would develop into
my being a public speaker with my own organization. I
may travel some but not farther east than Salt Lake City
and may engage in mineral properties, and that I would
be very successful in the fall of 1931 and in the years 1932-
35.
January 9, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
My dear mother and wife, brothers and sister, greeted
me today with love and affection and said I was on the right
path to great spiritualistic truths and to keep right on;
that they would all help me to attain my highest aspira
tions in what I was doing. My dear wife said she would
soon talk to me herself and to come often to these church
meetings for development and that she was very happy and
full of love for me and would come as often as she could
and visit me, but that she was very busy doing her own
work and that I fully understood at this time the life in
the spirit world, and that all had duties to perform and
that all was progression.
In response to my question as to her early demise and
the sudden going as we call
it,
she said she had to go at
that time and she would soon talk to me direct without the
help of
a
third medium so that
I
would get everything
straight. The medium here said she saw me making short
trips in and out of L. A. and that
I
would be very success
ful.
My dear wife said
I
helped her very much and her
appreciation together with all those in my vibration in the
spirit world would see that
I
would come by great success
and affluence. My dear brother-in-law, to whom
I
was
greatly attached, also came here and spoke of my efforts
to help all in the spirit fold, and on earth, and that all
would help and be with me.
140 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
January 11, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
My dear wife came with a large bouquet of daisies of
all colors and was very happy and glad to be with me
again and not to be impatient, that all would be made clear
to me. And my dear parents also came and said to be of
good cheer always, that I was making headway slow but
sure.
January 16, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
My dear wife, my dear mother and sister came to
gether today and said there are four old wise men in spirit
who are now watching me and who will unfold themselves
to me later in the spring according to my development
Keep well—be patient.
January 23, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
My dear brother-in-law appeared first and said he and
all in the spirit world are working for me and my spiritual
development and will show me the way in books and study.
My dear wife here spoke very lovingly of the many things
I kept as keepsakes and said she will never forget and that
she loves me more than ever and to be brave and to keep
the highest spiritual thoughts at all times, and not to worry
about financial matters, that many things will soon be
cleared up, and that I would be successful in all my under
takings and to keep right on living and doing as I am today
and that a Hindu guide and philosopher will soon come to
me and help me spiritually and guide me in my intuitions
and be my guide in all things for my unfoldment.
January 25, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
I brought a large bouquet of pink carnations tonight
and my message of flowers brought my dear sweetheart
who quickly said she saw pink roses in a large vase close
by her photograph on a radio stand in my room. She was
very happy to be so close to my thoughts and admonished
me not to work so hard in my studies and to relax and take
things easier, that I had much work to do in the future,
and would need all my energies.
My dear wife said we had a beautiful home in New
York City which I had to give up but not to worry about
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 141
the material things, that she was preparing a more beauti
ful and a magnificent home far grander than any concep
tion of mine today, and to be happy in our great love which
exists the same today as when she was here with me in the
flesh, and that she loves me now more than ever.
January 30, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
I brought a large bunch of pink carnations which
brought my dear mother and sweetheart again close to
gether. Then my dear father came; then my dear old
friends whom I knew and visited for thirty-five years in
Atlantic City. Then my dear brother-in-law and his sis
ters and a young man named William who was killed in
the big war and many others came of our European rela
tions.
My dear mother and my dear sweetheart saw me writ
ing and said I am so busy always writing and that I am
writing a book. Then my dear wife spoke and said Blanche
is here and that I will soon have all my writings in read
iness and I will be supremely happy with my work and
will be successful beyond my dreams, and thanks me for
the flowers which brings great happiness to all of our loved
ones in the spirit world. From a letter reading by psy-
chometry at the same session, the medium said she saw me
very busy writing; that I was reading and reading and
reading; also that my mind was not quite ready or settled
as to the specific matter of my future work; that I had
read books from Darwin and physical culture to medicine
and dietetics and now to Spiritualism; practically every
thing of a forward and intensely uplifting character; that
my family and friends were all in the eastern part of the
United States, and that I had to leave there because this
was a better place for me to study and carry out the full
scope of my guides and teachers in the spirit world, who
advised me to read "Swedenborg's" works and he will come
close to me and bring me his inspiration. Also that of
Benjamin Franklin and Dr. Peebles —all of whom will as
sist me in my work of development. And I will here re
late that as the meeting closed and we were passing out,
two of the older mediums came over to me and said they
both saw a large "S" over my head and asked me if I had
142 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
any of Swedenborgs works in my library, all of which
proves the value of spiritual messages.
In a circle message later that day a medium said she
saw me reading all kinds of psychology; that I felt that
psychology was everything; that I roughly believed in it
as basis, but I was broadened in my views; that I was
studying the thoughts of the great masters of wisdom, and
that I was not satisfied —and that I would read and read
and delve into the hidden mysteries of ancient mythology
and that I would finally solve many things in my own way
and become an avowed spiritualist, and possibly one of the
foremost spiritualists in this country. Be of good cheer
always and God will bless you in many ways.
February 6, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church.
I get a wonderful vibration (as I touch these beautiful
white carnations) of an old soul in the spirit world for
a long, long time. Possibly a great-grand-parent, a phil
osopher, a linguist, a teacher of physics etc. This message
is exactly as given to me by a visiting medium in her own
language by my spirit forces and vibrations.
Then came my Indian guides, three in number, who
said they have stood by my side and helped me over some
rough spots in my travels and will always remain with me
as my physical protectors, as that is their mission in
the spirit world. Amen.
My dear parents then visited me here again and were
greatly pleased with my present work and study in the
spiritual side of life and to keep right on, that soon my
many sheets of manuscript would be put in book form.
Then my wife and sweetheart came again (as always) and
as luminous with great love for me. Her dear heart was
happy with my spiritual vibrations and ethereal unfold-
ment. She said she will help me and stay with me always
and that I was again brought west by my spirit guides, who
comprise our unseen forces, the unseen helpers, who belong
to us through many incarnations. My dearest beloved said
I was attaining a higher essence of the ethereal not always
attained on this earth plane of experience, and that I would
travel much and lecture all over the world.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 143
February 8, 1931—In Spiritualist Church.
I brought a large bouquet of white carnations today
Sunday afternoon, at which were given both flower and
psychometry readings, followed by circle messages.
My principle Indian guide presented himself and said
he will always be with me and see me through and not
falter in my determination to succeed; that I might find
many material barriers, which he would sweep aside. A
grandparent then presented himself. He had a long white
beard and was a philosopher. He said he would teach me
many things I am to know. The medium then said many
ancient spirits are now with me and helping me to develop
or unfold what I had uppermost in my mind for many
years. Father and mother (God bless them both) came
again. Father said I was always a boy with self-deter
mination and wanted to know things pertaining to the old
masters or ancient lore, and that I was not ten years of
age when I was found in the attic reading the Bible. My
dearly beloved came with my dear mother and sister, who
were all very happy that I was soon to be able to see things
they wished me to do and carry out and to keep right on and
not falter as I see the Light; that my dear sweetheart was
not in tears now as she was when she had to leave me here
alone to bear the brunt of a single life (as she thought)
but that I had long ago planned my work and my life's
longing all of which will come to pass, all in due time.
Soon I will meet men of spiritual wisdom who will review
my understanding and together we shall plan for the fu
ture and all material things will be taken care of by others ;
that in turn will give me a free hand for my life's work,
which will take me across the Pacific and Atlantic seas
where I will spread the truths of God's laws and the para
bles of Christ. Amen.
My dear beloved again came to my rescue and said
she will see that I get full control and complete mastery of
what I am to say at all times in speeches and lectures, as
many barriers spring up from time to time in desultory
minds and audiences everywhere. Be of good cheer, al
ways. Your guides and teachers will not let you falter —
have faith in yourself : same day in church—8 p. m :
144 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
My dear parents again voiced their great love and
affection for me. Mother was faithfully depicted by a
psychometrized reading in color of hair, form of face, ex
pression, and motherly love for me, and said I resembled
her very much. And many of our loved ones in spirit ap
peared and voiced their love for me, and spoke of a most
brilliant future, far surpassing any imagination of our
living relatives. God bless you always.
My own dearly beloved (who is not "dead") came
again in spirit form and stood by my side and said she is
always with me when I buy the flowers I bring to church ;
and that she dearly loved roses and to buy white and pink
roses and orchids when in bloom, as they represented a
rainbow of God's love and faith in His beloved children
everywhere ; and that the many bouquets of roses and car
nations bring the most direct vibration of love from me
to her and to all of our dear ones in the spirit world who
would create in turn a spirit vibration which would throw
around me a cloak of perfection at all times. God be with
you, my dearly beloved sweetheart husband.
February 16, 1931—In Spiritualist Church.
I brought (this afternoon) a bouquet of American
Beauty roses, which brought a most beautiful message
direct from all my loved ones in the spirit realm. My
dearly beloved brought my dear mother and sister who
voiced their great love and affection in my thoughtfulness
of flowers at all times and quickly said much good will
come to me in my spiritual development and all will work
for me and with me for my highest unfoldment and heart's
desires —be of good cheer always—we all love you and that
I am on my way for much hard work, and some of it will
be quite rocky and uphill, but to believe it all as it comes
and that I am now on the first step of the ladder, but with
study and reflection will come unfoldment and mature de
liberation will bring success in all fields of wisdom and
knowledge and that I will reach the highest rung or step,
and will attain a very high place and my goal will be
reached. Have patience. My guides are watching over
me at every step, be faithful, and all will come in due time.
Then my dear father quickly came and voiced a very cheer
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 145
ful message of joy at my spiritual development and said I
was making wonderful progress and to keep right on in
my own way; that my mind was properly attuned for the
highest spiritual vibrations and all would assist me. God
bless you.
Then came an old spiritual guide, a man of great wis
dom, who said he will unfold me. The letter "S" appeared
over my head during this recital —meaning Dr. Swedenborg
—and the last of this wonderful message contained the an
nouncement that I have much to do and was admonished
to pay more attention to my health and get more sleep,
etc., and that with relaxation I would come into the richness
of my latent powers and would heal the sick, and cause the
blind to see; and more powers would be made manifest to
me all in due time ; have patience —have patience —was the
admonition.
My dear wife and sweetheart reluctant to part with all
these messages for me, again appeared to me and said she
was very happy or glad to leave this body and earth life
and unfold in a higher form in spirit, meaning that she
could be of more spiritual benefit to me in the spirit realm
of higher intelligence and help me to unfold in which she
would also benefit, and that I had three Indian guides who
would bring solace to me from time to time and bespeak
for themselves their mission as spirit guides for my spirit
ual welfare.
February 20, 1931 —In Spiritual Church.
The following message, "psychometrized," came from
the lips of one of the best mediums present. An elderly
man with a long white beard, seems to be a professor of an
institute wants me to have paper and pencil at eleven
o'clock tonight, and write as he will dictate by inspiration.
My dear father then appeared with an illuminating
message of gladness that I was in a spiritual church of un-
foldment.
My dear beloved sweetheart came with her brother
(who passed on quite some years ago) and was again very
happy to be with me and said not to be too anxious in my
thought of progression, and to have more patience and re
lax, and that real development comes slow but surely.
146 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Then came my old Atlantic City friends to visit me
again, and brought good cheer to me, and said they were
my faithful friends who would always stand by me in
spiritual help. A 4 p. m. circle.
My dear sweetheart quickly appeared again and said
she was with me all day and walked by my side and helped
to select my (our) roses and that I must have felt the same
vibrations; that all my spirit guides were very anxious to
help me and all said they would in turn direct my lectures
from the platform, and that I would travel far and near
and spread my message in my own way, and would be in
spired to determine rightly just what would be the proper
things to say and not be bound by any one specific cult or
religious view. And my father said I was right, to go
ahead in my own way but I would meet with obstacles, but
that I would finally win out and reach the topmost goal of
any one. Amen.
February 22, 1930—In Spiritualist Church—2 p. m.
My dearest sweetheart came again and said when the
bouquet of red roses was lifted from the table that she saw
them and was overjoyed at my thoughtfulness, as I always
brought roses when we were living together on the earth
plane. And she brings me abundance of love and puts her
hand on my head and tells me to be of good cheer and to be
happy, that all is well for my future and to carry on my
work exactly as I have it planned, and that I will rise to
the top, and that all of my family, relatives and spirit
guides are working with me in my efforts gathering knowl
edge in my forthcoming lectures and writing of many
books. Be of good cheer —be of good cheer, always.
My dear mother (long in spirit) also came and placed
her hand on my shoulder with great love and affection, and
said it pleases her beyond words to always be with my dear
-wife who brought such wonderful psychic powers with her
all of which helped all our loved ones in spirit in their de
velopment.
Then my dear father came to me and said he is more
than gratified with my progress in spiritualism and in try
ing to ascertain all higher knowledge of life and death. He
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 147
stood behind my chair and said all is well with me and that
they will all help me attain my goal; to keep right on and
not falter; that my work has just begun and that I have
been very helpful to all the family as well as many in the
living as well as those in spirit, and spoke clearly in Eng
lish, as the medium (a Scotch woman) understood no other
language —and my father always spoke German with his
family when in the flesh life. My father also said I will
be able to help and develop them all when I come to them
in spirit as I am functioning on a higher vibration and my
understanding of life is much higher than theirs was here
in the earth life.
A 4 p. m. Circle Reading —Same Church.
My dearest beloved and my dear mother came hand in
hand together. My dear sweetheart said she was very
happy at being with me again, and that I always brought
the highest form of vibrations of our great love and soulful
affection while we two were together on this earth plane
and that she will try and lift the veil if only for a glimpse
of where she lives, to show me where they are.
Then my dear brother, who passed over last, came and
spoke of our earth life and intimate love always, and quick
ly said I was a great help to him, almost as soon as he
passed over to the spirit world, and that none of our fam
ily understood me when I was trying to show them by
words what spiritualism meant in the earth life. And now
that so many were in the spirit world they were forcibly
awakened to the real facts of my worth to them and sin
cerely hoped that those still on the earth plane would be
benefitted by my teachings and spiritual suggestions, and
not await death to be liberated from a closed mind and an
arrogant spirit.
My other brothers all reiterated this specific message
and emphasized the truth of my spiritual help to all there
and told me that I have helped them in a far greater meas
ure than I will know, until I pass on myself and see the
result of my philosophy and teachings, and that all in spirit
world will welcome me with greater love and affection
known on the earth plane today. And that strangers as
well as our own family have been uplifted by my spiritual
148 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
vibrations of superior knowledge, and grasp of life on this
earth plane and hereafter.
Then my three Indian guides appeared and were
pleased with my advancement and said: "We take good
care of you, chief, always."
February 27, 1931 —In Spiritualist Church —2 p. m.
I brought a bouquet of large, deep red roses today. A
medium who sat next to me in the audience called my at
tention to a strong odor of heavenly perfume, as my dear
est beloved was ready to bring my message of great love
and affection.
The pastor of the church said : "Blanche is here. She
is standing by your beautiful roses (which were put in a
vase) and now she is going over to your side and is spirit
ually stroking your head and hair and shoulders with love
and affection." With her came her dear father. They
were so happy together and then asked me to go on with
my work as I am doing now, mainly in study for the higher
unfpldment in spiritualism, and that I will succeed in my
desire and expectations. Blanche was very happy to find
me here on the Pacific Coast, as we had talked of coming
out here a year ago, and now that I am here she is very
happy that my innermost wish and desire has been grati
fied and that here is where I will make my greatest spirit
ual progress in the lines of thought I have absorbed for
many years. Be of good cheer, my dearest sweetheart man,
we all love you.
"Circle Messages" at 4 p. m. same church.
My dearest sweetheart remaining in my vibration in
the church quickly came again and spoke to the medium
and said she is always happy to be so close to me, and said
that while we discussed the higher life and took up the
many uplifting beliefs, she was extremely sorry or re
gretted that we did not unfold more in the realms or study
spiritualism as she finds me now making great progress
and going deeply into all its manifold phases. My dear
mother came into the vibration of my circle and said she
also was overjoyed that I am studying all these great
teachings which shall benefit all mankind, and she feels se
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 149
cure in the belief that I have helped them one and all in
the past, while still in the earth life and am really helping
them now with my work.
My dear father came next and was very happy to em
phasize my dear mother's words of great happiness to me,
as also came my dear brothers, my sister, my niece, my
brothers by marriage and all my spirit guides, who are
always pleased to come to me and say "Be of good cheer,"
we are always helping you. And as regards my business
and financial affairs they all said they will help me as much
as possible and to my complete satisfaction, and that if one
thing fails another plan will succeed. So patience is my
beacon of light, that everything will come out all right.
My leading Indian guide now appeared and said he is
trying to help me also and ere long my "band" will get to
gether and push me up the ladder of great success, and that
my development will bring renown and affluence and earn
its own reward.
My dearly beloved came again in this vibration and
spoke of being with me in my room in my hotel real often,
and wished she could make her presence known to me more
than I understood now, but that the time would come when
we could see each other often and converse as we did with
such great love and affection during our married life on
the earth plane. My dear sweetheart then asked me to
sing that beautiful song number 55, in the Spiritual
Hymnal, "Where the Roses Never Fade."
Night Service, 8 p. m. "Platform Messages."
My dearly beloved wife and sweetheart always alert
with vibrant love and affection, came quickly after the ser
vices and said she remained within hailing distance feeling
assured I would return as our harmonious vibration would
always keep us together, and said she was with me when I
bought the roses of two colors and helped me select them
for a special purpose which was manifest to me ere now.
And that I should be of good cheer always and to take the
best care of my health and not worry about anything, that
my spirit guides will see to all matters pertaining to my
finances, and that I was making wonderful strides of de
150 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
velopment in spiritualism and kindred subjects, and that
I would go higher with each thought.
My dear parents came now with more love and affec
tion, and said they were spiritually proud of me and that
I was helping all in the spirit world where all is love and
spiritual progress. God be with you.
Some of the male members of our departed ones here
approached my vibration and came in to say briefly that I
was always on the right track, but they could not see or
understand my language, which they have all very much
regretted since entering the realms of the spirit form.
February 28, 1931—at Church Dinner-
Circle Readings.
An old master Hindu philosopher came into my vibra
tion and promised to join in my "band." He will enlighten
me later on in the important things I am to know. My
dear father came now and brought his father and sister,
and my dear mother was with them. All were again very
happy to be with me and said I was helping them advance
in their realms of spiritual progress and all said God bless
you and keep you. (You will succeed in your undertakings.
The medium said she saw me going eastward on a
short business trip to close some deals which would need
my personal attention, but not until late in the fall of this
year, and return here to continue my development. All of
my spirit guides and "my band" are taking a great interest
in my work and help me to great success, and she said she
saw me lecturing before large audiences by my own thought
of vibration, which will be a combination of spiritualism
and other studies or vibrations that will be given to me in
due time by inspiration through my "band of masters of
wisdom."
Another medium here came into our large circle and
told me she saw a Rabbi, denoting wisdom, who said he
will bring to me the law to use in my lectures which will
be in line with my unfoldment. My dear parents came
again with affectionate words of good cheer and my own
dear sweetheart came again for a few words and said she
is busy, but wished she could stay longer, but brought
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 151
great love and admiration in my unfoldment of the highest
law and vibration. The medium said my dear wife is mak
ing wonderful progress also and is a great psychic force
in the spirit world.
March 5, 1931 —At the residence of a Trance Medium.
My own dear beloved sweetheart came quickly and ex
pressed herself in this manner, viz: She embodied herself
within that of the medium and spoke quite clearly and
said : "This is a new experience for me of talking and I am
very happy to know you believe I am alive. I am well and
happy and glad to be able to talk to you in this manner.
I am happy that you are well and may God bless you. This
is a new way to speak —good night. I will follow you."
The same medium's own personal guide took possession
of the meeting later on and said I am rapidly unfolding
but am not a medium as yet, but could soon be one in time
—that I am a speaker, writer and lecturer, and will talk
and travel in many lands. I will write a book and dedicate
it to my dear wife and tithe ten per cent.
March 6, 1931— Spiritual Church—2 :30 p. m.
My dear beloved and her brother visited me and said
how glad they were to be so near me again and assured me
she is now perfectly well and happy in her new home in
spirit and more than pleased that I am well and happy and
for me to keep in good health, that I would need it shortly
for a great work that would keep me busy and tax my
energies. My dear wife here said : "Sam, we are getting
to be quite religious but go on with your work. There is
much ahead of you. We are all here, but be sure and con
serve your health. You will need it all." Then my dear
wife said she saw me happy and laughing in the company of
many mediums and visitors, but that she was not jealous,
and we heard her laugh when she said it.
Circle Messages at same church. 4 p. m.
The medium said I brought wonderful vibrations at
once of old masters of wisdom who saw me reaching forth
for knowledge and more light and understanding to write
and lecture. Then came two Egyptians and a Hindu, all
152 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
very old minds and philosophers, who will in turn teach me
their philosophy and I will slowly unfold and learn all the
old teachings so that I can readily impart them here. Some
spirits many, many thousands of years in the spirit world
were wearing surplices, also old Jewish masters will teach
me, and I will be able to read their old writings; they will
all vibrate through me, and they will see to it that I learn
everything there is to know. An Arab with a camel came
(a good sign) as he sat down on his haunches meaning he
is waiting for me, to take me on his back for a long east
ward journey to India, Burma, Egypt and far eastern
countries.
March 15, 1931 —Spiritualist Church.
A visiting medium said we bring our own messages
by magnetic attraction, the basis of which is the love we
still bear for our departed ones, causing in thought a force
known as spirit vibration, which sets up a magnetic force
which is all powerful and immediate or instantaneous.
I brought today a large bouquet of roses, a love offer
ing to my dear beloved wife and sweetheart, and as they
are magnetized by the touch of her spirit hands I take them
home and put them in a vase by the side of her photograph
and she is pleased and so is all the spirit world, where all
our dead live and breathe and progress.
My dear wife and my dear mother came together. My
dear mother brought to me a great message of love and
affection and said, when patting my head and shoulders,
this is my dear boy whom we dearly love and bless with
our thoughts and whom we have helped in preventing ac
cidents. My dear father came next and brought words of
cheer to me from all in spirit land and said "God bless
you. You have helped us too."
Circle Reading—4 p. m.—Same Church.
A medium, reading from my vibration, saw my dear
father and described him as having a florid complexion
and sandy hair, which is true, having had these two out
standing living features all the years our family knew him.
My dear wife again came in here to say it was abso
lutely necessary to watch my physical condition, to take
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 153
warm foot baths with vinegar and to eat lots of rhubarb
every day while in season.
My dear mother was here and said: "Good advice,
Samuel, good advice, heed it."
March 18, 1931 —At Spiritualist Churches.
All my loved ones in the spirit world came joyfully and
are always happy to be in my vibration —they say they see
me surrounded with my books and writings, and all are
glad I am interested in spiritual philosophy and spiritual
ism. They say I am an old soul, and that I was a spiritual
missionary on remote planets, and that I will lecture in my
own way and thought when the time comes. Many old
friends, some who are but a very short time in the spirit
world, came and brought a message of good cheer.
March 22, 1931 —At Spiritualist Church—2 :30 p. m.
In response to a large bouquet of roses my dear ones
all came again. My dear wife showed herself by saying
she was developing harp instruction and would soon visit
me in my own rooms and I would hear her play and sing,
as her teachers were masters.
Note : All of which proves to me and should prove to
the waiting world of men and women, that the so-called
"dead" really "live," and function without a body, such as
we have and see.
Circle Messages —4 p. m.—Same Church.
An elderly medium presided over our large circle and
remarked to me, as she held my hands for additional vi
bration, there are many old masters here, all with white
beards, venerable men of ancient wisdom, with an affiliation
for me, who will bring wisdom and teach me in their own
way, their own philosophies. My dear wife, mother and
father came now and brought additional evidence of life
in the spirit world, and called my attention to many things
that happened in the last ten years, totally unknown to my
dear parents, who are both in the spirit form of life for
upwards of forty years.
Private Reading and Unfoldment, March 24, 1931.
Message given to me as follows : I am to read and study
only along the highest lines of spiritual vibration and to
154 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
leave out all kindred new thought books and material, sci
entific issues, so as not to interfere with my guides and
teachers, who will bring to me the truths from "Atlantis"
—original ideas will be unfolded to me, wait and have pa
tience. Everthing is, and will be fulfilled. I will write a
book and dedicate it to my dear wife.
The first copy will be translated into the Spanish
language, then Mexican, and all other languages. I will
travel over the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and lecture in
every foreign land as well as in every state in our Union,
and will be well received wherever I go. Then came the
following guides and teachers, viz., who will instruct me in
the path best suited to me.
Henry K. Wakamussen, chemist guide and Doctor of
Hindu Philosophy, Laws and Lectures, Writings, etc.
Manotoh, meaning a Temple of light and wisdom on
spiritual attainment. also meaning Heavenly spheres.
Bahrao, a Hindu guide himself with others of his race
came into my vibration to say they will instruct me in every
thing original. Then came Silver Moon, my old faithful
Indian guide, who said: "We are climbing through the
waters like a salmon to lay and hatch eggs for the future"
—meaning wisdom and knowledge. Next came Grey Wolf,
an Indian guide, who said: "I shall protect you from all
harm, Chief Jacoby. I shall protect you always." Next
came Little Beet, my faithful Indian maiden guide, who
quickly said : : "I am so happy to be here with you. I shall
always be by your side to help protect you from harm."
Next came the name of "Dr. James Manning," a divine
and professor of languages, who will work and study with
me on all matters pertaining to my spiritual needs and
higher unfoldment etc.
Private Reading by Dr. John Slater, March 25, 1931.
Dr. Slater began by saying as I entered his office room,
"Hello, Samuel, how are you?" I answered: "Very well,
Doctor Slater." He then asked me to be seated.
Dr. Slater then said : "Here is an old man with a long,
white beard, venerable looking, seems to me he was your
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 155
grandfather, whose name is Samuel. Were you named for
him?" I answered to the best of my knowledge. I was—
but I never met him.
Dr. Slater then continued by saying : "You are a writer,
a deep thinker, a student and a scholar. Keep up your
work and thought of lecturing —write down what I tell
you—'Dr. Henry Yale Smith, in spirit, will contact you,
also Dr. Wm. V. Keating. And be sure and go to your
public library and get the books by Dr. Von Mosheim on
the study of the soul —you will need them all'."
Then my dearly beloved came and called me sweetheart
and said I was her only soul companion and brought a
message of love and happiness at being able to speak thus
to me again. Then my dear parents, my dear sister and
many brothers spoke to me in the same manner, and all
were extremely happy to hear Dr. Slater bear evidence as
to my work and future. Dr. Slater then said I would cross
the Atlantic and Pacific and lecture and write a book.
Amen. Goodbye.
March 27, 1931 —At a Spiritual Church Circle Reading
by Medium.
A Hindu lecture bearer appears here to me. He gives
me the name of Wakamussen. He is a very brainy man.
He will come to me through my two male Indian guides,
who will instruct or show me the path and the way to un
fold in the lecture-vibration. But I must drop all materi
ality, so that my Indian guides can open the way for me
for Wakamussen to come with his message for me. Then
my dearly beloved came with the following message: She
will read books to me in psychology and philosophy and
theology, together with ancient mythology, all of which I
am eager to know. She appears wearing colors of royal
purple (meaning advancement in the spirit world).
Then many members of my family, in spirit, came to
voice their love and appreciation of my efforts in spiritual
unfoldment, all of which they reiterate is manifesting in
their advancement and spiritual welfare and progress (all
of which makes me the happiest man in the world).
156 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
Circle Reading, March 29, 1931, Same Church.
In response to my large bouquet of roses, my dearly
beloved quickly appeared by my side. She comes by day
and by night and stands at the foot of my bed and walks
about my room, touching her little blue and white clock
she so much treasured (and which always stands on my
dresser) . Then her many photographs and my clothes, and
looks into the trunks which contain the theatre gowns we
purchased in 1928 in Paris, but not worn. And delights
in speaking of the wonderful care and thoughtfulness of
her well-being always uppermost in my mind at all times,
and said she can never repay me for all I have done in the
material world —and so far in the spirit. That possibly
in the late fall of this year I will start my work with great
activity in all its branches. During the daytime reading
and studying. I am to face "east" in the morning and at
night face "west."
April 6, 1931 —Spiritualist Church.
The medium read for me at a circle to which I brought
a large bouquet of white carnations : "I contact an old In
dian guide, Silver Moon." He said I am now developing
in the right path and to keep right on in the light and to
be patient, and to hold all that I have. He said I have
practically everything in my hands now and soon the rest
will come. My dearly beloved then appeared and displayed
a toy-like game that you pull with a string. The medium
said it might be called in our language, a symbol, or some
thing, I have been working on for many years back in my
head, so to say or in other language, that I have been
quietly studying or seeking the light. I have been pulling
the strings and now it is almost all clear to me. (The de
sire of the soul has found itself in God's great plan and
that of Jesus.) My understanding of eternal light and
my great inner joy is God's happiness.
The message continued. In four to six weeks every
thing would be cleared up for me regarding the writing of
a wonderful book. (And how true it all came—for in less
than three weeks, through the medium of the trumpet, my
Hindu philosopher and guide, Dr. Henry K. Wakamussen,
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 157
contacted me, and together we wrote, by inspiration, our
book, "The Immortality of the Soul" and all its contents.)
Circle Reading —4 p. m.—Same Church.
Doctor Wakamussen, now in my vibration (at all
times), contacted the medium for me at first, as three
other far eastern guides and old masters, Egyptologists,
Hindus and others all were talking and gesticulating to
gether about me, and said "why not —are we not all bro
thers?" and I was informed to drop all reading of whatever
nature, including old books and new thought, and listen to
them, no one else, and that I will build up in these masters
and get their wisdom and speak in their languages when
in their country.
This medium then named all the masters and guides
by name, heretofore given and reiterated for my benefit.
That they will be ready to act in every way for my further
unfoldment when I am ready for them to enter my soul
and consciousness. I will speak the Christ tongue, Ara
maic, Arabic, Egyptian, Hindu, and all far eastern lang
uages, and so I must be prepared in every way so each in
turn can come to me, and I will not need any preparation
or notes of any kind in any foreign country. All I will
need is confidence in myself for the highest development.
Amen.
Note: In the furtherance of my development I was
led by my spirit guides to the "Trumpet Seances" where I
could myself talk, voice to voice, with my teachers, guides,
family and friends, and also strangers, or people not known
to me so far in this life, all of whom are in the spirit world.
I give here a brief summary of the spiritual phenomena of
the Bible, setting forth many demonstrations of the "Voice
of Jehovah" and independent spirit voices as follows: —
Deuteronomy 9:12, 13: Ezekiel 1:28 including the 7th.
chapter: Samuel 1:3 2, 9: Matthew 17:5: John 12:28, 29,
30 : Acts 9 :4, 7—7 :30, 31—11 :7, 8, 9.
April 3, 1931—At Trumpet Circle—Los Angeles, Calif.
The circle included four men and two women. All sat
in silence and prayed for perhaps five minutes, then we
began to sing songs and hymns, and I asked all present to
158 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
sing "Lead Kindly Light," and in perhaps one to two min
utes all the trumpets that were on the floor began to shine
as if with a silvery glow (as the room we were in was total
darkness).
The medium here said, "Mr. Jacoby, your dear wife is
here calling Sam, Sam. I then listened for voices and dis
tinctly heard the voice of my wife through the trumpet
which was suspended in the air and which moved about
freely. We spoke thus for the first time and I was so
overjoyed that I felt as if I would faint. We spoke of our
great love for one another and I asked her very quickly
what she was doing since I last saw her in June 1930, and
she distinctly spoke with a strong voice and said: "I am
studying and singing and making progress and all our dear
loved ones in the spirit form will be with you on your
European trip" (of which I have no plans at the present
writing) . My dear beloved wife and sweetheart then said
she was overjoyed at being able to be so close to me, and
to be able to speak to me again, and hoped I would develop
very much and also sing her now favorite song "Lead
Kindly Light," and I quickly replied that I also liked that
song or hymn and would be glad to sing it very often and
commit it to memory.
My dearly beloved then said she is always with me
when I am walking outdoors and in the parks with my
books under my arms, studying and reading all the higher
philosophies and religions, and that she and all our dear
departed in spirit are very happy with my work and to
keep well and happy and not to worry about any questions
coming up in my mind concerning these things, that all
will be made clear in due time, by the guiding hands of my
spirit forces. She here said "God bless you and keep you."
Then we began to sing again and presently one of the
women present attracted the voice of Rudolph Valentino,
whom she knew in the moving picture world, and Valentino
asked her to sing his favorite song in which we all joined
with Rudy and he said it made him very happy to come
where he knew his songs would be sung.
I then said to the medium I wished to speak to my
brother-in-law, Michael Evans Fischer, and that I would
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 159
be greatly pleased if he could come and speak to me so
that I would be able to convey any message I would receive
to his wife, my sister now living in the eastern states, and
in less than one second Mr. Fischer came and spoke through
the trumpet as follows: "Why, Sam, I didn't know we
could speak like this, how did you come to find out about
this development in spiritual phenomena and the mysteries
of the spirit world?" I answered softly and told him I
was here in Southern California studying very hard going
to spiritual churches, and their lectures, reading day and
night for unfoldment, and it all made him very happy, and
he quickly replied he knew I always had more of something
than others in our family. I then quickly asked him if he
was with our dear parents and he said : "Yes, Sam, all of
them are always together and I am with them most of the
time." I asked him then if he knew my dear wife Blanche
now in spirit and he quickly replied, "Oh, yes, dear brother.
Your dear sweetheart is our spiritual guide at times and
our teacher, and she has a wonderful force here, and im
parts it to all of us and to you in your new chosen field of
spiritual desire. We will always be with you, my boy.
Keep up your good work and may God bless you always."
He said they are all sad because I am alone and have no
home but it won't be long before the lady will make her
presence felt and you will be proud of your sweetheart,
Blanche, and your coming new wife, who will bring to you
what you most need spiritually, mentally and physically.
He then thanked me for being able to bring him to me after
thirteen years of being absent in spirit form and asked me
to come again as often as I could. I was more than abun
dantly happy to be able to inform my sister and niece of
this most holy and awe-inspiring contact with the spirit
world.
My dear Blanche came quickly again and I asked her
to please play on the harp and after a moment or two we
distinctly heard her turn the keys (as I many times heard
for ten years during our married life) and a faint sound
came from the strings as of heavenly music, but it appeared
to her that it wasn't satisfactory to all present and she
quickly said she had not played on the harp for some time
but would do better next time I asked her to play and the
160 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
company to please excuse her, and I quickly said, "Most
certainly, my dear sweetheart ;" and we had more conversa
tions. And she said, "My lover man, take good care of
yourself always. Big things are coming for you. Be of
good cheer and may God bless you always." She then
kissed me through the trumpet and left for others present
to get their departed in spirit. And after perhaps fifteen
minutes she came again in materialization and brought a
large bouquet of yellow roses which she pressed to her
heart for me and said again, "Sweetheart, these are for
you. God bless you." And all present could see the beau
tiful roses plainly
Then through the mediumship of our trumpet medium,
appeared my Hindu guide, Dr. Henry K. Wakamussen, who
said: "You may think you have done things or have ac
complished things in the past, but they are nothing as to
what you will accomplish in the future. Go on and read
and study your books and do not worry about the outcome
of things. All is satisfactory and will be made clear to
you in due time by the spirit forces."
This meeting lasted from 8 :30 until 9 :40 p. m.
April 10, 1931 —Spiritualist Trumpet Circle.
We had a class in development, 8 to 10 p. m., with
prayer and songs. Those who had trumpets put them on
the floor and as usual the room was darkened. My dearest
beloved appeared to me quickly, picked up a small trumpet
and tapped me lightly on the head, face, arms and knees,
to show me she was here in evidence. (I feel her dear,
sweet presence always, but more so when in these meetings ;
the silence and darkness of my rooms.)
My dear wife remained in my vibration for many
minutes and spoke of many earthly things and spoke of
what she does constantly. Kissed me as usual by means
of the trumpet, told me to be of good cheer, and that I have
much to do.
My dear mother then appeared in my vibration and
quickly spoke with a feeling of great joy and emotion at
being able to really talk to her son who is on the earth
plane. She quickly said my sweetheart brought her and
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 161
that she wishes me give her love to all still on the earth
plane of life, and that she will come to me as often as I
desire. I asked my dear mother if she sees those of our
dear departed and she said just as often as she desires at
any time, and that they are all overjoyed with me and
my great spiritual development while still here, of which
they knew nothing.
They have a spiritual knowledge and know all I am
doing and saying in my daily short talks or conversations,
and that I am therein helping them as well as myself to
self-mastery of the soul. (I was overjoyed at thus being
able to talk to my dear mother who has been in the spirit
world for many years and to feel that we really do not die,
but go on living and can talk to those on the earth plane
at any time to those who love us.)
Before departing my dear Blanche said many, many
times "God bless you, Sam."
My good son then kissed me and at once, waiting, was
my dear brother-in-law, Michael, who came again and was
also more than pleased and said he will come whenever I
want to talk to them. He said repeatedly he is overjoyed
that I taught them many, many spiritual things while they
are in the spirit through my good thoughts or kindly efforts
to help not only my own dear ones but also strangers in
many ways. Then came my dear brother David who came
with great love and affection and spoke of the life in the
spirit form. Then came my dear sister Bertha with great
love and affection and spoke of the great spiritual forces
surrounding me, and within me, that could attract them
with my dearest sweetheart. My dearest sister also kissed
me on departing and said God bless you.
April 11, 1931 —Spiritual Church Trumpet Circle.
We had nine at our Saturday night meeting of which
I drew almost all my dear ones in spirit and many old
friends long departed.
My dear sweetheart was anxious to appear first and
came with a great spiritual love-force which I feel at once
whenever she appears at these meetings and all present re
marked that they saw great auras of light surrounding me
162 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
as I sat in my chair. My dear beloved knows I am sitting
for development and learning rapidly and is very happy
and pleased. We had a short conversation relative to many
affairs of a personal nature and before leaving my pres
ence quickly said, "I'll come back."
My dear Michael came next and said he is very glad
to speak to me again of his new experience, which may
break the monotony of life in the spirit land. I asked him
quickly, "Did you see my sweetheart today?" and he said,
"No, Sam. Blanche is with her class in singing and play
ing her harp, and is with her music masters and has a most
beautiful voice and great talents." He here reiterated my
good work here and said I help them very much by my
spiritual expression of good will towards all. He then
said, "Good night and God bless you." After which my
various Indian guides came and said, "We protect you.
We protect you. Good night."
Then came my dear niece, Janice, who brought a very
sweet vibration of great love to me. I asked her very
quickly how she managed to come and she replied, "Aunt
Blanche brought me to you, because we all love you and
we all love Aunt Blanche—she is so good and sweet to all
of us. I remember now, Uncle Sam, how you took my
body to a cemetery with Mamma and a minister. I love
you dearly, Uncle Sam, and shall always be with you—
always, always. Here's a kiss for you, Uncle Sam. Good
night. Come again."
Then came many old friends long in spirit and said
they had to come if only to say a few cheering words to
me, and that I was on the right track and would do lots of
worthy things for humanity before I also departed for the
spirit world. Amen, and God bless you.
April 15, 1931 —Spiritualist Church Trumpet Circle.
I had an appointment today with my spirit force, Dr.
Henry K. Wakamussen, who said to me here that he
wanted to start our book which I am to write by his in
spiration and to hold myself in readiness, relax, and con
centrate for next Monday when he will dictate the name
of our book and outline its mission.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 163
After prayer and singing of hymns and songs my
dearly beloved came quickly, picked up one of the roses I
had on the floor in front of me, as usual, and waved it
gently about my face and head, kissed it fervently and
pressed it into my upturned hands. She lovingly spoke to
me of my morning visit to Venice beach and watched me
when in the ocean, and when I came out to take a sun
bath. She said she saw me sit down, open a parcel and
talce out some stale rye bread and dried black figs and eat
them, while reading a book, all of which caused her great
happiness and peace of mind that I was again in Southern
California, knowing that I liked to be near the Pacific
ocean and its many bathing beaches.
April 20, 1931 —Spiritualist Church Trumpet Circle.
As tonight was the appointed time with my spirit
guide, Dr. Wakamussen, to start our book and as I was to
speak to him at length about the details of my first writing
in book form, quite naturally I was overjoyed, excited, and
anxious to know and to hear the name of our book. And
so after our usual prayers and hymns my dear friend and
spirit guide came quickly and having paper and pencil in
my hands, and sitting at a small desk he outlined my own
spiritual thoughts as a basis, and said we would together
write by inspiration each morning beginning at seven
o'clock for fifteen minutes and that the name of our book
is to be "The Immortality of the Soul."
I wrote the first details of our wonderful conversation
in the darkened room, of course, as all our many trumpet
seances were held in that manner, and after we had finished
the first session my happiness was so great that I felt as
if I just wanted to stay right there and write for the bal
ance of this earth life. And I could hardly await the dawn
of the next day to begin this form of inspirational writing
with my spirit forces in the unknown world. And so after
my spirit guide had finished, my dearly beloved quickly
came and said she was right there also and heard every
word spoken by Dr. Wakamussen and myself and her hap
piness knew no boundaries, as she had promised me the
top most rung on the ladder of spiritual attainment, and all
was coming into fruition. She spoke lovingly of all she
164 THE IMMORTALITY OP THE SOUL
would do for me with my spirit forces, told me to be sure
and take good care of my dear self, that she loved me now
more than ever, kissed me many times and left saying1,
"God bless you. Good night."
Then came my dear parents, my brothers and my sis
ter, and all were again overjoyed at being in my presence.
Also came my three Indian guides who happily voiced
their spiritual interest in me by saying "We shall protect
you, chief. We shall protect you."
April 27, 1931 —Circle Meeting— Same Church.
After our usual services of prayers and the singing of
hymns and songs which bring peace and harmony, my dear
wife again quickly appeared to me and brought a spiritual
essence of love that I felt at once, as if a glow permeated
not alone the atmosphere of our darkened room, but my
entire being seemed to be alive with a new fire and I saw
the spirit form in a materialized sense, of my dear wife
and sweetheart, and I almost leaped for joy at our nearness
again and the evident truth of our great book "The Im
mortality of the Soul." My sweetheart said my book will
be quickly taken up and will be a success and not to worry,
that the spirit world will see to everything for me, and that
I will write many books and lecture and be very success
ful. Then my father came and repeated all that my dear
sweetheart said, and more, and how happy all our loved
ones were in the spirit world with me and the success of
our book.
Then my dear mother, sister, uncle, brothers all came
in turn and spoke for from three to five minutes each, and
finally my dear spiritual friend and teacher announced
himself and said I was contacting all right and did not
have to start exactly at seven but that as I gained more
confidence in myself I could start at anytime to write
when the inspiration begins and he and they will be with
me.
My dear wife came again for a few moments to say
she loves me more than ever and will help to inspire me
to write and lecture on my trips abroad and kissed me
again through the trumpet. Good night.
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL 165
May 11, 1931 —Spiritualist Church Trumpet Meeting.
I brought a large bouquet of carnations tonight which
denote love, peace, happiness, friendship, fraternity and
harmony to all in the spirit world and the earth plane.
And after our usual services with prayer and songs in our
darkened room the trumpet began to glow and I heard the
sweet voice of my dearly beloved wife and sweetheart call
ing to me in endearing terms and how happy she is that I
was again so thoughtful to remember to bring flowers as
they denote an everlasting bond between us and all our dear
ones in spirit.
Next came my dear parents, sister, all of my brothers,
and niece, other relatives and friends in rapid succession.
And after the spirit visitors had come to all of the assem
bled circle my spirit guide and teacher, Dr. Wakamussen,
came to me and said he is very well pleased with my contact
with him and our book is coming along in a marvelous
manner. "Arise at any time in the early hours of the
morning, or if it suits you better, at any time of the day.
We will impress you and finish our book in good time.
God bless you. You are a worthy son of God. All is well."
Then came my Indian guides. All came into my vi
bration and were very happy to say "Hello, Chief Jacoby.
We protect you. We protect you. You are a good man.
Good night."
My spirit friends appeared. Mr. Nathan Straus and
William T. Stead, both of whom went to a watery grave in
the ill-fated steamship Titanic. Mr. Straus was more than
glad to come into our circle tonight, because of my recent
discourse on a great Jewish question that has puzzled not
alone him but the entire Hebrew race since Jesus passed
on to the spirit world to join His Father-God who sent Him
to the Jews as a teacher.
My discourse lasted from seven-thirty until near
eleven o'clock p. m., and I answered fully the questions pro
pounded to me by the visitors in a home where I was an
invited guest. Mr. Straus said I explained in detail and
fully answered to his entire satisfaction what he wanted
to know during his earth existence and which was never
166 THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL
properly explained in any lecture, in any synagogue, or
Jewish modern temple. Mr. Straus thanked me very pro
fusely and then came a stranger to me who announced
himself thus : "Mr. Jacoby, you do not know me, we never
met on the earth plane, but my name is also Samuel. I am
Mr. Samuel Goldberg of New York City. I wish to say
and emphasize even more, how glad I am to have heard
you the other evening in your friend's apartment, and with
what a sense of spiritual forbearance and patience you
spoke during those long hours, and I also wish to say that
after living on the earth plane to a ripe old age, and having
been here in the spirit world for some time, you, you, my
dear earth friend, brought to me by word of mouth and
fully answered in every detail and most satisfactorily in
beautiful language my living desire to know what has
puzzled me as a Jew. I thank you. I thank you. May
God bless you and shower all His further blessings upon
you. Good night."
John Jacob Astor followed this gentleman. Mr.
Astor always comes to us with his ill-fated aeroplane,
speaks to us for a few minutes and tells us how he will
demonstrate his powerful motor, leaves and falls with a
crash, exactly as he passed out.
1
YC 15685
I vy
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY
