{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__moor___bealings_bells.pdf","mytitle":"Bealings Bells","mylang":"de"}
r
'
r
AN ACCOUNT
OP THK
MYSTERIOUS RINGING OF BELLS,
AT
GREAT BEALINGS, SUFFOLK,
IN 1834;
AND JN OTHER PARTS OF ENGLAND:
WITH RELATIONS OF FARTHER
UNACCOUNTABLE OCCURRENCES,
IH
VARIOUS PI.ACES:
81'
MAJOR EDWARD MOOR,
F.R.S. &e. - -
·:·· ·:· :# :·: :·· .... ~ ~ ; :··. :·: .:~ :·: •
....-
.··. : :.·. :··: :· ~ : :·: : : : : :··: :·..·.·. :·.. ·.;
.. . .. ..·. . ..· .... ....." . ,. . . . . ..
aloobbribge:
PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN LODER,
For tbe Beaeftt of tbe New Cburcb.
1841.
5r
'='·t t.:!_o~~2
1'.1 . .'U J
·. .... .. ... ..... ... . ....
.·.: ..•e .: . ...: :.:: .. .
·.· .. ·.·: . . . . .
..... ~ .. .... ·
. .. . .
. .. . .. .:· : .. . .
.. . .
To
MRS. SHAWE,
tlf IIUORAVB HALL,
NI!AR WOODBRIDOB, IVFPOLJ:1
tOJIPILEIJ AND PRINTBD AT HBR lt/OOEITJOii',
18
JIOIT Rf.SPECTFVLLY INICRIBBD
IIY HER
APP&CTIONATB FRIBIID AND NEIOHBOVB,
Gal.t.T B&ALINcu,
A.,ud 1841 .
E.M.
•
I
PREFACE.
CoNVERSING with a lady in this neighbourhood-
to whom this little book is inscribed-and to whose
influence, tAe catue is more indebted than to any
one--on the means of augmenting the scanty funds
for building the intended Church at Woodbridge,
she suggested that I should cause to be printed,
an account of the MYSTERIOUS BELL-RINGING,
at Beatings, to be sold at the inteaded Bazaar,
in September.
To this I assented-and the little book in yout
hand, kind Reader, is the result.
As such ringings have not occurred in my bouse
only; but have, within my own knowledge, ex-
tended to others, I proceeded to make enquiry into
Occurrences elsewhere: and, in addition to several
accounts already, then, in my possession, I have
Vl
been favored with many others, which I hue
added, in extension of tht! bulk of my volume;
and in augmentation, as I hope and believe, of the
interest and entertainment, that it may excite and
afford.
In making such collection of facts, I have been
furnished with relations of circumstances, not ex-
actly coming within the description of BELL-RING-
ING : still wearing similar preternatural aspects,
that I have not hesitated to add them-in view to
the effect indicated in the conclusion of the pre-
ceding paragraph. Some of them, as will be seen,
still more extraordinary than what I have wit··
oessed-aod equally authentic.
If, within the limited extent of my knowledge
and enquiry, so many instances of such things have
been heard of; it is not to be doubted but in a
wider circle,-say all England-very many others
have occurred, not hitherto brought to public no-
tice. Some, possibly, still more extraordinary:
Vll
and, perhaps, so varying in their phenomena, as
might, if collected, throw light on such nnaccount-
ab)e occurrences; and, haply, lend a clue to the
discovery of their cause.
Nor is it likely that such mysterious appearances
have been confined to England.
Assuming the cause to be preternatural, it is surely
sufficiently curious, to warrant scientific enquiry into
the origin of such extraordinary phenomena. Such
enquiry is beyond my power to carry out.
Had the mysterious ringing been confined to that
of my own bouse, my conviction of the cause as-
sumed, would have been sufficiently strong. But,
strengthened as it is, by still more extraordinary
events of a like natun·, as related in the following
pages, I confidently upect that a like conviction
will be wrought in the minds of a great majority of
those who may read this little volume. It contains,
probably, the greatest number of autltenticated
vm
instances of preternatural appearances, that have
hitherto been offered to public notice.
The author, or compiler, has, in the currency of
this work, indulged in some occasional remarks :
I
-
which may tend to lessen the neccessity of any I
lengthened introductory matter. I
Some of the communications may have a tendency ).
to throw over the whole an air of incredulity : or I
even of ridicule. If it be so, the author cares not.
-He has no hypothesis to uphold. He bas honestly
related what he has seen, and beard. He has in-
vented nothing: nor withheld any thing, likely to
throw light on the obscurity of his subject.
I need scarcely add, that I shall hear, with much
interest, of any attempt, by competent persons, to
unravel the mysteries herein made known. And
that I shall thankfully receive any authenticated
relation of similar occurrences, not in my pos-
session. In the event of a re-print of my book,
I shall gladly introduce them.
IX
If, in~ed, the whole of what is hl're related be
a trick, as some, not having uea, may be disposed
to think-and, in truth, I can scarcely blame any
such, for so thinking-if, I say, it is trickery-the
performers, be they who they may, possess a know-
ledge, a power, hitherto, I believe, unattained by
science.
When the following pages were nearly all printed,
I mentioned their subject to my old friend and kind
neighbour BERNARD BARTON ; of whose poetical
effusions, his county-men are so justly proud : hint-
ing my hope of something introductory, from his
ready pen.
My sheets were sent-and speedily acknowledged
and returned with the following note :-
DEAR MAJOR,-Thy pacquet is duly received,
and is now in Lucy's hands; this evening I hope to
read it myself; and, after having done so, to write,
or, it may be, rbym~, thereon ;
X
But bow the subject theme may gaag,
Let time and chance determine ;
Perhaps it may tom out a aang,
Perhapa tom out a aermon.
So sang Robin Burns, and so say I, for l can at
present form no conjecture what aspect the theme
may wear on laying down thy leaves ; only I know
I should like to have "a finger in the pie." But
do not look for any thing very clear: the case is
full of ambiguity and mystery. Poetry seldom
clears up such :-rather tends to make them more
mysterious, by its veil of gossamer. Besides, the
crying folly of this utilitarian age, is to have every
thing made clear : it is in harmony with its super~
6cial impertinence to decry all mystery : to want to
have every thing proved by demonstration, and
clearly accounted for, on philosophical principles.
I have small sympathy with such shallow philo-
sophy, and am always glad when any thing, how-
ever trivial, occurs, which makes such would-be
knowing ones at fault. If I knew how thy bells
o;, ""d ,,Coogle
xi
were rung, methinks I would not tell every one :
though I should like to be able to gratify thy own
ralioMl curiosity. However, I am well content it
should still remain a mystery. It is far more
poetical, than if it were cleared up. Then the
odds are, there would be little in it. Now there is
somewhat, though not much perhaps beyond its
being incomprehensible ; and that is something,
now-a-days.
What I may write, be it introductory or valedic--
tory, or both, I will put my name to, with thy leave;
that I may not compromise thee, or any one else,
by ~~y view I may take of the subject. A1Jd now
farewell.
B. B.
Woonaarooa, 6 mo. #1, 1841.
Noon.
P.S. Evening. .Since writing the above I have
indited six "Introductory," and seven "Valedic-
tory," stanzas: which I place at thy disposal.
xu
Do not take fright at the opening stanzas of the
Introductory ditty, but read on, in the faith that
thy Poet is not one of the Prater·1-whose words
he has put in inverted commas, to denote that they
are not his own. My own favorite, of the two
Pieces, is the "Valedictory" one, because it gave
me an opportunity of saying my say, as far as time,
space, and subject allowed, on the cold, calculating,
sceptical philosophy of this utilitarian age. We are
getting as hard as the nether mill-stone-as dry as
,. the remainder biscuit after a voyage :" like old
Cutting of Playford, who used to boast he believed
nothing that be beard, and only half of what be
saw. I bold not with the Cutting-onian Philoso-
phy, but am always willing to take marvels on trust,
when reported by a lover of truth like thyself.
B.B
Xlll
These stanzas-in our Poet's usual beautiful
style of versification, I most gladly give~ in their
appropriate places :-having, now~ more confidence
in the fair reception of a book, which begins and
ends so well.
Bespeaking the indulgent Reader's unprejudiced
consideration-a perusal of the following pages is
respectfully im·ited.
a••£T BuLilloe,
Near Woodbridge, Suft'olk,
15th .dvplt, 1841.
EDWARD MOOR.
INTRODUCTORY VERSES.
"A Book about those Bealinga Bells !
" What can be more absurd 1
1' The thing-whate'er the Major tells,
"Was trickerJ, on my word!
"'Twas but·a.qm; a·clever.ll.ou.
"Play'd by some lad, or 1au;
"Or both, perhap,a ; ,and wiser.folb
"As such, had let it piiiiS."
Thus, pllrad•entnre, some may pt11Qt :..-
Readet ; with court&ous grace,
Ere· tholl shalt·give thyjudgement, wait-
'Till thou hast read'the·case;
A plain straight·t'onnrd·tal& ittl!Da;
And proves, from vario1111••reee..
Not TBUB alone, be.t ~·.Bella
~e ran·tbeir raade•eo-.
Who rang them; or the reason wli'y
They rung at all-believe
We have no favourite theory,
Whose fall can make us grieve.
Faets-llimple Caearaleae1 we>state·;
We'-te stadied·them ianin;
ADd blal'iag.ststed thaa, _.wait,
'Till you their 011111•.explaill..
BERNARD BARTON,
CONTENTS.
Mysterious Bell-ringing, at Great Bealings-page 1 to IS, 55.
63 to 68, 77. 79. 111.
-And other strange occurrences, at a houae in Kent-!4
to44.
At Chesterfield, Derbyshir&-45 to 59.105,
At - House, .-shire-111 to 120.
Speculations on these mysteries-!19. 57, 58. 99. 105. 110.
In Earl-street, Westminster-59 to 63.
At Ramaga~6. 67. 69.
At Aldborough, Suff'olk-67. 69. 70.
At Cambridge-68. 105.
At Chelmsford-68,105. 106.107.
At Greenwich Ho&pital-71 to 74. 79 to 84. 87to 91.
At Lark Hall, Burrowdown, North.
umberland-74. 75. 76.
At Oxford-78.
At Prestbury, near ChelteDhsmJ/w.. 85, 104, 105.
At Sevenoaks-86. 91. '
At Sydersteme, Norfolk-93. 94. 95.
At Stapleton Grove, Glosterahire--:95 to 99.
At Clewer, near WiDdaor-99 to 1o.t.107.108. 109.
At- Houae, iD --shir&-11i to 133. 187.
At-- iD Ireland-1M to 140.
In Ipswich-140. 141.14!.
o;g", ,,Coogle
. J J-'
/ ....
.. .. , '
N? 1.
. ..
....~ .
.~....:·:.·.
,• .
...
To t'M Editor ofthe Ipswich Joumal. ·:.
...
Sut,-A circumstaoce of an unaccountable nature·
has recently occurred in my bouse, and I shall be
obliged by your giving insertion to this, my account
of it. It commenced on Sunday, the 2nd inst. ;
and on the Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday
following, I drew up an account of it, intended for
your paper; but my account was so long that I
could scarcely ex~ct, curious as I deemed it, that
you could spare room. But having bad many en-
quiries into the circumstances, and having seen in a
newspaper an imperfect and erroneous statement, I
am iaduced to send you au abridged account, from
my minutes made at the time. On Sunday, the 2nd
inst. returning from afternoon service, I was told
that the dining-room bell had been rung three times,
at intervals, between two and five o'clock. At this,
the servants left in the bouse, a man and woman,
were surprized ; no person or cause being percepti-
ble, though sought. This paued ; and had nothing
more happened, would probably have belen soon
forgotten. The next day, Monday, the same bell
B
2
rang t~~~ !lf four times in the afternoon-the last
time.wJt~in my hearing, shortly before five p, M.
1;his'1~ might have passed ; for I fancied I could
. dise.em a cause sufficient for such an effect, although
. -:·_.'_~be. room was not in use, and certainly no one was
:. :_·-~··within reach of the bell-pull : but the proceedings
of yesterday (Tuesday, the 4th) have, I confess,
completely baffled me. I left home early, and re•
turned before five in the aftemooa. I was immedi·
ately told that " all the bells ia the kitchen had
been ringing violently." A peal at that moment
sounded in my ears. I proceeded thither, and
learned from the cook, that " the five bells on the
right" had, since about three o'clock, been fre-
quently so affected. There are nine bells in a row,
about a foot apart, 18 feet from the floor, and 1!
from the fire ; not over it. While I was intently
looking at the bells, and listening to the relation
that the ringings had occurred at intervals of about
a quarter of an hour, the same five bells rang
v10lently ; so violent was it that I shQuld not .have
been surprized if they had been shaken from their
fastenings. My son was beside me, also watcbing:
he had witnessed one peal before, and bad heard
more than one. The cook and another servant were
then in the kitchen. Although expecting a ringing,
3
the suddenness and violence of the etfect, with the
agitation of the bells, rather startled me. My son
said he had been startled at his first-witnessed peal;
so had the cook, but she had heard and seen so
many that she was now unmoved. After about 10
minutes, I intently watching the while, another
similar phenomenon was witnessed ; but we thought
not quite so loud as that preceding, and we were in
some doubt if more than four bells actually rung.
With an accession of observers, we continued watch-
ing during about another quarter of an hour, when
a third peal, by the five, occurred; very like those
preceding, but some of us thought less loud. [In
my original letter to you here followed an account
of how the bells are hung, the origin, conducting,
and termination, of the wires; but it is long, and
I omit it ; although in an investigation of the cause
of what I am describing I should deem such par-
ticulars necessary.] The five bells, whose pealing
I have mentioned, are those of the dining-room,
drawing-room over it, an adjacent bed-room-
neither of these rooms in use-and two attics over
the drawing-room.
We are arrived at the time of before 6, of
Tuesday, the 4th. Dinner was then taken into the
•• breakfast-room" (some call it the "library");
B 2
..
4
when sitting down, the bell of that room rang
singly, as if it had been pulled; no one was near the
pull ; it having rung after we sat down to dinner.
During dinner the same five bells rang, perhaps
every 10, 12, or 15 minutes-on recollection, I
think oftener, say four times-and continued to
do so, with nearly uniform violence, while the
servants, six in number, were at dinner iu the kit-
chen; and, with longer intervals, till !-before 8,
when the last peal of Tuesday sounded. During
our dinner we thought one peal did not sound so
clear as the other clangings, and in notes differing
from their usual tone: such, it was remarked, as
are sometimes heard from a dull copper sheep-bell.
I afterwards learned that the dull peal was noticed
in the kitchen, and proceeded from the tlaree bells
on the left of the nine. These three pealed but
that once; they are of the room where we dined, of
a bed-room near it, and a bed-room adjoining the
last; all in use. Here ended the Tuesday ringing,
except one gentle sounding of a bell, about an hour
after the last peal, hung by itself on the side of the
kitchen, opposite the nine ; to that bell the wire
leads from an attic.
The nine bells have been hung ~8 years, and so
well hung that they have never, I think, required
any repair, save that of the breakfast-room; thj!
5
wire of which broke, and was repaired a month or
six week11 ago by a tradesman of Woodbridge, who
assisted at the original banging. All the bells in
the house-12 in number-except one, have thus
rung, without apparent cause. The one is the front
,door bell, which hangs between the five pealera and
the three. It is the largest and loudest, and has
hithertG preserved its gravity and tacituraity.
Now, Sir, is this not a strange relation? At the
first gentle, single, tinkling, I was disposed to
think that I could account for it. [I omit my
theory, as the former omission of the currency of
the wires would render it unintelligible.] But the
boisterous clang and agitation of my first witnessed
peal of five, at once showed its fallacy. You and
your readers may be assured that there is no hoax
in the matter. I do not mean by me, but by any
one. I am thoroughly convinced that the ringing is
by no human agency. How then is it1 I cannot
say. A satisfactory solution is beyond the reach of
my philosophy. [The preceding was written at tke
time when my curiosity was on the stretch, and my
feeling excited to a high P,itcb of amusement. A
lapse of several weeks and due reflection do not
iuduce me to weaken the force of the expression.]
.At this moment, 11 A.M., Wednesday, the 6th,
6
comes a peal. I, my son, and grandson. in the
breakfast-room : enter a reporter-it was of the
original peal offive. of usual violence-three or four
persons in the kitchen-at thh imtant, an intenal
of three minutes, comes another peal, like the last.
I go to the kitchen. I return and note that three
minutes after, I intently looking, the five rung very
violentJ.y; again, in 4 minutes. more violently than
ever. One actually struck against the ceiling:
that is, the spiral flexible iron on which it is. hung,
so struck. This was the right band bell, of the best
bed-room. In 2 minutes more, another peal of the
5, less violent than the last. At this peal the cook
started. and exclaimed, Oh! 4 or 6 persons were
now in the kitchen; one, a tradesman's servant
from Woodbridge, who declared "he was never so
stamm'd in all his life." In 3 minutes another peal
of the average sort. I continued watching another
quarter of an hour, but nothing further occurred.
I now sent a servant round to ring all the bells
singly, I noticing the effect. They sounded as
usual, uninjured by their unusual treatment; their
motion, when thus rung by hand, and that of their
spiral flexible support, was comparatively slow and
perceptible-not so at the peals-it was then too
rapid to be seen distinctly.
7
[l now went to examine some of the wires, but
omit particulars, for reasons given in former paren-
theses.] Returning to the kitchen, I learned that
the single bell, opposite the 0; bad, since the last
noticed peal, rnng gently and frequently ; it rung,
in my sight, half a minute after. The wire to this
is from a bed-room. The twelfth, hitherto un-
noticed, bell is in an attic, rnng from a bed-room;
this bas rung frequently, but not violently.
I repeat that I am baffled as to a sufficient cause
ofwhat I have thus seen, and heard, and described.
The weather has been calm-nothing particular in
atmospheric phenomena-barometer nearly station-
ary at 29 deg.-thermometers within their usual
range ; three are daily noticed. The known laws
of the electric theory seem inadequate in their or-
dinary operation-as are those of the expansion of
metals by change of temperature.
I am now, nt>ar noon of Wednesday, the 6th,
called to Woodbridge.-6 P. x., I now return. The
peals of five are reported to me to have continued
after I left. The first, half an hour after ; and four
others succeeded with nearly like intervals-the last
about half-past 2. The single bell opposite tinkled
two or ~bree times, and was observed to shake as
often, without ringing. The bell in the attic also
8
rang several times, gently. Thursday, 10 A. M.
Nothing farther has occurred in the ringing way
since the afternoon, as mentioned, of yesterday.
We expect no more. If any thing further 11hould
occur, I may trouble you again, briefly.
I think, Sir, this strange relation will amuse you
and your readers. And if you or any of them can
give a satisfactory explanation of it, I farther think
it will be instructive to many-and among them to
your very obedient Servant,
EDWARD MOOR.
Bealing•, 25th Feb. 1834.
P.S. I had on the above date an opportunity
of reading the above proceedings up to that time,
to six or eight very intelligent gentlemen at Wood-
bridge-and add, as my answer to some of their
queries-that I keep no monkey-that my house is
not infested by rats-that the wires of the five, and
ofthe three,pealera, are visible in their whole course,
from their pull to the bells, save where they go
through walls, in which the boles seem no bigger
than is necessary. The wires of the two single bells
are also visible, except where they go through floors
or walls. One or two of my friends, said.it was
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
g
"all a trick." It is pouillle. I have for many
years of my life passed over large arcs of the
earth's surface, and have seen divers tricks of dis-
tant people. If this be one, it surpasses all that I
have seen. I have heard of things something alike
-that is of strange ringing of bells-formerly and
recently, in Woodbridge, and in your good town of
Ipswich : but not the particulars. I mean to try
some experiments, if I can, on metallic expansion-
the atmosphere is beyond my reach. The preceding
is, except when otherwise indicated, merely a tran-
scription from my longer letter of the 6th. I am
now-the 27th-able to add that nothing particular
has since occurred. I have read this account to
persons who beard and saw, most of what I heard
and saw ; and some proceedings that I did not.
They concur in the opinion that it is a fair and
unembellished statement ofthe facts.
Beatings, .27th February, 1834.
The preceding appeared in the lpStDich JO'U.T11al, of
1BtMarch,l834. And in the paperofthatdayfort-
nigbt-15tb March-the following Letter appeared
-which I call N? 2. I consider whatwill hereafter
appear-though not prepared as any sort of reply to
N~ 2.-suffieient thereon. Adding, merely, that I
did not in any way, follow the advice therein offered.
10
N~ 2.
To the Editor ofthe Ipswich Journal.
SJR,-I do not flatter myself that I am able to
elucidate the mystery of the bell-ringing, at Mr.
Moor's, of Beatings, but I beg to offer a suggestion
to that gentleman, and if he follow it, I will make him
any moderate wager, that he shall either discover
the cause of the ringing, or that the bells will not
ring at all during any part of the time, however
long, that he may be pursuing the investigation.
My plan is this,-when Mr. Moor is favored with
a repetition of the wysterious peal, I recommend
him, instead of watching for monkeys or cats, or
making philosophical experiments, to send for a
few respectable neighbours-seat his entire estab-
lishment in one room, and leave a friend with them
-lock all the outer doors of the house and take the
keys-station a friend on each stair-case, and with
another friend, make a thorough search of the
house, locking every door, and taking out the key
as the search proceeds. If this plan be pursued
I will, as above-mentioned, make any moderate bet,
either that the bells will not ring at all during the
search, or that, if they do ring, the party searching
will find some relative, or friend, of one of his estab-
lishment concealed in some part of the house.
11
ln my house, which compared with Mr. Moot's,
is of a limited extent, a person may, in a second,
set three bells ringing violently by touching the
wires, which all pass along a passage and through
a hole in the wall, and in less than two seconds may
get out of the passage at any one of the five doors,
and may almost instantaneously set other bells ring•
ing, and within two seconds may enter the kitchen in
a different direction from that of the passage where
the three bells were set ringing.
Mr. Moor does not say whether the wires of the
five bells all pass through one hole into the kitchen,
and the wires of the three bells through another,
but I take it for granted such is the fact ; and if so,
of course, it gives great facility to the party to play
the foolish trick upon the family. Probably the
wire of the front door bell does not hang conveni·
ently to be touched in hastily passing it, which
may account for the silence of that bell on these
mysterious occasions.
I have heard of many nearly similar tricks of
noises, &c. about a house, one of which I will
relate : it was in a farm house in a parish very little
distant from Bealings: a great variety of tricks were
played for several weeks, and it was currently re·
ported, either that the bouse must be haunted, or that
12
the mistress of the house, a very infirm superanuated
woman, was bewitched, and the poor old woman
was cruelly treated by part of the family, in the
supposition of her being the cause of the mysterious
proceedings. Amongst other neighbours consulted
on the occasion was my poor mother, to whom the
master of the house said," would you believe, Mrs.
--, that my wife could be such a wicked hypocrite
as to pretend she cannot get up and down stairs
without being carried, and yet do all this mischief
in the house-she must be bewitched." My poor
mother, though no conjurer, had no inconsiderable
!!hare of that useful, though somewhat rare, article,
vulgarly called common sense, replied, "bewitched
or not bewitched, your poor wife has nothing to do
with these proceedings-watch your servants, par-
ticularly the girl lately allotted to you from H--
Workhouse, and you will soon find out who is
!Jewitched.''-The advice was followed-the girl was
soon detected and dismissed, having obtained the
appellation of "Mischieful," which I have heard
she retained when she soon after appeared on the
pave in Ipswich.
A CONSTANT READER.
Hadleigh, 11/arch 3r·'d, 1834.
13
What precedes inN~ 1. is the substance of our ob·
&ervances of the phenomena under our notice; but
not the sum. It is noted above-parenthetically-
that, considering the length of my letter to the
Editor of the Ipswich Journal, I had omitted some
passages, that I had intended to send.
Those passages I will aow give ; being less re·
stricted as to room :-with some additions.
"Let me here explain how these five bells are
situated. I conceive it necessary for the discovery
of the cause of these straage effects. The bell
which first rung, on the Sunday, is that of the
dining·room. It bas two horizontal pulls, by brass
buttons; one on each side of the fire-place. The
wires are led from the pulls, through the projecting
pierced jambs and wall, a distance of 3 feet, to the
. outside of the western end of the house. The house
fronts as nearly true south, as may be. The wires
on reaching the outside, are fastened, in the usual
way, to perpendicular cranks~ The southern, or left
hand wire as you face the fire-place, is led up
perpendicularly 10 feet, and then makes a right
angle, by being turned on a horizontal crank to the
north. After so running 12 feet, it is again turned,
by another horizontal crank, in a right angle, into
c
14
another pierced hole, or aperturt>, again iuto the
house. This, I shall call a common aperture; it
being such to all the wires, now under consideration.
Between the two dining-room brass bell-pulls, is
6 feet.
The right-hand, or northern wire, runs, like the
other, through the pierced jamb and western eod
wall of the house ; and there, by a perpendicular
crank, is turned upwards to the common aperture.
These two wires are joined near the aperture ; and
are led into it by one horizontal crank.
Before we trace the dining·room bell wire any
farther, we will bring the wires of the room over it,
called the drawing-room; to the same point-(also
the wires of the attic bed-rooms)-the common
aperturt>.
Those of the drawing-room are on each side the
fire-place-pulled by brass knobs, or buttons, like
those of the dining-room : and at the outside of the
house, are, in like manner, fixed to perpendicular
(·ranks-and led downwards, about 6· feet ; near to
the ascending wires of the dining-room. Thence-
by horizontal cranks-they are led to the common
aperture: parrellel, and close, to the wires of the
dining-room-being previously joined or twisted
together-ncar the common aperture ; into which
15
the joined wire is turned by one horizontal crank.
The " best bed room" is on the same floor as the
drawing-room-having a brick wall between. The
bell-pull is a silken tassel and cord about 9 feet
long; pendant from a crank near the ceiling; which
crank has the wire at its other end. It is led-
west-along the ceiling, about 6 feet, to another
crank, near the comer of the room; where a third,
tums it perpendicularly downward, a foot, to
another-which turns it horizontally through a bole
in the weatern end wall of the house. It is there,
outside, turned, southward. a few inches, to the
common aperture. To that point, this bed-room
wire, ia thus led, turned by one perpendicular, and
four horizontal cranks.
This is a tedious-and, it may be thought, an
unnecessary, detail. But I shall endeavour to show
presently that is not unaecessary. I will not make
it more tedious, by following the attic wires so
minutely: noting only, that after divers perpendi-
cular and horizontal turnings, by cranks, they are
led from the rooms to the commoa external aperture.
We have now brought the five wires to the com-
mon aperture, at the west end of the bouse. And
here seems the time to note that all over that end,
as far as the wires are concerned, is spread, trained,
c 2
16
and nailed, an old, full-wooded, pear tree; betweed
which and the red brick end of the house, the wires
are led, close to the bricks.
Five horizontal cranks with as many wires, tum
in the common aperture, which is pierced through
the western end wall, into a back-house on the
ground floor; divided from the dining-room by a
thick brick wall. It is 17 feet wide, in the direc-
tion of the wires-that is from west to east.
The five wires run straight, parallel, and close
together, under the ceiling, to the comer opposite
the aforesaid common aperture. There they are
fixed to, and turned by, as many cranks, at a right
angle, 7 feet, northerly. They are then turned east,
by other five cranks, at a right angle, into and
through a second common aperture, in a brick wall
fourteen inches thick, into a passage.
The passage is eighteen feet long, connecting the
back-house and the kitchen-having the back-bouse
door at one end, and a kitchen window. occupying
the whole width of the passage, at the other.
The pa11sage is partly open to the external air ;
and is very light : so that any thing that may pass,
or be, in it, is under the ready inspection of any one
in the kitchen.
About the middle of the passage, another wire-
17
that of the front door bell-joins company with the
aforesaid five. And they run together to, and
through, a third common ape_
rture, into the kitchen,
over the window.
There-in the kitchen-they are turned, by six
cranks, at a right aagle, again to tbe north. The
last named wire of the six-that of the front door-
at a distance of a foot from the third common aper-
ture, is fixed finally to its bell in the usual way.
At two feet, that ofthe dining-room terminates, at its
bell. At three feet, that of tile best bed-room. At
four and five feet, those ofthe attics-and at six feet,
that of the drawing-room-~t their respective bells.
It bas been before observed, that the front door
bell-the nearest to the third aperture-the heaviest
of the aine-did aot sound at all. It will be no
further notieed. Those on its right, to the north,
are thoae, and especially the four on the right, that
bave played the pranks uad« description."
But, I repeat, all this may have little or nothing
to do with the facts witnessed. The bells rang
acorea of times when no one was in the passage, or
back-houee, or house, or grounds, unseen. I have
waited in the kitchen, for a repetition of the
ringings, with all the servants present-whes no
one-hardly •• so much as a mouse"-could be ia
c 3
18
Iconcealment. But what matters ?-neither I, nor
ll
the servants-singly or together-nor any one-be
he whom he may, could or can, I aver, work the
wonderment, that I, and more than half a score
others, saw.
l The mention of "a mouse," reminds me of a little
anecdote. I had-after the publication of the
preceding letter N? 1.-been occasionally requested,
by neighbours and friends, to tell the story of my
bell-ringings. And once by a lady at Bury-an
old friend. I did so; to her and another lady pre-
sent-her friend-thinking to communicate some
of my own mysterious feeling to my fair auditors.-
" Surely"-said the friend-"it must have been
mice."-Somewhat astounded at my failure in ef-
fect, I could not help asking the unmoved lady, ifshe
thought it likely, that what in observance, could
astonish half a dozen tolerably intelligent persons,
and affright as many more, could have been of so
trivial a nature as to have come within the potency
of mice to cause.
Now-I blame not those who, not having seen
what I have, may feel disposed to consider what l
have related, as arising from trick, or monkeys, or
mice. But I will add, that had such (reasonably
perhaps) incredulous persons, seen what I have,
19
l cannot but think that they could no longer continue
so. No one who witnessed the phenomena, could,
in my opinion, deem them the result of tricks; or
any but a preternatural cause.
I will now state why the minutia of horizontality,
.perpendicularity, and obliquity, in the course of the
wires, are of some moment-in reference to the
probability of our having been imposed on by a
trick : and as bearing on the eventual discovery of
the cause.
Let the reader imagine a person in the passage,
between the back·house door and the kitchen win-
dow, with say a boat-hook in hand-or with a string
tied round the five or six parallel wires-and let the
person be supposed to pull, as violently as you
please, by the hook or string. What would be the
consequence ?-Not the violent ringing of the five
or six bells, whose wires were so pulled. "And why
not ~"-do you ask? For this reason-to agitate
the bells violently, you must pull in the direction of
the line of the wires, horizontally or perpendicularly
-no matter. By your downtcard pull, however
violent or gentle, you pull in a eontt•ary direction:
and if violently, the bells will not ring-if gently,
they will tinkle gently, as in the usual way of ring-
ing :-but by no means with the jerking violence
•
20
that we witnessed. I have at this moment tried the
preceding facts with a hoe.
And, while I was so doing- two minutes ago-
this 6th of March, 1841-the servant of the Wood-
bridge butcher, who then supplied, and now sup-
plies, my house with meat, passed me in the passage.
Recollecting that he was one of the gazers with me,
and five or six others, on the violent bells, I re-
minded him of it ; and asked him if he could 10
ring them-if be had any notion of how it was done
-and what be thought of what he bad before seen1
He said that he had no notion how it could be done
-that he was astonished at what he saw-and
(eared mischief at the time.
I have mentioned in the early part ofmy foregoing
letter, page 2, that when I was first told on the
Sunday that the dining-rooru bell bad rung unac-
countably-had nothing farther happened, it might
have passed without much observance-for I fan-
cied I could discern a cause sufficient for such an
etfect.
This was the fancied cause.-All over the ex-
terior western end of the house (of course outside of
the wires which are kept by loops or little staples
dose to the red brick wall) a full-wooded old pear
tree is, as has been already mentioned, trained, and
21
nailed. Adverting to the season of the year-a
mild season-it struck me as poBBible-that two or
three or more blackbirds, in which we abound,
might have got among the boughs of the pear tree ;
and if fighting, or struggling, or cooing, might have
tightened or shaken the wires sufficiently to tinkle
a bell.
But mark-1 had then seen nothing; and, on the
Monday, had only heard, one tinkling, from a
distance.
After what I saw and heard, not all the black-
birds in existence, could, in my conviction, have
produced such effects.
I will here, note, once for all-that after much
consideration, I cannot reach any procedure by
which they have been, or can be, produced.
If I bad a year to devote to such consideration,
and the promise of a thousand pounds in the event
of discovery, I should despair of success. I would
not, indeed, attempt it.
There is a point, from which all the five ringers
could be set in simultaneous motion. · Which point
is-in a line opposite to the first named common
aperture. A rope led horizontally, fixed somehow to
those five cranks, and so pulled would so ring them.
But they cQuld not be rung with the violent jerks
22
witnessed and described. With no vigour of pull
could that be effected. The cranks and wires might
be broken : and I have no doubt but they would be,
with very much less violence of pull. This is the
only mode that occurs to me by which I could, even
gently, ring the four or five bells. I confess, how-.
ever, that the ringing in the passage, by the direct
downward pull, moved the whole six bells into
sound, easier than I had foreseen, or expected,
before trial.
But it does not shake my expressed conviction-
that my bells were not so rung by any mortal hand.
Seeing, however, that I could gently ring the six
bells with a hoe, by a direct downward pull in the
passage-rather, as I have confessed, contrary to
my expectation,-1, soon after, proceeded one crank
farther back-into the back-house-and pulled
downward-on the 7 feet line of wires, and pro-
duced the same effect of sound. Also on the 17
feet of line, in the backhouse ; beyond the third
series of cranks and directioas of wires, from the
bells; with the like gentle, tinkling, result.
The publication of the preceding letter N~ 1.-
in the Ipswich Journal of 1st March, 1834, brought
me, soon after, the following. It is from a lady, of
whom I had some previous knowledge. She is a
23
woman of great energy of character :-and, a1 will
be perceived, of talent ; notwithstanding her
tendency to superstitous feeling. I omit her name
-not having her permission to use it. I do not
indeed, know if she is living.-She has suffered
much; and felt deeply. In her correspondance
with me, on this and other occasions, she mixes up
personal and domestic matters, with the more
immediate subject of her letters. Such portions
I have, where convenient, omitted.-
! call the following letter N~ 3.
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
24
N? 3.
----,SUFFOLK, March 6, 1834.
Sm,-A lady having lent me the Ipswich Journal
of last week, I have perused therein a letter of
your's with particular and painful interest; for the
bells in my late father's house, rang with great
violence, for some months, without apparent cause ;
some of the circumstances of which I shall relate.
I should much like to know, if you should be able
to discover any cause for your bells ringing.
I was the daughter and sole heir of the late -
at whose decease, I came into posst'ssion of a con·
siderable real and personal estate. I was entrapped
into a marriage with- which brought me to
·beggary and want, save a residence, in this abode
of my forefathers, under the protection of the Lord
Chancellor.
My late father died in the 47th year of his age,
of pulmonary consumption, in a house at --- in
Kent, which he had built for his own residence, about
seven years before, in the most substantial manner.
My mother was at the same time seized with an
alarming and dangerous illness. My attention to
the bells ringing without cause, was first attracted
25
by a servantenteriog hastily into my mother•s cham-
her, who stated the bell had been rung with great
violenct-. I used to direct her to go immediately to
my father's room, and generally went ID)self, in the
tirst instance, to know if any thing particular had
occurred or was wanted, and afterwards because I
found the servant so much appalled. When I men-·
tioned to my father the circumstance of a bell ringing
without apparent cause, he seeemed displeased, and
said, "you will get superstitious by conversing with
nurses.'' He was very ill at the time, and under my
then distressing circumstances very little was said·
about the matter.
My mother was entirely confined to her chamber;
but my father changed hissitting and sleeping rooms;
when a bell in an attic, and a bell which hung in the
lowu hall, both of which could be rung from my
mother's chamber, began to ring, but they never
rang at the same time. Both these bells began to
ring in the month of February, the same time of the
year as your's, and rang more frequently in 'hat
month, but always with great violence. They con-
tinued to ring at intervals during the month of
March. In the beginning of April my poor mother
died; immediately after which, my father, much
against my inclination, and to my surprise, announced
D
26
his intention, which his physicians did not oppose,
of removing into the chamber in which my mother
had breathed her last : and as soon as the room had
been washed and ventilated, the bed hangings and
window curtains washed, he caused himself to be
carried by three men upon a blanket into this cham-
ber, where be himself breathed his last upon the 30th
of May; during all which time the bells, or more
correctly, a bell, continued to ring at intervals with-
out apparent cause, and with great violence.
One serene day in the month of June following, I
was going to take a walk in the garden with a gent-
leman to whose care my father had consigned me ;
and when we were in the lower hall, just above his
head, the bell rang with great violence. We stopped,
and I said to him, " now I hope you will believe the
bells have rung without apparent cause;" for he used
to tum the matter off, and say some person must
have pulled the bell, or the wire had caught: but it
was then impoHible for him to do otherwise than to
admit a fact for which he could not account. This
was the only time I ever saw the bell in its tremend-
ous motion, which appeared sufficient to shatter it
to fragments, and yet the bells were uninjured-
were in perfect order, and continued so to be until I
tinally quitted the house, on the first of March
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
27
following. After this time, in June, the bells ceased
from ringing without cause. 'there was at that time
no other person in the house, but a servant in the
kitchen, the door of which from the hall was open,
and she could have had no communication with the
bell or its wire. Besides, she herself had been ap-
palled by the bells for months previously-had had
the extra work of running up two flights of stairs in
consequence ; nor was there ever any person in the
house who could have had any motive for wantonly
ringing a bell, and particularly under all the circum-
stances.
To prevent the possibility of a mouse harbouring
in the house, my father bad caused rubbish to be
rammed down, and filled up with sand, between
the walls and the skirting boards, &c. The bells
were well hung with copper wire, and had never re-
quired any repair; and we bad then resided seven
years in the bouse after it had been built. My
father was a person of great talent, and universal
knowledge ; and be bad himselfconstantly inspected
and spared no expense in the building. I don't
think he ever heard the bells ring himself, or be
paid it no parttcular attention ; be was ill, and the
room doors were thick-but I frequently heard it
mvself. My parents had always ordered me to ring
D2
28
a bell gently, and never to pull with any violen(..~,
except something particular should occur, when it
being unusual, a servant would instantly answer the
bell. There was no bell to the outer door, which
bell appears to be the only bell in your house which
has not rung.
There was no cat at my father's-and at the time
the bell rang in June, the dog was close beside me~
capering at the thoughts of a walk io the garden.
I was not, but you are, in circumstances to inves-
tigate the matter.
I was not brought up to beline in signs or tokenlf;
nevertheless the experience of my eventful life leads
·me now to think that, such things may be ; and it
would be presumption in man to limit the power of
the Almighty. This bouse, like most ancient ones,
was reported to be haunted ; and had the bells rung
here instead of in my father's new·built house, it
might have been a confirmation of this report.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
Your very obedient Servant,
From this letter, it is evident that ringings, some·
thing similar to mine, occurred in the family and
bouse of the unfortunate lady, who wrote it. I
29
need not add, that although I commissetate her
unhappiness, and earnestly hope that, if living, it
has ceased, and that if dead, she died in peace, I
do not share in her imputation of the ringings to su-
pernatural causes: or in her belief that human weal
or woe was among their efFects.
I will note here, that my letter in the Ipswich
Journal was abridged, or its substance given, in
several papers in London, and elsewhere. Some of
them imputed the efFects described to supernatural
causes; and stated, or implied, that such was my
belief. I found it expedieat to cortect such imputa-
tion, and expressly r~ected sharing in such belief.
In fact, one editor, at least, confounded superna-
tural with preternatural. And ifmetropolitan editors
can do so, some rural readers may. In prevention,
therefore, of such misapprehension, I may be par-
doned if I give the meanings of those words from
Johnson's Dictionary:-
Preternatural. Differing from what is natural. Irregular,
in a manner different from the common order of nature.
Supernatural. Being above the order of nature. Above
the cause, or power ofnature.
It appears that I wrote an early answer to the
letter No. 3-for I soon received another from the
same lady-of whieh the following is a copy-with
the omission of certain passages, as before.
3'0
N? 4.
- - - - , ScFFOLK, March 28, 1834.
SIR,-I beg leave to return you my bt>st thanks
for the honoar and favor of your letter upon the
subject of bell-ringing without apparent cause ; and
as I am deeply interested about the matter, and
anxious for an investigation into the cause, if any
can be discovered, and as you are in town and can
converse with scientific men, I am induced tO state
some further particulars to you. I regret that at
the time I could not muster courage enough to state
the circumstances to the late Sir Humphrey Davy,
to whom I was introduced, and attended the lectures
at the Royal Institution in Albemarle-street, the
season after the decease of my paren~.
The late Dr. Babipgton was one of the physicians
who attended my father. Soon after my parents' de-
cease, when I was staying with Mrs. Opie, ,in the
bouse of her late father, Dr. Alderson, of Norwich,
I mentioned the matter to the Doctor ; but be, as
well as Mrs. Opie and others, thought it trick, or
fancy, and that it was superstitious to connect it in
any way with the death of my parents; and I was
deterred from mentioning the matter, until the pe-
rusal of your letter in the Ipswich Journal (which I
31
tnost heartily tbank you for writing) induced m~
to write to you upon the subject.
Aft{:!r what I had experienced myself, when I was
a young girl, I was not so much surprized to find a
writer in the Ipswich Journal, attribute the lieU-
ringing in your bouse entirely to trick ; but I wish
he could hear auch sounds as I have done. As to
the conceit, of your servants having some friend con-
cealed in the house ; would not a person in such
circumstances be more likely to remain quiet than to
sound an alarm ?
When my attention was attracted to the subject,
at first, I did suspect a young female servant, or a
lad, might have pulled the bell from a childish pro-
pensity, availing themselves of the opportunity
afforded by my father and mother's illnesses. I only
suspected either of them, from being the youngest
persons in the house, and was aware I did some
things myself, which I should not have done in my
mother's presence. It was with the greatest reluct-
ance that the servant first mentioned the matter to
me ; and from necessity alone; to account for her
coming into my mother's chamber; and from her
manner, she evidently did not believe I should
credit her statement. After I was convinced the
bells did ring without being pulled, I examined the
32
wires and cl'anks, and had the bells rung, but could
not discover any thing amiss; and as a bell still con-
tinued to ring at intervals, my father ordered the
bells to be carefully examined ; as I then thought
it might possibly arise from the bells (both ofwhich
could be pulled from the head of my mother's bed,
which stood side-ways of the fire-place, and the wire
did not pass over the fire) having been pulled more
frequently and with greater violence, in consequence
of her severe illness. The report made was, there is
not any thing the matter, and the bells still continued
to ring. My father was so much displeased at a
servant's entering his room uncalled, that when I
used to direct her to go to my father, she used to
say, "my master will be very angry, and i don't
think he rung the bell"--and when I went myself, he
was much displeased, so that I was much distressed.
I could not from principle ask a servant to do what
I did not like to do myself. I could not bear the
idea of my father ringing a bell when he was so ill,
and not being attended to, and at which, of course,
he would be highly displeased ; when I went into
his room he was much irritated ; if p06sible I con-
trived some pretence for going into his room, but I
entered trembling, and could not pursue the straight·
forward course of telling my father what had oc-
curred.
33
Ifyou bad experienced what I did then, you would
have a superior motive to investigate the cause than
mt>rely " to prevent discomfort to weak and super-
stitious minds."
'fbe bells in my father's house were solemn knells;
whereas the bells in your's appear to be merry peals,
·omens ofjoy. Still, though the difference is great,
it is a violent ringing of a bell without apparent
cause.
Should it occur again, will you ascertain the
exact length of time a bell rings? It appeared to
me much longer than any bell could ring from one
pull ; and, if there was more than one pull, it must
cause a difference in the sound : at least I should
suppose so--and then bow long a bell would vibrate
from a violent pull, either by the rope or wire 1
I asked my mother's nurse, if she had ever knowo
or beard of bells ringing 1 She looked very serious,
and replied, she had several times known it in
houses where she was nursing. I not only thought
my father would be displeased, but I did not myself
like to talk to her upon the subject, and it was
hardly ever mentioned except when the ringing
.occurred. Both the nurse and servant were very
cautious in what they said ; but the servant saicl
34
that every morning, for a long time past, she had al-
ways found two large winding-sheets upon the candle-
stick from the rush-light, which my parents burnt
in their room of a night; that she bad done all she
could think of to prevent it. Whether from the
presence of malaria in the bouse, or from whatever
cause, the candles, for some months, to my know-
ledge, burnt always in this manner. I tried every
means I could devise to prevent what was a constant
source of inconvenience, trouble, and expence. The
candle-sticks, tables, and glass-lamp in the 'hall,
which bung in a well stair-case, so that you could
pass to the rooms without carrying a li~ht, were all
covered with tallow. I requested the best candles
might be sent-tried various shops, but all to no
purpose-the candles would gutter down.
Whatever tricks servants may play, it is not likely
they should, for any continuance, play such as would
cause themselves extra trouble : I know of no motive
which could cause an.Y such to be then played. In
the Ipswich Journal, a girl prone to mischief, duped
her master into believing his afflicted wife was " be-
witched;" she not only made a fool of her master,
but, probably, it enabled her to neglect her mistress.
Another circumstance which the servant men-
tioned was the fires burning only on one side the
stoves, which continued for months. She was reluct•
ant to state any thing which I could not do other•
wise than observe myself. It was first noticed in
the kitchen. My mother complained of the meat
not being well roasted, and which I am convinced
was occasioned by the impossibility of getting the
fire to burn, except on one side the grate. The
meat was soddened, by being so long at the fire, and
had to be turned end for end before it could be
done at all in any way. It was the same in all the
fires, and I tried in vain to make the fires burn on
both sides. My father was displeased, and said the
fire in his room was not properly stirred or kept up.
With respect to the coals, my father was not only
particular in having the best-but much better coals
are carried to the London market than any I have
ever seen in Suffolk. Instead of having the coals
shot down into the cellar, in the front of the house,
as in London, my father bad them shot down upon
the premises; the round coals were then carted,
and shot down into the coal cellar, and the dust of
the coal was burned in the hot-bouse.
My parents were both persons of delicate consti-
tutions and habits-both died of lingering disease ;
my mother did not change in the least, until the
ninth day after her decease, and my father about
the seventh-it was just sufficient to satisfy me that
36
they were dead :-my sense of smelling was always
very keen, my lungs weak and susceptible, and like
Cas)lar Hauser, I am often much annoyed by what
others don't observe. The house could be~ and was,
well ventilated ; the chambers were free from ill
smells ; every attention was paid for the purpose,
and I can no more account for the fires and candles
than for the ringing of the bells. Still, as the bells
were not the only things in the house which were
affected, with a view to elucidate the matter, if
possi~le, I have stated these particuiars, as far as
my time and your patience will extend-the whole
truth should be stated.
I believe there were what is called "other signs"-
but nobody dared to tell me what I could not but
observe myself, .and for a long period.
When these facts were recent, I observed in the
drawing-room ofthe late Mr. Opie, R A. in Berners-
street, the fire burning only one side. Mr. Opie
had complained of not feeling well, but was painting
in his study ; and one day when I was alone with
Mrs. Opie, I said to her," I don't like to see the fire
burn in this manner, as the fires did so in my father's
house, for some time before my parents died." She
laughed, and instantly stirred the fire, with the view
to make it burn more to my satisfaction. For some
time previously to Mr. Opie's death, the fire in the
37
drawing-room burnt well upon Mrs. Opie's side of
the fire place, but hardly ever upon Mr. Opie's
side; which I observed, but was reluctant to believe
that any thing was about to happt'n to hirn.
Both my parents were in the habit of looking at
the barometer, and likewise at thermometers; and
directing me frequently to tell them the state of the
glasses ; and therefore I was in the habit of so
doing~but during my parents' illnesses I seldom
did so, except when requested by my father. I am
not aware that there was any thing unusual in the
state of the weather or the state of the glasses ; and
think if there had been so, the apothecary, who was
very intimate, and in the habit of looking himself at
these glasses, would have mentioned it.
I don't know if I can procure a newspaper which
contained your letter; but I should have liked to
have sent one to my tenant, who took my father's
bouse after his decease ; but who did not remove
into it until March following ; which was the reason
of my not finally quitting till that time :-and to
enquire if he bas ever been annoyed by the ringing
of the bells.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
Your very obedient servant.
To Edward MoOt·, &q.
Bealirtg•, nttat· Woodbridge. B
38
(In the envelope.)
In addition to the inclosed, may be added, that
my father had in the house, an air pump, micro-
scope, &c. and had from his youth, made obsena-
tions and experiments.
For some time, the bell in the attic rung at night
as well as day, and so might the lower one, un-
heeded ; the manner of the ring was so long and
violent, and dii'erent, that upon reflection, I now
think, after a time, no servant came to tell me~
The appearance .,{ a pieceof meat roasting at one
end, by a half fire, was heart-sickening, and m~
desolate 1.0 view.
Upon my mother's decease, my father desired me
to take her trinkets, and I was much startled, when
I looked at the diamonds, which appeared like the
film of a boiled egg; but instantly disappeared, and
resumed their brilliancy upon being rubbed with a
handkerchief.
If any of your friends should be craniologists,
you may say I have the bump of inquisitiveness,
which may induce me to search and enquire, into
the cause of unusual appearances.
I admit, that the plundering in the house, was
a reason to induce Dr. Alderson, to consider it an
imposition upon me; but, I am convinced, and
39
particularly from the attic bell, it was not : besides
what motive, or what end could it answer?
I hope you will cauae the test, of the duration of
time a bell rings, to be tried, ifpossible, to a second.
The dog, a remarkably fine, undaunted, blue or
mouse-coloured, terrier, whose eminent qualifications
bad gained him admittance into the house,-whe11
the attic bell raog after dark, discovered great
emotion, was sileot aod rivetted to the spot, and
would not leave me : his aspect was so fierce and
determioed that the nurse was afraid he would seize
!Wld bite her, being a stranger; but the dog seemed
to know, as well as I, that she could not have pulled
the bell.
In the following mouth, I received another letter
from the same lady, which I give, with the same
cautionary omissions.
E2
40
N? 5.
----,SUFFOLK, April 2, 1834.
SIR,-Having been confined by a severe cold, I
was not able to go into the town till yesterday-and
then could not procure a conveyance to London for
the inclosed letter. I am so deeply interested about
the matter, that I regret not being able to converse
with you upon the subject, as it is so difficult to
get any person to believe it otherwise than trick.
One gentleman, who had read your .letter in the
Ipswich Journal, I could not induce to think other-
wise, until I mentioned bells ringing for months after
they had been severed from the wires-when he be-
gan to think of electricity. Another, who had not
heard before of the circumstance, asked me if your
house was situated on a wet or boggy soil ? as bells
had been known to ring when affixed to the walls of
such houses. I could only answer, that my father's
bouse was built upon a dry, gravelly soil; and had
been built in so dry a season, that the slates had
been put on without a drop of rain having fallen
into the bouse. He said he should like to have
some further conversation upon the subject at another
opportunity, and to read your statement.
41
In the dead of two nights, during which the bell
in the attic rung repeatedly with such extreme
violence, I carefully tearcbed the bouse, attended
by two female senaots and the -dog, who left his
master from this time, and kept close by me. The
house, was built after the London manner, and af-
forded no places for concealment, and was detached.
I found all doors and windows properly fastened ;
the trap-door io the ceiling of one of the attica
through which you could go upon the top of the
house, was bolted, as usual, and I did not explore
under the roof: but I took the precaution of order-
ing the step-ladder to be removed ; and after we
had left the room, which was not in use, I locked
the door myself, and took the key, and the next
morning I went out upon the top of the bouse. I
went into the cellars, to be satisfied there was no-
body nor nothing in the bouse. I thought it was
possible a cat or a bird might haTe got in, and
clawed the bell-wire. The senants readily did every
thing I directed ; and as to the dog, in his early
days be had established his fame, by seizing and
biting trespassers in the grounds by day time, and
bad such an aversion to vermin, that, for his own
amusement, be would watch for, kill, and bury frogs,
which, from their extreme coldness, few dogs will
£3
42
touch. The dog performed his part of the search.
The nurse remained with my mother; and the room
door was left open, in case of our meeting with any
thing. The bell rung in the attic repeatedly after
the search ; and I directed the servants to go to bed
in a chamber adjoining my father's ; for it was im":.
possible to think of their going to bed in this attic
chamber: and they removed my feather-bed, &c.
from an attic chamber, above my mother's chamber,
down into a comer of her room. No man servant
slept in any of the attics ; but there were two men
servants' rooms adjoining to, but not in, the house,
upon the ground floor.
It was impossible for any thing to have escaped
out of the house without the knowledge of myself
and the dog.
I bad seen my father perform experiments with
the air pump when a child. I was aware a bell
would not ring in an exhausted receiver-and ifI ap-
plied any thing to the side of the fire which would not
burn, by the same rule the bells should not have
rung, or but faintly, when pulled; and on the con-
trary, if, fixed air was rending the bells, the fires
should have burnt with more than usual brightness :
I thought then, and still am of that opinion, that, by
some mews or other, it must have been occasioned
43
by the air being condensed or rarefied, and yet no
house could admit of more perfect ventilation, and
no person be more susceptible than mya~elf. The
chimnies did not smoke.
The nurse said, "you'll find nothing,'' which
somewhat emboldened us in the search ; yet from
fear we kept so close together, that it was any thing
but a stragling party. The dog diligently searched
and scented by my direction ; but be did not scent
as if be scented any thing himself. From the con-
struct,on of the bouse, and with the dog's assistance,
it was impossible to have made a more effective
search. This I relate to refute the assertion, and
suggestion to you, by the "Constant Reader"• ofthe
Ipswich Journal, whom I shall dismiss with the ob-
servation, that, when a child, I was so particularly
struck by a remark of Voltaire's, that "the English
could not decide any matter without a wager," that
I determined, and kept my determination, never to
be persuaded into such an absurd way of determin-
ing a matter.
If trick, there was a large bell unhung, which
would have been much more convenient for the pur-
pose. It was always intended to be.affixed outside
the back part of the bouse, as bad been the case
•No.!.
44
where we formerly resided, and used to be rung by
hand out of a window. Any person in the lower
part of the house could have had access to this large
bell, or moved it where they pleased.
There was likewise a small bell, which never had
beeD hung, in a cloeet, with the air pump and its
apparatus. This could have been still more con-
\'eniently carried and rung in various parts of the
house, and would haTe been more effective as a
trick.
There was but one stair-case, and no passap in
the house ; the front door from the road opened into
the hall, and the back door into the lower hall ; and
all the rooms into these halls are upon broad land-
ing-places.
Should you evet learn further particulars, or can
disconr any cause, I hope you will remember how
much I am interested about the matter.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
Your very obedient Se"ant,
This letter, I believe, closed the correspondence
with the lady. I preferred giving it uninterruptedly ;
although pending it, another correspondent ad-
dressed me, as follows:-
45
N~ 6.
NoTTINGHAM, March 16, 1834.
SIR,-A friend having banded to me a copy of
your letter, addressed to the Ipswich Journal, relat-
ing some extraordinary circumstances connected
with your residence, I am induced to take the liberty
of enquiring whether you have heard the particulars
of long and repeated bell-ringings in a house near
Chesterfield ? If not, I shall be happy to furnish you
with a general idea of the affair, and can direct you
where to apply for a sight ofa minute statement taken
down as the events occurred. 'rbese events quite
baffled the acutest enquirers ; and as they occurred
during a course of one to two years, many such had
an opportunity of trying their skill, both when the
bells were connected with lines, and when the wires
had been cut for months ; a circumstance that made
no apparent difference in their sounding disposition.
The thing became so common at length, that to pre-
vent the children in the family from feeling alarmed,
they were led to suppose the bells were ill, upon these
occasions. My friend who resided in the house is
the reverse of superstitious; well educated, philo·
aophic, and indefatigable in research : and I have
46
not heard that he ever hazarded a guess as to the
cause. And I examined every part of his extensive
mansion with the strictest care, and could not di·
vine the moving natural power adequate to the eff'ect.
I shall be obliged by your saying if you have
arrived at any more satisfactory conclusion ; and,
for a reason to be afterwards explained, would also
ask, if you have any knowledge of the Derbyshire
family ofthe , orofa lady from Lancashire,
named----
I am, Sir,
To E. Moor, Esg.
Your's very respectfully,
W. FBLKIN.
I replied to _the following letter on the 21st. of
March, and soon after received the following :-
47
N? 7.
NoTTINGHAM, Marcia 27, 1834.
DBAR SIR,-1 thank you for your letter, with
further particulars respecting the ringing of your
bells, which are very interesting to myself and
friends acquainted with the Chesterfield affair. It
was Mr. Martin,• to whom I bad mentioned the
extraordinary circumstances at C. who sent me your
detail as a counterpart. Mr. Babbage was present
at our conversation ; and from the part he took in
it would be interested to know your dilemma, and to
help you out of it philosophically; be, with yourself,
deeming supernatural agency out of the question.
The reason of my enquiring ifyou knew tb 's
was, because they are proprietors of Rose Hill,
Chesterfield ; though not resident at it-and if you
knew , because she waa governess in the
family of .Mr. James Ashwell, resi~ent at Rose Hill
during the bell-ringing; and it was barely possible
that she might, for ought that appeared, be filling a
similar situation in your family. The gossips of C.
have found out that the bells began to ring on her
entering the family-continued to ring at intervals
• Of the Chancery Bar.
48
during her stay-and ceased on her quitting the
family. This is not strictly accordant with the fact,
I believe-but your answer puts beyond doubt, that
the same human agency could not have been em·
ployed in both cases.
In the Chesterfield case, all the bells in the bouse
rang at one time or another; but never before five
in the morning, nor after eleven at night. The
cutting of the wires made no difference ; and the
oscillation was like that of a pendulum ; not a de·
creasing one. A bell was put up one Saturday even•
ing, unattached to any wire, and rang in half an
hour. The moveable shutter bells on the parlour
window inside shutters, when the rooms were locked,
and no person within such rooms, rang. A bell taken
down, and laid aside in a closet, rang as it lay.•
The bouse is so substantial that the highest winds
could not be felt : its foundations are very large ;
and walls both outer and inner of stone cased with
brick: of great thickness and quite solid. The bells
are hung quite out of reach ; and no examination
resulted in detecting the least tampering with them.
I beard of one very laughable incident. The bell-
hanger was engaged in re-attaching the wires, after
a long silence, when one of the bells began to ring in
• This is believed to be erroneous.- E. M.
49
his face. Upon this he dropped down the ladder,
and, without waiting to gather up his tools, &c. ran as
fast as his legs would carry him ; crying, that Satan
was in the bells, and be would have no more to do
with them.
As the matter remains enveloped in the same
mystery, and the particulars have been carefully and
fully noted down when they occu.rred by Mr. J.
Ashwell, I shall refer you to him at 196 and 197,
near Queeohithe, Upper Thames·street; and in his
absence, if you enquire there for his private resi-
dence, in either case he or Mrs. A. would, I am
&ure, let yo11 bear the whole detail with great
pleasure.
I can form oo idea of any general law of nature
that would, in its operation, produce such apparently
contradictory, independent, and arbitrary results,
as this chain of circumstances includes : no human
agency bas appeared. It seems unlikely that any
satisfactory explanation will be given of eithE'r case ;
although as to Chesterfield, the work-people are soon
to repair, and make Rose-hill HousE' into two resi-
dences, when, perhaps, some cause may be brought
to light to clear the mystery.
I am, Sir,
Your's very respectfully,
To Edward Moor·, &q. W. FELKIN.
50
At the period to which we have now arrived-
toward the end of March 1834-1 was in London.
And in consequence of the preceding letters, No.6
and 7, I placed myself in communication with Mr.
Ashwell, the gentleman therein mentioned. He
favored me with several interviews ; and with the
relation ofmany particulars ofhis similar visitations :
and with the following note :-
51
UPPER THAMES-STREET, May 3, 1834.
Dua S1a,-Tbe paper you so obligingly sent, is
at my residence at Stockwell ; but I will have the
statement inserted by yourself copied, and return it
addressed (as your note just received) on Monday.
Before the end of the week (the time of your
departure) I will endeavour to write such differences
as are most important, between the occurrences in
our respective houses; and when time permit, I
shall not omit to commit to writing a circumstantial
. detail of the whole-which it will give me pleasure
to send you. My partner has for several weeks
past bef.n absent at our works in Scotland, which
must be my excuse for not doing as I named, when
you favored me with a call.
I am, dear Sir,
Your1s faithfully,
JAMES ASHWELL.
Having been thus led to hope for a circumstan-
tial account of the Derbyshire ringings from such
P2
52
authority, I made no notes of Mr. Ashwell's inter-
esting communications to me. They, of course,
generally accorded with those of his friend, Mr.
Felkin; but extended to many other particulars.
When I assented to the suggestion of printing the
statement in the reader's band, I had reason to hope
that, in addition to what precedes, I might bt: able
to give also, a minute detail of the more extraordi-
nary circumstances just alluded to. But on apply-
ing to the gentleman in whose house, and under
whose eye, they occurred, I suffered the dissap-
pointment of learning that I could not be furnished
with the details ; for the reason stated in the follow-
ing note, which I give here, tlaough not chronolo-
gically in its place ; it being a continuation, and
leading to the conclusion, of the mysterious ringings
in Derbyshire:-
53
N~ 9.
BLABNAPON, SOUTH WALES,
Marcia 1, 1841.
DEAR SIR,-I should have had much pleasure in
supplying the statement you request, and especially
in aid of an object so laudable and interesting; but
as a consequence of their relation to a literary
friend (some time since) 1- am under an engage-
ment to supply the facts for publication. You will
perceive (however unwillingly) that I am thereby
precluded from the-gratification of your wishes. I
shall feel interested in your pamphlet ; and if you
-will addreu the copy that you obligingly intend for
me to the Partbenoa Club, St. James's Square, I
shall thankfully receive it.
My engagement here baa been of so onerous a
character, that I have been unable to do any thing
towards the statement, I am pledged to produce.
But I am about to remove J when my leisure will
ere long, I trust, enable me to complete it. I shall
have pleasure in remitting you a copy.
I remain, dear Sir,
Your's faithfully,
.&IW6rd Moor, EUJ.
JAM&& ASHWI!.LL,
o;g,.;,. ,,Coogle
~
54
P.S. Your note, dated, I see, the 16th of last
month, has been delayed, from its address, to my
former business connection.
Much regretting that I cannot here give the ex-
pected relation of the very strange doings at, or
near, Chesterfield, from such an authentic source,
I will tax my recollection for some particulars, oblig-
ingly communicated to me, by Mr. Ashwell, in 1834.
The house was large, and old; and, with some,
had the reputation of being " haunted!' I forget
the date of the occurrences ; but believe ten ot
twelve years ago-say 1830-his ringings, from
first to last., continued about eighteen month.s.
They differed from mine, among others, in this par..
ticular :-that, instead of ringing in peals(of four or
five) by sudden starts and instant quietude, his rang
continually ; many seconds, with violent oscillations
and clatter. Insomuch, that while one was in such
violent vibration, be wuuld seize it between his
hands, and compel cessation. But, on being liber-
ated, it would resume its vibration and ringing.
This operation was several times performed, with
uniform results. His servants were much alarmed ;
55
and some left their places.• A public foot-path
passed near his front door. Many passengers made
a circuit rather than pass close to it. The strange
events within, were much talked of in the neighbour-
hood : and reasons existed to render it desirable that
the matter should be less discussed and notorious.
I forget the number of bells in the house : and
bow many rang ; whether all, or not ; aod if not,
what description most distinguished themselves, by
frequency or singularity. Mr. Ashwell is a literary
and scientific gentleman : and tried various experi..
ments with electrometers, and other tests : but could
discern nothing, especially present or absent, giving
any clue to the discovery of the cauae of the strange
effects witnessed. To that day-and I dare say to
this-he was, and is1 altogether at a loss, as to such
cause.
He took the wires oft". The bells continued their
ringings. He t()Ok one down and laid it on a shelf
in a closet. [This is believed to referto the incident
incorrectly given in page 48.] It remained there
• I may here note, that my servants were also frightened.
One, the cook, asked leave to go home-a few miles off. On
returning, she said that she was more camfortable; for fearing
what she saw and heard, portended ill to her, she was desirous
of ascertaining the condition of a near and dear relative ;
who, instead of being, as she feared, worse, was, she found,
last recoverin~ ftom a dangerous illness.
56
quiescent some weeks. He then took and placed,
or stuck, it between a wooden hat-peg batten, or
spline, and the w.Jl on which the batten was nailed :
the bell began to ring immediately.
It is generally known that house, or chamber,
bells, are fixed on a fiexible, bent, piece of iron,
about a foot long. It was the end of such iron, it
may be assumed, that was stuck between the batten
and the wall.
My kind informant transposed his bells. And
hence arose a sequence, that, however unaccounta-
ble, may be of moment, in approximations to the
cause of these phenomena, if such shall ever be
madt>. He observed that, in the course of renewals
ofringing, a particular bell took the lead. This bell
he called No. l-and three others, which he found
usually to follow in regular succession, he called 2, 3,
4. If we suppose the bells to ring in this order of
position-S, 2, 1, 4,-that is, 1 to be the leader-
2 the second, and so on-he transposed them to-
let us say-this order-4, 1, 3, 2. No. J. still took
the lead-No. 2. followed-then 3 and 4 :-and so
on. No.1. wherever plact>d, still leading; and the
others numerally succeeding-4 always the last.
Although I have noted four as haviug been so
tranaposed, I am not confident of that having really
......Mil-· ..·.._
I
~
I
57
been the number. It may have been four, or more.
I aJ,D pretty sure there were four. And here
something of a law, may be observed--or a con-
ltant :-and ifso, a fancied, or hoped for, clue, may
be faintly discerned, for the discovery of the theory
of these hitherto unaccountable phenomena. For
1 that they are preternatural, it appears to me to be
I in the wantonness of skepticism to doubt.
'i!,t If I err not, my Derbyshire friend bad opportuni-
ties ofexhibiting his-what be, I believe also deem-
preternaturalities, to men of science ; who were
equally baffled. He, aa well as I, have discoursed
with men of science thereon, without any explana-
tory results.
The question ever recurs-what can be the cause?
An adequate cause must exist; for these effects, and
for every effect ; moral and physical, in nature.
But, in this case, no one has yet pretended, as far
as I know, to develope it.
It may be no advance to say-that, pouiblg, some
hitherto undiscovered law of electricity or galvanism
-latent-brought into activity, only by certain com•
bi~ations of metallic alloys, in certain co-extension
of parallelisms, straightness, or angles-certain con-
~ curring, or varied, degrees of tension-in connexion
with certain conditions of atmospheric influences--
58
acted upon by agencies, subtle and occult, &c. &c.
These possibilities-whose combined eventualities
may, or may not, ever be developed-may be only an-
other link in the amazing chain ofresults, that recent
researches into the mysterious operations of electrics
and galvanics, have brought under the wondering
eye and contemplation of chymical philosophy.
Who can say, or imagine, where they are to end 1
-All this may, perhaps, be deemed the mere sub-
stitution of unmeaning words for unknown things :
ig110tua per ig110tius. I shall blame no one who
may think so, in reference to the preceding para-
graph. Still, who can say that such things are im-
possible1-What is1
Looking back, a few years, who could fore-cast
such unimaginable things as we witness, in the every
day results of certain intermixtures and tact of a few
metallic plates and an acidulous current ? The won-
ders ofelectro-galvanic results? If such stupendous,
latent, powers can be called into activi~y by such easy
process, and still by unknown laws, who can say that
another step may not lead us to the knowledge-if
not of the wlty, to the how-to produce the feeble
effects described in this little book ?-compared with
which, the visible effect of an unknown cause, of
electro-galvanic power, is indeed "Ossa to a wart.''
59
I here, unwillingly, take leave of the doings in
Derbyshire :-and return to London, and May 1834.
Hearing, I forget how, of mysterious ringings at
a houae, No. D, Earl.street, Westminster, I made
enquiry there ; and found the family had removed
to Islington. Thither I accordingly went ; and found
the lady at home.
I explained my errand, apologetically; and, by
way of winning confidence, gave the outline of my
story. I found that it was listent'd to with intense
curiosity and anxiety. And the lady, in return, de~
tailed her's: and in so exceedingly good a style, as
to call from me the urgent request that she would
obligingly commit it to writing for me-exactly, as
far as she could, as she had verbally related it. To
this she was so kind as to consent.
While thus in conversation, her husband came in ;
and the subject was farther discussed. It was evi-
dently very interesting to them both. I repeated
my tale; an"-he re-told his lady's, with no material
deviation.
The following is the communication ofthe Lady:-
60
N? 10.
19, ST. PAuL's TERRACE, BALL's PoND,
IsLINGTON, May 17, 1834.
SIR,-1 consider.it necessary to offer some apology
for not having complied with your request sooner.
The truth is, Mr. Milnes has been so pressed with
business that it slipped his memory ; and rather
than you should be disappointed, I have taken the
task upon myself. But, Sir, I found it much easier
to tell you of our mysterious bell-ringi.ng, than I
now find it, to sit down for the purpose of giving
you a written narrative of it. The fact was so sim-
ple io itself, that I hardly know how to reduce it
to the form of history. However, it happened as
follows:-
ln the early part of February 1826, returning
home from a walk (to our then residence, lJo. 9,
Earl-street, Westminster) about half-past four .in
the afternoon, I was astonished to find the family
much disturbed at the ringing of bells·in the house,
without any visible cause. The first bell that rang
was one in the nursery, the pull ofwhich was at the
bottom of the house, quite unconnected with any
others. This bell rang several times before the rest
61
began. '!'ben tne dining-room ; next the drawing·
room : and so on, through the house, sometimes
altogether, as if they were trying to entice each
other in uproar : at others, one at a time : but al-
ways, very violently. By this time I was much
alarmed, and sent for Mr. Milnes, from the wharf:
who thinking to find out what ailed them, had the
cases taken down, that concealed the wires. Find-
ing this of no use, he next placed a person with a
light in each room : while he himself held a candle
under the row of bells below ; but could not ascer-
tain the slightest reason for this strange ringing,
which lasted two hours and a half: nor have we
ever since been able to discover more of it than we
did then.
I do not know that I need mention the equally
surprising effect it had on one of our servant girls.
But if you have the fact, you can exercise your own
judgment upon it. She, from the first, was more
terrified than any one else in the bouse : and at the
1ast peal, fell into strong convulsions : so strong, as
to require five men to bold her down. These con-
vulsions continued sixteen hours, and were succeffled
by insensibility, and a stupor, that lasted nearly a
week. Every means were used to restore her: even
violence was resorted to, but without effect. It is
G
62
~ingular, that the moment she was seized with con-
vulsive fits, the bell ceased to ring.
I shall be gratified to bear that you receive this in
time.
Believe me, Sir,
Your's respectfully,
M. MILNES.
Mr. Milnes begs his kind respects.
Edwat·d Moor, Esq.
The foregoing, however curious and strange, is
not so copious as Mrs. Milnes' relation t(_) me. And
one circumstance, still in my recollection, is alto·
gether omitted. It is this :-the servant who was
frightened into fits by the rintring, was a mulatto,
Undoing her neck and bead dress, to give her air,
it was discovered that &be bad an extraordinary and
copious " head of hair "~which stood " widely out
from her bead, in all directions." This divergence,
or radiation, was described to have been very strik-
ing: and, in the mind of the Lady-relator, I could
discern a connection between the divergence of the
hair of her servant, the continuance of the ringing,
and the duration of the fits.
o'9'''"' "' Google
63
Possibly my smiling, or attention in some way to
that supposed connection, may have been the reason
of the omission in the preceding.Jetter. I do not
recollect, whether or not, Mr. M. noticed the fact.
It is, in the absence of knowledge, not unworthy of
relation-implying, possibly, the presence or absence
of extra-electric matter.
Refering back to page 9, it will be seen that I have
brought the Bealings bell·ringing up only to the 27th
of February, 1834,
What follow, is a continuation o( my notes, made
at the time, as it appears, on the 16th of March, on
the original subject. It might as well, perhaps,
have been given in earlier continuation ; but bas
been deferred till now, the better to connect it with
the conclusion.
I call it-
N? 11.
o2
64
N? 11.
&turday, 1-past 4, l'.l'd.
JJiarch 15, 1834.
Now returning home, I am told "the bells are
ringing again "-and, going into the kitchen, I learn
that twenty minutes to three, "the tive" rang
violently. Only one servant saw this-the butler•
The cook was outside. The other servants variously
employed, or out; and not one within reach of the
wires. A second peal " of the five" about thrt.>e
o'clock. Three servants were then present. They
sent for a neighbour-a man of sagacity-who, in
about three-quarters of an hour, witnessed a third
peal. A few minutes after the bell of the " best
bed-room" rung, singly. 'fhis is on the right of
the whole-that which formerly struck the ceiling
and knocked some white-wash off. The dining-room
bell was observed to shake ; but did not ring. At
one of the peals, a child of a neighbour, about nine
years old, was present. She was a good deal
alarmed. She had beard of the ringing, and had
wanted to see it. I will note, that the day is cold
in the shade-the wind -being sharp, in the east.
The sun is ratherhot. At the former ringings, the
65
morl)ings had been chiefly frosty, and the days warm,
for the season. It is thought, on explanation, that,
at the first mentioned peal of this day, only four
bells actually rung-all were agitated-but the one
which afterwards sounded then singly, is thought
to have been silent. Barometer 30° 3', thermome-
ter 62°.
The preceding extract is taken from my notes,
made a1. the moment. Soon after, I went to London,
as has been mentioned, and received from my son,
the Rev. E. J. Moor, a continuation of the su~ject.
The following are extracts from his letters :-
03
66
N.• 1:2.
BEALINGS, Monday, lJ'/arcA 24, 1834.
"As I was returning from Woodbridge, on Friday,
Mr. T. Heard" (then and now of Seckford·hall, in
Beatings, "told me that Mr. Silver" (then and now
of Woodbridge) ''had lately heard from Mr. Rose,
at Ramsgate'' (a surgeon, recently removed thither
from Woodbridge) ''who informed Mr. S. that a
house, near his, Mr. Rose's, has been similarly af-
fected with our's, touching bells. There appears no
end to the changes on these bells-" those evening
bells-those morning bells." Our's have been ring·
ing again. Last Saturday, about twenty minutes
after one, all five went off, while Gurney (then and
now master of the Woodbridge National School)
was in the kitchen. Cook had been talking with
him on the subject, and he said he should like to
hear them. Wind S.W. Thermometer 49...
"Mallet" (a painter .and glazier of Woodbridge,
deceased) " saw the wires shake, as I am told, and
went to hear if the bells had rung."
BEALINGS, March 29, 1834.
" Thursday last, March 27, bells rung again-four
bells at twenty minutes after four-five bells at twenty
.,
minutes before five,"
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
•
'
67
BEALINGS• Aprill4, 1834.
"Mr. Silver tells me, respecting the Ramsgate
bells, that Mr. Rose writes, as follows :-·• It is some-
what singular that the bells in the house we are just
removing to, rang se\leral days the week before last,
to the great astonishment of all in the house. We
cannot account for it. It was not confined to the
day. The door night- bell rang once or twice in the
morning early ; and we could not find out that it
was done by human aid."
(Mr. Rose's letter was dated March 4, 1834.)
"Mr. Heard informed me this morning that Mr.
Swindell, of Aldborough" (schoolmaster) "told him
a few weeks back, that about five years ago, the bells
in his father's house, rang; and Mr. S. watched
them narrowly. It was soon after his father's and
mother's death. Mr. S. was satisfied that it was
some cbrrent of air which caused it."
I resume my own relation of ocurrences.
1'he preceding extracts are made on the 11th
of July, 1834; up to which time, from the !9th
of March, no more ringings have occurred, at
68
Beatings.• But between those dates, I have obtained
much information on the subject of unaccountable
bell-ringing, in other quarters-London, Derbyshire,
Cambridge, Chelmsford, &c. These I shall collect,
and condense, sometime or other. Within these few
days, meeting on the spot, the servant, who, in my
first published letter, is stated to have seen the
wires shaking, he explained to me, that, being at
work near, he heard them; and going to see, he
perceived the external perpendicular wire t of the
dining-room bell, shaking violently. He then ob·
served and heard the other wires running horizon-
tally to the .,common aperture,'' rattle violently;
and then went to the kitchen to see and hear what
was going on there.
Interested as I was in the matter of spontaneous
bell-ringing, I applied to Mr. Swindell for some ac-
count of his experience, mentioned above. And he
favored me with the following note:-
• Nor since. April1641. It hence appears, that fromthe first
ringing, on the tnd of February, to the last, on the 27th of
March 1634, was 5S days.
t The wire in question was then, and ia, very slack, as they
all seem to be-and, ofcours-are easily shaken. But going
out, just now, April 1141-to tzr• I find that I cannot shake
it by blowing as hard as I can on 1t. I eapected I should have
so shaken it euily.
69
N: 13.
ALDBOROUGH ACADBMY,
&pten&bw 3, 1834.
DEAR SIR,-1 was duly honoured with your com-
munication concerning the mysterious bell-ringing.
Allow my numerous engagements of late to apolo·
gize for my delay in acknowledging it.
The instances of bell-ringing, which excited some
attention and alarm in my bouse, occurred about
nine years ago, during the melancholy illness and
death of the late Mr. Sparkes. A few days before
his death, his bed-room bell rang twice or thrice,
rather loudly, and suddenly : and on his servants or
daughter's running to enquire his pleasure, they were
surprised at his answt>ring, " he wanted nothing, he
bad not rung." But the most alarming occurrence
was after his death. In the silence and awe of mid-
night, as his two old nurses were sitting by his laid·
out corpse, suddenly the bell be had so often rung,
rung violently. The maid-servant was arouSt>d, and
ran to enquire the cauSt'. None of the three can
apeak of the alarm they felt, without feelings ofdread
and wonder to the present day. On my coming up
to the booSt>, for I was then a favored visitor to the
70
youngest daughter, I W&$ constrained to lay aside my
love emotions a little, to array myself in philosophi-
cal penetrations, and to visit the scene of mystery
and alarm. It occurred to me, to pull the bell
strongly, and to llold'it so part of a minute. The
wire being thus strained, stuck fast. I put up my
finger and gave it a touch, and it rang just in the
sudden violent manner it had done before. The
mystery, as well as the bell, were thus set at liberty,
and have not alarmed us since. When I next visit
Seckford-hall, I should be gratified to set my phi-
losophical wits to task on your bells and wires, as I
have not much faith in ghosts, or unnatural causes.
I beg to subscribe myself, with respect,
Dear Sir,
Your obedient servant.
JOHN SWINDELL,
To Major Moor.
Among my collections on this subject, is the fol-
lowing, cut out of the Morning Chronicle of the
8th of October, 1834:-
71
N~ 14.
A STRANGE VlSITOR.-Considerable sensation
bas been excited in Greenwich Hospital during the
last few days, in consequence of the following ex-
traordinary occurrence in the apartments of Lieu-
tenant Rivers, in that institution. In the early part
of the week, the family of Lieutenant Riven were
startled, by the sudden ringing ofone of the bells in
the bouse, without any apparent cause. In a short
time afterwards, the bell in another room began to
ring in a similar manner, and presently the whole of
the bells were in full concert together. The aame
circumstance occurred at intervals during the day.
The closest investigation took place, but not the
slightest clue could be discovered to this extraor-
dinary affair. The bells have continued ringing in
a similar manner throughout the whole of the week,
and to this moment the cause remains an impenetra-
ble mystery. The alarm of the female branches of
the family baa been so great that they have quitted
the premises. The most searching inquiry has been
instituted : the servants have been questioned, and
persons have been stationed in different rooms at the
same time ; but the bellscontinue to ring on without
the slightest clue to the agency of their action. The
72
wires were cut offa day or two ago by Mr. Thame,
of Nelson-street, and the music then ceased; but
as soon as the wires were re-fastened, the bells again
began their accustomed tuoe.-Grtentoich Gaaettt.
The same vilitation, I also find, in my collections,
more amply detailed in the Kentish Observer, of
9th October, 1834-extracted, as it appears, from
the same authority:-
73
A STRANGE VISlToR.-Considerable sensation
has been excited in Greenwich Hospital during the
last few days, in consequence of the following ex-
traordinary occurrence in the apartment of Lieut:
Rivers, in that institution :-In the early part of the
wet.>k, the family of Lieut. Rivers were startled by
the sudden ringing of one of the bells in the bouse,
without any apparent cause. In a short time after-
wards, the bell of another room began to ring in a
similar manner, and presently the whole of the bells
were in full concert together. The bells have con-
tinued ringing in a similar manner throughout the
whole of the week, and to this moment the cause re-
mains an impenetrable mystery. The alarm of the
female branches of the family has been so great tbt
they have quitted the premises. The most search-
ing inquiry has been instituted ; the servants have
been closely questioned, and persons have been sta-
tioned in different rooms at the same time ; but the
bells continue to ring on, without the slightest clue to
the agency of their action. The wires were.cut off
a day or two ago by Mr. Tharue, of Nelson-street,
and the music then ceased; but as soon as the
wires were re-fasiened, the bells again began their
H
o;g;,; b,Google
74
accustomed tune. Mr. Bicknell, the solicitor to the
institution, and several other keen individuals, have
visited the premises in order, if possible, to unravel
the mystery; but like Tom Moore's" Evening Bells,''
those of Lieut. Rivers, "still rung on." Friday
morning, Mr. Bate called at the house, and it was
show._ to him, that the front door bell, which had been
tied up, did not ring; but within five minutes after-
warda that, too, which may be considered the Great
Tom of the apartments, gave out its awful admoni-
tions. We beard this morning that the bells have
been at peace since Friday noon. [M•Kenzie, in his
History of Northumberland, a work of undoubted
authority, also gives the following singular account
of a visitation somewhat akin to the above : " In
Jaouary, 1800, an invisible and mischievous appari·
tiop, played many wonderful pranks, at a place called
Lark-ball, near this place (Burrowdown), The trick,
and we may venture to call it such, was conducted
with such surprising address, as even to puz~:le the
sceptic, and to set conjecture at defiance. Lark-
hall is a small farm, belonging to Mr. Wm. Walby,
of Burrowdown, and was then rented by Mr. Turn-
bull, a butcher, in Rothbury, who kept his father
and mother, two old decent people, at a farm, \Vitb
a hind and his family, whose characters were more,.
75
dubious. The two families were divided by a par-
tition, formed by close beds, having a narrow dark
passage between. The garrets abOve were kept
locked by old Turnbull. At the time. mentioned
above, knockings and noises were heard in Turn-
bull's bouse; the plates, glasses, and tea ware left
the shelves and were broken ; the chairs aud tables
danced about the room in the most fantastic manner ;
scissars, bottles, wooden dishes, &c. flew in all di-
rections, and sometimes wounded the confused and
terrified spectators ; a poor tailor was assailed with
a tin pot full of water, yet he still had the temerity
to stand to his post till a large rolling-pin ~escended
from the laths, and hit him a blow on the shoulders.
But one of the most curious tricks was played in the
presence of the Rev. Mr. Lauders, lately a dissent-
ing minister at Harbottle, and who came to admi·
nister some spiritual comfort and consolation. He
had been but a short time in the house, when a Bible
moved from the window, in a circular manner, into
the middle of the room, and fell down at his feet !
These singular and incredible facts, with many more
which we have not room to mention, are certainly
true, as they were attested by a host of respectable
witnesses. Twenty guineas were offered for the de-
• tection of the fraud, but without sucet'ss. Two
H2
76
professors of legerdemain, besides many intelligent
gentlemen, examined the premises with accuracy, but
nothing was discovered that could lead to detection.
Mr. W. W. having a reputation for skill in the sci-
ences, was suspected. His visits to Lark-hall were
frequent, but some of the most wonderful phenomena
took place when he was certainly absent. Some sus-
picious circumstances were, however, discovered.
Nothing was injured in the garret; the hind's bottles
and earthenware were respected; a small iron rod was
found in the passage, which fitted a bole made in
the back of his bed, and the ghost left the premises
shortly after the communication between the families,
bad been nailed up. The affair still continues the
subject of wonder to the credulous in almost all parts
of the country. The hind's daughter, who acted a
very conspicuous part in this wonderful deception,
exhibits the most uncontrollable rage when any at-
tempt is made to bring the subject forward in dis-
course.'']-Gre~~nwich Ga%elte.
About this time-or somewhat earlier-perhaps, I
received the following anonymous note-without
date-bearing the Colchester post-mark :-
77
N? 16.
Sut,-Understanding that you have lately been
favoured with periodical concerts from your bells ;
and that it has consequently occasioned no small
amusement amongst your neighbours, &c. I cannot
help recommending you, as I have a great respect
for your name and character, to silence their tongues
as well as your noisy inmates, by the speedy appli-
cation of tow and twine. And with my knowledge
of human nature, I will venture to say, the witch
will soon cease her diabolical agency, and the
circumstance, at least, be a quiet wonder.
Edward JJioor, Esq.
I thus give, without selection, all that I h~ave
received, or that have come to my knowledge, on
the subject of my little book-regardleY of the
frivolity of some, and .of the superstitious tendency
of others.- Nor do I always attend scrupulously to
chronologi~ arrangement.
H 3
o;, ""d ,,Coogle
78
The followiag extract turned up accidentally this
day-lOth April, 1841-among some miscellaneous
memoranda. It is from" The Doctor"-Vol. 1. p.
292.-implying some preternatural ringing of" Great
Tom of Oxford "-which is described, with more
quaintness than. intelligibility, in a letter said to
have been written two bours at'ter the event-on the
13th of March, 1800 :-
N? 17.
"An odd thing happened to-day, about ~-past 4.
Tom suddenly went mad. He began striking as
fast as he could about twenty times. Every body
went out, doubting whether there was an earth-quake,
whether the dean was dead, or the college on fire.
Howner, aothing was the matter: but that Tom
was taken ill in his bowels. In other words, some-
thing had happened to the works : but it was not of
any serious consequence, for he has struck six, as
well as ever; and bids fair to tolllOl times to night,
as well as he did before the attack."
I am not, however, so assured as the writer, that
those ringings of Great Tom, did arise from derange..
ment in the machinery of the bell.
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
79
However interesting the evt>nts described, in the
preceding pages, to have happened at Bealings,
were, at the time of their occurrence ; and for some
time after; they had, ofcourse, in the lapse of years,
become less so. And, although by no means for-
gotten, or disregarded, several years, perhaps, had
passed, since I bad perused, or referred to, the
documents in my possession on the subject.
Recently, however, for, and in, the cause before
described, the whole .of my materials came under my
critical review, and consideration. And .I have
found no reason to alter my earlier conceptions on
the mysterious affair.
Re·perusiog, and re-considering the papers-Nos.
14. 15, page '71-containing the relation ofthe event
at Greenwich Hospital, similar to that at Bealings ;
it occurred to me, that-as in the case of my first
published account, in the Ipswich Journal-No. 1.
preceding-the publication in the Greenwich Ga-
zette, led, probably, to communications to, or
comments by, the Editors of that or other Journals.
·And it further occurred to me, that I bad an old
friend and fellow soldier, then, and now, residing at
Greenwich : and that it was likely .\flat be was
informed of the transaction at the time ; and might
have it in his power to communicate something
80
possessing in~rest ; or to point out how I might
obtain such information, by enquiries in other
quarters.
My old friend-of more than half a century-
Colonel Forman-of the Bombay army-now, and
for many years, a very active magistrate of the
county of Kent-has, accordingly, favored me with
sundry papers, connected with the mysterious ring-
ings in Greenwich Hospital.
My little book was in type up to the 78th page,
when I made the application to my respected frif!od.
And I received, very opportunely, the communica-
tions that I am now about to introduce, in continua-
tion, on the 4th of May, 1841.
The most important is from Lieut. Rivers him-
self-in whose apartments in Greenwich Hospital,
the ringings occurred: addressed to Col. Forman.
It is, in the main, similar to what has been al-
ready given from the Greenwich Gazette- of Srd
October, 1634-No. 14; page 71, and No. 16.
page 73. But as it contains several other curious
particulars, it is highly deserving of entil't' insertion.
I call it No. 18.-
81
N? 18.
GREENWICH HosPITAL,
April ~6, 1841.
The bells in my apartments in Greenwich Hos-
pital, from some unknown cause, commenced ringing
at half-past six o'clock, on the morning of the 30th
September, 1834: and continued, first one, and
then another, at intervals of fiv~ or ten minutes,
and sometimes all four at once. The first day, I
had a minute examination, made by the clerk of the
works, and the bell-hanger ; and in the evening, at
eight o'clock, I bad the wires cut off from them.
The bells, then ceased to ring : but the wires, were
agitated, for some minutes afterwards. All re-
mained quiet, during the night. At nine o'clock
next morning, the bell-hanger came, and re-united
the wires to the bells ; which had no sooner been
done to the first, when it rang; the second the
same ; and they continued at intervals, as before, all
that day : and many persons, witnessed the per-
formance. In the evening, about eight o'clock, I
tied up the clappers; while so doing, the bells were
much agitated and shook violently. They ceased to
ring, d'llring that night. In the morning I loosed
82
them again; when they began to ring aga,n. The
clerk of the works, his assistant, and Mr. Thame
the bell-hang~r, came; and had another examina-
tion, without discovery as to the cause. They re-
quested the family and servants would leave the
apartments to themselves. We did so; and dined
at four o'clock, at our neighbour's opposite; and
while at our dinner there, we heard the bells ring a
peal. Mr. Thame and the assistant to the clerk of
the works, remained until ele\·en at night : one
watching the cranks, the other the bells below. with
perfect astonishment: but they ceased at their ac-
customed time, about nine o'clock or half-past. At
eleven o'clock I requested them to retire, having
made up my mind to sleep there, by myself: but
my brother-in-law, Capt. Watts, and my wife,
determined likewise to do so. I searched the apart-
ments, before I went to bed ; and retired at half-
past eleven o'clock. In the morning, they began to
ring again ; but more faintly than before. I was
then fully resolved, to let them have their play out.
Several scientific men, tried to discover the cause.
The fore door bell was detached from the others,
and which did not ring. I secured the door pull,
to prevent its being used : leaving the bell to have
full play. On the Friday, about three o'clock in the
83
afternoon, I went home; and found many persons,
satisfying their curiosity ; and when explainin~; to
them, that I thought it very extraordinary, that the
fore door bell did not join with the others in the per-
formance, it immediately set up a good ring ; and
since which, we have heard no more of it; and the
cause remains still mysterious. I have beard, that
the same circumstances occurred, in another officer'a
apartments, in the hospital; ami it continued for a
week. But he thinking it a trick of a friend, he
had in his bouse, took but little notice of it ; al~
though his servant felt much alarmed. I must here
mention, that what appeared most extraordinary,
was the movement of the cranks : which the bell-
hanger said, could not cause the bells to ring with-
out being pulled downwards; which they did of
themselves, in every room ; working like pump-
handles.-Now, Sir, if your friend, bas ingenuity
enough, to discover the cau.se, I should much wish
to know it. I send you herewith, a part of the
Greenwich Gaze,te, by which you will see the
statement pretty correct.
[The accompaniment referred to in the last para-
graph is the Rame as that already given in p. 73.
No. 1;). with, however, to me, a new incident-of
which further mention will be found in fl· 86.]
84
Annexed to the above communication is the
following:-
N~ 19.
A gentleman, whom I do not know, called on me,
and stated that his father took a house in the
country, that had been a lady's school.-The dinner·
bell frequently rang during the night: and the bells
in the house, were frequently ringing.-He tried an
experiment, by fixing a bell to the wall; and it rang;
and upon one occa~ion, the piano in the parlour
plaJed, without any visible cause.
The following is also annexed to Lieut. Rivers'
communication :-
N? 20.
In Bell's Weekly Messenger, for 23rd January,
lfl41, a case is stated that the church bells of
Prestbury played the chimes for 3 hours ; and when
they ceased, the dork struck 300 times.
85
And the followiag slip, cut from Bell's Weekly
Messenger, of 23rd January, 1841-above-men-
tioned-formed an enclosure in the packet of my
kind friend, Col. Forman. It is taken from tbe
Cheltenham Chronicle:-
N? 21.
A few days ago, the following curious cireum-
•tance occurred in the peaceable little village of
Prestbury:-the village chimes commenced playing
at the usual time, and, to the no small astonishment
of the villagers, continued to play for three hours
before they stopped. No sooner bad they ceased to
vibrate thao the clock began to strike, and struck
300 before the physical force of the whole village
could stop it. This curious clock seems to have
aolved the perplexing problem which has puzzled all
animated philosophers-perpetual motion.-C/ael-
tm/aam Chronicle.
Prestbury is a very pretty village, within a plea-
aaat walk of a mile, eastward from Cheltenham.
..
86
,. The accompaniment," noticed in the brackets,
after No. 18. in page 83. was a cut, as mentioned,
out of the Greenwich Gazette of 3rd October,
1834--already given, No. 15-but containing ,. to
me a new incident"-touching which reference is
made to this page. It is this :- .
N? 22.
"There is-we are told"-says the editor of the
said Greenwich Gazette-1'at this time, a house iu
Sevenoaks, in which for many years past, the bells
have, at intervals, been rung by similar unknown
agency. Every means were adopted, but without
effect, to clear up the mystery. And as a last pre-
caution, the belJ.wire throughout the whole house was
enclosed in a copper casing; but the music continue•
to the present day.''
As I have no acquaintance in Sevenoaks, I took
the liberty of addressing a line to the " Officiating
minister·• there-giving an outline of my object ;
and requesting his kind assistance in the good work
on hand, by communicating to rue all the particulars
of which he might be in possession, or could collect,
referring to the mysterious and lengthened ringings
at Sevenoaks.
87
LoNDON, Mag 1841.
Being in London, I sought an introduction to
Lieut. and Mrs. Rivers, at Greenwich Hospital.
I first saw the lady, and she obligingly related the
occurrences that had caused so much surprize in
her house: and listened, with interest, to my rela-
tion of the similar occurrences in mine. When
Lieut. Rivers came in, we bad a repetition of our
stories. The lady related the events so well, that
I was, as on a former similar occasion (see p. 69)
induced to take the liberty of asking her to commit
them to writing. To this she obligingly assented-
and the communication that will presently be given-
No. 23-is the result.
Lieut. Rivers conducted me over his apartment~;
and minutely explained every particular. Another
gentleman was, accidently, present, who witnessed
the transaction with amazement at the time-and
was also communicative. I may notice that Lieut.
Rivers has been a comrade of Nelson's-has lost a
leg in the service. He and his lady are very intel-
ligent and seemed the reverse of superstitious.
Neither of the parties bad any suspicion of a trick
having been played on them -To this day, as in
that, the aft'air, is altogether inexplicable.
I 2
88
N!23.
GREENWICH HosPITAL,
June I, 1841.
'Ale commencement of the ringing of the bells in
the apartment of Mr. Rivers, Greenwidt Hospital,
was from Tuesday until Friday, in October 1834.
As we sat at breakfast in the dining·room, the ser-
vant, not attending in the room, came in to ask, if
l wanted any thing in my room ; for the bell had
rung twice, which she had answered each time, and
found no one there. I said I had not been there,
and did not want her; and thought oo more of the
occurrence. At half-past nine, I went into the park,
as usual, for my morning walk, where I remained
two hours : and on my return home found both
se"anta at the door, looking quite terrified. On
making inquiry what it all meant, they said, they
had been ·unable to attend to any thing for the
bells, which had not ceased ringing ever since I
went out. I thought it strange ; but said it must
be mice or the wires entangled. I had been in but
a abort time, when the bells began again. I was
astonished, and could not account fo>r it. They
rang with great violence; first one aod then another,
89
and then all together. The bell ropes, as if in a
gale of wind, swinging about and no one near them.
Sometimes the cranks would turn quite straight up,
and return again without making the bell sound.
Means .were resorted to, to find the cause, without
effect; and at night we had the bt'lls cut from the
wires. The wires then continued to be much
agitated, as if some one was pulling them with great
violence. The next morning, the bell-hanger came
to repair them : and to our great surprize each bell,
as it was bung, began to ring. The poor man ap-
peared much frightened, and declared be bad never
aeen the like before. Mr. Rivers then tried to tie
the clappers to prevent their ringing, but could not
succeed : they shook with violence out of his fingers.
They remained in the same way four or five days,
ceasing at night. The house was thrown open
during the day, that any person might see them,
and account for 80 strange and extraordinary an
occurrence. The house was only left by the family
for a few hours, during the last day of their ringing :
when Mr. Thame, the bell-hanger to the hospital,
and other officers ofthe works, took charge ; and du-
ring that time the bells rang but little, apparently
exhausted. At last Mr. Rivers, was shewing the
situation of the bells to a party of persona, who
13
90
came from cariosity, and to try and discover the
cause; when the door bell, which had not nag
before, and which bad been nailed up (it being
detached from the others) gave a tremendous peal;
and all ceased from that time. It was suppoaed
tbe.n by the party present, that it was a servant who
was near where the wires communicated with the
bell ; and that she had pulled it. It did appear
very likely, it being detached from the others ; and
she was suspected by many to have been the cause
of the others ringing; and was therefore examined
by several persons, without betraying herself, or
giving the slightest reason for us to think she was
concerned in the affair. This is the best account,
that Mrs. Rivers can give from recoUection of the
occurrence.
It appears from the preceding communication,
that a party, to whom Mr. Rivers was shewing bow
his bells bad rung, witnessed one ·ringing of one
bell-that of the door-which bad 'till that time,
been quiet:-and they suspected that one of the
servants had pulled it. And she was farther " sus-
pected of having been the cause of tbe otbena
91
ringing.'' That party, it may be observed, saw or
heard one bell, ring once. That bell was especially
pointed out to me. It is so situated, as to be easily
reached by the hand of any one. And bad nothing
ehe occurred, that one" peal"-although described
as " tremendous," by Mrs. Rivers, would have
caused but little, if any, surpt'ize. But, taken as a
whole, the mysterious ringings, caused no small
sMprize in all who witnessed them.
Taking leave of the Greenwich Hospital-ringings,
it may not be amiss to note, and apologize for,
some repetitioas in the accounts given thereof-in
p. 71 aod others, preceding-Nos. 14, 15, 18.
1 received these communications at different times,
before this little book was prepared for the press ;
and during its being printed : as is occasionally
noted.
About the time to which we have now arrived-
May 1841-1 received a notification from the re-
-sident minister of Sevenoaks, that he had not before
heard of any which could give rise to my enquiry,
u noted in p. 86.
But-while so pursuing the coLrse of my en-
quiries into such matters, as came accidentally, as
92
it were, to my bearing, I was informed that some·
thing-bell ringing, perhaps, and other mysteries-
bad taken place in the village of Sydersterne, in
Norfolk.
I, again, took the liberty of addressing the Offi·
ciating minister, there-stating my object, in so
doing, and asking the favor of the communication
of particulars.
The answer-No. 24.-1 give without comment :
doing here no more than returning my cordial
thanks, to the reverend writer for his pro10pt and
obliging reply. I give it, without abridgt>ment or
alteration although a passage relating to myself
might be omitted.
(
'
l
!
93
N!'24.
STDBRSTERNB PARSONAGE,
near FAKENBAM, Norfolk,
Tuesday Evening, May 11, 1841.
Sta,-You have indeed sent your letter, received
yesterday, to the House of Mystery. In the broad
lands of England you cannot, perhaps, find such
another. But I regret to add, that I can afford
you no assistance in the " Bell" line. I have no
doubt but your work will be very curious. I shall
look out for its announcement in the Norwich
Papers, and feel gratified to be a purchaser.
"Oua nOi~tes," in this Parsonage, are of a gran
character. Smart successions of "Tappings,"-
" groanings,"-" cryings,''-" sohbings,''-" dis-
gusting scratchings,"-" heavy trampings,''-and
"thundering knocks,"-in all the rooms and paa-
sages,-have distressed us, here, for a period of
nearly" Nine }'ecu·•," during my occupancy of this
Cure. The:', dill, continue--to the annoyance of
my family, the alarm of my senants, and the oc-
caaional fii!;ht of some of them. And I am enabled.
clearly, to trace their existence in this Parsonage.
to a pt'riud of Sixty Years past. I have little doubt
94
either that, were not all the residents anterior to
that time (in fact of a former generation) now
pa&'led away, I could be able to carry my successful
scrutiny " on, and on/"
In 1833, and 1834-we kept almost open house
to t•nable respectable people who were personally
known by, or introduced to, us to satisfy their
curiosity. But, our kindness was abused,--our
motives misinterpreted,-aod even our characters
maligned. We, therefore, closed our doors; and
they remain hermetically sealed I
In 1834-1 had prepared my " DiAry" for pub·
lication. My Work was purchased by Mr. Rodd,
the eminent Bookseller, of Newport Street, Lonrlon,
but as the " End " had twt arrived, I postponed
my intention from day to day,-and year to year,-
in hope of such consummation. But the "Noises"
occasionally recur, and my " Diary " occasionally
progresses, until it has, now, assumed ratht'r a
formidable appearance.
Nothing can be more laudable than your gene-
rous, and christian object, proposed by the sale of
your work in question; and the favourable results
of which will, 1 respectfully trust, equal your most
sanguine hopes.
95
Suffer me, again, to express my regrets for being
unable in any way to forward your object: whether
from personal experience or the experience of
friends. I assure you I shall hear, with pleasure,
of your being more fortunate io your application to
other•.
•
I have the honor to be,
SIR,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN STEWART, Clk•
The Pxtraordinary events-albeit not exactly of
bell-ringing-related in the foregoing letter, could
not but excite corresponding interest in my mind :
and my early impression was to apply to my obliging
correspondt:nt fo1· farther particulars. But seeing
that a separate publication was intended, descriptive
of those events, I abstained.
Pending these enquiries on my part, a very kiod
neighbour essentially promoted them, by writing to
a lady iu Gloustershire, whose house had been
mysteriously visited. 1\Jy kind neighbour had,
J~ome time ago, mentioned there the subject of the
96
extraordinary bell-ringiag at Beatings. The lady,
and I believe her husband, were, reasonably enough,
disposed to think that a trick bad been played on my
family. Now, I believe, they are persuaded differ-
ently. Stapleton is three miles from Bristol. The
following is the reply to my kind friend's enquiry:-
I call it No. 26.-
97
N? 26.
STAPLETON GROTE, May 8, 1841.
M"Y DEAR Mas. SBAWE,•-Oar e..traordinary
bell-rin~ng made such an impression on me, that
I think I shall be able to (l,ive you a tolerably correct
•ketch of the circumstances : and being quite satis-
.fied of the accuracy of my statement, I have not the
jeast objection to your friend's mentioning name and
place. Of course he will state it in his own lan-
guage, not as my aarrative..t
One afternoon in July 1836, the bell of one of
the sitting-rooms was oblel'ved to ring loudly several
-times ; no person having touched it. In the coune
of half an hour the same thing occurred with nearly,
(if not) every bell in the bouse. Sometimes one
vould ring singly; then three or four together.
The wires were distinctly seen to deaoend, u i1
palled violently. I ~e~~t for the bell-hanger; but
More be arrived, the noise bad ceased. He ex-
amined all the wires, without being able to discover
• 0£ Keegrave Hall, near Woodbridge.
t Aa I ;CUDot impron on the language, I prefer giving the
narratin aa l find it. l tluat l commit no impropnety in 10
doing.
K
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
98
any cause for this singular occurrence : and was
about to take his leave : as it wa• growing dusk,
when the bells agaip began to ring more violently
thun before. One, we particularly noticed at this
time, belonging to a room immediately over the
passage in which the bells bang. It is pulled by
drawing up a little slide against the wall : and the
wire merely passes through the floor to the bell
below. This slide we watched for more than five
minutes. It was constantly shaken ; even making
a rattling noise, and the bell ringing. When it bad
continued about an hour, I desired the bell-hanger
to take down every bell ; as our only chance of
passing a quiet night. The maid-servants (who, as
you may imagine, were a good deal alarmed) as-
sured me that the wires continued to shake through
the night: but I cannot vouch for the correctness of
this statement, and think it was ·probably a little
fancy on their parts. The weather was rather hot ;
but we were not aware of any thunder during that
week. I think it impossible that there could have
been any trick, as I assembled all the se"ants in
one place, and bad the bouse thoroughly searched.
The bells bad all been newly bung about twelve
months before, with stout copper wire. They were
all rerlacetl the next morning, and have never shewn
~
I
•
99
a disposition to be riotous from that time. I trust
I have been sufficiently explicit for your friend's
purpose ; and we &hall be very glad to read his
report of similar occurrences, and the manner in
which he accounb for them. We have always sop-
posed it to have been caused by electricity.
Mr. Castle• joins me in kind remembrances, and
believe me, your's truly,
MARY CASTLE.
At this time-June 1841-a kind friend in
Norfolk, sent me the following-cut out of a re-
cent newspaper. I give it a place, as I have to
11ome other mysterious doings, albeit not exactly of
the description of "Bell-ringing: "-and I give it
without comment :-farther than remarking that
" Haunted House " stories, from the time of the
Cock-lane tricks, to this, have been detected, as
impostures, or otherwise accounted for : but Bell-
ringings have not, as far as I know. These mys-
teries of Windsor, may, perhaps, be explained,
before n1y little book appear.
• Michel Hinton Castle, Esq.
K2
100
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
WINDSOR-Tuesday.•
Forsome few days past Windsor and its immediate
neighbourhood, have been in a state of considerable
excitement, in consequence of a bouse known as
"Want's-cottage," standing alone, surrounded by
its grounds, at Clewer, about a mile from the town,
having been reported, from the extraordinary noises
which have been heard there, to be "haunted."
The house is occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Wright
(who have for some years past retired from business)
their two daughters, am) a female domestic. The
noises which have been heard, and which are con-
tinued at intervals throughout the day and night,
resemble those which would be caused by a person
rapidly striking his knuckles against the panel of a
door, for two or three seconds. In order to at-
tempt to unravel the mystery, several magistrates of
the county, clergymen, and the most influential
residents in the neighbourhood, have visited the
• Tuesday the 8th ofJune, 1841-it ia beliend. Or it ma_Y
be 15th June,
101 ; ..·:· .
. ~·: '
. .·- ...
house, the whole of whom have Leen.'f)r~sent durmg
the time the extraordinary noises li~"'~>b_een J"e-
peated ; and, although they ha•e eviderit)y pro-
ceeded from a door leading from the kitcheJ!--lnto
the water-closet in the house, close to whict. r.~te-.
parties have stationed themselves, they have bee~·>.
unable to throw the least light upon the affair:.:·.
The following magistrates of the county1 and other · ,· ·. .
gentlemen residing within a short distance of the
house, were presentduring a part of yesterday and
Saturday:-Mr. W. F. Riley, Forest-hill; Mr. W.
B. Harcourt, St. Leonard's-hill; Major General
Clement Hill; Mr. Edmund Foster, Clewer-house l
the Rev. Mr. Gould, Clewer, &c. The sound
clearly proceeds from the door I have described 1
and can only be in any way imitated, and upon that
door only, by striking the knuckles hard and rapidly
upon the centre of the panel. Mr. Riley and Lord
Clement Hill stationed themselves in the hall,
within three yards of this door l and, as soon as the
knocking commenced, rushed to the spot within a
second afterwards, !Jut not a soul was near it, and
the whole of the family were in a different part of
the house. The knocking is so loud that it is heard
by the inmates of the houses, 400 or 600 yards off.
Such is the alarm these strange, and at present
K3
. 102
unaccountable,_noises have cauaed throughout tbe
neigh~uf:hoQa, that a lady named Roberts, who
reaidea:~me distance from Mr. Wright, and whose
boli~ is divided from his by two public roads, has
..g~em· notice to her landlord tha.t she will quit to-
. '.day; and Mr. Wrighfs family are represented to be
·. _.·: in that state of mind, that they are making prepara•
· ~ - tions to leave the house immediately. The whole
of the machinery of the water-closet bas been re-
moved, the flooring taken up, and the ground
excavated, under the impression that the noise
might have proceeded from air in the pipes or
drainl!w' or from some other cause connected with
this part of the interior of the bouse; but the noise
still continues, as befc>re at intervals: and to-day and
yesterday it was even more violent and loud than
ev~:r. In order to ascertain if the door ofthe closet
was struck, a small piece of chip was laid upon the
projecting portion of the panel, and after the knock-
ing had ceased, this had fallen on the floor; and
on Sunday last, still more clearly to ascertain this
fact, Mr. Wright's son, who had arrived that morn-
ing from Newbury, fastened up the door by means of
a piece ofwire; and, after the noise bad ceased, the
wire, upon examination, was found broken, and the
door forced inwards. At oue time the door wu
103
broken off its hinges, and placed at the back of tbt
closet, but the knocking was precisely the same ••
before. The landlady ofthe house (Mrs. Stokes) bas
arrived from town, and has since caused every in..
quiry to be instituted, but without the least hope•
at present of unravelling the extraordinary mystery.
It should be observed that at three or four time•
when the knocking took place, there were five perp
sons, and sometimes more, present from Windsor
and elsewhere, who were determined, if possible, to
detect the cause ; and who were totally unconnected
with the family residing in the bouse : but they were
.till left in ignorance of its origin, and without the
means of accounting for it. On Saturday last, a
gentleman volunteered to sit up with Mr. Wright
during the whole of that night. This offer, at the
suggestion of the magistrates, was accepted. The
rest of the family retired to rest at the usual hour,
and up to six o'clock the next morning, no noises
were heard ; but in the course of Sunday they were
more violent than ever. Many ignorant persons, of
course, ascribe the noises to some supernatural
agency : and a tale is now current, that some person
left that neighbourhood some time back, in "a very
mysterious manner," and that, "no doubt a murder
wu committed near the spot." However this may
be, gentlemen of high standing in the county
104
·(magistrates, clergymen, and others) hne visited
the house during the past week; and certainly, to
say the least, they are all exceedingly puzzled at
the extraordinary noist's they have heard, within
three or four yards of the spot where they bad
stationed themselves. This singular affair con-
tinues to excite the most intense interest, and to be
wrapped in the greatest mystery.
Another copy was sent to me, after the preceding
was in the printer's bands; cut from the Morning
Post, of 18th June, 1841. It was obligingly for-
warded to me from Lieut. Rivers, of Greenwich
Hospital. It is transferred to that paper from the
Standard.
Encouraged by the result of my application to
the Officiating Minister at Sydersterne, as given ia
No. 24. p. 93-1 similarly addressed the Officiating
Minister at Presthury-pointed to in p.p. 84; 86-
Nos. 20, 21. and learned, in reply, that no foun•
dation, as far as he had heard, existed, for the
reported mysterious chimings and ringings at that
quiet village.
105
He obligingly directed my attention. to certain
.. ringings " at Stapleton, .. as probably well worth
my eDquiries : " the account of which was alread'
ill mJ possession-as given in p. 97. No. 26.
It must, on reflection, seem strange that no foun-
dation should have existed, on which to build the
1tory referring to Prestbury. Falsehood embellishe1
and\ magnifies ; but is not often found to be al-
together creative.
Io page 68,' it is mentioned that I bad beard of
unaccountable bell-ringings at Cambridge, Chelms-
ford, &c.-and "that I intended, sometime or other,
to collect and condense such information as I could,
thereon." The time has arrived-and in carrying
into effect my said intention, I made enquiry at
Cambridge. I learned that such occurrences bad
taken place there-years ago. To what extent, I
did not proceed to enquire : for I was told that the
family wherein they bad happened, had reasons for
wishing that publicity should not be given, to what
was rumoured to have occurred. I sought no
farther.
And in reference to Chelmsford, having no ac-
quaintance there, I, as in some other similar cases,
106
took the liberty of addressing, enquiringly, the
Officiating Minister of that Town. Awaiting his
reply, I learned that the events, the object of my
questionings, had taken place in the house of Mr.
Haycock, a professional gentleman of that town-
and that they were of a very mysterious and sur-
prizing description. In consequence, I made free
to write to Mr. Haycock; requesting as many par-
ticulars as he could recal to his recollection--of
date, continuance, &c. &c. The following is the
result.
I call it No. 27.-
107
N!' 27.
CHELMSFORD, 6th-28mo-]841.
George Haycock's respects to Major Moor, and
in reply to his note received yesterday, informs
him, that the unaccountable bell-ringing some
years since that occurred in his house, still remains
a my!itery. It occurred frequently-and always of
au evening-for some weeks duration, and much to
his annoyance. Two superior bell-hangers, on the
watch, when on the steps, or ladder, holding the
wires, could both see and feel the wire in action
through their fingers.
The writer's numerous engagements in business,
preve11t further communication at present.
In page 99, I have hinted that the recent " mys-
teries of Windsor," as given in No. 26-" may
probably be explained, before my little hook shall
appear." By the following relation, they have been,
in part, "explained "-by a supposed detection of
imposture. It is taken from the Standard of 26th
,June, 1841. The matter of No. 26 was printed off
before that date.
lOS
N~ 18.
THE .. HAUNTED" HOUSE AT CLEWER,
NEAR WINDSOR.
Thf! extraordinary knocking (sappostd to be
against the door of the water closet) having stilt
continued with even increased violence, an inteHi-
gent man, belonging to the Windsor police, baa
been stationed on the premises during the past
week : and, notwithstanding he bas frequently bee&
within two or three yards of tbe sp.>t whence the
sound proceeded, at the very time, he has not beee
able to make the least discovery of its apparently
mysterious origin.
A scientific gentleman, from London, having
seen in the papers an account of the noises beard
in the house, has visited the premises three timea
during the last ten days (the last time was on
Monday, at the request of the tenant) and tried
various experiments to eodeavoM' to discover the
cause, but without the least snccesa. The boarda
of the floor, .both inside and around the closet, have
been all taken up, and excavations made to the deptla
of several feet. Thf' draia has been opened and
closely examined, and the party has even gone 10
109
fdr with his experiments, as to have the water in an
adjoining ditch analysed! Mr. Manly, the parish
sexton, attended with the grave-digger's sounding
iron, and sounded the ground, within and without,
to the depth of upwards of five feet, but no clue
was obtained, and the knocking still continued at
inte"als as before. On Monday last the noises
were more frequent and violent than ever. The
policeman, who was on the alert during the whole
day, counted, within twelve hours, thirteen distinct
knockings of the same character as have been before
described.
On the following day (Tuesday) at twelve o'clock,
the family removed from the bouse, taking with
them the whole of their furniture. Previously to
their leaving the knocking came on, at half-past seven
o'clock that morning, the policeman being there.
As an extraordinary sensation was created
throughout the neighbourhood on the subject, as
well as certain suspicions excited, four respectable
gentlemen ofWindsor, were determined to ascertain
if the noise had been caused by means of trickery
(which was strongly suspected) or not. They,
therefore, by permission of the agent of the party
to whom the property belongs, agreed to go to the
house that evening, and remain there during the
L
110
whole of the-riight. .They did so, accompanied by
the policeman and two other penons who resided
in the neighbourhood. From nine o'clock (the
hour at which they arrived) until eight o·eloek the
following morning (when they left) not a sound was
h~ard, nor did either the candles or the fire bum
blue. The ·policeman bas been in the houee ever
since, and not the slightest noise has been heard.
It does certainly appear exceedingly strange, that
theae "mysterious," and by some called u super-
natural noises," should have ceased from the time
of the family leaving the house. If it were a trick,
of which there can .now be but little doubt, it was
an exceedingly eleYer, although a very mischievous
and wanton one. It appears to be a eeeond edition
of the Cock-lane ghost.
Agreeing with ·the Editorial remark in the last
paragraph-that ., if it were a trick, of which there
can now be but little doubt, it was an exceedingly
elever, although a very mischievous and wanton
one "-1 will venture the remark, that the proof, aa
to trick, is by no means clear. The close watching
of the four respectable ~ntlemen, and the cessation
111
o( the sound, appear to have been coincident.
Still-that they were cause and effect, is not proved :
though very liablt= to suspicion. The sound might
then have ceaSf'd, had there been no watching. As
in the Bealings case :-suppose-that on the 63rd-
the last-day of our ringings, as noticed in page 68~
I had got four respectable ge!Jtlemen to watch with
me-and the bells bad then ceased; it would,. no
doubt, have been a strong evidence of triek-but no
proof.
In the course of these enquiries, I beard of a
house in -shire having had "mysterious visita-
tione;''--occupied by a clergyman, and his lady well
known to me. I caused application to be made-
that I might be favoured with the particulars. And
I received the following communication-written,
on, or about 28th June, 1841.
The writer has reasons for not giving his name,
or locality; and, I have omitted all names. I there-
fore note that be is a gentleman of most unimpeach-
able veracity-and of deservedly high estimation.
L2
112
N? 29.
THE-- HOUSE GHOST.
The facts I am about to tell, belong to _....
House-or ---, as it was formerly called ;-a
respectable old manor house in the north-eastern
part of ---shire. It was, in very early times,
the seat of the --- ; a family of some dis-
tinction in the County. In about the year 1680,
the chief part of the antient mansion seems to have
been pulled down, and the present house erected in
its place; the remaining portion of the old house,
being allowed to stand ; and separated only by
a party wall, became thenceforth a farm-bouse ;
occupied by the tenant of the adjoining lands.
The estate came into the possession of the pre-
sent owner's father in the year 1818; at which time
the bouse had the reputation of being " haunted ; "
and many tales were told among the neighbouring
villagers, of uncouth sights and Pounds, from which
it gained that ill repute. It was not till 1823 that
Mr. ---'s family resided constantly at ---.
During their occasional visits there, the peculiar
noises of which I am about to speak, were often
heard : but ·from the circumstances above related of
113
the old house, which joined the back part of the
mansion, being occupied by a farm establishment,
they were thought nothing of: being attributed by
the family in the mansion to their neighbours in tJ!e
farm, and by the inhabitants of the farm, to their
neighbours in the mansion: each party wondt>ring
exceedingly what the other could be doing at so
late an hour, as that at which the sounds were heani!
About fifteen years ago the old farm-bouse was
taken down, to be re-built at a greater distance
from the mansioo. Duriog the progress of this
work, a man was constantly employed in watching
round the premises, to guard the timber. ThiS>
man has often solemnly declared, that as he went
his rounds-he saw •• •.• . I But this may htWe
beeen fancy-and I believe it was: the poor man's
ears having inspired his eyes with an unnatural sus·
ceptibility ofvision ; but what he heard was not to
be mistaken. It was the same ttie family had heard
for years; and ha'Ve heard, almost nightly, ever
since. He deecribed it, "as a great thumping
noise-as if some one was beating heavy blows with
a great mallet in the hall." The hall is exactly in
the centre of the house, over against the spot where
the old farm-house stood ; and therefore very near
to the place where be watched.
L 3
1!4
This ia as good a description as can be given of the
peculiar sound, which is known familiarly in the fa-
mily as "The Ghost." In the dead of night, when
every member of the family is gone to bed, and there
is no imaginable cause to be assigned for them; a suc-
cession of distinct and heavy blows are beard, as of
some massive instrument upon a hollow wall or floor.
These sounds are seldom beard more than once in
the night; and generally between the hours of
twelve and two. They are sometimes so loud, as
to awaken on~ from sleep, and startle even those
who are the most familiar with them. At other
times almost inaudible : sometimes struck witb
great rapidity ; at other times more slowly and
leisurely: varying in duration also in about the
same degree. But, whether in his noiser, or more
gentle, movements, " Tbe Ghost " is so peculiar in
his sound, as not to be easily mistaken by those who
have once heard him ! No one has been able to
determine from what part the sound proceeds-nor,
indeed, to say with certainty that it is within the
house at all. But in whatever part you may be
listening, it seems to come from some remoter
corner. Thus-if you hear it, being in the drawing-
room, at one extremity of the house, "The Ghost"
appears to come from the library at the other end :
115
if you are in the library, it sounds as if proceeding
from the drawing-room. At another time, it seems
to come from underneath the stable yard ; or lawn ;
or in the cellar.
Considerable pains have been taken, at different
times, to ascertain from whence the sounds pro-
ceed, with a hope of finding some sufficient cause of
them : bnt entirely without success. And after
above twenty years, we are as entirely in the dark
as ever. The length of time it bas been heard ;
the fact of every domestic of the family having been
often changed during the time; and the pains that
have been taken to inve11tigate the matter, while
every member of the family except the watcher has
been in bed-have put the possibility of any trick,
out of the question: and have no less convinced the
inmates that it cannot be accounted for, on any of
the usual suppositions, "of horses in the stable,
kicking:" or "dogs rapping with their tails;" or
"rats jumping in the tanks and drains beneath the
bouse." Horses stamp, and dogs rap, and r~&ts
gallop; but they do not make such sounds as that
-one, startling, and peculiar, noise, with which our
ears are so familiar !
To convey a notion of the nature of " The
Ghost;" and of the force, and violence, with which it
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
116
sometimes bursts out, I will describe the way it has
repeatedly been heard, by different members of the
family. On one occasion, it burst forth with so
much violence, that the writer of this, accustomed
as he was to hear and disregard it, sprung out of
bed ; and ran to the landing at the head of the
stairs, under a conviction that the outea· door of the
house had been burst in with violence. After a few
moments, the sound ceased, and he retired to bed
again: it was "The Ghost." On another occaeion,
when he was going up to bed, "The Ghost" began
to thump violently, in the direction of the brew-
house ; and continued so long, that he had time
to go to the back door of the house, and sally forth
in quest. On his arrival, nothing was to be beard
or seen.
Oo another occasion, the sound having fur a
considerable time appeared to come from a direction
that suggested it to spring from some loose vessels
in the brew-house, or from the cellar, which was
close adjoining; the writer, with two ofhis brothers,
sat up: one in the cellar, and the others in the
brew-house. He in the cellar did not hear it. The
two who watched exactly where it bad appeared to
be, for a good while before, heard it, loudly and
distinctly as ever : but it 11ounded underneath the
o;, ,,edo,Google
-~ - - - -- --~-
117
lawn, fifty yards away from where they were I
About a month ago, the owner of the bouse, and
a friend who happened to be staying on a visit,
occupied adjoining apartments. One morning, at
the breakfast table, each demanded of the other,
an explanation of his movements on the previous
night: each having been astonished at bearing, as
he thought, his neighllour, moving about and ma-
king a great noise, among his books, or the fur-
uiture of his apartment. " I expected "-said one-
" to see you open my door and walk in." " I thought
you must have been ill and bad almost gone in to
see "-said the other. Each had been quiet in bed;
and the sound was nothing but "The Ghost."
The usual sound is that described ; as a succes-
sion of deep thumps; but other sounds, almost
more curious and unaccountable, are often heard,
of which I will relate a few particulars.
Some time ago, a gentleman, a relation of the
family was on a visit to --- House. One
morning at the breakfast table, he related the fol-
lowing curious and unaccountable circumstance: he
bad been awakened in the night, by hearing, as be
thought, a cart, drawn along on the gravel road,
immediately under his windows : it af'peared to be
heavy laden; and rattled, as if with a load of iron
118
rods. Wondering what could be about at that hour
of the night, he got up and opened his window, to
in•estigate : there was neither sight nor sound of
any thing to cause the noise. He got into bed
again, and thought it possible he had been dream-
ing: but half an hour after, as he lay awake, he
heard the very same again : the rattling of a loaded
cart upon the drive beneath his windows. '4 Now"
thought our friend, "I'll find the cause." So up
he got again~pened his windows and looked out--
but all was still. He went to bed again, and heard
no more. He told the story in the morning ; and
enquired if any thing had takeu place to cause the
sound he beard. But nothing could be thought of
to account for it--and he tells the story to this day.
To this, it may be well to add two other anec-
dotes of our nocturnal friend. Four or five years
ago, the writer of this ghost history, was in the
habit of sitting up at night, to a very late hour,
reading in the library: and though the family are
all much too familiar with our "Ghost" to be dis-
turbed by any of his gambols } the sounds that used
to strike his ears, were often most remarkable and
startling. On one occasion, in particular, it seemed
as if a flock of sheep from the adjoining paddock,
bad rushed by the windows on the gra¥eldrive. It
o;, ,,edo,Google
-----
119
was not a windy night; and so convinced was he,
after attentive listening, that it was the rapid raah-
iDg of a tl.ock he heard, that he considered with
biiD8elf the .propriety of going out to drive them
back again: but idleness prevailed: it was cold:
be was busy: ao be voted it" The Ghost," and eat
stiU at his books. But when be came down iD the
morning, fully expecting to find marks of sheep and
damage done ; to his surprize, there was no sign at
all of any such innsion. The lawn was smooth,
and the cra:rel was uutrodden ; and it was, indeed,
., The Ghost!"
At another time it happened that when the whole
family were in one room, at prayers---not one mem-
ber absent but a young child in the nuraery-a noiee
was heard, as of some one walking acroes the hall.
next to the room in which they were auembled.
The lady who was reading prayer•, rose from her
knees directly, and went into the hall with the
servants at her heels, before it was possible a penoa
could have gone away : but there was no one to be
seen ; nor any thing to lead to the supposal of a
visitor of any more substantial kind, than our old
friend " The Ghost I"
h should be mentioned here, that there is, run-
ning underneath the house, a very large old dnin,
120
which has been thought to be connected with the
sounds above described. A few years ago-this
drain was thoroughly examined, with a view to as-
certaining whether some loose brick, or timber,
might be lying in it, which might create such sounds,
on being trOd upon by rats, &c. A man was sent
up through it, from one end to the other; but
nothing of the kind appeared. The whole was
thoroughly and carefully cleared out ; but the noise
proceedt>d on, as ever. How long "The Ghost"
, had been observed before the present family resided,
is not known : but the popular belief attaches all the
unblest circumstances here related to the unquiet
spirit of one Squire-, a man of but indiffer-
ent repute, as it would seem : and one, whose grave
might not be found an easy resting place. The old
Squire has been dead these hundred years. He
appears to have been the person, who pulled down
the old--- house, and built up--- in ita
stead.
121
Understanding that certain young ladies, of the
family of the owner of --- House, had been
recent visitors, or residents, there, I caused appli-
cation to be made to them-through the medium of
a common friend ; to the end that if they bad
"personally-individually or collectively"-beea
witnesses of the extraordinllr) noises, I might be
favored, also, with their statements.
And in the careless, confidential, style of corres-
pondence with a near relative-as the said common
friend is, of mine-it would appear that in such
application and queries, I made use of some such
precautionary expressions as the following, touching
the reference to the said young ladies ; with whom
it is not my good fortune to be acquainted :-"if
they were steady, sober, young persons, in whose
testimony-if they would give any-reliance might
be safely placed: "-otherwise-" if they had a
tendency to hoaxing, or the like," not to apply to
them. To which I appear to have added, the,
haply somewhat impertinent, question-" are they
handsome ?"
My corresponding kinswoman, in haste, perhaps,
or inadvertence, instead of putting my application
into appropriately respectful language, sent my
M
122
inqoisitife note to - Hoose :-and it fell into
the hands of the young ladies themselves.
So much seems expedient for the better under-
standing of certain passages in the ·returns with
which I was favored, through the same channel,
from the ladies in question.
o, ""d ,,Coogle
123
N? 30.
FIRST YOUNG LADY'S "TESTIMONIAL TO 'l'H~
GHOST."
Last heard-6th July in the evening, between
ten and eleven, prayer time. First came the
thumping, the usual "Ghost...-then like heavy
tread, as if Mr. ---who was out, was come in;
but he was not. Then rumbling, not easy to de-
scribe. No one has been " individually" haunted-
it is always "collectively." I am very handsome;
" individually or collectively" we are all very hand-
some: and I am "steady and sober:''-" collect-
ively" remarkably "steady· and sober." I have
thought I beard it in the day, and very early in the
evening.
• • •
N? 31.
Mr. --- the visitor who slept in the next
room, as before related, in page 117.
The noise that night he firmly attests to: it hap-
pened last September, about three a.m.
M2
124
He first thought the noises caused by beetles.•
He heard the noise 6th July: so loud, and so far
believed that somebody had entered the ball, that
be began to consider whether Mr. --- had a
key, and could have let himself in, during prayers•
• • •
N? 32.
SECOND TOUNG LADY, SAYS:-
When I was a little girl nine or ten years old, the
nursery maid left me in bed always, to go down to
her supper. She once. came up, and scclded me,
e:
I
for getting out of bed and making such a trampling ..,;:
noise over the kitchen. I bad not moved ; and
afterwards she told me she often beard it, and
thought it was I who made it. It has never waked
me in the night: but when awake I have often
beard the thumps. They always seem to me to be
in the kitchen : and I do not think they are heard
in the day : and I am very " sober" and very
"handsome."
. • • •
• Not the inMot; it is beliend-but the implement.-E. l\1.
--~~~-
o;, ,,edo,Google
125
N? 33.
ANOTHER SISTER-ALSO A VISITANT A T -
HOUSE-RECENTLY MARRIED.
There seems no doubt of my •• sobriety and
steadiness."-! therefore, without farther comment,
can certainly speak to having heard long and heavy
and distant thumpings, very often ; in the middle
of the night. I differ from other relators in two
points. 1.-It always seems to me over my bed-
room-where a man servant sleeps. It is no noise
made by him. 2.-I believe that I have twice heard
the same sounds in the day-time; though other
noises have prevented my being clear about it.
They say it is very loud every night this week.
• • •
•
M3
126
While thus prosecuting the enqumes touching
the mysterious sounds at --- House, I learoed
that my nephew, Captain Frazer, of tbe Royal
Artillery, had been a visitor there ; and had, in
common lfith the family, and others, heard them.
I, therefore, requested him to favor me with a
relation of what he had heard, and thought, re-
ferring thereto. And in reply, I received the fol-
towing communication :-
•
i
-- ~ .
·-'
127
N? 34.
CAitLISLB, 19th J•ly, 1841.
With regard to the "Haunted House" affair, at
- House, I will give as full and minute an
8I;COUM u I cao. I wrote an account at the time ;
which baa beea uofortunately destroyed ; but as the
facts are well impreased oa my memery, the loss of
it is of less consequence.
Sooo after my intimacy with L. began, be iovited
me to stay. a few days at his mother's house, in
-ehire. " Y011 must kuow•" he laughingly
added, " that 011r'a is a haunted house, and baa
beea eo for many years. The inconvenience of this
reputation has been very great ; as, at times, we
have bad diiicalty in gettiog servaota to stay with
ua: eapeciaUy maid-servute ~ and we have by
oommon eo~~~ent, dropped all allusion to the sub-
ject ; and I now meatioo it to yoll thflt you may
DOt, during yoar visit. traDBglft& this rule."
" About twenty yeara ago" (I think he said
tweaty) ccwhea we firat came to - Houe,
there was an old hollle acljoining it ; in which a
t.illif, who bad charge of the ellate, lived with his
family. Very strange aoisea ueed to be heard after
I;:.
128
eleven o'clock almost every night; which we attri-
buted at first to the people in the other house ; and
did not, in consequence, pay so much attention to
them as we afterwards did. But when the bailifF
left this bouse (which we intended pulling down) we
asked him why he had every night made s~K:h a
noise? To our great surprize, he informed us, that
he was not the occasion of it ; and we found both
from him, and from other enquiries we set on foot,
that the house had enjoyed the reputation of being
haunted for many years. It appeared from some of
the oldest inhabitants of the village, in the parish,
that- House had formerly been occupied by
an· eccentric and dubious character, yclept 'Squire
- . This gentleman had in his younger days
travelled much on the continent; and had, amongst
other countries, visited Italy; and brought home
with him on his return to England. an Italian valet-
also a character. The two lived in seclusion at
....- -
House ; and in process of time many reports and
suspicions got abroad respecting them.· and the do.-
.ings at the hall : though nothing definitive could be
brought against 'Squire - : except his.being a
great miser. At last he died, or disappeared "(I
forget which L. said)'' and shortly afterwards noises
began to be heard in the bouse; .and the commoJl
o;, ""do,Google
--- ----- ~ -- -~-~
129
legend was, that be bad been brie/wl up by his
Italian servant, between the walls in some room or
-.ault, and so left to perish ; and that the noise was
occasioned by his rapping the walls with the buU
end of his bunting whip, in trying to get out."
Such was L's. account. He added other particu-
lars; which, as you have probably had them from
some of the family, in a more authentic form than I
could give them, I omit. Now for my own part in the
mystery. As I had never before been in a haunted
house, my curiosity was greatly excited ; and I
persuaded L. to come and sit up with me in my
bed-room. He did so. The noise began much
later than usual that evening.:-at least we did not
bear it tiU about half-past twelve p.m. or quarter
before one a.m. It was as if some one was strikiog
the walls with a hammer, or mallet, muffled in fian-
oeJ. It began at .fint slowly; with a distinct in-
terval between each blow : then became more rapid
-but afterwards followed no rule; but \vas slow or
rapid, as caprice dictated. The noise did not ap-
pear to come always from the same part of the
house. Sometimes it was beard faintly, as if at a
distance : at others, it became startlingly near; but
seemed always be/oro the room we were in. It was
much louder than I e1.pected. I think if I bad been
ILO
130
oat1ide the bouse I should have beard it. I passed
three other days at --- House; and heard the
same noise two nights out of the three. When all
was still and asleep, there was something uncom-
fortable-not to say fearful-in hearing this hollow,
muffled noise; moving about the house; and coming,
at times, so near, that I expected to see the door
open, and some person to come in; though no foot-
steps were ever heard. It usually began about
eleven or half-past eleven p.m. But one evening I
beard it a quarter-before ten p.m. before any of the
family had gone up stairs. The noise generally
continued, with intervals, for about two hours; and
I think there was a slight interval between every
five blows ; but am not quite sure on this point.
I never beard it during the day: though when every
member of the family was out and all was quiet, I
would listen : nor did I ever hear it except in one
instance, above named, before ten p.m.
A slight interval between every five blows has
been mentioned ; but it is not meant that you
should infer from this, that there was any regularity
in the striking of those five blows. On the con-
trary, the time was very uncertain, and irregular.
It was when the blows followed each other most
rapidly, that the noise was loudest. It was OJtly at
131
fir•t that there was any regularity in the interval
between the blows. I tried, in vain, to form even
a probable conjecture as to the cause of the noise :
drains ; dropping of water ; currents of air in chim·
neys ; rats running over loose boards ; water-mills,
and falls of water at mill-dams ; all suggested
themselves. But the want of regularity in the
sound ; and above all its locomotive powers, render
it improbable ~hat any of these should be tht> real
cause. And besides which, they would all be
heard in the day-time, if listened for :-but the
mysterious sound never has I.Jeen I believe.
Although always much interested in any thing
partaking of the marvellous, I have no faith in
superhuman agency in these matters ; still it was
impossible at night· to hear this unaccountable
sound, without a slight feeling of depression ; and
I think, it would have an effect upon a person of
weak nerves or mind.
Such is all I can recollect of what I heard myself
-but the stories wt>re numerous. One night about
twelve, the lady of the house was sitting in the
drawing-room, reading-all the family bad retired
to rest ; when the noise was beard close to a glass
door (leading to another room) so loudly, that she
got up and went to the spot where it seemed to
132
proceed from ; but nothing of course was seen.
There was a strange story connected with the room
I slept in :-it was told me by my friend L. Many
years ago be came hnme for the holidays from
school, and slept the first night there. About the
middle of the night, be was awoke by a very loud
noise, as if a cart, heavily laden with iron ban,
was passing slowly along the path under the win-
dows, which were in the front of the bouse, and
looked towards the park. He threw open the
shlttters and wiodow : it was a bright moon-light
night: but he could see nothing, though the noise
continued for a short time after. When he men-
tioned all this next morning be was laughed at for
his pains. Some years after this however (I think
L. said eleven) an uncle of his slept the first night
of his arrival in this very room. When he came to
breakfast next morning, in reply to hopes that he
had slept well, &c. be said-" it is a curious thing,
but I was awoke by a eart, laden as if with iron,
rattling under ·my windows ; but it was so pitch
dark I could not see any thing."
One more observation about the mysterious sound :
there are some noises which though very loud, the
ear from a long habit of judging of, anJ weighing
them, knows to be at a great distance; but this
o;, ,,edo,Google
--- -- - - -·-.""------ --
133
nctise seemed to me (u a general rule) to ·beeome
loud, or faint, not so much from any.change in the
iaten1ity of the .blows, as from a change of distance
and position ; and I am borne out in this remark by
L. who mentioned that when several members of the
family were statiened at different parts of the house,
their accounts, as to the loudness of the sound and
ita distance from them, generally differed.
I have now told you, in a somewhat leogthystyle,
all I Qo call to mind on the subject. I thought it
better to put down facts as they occurred to Dle,
and leave you, t1houkl you deem theDl suited to your
purpose, to condense• and arrange them as you
pleased.
While on these subjects, I cannot help telling you
a "Ghost Story," which, though it has no d\rect
connection with haunted houses, is still so different,
ia time, place, and circumstance, from the received
and best authenticated tales of thia sort, as to merit
some attention; and it has the rare advantage of
oot having been added to or heightened in colour,
by passing through many hands : as I had it from
Col. Ed. Michell (my old Captain) who heard it
from one of the parties, to whom the adventure
happeaed.
• I have made no alterations.-E. M.
N
134
One fine September morning, in the year 180-,
Lieut. W. and a brother officer, A. of the 8- Regi-
ment, then quartered in Ireland, went out for a
day's shooting. They were both keen sportsmen;
particularly A. who had with him on this occasion,
a black pointer bitch-a great favorite : and who
seldom or never left her master's side. They were
both in high spirits; to which the freshness of the
morning air, and the anticipation of a day's good
sport bad added. As it wanted some little time to
day-break, they sat down under a hedge, in a large
field, at some distance from their quarters, to watch
if any game should pass ; and to arrange their plans
for the day. Though the sun had not yet risen,
every thing was distinctly seen in the grey and in-
creasing light of the morning ; and the busy hum
about them indicated that the active bustle of the
day had begun. They had not taken up their
position very long, before they heard their dog,
who had been wandering about the field, barking
very fiercely, at some object (as they supposed) on
the opposite side of it; and saw her coming to..
wards them with her tail between her legs, I;Uld
shewing every symptom of terror. As they could
see nothing; but fancied it might be a man or an
animal passing bye on the other side of the hedge.
----o;, ,,edo,Google
I
•I
~·
I
135
they took no further notice of it. The pointer,
however, had now crouched between them, and in
spite of all their efforts to silence her, kept up a
long melancholy whining. Suddenly there shot by
them a bright meteor, accompanied by a rushing
sound; and this was succeeded by a dazzling light;
which, together with the noise; went on increasing
for a few minutes : when, to their horror and
amazement, they saw, slowly advancing, or rather
gliding, towards them, in the midst of the light (to
use W's. own words) "a bloody rider on a blo?<fy
horse"-from that part of the field whence the
pointer had come, barking. Both were of colossal
stature : and seemed as if they bad been Bayed alive.
The apparition passed slowly on about twelve or
fourteen feet from the ground ; and when just past
them, the rider turned his bead round, and looked
down fiercely on them ; and then slowly retired,
and vanished from their sight, in a direction oppo-
site to the one he first appeared in. He was about
thirty feet distant when opposite to them. The
pointer, who had never before been known to leave
her master, gave one long bowl, and ran off. After
W. and his friend had somewhat recovered from
the confusion into which this strange incident had
thrown them, they looked at each other; each
N2
136
doubting whether he had not been labouring under
10me delusion; and trying in each other·s eyes W
read the truth. They then questioned each other
as to the facts of the case ; and found they agreed
in every point.
They tried at first to go on with their sp.>rt : and
agreed to say nothing to any one about what had
happened ; but their spirits were too much shaken
to enable them to pereevere in their pursuit ;. and
they were not sorry that the absence of the pointer
gave them an excuse for returning borne. The
sequel of this atory is equally strange and more sad.
W's. friend A. on getting home, sickened immedi-
ately ; and died two days afterwards, but not till he
had, before several witnesses earnestly attested the
truth of the above event. Some years after this, t
Michell was quartered with W. at Tarifa, in Spain.
They became intimate, and they used frequently to
go out shooting together. It was one morning,
whe:n sitting at some distance from the fortress,
under a hedge of aloes, that W. struck with the
coincidence, told Michell the story. Michell de-
scribes W. as having been a remarkably gallant,
intelligent, fellow : very strong minded and of high
apirit. He is mentioned by Napier in his History
of the PeniDsular War : and fell in an alTair, soon
137
after the battle of Vittoria. I think you knew
Michell.• He was a hard-headed man ; not given
to high colouring, or exaggeration, on these topics ;
and you may depend upon the accuracy of my ac-
count ; because I wrote it down an hour after I
beard it; and have been copying all this from that
writing.
And now, I have, I think, given you a sufficient
dish of the marvellous for this time. One ruore last
word, however, about the mysterious noises a t -
House. The weather was changeable, and showery:
but there was no high wind, during my stay there :
and nothing, in short, to waft a distant sound, and
make it a1Jpear to be close at hand.
A. H. F.
The foregoing plain, unvarnished, tale, received
from my nephew, Captain Frazer, R.A. not being
so precise as I wished, in regard to the initials of
the names of the officers who saw the frightful
apparition of the horse and his rider; and the year,
and number of the regiment being incomplete-1
put some queries to him, and received the following
reply:-
• I did-and believe him to have been a veracious man.-E. M.
N3
138
CARLIILB, 29th Juig, 1841..
Colonel Michell (the name is spelled without at)
tetU "the pleasant, gentlemanly, man" you used to
meet, at my father's, &c. I believe him to have
been a veracious man-and on these subjects not at
all given to exaggeration, as he bad a thorough
disbelief of any thing like ghosts, &c. Michell had
forgottt>n, for the time, the name of the officer who
died. It was something like Spigott or Spinett,
I think he said. The other officer's name was
Welstead, a Lieutenant of the 82nd regiment;-
the year was 1808. The passage in Napier, is as
follows:-Vol. iv. Chap. v. Siege ofTarifa, 1811.
December. "In the night the enemy approached
close to the walls, but the next morning Captain f
Wren again came down from the Catalina; and at
~e same time, the troops sallied from the ~onvent
with a view to discover the position o( the Freneb
advanced posts. So daring was this sally, that Mr.
Welltetul, of tlt.e 82ncl. actually pushed into oae of
their camps, :and captured a field-piece there."
&c. &c. &c.
Pray observe that it is Michell who speaks all the
time, not I. When I first heard the story, my
impression was, that Welstead was mentioned by
Napier, as having fallen ia an affair, before or after '
139
Vittoria; and perha~ (as be wae killed then) he
may be. I Dever referred to Napier till you begged
me :-bot I did so in full confidence that I should
find Welstead's name somewhere. If this story had
been the common one, of "old bouse," "long
1 corridor&," "tapestry," .. sight," &c. combinations
' -tbat, with a fit of the blue-devils, prediapoae
people to npematvral appearances, I should not
' have nntared to have told it ,-ou ; but can any
thittg more unromantic and ut~ghost-like be imagined,
than two subs settin~ out, in high spirits, across the
I eo&ntry, Oil a brigbt September morning, in quest of
. ~ ~~~::r~~;:~~~!::~.1if t!::!d;~s :~;::!::~:n~as
Observe too, that there is an undesigned testi-
IIHiny in favor of Welstead in Michell's account.
Welatead does not appear to have been a man
aaxious to tell every one be had '"seen a ghost."
It was not u&til after Micllell bad become intimate
with him, that be told the story ; and not even
then, till the similarity of their situation, on the
oceuion·of.duck shoolmg at Tarifa, induced him to
tell his friend Michell. He bad never alluded to it
in Michell's presence before ; nor did he ever do so
asain, save once. It was some time afterwards
(eome months) when pointing to a "Yery large black
140
horse and his rider, both dead and besmeared with
dust and blood, be said, "something like that."
A. H. FRAZER.
In page 9, it is hinted, in reference to mysterious
Bell-ringing, that I bad heard of something like it,
in the " good town of Ipswich; but not the parti-
culars." It was not until after the whole of the
preceding matter was in type--and indeed, the suc-
ceeding matter also, that I heard any particulars of
the Ipswich ringing. In expectation of an authentic
communication of many curious circumstances of
such event, the press was stopped. But, after
waiting till the last moment-as touching the
necessity of conclusion-and not receiving such com-
munication, I am compelled to conclude without it;
and to interpolate this, by displacing other matter :
-being merely able to add a few particulars with
which I was casually made acquainted by one of the
eye-witnesses. Had I not expected rather a full
and circumstantial account, in time, I should
have endeavoured to learn more from my obliging
informant.
Some years ago-perhaps seven-a gentleman's
family, living at Handford Hall, in Ipswich, were
Digl.iZeCJ uy Coogle
141
astonished at the sudden and violently ringia,; of
the "shutter-:bells" of the room, in which they were
sitting. Mr. and Mrs. Aldrich, and, I believe
several grown up sons and daughters, composed the
family. I am not informed of the exact time of
year of this event-nor of the individuals who
witnessed what excited so much surprize and aston-
ishment; nor how long it continued. But more
than one bell rung, and on more than one evening:
and four, at least, most veracious and respectable
ladies and gentlemen witnessed it.
Inside "shutter-bells," are not unusual, in town
and country. It is well known that they have no
wires; but are merely bells, rixed on flexible, bent,
thin pieces of iron, about a foot long, if straight-
ened. The end of these pieces are placed firmly
into corresponding sockets on the shutters, at night,
and removed, when the windows are opened in the
morning. Those in question, are described to have
vibrated violently ; causing a violent ringing, or
jangling, of the bells, fixed at the ends of the
curvatures. Something of this kind occurred in the
Derbyshire ringings, as noticed in page 66, to a
wirele~:~s bell, stuck behind the spline of a row of
hat-pins.
The highly respectable family at Ipswich-could,
in no wise account for the very surprizing sight and
142
sound, herein feebly described. I have no room to ~
add more-nor, indeed, more to ~dd: and I regret
that pressing time will not admit ofmy seeking more.
To these very extraordinary and mysterious com-
munications connected with --- House-and
"the bloody rider on a bloody horse," arising, in-
cidentally, out of them-1 can add nothing. As
far as I know they, with the preceding interpolation,
will be the closer to this my Collection of "Strange
Stories." I have, indeed, an enquiry or two still
unanswered. But having arrived at the middle of
A_ugust 1841, it has become necessary, in reference
to the object ofthis little book, to bring it to its end.
In the absence, therefore of farther mysterious r
materials, I take my leave, with this
Q!ondution.
Here-and referring to the preceding interspersed
remarks-be they of small, or of no, value-1 bid
the Reader-Farewell: repeating, that I shall hear,
with much interest, of any promising attempt to
develope the cause of the strange events herein
related ; and of any farther mysterious " Bell-
Ringing: "-and shall thankfully receive any au-
thenticated communication of other phenomena of
a like nature.
VALEDICTORY VERSES.
Now, Reader, that our Tale is told,
Canst thou the riddle guesa l
Such things; in simpler days of old,
Were heard with faithfulness.
But we, it seems, are wiser grown ;
Less willing to believe ;
And, 'till we see their Cauau ahoWJJ,
Can scarce Effectl receive.
Too prone all mysteries to scout,
Which shun touch, ear, and eye;
We search for urgumentl,-to DOUBT,
For 7'ea10711-to DENY!-
Out on an unbelieving Age !-
As on our Course we wend,
How much, on Life's brief pilgrimage,
We ne'er can comprehend!-
"There are more things in Heaven and Earth,,..
Than the profoundest scheme,
To which Philosophy gives birth,
Can demonstrate, or "dream !"-
And if these pages serve to show
.A Truth, their moral brings,
How much impeTjectlywe know,
Even in trivial thing•;-
In this a germ of Wisdom dwells,
Which, might we haply gain,
And profit by-The Bu.LrNos Buu,
Will not have rung in vain!
BERNARD BARTON.
o;g", ,,Coogle
WOODBRIDGE;
PRINTED .t.ND SOLD BY JOHN LOD&a,
For the Beneat or lbe New ChW'Cho
