{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__findlay___on_the_edge_of_the_etheric.pdf","mytitle":"On The Edge Of The Etheric","mylang":"de"}
On the Edge of the Etheric
Being an Investigation of Psychic Phenomena
Based on ,a series of Sittings with Mr. JOHN C. SLOAN,
The Glasgow Trance and Direct Voice Medium
BY
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY
With the Preface to
An lmJestigation of Psychic Phenomena
BY THE LATE
SIR WILLIAM BARRETT, F .R.S.
Professor of Physics, Royal CoJiege of Science for Ireland from 1873 to 1910
Past President, London Society for Psychical Research
Published for the Author by
RIDER & CO.
PATERNOSTER ROW
LONDON
FIRST I MPRESSION,
SF.COND I MPRI!SSION,
November 1931.
December 1931.
CONTENTS.
PAGe
Foreword, 5
Preface, 7
Chapter I.-Introduction, g.
Chapter II.-The Universe of Ether, 33-
Chapter III.-Mind and Matter, 48
Chapter IV.-T he Medium, 54:
Chapter V.-The Seance 6&
Chapter VI.-The Voices, 77
Chapter VII.-The Evidence - 92
Chapter VIII.-More Evidence, 10()
Chapter IX.-Still more Evidence, - 107
Chapter X.-Nights of Instruction 118
Chapter XI.-Nights of Instruction, continued, 131
Chapter XII.-Nights of Instruction, concluded, 146
Chapter XIII.-Add to your Faith, Knowledge, 152
Chapter XIV.-Facts we ought to know, 165
Chapter XV.-Conclusion, 172
Seek, and you will find, for you have aids from
nature for the discovery of Truth. But if you are
not able yourself, by going along those ways, to
discover that which follows, listen to those who have
made the enquiry. Epictetus.
r,
FOREWORD.
IN September 1924 I had printed a small book to which I
gave the name An Investigation of Psychic Phenomena.
This book contained a summary from my notes of my
experiences with Mr. John C. Sloan, but it was printed only
f-or private circulation.
It, however, only contained some of my experiences,
which I had originally put together for an address I gave
to the Members of the Glasgow Society for Psychical
Research on 25th March 1924. The same address was given
to the Members of the London Spiritualist Alliance in the
following month, and was afterwards published in " Light "
between 19th April and lOth May 1924. I have also
delivered this address in other parts of the country to large
and interested audiences.
At the request of a number of those who were regular
attenders at Mr. Sloan's seances I commenced the prepara-
tion of a larger book, to contain a more exhaustive account
of my experiences with this gifted medium, but one thing
and another has delayed its publication. I came to live in
England and had many interests to attend to, and its com-
pletion was consequently postponed.
It is, however, now completed, and the delay I am sure
will not invalidate its contents. This book contains a faithful
record of what I experienced on the dates given, taken from
notes recorded at the time. Nothing has happened since
then to alter my belief that I was privileged to experience
phenomena super-normal in character and of comparative
infrequent occurrence. That this phenomenon does happen,
and that I actually was in touch with those who once lived
on earth, and were called by the names they gave, I have
not the least doubt.
My regret is that Sir William Barrett, who kindly wrote
the preface for the above-mentioned book, is not with us
to-day, as, if he had been, I would have asked him to con-
tribute again to this larger volume.
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY.
Stansted Hall, Essex.
September 1931.
J
PREFACE
-BY THE LATE
Sir WILLIAM F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
·to An Investigation of Psychic Phenomena.
MY friend, Mr. J. ARTHUR FINDLAY, has asked me to write
a few lines by way of introduction, and I do so with pleasure,
as some who will read his experiences are unlikely to know
the honoured position Mr. Findlay holds in the City of
Glasgow. Few men are more esteemed for their integrity
and sound commonsense than Mr.. Findlay, and few men
are less likely to be deceived by impostors or charlatans.
It needs no little moral courage for a citizen to jeopardise
his position by openly proclaiming his belief in the amazing
psychical phenomena he describes.
The incredulous public usually regard Spiritualists as
either knaves or fools, and, unfortunately, there are some
so-called '' med.!.!;!ms '' who deserve either or both these
epithets. The subject is like r candle to moths, it attracts
and burns the thoughtless and the emotional, as well as the
·credulous and the crazy. But the critical and impartial
investigations of the Society for Psychical Research have
now placed the whole subject in a very different position to
that which it held 40 years ago, and have led to the adhesion
of very many rpen whose eminence in literature, art a,_nd
science is unqullstioned.
Mr. Findlay was one of the founders, and is Vice-
President, of the Glasgow Society for Psychical Research,
of which Earl Balfour is the President.
This is not the place to enter into a discussion of the
phenomena of Spiritualism, but I will only add, after 50
years' investigation of this subject, that I am convinced, as
II have said elsewhere, '' that whilst many supernormal
psychical phenomena may ultimately be proved to be due to
abnormal conditions of the brain, yet there will be found to
remain well-attested facts which will compel science to admit
the existence of a soul, and also of a spiritual world, peopled
with discarnate intelligent beings, some of whom can
occasionally, but more or less imperfectly, get into com-
munication with us."
At the same time a word of caution is necessary, for the
subject is a perilous one for unbalanced minds to dabble
with. The messages which purport to come from the
discarnate should be critically examined before any credence
is attached to them; and the religous or scientific disserta-
tions, often found in these messages, should never be taken
at their face value.
Mr. Findlay, I think, has shown a critical, though
sympathetic spirit in reciting his experience in this very
difficult and puzzling branch of experimental psychology.
September 1924.
!/
On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTION .
If any man can convince me that I do not think aright, g ladly wilL
I change, for I search after truth, by which man never yet
was harmed. Marcus Aurelius.
I HAVE thought much and pondered long over the
strange experiences I have had during the last twelve
years, experiences so strange, so foreign to all our
accepted order of the phenomena of nature, that I
can readily understand the difficulty many must have
in accepting my records as true and accurate accounts
of what really took place. I can expect only those
who have had similar experiences themselves to
accept what I am about to tell without question or
doubt. I know that if thirteen years ago I myself
had been asked to believe these strange accounts I
should have found it impossible to do so, but then my
mental development was not sufficiently advanced to
enable me to comprehend the subject. I then did
not understand that these psychical manifestations.
which it has been my privilege to experience are like
the other manifestations of nature, ruled by law and
governed by order, and it is only when our knowledge
advances sufficiently that this new science is found
to harmonise with all that is already known.
As I say, I have had strange and wonderful ex-·
periences because I have been brought into contact
with a new world, a world which even the greatest
thinkers on the subject are only now beginning to·
comprehend. My position has been a peculiarly
privileged one, as twelve years ago I had the good
fortune to meet Mr. John C. Sloan, one of the most
giftea mediums in this country, and in his presence,
10 On the Edge of the Ethe1
'ic.
when the conditions were suitable, voices quite ex-
traneous to the medium spoke to me, claiming to be
those of friends who, in my ignorance, I had looked
·on as dead. These voices are not produced by the
medium, and they occur not only when others are
present but also when he and I are alone together.
They are not produced by any means of trickery, and
I have come, after years of thought, to believe that
t he spirits of those we thought to be dead are able
t o manife~t their presence again in this material world
of ours, by borrowing from the medium a certain ex-
cretion, which emanates from his body, and which
enables them, for the time being, again to build up
physical vocal organs and thus vibrate our atmos-
phere.
We must first of all clearly understand that the
spirit world is part of this world. T htat it is all about
us. That it is material, though of a Substance too
fine for our senses normally to appreciate ; and that,
here and now, we are spirits clothed in a physical
body, and that death only means a separation of this
etheric or spirit body from the physical covering.
The etheric body is the real and enduring body, an
e xact duplicate of its phy.:;ical counterpart, and when
t his is appreciated it can be more readily understood
how, under certain conditions which we do not yet
fully understand, it can again clothe itself in physical
matter and behave under the control of mind in a
manner similar to ourselves. So long as the thought
prevails that the spirit of man is something of the
nature of a puff of wind or a fleecy cloud, ~f no form
.or substance, so long will incredulity last among those
who believe that all that is can be seen and heard,
On the Edge of the Etheric. 11
and that nothing exists outside the range of the
physical world.
To enable those who once lived in thi;; physical
world of ours tore-materialise their bodies, composed
of this finer etheric substance, certain conditions are
necessary. The first is the presence of someone
possessing a superfluity of the substance which of
recent years has been termed ectoplasm or teleplasm .
.Whichever word will be ultimately adopted is a matter
of no special importance. This individual is termed
a medium, though it is believed that most of us have
this quality of mediumship in a more or less degree,
as we all have this substance within our own bodies.
The recognised .medium is different from us solely
because he or she has this substance to a greater
degree than the average individual, and it is thus more
easily borrowed by the intelligences which make use
of him or her for the time being. In the case of the
" direct voice," to which I am now referring, the
best results take place in darkness, as light vibrations
make it more difficult for this ectoplasm to be built up
with sufficient solidity to vibrate the atmosphere, and
therefore, though I have heard voices in daylight. yet
they are stronger and better developed in the dark or
in a red light, which has not the same destructive
effect as white light. Quiet and harmonious con-
ditions are also essential, and the condition of the
atmosphere at times interferes with the results. For
example, when the air is heavily charged with elec-
tricity the results are poor, the best manifestations
occurring on clear, crisp moonlight nights when the
atmosphere is not too loaded with moisture. At the
best the conditions making speech possible are very
12 On the Edge of the Etheric .
delicate, and only by experience can the best results.
be obtained, but when these do prevail the manifes-
tations are indeed very wonderful. Voices of all
degrees of culture and intonation address the sitter,
and their peculiar tones can again be recognised as.
those pertaining to the individual when living on
earth. The scepticism of the sitter may prevail for
a ·time, but, if his honesty for truth takes the first
place, conviction is inevitable if the enquiry be-
pursued.
The object of this introduction is, in the first
place, to clear away certain prejudices and miscon-
ceptions ; in the second place to emphasise our
colossal ignorance of the Universe ; and in the third
place to emphasise the great limitations of our sense·
organs. We should approach this new revelation
with minds sufficiently plastic to enable us to re-adjust
our views and put aside any preconceiv"'d ideas we
may have of what is possib.le and what is impossible.
Before going further, however, let me look back.
The history of the Christian Church is typical of alt
movements either religious or political. Those in
authority pronounced their dicta and those not in
authority had to obey them. It was not in the
interests of those in authority to improve the learning
orrelieve the ignorance of the people, and the people
were so ignorant that they could do nothing more than
obey those in power. That time is now looked upon
as the dark ages, but with the invention of printing.
light began to shine into darkness. Then men's
minds began to grow and to think. In 1473 Coper·
nicus was born, and from that date a new outlook
began to spread over Europe. We began to com-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 13
prebend our relationship to the rest of the universe.
Then came Kepler to be followed by Galileo,
Leonardo Da Vinci, Bruno, Newton, Darwin. and
many others who carried forward the torch of learning
and helped to dispel the ignorance of their times.
They were denounced, excommunicated and traduced,
but still they held to the path of truth, and now we
find to-day every intelligent person accepting their
v1ews.
It was about the beginning of the present century
that a change began to come over scientific thought
in the direction of viewing man not only as a physical
but also as a spiritual or psychical being. And this
was caused by the discovery of the composition of
matter and by the gradual acceptance of psychic
phenomena. Matter in the nineteenth century was
looked upon as composed of atoms, little minute
lumps of matter which congregated together to make
big or little lumps as thecase might be, just as a rice
pudding is made up of various particles of rice. The
discovery of the X-Ray brought about a further
examination as to the constitution of things we see,
and has resulted in the extraordinary discovery that
matter is made up of what are called electrons and
protons. But these are not substances, as we under-
stand the word. They are so minute that it is im-
possible to get down to them and in consequence the
nature arid constitution of matter is only a question of
inference. What, then, is the material universe com-
posed of? \Ve really do not know, but there is one
thing'that scientific thought has begun to comprehend,
and that is that the real universe is not the physical
umverse. In the days before Copernicus, it was
14 On the Edge of the Etheric.
thought that the sun and the moon circled round the
earth, that the stars were points of light hanging fror:n
a huge dome, and their size was quite unrealized.
The author of Genesis described their creation in six
wor.ds as a kind of afterthought '' and he made the
stars also.'' This earth was thought to be the centre
of the universe; it was considered to be flat, and that
space was empty except for the sun, moon and stars.
That is how a child would describe the earth and the
universe to-day, and that is how our ancestors
described them four hundred years ago.
We are to-day in a' somewhat similar transitory
period ; the average individual would ay that what
he saw, namely, the earth and all that composes the
earth, was real and solid ; that the sun was a real and
solid mass, and that space was empty except for the
stars and planets. That, most of us would say, is
a common-sense way ofdealing with such a question.
What we see and handle 1s real, wha: we cannot see
and handle is unreal. But just as the earth revolves
round the sun and not the sun ro;:;_nd the earth, so
again we are being led by science to look on the
universe as something completely different from what
it appears, and to regard what is unseen as real and
what is seen as only real to us inhabiting physical
bodies.
Let me give an example of what I mean. Sup-
posing we were sitting in a church in the dark, neve::-
having seen the church, and could see only various
glow lights moving slowly in innumerable different
directions, everyone would say that the- only things
real in the church were the lights we saw moving
about. That is our position in the universe to-day
On the Edge of the Etheric. 15>
These lights represent the stars, the material universe,
but when the church is lighted up the lights we saw
moving about are not seen because of the daylight
being stronger than the points of light seen in the
darkness, and the daylight reveals to us an entirely
different aspect. When we are sitting in the dark
and look at the points of light moving about, it is the·
same as looking at the universe with material eyes.
And when we sit in the dark we think that is all there
is in the church, and there cannot possibly be any-
thing more, but when the daylight comes we see the
pulpit, pews, windows and walls ; in fact, it is an
efltirely different view which we behold.
If two people were writing on what they saw,
one during the time of darkness and the other during
the time of daylight, they would each give an absol-
utely different description of what they saw, and yet it
would be the s; me church and everything would be
in the same place. We, in our physical bodies, are
looking at the universe from the point of view of
people in the church during the time of darkness.
And that is why a material explanation of the uni-
verse, either on the theories of Einstein or any other
philosopher, is impossible, as they are looking at.
and considering only the physical universe, whereas
the real universe is the etheric, and physical matter is.
but a!J intrusion in what we call space, where the
real universe exists. Space is the real universe.
We think it is empty, but it is full of life and growth,
a real objective world to its inhabitants.
It is when we die and discard our human body
that we look on the universe from the point of view
of the people sitting in the church rluring the daytime ~
16 On the Edge of the Etheric.
The human being is composed of body, soul
and spirit. The body~ is what we see, the soul is
our mind, and the spirit is our etheric body which is
an exact duplicate of our physical body ; it holds our
physical body tog~ther. Death is only the parting
·of the etheric body from the material body, and this
etheric body carries the mind or soul with it, and then
we do not look on the universe from the material
standpoint but from the etheric standpoint. The
material world becomes of no account and the etheric
world, what we call space, but is really matter in a
more rarified form, is the only one that counts. And
from what we know of its constitution it is permanent,
while the material universe is constantly changing
and decaying. No trace of decay can be found in
this etheric universe ; everything is constant and
regular.
The mind of man is something super-etheric
which no one in the physical body is able to explain,
but it must be super-etheric because it still functions
and guides-and controls the etheric body after death.
If it were not super-etheric it could be damaged or
destroyed by those evilly disposed in the Etheric
World. They can see the images it forms, but they
cannot touch it nor harm it. Except that they can
see it working it is completely beyond their reach.
This etheric body is the body which holds to-
gether the material body on earth, and there is
probably an etheric body for every living thing. The
mind does not change by death, but only functions in
different surroundings. The result is that it is only
-character and memory which really count, and the
reason for continuing to develop our character mus
On the Edge of the Ether·ic. 17
receive an impetus when it is known that as we
develop here so shall we be hereafter.
Life is something quite apart from physical
matter ; it appertains to the etheric world. Why or
when it entered into conjunction with physical matter
we do not know, but there was a time far back in
history when a living organism appeared. Then it
was that life and thought in the most minute form took
birth, and from that we have the complicated system
of the human body and of all living things. We also
do not know when the time was when this life was
able to retain individuality ; all we know is the fact
~ .
that, so far as human beings are concerned, it can
now function apart from the material body.
The material world is a transitory and passing
world, and matter as we see it is the least important
thing in the universe,. though to us to-day it seems
to be the most important. The things which are '
unseen are eternal ; those things which are seen are
temporal.
The-nineteenth century added more to our know-
ledge of the physical universe than all the previous -
centuries combined. To-day knowledge grows so
fast that the mind becomes_incapable of assimilating
more, and we sometimes think that we have reached
the ultimate in what we can learn. The nineteenth
century scientists dealt only with physical matter, and
so we came to think that only physical matter existed.
Knowledge advances by stages, and each stage is
the foundation for the next. The foundation of
physical science has certainly been well and truly laid,
and the same law and order has been found to exist
wherever physical matter exists. Physical matter,
B
18 On the Edge of the Etheric.
/ until comparatively recent times, was considered to
be solid, and individuals were believed by Haeckel
and Huxley and the majority of nineteenth century
scientists to be only physical productions whose
thoughts and actions were produced in a purely
mechanical manner. Just as there was no room for
anything outside the physical world, so there was no
room for anything apart from the physical body. All
was solid matter, capable of being se en and touched
and heard, and subject to certain w~ll understood,
immutable laws which governed the universe. In
the slow order of evolution it was doubtless wise that
this foundation to our knowledge should be so care-
fully laid, but we were in error in thinking that we
had reached the bougds of knowledge and that
nothing existed outside our physical senses.
Religion and science in these days were poles
asunder, while the Church was able to keep within
its folds only those whose faith exceeded their know-
ledge. Even tqeological creeds in time failed to
hold the majority, and a blind fatalism settled on
religion. The Church, no more than the scientist,
knew anything of the after life, ·rs Heaven was, as
the well-known hymn told us , " far, far away, " so
far away, indeed, that the average thinking man
ceased to believe in its existence, or if he did, he had
a nebulous notion of a new Jerusalem painted in fan-
tastic colours, the abode -
of the saved, and of an
equally nebulous Hell, the abode ·of the damned.
Neither science nor religion knew that there existed
around and about this world of ours another world of
finer matter where ""'those who died immediately
entered, with an etheric body just as tangible and jupt
On the Edge of the Etheric. 19
as real as its physical covering which had returned to
the earth from which it had come. Faith alone held
aloft a dim and flickering light, prompted by some
unerring instinct that this world did not constitute the
end of man, but that he was created to fill a larger part
somewhere in the Great Beyond. Faith, however,
\. received no help from science, which was looked on
by the faithful with dread and fear. If science and
religion both represent truth, such antagonism can
be only temporary, born of ignoran~e on both sides.
The dawn, however, is now breaking, and science is
now leading us {Q ard to a new day. It is becoming
the partner of religion, and I can see the time
coming, and coming quickly too, when science and
religion will go hand-in-hand, brought together by
the discoveries made by those who have devoted their
lives to the furtherance of the knowledge gained by
.Psychical Research.
It is in the nature of man to press forward, to
peer further into the mystery of the universe, and so
the scientist has continued his search, and bit by bit
he has found that the ultimate was further from his
reach than ever, and that this physical world which
we consider so solid is not so : such a belief is one of
the many delusions which we experience every day
of our lives. The outlook of the twentieth century
man of science is vastly different from that of his pre-
decessor of last century. First the atom was dis-
covered, then the electr~m, and we are now asking
<>urselves if we have reached finality and if the electron
is the ultimate basis of all substances. In the last
twenty years the unknown has widened and deep-
ened ; the Astronomer, on the one hand, with his
20 On the Edge of the Etheric.
telescope is penetrating further and further into space,
and, on the other, the microscope is revealing new
worlds which the physical eye unaided is unable to
perceive. The physicists have broken up matter and
now declare it to consist of various electrical charges.
Its solidity has disappeared, it is found to be in con-
stant rapid vibration, and the distance between the
various electrons which constitute the atom are found
to be, relatively, at as great a distance from each
other as the distance between the various stars which
constitute the stellar universe. Lastly, those en-
gaged in the new science of Psychical Research arc
slowly but surely discovering a new world about and
around us, hitherto unsensed but neverthel~ss very
real. This etheric world which is now becoming
more and more a reality is the subject of this book,
and it is one which will command more and more
attention as the years roll on. This new science,
which to-day is the Cinderella of all the sciences, will
in time take its place as the foremost and greatest of
them all.
The position which the science of Psychics has
now reached is due to those pioneers of the past who ·
laboured unceasingly in their researches into this
hitherto unknown realm of thought; they braved the ·
jeers and contempt of their fellow men, knowing that
the foundation of their labours rested on a sure and
certain foundation. During the latter half of last
century their discoveries received little attention, but
as the present century advanced the hitherto incred-
ulous and unbelieving public has been compelled by
the steady accumulation of facts to modify its former
hostile attitude, and so we find to-day, especially
On the Edge of the Etheric. 21
amongst the younger thinking element, a much more
sympathetic attitude towards the subject. To these
early pioneers all honour is due. They were to be
found in all sections of the community, though it was
those men of outstanding eminence who suffered
most from the abuse of an ignorant public. Amongst
the earliest men of scientific eminence, Sir \Villiam
Crookes and Al~red Russell Wallace will always be
remembered for th!=ir courage and fortitude in pro-
claiming a new but unpopular truth. Researches
in the Phenomena of Spiritualism, published by
Crookes in 1874, will forever remain a monument to
his hone$ty and courage. Amongst other famous
men of science who were not ashamed to acknowledge
their interest in Psychical Research I would mention
Lord Rayleigh, Sir Archibald Geikie, Sir J. J.
Thompson and Professor Gilbert Murray, and, in
America, Professor William James of Harvard, and
Dr. Hyslop, who de~oted most of his later years to
the subject, publishing his discoveries in several
volumes which are of especial value owing to the
careful manner in which his facts are recorded. In
Europe, Lombroso and f'lammarion1
after years of
study, declared their belief not only in the phenomena
but also in a Spirit World and inter-communication
between it and ourselves. Richet, the world-famous
French physiologist, in his great work Thirty
Years of Psychical Research, has accepted the
phenomena though he still reserves his opinion as to
their interpretation. He, however, already goes a
long way on the road most enquirers have travelled,
for a few years ago, writing in '' Nature '' on the
subject of Psychic Science, he stated his opinion that
22 On the Edge of the Etheric.
'' Our intelligence is .reached by forces that disclose
facts which neither sight, hearing, nor touch could
reveal.'' This roll of men of science would, however,
be incomplete if reference were not 'made to two of
our greatest scientists who have identified themselves
more with the subject than any of their contem-
poraries. I refer _to Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir
William Barrett, both of whom hqd the courage of
their convictions in the early days when belief in the
reality of psychic phenomena was considered as a
crime against all the tenets of orthodox science. I
well remember the pleasure it was t-o Sir William
Barrett to deliver a lecture on Psychical Research to
an audience numbering.-thousands in the St. Andrew's
Hall, Glasgow, some years ago. I had the honour
to preside, and he mentioned to me, when he saw his
audience, that forty ye~s previously he had addressed
the members of the British AssociatioN from the same
platform on the importance of investigating the then
little-known subject of 1 elepathy, but he had then
received no support. As he truly said to me, the
whirligig of time had brought about so complete a
change that not only had he before him,·on the present
occasion, a large and sympathetic audience, and on
the platform several University Professorl';, but his
subject embraced all the phenomena procj.imed as
true by the spiritualists forty years previously, and
derided by the British Association of that day. Sir
William was one of the founders of the Society for
Psychical Research and maintained his interest in it
to the very last, as on the same day as he died he
was present at one of its meetings.. He was active,
and his mind was keen, to the last. Every year
On the Edge of the Etheric. 23
that passed only strengthened his convictions, which
will be found admirably expressed in his well known
book On the Threshold of the Unseen. Sir
Oliver Lodge, fortunately, is still with us and loses
no opportunity of proclaiming his beliefs. He may
now be enjoying the satisfaction of the intellectual
world sittin.g at his feet and accepting the results of
his many years of research, but I think he is too
modest a man to find such enjoyment, though he
wuuld hardly be human if he, like Barrett, did not
al~o fee-l that the whirligig of time is responsible for
many changes, e~pecially in the world of thought.
In other walks of life, W. E. Gladstone must be
remembered as having given his great name to the
support of the Society for Psychical Research, and fo1
many years before his death he was an horrorary mem-
ber; the Earl of Balfour, another eminent statesman,
in 1893 was the Society's President. . Bishop Boyd
Carpenter, Archdeacon Colley, Sir E . MarshrJ.l!
H all, Tennyson the poet Laureate, Watts and
Leighton the painters, Ruskin, R. L. Stevenson
and Andrew Lang, amongst the professions, occur to
one, but the most outstanding of all, apart from the
men of science, was undoubtedly Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle, who probably did more to educate the public
in the discoveries of Psychical Research than any
other man. Mention mu_
st also be made of Sidgwick,
Myers and Gurney whose disinterested courage and
fairness did much to interest the more intellectual
section of the public in psychic matters. The philoso-
phic studies of Professor Henri Bergson, President
of the Society for Psychical Research in 1913, have
undoubtedly been largely influenced by his know-
24 On the Edge of the Etheric.
ledge of the subject ; and, lastly, reference should
be made to Dr. Crawford, who did more than any
other man to place the observed phenomena on a
scientific basis and in relation to the already known
facts of scientific knowledge.
Psychical Research is divided up into various
sections ; one, for instance, deals with telekinesis,
or the movement of objects without physical contact,
another with mental phenomena suCh as trance. clair-
voyance, clairaudience, and telepathy, while yet
another is devoted to the study of what is called the
Direct or Independent Voice. It is to this depart-
ment of Psychic Knowledge that I -have devoted
much time and thought over the past twelve years,
but there are others who have given the greater part
of their lives to its study, and whose experiences far
outdistance those it has been my privilege to have.
Vice-Admiral Usborne Moore devoted almost the
entire part of his later life to the stud.y of the Direct
Voice, as it occurred in the presence of that famous
medium Mrs. W reidt, and his careful records will be
found in his important book on the subject entitled
The Voices. The special position he occupied
in the Navy, with the necessity for the greatest care
and accuracy, made him especially suitable for this
research work, as his training had made him scrupu-
lously accurate in all he undertook. Edward C.
Randall of Buffalo, U .S.A., at whose house I
-visited when I was in America some years ago, has ,
however, been the most fortunate of all the investi-
gators into this great subject, as he experimented for
over twenty years with the most powerful Direct
Voice Medium the world has ever known , ~1rs .
On the Edge of the Etheric. 25
Emily S. French. This lady was under his careful
observation during all these years, living much of the
time in his own house in Buffalo. Investigations
took place several times each week, and Mr. Randall,
from open scepticism and disbelief, gradually, under
the force of the evidence which accumulated, became
convinced, as many others have done before and
after, not only of the genuineness of the phenomena
but also that the voices were produced by those who
once lived here on earth. On over seven hundred
nights, he told me, covering a period of twenty-two
years, in his own house, under scientific conditions,
he talked for hours on end with those the world
thought dead. Mr. Randall is not a man to be easily
convinced or to be the subject of trickery. He is
one of the leading lawyers in the United States and,
besides that, he was, when I met him, President of
several important industrial 1.mdertakings, one of
which is the American Super Power Company, which
supplies New Yark with electric light and power.
This practical, level-headed lawyer, accustomed to
the sifting of evidence and detection of fraud, has
published the result of his investigations in several
books, the principal of which is entitled The D ead
have Never Died.
I have given a brief summary of some of the
leading men interested in this great subject of the
survival of death, but there are many others who have
done much to further our knowledge on the subject.
These men have been the pioneers who have pene-
trated into the border land of this newly-discovered
country and brought l;>ack to their fellow travellers
towards this bod they will all some day reach, some
26 On: the Edge of the Btheric.
facts pertaining to their destination. The reports of
the earlier pioneers were received with scorn and
ridicule, but undaunted they insisted on the truth of
their reports. Others went to seek this new land and
came back with the same news, and so on it went
year after year till at length unbelief gradually broke
down, and the multitude then asked for more and still
more information from the growing band of pioneers
who had ventured on 9-head. One of the most recent
and distinguished who has gone some further distancf>"
ahead of his contemporaries, and has had the courage
to proclaim his discoveries, is Dr. R. J. Tillyard,
F.R.S., Entomologist-in-Chief to the Common-
wealth of Australia. He became convinced a few
years ago of the reality of Psychic -:phenomena, in
consequence of certain in~estigations he had made in
this country and America, and was not slow to telt
his fellow scientists that his discoveries had changed
his outlook on life and the world in general, and that
the sooner official science began a serious investigation
into Psychical Phenomena the betterrt would be for
science and the world at large. That his pronounce-
ments made a considerable impression amongst the
die-hards of the old materialistic school became
quickly apparent, and on the eve of his departure
home to Australia he had the satisfaction of
hearing from th~ lips of Sir Richard Gregory, the
Editor of Nature, words of great encouragement.
This occurred at a private luncheon given in his
honour by the National Laboratory for Psychical Re-
search, ably conducted by my friend Mr. Harry
Price, at which I was privileged to be present. Sir
Richard, in the course of some highly appreciative
references to Dr. Tillyard, spoke of him as having
On the Edge of the Etheric. 2·1
lighted a candle which had not yet bee.n put out. I
mention this incident so as to emphasise again that
the pioneers have done their work well, that officiaL
science and official religion, where the worship of the
past still reigns, are gradually but nevertheless surely
moving in the direction in which psychic knowledge
is leading them, and that the day is not far distant
when those who deny Psychic Phenomena w.ill be·
accounted foolish and ignorant. ·
Dr. Crandon, of 10 Lime Street, Boston,
U.S.A., furnished me recently with results of a
private sitting held in Boston, at which the only
person present was Dr. Tillyard, and the medium
was Dr. Crandon's wife, known to all psychic·
students as '' Margery.'' I have not space at my
disposal to go deeply into the precautions taken to-
prevent fraud, and the results achieved, but one can
say this emphatically that everything was done that
it was possible to do to prevent the medium being·
responsible for what occurred. Dr. Tillyard was
present with her in a locked room in the dark. Prior
to the light being put out and the door locked, the
medium was securely fastened to her chair by means
of adhesive tape bandages, the ends of which were
marked by blue pencil, which blue markings were
continued on to the medium's skin. If she had
moved it would have been seen afterwards that the
blue markings were out of place, whereas at the end
of the seance the blue markings were in their correct
place. It was physically impossible, therefore, for-
the medium to be responsible for what occurred.
D uring the seance, first of all thumb marks, whose:
markings did. not resemble the thumb marks of
either of the two present, were obtained on various.
28 On the Edge of the Etheric.
pieces of soft wax, and later in the seance, an in-
dependent voice, claiming to be the medium's
brother, carried on an animated conversation with
Dr. Tillyard. That it was independent and apart
from the medium, and not her voice, was proved by
the fact that during the time this voice was speaking,
the '' Voice Cut Out Machine '' was attached to
the medium's mouth. This " Voice Cut Out
Machine '' is a machine which has been invented to
make it impossible for a medium, when it is in use,
to speak. Therefore, when it is in use, if another
voice speaks, it cannot be the medi_
um's voice. Dr.
Tillyard's comments on this private sitting, which
was held on 10th August 1928, are contained in a
letter he wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge, dated 11th
August 1928, of which the following are the most
important items. They are taken from Psychic
Research, the Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research.
"It seems to me quite impossible to find a single
'' flaw in this wonderful result. But my
~' object is to record scientifically that they do occur,
'' that they are part of the phenomena of Nature,
~'and that Science, which is the search of Truth and
'' for Knowledge, can only ignore them at the deadly
"' peril of its own future existence as a guiding force
"for the world. This seance is, for me, the cui-
"' rninating point of all my psychical research : I can
"now say, if I so desire, Nunc Dimittis, and go on
"' with my own legitimate entomological work.
"I can only ask that you and your whole family will
'' accept my statem_
ent as absolute truth, knowing
4
' me as you do, ''
On the Edge of the Etheric. 291
To Dr. Crandon and his wife this remarkable
testimony, by one who until a few years ago was a
complete unbeliever, must be a source of great grati-
fication, as, like all pioneers, Dr. and Mrs. Crandon
have had to suffer the jeers of the ignorant. He.
however, bravely risked his great reputation, be-
lieving that truth must ultimately conquer, and that
to follow truth wherever it may lead is the only
course an honest man can adopt. What happened
in Dr. Tillyard's presence has happened in the pre-
sence of hundreds of people, who have experienced
the same results with this lady, so Dr. Tillyard's.
experience is only typical of many others carried out
with the same precautions and scientific care.
It is now possible to discuss psychic phenomena
at a dinner table, at one's club, or in a railway train,
without being made to feel that your friends look upon
you with sincere pity as one so sensible in other ways
but somewhat unbalanced in this direction. I trust, .
therefore, that what I am about to relate will receive
more consideration than was accorded to the writings
of some who have gone before me. Evidence,
cumulative evidence, and still more evidence will in .
the end win the day. With this weapon the walls of
ignorance and antagonism are being brought low,
and there is no stronger tool available to complete
destruction than the evidence of survival obtained by
the Direct or Independent Voice. Both names for
this phenomena are used, and they refer to the pheno-
menon of voice production and speech from some
intelligence quite apart from any being in the flesh.
The Direct Voice is the highest psychical pheno-
menon yet discovered, it is the most convincing and
:'30 On the Edge of the Etheric.
the most wonderful. All the other discoveries of
man fade into insignificance when compared with this
great discovery, the discovery of a direct method of
-communication between us and the departed, not by
means of raps or taps, but by the most intimate of all
forms of communication, the human voice. Other
forms of spiritistic phenomena qm be simulated by a
fraudulent medium, but the D~rect Voice at its best
cannot be. Often have I, and ojhers with me, heard
two and sometimes three separate voices of different
tone and personality speaking to those present at one
.and the same time, C!..n different toptcs, known only to
the person addressed, while the medium was either
talking on some other subject to th(!-person sitting
next him, or I had my ear close up to his mouth and
not a sound was proceeding from his lips. From
instances which I shall give, telepathy, cryptesthesia,
and the other explanations given by some to account
for psychic pheno111ena, can be ruled out. A clear ·
cut issue lies before the enquirer, and I know of no
<.me who has been privileged to experi~nce the Direct
Voice at its best who has been able to come to any
other conclusion than-that the voic~s come from those
who once lived here ·on earth, and who, having
passed through death, now return to tell us there is,
in reality, no death but a fuller life of steady develop-
ment and progression in an etheric world which inter-
penetrates this earth of ours.
In concluding this- introduction to the subject, I
wish to say, with all the strength at my command,
that there is continuity of life, that nothing is lost,
and life is no exception. Communication between
those now living in bodies covered with physical
On the Edge of the Ethe<r~c. 31
matter and those who have discarded their physical
bodies is not only possible but takes place under
suitable conditions. My results have been obtained
by·creating those conditions, conditions which made
it possible for the discarnate to resume speech with
the incarnate. It has been my privilege on many
vccasions to carry on conversations and discussions
with those who have passed on to the larger life, or to
hear them carried on with those present along
with me. Hundreds of different voices have I
heard, and hundreds of facts have I and they been
given to prove that those who spoke were in reality
those they claimed to be. From these conversations
I have learned much. not only of the continuance of
life, but also of. the ~onditions of life in this etheric
world about and around us, and of the methods em-
ployed for co~munication. Much of what I was told
I could not comprehend or understand, and even after
the devotion of much thought to the question over the
past twelve years, I feel more than ever the profundity
of it all.
Before, however, giving my records of some of
these conversations, let me lead the reader on step
by step, as a proper grasp of the subject can only be
vbtained by our having one foot securely placed on
the first step before moving on to the next. The
first step is a consideration of that little understood
but vastly important something known to science as
the Ether, which is believed to fill all space and is
the medium of light, as well as of the sounds which
come from our wireless transmitter. Until we under-
stand a little of this invisible but very real thing, and
how limited are our normal sense perceptions·, it is
32 On the Edge of the Etheric.
useless even to attempt to get an intelligent under-
standing of the phenomena which occur in the seance
room. This being so, my next chapter must be con-
sidered as a further introduction to the subject under
discussion.
On the Edge of the Etheric . 33
CHAPTER II.
THE UNIVERSE OF ETHER.
T he vast interplanetary and interstellar regions will no longer be
regarded as waste places in the universe . . We shall find
them to be already full of this wonderful medium ; so full that
no human power can remove it from the smallest portion of
space, or produce the slig hest flaw in its infinite continuity.
Clerk Maxwell.
R eality is what everyone is keen to know about. No one wants to
be deceived ; all are eager for trustworthy information, if it be
fo rthcoming , about both the material and the spiritual worlds,
which together seem to constitute the Universe. The Ether of
Space is the connecting link. In the material world it is the
fu ndamental, substantial reality. In the spiritual world the
Realities of Existence a re other and far hig her; but still the
Ether is made use of, in ways which at present we can only
surmise. Lodge.
W E live and move and have our being in this physical
world composed of substances vibrating within certain
fixed limits, to which we give the name " matter."
We are born into it and we take it as if it were all and
in all. Yet how different it really is from what it
seems. Our ideas of the physical things about us
change from age to age. Each generation imagines
the absolute has been reached in knowledge, and yet
history is just the story of the development of the
human mind in relation to its surroundings. At no
stage can-it be said that the sum of human knowledge
has been reached. One discovery is followed by
another, and each time it is thought that the universe
has no further secrets to yield up to man, that human
enquiry has at last reached its limit. Then some ne"IIY
idea based on further knowledge is put forward, some-
what timidly to begin with, to be first scorned, then
considered, and finally accepted.
And so life: has dev~loped, mentally, from its
early stage up to the present day. At every stage
the mind is able to take a larger grasp of its environ-
c
34 On the. Edge of the Etheric.
ment. To life at its beginning, the sea in its im-
mediate vicinity, through which it floated, was its
universe, its all. That constituted all that ·ould be
grasped by the mind of pala:ozoic life. By srow, un-
steady steps life and mind developed, through the fish
stage to the reptile, and so on till the being we call
man arrived. This creature by developing his mind
as well as his muscles, in time became the dominant
power on earth. By a slow and painful path his
development has proceeded, his failures and his mis-
takes he has remembered, the knowledge he has
acquired he has not forgotten, and to-day we find
ourselves developed mentally, physically, and morally
to a higher degree than ever before.
And yet what does our present ·mental develop-
ment really count for? We have certainly found the
means of controlling physical matter to a greater
degree than ever it has been found possible in the
past, but the question now comes, is the control of
physical matter the goal of humanity ? VJe now
understand its laws and functions : is this, then, the
end of human endeavour? As we were thinking
that this was so, comes a new discovery. Vve are
now told that just as our forefathers were wrong in
their astronomy, and had to re-cast their views, so
must we re-cast our ideas regarding this physical
matter. about which we thought we knew and under-
stood so much. Matter which looks so solid is in
reality not solid at all ; what we see when we look at
a table or a chair, for instance, are the vibrations of
a certain number of electrons, which are revolving at
immense speed around a centre known as the proton.
Matter is made up of atoms, and these atoms are in
On the Edge of the Etheric. 35
turn composed of electrons and protons. According
to the number of electrons in an atom so is the sub-
stance, but the weight is conditioned by the number
of protons. The number of planetary electrons in
any element is given by its atomic number, but in
addition to these there are electrons fixed in the
nucleus, equivalent to the supplement of its atomic
weight, and these are liable to vary in different
isotopes. The atomic number for iron is 26, while
itSI atomic weight is a whole number somewhere
about 56. Consequen'tly in iron there are always 26
planetary electrons, and in normal iron there are 30
in addition, though in some isotopes there may be 31
and in others 29. Consequently, when we look at
or handle something composed of the foregoing, we
sense something to which we have given the name of
iron, or to put it correctly, when our eye is affected
by the ether vibrations these electrons create, we have
the sensation of iron. Our touch is likewise affected
by the vibrations these electrons produce and give us
the effect of heat and cold, but the number of protons
give us the sense of weight. Sir Oliver Lodge in
Ether and Reality, puts it as follows :-
'' We caq now summarise briefly what we know.
'' The two oppositely charged particles, the negative
'' and the positive, are called respectively an electron
''and a proton. They are both exceedingly minute :
''and there is a sense in which their size has been
"measured. They are far smaller than atoms,
'' incomparably smaller, the smallest things known :
'' even if there were a hundred or a thousand of them
"in the atom, they would not be in the least crowded,
'' there would be plenty of empty space. Different
36 On the Edge of the Etheric.
'' atoms are now known to be composed of a different
"number of electrons, and by their different number
'' and grouping they constitute the different chemical
''elements. · The atoms of all the chemical elements
'' are built of electrons and protons and of nothing
''else.
' ' On this view the existence of an electron can
'' be fairly understood. Can the existence of a
'' proton be understood- too ? No : there we are in
'' a difficulty. The proton is more massive than
'' can easily be accounted for : arid why it is more
'' massive we can only guess : indeed at present
'' we can hardly guess, or at least the guesses are not
'' very satisfactory. That remains at present an out·
"standing puzzle: the-question is one that has hardly
"yet been faced. O,ne guess is that the electron is
'' hollow, like a bubble, that it has an e_lectric field
''which by itself would cause the bubble to expand,
'' but that it is kept in equilibrium and of a certain
'' size by the etheric pressure. On this view there
'' is no substance in its interior ; in itself such an
'' electron is not massive at all, its apparent mass is
''due to its electric field.and to nothing else. Whereas
"the interior of a proton, instead of being hollow,
'' may be full-filled with an extra ether ; all that
'' which was removed from the electron being
'' crammed into the proton, so as to account for its
"great massiveness or what we may call its weight.
'' A proton is more than a thousand times as heavy
' ' as an electron, about 1840. times by direct measure-
'' ments ; and what is called ' the atomic weight,'
'' or the weight of an atom, depends almost entirely
"on the weight of the protons it contains. The
On the Edge of the Etheric. 37
'' hydrogen atom contains only one, the helium atom
' ' contains four, the lithium atom seven, the oxygen
' ' atom sixteen and so on-in accordance with the
'' list of atomic weights long empirically known in
" chemistry, the heaviest being uranium, which con-
' ' tains 238. The atomic weights are certain enough ;
'' the number of protons in a specified atom is fairly
"certain also. What is not known is why the proton
''has such a weight, and why the weight of an
'' electron is so much less. In every other respect
'' the two charges seem equal and opposite : electri-
'' cally they are equal and opposite : materially
"(whatever that may mean) they are not.
'' We are safe in saying that the weight of
"matter depends on the protons, that is the positive
"units, which go to form the nucleus of the atom,
'' while the chemical properties of the atom depend
"on the electrons which circulate round the nucleus.
'' These planetary electrons are active and energetic
'' and produce con~picuous results : they characterise
'' the atom by its spectrum ; they confer on it its
'' chemical properties ; but they add to its weight
" hardly at all. It is a .curious state of things, but
''the evidence for it, so far, is good.''
Physical matter is in reality an open network of
electrons and protons, and the distance bet"(een the
electrons and the protons in an individual atom, in
relation to its size, is immense. If we consider the
proton as commanding the same position in an atom
as the sun does in our solar system, then the relative
distance the electrons are apart from one another and
from the proton might be taken as equivalent to the
distance the planets are from each other and from the
38 On the Edge of the Ether£c .
sun. If we consider an atom as something the size
of a village church, then a pin-head would represent
the relative size of one of the electrons of which it
is composed. These protons and electrons in the
atoms are thus far asunder, moving at enormous
speed and are linked together by this invisible ether
which occupies much the greater space within the
atom. Matter is thus constructed of minute electric
charges, both positive and negative, not moving
haphazard, but freely and orderly, connected together
by the invisible ether, which is now believed to be
the basic substance of the universe.
And what do we know of this invisible ether ?
We imagine it filling all space, though, as we cannot
grasp space, so we cannot comprehend its extent.
We know, however, that the ether waves can
undulate through space at the rate of 186,000 miles
a second, which undulations, or waves, give us what
we term light. Under certain circumstances the
vibrating energy of these waves of ether can be trans-
lated into equivalent energies of heat and electricity.
Though we cannot see the ether yet we infer that
such a substance exists, because heat, light and
electricity travel through space at a definite rate, and
that therefore there must be a medium through which
they undulate. Our physicists therefore argue that
the ether is a pragmatic hypothesis, a logical
postulate. ·
The ether has never been seen nor weighed as
an actual substance, yet certain definite conclusions
have been come to concerning its character and pro-
perties. It fills all space, it is five hundred degrees
colder than the temperature of the earth, it has inertia
On the Edge of the Etheric. 39
and momentum, it exercises an enormous pressure,
probably millions of tons to the square foot, it is
millions of times denser than water and yet more
elastic, and it has a perpetual squirming motion.
This wonderful substance, which in itself we can
neither see, hear, smell nor touch, when thrown into
vibration can carry across space the energy which is
capable of entering our consciousness as light, heat
and electricity. Only recently we have discovered
how to transform these waves into words and music.
This undulating substance is never at rest, it is always
in movement ; though it has never been seen nor
touched, yet if it were non-existent we would be
blind and cold, as there would be ,no medium to carry
the waves which set up vibratio~s in our eyes and in
our skins. 1
This amazing substance is the medium between
things material and our senses, but matter is now
considered to be this same ether in certain fixed
states of vibration. The electrons in the atoms are
particles of negative electricity and the protons are
certainly electric in their nature. Both are etheric,
and matter is only ether in a particular condition.
All ether is potentially matter and all matter poten-
tially ether. Physical matter which appeals to our
senses is only that section of the ether which happens
to be vibrating within certain fixed limits. In this
book I differentiate between the two substances,
physical matter on the one hand, which we can sense,
and this etheric substance which is beyond our sense
perceptions. Yet though beyond our sense percep-
tions, it is not beyond our capacity to understand,
at least in some degree. In fact, our understanding
40 On the Edge of the Etheric.
rof it has increased so much in recent years that the
whole tendency of physical science to-day is towards "
the view that not physical, but this etheric substance,
is the basic structure of the universe.
The ether of space can now be taken as the one
great unifying link between the world of matter and
that of spirit ; it is the substance common to both
worlds. Both are contained within this substance,
both are part of it, both are formed out of it. The
two worlds are part of the same universe, and life
in both is conditioned by it. Here in this world of
matter in which we function, we are onlv conscious
of a lower scale of vibrations, whereas in the world
Qf spirit, wher-e life also functions, consciousness is
.affected by a higher scale of vibrations. The ether
is as much to other life in the universe as it is to us.
To other life, its surroundings are just as substantial
and real as ours are to us. Life functions in the
ether, and it is just as much able to do so when free
of matter as it is when clothed in matter ; in fact, a
fuller, larger life can be imagined when the physical
body is discarded. As we proceed, these views will
be better appreciated, as in my conversations with
those in this further life, which I shall report, it will
be seen that they tell me that the world of spirit is
just as real, just as tangible, just as beautiful, in
fact more so, than the world of physical matter which
appeals to our limited sense perceptions.
Only the ignorant affirm that just·what we sense
is real, that beyond this range of sense nothing
exists. Our range of sense, our sight, our touch, our
smell and hearing are limited to the last degree. Vve
know that the spectr~m of the spectroscope proves
On the Edge of the Etheric. 41
the very limited range of our ordinary vision, and that .
further ranges of vibrations of what would be colour,
could we see them, extend on either side. It has
been said that the perceived vibrations as compared
with the unperceived are much less than is an inch
to a mile. It is evident that there lies an enormous
region for other life to inhabit around and within this
world of ours, a region quite beyond our normal sense
perceptions.
Until we clearly understand that our senses here
only respond to a very limited range of vibrations,
namely those we term physical matter, that outside
these there is a universe full of life, which responds
to a higher range of vibrations, unreal to us, but more
real to it than physical matter, we cannot grasp or
understand in all its fulness the psychical phenomena
which develop through mediumship. All my life
these deeper problems of life and death have
interested me. I remember at school passing a
horse in a field and lying beside it was a dead foal, and
I wondered then, as I have wondered often since,
what had actually taken place to change what the day
previous was an active moving piece of substance to
one that was now inert and still. These thoughts
have occurred to everyone from time to time, and
they can be continued right through the entire range
of living substances. What is the cause of a tree in
full bloom retaining its shape and its leaves, while.
another which is called '' dead'' breaks in pieces at
a touch and crumbles away into dust? There must
be a something, to which we give the term life, which
animates the living organism, and is absent in the
dead organism, and that something has the power to
42 On the Edge of the Etheric.
give the substance form and expression, whereas
when the something is absent, form and expression
go, and the substance which was previously animated
returns to form part of the earth.
It is, therefore, evident that there is something
which we cannot see or handle and yet which is real
and powerful, which has this faculty of creating forms
out of inanimate earth. I say it must be powerful
because it is capable of raising matter contrary to the
force of gravity, and retaining matter in an erect
position, as when it leaves the substance the force of
gravity again assumes control and the substance in
question is affected by all the forces of nature. A
man, an animal, a tree, can stand erect when this
life force permeates them, but when it does not they
fall to the ground. Life, therefore, is an organising
force which can counteract the tendency in matter to.
disorganise itself. Life is an organising, thinking
force, entering matter and organising it, whereas
other matter without it is disorganised. Life, there-
fore, cannot be a part of matter any more than the
potter can be a part of the clay he uses in his moulds ; .
and, besides this, it has personality. Every living
thing has personality, as every living thing is different
from every other living thing. This life force, by
this process of arguing, has powers quite beyond the
powers attributed to matter. It is more powerful
than matter, it can organise matter and therefore
thinks. And, besides that, it has individuality, so
that we can safely take a further step forward and say
that this organising force is also acted upon by mind
and that this which we call mind must be the living,.
active, dominating, controlling force in the universe.
Mind controls life and life controls matter.
On the Edge of the Ethe-ric. 43:
Human death can, therefore, be described as
a severance of this life force from its association with
matter, and it would be illogical to conclude that this
something which has such power over matter must
cease to exist wher: we lose sight of its organising-
powers. Though we do not see it at work, it is.
logical and reasonable to assume that mind continues,
to control this etheric substance elsewhere. Matter
we know can be changed but never destroyed. Con-·
sequently it is safe to assume that what can control
matter can never be destroyed.
This general argument, had we not direct
evidence, might never lead us to anything tangible.
We might always be right in assuming the indestructi-
bility of mind and life, but had psychic phenomena_
not come to our aid we would have been only half-
way to our goal. The goal, however, has now been
reached ; the path has been prepared for the human
mind to travel the whole road. Logically it is a.
reasonable assumption that human life and the huma11>
mind should cont"nue to exist after death, apart from
its association with matter, but now we have the proof
from psychic science that this ·does so happen and
that the etheric body which survives is the real body
and the body which holds the physical body together
during life on earth. Death is simply the severance
of this psychical body or structure from the physicat
body. This physical body returns to earth, and
the etheric body, controlled by the mind, continues
to function in the etheric world which, though within
and also without the physical, yet cannot be apprec-·
iated by us so long as we are inhabitants of the
physical body. Our range of sight and touch are toO>
confined for us to appreciate these finer vibrations.
44 On the Edg e of the Ethe1
·ic.
Individuality, therefore, continues apart from
physical matter ; we still think apart from the physical
:as we now think, as the small quantity of mind which
-
each one of us has is the same when it is acting on
the etheric body alone.
\Ve therefore continue to exist as separate
ithinking units in the etheric world much as we do
to-day; but, with new surroundings and with the
same capacity for expanding thought as we have here,
-
our minds develop, and probably develop more
rapidly, apart from physical matter.
It will be seen from the conversations I have had
with those who have passed on that-our etheric bodies
·are similar to our present bodies, and that is the
logical conclusion, when we admit what has been said
·before, namely, that the etheric holds the physical
·particles together. This body, moreover, has
weight as well as form, as weight is 6nly a question
'Of degree. In tlie etheric world weight, which in
the physical is determined by gravity, must there be
determined by some other force beyond our present
·knowledge.
We shall therefore have weight, form, individ-
uality and the same mind then as we have now,
·but what of our surroundings? As to these, we can
accept what we are told in these communications from
the etheric world, as "we can make certain logical
-deductions based on our physical surroundings . We
are told that the etheric world is similar to this world.
This world is composed of individuals and other
"living things. We ad_!Dit the logical conclusion from
our physical experiences that all living things are
:animated by this life force, and it is therefore not un-
I
,r--- I
On the Edge of the Etheric. 45>
reasonable to conclude that this force, combined with
mind, which has the power to act on physical matter
and produces what we experience in this physical,
world of ours, has doubtless the same power to
influence etheric matter to produce trees, animals ~
and other living forms in the etheric world, similar
to those we have in this physical world. It is, there-·
fore, not unreasonable to believe that the etheric
world contains trees, animals and flowers, and to aU.
intents and purposes is similar to this world, and that
when we make the change caUed <kath, we shall fin&
ourselves in a world very much like the one we live
in to-day, except that we shall not be encumbered;
by physical matter and consequently our brains will
be more active and our thoughts and movements.
quicker.
In this chapter I have tried to take the reader
one step further forward. Reference is frequently
made in later chapters to vibrations, and a general
knowledge that the universe is nothing more nor less.
than ether in different states of vibration is essential-
for an understanding of the new world about which.
it is my intention to tell you.
Until I was able to grasp the fact that here illi
this physical world of ours we sensed ether only at
certain fixed rates of vibration, and that these were
infinitesimal compared with its other vibrations, I
could not comprehend the possibility of another·
world of life and form and feature about and around
us. When we can come to realise our own limita-
tions, then we can find room in our minds for some-
thing greater and beyond the boundaries set up by
our limited physical sense organs. About and arouncf.
46 On the Edge of the Etheric.
us, interpenetrating this physical world, there is
.another world into which we pass at death. It has
been described to me by those who have spoken to
me from it, but only in language suited to our finite
minds. When asked how best to explain it to others
I was toid to compare it to a sea of ether, wherein
personal movement is even more rapid and easy thau
that of a fish in water. Let us take, for example, the
sea in which are floating sponges entirely submerged.
Surrounding these sponges is a medium which
supports life, and so the spirit world can be contrasted
to water SiUrrounding our earth, except for the differ-
ence that the sponge absorbs only some of the water,
whereas the etheric world is not only outside our I
earth but inside as well ; interpenetrates is the only
word we have to describe something real inside some-
thing else which is real.
Sir Oliver Lodge, in Ether and Reality, makes
use of another illustration. '' If space is completely
''full of substance, and.if that substance is of great
' ' density, a difficulty has sometimes been felt as to
''the possibility of locomotion, whether indeed motion
"was possible in a plenum. The difficulty is not a
"real one. Resistance to motion is due to viscosity,
'' not to density ; and the ether certainly has no
''viscosity : it is not at all like treacle, it is perfectly
•' limpid. Density is no cause of friction, but it is a
'' cause of inertia, and inertia is just what moving
'' bodies exhibit. While as to motion through a
"substance of which Space is already full, one need
•' only point out that a fish can move freely in the
" depths of ocean. This difficulty is imaginary ; or,
''in so far as it is genuine, it can be countered in
•( h ,
ot er ways.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 47
Vve are so made that in the physical body we
are in harmony with physical surroundings. At death
we leave our physical body and function in our etheric
body ; we pass into the new environment which
surrounds us, an environment which supports life,
just as water supports life. We on earth here are in
this sea of ether, though we know it not, just as much
now as we shall ever be. The difference death makes
to us is not change of location but change of apprecia-
'tion. We now only appreciate the physical, then
we shall appreciate the etheric, and only when we
desire to do so shall we again get into touch with the
physical, as the physical pertains to physical matter,
and the etheric to etheric matter, each in his own
order, the only difference being that they of the
etheric world can come back to us at will, see us and
appreciate us and our surroundings. We can only
listen to what is told us and try to imagine. Vve are
like a blind person here on earth ; we cannot see but
can hear, and from what we are told imagine as best
we can.
48 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER III.
MIND AND MATTER.
Whatever that be which thinks, understands, wills, and acts, it is
something celestial and divine. Cicero.
To-DAY we can comprehend the Universe in a way
as never before. It may now be legitimately assumed
it had no beginning and will have no end, that the
universe reduced to reality is motion of which the
speed of light is the only speed we know, as all other
speeds are relative. To say that the universe is
just motion and nothing more is to some reducing
reality to absurdity, so let me put it thus. The
universe is made up of varying degrees of motion
from, let us say, physical matter to mind, some of
which appeals to us physical beings and is termed
physical matter, w.hile there is much ···hich goes past
us making no appeal to our senses. Constant change
must be going on through this vast region, physical
matter radiating itself into non-visible matter, if we .
use the word matter for the effect this motion has on
mind.
Those who look on the universe as made up
only of physical matter, and nothing more, take the
view that it is running down and some day physical
matter will cease to exist ; but tha-t is a much too
limited view. From my psychic experiences I prefer
to consider physical matter as only part of the
universe, and that just as the sun, for instance, is
slowly radiating itself out of sight, so other worlds
are forming by the slowing down of motion, and thus
new physical worlds are slowly becoming visible to
the physical eye. The universe is constantly chang-
ing, physical worlds, such as Nebulce, being slowly
On the Edge of the Etheric. 49
born to be seen by us physical people, whilst others
like the sun are going back again to the matter they
came from. - "
It is so diffic lt to discus a subject which
resolves itself into motion, something so intangible,
but matter is motion and motion is matter. Matter,
therefore, is the universe, it makes up the universe,
it is everywhere in the universe, there is no place
anywhere where it is not, it never had a beginning,
and it will never have an end, it is in constant move-
ment, evolving or devolving from our point of view.
There is no such thing as empty space. This matter
which in certain states of motion appeals to us as
physical matter, in other states of motion appeals to
those in the etheric world just as physical matter
appeals to us. Consequently they have their
tangible world just as we have qurs, and so on; how
many different worlds or places of habitation there
may be depends on mind. Without mind there is
nothing ; only when mind is present is there any
realisation of matter, physical or etheric.
It might therefore be logical to say that where
mind is not then there is no matter, that the universe
therefore can be reduced to this one something, to
which we give the name Mind ; but can we conceive
mind without something to act upon ? We only
appreciate mind when acting on matter, so mind and
matter, though different-one the active, the other
the passive--must be co-related. The name we give
to the substance which makes up the universe,
namely Matter, must therefore include these active
and passive states ; it must be dual in nature, as
one without the other is impossible to imagine.
n
50 On the Edge of the Etheric.
So mind and matter are thus linked together ;
to think of the one without the other is impossible.
Mind, this something which appreciates matter and
can influence matter, is the dominant force or motion
in the Universe. I must use the words force or
motion as I can find no others. Mind is as much a
part of the universe as physical and etheric matter ;
it can have had no beginning, neither can it have an
end ; its property is its capacity to develop and en-
large thought, or, in other words, its capacity of
forming itself into objects seen or imaginei:l and of
causing movement. To us mind is experienced in
conjunction with physical matter, and as this book
proceeds it will be found in conjunction with etheric
matter as well ; but what its history is who can tell?
We doubtless only experience mind in a most limited
form ; what it has performed in
- the past or is per-
forming elsewhere beyond our ken, what physical
being can say?
Movement denotes mind. Is therefore all the
motion which appeals to our senses and to which we
give the name matter governed by mind ? Where
does the realm of mind begin ? Does a stone contain
a mind? Our physicists tell us a stone is in a constant
state of movement, electrons and protons in rapid
orderly vibration. If it does contain or is influenced
by mind, it must be mind in its crudest and lowest
form ; but we should be unwise to rule the suggestion
out of court. Certainly what constituted a stone
can become the habitation of mind, as when by rain
and frost it slowly becomes earth, it produces grass,
which cows eat, to become milk, which builds bodies,
which mind controls. We, therefore, cannot be
On the Edge of the Etheric. 51
dogmatic as to where mind is or where 1t 1s not,
though we may be on safe ground in accepting pro-
visionally that where growth and development are
there also is mind. When, therefore, we look about
us we can see mind in all states of development, from
the humblest fungus, to the mind which controlled
the hand which wrote the greatest tragedy ever
written by man, King L ear.
We are only just discerning the real universe
and its make up, and the King of this unlimited
region, namely Mind, is only just becoming dimly
appreciated.. Truly the search after the ultimate by
humanity has been a long and broken one, and many
have been the byways traversed, and the mistakes
made, before reaching to even our present day
assumptjons ; but these speculations have much to
justify them, hough it is unwise, without further
knowledge, to ress too far or too fast.
As the etheric universe becomes more and
more revealed to us, so shall we be prepared to grasp
the universe more as a whole and not look at it purely
from the physical standpoint. This limited outlook
will never explain the universe, time and space will
for ever baffle us, and only by including the etheric,
and mind, will the Riddle of the universe ever be
explained. Sir James Jeans, in The Mysterious
Universe, remarks that " Mind no longer appears as
1 1
an accidental intruder into the realm of matter ; we
'' are beginning to suspect that w.e ought rather to
'' hail it as the creator and governor of the realm of
"matter." Modern science is thus slowly moving
towards what may be called the larger view of the
universe, and in time the etheric will take the larger
.52 On the Edge of the Etheric.
place, and the physical will shrink into relative m-
significance. All togetherl however, must be in-
cluded to make up the true picture, and mind, with
its capacity to construct, to think and to remember,
mu~t be given its rightful place as the all-governing
power of the universe. " God is a spirit, infinite,
eternal and unchangeable '' : so runs the Scottish
Shorter Catechism. To-day, with our larger know-
ledge, we might say more correctly : Mind is infinite,
eternal, always changing, always developing, always
creating new forms from old, never at rest.
Physical and etheric matter, gm~:erned by mind,
thus make up the universe, and so far as is known
there is nothing beyond or above. \Vherever mind
is, there will be found physical or etheric matter, so
it becomes impossible to imagine a limited universe ;
it must be as unlimited as is mind, as mind cannot
operate on nothing. Mind and matter must go to-
gether ; no mind, then no matter ; thus, so long
and wherever mind exists, there must also be matter.
The universe is then only limited if we limit
mind ; wherever mind can penetrate there will be
found matter. Can we set bounds to mind? An
individual omnipresent mind could encompass, com-
prehend and grasp the entire universe ; to it the
universe would be comprehensible. Does such an
individual mind exist, and is such a mind possible for
us tt> comprehend? No, of course it is not, because
the finite cannot comprehend the infinite ; yet this
infinite mind may exist.
Have we therefore now reached the ultimate by
such a postulate? N~, because that all-encompassing
individual mind must be the product of the universal
On the Edge of the Etheric. 53
mind ; it might be capable of comprehending all, but
not of controllng all. It can only comprehend from
what it came, but to conclude that it can control the
universe is illogical. It is unreasonable to contend
that it can control that from which it developed.
We must therefore fall back on the universal
mind, as all that we can logically term omnipotent,
omnipresent, infinite and eternal. The Universal
Mind is the ultimate-It is God, the First Cause, the
Creator and the Sustainer of the universe.
Each one of us has our share of this universal
mind, and to what heights of wisdom we individual
minds may attain, none on earth can say; but
development can and will continue, if we have the
desire, not only here on earth, but in the etheric
world, which each one of us will reach in time.
54 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER IV.
THE MEDIUM .
An honest man's the noblest work of God.-Pope.
Mr. John C. Sloan, in whose presence the ex-
periences I have to relate occurred, is a middle-aged
man, of slight build and a quiet manner. He has
rather a dreamy expression, and when sitting still and
not speaking or taking part in a conversation he
seems to lose touch with his surroundings. At these
times his eyes take on a far-away look, and when
spoken to he is palpably startled. He enjoys quite
good health, and at his work few would notice certain
peculiarities, which become marked in his own house
when his work is finished. When he has nothing
special to occupy his attention this dreamy state seems
to take hold of him and he becomes .-absent-minded
and forgetful. Except for this he is like any other
healthy normal individual.
All his life he has been aware that supernormal
occurrences took place in his immediate surroundings.
In his youth he was often disturbed by rappings and
strange voices which he could not understand, and
during the past thirty years these have developed
into manifestations of a general and vc:ried nature.
His mediumship during these years has embraced
trance, telekinesis, apports, direct voice, materialisa-
·tion, clairvoyance and clairaudience. These have
varied in degree year by year, but his friends
generally agree that fifteen years ago his mediumship
was at its best. To those who have had little ex-
perience of these phenomena, let me explain. Trance
is a state of unconscio~sness certain abnormal people
On the Edge of the Eth.eric. 55
experience. It might be compared to falling into a
deep sleep with a short intenr--al between consciousness
and unconsciousness. It is, however, more than
sleep ; it is a much deeper state of unconsciousness ;
the personality is withdrawn to a greater extent, and
the body is more insensible to pain. .A person in
trance can be better compared to one under an ances-
thetic than to one in sleep, with this difference, the
trance state may last for from two to three hours and
be repeated several times a week without any ill effect
being noticeable. When Sloan is in this state he
speaks, but it would be more correct to say that his
vocal organs vibrate the atmosphere, as no one can
be with him long while this is taking place and think
that his own personality is responsible for what is
said. The voice is different and the accent is different,
and much of what is said is quite outside his range of
knowledge. Clairaudience and Clairvoyance are the
powers some have of hearing what to others is
inaudible and seeing what is normally unseen. Clair-
audience is a mental faculty, and Clairvoyance is due
to a more extended vision than most of us possess.
Telekinesis is the word used for the movement of
o~jects without the use of any known force. · Apports
are objects brought from one room to another, or
from a distance to where the medium is, by some
invisible agency.
What is called the Direc~ Voice is the special
subject of this book. In the medium's presence, but
quite apart from him, voices, claiming to be those of
deceased people, speak, and when replied to answer
back intelligently, showing that there is not only a
mind behind the voice but that the intelligence is able
56 On the Edge of the Etheric.
to hear as well as to speak. When first experiencing
this phenomena I naturally thoug ,t that the medium
was impersonating people, as when these voices speak
it is generally in the dark, and what could be easier
than that he should be tricking me and others into
believing that we were speaking to the spirits of our
departed friends ?
On the first occasion I experiencecl these voices
I was decidedly suspicious, and yet as the seance
went on I wondered how it would be possible for any
man, even if he had accomplices, to carry on such an
imposture for over three hours. Thirty separate
voices spoke that night, of different tone and accent,
they gave their names, their correct earth addresses
and spoke to the right people, were recognised, and
referred to intimate family affairs. Never once was
a mistake made and the darkness really increased the
evidence in favour of the genuineness of the whole
proceedings, as, difficult as it would be to remE>mber
everyone's departed friends and relations and their
family affairs in the light, it would be doubly so in
the dark, because fifteen people were present and the
medium would have to remember exactly where each
one was s1ttmg. The voice on every occasion spoke
in front of the person who recognised the name, the
earth address and the details which were given.
It was all very mystifying, and the fact that
sometimes two or three voices spoke at once did not
make it less so. There must be accomplices, I
thought, and not only that but a regular system of
gathering information. How it could be done in so
thorough a manner was the question, but yet; on the
other hand, how could the dead speak? Even if
On the Edge of the Etheric.
they lived again their physical vocal organs
certainly buried, and how could the atmospher&,. --------
vibrated without a physical bodily instrument ? :N"C;,
nothing so impossible could happen. I had heard of
frauds and impostors, but never of the dead speaking,
so the balance was certainly in favour of fraud.
So ran my thoughts that memorable night of
the 20th September 1918, when suddenly a voice
spoke in front of me. I felt scared. A man sitting-
next to me said " Someone wants to speak to you,
f · d " I ·a " v h ? " " v
nen , so sa1 es, w o are you. our
father, Robert Downie Findlay,'' the voice replied,
and then went on to refer to something that only he
and I and one other ever knew on earth, and that
other, like my father, was some years dead. I was.
therefore the only living person with any knowledge-
of what the voice was referring to. That was extra-
ordinary enough, but my surprise was heightened
when, after my father had finished, another voice
gave the name of the other person who on earth knew
about the subject, and this voice continued the con-
versation which my father had begun. No spy
system, however thorough, no impersonation by the-
medium or by any accomplices, could be responsible
for this, and moreover I was an entire stranger to-
everyone present. I did not give my name when I
entered the room, I knew no one in that room, and'
no one knew me or anything about me.
That was my first introduction to John C. Sloan
and the Direct Voice, and after the seance was over
I asked him if I could come back again, as I was.
anxious to know more about this subject. " Cer-
tain.ly, any time you care to come I shall be pleased
.>8 On the Edge of the Etheric.
to see you," was his reply, and I turned to someone
standing near and asked how much I should pay Mr.
Sloan. I have always remembered the reply. "If
you suggest such a thing as paying him he will be
·deeply offended ; he does this as a duty, not to make
money out of his mediumship.'' That did not
impress me as the method adopted by a fraud.. Hov,·
·could a working man-earning a few pounds a week, I
wondered, afford the time and the money to gather
.all the information I heard given to the people present
.that evening? I was so impressed with my strange
experience that I went home that night and wrote till
the small hours of the next morning a careful account
of all that occurred at this my first seance, and this
practice I have constantly adopted, unless I had a
stenographer present.
Slowly, but steadily, I came to understand that
what I thought was impossible really was possible,
what I thought could not occur did occur, that those
I thought were deae were very much alive, that they
had bodies of finer texture but similar in form to our
<Own, and that the medium gave off a substance which
enabled them to materfalise their etheric mouth and
throat and tongue and again vibrate our atmosphere.
Further, I learned that as physical life can only gather
round it matter, in the initial stage before birth, in
the dark, so darkness was required to enable materiali-
sation to take place from the substance drawn from
the medium. This I learned only slowly and after
I had given much ti~ and thought to the subject,
but before I tried to know how it was all accomplished
I set myself to prove the medium's honesty. This
I did in many ways. After that first night many
On the Edge of the Etheric. 59
friends who had died spoke to me, giving their names
and correct addresses on earth, and told me things
which no one present except myself could have
known. Then I thought it might all be telepathy1
though how telepathy could vibrate the atmosphere
:as a voice which I recognised, I could not understand.
However1 I wished to leave no stone unturned to get
the truth1 and so I waited to see how long this theory
would hold the field. It was not long till it, like the
fraud theory, had to go also. Friends came and
spoke to me, and told me things that not only no one
present knew but that I did not know myself, and
never have known. These things I found on enquiry
to be correct, so thought transference between my
.conscious or subconscious mind and that of the
medium was ultimately ruled out.
I next decided to take the_first opportunity to sit
beside the meditim., and when a voice was speaking
to put my ear right up to his mouth. I held his
hands from the beginning of the seance' and when a
voice spoke I put my ear close to his mouth . I felt
his breath, my ear and his lips were just touching,
but not a sound was to be heard. This I have done,
not once or twice, but many times until finally I was
<Convinced that the phenomena of the direct voice was
not only genuine but that those who spoke were those
they said they were, our friends and relations, who,
though parted from their physical garment, continue
to live a life much as we do here, and wHen able to
gather sufficient ectoplasm from a human being ,
<Called by us a medium, can, by lowering their vibra-
tions, vibrate our atmosphere, speak to us, and hear
us when we reply.
60 On the Edge of the Etheric.
After twelve years' intimate experience of Mr.
John C . Sloan and having sat with most of the other
leading mediums in this country and America, I can
say with conviction that he is the best Trance, Direct
Voice, Clairvoyant and Clairaudient medium I have
ever sat with. Though trance utterances never
appeal to me as does the Direct Voice, yet his powers
in this direction are remarkable. His power of
hearing clairaudiently is extraordinary, especially his
faculty of getting the names and addresses of those
speaking,' which most mediums find most difficult to
do. If he had been willing to give his gifts to the
public he would have been known as one of this
country's most famous mediums, instead of which he
has preferred having his friends to his house for an
evening once a week or so and giving them the
pleasure of meeting again those of their acquaintances
who have passed beyond the veil. H e is retiring to
a degree and modest in the extreme. H e cares
nothing for the praise which so often comes at the end
of such an evening. He always gives me the im-
pression that he dislikes these seances and only holds
them as a duty. I know that, if left to himself. he
never would exercise his mediumistic faculties . His
sense of duty and kindness of heart are the ~eason~
why his friends have been so specially privileged.
I know no man more honourable, of kinder
heart, or with more of the old Scottish type of
independence. So long as he can get work he wilt
never take money in exchange for his gift. He has
had his ups and downs, and though a good anrl trust-
worthy workman, on occasions, through no fault of
his own, he has been out of work. On one occasiem
I
On the Edge of the Etheric. 61
Mr. McCully (some of whose experiences are re-
corded in Chapter IX), who was one of the regular
attenders at his weekly seances, told me that when
Mr. Sloan had been out of work for some time a
proposal was made that he should take something
from those who came, and that they might bring
others also who would gladly pay. Very reluctantly
he agreed to give three seances on these terms, but
after the second he refused to give the last. " I
have now got a job," was his reply, " and I shall
never again take money for my mediumship, if I can
get work to enable me to support my family.'' The
third seance was, however, held only on the condition
that no payment was made.
Such i::; John C . Sloan, quixotic, yes; stubborn,
yes ; but only in what to him is a matter of conscience.
No one need ask him for permission to be present at
a seance and fear refusal ; no one need fear that he
will be made to feel that a favour is being granted.
To Sloan, his duty is to give his gift to those who
need it, but no money need be offered, as it would not
be accepted.
It may be considered extraordinary that a man
with such gifts should be so little known, but this is
entirely due to hi,s modesty and retiring disposition.
He hates publicity of any kind ; he is so shy that on
occasions when I have asked him to give my own
friends a sitting in the Seance Room at the offices of
the Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, he has
asked me not to introduce him, just to let him come
in, take his s~at, and then have the lights put out.
He is at his ease only when in hi~ own house, his
own friends gathered round him, and the seance
62 On the Edge of the Etheric.
takes the form of a religious meeting, ae to him it
is a holy communion with the unseen. His reward,
he says, is in sending away some sorrowing one with
the knowledge that life continues beyond this world,
and that he has been the means of bringing together a
bereaved mother or widow and a son or husband who
has passed into the beyond. To'see their happiness
after he comes out -
of trance at the end of a seance is.
to him ample rew;ard for all his trouble. Hundreds
upon hundreds have received this comfort and con-
solation through his instrumentality. He only claims
to be an instrument ; he says he knows nothing a:;
to how it all comes about ; he has read little on the
subject, and as he is in trance throughout the seance,
he knows nothing of what takes place.
Had Sloan been made in a different mould, he
could have made an easy living by his gift and become
known as one of our most famous mediums ; but he
has been content to live simply by the labour of his
hands, earning a few pounds a week. He has
brought up a large family in a small but comfortable
house in one of the working class districts of Glasgow,
and often he has a hard struggle to make ends meet.
He performs his daily work conscientiously and well,
and his employer, who often was pre:;ent at his
meetings, considered him one of his best and most
trustworthy workmen.
Such is the man I met that evening, now over
twelve years ago. I was then ushered)nto a smaH
room, in which were gathered over a dozen people,
and after some preliminary conversation, we sat down
in a circle, Sloan on the music-stool beside a smaU
harmonium. The lights were put out and the room
On the Edge of the EtJ-~,eric. 63
was in complete darkness. After a preliminary
prayer, Sloan turned round and played several hymns
in which we all joined, but before the last was finished
he became controlled by an entity who goes under the
picturesque name of '' Whitefeather,'' but was
usually addressed by us as '' Whitie,'' a most amusing-
personality, who says that when on earth he was a
Red Indian Chief, that he lived in the " Rockies "
and therefore thinks our Scottish scenery tame in
companson.
During the sitting Sloan, so far as I could judge,
remained seated on the stool. Voices of all degrees.
of strength and culture spoke, from what appeared
to be all parts of the room, but it was difficult to say
where they actually originated, as in the centre of the-
circle were two megaphones, or trumpets, each
about two and a half feet long, and from the metallic
ring of the voice it was evident that they were
occasionally being used to spe; through. -All the
time the two trumpets, when not being used to speak
through, went round the circle touching each one
gently. Someone would be lightly touched on the·
point of the nose, another on the top of the head,
another's hand would be touched, and so on-never
a hard knock. At request, any part of the body·
would be touched without a mistake, without any
fu~bling, a clean, gentle touch, an impossible feat
for any human being to do in pitch darkness, as I
have proved on various occasions. Lights, about
the size of half-crowns, of a phosphorescent appear-
ance, were continually moving about the room at all
angles.
Looking over my records I find that I have·
.()4 On the Edge of the Etheric.
notes of forty-three different seances at which either
I or my friends had conversations with those who
.claimed to have known us when on earth, thirty-nine .
.of which have been with Sloan, four with other
mediums. I have also witnessed, at different times,
the same phenomena with the leading direct voice
mediums, both in this country and in the United
States, so I think I may claim to have sufficient ex-
perience to enable me critically to examine the phen-
<>mena and record my conclusions. As I say, I have
notes of thirty-nine different seances with Sloan ;
eighty-three separate voices have spoken to me, or
to personal friends I have brought with me : two
hundred and eighty-two separate communications
have been given to me or to them ; one hundred and
eighty of these I class '' Al,'' as it was impossible
for the medium or any other person present to have
known about them ;- one hundred I class as " A2,"
as by means of the newspaper or reference books
the medium could have found them out. One item
of information given me I have not had the oppor-
tunity of verifying, and only one I have found to be
incorrect. This latter was right up to a point, but
as it was a message given me by a voice on behalf
()f another, it is possible it was wrongly delivered.
If it had been delivered in a slightly altered form, it
would have been correct, so I think that this one
exception need not invalidate in any way the other
items I have had correctly given.
Within the last few years changes have occurred
in Mr. Sloan's life. His daughters married, and his
sons went to sea, so that he found living alone
monotonous. His wife's people were sea-faring folk,
-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 65
so his sons followed the same calling. He also had
all his life a longing for the same life, and as he had
no ties to keep him on shore, he too followed his
sons and joined an Atlantic liner as Master-at-Arms,
which position he held for some years, when he
decided to again come and live on shore. He is
now employed with one of the leading business
houses in Glasgow, but continues to give seances to
his friends. Only occasionally, however, does he now
exercise his gift of mediumship, as his health is not
so good as it used to be.
It seems strange that a man of such exceptional
gifts should, for all practical purposes, be unknown
to the world, but so it is. It can only be attributed
to his persistent refusal to accept money and become
a public medium, and nothing will change him from
this course. He writes to me at times and I hear of
him through mutual friends, but we seldom meet
now, as living in England I am only occasionally in
Scotland. I have, however, my notes to remind me
of the many interesting and instructive times I spent
in his presence, and all my life I shall be grateful to
him for the kindness and courtesy he has always
shown me. I look back on the night we first met,
and feel that I was there in the position of one who
was looking for something and had not found it, but
that night he gave me the chance of finding what I
had been seeking, the proof positive that we still live
beyond this narrow vale called life, and that, when
the end of earth life comes, we not only enter a larger
and fuller one but also join again those we once loved
here. For this my life-long gratitude will always be
felt towards John C. Sloan.
E
66 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER V.
THE SEANCE.
Science is bound by the everlasting law of honour to face fearlessly
every problem which can fairly be presented to it. Kelvin.
THE reader has now been introduced to the medium,
so the next step forward is to describe what
takes place at a seance. What parts do the medium
and the sitters play? The medium, in this case,
lives in a small but comfortable house near one of
the busiest thoroughfares of the city, but quite far
enough away to be clear of the noise of the ceaseless
traffic. The door of his house leads the visitor into
a passage, and on the left hand side there is· a bed-
room and a kitchen. On the right hand side is his
sitting-room where the seances are held. Usually
from 10 to 15 people gather on such occasions, but
the arrangements are not made by the medium. He
has nothing whatever to do with who is to be present
or not. Mr. McCully, who holds a responsible
position in a leading Glasgow business, for quite a
long time took the responsibility of making up the
gatherings. Those present varied week by week,
and usually half the company were people who had
come for the first time or had only been occasionally
before. The nucleus of the circle only was composed
of regular sitters and these helped in the results. as
it will always be found that those who sit regularly
are able to help by influencing the conditions. Har-
mony is the most essential cpndition necessary for a
successful seance, and I have al~ays found that the
best results are obtained when those present are in
harmony with each other and when only good feeling
On the Edge of the Etheric. 67
exists. When people are present who dislike each
other or are flustered or in any way excited, the con-
ditions are adversely affected. For that reason it is.
unwise for a party of novices to gather together in
the presence of a highly-developed medium and
expect good results for the first time ; that is im-
possible, and for that reason it has been found that
it was always wise to have as many regular visitors.
as possible to keep conditions good, and yet allow
strangers, to come and get the experiences or the
comfort such a seance gives. The regular sitters.
have passed through the doubting and sceptical stage,
the stage that every thinking person goes through.
They have had their own experiences of their friends~
return. They maintain a placid attitude and this
helps to counteract any adverse influence of one or
more of the strangers present. ·
Those who attend seances are always hearing-
about vibrations. Even outside the seance we are
becoming accustomed to think in terms of vibrations,
and the discovery of wireless has done more to
educate the public on the question of vibrations than
any other discovery made by man. We have already
discussed the ether, and every thinking person knows.
that our wireless set will not give such good results
on some days as on others. However good the trans-
mission may be and however good our receiving set
may be, it can be adversely affected by what are
called oscillations. Now the person who oscillates
and annoys us in this manner upsets out wireless.
conditions just as does the person who goes into a
seance room hostile or angry. The ether plays an
equally large part in the seance room as it does with
68 On the Edge of the Etheric.
our wireless instrument. It may seem strange to
some when I say that our spirit or etheric body, which
is an exact duplicate of our physical body, affects the
.ether surrounding it. Each one of us vibrates the
ether in his or her own particular way. From the
body of each one of us is emanating vibrations of a
different degree. The vibrations of a man or woman
in anger are different from those of a man or woman
at peace. The vibrations of a man or woman who
enters the seance room in a definitely hostile attitude
so affect the conditions that phenomena occur less
easily. I know that it is often thought and said by
people who investigate in this spirit that they never
get results, and then they think that these results
cannot possibly occur to others. If such people
would only realise that a critical and keenly active
mind does not upset conditions, and that they are not
expected or asked to put their reason in their pocket
when they enter the seance room! I personally have
never done so. I am as keenly critical to-day as I
ever was, and if anything occurred in the seance room
of a suspicious nature I think I should be one of the
first to notice it, and yet I generally get extremely
good evidence of a super-normal nature.
I prefer to treat the medium as I do any other
person I meet. Because someone is a medium it
does not follow that he is a rogue and a knave. I
admit that amongst mediums, as amongst every other
dass of life, there are rogues and knaves. T have
met dishonest mediums just as I have met dishonest
people in my business and social life. Would we
trust our body to every man who says he has the
power to heal it? Certainly not. Vvre use our reason
On the Edge of the Eth11ric. 69
and our discretion, and if we are foolish we shall
probably suffer by letting our bodies be treated by
someone who professes to be able to do something
he has not the capacity to perform. Likewise, when
you meet a medium, treat him as you would treat any
other person you meet. If it is a trance sitting you
are having in the daylight, judge by what is said
as to whether it is super-normal or not. Judge as
to whether it is possible for him or her to have
obtained the information normally or not, and weigh
up the pros and cons in a judicial manner. Likewise,
when sitting in the dark seance room for direct voice
phenomena, make certain first of all that the medium
is not himself speaking, and besides this weigh up
the communications you receive and find from them
as to whether there is evidence in them of a per-
sonality apart from the medium and evidence also of
the personality who purports to be speaking·. This
has been my plan throughout, keenly critical and yet
never hostile, and so I have surrounded myself in
consequence by what we term the best conditions.
These are the conditions which surround the regular
sitters at Sloan's seances. They emanate vibratio.ns.
which make it possible for those on the other side to
get through to us even if there should be another
person present who is hostile. If his " oscillation ,.
is not too strong, the emanations from the other
sitters are strong enough to counteract his adverse
emanations, and satisfactory results follow .
Some people, however, even though they may
not be hostile, never get results, through no fault of
their own. We meet people in daily life whom we
instinctively dislike, we know not why. These
•70 On the Edge of the Etheric.
people may be liked by others with perfect justifica-
tion, but, so far as we are concerned, they rub us up
the wrong way, so to speak. )f we said they upset - ·
<Our vibrations it would be more correct. We are not
harmonious and we do not get on together, and so it
is that some people never get results because they
emanate vibrations which make it impossible for those
on the other side to get through to them. The vibra-
tions of the two personalities clash and spoil the
necessary conditions. That is why some people are
bad sitters and others are good sitters. The average
person can get on with most people in daily life, but
there are others who are always rubbing people up
the wrong way or being rubbed up the wrong way
by those they meet, and that is why some people
are able to get into contact with these finer vibrations
while others cannot do so. Probably the great
majority are in a similar position to myself in this
respect; in fact , judging by the communications I
have heard pass between people at seances and those
of the other world, by far the majority must be similar
to myself, but we cannot overlook the fact that there
are certain individuals so constituted that they do not
get on with other people here on earth , their vibra-
tions being at variance, and so when they go into a
seance room they repel any attempt being made by:
those other-world people to get in touch with them.
I must not be thought to mean that the conditions
are exactly similar, because they ~re not. Some of
the nicest and most agreeable people find it impossible
to get results ; what I mean is that, with .our earth
experience of different people, it can be better under-
stood how it is that some people may be good sitters
On the Edge of the Etheric. 71
and others may not be. Good sitters emanate vibra-
tions which enable those attempting to communicate
to get through their communications. The bad
sitters emanate vibrations which make it impossible
for this to occur. That is why it is eminently
desirable to get people sitting together emanating
vibrations which do not clash one with the other.
Harmony is the aim ; harmony is as necessary as a
powerful medium, and that is what we have always
tried to cultivate at these Sloan sittings.
Nothing helps better to engender harmonious
conditions than music. Musical vibrations, though
they are carried by the atmosphere and not by the
ether, have an indirect effect on the vibrations we send
out into the ether, and so it is that we start our seances
by singing, accompanied by the harmonium. Sloan
prefers hymns to secular music, but this is not neces-
sary. Any music has the desired effect, but at
Sloan's seances hymns only are sung, and if con-
ditions become tense and voices become weak
throughout the sitting, we sing again. This has
generally the desired effect, namely, the improving
of the means of communication between the two sides.
After the people assemble and engage in a pre-
liminary talk, we sit down in a circle, the medium
being one of us ; men and women as much as possible
alternate, as here again conditions are helped by
having the grosser and the finer vibrations of the two
sexes mixed. In the centre of the circle are placed
two megaphones which have already been described.
Conversation is general and encouraged, as talking
helps conditions. There is generally a preliminary
prayer, then a hymn, but before the first hymn is
72 On the Edge of the Etheric.
finished the medium has often relapsed into silence,
and his head gradually nods just as if he were going
to sleep. His right hand is taken hold of by the
person sitting on his right side and nis left hand by
the person on his left. The light is put out and we
all join hands, forming a chain, and sit like this
throughout the proceedings. The singing continues ;
after the first hymn another is sung, but by the time
the third is finished Sloan is in deep trance and we
hear mutterings coming from his mouth. These
mutterings gradually assume more detail and we hear
words being formed, indistinctly at first, but gradually
becoming more and more distinct and better heard.
Then with a shout Whitefeather, the control,
announces his presence '' Good evening, friends,
Whitefeather here now, medium's spirit out of his
body and me in control, me hear alright, me can make
his mouth speak what me want to say. Good
evening, everybody." Such is generally his saluta-
tion, and we all say " Good evening, Whitie," and
express our pleasure at hearing him speak again.
Usually the first question we ask him is as to the
conditions, are they good or are they bad? Whitie
is a pessimist of the deepest dye. I have been told
that the pessimist is one who has always lived with
an optimist, and I think that Whitie's friends must
all be optimists because he invariably tells us that the
conditions are bad and that nothing will happen. v.,re
know, however, not to take this engaging personality
too seriously and we always try to take a brighter
view and say that we are sure things will come all
right. His pessimism is generally unjustified, but he
never seems to learn from experience, so I suppose
On the Edge of the Etheric. 73
we must hope that the condition is only temporary,
and that when he returns again to his abode with the
great majority at the end of the seance, his outlook
on life there is tinged with a less sombre hue.
However, his pessimism keeps us amused just as we-
can be amused by those on earth who are always.
looking on the black side of things. We try to
cheer him up and ask him what he has been doing-
since we last met' and the conversation proceeds in
an animated way, he replying in his quaint English
to our remarks. This proceeds for perhaps ten
minutes or a quarter of an hour, during which time,
so our pessimistic friend tells us, the people in his.
world are working to set up the means of communica-
tion by the Direct Voice. Vve wait patiently for the
result and are generally not kept too long in suspense.
The talking is proceeding when suddenly a strong
voice from somewhere up in the ceiling speaks to us.
wishing us '' Good evening,'' to which we reply.
Of this new personality we then enquire if we can
expect good results , and receive the cheery response·
that conditions are good and it is hoped that those on
his side waiting to speak will manage to get through.
Then another voice speaks, telling someone perhaps.
not to sit with his legs crossed, or reference is made
to something which is of interest to someone present.
" Mr. Lang, I saw you and Mrs. Lang talking to-
your gardener yesterday." " Oh, really." replies
Mr. Lang. " Yes, you were telling him that you
wanted a rose tree taken from beside the house ~ncf
put in another part of the garden." " Well, my
friend, you are right, I did so ; ·is there anyrhing else·
you saw or heard? '' And so the conversation con-
'74 On the_Edge of the Etheric.
·tinues between the voice and Mr. Lang and ends up
by Mr. Lang saying " Well, my friend. though I
.did not see you, you must have been there, as every-
rthing you tell me occurred.' ' Then things become
more personal, a voice will speak in front of a person
present, claiming acquaintanceship, giving the name.
.and earth address, arid referring to some personal
matter.
I well remember an incident which was very
impressive. A voice spoke to a man sitting near me,
giving a woman's name to which he replied. She
then referred to his children by name and their various
temperaments, and gave some special advice as to
·how he should deal with the eldest boy who was
especially troublesome. Afterwards he told me the
voice was that of his recently deceased wife, and she
had spoken just as she would have done on earth, ..,
knowing all the characteristics of the family, and he
.concluded with these words : '' Neither the medium
nor anyone present knows anything about me or my
family."
Another woman's voice, on this occasion, also
spoke to a Colonel l'yicDonald saying she was his
·mother and had been with him at Communion the
previous day at Portree in Skye. He told me after-
wards no one present knew he had just arrived that
day from Portree ·and that he had attended Com-
munion there.
Everything is heard by us sitting listening,
.and so it goes on, one voice after another cuming up
in front of the person addressed and giving evidence
of his or her identity. We may hear, if conditions
are good, some thirty or forty different voices
On the Edge of the Etheric. 75
speaking to the people present, but if conditions are
bad only two or three voices speak, and these very
indistinctly. Invariably, however, the trumpets are
continually moving about the room when not being
spoken through. I have had them previously rubbed
with phosphorus and thus seen them floating round
the room and reaching as high as the ceiling. Sitters
are gently touched by them, and, on request, on any
part of the body, without mistake, and at the first
attempt. No fumbling, always the same clean,
gentle touch. Then they may give us a musical
interlude either by tapping the trumpets on the floor
or by tapping each together. Vve hear the trumpets
go right ·up to the ceiling and use the ceiling as a
drum. Lights of about the size and shape of -half-a-
crown are moving about the room most of the time,
but can never be caught. Always when you put out
your hand they move away. All this, be it remem-
bered, takes place in complete darkness and, nor-
mally, is impossible to accomplish. After a seance
I have sat down with others in the dark and we have
attempted to do with the trumpets what we have
experienced during the seance, but this point need not
be laboured as no one can see in the darkness, and
what the trumpets have done during the seance cannot
be done by any human being without the power of
sight. Similarly , no human being in the dark, holding
.a phosphorescent light, can tell when one of the sitters
-is going to snatch at it, and withdraw it in time.
These phosphorescent lights, like the trumpets, are
moved by intelligences to whom our darkness is non-
existent and who belong to a different order of light
from that which we now experience.
76 On the Ed[;;e of the Etheric.
After about three hours it becomes evident that
the time is coming when farewells will have to be"'
taken. The voices become less distinct and White-
feather tells us thjlt '' Not much further more can
be said," Whitefeather himself being the last to say
"G db "
oo - ye.
Gradually the medium comes out of the trance
condition. The lights are put up and he invariably
asks if we have had good results. _...Throughout it aU
he has been quite unconscious to everything that has
taken place, so the question is a natural one. Sloan
very quickly returns to normal. We discuss between
ourselves what has·taken place, and then we disperse.
Such is a de_:;cription of an average sitting with
this remarkable medium. .The next morning's news-
papers will have nothing to say of what occurred at
Sloan's house, though it was of vital interest and
importance to every member of the human race.
Wireless programmes of the foliowing evening will.
be eagerly read by wireless enthusiasts who are eager
to hear the voice of someone talking about matter~
relating to this world in which we live, but no account
will be found there of those talks we have had with
those of our friends who have liv,ed on this earth and
passed into another world, who are able to tell us.
how they are living and what their conditions are
now. \Ve are very much creatures of the present..
The next world, to many who think at all about it.
is so far away that it is not worth thinking about.
How few of us realise its nearness and the possibility.
given the required conditions, of getting information
and instruction which are equally useful and helpfuf
to the human race as anything that comes from a
human voice through our wireless transmitter.
- I
On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER VI.
THE VOICES.
77
I say with all the streng th and force at my command that there is
continuity of all life ; that nothing is ever lost; that communi-
cation is possible, and has been had with those in the after-life
in many ways. My effort has been to create a condition in which
it became possible for spirit-people to clothe with physical sub-
stance their organs of respiration, so they could talk to us when
in earth-life. It has been my privilege to hear their voices, best
of all methods, hundreds of times. Thousands of individuals
have spoken, using their own vocal organs, and I have answered.
From this source has come great knowledge, facts beyond the
learning of men, nor found in any books, and it is my privilege
to give_ t~m to you. Ra11dall.
IN the last chapter I gave a description of a seance
from our point of view ; in this I shall try to
describe it from the view-point of those who spoke
to us. What follows is not the product of my
imagination. I am telling as clearly as words permit
what has been told me by voices which did not belong
to this physical world of ours. Every word could be
heard distinctly and was taken down on paper at the
time.
Before, however, proceeding further, let us just
a.gain understand. a little more about ourselves and
our physical world. I have already said that much
would be said in this book about vibrations, and the
person who cannot think in terms of vibrations can no
more understand the universe in general and the
particular subject of this book than a man can under-
stand finance if he has no knowledge of arithmetic.
The entire universe is just one gigantic scale of vibra-
tions, but an infinitesimal number only affect our
senses. Let me make this clearer. When we see
an object, what we see is its vibrations. These
travel to us from the object by means of ether waves,
impinge on that extremely sensitive -organ, the eye,
78 On the Edge of the Etheric.
are thence conveyed to that other sensitive organ,
the brain, and from the brain to the minrl.. The
mind then transforms them into a mental image. Our
mind is composed of a plastic substance capable of
being moulded by these vibrations into a picture, so
that when we see a table it is really not the table we
see but the mental image formed _
in our mind by the
vibrations given off by the electrons in the atoms
which make up the table.
This will perhaps be better understood if we
again go back to our wireless set. We do not hear
the speaker's voice in our receiver. His voice
vibrates the atmosphere in the room from which he
broadcasts. These vibrations affect a dr1,.1m-like in-·
strument which in turn retards or accelerates an
electric current. This current sends off waves into
the ether which likewise retard or accelerate the
electric current passing through our aerial. This
electric current is passed through our receiving set to
our loud speaker, where it vibrates the drum of the
loud speaker. This vibration sets up vibrations in
the atmosphere in the room in which we are sitting,
which impinge on our ear drums, are thence con-
veyed to our brain, and then to our mind.
So with our sense of t01:1ch ; the vibrations an
article gives off after passing through our nerves and
brain vibrate our mind, and we have the sensation of
touch. Each different substance throws off a
different number of vibrations, and we can, by touch,
realise if we are holding a wooden object or a cotton
fabric, for instance ; but our sense of touch is not
nearly so acute as our sense of sight, so we sometimes
cannot by touch alone comprehend what we are
touching.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 79-t
Now the physical world is made up of a certain
range of vibrations which affect our senses, b~t these·
are only a very small number of the vibrations which
are known to exist. The vibrations which make up·
the physical world we can see vary from about
34,,000 to 64,000 waves to the inch, that is what is.
called the visible spectrum of the spectroscope,
between the Infra Red and the Ultra Violet.
This now brings me to the point I wish to make
clear, firstly, that we sense only waves between two·
fixed points, and secondly, that there are an enormous
number of vibrations above the Ultra Violet and
below the Infra Red, which exist though unsensed
by us. Now I come to what I· am told about the
means used to speak to us by what we call the Direct
Voice, by those who have lowered their vibrations
for a time and spoken to me on many subjects dealing·
with their order of life. How is it possible for their
higher vibrations to be reduced sufficiently to vibrate
our atmosphere ?
Let us consider the growth of a child from the
moment of conception to the time of death and then
what follows beyond, and if we do so correctly it all·
becomes much more simple to understand.
Conception is only possible when mind associ-
ates itself with matter. Mind is of a different order
from matter ; it is substance--we have no other name
for it-vibrating beyond the Ultra Violet. This.
finer substance unites a male cell with a female cell.
and then development begins.
In the dark, and this is only possible at first in
darkness as light would make this materialisation of
spirit impossible, .this finer substance gathers round~
it physical matter, or, in other words, matter vib-
:80 On the Edge of the Etheric.
rating between the Infra Red and the Ultra Violet.
This finer substance thinks from the 'very start, it
-forms the framework for the grosser matter to gather
round, until a body in due time is formed. After this
'body is strong enough to withstand our light vibra-
tions, it leaves the darkness and we have what is
.called birth. A spirit or a mind (either word will
do) has arrived to function in the physical world.
The process of development continues, physical
matter continues to be gathered round the etheric
framework and, along with physical growth, mental
_
growth goes on. This latter never stops, though,
as old age comes on, it is unable to function with the
·same ease. Individuality, however, is definitely
established, as to the mind belongs the qualitie•
which make us what we are. The physical brain is
nothing more than the covering to protect the mind
from physical vibrations till it is strong enough to
function through the etheric brain alone. To the
mind belongs the memory, the affections, in fact all
that makes up our character and personality.
At death the physical garment is discarded, to
return to earth whence it came ; the mind or spirit
-also returns to the environment whence it came. ·No
·change of location is necessary ; the spirit can remain
in what to us is the same room, or the same locality
in space, as where death or, we might say, the separa-
tion took place. As, however, the spirit really
belongs to a higher range of vibrations, it now
responds to them. It cannot respond to physical
vibrations, as this was only possible through the
physical body. It does not, after death, sense the
physical, only the etheric world. As, when the
1:
On the Edge of the Etheric. 81
spirit was here in this world, matter vibrating within
certain fixed limits impinged on the mind through tLe
physical body, so, there in the etheric world, vibra-
tions of a higher range impinge on the spirit body and
through it to the mind. The mind is then <l.ware only
of these higher vibrations ; it appreciates the finer
structure to which the physical body was attached;,
it is still aware of the form the body takes because
what developed on earth was built up on what the
mind conceived. The earth body attached itself to·
etheric substance, fashioned according to what the
mind directed, and so, when the physical body was
put aside, the same mind still persisted, the same
thou.ghts remained to give the spirit body character
and form ; the environment only was changed.
Mind is indestructible, mind persists though death
changes its covering and its environment, but the
spirit body has still the form it had on earth, thf'. mind
still thinks the same, and remembers its earth ex-
periences. Nothing is lost through death that is of
any value, only a new environment i9 reached, which
environment, from the point of location, is just where
death occurred.
Change of location, as we consider change in
this world, means nothing to the mind in its new
abode. Its location changes by the vibrations it
responds to. If the mind on earth is undeveloped, it
responds to a lower order of vibrations there. If the
mind, on the other hand, is more highly developed,
then it responds to a higher range, and so mind can
continue its development, always responding to
higher vibrations without change of location, but
unaware of the lower or the higher vibrations,to which
F
82 On the Edge of the Etheric.
it is not attuned. I do not mean that mind, when
freed from the physical, never changes its position
and is aware of a new environment only by responding
to higher or lower vibrations. By no mean9.
Movement in each plane of vibration is just as possible
as here on earth ; in fact, movement is much more
rapid . What it cannot do is to rise to a higher plane
of vibration than it is fitted to respond to. But it can,
by thought, respond to lower vibrations right back to
those of the physical world.
And so we now come to understand how what
occurs at a seance is both reasonable and natural.
They have their messengers in touch with earth, who
report that a seance is to be held, and the news is
carried more quickly than is information on earth.
The power of thought in these planes of higher vibra-
tions is beyond our capacity to comprehend. Those
who wish to speak lower their vibrations by gathering
round their mouth organs what is called ectoplasm
taken from the medium and the sitters. This I shall
now explain in greater detail.
To obtain the Direct or independent voice, we
require, in conjunction with those in the spirit world,
to make the necessary conditions, otherwise the
phenomena will not take place. They on the other
side require our co-operation just as much as we
require theirs. We are the passive, and they the
.active co-operators. We require an individual, the
medium, possesS<ed with certain vital forces or sub-
stances to some extent more than normal. To these
we, the sitters, supply our own normal forces or
vitality.
That constitutes our part in the proceedings ;
On the Edge of the Etheric. 83
the rest is done by those who are working with us
beyond the veil. As my investigations progressed,
so was I impressed with the complications of the
procedure, in the spirit world, necessary to produce
the conditions to make communication possible. A
group of spirits expert in the handling of organic
chemical substances work along with us. Im-
mediately we assemble, they get to work to do their
part. The group consists of a director of operations,
Qne or more chemists, one who moves the trumpet
in the direction a spirit wishes to speak, one who
gathers the substances from the medium and the
sitters by connecting them up with the chemist, who
draws from them the necessary material. This
extends from the medium and the sitters to a central
point, and the substance drawn from -them is
gathered by the chemist into an etheric bowl into
which he also adds etheric substances of his own.
Another of the group helps spirit newcomers to
j;peak, telling them what to do ; others bring spirits
into the circle, and Whitefeather, to whom I have
already referred, a Red Indian, considers himself the
most important of all, as he is detailed oft to give
warning when a seance is to take place, so that all
the operators may be present and at their posts.
Such is a general description of the modus
operandi of the independent _voice, on the physical
and on the etheric sides of life, but. given t;he
necessary conditions, what is the explanation of all
that takes place ?
First of all, we must accept their statement that
the etheric body is in every way a duplicate of the
physical body, both as regards all internal and
84 On the Edge of the Etheric.
external organs. In spirit life, communication takes
place in the same way as in earth life. The vocal
organs vibrate their atmosphere, the tongue moves,
the lungs draw in and expel the equivalent to our
air, everything proceeds as it proceeds here on earth,
the only difference being that it is all taking place in
matter of a much finer structure at a mnch more
rapid rate of vibration. Thus their vocal organs,
though they can operate in their etheric world. cannot
do so in our grosser world. Their texture is too fine
for them to have any effect on our atmosphere. New
conditions must be created in which vibrations are
slower. To obtain these, absolute darkness or sub-
dued red light is· necessary, as the rays of white light
break up and disintegrate those ;finer forces and sub-
stances with which they work. The best results are
obtained when the nights are clear and the atmos-
phere is free from moisture. At the best, the con-
ditions permitting speech are very finely balanced,
and besides the foregoing the sitters must be in good
health and harmonious amongst themselves.
We shall now imagine that we are sitting in a
circle, the medium being with us, that by singing we
have vibrated the atmosphere for about a quarter of
an hour, when suddenly a voice, clear, distinct and
away from the medium, breaks in upon us, and after
giving name and earth address, engages one of us
in conversation. What has actualo/ happened? It
was this question that was always uppermost in my
thoughts after I became accustomed to thesf! strang-e
conditions. Was it the medium impersonating
som,eone, or an accomplice among the sitters? For
many reasons I became satisfied that this voice did
On the Edge of the Etheric. 85
not proceed from any human being, but that there
was a personality behind it, which was not one of
this world, present in the room. I, therefore, set
myself to find out what actually was the cause behind
this effect, and by a series of questions and answers,
over a period of time, was told the following, which,
for the sake of brevity, I shall put in my ov;n words.
The chemist to whom I have alreadv referred,
after mixing the substances he obtains from the
medium and sitters with his own ingredients, takes
the finished preparation, and with it first materialises
his hands and then forms a rough mask in th~ like-
ness of a mouth and throat. This, when finished, is
placed in the most suitable part of the room, often in
the centre of the circle. The spirit wishing to speak
then presses into this mask, slow in vibration, and
with it clothes or covers his mouth, throat, and
tongue. These organs then take on a thicker or
heavier condition, the tongue requires more exertion
to move, but with a little practice it all becomes
possible. The spirit then, for the time being, has
taken on the necessary conditions to make himself
once more such as we are, so far as his capacity to
form words is concerned. He is again to this extent
an inhabitant of matter, slow in vibration, so that
when he speaks he produces the same effects on our
atmosphere as we do when we speak. He and 've
are in the same room, within a few feet of each other,
he standing speaking to us, and we sitting, answering.
He hears us and we hear him. This condition lasts
only for a short time, not often for more than five
minutes, when dematerialisation begins, the material
falls away, and though his mouth may continue
..
85 On the Edge of the Etheric.
speaking, he is not heard. This briefly is what they
mean by saying that they take on earth conditions
from our surroundings. All direct voice mediums
possess a certain vital force or substance, all sitters
have it in a lesser degree, and to this is added, by
the spirit chemists, other etheric forces or substances,
the combination of which is a material sufficiently slow
in vibration to vibrate our atmosphere. The only
thing we cannot understand is how the spirit clothes
himself with it, or absorbs it. What is the exact
effect which is produced when the spirit presses into
it and becomes covered with it? Some da\' we shall
doubtless find out the explan9-tion, but what I write
is in substance all that has been told me. When I
have asked for further details I have been told that
I would not understand and must be content with
such information as has, so far, been given to me.
Often I have put my ear quite close to the mediu'm' s
mouth and heard nothing beyond his regular
breathing, though a voice was speaking to someone
at the time, and only my personal friends were
present in the Seance Room of the Glasgow Society
for Psychical Research.
On one occasion the communicator told me that
the medium's larynx was being used, and that his
voice was being carried by a psychic tube to the
trumpet which magnified it s.o that we could hear it.
In other words, he was making use of the medium's
lungs and larynx and mouth to save the necessity of
materialising these organs.
This was made clearer by replies to further
questions. When a voice speaks through th.e
trumpet, it is not always independent of the
On the Edge of the Etheric. 87'
medium: the voice does not always proceed frotn a
materialised entity in the centre of the circle. The
power is not always strong enough to maintain this
form of communication throughout the entire sitting.
What happens is this. The spirit who wishes to
speak controls the medium and speaks through him.
The communicator has not, however, the same
control over the medium as his regular controllers.
and the voice produced is sometimes not above a
whisper. The voice is conveyed from the medium's
mouth by means. of a materialised ectoplasmic or
psychic tube to the trumpet, which amplifies the voice
so that it can be hear~ . The spirit speaking under
these circumstances stands behind the medium, whose
spirit for the time being is detached from his body,
in other words, the medium is in trance. The com-
municator is able to control the medium's voca[
organs. There is a connecting link, magnetic,
etheric, or psychic, which has the same effect on the
medium's muscles as the atmospheric waves have on
two tuning forks tuned to the same pitch. As the
vibrations of one act on the other, so the two sets
of vocal organs, the spirit vocal organs and the
medium's, act in unison. Thus what the spirit says.
the medium says, both sets of organs working in
harmony.
That information satisfied me up td a point.
but the question was how the sound was produc(>d.
Our lips form the words, our larynx c:auses the
sound. I then asked what caused the sound, and
was told that the medium's larynx was used for this
purpose and that the sound was conveyed from it by
means of the psychic tube to the trumpet. It
'88 On th e Edge of the Etheric.
was made clear, however, that what was carried
fn?m the medium to the trumpet was not air from
the medium's lungs. The larynx is used to cause
the sound, but not by means of air passing through
the vocal chords. The atmosphere is vibrated by a
method of their own, and I was told I must accept
the fact that the larynx was used to produce the
sound which was carried to the trumpet from the
spirit who was speaking.
There is no question, my informant insisted . of
the messages in any way being influenced by the
medium's mind, as his mind does not come into the
·question at all . They do not act thrm.1gh the
medium's mind, but directly on his vocal organs.
The spirit mind is in complete controL the medium's
brain being .switched off for the time being. What
we sometimes hear, therefore, is the medium's voice
through the trumpet, though it sounds quite unlike
bis own, as it always does in trance, and this form of
communication comes under the same category as
trance utterances, except that the voices are con-
veyed to the trumpet and are heard proceeding from
the trumpet instead of from the medium'8 mouth.
The trumpet need not necessarily be at the medium's
mouth, as they tell me that they can convey the voice
into the trumpet right across the circle. At Sloan's
·seances~ therefore, we have three different forms of
communication, first, trance utterances ; secondly,
trance utterances plus the trumpet ; and thirdly, the
'best of all, voices from spirits who have materialised
their vocal organs and lungs and speak as we do,
without any connection whateyer with the medium,
e xcept the ectoplasmic substance necessary for
On the Edp:e of the Etheric. 89
materialisation, which they borrow from the medium
and sitters.
The trumpet is moved by materialised rods made
by a combination of these substances supplied by
medium and sitters, and their chemist. It can be
moved also by a materialised hand or hand!:>. and the
larger end is used to rest the materialised mouth on,
inside the trumpet, thus throwing his voice in the
direction he desires to speak without his requiring to
move from the place where he has materialised.
Either end of the trumpet can be used, whichever
suits their purpose best. V/hen the trumpe1: is not
used, it means that the substance is sufficient, and
the power strong enough, to enable one or more
materialisations to take place, usually in the vicinity
of the person to whom the spirit wishes to speak.
Thus, I have heard, on occasion, two and sometimes
three voices speaking to different people at the same
time. Not always, however , is the person present
who purports to speak, as spirits who hav'= passed
through what is called the second transition into
advanced spheres find it difficult. if not impossible,
to communicate. They, however, can communicate
wjth those in the lower spheres, their messages
being picked up and passed on by a spirit present at
the seance. This, I think, is often done, even with
those in the lower spheres, who find communication
difficult by means of materalising their own vocal
organs. An Irishman in spirit life named Gallacher
told me that much of his time at a seance was
.occupied in taking messages and passing them on.
He calls himself the " telephone exchange."
I asked· once if tht' materialised vocal organs
90 On the Edge of the Etheric .
could be touched and had weight, and was told they
could be, and that they had the weight that we, the
sitters, had lost during the sitting. If we each sat
on a weighing machine we would find our weight
during the seance gradually decreasing' and as the
seance neared an end, as the ectoplasm was returneJ,
so would our weight return to normaL The experi-
ments by Dr. Crawford and others have proved this.
statement to be correct. This ectoplasm which they
draw from us is useless, unless it is mixed with
ingredients supplied by the chemist~ as materialisatio.n
could not take place from ectoplasm alone. This
ectoplasmic-etheric combination is, I am told , the
preparation required, not only for materialisation, but
for the movement by those in spirit life of all physical
objects. They can move nothing without it. Our
bodies are composed of the ingredients from which
they draw this substance called ectoplasm. I have
found it·impossible, however, to get any detailed in-
formation as to what are the chemical ingredients
of the substance they add to the ectoplasm. The-
chemist would not tell me, as he said I could not
understand it even if he djd. I asked once if the
thoughts of the medium in any way coloured the com-
munications which came by means of the independent
voice, and the reply I received was, '' Certainly not.'~
As to what takes place when the medium speaks
in trance, I am told that the spirit wishing to speak
gathers ectoplasm from the medium and thus gets
control of his vocal organs. So far as Sloan is
concerned, his brain is not used in any way. What
happens is briefly this. The ectoplasm forms thr-
connecting link between the spirit speaking and the
On the Edge of the Etheric. 91
medium's vocal organs, and as the spirit speaks so
the medium's vocal organs move. Here materi<di-
sation of the mouth, throat and tongue does not take.
place, the medium's vocal organs bein~· used to.
vibrate the atmosphere and form the words spoken by
the controlling spirit.
My claim for this book is that it gives an ex-
planation, both logical and reasonable, of how the-
phenomena of the Direct Voice occurs, which should
appeal to everyone. Evidence such as is contained
in the next three chapters may not in itself be sufficient
to convince the '' man in the street.'' When, how-·
e:ver, a logical explanation can be given at the same
time, an acceptance of the phenomena is much
less difficult. I have created conditions so as to.
make fraud and impersonation impossible, and by
persistent enquir·y have obtained an explanation of
the Etheric World, its inhabitants, and how com-
munication takes place, which should satisfy the-
average individual. This has never been attempted·
before to my knowledge in the same systematic way,
but it must be remembered that I have dealt with hard
facts all my life. I have required a knowledge of
economics and mathematics in my business life, and
outside of this my special interest has been in physics.
I therefore approached this subject in a matter-of-fact
way, and have obtained information which makes the
phenomena, to any unbiased person, both reasonable
and natural ; and this, in consequence, should help·
to raise it to a higher plane of thought, and be another-
stepping stone towards its being ultimately placed
on a strictly scientific basis.
On the Edge of the Etheric .
CHAPTER VII.
THE EVIDE NCE : THREE " A1 " CASES.
Nothing can de troy the evidence of testimony in any cas~ but a proof
or probability that persons are not competent judge-; of the facts
to which they g-ive testim ony, or that they are actually und•' r
some indi rect influence in g iving it in such particular case. T ill
this is made out the testimony must be admitted. Butler.
THE
1
previous chapters must be considerd in the light
-of an introduction to the subject of this book. I
now come to the kernel of the whole affair, namely,
the evidence, and it is on the evidence that everything
rests and the whole argument is built up.
It may be contended that the evidence should
come first and the deductions last, but in a case such
as this one has to prepare the ground so that the
possibility of communication is primarily accepted,
.and what takes place at a seance understood. .
In this chapter I shall give a summary of three
.cases that I class as " A1," and, in the next of
three I class as " A2. " They are only summaries,
as I have only space sufficient to enable me to dwell
upon the salient points of each.
. CASE 1 OF THE " Al " GROUP .-I took my
brother with me shortly after he was demobilised
from the Army in 1919. He knew no one present,
and was not introduced. No one presem, except
myself, knew he had been in the Army. No ·one
present knew where he had been during his time in
the Army. His health had not permitted him to go
abroad, and he was stationed part of the time near
Lowestoft at a small village called Kessingland, and
part of the time at Lowestoft, training gunners.
With this preliminary explanc>_
tion I shall now give
On the Edge of the Eth.eTic. 93.
you the following summary of my notes on this
case:-
During the course of the sitting, the trumpet was.
distinctly heard moving about the room, and various
voices spoke through it. Suddenly it tn.pped my
brother on the right knee, and a voice directly in
front of him said, " Eric Saunders." My brother
asked if the voice were addressing him, and it replied
" Yes," whereupon he said that there must be some-
mistake, as he had never known anybody of that
name. The voice was not very strong, so some person
suggested that the company should continue singing,
and while this was going on the trumpet kept tapping·
my brother on his knee, arm and shoulder. It was
so insistent that he said, '' I think we had better stop·
singing, as some person evidently is most anxious to
speak to me." Again he asked who it was, and the·
voice, much stronger this time, repeated, " Eric
Saunders.'' Again my brother said that he had
never known any person of that name, and asked
where he had met him. The reply was, '' In the·
Army.'' My brother mentioned a number of places,
such as Aldershot, Bisley, France, Palestine, etc.,
but carefully omitted Lowestoft, where he had been
stationed for the greater part of his army life. The·
voice replied, " No, none of these places. I knew
you when you were neaT Lowestoft." My brother·
asked why he said, '' NeaT Lowestoft,'' and he
· replied, " Yol,l were not in Lowestoft then, but aJ:
Kessingland.'' This is a small fishing hamlet about:
five miles south of Lowestoft, where my brother·
spent part of 1917. My brother then asked what
company he had been attached to, and as he could not
-
~4 On the Edge of the Etheric .
ma.~e out whether he said " B " or " C," my brother
.asked if he could remember the name of the company
·Commander. The reply was '' Macnamara.'' This
was the name of the officer commanding ' ' B ' '
company at that time.
By way of a test, my brother pretended that he
remembered the man, and said, "Oh, yes, you were
.one of my Lewis Gunners, were you not?" The
reply was, "No, you had not the Lewis Guns then,
it was the Hotchkiss.'' This was perfectly correct,
as the Lewis Guns were taken from them in April
1917, and were replaced by Hotchkiss. My brother
asked him two or three leading questions, such as the
name of his (my brother's) billet, which he answered
·correctly, and then Saunders said, "We had great
times there, sir; do you remember the General's
inspection? '' My brother laughed, and said that
they were continually being inspected by Generals,
to which one did he refer, and he replied, '' the day
the General made us all race about with the guns."
This was an incident which my brother remembered
perfectly well, and which caused a good deal of
amusement to the men at the time. He told my
brother he had been killed in France, and my brother
.asked him when he had gone out. He replied that
he had gone with the" Big Draft" in August 1917.
My brother asked him why he called it the Big Draft,
.and he said, " Don't you remember the Big Draft,
when the Colonel came on the parade ground and
made a speech.'' This reference was to a particularly
large draft sent out to Franee that month, and was
the only occasion on which my brother remembered
the Colonel ever personally saying good-bye to the
On the Edge of the Etheric. 95
men. He then thanked my brother for the gunnery
training he had given him, and said it had been most
useful to him in France. My brother asked him why
he had come through to speak to him, and he said,
'' Because I have never forgotten that you once did
me a good turn." My brother has a hazy recollec-
tion of obtaining leave for one of the gunners, owing
to some special circumstances, but whether or not his
name was '' Saunders '' he could not remember.
About six months after the above incident my
brother was in London, and met, by appointment,
the corporal who had been his assistant with the light
guns in his battalion at that time. My brother told
him the above story, and asked if he remembered any
man named '' Eric Saunders.'' My brother had
been training gunners for ne::trly two years at the rate
of about a dozen a fortnight, and beyond putting them
through their examinations, and taking a general
oversight of them, he never came into sufficiently
dose personal contact with them to get to know many
Df their names. The corporal, however, whom my
brother met, was more with the gunners, but he did
not remember any person of this name. Fortunately,
however, on the afternoon of his meeting my brother,
he had brought with him an ' old pocket diary, in
which he had been in the habit of keeping a full list
Df men under training, and other information. He
pulled it out of his pocket, and together they looked
back until they came to the records of '' B '' Com-
pany during 1917. Sure enough, the name appeared
there, " Eric Saunders, f. q. , August '17." with a red
ink line drawn through it; f.q. stood for fully quali-
fied, and though my brother knew the meaning of the
96 On the Edge of the Etheric.
red ink line, he asked the corporal what it meant.
He replied, " Don't you remember, Mr. Findlay,
I always drew a line through the men's names when
they went away. This shows that Saunders went
out in August 1917."
Unfortunately we did not ask Saunders the name
of his regiment, and consequently I could not trace
his death, the Vvar Office without this information
being unable to supply me with any details beyond
the fact that over 4,000 men of the name of Saunders
fell in the Vvar. Men came to Lowestoft from all
over the country for training, so my brother had no
record of Saunders' regiment.
Even allowing for this, it is a remarkable case,
as it is fraud proof, telepathy proof, and cryptesthesia
proof. Not only did no one present know my
brother, but my brother did not know the speaker,
and cannot even to-day recollect him, as he was
passing hundreds of men through their training, ali
of whom would know him, but he never had an
opportunity to know them individually. This case
contains fourteen separate facts ; each one was correct
and each one comes up to my " Al" standard.
Clairvoyants present described Saunders standing in
front of us speaking, and, with a smile, saluting my
brother before he left us.
I shall now give another '' Al '' case :-
CASE 2 " Al. "-One day when in Edinburgh I
visited the Rev. John Lamond, D. D ., a friend of
mine, and noticed an oil painting on his study mantel-
piece. Remarking on it, I was told that it was a
painting by the trance painter, David Duguid, wlw
died in the early part of this centurv. '' It has a
On the Edge of the Etheric. 97
history," my friend told me, and then went on to say,
'' I had that painted once, many years ago when I
visited David Duguid in Glasgow, and as my family
did not believe in this method of painting, I promptly:
put it in a tin box.'' Some years later, after the
death of Duguid, my friend was at a direct voice
seance in London, and a voice spoke to him giving
the name David Duguid. '' You surely do not value
my painting, Dr. Lamond," said David. "Why?"
said my friend. " If you did, you would not ke~p
it in a box in your room.'' My friend had forgotten
where he had put it, but told Duguid that he would
search for it and put it on his mantelpiece. Just as
Duguid had said, it was there, and my friend kept
his promise and placed it on his mantelpiece.
This was the story I was told the day I visited
-;.-- my friend in Edinburgh. I never mentioned it to
anyone, and my friend did not know Sloan. Now
for the sequel. Some time after the story of the
picture was told to me, I took to Sloan Dr. Lamond's
next door neighbour, Mr. Robinson by name, who
had never heard the story, though he knew Dr.
Lamond well. Dr. Lamond had rarely mentioned
the incident to anyone, as he is rath<;r sensitive about
touching on a subject in which his neighbours and
friends disbelieve. However; his next door neigh-
bour came with me to Sloan's one night. He sat
beside me, and was not introduced to anyone present.
He had never seen Sloan before and Sloan certainly
did not know him.
He first of all got some remarkable evidence,
and then a strong voice boomed out and addressed
him by name. "Mr. Robinson," it said, " I am
G
98 On the Edge of the Etheric.
David Duguid ; tell your friend Dr. Lamond' '-then
came the full address-" tell your friend, Dr.
Lamond, that I am much obliged to him for keeping
his promise and placing my picture on his mantel-
piece." Mr. Robinson was quite bewildered, and
addressing me said, " I don't know what he is talking
about.'' I, however, knowing the story, promised
Duguid to deliver the message, for which I received
his thanks. This is another fool proof case, and can
be rightly classed '' Al '' and quite free from anr;
other explanation, to my mind, than that the per-
sonality of Duguid was present, and spoke, as how
else could such a message have come ?
CASE 3 " Al. "-The last '' Al '' case I shall
give relates to a lady, Mrs. Wood Sims, whom I
took with me one evening. Sloan's seance was
timed to begin at 7-15, and on my way to it I called
for the lady and asked her if she would care to come
with me. As it was then past seven she hurriedly
got ready and came with me. She mentioned casually
to me that she had just returned from a visit to friends
in England, and I heard her make the same remark
to someone just before the seance began, but no
details were given-just the casual remark.
During the seance a voice spoke to her, giving
the name of her host's deceased son, saying, "I saw
you when you were staying with father at Leeds.' '
Several other voices spoke to her, giving their names,
and sent messages to her host at Leeds. T wo of
these she did not know, but she said she would tell
her host they had spoken, and pass on their
messages.
Mrs. Wood Sims afterwards told me that her
On the Edge of the Etheric. 99
host had replied that he had known all these people
on earth and their messages were quite.intelligible to
him. This lady's brother, also on this occasion.
spoke to her, calling her '' Anna,'' a name he only
used, as she is never called by that name. He said
his name was "Will," but " Bill" to her, which was
correct, and then correctly referred in detail to some
advice he gave her before his death. " If you had
only taken it, how different your life would have
been," he said~ " It is only too true," said my
friend to me afterwards. Finally his face material-
ised before her and she assures me that it was his
face in every detail. -
Here we have fourteen "A1" facts recorded.
and these three cases I have mentioned, containing
thirty-four "Al" facts, are only three of many.
Remember, in my notes I have on record one hundred
and eighty facts , every one as good as those to which
I have referred.
Taking , however, these three cases, fraud is ex-
cluded, owing to the precautions taken. What of
chance, in other words, guessing on the part of the
medium ? An eminent mathematician, on calculating
the chances of correctly guessing all the facts re-
corded, considers that to have reached such accuracy
represented the equivalent of 1 to 5,000,000,000,000 ;
in other words, the odds were 5,000,000,000,000 to
1 against chance being the explanation. That being
so, we need scarcely consider it.
100 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER VIII.
MORE EVIDENCE : THREE "A2" CASES.
Truth comes to us with a slow and doubtful step; measuring the
g round she treads on, and for ever turning her curious eye, to
see that all is right behind; and with a keen survey choosing
her onward path. Percival.
I SHALL now summarise three cases, which I class ~
"A2," as they do not come under quite the same
category as my "Al" cases, though it by no means
follows that the information was normally obtained.
All I mean is that some of the information was
available normally, and this being so, critics are open
to give this as an explanation.
CASE No. 1 ~_b2.' '-I arranged a sitting with
Sloan one evening in our Society's rooms in
Glasgow, and mentioned to him the name of a friend
of mine who was coming . As things turned out I
was sorry I did so, as if I had not, it would have
been a wonderful "Al" sitting. He was a London
man, and his wife came with him. He was well
known as a spiritualist and a leader in finance. His
name, career and certain family matters were men-
tioned in " Who's Who." This cannot explain all
that took place, but just because his name was known
I cannot class the case as " Al. " However, at .
least seven different voices spoke to him and his wife.
They referred to family matters, gave family names
and showed an intimate knowledge of his public and
home life. He told me afterwards that, though he
had studied the phenomenp. for twenty years, it was
one of the most evidential and interesting sittings in
which he had ever taken part.
CASE No. 2 "A2. "-A lady, a friend of mine,
On the Edge of the Etheric. 101
died. She belonged to a well-known family. Con-
sequently an obituary notice of about a quarter of a
column appeared in the "Glasgow Herald" giving
particulars of her family and immediate ancestors.
This, consequently, brings this case under the "A2"
category, though I know of nothing to associate her
with me or my family in the mind of the medium.
Sloan, I am sure, was not aware that I knew
her. I am sure Sloan had never heard her name
and knew nothing about her or her family, but
as some critics make out that a case loses its eviden-
tiality if the information given can be traced to print,
I place this one accordingly in the '' A2 '' category.
A week after her funeral, at a sitting I and a few
personal friends had with Sloan in the seance room
of our Society, her son, Cecil, who was killed in the
war, spoke to my brother saying that he was so happy
now, as he had his mother with him. I asked if she
were present, and he replied she was, but not yet
fully conscious that she had passed over. I asked if
she could speak to me, which she did.
Her conversation showed she was not fully con-
scious of the change. She said she wanted her
husband, naming him correctly, referred to the nature
of her illness correctly, and wanted to know what
had happened. I might add that the nature of her
illness had not been published and was only known
to a few of her intimate friends . I explained to her
the change which had taken place, that she was now
an inhabitant of the world of spirit, that she had left
for ever this world of physical matter, that she had
gone through the change called death, and then I
said, " Do you not recognise who is standing beside
102 On the Edge of the Etheric.
you? '' referring to her son who had just spoken to
me. " No~ she said, " I can see no one." Here
her son interposed with the remark, "Mother cannot
recognise me yet." Her father then spoke to me,
telling me things I afterwards found in reference
books to be correct. Then her brother spoke, giving
his correct name and where he lived on earth.
Towards the end of the seance, after other voices
had spoken, the lady returned and again spoke to
" H C ·1;> " I "d " N
me. ave you not seen ec1 . sa1 . o;
where is he ? " she replied. Then her voice sud-
denly changed from one of sadness to joy, and we
heard her exclaim, " Oh, Cecil, my darling, my
own darling boy." Then there was silence. In a
few minutes another voice spoke-'' He is taking
her away with him ; she will soon be all right.''
I had been a participant in a great drama. I had
been privileged to have the unique experience of
witnessing the return to consciousness of one the
world called " dead," and her meeting with her son,
who had given, so the world thought, his life for his
country. I had witnessed, when she was with us on
earth, her terrible grief when she had heard of his
death, her wonderful courage, and I was present at
the final act when she and her only son became re-
united. How I should have liked to tell her sorrowing
husband of my experience, but I knew how useless it
was, so I refrained from doing so. To describe, in
a few words, what took nearly.two hours to unfold,
to make you conscious of the rare personal tou,ches
which accompanied it all, is, of course, impossible.
The circle consisted entirely of my own personal
friends, in the seance room of our own Society, and
On the Edge of the Etheric . 103
they were all deeply affected, especially my wife, who
knew the lady well. Had Sloan been a great actor,
knowing intimately the personalities concerned, and
their family history, he could not have carried
through, with such success, the various impersona-
tions, whereas he knew nothing about her or her
family, or my friendship with her and her son.
CASE 3 "A2."-This ~culiar case. I
class it "A2," as it is unevidential, but I mention it
as I cannot believe its source was other than super-
normal. I may say, by way of explanation, that a
scientific group, on the other side, has taken a great
interest in my investigations, and given me all the
help they could. I shall have something later of
interest to say with regard to the scientific views they
expressed from time to time. Huxley, Faraday,
:tt Alfred Russel Wallace and other scientists first of all
started to come through to me after I took Sloan in
London to see a lady and gentleman who had known
some of them personally. Immediately after that,
the lady wa;; present at two sittings with Sloan in
London, one following the other, when Huxley and
other scientists first began to manifest, sending their
best wishes and congratulations to their old friend,
her husband, for his persistency in keeping the fact of
survival before the public. Huxley and others evi-
dently kept in touch with me, as from that time
onwards they repeatedly spoke to me, Huxley
especially, who has given me good proof of his iden-
tity in a most evidential manner. His personal
appearance also has been accurately described.
I mention these facts by way of explaining why
I have had so much attention from this group, but
104 On the Edge of the Etheric.
you will realise that I must qualify m statement by
saying that I have only their word for it that they
are the surviving personalities of those who bore these
great names on earth. With those who speak whom
you never knew_
you lose the personal touches which
are so convincing when they come from friends.
Now I shall tell I!!Y story.
On lOth December 1923, I received a note from
Sloan saying '' Before penning ·these lines I have
the influence of a quiet man beside me who says,
' \i\Trite to Mr. Findlay to have no fear; we shall
see that he acquits himself well at the forthcoming
meeting, and we will have him wei! informed in all
matters before the meeting.' I get something like
Raleigh as his name." This was Sloan's letter to
me, and I wish you to note how he spells the name.
I sat with Sloan tJ"le following evening, and in
the dark, before he went into trance he described a
man standing beside me. Then he said he saw
letters flashed above my head which he could make
nothing of. I asked him to read them out one by
one, while I noted them down. This he did very
quickly, spelling them out as follows : hgielyarmai.
I said I could make nothing of it, and was about to
lay down my pencil when he said, " There is
something more-sdrawkcabdaer "-he spelled out
rapidly, and I took it down. It was quite un-
intelligible to me, so I thought no more about it, as
shortly afterwards Sloan went into trance, and besides
others who spoke was one claiming to be Htfxley,
who informed me, amongst other things, that the
scientific group was present. After the sitting I
referred to. the jumble of letters I had taken down
On the Edge of the Etheric. 105>
and found that by reading backw.ards it was quite
sensible. " I am Rayleigh read backwards.,.
There is nothing evidential in all this, but Lord
Rayleigh was a well-known scientist, a former
President of the Royal Society and of the Society
for Psychical Research, and might be one of the group-
of scientists HliXley said was present. Now Sloan
spelled Rayleigh to me in his letter as Rateigh, and
after the sitting, on asking him how he spelled
Rayleigh, he did so the same way. He said he had
never heard of Lord Rayleigh, and never knew a
name was spelled Rayleigh. The rapid way he
spelled out the message backwards was remarkable. ·
On enquiring afterwards I found that Sloan's des-
cription of the quiet man beside me tallied with that
of the late Lord Rayleigh.
This is an interesting though not an evidential
case, and I · only mention it as such. All that
'happened could quite easily be explained normaliy.
By enquiry Rayleigh's appearance and manner could
have been found out, in fact I remember reading in
the Daily Telegraph about a month prior to this.
incident some remarks by Sir William Barrett on
Lord Rayleigh in which the reporter described him
as '' a quiet man.'' Believing as I do that Sloan is.
honest, I personally do not give this as the explana-
tion, and further, it would require· a very retentive
memory to remember a string of unconnected
letters, and this Sloan has not, his memory being·
particularly bad.
I think I have now given sufficient to let one
see how it is I have separated out or analysed the
information I have received. As I have said.
106 On the Edge of the Etheric .
.eighty-three separate voices have spoken to me or
to my friends. I have obtained one hundred and
·eighty '' Al '' separate items of information, and
·one hundred n A2 '' separate items of information,
much of which was not known to me at the time, but
which I verified afterwards as correct. Only one
item I have not verified, because I have not been
.able to, and only one has not been substantially
-
correct.
These evidential items of information are quite
apart from the communications give:%in Chapters
X, XI, and XII, entitled " Night;; ot Instruction,"
which, though both instructive and interesting, can
not be considered as evidence. Evidence in Psych-
ical Research to be of value must contain information
which it is impossible for the medium to have had
.any knowledge of, and the best of all evidence is
information unknown to the medium and the re-
.cir:>ient, which is afterwards found to be correct.
Much of what is recorded in this and the previous
·Chapter, and also in the chapter w}jgh follows, can
legitimately be claimed as coming under this catagory.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 107
CHAPTER IX.
STILL MORE EVIDENCE.
h anything of God 's contriving endangered by inquiry? Was it the
system of the universe or the monks that trembled at the telescope
of Galilee? Did the circulation of the firmament stop in terror
because Newton laid his daring finger on its pulse ?- Lewell.
IN the foregoing pages I have given a record of
evidence I myself have experienced, but what was
just as convincing was the evidence obtained by
<>thers who went with me, at times anonymously.
Mr. McCully, of 27 Westland Drive, Scotstoun,
Glasgow, has kindly given me permission to mention
his name, and record a few of his experiences. Mr.
McCully is a shrewd, level-headed business man, and
has only come by degrees to believe in the reality of
the phenomena, through having obtained evidence
which he cannot explain otherwise than that the in-
formation came from the source it purported to come
from.
I could give in this book numerous experiences
which other friends of mine have had, but to do so
would run this book into several volumes. I shall,
therefore, conclude these chaplters of evidence by
giving some cases which Mr. McCully has written
Qut himself in his own handwriting, and vouched for
by his own signature.
Mr. McCully has had eighteen years' close
-association with Sloan, and his experiences have been
many and varied. When I asked him to give me
some of these, his reply was that his difficulty was
to select those cases which could be considered most
evidential, as he has received so much evidence
108· On the Edge of the Etheric .
throughout all these years. However, the following
are what he selected.
Writes Mr. McCully :-One of the most vivid
and impressive messages I have ever received, was.
from a young brother, Johnny, by name ; he had
passed over suddenly at the age of twelve years. He
was the youngest ~f the family, and o£ course the
apple of his mother's eye. Shortly after his death
she went to Australia. Every letter from thy other
brothers in Australia told me of her grief and des-
pondency. Well, Johnny came through to me at one
of Sloan's seances. After establishing his identity,
I .asked him if he knew where his mother was?
--
'' Yes,'' he replied, '' I have just left her, she is.
in a big ship sitting on deck taking tea.'' Through
my mind flashed 'the thought, " Is Mother coming
home? '' and this mental question must have been
read by him as he continued. "No, I do not think so,
but write and tell her not to grieve so much, her grief
makes me unhappy, and I cannot be happy whilst
she is so unhappy." \i\Tell, to me ..he message was.
not understandable. I could not understand what
my mot,her was doing on a big ship if she were not
coming home, but at any rate I wrote out Johnny's
message and sent it on to Perth, in Western Australia.
A week or two later a letter came telling me that a
brother· had, in an attempt to lift her despondency,
bought his mother a ticket for a first-class trip round
Australia, and she was then on her way to visit a
daughter in Sydney. When in Sydney, the daughter
took her mother to a medium, where she got the
same message in the same words, namely, not to
grieve so much as it made him so unhappy.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 109
..
Some time afterwards, on leaving my house
going to business ~n the morning, I met the postman.
He knew I was always looking for letters from
Franee, as I had three brothers serving. He
handed me an envelope, and when I opened it,
it contained a cable that mother had died. I decided
to tell nobody and wait and see what would happen.
I had not seen Mr. Sloan for about three months,
but that afternoon I received word that he had a
sitting that evening. I atte~ded, and at....the seance
there were three or fow: ministers in the circle, and
many voices spoke to them ; one especially seemed
to be holding a reception of all his passed-over con-
gregation, names and addresses being correctly given.
Towards the end, I caught the medium by the hand,
and addressing the control, said, · " !=orne Whitie,
have you never a word for an old fri: nd? '' He
replied" Go away, Cully chief, I don't want to ·speak
to you." I said, " Oh, ~hat have I done?", but
he persisted " I don't want to speak to you." I
still held him, however, and Mrs. Sloan, ~ho was
clairvoyant, said "Don't torment him, he does not
want to tell you." But I still persisted, and t~en
she said, " There is a lady who has been standing
behind your chair ~11 nigh!.'' Whitie then said,'' I
am sorry, Cully, but it is your mother." I said,
" It's all right Whitie, I was expecting her; has
she anything to. say to me? '' Immediately the
trumpet rose and a whisper came, " Sandy, Sandy,
I want to give you a message from your father. He
wants you to write to his people. He is not pleased
with you.'' This was a complete thunderbolt. I
had quarrelled -with my father's people over money
110 On the Edge of the Etheric.
matters ; it had happened years previously. I had
not given it a thought for years. No one in that
room, I am certain, knew my affairs, and it was just
such a message a:s he w;ould send, no more, no less.
T awards the end of the war I had a visitor, a
young soldier from Perth, in Australia. I took him
up to Sloan's one night, and to him came a voice
giving a name and regiment, but he said, " Sorry,
but I do not know you." The voice replied, " You
will find my name on the war memorial in Perth.''
" I don't kno,w any war memorial in Perth," my
friend replied, " where is it? " " It is in- -
Avenue '' (the name was given but I have forgotten
. it). " Well," my friend said, " I know Perth
pretty well, but I do not know any Avenue of that
name." A year later I got a letter from him saying
that during his absence a new /}.venue had been
opened, under that name, into the park, and on the
triangle there had been erected a m~morial, and the
name of the man was engraved on it, just as he had
been told at the seance.
On another occasion an artist friend was away
painting a picture in connection with the raising of
funds for a memorial. He was the guest of the local
Provost or Magistrate. This dignitary had lost a
son in the war, and my friend, in conversation, had
told him of the wonderful messages coming through
the mediumship of Mr. Sloan. The gentleman was
very anxious for a sitting, and my friend arranged
with me to bring him and his wife to one. I was a
little late in meeting them, and in consequence the
usual introductons were dispensed with, so that when
we got into the house, I was a little confused and had
On the Edge of the Etheric. 111'.
completely forgotten the gentleman's name ancll
could not introduce him to the medium, who just
laughed and said : '' Any friend of Mr. McCully is.
welcome." I found out afterwards Sloan's im-·
pression was that the gentleman did not want his
name mentioned. However, the sitting had not
long commenced when the medium, now under the·
control of Whitie, rose from his chair, and, walking
over to the gentleman, said, " Your son says you
have something upon you that belongs to him."
The gentleman said, " Watch? pocket book? , .
etc., to which the answers were, " No, no." Then
the medium started stroking the man's shoulder, and'
Whitie said, '' Your son is stroking your jacket.''
" Y " "d h tl " I h ' .
es, sa1 t e gen eman, ave my son s swt.
on." The conv,ersation went on, evidence piling
on evidence, and, going over to the mother, the·
voice speaking through the trumpet said, " Do you
remember, mother, the footprints on the linoleum ?·
I caught it forth~'' It appeared that, whilst on his.
last leave, he wanted to take his sister skating. The·
mother objected, as the sister had a cold. However,
when the family had retired the brother and sister
had gone off to the ice. On their return the sister
had taken off her shoes, and her feet, being wet, had'
left footprints on the polished linoleum, which the·
mother spotted in the morning.
After the termination of the war, a lady came·
to see me, with very strong family introductions.
Could I take her to a seance, she asked me re--
peatedly, but the difficulty s there were so many
anxious to get in and so few vacancies, as only three·
or four new people could be introduced each night,,
112 On the Edge of the Etheric.
a nd every member of the circle had friends anxious
to get in. However, it' was arranged, and, accom-
panied by my wife and myself, the lady was intro-
duced. The anxiety of the lady was caused by the
fact that her brother, who had been at the war, was
reported missing, and could not be traced. When
the sitting commenced her brother was not long in
coming through, and told of his death. As he des-
cribed it, he was blown to bits. Later on another
voice came through saying his name was Cameron.
Now, both my wife ·and myself knew a lad named
Cameron who had been killed, and as no- one in the
circle claimed hi~ we ·said he might be a friend of
ours, but the trumpet kept over by the visitor and
persisted he was for her ; but she denied all know-
ledge of any one aamed Cameron The voice said
he had served with her brother, but he had been
taken prisoner and died in Germany. Of course it
had to be taken as said, but the sequel was, our
friend sometime later got a letter from people named
Cameron, saying they had heard that she was
enquiring through foreign agenctes about her brother,
and would she be good enough to ask about their
son who had been serving, and was posted missing
at the same time as her brother. Evident!y this was
the Cameron who spoke to our friend along with her
brother, all unknown to her that her brother had a
friend of this name.
This concludes Mr. McCully's report, and it must
also be the conclusion of all the evidence for which I
have space. Any enquirer who wishes to pursue this
evidence further will find a volume of closely-printed
evidence covering 435 pages m Vice-Admiral
On the Edge of the Etheric. 113
Usborne Moore's book entitled The Voices, being
a record of his and other people's experiences with
the well-known direct voice medium Mrs. W riedt.
I have, in the previous chapters, given infor-
mation purporting to come from voices, either
through the trumpet, or apart altogether from the
trumpet. Sloan, however, is orie of the finest trance
mediums in the country, and sometimes a communi-
cator, if he cannot get his message through correctly
by direct means, controls the medium or sends the
message through one of Sloan's regular controls. I
have had messages given partly one way and partly
the other. However, for long continued conver-
sation, trance communications are the best, as they
are more sustained, uninterru{ted con~~rsations
lasting often fm: cry:er an ho~, In this way I have
received much detailed information, as to ho.w the
independent voice is formed, what the spirit body
really is, the conditions existing in the world beyond,
and the relative structure of the,..l!!atter of which that
world is made up, as compa(ed with our physical
matter. A stenographer present has recorded what
was said.
First of all I am told that the whole universe is
made up of matter of various degrees of density and
vibratory activity, that this fills all space, in which
fife exists in varying degrees of development. What
we sense here on earth is only matter vibrating within
certain fixed limits. Surrounding, interpenetrating,
attached to, and moving with our earth, is another
world of etheric matter in a higher state of vibration.
Consequently it is unperceived by our senses. In
our physical world the re~l, or enduring, body is atl
H
114 On the Edge of the Etheric .
etheric or spirit body, which at the moment of con-
ception, commences to gather round it, or in other
words, clothes itself with, physical matter slow in
vibration. The etheric body is the framework on to
which physical matter is attached. This etheric
body is composed of matter quite in tune with the
etheric matter of the next plane, but so long as it is
attached to physical matter it is limited by the limita-
tions of such matter. At death, however, the etheric
body is released from its physical covering and con-
tinues functioning quite naturally in the etheric world,
where everything is as real to it as it was when in the
physical. The etheric body is, in every particular,
a duplicate of our physical body, and so it can be
understood how, if conditions are given for a spirit
to re-materialise its organs of speech, it is possible
for it to vibrate again our atmosphere and make its
voice heard. The etheric duplicate carries over with
it, I am told, everything but the physical covering.
Character, memory, affection, personality, etc., go
with the etheric, because they pertain to the etheric
body on earth. The etheric world is, in many
respects, similar to this world. Our senses there
respond as they do here, but owing to its finer
structure, the mind can work on etheric matter in a
way it cannot do here. Hence it is, in a sense, a
mental world, as our thoughts there condition our
environment to a greater degree than they do here.
In this next state of consciousness the inhabi-
tants find themselves in surroundings much the same
as we experience here. There grow trees and
flowers, but there is no death such as we understand
it: all vegetable life, instead of decaying, dema-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 115
_ terialis~nd d~appears from sight. The sur-
roundings of the inhabitants are greatly conditioned
by their thoughts, and so their houses and mode of
life are much their own making. This, I am told,
does not constitute the next state to be one purely of
mental projections, for its inhabitants have the same
sensations as we have ; they can feel, touch and smell
the flowers , they can gather them, and when walking
in the fields they meet and talk with their friends.
All in the same plane, I am told, can see and touch
the same things. This is the reply I invariably
received when trying to find out whether this state
was objective or subjective. There are many planes,
but only those on the same plane experience the same
sensations. I have, myself, experienced spirits
present who talked to me but they could not see each
other, though they were in the same room, the ex-
planation given being that they were in dilierent
planes of existence. Theirs is not a dream world,
but one of objective reality, intensely real ; every-
thing, music, art, etc., being at a higher pitch than
we can possibly understand.
Great activity prevails ; everyone has his or her
own work to do. Service to others and love are _
the
ethical standards which prevail there to a higher
degree than here. There is a universal language :
each and everyone can understand the other. It is
inherent. Nationalities generally live together and
speak their own language, but there is one language
common to all. My informants were insistent on
the point that with them discipline was rigid and ali
had to obey those in authority. Everyone is under
the authority of higher spirits whose laws and instruc-
116 On the Edge of the Etheric.
tions must be carefully obeyed. It is a well ordered
and well governed state.
There is no night as we understand it, and the
light they get does not come from our sun. If they
want rest they; can get subdued light, but not dark-
ness as we experience it. When asked as to their
food, I was told they ate and drank just as we did,
and enjoyed the same sensations, but· their eating
and drinking were different from what we understand
by these words. They enjoy much more freedom
of movement, as, they get from place to place
at a speed we cannot comprehend. On other
occasions when I put questions about the com-
position of our minds 1 was told that mind was
matter in a very rapid state of vibration, and that at
death, though we left on earth our physical brain,
the mind's instrument, yet the mind in spirit life
functioned through the etheric duplicate of the brain
which survived death along with the rest of the
spirit-body.
All life persists. Animals as well as human
beings survive death, and each enteFs into a state
harmonious to the vibrations of each. Affection on
the part of an animal for an individual can bring the
two together again after death, but without this bond
of affection they would function unsensed by each
other in their own plane. Thus, life is indestructible,
a great universal force is everywhere, in everything,
in some form or another, b\lt only when in conjunction
with the physical can it be perceived by our limited
sense perceptions.
Physical science deals with physical matter,
something we can sense. Psychical science deals
On the Edge of the Etheric. 117
with etheric matter. \N'e cannot sense etheric
matter, but spirits can. Its atomic structure, I am
told, differs from that of our matter. It may
be ether, or something akin to ether, for all
we know to the contrary. Physics and psychics are
twin brothers, which makes it easier for a physicist
to understand psychics than scientists in other
branches of knowledge. Hence the whole tendency
of physical science to-day is towards the view that not
physical but etheric matter is the basic structure of
the universe.
Only the ignorant affirm that just what we sense
is real, that beyond this range of ~ense nothing exists.
Our range of sense, our sight, our touch, our smell
and hearing are limited to the last degree. We
know that the spectrum of the spectroscope proves
the very limited range of our ordinary vision, and
that further ranges of vibrations of what might be
colour, could we see them, extend on either side.
It has been said that the perceived vibrations as com-
pared with the unperceived are much less than an
inch is to a mile. It is evident that there lies an
enormous region for other life to inhabit around and
within this world of ours, a region quite beyond our
normal sense perceptions. Until one clearly under-
stands that our senses here only respond to a very
limited range of vibrations, in what we term physical
matter, that outside these there is a universe full of
life which responds to a higher range of vibrations,
unreal to us, but more real to it than physical matter,
one cannot grasp or understand in all its fulness the
psychical phenomena which develop through medium-
ship.
118 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER X.
NIGHTS OF INSTRUCTION.
Our object in life should be to accumulate a g reat number of grand
questions to be asked, and resolved in eternity-Now we ask
the sage, the genius, the philosopher, the divine, but none can
tell ; but we will open our queries to other respondents-we
will ask angels, redeemed spirits, and God. Foster.
AFTER I became convinced not only of the medium's
honesty but also of the identity of those who purported
to communicate, I naturally was anxious to know
something of their mode of living, their surroundings,
and how it was possible for them to return to earth
and make their voices heard. In the three previous
chapters I have summarised some of the information
I have been given, which proved to me the identity
of those who spoke. In this and the next two
chapters I shall confine myself to three sittings I had
when the questions I put, and the answers I received
to my enquiries, referred to their life and surroundings
and their mode of communication. The information
with which it deals is from notes taken down at the
time by my stenographer and is typical of those
sittings I had for the purpose, not of seeking tests
as to identity, but of information regarding the etheric
world about and around us.
These nights of instruction were particularly
valuable and impressive, as, except for my steno-
grapher, I was alone with the medium. I had,
therefore, the opportunity to put questions and
receive replies without the feeling that I was in any
way monopolising those in the etheric world who had
come to meet and speak to others besides myself.
At ordinary seances the more there were of us the
greater was the evidence, especially when strangers
were present.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 119
On those occasions all my attention was given to
proving identity, and that those who spoke were
really those they purported to be, but in these times
I had alone with Sloan my mind was directed more
to receiving instruction and general information.
Then it was that my etheric friends, though prese~t,
kept silent and allowed others to speak who had
greater knowledge than they had yet attained. On
these occasions some voices spoke to me which I did
not recognise, and no acquaintanceship was claimed;
they were cultivated and had a command of language
far beyond the capacity of the medium.
In this and the other two chapters which follow
I shall report three sittings, the first in December
1923, and the other two in January 1924. They
are representative of a series of private sittings ex-
tending over a year.
At the December sitting my informant spoke in
slow and measured tones, without a trace of accent ;
his delivery was impressive and, although I could
not see him, I visualised a man of dignified carriage,
culture and education addressing me. Sloan, as
usual on such occasions, was in deep trance, his hands
held in mine, his head fallen down over his chest,
and except for various twitchings from time to time
he sat motionless. I sat facing him, Miss Millar,
my stenographer, on my right at the table taking
notes, and except for the three of us there was no one
belonging to this world in the room, or for that matter
in the house, as Sloan at this time was living alone.
'As a precaution, however, I locked the room door
-and put the key in my pocket.
Miss Millar, moreover, is decidedly medium-
120 On the Edge of the Etheric.
istic, and this contributed in no small measure to the
success of these private sittings, as the combination
of her psychic powers with those of Sloan made con-
ditions almost perfect.
This first seance I am now reporting took place
on 4th December 1923, at 7 p.m., and a few minutes
after taking our seats and putting out the light this
strange male voice spoke to me as follows :-" Mr.
Findlay, the last time you sat with my medium you
expressed the desire for information relating to aur
world. I have been requested by those who are re-
sponsible for what takes place here to come to-night
to help you in any way within my power. If you
will ask me what you wish to know I shall do my
best to answer. ' '
This voice spoke from high up above my head.
I was sitting facing Sloan, my hands holding his, my
feet touching his feet. As it spoke I leaned forward
to make certain it did not proceed from his lips, but
there was not a sound o:: a whisper. Ventriloquism
could not account fo_y it, as any ventriloquist will
testify that this form of deception is impossible in
the dark.
I thanked the speaker for his kindness in coming,
and the conversation proceeded in the form of
question and answer, each reply being instant.
Question : Here on earth we can only ap-
preciate the physical, namely, the earth, the sun and
stars. What is contained in what we call space?
Answer : I can only answer you so far as my;
knowledge permits me. Interpenetrating your world
is another world of substance in a higher state of
vibration to the one you sense. The universe is one
On the Edge of the Etheric. 121
stupendous whole, but you only. ~ppreciate what you
see and hear and feel. Believe me, there are other
worlds of substance, finer than physical matter, in
which _life exists and of which you on earth can form
no conception. Connected with your earth is this.
world to which I came after what you call death.
Encircling your world are planes of different density,
and these move in rotation with the rotation of the
earth.
Question : Is your world, then, a real and
tangible world ?
Answer : Yes, it is very real to us, but the
conditions in which we find ourselves depend on the
.condition of our mind. If we wish it we can be sur-
rounded by beautiful country. Our mind plays a
large part in our life here. Just as we live in sur-
roundings suitable to our mental development, so we
also attract to ourselves minds of the same type as
our own. U_ke attracts like in this 'W..
Q!.ld. So also
like attracts like so far as your world and our world
are ~oncerned. The evil-minded here are attracted by
the evil-minded in your world, and the good here
by the good with you. We can, at will, take on
earth conditions by lowering our vibrations. Our
bodies become heavier and more perceptible to the
I
human eye, which accounts for our being seen at
times by those who have the faculty on earth of
sensing our vibrations.
Question : Do all the inhabitants of your
world get into contact with the earth from time to
time?
Answer : The higher and more developed we
become the less are we in touch with your world.
12'2 On the Edge of the Etheric.
/......_
The more development proceeds the less do we think
-
of the earth. It is all a question of desire. We can
come into contact with earth conditions at will ; if the
will for doing so is absent then we do not return
to you.
Question : Do we always retain ~
our in- _
dividuality ?
Answer : Think of a coontry side with glens
.and hills. The rain falls, and gradually trickles
down into small streams, which streams gather volume
until they enter a brook, which brook in turn enters a
river, which in turn enters a larger river and sweeps
onward to the sea. Each individual can be compared
to an atom in the raindrop. The atom retains form
and individuality throughout the whole course, from
the hill to the sea, and even in the sea it does not
lose its individuality. So with us, we move onwards
and onwards, always retaining our individuality until
we merge into the sea of full understanding, when we
become part of the Divinity.
Question : That is certainly a very clear illus-
tration, but to go back for a moment to the reply you
gave me in answer to my question about your world
being tangible and real. You stated that your sur-
roundings depended on the .condition of your minds.
Now is your life purely a mental one, or can you
touch and feel your surroundings just as we do here ?
In other words, is your world a material world like
ours?
A nsweT : Our world is not material but it is
real for all that, it is tangible, composed of substance
in a much higher state of vibration than the matter
which makes up your world. Our minds can, there-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 123
fore, play upon it in a different way than yours can on
the material of your world. As our mind is, so is
our state. To the good their surroundings are
beautiful, to the bad the reverse.
Question : Do you mean that you live in a
dream world where everything appears real but is
not?
Answer : No, we do not live in a dream
world. As I have said, we live in a real, tangible
world, though the atoms composing it differ from
the atoms which make up your world. Our minds
can act on this tangible substance in a way yours
cannot do on your world. You live in a world of
slower vibrations.
Question : Do each of you, therefore, live in
a world of your own ?
Answer : Everyone does, you do and so do I,
but if you mean can each of us see and feel the same
tbing, I answer Yes. All in the same plane can
sense the same things. We have the same world as
you have, but in a finer state.
Question : Can you touch what you see?
Answer : Yes, of course we can touch and feel
and enjoy all the sensations you do.
Question : Do you eat and enjoy your food?
A nswer : Yes, we eat and drink, but it is not
what you mean by eating and drinking. To us it is a
mental condition. We enjoy it mentally, not bodily
as you do.
Question : I cannot see you, but, if I could,
what would you look like?
Answer : I have a body which is a duplicate
of what I had on earth, the same hands, legs and
124 On the Edge of the Etheric.
feet, and they move the same as yours do. This
etheric body I had on earth interpenetrated the
physical body. The etheric is the real body and an
exact duplicate of our earth body. At death we just
emerge from our flesh covering and continue our
life in the etheric world, functioning by means of the
etheric body just as we fuctioned on earth in the
physical body. This etheric bo'dy is jQst as sub-
stantial to us now as the physical body was to us
when we lived on earth. We have the same sen-
sations. When we touch an object we can feel it,
when we look at something we can see it. Though
our bodies are not material, as you understand the
word, yet they have form and feature and expression.
We move from place to place as you do but much
more quickly than you can.
Q'lfestion : What is the mind? Is it some-
thing apart from the brain ?
Answer : Certain1y it is. You bring ·your
mind over here with you. You leave your physical
brain on earth. Our mind here acts on our etheric
brain and through it on our etheric body, just as your
physical brain acts on your physical body.
Question : Will you tell me something about
your world ? _
Answer : All ·n the same plane can see
and touch the same things. If we look at a field, it
is a field to all who 1 ok at it. Everything is the
same to those in the same condition of mental
development. It is not a dream. Everything is
real to us. We can sit down together and enjoy each
other's company just as you can on earth. We have
books and we can read them. We have tfi.e same
On the Edge of the Etheric. 125
feelings as you have. We can have a long walk in
the country, and meet a friend whom we have not
seen for a long time. We all smell the same aroma
of the flowers and the fields as you do. We gather
the flowers as you do. All is tangible, but in a
higher degree of beauty than anything on earth.
Here we have no decay in flower or field as you have.
Vegetable life just stops growing and disappears.
It demateralises. There is a similarity here to what
you call death. We call it transition. In time, as
we develop sufficiently, we pass on to another plane
from which it is not so easy to come back to earth.
This we call the second death. Those who have
passed through the second death can come back and
visit us in our plane, but we cannot go to them until
we have passed through it also. This is what your
Bible calls the second death. Those who have
passed through it do not often come and speak to
you on earth directly by materialising, as I am doing
now ; but they can pass their messages on to me or
some one in my plane and we pass them on to you.
Question : You told me your world revolved
with this world. How does this happen, and also,
do you travel with the earth round the sun?
Answer : The spheres nearest the earth do so
because we belong to this planet. We cannot see
the world revolving in space, because we revolve
with you. We cannot see your world until we take
-on earth conditions. In taking these on, we slow
down our vibrations and come through from one
plane to another until we get our vibrations down
more to a level with those of which your world is
composed. W€ can all come down, but we cannot
126 On the Edge of the Etheric .
go up beyond our own plane until we.are prepared
for the change.
Question : What would happen to you if this
earth came into collision with another star or planet
and was destroyed ?
Answer : It would make no difference to us,
our world is quite independent of physical matter.
Question : Do we re-incarnate again on earth?
Answer : Now that is a question I find difficulty
in answering. I have known no one who has. I
passed over-many years ago, and I have round about
me those who lived thousands of years ago on earth.
That is all I can say, becaus my kn-ow!edrre does not
permit me to say m::re.
Question : Do dogs, cats, and other animals
survive death ?
Answer : Yes, sir, most emphatically yes,
they do survive. No life becomes extinct, but they
do not survive in the spirit world, as we term it.
They have a spirit world of their own making. They
do not exist in a spirit world as man exists. If, how-
ever, say a _dog has affection for a human being it can
get into his or her surroundings if both have left your
earth.
Question :
Answer:
beautiful.
Is your vegetation similar to ours?
Something similar, but much more
Question : I have noticed in my many con-
versations with different people, that those who had
titles on earth never give them, only just their
christian and surnames. Sir vVilliam Barrett, for
instance, asked me to drop the" Sir" when speaking
to him.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 127
Answer : Yes, that is correct. Earth titles.
mean nothing to us. As soon as those bearing them
arrive here these prefixes are dropped, they are
I
meaningless to us.
Question : What are your houses like?
Answer : Our houses are just as we care to
make them. Your earth houses first were conceived
in your mind and then physical matter was put to-
gether to make them as your mind first saw them.
Here we have the power to mould etheric matter as.
we think. So our houses .are also the products of
our minds. We think and we construct. It is a
question of thought vibration, and so long as we
retain these vibrations we can hold the object, which
during this time is objective to our senses.
Question : What languages do you speak?
Answer : There are the various earth lan-
guages spoken here, such as English, French and
German, but they are conveyed from mind to mind
mentally. Communication takes place mentally from
one to another, not only by the spoken word as on
earth. This is just as if I were to say that the mind
of the spirit gets into telepathic touch with the mind
with which he is communicating.
Question : One last question ; the power, I
notice, is failing. Where do you get your light from
and when do you sleep?
Answer : If we feel we want rest we can get
subdued light ; not so subdued as you understand it,
but sufficient to enable us to rest. Vve have no·
night here as you would understand night. We have
no sun, yet we get all the light we need. We get
our light from the source of all light, but I cannot
128 On the Edge of the Etheric.
-continue further to-night as the power has gone, so
good-night and may the Light that lightens all dark-
ness lead you into the light you are so earnestly;
seeking.
I expressed my gratitude for my unknown
friend's kindness, and hoped that we might continue
the talk on a future occasion. -·
The gas was reJ.it, and in about five minutes
Sloan came out of trance, and asked if anyone had
spoken. As usual he was dazed, and lay down on
the sofa for a few minutes while Miss Millar made
him some tea which quickly restored him. By the
time we were ready _!..o leave he was quite himself
.again and said he felt no ill effects.
These private sittings I had from time to time
during 1923 and 1 924, but the foregoing record re-
lating to conditions in the ethenc world must suffice,
as I should like to give a report of -two other private
sittings when my enquiries centred on the means they
.adopted to make their voices heard on earth. What
I have been told is summarised in previous chapters,
but the phenomena is of such interest that I am sure
the answers to my questions will be of interest to
many.
I think I was as much interested in hearing how
·communication was established as I was about the
conditions governing the other world. I am no
more anxious to leave this earth than any other
healthy-minded person is. What I was glad to know
was that death did not close the book of my life, and
that the brief span from the cradle to the grave did
not constitute the sum total of an individual's exist-
ence. So long as we are limited to the physical, the
-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 129
physical to all healthy people must be the main thing.
Those who know me will admit that this every-day
world of ours occupies every minute of my time. I
am no dreamer or mystic. I am not psychic, my
mind runs on practical every-day lines. Why, there-
fore, it may be asked, have I taken so much trouble
to get into touch with another order of existence ?
The answer is that I have an enquiring mind. To
most people one seance with Sloan convinces them
of the reality of the after life, and, unless they have
recently-departed relations with whom they wish to
keep in touch, that satisfies them. I, however, felt
differently. At the first seance I was not convinced,
but I was sufficiently impressed to wish to enquire
further as to the meaning of it all. I therefore re-
turned on the first opportunity after my first ex-
perience, only to be more mystified than ever. I
was not going to be beaten, however. If it were all
one huge fraud I would find it out ; if not, then I
would have to recast my whole outlook on life and
death. By taking elaborate precautions and devising
ingenious tests ! became convinced in time that the
phenomena were genuine, but I was not convinced
that the voices belonged to those who had passed
through death. Only gradually did conviction come,
and this was due to the knowledge the voices had of
things which no one present could possibly have
known, and only those who claimed to own the voice
could have known. The voice which claimed to be
my father's, for instance, showed such knowledge of
our family life, of our home and of my business,
which was his before his death, that the only thing
lacking was that I could not see him. If I could,
130 On the Edge of the Etheric.
there would have been nothing else necessary to
complete conviction. We cannot call a person
'' dead '' who returns to us in a body similar to the
Qne he had on earth and talks to us as he did when
here in the body. . Several independent people with
clairvoyant power, who had never known or seen him
QIT earth, described his appearance ·so accurately that
at last I became convinced that I was in reality talking
to my father, as if it were not he, who was it? In
earth-life his physical appearance and personality re-
presented to me my father, and here it was all re-
peated, and not with him only but with dozens of
Qthers whom I had known on earth. The next
chapter will continue the records of my enquiry during
what I shall always look back on as Nights of
Instruction.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 131
CHAPTER XI.
NIGHTS OF INSTRUCTION, CoNTINUED.
How pure at heart and sound in head,
'Vith what divine affections bold
Should be the man whose thought would hold
An hour's communion with the dead.-Tennyson.
THESE nights of instruction aroused in my mind the
wish for more and more information. If there were
such a world as they claimed to be living in, I wanted
to know something about it. I had all the enthusiasm
of an explorer on the frontier of an unexplored
country. I wanted to know what is was like, what
it felt like getting there, and what I should do here
to make my position as comfortable and happy as
possible when I got there.
After I got this information, my thirst for know-
ledge was not fully satisfied. I then wanted to know
how it was they were able to speak, how spirit which
is intangible to us could vibrate the atmosphere. I
felt I was up against the most important scientific
problem it had ever been the lot of man to fathom,
and I determined to get a thorough explanation of
the subject while the opportunity for doing so
occurred. I therefore made use of some of these
private sittings for this purpose. The following,
then, is a record of a sitting I had on 4th January
1924, Miss Millar, Sloan and myself being the only
people in the house. The door was locked by me
and the key remained in my pocket until the sitting
concluded. No one could possibly be hidden in the
room; I always made sure of that.
We took our seats, Sloan facing me, Miss Millar
on my right, with her note book and pencil, and after
132 On the Edge of the Etheric.
about 10 minutes Sloan began to twitch. The trance
state then came quickly, and his usual control, White-
feather, spoke. We talked to each other for a few
minutes and then I asked if conditions were good.
" Yes," Whitefeather replied, " Very good, lady
got great power and this helps us. Lots of
people here to-night, the monkey man here too "
(this latter .refers to the spirit who purported to be
Professor Huxley, whose talks to me by the Direct
Voice on evolution earned for him this title by that
amusing, witty, but rather ignoram....individual who
goes by the name of Whitefeather, and who, accord-
ing to his own account, as I have previously stated,
was once a Red Indian Chief). " I want to hear
how it is that they speak by the Direct Voice,
Whitie," I said.
"Me can't tell you much, Findlay Chief" (the
name he always called ~e). " But Greentree here
to-night, he will tell you."
Greentree I had spoken to often before. He
also claimed to have been an Indian Chief on earth,
but he was a very different type from Whitefeather.
He told me on one occasion that he had learned En-
glish after he had left the earth, as he had in spirit life
been much in to~ch with English-speaking people.
His English is good, not broken English like White-
feather's, who had picked up what he knew through
controlling the medium. Whitefeather's case is
similar to others I have experienced, the control
being quite ignorant of our language when first taking
possession of the medium's body, and learning it
gradually through hearing it spoken. Greentree's
superior mental and spiritual development was always
On the Edge of the Etheric . 133
apparent, and Whitefeather, while acknowledging
his own inferiority, spoke of Greentree at all times
in terms of respect. He would say, when unable to
answer a question, "Greentree will tell you, Findlay
Chief, if you ask him the next time he speaks."
It may be asked how it is that American Indians
should sometimes act as controls of our mediums. I
put the question once to Greentree and was told
that this was because in earth life they were spiritual-
ists and were in constant touch with departed spirits.
They had learned on earth the laws governing com-
munication between the two worlds, and when they
themselves passed into the world of spirit it came
more easily t~m than to others to get into touch
with earth again. Just as certain people on earth are
fitted by nature to act as mediums between this
world and the next, I have come to the conclusion,
from my various conversations, that some etheric
people are likewise more adaptable than others for
controlling a medium. We therefore find that all
trance mediums have one or more regular controls
who speak more easily tha:n others through the
medium's own vocal organs. These are the
mediums on the other side. Not everyone can com-
municate by controlling the medium, and this is done
by those best fitted for the work, who pass messages,
· received by them from etheric people, on to earth.
Control of the medium may be more difficult than
speaking by the Direct Voice, but I have found that
most of my friends who spoke with their own voices,
quite apart from the medium, became proficient after
a little practice. The one advantage Trance
Speaking has over the Direct Voice, is that it can be
134 On the Edge of the Etheric.
sustained for a long time, sometimes for an hour or
more, whereas by means of the Direct Voice long-
sustained speech is unusual. After a few minutes
the voice trails away and becomes inaudible, and we
have to wait, sometimes for fifteen minutes, before
it again gathers the power to speak. All the same,
while the power lasts it is much mor~ effective and
impressive, as, however short the conversation, a
'' face to face '' talk is always to be preferred to one
by means of a control. For instance, we would be
more impressed if, say, a foreigner spoke for a few
minutes to us in English and then waited some time
to think what next he would say before speaking
again, rather than by hearing his thoughts expressed
to us by means of an interpreter. By direct speech
he conveys his thoughts to us in a way he cannot do
if everything he says has to be passed through, and
expressed by, a second person.
Greentree is one of Sloan's regular controls, and
speaks with ease through him, but--besides this he is
very proficient in speaking by the Direct Voice.
He, however, is one of the chief operators on the
other side. It will be remembered that in Chapter
VI, when describing how the voice was produced, I
stated that the greater part of the work done to obtain
speech between the two worlds was carried through
by those on the other side. Greentree is the director
of the seance both on his side and ours, he is in
charge and directs those wishing to speak, explaining
to them how this can be accomplished. He singles
out those who are to speak, as, with the large number
waiting an opportunity, direction is required. He
controls both sides and does not hesitate to tell us on
On the Edge of the Etheric. 135
this side, and sometimes pointedly, if we are not
making the right conditions. He tells us when music
is required, if we are too tense, he reprimands some-
one for sitting with his legs crossed, which is one of
the first things a novice at a seance is told not to do.
The novice, thinking that as we are sitting in the
dark no one will see him, sometimes disobeys this
injunction, but forgets that the darkness is no dark-
ness to them, that they see us clearly, and everything
we do. A tap by the trumpet on the culprit's head,
and a polite request not to cross his legs, invariably
proves this ; in fact, I have never known a mistake
to be made. The usual enquiry as to how they
knew gets a quick answer from Greentree, which
makes the novice realise that normal conditions do
not rule at a seance, and that intelligences are present
with powers beyond our own. Other instances have
occurred, quite apart from the regular voice pheno-
mena, to show that the etheric intelligences present
can see in the dark. I shall mention a few.
At the close of a sitting, just before the farewells
are said, I have often held out my watch and asked
the time, and on every occasion, when the lights
have been turned on, I have found the reply correct
almost to the minute, and this be it remembered is
done in the dark and when no luminous watches are
in use. This correct time telling, moreover, occurs
after a sitting of from two to three hours. Again,
if I hold my finger in any direction it will, on request,
be gently touched with the trumpet ; no fumbling,
a clean gentle touch . Any part of the body, on
request, will be cleanly and gently touched, either
ear, the nose, the left or right knee-an impossible
136 On the Edge of the Etheric.
thing, as I have proved, for any human being to do
in the dark.
This brings me to an incident which occurred
just after Whitefeather had informed me that Green-
tree was waiting to speak. Miss Millar had put the
light out as I was holding Sloan's hands and con-
trolling his feet. We had both been sitting a few
minutes in the darkness waiting for Greentree's voice
to speak, when Miss Millar said, " My notebook is
being moved about," and then, " It has been taken
away from me," followed by, " My pencil has been
taken out of my hand." Then the table, nearly
two yards away from the medium, rocked up and
down with considerable force. I replied, " It cannot
be either Sloan or I doing it, as mY: feet are touching
his and my hands have a grip of his hands,'' when
a voice up near the ceiling spoke...as follows : " Just
something to make you understand that there are
intelligences at work in this room to-night which can
see you and the things in the room. What is the
dark to you is not darkness to us. 'A materialised
spirit hand is responsible for what has·happened, but
the lady need have no fear, we never would do any-
thing to frighten or hurt anyone.'' After this the
note-book and the -pencil were returned to Miss
Millar, the table stopped rocKing, and Greentree
spoke, wishing us " Good evening " and asked me
what I wished to know.
Question : How is it that you can speak to us
on earth?
Answer : By ID§.terialising my etheric mouth
and tongue.
Question : Can you tell me something of the
method by which this is done?
On the Edge of the Etheric. 137
Answer : I shall do my best ~o make you
understand how this is done, but remember you can-
not get a proper grasp of the difficulties we are faced
with until you yourself come across to our side.
However, I shall explain our methods as clearly as
possible. .From the medium and those present a
.chemist in the spirit world withdraws certain in-
gredients which for want of a better name is called
ectoplasm. To this the chemist adds ingredients of
his own making. When these are mixed together
a substance is formed which enables the chemist to
materialise his hands. He then, with his material-
ised hands, constructs a mask resembling the mouth
and tongue. The spirit wishing to speak places his
face into this mask and finds it clings to him, it gathers
round his mo)..lth, tongue and throat. At first,
.difficulty is experienced in moving this heavier
material, but Y ;actice this becomes easy. The
etheric organs have once again become clothed in
matter resembling physical matter, and by the
passage of air through them your atmosphere can be
vibrated, and you hear his voice.
Question : But how did you get this air ; are
the lungs also materialised?
Answer : In a full materialisation, yes.
Question : I have often heard two, or some-
times three, voices speak at once. Are other masks
used in these circumstances ?
Answer : Yes, on these occasions conditions
are good and the chemist has sufficient ectoplasm to
construct several masks, which are all sometimes
used at the same time. That accounts for your
hearing more than one voice speaking.
Question Where is this mask placed ?
---
138 On the Edge of the Etheric.
Answer : Usually in the centre of t e circle.
The chemist keeps as much ectoplasm 3 s possible
within the circle, but when the quantity given off by
the medium and sitters is small it gathers about the
floor which accounts for voices coming from the floor
when conditions are poor. On the other.hand, when
t:onditions are good and we have an ample supply,
we can build right up to the ceiling, which accounts.
for the voices on these occasions coming from high
up in the room.
Question : After the mask is completed, what
do you do?
Answer : The person wishing to speak takes.
up his position in the centre of the circle and presses
into the ectoplasmic materialisation_ and then com-
mences to speak, moving his mouth and tongue just
as you do when you speak.
Question : What about the trumpet?
Answer : This is used not only to magnify the
voice, but to enable it to be directed towards the
person we wish to speak to. The trumpet is moved
by materialised rods and is controlled by one on this
side whom we term the trumpet operator. His name
is Gallacher, and he will speak to you now. (A new
voice spoke, announcing himself as Gallacher the
trumpet operator.)
Question : Good evening, I take it that you
are Irish.
Answer : Yes sir, right first time.
Question : Well, my friend, I want to know aU
you can tell me about your work in helping those on
your side to speak to us on earth.
Answer : When a spirit wishes to speak
On the Edge of the Etheric. 13g.
to you he takes on earth conditions from your sur.:.
roundings. We always know when your meetings.
take place. (Here Whitefeather broke in " It's
me who knows, and I tell him and the others. It's
me who knows when a meeting is to take place, it's.
me that remembers these things, it's written down;.
it's me that tells everyone.") After this interruption
Gallacher continued: As I was saying, we always.
know when you are meeting. I am responsible for
manipulating the trumpet. I have been standing-
beside you waiting to speak to you, and I am glad
of the chance to tell you what I can.
Question : So you are responsible for the
megaphones or trumpets ?
Answer: Yes, I deal with them entirely. When
tl;tere is going to be a meeting the chemist whom
I work with generq.lly lets me know when it is going·
to occur, and asks me to come along at the specified'
time. He supplies a substance and also obtains a
certain amount from the medium and the other sitters.
It is the combination of this spirit-substance with
ectoplasm, drawn from the medium and sitters, which
enables us to materialise. If there is enough it
allows the metallic instrument to go to all parts of
the room, and voices to be produced. When I came
here to-night I first looked to see where I could best
gather the most ectoplasm. The chemist gets it
from me and adds his ingredients, and it is then con-
veyed to the most suitable place. I also speak for
those who cannot do so and also for those who may
be a long distance away. These latter send me
their messages as you send messages by wireless ;.
these are picked up by a receiver and given to me ;
140 On the Edge of the Etheric.
I then pass them on, giving the person's name. I
merely act as an Exchange.
Que~tion : Does that account for what is some-
times thought to be impersonation ?
lA_ nswer : I am the one who passes the message
through, but you may sometimes think that I am not
the right person speaking. I am the messenger to
you from those who cannot speak. -
Question : I am glad of that explanation, not
that I have ever experienced impersonation, but it.
is interesting' and helps me to understand your diffi-
'culties. Now can you tell me a.aything more?
Answer : When spirits come into the circle to
speak they actually, for the time being, partially
materialise, their mouth and tongue being coated by
the substance we, make. There is a nexus between
the medium's larynx a...nd the materialised mouth and
tongue of the spirit speaking, which enables the
words the speakerJorms to be heard by you. We
then feel as we did·when on earth. The organs of
speech take on a thicker form, our tongue thickens
and so do all the other materialised organs. We
·Cannot be heard by you until we again put on matter
·of slower vibration, and it is only when we find some-
one like the medium who can ...supply us with this
·ectoplasm, which we fashion to our requirements,
th!lt we can again make you hear us. Ectoplasm
alone, however, would be of no use without the
.chemical substance we supply f-rom our side. It
would not materialise without it.
Question : What is this substance ?
Answer : The chemist is standing beside me
:and tells me to say it is no use giving you its in-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 141
gredients as it would mean nothing to you on earth..
He says, however, that the finished product is a sub-
stance by which material things can be moved.
Nothing can be moved without it. All physical
bodies are composed of many different ingredients.
from which we draw the substance you call ectoplasm.
Question : Can you tell me anything more ?'
A ns1.ver : I must go now, but before going I
would like to tell you, sir, that I was brought up in
the Roman Catholic faith, but I did not come over
here as a Roman Catholic. Before coming here I
gave up all creeds. I came here a free thinker, but
I was wrong in not believing in survival. I came·
here minus my physical body. When I keep in
touch with the earth plane my surroundings are prac-
tically on a par with the physical world, but in the·
higher spheres we get away from earth conditions.
Now I have for the time being_!aken on earth con-
ditions and I am part of your world. I will touch
you (I felt a touch on my left arm) and I am conscious.
of that touch. [Sloan's hands and feet were still
controlled by me. If Miss Millar had touched me
she would have required to stop writing, get up and
come over to me, but her pencil never ceased, and
when I told her immediately I was touched, she
answered from her correct place in the room. J Many
of us here in our normal state often touch our friends
on earth, and at first are much distressed that no
notice is taken of us, forgetting that with our more·
refined bodies we cannot be seen or felt. I must go
now ; Good-bye ! Greentree will speak to you
agam.
Question : I once put my ear right up to the
142 On the Edge of the Etheric.
medium's mouth when a voice was speaking, and
heard a hissing sound. My father's voice was
.speaking at the far end of the circle to my brother,
-yet no words came from the medium's lips, only a
.soft hissing sound. At other times when I have
done the same thing when a voice was speaking I
have heard nothing. What was that hissing sound
1 heard?
Answer : From the medium's mouth is pro-
jected a materialised ectoplasmic tube to carry the
vibrations of his larynx to the spirit speaking. The
medium's larynx is used to vibrate the atmosrhere,
the spirit's materialised mouth, throat and tongue to
form the words. You were fortunate to hear this
hissing. Your scientific men interested in the pheno-
mena would have been glad to have had your ex-
perience, as it is something to give you a start in
getting some real knowledge of how the voice
1s produced.
Question :
about the mask
·speak?
Can you tell me something more
which you enter when you wish to
Answer: You can call it a mask or a dummy.
We gather the ectoplasm from the sitters into what
I might term an urn; not a physical urn. If you
wait a moment I shall try and show you it. (Sloan's
·hands and feet were still controlled. I waited, and
gradually there appeared high above his head a
luminous object which assumed the shape of a large
.flower-pot, and then faded away.) Did you see it?
{Yes, I replied.) Well, we gather the ectoplasm into
this and the chemist adds his ingredients. The
finished product is matter slow enough in vibration
to vibrate your atmosphere. The mask, until it is
On the Edge of the Etheric. 143
entered by the spirit wishing to speak, is incapable of
speaking itself. The spirit has to tune down his
organs of speech, and thus contact between these
and the mask becomes established. When the
magnetic or psychic power is strong enough, there
is no difficulty in obtaining sufficient cohesion
between the speaker's organs and the mask. When
cohesion is established, the ectoplasmic material
moves with the vocal organs of the spirit. It is
exactly as if we coated our mouth and tongue with
this material. It sticks to them and moves with them.
Question : Bas this mask weight ; would it
affect a balance ?
Answer: Yes, it has. The ectoplasm taken
from the sitters has weight, and the sitters' weight
is reduced in proportion to the amount that is with-
drawn. If you were to sit on a weighing-machine
during the sitting you would find your weight de-
crease. The ectoplasm is returned to the sitters at
the end of the seance and they become normal.
[This has been proved correct by experiment.J
Question : When you control the medium and
use his vocal organs, what really happens? [This
refers to trance utterances, not the direct voice.]
Answer : When the medium is controlled, and
we wish to speak through his vocal organs, we get
him into a passive condition. This is the condition
he is in when in trance. His spirit has left his body
for the time being, and is outside. When he is in
this condition we are able to work on his larynx and
vocal cords, his tongue and throat muscles. We do
not go inside him, however, but stand behind him.
We are able to get ourselves into a condition, or in
tune with the medium, to such an extent that when
..
144 On the Edge of the Ethe·ric.
we move our voice organs the medium's move like-
wise. There is a connecting link, etheric or psychic,
whichever you like to call it, which has the same
action on the medium's muscles as a tuning fork on
another tuning fork if they are both tuned to the same
pitch. Thus the two sets of vocal organs work in
harmony. There is no question of the messages in
any way being influenced by the medium's mind, as
his mind does not com_
e into the question at all. We
do not work through his mind, but directly on his vocal
organs. Everything that comes through is exactly
as it originates in the mind of the controlling spirit.
The medium's mind and brain are switched off for the
time being, and the spirit operator controls the
muscles of the medium's vocal orga~
Question : The medium is still in trance ;
where has his spirit be_
en since we started ?
:Answer : When the trance state comes on it
means that the medium's spirit has moved out of his
body. His spirit is at present exactly on his right
not far from his body.
Question : Can you tell me more of your con-
tr::>lling the medium during trance ?
:Answer : I take on earth conditions, slow
down my vibrations and stand behind him. Ecto-
plasm is found every
~
where in the human body.
When I stand behind him it is similar to standing
behind the mask, only in this case it is the medium's
own vocal organs which I move to form the words,
they move in company with my organs ; whereas
when we speak directly, apart from the medium, we
enter the mask and form the wor<i_s by our own
tongues which are temporarily materialised.
At this point in the proceedings Sloan stood
On the Edge of the Etheric. 145
straight up, and I did so with him. Greentree then
said he had broken off the talk to show me something.
" I will show you that his spirit is out of his body.
Both your arms are stretched apart, as you still hold
his hands. Now try to lower his arms." I tried,
but they were as stiff as if he were a wooden image.
I felt his muscles, ~nd right. down his body, every
part of him was like wood. ' ' Rigor mortis,'' a
voice shouted, and indeed it was. With all my
strength I could not move one arm or the other
either up or down. I gave up as I felt that, if I
exerted too much pressure, his arm would break.
Then another voice : '' We shall bring his spirit
back and take him out of trance." Gradually the
muscles slackened and I placed him gently down in
his seat. In a few minutes Sloan's voice spoke.
asking- if we had had a good sitting.
Sloan is not so tall or muscu!9-r as I am, but, on
the first chance Lgot, I asked a man more muscular
than I am to stand up with his arms outstretched and
keep them rigid while I tried to pull them down. I
had not the least difficulty in doing so, and my readers
can make the experiment for themselves. Evidently,
to give me further proof, on this occasion Greentree
withdrew Sloan's spirit further away from his body,
so that for the time being he was as one dead. In
ordinary trance the spirit and the body must be in
closer connection, as there never is this rigidity of
muscles. It was an experiment I am glad was not
often repeated ; only on one other occasion did I
have a similar experience.
I shall conclude these experiences in the chapter
which follows.
K
146 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER XII.
NIGHTS OF INST R UCTION-CoNCLUDED.
T he wise are instructed by reason; ordi nary mi nds, by experience ;
the stupid, by necessity; the brutes, by instinct. Cicero .
THE only other record I shall give of these private
sittings is the one dated 24th January 1924. Miss
Millar again acted as note-taker, and the same control
of the medium was in force. At each sitting similar
conditions ruled. Sloan sat opposite me holding my
hands, and in about ten minutes went off into trance.
The light was put out 'and we waited in the darkness
wondering what further we would learn this night.
"Good evening, Mr. Findlay." "Oh, good
evening, Greentree," I replied ; " I recognise your
. "
vmce.
Question : I am glad you hav~come to-night.
Now can you tell me the difference between trance
and sleep?
Answer : In sleep-that is, natural sleep, the
sleep the physical body needs-all the functions of
the body are at rest except the heart, which keeps on
pulsating. That is natural sleep, but the spirit does
not always leave the body. In trance we put the
spirit slightly aside, but a psychic cord is attached
to his body from his spirit-body. If that cord should
be snapped, dissolution would take place immediately.
Before we can speak through him we require to get
his spirit out of him, oy.tside altogether, but it is still
attached to the body by this cord of life. He is
now unconscious and outside his physical body. His
spirit at the moment is exactly between his body and
you. If nothing untoward happens he can return
On the Edge of the Etheric. 147
to his body just as he left it. If something should
go wrong in his pr7sent condition, the physical frame
suffers. On thts occasion you will notice I am
speaking to you by means of his vocal organs. I
am standing behind him, but am in such close contact
with these organs that, just as I move my mouth,
his mouth moves. I am in complete control of these
organs. The medium knows nothing, he is quite
unconscious of anything I do. I am taking tem-
porary use of his body, as the power is not yet strong
enough to speak to you by the Direct Voice.
Question : Can you hear me quite easily ?
Answer : Yes, I can hear you, but I cannot
hear what I say in reply. I am talking behind the
medium and I suppose you can hear me.
Question : Oh yes, I can hear you all right.
Can you suggest a means of communication without
a medium?
Answer : By finding something on earth sus-
ceptible to the higher vibration!;> of the spirit world.
This, scientists on our side are trying to influence
you to accomplish, as it is a thing for you to do, not
us. We cannot do more than get our vibrations
down to near those of your earth. It is for you to
get your vibrat-ions up to meet ours when we come
down.
Question :
audiently ?
Answer :
Question :
your world ?
An.s7ver :
search work.
How does a medium hear clair-
By our acting on his mind.
What will my work be when I reach
You will be eminently suited for re-
148 On the Edge of the Etheric.
Question .: When you speak to us, do you
lower your vibrations ?
Answer : Certainly, that is what we mean
when we say we take on earth conditions.
Question : How is it you lower your vibra-
tions?
Answer: It is difficult to explain. It is a con-
dition you get yourself into, which enables you to
absorb the ectoplasm from the medium and sitters,
and when I do so I feel just as I did when I live<\
on earth.
Question : How do you hear us speak?
Answer : By lowering our vibrations sufficiently
to catch the atmospheric vibrations of your voice.
I must go now. Good-night.
After a few minutes a new voice spoke.
" Greentree has to go, he has other work to do ;
but he has asked me to speak to you in case you
have anything more to say.
Question : Thank you for coming. You
might tell me how it is you are able to speak to me.
Greentree and Gallacher and others have told me,
but the more information I get the better I can under-
stand your methods. So far everything I have been
told by different voices harmonises and agrees. You
go on talking. You may say something I have not
heard before. '
Answer : I feel as if I were just back on earth
again. This is just as interesting to me as it would
be for you to come over here to our side and see how
this is worked. You would be fascinated seeing all
that takes place before a spirit voice_
can vibrate your
atmosphere. First we are told by Whitefeather or
On the Edge of the Etheric. 149
some one else when a seance is to take place ; he is
always about the medium and knows everything he
does and hears when he arranges a seance. Then
we all come. Whitefeather gets the spirit-body out
of the medium's body, the chemist and his assistants
come with their preparations, and Gallacher comes
to manage the trumpets-not that they are always
necessary ; you have often heard us speak without
them. They just magnify the voice and enable us to
throw it more easily to the person we wish to speak
to. Greentree takes charge and tells the spirits
present how and when to speak. It is very in-
teresting watching all the arrangements being made
on this side, the chemist linking up the medium and
sitters and drawing power from them. Until all
these preparations are completed no voice can be pro-
duced that you could hear. The larger end of the
megaphone or trumpet is also used to place the
materialised mouth and tongue in, as it gives the
spirit speaking something to rest them on. Then we
speak, pointing the smaller end to the person
addressed.
Question : Is Gallacher here to-night? I
want to ask him something.
Answer : (Whitefeather interposed.) No,
Gallacher is busy at -other work. He cannot come
to-night. He told me you were coming, me tells
them when to come, that's my work. Me look after
my medium's spirit. Away people, who will do you
no good. When you come as an earnest enquirer
you will find us ready to help you. [This was
addressed to some spirit or spirits present.J Our
band here won't allow bad spirits to come here. Me
150 On the Edge of the Etheric.
can get right into medium's body but no one else
can; me manage this after years of practice.
It is impossible in a book to convey to the
reader the different tones and personalities of the
speakers. Whitefeather is recognised at once by his
voice, his personality and his speech. Whenever
he speaks you want to laugh, he is like the clown at
a circus, sometimes he sulks, sometimes he is,
figuratively speaking, as black as thunder, only to
brighten later and become, by a little flattery, all
sunshine. By the quaint way he has .of putting things
he can keep us laughing- for ~inutes on end. He
butts in and twits the spirits speaking, or makes some
remark about a sitter-altogether a very amusing
and interesting personality, but one by no means
highly developed. And so with all the other regular
speakers ; they are easily recognised ; each has his
own characteristics and personality, which the dark-
ness of the seance room cannot hide.
To continue the conversation interrupted by
Whitefeather-
Question : Do you keep records of what takes
place?
Answer : Yes, of course we do ; we are not
encyclopedic.
Question : How is the trumpet moved?
'Answer : When the power is strong enough
the spirit's hand is sufficiently materialised to enable
him to hold it, but on·other occasions by psychic ·rods.
(A pause.) Someone near you is very anxious to
speak; just wait and don't ask any more questions.
[After this the sitting was taken up talking to
my father and others who wished to speak. J
~
.r
On the Edge of the Etheric. 151
I have done my best in these last three chapters
-to give an outline of the methods I employed to get in-
formation relafiog to the other world about us and to
find how it was its inhabitant,;; were able to communi-
cate their thoughts to earth. These private sittings
were very impressive and did as much as anything to
convince me of the reality of the other worid. Sitting
face to face with Sloan and, when the Direct Voice
was speaking, pressing forward to make certain the
voice was not his, confirmed the conclusions I had
previously formed, and these, as I have already
stated, were not arrived at hastily. I felt that I had
now a double check on all I had previously ex-
perienced; I had confirmed the medium's honesty ;
the super-normal nature of the phenomena ; the
reality of another world in close proximity to our
own; and lastly the continuity of life, which I found
had only passed beyond our knowledge owing to its
having discarded the physical garment which ap-
pealed to our senses. Besides this, I had been told
something of the life and work in the etheric world,
and of their methods of establishing communication
with this earth. Truly, these nights of instruction
were not to be forgotten.
152 On the Edge of the Etheric.
CHAPTER XIII.
ADD TO YOUR FAITH, KNOWLEDGE.
Ignorance is the curse of God ; k nowledge is the wing wherewith we
fly to Heaven. Shakespeare.
THE foregoing chapters contain information which
has seldom been conveyed between two different
orders of intelligence in the same clear and concise
way. Doubtless we were not ready to receive it,
and had it come sooner it would rtot have been under-
stood. To-day the position is different, as the
younger generation is now able to talk and think of
the ether and its waves, and of matter, its atoms and
its electrons. The human mind has thus advanced
sufficiently to be able to grasp the fact that nothing
is solid as we understand the word, that everything
we see and touch is composed of that substance called
ether, which only when vibrating at a certain speed
appeals to our senses. The vast majority of the
vibrations of the ether never affect us, though we
know by means of instruments that they exist and
always have existed. Is it inconceivable that there
are other beings who can sense what we are incapable
of sensing, or is the sum total of intelligence confined
to what we call humanity? Are there no intelligences
capable of appreciating ether waves either below or
above our limited capacity ? Surely to adopt this
view reveals profound ignorance. We know how
primitive man was able to appreciat~ only his own
immediate surroundings, and how he looked on the
stars as lights placed in the firmament for his special
benefit. His mind could not have grasped the dis-
coveries of Copernicus. Had Bacon, in 1623, in his
On the Edge of the Etheric. 153
De Augmentis Scientian.~,m, discoursed on the vibra-
tory activity of matter, his work might have died at
birth. The human mind in his days could hardly
comprehend the majesty and greatness of the physical
universe ; the universe of ether could only be
appreciated when first of all the physical universe was
properly understood. This mental development took
three hundred years, and to-day we find the same
difficulty in harmonising ourselves with this next
forward step as our forefathers did in adjusting their
minds to the astromony of Copernicus and Galilee
and, in later years, to the Biology of Darwin. Each
forward step takes time ; the great minds take the
first step, often amid jeers ; but by-and-bye the
multitude follows . Our children will be able to ap-
preciate the etheric universe in a way many of the
older generation never will ; to them an etheric world
beyond the physical will be comprehensible in a way
it will never be to their parents and grandparents.
It required at least one hundred years before the
discoveries of Galilee and Copernicus gained general
acceptance amongst educated people. Then, just as
now, appearances were different from reality. It took
fifty years and more, after Darwin, before most of
the educated were able to accept the fact that our
earth and its inhabitants are the outcome of a slow
but steady evolution and not an instantaneous
creation. All new discovfi!ries have had to meet with
uncomprom1smg oppos1t10n. History is full 'of the
fact that humanity has invariably persecuted, and
sometimes murdered, its greatest thinkers, and after-
wards worshipped at their graves. The human
mind is so constituted that new ideas penetrate slowly
154 On the Edge of the Etheric .
and are only accepted after long and fierce discussion.
No doubt this conservatism is for the best, as if it
were otherwise there would be no stability, whert>.as
though truth always wins through in the end, much
chaff is discarded in the winnowing. Every radical
change in science, religion, or philosophy has only
won its way to acceptance by ultimately appealing to
the reason of mankind, and Psychic discoveries will
be no exception. We must therefore expect that it
will take time before this new knowledge becomes
part of the generally ~ccepted truths of the world,
and this will only come about by more and more
earnest seekers investigating the phenomena and year
by year accumulating further evid~e, which in the
end will remove all doubt.
What, therefore, must be the attitude of all those
who, putting aside prejudice, set their faces earnestly
towards the truth ? What should be my attitude
under the circumstances so far related in this book?
Should I keep silence, or tell the world of my dis-
coveries, ignoring its jeers and scoffs? Each one of
us is but the trustee 9f knowledge entrusted to him·,
and to hold back for fear of ridicule would be but
cowardice.
I tell only what I have been told ; this book is
not the product of my imagination. I am not a
missionary trying to change beliefs long held ; I am
only relating somethingi: have heard which will make
more intelligible those beliefs held sacred by the great
majority of mankind. If in the process of assimila-
ting further knowledge of the unseen certain beliefs
now held as fundamental are found to be but symbols
of a greater truth lying further back, is this not just
a repetition of what has occurred in the past?
On the Edge of the Etheric. 155
Knowledge is like a tree of slow growth: year
after year it sheds its leaves which have been the
means of its nourishment, but still the tree remains,
slowly but surely adding to its stature and girth. So
to-day certain old beliefs which helped mankind on-
wards in his reaching out after God and the unseen
must be. discarded, so that place may be found for
those .of newer and fresher growth ; but the real and
enduring fabric will always remain. The knowledge
gained by this new science of Psychics only confirms
and deepens the great and universal truths proclaimed
by Religion and Philosophy. We find in our re-
searches an all-directing Mind fashioning and
moulding the universe, one great stupendous plan,
far beyond the comprehension of anyone in this world
and of most in the next. We find that as we sow
here we shall reap hereafter ; that we are making
our next life in this ; that life persists and is indis-
tructible ; that memory, personality and character
are our real selves and that it is not they but only
their physical covering that decays at death.
Further, we find that we are surrounded by an
unseen multitude who, under certain conditions, can
hold converse with us from time to time. Have not
the fundamental and essential truths of religion
received confirmation by this new revelation, and ?-re
we more likely to become irreligious by its accep-
tance ? When we look round at the so-called
religious world of thought to-day, is there not an
instinctive feeling, amongst even the most orthodox,
that things are out of gear? Consider the sects and
dissensions and quibblings on the one hand, and the
utter indifference on the other, and we have
the results of orthodox religion in a nut-shell. To-
]56 On the Edge of the Etheric.
.take England alone, for example, we have just
become sufficiently educated to make the majority of
.us wonder what is truth. In the old days of
ignorance there was no difficulty in accepting truth,
.because truth for the multitude was what was told
them by the Church ; that was during the Dark
Ages. The printing pt·ess, however, had its effect,
and a few hundred years ago some were sufficiently
intelligent to doubt the authority of this Church ; they
threw it over and pinned their faith on what was con-
:sidered an infallible Book instead of on an infallible
Church. Knowledge progressed; the infallible
Book began to be doubted and then more doubted,
and in consequence, since the Reformation, there has
been dissension everywhere amongst the Protestant
.section of the community, because they had nothing
solid on which to base their beliefs. The Roman
Catholic Church alone has managed to pursue its
.even way, without at least open dissension, but the
history of Protestantism reminds one of an iceberg,
forever breaking up. Each section, of course, con-
sidered itself right and the rest all wrong, and each
.section had its own texts to support its contentions.
T a-day, nearly a third of the way through the
twentieth century, we find the same form of Church
service, the same rigmarole of words used which
satisfied our ignorant forefathers, but they are far
from satisfying the ~hinking section of the population.
In consequence Church congregations are becoming
smaller, because pe6ple have little sympathy with
its teaching. Are the people, however, indifferent to
the essential truths which all religions have pro-
daimed ? By no means ; the people of to-day are .
On the Edge of the Etheric. 157
more interested and more fully alive to the essential
truths of religion than ever before, and the Church
has lost a great opportunity, by retaining its im-
possible creeds, and thus forcing from it the thinking-
section of the population. In the English Church
prayer book there is set down to be read or sung, on
certain Feast Days and Sundays, the creed of Saint
Athanasius which tells us, among other things, that.
if we do not believe the incomprehensible we cannot
be saved, and without doubt we shall perish ever-
lastingly. This cruel creed sets out the Catholic-
faith ; it has never been repudiated or withdrawn ;
in fact, it is the basis of Protestant and Catholic
Christianity, or, as the Prayer Book says, it is the·
confession of Christian faith. How can any intelli-
gent man or woman read this creed and say honestly
that this jumble of meaningless words constitutes his-
or her faith , and yet it is glibly sung or read-
throughout England, on certain appointed Sundays.
The utter lack of authority and basis for belief
in Protestant Christianity finds ample confirmation
in the diverse opinions held with regard to transub-
stantiatiOn. The Bishop of Birmingham (Morning
Post, 23rd July 1931) accuses the Archbishop of
Canterbury for countenancing the belief '' that a
Priest, by the act of consecration, can cause Christ"
to come and dwell within the bread and wine of Holy
Communion." The Bishop continue~ " that the
belief that a Spiritual Presence can be made to inhere·
in a piece of bread by consecration is false ; it is a
cardinal principle of modern science, and the term
includes religious psychology, that assertions must
be justified by experience. Religious or Spirituar
158 On the Edge of the Ether-ic.
assertions must be justified by religious or spiritual 1
experience. It is true that the Hindu can point to
a glow of religious exaltation on the face of those
who worship the idol, but if an unconsecrated idol
were surreptitiously substituted for that which had
been consecrated, no worshipper could tell the
·difference.''
Here we have the Commander-in-Chief of the
Church of England being openly rebuked by one of
his generals, and what I have quoted above is only
an example of what has been happenmg off and on
for the last 1,900 years. If it is not a discussion or an
/
.argument about transubstantiation, it is an argument
as to the authenticity of some passage in Scripture.
Christianity since its foundation has been the cause
of one discussion and argument after another relating
either to forms or ceremonies on the one hand, or
the meaning and interpre~ation of certain portions of
Scripture on the other. Christianity has been like
a ship at sea forever seeking a port and never finding
one, because it has no sound and solid foundation for
its assertions. They have been dependent on the
pronouncement of some Church Authority or some
passage in Scripture, and these have received
different interpretc{tions in different ages ; hence the
Christianity of to-day is as unlike as possibl~ the
Christianity of the first century. These opinions
.and interpretations have caused an untold number of
divergent views throughout Christendom, resulting
in the hundreds of sects which have formed the
I
Christian Church since its foundation . Small
wonder that only a small section of the community
.attends Divine service, for the leaders themselves
On the Edge of the Etheric. 159
cannot agree as to what is truth, and so their
followers, losing heart, get fewer and fewer. The
number of those attending Spiritualist services, on
the other hand, is yearly increasing.
And what ray of hope is held out to those around
an open grave? This is what the mourners are told.
" We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
in a moment, in the twinkling of an ey~, at the last
trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead
shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be
(::hanged.'' · Now to be changed is the last thing any
one of us wants. Every one wants to be himself or
herself and retain his or her own individuality and
personality, which is just what we shall do in a body
similar to our earth body. What comfort can my
quotation bring to the sorrowing mourners ? and yet
at every Christian funeral the clergy read this obsolete
burial service, or, if Dissenters, repeat similar words,
and consign the spirit of the dead to the grave until the
great Resurrection. This consigning the spirit of man
to the grave till some future Resurrection day has been
going on now since the commencement of Christian-
ity ; it doubtless went on before Christianity was
thought of, and if the clergy are right our graveyards
must be full of sleeping spirits awaiting the great roll
call. The same words are repeated at every funeral
service, and in the past the people have accepted
them, knowing no better ; but sooner or later, owing
to our increased knowledge, the truth must be told.
Anyone who doubts the foregoing view of the
Church's opinion on the subject will find it confirmed
by reading over the last verse of the well-known
hymn, which is sung at so many funerals, Now the
labourer's task is o'er.
-
160 On the Edge of the Etheric.
It is the duty of the clergy to be in advance of
their congregations, and by now, with the evidence
they can obtain by means of the enormous amount
of literature published on the subject, they should be
telling their people that the old creeds are dead, but
the essential truths of religion live and can now be
believed, not as an act of faith, but as scientific facts.
I am told, however, that all that is new can be read
into the old creeds, and that these dead bones can be
made to live again by pouring the oil of the new
revelation upon them. That may satisfy some, but
it does not satisfy many who are now thinking for
themselves, and passing over with indifference the
pronouncements of the Church. These old writings
are interesting relics of a by-gone age ; why ponder
over the gropings of our ignorant ancestors after
truth when we have before us these things they were
seeking after?
What, then, is our position to-day? We now
know that our survival and our entering into the
etheric world is not conditioned by any kind of belief.
It is a natural process, just as natural as birth ; it
takes place, not at some future time, but at death.
It does not matter in the least whether one believes
in events recorded in the Bible or not, or whether
one is a believer, on the one hand , that Heaven is
a new Jerusalem with its streets paved with gold,
or, on the other hand, that there is no such thing as
survival and that the grave is our end. All these
beliefs mean nothing so far as survival is concerned,
as the most ignorant believer, and the most pro-
nounced atheist, will reach the etheric world when the
time comes for his etheric body to leave his physical
On the Edge of the Etheric. 161
body. There is no separate place, Heaven for the
believers or Hell for the unbelievers. But ignorance
is not bliss and it breeds false imaginings. The more
you know of the country you are going to, and the
means of entry, the more at home you will feei in
it when you arrive there. We shall be much more
in harmony with our surroundings if we prepare our-
selves correctly in advance, though it is unwise to
give too much thought to it.
I am writing with some authority, as I have had
one or two interesting experiences. A clergyman ,
who had died told me that he could make no progress
until the last of his congregation had arrived from this
world. I asked him why, and he told me that the
reason was that he had preached to them orthodox
Christianity, namely, the forgiveness of sins through
the belief in Christ's death on the cross, and the
punishment of all who had not this belief. He was
waiting to tell each one of his congregation, as they
came over, that he was wrong, and that he had given
them an entirely wrong impression of the after life.
Another experience I had was equally interesting and
shows how wide is tfie divergence of thought,
wherever it be. The group which was working
along with me, on the other side, said they were
going to bring to speak to me a Plymouth Brother
who on earth had his ideas so fixed that he could not
get rid of them in his new surroundings. This man,
who , I found out afterwards, had been a prominent
Plymouth Brother in Glasgow and was noted for his
extraordinarily narrow and bigoted views, and who
had recently died, spoke much as he must have
spoken on earth on many occasions. Talk about a
J,
162 On the Edge of the Etheric.
hardened sinner! he was certainly the most hardened
believer that I have ever experienced. From the
other side he discoursed to me about the wickedness
of everybody except himself. To him everybody
was a sinner, and his fixed ideas on earth had been
carried over with him. After he had finished I was
told that he would have to undergo a special course
of teaching, but that in time his mind would develop
sufficiently to enable him to see the truth.
As 1 say, the main essentials of all true religion
remain. This new revelation takes- nothing fro!Jl the
desires of mankind and9-dds enormously to our know-
ledge of both this world and the next. We are all
gainers by these new truths and we lose nothing.
Let us therefore all continue to live true, upright,
good and unselfish lives, remembering that it is not
what we believe that matters but what we do. No
repeating of creeds or prayers will give us any better a
place hereafter, sue]} repetitions mean nothing. What
is essential is the development of our Gharacter, and
this is not strengthened if.we are afraid to think for
ourselves, and use either creeds or a. book or a
Church as crutches, when we have sufficient know-
ledge before us to-da to. enable us to walk alone.
In all my communications with those who have
passed on, when touching on those deeper problems,
I have been impressed by their insistence of
the reality of their world, and how they look on this
world of ours as but a poor imitation of theirs. From
the etheric has all life come and to the etheric will
it return, for what we see is temporaf; it is the
unseen that is eternal, as the seen arrd tangible at~
but the results of invisible causes. In nature nothing
1
On the Edge of the Etheric. 163
is lost : Life rriay cease to manifest in a physical garb,
but neither life nor its covering is lost. Life pursues
its course entering and passing through matter, which
during its passage it endows with form and move-
ment. When this covering ceases to fulfil its re-
quirements, life leaves it to die and decay, return-
ing it to mother earth, whence it came, so that it
may be used again for the passage of life at some
future date. Life but gathers within this physical
covering so as to enable it to assume form, and in
the more highly developed creatures this form persists
in the etheric world. This earth is but an incubator,
developing life during its passage through the
physical ; it is but the nursery of the human race, its
place of preparation for the real and enduring world
which is to us, in the physical body, both intangible
and unsensed because our sense perceptions are UOI-
tuned to catch its vibrations.
The great law which governs this etheric world
is that of harmony, or the law of attraction, similar
to our law of gravitation. As the physical body is
subject to the latter, so the etheric is subject to the
former. There like attracts like, and on arrival in
the new environment I am told that we are
·rresistibly drawn' into that company and condition
for which we are fitted by character. Congenial souls
keep together, but progress is always possible even
for the worst if the desire is strong enough. All can,
if they wish to, ultimately progress, though the way
for the selfish is lonely and dreary. Our thoughts
and actions, therefore, here on earth are building for
us our place in the hereafter. How many of us
realise that thoughts are lasting things, and that they
164 On the Edge of the Etheric.
pass on with us through de{lth, and will be our com-
panions, and will influence us, in an even greater
degree then than now, as when separated from the
physical body they assume shape and form more
potent for good or evil than when clothed by the
earthly body.
What I have stated in this chapter is based on
the information I have been given by those who once,
like us, lived here on earth. In many ways they
have proved to me their identity, and in ways I
could prove they have satisfied me of their honesty
and truthfulness. Why, therefore, should I not also
accept their statements of the kind of life they live,
the appearance of their world, and their moral and
philosophical teachings ? They are one stage further
on than we are and see things from a new and larger
angle, and if what they tell me appeals to my reason,
am I to discard it as of no value because the method
of communication is not in general practice ? Such
an argument would have killed the telephone, the
telegraph and wireless at their birth, as because of
their novelty no messages would have b~en believed,
and thus they would have been useless from th,e
start. Constant repetition, however, proved their
value just as the constant repetition of messages,
which have been going on between the two worlds
for the past seventy years, has confirmed in all
essential details this great new revelation of a world
about and around us, its life and its character. What
has been told to me has been told to others, not once,
but thousands of times. I am but adding another
stone to the cairn, which some day will rise so high
that all mankind will be forced to look upon it and
believe.
On the Edge of the Etheric. 165
CHAPTER XIV.
FACTS WE OUGHT TO KNOW .
Facts are to the mind, what food is to the body. On the due digestion
of the former depend the strength and wisdom of the one, just
as vigour and health depend on the other. The wisest in council,
the ablest in debate, and the most agreeable companion in the
commerce of human life, is that man who has assimilated to
his understanding the greatest number of facts.-Burke
WE are all bound for another country. If we were
told we would have to leave England and take up
our permanent residence, let us say, in some little
known part of South America, how anxious we
would be to meet someone who had been there!
Would we not ply him with questions, not only of
the scenery, the climate, but of the kind of clothes
we should take with us ? When I had this oppor-
tunity with those who had returned to me from the
Etheric Vvorld, to which we all are travelling, I
naturally took every opportunity to find out about
this place, its inhabitants, its scenery, and how best
I could clothe my character so that I should be most
suitably fitted for my new environment. Having
thus learned something of our destiny, let me in as
simple terms as possible set down these facts we
ought each one of us to know. To those unin-
terested in the future life, to those who prefer to
enter it ignorant and unprepared, this book will not
appeal. All know that death must come, and those
who wish to meet it with knowledge and under-
standing, will find here food for thought.
Here in this world our bodies are dual, physical
which we can see and touch, etheric which we cannot
sense with our physical organs. These two bodies
interpenetrate each other, but the etheric is the
permanent, enduring one, the etheric Mind being
1
166 On the Edge of the Etheric.
the abod~ of our memory, personality, and all those
qualities which make up our character. Those
qualities pertain to the etheric. The mind never
grows old, only the brain, the mind's instrument,
which becomes impaired as the physical body grows
old. Nothing we have learned, no intellectual
wealth acquired, is ever lost. Here we lose, in
time, the power of expression ; but this is due to
the physical instrument ceasing to function with its
aforetime precision. When, after the death change,
the worn-out garment ·s laid aside, we stand, clothed
in an etheric body, ig our new abode. Freed from
the limitations of the physical, our faculties are
clearer and movements more rapid. In the change
we lose nothing of value ; we are still ourselves in
form and feature, in thought and action.
The child who leaves this earth as such grows
to manhood or womanhood, and when this stage is
reached remains a fully-grown develbped man or
woman. Old age pertains to the physical, but it is
unknown in the etheric. Children in the etheric
world are carefully cared for and ~ducated ; there
they have their schools and colleges ; in fact, the
desire for knowledge is the outstanding desire of all
who seek for progress, be they childre~ or adults.
~nd what of the old who die? Do they who live
long enough to die with all the disabilities of old age
retain these throughout et~rnity ? f( we could only
comprehend that the spirit of man never grows old,
but only the body, this question would not be asked.
When the old and tottering body is cast aside the
etheric duplicate stands erect, freed from its out-
ward physical handicap. The old die old only in
On the Edge of the Etheric. 167
the physical sense, but enter the next life young.
Age there is nq.t measured in years ; there time
differs from o~rs. We count our time by the re-
volution of a physical -globe round a physical sun,
but when we leave our earth we enter a new environ-
ment where time, such as we understand it, does not
exist. Our only earthly experience of the relativity
of time is during sleep. We then, in dreams, pass
through experiences which, if awake, would take us
years to accompli~h, but when asleep they happen
in a few minutes and sometimes in seconds. I have
been told by my instn.J.ctors in the Spirit World about
those who left this world a thousand years and more
ago, who are only now beginning to appreciate their
new surrou~dings. But such cases belong to those
of low development in this world, who cannot adjust
themselves at once to their new conditions and en-
vironment. The average man and woman of in-
telligence perceives the new environment without
much delay, some almost immediately, on the passing
of their etheric bodies out of the physical covering,
though with others it may take days or weeks, as
we measure time. But there one day is as a thousand
years and a thousand years as a day, according to
Saint Peter.
Our etheric body is in every respect a duplicate
of our physical body. This may seem strange at
first , and I found it difficult to grasp until I under-
stood the fact that the etheric is the real body on
earth, and that from the moment of conception it has
gathered round it physical matter, slow in vibration,
as otherwise it could not have functioned in the
physical world owing to its finer and more rapid
168 On the Edge of the Etheric.
vibrations. The physical body is only a protective
covering for the .etheric during its passage through
the earth life. In reality, our real hands here are
etheric hands clothed with a glove of physical matter,
and so with all the other parts of our body. Our real
brain is the etheric brain, through which the mind
functions, 'and it functions through this whether we
are in this world or the next. The mind acts on
the etheric brain, the etheric brain on the material
covering which we call the physical brain. I am
told that this is so, and those who have made the
change called death are certainly better able to
realise this mystery than any brain specialist, what-
ever his standing may be here on earth, as even he
must admit his ignorance of how thought, which is
intangible, can move our muscles of physical matter.
They from their side can see our minds at work,
and study our etheric brain working under the in-
fluence of mind in a way we cannot. The pictures
formed by our mind can be seen, and so everything
we think can be read by those in the etheric world
as easily as we can read a book.
We are really much greater than we think we
are, very much so ; our mind as exp~essed through
the physical brain is very limited, and only when
freed from the physical do we comprehend its great-
ness. Our earthly mind we call conscious mind,
but it and what we term the subconscious· or sub-
liminal mind form the complete mind. Our con-
scious mind directs our activities in this world, our
greater mind functions in the next. We obtain only
glimpses of this greater mind in the occasionally
observed phenomena of telepathy, clairvoyance,
On the Edge of the Etheric. 169
clairaudience and prevision, and on these occasions
the subliminal over-rides the conscious for a limited
time and then withdraws. Some day, as man
develops, ~he subliminal may become more and more
.a dominating factor, but at this stage of our develop-
ment its intrusion is sporadic and confined to the few.
When we pass on, our earth memories pass with us,
but slowly they fade and we are guided and governed
by this greater mind which has been with us all our
life building up our bodies, performing its inward
functions, and making us what we are though we
know it not.
One other important fact has been impressed on
me time and again by my informants, namely, that
t he next is a very real world-no floating on some
fleecy cloud in some disembodied state which has no
form or feature. Not only are our etheric bodies
similar in every way to our earthly ones, but they
are as real and tangible to their owners as ours are
to us. For instance, it might see;n strange to be
told by an inhabitant of this world of finer matter
that he took pride in keeping his finger nails polished ;
but, as he has finger nails, why should he not be as
careful of them as we are of our physical nails ? Just
because he has discarded the physical covering his
etheric nail becomes no less real. Let it be re-
membered that when we discard the physical, the
physical becomes the unreal and the etheric the real
to our consciousness. We have much to learn con-
cerning matter. It does not cease to exist, when it
-ceases to be visible to our physical eyes. This can
be better understood by taking some water, heating
it, and then observing the effect. First we have
170 On the Edge ·of the Etheric.
steam partially visible, then super-steam invisible.
By reversing the process we can bring back the in-
visible super-steam to water. Though invisible, the
super-steam is still matter. All we did was to
increase its vibrations and then reduce them till we
had water again. Our etheric bodies vibrate at a
speed beyond the capacity of our physical eye to
catch, but under certain conditions, when freed from
the body, these vibrations can be lowered and with
what is called ectoplasm borrowed from the medium,
the vocal organs can again vibrate our atmosphere
in speech.
In recent years we have come to learn that
space is not an empty void, but contains...a substance
we call ether. Here dwell the myriads of the so-
called dead in a world to them as material as is ours
to us. This etheric world is the real world, as from
it we have come, and to it we return. This etheric
world is both a condition and a place. It encircles
our earth as do the belts and zones around the planet
Saturn, but it interpenetrates as well, as physical
matter forms no part of this etheric world. Here we
live within the limits of physical vibrations ; there they
live within the limits of the vibrations to which their
etheric bodies ar"'e- fitted. E verythirig to them is as
natural as our world is to us here on earth ; they
have their houses, s~ols~ churches, fields, trees
and flowers, but as they are living in a finer environ-
)
ment their minds can mould it in a manner impossible
here on earth, where the physical is too gross to be
affected by these finer vibrations. · Therefore our
thoughts condition our enyironment in this next plane
of consciousness to a degree unrealised here. Those
On the Edge of the Etheric. 171
of low intelligence and of evil thought make their
conditions low and evil, whereas those of pure and
high thinking have the conditions suitable to their
thoughts. Hence the importance of giving due
regard to the development of our character on right
lines here and now, as ju;;t as we leave the physical
so shall we enter the etheric.
If we have no noble thoughts here we shall not
have them there. If we go through this world like
Bunyan's character, with a muck rake in our hand,
looking no way but downwards, we shall not be ,a-ble
to look upwards there. Only by undoing our'errors
will progress in time become possible. ..~Why not,
therefore, live here so that our progress onwards may
be steady and continuous ? We are day by day
making our future habitation ; if our thoughts are
pure we shall-..dwell with the pure in heart, if evil
then our abode will be with-the evil. It is therefore
the duty of each ope, individually, to live here on
earth so that his next stage on the journey towards
the infinite may be in truth a further step onwards
on the road to the fulness of wisdom which, however
many the by-paths we traverse in error, we should.
if we have the desire, reach in the end.
172 On the Edg e of the Etheric .
CHAPTER XV.
CONCLUSION.
'To be perfectly just is an attribute of the divine nature; to be so to
the utmost of our abilities, is the g lory of man.-Addison.
Now, I ask, what have we to make of it all? Have
I been the victim of a great fraud, has all that I
'have recorded, and much else, a normal explanation ?
Is all I have been told about the next world a
-
deliberate lie, or the outpourings of a highly im-
aginative mind? Have all the voices been Sloan's
voice, has he impersonated every individual who
spoke? Has he some marvellous means of obtaining
information about the deceased friends of those who
come to his circle ? Has he the power of knowing
·everyone, whether he has seen them before or not ;
can he see in the dark and though his hands and
feet are controlled can he, in the seance room of the
Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, by some
means, touch everyone ever so lightly about the face
and hands with the trumpet, often using two trumpets
at the same time? Is he really not in trance at all,
but besides manipulating the trumpets and imper-
sonating voices through the trumpets, is he at the
·same time assuming d_
ifferent personalities himself,
·so that we have two personalities speaking which are
none other than Sloan himself? I have heard thirty
<Separate voices speaking during one seance, each of
.different tone and personality. Further, how can he
.describe so accurately the appearances of the spirits
purporting to speak? Is it all one huge fraud, and
have I, and others been the victims of a great 'con-
:spiracy ? If it be so, it is quite the cleverest per-
On the Edge of the Etheric. 173·
ormance ever accomplished. Infinite trouble is
1ecessary, and also considerable expense, in gather-
ng all the information, and for what purpose?"
·31oan's work takes him out at 7 a.m., and he does
1ot get home till 6 p.m. When can he find time to·
make such exhaustive enquiries ?
Except on the occasion referred to in Chapter·
rv he has never, to my knowledge, taken any money
:or all this time and effort on his part. Is he insane on
.his question, and for a morbid love of notoriety does
.1e carry on this farce? If so, ~hy so retiring, why so
anxious at all times to hide his light under a bushel?'
Why does he not want to be introduced to those
whom he calls ' ' my grand friends '' ? Why does
he prefer quietness and being alone, to holding·
seances ; why does he love the sea, and why, from
time to time, does he sign on and go for months to-
sea, where he never hears or speaks of Spiritualism?"
I have asked myself a hundred questions from
time to time, in my endeavour to find an explanation.
Is it teleeath ? If so, how do you account for the·
Eric Sa~nders episode and dozens of others, and in
any case how can telepathy produce a voice apart
from the medium ? Am I the victim of hallucina-·
tion ? If so, my stenographer and all present are
also the victims ; and collective hallucination, going
on for twenty years, as it has done with some of
Sloan's friends , is unthinkable, as what one hears all
hear at these seances. Often I have heard spirits
speaking to and answering each other during the
seance. What about crypt;;esthesia-hidden mem-
ories, or the perception of realities by extra sensorial
channels ? Can a memory, or the perception of
174 On the Edge of the Etheric.
realities by extra sensorial means, produce a voice !
Can my hidden memory, or his extra sensorial per-
ception, make Sloan able, normally or supernormally,
not only to describe corr~c_!ly my deceased friend,
whom he never knew," but to produce also 'nis voice,
which I can tecognise, which voice tells me things
I baa never heard before, but found afterwards to be
true ; and why, if such, do these Illanifestations con-
cern only those who have passed on, the so-called
·dead? Again, why does one friend in spirit life
bring others whom you and they knew oh earth ?
How can a medium know, normally or super-
normally, not only your own friends who have passed
on, but their ·friends, also in spirit life, who were
your friends and theirs in this life ?
Nothing I can think of besides fraud or reality
explains satisfactorily to me all I haXLexperienced.
Fraud, knowing Sloan and the facts as I do, I rule
out of account. The circumstantial evidence in
favour of reality is overwhelming. No one has
followed Sloan's actions and words in trance and out
of trance rhore critically than I have done, and, all
these years I have know'n him, never by word or
action has he done or said anything to make me in
the least degree suspicious as to his motives. Sloan
is a high-minded, upright, religious man, without
much learning, and with average intelligence. A
good workman, but no student. His range of litera-
ture is very limited. He told me 9nce that he had
seldom ever read a book in his life owing to poor
eyesight. I have never seen a book in his house,
though I have been in every room of it, and only
once an evening paper . He has not the capacity to
On the Edge of the Etheric. 175
:arry on a seance, such as I have described, normally,
for one half-hour1 even if he wished to do so. I
dislike referring to fraud in connection with a man
of such high principles, but others do not know him
as I do, and to those who have not had experience
with these phenomena as I have had, fraud is the
simplest and the most obvious explanation.
I rule out fraud, I rule out telepathy, I rule out
cryptresthesia. I come back every time to the only
explanation which fits in with all the facts, namely,
that those we thought were dead are still alive, that
they have bodies such as we have, of a finer texture
than our phys~l bodies, that .they inhabit a world
of finer mat!ter than we do, and that certain individ-
uals called mediums can supply them with a sub-
stance which, when mixed with ingredients of their
own, enables them again, for a limited time, to
assume physical conditions, and, with their memories,
affections and character unimpaired, once more to
hold conversation with their friends still on earth.
My mind remains open for further explanations
science may offer, but, so far, science has not given
to me another explanation which fits in with ail the
evidence. In fact, science, until recently, has given
little thought to the phenomena I have described.
The London Society for .Psychical Research has
spent years studying mental phenomena, and this
independent voice phenomena, equally if not more
important in so far as personal identity is concerned1
has never, to my knowledge, been officially investi-
gated. It should be quite possible so to isolate
the materialised mask that its weight could be
taken and its construction and operation better under-
176 On the Edge of the Etheric.
stood. We must learn the laws governing tht
phenomena. There is a great field before the inves·
tigator, and had I continued to live near Glasgow 1
would have pursued my investigations on the line~
followed b the..late Dr..~Crawford, and thus have had
objective proof of the correctness of the statements
made to me as to how the voice is produced.
I trust that what I have written will encourage
someone with a scientific mind to pursu~ these inves-
tigations to a point which will make clear what to-day
:s obscure, as a thorough scientific grasp of the
phenomena I have described is essential before it can
become generally accepted by the world at large.
The foregoing is a faithful record of my ex-
periences, and I have but done my duty in recording
them. Some may accept them, others suspend
judgment, whilst many doubtless will disbelieve,
arguing that without ·deception such things cannot
occur. I reply to critics on much the same lines as
did Pasteur to those who impugned his discoveries
on a priori grounds : " In all this, there is no
question of religion, nor philosophy, nor atheism, nor
materialism, nor spiritualism, it is entirely a question
of fact." The facts are there, and refusing to face
them does not alter them. If any one has built up
a system of belief which opposes these facts, that
system must be changed to suit th~ facts, because
the facts will not alter to suit any particular system
of belief. Science and Religion, on the acceptance
of these facts, I believe will be united.
I can now safely leave the future to bring forth
cumulative evidence in support of my assertions, so
that the day will come when to disbelieve in the
On the Edge of the Etheric. 177
reality of psychic phenomena will be but to plead
ignorance, and to scoff will be accounted foolish.
Meantime the world is composed of those who do not
think deeply on such subjects, or, if they do. are
satisfied that there is nothing more to learn, and that
all we can know of the universe is already known ;
and on the other hand, of those who have learned
something of what exists beyond the veil from those
who have gone before us, -and, in consequence, have
had their vision enlarged. As Mrs. Browning so
aptly puts it :- ·"·
' ' !
" Earth 's crammed with Heaven
And every common bush afire with God:
But only he who sees takes off his shoes. "
Printed by Laidlaw & Mackenzie, 97 Holm Street, Glasgow.
