{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__leadbeater___work_of_theosophists.pdf","mytitle":"Work Of Theosophists","mylang":"de"}
ADYAR pamphlets
N O . IBS
691S31A
The Work of Theosophists
BY
THE Rt. Rev. C. W. LEADBEATER
Thcosophical Publishing House
Adyar. Madras. India
OUR LATEST PUBLICATIONS
Ju
Talks on the Path of Occultism in throo '1
Volumes. By Annie B osant and C. W,
Leadbeater. Section I : At the Foot of tho
Master. I I : Voice of tho Silence. I lls Light
on the Path. Each Volume—Boards ... 4 a
Cloth ... 5 $
Flame of Youth. By O. Jinarajadasa.
Wrapper As. 9. Boards As. 12. Cloth ... 1 o
The Personality of H. P. Bla v a tb k y.
B y C. Jinarajadasa. Oh
The Masters. By C. Jinarajadasa.
Boards As. 4, Cloth ... 0 12
H ow Theosophy Came to Me. By fiSyjv
Leadbeater. Boards Re. 1. Cloth ... 1 8
Messages from the U n se e n . B y C. W. {
Leadbeater. Wrapper As. 6. Boards ... 0 v .
Cloth ... 0 12 |
Reminiscences of H. P. Bl a v a t s k y . By
Bertram Keightley. Paper A s, 9. Boards 0 11
Cloth ... 1 0 j
L i f e o f L o r d B uddh a in his own words, t
by Rev. Narada Thero. W rapper ... y I
Boards Re. 1. Cloth ... 1 4 I
T h e C o n v e n t i o n L ectures, 1930. The . ■
Future of the T. S. Boards Re. 1-8. Cloth 2 9
E d u c a t io n a s Se r v i c e . By J. Krishnamurti.
Boards Ajs. 12. Cloth ... 1 4
T h e I n n e r G o v e r n m e n t o f t h e W orld.
By Dr. Annie Besant. Boards ... 0 1#
Cloth ... 1 4 J
T h e In n e r Sid e o f C h u r c h W o r s h ip . B y
Geoffrey Hodson. Boards Re. 1. Cloth 1 8
Ol d D i a r y L e a v e s —Fourth Series (1887_.
1892). Boards . 4 Q
Cloth 5 g
/ jm
ADYAR PAMPHLETS
No. 155
The Work of Thcosophists
BY JX/-
the Rt. Rev. c w< LEADBEATER
\
November 1931
0
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
Adyar, Madras, India
* Annual Subscription: Rs. 2 or38h. or75cents
Single Copy: As. 2
<
;o
THE WORK OF THEOSOPHISTS1
(ft
I t h a n k you for your very hearty welcome,
and I beg to offer you my hearty good wishes
in return. Bombay is, as you say, the gateway
of India towards the West, and so it happens
that those from Western nations who come
here to learn often enter by it. But I would
have you remember that, though the Founders
of the Theosophical Society are both of Western
descent, Those who inspired them and sent
them forth to do that vast and wondrous work
were not Westerns but Easterns—not. English
nor Russian nor American, but Indian. The
Society was founded in New York, but the
knowledge upon .which it was founded came
from India; and we of the West can never
forget that.
You who were born in this country cannot
possibly understand what a revelation Oriental
i Address delivered at the inauguration pf the Federation of
Theosophical Lodges of Bombay, and suburbs, on September
26,1931. -
2
philosophy was to us in Europe. You h
your lives been aw are of certain great fact^
N ature; you have know n of Evolution i
Reincarnation, of Karma, and so you have been
able to form a rational theory of life. But w
e
in the W est knew none of these things; afew
advanced thinkers w ere w orking at the idea
of the evolution of form , but had no conception
of the evolution of the ego, or soul. We had
to keep our science and our religion in water­
tight com partments; for the one studied the
facts of Nature and the other ignored or denied
them.
But here suddenly burst out a great light in
the darkness, here was a system set before us
which was actually credible and reasonable,
which brought order.into all the chaos and
confusion, solved a vast number of previously
inexplicable problems, and gave us not only
a hope but a certainty of future progress. You
cannot wonder at our enthusiasm.
You spoke of me as a pillar of the Theo-
sophical Society, which rather amused me, for
I certainly never considered myself from that
point of view. I have always avoided taking
any office in the Society, except that I was its
3
RecordingSecretary for the year 1885, succeed-
inginthat office Damodar Keshub Mavalankar,
the son of the first President of your Blavatsky
Lodge. You mentioned some books that I
have written, and spoke of me as an Occultist
A title such as that is far too great an honou:
for me; I have always thought of myself as
a student to whom certain advantages have
been given, in order that I might thereby
render a little help to my fellow-students. You
are of course aware that in some of the books
which you mentioned I have only a small part,
for in several of them I had the very high
honour of collaborating with our great Presi­
dent. It is very kind of you to say all these
nice things about your visitors, and I suppose
that the best acknowledgment that we can
make is to try to live up to the excellent
character that you give us.
Having thanked you for your welcome, let
me now turn to the serious business of the
meeting. The Blavatsky Lodge, founded by
H. P. B. and Colonel Olcott, was the first in
India, and I think that I may very heartily
congratulate you on its fifty years of solid work
tor the Cause, on the ability of many of its
4
7
I
prominent members, and on the ready gen* I
sity which it has always displayed in conn^ 1 /
tion with all Theosophical work. Nowlhav* »
the honour and the pleasure of congratulating l ^
you on another forward step—
rthe foundation I fc5
1
of the Bombay Theosophical Federation. | fc
o
I take it that the object of a Federation o
f 1 tf
Theosophical Lodges is always to bring those \ u
Lodges into closer connection with one 1 !
another, and to establish a centre where all I
those members may meet at such times as 1
they find convenient. You have in India two *
great Centres—the International Headquarters i
at Adyar, which is the true centre of the 1
whole Society* and the centre of your Indian |
Section at the City of Benares. But the »
distances in this country are vast, and it 1
must inevitably happen that there are many .
members who cannot gather at either of these
points when the National Convention is held.
It is therefore undoubtedly a good thing in the
interests of the work that local Federations
should be formed, so that those who cannot
attend the great Convention may, nevertheless
obtain somewhat similar advantages without
needing to travel so far.
is indeed, a very good thing that our
F rnbers should meet as often as possible. I
I a
msure that all of you who have attended one
^Bhe great Conventions must have been
I im
pressed with the strong feeling of Brother­
h
ood on such occasions, and the joy of old
friends meeting again after perhaps a prolonged
separation. Of course, there is generally on
such occasions much to be learned from
lectures delivered by some of the older mem­
bers, by those who have specialized along
certain lines, or by those who have more time
for study ; yet I think that the promotion and
intensification of that strong and joyous feeling
of Brotherhood is perhaps the greatest benefit
of all. The more often we meet, the better
we shall understand one another, and that is
one of the implied objects of our Society.
It may be that sometimes there has been
a tendency to forget that great central idea.
We have so splendid and so fascinating a
system of philosophy that it is very natural
that we should spend much of our time in
studying it, discussing it, and lecturing about
it; but we must not forget that the very object
of’its promulgation is to explain and to prove
6 f
the great doctrine that all men are broth
We are so interested in our studies that t^1
'
is often a tendency to argue about them ^
sometimes in such argument a mem^
becomes unduly excited and tends a litti j
to forget that very Brotherhood which j8
the basis of it all.
I do not know whether you realize that
there was a time in the history of our Society
when its members were liable to expulsion if
it could be shown that they had spoken ill of
a brother member; I am afraid that if that
rule were enforced in the present day, our
membership would be suddenly and rapidly
reduced. • Those of us who try to follow most
closely the teaching and example of the great
Masters of the Wisdom are gradually allowed
the privilege of drawing into closer relation
with Them. Such fortunate pupils are always
extremely anxious to help more and more of
their brethren to share the advantages which
they enjoy, but naturally their success in such
efforts depends upon the qualifications of the
candidates, I think that you would be
horrified if you knew how many of our
brethren have missed the opportunity of
$
s
i
V
I
i
7
ining those advantages by this one sin of
Llicious gossip. . .
[ know how terribly prevalent it is in the
outside world; but that is no excuse for us,
w
ho are trying to study the inner and higher
side of life as well as the merely physical.
W
e know perfectly the harm that is done
b
y evil speaking and misunderstanding ; the
m
ore we can meet together, the more we shall
develop real brotherly feeling which will make
misunderstanding and slander alike impossible.
So I am always very much in favour of any
kind of social gathering at which our members
can come to know each other more intimately
and to appreciate one another more truly.
You may have heard a little story of
Charles Lamb which illustrates this point
rather well. It seems that he was one day
speaking disparagingly of a certain man, and
the friend with whom he was conversing said
to him : “ You seem to have formed a bad
opinion of this person; I thought you hardly
knew him.” “ Of course I don’t know him,”
replied Lamb ; “ if I knew him, I should like
him.” I think that is true of more people
than one might suppose.
I hope that this Federation will h
-
splendid success in whatever work it
attempt, and that in coming to know
other more intimately members may ^
encouraged to work even more strongly and
enthusiastically together than they have done
hitherto.
There is one point that it might be well to
mention here. Be very careful that in your I
enthusiasm for this new Federation you do
not neglect your personal duty to the Lodge
to which you belong. Each Lodge is in itself
a Centre radiating good influence over its
neighbourhood; and the amount of that
influence depends upon the regular atten­
dance of its members at its meetings, and the
energy and perseverance which they display
in carrying on its work. Never think of
what you can obtain from the Lodge, but of
what you can give through the Lodge. The
Lodge must be a unity in itself, though also
an integral part of the larger unity of the
Federation. A Lodge in which there is dis­
union, in which there are bickerings, jealousies,
carping criticism and personal ill-feeling, will
not be a source of strength to the Federation,
8
f
a
t a weak, and vulnerable point hr it. There
m
ost be nothing of that sort here, if we are
reapthe full benefit of to-day’s work.
M
uch of your Address of W elcom e seem s
tom
etoconsist of a statement (I might almost
say. a complaint!) thati the lectures, and
writings of our beloved Krishnaji have upset
themindset many, members,, and shaken their
faith iir theosophical teaching, so that some
■
h
ave; even left the Society in consequence!
This is-obviously not the time for the- dis*
cussion of such matters, as they have nothing
todo with the. founding of. the Federation; but
I shall be glad to deal with them as fully as
you wish at our: Question. Meetings. All I
need, say now is that it any. man’s comprehend
sion. oil the. great*, facts oh Nature: can be so
easily shaken, then.it ought, to be shaken, for
its foundations- are evidently quite insecure.
The system which- is called- Theosophy is
simply a statement of certain, great* and: in­
controvertible. facts of Nature.; nothing* what­
ever that anyone can say or da will alter.those
fads* so* it isi foolish toi deny them or fight
against!them ; it is wiser to-adapt ourselves to
them. The only question, upon which: there
2
10
can reasonably be any discussion or gran I w/*
is how that adaptation can best be achi^' I
and that is what each man must decidei ’ 1
himself. 0
1 I ^
Once more let me remind you that theTheo- 1 ^
sophical Society exists to promote Brother- I ^
hood, and to help to remove all the barriers I ^
to mutual understanding which arise from the | ^
differences of race, creed, sex, caste and colour, 1 ^
It encourages the study of Comparative Re- l
ligion, in order to show that all religions are . •
fundamentally the same in their requirements, .
and the study of the inner side of Nature, in V
order that we may thereby draw nearer to the V
Reality which lies behind this outer Maya, and \
order our lives accordingly. This is the funda- \
mental object of our Society ; and all that is l
done and said on its behalf is done and said
with the view of promoting that object.
If people do not understand the Oriental
system of philosophy upon which the whole
idea of Brotherhood is based, it has to be
explained to them; and even here in this
country, where everyone is supposed already
'to know a great deal of that, it js 0ften
necessary to remind them o£ it, and to show
1
the inferences that can .be drawn from
^knowledge it gives may be applied in daily
■life. Obviously the only reason that any person
can have for leaving such a Society is that he
has ceased to accept the principle of Uni­
versal Brotherhood. If he has reached that
stage, I fear that he would be of little use to
the Society, nor would it be of much help to
himunfflhe had recovered that much of faith.
Remember that we do not join the Theo-
sophical Society for the sake of any teaching
that it can give us, for practically all that we
have received has now been published openly
to the world—except for certain directions as
to meditation and other practices of. Yoga, in
which^nstruction can only be safely given
under strict promises.
/W e ask no one who applies for admission
to the Society what his belief may be ; that is
his own affair. We ask him only whether he
accepts this idea of Brotherhood and is willing
to work for it. Any man is always at liberty
to change his point of view : he may receive
new light upon some subject, he may look
upon a truth from a new angle and so see
additional facets of it. That is unquestionably
12 f
all to the good. Truth has many facets I
the more of them a man can see, the w ? I
become h is sympathy and tolerance. Tl I
more light w e can have on any subject, ty \
better, so that the m an's conception of it m
a
y \
widens out. B ut no w id en in g ok his conscious
n ess should ever be: allow ed to interfere with
the work that he is doing to help his brethren.
It is true that in. th e course of. its cycle
of evolution th e w orld is just now passing
through a trying period, not o n ly of com
?
m ercial but of spiritual depression ; a period in
w hich a spirit of great restlessness, unreason­
ableness and unbelief is abroad. There has
never been a tim e w hen the enlightenment
of the Ancient W isdom has been more needed
than now. But can you- not: see that this
very condition of affairs is a test for us a test
for the firmness of our foundations> of the
living reality of our convictions, of our power
to persevere under difficulties ? A re w e com>
ing well through that test, or are we not:?
There are weak brethren who say; J*How
can I know whether I am passing the- test ?I
am confused ; I am uncertain; some teachers
give this advice, others give that; I knew not
13
m
%
t to believe/’ Our Masters will not ask
what you Relieve ; that, as I have said, is
V°out own affair ; but They will ask you what
'g
ood work you are doing. You can know ;
you have an infallible criterion, if you will
o
D
Iy be absolutely honest with yourselves.
y\re_you living a higher, purer, nobler, and
above all a more unselfish and useful life than
you were ? Are you thinking ever less and
[ less of yourself and your progress, less and
less of gratifying your desires and your
emotions, and ever more and more of serving
your fellow-men ? Are you working more
strenuously than ever ? If so, then you are
passing your test; you are advancing, and
our Masters’ blessing will rest upon you. But
those who for fancied self-realization or self­
development forsake the helping of their
brethren are moving backwards, not forwards.
Deeds, not words alone, are the sign of real
progress.
I have said that we do not join the Theo-
sophical Society because of anything that we
hope to obtain from it; we join it because we
know that it exists for a good purpose—the
promotion of Brotherhood—and we wish to
14
1
take part in that good work. It is no(
ourselves or for any benefit that we hopJ',
gain that we band ourselves together int}/
work; for the work is entirely altruistican
di,
intended solely for the benefit of our fellow
,
men.
All work for the betterment of mankindii
the Masters* work. Special lines have been
indicated to us, and we are doing our b
est
along those lines ; but we most fully recognize
that there are many other w ays of doing
good, and w e are always glad that oui
brothers should help to promote any of
them. To feed the bodies of the poor is
indeed a good- and worthy act, and often it is
all that can be done for th e m ; to feed their
souls with spiritual knowledge, if you are
able to give it, is a still higher deed ; but there
is no reason w hy both lines should not be
followed simultaneously-
Anything that can be done to prom ote or to
help towards a sane, humane and rational
education is good work— exceedin gly good
work; and I am very glad to hear that much
has been done in that direction here in Bom bay
Another splendid enterprise which our lady
15
O
h "
f
B
E D es:
;pecially can take in hand is the
to ameliorate the lot of women, to
their
BV
g
S i
standards of life, and to spiritualize
entire conception of marriage. There is
[plenty of good work to be done in the world,
and every member of the Theosophical Society
| should be ready and willing to give help in any
direction that he can. In this connection I
should like to draw your attention to a very
helpful list of minor activities which our good
brother P. Pavri has published in his book on
The World-Teacher, commencing on p. 122,
At this present time it seems to me there is
another undertaking to which every Indian
Theosophist should set his hand if he has any
opportunity of doing so. You of course under­
stand that the Theosophical Society takes no
part whatever in politics, and in that matter
every one of its members is absolutely free to
go his own way and to express his own
individual convictions. But there is at least
one thing in which we can all join, and that is
the endeavour to promote peace and unity
among Indians, to allay prejudices and to
persuade all that Brotherhood is greater than
sectarianism. The great Spiritual Hierarchy
is striving to unify l ndia> and it
this lack of brotherly feeling which H W i I
obstacle in the way of the achievement of'!*
most desirable end. Therefore, anythin*
whatever that we can do to help our brethren I
both Hindu and Muhammadan, to rise above I
communai differences and realize that bothare [
equally part of the great Indian Nation of the
future, is obviously a direct piece of work on ■
behalf of our Masters.
In some places there is a similar prejudice
existing between Brahman and non-Brahman,
and the same suggestion would apply there.
No one need be asked, or should be asked, to
give up his individual opinions ; but once more
there is no sense in denying the facts of the
case there is a difference between the pre­
sentation of religion by the Muhammadan and
the H indu; there is often a difference between
the education and the outlook of the Brahman
and the non-Brahman. But it is our duty to
emphasize that, though these differences of
opinion and outlook do exist, they must never
be allowed to interfere with the far greater
fact that we are all brethren, and must all stand
together to make that Brotherhood effective
■
A
ll Indians must learn to lay aside the
rely selfish and personal point of view, and
look forward to and prepare for the magnifi-
cent future of this great country, of which all
0
fthem alike are children. We must think of
that glorious future, and we must work for i t ;
and the first thing to do is to bring these
divergent elements together into one mighty
force. If India is to be, as she undoubtedly
ought to be, the spiritual leader of the world —
if she is to fill her appointed place as the land
through which the mighty forces of Shamballa
may be distributed to the world, she must first
of all overcome these petty rivalries and divi­
sions which weaken her so terribly. There­
fore we must all strive with all the energy
at our command to promote unity, not asking
any person to give up his private beliefs, but
asking them all to join together for the purpose
of this highest and noblest work.
Many other questions suggest themselves in
connection with this. The opposition of all
good men and women to child-marriage, for
example, is based upon the scientific certainty
that finer and stronger bodies are produced
when both parties to the marriage are fully
18
m atured; and remember that such b
o<
r 1
those are absolutely necessary for the^^t
Indians who w ill take incarnation among^ 1
the near future, and this present genera^ 1
should already be providing such vehicles. \ \
know that pandits can quote texts from thealleg. I
ed Laws of Manu in support of infant marriage; \
hut I think you should remember, in the first i
place, that you have absolutely no definite \
evidence that our Lord Vaivasvata Manu is
responsible for those laws in the form in
which they at present appear; and in the
second place, that humanity is after all
evolving, and that conditions have changed
enormously during the thousands of years
which have passed since the time when
those laws are supposed to have been laid down.
Many of us have in the course of our work
had the wonderful privilege of meeting the
Lord Vaivasvata and serving Him in various
ways; and I can tell you that He is an
eminently sensible and practical person, and
that His one desire for His Motherland of
India is that she should progress in all ways,
both physical and spiritual; and He will
consequently be in favour of any movement
19
hich tends in that direction. W e m u st unite,
andwe must remove from the Indian escutcheon
these blots which disgrace its unique civili­
zation in the eyes of the world. Our great
president, who is especially His agent, has
frequently written and spoken of these points,
and her books and lectures deal with them
far more satisfactorily than I can.
You have the adm irable O rganization of
the Boy Scouts, in w hich each m em ber is
expected to do one good tu rn every day. A
member of the Theosophical Society should
go very much further th an t h a t ; he should do
many good turns every day, as m any as he
can ; and he should ever be w atchful for an
opportunity to offer service. T he Theosophist
should be know n to his friends and neighbours
as one who is always ready to give any
assistance or advice that he can, as one who
thinks little of him self and m uch of the helping
of his fellows. I trust that everyone of us
may obtain that high reputation, and be
careful always to live up to i t ; and I hope and
believe that the work of this Federation will
presently bring its members to that noble and
desirable consummation.
my
to
addre* ttMH fU
t'u
I cannot end
than by reading to you a fragment
was (mod only a few day* ago mumg
Blavainky** paper*—apparently the conelj
of an article, though th
it runs a* follow%
Om eternal Truth, and one infinite
W
g| *i
rent of it in mkfa *r
i ’
l
Let u* then love, help and mutually defend e%
$
oilier a&Amt any npirit (ft untruth or decepij
"without dhtinction ot race, creed (ft colour
a I
8
1
Since this fragment ha* thus unexpectedly j
been discovered just before I left Adyar to *
come here, let u* take It an a message from i
our noble Founder to our newly-formed l
Federation, Let tin live in the light of this i
high idea! which she sets before us; let us \
steadfastly obey this command which she lays i
upon us, that, following in her footsteps, we <
may one day stand where she stands that
we may one day come to help the world as
she has helped it,
friaUd t/y JC, nUmrut/t* HbmtUri, *tK* ——— -_____
M jm , Ustdtnm *
w
l*oia Prtm,
/ <
A
