{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__crossley___master_key_to_psychic_unfoldment.pdf","mytitle":"Master Key To Psychic Unfoldment","mylang":"de"}
T h e M a s t e r K e y t o
P s y c h i c U n f o l d m e n t
A Physiological, Psychical
and Philosophical Analysis
By
DELTA SAMADHI
a
Edited by
FELICIE O. CROSSLEY
Editor of the "Spiritualist Monthly"
Published by
The Crossley Publishing Company, Los Angeles, California
Copyright, 1931,
By Félicie O. Crossley
All rights reserved
JJ\
c\
...Contents.. .•
Preface .............................................................................
Scientists and Self-Mastery: Introduction.................
Chapter I
M ediumship: The Requisites of Mediumship;
Definitions; Lure of Great Names; Correlation
of Spirit, Mind and Matter..................................
Chapter II
M ind-St u f f : Constitution of Mental Body; Phases
of Spiritual and Physical Development..............
Chapter III
Self-Control: Helps for the Student; Obliter­
ation of Habits; Non-attachment; Mental
Acuteness ................................................................
Chapter IV
Spiritual O bservances: Love of G od; the Per­
sonal and Impersonal God; Objectifying God....
Chapter V
Cultivation of the Body: Purpose of Postures
and Exercises; Mastering the Physical Body....
Chapter VI
Postures: Examples of Simple Postures; Gaining
Mental and Physical Poise; How to Relax......
Chapter VII
Prana—V ital Force: Analysis of Prana; Direct­
ing Vital Force; Rates of Vibration; Building
Physical Energy ....................................................
Chapter VIII
T he Nervous System: The Cerebro-Spinal Nerv­
ous System; the Sympathetic Nervous Sys­
tem; Structure of the Brain; Analysis of Solar
Plexus ..................... ...............................................
Chapter IX
T he Psychological Crime: “The Battle Cry of
Souls;” Elementals and Vampires; Law of
Attraction; Psychic Preparation...........................
©CIA 40257
JUL -7 1
9
3
1
l
2
6
13
17
22
25
28
35
39
44
Chapter X
Building a Protective A ura: Astral V ampires;
Exercise for Coercing Undesired Entities.......... 47
Chapter X I
Controlling Psychic Forces: Kundalini; Har­
monizing Magnetic Currents of the Body;
Accidental Mediumship ........................................ 50
Chapter X II
Rhythmic Breathing: Law and Purpose; Estab­
lishing Bodily Rhythm; Pulse Rates per Age.... 56
Chapter X III
O btaining Pulse Rate: Methods and Exercises.. 62
C hapter X IV
A lternate Breathing: Positive and Negative
Cosmic Currents (Pingala and Ida) ; Directing
Prana (Vital Force) ; Methods Employed........ 64
Chapter X V
Controlling the Vital Forces: Psychological
Breathing in the Control of Prana; Developing
W ill-power; Conquering Emotions; Sensations.. 68
Chapter X V I
Concentration and A ttention : Focusing Atten­
tion ; Overcoming Pain; Digestion of Foods.... 76
Chapter X V II
Practical Concentration: Simple Methods;
Attachment and Detachment of M in d; Harm­
ful Methods of Concentration; the Goal............ 82
Chapter X V III
T elepathy: A Mental Science; Development of
Mental Contacts; “W hite” and “ Black” Magic 89
Chapter X IX
Healing: Laws of Healing; Phases of Healing—
o > - — --------------- o
Telepathic, Absent, Spiritual and Magnetic...... 91
Chapter X X
Processes of D evelopment: Meditation; Concen­
tration ; Devotion; Attaining the “ Silence” ...... 94
Chapter X X I
Hindrances to Concentration : E x t e r n a l
Thought-Waves; Nerve Sensations; Thought
Analysis; Intruding Memories; How to Over­
come Intrusions ...................................................... ^ 0
Chapter X X II
Controlling the M ind: Teachings of the East
and W est; Thought Suppression; Desires and
Emotions ; Power of Thought; Self-Mastery...... 105
Chapter X X III
Phenomenal and Noumenal Aspects: Stimula­
tion of the Sensoria; Channels of Knowledge;
Phenomenal Appearance and Noumenal Reality 110
Chapter X X IV
M ystic Contemplation: Coordination of the
Spiritual and Material Elements; Universal
Intelligence; Ascertaining Planes of Conscious­
ness ..........................................................................
Chapter X X V
A Scientific Analogy of Kundalini: Electrical
Elements of the Body ; Polarization ; the
Body’s Static Pole ; Embryological Stages ;
“ Serpent-Power” ................................................... 120
Chapter X X V I
Kundalini: Creative Energy ; Centers of Conscious­
ness; the Chakras; Arousing the Kundalini........ 127
Chapter X X V II
Cosmic Consciousness: Evolution and Involution
of Consciousness; Experiences; Immortality..... 134
Chapter X X V III
Illumination: A Visit to a Gnani; Attaining
Samadhi; Concepts of G od; an Alliance with
God ........................................................................ 140
Chapter X X IX
A Philosophical Survey: Our Supreme Self;
Philosophers and Religious Teachers; Proofs of
Illumination; Slaves and Martyrs; Supremacy
of Self; the Sovereign Power; the Essence
of Life .................................................................. 146
...Preface...
These lessons have appeared in the Spiritualist Monthly
for the last two years, and their present publication in
book form is in response to a wide and gratifying de­
mand. Innumerable letters bear witness to the interest
with which readers of the magazine have followed the
course month by month. This evidence of appreciation
has stimulated the author to strive for an even clearer
exposition of the principles and technique of psychic un-
foldment. Accordingly the earlier installments have been
carefully revised, and some sections have been rewrit­
ten.
The author has personally tested the theories set forth
in these pages. Years of reading and research; of pa­
tient practice of the methods herein commended; of hours
made unforgettable by the rapture of illumination, when
lofty beings on the Spiritual planes spoke from heights
of celestial wisdom—all are reflected in the teachings
now modestly given to a more permanent public than
the magazine could reach.
The privilege of editorship has been a happiness no
words can portray. It has been an inspiring service to
give the wisdom of Delta Samadhi the popular form that
will appeal to modern readers. Our reward will be the
joy that comes from helping souls attain the conscious­
ness of their potential divinity.
... ntroduction...
SCIENTISTS AND SELF-MASTERY
O
N MARCH 2, 1930, in the “American Magazine
Section” of the “ San Antonio Light,” was pub­
lished a remarkable, full-page, illustrated article
on the wonderful powers of the Yogis. The following ex­
cerpt should be keenly interesting.
“The distinguished New York nerve specialist, Dr.
Frederick Tilney, declared in his recent book on the de­
velopment of the human brain, that this organ is still used
to only a small percentage of its real capacity. Dr. Con­
stantin von Economo, of Vienna, as distinguished a neu­
rologist in Europe as is Dr. Tilney in the United States,
has stated this belief even more definitely.
“Both these experts had chiefly in mind, their state­
ments make clear, the intelligence of the human mind
and its power to make correct judgments. They might
have said virtually the same things, however, about the
power of the will to control both mind and body.
“For generations these powers of the will have been well
known in special instances, like the fakirs of India or the
religious fanatics who lie on beds of sharp spikes, who
beat themselves in frenzy and yet feel no pain. Now
scientific men are coming to the opinion that all human
minds possess much these same powers of developed will.
All that is necessary is that the latent power of the mind
be appreciated and applied.
“ In a recent hospital case the patient, not wishing to
take an anesthetic, merely went to sleep by will power,
first telling the surgeon to go ahead. Other patients ex­
amined scientifically by the doctors turn out to have the
ability of stopping the heart beat temporarily or of inter­
rupting the normal pulse in the wrist, all by the power of
2
& F “
the will. Sight, hearing, smell and other senses may be
either decreased or increased in sensitivity by will power.
Determination, long supposed to be a useful virtue only
in some kind of contest, turns out to be as valuable in
man’s contest with his own body as anywhere else.
“ The Indian fakirs, long supposed by many people to be
merely cheats and liars, but now recognized by scientific
men as possessing unusual powers of mental control of
the body, are still perhaps the best examples of what the
will can do to bodily machinery. Not long ago one of
these fakirs, Tahra Bey, gave in London an exhibition
to which numerous medical men were invited. Forty
physicians and scientists sat on the stage of the theatre
where the exhibition was given. All were permitted to
examine the fakir during the demonstrations. Trickery
was virtually impossible and experts agree that none was
used.
“ Some of Tahra Bey’s demonstrations were familiar
ones of stage hypnotists. Throwing himself into a trance­
like state, he made his body quite rigid. The stiff body
was then laid on a series of sabres, not fully sharp but
still edged enough to be uncomfortable. A large stone
was laid on the fakir’s rigid chest and was pounded with
a sledge.
“Brought out of his rigid condition, the fakir then
thrust hat pins through his cheeks, and through folds of
flesh on chest and arms. A penknife similarly thrust
through a fold of flesh produced a bleeding wound, or a
bloodless one, whichever the fakir suggested and an­
nounced in advance. Like his predecessors in India,
Tahra Bey then lay down on a bed of six-inch nails driven
point upward through a wooden door and reclined on this
remarkable couch while an assistant weighing about 160
pounds stood for several minutes on the fakir’s chest.
“After this demonstration the fakir’s back, examined by
some of the physicians present, showed distinct marks of
the points of the nails, but no blood was shed and the fakir
claimed to feel no pain. That the hat points and knives
were actually thrust through the flesh and that some of
these wounds actually did not bleed as they would have
3
done in normal bodies, was also attested by the medical
committee.
“No claim was made by this particular fakir of any­
thing supernatural in his performance, nor is any such
claim in the least justified. That anyone can accomplish
very much the same feats with some training and a strong
enough will is proved by the fact that many persons have
done so; notably a Parisian skeptic named Paul Heuze,
who disbelieved the supernatural claims of some of the
earlier fakirs and managed, it is said, with but one re­
hearsal, to duplicate the feats of lying on the bed of nails
and of thrusting pins and knives into his flesh without
causing pain or drawing blood.
“Last year there was prominent in Berlin a still more
remarkable example of this kind of bodily control by will
power; a miner named Paul Diebel who similarly was able
to thrust knives into his body, to cut himself without
bleeding and even to allow arrows to be shot into his
chest without apparent harm. One of Diebel’s tricks
which attracted great attention was an apparent ability
to bleed at will from his skin, as well as to prevent bleed­
ing.
“One theory held by physiologists is that the living cells
which make up the nerves and which ordinarily are in
contact with each other so that nerve messages can pass,
withdraw a little at their points of contact so that the
nerve path is broken. The diagrams of the Hindu fakir
on this page illustrate the process. Apparently an effort
of the will sometimes can accomplish this breaking of the
nerve circuits, much as can be done by drugs like cocaine,
which are used as anesthetics. In both instances the nerve
breaks mean, that no messages of pain or other sensa­
tions can pass to the brain. Control of the will over the
flow of blood is equally well established by scientific evi­
dence. Dr. A. S. Hyman, of New York City, has published
accounts of three patients who were able by efforts of
their will completely to stop the pulse in the wrist; the
pulse which a physician usually feels when he wishes to
count the rate of the heartbeat. An East Indian physi­
cian, Dr. Vasant G. Rele, has described similarly and at
4
length the characteristics of an Indian holy man whose
abilities in similar directions were examined by a com­
mittee of physicians in Bombay.
“ This Yogi was able, the physicians found, to stop the
pulse beat in either arm for more than two minutes. The
pulse in his temple on either side could be stopped simi­
larly. Even the heart of this man stopped beating for
six seconds by the physician’s watch, when ordered to do
so by the owner’s will.
“What happens in the case of the Yogis, fakirs and
others who can control bleeding or pulse beats is, the scien­
tists believe, that these nerves, not ordinarily subject to
control by the mind, are trained by long practice and ef­
forts of the will to respond to voluntary orders. Much
the same thing happens when people train the muscles of
their scalps to obey orders from nerves now feeble and
unused, so that these people can move their ears a little
as man’s animal ancestors used to do.
“Even life and death may be affected by the will. Major
H. E. Smith, Assistant Police Commissioner of the Gold
Coast Colony in Africa, recently reported an instance in
which the highly intelligent native willed himself to die
as a result of a quarrel and supposed witchcraft. Even
on his body after death European physicians could dis­
cover no reason whatsoever for death or even for illness.
“But if a strong will can stop a fakir’s heartbeat at
will, make him bleed or not bleed at will, certainly it can
keep anybody from yielding to weakness or crime.”
To develop will-power; to gain control of the vital
forces abundant in nature; to awaken the psychic faculties
and to obtain genuine “ seership,” is the purpose for which
these lessons were 'written. The student who is sincere,
patient and persevering shall triumph!
5
C H A P T E R I
MEDIUMSHIP
I
N presenting these lessons on the development of the
spiritual and psychic faculties that are inherent in
every human being, we are doing so to meet the con­
tinuing demand for instruction in the home circle where
no developed medium is available to teach the aspiring
student the things which he should know.
But at the outset we would give an earnest caution.
Mediumship, when it is scientifically and spiritually devel­
oped, is one of the greatest of blessings. If, however,
mediumship is developed in ignorance or disregard of the
psychic laws pertaining to the subject, it may cause the
one who attempts such development great misery both
here and in the astral sphere to follow. To protect the
aspirant against the occult perils which attend unworthy
or unwise development, is the purpose of these studies.
The very first requisite for a beautiful, spiritual un-
foldment is that the aspirant shall have no selfish, mer­
cenary or ulterior motive. To seek clairvoyance for the
gratification of an idle curiosity concerning the private
affairs of others, or to develop one’s psychic powers as a
means to monetary ends, is to be animated by unworthy
motives. Knowing as we do the perils which beset such
a course we sound an emphatic warning. Wait until you
are sure that your motives are noble and worthy. The
law of magnetic and spiritual attraction prevails in
mediumship. We attract spirits like ourselves. The
insincere become controlled by untruthful entities. Liars
attract liars. Those who are given to deception or avarice,
who are mastered by their appetites and passions, should
never—for their own sakes—try to develop mediumship.
The result can only be disaster and sorrow.
But if you desire mediumship that you may be a help
and comfort to others, able to give assurance to the sor-
6
rowing that their beloved survive; if, as a consecrated
instrument of communication, you would contact those
high intelligences who have counsels of wisdom to impart
to humanity, then know your motives are unselfish and
worthy, and that—if you pay the price of patience and
perseverance—your aspirations will be rewarded. Aspire
for the highest, live in a manner to attract the highest,
and in a day when you least expect your eyes shall be
opened and your ears shall hear what the spirit world
has to reveal through your unfolded capacities.
Mediumship is a sacred gift. Let its coming be in
response to the prayer of faith. Guard zealously the gift
when it is bestowed, and never desecrate it for unhallowed
ends.
There are those who declare that the ability to contact
the spirit world brings sufficient wisdom, and therefore
that one need not seek learning by personal effort. Be
not vain enough to imagine that the highest intelligences
will choose you as an instrument if you are too indolent
to study and develop to the utmost every natural talent
you possess. Those intelligences must use your brain and
whatever language channels you have grooved in it.
Enrich your vocabulary, develop an instinct for verbal
accuraries and felicities, perfect your expression, if you
would have them employ the tools which constitute your
mental equipment. The master spirits from the higher
spheres are continually seeking human instruments for
their creative revelations. It is true that sometimes they
do impress mortals of little learning, unable to speak the
language of their own rank. But such instances are
rare—when some special emergency requires it. Even
then the message is bereft of the impressiveness which
otherwise would attest its high and unmistakable source.
At the best the mortal instrument has enough limitations.
Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman
that needeth not to be ashamed!”
Seek not for great honor and glory among men, for their
applause is fickle and their hearts are inconstant. Seek
rather the things which are eternal, and serve your fel­
low-men with humility and love. So shall you build for
7
yourself a mansion in that world where “neither moth
nor rust doth corrupt, nor thieves break through and
steal.” May there be added to all your knowledge of
earth, the wisdom of heaven!
Mediumship
First we shall define what the term “medium” really
means, both in the ancient Sanskrit and in the usage of
Modern Spiritualism. In ancient India mediums were
known as Yogis, for they were expositors of the original
philosophy of Yoga. The derivation of the word “ Yoga”
is from the Sanskrit “yog,” which means to join or unite
or weld or bind together. The general sense is a joining
of two things which have previously been separate. Is
not that what mediumship does? It establishes a union
between souls incarnate and discarnate.
The original Yoga philosophy has undergone changes
due to the perversions of priestly interpretation— similar
to the mutations in other systems of human thought. On
this plane of continuous change this is, perhaps, not to be
wondered at. Many philosophies have dawned upon tjie
world only to pass into obscurity and eclipse. Their
teaching even has been lost. But in more than one in­
stance modern research, lifting the veil from a remote
past, has discovered that a philosophy long forgotten
contained great truths.
“Nothing was born; nothing will die.” History repeats
itself. Often what today we hail as new was already old
thousands of years ago. We speak of Spiritualism as
“modern.” In reality it is the oldest of truths. As the
psychic faculties are more pronounced in the childhood
of an individual, so were they in the childhood of the
race—long before Atlantis and Lemuria. The year 1848
of our era marked the return of the cycle in which the
mental and the spiritual planes interblend. The veil
between the earthly and the astral spheres is becoming
thinner, because the surrounding ethers are more highly
ranfied. Mortals are re-discovering the immortal realms
of life.
Spiritualism defines a “medium” as one whose organism
8
is sensitive to vibrations from the spirit world, and
through whose instrumentality intelligences in that world
are able to convey messages and produce the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Both the Sanskrit and the Spiritualist
definitions need to be made clearer to the student, and
amplified to include all that falls within the scope of
“mediumship.” For mediumship is widely varied in its
manifestation. It is “mental” when purely mental vibra­
tions are contacted; it is “physical” when tangible phenom­
ena occur; there is a mediumship of the Spirit in which
only things of a spiritual nature are received; and there
is a transcendental mediumship, in which both time and
space are non-existent to the consciousness, and the wisdom
of Divine at-one-ment becomes an ineffable possession. The
exceptional individuals who have gained this sublimest
phase of mediumship rarely ever speak of their expe­
riences, and then only in hushed tones to kindred souls.
It is the reward of the Masters—those exalted persons in
whom the love and humility, the tolerance and charity of
the Christ-Spirit are enshrined anew.
The Lure of Great Names
Before going further we would counsel our students to
be wary of great names. Your guides and teachers will
best prove their identity by their works and their influence
upon your life. A gullible vanity has made too many
Spiritualists objects of ridicule among discriminating
occultists. The names of your spirit friends matter lit­
tle—the important question concerns their influence upon
your life. If they bring you peace, increase your love
and enlarge your understanding, it is well and good.
But beware of those who attempt to flatter you by telling
how great and famous you are destined to become. The
test of greatness is the spirit of humility. The praise of
the fickle masses is as fleeting as their breath—those who
seek it are doomed to many bitter disillusions.
Jesus was the supreme example of true greatness and
mediumship. He gave all honor to the Father, Who in­
spires alike mortals and immortals—the same I AM
dwelling in you and me. He sought not the applause of
9
the world, and never was deceived by it. His whole pas­
sion was to serve—to make the earth a purer and fairer
place for humanity to attain the spiritual state. You
cannot follow a better example than Jesus set.
Correlation of Spirit, Mind and Matter
There exist two active principles, from whose correla­
tion and coordination arise all the phenomena of which
we are cognizant, as well as the vast amount of which we
have no comprehension. One of these principles is the
undifferentiated, primordial substance of which all mate­
rial forms are composed, and physical energies constituted.
It is the material element of the universe. Finer than
the finest known gas or vapor, subtler and more tenuous
than the ether of which scientists postulate so much, in
its original form it is inconceivably simple— without the
qualities which we know as Matter. It is held to be non-
atomic and continuous, without consciousness or will-to-
activity of its own. In the vocabulary of Occultism it is
called “Prakriti.”
The second principle, or “ substance,” is spiritual. It
is the essence of life, and gives rise to all mental activity.
The mystery of consciousness is its creation. It is the
principle which ensouls and animates. It holds the secret
of intelligence. But for the manifestation of these purely
spiritual qualities it is dependent upon the first, or mate­
rial element. The term in Occultism is “Purusha.”
Before becoming attracted to and entangled with the
material element of the Universe, this spiritual “sub­
stance” existed in a state of purity and bliss, unstirred by
the emotions of desire or sorrow. But as a fly is attracted
by the sweetness of the honey which captivates and
enslaves it, so in the eons of cosmic creation was the spir­
itual substance attracted, empowered and enslaved by the
material. As the fly struggles to escape from the honey,
so ever the spiritual struggles to escape from the material.’
This is the strife we see in man when his spirit has
awakened to a realization of its former existence in the
realm of pure Spirit. This explains, in part, the constant
unrest of the soul—why the individual is ever dissatisfied
10
with his lot, be it riches or poverty. Man is continually
discovering that desire leads only to a greater desire, and
that disappointment is inescapable. When humanity gets
what it thinks it wants, the object loses its value almost
in the moment of possession, and the restless soul seeks
satisfaction in some fresh quest.
As a result of this enslaving of spirit by the lower
material forces, the law of evolution has become a reality.
In its passionate search for liberation the spirit is ever
evolving new and higher forms of life—of conscious ex­
pression. This quenchless, creative impulse destines it
eventually to gain the transcendent state of pure Spirit
in which originally it existed. But do not be misled by
that word “evolution.” Though a fact in nature, it is a
spiritual process and not a material one—as many scien­
tists would have us believe.
All things owe their physical form to the mutual action
and reaction of these two forces, or “principles.” Through
their correlation the activities of mind originate and con­
tinue. One teacher, discussing the interaction of these
principles, said: “One was held to act upon the other
much as the magnet acts upon the tiny bits of steel, im­
parting to the latter qualities and properties which they
did not formerly possess.” The material element is thus
given new powers, while the spiritual is deprived of a
portion of its original intelligence. But the goal of the
process is perfection. Universal peace and absolute har­
mony are aspects of that perfection. It is the decree of
Infinite Intelligence—the Supreme Being, the Hindu
mystic’s OM of Glory.
In the measure of your devotion to that Supreme Being,
as the source of your existence, shall you emerge from the
meshes of the material. You shall experience the bless­
ings of hidden wisdom, and freedom from bondage to the
lower planes. Knowledge and power shall come to you as
you seek to become attuned to the Eternal, Omniscient
Force vibrant in the Universe. This is the true aim of
all who aspire to unfold their innate, divine powers. It
is the secret of mastery, the glory of mediumship. A new
and wonderful world awaits your vision. Strange joys
11
shall thrill your soul, with ecstasies no speech can utter.
Keep inviolate your hours of silence dedicated to this
sacred quest. You who would become an illumined minis­
ter to men must first become master of yourself. This
means not only the mastery of mind and body, but also
of the innumerable forces and entities surrounding us.
By this path the soul attains to consciousness of its spir­
itual and psychic powers—the attributes of its essential
divinity.
12
C H A P T E R II
MIND-STUFF
S we proceed our first concern is with the mastery
of the “stuff” of which our minds are made. Some
famous philosophers contend that this “mind-stuff”
is semi-material—something quite apart from, though
expressive of, Spirit. Several cults and systems teach
that it really constitutes a material body, but of a more
subtle nature than any state of matter of which we pos­
sess scientific knowledge. Patanjoli, founder of the Yoga
philosophy, regarded the various organs of sense as dif­
ferentiations of this mind-stuff.
The mental body, like the material body, is composed
of trillions of particles, corresponding to the electrons,
atoms and molecules which form the cells of the material
body—each animated by an individual intelligence. In
this multitudinous conglomeration of living, conscious
“cells” that make up the mental-body of mankind, there
often form what may be termed vortices or “whirlpools.”
These explain the continual turmoil and disorganization
the majority of human beings experience in their mental
life. But this condition can be controlled and overcome
by concentration, a knowledge of the mental and spiritual
laws, and the practice of certain mystical methods of
unfoldment. Before any high spiritual development is
possible— rending the veil between this and the advanced
planes of Being—we must master our thought forces,
attaining a tranquil and benignant attitude toward all life.
Man’s greatest enemy is his own thoughts—when un­
controlled. They give rise to illusions, weird imaginings,
ill-temper and disease. How many mortals are cursed by
conditions their own thinking has created! Some schools
of New Thought and Eastern philosophy have as their
sole aim the mastery of the “storms” and confusions that
disturb the mind. It is one of the principal things to be
13
taught in these lessons. The instructions and truths
herein contained have been handed down from Master to
Master, to Chelas and devotees, for countless centuries.
Self-control; spiritual observances; physical methods of
opening the psychic centers; regulation of the breath for
the purpose of directing the Vital Force, which so often
lies dormant throughout an entire life-time; control of
the senses; control of the mind; meditation and concen­
tration; “ Mystic Contemplation”—these are steps to the
attainment of Master Mediumship.
Self-Control. This consists in the cultivation of right
habits. Its aim is right conduct in all circumstances. The
true student ever strives to lead a moral life, repelling
the temptations which evil entities and his own lower
nature throw across his path—especially when he has once
set out to develop his higher powers. He strives to live
up to the highest standards of truthfulness, honesty and
industry; shunning deceit, dishonesty and slothfulness.
Cruelty, unkindness and greed—in all their forms—he
constantly endeavors to suppress. There is no greater
joy in life than such mastery of self confers.
Spiritual Observances. The aim is purity of mind—
sincere, internal purity; a mental and emotional attitude
toward circumstances that is truly spiritual. They foster
an appreciation of the best in religious practices and prin­
ciples—above all, the love of God. This may seem for­
eign to psychic development, but the Master Key we seek
opens the portals that permit contact with the most ex­
alted Masters of Heavenly Wisdom. The world is full of
the ordinary, partially-unfolded psychics; but there are
few—too few—Adepts, though the “key” is waiting for all
who earnestly seek it. Set your aim at Masterhood and
be satisfied with nothing less. It is your divine right.
Opening the Psychic Centers. This is accomplished by
certain methods and exercises used in the Temples from
time immemorial. They conduce to mental poise and lead
to the higher steps in development. They afford an effec­
tive technique of concentration and meditation.
1+
Regulation of the Breath. This consists in exercises
for the control and direction of the Vital Force— very im­
portant for perfect health, spiritual and psychic develop­
ment, and self-realization.
Control of the Semes. Through a developed effort of
the Will the sense organs may be completely controlled.
Forces wasted wrongfully in sex or other forms of sense
gratification can become vitally creative in the mental
realm. This secret has been the possession of every Mas­
ter and Adept, past or present. “ Miracles,” so-called, are
but the manifestation of those sublimated forces. The
world knows best the miracles performed by Jesus; but
he said, “greater works than these shall ye do also.”
Control of the Mind. By the direct action of the Will
applied by the indwelling Spirit, every mental faculty can
be brought under control. When the mind has become
calm and clear, the radiant spirit within—the Real Self—
shines forth, reflecting the form and nature of itself, and
contacting the invisible planes. Spirit can always reach
spirit when the intervening confusions and barriers have
been removed. That is the highest form of mediumship,
and nothing short of it should satisfy anyone.
Meditation and Concentration. This consists in fixing
the mind upon a single object to the exclusion of every
other. From material objects the student advances grad­
ually to the most abstract. This is a most important step
toward spiritual attainment. It has an immense value for
our life, as well, on the material plane. When thought is
thus focused in concentration, and then projected by
effort of the Will, it has a power and achieves results
that the masses—with their vagrant, aimless thinking—
cannot conceive possible.
Mystic Contemplation, or Master Mediumship. This
marks the attainment and control of those transcendental
states of spiritual consciousness experienced by the Mys­
tics, but practically unknown to the average person. It
is the reward that awaits the sincere student of Mysticism
and the spiritual schools of Occultism. “ Spiritual Con-
15
sciousness,” “Cosmic Consciousness,” “ Mystic Experiences”
or “ Contacts,” and “ The Higher Mediumship”—these are
some of the terms which designate the transcendental
state. Authorities vary in their preferences but whatever
terms they use the occult experience is the same. Its
attainment is the major purpose of this course of study.
These two chapters are preliminary to the real instruc­
tion to follow. One final word about the best daily period
for meditation while pursuing this course. It is during
the hour of noon, which symbolizes man’s conquest of the
heavens. The sun, giving light and joy to men, is a sym­
bol of that Love, which irradiates all realms and fills the
depths of silence with its perpetual benediction. But if
your circumstances dictate another hour, choose one while
the sun is ascendant.
16
C H A P T E R III
SELF-CONTROL
E
VERY true student on the path of attainment strives
to lead a moral life, overcoming the multitude of
temptations with which every sensitive is met. Con­
trol of self—not slavery to self—is our aim. We cannot
stress this too often or too much. Avoid unkindness and
cruelty, dishonesty and deceit, covetousness and greed.
An aura which proclaims these qualities attracts enti­
ties of like character, and besets the path with great
danger. To adhere to the Golden Rule is the way of
safety.
Remember, a Chela on the Path avoids every form of
deception. To him a so-called “white lie” is as pernicious
as the grosser forms of falsehood. Petty compromises
and casuistries have no place in his conception of truth.
To him truth is truth—“the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth.” Nothing less will satisfy his austere sense
of honesty. And he avoids self-deception as rigorously
as he does deception of others. The one who is always
true to himself can be counted upon to be true to others.
If this lays bare a fault in ourselves, we must purge our­
selves of every form of untruthfulness if we would sit at
the feet of the Masters and learn the laws of the higher
life.
A true student strives to be chaste, both in thought and
deed; for it is just as sinful to cherish unchaste thoughts
as to commit unchaste deeds. Of the enlightened student
one great teacher said: “ He does not regard unchaste
desires or imaginations as evil in themselves, but merely
as natural consequences of material existence; and so they
do not horrify or affright him, but rather are pitied by
him. He sees them as what they are, not holding them
to be alien to his semi-material nature; but he deliber­
ately and determinedly sets them off from himself.”
17
Edward Carpenter, the English poet and mystic, said:
“When thy body—as needs must happen at times—is car­
ried along on the wings of passion, say not thou, ‘I desire
this or that;’ for the T neither desires nor fears any­
thing, but is free and in everlasting glory, dwelling in
heaven and pouring out joy like the sun on all sides. Let
not that precious thing by any confusion be drawn down
and entangled in the world of opposites, and of death and
suffering. For as a lighthouse beam sweeps with incred­
ible speed over sea and land, yet the lamp moves not at all.
“ So while thy body of desire is (and must be by the law
of its nature) incessantly in motion in the world of suf­
fering, the ‘I’ high up is fixed in heaven. Therefore I
say, let no confusion cloud thy mind about this matter;
but ever when desire knocks at thy door, though thou
grant it admission and entreat it hospitably—as in duty
bound—fence it yet truly off from thy true self, lest it
should tear and rend thee."
As the student advances along the Path he acquires
control of both the senses and the mind, and is thereby
enabled to inhibit absolutely the entrance of undesired
feelings, emotions and thoughts. But until that stage is
reached he should proceed along the lines which Carpenter
so wisely indicates, and thus separate from his real, inner
nature the disturbing elements born of his desires and
emotions.
And here we would state one of the most important
facts in spiritual development. Habits can be obliterated!
They exist in the mind, and mental vibrations produced
them. The cultivation of our spiritual nature involves a
heightening of our mental vibrations. When sustained
long enough this results, first in a weakening then in the
complete obliteration, of habits embedded in our coarser
nature. We are not conscious of the process. What we
do know, is that certain habits seem to leave us and with
their going certain desires pass out of our lives. This
process is usually very gradual, though it often occurs in
such an instantaneous crisis as the theologian knows as
“conversion.” Thus certain habits and desires leave us
forever—in this world and the worlds to come. Ponder
18
that expression—“the worlds to come.” For habits exist
in the mind—the part of us that survives the death of the
body. We carry our habits with us to the next life. Every
occultist knows the unhappiness they may cause.
Play well your part in the world. Be faithful and thor­
ough with regard to your duties. Work that is worth
doing, is worth doing well. Do it for the joy of the task
and not the hope of reward. This is the spirit of the
artist. No task is “menial” to the one who has imagina­
tion.
Many have voiced the phrase, “taking life philosophi­
cally,” but few realize the truth it expresses. The multi­
tude work for rewards. It is the lure of the prize and
not the zest of the game that is uppermost in the minds
of the majority. The satisfaction of honest accomplish­
ment touches something deeper in the soul. “Fame, posi­
tion, prestige, the world’s cheap favors, are despised by
the really strong men—they see such things as the baubles
that they are. They leave such things for the grown-up
children of the world. They may allow the prize or rib­
bon to be pinned to their coats, but in their hearts they
smile at it. The other players in the game may not detect
the inner consciousness, and to all intent and purposes the
awakened player may be like those around him; but he
knows, and they do not.”
This “non-attachment,” so to speak, does not mean that
one must repress all his normal sentiments of joy. If
faithfully followed this principle will greatly increase
one’s enjoyment, for he will be able to distinguish the real
gem from the glittering bauble. The one who is attached
to the extrinsic reward believes his enjoyment of life
depends upon his material or personal possessions and the
pleasures they confer. Certain persons and things—in
their external aspects—are his source of happiness. On
the other hand the man who is “ unattached” or free,
knows that happiness is independent of outside objects and
things. It is a product of his inner consciousness.
Therefore he is able to be happy in the midst of circum­
stances and conditions where the average person would
succumb with misery. He realizes that nothing essen-
19
tially external to him can have any influence on his “real
self,” the true “Me,” the indwelling Spirit within, unless
he abdicates his mastership and surrenders to the power
of mere things.
So long as a person is dependent for his happiness upon
any person or thing, he is to that extent a victim of emo­
tional slavery, and cannot claim to be “free.” No person
while under such influence can realize the triumphal con­
sciousness of the poet when he sang,
“ I am the master of my fate;
I am the captain of my soul!”
Such victory can be yours.
Is there any greater lesson to be learned in this present
life than self-control? Unless we become masters of our­
selves we cannot gain the mastery of circumstances. In
the Orient this lesson is learned by acquiring an attitude
of indifference. In the West this attitude is much mis­
understood—often it is ridiculed, or condemned. The prin­
ciple which underlies the attitude is not perceived. When
serious principles are understood, ridicule is impossible,
whether or not one accepts them personally.
The ideal of “indifference”—as understood by the Orien­
tal mystic and the masters of Western occultism—involves
a swiftness and intensity of thought to which the ordinary
mind is unadapted, and a mental poise which circum­
stances are powerless to disturb. The latter is, perhaps,
akin to fatalism. Andrew Jackson Davis was the author
of the famous Spiritualist maxim, “Under all circum­
stances, keep an even mind.” It is not a counsel of
fatalism.
The Western mind is typically deliberative. Its proc­
esses are slow, and we even boast of the time we spend
in thinking through to our conclusions. The Eastern
mind is alert, penetrative, acute. It revels in subtleties
the untrained Western mind cannot follow. It grasps
instantaneously, and in their entirety, the things
presented to it. With the same instantaneousness it files
them in the subconscious, where they can be evoked at
will. The next moment it is ready for new impressions,
20
ars
with which it deals as swiftly and completely as before.
There is no agitation or waste of force; all the force is
expressed in strictly mental activity. The average, un­
trained mind simply cannot conceive of such acuteness.
It is this keen and instant penetration into the real nature
of a thing that explains the habitual tranquility of the
Oriental mind.
The developed mind, then, is unaffected by desire, for
it recognizes the latter as illusion, and it wants nothing
illusory. It only wishes to know, to understand and to
experience the divine reality— possession for its own sake
it does not seek. This attitude of “indifference” rightly
understood, is meant to be maintained equally in every
direction. Its attainment is essential to supreme master-
hood.
These lessons may seem formidable—or even non-essen­
tial—to those who are interested merely in “the phenom­
enal aspect of the psychic plane.” But we are not trying
just to develop the faculty of peering into the future. We
are giving the Master Key to Psychic Unfoldment to those
who are earnest aspirants for Masterhood— a goal far
beyond the objective attained by the average devotee; an
experience of Divinity which it is our highest destiny to
express.
21
C H A P T E R IV
SPIRITUAL OBSERVANCES
I
N THIS lesson we should like to impress our students
that the first principle of Spiritual Observance re­
quires purity of mind, internally as well as exter­
nally; purity of mind will create a purity of both soul
and body.
In the different religions of the world we are taught
various concepts and precepts of what is right and wrong;
but if we will observe the best forms of the various
religious customs and principles, above all practicing the
love of God, we shall all attain a sublime realization of
the Infinite in due time, regardless of the route we travel.
Too long humanity has been taught the fear of God—
but in these lessons we are going to reverse that teaching
to one of “ Love of God.” This teaching is not concerned
with a heaven, or thoughts of future reward or happiness;
the true mystic considers those ideas as a modified form
of selfishness.
When we refer to “Love of God” we do not intend to
convey the thought of a personal God, for so long as man­
kind clings to the idea of individuality and personality it
cannot attain to a realization of the Absolute or Spiritual
Principle of Being.
One writer on the subject says: “The worship of a
personal God, whether such worship be that of the God
of the savage or the personal God of the educated man,
is all a form of ‘personality worship.’ It is only when
the individual drops off the ‘personal’ idea of God that he
passes into the stage of ‘spiritual understanding of God
in His higher, more universal sense.’ Not that God is
devoid of personality—He goes beyond personality, not
contrary to it. The Absolute may be loved as one loves
a father or mother—as one loves a child—as one loves a
friend—as one loves a lover. He includes in His being
22
all the attributes calling for such forms of love, and re­
sponds to each demand. In fact, no demand for a return
of love is necessary between man and God. Just as a
man steps out into the sunshine and opens himself to its
rays, so does the man who loves God step out into the
rays of the Divine Love and receive its benefits.
“The very act of loving God opens up one to the Divine
Love. If one feels the need of the protecting love of the
Father, all he need do is to open himself to such love.
If one needs the tender and sympathetic love of the Mother,
such love comes to him from God if he but open himself
to its inflow. If one would love God as one does a child,
such love is open to him in the same way; and many who
have felt the need of such a bestowal of love, but who
have feared the apparent sacrilege of thinking of God
as one does a loved child, may find that such a giving
of love will ease many a heartache and pain, and will
bring to them the comforting response that comes from
the answering pressure of the loved child.”
There is a fable which is used as an illustration of the
true love of God by many teachers, both of the Occident
and the East. “ Once upon a time, a student of the Higher
Life approached a learned teacher and asked to be in­
structed in the higher forms of Para Bhakta, or percep­
tion and realization of the Absolute Spiritual Principle
of Being. He stated that he did not require instruction
in the elementary branches, for he had already learned
how to love God. The old teacher smiled at the youth,
for he recognized his ignorance, vain assumption, and
absence of real experience in the Love of God. The youth
came each day, demanding to be taught that which he
desired. Finally he manifested great impatience at the
apparent indifference of the old teacher, and demanded to
be shown why he was not fit to be accepted as a pupil.
“ Then the old teacher took the youth in a boat out to
the middle of a great river. Suddenly, he pushed the
youth overboard. The young man, not knowing how to
swim, sank beneath the surface of the water. Rising and
gasping for breath, he was pushed down the second time
23
by the old man. When he came up again, he was thrust
under. But the third time he rose, he was pulled back
into the boat in an exhausted condition. When he recov­
ered from his exhaustion, he was asked by the old man:
‘Son, what was thy greatest desire when under the
water?’ The youth replied: ‘O, sire, I desired a breath
of air more than all the world beside.’ Then answered
the old teacher: ‘Son, when thou hast learned to desire
God as much as thou didst desire a breath of air this day,
then wilt thou be prepared to learn of the Love of God—
then and then only wilt thou know what it is to love God!’ ”
We would add a further thought. When all life becomes
a part of our life to the extent that we feel the sorrow,
pain and joy of all beings, whether of the human, animal,
plant or mineral kingdoms; when we recognize the Spirit
of Divinity in all things; when we begin to show reverence
and adoration for all things that we can see and feel be­
cause we recognize the divinity of each, then we shall
begin to know something of the Love of God. John, the
beloved disciple of Jesus, the Master of Galilee, said:
“If a man say, ‘I love God,’ and hateth his brother, he is
a liar; for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath
seen, how can he love God, Whom he hath not seen ? And
this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth
God love his brother also.”
24
C H A P T E R V
CULTIVATION OF THE BODY
I
N THIS part of the course we are going to devote a few
words to the cultivation of the body, and the acquiring
of postures and approved exercises which are regarded
as conducive to mental quietness, concentration and medi­
tation, before going into the deeper lessons.
Postures and exercises have been carried to absurd and
fanatical extremes by many devotees, especially in India
and in certain sects of our Occidental teachings, so much
so that the majority of people greatly undervalue the
true significance of this step. However, it matters not
what one does, whether it be of material or spiritual na­
ture, the purpose will be lost unless one considers the
real essence and spirit of the teachings, ever keeping in
view the aim of attainment.
Despite the fanatical and abnormal excesses of the low-
class fakirs, fanatics and ascetics, one must remember
that originally the most approved postures for psychic
and spiritual unfoldment came from India, where for
thousands of years the Masters have regarded the study
of postures, or body positions, as a science.
It is quite necessary before undertaking any form of
psychic unfoldment that one find a posture in which he
can remain a long time. The one which is easiest and
most comfortable—in other words, the one which enables
us completely to forget the body—is the one for us to use.
This should be a matter of individual requirements, for
where one might be able to sit for an indefinite time in
one position in relative ease, the same position might
drive another person to distraction because of discomfort.
When we take exercises regulating the vital forces of
the body and directing them in the necessary channels, we
find that there is a great deal of unusual action going on
in the body because the nerve currents are displaced and
25
given a new channel; this sets up new vibrations and the
whole constitution becomes remodeled, as it were, though
the most pronounced current vibrations will be felt along
the spinal column. Therefore, it is very necessary that
whatever posture one selects must be one which holds the
spinal column free. One must sit erect, holding the chest,
neck and head in a straight line, letting the whole weight
of the body be supported by the ribs. In doing this you
have an easy, natural posture, with the spine straight
and the chest out. Experiment will prove that one cannot
think very high, inspirational thoughts with the chest in.
Regardless of the phase of development in view, you
should always sit erect, keeping the body upright; for
though the spinal column is inside the vertebral column,
it is not attached to it. If you sit with the spine crooked
or bent you disturb the spinal cord and it must be left
free. Every real teacher will tell you that you do yourself
an injury in trying to meditate with the spine un-erect.
Keep them in one line; though at first it may seem diffi­
cult, with a little practice you will find it will soon become
as easy as the act of breathing.
This portion of our lesson deals entirely with the phys­
ical body, our aim being to make the body strong; for
unless the physical body is a fitting, perfect instrument,
how can we conscientiously aspire to high spiritual devel­
opment through which the Masters of the higher planes
can express their beautiful teachings? Therefore, the
object of postures is as much physical as psychological;
for unless the body is regarded in psychic unfoldment,
too often the incoming forces prove destructive instead
of constructive. Everything in the universe has its good
and bad aspects, and it is because of this that mediumship
and various occult powers so often prove a destructive
force instead of building up the body as they should do.
The majority of developing classes disregard the phys­
ical entirely and concentrate all their efforts on what
they “believe” to be the spiritual, when the truth of
the matter is, as Paul of the Bible says: “Now there
are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit . . . And there
26
are diversities of operations, but it is the same God (Law)
which worketh in all.” All is but a different manifesta­
tion of the One.
There is not one muscle of the body over which man
cannot establish perfect control if he but wills to do so;
the heart can be made to stop or go at his bidding, and,
in the same way each and every part of the physical
organism can be made to work at his bidding; though we
would not under any circumstances advise any student
who has not fully and completely learned the laws gov­
erning the human body, to experiment in any way in con­
centration on the heart or any other organ by way of
stopping or starting them. At the same time we are
fully aware that there are few who could really do such
a thing; it is folly to try it, just as much as it would
be for a child to play with nitro-glycerine.
The result of perfect control of the psysical is not
only mental and physical poise, but also a lengthened life;
therefore health is its chief aim. But that is not all, for
a man may live long, yet be only a healthy animal. Our
purpose is not to create healthy animals but to create
perfect instruments through which the incarnate spirit
can perfectly express, thereby bringing peace and joy into
its mundane life. The Masters from the higher spheres
are, in this psychic cycle, wending their way back toward
earth and looking for perfect instruments through which
to give the marvelous wisdom that they have learned
during untold hundreds of years in the higher life.
In this course we purpose to go a little further in
psychic exercises than is generally given to the public,
but we know those who are ready for these instructions
will study and benefit from them, while others will not be
interested enough even to read them. Our next lesson
will be on the practice of relaxation and we believe it will
prove especially beneficial to all, whether desiring psychic
development or not.
27
C H A P T E R V I
POSTURES
I
N THIS part of our lessons we shall give the subject
of certain postures or positions claimed by Eastern
occultists as conducive to psychic development. Some
teachers use as many as eighty-four postures, but we shall
give only a few which are applicable to our Western mode
of living and our none-too-supple bodies. Each is de­
signed for a particular purpose—to induce certain kinds
of thoughts, feelings or emotions. Certain Eastern teach­
ers hold that as certain elements of the body, such as
muscle, bone, fat, blood, etc., can be developed by special
courses of diet and exercise, so can the thought forces be
regulated by certain postures which send the life currents
into new and diversified channels.
One Western writer says on this subject: “ A curious
thing about the thinking processes is that bodily posture
has a great deal to do with them. You will find that
if you close your eyes when you begin to meditate, the
stream of consciousness is broken into by all kinds of
stimuli or sensations— chief among which are physical
sensations—coming from the body. So, the Hindus said,
the first thing to do is to put the body into such a state
that it will not keep interrupting consciousness. In other
words, if you put your body into any ordinary condition,
you are, after a time, uncomfortable.”
Many have learned that there are some positions which
will not keep interrupting meditation, so that one can
think or meditate without these breaks or disturbances of
consciousness. Occasionally they are painful at first, or
difficult to assume, but once you get used to them you will
find them restful and conducive to perfect bodily ease__
that state which is so necessary for perfect meditation.
And certain of them, once you have grown accustomed to
them, you can hold for hours without becoming tired; in
28
k
fact you will sink into them with the sense that you would
into a warm bath.
The object of postures is to obtain mental equilibrium.
Therefore, regardless of the posture chosen, perfect re­
laxation should be sought. By learning mental poise and
equilibrium, and how to balance the body forces, extreme
opposites, such as heat and cold, etc., do not have such
poignant effects.
The following are a few examples of simple postures
for relaxation. We merely tell you how they are done,
and inform you that certain results can be obtained by
the use of one or more of them.
The Mystic Posture: Insert the contracted left foot
into the space between the right foot and thigh, insert­
ing the contracted right foot into the space between
the left shin and thigh. This is the pose illustrated by
the Buddha.
The Bedstead Posture: Lie down with the arms
stretched around the knees.
The Even-Peace Posture: Lie flat on the back or stand
erect, arms to side but not touching body; both feet con­
tracted and pressed against each other at toes and heels.
The Stable-and-Easy Posture: This brings the quickest
relaxation to the student. Most of the great occult teach­
ers approve the so-called stable-and-easy postures or, in
other words, that which is easiest. But one must ever
keep in mind that this is not the result of artificial phys­
ical effort, but rather is secured only by a condition of
perfect relaxation. Perfect relaxation, poise, balance,
and ease are always accompanied by calmness, comfort
and a well-balanced mind, free from physical strain or
uneasiness. It is the position most approved by experi­
enced teachers, and is obtained by sitting in a well-
balanced position, completely relaxed, with feet and knees
together, hands on knees, and with spine, neck and head
held in a straight line. This, however, is only stable and
easy to one who knows how to attain complete relaxation.
29
■ w
And as one writer said: “ The first step is relaxation; the
second relaxation; the third relaxation; and the remain­
ing’ steps are poise, balance, ease, stability or fixed rest.”
Few know how to relax; this is especially true of Occi­
dental people. Oriental people are masters of relaxation,
for they are taught that it is just as important to learn
how to relax and to practice it as it is to learn to per­
form any other physical exercise; for mastery of relaxa­
tion results in mastery over the muscles and limbs of the
body. It develops poise. Who has not admired the grace
and bodily poise of certain Oriental women who can walk
for miles with baskets of produce, or jars of water bal­
anced on their heads? In the ancient harems women were
taught to imitate the movements of a cat, the more readily
to learn their secret of grace and relaxation. It is well
for all to study the movements of the cat tribe, which
include the panther, the leopard, tiger, lion, etc. The
resting cat is a beautiful study of perfect relaxation; its
extreme grace and poise—with no tension, no contraction
of muscles—is a picture to behold and worthy of much
imitation, especially by moderns whose nerves and mus­
cles are keyed to a high tension, all day with the result
that nervous disorders are general. The relaxed cat is
a picture of strength in repose. Notice the cat as it
crouches for a spring upon a mouse; apparently it is
almost napping. It is relaxed—but it is power in abey­
ance.
William Walker Atkinson says: “ The Oriental people
understand the science of relaxation and employ it in
their daily life. They will undertake journeys which
would frighten a Western man, and after traveling many
miles will make a resting place upon which they will
throw themselves down, relaxing every muscle, allowing
themselves to remain limp and apparently lifeless, from
head to foot. They indulge in a doze at the same time,
if practicable, but if not practicable for them to doze they
remain wide awake, with senses active and alert, but with
mind well-balanced and calm, with the body muscles as
above stated. One hour of this kind of rest refreshes
30
them as much as, or more than, a full night’s sleep does
the average Western man. They start on their journey
again, refreshed and with new life and vigor.”
It is only when one is able to relax completely that he
is able to find his physical balance and poise. And by
sitting erect as mentioned in the last-named posture,
keeping the spine, neck and head in line, the rest of the
body will instinctively fall into a position of perfect poise
and equilibrium, and a mental and physical ease and
calmness will steal over one, which is most refreshing to
tired nerves and muscles. It will allow one to attain a
balance which is most necessary in meditation and con­
centration. Allow the weight of the trunk to be sustained
by the hips and ribs; never the spine. When you have
learned to do this and remain well poised and perfectly
balanced, you will be able to find a center of gravity in
your body and attain a state of as perfect equilibrium as
the most skillfully balanced structures designed or built
by man.
Moods and emotions can be regulated by postures. This
is not a new truth, but one demonstrated and taught by
the greatest occult teachers of record. In modern as well
as ancient “development” seances people have learned
that body positions or postures have a great deal to do
with the conditions or vibrations as well as the results of
the meeting. Some teachers go so far as to state that
every emotion or thought has its own form of physical
expression, or its own posture or muscular manifestation.
By careful study and records a complicated system of
producing mental and emotional results has been as­
certained, to the extent that after much practice and ob­
servation one can learn to call forth or reproduce various
mental and emotional states. In other words, if one
desires to create an inspirational state for writing, sing­
ing, painting, etc., certain postures, which he might learn
either by instruction or personal experiments, can be
assumed to bring about the desired state of consciousness.
To assist in learning these physical attitudes, observa­
tion and recognition of the physical reaction to a particu-
31
lar mental state or the mental reaction to various physical
states, will be of prime importance. Sometimes it is nec­
essary by fiat of will to simulate a mental state in
order to note physical reactions by watching in a mirror.
Then to reproduce the mental state you have but to re­
verse the action and note the results. By doing this new
brain grooves will be formed which will accelerate your
mental processes, quicken your memory, and make the
brain more alert and generally receptive both in a mate­
rial and spiritual sense.
During all these exercises do not fail to note the result
they have upon breathing, for every mental and emotional
state has a decided effect upon the respiration—in fact
has its own rate of breathing.
During all the postures, as well as every act of the day,
the breath should be regulated for the proper amount
of oxygen and vital energy needed at the particular time.
Just as expert swimmers, runners and various athletes
are trained in different rates of breathing during the par­
ticular exercise, so are the students and devotees of the
various phases of occult phenomena. As breath control is
one of the most essential requirements of a good swim­
mer, so it is in the development of psychic forces. It
will be noticed that the majority of fine sensitives and
mediums are possessed of a large chest expansion. This
has brought a question to the mind of many, but is in
perfect accord with natural law, though many psychics
and mediums may not have been conscious of the regula­
tion of breath. In proper and natural development it
comes as a consequence of the desire for unfoldment.
A future lesson will deal with Regulation of the
Breath, hut it is essential before going further into our
instruction that each student sincerely interested in at­
taining a perfect and conscious mediumship shall first
study and practice the methods of body-poise and relaxa­
tion outlined above. In fact, the student is not honestly
prepared to proceed into the more advanced stages of de­
velopment until he or she has mastered the Stable-and-
Easy posture. You may obtain mediumship without these
32
efforts, but we are seeking the highest phases of psychic
unfoldment whereby we may be enabled to contact the
spirits from the higher realms. There is no use wasting
vital energy reaching out to contact spirit mentalities
who know no more than we of the earth plane. Spirit
communication should be cultivated to contact loved ones
or to obtain knowledge and spiritual wisdom from the
Masters and teachers of the higher spheres; and these
last named cannot be reached under ordinary conditions.
It is possible to attain a negative state of consciousness
whereby one is able to penetrate the veil into the lower
astral or desire-plane, but such mediumship is too often
of a questionable character and quality. As a result
many mediums are accused of being dupes of imagina­
tion when as a matter of fact they are dupes of lower
spirits. Therefore the admonition of John: “ Beloved, be­
lieve not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are
of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the
world.”
By our vibrations and life shall the character of our
teachers be known, for it is a law that like attracts like.
So, if we are desirous of reaching the higher spirits, we
must prepare our body and mind by purification, and rais­
ing their vibrations, to contact them and bring forth their
messages to humankind.
By proper training and preparation mediumship be­
comes God’s finest blessing to His children; it builds the
body, exhilarates the mind, and perfects the soul. But
when forced or attained by improper or unnatural meth­
ods of development, it becomes humanity’s curse and
causes the downfall of the individual. This explains why
so often we meet with mediums enslaved by drink or drugs.
Greed, or selfish desire to attain mediumship at any cost,
spelled their doom. Though spirits may impersonate pure
and holy beings as a means to an end in gaining control
of a mortal instrument through which to satisfy their
dominant material desires, sooner or later the disguise
falls away and the victims see them for what they are—
usually when the will power has been so weakened they
33
have no positive force left with which to combat the un­
holy invasion of their “Temple not built with hands.”
The instructions and practices given in these lessons,
together with the noon-hour affirmation given while stand­
ing erect and facing the East, ought to bring perfect un-
foldment. Completely empty your lungs, then fill them
slowly while counting six and facing the East at noon­
time, and KNOW, know to the depths of your being while
affirming love to THE WHOLE WORLD: “ I AM IN­
FINITE LIFE, and nothing but that which is pure and
good shall enter or leave my Being. Perfect health, per­
fect peace and perfect happiness are mine, for I AM
ALL—INFINITE and ETERNAL.”
Repeat this just before entering the Silence during your
sacred development period. Though you may not be able
to attend a developing class, a conscientious practice of
the exercises given in this course, together with a regular
development period once or twice a week, and the spiritual
force generated by an honest, eager desire to attain medi-
umship for the good you can do and the comfort you can
give, for the love of serving, will more than compensate
you for your apparent loss of a visible instructor.
0, Chela of Truth, somewhere within thy soul is silence!
Attain unto it, and may your thoughts be filled with love
and peace and perfect harmony unto yourself and all you
meet.
34
C H A P T E R V II
PRANA—VITAL FORCES
IVEKANANDA expressed his interpretation of
Prana as follows:
“The universe is manufactured from its subtle ma­
terial by the power of Prana. Prana is the infinite, omni­
present manifesting power of the universe. It is the
Prana that is manifesting as motion, as gravitation, as
magnetism, as electricity. It is the Prana that is mani­
festing as the actions of the body, as the nerve currents,
as thought-force. From thought down to the lowest phys­
ical force, everything is but a manifestation of Prana.
The sum-total of all force in the universe, mental or phys­
ical, is but the manifestation of Prana.
“To get the subtle perception of the finer forces which
are operating in the physical body, we must first begin
with the grosser perceptions; so we must get hold of that
which is setting the whole engine in motion—and that is
Prana, the most obvious manifestation of which is breath.
Then, along with the breath, we slowly enter the body,
and are thus enabled to discover the subtle forces, the
nerve currents which are moving all over the body. As
soon as we discover the latter, and learn to feel them,
we begin to get control of them and the body. The
mind also is set in motion by these different nerve cur­
rents, so, at last, we reach the state where we have per­
fect control over the body and mind, and both are our
servants. Knowledge is power, and we must first get this
power; so we must begin at the beginning, i. e., the con­
trol of the Prana by means of Pranayama (regulation
of the breath). The knowledge and control of Prana is
what is meant by Pranayama.
“ Pranayama (regulation of the breath) opens to us
the door of almost unlimited power. Suppose, for in­
stance, that one understood the Prana perfectly, and
35
could control it. What power on earth could there be
that would not then be his? He would be able to move
the suns and stars out of their places, to control every­
thing in the universe, from the atoms to the greatest suns,
because he would control the Prana.”
When the student has perfected himself in the knowl­
edge of these powers, all things in nature will be under
his control, and all forces will serve him. The igno­
rant see the display of these powers and call them mira­
cles, not realizing all forces are phases of one force,
Prana, and he who has grasped the secret of Prana
has grasped the secret of all the forces of the universe.
■
‘He who has controlled the Prana, has controlled his
own mind, and all the minds that exist, because the
Prana is the general manifestation of force.”
Various philosophies teach a great deal concerning
Prana or Vital Force, but few students have any real
understanding of what this “Prana or Vital Cosmic-
Force” consists. What is commonly termed “Vital Force”
in Patanjoli’s teachings is the “living spirit, electricity or
vital magnetism in its most subtle state, and considered
as possessed of the attribute of livingness.”
Prana is all-pervading. It is the name by which we
designate the Universal Principle. It is the essence of all
motion, all life, force or energy, whether manifested in
electricity, gravitation, magnetism. It is the Active
Principle, the Vital Force, the Spirit which abounds in all
forms of life “from the amoeba to man—from the most
elementary form of plant life to the highest form of
animal life, human life and super-human life.”
The true occult teaching (contradictory to some forms
of New Thought) is that there is life in everything in
the universe. “It is,” as Ramacharaka says: “in all forms
of mind, yet is not mind. It is in the air, yet is not air.
It is in every breath, yet it is not breath. It energizes
all things, yet it is not those things in themselves. We
can best get the idea involved in the concept of Prana by
thinking of it as living force’—or, more properly still,
as the ‘essence and principle of living force.’ ”
36
Prana is, in a measure, a semi-fluidic force which exists
in the atmosphere, and we breathe it into our bodies with
the intake of air. It then circulates through the blood­
stream and nerve currents, and by certain mystical exer­
cises can be regulated and forced throughout the body,
once we get it inside ourselves, to the devitalized organ
where it is needed. This is the secret of true “divine
healing.’’
This lesson deals with the control and regulation of
the breath for the purpose of experiencing and directing
the Prana or Vital Force through rhyhmic breathing. All
nature is permeated by this Vital Force which we inhale
into our bodies by way of the lungs; but unless this great
power is controlled, concentrated and directed into useful
channels it avails us little.
All things in the universe have an individual rate of
vibration. This is also true of the universal Pranic cur­
rents. Therefore, the principal reason for regulation of
the breath is to harmonize the individual vibrations with
the universal vibrations and thereby attain perfect equi­
librium and strength and health. Regulation of the breath
is a great factor in control of the mind, inducing mental
steadiness and greater capacity for forceful concentration.
A Western writer on this subject says: “ An ocean
of solar Prana surrounds the great orb of day, and sus­
tains and keeps in its orderly rhythmic movements the
whole solar system. The varying strength of the solar
and lunar currents causes momentary changes in terres­
trial Prana which are reflected in our bodies. It is an
ebb and flow, as it were; a forward and backward move­
ment; and it is this Great Breath of the Universe that
gives the impulse to organic breathing. With its onrush
we inhale, and the current of Prana is sent to the far­
thest ends of the gross vessels—the nerve and blood chan­
nels—of the physique. The succeeding moment imparts
the backward impulse, and with the receding flow of the
vital currents, exhalation takes place. The throbbing
of the heart, its expansion—the diastole, and its contrac­
tion—systole, correspond with the flow of Prana. But
37
the rapidity of these inward and outward, forward and
backward movements of Prana, varies in different organ­
isms. The influences which establish this individuality,
inseparably associated with the correspondences between
the macrocosm and the microcosm, determine the circula­
tion of the Prana in our bodies.”
We think this a fine illustration of what Prana really
is, and though the principle of Prana may not be clearly
understood, at least a scientific reason for control and
regulation of the breath is revealed. And this is of
paramount importance as we proceed with our studies.
It will be remembered that the Prana is circulated
throughout the body by way of the nerve currents and
blood vessels, and before going further into this study we
feel it important at this time to say a few things regard­
ing the nervous system of the human being. It is sur­
prising how few know anything about the mechanism of
the body in which they dwell. So in defining the channels
of Vital Force we will touch upon the different concep­
tions held by the Eastern and Western minds on this sub­
ject. The Western mind is right as far as it goes, but
it does not go far enough. Western science recognizes
neural force or neural energy in the body, but it fails to
recognize certain centers in the body which serve as points
of focal energy. And though Western science recognizes
neural energy it fails to associate it as a manifestation
of universal Prana.
38
C H A P T E R V III
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
CCORDING to Western science the nervous system
of man is divided into two general classes:
(1) The Cerebro-Spinal Nervous System, and
(2) The sympathetic Nervous System. The first is
concerned with the expression of what are termed the
five primary senses, i. e., seeing, hearing, feeling, tasting
and smelling—in other words the processes of cognition,
sensation and volition. The second or Sympathetic Nerv­
ous System controls the growth, nutrition and other invol­
untary processes of the body. This is the system of
organic life and is regulated quite independently of the
will; as for example, the functions of respiration, diges­
tion and circulation do not command conscious direction.
Some writers call the Sympathetic Nervous System the
“vegetative functioning” because it governs the nutrition
and growth, in comparison with the Cerebro-Spinal System
which governs the distinctly animal faculties. “The Sym­
pathetic System controls the so-called automatic mechan­
isms of the body, the rhythmical beating of the heart, con­
traction and dilation of the arteries, the peristaltic mo­
tion of the gastro-intestinal tract, the contraction of the
smooth muscles wherever found, and the control of the
secretions of the various glands.
“The Cerebro-Spinal Nervous System is composed of
the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves which branch
off from the latter and extend to all parts of the body.”
Most every common-school student today knows that
the brain of man consists of three parts, namely, the Cere­
brum, or “great brain,” which occupies the upper, front,
and middle portion of the skull; the Cerebellum, or
“little brain,” which occupies the lower and back part of
the skull; and the Medulla Oblongata, which is the broad-
39
ened and extended upper portion of the spinal cord,
located in front of the Cerebellum.
The Cerebellum is about one-seventh the size of the
Cerebrum.
The Cerebrum is composed of two halves which are
connected by a broad band of white substance. The
Cerebellum or “little brain,” is also divided into two
hemispheres, which, like the two halves of the “big brain,”
have a distinct work to do.
In the Medulla Oblongata are located the great gan­
glionic centers which govern the processes of respiration,
swallowing, etc. Some writers declare that in cases where
death is caused by hanging it is not strangulation hut
pressure on the Medulla Oblongata.
The Spinal Cord, commonly called spinal marrow, fills
the channel of the vertebral column (spine). From this
long cord of nerve substance branch off at each vertebra
what may be called “nerve supply wires,” and likewise
smaller nerves that reach to all parts of the body and
act as sense reporters to the brain, or carry motor-
impulses from the brain. Some nerves are sensory nerves
and others motor nerves.
The Sympathetic Nervous System is composed of
masses of nerve substance containing nerve cells which
are distributed to all parts of the body, principally the
head, neck, chest and abdomen. The masses or ganglia
are connected with each other by nerve filaments, and are
also connected with the Cerebro-Spinal System by means
of nerve-connected links. At various points these nerves
meet and form what is known as a “plexus.” Please note
that the Sympathetic Nervous System controls practically
all of the vital processes. With this in mind we will con­
tinue our study by discussing the Solar Plexus, which is
so much stressed in occult circles, especially among sensi­
tives.
One of the chief plexi of the Sympathetic Nervous
System is the Solar Plexus, which is often called the ab­
dominal brain. It is located in the upper part of the
abdomen or “pit of the stomach,” just back of the point
40
where the ribs begin to separate and spread to each side
of the body. This important plexus is composed of a mass
of nerve substance both white and grey, similar to that
of the brain, and constitutes a great network of nerve-
fibres. These receive and distribute the nerve currents
located in the abdominal cavity and also supply energy to
the main organs of nutrition. It is a great power-house
of vital force and energy upon which are dependent the
elementary vital activities. This great nerve center is
very sensitive and any injury to it seriously affects the
entire system.
The name “ solar” itself implies the importance of thib
plexus, inasmuch as solar means sun, a central fount of
power radiating vital force and activity. These same
vital rays and forces permeate the body as the result of
solar-plexus activity, supplying vital force and energy to
the various nerve centers.
The Solar Plexus has been found to be fully developed
and functioning at an early stage of the human embryo,
even at the stage where the brain is yet a mass of pulp
incapable of functioning. One writer even relates cases
where infants have been born without a brain or a de­
veloped spinal cord, and yet have had a perfectly developed
Solar Plexus normally functioning. In several cases the
infant lived several months before delivery, and in one
instance for a length of time after delivery.
Of the Solar Plexus it may truly be said it is the seat
of life, for one may survive a serious injury to any one
of the other three brains; but a serious injury to the Solar
Brain strikes right at the seat of life and that life ceases
to function. Its ganglia are true nerve centers from
which emerge filaments of nerve force which is distributed
to the involuntary muscles under their control and to the
secreting cells of the various glands which depend upon
it for their nerve supply. There is probably nothing more
wonderful in the whole human body than this transmission
of nerve force or nervous energy, and its effects.
Science seems to have solved many remarkable problems
of the human body, but upon recalling a scientist’s inter-
41
view with Thomas Edison we realize how little, after all,
it has explained the mysteries of life. The scientist said
to Mr. Edison that science had explained practically
everything in the universe. In reply Edison extended his
hand and wiggled his forefinger, saying: “ Explain this!”
The scientist could not explain it. Perhaps it was a
simple request in comparison with some of the great ab­
stract problems, but to explain how a simple nerve cur­
rent sent out from any of the great nerve centers of the
body could contract and move a finger tip, was beyond
his knowledge. Eastern science claims to have solved
this mystery.
One Eastern writer referred to this same question in
the following manner: “ Western science has been unable
to explain how it is that a pin prick on the finger is tele­
graphed to the brain by means of a nerve current of the
sensory nerves, and is experienced in the brain as ‘pain.’
If the nerve is severed, or the nerve current otherwise
prevented from passing, no ‘pain’ is felt. The ‘pain’
is but the feeling experienced in the brain upon receipt
of certain kinds of sensory nerve currents.”
In the Eastern teachings concerning the nervous system,
in addition to the facts as known to Western science they
also recognize an esoteric system which they include in
their regular instruction.
The higher Eastern teachings hold that in and sur­
rounding everything is a great universal ocean of Prana,
or vital energy. Within the organism of the human being
is held to abide a stored-up supply of this Prana; this is
as it were an individual inlet of the great universal ocean
of Prana. Though in a sense apart from the great uni­
versal Pranic supply, it is, nevertheless, always in direct
contact with the great ocean of Prana which pervades the
universe.
In the exact center of the spinal cord is an invisible
channel with well-defined limits and form, which in East­
ern philosophy is termed the Sushumna. Flowing on
either side of this, traversing the spinal cord, are two
distinct currents of Prana. Located at the lower end of
42
this Sushumna channel is a subtle, invisible substance
known as the Kundalini, which is of a triangular form
and in which is stored up a vast amount of Prana in its
most potent form. This Kundalini is capable of producing
many unusual psychic effects in that it opens up channels
and fields of psychic activity of which the ordinary per­
sons has not the faintest conception.
This power is often spoken of as the “ Serpent Power”
and it is a serpent power indeed in many interpre­
tations of the word. Right here is where we wish to
give a warning signal to any who are considering or who
are attempting to arouse and release the Kundalini. It is
one of the gravest dangers with which students of the
ordinary Oriental philosophy are met. True, it opens up
channels of power which enable one to function on many
planes of mental activity that otherwise would be im­
possible to him except when this force is directed to the
brain; but its dangers are ten-fold the total of its bless­
ings. An unwise attempt or instruction as to how to
release the Kundalini in the average individual has proven
one of the curses which many savants of Oriental philoso­
phies have brought to this country.
To any but a devoutly consecrated student and practi­
tioner of the higher mystic laws, opening the Kundalini is
the surest and quickest path to the insane asylum. The
sights which meet the vision of one still immersed in
materiality when he has, even in a partial degree, pre­
maturely opened the Kundalini, drives him to hopeless
and raving madness. It is a pitiful and most deplorable
condition which every sincere occultist has armed himself
to prevent.
This we shall discuss in our next lesson. We shall
preface it by explaining a few of the awful sights
which are opened to the undeveloped psychic whose life
and daily habits are of the lower, purely physical vibra­
tions. These are vital facts which every student of
psychic laws should know and understand before entering
the mystic path, which if sincerely lived and diligently
sought after, will attain the “ Mystic Rose.”
43
C H A P T E R IX
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL CRIME
S
TEEPED in religious dogma, repressed by subjec­
tion to creeds, the children of the earth are crying
for release from the chains of bondage imposed by
papal and prelatic “dignitaries” in the sacred name of
Truth. Freedom at any cost is now the “battle cry of
souls.” Breaking the bonds of the cell-house still leaves
the prison wall of matter to be scaled—so find the prison­
ers of life.
Dimly aware of its reality, the soul incarnate in mat­
ter is ever seeking evidence of its greater field of expres­
sion—is ever striving to cognize something of its natural
habitat released from its maze of repressions and limi­
tations. Swept in a flood of attraction, it follows the
“current of psychogony” and eventually drifts into the
realm of occultism.
Seeking to find in the investigation of occult laws the
answer to the question of the ages—“If a man die shall
be live again?”—the soul is soon led into channels where
the rending of the veil between the visible and the invisi­
ble planes becomes the foremost aqd ultimate object of all
physical and mental efforts. There is where the danger
lies. That is the great psychological crime.
Exponents of modern science have proven that by spe­
cific methods of glandular excitation, physical and mental
capacities can be increased or arrested by various stimu­
lative injections and exercises. The treatment by certain
“rays or vibrations” has proven immensely effective in
producing phenomenal rapidity of growth in many ani­
mals. By concentration of specified mental processes and
certain exercises which arouse and stimulate the various
spiritual centers or chakras, clairvoyance and other
phases of so-called “spiritual development” can be ob-
44
tained. But any unnatural process of forcing these cen­
ters open could not other than create dire results, which
often lead to physical incarceration of the victim in a
psychopathic institution.
However, we shall not dwell on that subject too long.
A word to the wise is said to be sufficient. Be that as if
may, we must all learn our lessons some time. It is in­
dicative of wisdom when one soul can learn a lesson
through the experience of another.
Elementáis and Vampires
In the plane interblending with the earth vibrations
and in the planes below and immediately above, the cos­
mic elements are literally swarming with beings, from
the lower elementáis to the astral vampires and earth-
bound souls writhing in the mire of their evil propensi­
ties. Mouldering in the effects of lust, their desires and
deeds have made of them grotesque monstrosities more
gruesome than the wildest visions of a delirium tremens
victim. Purely physical lives and selfish, lustful, perni­
cious habits, have created this “ seething hell of sin and
dormant consciences.” There are tragic thousands in the
flesh who are daily creating such a post-earthly exist­
ence.
There are other planes where the dwellers are beyond
the elemental, higher than the distorted souls mentioned,
but nevertheless selfish, evilly-inclined, deceptive, and
crazed by desires of earthly passions. Each soul—as is
each electron, and so on up the scale of evolution—is sub­
ject to certain laws which govern its rate and place of
attraction.
As the law of gravitation hastily returns to earth that
which is of the earth earthly, so does the law of spiritual
attraction draw unto its proper place the souls within and
without the physical habitation. All souls, incarnate and
discarnate, are responsible to this law. A person with
evil habits would naturally vibrate to the plane where
such attraction existed. A person who is a slave to de­
sire, inclined to greed, deception and prevarication would
45
vibrate to, or attract the attention of, spirits of a like
nature. Therein lies the danger. Few there are who
do not possess such destructive qualities. The great ma­
jority have as an active part of their human nature one
or more of those negative qualities, the retention of which
should warn against the development of psychic powers.
Often, karmically or through heredity, the subconscious
conceals repressions and desires of which the individual
is unaware. Like an apparently dormant volcano they
seem to be asleep—but all the while are seething and
boiling down in the internal regions, suddenly to burst
forth in a glaring eruption, bringing destruction to all
within its reach. So it is occasionally with human na­
ture; which accounts for many of our tragic crimes. To
such persons the kind and loving justice of an all-wise
Divinity shields the eyes from the tragedies of the ele­
mental and lower astral planes which eventually will be
their lot, for a time of awakening.
There are many lesser evils and human weaknesses
which are sufficient to prevent any wise teacher suggest­
ing psychic unfoldment until such time as proper phys­
ical and spiritual preparation shall have “incensed the
temple ef the living God and made holy preparation for
the visit of the angels.” Then the student is completely
prepared for true psychic unfoldment of the higher de­
grees, and the blessings of such an one cannot be described
by human tongue or facile pen in the wildest flights of
fancy’s dream.
Assuming such preparation to have been made, and
assuming that our students are motivated in these stud­
ies by the highest principles of love and truth, we shall
quickly leave behind us the lurid picture which we deemed
needful to paint, and mentally journey into more pleasant
fields and spiritual instruction.
46
C H A P T E R X
BUILDING A PROTECTIVE AURA
D
UE to the prevalence of greed, selfishness, envy and
other unspiritual qualities— even among students
and advocates of the esoteric philosophies, where
they seem to cause more tragic results—we feel it im­
perative to give here a few instructions upon “building a
protective aura.” That ignorance of the law and the
consequences of infraction, is responsible for its violation,
seldom occurs to the perpetrators, who often are boastful
of the power they possess.
It is necessary to build a protective aura around one­
self before entering a seance room, promiscuous crowds,
or other places where negative conditions may be present.
Disturbing mental and psychic influences and thought
waves fill the ethers; these may be of a mundane or an
astral origin and may be equally annoying. Rhythmical
breathing is very effectively employed in building a pro­
tective aura by which one may render himself immune to
outside influences of every description.
We again remind that in all these exercises the spinal
column must be kept straight. Clear the lungs and
breathe rhythmically, as taught in chapter twelve,
employing the regular pulse-unit beat, not to exceed seven
cycles. (No exercise should be overdone.) Use the im­
agination to build mentally the “protective aura,” and the
attention and will to project it, surrounding your body
for several feet in all directions. This forms an oval
shield which cannot be penetrated by any psychic or
mental currents, and will enable one to gain mental poise,
which comes from perfect confidence and faith. However,
the most important part of this formula is the accom­
panying affirmation which will express self-realization of
Masterhood and the divine, creative powers of the “I AM.”
More than all else mankind needs knowledge of its divin-
47
ity, of the I AM, the Divine, dwelling within it—the “ I
AM” which Jesus taught and which the multitudes under­
stood to relate to God, yet could not comprehend. When
the disciples asked him, “ How shall we know the Father?”
he replied, “ Ye have seen me, ye have seen the Father
also; for I AM in the Father and the Father is in me,
even as I AM in you and you are in me.” Could a great
truth be more plainly given? It is this indwelling divin­
ity, the realization of which is symbolized in “I AM,” that
all should strive to attain—and by which we are pro­
tected against all external influences.
When one has thus protected oneself, undesirable
psychic and mental vibrations, or thought currents, will
rebound to the sender, often with amazing discomfiture.
It is a law of natural “action and reaction” that we reap
what we sow; consequently, if sowing unpleasant thoughts
and conditions, one could not other than reap unpleasant­
ness which inevitably returns as a boomerang to the
“creator.” Purity of mind, and realization of at-one-
ment with the Divine-creative forces and their eternal
protection, is the most positive safeguard we have against
external influences, as well as the internal imaging of
our own “mortal mind."
Selfishness, envy, greed, jealousy—all of which create
unkind thoughts—are the surest way to attract lower-
astral influences and kindred thought forces which result
in sorrow and disillusion. Will humanity never learn
that we get out of life exactly in proportion to that which
we put into it? To deny this is to deny the wisdom and
justice of God, to doubt the efficiency of Divine Law. In
the limitations of a finite consciousness we are not able
to comprehend a Justice so vast in scope, so eternal and
supernal, as that of Life. It is impossible for the un­
awakened soul to associate “life” and “justice.” Few can
find a blessing in pain, or feel soul-growth in a heartache,
or understand that values can only be realized by com­
parison. Monotony would be a curse. The sun is only
radiant in contrast with darkened skies. Exuberance
of health is only realized in the presence of sickness, joy,
48
in comparison with sorrow; love in contrast with indiffer­
ence. Life is wonderful only by way of comparisons,
which are the result of progressive or retrogressive in­
fluences—obedience or disobedience to the laws of life.
Life is Law—we cannot escape it. Therefore to gain the
most from life we must live in harmony with the laws of
life. Selfishness, jealousy, envy, greed, are contrary to
spiritual evolution, are destructive, and create sorrow.
Therefore, eliminate them from the sanctuary of your
mind that your soul may be glorified with the fruits of
righteousness. No one can take from you that which is
rightfully yours. Remember that! If another has suc­
cess, he has earned it. If another is blessed with love and
happiness, he is reaping that which he has sown—though
we may wonder how and when. We cannot pretend to
understand life; it is enough to know that Infinite Mind
must have destined everything to happen for a purpose—
and that purpose for the good, the evolution, of our souls.
Therefore, at best, we can only strive to adjust ourselves
to the circumstances of life and improve them, if pos­
sible.
49
C H A P T E R X I
CONTROLLING PSYCHIC FORCES
HE celebrated powers of the Yogis of India, and of
other Masters and Mystics, lie in their direction
and control of the Kundalini by rhythmic breath­
ing. Through performing certain exercises and scientific
breathing the Kundalini is aroused and begins to unfold
and rise through the various lotuses associated with the
Sushumna.
Concerning the arousing of the Kundalini, Swami
Vivekananda says: “In the lotus of the Kundalini there
is the power of the Kundalini coiled up. When that
Kundalini awakes, it tries to force a passage through
the hollow canal running through the spinal cord called
the Sushumna. As it ascends through the Sushumna,
the Kundalini rises step by step, and, as it were, layer
after layer of the mind becomes open, and all the dif­
ferent wonderful powers come. . . .
“In rhythmical breathing comes a tendency of all the
molecules of the body to have the same direction. When
mind changes into will, the currents change into a motion
similar to that of electricity, because the nerves have
been proved to show polarity under the action of elec­
trical currents. This shows that when the will evolves
into the nerve currents it is changed into something like
electricity. When all the motions of the body have be­
come perfectly rhythmical, the body has, as it were, be­
come a gigantic battery of will. This tremendous will is
exactly what the student wants. This is, therefore, a
physiological explanation of the breathing exercise. It
helps to bring a rhythmical action in the body, and helps
us, through the respiratory center, to control other centers.
The aim of pranayama (regulation of the breath) here is
to rouse the coiled-up power in the Muladhara, which is
called the Kundalini. . . .
50
“All the sensations and motions of the body are being
sent into the brain, and out of it, through the wires of
the nerve fibres. The spinal cord is the Ida and Pingali
of the Yogis. They are the main channels through which
the afferent and the efferent currents are traveling. But
why should not the mind send the news without any wires ?
Taking the analogy of electricity, we find that man can
send a current only along a wire; but nature requires no
wires to send her tremendous currents. This proves that
the wire is really not necessary, but that only our in­
ability to dispense with it compels us to use it. The Yogi
says that if the mind can send the news without the wires
of the nerve fibres, then one has gotten rid of the bondage
of matter.
“If you can make the current pass through the Sushum-
na, you have worked the problem. The mind has made
this network of the nervous system, and has to break it
so that no wires will be required to work through. Then
alone will all knowledge come to us—no more bondage of
the body; that is why it is so important to get control of
the Sushumna. If you can send the mental current
through that hollow canal, without any nerve fibres to act
as wires, you have solved the problem—and it can be
done.”
In most cases of supernatural power or wisdom, there
is usually evidence that some little current of the
Kundalini has found its way into the Sushumna. In
many instances the release has been ignorantly stumbled
upon through some occult method or accident. Many
cases of psychic phenomena can be explained through this
conscious or unconscious employment of the Kundalini
power. The power used by the majority of excarnate
spirits to perform many of the so-called spirit manifes­
tations is derived from the Kundalini force of the in­
carnate. Most instances of spiritual or psychic unfold-
ment in a “development class” come as a result of the
awakening of these forces, either consciously or uncon­
sciously through meditation and concentration, prompted
and in some cases assisted by disembodied spirits. How-
51
ever, wise and good spirits will never force this develop­
ment; they know the key to healthful psychism and true
mediumship is a slow and continuous growth of the soul
and should not be forced by man or spirit. For selfish
purposes, or an egotistical desire to perform wonders,
evil or ignorant spirits will prematurely rouse the
Kundalini before the mind and the body have become
spiritualized into a higher rate of vibration strong enough
to withstand the powerful currents. Many examples of
such mediumship could be cited, where the recipient had
experienced a phenomenal development of several phases.
Investigators were amazed, more so, to find that as time
went on the medium became depleted in body to the
extent that opiates or alcoholic stimulants had to be re­
sorted to. This explains why many physical mediums
become the victims of false stimulants—their bodies were
ravaged and torn by the very power which could have
made of them divinities had it been wisely and slowly
unfolded together with a spiritualization and development
of the physical body. These laws are no plaything for
the infant, the moron or the ignorant.
Desiring to drink water from a pure, fresh, sparkling
spring, few would defile it with an unclean, broken vessel;
yet literally thousands rush headlong into psychic unfold-
ment, eagerly seeking one or more phases for various
selfish or unselfish purposes, without having made the
least physical preparation. The result is evident.
Spiritualism especially has been the sufferer because
she has not sufficiently warned her people of the impend­
ing tragedies of unwise psychism. In her great desire to
free humanity from the bonds which have held it in
spiritual ignorance, to a great extent she has lost sight
of the momentous facts of spirit vampirism and obsession.
Time will come when she will have to turn her eyes from
the world without to her children within, to save them
from the results of promiscuous development, which have
instigated criticism from the slow and more conservative
occultists. Every true occultist recognizes genuine me­
diumship, and he knows, soul discerns, the wise from
52
the unwise, the positive from the negative. He honors
true spiritual unfoldment, but abhors the too-general abuse
of divine powers which is predominant in the world today
—close rivalry to the days of Atlantis, which was de­
stroyed through her own misuse of the forces of nature.
There are perhaps less than fifty—if that many—gen­
uinely developed mystics of the higher order in the whole
United States—men and women whose lives are com­
pletely raised above the vibrations of anything of a ma­
terial nature; men and women whose days and nights are
spent in solemn meditation and contemplation, sending
out love and healing vibrations to a sick and sorrowing
world; men and women whose physical bodies are of such
a fine, etheric nature that they have almost ceased to need
physicial sustenance; who for days can and do lay aside
their physical vehicle, going about in the spirit answering
the calls of soul-panic-stricken children of earth. How
many have been in the throes of mortal and mental agony,
praying for release in death, only to be enveloped suddenly
by a wonderful ray of peace and love which stilled the
throbbing tendons of the body and enveloped the mind in
restful sleep! Awakening brought memory of a horrible
nightmare, stilled and extinguished by a beautiful “angel
being.” It was an angel indeed, but most often one still
in the flesh—for one still incarnate in a human body is
more able to combat human vibrations than are the
spirits who have laid aside their mortal cloak.
This power to traverse the spheres is given him who
through proper and prolonged preparation has gradually
released the Kundalini. But mind, we said “prolonged
preparation.” The body must be absolutely cleansed of all
animal vibrations, and so long as we are a nation of meat-
eaters, born of meat-eaters, raised on meat, and sur­
rounded by meat-eaters who are continuously filling the
ethers with their animal vibrations, so long will it be
positively dangerous to delve too deeply into the secret
and mystic Kundalini powers. It takes seven years to
absolutely change the bodily vibrations. If one has spent
seven years abstaining from meat, all stimulants, drugs,
53
emotional activities, sex-waste; has purified the body by
pure thinking, strengthened it by certain scientific and
esoteric exercises, and raised the blood vibration by plenty
of sunshine and fresh oxygen; and desires illuminating
spiritual gifts for an unselfish purpose—to hasten the
“universal at-one-ment of the whole”—then, only under
the strict guidance and observance of an advanced teacher,
a Master, are you prepared to even think about arousing
and releasing the Kundalini. Jesus and Buddha were
such ones. To obtain these powers, these realizations, of
the purpose of Divine at-one-ment and the salvation of the
masses, is to become Christ-ed, be made holy sons and
daughters of the great universal Father-Mother Creator.
However, in the human body are seven chakras or lotus
centers which are centers of Pranic activity, that can
be cultivated and developed, whereby one may obtain un­
usual psychic powers without the vast danger which
accompanies the usual effort to arouse the Kundalini.
Subtle Forces
Traversing the Sushumna canal or channel in the
spinal cord are two currents; one positive, called the
Pingala, which follows the right side of the Sushumna
canal, and the Ida (ee-dah), the negative current, which
traverses the left side of the spinal cord or Sushumna
canal. Along this canal are seven centers of pranic activity
which are called lotuses. The lowest center, or “lotus,” is
situated at the base of the spine and in the Oriental
phraseology is called the Muladhara. Ascending the
spinal column, the next in order is called the second or
Svadhisthana center. Then higher up, the Manipura;
and so on up the spinal column, or Sushumna canal, till
we arrive at the seventh center or lotus, which is located
in the brain and is often called the thousand-petalled lotus,
or the Sahasrara.
In the lowest center, which is located at the base of
the spine, there is an accumulation of stored pranic force,
which is called Kundalini. The highest center, Sahas­
rara, distributes the Kundalini to the brain. In this
54
same center is also stored a subtle form of pranic energy
which is employed in intellectual and certain phases of
spiritual activity. It is the creator of personal magne­
tism, and while not confined alone to the brain centers, it
predominates in that portion of the body.
Many teachers concede that the so-called sexual en­
ergy can be transformed and transmuted into this intel­
lectual and spiritual fluid by certain forms of psychic
exercises and celibacy. But the opposite is also true.
When the natural sexual forces are depleted through ex­
cessive excitation or unnatural perversion, the precious
fluids are drained from the Sahasrara or brain center,
and a parched, degenerated condition takes place, which
if allowed to continue, eventually leads to insanity and
various mental complexes.
The Sushumna is a great battery of psychic force, and
when properly directed coordinates perfectly with the
various centers, each of which has its specific functions.
The object of positive unfoldment is to arouse these cen­
ters from their dormancy through proper breathing and
physical exercises, and mental concentration. The un­
foldment of psychic and spiritual gifts in this way allows
the recipient to function consciously on various psychic
planes while still in full control of the physical vehicle.
This high spiritual unfoldment eliminates all possibility of
spiritual obsession or physical degeneration.
55
C H A P T E R X II
RHYTHMIC BREATHING
HE chief concern and purpose of rhythmic breath­
ing is the regulation and control of the Prana and
Kundalini. Proper breathing is of great im­
portance to health, and in this modern age is more and
more recognized as a most important factor in bodily
equilibrium.
When wisely and conscientiously developed, this great
mystic dynamo of power, the Kundalini, is awakened; and
with the slow, certain, winding movement of “The Ser­
pent” it ascends the Sushumna channel and acts upon
center after center, and a tremendous reaction sets in.
When the great Sensation-metropolis, the brain, is reached
the whole three-fold being responds and the student is
“ heavenized” in a glorious blaze of mystic illumination.
The first step to attain this much-desired experience is
through rhythmic breathing, which we will now consider.
Speaking of rhythm, a well-known writer on physical
science says: “ Rhythm is a necessary characteristic of
all motion. Given the co-existence everywhere of antago­
nistic forces—a postulate which is necessitated by our
experience—and rhythm is a necessary corollary. All mo­
tion alternates-—be it the motion of planets in their orbits,
or ethereal corpuscles in their undulations—be it the ca­
dence of speech, or the rise and fall of prices—it becomes
manifest that this perpetual reversal of motion between
limits is inevitable.”
The term rhythm is explained as: “Regularly recurring
motion, change, or impulse proceeding in time-measured,
alternating sequence.” From a full definition of these
words we would infer the true meaning to be: “ Succeed­
ing, acting or happening in turn; returning repeatedly,
occurring at stated intervals, or according to some regu­
lar rule.” It would generally imply a “regularity of alter­
nating movement proceeding according to some established
rule, and manifesting time-measurement.” Rhythm is es-
56
pecially manifested as beating time, best illustrated by the
measured time observed in poetry and music, the metro­
nome, the pendulum of the clock, the revolution of the
earth on its axis and its movement around the sun in
“measured time.” Measured time is found in all the ac­
tivities of nature in the universe. There is nothing exist­
ent which does not manifest rhythmic movements accord­
ing to measured time.
Rhythm means measured motion. That measured mo­
tion is found in all the activities of the universe; and as
everything has a rate of vibration it behooves us, in order
to “fit” or harmonize perfectly with the great scheme of
life, to find our individual rate of vibration, and to
equilibrate the various vibrations of our bodily organs.
Antagonistic forces tend to destroy. It is their nature;
therefore, equilibrium is necessary to attunement.
As there are regular intervals of time and an alterna­
tion between two opposite poles of action and motion, so
there is ever-recurring motion and activity in all mani­
festations of rhythm.
As the pendulum of a clock swings in perfect rhythm
from one pole to the other, registering measured time and
definite action, and there is a regular period of time and
space elapsing between each beat, or swing, so it is with
the rhythmic activity of nature. The period between the
alternating impulses is the degree which constitutes the
rhythmic rate.
Everything has its own measure of periodicity, its
rhythmic rate; and the difference between all phenomenal
things is their individual rate of vibration. From the
lowest atoms and molecules and other forms of which we
know little if anything, to the highest forms of life known,
all manifest and are individualized by their particular
rate of vibration. All the stars in the heavens manifest
rhythm, and there is no greater example than our little
earth. The tides of the sea in their rise and fall are an
example. The earth around its so-called axis, and also
around the sun—each is completed rhythm, in that the
circle is completed. The swing of the pendulum of the
57
clock is interrupted rhythm because the complete circular
movement is broken.
As day follows night, summer follows winter, sleep
follows waking, involution follows evolution, and vice
versa; as effect follows cause and new causes are set up
by certain effects; as fashions, customs, history and poli­
tics have their cycles, so do the experiences which measure
the quality of the soul in the final (if there be final)
inventory.
According to the higher teachings the first preparation
for cosmic attunement is the attunement of the physical
body. An “ordered” body creates an ordered mind, and
allows an “ordered spirit” to express properly and thus
fulfill its obligations to the train of evolution.
In this course we are going to give nothing but very
simple exercises so that none need fear anything that is
not beneficial. However, it must be remembered that
these are not given for the mere purpose of building up
a perfect physique or lung capacity, but to arouse the
vital forces of the body, and to direct the Prana and
Kundalini in a rhythmic motion throughout the body,
thereby stimulating all the higher faculties and creating
an equilibrium in the body which will naturally tend to
perfect the body by stimulating the lung activity.
Ramacharaka says of rhythmic breathing: “The atoms
of the human body are in constant vibration. Unceasing
changes are occurring. In a few months there is almost
a complete change in the matter composing the body, and
scarcely a single atom now composing your body will be
found in it a few months hence. Vibration, constant
vibration. Change, constant change. All motion is a
manifestation of the law of rhythm. Our bodies are as
much subject to rhythmic laws as is the planet in its
revolution around the Sun. Much of the esoteric side of
the Yogi Science of Breath is based upon this known
principle of nature. By falling in with the rhythm of
the body, the Yogi manages to absorb a great amount of
Prana, which he disposes of to bring about the results
desired by him.
58
“ The body which you occupy is like a small inlet run­
ning into the land from the sea. Although apparently
subject only to its own laws, it is really subject to the
ebb and flow of the tides of the ocean. The great sea of
life is swelling and receding, rising and falling, and we
are responding to its vibrations and rhythm. In a normal
condition we receive the vibrations and rhythm of the
great ocean of life, and respond to it; but at times the
mouth of the inlet seems to be choked up with debris, and
we fail to receive the impulses from Mother Ocean, and
as a consequence, inharmony manifests in us.
“You have heard how a note on a violin, if sounded
repeatedly and in measured, regular rhythm, will start
into motion certain vibrations which will in time destroy
a bridge. The same result occurs when a regiment of
soldiers crosses a bridge, the order being always to ‘break
step’ on such an occasion, lest the vibration bring down
both bridge and regiment. These manifestations of the
effect of rhythmic motion will give you an idea of the
effect on the body of rhythmic breathing. The whole
system catches the vibration and comes into harmony
with the will, which causes the rhythmic motion of the
lungs, and while in such complete harmony will respond
readily to orders from the will.
“With the body thus attuned, the Yogi finds no difficulty
in increasing the circulation in any part of his body by
an order from the will, and in the same way he can direct
an increased current of nerve force to any part or organ,
strengthening and stimulating it. In the same way the
Yogi, by rhythmic breathing, ‘catches the swing,’ as it
were, and is able to absorb and control a greatly increased
amount of Prana, which is then at the disposal of his will.
He can and does use it as a vehicle for sending forth
thoughts to others and for attracting to himself all those
whose thoughts are keyed to the same vibration. The
phenomena of telepathy, thought-transference, mental
healing, etc., which are attracting such an interest in the
Western world at this time, but which have been known
to the Yogis for centuries, can be greatly increased and
59
augmented if the person sending forth the thoughts 'will
do so after rhythmic breathing. Rhythmic breathing will
increase the value of mental healing, etc., several hun­
dred per cent.”
To establish the rate of rhythmic measure one must
discern one’s pulse beat. Each person has his own pulse
measure or beat, and that is his standard for rhythmic
breathing. Simple? Yes, the simpler the better for the
needs of today. It is the simple things of life which de­
ceive the masses, for they comprehend not their value.
As the blood surges through the arteries in what are
called blood-waves, it causes a rhythmical expansion; this
is caused by successive contractions of the heart. The
pulse is taken by placing the forefinger on the thumb side
of the wrist, as the artery at this point is comparatively
close to the surface and can be easily pressed against the
wrist bones, thereby making it a comparatively easy task
to take the pulse rate.
Regarding the various rates of human pulse the follow­
ing statement is taken from an authoritative reference
work on the subject: “ The«pulse varies greatly in health
according to the age, sex, temperament, exercise or rest,
emotional state, temperature, time of day, posture, at­
mospheric pressure, and personal idiosyncrasy. Before
birth the average number of pulsations each minute is
150; in the newly born, from 140 to 130; during the first
year of life, 130 to 115; during the second year, 115 to
100; about the seventh year, 90 to 85; about the four­
teenth year, 85 to 80; in adult life, 80 to 70; in old age,
70 to 60; in decrepitude, 75 to 55.”
In the female and in persons of sanguine tempera­
ment the pulse rate is more rapid by several beats to the
minute than in males and individuals of a phlegmatic
type. The rate is also higher after a meal and during
exercise. The pulse is more rapid in the evening than in
the morning, and in the standing than in the sitting or
recumbent posture. High temperatures also accelerate it.
During sleep the pulse is usually slower than in the wak­
ing state. Forty is not an uncommon rate, and instances
60
have been known in which the pulsations were only thirty,
or more rarely twenty to the minute. In disease the pulse
presents wide variations in rate, regularity, volume and
tension.
Among advanced occultists there is a teaching—many
modern physiologists call it a “theory’’—that there is a
deviation of the blood rhythm in the case of the brain;
and many imply that the blood measure of circulation in
the brain does not follow the same beat as it does in
the rest of the body. They assert that the rate in the
brain is determined by the breathing rate of the indi­
vidual. Western physiologists are somewhat ignorant of
these claims, but though many deride them as having no
validity in fact, there are others, according to Hereward
Carrington, who are disposed to accept and support the
Oriental claims.
In support of this claim Mr. Carrington writes: “ Here
is an interesting physiological fact, very little known—in
fact I have rarely spoken to a doctor who knew it—
though it seems to bear out strikingly the Eastern philos­
ophies. If you put your hand on your wrist, you can feel
the pulsation—or in the upper arm, or in the ankle, or
wherever there is a pulse. It simply shows the rate of
the heart beat. The pulse varies from seventy to eighty
to the minute, or more, according to the degree of excite­
ment, exercise, and so forth. That pulse-rate is the same
all over the body—in the neck, the head, even the cover­
ings of the brain. But the circulation in the brain it­
self is synchronous with—or correspondent to— not the
heart pulsation but to the breathing rate—that is, twelve
or fourteen to the minute! This is a very striking fact
and it seems to show us that there is—in the circulation
of the brain itself—a pulsation which is synchronous
with, or correspondent to, the breathing rate. This has
been demonstrated by a series of very fine anatomical
experiments made by an English surgeon, and certainly
seems to bear out the Hindu contention that there is a
definite connection between consciousness and the breath­
ing rate.”
61
C H A P T E R X H l
OBTAINING PULSE RATE
HE first task is obtaining the pulse rate in order
to learn how to breathe rhythmically, and this
should be definitely established by the student and
fixed in mind. It does not matter how many pulse beats
you have a minute; it is the rhythm that you want to
catch and to establish in your mind as definitely as you
would were you keeping time to music or poetry. In the
East they use memorized mantrums, but in the West we
are more familiar with the count of one-two-three-four,
or better still up to six—the average beats of a proper
breath. To better understand what we are trying to con­
vey we will use the illustration of marching soldiers with
their “left—right, left—right, left—right, left.”
Sit quietly and relax; then place your forefinger on your
wrist on the thumb-side as instructed in the previous les­
son. Then count in unison with the pulse-beat “one-two-
three-four-five-six” until you have firmly established in
your mind your exact rate. It then becomes a subcon­
scious knowledge and no doubt the reaction on the im­
provement of the health will be a surprise to many. With
the majority their “engine is missing,” or in other words
their body is not “pulling” together. An illustration to
express more simply what we mean would be to refer to
a team of horses, one of which is pulling steadily and the
other by jerks. A steady momentum is impossible and
makes double work for both. The same often applies to
our body, and disease results, where perfect health and
rhythm should prevail. The greatest secret of good
health is good, deep, rhythmic breathing. Few informed
will deny this.
Practice this simple method for several minutes every
time the opportunity presents itself until you feel you
have completely acquired the mental rhythm of your pulse
62
beats. It is amazing how quickly this exercise becomes a
habit. But should you seem a little awkward in obtaining
this primary information do not be discouraged; a little
perseverance will bring the desired results in due time.
After a little practice you will find it just as simple to
breathe rhythmically without holding the finger on the
pulse. But, in your eagerness to proceed do not make
the great mistake of doing this exercise hastily, for it
would not be complete, nor could the desired results be
obtained. This preliminary step must be complete before
the forthcoming exercises will bring the satisfactory re­
sults for which we have studied thus far. The final re­
ward will more than compensate the patience and per­
severance involved.
Remember—at no time hurry in exercises; take your
time. Relaxation is necessary in order to proceed leis­
urely. It is futile to attempt to practice when hurried.
C H A P T E R X IV
ALTERNATE BREATHING
I
T is a singular fact that nature causes man to breathe
for certain periods first through one nostril and then
the other. Investigation and experiment have proven
this true. These periods cover a range of from one to sev­
eral hours according to the requirements of the individual.
This alternate breathing is performed instinctively and
requires no fiat of consciousness. This may be hard to
believe but nevertheless it will be found to be true, though
with but few exceptions Western physiology seems totally
unaware of this habit of nature. Our students will re­
member that in a past lesson we said that there were two
currents of Prana, traversing each side of the Sushumna
channel—one, the Pingala or positive current, which tra­
verses the right-hand channel; the other, the Ida or nega­
tive current, which traverses the left-hand channel. Very
positive persons will be found to breathe most of the time
through the Pingala, and negative persons will be found
breathing principally through the Ida. Thus you can see
why it is necessary to establish rhythmic, alternate breath­
ing between the positive and negative currents.
Now some of our students may be faced with a denial
of this by some doctors—but denial never proved any­
thing untrue; the facts themselves must be tested and
they alone refute or confirm. The greatest truths are
most often the least understood.
By establishing alternate breathing one obtains a
greater poise and harmony between the two pranic cur­
rents, and a state of mental and physical poise and
strength ensues. Concerning this subject Swami Vive-
kananda says: “By this process of breathing we can con­
trol all the various motions in the body, and the various
nerve currents that are running through the body. First
we begin by recognizing them, and then we slowly get
64
control of them. The Yogis consider that there are three
main currents of Prana in the human body. One they
call Ida, another Pingala, and the third Sushumna. Pin-
gala, according to them, is on the right side of the spinal
column, and the Ida is on the left side, and in the middle
of this spinal column is the Sushumna, a vacant channel.
Ida and Pingala, according to them, are the currents
working in every man, and through these currents we are
performing all the functions of life. Sushumna is pres­
ent in all, as a possibility; but it works only in the Yogi.
(Ed. Note: i.e., in anyone who by certain practices has
changed and equilibrated the body). You must remem­
ber that the Yogi changes his body; as you go on prac­
ticing your body changes; it is not the same body that
you had before the practice.”
The practice of alternate breathing is usually employed
for two general purposes—one, to rest the mind and body,
and second, to obtain manifestation of the higher states
of consciousness, i.e., the higher psychic and spiritual un-
foldment. But the first must be obtained before the latter
can be realized in its higher, truer and more reliable mani­
festations. Remember there is a great deal of difference
between an ordinary psychic and a genuine mystic. The
first contacts the lower astral, the latter the cosmic—the
First Principle or Cause. Our first purpose through these
simple exercises is to obtain poise for the mental and
physical self—that which so few possess.
On the subject of alternate breathing E. A. Fletcher
wrote in one of her manuscripts that she knew of two
Buffalo physicians who made this discovery for themselves
through certain experiments. She also related how a cer­
tain California physician announced a discovery and
registered by certain mechanical means “positive and
negative electrical currents in the air chambers of the
lungs of a living person.” She further writes: “Hindu
physiology begins its surprises by teaching us that with
every inhalation through the right nostril a positive cur­
rent flows down the right side of the spine, and with every
inhalation through the left nostril a negative current
65
flows down the left side. The lungs are correspondingly
charged with positive, or solar, and negative, or lunar,
currents. It is by means of the two currents that all the
processes of life are performed, and it is an equally im­
perative condition of health that they be equally balanced.
Upon their rhythmic and harmonic flow, fed by the breath
of life, depends the measure of health and vitality in the
human system.”
A simple and invigorating exercise in alternate breath­
ing is as follows: using the tip of the forefinger to close
the nostril, place the thumb under the chin as a balance
and to direct the forefinger. First completely exhale
through the left nostril while the right nostril is closed.
Remember, before every breathing exercise the lungs
should be as nearly as possible emptied so as to relieve
the lungs of all the stale air. As a further reminder be­
fore proceeding—do not make the mistake of trying to
see how much air you can inhale, or practice till tired.
The purpose of these lessons is to build up, not to tear
down. By filling the lungs to an exerted capacity there
would be a strain which could not but be harmful.
After emptying the lungs, and the right nostril is closed,
inhale through the left nostril to the length of 6 pulse
beats. Hold the breath three pulse beats, thereby allowing
free circulation of the air through the lungs. Then exhale
(6 pulse beats). Hold out (or do not breathe at all) 3
pulse beats. Inhale and exhale six pulse beats, and “ hold
in” and “hold out” (or relax) three pulse beats. Then
reverse the exercise by holding the left nostril closed.
Inhale (6 pulse beats) through the right nostril, hold in
3, exhale 6, hold out (relax) 3, and then repeat by alter­
nating from one nostril to the other. It will be seen that
the purpose of “holding in” is to allow free circulation
and beneficial distribution of the purifying oxygen before
releasing it with the accumulated poisons. The “holding
out,” or relaxation, is to allow a brief rest to the lungs,
as they have the responsibility of purifying our bodies 24
hours a day. Few people are cognizant of the task they
constantly impose on their lungs. Continue this exercise
66
for only a few minutes, and never after you feel the
slightest dizziness. You may either lie down or sit up.
In either position the spine must be perfectly straight and
the body relaxed.
The above exercise is a simple one, but it is most im­
perative that it be mastered before proceeding with the
lessons—that is if the student sincerely anticipates re­
sults. If you do not follow instructions and consequently
fail to derive the desired benefits, please do not blame the
lessons; place the blame in its proper place. Do not be
like the patient who went to a doctor with a complaint of
illness. The doctor prescribed certain things, but they
required an effort. She did not follow his instructions
and consequently did not get well. For her failure to ob­
tain health she blamed the doctor, and did not stop to
consider she had not followed his instructions. Do not
blame the doctor ; and do not blame this course, if you fail
to comply with the instructions.
67
C H A P T E R X V
CONTROLLING THE VITAL FORCES
A
LTERNATE breathing is nerve-calming, and equal­
izes by renewing the human battery which has been
depleted by one current having been employed too
long. This is because it restores the body to harmonious
activity. The exercise we gave in the last lesson assists
in distributing the Prana which thus electrifies the nerves
of the body and stimulates the various organs.
We are but human batteries built to receive the electri­
cal forces of the cosmic, and thus purify, renew and invig­
orate the ever-depleting and decomposing atoms which
constitute the physical. By regeneration of our bodies
they become infinitely finer and are thus more receptive
to the higher electrical currents of the cosmic.
Do not forget that the Ida is the negative current and
the Pingala the positive, and that each can be used for
definite purposes through the simple process of proper
breathing through closing the opposite nostril. If too
negative, tired or disturbed, close the left nostril by hold­
ing the forefinger over it and breathe evenly through the
right nostril, thereby inhaling the positive Pingala current.
If you desire mental calm, poise or peace, close the right
nostril and through the left breathe in the negative Ida
current.
Please do not be misled as to the value of these lessons
because of their simplicity, for this particular lesson con­
tains especially valuable information and should be mem­
orized and thoroughly understood before proceeding fur­
ther. As one teacher said, “If you grasp its secret, and
will apply it according to the simple method pointed out
to you, you will have at hand a most valuable remedy and
instrument of health, physical and mental. Do not allow
its simplicity and lack of pretension to blind you to its
real merit.”
68
We have dwelt at length on rhythmic breathing. It is
not limited to alternate breathing, which is but a small
part of the Yogi science of breathing. Its purpose is
not only to alternate the Ida and Pingala currents but
to equilibrate the measure of the pulsebeats to the breath­
ing rate.
In the following exercises it is not necessary for you
to continue the alternate breathing longer than you feel
the need. But do not forget that which is of so much
importance—to maintain the rhythmic measure of the
pulse beats. We shall not repeat this important instruc­
tion upon which depends so much of the future value of
these lessons. Also remember the free-and-easy posture
we spoke of in a former lesson. Keep the head and spine
in a straight line, allowing the weight of the body to rest
on the trunk. When you feel perfectly relaxed and at ease,
which you will be when you have discovered your exact
point of bodily center of gravity, you will be ready to pro­
ceed with your unfoldment. There is a secret to real
relaxation. This so few Westerners know how to attain.
Psychological Breathing
The Yogis employ the art of rhythmic breathing in
connection with the attainment of the well-known phe­
nomena of telepathy, thought-transference, influence,
healing, etc. They hold that Prana is the essential prin­
ciple operative in all such phenomena whether the recipi­
ent is conscious or unconscious of its use.
Referring to this the great teacher, Vivekananda, wrote:
“We see sects in every country who have attempted this
control of Prana. In this country there are Mind-healers,
Faith-healers, Spiritualists, Christian Scientists, Hypno­
tists, etc., and if we analyze these different groups we
find that the background of each is the control of the
Prana, whether they know it or not. If you boil down
all these theories, the residuum will be the same. It
is the one and the same force they are manipulating,
only unknowingly. They have stumbled upon the discovery
of a force, and do not know its nature, but they are
69
unconsciously using the same powers the Yogi uses, and
which come from Prana. . . . The Faith-healer will cure
because he will bring the strength of his mind to bear,
and rouses through faith the dormant Prana of the
patient. . . . It is by Prana that real curing comes.”
This same teacher continues: “The gigantic will-pow­
ers of the world, the world-movers, can bring their
Prana into a high state of vibration, and it is so great
and powerful that it catches others in a moment, and thou­
sands are drawn toward them, and half the world thinks
as they do. Great prophets of the world had the most
wonderful control of the Prana, which gave them tre­
mendous will-power. They had brought their Prana to
the highest state of motion, and this is what gave them
power to sway the world. All manifestations of power
arise from this control. Men may not know the secret,
but this is the one explanation. Sometimes in your own
body the supply of Prana gravitates more or less to one
part; the balance is disturbed, and when the balance of
Prana is disturbed, what we call disease is produced.
Take away the superfluous Prana, or supply the Prana
that is wanted, and the disease will be cured. The feel­
ings will become so subtle that the mind will feel when
there is more or less Prana in any part of the body than
there should be; and the mind will possess the power to
restore the normal balance. These are among the vari­
ous functions of Pranayama.”
In mental creation through the proper distribution of
the Prana, supply the breathing element by the simple
rhythmical process of inhaling 6 pulse beats; hold in 3;
exhaling 6; holding out 3. Repeat this process in cycles
of seven repetitions, each with a brief interval between.
This may be done by alternate breathing or through both
nostrils, whichever need is manifest at the time. (1)
Form the mental image of what is desired; (2) will that
it be accomplished; (3) visualize its accomplishment and
be grateful. This mental attitude creates and releases all
the re-creative powers of the mind and sets the pranic
currents flowing in the right channels to produce the
70
4.
B— ■ warn
proper results. This was the secret of Jesus’ healing and
his other phenomena. These powers are not the gifts to
one, or a chance production, but are the effect of laws. In
the accomplishment of a desired effect the mind should be
concentrated upon the result, and the thing or part of
the body which is to be subjected to the inflow and in­
fluence of Prana.
To quickly recharge the body and invigorate the nerv­
ous system, sit or lie in the proper position as outlined
before. Place the palms together and lock the fingers
so as to form a closed circuit. Then breathe rhythmi­
cally and repeat for several cycles, not to exceed seven,
all the while employing attention, imagination and will
to direct the Prana where it is needed. This is a closed
circuit and after a few rhythmical breaths the body will
be felt to tingle with the sensation of inpouring power.
You can conquer and control all undesired emotions
such as fear, anger, jealousy, depression, hate, worry,
etc., by means of rhythmic breathing. Keep attention,
imagination and will concentrated upon an inflow of
Prana being circulated throughout the body and dissi­
pating the undesired emotions by scattering them
throughout the whole nervous system, from whence they
are carried off in the exhalation.
The Solar Plexus is the seat of most disturbances and
psychic conditions, consequently the quieting and dissipat­
ing of undesired conditions should begin from that point
as per foregoing exercises.
Sensations—Control of the Senses
The most important step in all spiritual development
is “control of the senses.” Few teachers realize that
the senses must be quieted to the extent that we are
not conscious of them, before it is possible to concentrate.
Many enter classes of psychic and spiritual unfoldment,
and after a few preliminary instructions are told to con­
centrate, few, if any, knowing the definite meaning of the
term in connection with spiritual unfoldment. They
are of the opinion that concentration means to keep
71
con-centered on one subject or object. To a certain
extent that is true—but how is one going to keep the
mind exclusively on one object or subject when the senses
remain persistent in their effort to keep us aware of them?
You may succeed in arriving at what seems an eternal
silence, then suddenly to the mind comes the thought, “I
am concentrating, I am not thinking of anything.” Then
comes the amusing realization that, after all, we were
thinking.
This proves it is imperative that we learn to hold our
senses in abeyance to the power of mind—better still,
iilence them completely by Will, if you would gain com­
plete mastery over self. “ Sensations are the raw mate­
rial of thought,” and thought indicates activity of the
mind. When we learn to regulate the “ raw materials of
thought” we shall have learned how to gain mastery over
the thoughts themselves by which we gain control of
mind.
Advanced teachers are beginning to lay more stress on
the subjugation of the senses and the various organs of
sensation, i. e., touch, sight, hearing, smelling and taste.
From the feelings or sensations which arise from the re­
ports of the five senses is formed the principal basis of
our whole mental life. From thirst, hunger, emotional
and sexual instincts are derived the raw material, or the
basic substance of the “mass thought.” Few realize how
dependent thought is upon sensation. Sensation dominates
feelings, emotions, desires and thoughts, which in turn
result more or less in external activity.
There are extremists in philosophy and psychology who
believe that the sum-total of all our expression of con­
sciousness is the product of sense-origin. In Spiritualism
and all advanced occult teachings that hypothesis is ac­
cepted, but only partially. There are external forces,
spiritual and mental, which likewise are responsible for
some of our trains of thought—but even these most often
reach us through our senses (clairsentience, clairvoyance,
clairaudience and intuition). Even in a deep trance state
the spirit, or controlling influence, gains expression
72
through the sense-impressions of the instrument, thereby
gaining the necessary emotional expression to be convinc­
ing and interesting.
Concerning sensations, William James wrote: “ They
are the immediate results upon consciousness of nerve
currents as they enter the brain, and before they have
awakened any suggestions or associations with past ex­
perience.” According to his conception the sensations are
the elementary steps of knowing. A leading writer on
this subject says:
“A sensation is a state of consciousness resulting from
a nerve action. No one can tell us why nerve action af­
fects consciousness, but such is the fact. Sensations are
not knowledge, any more than wool is cloth. They are
the raw material out of which knowledge is slowly spun.
. . . Not all nervous action appears in conscious sensation,
since a healthy nervous system is fortunately a machine
which obtrudes no more of its business on consciousness
than is sufficient to furnish the raw materials of knowl­
edge. The capacity for sensation lies at the foundation
of all knowledge. Our interpretation of the world is
merely the proper interpretation of the senses. . . .
“Our senses give us only a section of the world’s phe­
nomena. If a visitor from another planet were to come
to us with a request to be shown terrestrial animals, and
if we admitted to view only such as could pass through
a hole three feet square, we should do for him in an
analogous way what our senses do for us. The visitor
would, of course, not know that we had horses, camels,
hippopotami, elephants and whales. In the same way
our senses usher only certain phenomena into the pres­
ence of our minds. If we had three or four new senses
added, this might open a new world to us; we might be­
come conscious of a vast number of phenomena, which at
the present never have any effect upon our nervous or­
ganism. It is possible to imagine a race of beings whose
senses do not resemble ours, inhabitating other worlds.”
To see and comprehend these other worlds is the prin­
cipal motive for spiritual and psychic unfoldment which
is attained only through the “quickening” and use of the
73
higher senses. This is the purpose of these lessons. The
analogy of the “three-foot hole” may well be applied to
the instructions and descriptions those of the Spirit World
try to bring to us. Many people do not, and cannot, un­
derstand what they are trying to bring to us, because we
have no comparison, no analogy.
On the subject of the dependence of mind upon sensa­
tion we have the following excerpt from the pen of a bril­
liant American psychologist:
“ Marvelous as are the mind’s achievements, we must
note that it is as completely dependent upon the nervous
system as is a plant upon the sun, rain, and air. Sup­
pose a child of intelligent parents were ushered into the
world without a nerve leading to his otherwise perfect
brain from any portion of his body; with no optic nerve
to transmit the glorious sensations to the eye, no auditory
nerve to conduct the vibrations of the mother’s voice, no
tactile nerves to convey the touch of the hand, no olfac­
tory nerve to rouse the brain with the delicate aroma
from the orchards and the wild flowers in spring, no
gustatory, thermal, or muscular nerves.
“ Could such a child live, as the years rolled on the
books of Shakespeare and of Milton would be opened in
vain before the child’s eyes. The wisest men might talk
to him with utmost eloquence, all to no purpose. Nature
could not whisper one of her inspiring truths into his deaf
ears, could not light up the dark mind with a picture of
the rainbow or of a human face. No matter how perfect
might be the child’s brain and his inherited capacity for
mental activities, his mental faculties would remain for
this life enshrouded in Egyptian darkness. Perception
would give memory nothing to retain, and thought could
not weave her matchless fabrics without materials.
“ The powers of understanding would forever lie dor­
mant were it not for the impress of the sensations and the
action of external agencies on the nerves, because these
are the carrying agencies which directly supply the mind
with its material for knowledge. The highest ideals,
ideas and inspirations are gradually developed from the
74
accumulation of sense experiences, but to guarantee the
truth of them we must find concrete examples in what we
believe to be ‘real existence.’ ”
Our knowledge is limited by our sensibilities, by that
which may be compared with something already in our
realm of consciousness. By the avenues of sense we gain
knowledge of an external world. Shut out from all com­
munication with the outer world we could know nothing
of what exists in the world. According to the acuteness
of our sensory organs are the quantity and quality of our
knowledge. Were one possessed of but one sense his
knowledge would be limited to the revelations of that one
sense. Likewise, people destitute of one or more senses
are deprived of the knowledge which might be obtained
through those avenues of communication. Additional
senses would likewise prove new avenues of communica­
tion and knowledge no less surprising than the sense of
sight would be to one born blind, or the sense of hearing
to one born deaf. Avenues of mediumship bring such
amazing and surprising revelations that those who have
not unfolded the sixth and seventh senses cannot appre­
hend the wonder of them. There are heights and depths
of consciousness which mankind cannot at present reach
because of the limitations of its sensoria.
As knowledge is dependent upon consciousness, and
consciousness upon the testimony of the senses, is it not
important to train them by obedience so that they will
not lead us astray into a world of illusion?
75
C H A P T E R X V I
CONCENTRATION AND ATTENTION
HE constitution of the nervous system is an essen-
tial factor in determining {he quality of sensation.
In former centuries it was thought that all objects
about us were colored, warm, cold, et cetera. Locke was the
first to refute this theory. On this subject one writer says:
“ As external to our consciousness, we can only assume
matter, vibrating with molecular motion and permeated
by vibrating particles of ether. The nervous apparatus
select only certain motions of matter or of ether, which
they transform into that form of nerve excitation with
which they are familiar. It is only this nerve excitation
that we perceive as red, warm, or hard.”
In gaining control of the senses one has taken the first
step in controlling the mind. Only through the control
and regulation of the attention by means of mastering
the will—which must become the obedient servant of
the real self—will one be able to gain complete mastery
over the mind.
The concentrated application of the mind to any object,
sense, or thought, is called attention. This word is de­
rived from a Latin root, “attendere,” which means to
reach out, to extend. Attention might be explained as
the focusing of consciousness on some particular object
or thing. As one psychologist explains it: “The force
with which anything strikes the mind is generally in
proportion to the degree of attention bestowed.”
Another writer has said: “An act of attention is an
act of concentration; and such an act seems thus neces­
sary to every act of consciousness, just as truly as a
certain contraction of the eye is necessary to every exer­
cise of vision. Attention is to consciousness what the
contraction of the pupil of the eye is to sight, or to the
76
eye of mind what the microscope or telescope is to the
bodily eye.”
According to the amount of attention bestowed upon a
thing, so is the quality of the sensations of consciousness.
By raising the attention to a higher degree or intensity
we also raise the degree of our consciousness. By lower­
ing the degree of attention or sensation we lower the
quality of consciousness; this can be done even to the
degree of inhibition. By learning to withdraw conscious­
ness completely we attain what is often called a trance
state.
In this course we have attempted not only to give that
which we have proven to be true, but to give the best
thoughts of other writers on this important subject. Thus
we have made a compilation of excerpts from dozens of
books on unfoldment. By this method we are enabled
to give a general, but condensed, outline of study for busy
students, thus saving them long hours of perusing many
books in order to arrive at a direct knowledge of these
laws. The following quotations will be invaluable guides
in this study which ultimately leads to mastery of self.
“ Sensations, feeble or insignificant in themselves, may
be raised to even a painful degree of acuteness by having
the attention strongly directed to them, and may thus
occasion much suffering.”
“A painful sensation becomes more intolerable the more
the attention is directed to it. A sensation, in itself in­
considerable, as an itching in a very small spot of the
skin, is thus rendered very troublesome and enduring.”
“ If the attention be steadily directed to almost any
part of the surface of the body, some feeling of itching,
creeping or tickling will soon be experienced. . . . By
highly concentrated attention directed to any part of the
body, an actual sensation of pain and discomfort may be
experienced in that part.”
“ It is by means of attention that one is able to listen
to some one particular voice among others heard at the
same time, or to the tone of one voice or instrument in a
concert, to the neglect of others.”
77
There is another power of attention pointed out by
one of our leading writers on this subject: “ Before the
introduction of chloroform, patients sometimes went
through severe operations without giving any signs of
pain, and afterward declared that they felt none; having
concentrated their thoughts, by a powerful effort of ab­
straction, on some other object which held them engaged
throughout. The writer frequently has begun a lecture
whilst suffering neuralgic pains so severe as to make him
apprehend that he would find it impossible to proceed; yet
no sooner had he, by a determined effort, fairly launched
himself into the stream of thought than he has found
himself continuously borne along without the least dis­
traction until the end has come and the attention has
been released; when the pain has recurred with a force
that has overmastered all resistance, making him wonder
how he could ever have ceased to feel it.
“John Ballantyne (whom Sir Walter Scott, while suffer­
ing under a prolonged and painful illness, employed as
his amanuensis) told me that though Scott often turned
himself on his pillow with a groan of torment, he usually
continued the sentence in the same breath. But when
the dialogue of peculiar animation was in progress, spirit
seemed to triumph altogether over matter—he arose from
his couch and walked up and down the room, raising and
lowering his voice and, as it were, acting the parts. In
this way Scott produced the far greater part of his most
important works.”
All have, in various degrees, experienced something
of the power of attention. We may be in the midst
of numerous objects, all of which come within the range
of our vision, but the things we see are those upon which
our attention is fixed. Likewise, we may be in the midst
of a veritable babel of sounds and yet will hear only those
upon which we have concentrated our attention, or which
have especially attracted our attention. Our senses re­
port thousands of impressions which we fail to perceive
simply because we have not our attention upon them.
Often the most insignificant make a greater impact upon
78
our consciousness simply because we have had our atten­
tion more definitely concentrated upon them. By proper
control of the will and attention we can bring within
the realm of our senoria things of which the average
person is unaware; also by control of the will and at­
tention we can inhibit things from our consciousness,
and thereby render ourselves practically immune to all
sensation, painful or pleasurable. One can direct the
attention away from the seat of sensations and, conse­
quently, from all feelings derived therefrom— and prin­
cipally from the ideas aroused by sensations. This last
is an important consideration, because sensation is di­
rectly responsible for a majority of our thoughts. One
can almost anesthetize himself, not only to endure pain,
but actually not to feel it. Pleasurable sensations can be
governed in the same degree by persistent practice and
training. It does not require a superhuman effort or
power. It is merely the extension of the power used
in every-day life, employed in a higher and more efficient
degree. It is learning to conserve our forces, just as our
power-plants generate power and then conserve it for
later, profitable uses.
In learning to control and direct attention the sim­
plest method is to concentrate entirely, if possible, upon
whatever task is at hand. This method does not require
that you sit down and direct your attention to a glass
ball, a pinhead or some other object. It means merely
to do well that which you are doing; i. e., if you are wash­
ing dishes, keep your mind concentrated on the dishes,
excluding so far as possible all other thoughts which at­
tempt to impinge upon your consciousness. If you are
making beds, keep your mind on that alone. If you are
eating, keep your mind concentrated upon your eating.
This is beneficial in more ways than one. According to
the impress our food makes upon consciousness, so is
the quality of saliva excreted to masticate each particular
article of food. Starches, acids, sugar, et cetera, all seem
to require saliva of a different quality. This, conscious­
ness provides. Therefore, food specialists and dieticians
79
will tell you to think of each bite of food that enters the
mouth. They will also tell you not to read while eating,
as reading diverts the attention and, therefore, the quan­
tity and quality of the saliva is apt to be out of pro­
portion to the food taken in. Indigestion in one or more
forms is often the result, especially if the person’s stomach
is the least bit weakened.
We come to learn our whole mental life is controlled by
attention. You may ask: “What is a definite illustration
of attention?” In reply we offer you a quotation from
a distinguished writer on this subject:
“ When you are reading an interesting book, you are
scarcely conscious, if at all, of the sensations of pressure
produced by your chair. Carriages and wagons are
clattering along the street, but you do not note them;
various objects are directly before you, but you do not
see them. Indeed, you are but dimly conscious of the
sensations produced by the very type of book you are
reading. But the thoughts called to your mind by your
book stand out clearly and conspicuously in your con­
sciousness—every feature, as it were, is sharply outlined.
The act of your mind by which certain facts in our
experience are thus emphasized and made prominent, is
called attention.
“There are two kinds of attention. You are reading
a difficult book, when someone in the next room begins
to sing your favorite song. You do your best to keep
your attention on your book, but your mind wanders to
the song in spite of yourself. Or you go to a lecture just
after reading a letter that contained some very good news.
You try to listen to the lecture, but the thought of the
letter persists in dragging your mind away. In both
these cases you are conscious of two very different kinds
of attention—attention depending upon the will, or volun­
tary attention, and attention independent of will, or non­
voluntary attention. We can see the difference between
them more clearly, perhaps, if we bear in mind that, in
the case of non-voluntary attention, there is but one
thing that influences the mind—the thing attended to—
80
while in voluntary attention there are two— the thing
attended to and some reason for attending to it.
“When you listen to a song simply because you like
it, you attend involuntarily; when you keep your mind fixed
upon a book by an effort of the will, you attend volun­
tarily. In the first case, there are but two things con­
cerned—your mind and the song. In the second, there
are three—your mind and the book, and some reason for
attending to it. In the first case you attend because of
the attraction which the song has for your mind directly;
in the second, you attend, not because of any attraction
which the book has for your mind, but because of its
relation to something else that attracts you directly, as
the desire to improve. Non-voluntary attention, then, is
that attention which results from the attraction exerted
upon the mind by the thing attended to, in and of itself.
Voluntary attention is that which results from the in­
fluence exerted upon the mind, not by the thing attended
to, but by the knowledge of its relation to something else
that attracts the mind in and of itself.
“There is a constant struggle on the part of the sensa­
tions to survive in consciousness. The sensation which
we allow to take the most forcible hold on the attention
usually wins the day. If we sit by an open window in
the country on a summer day, we may have many stimuli
knocking at the gate of attention—the ticking of a clock,
the sound of the wind, the cackling of fowl, the quacking
of ducks, the barking of dogs, the lowing of cows, the
cries of children at play, the rustling of leaves, the songs
of birds, the rumbling of wagons, etc.
“ If attention is centered upon any one of these, that
one, for the time, acquires the importance of being a king
upon the throne of our mental world. But none of these
may sway our thoughts, for our attention may be forcibly
directed to some other object, which colors our conscious
mental life. Hence it is of the utmost importance to
our mental welfare to guard the gates of attention.”
81
C H A P T E R X V II
PRACTICAL CONCENTRATION
S
OME people have the power of attention so fully de­
veloped that they can easily shut off from conscious­
ness everything which they do not will to register
there. Others have the faculty developed to such a slight
degree that it may well be said that they belong less to
themselves than to any thought or object that strikes
their attention.
It is a mark of first-degree mastership when one is
able to completely shut off from consciousness reports of
sensations and other things which may tend to distract
the attention from the more spiritual things. This does
not mean that the organs of sense fail to register; it is
merely closing the doors of attention to them. This prac­
tice tends to increase the efficiency of the sense organs
when they are to be used, for one’s power of concentra­
tion is so much greater it gives them marked efficiency.
A simple example of this power may be noticed among
persons working amidst a great roar of machinery, the
noise of which would drive the ordinary person to distrac­
tion. These people exert their power of concentration, to
a greater or less degree, until they are able to lie down
and go to sleep amidst the din. This is especially true
in a large press-room, a boiler-factory or other places
where they have huge machinery. The workers often
carry on animated conversation apparently not the least
disturbed by the clamor, while those unaccustomed, or
with less developed powers of attention, would have to
shout loudly to make themselves heard, or to hear—even
then finding it distracting. To such persons the noises
actually cease to exist because they have not allowed
their senses continually to report them. When desiring
to do so, they can direct their attention with the same
82
efficiency as was required formerly to shut them out, and
the most minute sounds are easily detected by their keen
ears—sounds which the average person could not possibly
hear.
In the same way some people are enabled to work
around odors which would nauseate the average person—
and, perhaps at first offended them. But soon they adjust
themselves to their tasks, and by attention are able to
divert the report of their sensorium, and what had there­
tofore been unbearable fails to register.
Some people work amidst a confusion of things which
are continually attempting to register on the optic nerves.
With a marked power of concentration they learn to shut
unwanted sights from the eye. This is true of the wire
and tight-rope performers. One diverted glance may be
the cause of their death. They see and yet they do not
see; it is paradoxical, but true. The fact is they see, but
their attention is so concentrated that the sights below or
about them fail to register.
The same rule applies to the loud ticking of a clock.
It disturbs the person unaccustomed to it, but with con­
trolled attention one fails to notice it—unless the clock
should cease to tick, when at once the cessation is noticed.
Little special instruction is needed to apply voluntary
attention. Practice and persistence are the only requi­
sites. One must learn how to shut out from consciousness
anything not desired. With but little practice the powers
of inhibiting develop very rapidly.
First—One must direct the will and refuse to let it
fasten its attention upon the invading sensations. This
is most difficult at first.
Second—One of the simplest, and yet most exalted
methods of developing these powers is to concentrate upon
some noble thought or object—some beautiful, abstract
Principle which will carry the mind and attention to spirit­
ual heights—such as Infinity, God, Infinite Intelligence,
and our relationship to them. These divine inspirations
will lift not only the mind but the physical vibrations.
With but a little practice the mind begins automatically
83
to shut out the lower mental states caused by sense
perceptions.
Do not exercise over too long a period, particularly at
first. Begin with five minutes or so, then gradually in­
crease the time. A wonderful improvement will be no­
ticed almost at once.
Concerning sense perceptions and attention Vivekananda
wrote: “ The next step is Pratyahara (control of the
senses). What is this? You know how perceptions come.
First of all there are the external instruments; then the
internal organs, acting in the body through the brain cen­
ters; and there is the mind. When these come together,
and attach themselves to some external thing, then we per­
ceive that thing. At the same time it is a very difficult
thing to concentrate the mind and attach it to one organ
only; the mind is a slave. . . . All actions, internal and
external, occur when the mind joins itself to certain cen­
ters, which centers are called the organs. Willingly or
unwillingly it is drawn to join itself to the centers,
and that is why people do foolish deeds and feel misery,
which, if the mind were under control, they would not do.
What would be the result of controlling the mind? It
then would not join itself to the centers of perception, and,
naturally, feeling and willing would be under control.
Is it clear so far? Is it possible? It is perfectly pos­
sible.
“He who has succeeded in attaching or detaching his
mind to or from the centers, at will, has succeeded in
Pratyahara, which means ‘gathering toward,’ checking the
outgoing powers of the mind, freeing it from the thrall-
dom of the senses . . . The controlling of the mind and
not allowing it to join itself to its centers, is Pratyahara.
How is this practiced ? It is a long work, not to be done
in a day. Only by a patient, continuous struggle for
years can one really succeed.”
We have taken our readers through an extra long prep­
aration; but all great work needs great preparation. The
performances of great artists needed long and studious
training. Nothing great was accomplished in a day.
84
Mediumship and seership are genius personified, and in
order for the student not to experience any direful re­
sults preparation is necessary that the body may be at­
tuned to the new forces; laws of unfoldment must be
learned so that one may be able to keep undesired spirits
from influencing or taking possession. If our students,
combined with their regular “ Silence and Meditation,”
will study and practice this course, amazing gifts will be
the reward.
Concentration
Concentration is fixed attention, a most difficult feat for
the restless Western mind; therefore, because of the imag­
ined difficulties, this phase of development is never so
popular with those who seek easy (but ineffective)
methods. But before proceeding with our lesson we wish
again to warn the student against some of the popular
methods of concentration as taught by many so-called
Oriental philospohers and teachers. Do not concentrate
upon any center in the body such as the heart, the navel,
the tip of the nose, the pituitary region, et cetera. These
methods are taught and used, but unless under particular
conditions and always under wise guidance, they are
dangerous because they bind the mind-stuff to these par­
ticular regions. Most students interpret concentration
on certain objects—external or internal—to signify the
objects, and the inner-significance or symbolism is lost
sight of, or is not known. There are seven psychic
centers or “lotuses” in the body these being symbol!*«
by certain organs. When the spirit of concentration is
lost sight of the result is most often a state of self­
hypnosis—this being true of many cases of phenomena
designated as mediumship. Mediumship is vastly more
than any case of self-hypnosis can demonstrate. Such
performances are grossly repulsive and unnatural in com­
parison with the genuine mediumistic phenomena. The
greatest esoteric truths and teachings are clothed in figur­
ative and symbolical terms; the letter thereof is revealed
to the curious while the spirit is discerned and reverenced
85
by the initiate. As Jesus couched his teachings in para­
bles, so all great truths are protected from the masses of
people who are not spiritually evolved to receive them.
Concerning this phase of our study, Annie Besant said
in one of her lectures in India a few years ago: “In one
of the sutras it says that if you meditate upon a certain
part of the tongue you will obtain astral light (clair­
voyance). That means if you meditate upon the pituitary
body, just over this part of the tongue, astral sight will be
opened. The particular word used to refer to a center
has a correspondence in the physical body, and the word
is often applied to the physical organs when the other is
meant. That is what is called a ‘blind,’ and it is intended
to protect immature students from dangerous practices
described in some books. People may meditate on that
part of their tongues all their lives without anything
coming of it; but if they think upon the corresponding
center in the body, much harm may come of it.
“ It is also said, ‘Meditate on the navel.’ This means
the solar plexus, for there is a close connection between
the two. But to meditate on that is to incur the danger
of a serious nervous disorder. All who know how many
people in India (and elsewhere) suffer from these prac­
tices, ill-understood, recognize that it is not wise to
plunge into them without someone to tell what they mean,
and what may be safely practiced and what not.”
In Oriental teaching these names are figurative and
really symbolize other centers. It is thus the Masters
L-ep the true teachings from the gross, for whom they
were not intended; these terms are esoterically understood
by the initiates. Even some of the Hindus use the physi­
cal term as the object of concentration. The results are
apparent in the sight of many repulsive fakirs that pre­
vail there. Counterfeits and imitations may be seen
wherever truth is taught. People must learn that the
letter meaneth nought. It is the spirit which leadeth man
aright.
Concerning this point Annie Besant has written: “One
difficulty is that the Tantras, and the works based upon
86
M
them, often use the name of a bodily center to represent
an astral or mental center. There is some reason in that,
because all the centers are connected with each other
from body to body; but no reliable teacher would set his
pupil to work on the bodily organs, until he had some
control over the higher centers. Knowing the one helps
you to know the other, and the teacher who has been
through it all can take his pupil on the right path; but
if you take up these words, which are all physical, and
do not know to what the physical word is applied, then
you will only become confused.”
It is because of the prevalence of Yogis, Swamis, and
the like in America and Europe that we feel it imperative
to stress these points. In many “development” circles we
find an equal number of harmful methods used. The major­
ity of the latter methods lead but to self-hypnotism, but
even this unfortunate stage often carries with it a degree
of psychism.
After practicing “attention” for awhile we will advance
—most slowly we assure you—to other practices; those of
holding the mind to limited or infinitesimal points. For
instance, try to feel to the exclusion of all other parts of
the body only one certain part—the hand, for instance.
In true concentration the Yogis say that if the mind is
concentered on the root of the tongue one will begin to
hear sounds, and if on the tip of the tongue one will begin
to taste wonderful flavors; and if on the middle of the
tongue one will feel as though he were coming in con­
tact with strange objects; if on the palate he will begin
to see peculiar things. But one must really be concentrat­
ing his thoughts on these centers to the exclusion of all
else. And if anyone doubts the truth of them he has but
to try them. See how many can gain results from these
methods. They are each but a stepping stone to the real
key. If at first you do not succeed keep on trying; the
final results are worth any effort one may put forth.
Remember we are leading you slowly—with wisdom—
through a course of scientific development. The end—
genuine mediumship and eventually seership—will be the
87
reward. Seek not for the common gifts when each has
the faculty for the best within himself, but awaiting de­
velopment.
Keep your eyes on heaven centered, and your footsteps
on the narrow trail which ultimately will lead you to
sublime Peace. Let your hearts be filled with continuous
praise and prayer to the universal Forces, that you have
been privileged to be born a living soul invested with the
creative powers of the Almighty. Look into the depths of
human nature, beyond the external into the internal sub­
lime, and there will be revealed to you the mystery of the
ages and you will hear the Lost Word and find the Key
which unlocks the secret of the Sphinx. We were created
divine, and to our divinity we must return before we can be
released from the cycles of human existence and soar into
the celestial realms of freed souls, “gods of the kindly
skies.”
88
CHAPTER XVIII
TELEPATHY
ELEPATHY is not generally conceded to be asso­
ciated with psychic and spiritual phenomena; never-
theless, it plays no little part in all mental phe­
nomena. In fact, spirit communication must of necessity
be telepathic because the organs of sense are absent—the
medium acting as the so-called “receiving station.” Telep­
athy is a familiar phase of phenomena and is generally
accepted as an hypothesis of natural, mental science.
Though not usually associated with “rhythmic breathing,”
much better results will be obtained in telepathic healing
and psychic experiments if scientific methods of breathing
and distributing the forces are exercised—the value being
in the attraction and concentrated direction of the
thought, or mental, forces. Use methods already outlined
in previous lessons, then visualize the object or result
desired, and through will-power, concentration and imag­
ination direct the pranic currents.
Every true scientific student of the occult knows that
everything in the known universe can be reduced to one
basic substance; and that the apparent difference lies oni^
in the rate of vibration which governs its objective appear­
ance. Rhythmic breathing arouses the pranic currents,
and through the will and concentrated direction they are
reduced to form, and the desired results begin manifesta­
tion.
But let us here warn the student, never, under any
circumstances—though some subtle pretense may seem to
justify it—use these great cosmic Forces for selfish or
evil purposes. Everything has its opposite manifested
through the same law. The only difference between good
and evil is that good is progressive and evil is retrogres­
sive—good is harmonious evolution; evil is retardation.
Consequently, “white” and “black” magic are the opera-
89
tion of the same law—but with different purposes. When
one uses these great forces of life for the attainment of
desires motivated by the mundane self, such use may
safely be placed in the category of black magic. Far
better had a soul never been bom than to misuse its God-
given powers for unworthy purposes. No end is so tragic
as that of one who delves into and misuses the “night side
of nature.”
Wolves in sheep’s clothing abound—white-robed and
silvery-tongued orators and prophets also abound, posing
in the guise of righteousness. Paul, beloved of occul­
tists, said, “ Though I speak with the tongues of men
and of angels, and have not love, I am become as sound­
ing brass or a tinkling cymbal.” Were it not for mone­
tary consideration and desire for power and fame, there
would not be the amazing number of religious, psycho­
logical and occult teachers and “professors” who literally
infest Europe and America—especially the western part
of the United States, where the magnetic attraction seems
to cooperate with them. In most of these love is absent—
they are tinkling cymbals. In Los Angeles there are said
to be 104 different cults and religious societies; nowhere
in the world does such an amazing variety of both black
and white magic abound. But “by their fruits shall ye
know them.” Let the student and truth-seeker be thus
protected and guarded as he journeys across the burning
sands toward the East.
90
CHAPTER XIX
HEALING
H
EALING—in its manifold phases—absent, telepath­
ic, spiritual, magnetic, etc.—is the most beneficent
phenomenon in the whole category of occult forces.
The blessings and realizations to be derived from a
knowledge and wise direction of the occult forces of life
could not be comprehended by any but an initiate; words
are meaningless in expressing the cosmic.
Concerning the subject of this lesson one of the greatest
teachers of the modern age, Yogi Ramacharaka, writes of
the value of rhythmic breathing in Absent and Telepathic
Healing: “Prana colored by the thought of the sender
may be projected to persons at a distance who are willing
to receive it, and excellent healing work may be done in
this way. This is the secret of the ‘absent healing’ of
which the Western world has heard so much of late years.
The thought of the healer sends forth and colors the
Prana of the sender, and it flashes across space and finds
lodgment in the psychic mechanism of the patient. It is
unseen, and like the Marconi waves, it passes through
intervening obstacles and seeks the person attuned to
receive it. In order to treat persons at a distance, you
must form a mental image of them until you feel your­
self to be en rapport with them. This is a psychic process
dependent upon the mental imagery of the healer.
“You can feel the sense of rapport when it is estab­
lished ; it manifests in a sense of nearness. That is about
as plain as we can describe it. It may be acquired by a
little practice, and some will get it at first trial. When
rapport is established, say mentally to the distant patient:
‘I am sending you a supply of vital force or power, which
will invigorate and heal you.’ Then picture the Prana as
leaving your mind with each exhalation of rhythmic
breath, traveling across space instantaneously, and reach­
ing the patient and healing him. It is not necessary to
fix certain hours for treatment, although you may do so
91
if you wish. The receptive mental condition of the
patient, as he is expecting and opening himself up to
your psychic force, attunes him to receive your vibrations
whenever you may send them. If you agree upon hours,
let him place himself in a relaxed physical attitude and a
receptive mental condition. The above is the great under­
lying principle of the ‘absent treatment’ of the Western
world. You may do these things as well as the most
noted healers with a little practice. . . .
“Thoughts may be projected by following the above-
mentioned method of distant healing. Others will feel
the effort of thought so sent forth, it being remembered
always that no evil thought can ever injure another per­
son whose thoughts are good. Good thoughts are always
positive to bad ones, and bad ones always negative to
good ones. One can, however, excite the interest and
attention of another by sending him thought waves in
this way, charging the Prana with the message he wishes
to convey. If you desire another’s love and sympathy—
and you possess love and sympathy for him—you can
lond him thoughts of this kind with effect, if your own
motives are pure.
“ Never, however, attempt to influence another to his
hurt, or from impure and selfish motives, as such
thoughts only recoil upon the sender with redoubled force,
and will injure him, while the innocent party is not af­
fected. Psychic force when legitimately used is all right;
but beware of ‘black magic’ or improper or unholy uses
of it, as such attempts are like playing with a dynamo,
and the person attempting such things will surely be
punished by the result of the act itself. However, no
person of impure motives ever acquires a great degree of
effective occult power, and a pure heart and mind consti­
tute an impregnable shield against improper psychic
power. Keep yourself pure and nothing can hurt you.”
In Spiritual Healing the same law of concentrated
direction prevails with the exception that the director is
a spirit decamate; but incarnate or decarnate, the same
law governs. When the physical instrument (the spiritual
healer) knows of the methods obtaining and understands
92
how to direct the forces, he becomes more than just an
instrument; he is then a creator manifesting his own
God-given powers. Be ye therefore builders of men, not
mere marionettes to external forces—rather be intelli­
gent assistants than blind puppets. All higher spirit
forces advise thus.
In self-healing, employ the regular rhythmical breath­
ing method, being sure to note the proper pulse beat
measure. Place your hands upon the affected parts and
then use attention, imagination and will-power to visual­
ize the desired results and to direct the Prana to accom­
plish it. This will stir up the abnormal condition and the
outgoing breath will eliminate it from the system.
Another simple method with rhythmical breathing is to
visualize oneself breathing in pure, strengthening Prana
and new force, and eliminating the old, diseased condi­
tions in the outgoing breath, ever keeping in mind the
picture and suggestion of perfect health.
The same methods are employed in healing others
through so-called magnetic healing. In treating others,
place your hands on the affected parts of the body or
where the seat of trouble seems to be located. Then
through “proper rhythmical breathing” employ attention,
imagination and will-power to direct the inflow of Prana
to the affected parts. Visualize the new strength and
health conditions being manifest in your patient, suggest
perfect health and ease from pain in an effort to assist
self-healing, and at the same time visualize the old, poi
sonous forces being dissipated and eliminated through the
outgoing breath.
Every healer and student will find the above-men­
tioned methods of healing, and projecting thought, effec­
tive. However, if one is accustomed to a different method
one need not discard the old with which he is familiar,
but increase its effectiveness by the addition of new
methods. The principle of all is one and the same law—
only its operation is different—and the results obtained
are measured according to the wisdom and intensity of
the direction.
93
C H A P T E R X X
PROCESSES OF DEVELOPMENT
HERE are three processes used in spiritual develop-
ment, namely : meditation, concentration and de-
votion. Meditation is a steadying of the mind. It
is a method that varies with the temperament of the
student. One method is to create an idea concerning a
certain thing and by ratiocination build from one link
of thought to another until a chain is formed. Work up
to your highest point of reasoning until it is impossible
for you to think or imagine anything higher; then cling
tenaciously to that thought and keep the mind poised and
calm. Keep steady and quiet and see what comes. With
practice one becomes enabled to hold this mental condi­
tion for quite a long period.
Concentration is the method of steadying the mind by
concentering it upon one thought or object and holding it
there to the exclusion of everything else. Concentration
is fixed attention. Anything you pay strict attention to
is the object of concentration. Concentration should not
be a practice for an hour or so a day; it should be an
hourly habit throughout the entire working day. Keep
your attention fixed upon everything you do, and when
you have done with it, drop it. It may be difficult at first,
but with persistence one soon finds the effort rewarded by
a greater mental facility. It is even said, and has been
demonstrated, that if one concentrates upon a task, soon
he will be able to do it without thought, at the same time
doing other things which require mental alertness. It
must be remembered we all have the same mental ability.
The only apparent difference lies in the fact that some
are developed and some are not. Some are born with alert
mental faculties; others must develop them. We read of
an instance in England where a girl, very fond of knit­
ting, paid a great deal of attention to her work so as not
to make a mistake. Through the habit of fixed attention
day after day her fingers learned to do the work that
she had formerly employed her mind to supervise— and
she was free to employ her consciousness for other things.
A Japanese performer once demonstrated this power by
writing with both hands at the same time two different
sentences, and verbally answering questions. The same
thing is proven by the person who can read a strange
book while engaged in conversation, and later tell the
contents of what he has read. The book is more apt to
be remembered than the conversation because the sub­
conscious is more definitely engaged in recording it.
Another simple method of concentration is to sharpen a
lead pencil, slowly bringing it to a perfect point and then
when finished continue concentrating your mind upon it to
the exclusion of everything else. The most tedious method
of concentration—but perhaps the best—is to force your­
self to concenter your mind on something disagreeable.
You are thereby tested because it is a trait of the mind
to avoid the unattractive or monotonous. When you have
overcome this difficulty you will know that you have made
a stride.
Concentration brings the best possible results. When
the sun’s rays are focused upon an object they produce
a heat many times greater than the original direct rays
of the same heat and light. So it is with attention. Scat­
ter your thoughts and efforts and the results, if any, will
be mediocre. Focusing the attention generates a won
derful amount of energy and the results are equally
wonderful. When the mind is concentered, every action,
voluntary and involuntary, will tend to be in the direc­
tion'of the object of concentration.
In order to concentrate perfectly one must shut out
every thought, sound or object except the object of con­
centration. Body, mind and will must be coordinated. Man
is the storehouse of indomitable powers and energy if he
but learn how to draw them to the surface. Then the
greater task is to use them wisely.
One splendid method of concentration, which will be in-
95
valuable for training one to observe everything in detail,
is to take the simple pencil. Look at it carefully and in­
tently. Turn it round and round and observe it from
top to point. Think of its use, its benefits, the materials
of which it is made, how it is made. Think of every­
thing pertaining to the pencil. Do not let your mind get
away from the pencil, as though it were your only in­
terest in life. Use the same method of exercise with any
object you select. But remember that the less attractive
the object the better discipline it is for your mind. You
will be amazed at your increased ability to observe de­
tails of objects and people. People in public life will find
this development invaluable. Modern detectives of the
higher type are trained in this power to observe. It is
thus they detect the small effects that betray a criminal.
Another method of concentration is to take a book—a
tedious scientific or philosophical book—and concenter your
attention so upon it, in reading it over and over, that
everything else is completely shut out. By intently ob­
serving the second hand on a watch without becoming im­
patient, one will also develop quite a marked power of
concentration.
You may practice concentration or control of the mind,
upon everything or anything. One thing is as good as
another provided you keep your mind concentered upon it;
likewise one thing is as valueless as another if one allows
his mind to wander. Exercises have no power or virtue
in themselves only insofar as the practitioner’s mind,
will and attention are focused upon them; they are but
the tools of the mind. It is entirely a mental process,
but as the mental governs the bodily processes, the results
of the mental training will be for the betterment of the
body as well as the mind.
Although the student is left free to choose his own meth­
ods and objects of concentration, we feel a warning should
be broadcast pertaining to this subject. As the objects
of concentration are given added power and a greater in­
fluence upon the mind that is using them, it is advisable
that one use nothing but good thoughts or things upon
which to practice; for the evil or bad are, by concentra-
96
»
tion, given a greater opportunity to impress or influence
the mind, while at the same time it is more difficult for
the mind to resist or defeat the object of its own creation.
Devotion is a method of development whereby imagina­
tion rather than reasoning is used. Take the object or
person to whom you are devoted and picture them definite­
ly in your mind. Then gradually build up around them
the picture of their surroundings bit by bit until the
picture is completed. Religionists like to take a Master or
Saint to concenter their devotion upon. Christians per­
haps would choose the Master, Jesus. If so, visualize him
before you as distinctly as possible. Imagine him stand­
ing there. Then begin to piece together the events of
his life, starting from the manger, until you have a per­
fect chain of events. When you have reached his last ap­
pearance, visualize him “going up” in the sky as Luke
describes in the Book of Acts. Then when he has van­
ished into the clouds hold the mind concentered upon those
clouds to the exclusion of everything else—even the pic­
ture of Jesus. This is a simple method to develop a re­
markable control and power of mind. It strengthens the
will, and thereby it becomes a great moral protection to
the student desiring to live above the sins of the flesh.
One may take a favorite picture with an outstanding
central figure. Begin with the central attraction; then,
as an artist with his paints, begin to add the scenery
bit by bit until every detail is completed. Then by the
reverse process one should “concentrate away” the sur­
roundings and other objects until nought remains but the
central figure. Drawing your picture to a point this way
helps to steady the mind, and gradually brings the powers
of visualization and concentration under perfect control.
Thus the vagrant mind is made steady.
But the time will come when you must drop even the
central figure and keep your mind steady and poised with
nothing objective to hold it. Let everything of an objec­
tive nature fall from your mind’s eye until you are poised
in symbolic ethers. By keeping your mind on the highest
point of nothingness your true self will begin to manifest,
and the mind will become vigorous and alert.
97
After holding this position for a while—if possible with
out outside interference— suddenly there will come a
change— a change so distinct as to be incredible, unmis­
takable. The voice of the Silence, and the form of the
Formless shall reveal themselves to you. A great ball
of fire will soon begin to unfold before you and reveal
your own spirit on the threshold of eternity, or the fourth
dimension. Music, sights and sounds such as never have
been revealed to your physical eye or ear shall delight
your spirit in that Silence. But let him who has ears to
hear, hear the warning: when one has really arrived at
this superb manifestation of his spiritual powers, he does
not talk about it to a living soul except to his highest
teachers. They will make inquiry of the student. They
are seers and easily discern the inner workings of the
Chela’s (student’s) mind. They first approach the stu­
dent who is prepared to enter the path.
Along the lines suggested the student will find it not
difficult to bring the mind under perfect control. He will
be benefited thereby in all his mundane activities, because
the erstwhile vagrant mind has been disciplined to serve
the spirit instead of flying from one thought to another
without power or purpose. Thus in time the student
reaches illumination—but not to any mortal does he be­
tray the glory of his experience. As Jesus taught:
“ Throw not your pearls before swine,” so the student—
when he has reached this stage of development—learns
that the phases of higher spiritual experience are indeed
as pearls, and that the common world, like swine, knows
not the value thereof.
Expose not spiritual things to the mockery of the igno­
rant. That your vanity impels you to betray the “ Secret
of the Silence” is proof that you have not attained the
heights to which your inner soul aspires. The greatest
test given a student is the test of revealing his experi­
ences, when the law of occultism inspires us to keep them
hidden within the secret recesses of the soul. When one
fails in this test, he must again make spiritual prepara­
tion to enter the Holy of Holies. Time will come with
98
illumination; he will be filled with reverent awe of what
has been revealed unto him, and will guard it like a price­
less jewel within his bosom.
Before closing this chapter we should like to impress
our students that this Silence is not the emptiness of an
imminent sleep; it is the emptiness of alert expectation
in which all the mental faculties are focused in attention.
The student must keep his mind alert and attentive. Mere
emptiness of mind is dangerous. It is the open door that
invites a discarnate entity. You can wisely attempt an
emptiness of mind only when you have your mind severely
disciplined to obey the command of the will, and this is
only possible when you have learned to hold the mind for
a considerable time to a single point, to the exclusion of
all sounds and objects, and yet remain alert and expec­
tant.
99
C H A P T E R X X I
HINDRANCES TO CONCENTRATION
HERE are many hindrances which arise to perplex
and annoy the student in search of spiritual unfold
ment, but the most harassing of these are related
below. Though seemingly insignificant to the beginner,
he soon will become convinced that they arise with amaz­
ing regularity to disturb spiritual progress. When one
has sincerely settled upon a path of spiritual unfoldment
these obstacles become persistent in their effort to dis­
tract attention and really prove quite annoying. Each
time they are overcome they become less effective in their
power to disturb one, and in time lose their influence alto­
gether as the will to resist them becomes more powerful.
These disturbances are nerve sensations arising from
different parts of the body, such as an itching or twitch­
ing of the muscles and skin. Sometimes these sensations
become so irritating they completely distract the attention,
but by a positive application of the will they soon become
le«s crrective. Actors and public speakers have been forced
control these disturbances of sensation.
These nerve sensations are quite different from sensa­
tions of the senses. At first strange odors, unusual sounds,
flickering disturbances of the eyes, cool drafts and waves
of heat, and unaccountable tastes force themselves upon
the senoria, but one may learn to inhibit them by prac­
tice and determination. One shuts them out with little
effort when deeply interested in something objective; the
same will may be enforced in concentration or meditation.
External thought^ivaves also persist in gaining entrance
when the student is engaged in meditation, for at that
time he is unusually receptive. These thought, or mental,
currents often come from great distances, and many of
them are directed by discarnate entities—for by this
period of our study the student has become exceptionally
sensitive if he has followed instructions closely. The more
100
developed the spiritual faculties become, the more easily
external thought-waves intrude themselves upon the mind
until the student has learned to inhibit them as he does
through his ordinary activities. One does not notice the
ticking of the clock during the daytime hours when occu­
pied, but the stillness of night seems to increase the
sound and force attention. The same illustration may be
given of perfume or other odors of a delicate or pungent
nature. When the mind is engaged in other things, unless
it is something conspicuously unusual, it is seldom noticed
until the senses are quiescent. This is true in meditation
or concentration. However, they may easily be inhibited
by forced attention of the will.
Under this same category comes thought-analysis, which
is simply analyzing one’s thoughts or “thinking about
thoughts.” This is one of the most subtle intruders, but
once the student is informed of its nature it is not diffi­
cult to overcome, though at times it may be most per­
sistent. How many have felt themselves entirely quieted
and deep in concentration, and suddenly thought, “ Now,
I am beginning to learn how,” “ I wonder if this is the
right way?” and other evidence that one is not concen­
trating, but analyzing the subject of concentration. Every
student has experienced the amusing situation of finding
himself thinking about his thought of the object of con­
centration instead of the object itself. The best way to
overcome this difficulty is to will the subconscious to keep
everything out of the mind but the subject of concentra­
tion. This method will prove very efficacious, because the
subconscious mind is largely responsible for the influx of
thoughts.
This is especially true of intruding memories. It is
strange how it seems impossible to recall certain episodes
of the remote past when they are needed, yet when they
are not wanted they become as vivid and insistent as
though but just experienced. The quiet of mind arrived at
in meditation or concentration is conducive to these re­
ports of memory and other mental images, including day
dreams and reveries. But a subconscious determination
to keep them out will not prove ineffective if practiced
101
.
with positive determination. All these experiences, though
seeming to be temporary hindrances, are really the means
of strengthening the attention and will.
Do not attempt to overdo either concentration or medi­
tation. Use discretion, especially at the beginning. Pa­
tience, too, will be a valuable attribute. Learn to proceed
slowly. One must also learn to overcome the inclination
to drowsiness or semi-consciousness. This occurs when the
attention becomes tired or disinterested as a result of
“just sitting” without object, as so often occurs, instead
of definite concentration or meditation. This the student
must learn to distinguish, for it is so easy—such a subtle
change—to slip from meditation into cessation of thought
through drowsiness.
The greatest reminder of the teacher to his student is
the lesson of patience. It is because so many try to obtain
spiritual illumination by unnatural methods or violent
practices that the Yoga methods of spiritual unfoldment
have gained so much disfavor and created so much preju­
dice. Any system of unfoldment must be practiced sanely
and in accordance with reason. One cannot force super­
normal powers unnaturally without suffering dire conse­
quences. As one teacher expressed it, “One can only be
normal to the limits of normality, and becomes super­
normal beyond and above those limits.” It is impossible
for one to be abnormal in the field of normality. Super­
powers are always based upon the firm foundation of
natural growth. Abnormality leads to weird mental com­
plexes, and often to insanity. A thing cannot be normal
unless it is natural, therefore it is impossible for a thing
to be supernormal when the senses are raised to the
extent of including it in the realm of normalcy. This is
our task, to gain control of the higher powers which are
dormant in the majority of persons. The historical mira­
cles of great masters are not myths, but are true demon­
strations of their unleashed powers. All have them, but
few admit their possession; because of their dormancy
they do not recognize them. Through control or mastery
of the subtle mind forces all things may be accomplished.
Greater things than have ever been accomplished by elec-
102
tricity can be accomplished by the proper control of
attention and the direction of the will, which is control
of the mind. To master is man’s destiny. The masses
question the purpose of their existence, not realizing they
are destined to become masters over all things. How few
attain!
As we have stated previously in these lessons, the
“mind” is a lake of Chitta, with its ripples and surface
disturbances. To calm these and make them placid
and motionless is the greatest task set for a student on
the Path. The “silent Silence” must be gained before one
can become a pliable instrument for the use of the “higher
teachers.”
It is said, “ The wise, when their thoughts cease
to move, perceive within themselves the absolute con­
sciousness or the witness of all things.” In this state
the ordinary methods of induction and deduction are in­
conceivable. In tune with the Infinite the student becomes
Godlike in consciousness and cannot be held to have the
necessity of thinking or reasoning about anything by
logical processes while in this supreme state of mind; it
is a state of “knowing.”
To arrive at this highest stage of consciousness “ ab­
stract meditation” is the method. First think about God.
Try to comprehend His nature and employment of Being.
This first is a process of logical reasoning. Having ar­
rived at a conclusion thereof, and having formed a definite
judgment, simply let go the reasoning processes and hold
to the abstract idea of God, holding the mind in conscious­
ness of His Presence; inhaling His Being like the subtle
essence of a rare perfume into your soul. Apprehend
Him as an Infinity of Space permeating all things; like
an Infinity of Ethers— each a part of the other, inter­
blending imperceptibly together in cosmic manifestation.
Holding to this thought you enter Dhyana, the highest
form of consciousness. It is the highest state of existence.
It is the only real state of happiness and contentment,
for so long as we cling to “desire” of physical things and
depend on them for happiness, so long shall we fail to
possess it.
103
When man lives in the animal plane he is dependent
upon the senses, the passions, for his happiness. When he
unfolds his “free-will consciousness” he is dependent on
his intellect for his happiness; but when he has unfolded
his higher spiritual faculties, nothing less than conscious­
ness of God, the Infinite, will give him Peace and Happi­
ness. Small wonder that the Mystics spend so much time
in meditation. It is the only surcease from worldly strife.
But the duties of this life must not be lost sight of, lest
the experiences of this plane be in vain. Let man do the
work of man, but let his soul attain to the spiritually con­
templative state which will open up a new and beautiful
world to him. From this world he will receive strength
and power to manifest over the elements of matter. He
will become a superbly poised being in a world of con­
fusion. He will become master of circumstances. It is
said, and rightly: “ Circumstances make not a man fail,
but they show what is in a man.” So spiritual unfold-
ment shows “ what is in a man,” and helps him to bring
it out. It helps one to be “ in the world, but not of the
world,” while at the same time joyously fulfilling the
duties and obligations of the world. Chaos and strife,
tears and passion fail to make their impress upon the
mind, for in a state of God-consciousness the necessity of
induction and deduction is absent and knowledge super­
sedes “thinking.” Things are. That is all—the collective
manifestation of individual attainment.
This consciousness is the aim of the real student. For
the world-old knowledge of its attainment the Occident
has been forced to look to the East, where, though the
practices have been grossly misunderstood and more
grossly abused, the Mystics still have retained the secret
key to the Inner Teachings. Of these we shall write in
our next lesson.
May the Peace of the Infinite animate and quicken the
“consciousness” of every particle of your being. May the
eternal Light of Wisdom direct your thoughts and activi­
ties. May Love impel your desires; and Silence your soul.
May your spirit be filled with Spirit until you become “in
tune with the Infinite” and KNOW, I AM GOD!
104
C H A P T E R X X II
CONTROLLING THE MIND
HE primary difference between the teachings of
the East and those of the West is marked. The East
seeks realization of universal consciousness, the at­
tainment of which soon supplants the individual self and
its quest of material satisfaction—these become mere
shadows compared with the glories revealed in this “higher
consciousness.”
The West, in contradistinction, seeks exaltation of the
individual consciousness. It seeks to enrich the mind and
quicken the perception, memory, individual ambitions,
fears, loves and hopes—in short, the aggrandizement of
the individual self in all its forms and phases. Most
Westerners dispute the reality of a universal conscious­
ness.
The individual, or self, consciousness is especially re­
lated to the body, consequently it is in a perpetual state
of unrest, fraught with pain and effort. It manifests
through the physical senses. It sees, hears, feels, smells
and tastes through the perception of the five senses in a
three-dimensional plane. Its chief existence is thought—
chains of thought. Existence in the “universal conscious­
ness” is a state of “knowing” without thinking. As stated
before, induction and deduction are absent; reasoning pro­
cesses are extraneous—things are! That is all. Many
have brief instances of “universal consciousness.” With­
out experience, without reasoning, without ordinary men­
tal processes, they arrive at definite and correct con­
clusions—.“I don’t know how I know; I just know it, that
is all.” A familiar phrase for this transcendent intui­
tionalism.
One of the chief difficulties of the Western world is that
its people are thinking themselves to death, without
extraordinary accomplishment. True, great things are done
Thought Suppression
105
as the result of great mind-processes; but the greatest
discoveries are usually the result of “sudden inspiration”
—though this supreme moment may have been preceded
by days and months of research which eventually proved
of no value to the sum total. After hectic mental efforts,
after brain-rackings matched only by the most fanatical
asceticism, the great problem is finally solved in a moment
of complete mental relaxation.
This knowledge or realization has yet to become the
possession of the masses, because they have not realized
the great lesson—suppression of thought—so that the
“universal conciousness” can manifest. It is not unlikely
that within a decade this wisdom will be more thoroughly
appreciated by the practical Western minds, and will have
a far-reaching influence in gaining dominance over the
tumult of thought without objective, which is sweeping
thousands into mental vacuity, and sending the physical
“shells” to psychopathic institutions and sanitariums.
While the ideal of life in the West is an insanely active
brain, in direct contrast the ideal of the East is the efface­
ment of objective purposes. Effacement of thought by
mandate of the will, and the ability to enter into the di­
vine consciousness, is the desire of all classes in the East
—people of culture, learning, and accomplishment, as well
as those of the illiterate castes. Subjection of thought is
the key to subjection of desire. Desires are “nonentities”
in the absence of thought. Fear, hatred, greed, love, pas­
sion—all are the result of thought. None are real except
thinking makes them so. Irritation is set up on certain
nerve tracts, the mind registers them and creates a
thought. The thought in turn—if emphasized—excites
the vicinity of irritation and various emotional states re­
sult, according to the location of the irritant. Whereas,
in the East, where and when these teachings are really
lived-—and among certain persons of this Western hemi­
sphere— when the mind registers these desires, or “irrita­
tions,” the will is immediately brought into play, and acts
as a “damper to the threatening fire.” Thus, the mind
becomes master, and not the body.
If there are desert sands to be crossed, the spirit wan-
106
dering in the desert of mortal existence—with its tem­
peratures of suspicion and intrigue, jealousy and envy,
greed and desire—is crossing them. Only the strong souls
survive the trials of the Path with a vestige of happiness.
Allowed to rule, the body would dig its own grave with its
teeth and cremate itself in the “ fires of desire.” Control
by the mind through dominance of the will is the only
solution. Only by mastering self will man find happiness
here. Only by realization of our at-one-ment with the
Universal Powers shall we gain the calm and poise which
make the Eastern Mystics serene amid external confusion.
The most simple and positive method for control of the
mind—to prevent its wandering absently and confusedly,
to resist division and distraction, to combat attacks of
brigand cares and anxieties—giving it a great capacity
for work when the task is set, is control over the thoughts
by undivided concentration upon the task in hand. Keep
your mind unreservedly concentrated upon whatever you
are doing—whether it be the simple task of washing
dishes or building a radio: keep your mind on that one
thing to the exclusion of everything else. To be able to
concentrate wholly and unreservedly on whatever you are
doing is a distinct step toward self-mastery and the at­
tainment of “supernormal” powers.
These practices have a definite spiritual significance—
though this instruction may appear veiled, it is thus given
to keep “children from playing with fire.” If not sin­
cerely inspired by desire for a more spiritual realization,
the student will have lost interest long ago. If urged by
the “ spirit-within,” a hidden meaning will reveal itself
and enthrall the reader. Occult teachings are never inter­
preted in a literal sense, for if carried out merely as a
formula they would partake of a self-mesmeric character,
and eventually produce mesmeric states of consciousness.
The object is, or should be, to contact the presence of the
cosmic consciousness, the “ All-knowing,” wherein lies all
knowledge. This constitutes the object of the Mystic.
But in learning the effacement of thought—the most
difficult process—the student may be seated in one of the
postures heretofore mentioned, or in a straight-back
107
. f i l l I 1 U ^ — — —
chair with spine erect, touching nothing, so that no pres­
sure may lead to distraction of purpose. See that you
are first perfectly motionless, and in a calm and quiet
condition, free from possible disturbances. Do not mis­
take an attitude of ease or slumber, but keep the muscles
tense in an attitude of forceful composure, using the will­
power with the greatest vigilance. The instant a thought
appears on the surface of the “ mental lake,” sink it.
Though the enemy of interference—the sense perceptions
—is subtle and persistent in its effort to distract you and
create doubt and failure; though the period to acquire
mastership be long, success is inevitable if one is per­
sistent and faithful. It is worth while! Oh beloved stu­
dents, trust these simple instructions and follow them—
they will unfold in you powers which will bring you great
gifts and happiness.
Time and again you will be tempted to give up. Time
and again the subtle influence of sleep will attempt to
steal over you, deceiving you into the belief that you are
approaching the sublime state; but if thought merely gives
way to sleep, nought is gained. With months, or perhaps
years, of intermittent practice this power of control will
grow, bringing distinct physiological changes. Remember,
the key to all—to life, to happiness eternal—is the con­
trol of our thoughts. Our thoughts make for us a happi­
ness or hell. Our only hope, our only peace, comes by way
of our thought processes. Riches or poverty, sickness or
health, are only the means to happiness or unhappiness as
our thinking makes it so. In the same household may be
found two or more persons, with the same environment,
the same health, the same comforts, the same opportuni­
ties, but each existing in different states of happiness and
contentment. Few know the power of thought. Like the
knights of old seeking the Holy Grail, so many search for
the chalice of happiness, only to find in the end that it is
an unsuspected inner possession.
After these profound realizations and the wisdom that
comes with attainment, the student will one day find that
thought has gone and apparently he is left in an ocean of
oblivion; the veil lifts and there streams through his
108
consciousness a vast and illuminating vision of incom­
parable glories. Divine knowledge sweeps over him and
he knows “ I Am that I Am!” It is Samadhi to the East;
Heaven to the West. Death brings it not, for spirits dwell
in different stages of existence—heavens, hells and inter­
mediary planes—as their thinking makes it so. The great­
est key to all attainments— spiritual and material—was
given to mankind in the three words, “ Thoughts are
things,” with the final admonition, “ Know thyself!”
Be reminded that all benefits of life are derived from
our thinking. Mastery of self and the elements can only
be obtained through control of our mind and its processes
through dominance of the will. Do not believe yourself
ready for further instruction until you have mastered
thought—until you have further learned complete efface­
ment of thought, and have experienced the illumination
which accompanies “existence without thought,” objective
oblivion and spiritual realization. These will lead you
through the phases of mediumship; they will lead you
beyond ordinary clairvoyance, clairsentience, clairaudience,
and ectoplasmic and telekinetic phenomena. They will
lead to seership; to the Mysticism that is conscious of all
and master of all.
Jesus, and other Masters, walked on the waters; raised
the dead; quickened the living; turned water into wine;
fed a multitude by materializing bread and fishes; prophe­
sied; and rent the veil of the past through control of
their “forces.” Jesus said: “Greater things than these
shall ye do, for I go unto my Father.” It is so written.
He said: “ It is the Father within me that doeth the works.”
He also said: “ I am in the Father and the Father is in
me, even as I am in you and you are in me.” Jesus spent
the years between twelve and thirty studying with the
Masters of the Far East, in Thibet, and later in Egypt.
Tablets and papyri have proven this. In an ancient
Biblical prophecy it is written: “ Out of Egypt I will call
my son.” And the consciousness of the “Christ” within
us promises: “ Out of darkness I will call my own.”
Faithful study and strict adherence to the instruction
and philosophy of this book will lead the way.
109
C H A P T E R XXm
PHENOMENAL AND NOUMENAL ASPECTS
HE naive minds of the masses of people know only
the phenomenal aspect of the external world around
them. They take it for granted that we perceive and
know objective things and forms as they really are. This
is erroneous. The only fact we can possibly know con­
cerning anything is merely the aggregate of our sensa-
We do not see anything directly; we merely see the
stimulated nerve substance of our eyes, arising from the
stimulating effect of the light-rays that impinge upon the
nerve substance of our optical organism. According to the
same principle do we hear, hearing being the result of
a stimulation of certain nerves caused by vibration of air
reaching the ear. All that we know of the outside world
are the reactions, or sensations, reaching us by such nerve
stimuli. A common illustration of this subject is to liken
ourselves to a man locked up in a dark room, dependent
for his knowledge of the outside world on telegraphic
communications by means of wires. All he would know
of that outside world would be the information conveyed
by those wires. So is our “spirit” locked in the dark room
of human embodiment, depending entirely for its infor­
mation of the outside world on the communication of the
sense reports. So is our knowledge dependent on the qual­
ity of our sense perceptions, or receiving stations. This
is a staggering thought, but there is a universal agree­
ment on the matter among physiologists, psychologists
and philosophers, who confirm the statement.
All sense perceptions are dependent on the stimuli
to the nerve substance of the sense organs. Let all the
sensory nerves recording sight, hearing, feeling, tasting
or smelling be destroyed, severed or paralyzed, and the re­
sult would be the impossibility of knowledge through the
tions.
110
nerve channels of that person; hence no knowledge of
the outside world. Therefore our sensory nerves gov­
ern all that we know of the outside world. We do not
know the outside world directly; we only know the re­
port, or registration, of it made by our sensory nerves,
which set up purely mental images or pictures of that
world. Thereby, that world becomes to us what our pic-
turization of it is; a picture made up of the forms of our
sensations. In this light we begin to understand why oc­
cultists declare that the only direct and immediate knowl­
edge of the world we possess is the duplicate, “counter­
feit” or “imitation” which is represented in our minds.
Our truest knowledge of the outside world comes to
us through our intuitive faculties. This immediate world
in which we manifest is the phenomenal, or sensational,
world. That world which lies beyond our direct and im­
mediate knowing is the noumenal world, to which we
seek entrance through the development of psychic and me-
diumistic faculties.
Notwithstanding these facts it is most difficult to shake
the ordinary person’s belief in his own conceptions of
reality and self-importance. His process of thought begins
with the “I,” the ego, and ends with the “ I,” the ego.
We are positively certain that it is the “ I” which is
writing or reading. Not until we begin to reach beyond
the possibility of self and ask, “what else?” do we begin
to experience uncertainties. Hume, the philosopher, wrote:
“ Reality consists in impressions and ideas.”
On this subject, Evelyn Underhill, a brilliant writer
on modern science and philosophy, wrote: “ It is imme­
diately apparent, however, that this sense-world, this
seemingly external universe—though it may be useful and
valid in other respects—cannot be the external world, but
only the self’s projected picture of it. It is a work of art,
not a scientific fact; and whilst it may well possess the
profound significance proper to all great works of art, it
is dangerous if treated as a subject of analysis. Very
slight investigation will be enough to suggest that it is
a picture whose relation to reality is at best symbolic and
111
approximate, and which would have no meaning for selves
whose senses, or channels of communication, happened to
be arranged upon a different plan. The evidence of the
senses, then, cannot safely be accepted as evidence of the
nature of ultimate reality; useful servants, they are dan­
gerous guides. Nor can their testimony disconcert those
seekers whose reports they appear to contradict.
“ The sphere of our possible intellectual knowledge is
thus strictly conditioned by the limits of our own per­
sonality. On this basis, not ‘the ends of the earth,’ but
the ends of our own sensory nerves, are the termini of
our explorations. We are locked up with our receiving in­
struments; we cannot get up and walk away in the hope
of seeing whither the lines lead. Eckhart’s words are
still final to us: ‘The soul can only approach created
things by the voluntary reception of our senses.’ Did
some mischievous Demiurge choose to tickle our sensory
apparatus in a new way, we should receive by this act
a new universe.
“You are not asked, as a result of these antique and
elementary propositions, to wipe clean the slate of nor­
mal human experience, and cast in your lot with intellec­
tual nihilism. You are only asked to acknowledge that it
is but a slate, and that the white scratches upon it,
which the ordinary man calls ‘facts,’ and the scientific
realist calls ‘knowledge,’ are at best relative and con­
ventionalized symbols of that aspect of the unknowable
reality at which they hint. This being so, whilst we must
all draw a picture of some kind on our slate and act in re­
lation therewith, we cannot deny the validity—though we
may deny the usefulness—of the pictures which others
draw, however impossible they may seem, since these
are sketching an aspect of reality which has not come
within our sensory field, and so does not and cannot form
part of our world.”
All competent authorities have now accepted the fact
that all we know of the nature of external things is
comprised of the mental states arising from experience
of such things, reported by the senses and translated into
112
terms of mental experience. Instead of really knowing
external things, we only know our ideas about them and
these are derivatives of sensations. Therefore, form, col­
or, hardness or softness, heat or cold, are not essential,
or inherent, facts of the external objects themselves, but
are just the effects registered as facts in our own men­
tality. Such knowledge is the phenomenal aspect of a
thing. Spiritual development concerns only the noumenal,
or inner, meaning of a thing. It is not concerned with
form so much as the “meaning.” The phenomenal is the
thing as it appears. The noumenal is the thing as it
really is. The noumenal aspect of a thing is the very
essence of a thing, and is not dependent on sense per­
ception for the communication or registration of knowl­
edge. Thus our only true and direct knowledge must es­
sentially come from the noumenal, which is independent
of sensory nerves. It is the aspect of knowing without
reasoning, and is free from the limitations and imper­
fections of sense-knowledge.
It is this method of “knowing” that the mystic seeks
to develop, so that he may not be hampered by the un­
truthfulness of sense perceptions and will be capable of
knowing a thing in itself, absolutely and perfectly, with­
out limitation. It is in the noumenal that we transcend
the sphere of limitations and perceive as “ All-seeing and
All-knowing.”
Some philosophical doctrines contend that all material
objects are only ideas of some mind; that no reality is
independent of consciousness. Berkeley’s school of phi­
losophy held that each soul or spirit has a world of its
own ideas; of these ideas some constitute a “world of
reality” and others a “world of imagination” to it. Berke­
ley held that “ God, the Supreme Spirit, has a special,
separate and distinct set of ideas, and the world of ideas
is the real world for other spirits only in the sense that
it is the prototype of the real ideas in finite spirits—God
causing the finite spirits to have some ideas which corres­
pond in the way of likeness to the contents of His own
mind.”
113
The post-Kantian Idealists held that the world is con­
tained as an idea, or ideas, in the conscious experience of
an all-inclusive Spirit—the Absolute God, Infinite Intel­
ligence— of which all finite spirits are a part. The con­
scious experience of Infinite Intelligence, so far as it
transcends finite experience or consciousness, is the ob­
jective world of these finite spirits.
C H A P T E R X X IV
MYSTIC CONTEMPLATION
I
N THE philosophy of Mysticism it is held that there is
a Spiritual Principle of the universe which is the
life-giving, will-creating, consciousness-producing ele­
ment. It is the Cause of all things. It is Pure Spirit—the
very Essence of life and intelligence. Although it is held
to be one, indivisible, non-atomic, it is said to be com­
posed of an infinity of atomic “souls” or “ spirit atoms.”
This is called Purusha by Orientalists, but in the later
cults is designated as “ Spirit.”
There is also—as announced in an early lesson of this
course—what is termed the material substance, which is
called Prakriti. In its original form it is undifferentiated,
simple, and without the qualities of its manifested and
derivative forms, which is popularly called Matter. Prak­
riti is finer and more subtle than the finest known vapor
or gas, and is even more tenuous than the universal ether
postulated by modern scientists.
When caught in the mesh of “attraction” that prevails
throughout the universe, Purusha becomes entangled
with Prakriti, and thereupon becomes involved in the
folds of what is known as material substance. Here it is
that the Spiritual Principle, or Purusha, loses its orig­
inal freedom, like a fly that has become enmeshed in
honey. Not only the physical form of all things, but also
the evolution of the mind itself, are created and main­
tained by this “cosmic union.”
The action of Purusha—or Pure Spirit—upon Prakriti
gives rise to what is known as the Mind-stuff Principle,
or the Universal Intelligence. In this Universal Intelli­
gence all material forms are held as ideas or mental
images—just as all our ideas of material things are de­
rived from sensations materialized in our own conscious­
ness.
115
In terms of cosmic evolution, the “ infinite world of
ideas” is called the Macrocosm, while the finite world of
ideas is the Microcosm. The thing “as it is” is the
noumenal aspect, or noumenon, of everything. The im­
perfect and distorted sense-perception constitutes the phe­
nomenon which exists in the individual’s finite world of
ideas, and which he mistakes for the true idea of the
thing itself. The thing as it really is exists only in the
Universal Mind; the thing as it appears to be exists in
the finite, or individual, mind. Thus are explained the
continual changes and evolving world of finite ideas.
Because of this man is ever a creature of restlessness and
change—it is the law that governs the material world.
It is the urge that makes mankind aspire toward some­
thing higher and finer—the consciousness that quickens
him to a realization of a world of freedom from those
illusions which haunt him in the mundane sphere.
It is the aspiration to overcome the ordinary sense-
consciousness and to rise into the world of reality through
super-consciousness—to cognize and know immediately
and directly the noumenon, or the thing in itself that
inspires “concentrated meditation.” In this high plane of
consciousness the apparent form or appearance gives
way to knowledge. Because the person manifesting only
in the world of sense-perception has no possible means of
spiritual perception concerning the experiences of this
super-world, those who possess this mystic faculty are
often thought to be eccentric, if not insane. The experi­
ence is beyond sense-perception and the terms of sense-
perception are inadequate to express it. When it is re­
membered that all the knowledge we have comes to us by
comparison with previously acquired knowledge, and is
so analyzed and catalogued in the archives of memory,
it is not strange that those who have arrived at the
consciousness of Noumenal Reality should be so pitifully
misunderstood.
It is beyond the scope of ordinary terms of speech to
express the noumenal experience. And there is no ob­
jective set of rules by which such experience may be at-
116
tamed—it is a spiritual development that requires time
and the sincerest patience. That is the object of this
whole course—to stimulate patience and persistence, and
to instruct the Chela, or student, in “the way.” Many
have dropped “by the side of the road” because this
course was a lengthy and methodical one—-but they were
not seriously interested in the higher development. Things
eternal are not created in a single day, a single month
or year—they are a process of steady growth, and time is
the requisite. There is one thing which will be a constant
source of provocation to the student—the interference of
sense reports. In developing the higher faculties with the
idea of arriving at the inner meaning, or the noumenal
reality, the student must not lose sight of the object in
view, and must refuse to identify it with the ordinary
sense reports concerning the thing. He must refuse to
yield to the temptation to heed the report of the senses
concerning the object of his mystic meditation. He must
ever keep in mind the ancient aphorism: “ It is, in es­
sence, without outward attributes; formless, devoid of
outward distinctions. It is not gross and not subtle, not
short and not long, not hard and not soft, not colored
and not colorless, not large and not small. It is not to be
touched, not to be seen, not to be tasted, not to be smelled,
not to be heard. It is ‘not such, and not so.’ It has no
form, and no representation of form can express its es­
sence and real nature. It is different from that which we
know by sensation. Words and thought based on sense-ex­
perience turn back from it without finding it. To the senses
it is non-existent; and from its own viewpoint all sense-
experience is non-existent.”
Concentration, meditation and contemplation, in time,
cause it to evolve and manifest. When it finally comes,
there is a peculiar “click” of the mind, a sudden change
in one’s whole mental world. The old sense ideas vanish
and are replaced by the super-sense ideas. At first this
superb consciousness may be momentary—it may appear
for a flashing instant, only to disappear again. But it will
return if one continues to meditate and follow instructions.
117
Each time it appears it will remain longer, and the mind
will become stronger and more accurate in its perception-
ing. It will have a new power of insight—-a knowledge of
things as they really are. Once experienced, it will never
be forgotten.
But do not attempt to force the “bud” open. In nothing
is the old proverb more to be remembered than in spiritual
and psychical development—“Make haste slowly.” Let
this supreme faculty unfold gradually—this is the only
sure way.
After having attained the higher consciousness, the next
step is to learn to control it. Students of occultism—in
all its different phases—seek the attainment of this con­
sciousness, though calling it by different names: Spiritual
Consciousness, Cosmic Consciousness, and Mystic Con­
sciousness.
As to this supreme state of “knowing” many have ques­
tioned its reality—some extremists have even called it a
lower state of consciousness than the normal. Concerning
this attitude, Vivekananda wrote: “ How do we know that
a man in Samadhi (Mystic Contemplation) has not gone
below his consciousness, has not degenerated, instead of
going higher? In both cases the works are unaccom­
panied by egoism. The answer is, by the effects, by the
results of the work, we know that which is below, and that
which is above. When a man enters into a plane below
consciousness he is unconscious, and when he returns to
consciousness he is the same man. The sum-total of the
knowledge he had before he went into unconsciousness
remains the same; it has not increased at all. No enlight­
enment has come. But when a man goes into Samadhi
(the Supreme Consciousness), if he goes in a fool, he
comes out a sage. What makes this difference? There
are two effects; now the effects being different, the causes
must be different. As this illumination, with which a man
comes back from Samadhi, is much higher than he got
from consciousness, or much higher than he got from
reasoning in a conscious state, it must be super-conscious­
ness; and Samadhi is called the super-conscious state.”
118
• i
This perfect state of consciousness transcends reason
and brings one face to face with facts which no amount
of reasoning can ever know. It is the highest state of
consciousness that can be attained by a human being. It
is the state which achieves Masterhood—which differen­
tiates from the common mortal such souls as Jesus,
Buddha, Confucius, Krishna, Hermes and others to whom
the world looks with reverence and awe. In this state of
profound contemplation, the soul becomes enlightened, the
being divine.
Concerning his experience in Samadhi, Emerson wrote
in the following celebrated lines: “Words from a man who
speaks from that life must sound vain to those who do not
dwell in the same thought on their own part. I dare not
speak for it; my words do not carry its august sense; they
fall short and cold. Only itself can inspire whom it will,
and behold! their speech shall be lyrical and sweet, and
universal as the rising of the winds. Yet I desire, even
by profane words, if sacred I may not use, to indicate the
heaven of this deity, and to report what hints I have
collected of the transcendent simplicity and energy of the
Highest Law.”
119
C H A P T E R X X V
A SCIENTIFIC ANALOGY OF KUNDALINI
"JOTED often is the masterly and scientific expla-
nation by Prof. P. Mukhyopadhyaya. As he is an
accepted authority in this field, it is hoped his ex­
planation may help to enlighten the reader.
“ Cosmic energy in its physical aspect may be consid­
ered either as static or as dynamic, the former being a
condition of equilibrium—the latter a condition of motion
or change of relative position. Thus, a material thing
apparently at rest—there being no absolute rest except
in the pure Consciousness or ‘Chit’ (Spirit)—should be re­
garded as energy or ‘Shakti’ (Force) equilibrated, the va­
rious elements of it holding one another in check—or, as
the mathematicians will say, the algebraic sum of the
forces being zero. Of course, in any given case the equi­
librium is relative rather than absolute. The important
thing to note is the polarization of ‘Shakti’ into two
forms—static and dynamic.
“ In the tissues of the living body, again, the operative
energy—whatever the nature of that may be, whether
we believe in special ‘vital force’ or not—polarizes itself
into two similar forms—anabolic and katabolic— one tend­
ing to change and the other to conserve the tissues; the
actual condition of the tissues being simply the resultant
of these two coexistent or concurrent activities.
“ In the mind or experience also this polarization or po­
larity is patent to reflection. . . . This analysis therefore ex­
hibits the primordial ‘Shakti’ in the same two polar
forms as before—static and dynamic—and here the polar­
ity is most fundamental and approaches absoluteness.
“Lastly, let us consider for one moment the atom of
modern science. The chemical atom has ceased to be an
atom (indivisible unit of matter). We have instead the
electron theory. According to this, the so-called atom is
120
a miniature universe very much like our own solar sys­
tem. At the center of this atomic system we have a
charge of positive electricity round which a cloud of
negative charges (called electrons) is supposed to revolve,
just as millions of planets and smaller bodies revolve
around the sun. The positive and negative charges hold
each other in check, so that the atom is a condition of
equilibrated energy, and does not therefore ordinarily
break up; though it may possibly break up and set free
its equilibrated store of energy, as probably it does in
the emanations of radium. What do we notice here? The
same polarity of ‘Shakti’ into a static and dynamic part­
ner, viz., the positive charge at rest at the center, and
the negative charges in motion about the center. This is
a most suggestive analogy or illustration, perhaps, of a
cosmic fact. The illustration may be carried into other
domains of science and philosophy... .For the present we
may, I think, draw this important conclusion:
“ ‘Shakti,’ as manifesting itself in the universe, di­
vides itself into two polar aspects—static and dynamic—
which implies that you cannot have a dynamic form with­
out at the same time having it in a corresponding static
form, much like the poles of a magnet. In any sphere
of activity of force we must have, according to this
cosmic principle, a static background—‘Shakti’ at rest or
‘coiled,’ as the Tantras say.”
This splendidly illustrates the principle of Kundalini
which is “cosmic force” at rest or “coiled” at the Mu-
ladhara in the human being.
“This cosmic Shakti is the Samashti (collectivity) in
relation to which the Kundalini in the bodies is only the
Vyashi (individual); it is an illustration, a reproduction
on a miniature scale, a microcosmic plan of the
whole. The law or principle of the whole — that
of the maeroccsmie Shakti — should therefore be
found in the Kundalini. That law we have seen to
be the law of polarization into static-dynamic or po­
tential-kinetic aspects. In the living body, therefore,
there must be such polarization. Now, the Kundalini
coiled three and a half times at the Muladhara is the
121
indispensable and unfailing static background of the dy­
namic Shakti (force) operative in the whole body, carry­
ing on processes and working out changes. The body,
therefore, may be compared to a magnet with two poles.
The Muladhara is the static pole in relation to the rest
of the body, which is dynamic; the working the body
necessarily presupposes and finds such a static support,
hence the name Muladhara, the fundamental support. In
one sense, the static ‘Shakti’ at the Muladhara is nec­
essarily coexistent with the creative and evolving ‘Shakti’
of the body, because the dynamic aspect or pole can never
be without its static counterpart. In another sense, it is
the ‘Shakti’ left over___ after the Prithi—the last of the
Bhutas—has been created, a magazine of power to be
drawn upon and utilized for further activity, if there
should arise any need for such. Taking the two senses
together___ ‘Shakti’ at the Muladhara is both coexistent
with every act of creation or manifestation and is the
residual effect of such act—both cause and effect, in fact—
an idea which, deeply looked into, shows no real contra­
diction. There is, in fact, what the physicist will de­
scribe as a cycle or circuit in action.
“Let us take the impregnated ovum—the earliest em-
bryological stage of the living body. In it the Kundalini
is already presented in its two polar aspects: the ovum,
which is the mother element, represents one pole (pos­
sibly the static), and the spermatazoon, which is the
father-element, represents the other (possibly the dyna­
mic). From their fusion proceed those processes which
the biologist calls differentiation and integration; but in
all this process of creation the cycle can be fairly easily
traced. Shakti flows out of the germinal cell (fertilized
ovum), seizes upon foreign matter, and assimilates it
and thereby grows in bulk; divides and subdivides itself,
and then again coordinates all its divided parts into one
organic whole. Now in all this we have the cycle. Seiz­
ing upon foreign matter is an outwardly directed activity,
assimilation is an inwardly directed activity or return
current. Cell division and multiplication is an outwardly
122
directed operation, coordination is inwardly directed; and
so on. This outflow and inflow is a common Tantrik no­
tion. The force in the germ-cell is overflowing, but also
continuously it is flowing back into itself, the two opera­
tions presupposing and sustaining each other, as in every
circuit.” (This is the same law governing Kundalini).
“The given stock of force in the germ-cell, which is
static so long as the fusion of the male and female ele­
ments does not take place in the womb, is the necessary
starting-point of all creative activity; it is the primordial
cause, therefore, in relation to the body—primordial as
well as constantly given, unceasing. On the other hand,
the reaction of every creative action, the return current
or flowing back of every unfolding over flow, constantly
renews this starting force, changes it without changing
its general condition of relative equilibrium (and this is
quite possible, as is the case of any material system); the
force in the germ-cell may therefore be also regarded as
a perpetual effect, something left over and set against
the working forces of the body. Many apparently in­
consistent ideas enter into this conception, and they have
to be reconciled.
“ 1. We start with the germ-cell which is statical at
first (though, like a dicotyledon seed, or even a modem
atom, it evolves within itself both a statical and a dynam­
ical pole; otherwise, from pure rest, involving no pos­
sibility of motion, no motion could ever arise). Let this
be Kundalini.
“2. Then there is creative impulse arising out of it;
this is a motion out of rest. By this the Kundalini be­
comes partly static and partly dynamic, or ejects, so to
say, a dynamic pole out of it in order to evolve the body,
but remaining a static pole or background itself all along.
In no part of the process has the Kundalini really uncoiled
itself altogether, or even curtailed its three coils and a
half. Without this Muladhara Shakti remaining intact no
evolution could be possible at all. It is the hinge upon
which everything else turns.
“3. Each creative act again reacts on the Muladhara
123
Shakti, so that such reaction, without disturbing the rel­
ative rest of the coiled Shakti, changes its volume or in­
tensity, but does not curtail or add to the number of
coils. For instance, every natural act of respiration re­
acts on the coiled Shakti at the Muladhara, but it does
not commonly make any diiference. But Pranayama pow­
erfully reacts on it, so much so that it awakens the dor­
mant power and sends it piercing through the centers.
Now, the common description that the Kundalini uncoils
herself then and goes up the Sushumna, leaving the Mu­
ladhara, should, I think, be admitted with caution. That
static background can never be absolutely dispensed with.
As you have yourself rightly observed, ‘Shakti can never
be depleted, but this is how to look at it.’ Precisely, the
Kundalini, when powerfully worked upon by Yoga, sends
forth an emanation or ejection in the likeness of her
own self (like the ethereal double) which pierces through
the various centers until it becomes blended, as you point
out, with the Mahakundali of Shiva at the highest or
seventh center. Thus, while this ‘ethereal double’ or self­
ejection of the coiled power at the Muladhara ascends the
Sushumna, the coiled power itself does not and need not
stir from its place. It is like a spark given over from
an over-saturated (overcharged) electro-magnetic ma­
chine; or, rather, it is like the emanations of radium
which do not sensibly detract from the energy contained
in it. This last, perhaps, is the closest physical parallel
of the case that we are trying to understand... The Kun­
dalini at the Muladhara is the whole primordial Shakti
in monad or germ of latency; that is why it is coiled.
The Kundalini that mounts up the Nadi (current) is also
the whole Shakti in a specially dynamic form—an ejected
likeness of the Eternal Serpent. The result of the last
fusion (there are successive fusions in the various cen­
ters also) in the Sahasrara (the highest center) is also
the whole or Purna....In this conception the permanent
static background is not really depleted, much less is it
dispensed with.
“4. When again I say that the volume or intensity of
124
the ‘coiled power' can be affected (though not
its configuration and relative equilibrium), I do not
mean to throw up the principle of conservation of energy
in relation to the Kundalini which is the embodiment of
all energy. It is merely the conversion of static (poten­
tial) energy into dynamic (kinetic) energy in part, the
sum remaining constant. As we have to deal with in­
finities here, an exact physical rendering of this principle
is not to be expected. The Yogi therefore simply ‘awak­
ens,’ and never creates Shakti. By the way, the germ­
cell which evolves the body does not, according to mod­
ern biology, cease to be a germ-cell in any stage of com­
plicated process. The original germ-cell develops itself
into two; one-half gradually develops itself into the
body of a plant or animal—this is the somatic cell; the
other half remains encased within the body practically
unchanged, and it is transmitted in the process of repro­
duction to the offspring—that is the germ-plasm. Now,
this germ-plasm is unbroken through the whole line of
propagation. This is Weissmann’s doctrine of ‘contin­
uity of the germ-plasm,’ which has been widely accepted,
though it is but an hypothesis.”
In a subsequent postscript, Prof. Mukhyopadhyaya
wrote in the same analytical style: “ The constitution of
the atom reveals the static-dynamic polarization of Shakti;
other and more complex forms of existence also do the
same. In the living body this necessary static back­
ground is Muladhara, where Shakti is coiled. All the
functional activity of the body, starting from the devel­
opment of the germ-cell, is correlated to, and sustained
by, the Shakti concentrated at the Muladhara. Cosmic
creation, too, ending with the evolution of Prithivi Tat-
tva also presupposes a cosmic static background. It is
an unending process. . . .
“An electro-magnetic machine, if a suitable sub­
stance be placed near it, will induce in it an equivalent
and opposite kind of electro-magnetism without losing its
own stock of energy. In conduction, energy flows over
into another thing, so that the source loses and the other
125
. 'It; =*4— --vl. . . .
thing gains what it has lost, and its gain is similar in
kind to the loss. Not so induction. There the source
does not lose, and the induced energy is equivalent and
opposite in kind to the inducing energy. Thus a positive
charge will induce an equivalent negative charge in a
neighboring object. Now, shall we suppose that the
Muladhara, when it becomes over-saturated (overcharged),
induces in the neighboring center (say, Svaohishthana,
the first moving center above the Muladhara) a dynamic
(not static) equivalent? Is this what the rise of the
Serpent Power really means? The explanation, I am
tempted to think, is not altogether fantastic.”
126
M
C H A P T E R X X V I
KUNDALINI
K
UNDALINI is the secret form of creative energy
in bodies. It is the source of all energies, includ­
ing Prana. It is a subtle, invisible substance which
gathers in triangular form—when dormant—at the base
of the spine, the Muladhara center. It is the most pow­
erful form of energy known. It is the life principle. In
some terminologies it is called “ The Serpent Power.”
When released and raised up through the seven Cha­
kras or centers, the Kundalini power opens up incompara­
ble worlds to the Chela. As has been previously ex­
plained, these Chakras are all vortices of etheric matter,
apparently of the same kind and subject to the same ex­
ternal influence of the inrushing “force.”
According to the Yoga doctrine, the Chakras are differ­
ent centers of “consciousness,” vitality and energy. They
are located at intervals from the base of the spine up to
the brain. By the practice of Pranayama the dynamic
energy of the Kundalini can be quickened, and with per­
sistent practice it will awaken the static energy of the
Kundalini which is sleeping in the Muladhara. H. P.
Blavatsky encouraged the practice of Pranayama, con­
trol of the breath, to stimuate the Kundalini. Control
of the breath is also control of the Prana, Apaña, and
each of the five vital breaths necessary to sustain health
ahd harmony in the body—and between the “bodies.” Few
persons know how to breathe. This fact we reiterate—
lest the student forget.
“When Prana and Apaña are mixed,” writes H. P. B.,
“it will naturally cause heat in the body; then the body
becomes light and powerful. This extreme heat, when
felt by the Kundalini, causes her to awaken from sleep.”
This is brought about by rhythmical breathing as taught
in Pranayama. As steam is converted into water by
127
heat and again returns to it, so rises the dynamic energy
of the Kundalini up through the Chakras. In reality, the
Kundalini does not actually leave her place in the Mu-
ladhara, but through the action of extreme heat an “ethe-
ric double” is formed, and as a key, opens the “door” to
the Sushumna, and the Kundalini Force is liberated. The
Kundalini Force is, by the action of will-power, raised
from Chakra to Chakra—each of which produces differ­
ent psychic manifestations and effects, returning again
and again for revitalization from the Mother-force. How­
ever, the Kundalini—Her Majesty, the Mother of the
Universe, of all Life—lies ever, apportioned in each indi­
vidual, at the Muladhara, generating new force, awaiting
the command of the individual who has mastered her
secrets.
Mastery of the forces of the body, as heretofore ex­
plained, consists in control of the will, which in turn
gains control—through prescribed exercises given earlier
in this course—over every function of the body. Will is
power. A Master once said: “By will man may become
a Deva (like God), or the opposite.” The Bible says: “As
a man thinketh in his heart, so is he.”
Doubt is the opposite of will—the enemy. When one
has determined with the full force of his will to do a
thing, it is already half done. When the student has de­
termined to master this course—intricate though it may
seem—it literally is half mastered. Through the will Pra-
nayama becomes a reality—a stepping stone. Through the
regulation of the breath Prana is taken into the body.
Prana, the vital force, or life force, then becomes sub­
servient to him who has mastered its regulation through
rhythmic breathing, Pranayama. He who breathes
rhythmically thinks rhythmically. Rhythmical thinking
creates rhythm in all bodily functions. When the breath
is irregular the mind wanders; when the breath is under
control, the mind is also under control. Man lives as
long as he has breath in his body. When the breath
goes out, life is said to have gone out. Man lives as
harmoniously, as rhythmically, as he breathes. An im-
128
properly oxidized body is an impure body. When the
body is impure, the nerve channels become clogged with
these impurities, and the Prana cannot go through the
Sushumna. Therefore, concentration is futile unless the
body first be purified. Pranayama is the key.
Trying to force the Chakras open is often a painful
process and even disease is not unlikely to follow—unless
the body first be purified. The possession of health,
strength and morality are consequently necessities. The
thoughts and will are more easily and naturally intensified,
if first purified. The vivifying influence of the aroused
Kundalini is then free to pierce through the Chakras,
opening new visions. But “the mere dabbler in the
pseudo-occult will only degrade his intellect with the
puerilities of psychism, become the prey of the evil influ­
ence of the phantasmal world, or ruin his soul by the
foul practices of phallic sorcery—as thousands of mis­
guided people ar doing even in this age. Is this so? It
is possible that perverse or misguided concentration on
sexual and connected centers may have the effect alluded
to.” To arouse the Kundalini purely for psychic powers
and worldly enjoyment is to court the gravest dangers.
To avoid the pitfalls then, purify the body through exer­
cises and rhythmic breathing. These will tend to purify
the thoughts. Master the will, and by it lead the re­
leased Kundalini power up, up, up, through the Chakras
to the highest center, the Sahasrara, where is bliss un­
tasted by those who stop at the lower centers. A true,
spiritual “attitude” is first, last and always self-mastery;
liberation from slavery to the desires of the body.
The mere rousing of the Serpent Power does not, from
the spiritual standpoint, amount to much. At-one-ment
with the Universal Mind is the ultimate achievement to
be desired. It is the goal that distinguished such Masters
as Jesus of Nazareth, and many East Indian Adepts rev­
erenced in that great land. “ I and the Father are One,”
was the constant realization of Jesus, a realization which
gave him superb poise. It was the knowledge and mas­
tery of the Kundalini force that enabled him to achieve
129
the so-called miracles that distinguished him from all
other persons of his time. Yet he said: “ Greater things
than I do ye shall do also.”
Resting in your body at the Muladhara—in the region
of the coccyx—is the Kundalini, a dynamo of cosmic en­
ergy. Freedom from the limitations of time and space
can be yours for the seeking. All things are possible
when Kundalini force is released-----levitation, materiali­
zation, transfiguration, dematerialization, perfect, unlimited
clairvoyance, clairaudience, et cetera. Emancipation!
Thus if we desire unlimited power within, we must
first learn to contact and use the “omnipotent power”
without—yet constantly available. Prana is that power.
Therefore, it is Prana that we must learn to direct if we
would arouse the Kundalini and attain Seership.
Our bodies are as much subject to rhythmic law as are
the planets in their course through space. The secret of
the equilibrium of the universe is the rhythm of the
cosmos. Rhythmic motion prevents confusion. It is the
secret of life, of longevity, of power.
When we learn to breathe rhythmically we create har­
mony in the body. It functions in unison. A rhythmical
body easily learns to attune to the forces of nature, and
learns to absorb more Prana. A conscious absorption of
Prana is the first step in the conscious direction of Prana.
The primary step in awakening the Kundalini is to estab­
lish a rhythmic motion of Prana in the body, applying it
in the direction of the Kundalini, to arouse it from its
sleep. If the student will review and study the chapters
on rhythmic breathing—will diligently practice the exer­
cises—he will be amazed at the results. Like the knights
of old, most of us run around the world searching for the
Holy Grail, only to return, weary and disillusioned, and
find it within ourselves. So in rhythmical breathing shall
we find the true “Master Key to Psychic Unfoldment.”
Study the lessons on rhythmical breathing; practice the
exercises as religiously as though your whole future de­
pended on your mastery of them, and wonderful will be
the revelations unfolded to you.
130
If the Chela faithfully follows all the instructions of
this course, then he is ready to go into the Silence and
worship at the shrine of Kundalini, the Mother-power of
the universe. After sitting quietly for a few moments
chanting softly and rhythmically some Mantrum that
appeals, chant it over and over till you feel soothed and
completely relaxed. If you do not care for the Indian
Mantrums, there is one particularly adapted to the Occi­
dental ideas of music:
“Oh Love that knoweth of no fear,
A love that sheds a joyous tear;
Oh Love that makes me whole and free;
Such love shall keep and hallow me.”
After chanting it three times and having performed
your rhythmical breathing, or Pranayama, visualize—with
all your powers of concentration—the cosmic powers of
the universe flowing into your body as you breathe. A
simple method which assists in concentrating your
thought is to visualize an attenuated blue thread of
light, electricity or power, streaming into you in the
breath you intake. Direct it by the will and visualization,
into the lungs and down to the region of the Muladhara
where the Kundalini lies sleeping. Continuing Prana­
yama, after a period you will begin to feel a warmth
around the Muladhara. This is caused by a magnetic
disturbance of the atoms. This heat becomes more in­
tense as the concentration is improved and steadied.
In this condition the student begins to become aware
of things his senses could not grasp. He perceives with
an intelligence that does not need to reason. Through
sustained meditation and concentration he feels the quick­
ening force of Kundalini Power stirring within. The
body is thrilled with the ecstasy of awakening Divinity.
When the Prana is controlled the student moves its vol­
ume at will, up through the Sushumna, clearing the
course, purifying it for the Kundalini Power.
The Chakras represent forces of nature; beginning with
the next above the Muladhara—earth, water, fire, air, ether.
When the student, through Pranayama, learns to control
131
and direct the Prana through the Sushumna, the day is
not afar when the Kunadlini will be affected by the heat
that arises as the Prana is forced up through the Chak­
ras. Each Chakra holds the key to wonderful powers
over the element it represents. When the Apana mixes
with the Prana in the “Fire Chakra” the heat becomes
so intense the body seems to be on fire. It is not only a
physical heat, but a spiritual glow that is bright and
powerful, and can be seen and felt by those en rapport.
When one has learned to lift the Prana up through the
five physical Chakras, the first awakening of Kundalini is
felt and the spiritual body is released and is free to travel
where it will without the incumbrances of the flesh—can
travel to and from the astral world as swiftly as the wind.
There are certain “ Mudras” practiced only under the
direction of a kind teacher, or Guru, that assist the stu­
dent in the awakening of these mighty powers—which,
like electricity, may destroy if improperly directed. There­
in, lies the danger. Thus we advise our students not
to concentrate on the Sahasrara, or Thousand-Petaled Lo­
tus Chakra. The Visuddha or heart center governs the
origin of sounds (astral). Without a teacher to per­
sonally assist and protect, the higher Chakras—i. e., the
Ajna and Sahasrara which control the astral and spirit­
ual faculties— should be left to awaken as a natural proc­
ess or result of the activity of the others.
There is a law which governs the universe: “What is
mine will come to me.” Remarkable instances of teachers
coming unbidden—appearing and disappearing mysteri­
ously as though materialized—are not infrequent among
students of occultism. There is a saying in the East:
“ When the Chela (student) is ready, the Guru (teacher)
will appear.” So mote it be! Yet one must be developed
to recognize the true teacher, who is as simple, as humble
as the Nazarene, who walked beside his disciples after his
resurrection, and they knew him not.”
How many of us, looking for pomp and power—as were
the Jews when they denied the Christ—fail to recognize
the Master among men! How often, intrigued by glamor
132
and ritual, do we lose sight of the most important things
along our path. Not as an oriental potentate, robed in
all the splendors of the East, nor as a clerical-vested man
of letters, “letter-bound,” shall come the Prince of Peace
to liberate the struggling Chela from his bondage; but as
an illumination to inspire a lofty sentiment and stir the
soul.
And so, to the Chela who has progressed as far as these
lessons can materally or spiritually take him, we whisper
the hope that a teacher surprising as a fairy dream—will
appear to you and lead you further on the way. Side by
side the Master walks with his Chela on the difficult stages
of the Path. We are never alone, and “never less alone
than when alone.”
“Lo, in the East this Wisdom’s showering Light,
Adorable, hath sprung from out the night;
Now may the dawns, heaven daughters, spread
Shining afar, a path for man to tread.”
133
C H A P T E R X X V H
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
ONSCIOUSNESS evolves, we are told, from the
lowliest cell-intelligence up through all phases of
mental evolution until we reach the state of divine
consciousness— Samadhi. Samadhi is the stage of con­
sciousness higher than the highest stage of self-conscious­
ness. Occidental occultists call it the cosmic-conscious­
ness, which is described as an awareness of the One-ness
of all life; a consciousness that all is life, force and mo­
tion—nothing is dead or lost. All is animate with in­
finite intelligence. Mystics, saints and inspired souls
down through the ages have had fleeting glimpses of this
higher consciousness, which left them stricken with awe,
completely dazed and bewildered by the splendor and
grandeur of the Absolute. No mortal words can convey
the experience of the awful realization that they have
been in the presence of Something—and they called it
God, or an equivalent name representing deity in their
particular religion or creed.
Concerning this consciousness, Dr. Richard Maurice
Bucke wrote: “ I have, during the last three years, col­
lected twenty-three cases of this so-called cosmic-con­
sciousness. In each case the onset, or incoming, of the
new faculty is always sudden, instantaneous. Among the
unusual feelings the mind experiences is a sudden sense
of being immersed in flame or in a brilliant light. This
occurs entirely without worrying or outward cause, and
may happen at noonday or in the middle of the night . . .
“ Along with these feelings comes a sense of immortal­
ity, not merely a feeling of certainty that there is a future
life— that would be small matter—but a pronounced con­
sciousness that the life now being lived is eternal, death
being seen as a trivial incident that does not affect its
continuity. Further, there is annihilation of the sense of
134
—
sin, and an intellectual competency, not simply surpassing
the old plane, but on an entirely new and higher plane.”
Words fail the person to whom this experience has come.
It is a transcendental state of illuminated consciousness.
This sublime experience is followed by a peace that truly
passeth understanding—a calm as universal as the ethers.
Out of the “silent Silence” a Voice will speak and reveal
the mysteries of life.
Underlying the multitudinous and varied experiences
of those who have attained the revelation of Samadhi—
though but for a fleeting moment—there are certain fun­
damental and essential characteristics which identify the
experience as real, not merely an illusion. Though these
general characteristics may vary, there are certain details
that distinguish the real.
Concerning his experience Dr. Bucke wrote: “ My mind,
deeply under the influence of the ideas, images and emo­
tions called up by the reading and talk, was calm and
peaceful. I was in a state of quiet, almost passive enjoy­
ment, not actually thinking, but letting ideas, images and
emotions flow of themselves, as it were, in my mind. All
at once, without warning of any kind, I found myself
wrapped in a flame-colored cloud. For an instant I
thought of fire, an immense conflagration somewhere
close by in that great city. The next moment, I knew that
the fire was in myself.”
Most reports of this experience allude to a great Inner
Light, as the reflection of a distant fire—a great confla­
gration.
A beautiful experience was reported by an English
Chela, “I felt a kind of soothing slumber stealing over
me. I became aware that I was floating in a vast ocean
of light and joy. I was here, there, and everywhere. I
was everybody, and everybody was I. I knew I was I,
and yet I knew I was much more than myself. Indeed, it
seemed to me there was no division; that all the universe
was in me, and I in it, yet nothing was lost or swallowed
up. Everything was alive with a joy that would never
diminish.”
Another truth-seeker relates her experience: “ Thinking
135
of spiritual things, as was my wont in meditation, feeling
a strong presence of God, I suddenly had a consciousness
of being surrounded by a brilliant white light which con­
tinued for several minutes, and, at the same time, I felt a
great spiritual uplifting, and an enlargement of my men­
tal powers, as if the limitations of the body were tran­
scended, and my soul’s capacities were in a measure set
free for a moment. The experience was unique and be­
yond the current of everyday human life, and while the
vision or impression passed away, a permanent effect was
produced upon my mind which I shall never, never for­
get.”
Sri Ramachrishna, the renowned Hindu sage and
teacher, spoke of this mystic illumination as “ a torrent of
spiritual light, deluging the mind and giving the soul
peace. This living light does not harm. It is like the
light coming from a gem, shining yet soft, cool and sooth­
ing. It burneth not; it giveth peace and joy.”
Saint Paul, while still known as Saul of Tarsus, had a
notable experience which is historical: “As he journeyed,
he came near unto Damascus, and suddenly there shone
around him a light from heaven.” The experience of this
“ Light” or “Fire” from heaven is typical of this divine
illumination, though in some cases it is more pronounced
than others. It seems as if the mind were flooded with
wisdom from a supernal source—it may be justly called
a mental incandescence. But Illumination is the word, for
it means: “The act of supplying light, or of brightening;
or the act of enlightenment or enlightening; also, that
which illuminates or gives light; brightness, splendor,
especially intellectual light or knowledge; spiritual illu­
mination or enlightenment; brightening of the intellect
which arises by reason of the radiation of the power of
the intuitive or superconscious faculties or planes of
mind.” Hence the term “Illumination” is a fitting appella­
tion for this sublime experience.
It should be noted that those who seek a physical
explanation of spiritual phenomena—those of a scientific
trend— suggest that this experience of “ illumination”
may be accounted for by a presumed increase in the rate
136
of vibration, or an intensified vibration of the brain cells.
This increased, or heightened, vibration of the brain cells
produces the sensation of light. The basis of this argu­
ment is that ordinary light is produced by the vibration
of the ether waves. This is an interesting explanation,
but does not explain the cause of the intensified or in­
creased vibration, when the effect of the passivity which
usually precedes these experiences would naturally be a
decreased vibration.
The most impressive and awesome consciousness, and
by far the most distinct and definite, experienced by those
in Samadhi is that of the immanent and abiding presence
of the Infinite Being, All-Power, God—the description of
which finds words inadequate. It is an awareness of the
Great Ocean of Life of which each and everything is a
part, radiating in and from the Central Fire—Divinity
Manifest.
It is a vivid experience of absolute freedom and secur­
ity of being; an intuitive certainty that there is no
power existent which can in any way limit one’s own
essential being and entity, or in any way affect or destroy
his own essential security of being. It is a knowledge of
immortality undemonstrable. Objective proof becomes
inconsequential in comparison with infinite realization.
The limitations of time and space seem to fade into un­
reality—as unreal as they are to spiritual beings. All
inharmony seems to disappear, leaving the universe a
vast space of peace and understanding.
The illuminated one realizes the superb truth embodied
in the Sanskrit poem:
“The spirit never was born;
The spirit shall cease to be, never;
Never the time it was not;
End and beginning are dreams.”
The initiate experiences a profound assurance of life
eternal; of the invulnerability of spirit; that neither
sword nor spear can kill it; nor fire or air or water harm
it. It cannot be wounded; it cannot die. He obtains a
lasting and certain intuition of essential immortality and
eternal existence.
137
“Birthless and deathless and changeless, remaineth the
spirit forever;
Death hath not touched it at all, dead though the
house of it seems.”
When all humanity shall have reached this sublime
consciousness of Samadhi, demonstrability of survival
shall not be needed—nor will it be desired. In this mighty
experience of illumination the individual does not merely
believe that he is immortal; he knows it! The facts of
immortal existence are just as evidential, as real, as true
to him, as are the facts assuring him of present mortal­
ity. The knowledge and realization of both are absolute
in this certainty and truth.
When attaining Samadhi, even for a brief instant, one
finds his consciousness raised to a degree akin to infinity
—though the realization may be only for the time being.
But in that brief instant the riddle of the Universe and
the mystery of Being become comprehensible fully and
without apparent effort. The entire field of knowledge
becomes known during the instant of the “scintillating
flash of Light”— the Light of knowing without reasoning,
the presence of All-knowledge, encompassing all. One
writer compared the “flash” of infinite wisdom obtained dur­
ing this experience of illumination: “One may see the en­
tire landscape during the period of a vivid lightning flash.”
The mind may be unable to remember the details, but
it remembers the fact that there has really been such a
knowing, and is comforted thereby. It urges him on to
greater spiritual attainment. To know with certainty
that such knowledge is attainable is comforting—a
knowledge that can give to every question an absolute
and infallible answer. With increased spiritual develop­
ment the experience will return again and again to re­
main for longer intervals, becoming stronger and more
permanent until at last the soul will dwell continously
in this Ocean of Truth.
Many persons of doubting mind believe this state of
consciousness to be destructive to the brain cells.
Contrariwise, it is beyond the capacity of brain-cell regis­
tration. It is found that the intellectual capacity of the
138
individual increases and is strengthened by the experience
of Samadhi. The greatest poets, sages, artists and
musicians will be found to have experienced Samadhi,
or Divine Illumination—if only in a small measure. In
many cases their greatest intellectual work has been per­
formed after the time of such an experience. The experi­
ence of Samadhi plainly marks the dividing line between
ordinary accomplishment and “inspiration.”
With the increased peace, poise and knowledge, comes
increased joy and capacity for happiness. Emerson says
at times he experienced or “enjoyed a perfect exhilara­
tion. . . . I am glad to the brink of fear. All mean ego­
tism vanishes. I become a transparent eyeball; I am
nothing; I see all; the currents of the Universal Being
circulate through me; I am part or particle of God.”
He also refers to “that shudder of awe and delight with
which the individual soul always mingles with the Uni­
versal Soul.” In his inimitable essays he makes reference
to the “ecstasy” and the “ravishment” attending his spir­
itual experiences.
Celibacy or some form of asceticism seems imperative
in order to reach these sublime heights of mystic illumi­
nation. But those who have experienced it say the “ sub­
liminal sensation of inexplicable joy” far surpasses any
physical sensation which may require to be sacrificed—
it is ineffable ecstasy in a higher and more enduring
consciousness.
Seeking to emphasize this element of joyous mystic
experience, the Sufi poets have often employed terms
which have been grossly misunderstood by the uniniti­
ated, who consequently regarded them as erotic, because
spiritual experiences have been interpreted as physical.
It is, in reality, higher than anything man knows as
either physical or spiritual joy. The Orientals call it
Bliss-Absolute. Whether Christian or Pagan, Oriental
or Occidental Mystics, the note of sublime joy runs
through all the records. It is universal and ever-present,
untouched by worldly sorrow or cares: in truth a con­
scious union with God; a union between Creator and
created—joy ineffable.
139
C H A P T E R X X V m
ILLUMINATION
I
N explaining the external effect of “ Samadhi,” the
sublime consciousness, Edward Carpenter, in his book,
“Visit to a Gnani,” says of his Yogi friend: “ Finally,
his face, while showing the attributes of a seer, the ex­
ternally penetrating eye, and expression of illumination—
the deep mystic light within—showed also the prevailing
sentiment of happiness behind it. His own expression, oft
repeated, was ‘Sandosham, Sandosham eppotham’—‘joy,
always joy !’ ”
In one of his superb passages, Edward Carpenter refers
to his own experience in illumination, a newly-awak­
ened consciousness of “joy transcendent:” “ I arise out of
the dewy night and shake my wings ! Tears and lamenta­
tions are no more! Life and Death lie stretched before
me ! I breathe the sweet ether blowing of the breath of
God!
“ Deep as the universe is my life— and I know it; noth­
ing can dislodge the knowledge of it; nothing can destroy,
nothing can harm me!
“Joy, joy arises—I arise! The sun darts overpowering
rays of joy through me, the night radiates it from me.
I take wings through the night and pass through all the
wilderness of the worlds, and the old, dark holds of tears
and death—and return with laughter, laughter! Sailing
through the starlit spaces on outspread wings—0 laughter,
laughter, laughter!”
The most interesting characteristic of the experience is
that of joy ineffable—the freedom from a consciousness
of the tragedies that fill this world. Yet it cannot be
said that these great souls—who have attained a develop­
ment of consciousness that transcends anything the aver­
age person knows as consciousness—are immune to, or
without sympathy for, the sorrows of the world. It is
140
that they have reached a stage of knowing that all is
with purpose; that the experiences given us are those
which are needed to create character—hence soul-growth.
They have attained a God-consciousness by which they
discern the “interblending” and “interdependence” of all
things that exist.
Whereas, the world at large specializes on theorizing—
which often assumes elaborate proportions—the mystic
knows. It is the knowledge of a consciousness coordinat­
ing with the Infinite Intelligence of creation—“in Whom
we all live, move and have our being.”
The exaltation of the true Mystic—who has attained
Samadhi—is that which is the inheritance of all; though
the masses ignore it as a filament of illusion, because they
fail to attain it through the testimony of the five senses.
Of necessity, there must be some surcease from the strenu­
ous problems of the world; some haven in which to re­
vitalize a body and soul torn midst the vibrations of men­
tal and spiritual discord.
The materialist smiles at what he believes to be the
credulity of the truth-seeker “developing” a path to
Samadhi. It is the same smile that denied the possibility
of our greatest mechanical and electrical achievements.
It is not that humanity possesses an innate spirit of retro­
gression or lethargy—for the urge of evolution permeates
every living thing. It is that the people have been so
enslaved by the five senses, and have become so pessimistic
through adversities brought about by their own law-break­
ing, that they do not easily emerge from their mental
lethargy and grasp new ideas with any reality of under­
standing. This attitude also has its redeeming feature—
it tends to make the development more steadfast. It
further proves the natural inclination of all worthwhile
species—excepting mushrooms and their class—toward
slow and persistent growth. That which is eternal is the
result of steady evolution, and in this category is in­
cluded the soul of man in its journey through the spheres.
The Mystic knows he was not hurled as dust from off
some great Over-Soul—as dust is whirled from off a planet
into the interstices of space—but that he is a part and
141
particle of the whole cosmic scheme, animated and moti­
vated by an Infinite Intelligence, Whom we call God.
Whereas popular religious conceptions have pictured God
as an individual, the Mystic knows that God is the Prin­
ciple of Life animating Nature and Man.
Ridiculing this sublime conception, which brings God so
near to each of us, the skeptic—in a desperate attempt to
vindicate his interpretation of Deity—cynically declares
that “ if God is manifesting in each and everything that
exists, then certainly He must be back-sliding.” The re­
action of religionists is one of horror at what they believe
to be sacrilege. But, admitting the possibility of a per­
sonal Deity, is it not probable that He would have such
vast understanding of the creatures beneath him, that He
would smile at their credulity? To us, the most grotesque
sacrilege is to suppose that God created beings capable of
falling so low as apparently the human race has done.
Concepts of God
Col. Robert G. Ingersoll once cleverly stated that “an
honest God is the noblest work of man.” But he spoke a
profound truth, for the reason that a man’s conception of
God corresponds to his highest powers of idealization.
It is mentally impossible to conceive of anything higher
than one’s highest ideals. When we lack the capacity for
comparing ideas, we cannot comprehend them. For this
reason it is impossible for those who have not developed
a magnanimous, spiritual conception of life to comprehend
the Mystic’s realization of God. It is almost as impos­
sible for the cannibals or the Australian Bushmen to
comprehend the Christian’s conception of God. Man’s only
proof of spiritual growth is found in his conception of
Deity. The person still possessed of secret fears, hates,
desires of revenge, covetousness and vanity, instinctively
endows his God with such attributes. Thus we are certain
of a people’s mental and spiritual development by the
manner of God or gods they worship. The God of Moses
displayed very unspiritual attributes as witnessed by the
first of the Ten Commandments: “Thou shalt have
142
no
other gods before me, for I, thy God, am a jealous God,
visiting the iniquity of the fathers unto the third and
fourth generation of them that hate me, and shewing
mercy unto them that love me.”
If a mundane individual were to make such threats to
coerce obedience there is little doubt but that he would
be haled before a court of “justice.”
That we are a part of God is becoming a principal teach­
ing of the leading Spiritualists, metaphysicians and
occultists. That we shall eventually attain the God-con­
sciousness is the hope of every quickened soul— and is the
realization of those who have attained Samadhi.
On earth advanced souls proclaim that God is “omnip­
otent, omnipresent and omniscient.” These significant
terms embody a vast scope—but the earthly concept of
such superb adjectives is very limited because, as we have
before stated, “conceptions can never rise higher than
their source.” God is not nearly so great to us as He is
to Hesperus, the Venus plane of the heaven-world.
Though “conceptions can rise to the level of their
source,” yet one cannot doubt but that Infinite Intelligence
sometimes limits the height of the source. Every person
with knowledge of “ after-death conditions and planes”
affirms this to be true. Human consciousness is limited
in its faculty of attainment. Were it not for the devel­
opment of higher consciousness—by the few, with the
possibility for the many—humanity would forever be lost
in a maze of darkness and superstition.
God— Infinite Intelligence— “speaks” to the partially
developed human souls from the level of “human principle
in Himself.” Hence, man’s varied interpretations of the
Will of Deity. The general terrene conception of Him is
that of a perfect Person who is all-powerful, ubiquitous,
eternal. To the Mystic, the Hesperian and all those of
the higher, spiritual planes, God is ever impersonal and
“speaks” of Himself from the level of “ Spirit.” To each
of us “ He speaks” of Himself and His works from the
standpoint of our conception of Him. Thus, to those who
have experienced “illumination,” He is known to be omni-
143
present, but speaks as Spirit—which is above Soul; it is
the “ Over-Soul” of which Emerson wrote.
In the “Life and Teachings of the Masters of the Far
East” (though an infamous fraud is hinted with reference
to the authorship, the beautiful teachings and revelations
embodied therein remain unsullied) we read: “ The god
that judges, destroys, or withholds any good thing from
his children or creations is but a god that is conjured by
man’s ignorant thinking, and you need not fear that god
unless you wish to do so. . . .
“ God is the principle behind everything that exists to­
day. The Principle behind a thing is Spirit, and Spirit is
Omnipotent, Omnipresent, Omniscient. God is the one
Mind that is both the direct and the directing cause of all
the good that we see about us. God is the source of all
the life we see about us. God is the source of all the true
Love that holds or binds all forms together. God is
Impersonal Principle. God is never personal except as He
becomes to each individual a personal, loving Father. To
the individual He can be a personal, loving, all-giving
Father-Mother. But God never becomes a great being
located somewhere in the skies in a place called heaven,
where He has a throne which He sits upon and judges
people after they die, for God is Life itself and that Life
never dies. That is but a misconception brought about by
man’s ignorant thinking, just as so many malformations
have been brought about and you see them in the world
around you. . . .
“When man forms an alliance with God through spirit­
ual understanding, the boundary line between God and
man will disappear. When this point is reached man will
know what Jesus meant when he said, ‘I and my Father
are one.’
“It is said that man shall not only give ear, but he shall
become that which he claims to be, and sinking self he
shall be immersed in the Brotherhood of Man. It is deeds,
not fine words, that endure. The way of progress is not
only barred by the creeds of others, but by those of our­
selves. Each is claiming the graces of the Most High;
each attempting to build up his own by dismantling and
144
tearing down others. Instead of using energy to tear
down, that energy should go to consolidate the whole.
“The Most High not only made one nation of one blood,
but of one blood all the nations of the earth. The time
has now come when we must choose between creeds and
the Brotherhood of Man. Creeds are but the conjuring
of man. The faith that moves mountains still slumbers
in the seed of the plant. The heights and grandeur are still
there for man to attain. The law of enlightenment has
preceded that of miracle. This law of enlightenment is
the highest law of Love, and Love is the Universal
Brotherhood—that which every true Mystic and truth-
seeker is striving to realize.”
There is a way— a law divine—that shall eventually
lead humanity out of the web of Karma, or the destiny
of cause and effect. It is the effort to attain freedom
from terrene sorrow that inspires many great souls to
forsake the baubles of the world in the development of the
Samadhi Consciousness wherein the key reposes.
145
C H A P T E R X X IX
A PHILOSOPHICAL SURVEY
I
F WE cannot put the teachings of occultism, in its
various interpretations, on a practical basis and in
our present every-day lives realize the truth of them
—then primarily they have little value to us, and remain
but mere words. Self-realization has been the watchword
of every progressive person; upon its results are based the
present triumphs called civilization. If there is a God
or a Supreme Self we must have some measure of definite
comprehension, or God or our Supreme Self have little or
no existence in our gross thoughts. Conscious realization
is the only thing that seems to satisfy the majority—a
thing which no amount of theorizing can do.
Too long has humanity been engrossed in a “sense”
world to appreciate the abstract realms. No amount of
theorizing seems to bring ultimate satisfaction concerning
them. Every man has sought satisfaction, only to be lost
in the maze of delusion. People sit in beautiful churches
seeking this satisfaction and the solution to their prob­
lems, and by beautiful combinations of words, cleverly
expounded by religious teachers, experience a sensation
defined as “spiritual ecstasy.” But “emotional ecstasy”
never leads to spiritual realization—nor to freedom. Even
the Scriptures are inconsequential when they fail to in­
spire spiritual wisdom. Some spend a whole life time
diligently studying the Scriptures; foundering in Biblical
lore, they starve for spiritual realization. Others spend
life-times searching every nook and corner of science and
philosophy, only in the end to wonder “what it is all
about.” Without form or continuity, extended research is
valueless.
“ As a donkey carries loads of sandalwood on his back,”
says an Indian proverb, “only feeling the weight of the
burden without getting the benefit of the sweet perfume,
146
so it is with those who study innumerable Scriptures with­
out knowledge of the essence—the truth—of them.”
Experience is the real method of acquiring knowledge
and strength—a strength of self-realization by which we
can declare truth with conviction. There is a great deal
of difference between a man of book-learning and one
who has experienced and knows through self-realization.
Though the works of the great teachers and philosophers
might be quoted completely from memory, till a person
appeared profoundly learned, he would merely be re­
peating, “parroting,” the words of another. He who has
experienced, knows. Therein lies the difference. Deny
it though the world may, once we have experienced a thing,
we know it to be true. Thus the Seer knows that immor­
tality is a reality because he has experienced communi­
cation and has seen those who have passed through
“death.” In his knowledge he is bold because he knows.
Philosophers and religious teachers have, for thousands
of years, preached the immortality of the soul, yet hu­
manity is still afraid of dying; and death throws a mantle
of grief over most hearts. If humanity understood its
true nature this universal fear would be dispelled. Be­
cause we have no conception of what self-realization is,
we limit our knowledge, and thus we limit our capacity to
receive inspirations from the higher planes. Talk though
we may, however glibly, most of us are in complete igno­
rance of the nature of our real self—however we may
talk about the immortal nature of the soul. It is the
soul-realization that gives us the capacity to compre­
hend its immortal nature. When we realize our true
self, and perceive its nature as we perceive those who
are about us in an objective world, then fear of death
will cease to exist and disease will become an obsolete
experience.
As the parrot repeats the things which it is taught so
long as it remains undisturbed, but reverts back to its
natural screech when molested by an enemy, so humanity,
parrot-like, repeats and chants the things which are
taught it as infallible truths, only—in the time of sorrow
147
or distress—to revert back to its natural cry of wonder­
ment and doubt. Like parrots, that repeat words with­
out comprehension of their meaning, so those ambitious
for knowledge cram their heads full of “words” without
understanding them. Because so few have any under­
standing of their real nature, we find the masses weak
and miserable when trouble or death approaches. But
when man realizes that his supreme Self is in reality one
and the same with God; and that he cannot be separated
from God—because the two are inseparable—then shall he
begin to unfold the mighty powers lying dormant within,
awaiting manifestation. It was the Nazarene’s compre­
hension of his at-one-ment with the “ Father” that gave
him the power to perform seemingly miraculous feats—
yet he promised we should do greater things. Why have
we failed to do so? Simply because we have failed to
realize the vast significance of his most important mes­
sage— at-one-ment with the Father. “ It is the Father
in me that doeth the works,” he said. There is but One
in whom all abide and by whom everything is pervaded—
this One whom the wise man worships in the knowledge
that it is his real Self.
Neither by vain words, nor mantrums, nor learning, is
the real self quickened except when they are accom­
panied by spiritual realization. Then as the artist
beautifies his penciled sketches by brilliant colors in oil,
so the devotee beautifies his “interpretations of illumi­
nation” by euphonious expressions.
Realization of our Supreme Self is unattainable unless
we feel intense love for this Self, which is God. Only
through love can man reach God. Love is the uniting
force of the universe. As families are bound through
love, so beautifully is symbolized the love that unites
mankind to its God—or its Supreme Self. When touched
by this Supreme Love the heart is purified; the emotional
body is released from unholy attachments; and all selfish
desires vanish. Without understanding of the funda­
mentals of Being, man’s search for knowledge and power
will result in nothing but disillusion. The mere re-
148
ligionist gropes in a maze of theories, only to be lost in
vague and blasted hopes. The scientist gropes in the
material realms of physics and chemistry, only to find
himself stranded on the borderland of the spiritual world.
Each has taken a different route— one through emotional
observance, and the other by the exacting methods of
mathematical calculation—only to find themselves ar­
rived at the same place: the borderland, which together
they must enter before terrene knowledge can be har­
monized.
All efforts of man toward knowledge must eventually
lead to but one place—the door of self-realization—where
“God” awaits. Then realization that we are an eternal,
indestructible soul will give us strength to solve the prob­
lems of life— a strength which makes us fearless of the
future and what it holds. When we know death is logical­
ly impossible, then we cease to fear it, and look upon it
as a great adventure. In us abides the eternal—God
lives and moves and manifests in us—we cannot die; for
God could not destroy Himself. He who has attained
this understanding is richer far than he whose wealth is
measured in gold. It is the truth supporting our knowl­
edge that makes us rich—the practical application of it
that makes us valuable. Those of great philosophical
learning confuse us by their technical discourses—in
which they often fill a volume expounding a simple the­
ory. The man who has attained illumination—conse­
quently understanding—of his Real Self and his mission,
gives his message in simple, dignified words, that all may
understand. Today humanity’s brain is confused by the
elaborate systems of philosophy. It were better for it to
revert to simple, childlike principles of learning. The
Masters use few words. One’s illumination speaks for
itself. The possession of this great Truth makes all other
truths appear insignificant.
Those whose lives have always been governed entirely
by sense perceptions, find it difficult to realize a Self
which is beyond all limitations—beyond body, mind,
senses, and all human perceptions. Too many are in
1+9
bondage to the body, and thus their spiritual growth Is
obstructed. Bodily sensations confuse the mind and di­
vert the thoughts from spiritual channels. Engrossed m
material things, spiritual growth is impossible, and self-
realization is retarded. Yet too much asceticism can
bring about a similar result. The body should be neither
a slave nor a martyr to “desire,” but an instrument
through which we can work out our salvation by gaining
mastery of self. To keep our bodies well and strong
should then become our purpose. A stringed instrument
properly tuned vibrates to glorious harmonies. But
when taxed by too much tension, the strings loosen or
break, and jangling discord results. Moderation in all
things should be our law. Too much tautness on a violin
destroys its tone-beauty. No usage at all depletes its
vibrancy. So with the human body.
Right discrimination must govern us that we may not—
in our eager search for peace and happiness—be led into
the extremes of either excessive asceticism or radical ma­
terialism. To gain spiritual freedom is to gain happiness
—which lies within ourselves, a temple of bliss and peace.
It is the but partially-developed realization of our self
that inspires the desire to perpetuate it in immortality.
Where that self dwells we find our interests attached.
When in the body, we love the body; but once the spirit
has flown, we lose interest in the body—it is an empty
tenement.
True, moral strength will come only when we learn
to depend on our real self. Never remind one of his
weaker attributes—be he child, or invalid, or criminal.
Inspire all with the highest, the best that is in them.
Encourage recognition of their divine powers, not only
through religious rituals, but through a genuinely spirit­
ual understanding. Call out all that is good in those
you meet; only thus can you help them to awaken their
higher selves.
Primarily, the road to self-realization is one which each
must tread alone— but peace awaits each traveler. There
are different paths we may travel to attain the desired
150
end—but the goal is one and the same—God, heaven,
self-realization. Some earn their way by experiences and
work; others by faith; others by rigid self-control and
self-denial. Their destiny is the same— realization of the
true self. Yet attainment of it is but to lose it in the
realization that it dwells in everything and is everywhere.
Knowing the one-ness of all, one realizes the futility of
envy and injury to others—the injury is, after all, to the
inflictor. With illumination the power to hate ceases to
exist. Love alone is the cohesive force—this is the goal of
all our struggles, though we may not know it. Cling
though some may to transitory things, as a magnet even­
tually ceases to attract the iron, so the objects of sense
will ultimately cease to lure us from the realm of “perma­
nency.” Sooner or later all arrive—though eternities
intervene.
In complete realization of the supremacy of the self,
the windows of the soul are opened and upon our vision
bursts the splendor of a spiritual world. We then shall
see and hear and feel the things of that world; the things
lost to those bound to sense perceptions. Then you shall
never more be separated from those you love—though
death may appear to divide you. No longer shall you be
deceived by mischievous astral entities, for clear vision
shall expose their true identity. No more shall “ phe­
nomenal appearances” blind you to the truths of “nou-
menal reality.” The prophetic gifts shall then be yours,
for at-one-ment with the Universal Consciousness elimi­
nates the mysteries of life and parts the curtains of the
future. As one tunes a radio to different stations, receiv­
ing the thing he desires, so through spiritual realization
and the attainment of the Samadhi consciousness, shall we
attune our minds to the Universal, and receive the wis­
dom thereof. Each finite mind is but a spark of the In­
finite. From this, wisdom is relayed from sphere to sphere
in the spirit world, and through the medium relayed to
earth people. By the same power as astral spirits gain
their knowledge, can we gain what knowledge we desire,
151
if we but learn to “tune in” on our Real Self—in which
alone lies the key to the problems of life.
But with all your seeking and striving for this superior
consciousness—this self-realization—let it be with faith
and trust in that higher Self. Be not anxious about re­
sults. Anxiety is a deterrent to spiritual unfoldment.
So long as anxiety controls you, so long shall you be
bound to the personality of the finite self— and your ef­
forts will lead but to disappointment and failure.
Surrender completely to the faith in your divinity—to
the I AM, the omnipotent life-force within you, where
you shall find “God.” Know that you are that which is
indestructible; a Sovereign Power unto yourself, and
through you flows the Essence of all Life. Then shall
your passions vanish in the wake of Perfected Under­
standing, and you shall be possessed of such tranquility
men will wonder concerning your state. But delighting
in your “world of blissful realization” you shall yet keep
a sustaining sympathy for those whose path of attain­
ment is the longer route. Let your light shine forth upon
all beings great and small. Let your great wisdom be
manifest in a discreet silence. Let truthfulness and medi­
tation be a discipline to your greater self, and firmly
establish the dignity of the spiritual world in the hearts
of men. Be wise in the dissemination of the things you
see in the astral plane and in the hearts of men. Silence
is often the greatest teacher. To some the truth is dan­
gerous and brings only confusion in the mind. Each must
learn his own lessons and thus shall the Supreme Self be
realized. Arise, then, O Soul! Awaken from thy spiritual
lethargy. Stop not till the goal is reached! Then, in thy
Immortal Bliss, return and help the laggards on the way.
So have the Masters attained, and having gained a con­
sciousness of Self and the at-one-ment of all things, re­
turned to light the paths of men. Let their example be
thine, and thou too shalt rest in the abode of Peace for­
ever. Amen.
152
