{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__cotton___has_science_discovered_god.pdf","mytitle":"Has Science Discovered God","mylang":"de"}
^y
HAS SCIENCE
DISCOVERED GOD?
A SYMPOSIUM OF MODERN
SCIENTIFIC OPINION
Gathered and Edited by
EDWARD H. COTTON
THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY
PUBLISHERS NEW YORK
Copyright, 1931,
By THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY
All rights reserved—no part of this book may be reproduced
in any form without permission in writing from the publisher.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA BY
QUINN & BODEN COMPANY, INC., RAHWAY, N. J.
^^£j<:^~^-^r{^\\ _\j;3=^^
To our children,
who teach us more of
Eternal Goodness
than all the sages
"The religion that fears science,
insults God and commits suicide."
Ralph Waldo Emerson.
PREFACE
NINE of the essays that follow have been
written especially for this book. The au-
thors are: Kirtley F. Mather, professor of
Geology, Harvard University; Heber D. Curtis, di-
rector of the Detroit Observatory of the University of
Michigan; Edwin G. Conklin, professor of Zoology,
Princeton University; George Thomas White Patrick,
professor of Philosophy, the University of Iowa; Wil-
liam McDougall, professor of Psychology, Duke Uni-
versity; Sir J. Arthur Thomson, author of "The Out-
line of Science," etc.; Harlan T. Stetson, director of
the Perkins Observatory, Ohio Wesleyan University;
Sir Oliver Lodge, author of "Why I Believe in Per-
sonal Immortality," etc.; and Dr. J. Malcolm Bird,
formerly research officer for the American Society for
Psychical Research and author of "Einstein's Theories
of Relativity and Gravitation."
The other seven chapters have been selected from
available sources and made to conform to the theme
of the volume. In each Instance credit has been given.
The contributors were asked to write with entire
freedom, seeking only to serve truth and human good;
and appreciation Is here expressed for their work,
much of which was done in the midst of pressing re-
sponsibilities, and In the interests of a greater cause.
Also thanks are due to Dr. Thomas H. Billings and
Dr. Arthur D. Little for critical examination of my
viii PREFACE
introduction. Dr. Billings is a clergyman and Dr.
Little is a manufacturing chemist. In this manner the
survey of both religion and science was secured.
E. H. C.
Marblehead, Mass.,
September i, 1931.
CONTENTS
PAGE
Introduction xxxi
The meaning of life—Experience filled with de-
lights—The intention of philosophy—Neither phi-
losophy nor religion have explained the enigma of
creation—Religion has not found God—The devo-
tion of religion—The superb story of the Old Tes-
tament—Jesus a spiritual genius—Give us more
light—Religion has no proofs of immortality—The
high and noble souls—Religion has consoled mul-
titudes, but has not proved Eternal Reality—Sci-
ence will not assume the search for God—Science
the great truth-seeking adventure—Michelson's last
experiment—Men accept the conclusions of science,
but not always those of religion—Research can-
not help searching for God—The profound rever-
ence of men of research—Persecuted Galileo the
really religious force of his day—Jesus, the rebel
—
The methods of established religion do not inspire
confidence—Can science find us a God?—Orthodox
religion should surrender the quest—Between the
deity of organized religion and of research a wide
gulf is fixed—Science cannot understand religion's
three-dimensional God—Science sees the universe
as a mathematical design not a mechanism; and if
there is a mathematical design there must be a
mathematician—Religion remains the supreme con-
cern of mankind—It is the parent of research
—
Great scientists among us to-day—Einstein's "cos-
mic religious experience"—Relativity has its ap-
plication in individual activities—John Langdon-
Davies' demonstration—Millikan's God the Uni-
fying Principle—He sees a Creator "continually on
the job"—Eddington thinks man more than a bit
of star dust gone wrong—Huxley sees no need of
an absolute, unknowable God—Modern science is
going to mean a new religion, he says—Lodge finds
the soul entity in the body, but more active out-
side it—All leading scientists to-day interested in
metaphysics—This symposium an attempt to sim-
plify the metaphysical riddle—Science practical to-
day—The end of research is discovery of a First
Cause—Relativity has shown the trouble with re-
ligion, namely, confinement of its efi^orts inside the
time process—Religion great in its faith—Science,
ix
CONTENTS
religion and philosophy combining to find the lost
radiance—Prophets of gloom, among them Mr.
Mencken—We are entering an epoch of great ex-
pectations—Why these papers have been collected
—To help honest seekers after reality—Contribu-
tors gave their best—They point the way«to in-
evitable spiritual changes—Importance of their
opinions—We confront a reformation—Is the long-
hidden reason for existence about to be disclosed?
—Appreciation of contributors.
Sermons from Stones by Kirtley F.
Mather
Why citizens to-day have an advantage over the
prophets of Israel—The man of science sees every
event in history as a miracle—The cosmos may
contain an Absolute, but all we knovy is relative
—
The administration of the universe is revealed by
past and present activities—Behavior the clue
—
Mother Earth's diary covers two billion years. . . .
Most people, to-day, accept the facts of science
—
Knowledge and wisdom must be filtered through
human brains; that is our limitation—Man's faith
must accord with the facts he knows—Inanimate
nature discloses no loveliness—Living creatures
distinct from all other expressions of cosmic en-
ergy. . . . The difference of consciousness—The
process of life unfolds—Man not only responds to
stellar galaxies but to forces we call spiritual—He
is conscious of a world of values as well as of
matter—God, the motive power producing fine
personality—Does God deserve to be called
good? . . . Evolution acts not like a machine but
like a consistent personality—At least one small
corner of astronomic space, in the last few million
years, has been promoting goodwill—Things are
done that objectives may be reached—Volition be-
comes increasingly important as animals become
more capable—The earth is better now than it was
two billion years ago—Finer qualities of the mo-
tive power of the universe being constantly dis-
played. . . . What right have we to assume that
the world is better because man has appeared:
lives, fights and loves?—The basis for evaluating
attainments and estimating progress—Purpose al-
ways a definite attribute of the evolutionary
process—The goals which life has set are not
final—Attainment of aim, simply a starting point
for renewed experiments—If one increasing pur-
pose runs through the ages, its object is not yet
apparent—Is there a final goal ?—The scientist
PAGE
CONTENTS
. , FACE
must be skeptical—Life characterized by a cease-
less urge—The biped mammal who specializes ia
mentality—Man, at best, an afterthought of na-
ture Increasingly efficient types of life have
made their appearance on earth—The record in
the rocks indicates the gradual emergence of the
spirit of cooperation—The geologist can tell ap-
proximately when mother love was born on earth
—
Social comity, lately emerged, a highly valuable
ideal—Why we may look into the future with opti-
mism—The task of enlightened religion: to tell
men how to move upward as well as onward. . . .
The responsibility resting to-day on mankind the
greatest ever placed on an offspring of Mother
Earth—Attempt to evolve a fine social order made
several times in the past—Man continues the at-
tempt—Will he win?—The past promises victory
—
Man may choose whether he will cooperate or not
with these better forces of nature—Religion may
paint a picture of the world that ought to be. . . .
Man one of the most plastic of all animals—Hu-
man nature may and will change—How?—Science
seeks a religion determined by the experiences of
thoughtful^ men—Research helps religion by giv-
ing it an insight into the nature of the world and
of man—We look to Jesus to determine values
—
Apply the practical test to Christianity, as to a
scientific assumption—Is the Christian way of life
scientific?
II Christianity and Science by Robert
A. Millikan .....
The teachings of Christianity have exerted a tre-
mendous influence—Their significance entirely in-
dependent of the historicity of Jesus—His char-
acter, rather than historical events, gave him his
credentials—Essentials of religion are concern for
the common good, and high conception of duty
—
Religion's important task—What is for the com-
mon good is the whole problem of science. . . .
Only two kinds of moral conduct: careless living,
and refusal to follow the light when seen—Discov-
ery of these ideals exercised far-reaching influ-
ence—In fact, they are the most significant ele-
ments in the western religions—No man need
withdraw from religious groups—The Christian
church to-day controls ninety-five per cent of the
world's altruism—Withdraw the influence of
American churches and democracy would become
so corrupt it could not endure. . . . The religion
of the future—Civilization dependent on the re-
21
CONTENTS
ligion of the Golden Rule—The individual must
subordinate his impulse—The future will greatly
need Christianity—Conscience must be developed
—
God, as being who reigns through law, made mod-
ern science, and revolutionized thought—The new
God is the God of law and order: the new duty,
to get in harmony with that law and order—The
phrases, "all is matter," and "all is mind," are
shibboleths without meaning—Essential religion is
one of the world's greatest needs—The United
States' greatest contribution to world progress
will be an inspiring, reasonable religion—The
childish mechanical conceptions of the nineteenth
century—We do not understand the formations of
the physical universe—Nineteenth century physi-
cists took themselves too seriously—More new re-
lation in physics discovered to-day than in all
preceding ages. . . . Eternal truths found in past
ages: the architecture of the Egyptians, the art of
the Greeks, the teaching of Jesus—Much of
past knowledge still eternal truth—Present truth
merely supplements past truth—This entire process
is a slow, continuing growth—Choose neither the
conventional nor the radical, but use genuine con-
structive effort—Illustrating efforts which are not
constructive: perpetual motion machines, magnetic
belts—The fundamental laws in art, in finance and
education as well as in physics—Too many take
sides first and look up facts afterward. . . .
Finite mind cannot comprehend physical phenom-
ena—Danger of assertiveness without knowledge
—
Contemplation of modern physics keeps one humble
and reverent The great truth, that man
himself plays a part in the scheme of evolution
—
Our debt to Galileo, Pasteur, Franklin—Limitless
possibilities ahead for the enrichment of life
through science—That nature is benevolent has
become universal knowledge—The practical
preaching of modern science extraordinarily like
the preaching of Jesus—Its keynote is service, for
the sake of progress—Science neither adds to, nor
subtracts from, the knowledge of individual des-
tiny—Science's great contribution to religion is
that we ourselves may be vital agents in the march
of events—The idea of making a better world, the
most divine event, and due directly to science
—
That idea dominates religion to-day. . . . World
incurably religious, because reflection must go be-
yond present range of intellectual knowledge
—
That is the proper field of religion—Eternal truth
will always be discovered, and the best religion
recognizes that fact. . . . Physics urges religion
CONTENTS
and philosophy not to take themselves too seri-
ously—The human mind has made but the merest
beginning toward understanding the universe
—
The blunder of assertion without knowledge.
Ill Science Reverent Before Cosmic
Wonder by Arthur S. Edding ton .
41
Is the unseen world a reality?—Reality an inde-
terminate term—The mystic does face the hard
facts—Consciousness not primarily a device for re-
ceiving sense-impressions—Transcendental outlook
universally admitted—J, S. Holland's apotheosis to
an Indian night—The mystic sees other than the
measuring rod of science—How prized the mo-
ments which reveal the poetry of existence—Our
philosophy of life stands or falls on this cri-
terion—The scientist may venture on mysticism
and not feel guilty twinges—But he should feel
disturbed could he not sense the mysteries—Our
environment cannot be wholly measured with the
tools and symbols of science—Let science pause,
then, before denying to life religion We
seek perfect truth—Researches into the nature of
Deity may mean employing a conception unfolded
two thousand years ago—How I enter a room—We
must look at the problems of living, four dimension-
ally—How is the entropy of the world increas-
ing?—With great difficulty does a scientific man
pass through a door—Physical machinery alone
will not conduct us to man in his entirety. . , .
A certain belief says a future non-material exist-
ence is in store for us—A Heaven in time is more
at variance with modern science than a heaven
overhead—How can we reconcile theology and
science so far as the destinies of the human
soul are concerned?—Where draw the boundary
line? . . .Thirty years may see another revolu-
tion in science, perhaps a reaction.—So the scien-
tist does not philosophize: he seeks truth, how-be-
it, his ideas seem to zigzag—Progress with the
scientist means constant revision—He progresses
for himself, not necessarily for outside activities
—
The thought behind the scientific theory concerns
the philosopher rather than the theory—A future
revolution may come in the field of research, but
it will be like new words set to old music.
xiv CONTENTS
IV Modern Physical Science : Its Rela-
tion TO Religion by Heber D.
Curtis 51
Modern science demands theories dealing with the
transcendental. . . . The two fundamental con-
cepts of religion—Viewpoint of older scientist
was "lore of things heard"—His measuring rods
—
The older science could not accept entities which
stood by themselves—Conklin's "diabolical in-
genuity." . . . Must modern science call the great-
er facts unknowable?—A definition of science
—
It cannot be limited; and the cosmos must be or-
derly—Science is admitting the formerly hated
element of hypothesis—Newton's position that the
first cause is not mechanical—Gravitation giving
way to relativity. . . . No theory has an infinite
life—Science has no hierarchy for inerrant pro-
nouncements—Preachers of pleasant, or unpleas-
ant, certainties—But the laws of science, also,
were divinely ordained—Illustrations—Men of
research, now, admit continual change—Religion
and science, to-day, are chastened—Age-old laws
of thought are applicable to physical theory—The
laws of probability. . . . May we invoke a deity
for those who write?—Lest we fail to see the
forest for the trees—An error to attribute modern
change entirely to science—Science has not
changed religion in Its absolute sense—Certain
infinite concepts are eternal—The oneness of the
idea of God—Effect of modern science—Univer-
sality of religion not a scientific argument; neither
is martyrdom; neither is inspiration. . . . The
one scientific argument for a Supreme Mind is
based on analogy from the majestic universe
—
The limit science places in its own field, and
the field of the spirit—Reason for believing in
gravitation was that we had to have some hy-
pothesis—The alternative hypothesis of curved
space does not, in method, offend philosophy or
religion—Illustrations—Is Deity unknowable? . . .
Telescopes do not reach to infinity—The argu-
ments of analogy and probability—The finite niay
speculate about the infinite but may not conceive
it—Science only limited by the universe—Agnos-
ticism is dead—A lack of finality cannot prevent
one from thinking—Science warns religion against
finality—To state a fixed idea of God is unscien-
tific—The spirit of man is needed to complete our
theory of the universe—Eddington's achievement
in The Nature of the Physical IVorld. . . . But
CONTENTS
PAGE
a single answer to the relation of modern physical
science to religion—Scientists no longer think of
God as merely chemical and physical action
—
Mind and personality is the most wonderful phe-
nomena of all —Religion the most simple and satis-
fying hypothesis for experience—Our cosmos is
more wonderful than that of the ancient Hebrews;
and in equal proportion our knowledge and ex-
perience is more complete—The physical universe
as we know it to-day is religion's chief inspiration
and support.
A Biologist's Religion by Edwin G.
Conklin . . . . .
-75
Religion represents the conservative element, sci-
ence the progressive—Conflict occurs between the
conservative and the radical types of mind—The
most serious conflict, over the teaching of biol-
ogy—The old cosmogony—The perfect creation
—
No longer possible to think that m.an was made
perfect. . , . When youth loses faith—A Biologist's
creed of unbelief—Mark Twain's philosophy of
despair—Yet he worked for human better-
ment. . . . When one asks, "What is the use of
eflfort?"—Impossible to live a philosophy of ne-
gation and suicide—Trust the logic of events—In
science the test of truth is appeal to fact—The
test of philosophy and religion is: Can it be
lived? . . . Reason does not lead into the slough
of despond—Even revelation must subject itself to
reason—The old war cry against rationalism no
longer satisfies—Faulty mental processes have led
us into this morass. . . . The immensity of nature
and the smallness of man not an untruth—Man is
small compared to immensities of space and time;
but reason, conscience, aspiration have attained
greater measure—According to Isaac Watts and
the Psalmist. . . . Development from germ cells
has not degraded man—All the great leaders were
once babies and germ cells—Not man's origin, but
what he is and may be, the criterion of his dig-
nity—Evolution deals with processes, not ultimate
causation—Faith transcends science. , . . Gravity
and evolution do not drive God out of the uni-
verse—Order indicates a cosmos as against a
chaos—Science, applied to man, does not destroy
his freedom or responsibility—These values are
relative, not absolute. . . . Science and scholarship
do not trust ecclesiasticism and literalism—Science
cannot accept the fact of finality, anywhere—The
theory of a chance universe, more than any other
xvi CONTENTS
cause, is responsible for unbelief and fatalism
—
But our lives are not purposeless—Biology denies
it—A universe without purpose means a universe
without God or good—Finally, it is the assurance
of faith that makes life worth while.
VI The Meeting-Place of Science and
Religion by Albert Einstein . .
91
Sometimes we can divine a purpose in our being
on earth—Man is here for the sake of others
—
Outer and inner lives built on the labors of the liv-
ing and the dead—No freedom for us in the philo-
sophical sense—We act from inner necessity—Folly
to ponder over reason for one's existence—Ideals
of goodness, beauty and truth—Comfort and hap-
piness not the goal—Outward success contempti-
ble. . . . Not a horse for single harness—Never
belonged to his own family—Isolation may be bit-
ter: but it has its compensations—no one should
be idolized—Irony of fate to receive so much un-
merited admiration—To reach the goal one person
must carry the responsibility—Social distinctions
rest on force—Degeneracy follows violence—The
President of the United States has enough power
—
The personality, not the nation, is the true value
—
The odious militia—The soldier received his great
brain by mistake—School and press have corrupted
the common sense of nations. . . . The most beau-
tiful thing is the mysterious—Lament for him
whose eyes are closed—The mystery of life has
given rise to religion
—"In this sense I belong in
the ranks of the devoutly religious men"—We do
not wish a God who reflects human frailty—Can-
not believe in personal survival of death—Enough
to contemplate the mystery of life. . . . Need, es-
cape from pain, determine men's acts and thoughts
—This is the source of religion—Fear, the origin
of primitive religion—The gods must be placated
—A priestly class stabilizes this religion. . . . The
religion of social feelings and morality—Longing
for guidance, love, succor at the root of the moral
and social conception of God—God is the com-
forter, the protector—The evolution of religion in
the Bible—Common to all types of religion is God
made after the human likeness—Only exceptionally
gifted men rise above these types—In these is the
third interpretation: the cosmic religious sense
—
Here the individual feels the vanity of human de-
sires; he perceives the nobility of nature—In the
Psalms and the Prophets this higher conception
is disclosed—The cosmic religious sense has dis-
CONTENTS
PAGE
tinguished the religious geniuses of all times
—
These have been the heretics—Democritus, St.
Francis, Spinoza—The great function of art and
science is to promote this higher form—All this
means a change in the relation of religion to sci-
ence—A god who rewards and punishes is un-
thinkable. . . . The ethical behavior of men re-
quires no support from religion—How sad if man
must be kept in order through fear of punish-
ment—The cosmic religious experience the noblest
driving force behind research—The deep faith of
a Kepler and a Newton—The only deeply re-
ligious people are the earnest men of research.
VII Religion: Its Persistence and Hu-
man Character by Julian S.
Huxley 103
An estimate of religious philosophers—Does the
solution lie in dismantling the theistic edifice?
—
God turns out to be a product of the human mind
—As an independent being he does not exist—To
imagine that religion will cease is illogical—Re-
ligious emotion is human nature—Science will
mould the new evolution of religion—Can we pre-
dict its nature?—The most important ingredient
of any religion is a reverent agnosticism—Man
is a relative being—Man's construction not
adapted to understand the ultimate purpose of the
universe—The truly religious man must be content
not to know many things. . . . Do not mistake
wish for fact—Experience the important factor in
quest for knowledge—Aristotle's ideal of perfec-
tion ruled out
—"I am that I am"—Must accept
change in religion—What constitutes victory and
defeat for science and religion—Change in religion
does not mean forfeiture of stability—Progress a
sacred duty—Changes which will follow aban-
donment of a personal God—What remains for fu-
ture religion?—That the religious spirit is perma-
nent in human nature—Other agencies now carry
out functions of religion—Can no longer promise
salvation in the conventional sense—But it can
assure men that life is right and significant—The
picture science draws of the universe—Religion
must take account of that picture—Life evolving
toward more harmony, control, independence—Also
toward greater mental activity—Organic and in-
organic things composed of similar materials
—
Only one world-stuff—Consciousness must be at-
tribute of this—Materials of consciousness cannot
be measured—The universe of science works uni-
CONTENTS
FACE
formly—So do the laws governing the evolution
of life. . . . Man, a piece of the universal world-
stuff—Power displayed through cerebral hemi-
spheres of his brain—Given some one else's body
and brain our development would have been dif-
ferent—Enormous difference due to inheritance
—
With more detailed knowledge man car; control his
future—And that future extends for thousands of
millions of years. . . . We are relative beings
—
Minds and bodies are devices to assist us in the
struggle for existence—We are entrapped in our
own natures—How will religion assimilate mod-
ern knowledge? . . , The limitations of science
—
Science is simply one other way of handling the
chaos of experience—Accuracy of fact is secondary
to art—Science seeks laws and rules—One law ex-
plains an indefinite number of happenings—In-
sistence of research on verification, lest man's
imagination make a fool of him—These methods
alone will enable man to control his destiny—But
science is partial, morally neutral, and has no scale
of values—When research hands on a new idea it
is done—It is for religion to take the new idea and
apply to it a scale of values—Science gives men
new knowledge; religion helps men apply it
—
Conflict has resulted because religion has been op-
posed to the new knowledge—Many leaders of re-
ligion, however, are not afraid of it—Science may
destroy theologies but it cannot destroy reli-
gion. . . . Let religion and science make friendly
adjustments—Let religion assimilate the discover-
ies of research—What man will do with enormous
powers science is placing in his hands is an alarm-
ing problem—Religion must help solve that prob-
lem—The great aim of this human experiment is
to make life more worth the living—Both religion
and science have concessions to make—Let them
join hands on the basis of the infinite capacity of
life.
VIII Idealistic Confessions of a Behav-
lORiST by George Thomas White
Patrick 119
Religion concerned at the theory of behaviorism
—
It is said to teach materialism—It is said to be a
passing theory—But are these indictments cor-
rect?—Behaviorists study emotions. . . . So-called
radical behaviorists—They put psychology on a
level with other sciences of nature—They went be-
yond and called the body a response mechanism
—What consciousness is—The radical behaviorists
CONTENTS xix
thought of mind as mechanistic—Not behaviorism
itself, but its radical exponents, have brought the
belief in some circles into disrepute—Importance
to-day of the behaviorist point of view. . . . Be-
haviorism a method of study—The soul is born in
behavior—Why behavior must be a study of psy-
choIog>'—Mental processes distinct from biological
processes—Hov? intelligence, and mind, v^^ere born
—Mind not a function of brain—Psychology con-
cerned in the behavior of the whole individ-
ual. ... It is because we can think that we have
minds—Soul and body—Nothing like mind-stuflF
in protons and electrons—Energy brings us no
nearer to mind—A fuller view of evolution ex-
plains the psychical. . . . Evolution, now, not de-
velopment so much as building up—The signifi-
cant thing is the structure, not its component parts
—Reality is found in wholes, not in parts—Evo-
lution, to-day, does not point to a mechanistic uni-
verse—The ideal values are new creations—Not
what the world is made out of, but what it is made
into, is significant—Why take the atoms so seri-
ously?—Organization, not elements, the important
fact, because with organization emerges new prop-
erties and capacities. . . . Living beings not ag-
gregates of dead atoms, but organisms—Evolution
not the gospel of despair but of hope—At every
step it transcends mechanism—The universe is,
perhaps, an ever-expanding organism—Growth
and expansiveness illustrated in plant-life—The
conception of upward striving is essentially re-
ligious—Many now speak of "creative evolution"
—Mind not hidden in the simple responses of the
lower animals—Only this is sure: there will be
progress. . . . Mind: its magnificence—Spiritual
values not disclosed by "spirits," but by a half bil-
lion years of evolutionary growth—Mind loses no
worth or dignity from behaviorism—World move-
ment a process of realization—Ideal values may be
eternally real—Role of chance declining in modern
science—Some creative energy seems to be at
work—What is it.?—Life, a struggle to overcome
the past—Mind may be an ideal value evolved
by a creative power—Humanity will need some
future "great devotion."
IX Psychology and the Thought of
God by William McDougall . . 141
How lifelong labors in psychology affect the au-
thor's attitude—The existence of God must be
treated as a question of fact—The true province
CONTENTS
of philosophy—The true task of science—How con-
siderations of value distinguish scientific from
philosophical treatment. . . . There may be a
science of religion and a philosophy of reli-
gion—Why the man of science must be cold-
blooded—What evidence for Theism do I find
in my studies of mind—We have no proof of
the way organic evolution has been affected
—
Mental activity not a by-product of the chemistry
and physics of the brain—Intelligent and purpos-
ive activity cannot be adequately described in
terms of physics and chemistry—Mental activity
may survive dissolution of the body—This same
activity has become overwhelmingly important in
mankind. . . . The activities of mind must involve
reference to the future, whereas physical causation
implies no such factor—Psychology affords evi-
dence of the reality of mind in nature—Also, it
affords strong evidence that mental organization
is not dependent on the physical structure—The at-
titude of psychology toward man's "incurably" re-
ligious nature. . . . Does psychology yield positive
evidence in support of Theism?—Two presenta-
tions—The position of Kant—The higher animals
show the germ of our moral qualities—To what
man really owes his superiority. . . . The ex-
perience of some mystics supports the theistic
hypothesis—Telepathic communication is reason-
ably well established as an occasional occurrence
—The psychology of prayer introduced—The di-
lemma presented by psychic research—The mathe-
matical capacity—This is a problem of deep
significance—Did Mind or Intellect exist full-
blown before the evolution of human brainsi'
—
Most man have more brain-tissue than they can
ever use—The argument deduced from this
fact. ... In man's response to beauty is some-
thing beyond the scope of natural explanation
—
Do we have, in all cases, to do with the energy of
the sex-impulse, in our appreciation of beauty?
—
What of the effect of a grand tropical sunset?
—
The Freudian "consequence of social discipline"
—
Devotion to the beautiful makes men feel they are
living among immortal and ineflFable realities.
X How Science Changes Our Vision of
God by Sir J. Arthur Thomson . 159
Science is ever making a new world—Instances
—
The new in science does not disown the old;
rather develops out of it—No energy ever, mag-
ically, has disappeared—The form of matter may
CONTENTS xxi
PAGE
entirely change, but the amount remains constant
—How transformed energy gives us the bread of
life. . . . Forms of life teem with new possibili-
ties—Newness may be fresh orientation—New dis-
coveries mean increased mastery for man. . . .
Scientific knowledge as distinguished from non-
scientific—Scientific knowledge must be partial and
abstract—We cannot deny that feeling and obedi-
ence are rights of way towards reality—Other
riches of wisdom. . . . Science deals to-day in
terms of Matter, Energy, Life and Mind—The
impersonality of science—Why the scientific answer
cannot be the last word on the subject. . . .
Questions science never asks—Science and religion
must be consistent, but have different aims—How
advancing science modifies religious ideas. . . .
Visions of spiritual reality—Religious activity may
be intellectual, emotional, practical—It sends ten-
drils out into an unseen world—Most men need
religious faith to make sense of their world—That
some do not, means no more than that some people
are color-blind—In many ways the Nature-
Psalmists were a long ways ahead of us—Religion
not simply a human edifice—Its center is in a spir-
itual reality—That the Supreme Reality is an il-
lusion, does not fit the facts of history—When a
picture, as that of the reality of an atom, fits the
facts it is not an illusion—Other changes besides
the scientific one are changing our thought of
God. . . . First, the negative changes—How the
first cause is pushed further and further back
—
Nature and God greater than our thoughts—
A
great fact of life is its adaptiveness—Paley's idea
of the world as the work of a Divine Artificer
—
But the coming of Creative Purpose was better
—
It is a big thought that the fabric of the universe
is fashioned from four threads: matter, radia-
tions, life, mind—The three orders of facts com-
prising the universe—Can God be a summary of
all the physical and spiritual powers of the uni-
verse at the same time?—The search for a finite
God not justified. . . . To many minds science,
in itself, is indicative of divine purpose—Not
much gained by saying, "The laws of nature are
the thoughts of God"—We know as yet very few
of the laws of nature. . . . Darwin taught us to
regard the Creator as the Author of Evolution
—
Let us forget the unreal phrase, "fortuitous con-
course of atoms"—The grand conception of the
Creator of an orderly, progressive, beautiful world
—Astronomy sees the Cosmos the expression of a
supremely mathematical Mind; the biologist sees
CONTENTS
PAGE
it as the work of a Creator not unwilling to spend
millions of years fashioning an eagle's pinion
—
Organic Evolution, "an onward, advancing mel-
ody." . . . Descriptive nationalism characteristic
of scientific method of modern times—Our great-
est conception, the idea of God—Alfred Russel
Wallace's "spiritual influxes" to account for the
"Big Lifts" in evolution, as the emergence of
man—The biologist uses only verifiable resident
factors—The wider conception of Creative De-
sign—Philosophy and religion must show us how
created nature is never out of the thought of God.
XI This Creative Human Soul by
Michael Pupin . . . .181
Mystery of the soul will remain. . . . Cosmos for
chaos—Knowledge for which Tennyson yearned
—
Paderewski's ethereal touch—The power mani-
fested in man's soul—The soul is the creative co-
ordinator. . . . Creative power not man's high-
est—The soul that coordinates with God—Man's
chief problem—Place of church and state in the
process—The author's message from science. . . .
What is sound.''—Analogy of the clapper and the
bell—Bell to ear: ear to soul—Soul is where the
message of the bell is deciphered—Kreisler's violin
a bell—Kreisler's message from heaven. . . . What
is light?—The ancients knew the meaning of
light—Light is an electro-magnetic phenomenon
—
The magnitude of this discovery—Each atom in
the sun a busy radio station—When the telephone
bell rings—Dots and dashes in a ray of sunlight
—
The roses respond—This terrestrial cosmic bell
—
What sun and stars signal us—The young star
says. . . . Creative coordination not a metaphysi-
cal abstraction—Analogies in nature—How sun-
sets create sensations—Somewhere the signals from
the external world are given direction and order,
and become an intimate part of our consciousness
—The soul entity cannot be explained by any
known physical law—Consciousness a psychic
reality—Science asks: How does soul differ from
body; and, can research define soul?—Soul ac-
counts for our sensitive selves—Reasons from
faith in the creative power of soul—Outside New-
ton's laws of dynamics. . . . Enquiry as to the
values included in the human soul—The spiritual
element towers above all others—Man worships
—
Justification for worship—Contemplation of the
creative human soul inspires faith in God—Value
of spiritual realities exceeds that of physical reali-
CONTENTS
PAGE
ties—Great scientists of other days believed
strongly in spiritual elements—Humanity's eternal
quest—Creative coordination is the guide to the
higher levels—Spiritual forces the most powerful
coordinators. . . . Jesus testifies to the action of
spiritual forces—Spiritual dynamics—Obviously
similar to physical dynamics—The life and teach-
ing of Jesus the highest spiritual reality—The uni-
versal coordinating process that unites the physical
and the metaphysical worlds—Science and religion
supplement each other.
XII The History of Science a Search
FOR God by John Langdon-Davies 203
Scientists thought of as men apart—Yet they have
the same urge as poets and composers—Kepler's
exclamation—Every scientist looks for harmonious
movement in nature—Science as well as art is a
child of the imagination—The schools responsible
for making science a cold, utilitarian thing—In
reality research leads one to the land beyond
good and evil. . . . All of us together are attempts
to solve an unknown problem set by an unknown
something—A very exciting game is being played
with us as the pieces—Life for ever a series of
cellular expansions and contractions—We have
lived as our grandparents, and live again as our
children—At birth unconscious memory may per-
sist—Science, really, is autobiography—How the
misunderstandings of the pseudo-thinkers have ter-
rified the scientists. . . . Science always has been
seeking God—The controlling incentive of the
great men of research has been a desire to know
God—The thirst for religious truth the greatest of
all human thirsts—Few people so happy as the
scientists. . . . Research the best attempt at con-
structing a noble religion—It constitutes the modern
man's bible—No conflict between science and reli-
gion; only a conflict between two religious outlooks
—Orthodox religions were irritated, hence the con-
flict—What is real is the conflict between science
and fundamentalism. . . . Science, then, a poetic
search for God—Search for truth the most excit-
ing, exacting and exhausting of all quests—The
really enlightened man is he who founds his belief
on the rock of reality—The overbelief is a man's
religion—We must study the universe—True faith
is not for a lazy man—Modern man needs, beyond
all dispute, a religion—How, otherwise, balance
disappointment? . . . Science made for man, not
man for science—No man who has learned to un-
xxiv CONTENTS
PAGE
derstand science as religion and poetry fails to
think of research's chief function as that of dis-
coverer of God—The search offers unexpected
reward.
XIII Religion in a World Remade by
Science hy Harlan T. Stetson . 217
The man who believed the world was created in
six days—On the one side Fundamentalism, on the
other, free thinking. . . . To expel all religion
is to deny human nature—Science is constantly
enlarging the universe—Because a man's science
becomes intimately associated with his religion,
his religion must enlarge—Man dwells on a tiny
sphere—Those remote universes—Earth, to the
ancient mind, was the chief concern of creation
—
Our present conception of the universe compared to
that held by the writer of the book of Genesis
—
Man never can learn the true nature of things at
any one time—Giant stars, dwarf stars, our little
solar system—Life presumably exists on many
other heavenly bodies. . . . The tremendous
change in man's view of the cosmos—Nothing but
his self-consciousness keeps him in the stupendous
scheme of the universe—Are those units which
make worlds also building blocks of the mind?
—Do they finally result in the Supreme Order of
Intelligence?—VVe must readjust our ideas rapidly
to keep pace with present-day research—Some
may not care to exert themselves mentally; but
to such this volume is not addressed. . . . The
scientific mind is more alert to change than the
religious—Over-much reverence for tradition
—
Why many, to-day, feel on the brink of spiritual
disaster—Why a new religion is probable. . . .
Religion, centering attention on forces outside
man's self, always an asset—Science and supersti-
tion never can dwell under the same roof—Re-
ligion usually centers about a deified personality
—
The evolution of Deity always reflects each social
change—The sad story of the warfare between
science and religion—Mediaeval theology could not
stop scientific discovery. . . . Man then, and man
now—Science has changed the definition of God:
It has changed religion—How much better fitted
the scholar of to-day to project a religion of the
future than the religious zealot of yesterday—The
Bishop of Ripon, who said scientists should take
a ten-year holiday—What science has done to free
men from a fatalistic philosophy—Research sees a
spiritual universe—The theory of vibrations in a
CONTENTS XXV
PAGE
hypothetical ether suggestive of spiritual reality
—
Science, at best, can give but a partial view of hu-
man experience and the cosmic scheme—Research
carries to the borderland of metaphysics—There
religion and philosophy must take up the
quest. . . . The limitations of the human mind
—
The realms where consciousness cannot go—All
have experiences not to be expressed in terms
of the metric system, weight and measure—The
facts of science, to-day, inevitably determine re-
ligious thinking—Relativity encourages man to
believe, after all, that his place in the universe
is important—Structurally, he is made of the same
stuff stars are made of—How man plays his part
will depend as much on his religion as his sci-
ence. . . . The vastly enlarged concept of God
—
Man may still be related to his Heavenly Father
—The new chapter of a religion universe-wide
—
Immortality defined as a non-temporal persistence
of personality—Religion's problem: how to re-create
and inspire in a world remade by science. . . .
The great hindrance of the conventional church
service—man to-day just as much interested in re-
ligion as in other emotional appeals—Only by in-
terchange and comparison can we evolve a con-
cept big enough to embrace God and man.
XIV The Universe a Great Thought by
Sir James Jeans . . . .239
We cannot interpret nature on engineering lines
—
But we may interpret it in terras of mathematics
—A signal to Mars—Shadows from the outer
world of reality—The Great Architect a pure
mathematician—Nature follows the laws of pure
mathematics. . . . Nature and our mathematical
minds follow similar laws—The cosmos models its
behavior on pure thought—The creations of the
mathematician consist of thought, as those of the
engineer consist of engines—All structures are
concepts of pure thought—We observe intelligent
action-at-a-distance, as if each part of the universe
knew what every other part was doing—Laws
which nature obeys are not like those of a ma-
chine, but like those a musician obeys when writ-
ing a fugue—The universe can best be pictured
as the pure thought of a mathematical thinker
—
Bishop Berkeley's summary. . , , Are we about to
see realism abdicate, and idealism enthroned?—Is
the "real essence of substances" beyond our knowl-
edge?—Perhaps objective realities are real; per-
haps ideal—The true label is mathematical—We
CONTENTS
PAGE
may not know what things are, but we may know
how they behave—The material world remains
substantial, though substantiality is a purely men-
tal concept—Dr. Johnson's experiment—Illustra-
tions for the problem of reality—Universal mind
cannot know the element of surprise—Comparisons
of reality and unreality—The concept of the uni-
verse as pure thought sheds light on many clouded
situations found in modern physics. ... A uni-
verse of thought postulates creation as an act of
thought—Finiteness almost obliges us to "paint
creation as an act of thought"—Electrons imply
thought—Modern science discloses a creator work-
ing outside time and space, contrary to the cosmog-
ony of Genesis.
XV The Scientific Argument for Per-
sonal Survival by Sir Oliver
Lodge . . . . . .251
Reluctance felt for spirit communication—The gen-
eral public does well to be cautious—It should
wait for wider consensus of approval—Assertions
plentiful about unusual phenomena—Trustworthy
evidence difficult to obtain—Testimony about psy-
chic happenings prevalent through human history
—Looked at askance because no guiding theory
has been formulated—Psychic phenomena is sus-
pected not only because of its unusual character
—
Much orthodox science is of this character—But
because of preconception and prejudice. . . . Aim
of science has been study, mostly, of naturalistic
phenomena—Actions of higher beings liable to be
discounted as relic of primitive superstition—Once,
planetary motion attributed to psychic guidance
—
Then came Newton and Laplace with theory of
gravitation—So science was born—Lightning, vol-
canoes, disease were given physical causes—Ever
since science has sought physical reasons for phe-
nomena—Physical processes underly all cosmic
marvel—The stars have yielded their secrets. . . .
Why the spirit hypothesis is considered a step
backward—Can all consciousness be explained by
mechanism?—What of Beauty?—Could mechan-
ical human structures apprehend the universe?
—
Human nature more than a mechanism—Emotions
of poetry, drama, music transcend the physical
basis—Man has elements which are more than
physical processes: he has faith, hope, love
—
Chemical processes are but manifestations of these
higher purposes. . . . The philosopher's view
—
Reality more than the mechanicians have thought
CONTENTS
—Testimony to survival of death no longer unac-
ceptable—We are not traitors to science when we
explore unusual mental processes—Much evidence
that personality persists; and evidence is increas-
ing—Realities do not go out of existence—Intelli-
gence, tastes, aptitudes, continue—The God of
Science greater and more glorious than the God
of theology. . . . What does survival mean? Life,
not death, is the fundamental thing—Energy and
matter need not always be associated—Energy
never destroyed—Interaction between life and mat-
ter is temporary—What individual survival in-
cludes—May be many grades—Example of white
blood corpuscles—Bees are communists. . . . Cells
of the body guided by common instinct—The or-
ganism as a whole may have identity, but cells do
not—Comparisons in inorganic nature—Rivers
have individuality, so do vegetables and lower-
animals—It is the element of mind and conscious-
ness that postulates permanent existence. . . .
Where does element of conscious striving enter?
This element is the germ of the soul—Soul postu-
lates a higher life—Soul may be minute; it may
be dominant—A reality great or small, persists
—
The soul of the poem is not in the printed words
—The permanent thing which put the body cells
together endures long after the cells have been dis-
persed. . . . The remaining question one of fact
—
Evidence of survival depends on experience not
argument—Critically examine the evidence
—
"Nothing irrational in idea of spirit persistence"
—
We are dealing with evidences—We cannot thrust
aside actual evidence any more than we can accept
faulty evidence—Things are not true because we
wish them true; but neither are they false because
we wish them false—Intuitions of genius have a
value of their own—Cold-blooded, direct evidence
is vouched for—This, ultimately, will convince all
humanity.
XVI Psychical Research, Science and
Religion by /. Malcolm Bird . 267
Psychical research represents a relation between
the ego and its universe—The controversy an open
one—Phenomena have always occurred, probably
always will—We must do our best to deal with
them—This paper deals with a single important
issue out of many. . . . Even a medium must eat
—Atmosphere of relaxation and ease necessary in
the seance room—When the entranced medium un-
dergoes dissociation of personality—Entities possess
xxviii CONTENTS
the medium's vacated shell—These entities offer
proof that would be taken seriously in any court
of law—My own mental content is unique to me.
. . . When the communicating entity talks to the
sitter—Can we prove that the communicator did
not previously know facts he states about the sit-
ter?—Suppose Sir Arthur Conan Doyle should
communicate—He is known to fame, and his traits
are public property—But suppose the spirit entity
and sitter are totally unknown to the medium, and
details known to both alone come through?—The
files of Psychical Research Societies reveal many
such instances—How did the knowledge get into
the medium's mouth? . . . The clairvoyant read-
ing—The clairvoyant gets precisely the same sort
of evidence as the trance medium—Variations of
the types quite frequent—A hypothetical sitting
after the technique known as psychometry—The
results similar to those obtained through trance
and clairvoyance—A large common denominator
between psychometry and spirit mediumship. . . .
We must be true to scientific principles in inter-
preting psychic manifestation—Crystal gazers
—
Reasoning out psychometry—A faculty of the
sub-conscious mind-levels—Similarity of results
through spiritistic and non-spiritistic means—
A
unique personal experience. . . . Why the incident
afforded no proof of spirit return—A small per-
centage of seance-room phenomena take the form
of communication from living communicators—The
subconscious is unwilling to tolerate a mystery:
hence some dreams—When the subconscious is in
control—A preferable alternative to the spiritistic
hypothesis. . . . The double scheme of seance-
room manifestations—Numerous cogent arguments
that spirits of the dead are present—We cannot
accept the universal applicability of the spirit hy-
pothesis—Neither can we deny that there are occa-
sions when spirits of the dead are present. . . .
Justification of this paper in this volume—Why
orthodox science always turned thumbs down on
the whole field of psychical research—Science has
suffered a fundamental overturn—The old system
totally unable to give an adequate picture of the
universe—Research no longer believes the uni-
verse is all matter and energy—No informed
scientist to-day denies action at a distance—Rela-
tivity provides a framework for the new universe;
and we certainly have a new universe—Experi-
mental science cries out for a new cosmic philos-
ophy—In a remarkable manner psychical research
steps in and offers rationalized psychic phenomena
CONTENTS xxix
as a distinctly helpful means of explaining the new
universe. . . . Relativity pictures the present and
future as co-extensive—Striking coincidence be-
tween the conceptions of the future held by relativ-
ity and psychical cognition—Psychic power by no
means an abnormal function—The spiritistic and
psychological hypotheses for manifestations de-
scribed in this paper must exist side by side
—
When science and religion may come together
—
They are coming together with psychical research
the common meeting-ground—Religion and science
must make contributions: religion by abandoning
its doctrinaire aspect; science by release from ma-
terialism—Psychic phenomena stands precisely at
the crossroads where science and religion must
eventually meet.
Conclusion ....... 295
Index ......... 299
"The materialistic position that there is nothing in the world
but matter, force and necessity, is as utterly devoid of justifica-
tion as the most baseless of theological dogmas."
Thomas H. Huxley.
INTRODUCTION
WEare entering one of the most significant
periods in the records of the human race,
so far as man's attempt to explain himself
and his relation to the universe is concerned. This
is said, mindful of historic evolutions, revolutions and
reformations.
The thought, perhaps oftenest in our mind, is that
about the meaning of life for us, personally, and the
meaning of the universe that envelops us. It may be
a narrow path that leads from the breakfast table to
the office and home again. Calls to household tasks
come day in, day out. The necessity for carrying on
the occupation, pleasant or unpleasant, through the
years in order to support the family may find us dis-
pirited and rebellious at times. But always, on the
elevations and in the depressions of experience, we are
thinking, thinking—why we are here, and what we are
here to do.
Human beings are not flitting about like the moth
in a glare of light, without sense of direction. They
have definite sense of direction. This whole fabric of
education, industry, business, families, states, inter-
national combinations, is built up on the assumption
that life has purpose and meaning. Just what that
purpose and meaning may be we are puzzled to know.
But to conclude that it is not present constantly and
everywhere is to make life a trifling episode on the
one hand, or a grim punishment on the other. But life
xxxii INTRODUCTION
is neither trifling nor a punishment for most of us;
it is an experience filled with promise, with delights,
with great expectations.
But we do desire, often with yearning unspeakable,
to explain the mysteries; to be assured that all the
beauties philosophy has described, all the rewards re-
ligion has promised, are actual, and not plausible the-
ories only. Religion actually proves nothing; neither
does philosophy—In the sense in which men require
proof to-day. Philosophy investigates and interprets.
Religion professes and has faith. But neither gives
to reason convictions which can withstand the attacks
of doubt and despair when the "lights are low and
all the wheels of being slow."
We need to say in justice to the philosopher that
he is "the spectator of all time and of all existence,"
to use Plato's interpretation. He must hold his con-
clusions in abeyance. He must keep himself outside
the whirl of events, yet he must constantly be aware
of them. Philosophy's relation to science is to inter-
pret the facts It discovers, often fragmentary. Re-
ligion then takes this Interpretation and idealizes it,
glorifies it perhaps. Science, in this connection, con-
stantly checks religious Impulse. Religion, with equal
right, may warm up science.
We are not for a moment removing philosophy and
religion from their rightful places. They have given
to experience, and will continue to give, riches of
knowledge and hope. We simply say they have not,
with all their striving, explained the enigma of crea-
tion—the eternal paradox of whence, why, and
whither. Perhaps this is not a justified indictment.
INTRODUCTION xxxiii
It is not In the estimation of those who say that the
creative genius is unknowable. But Is it unknowable?
Chapter by chapter the book of knowledge of the
eternal meaning of things unfolds. As rapidly as the
human race can assimilate new facts they are impinged
on some human brain. Philosophy will help in this
ultimate solution; so will religion. But their function,
probably, is not that of discovering Cosmic Reality;
but of conserving the best in experience, to reassure,
to visit the widow and the fatherless in their affliction,
noble enough callings.
Leaders of religion, of course, will question this
position. They will ask: Is not the great and final
function of religion discovery and Interpretation of
Cosmic Reality? Perhaps so. Yet religion has not
found that Reality, much less interpreted it, in the
estimation of many thoughtful and devout men, par-
ticularly when the terms Cosmic Reality and God are
thought of synonymously, as they usually are in com-
mon thinking. We are not so disturbed over the fact
that traditional religion interprets the God-Reality
with some hundreds of different definitions, as we are
that not one of them proves much of anything to
thoughtful, honest seekers. These seekers admire the
devotion and self-denial of the devout religionist.
They may envy him his assurance, and the consolation
his convictions afford him in times of distress; but his
attempted demonstration that God exists does not con-
vince them. Why? Because, for the most part, re-
ligion has been seeking and describing a God of three
dimensions, a being to conform to its earthly notions
of time, space and measurement. In speaking of
xxxiv INTRODUCTION
heaven these descriptions only outline an exalted earth.
The unlettered negroes of the far southern part of
the United States have implicit belief that Jehovah,
the hero of the Old Testament, is directly concerned
in their welfare. This conviction carries them joy-
fully through many labors and tribulations. Now the
Jehovah of the Old Testament is not to be dismissed
with a gesture of indifference, by any means. From
Genesis on through to Hosea he is a magnificent figure,
perhaps as magnificent a figure of deity as has ever
been described in the sacred books of nations. And
certainly the thought of deity as directly concerned for
a favorite people's welfare, seeking to make them
worthwhile men and women, trying all sorts of experi-
ments : the gift of Paradise, the terrible punishment
of all but extermination, direction to the Promised
Land, once more the discipline for wilfulness in a sad
captivity; and then learning at last that only vicarious
suffering will save the race, is one of the noblest stories
ever told. And surely nothing that has ever happened
In this world has set the human race further along its
way than the sublime self-denials of Jesus.
All this has pointed the road. Jesus was a spiritual
genius, best exemplar of an eternal, merciful Reality.
If there is any proof of God in religion it is in Jesus
and in other heroic souls who have lived in imitation
of him. It is certainly not in theologies, creeds and
spectacular declarations, as an infallible Bible, a de-
cree-in-council, or a pronouncement ex-cathedra.
We have had pantheism, deism, theism, agnosticism,
humanism, and other labelled schools of religious
thinking: one declaring God has been found and his
INTRODUCTION
nature described; another that he cannot be found,
hence cannot be described; another that he Is an inti-
mate experience; another that he is as far away as the
most distant nebula. But it rather seems as if these
would-be prophets and dialecticians came out by the
same door through which they went In. And which-
ever way the final verdict stood, the humble seeker
after truth and light did not find his doubts dissolved
nor his troubles lessened. High-powered discussions
as to whether God exists or does not exist do not help
average men and women much.
And how has it been with Immortality? The at-
tempt to demonstrate Immortality has exhibited pre-
cisely the same irresolute, unconvincing methods. A
religion without convictions of Immortality Is hardly
a religion. Yet religion has no proofs that man sur^
vives the breaking up of this physical structure. Lead-
ers of religion whose chief duty Is to assure those who
have loved and lost, of personal survival, have no defi-
nite argument to present. Again and again their con-
solation goes no further than to ask the bereaved to
be resigned, to believe that all Is well, that God is
good. Once more. If religion tries to explain immor-
tality, which, of course, It does, it uses terms which fit
an Immortality of three dimensions: with a Valhalla,
a Paradise, a Dante's Imaginative portrayal, a St.
John's vision of repose and reward.
There have been, and are still, high and noble souls
within the sacred precincts, who, when they go up to the
temple go up to pray; and the remembrance of them
is blessed. A religious idea carried through with earn-
estness and sincerity, though reason rebels at it, com-
mands our admiration. One of the most astonishing
xxxvi INTRODUCTION
instances in the development of the western part of
the United States was the migrations of the Mormons
under the autocratic, shrewd leadership of Brigham
Young, from Missouri to the valley of the Great Salt
Lake. Those people represented a religion which was
founded on pure fallacy on the one hand and colossal
egotism on the other. Yet it commanded the devotion
of thousands of men and women through religious
persecutions surpassing any ever inflicted in this coun-
try. It sent the contingent over a thousand miles of
unknown desert and mountain; persuaded them to set-
tle In a region so salt and arid that only one scrubby
tree grew there; and Induced them to accept an insti-
tution, that of plural marriage, so repugnant to the
natures of many of them who were of New England
Puritan extraction, that they declared they would
rather have died than conform. If there Is any Influ-
ence In this world which can exceed that of a religious
Idea, true or false, which has become a conviction In
the human mind, it has not been our fortune to have
chanced upon It. Salt Lake City and the development
of Utah is proof.
What we wish to prove Is this, however. Religion
has been trying these centuries of time to demonstrate
the reality of God; and to assign him place and meas-
urement. It has been trying with equal diligence and
methods to prove that man is Immortal. It has failed
In both Instances. Religion certainly has not failed
to Implant convictions In response to which men have
joyfully confronted physical torments. It has not
failed to provide consolation and reassurance for mul-
titudes of saddened people. An honest practice and
INTRODUCTION
profession of religious faith is the finest act in which
humankind can engage. In the name of religion some
of the most sublime deeds have been enacted and lives
lived. We would not be lacking for a moment in
proper recognition of all this; and a reverence for the
faith in whose name it was done. But we cannot see
that we are much nearer finding God as Cosmic Reality
through the help of religion, or of proving immortality,
than we were back in the time of the first dim dawning
in the primitive Neanderthal mind that there might
be such a reality; and that something might happen
to a man's spirit when, after bravely fighting, he was
killed by his enemy.
Some are about to conclude now that we are going
to say that this remarkable swing of science away from
the materialistic and metallic interpretation of the uni-
verse, held generally by science up to the beginning of
this century, to an idealistic and spiritual interpreta-
tion of experience, means that science is going to do
what religion and philosophy have failed to do, namely,
find God, and assure us that we live on in other spheres
of activity. But we are not going to say that at all.
In the first place there is no man of science we know
who would for a moment assume that responsibility,
one which religion has blithely assumed for some cen-
turies; and in the second place most men of research
do not think it is in their province to capture and de-
fine ultimate reality.
As to investigation into personal survival, the other
element of universal human interest which religion has
always considered within its particular jurisdiction, an-
other attitude needs to be taken, and is taken in the
two papers in this symposium on that subject. Psychic
INTRODUCTION
research is a distinctly scientific activity. We may add
that no endeavor in the field of science has displayed
a higher courage. If personal survival has been, or
is to be proved, psychic research will be the method.
The genius of science is to find a fact—whether it
be the positive and negative activities of an electron,
the marvellous utilities of carbon, or the composition
of the planet Jupiter. But, inasmuch as science must
of necessity include an exploration of the phenomena
of the universe, multitudinous in variety, it, necessarily,
in every one of its explorations, is searching for ulti-
mate reality. How can it help it? Science is the
great truth-seeking adventure. Devoted men of sci-
ence do not conclude that the effort is ill-spent when
the energies of a lifetime are dedicated to the discov-
ery of a germ responsible for a particular disease; or
to the measurement of light waves or sound waves;
or to the discovery and charting of a star galaxy.
Everywhere are these men toiling quietly to discover
and prove a fact. So we hear of the devoted young
research worker who knew his organic chemistry so
well that he saved his firm $150,000 in three years.
His salary was $3,000 a year, which the firm did not
increase ; and the young man did not ask it.
And then there is the instance of Dr. Albert A.
Michelson whose earthly investigations ceased as this
symposium was being prepared; and who was invited
to contribute to it but could not, owing to rapidly fail-
ing health. Dr. Michelson was within a few hours
of death, and aware of its approach, when he com-
pleted his final experiment, and dictated its results.
For half a century he had studied light, its source,
gradations, velocity, and so on. This last experiment
INTRODUCTION xxxix
involved correction of a possible error in the speed of
light—perhaps a mile in 186,000 miles a second. Sci-
ence, also, hath its consecrated followers.
The results of the labors of research-men are before
us in a multitude of practical everyday applications. It
is probably true that we could not have had a science
without a religion; but it is true, also, that we could
not have had an applied religion as we know it to-day
without a science. No one doubts that the vast ex-
panses of the universe, disclosed by giant telescopes,
exist. No one doubts the miracles performed by radio
activity. No one doubts the marvels of plant and
animal life revealed by long, patient explorations in
the field of biology. In other words when science an-
nounces a discovery the average man accepts the dis-
covery, because the method of the scientist is not to
announce the fact until it has been proved. Science
has been mistaken, and will be again. But the point
is this, its method of procedure is sound and begets
confidence, and its motive is honest and often self-
effacing.
We have said that science disclaims the Intention
of searching for God. In reality science cannot help
searching for God in every minutest action it makes,
because it is a search for reality; and a search for
reality always is a search for God. So we have the
paradox of investigators engaging with skill, diligence,
often self-denial, in a search they are hardly aware
they are engaging in; and which, strangely enough, yet
not so strangely either, in the last two or three years,
has brought them square up against the precise prob-
lem with which religion and philosophy so long have
been struggling.
xl INTRODUCTION
So we see leading scientists centering their efforts
on a solution of the puzzle of the ages: the creative
force back of phenomena, and the destiny of man's
spirit.
Alexander Pope said once, "The undevout astrono-
mer is mad." He might have extended his discerning
comment to the fields of mathematics, biology, physics,
chemistry, psychology and psychics. No man, familiar
daily with the astonishing demonstration of unity, pur-
pose, activities, combinations of the wonders of crea-
tion, as men working in these fields must be, could fail
to be profoundly reverent before the majesty and glory
of it all. Men engaged in research, from Copernicus
and Newton through Darwin, Spencer and Huxley,
and on to our own day, have been men of deep religious
feeling. They were distinctly non-conformists. But
that did not mean they lacked the profound religious
urge. We might put it this way: they worked in the
spirit of science.
In every epoch of the evolution of scientific thought,
orthodox religion has been left rather far in the rear.
This fact is as true to-day as it was when the Inquisi-
tion compelled Galileo, at the age of seventy, after he
had made the richest contribution to progress of any
man of his time, to recite an incantation. In addition
he was sentenced to prison, and obliged to repeat, by
way of penance, the seven penitential psalms daily for
three years. Yet the ecclesiastical council which sen-
tenced him and silenced him, triumphant enough in its
own day, in ours has been mercilessly exposed and ridi-
culed; while Galileo is thought of as the really religious
INTRODUCTION xli
force of his time. Nor are we to forget that history
is constantly repeating itself.
It probably is true, as John Langdon-Davies de-
clares again and again in his remarkable book, Man
and His Universe, that the entire endeavor of research
from the beginning until now has been to find God.
But not until the present time has science left its tra-
ditional seclusion, come out into the open, and de-
clared—or at all events not denied—that its true ob-
jective is the Eternal Reality, creating and sustaining,
in this mysterious universe. Consciously or uncon-
sciously, research has set itself to prove that the uni-
verse is more than a fortuitous concourse of atoms
—
it has a soul. All of which gives aid and comfort to
the average man that the beauties of life have not been
lost, as he may have feared, and that as an individual
he may have eternal expectations.
The early Hebrews were satisfied with a deity who
would conduct them to a land flowing with milk and
honey, help them conquer it, and provide them with
commandments, laws, sacrifices and rituals. Then
Jesus came, speaking not like the Scribes and Pharisees
who were immersed in the Mosaic tradition. He
taught that the law, the sacrifice and the ritual were
not the most Important. God is a spirit, a soul. He
desires spiritual service. In consequence the dialec-
ticians who spent their days in the temple debating
what the Mosaic law meant as touching disposal of
the meat left from the burnt-offerings, rose in their
wrath and might. Jesus had spoken rebellious words.
He must be silenced or he would overturn the estab-
lished order of things. In reality the ecclesiastics of
xlii INTRODUCTION
his day feared what ecclesiastics of all times have
feared—that their philosophy of life, built up with
extreme care and system, would be found wanting.
But Jesus was right. The trouble has been that
traditional religion has been on the side of the Inquisi-
tion and the Synagogue. But that was not the worst of
It: the worst of it was, that it thought, at the same
time, that it was on the side of the angels. Undoubt-
edly the corporation of the Pharisees believed they
were doing Jehovah loyal service when they persuaded
Pilate to crucify the outcast. Undoubtedly the in-
quisitors believed society was being well served when
they silenced Galileo because his assertion that the
earth had diurnal rotation was "absurd in philosophy,
and erroneous as to faith." We have no sect of Phari-
sees or Holy Office to-day which could exert similar
pressure. But somehow the methods and deductions
of established religion do not inspire confidence; and
a cry of despair is heard in the land, the quality of
which no observing mind will mistake.
The question, then, before us is—and it is exceeded
in importance by no question of our time—Can science
find God? And, equally important, can it prove to us
that we survive the event of death? If science suc-
ceeds in doing this, despite its reluctance to assume the
responsibility, it will confer on mankind the greatest
benefit it ever has conferred; and, in reality, only be
following out the convictions of two of its greatest
exponents, Thomas Huxley and Louis Pasteur. Said
Huxley: "Science inculcates veracity of thought and
action, without which there can be no alleviation to
the suffering of mankind." And Pasteur closely fol-
lows him: "The cultivation of science in its highest
INTRODUCTION xliii
expression is perhaps more necessary to the moral con-
dition than to the material prosperity of a nation."
Opinions included in this book have been gathered
for the purpose of proving to everyday men and women
that men of research are beginning to find evidence of
God and of continuance of active life in spheres beyond
that of earth.
If God is found research will find Him, and not tra-
ditional religion. But here we must not be misunder-
stood. We are entirely reverent, and appreciative of
the great services of religion to suffering, groping hu-
manity. Thesepapers are not invectives against religion
;
they would point the way to a religion of more expan-
sive, nobler proportions. Neither do we wish to re-
move science from its legitimate sphere. But we are
Inclined to think that the sooner religion in the ortho-
dox and traditional sense surrenders the quest for Cos-
mic Reality, and concentrates on serving men in their
personal needs, the better for religion and the better
for humanity. Religion has been given a considerable
chance. But has it found any but a nebulous, uncer-
tain, unsatisfactory God? Religion has measured
deity with the rods of dogma, pronouncements of
councils, sectarian confessions, which, in turn, have
been determined by political expediency, tradition, and
a knowledge limited to locality and time.
No rigorous religionist ever dreams of finding God
by the laboratory method; the thought savors too much
of Irreverence: but does it savor of Irreverence? Is
there any real logical objection to searching for God
through the scientific method? In fact, are not other
methods repugnant to reason? After all, science at
xliv INTRODUCTION
its best is an expression of poetry, art, harmony; ele-
ments intimately associated with the God Idea.
Science has developed the spectroscope, microscope,
telescope and a score of other observing, measuring,
tabulating instruments. It has discovered, measured
and analyzed the nearest and minutest forms of life,
and the most distant and colossal. In this way it has
vastly extended and expanded, beyond anything re-
ligion has ever known, the elements, achievement and
character of the Supreme Architect. Between the
Deity of organized religion and that of research, in
this particular, a gulf wide and deep is fixed; which,
of course is one reason why science and religion per-
petually misunderstand each other. Behind the elec-
tron with its wonder-challenging, incessant activity,
and the giant star-cluster recently discovered at the
Mount Wilson Observatory which is moving away
from the earth at the rate of 7,200 miles a second, may
be an Infinite control—science is not denying it. This
control, traditional religion with its restricted meth-
ods, never can find. Until it broadens its horizon
considerably it never can comprehend the light, the
glory and the majesty of this tremendous Cosmic
Force. According to the best in religion God is a
creating, sustaining activity. Between this hypothesis
and the hypothesis of contemporary science there is
no conflict. But between the method and the practice
there is a wide difference, which makes cooperation
diflicult.
Probably the conceptions of God in the minds of
men of research, and those in the minds of sectarians
are as far apart as the antipodes; so that when the
two talk of Eternal Reality, and of religion also, they
INTRODUCTION xlv
mean entirely different values. Science can under-
stand how the professor of a certain religious belief
devotes himself to playing the Good Samaritan, and
can admire him for it, for it knows well enough that
the only way real moral progress is made is by appli-
cation of that parable. But it cannot understand a
God measured in three dimensions; and confined in
rituals and denominational statements. John Tyndall
was right: science has no protest to make against re-
ligion as a search for God, he said, it only protests
when that search expends its energies in the manufac-
ture of "Mythological scenery."
Leaders of religion nobly resisted the trend of sci-
ence to make the universe a machine controlled by a
set of mechanical laws. And this idea of the universe
as a mechanism set going in some mysterious fashion
began to lose ground early in the present century. Re-
search workers began to suspect there might be back
of phenomena more than the dust of which its material
was composed, and the ninety-two elements of matter
into which it had been resolved. Some of them began
to see the universe as a mathematical design. But
there can be no mathematical design without a de-
signer. This Idea steadily gained strength, until to-
day, research, as we have attempted to explain, Is, In
reality, a search for God, and for eternal life.
We have had occasion to criticize the methods of
religious leaders. As a matter of fact rehglon re-
mains the supreme concern of mankind, the hope of
mankind, and the inspiration of mankind. Its steps,
at times, may have faltered; but even in its faltering
It prepared the way for the men of research; and no
xlvi INTRODUCTION
honest research-worker fails to understand it that way,
or fails to acknowledge his debt.
Religion, then, is the parent of research. The prod-
igal has caused the father much doubt and anxiety.
But who can tell—the son may return at last. At no
time In the history of the two movements were they
nearer converging than the present. Religion can
never become a science, not even a glorified science.
But science may become a religion, and seems on the
verge of doing so. Here is an opportunity for inter-
preters of the universe and man's place in it, an oppor-
tunity, perhaps, without precedent. Life for every
man is going to be tremendously benefited by this new
understanding on the part of science of its relation to
the religious life of the community. And religion, pro-
test though it does, is seeing its possibilities wonder-
fully increased. Science needs the fervor, the faith,
the human-heartedness religion has to give. And re-
ligion needs the method, the vision, the discoveries of
science. Between them they should and will give us
an Eternal Reality glorious beyond imagining; and a
life here and hereafter joyous and filled with deep
meaning.
Present-day research sees design in the universe.
This is one of the most significant contributions ; be-
cause, as we have already pointed out, if there is de-
sign there must be an entity of some sort making the
design. Always among us will be mystical spirits who
will see an infinite and beneficent purpose continually
at work. The fact must not escape our attention that
we have at present possibly the most able and devoted
group of men engaging in the work of research of any
epoch In the evolution of science. Certainly at no
INTRODUCTION xlvii
time have men of science made such free confessions
of faith. God reveals Himself in mysterious ways.
What right have we to say that metaphysics does not
operate, under specific conditions, in the affairs of
men? On this hypothesis revelation, in truth, is not
sealed. There must be a Power outside ourselves
which works for righteousness. Is that Power going
to reveal itself, again, through the vast, marvellously
ordered cosmos disclosed by modern science?
Not long ago Einstein announced his religious faith,
an exceedingly simple confession for the exponent of
the theory of relativity; which inclines us to think that
this investigator, who has set on foot the greatest rev-
olution in human thinking since Darwin, may be, after
all, a simple soul. He merely said that "the cosmic
religious experience is the strongest and noblest driving
force behind scientific research"; that "it is enough for
me to contemplate the mystery of conscious life per-
petuating itself through all eternity, to reflect upon
the marvellous structure of the universe which we can
daily perceive, to try humbly to comprehend even an
infinitesimal part of the intelligence manifested in na-
ture." But it was when he declared that, "the only
deeply religious people of our largely materialistic age
are the earnest men of research," that he stirred up
the animals. Leaders of organized religion moved
uneasily on their thrones. And certain established
faiths bitterly attacked him as heretic and infidel.
However, liberal thinkers generally saw merit in his
position.
In reality what does this gentle soul, though pro-
found mind, believe? He denies out of hand that sci-
xlviii INTRODUCTION
ence has any wish to supplant religion. But at the
same time he declares, "all the finer speculations in
the realm of science spring from a deep religious feel-
ing; and without such feeling they would not be fruit-
ful." He perceives clearly enough other religious ac-
tivities besides those of scientific investigation. But
he does believe that the true man of research must
employ the highest spiritual faculties. At one with
religion, he says, are feelings of beauty, ethical ideals,
self-denying labors for mankind. "Modern science is
tending toward the highest achievements—a sort of
transcendental synthesis." He likens modern scien-
tific conceptions of the universe to a great painting, or
a great piece of music, inspiring high and noble
thoughts such as always have been characteristic of
religion. Science today, he goes on, seeks to exalt
mankind; to satisfy a striving for release, and exalta-
tion of spirit he has always sought. Far from wishing
to move in a realm distant from that of common men
Einstein has always had a passion for human welfare:
"The ideals which have always shone before me are
goodness, beauty and truth."
No term unless it is evolution has caused more in-
terest and discussion than relativity. Relativity, in the
sense of investigation of cosmic phenomena, is not a
theory for the average mind to play with. However,
as evolution had its implications in the life of everyday
men and women, so does relativity, for there is a rela-
tivity of conduct as much as there is a relativity of the
cosmos; and as soon as it is understood is likely to
exert as much influence. Relativity, applied to time,
space and measurement has caused as much upheaval
and overturning as any theory ever advanced by a man
INTRODUCTION xHx
of science. It will exert a similar influence when ap-
plied to individual activities, because human nature is
one of the most important manifestations, at least for
us, of the Universal-All.
John Langdon-Davies gives an excellent demonstra-
tion of this in the case of the criminal. Social tradi-
tions assign the law-breaker to a place in the court of
the Gentiles, if, indeed, he gets as near as that to the
conformists. He must be deprived of liberty
—"to
live, and yet not to live." Relativity comes along, now,
a strong ally of psychiatry, and says that the criminal
was simply unfortunate in his heredity and environ-
ment. He could not have acted otherwise. Society
has to be protected, of course; but society has an
equal, intelligent obligation to treat him with consid-
eration, for his conduct was contingent on, and rela-
tive to, his environment. Investigate environment first,
and punish afterward.
Dr. Milllkan believes that "science undoubtedly is
influencing and changing religion quite profoundly
now." He calls the idea of making the world better,
"as divine an event as has ever taken place; and due
directly to science." He has no desire to penetrate
the realm beyond that of Intellectual knowledge, leav-
ing investigation there to religion. He sees only two
points of view with regard to the whole quest of re-
ligion: that of the dogmatist; and that of the truth-
seeker. Organized religion and churches, he says,
must keep pace with investigation, otherwise they will
give place to some other form of organization more in
keeping with the trend of events. Dr. Millikan is con-
vinced religion will endure as long as man himself. He
INTRODUCTION
makes this positive statement: "A capricious and om-
nipotent God has been replaced by a deity who rules
by law and who is more dependable than the God of
other days." The scientific method has caused a "stu-
pendous" change of attitude toward the supernatural.
He calls science the "mainspring" of this age; and pre-
dicts a steadily increasing interest in investigation. He
sees behind the universe, behind all cosmic manifesta-
tion, "A creator continually on the job." And this as-
surance, to him, gives evidence that the universe will
never run itself down. Dr. Millikan has written freely
of his religious convictions; but one of the most signifi-
cant things he ever said related to the elimination from
scientific thinking of a universe composed only of ma-
terial substances. His positive assertion that "now the
atom is an amazingly complicated organism, exhibiting
many functions and properties, quite as mysterious as
those that used to masquerade under the name of
mind," closed forever the door on a purely mechanistic
universe. God he defines as "The unifying principle
in the universe," the idea including "the amazing new
scientific developments in the fields of ether physics,
relativity, and wave mechanics."
Professor Eddlngton, whose book. The Nature of
the Physical World, published In 1928, ventured to
Introduce a sort of idealism Into research, encouraged
several men of science who were thinking In similar
terms. A dozen or more volumes followed, placing
the scientific hope close beside that of idealistic religion,
and preparing the way, perhaps, for what may prove
one of the major changes in the scientific-religious re-
lationship.
Eddlngton doubts that "Men are only a bit of star
INTRODUCTION li
gone wrong." He believes we demand "Something
more than consciousness." Modern science has no
place for materialism and determinism. Life is more
than atoms and other cosmic marvels. We have hu-
man hearts which cry: "What is it all about?" "It
means a great deal to me," he says, "to conceive of
God as Him through whom comes power and guid-
ance." Yet Professor Eddington cannot entertain an
Idea of God which will not stand "close examination."
Neither Is he particularly Interested in a physics which
"Pursues to the bitter end the attempt to reach purely
objective reality." Then he adds reverently, "Let sci-
ence pause before rushing In to apply a supposed scien-
tific test; for such a test would go too far, stripping
away from our lives not only our religion but all our
feelings which do not belong to the function of a meas-
uring machine. . . . Life is a spirit In which truth has
its shrine, with potentialities of self-fulfilment In its re-
sponse to beauty and light."
Julian Huxley does not hesitate to say that modern
science Is going to mean a new religion. He adds that
even liberal theologians have failed to comprehend ade-
quately the point at issue, namely, that the scientific
method deals not only with matter but with human
nature In all its phases. Religion as he understands it
has nothing whatever to do with an absolute, an un-
knowable God. The Idea of an independent God Is
losing Its hold on human thinking. People want a new
religion, he declares. They want one which will con-
form to modern scientific knowledge; and which will
completely satisfy Individual need; and in that religion
there need not be an entity absolute and omnipotent.
Sir Oliver Lodge, perhaps the world's leading au-
lii INTRODUCTION
thority so far as demonstrating personal survival
through scientific proof is concerned, makes careful
distinction between matter and spirit. Spirit is the
highest development we can conceive, he says, and ex-
ists in and out of the body—out of it more readily and
completely than in it. It is only because we think so
continuously in terms of physical being that we cannot
form mental concepts of the reality of spirit. Minds
disciplined to think in terms of spirit reality do not
doubt that development of personality outside the
body Is far more important than development In It.
In the paper contributed to this discussion he makes it
clear that the process which meant an end of the bodily
organism had no effect on the soul entity save to re-
lease it for further life. In proof of this he asks for
experience rather than argument.
We have cited, in brief, the beliefs of these men as
examples of the trend of research so far as It relates
to idealism, and ventures on the metaphysical. Re-
markable as It may seem, it would be difficult to find
an authority in any department of science to-day who
Is not Interested in metaphysics: they are vitally Inter-
ested because they know the close relationship which
prevails between research and human welfare, ex-
pressed on this human plane and on higher planes of
existence also. These discerning men know full well
that no quest In which men can engage can, for a mo-
ment, equal In Interest the search for God through His
universe. To say the same thing In slightly different
language : several leading scientists—those we have
mentioned, and those we have not mentioned, but
whose opinions are Included In this symposium—have
INTRODUCTION liii
discovered that the true and ultimate objective of man-
kind is solution of the metaphysical riddle. Not only
are they intrigued and fascinated by the puzzle; they
are genuinely and devotedly interested to solve it for
the higher interests of mankind. And what they have
revealed to us : what they are going to reveal to us, is
filled with meaning for men and women all the way
up and down the scale of place and privilege. Science
has ceased to be a subject for the selected and gifted,
if, Indeed, it ever was, and has come to have practical
application for practical men. And, as we read the
signs of the times, it is going to point the way to a
religion which can be proved and applied.
Spectroscopes, telescopes, microscopes, laboratories,
expeditions conducted for research, are only means
—
the end is discovery of the First Cause, the Value of
Values. And now we can but repeat that science is
not, as religion, directly engaged In this quest. Despite
itself, however, its method, Its Instruments, its equip-
ment of trained men, its dedication to acceptance of
fact and fact only, its further and further reach into
the mysteries and marvels of electrons and star-clus-
ters and test-tube analyses, make it Inevitable that, if
a First Cause is found, research will find it sooner than
an energy based on pronouncements in council, ecclesi-
astical establishments—sooner even than faith, trust
and hope, sublime as these values certainly are.
We have suspected what the trouble with religion
has been, all along; but now relativity has demon-
strated it: its efforts have been confined inside the time
process. God Is inside the time process; but he is also
outside it. And to find the God outside the time proc-
ess, organized religion has no equipment other than
liv INTRODUCTION
its faith. This happens to be but one of many impli-
cations of Relativity, indicating the contribution the
theory has to make in the search for God.
This striking attempt of investigators in the realm
of science to make phenomena discovered in observa-
tories and laboratories fit in with idealism and the
quest for Infinite Control, in no way detracts from
the work and hope of the churches. A few lines above
we said *'.
. . organized religion has no equipment other
than its faith." This is not denying, by any means,
the power of faith in personal hves. One of the most
inspiring and useful influences of our times is the con-
secration of the churches: ministry and laity. They
give hope for despair, trust for suspicion, confidence
for doubt; and men of science are the first to acknowl-
edge it. Religion remains with them, the primary con-
cern of mankind.
What are the "Master Lights of all our seeing:"
alike to men of religion and men of science? They
are, and will remain. Beauty, Hope and Love. We
know no higher, finer values. But for most of us lay-
men the very acme of these supreme values lies hid-
den outside this three-dimensional world, this isolated
sphere of clocks, yardsticks, algae and oxides.
What is man that thou art mindful of him;
Or the son of man that thou visitest him?
Research is not, then, an isolated effort. It extends
beyond human experience, and beyond this relatively
minor earth. But in another sense, and one of much
more interest to us, personally, research busies itself.
Men engaging in it are not separated in any degree
from their fellowmen in ideals of goodness, truth and
INTRODUCTION Iv
"mutual aid." We are toiling together, all of us,
in the Interests of the Greater Good: a union of all
who love in the service of all who suffer. The radiance
never has been lost: it simply has not been found for
many of us. To find it is the quest of science and re-
ligion, and of philosophy also. And the papers which
follow have this object in mind. They were not writ-
ten to entertain, and entertain only. But each of them,
read thoughtfully, will do more for readers than fic-
tion, however thrilling, can ever do, for they delve
deep into the riches of living truth.
Scientific investigation is earnest. Prophets of
gloom are not wanting who speak and write as those
without hope, faith or joy: sometimes it seems almost
without intelligence. Mr. Mencken speaks sadly of
those scientists who still keep their reverence and re,
spect for religion. He Includes In that list, of course,
not only about all the leading scientific men of the
present, but Sir Isaac Newton, Faraday, Clerk-Max-
well, Agassiz, Pasteur, research-workers whose awe
and reverence before cosmic law and order were never
questioned. The fact Is rather significant that while
God is disappearing among certain glib, jaunty writers
with the naturalistic tinge, he Is reappearing in the sci-
entific mind a far more convincing, majestic reality than
ever In the history of human thinking.
With the coming of hope and revelation on the part
of twentieth century science, we are witnessing the
passing of life viewed as an experience of cynicism, de-
spair and tragedy, outlined, cleverly enough. In a cer-
tain recent literature. Much modern literature, and
art also. Is unreal. It Is not familiar with current
events and conclusions, nor with human nature, either.
Ivi INTRODUCTION
Its chief need is application of the scientific test.
Probably a journalism which delights in probing every
act of mankind and finding it not good, will always
be with us. But, "thanks to the human heart by which
we live . . . the meanest flower that blows can give
thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears." Men
of research, of all men everywhere, know the everlast-
ing truth of Wordsworth's great ode; and, patiently,
rescue us from the critics. At the close of the darkest
day we look to them to paint the fading landscape with
the radiance of setting suns.
So we are entering a time of great expectations; and
once more are "in the morning of the world."
Now may we really tell you why we have gathered
the statements which compose this book? Assuredly
we have not gathered them solely for the purpose of
collecting in one volume the conclusions of representa-
tive scientists on the relation of science and religion.
We would be doing an injustice to the men who have
written, and to those who have allowed their work
to be used, if we did not offer a further explanation.
We wish to present the summarized conclusions of re-
search to-day concerning the Inner spiritual experience,
the search for Reality and the life everlasting, for con-
templation by those men and women whose belief in
the God-Reality, and in themselves, perchance, may
have suffered shock in the recent cynical, naturalistic
upheaval, and world-wide economic depression; and
for other men and women whose philosophy of life
may yet be in process of formation.
Those looking for statements of finality and of ab-
solute values will be disappointed, because such con-
INTRODUCTION Ivii
elusions are not the business of mathematics, chemis-
try, astronomy, physics and psychics. But persons who
honestly are seeking those values of Goodness, Truth
and Beauty, which, after all, may be the best expression
of God, and of ourselves, also, will not fail in their
quest.
The men of research who have contributed directly
to this cooperative effort have, without exception, given
their best. They were selected through the process
of elimination. The opinions they have contributed
are the results of protracted study, represent balanced
judgment, and indicate striking appreciation of the sig-
nificance of the metaphysical trend of present-day sci-
ence. Taken as a whole their contributions point the
way clearly and emphatically to imminent and Inevita-
ble changes In the approach to the Idea of God and of
Immortality.
The bearing of science on religion, for centuries,
has vitally affected human thinking and action, never
more so than to-day when, if we may coin a phrase,
science has become metaphysically-conscious. Any one
interested In religion either in its cosmic aspect or Its
effect on character development who fails to familiar-
ize himself with opinions, such, for Instance, as those
presented In this symposium. Is missing one of the most
significant tendencies in present-day thinking, so far as
day-by-day living is affected. For example, J. Malcolm
Bird, In the truly remarkable study which concludes
this discussion, predicts In no uncertain voice that sci-
ence and religion must meet eventually at a cross-
roads designated by the phenomena of psychical re-
search, spiritistic and non-spiritistic. If he Is right,
and If other writers In this group who present equally
Iviii INTRODUCTION
progressive opinons are right, men who think In terms
of social regeneration on higher planes confront a
reformation of formidable proportions, perhaps as
formidable as any we have known.
Everywhere are protests against materialism. Re-
ligion is being liberalized. Philosophy is being human-
ized. Science is being spiritualized. In truth the very
stars in their courses seem to be conspiring together to
submerge physical desire and to release spiritual aspira-
tion. Are we, at last, really climbing the Mount of
Transfiguration? And shall we meet there the figures
of men redeemed and glorified? The universe has
groaned and travailed together until this present time.
Is the long-hidden reason for existence about to be dis-
closed? Perhaps, yet, we must wait awhile. But, at
least, we may wait that revelation with a great hope
and joy.
Edward H. Cotton.
SERMONS FROM STONES
KiRTLEY F. Mather
KiRTLEY Fletcher Mather, through his researches in
geological and geographical science, lectures, radio broadcasts,
articles and books is known in Europe and America as a lead-
ing scientist. He is member of a number of learned societies.
He was geologist for Richmond Levering and Company which
sent an exploring expedition into Eastern Bolivia, 1919-1920.
At present he is chairman of the department of Geology and
Geography, Harvard University. He is also a geologist of
the United States Geological Survey and has made field studies
for that organization in Alaska and the United States. Pro-
fessor Mather's grandfather, Rev. A. E. Mather, was one of
the leading Baptist ministers in the Middle West a generation
ago. His parents became earnest adherents of that church,
providing a deeply religious atmosphere for their son. "There
is such a thing as revelation," he says, "and we are in the
midst of it all the time." No one, to-day, writing and speak-
ing on scientific subjects as they are related to religion, is read
and listened to more eagerly than Dr. Mather. His book,
Science in Search of God, is widely read, particularly among
students. We may say in conclusion that he was the first
person we consulted in regard to this symposium, and has
steadily supported it.
SERMONS FROM STONES
By KiRTLEY F. Mather
WHEN It Is recalled that geology Involves
not only the study of minerals and rocks
but also the entire history of the earth
and Its Inhabitants, It becomes apparent why the geol-
ogist may have something to say which is of interest
and importance to the theologian. The appeal to his-
tory has always been pre-eminent In the literature and
oratory of religion, from the days of the Prophet
MIcah onward to the present time. But whereas the
prophets of Israel had a mental background provided
by only a few centuries of the history of one small
Semitic tribe and its neighbors, the citizen of this mod-
ern scientific world has at his disposal the gorgeous
panorama of the myriad kinds of animals and plants
evolving through hundreds of millions of years of
geologic time.
To the man of science every event in the history of
the universe is a miracle. It Is both awe-inspiring and
significant, a "sign and wonder." The more we know
about the world, the more mysterious and marvelous
it becomes. The arrogance which characterized so
many scientists of preceding generations has given place
to a true humility, admirably displayed by most of the
leaders in contemporary scientific progress. The ex-
panding horizon of knowledge has simply lengthened
3
4 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the line of contact between man and the unknown ele-
ments in the cosmos. Knowledge and mystery have
always had a habit of appearing hand in hand, and
to-day we are beginning to suspect that the mind of
man is incapable of grappling with ultimate reality in
any truly scientific way. There may be in the cosmos
that which can actually be termed the Absolute, but all
we know is Relative. We are in the midst of a process
of change, of transformation of matter and energy, a
process which reveals no suggestion of any real begin-
ning, no prospect of any truly final end. Perhaps that
process is, after all. Reality itself.
The better the events in that process are understood,
the more significant they are. For each event is a
means of insight into the nature of the motive powers
operating in and through the world in which we live.
The administration of the universe is revealed by
what it has accomplished in the past and by its present
activities. In other words, the characteristics of real-
ity are to be discovered by observing behavior. Be-
havior Is the clue to any adequate understanding of the
transformations of matter and of energy. It is the
behavior of human beings which gives us knowledge
concerning the nature of men. It is the behavior of
cosmic forces which provides an insight into the real
characteristics and qualities of the motive power of the
universe.
The results of the long-continued action and inter-
action of cosmic forces are in part recorded in the
rocks of the earth's crust. The tattered and frayed
pages of Mother Earth's diary cover a period of well
on toward two billion years. The major events in that
long history are now fairly well known. From them
KIRTLEY F. MATHER
we may deduce certain very definite Inferences concern-
ing the forces which produced them.
This approach to truth is of course the method
which science always attempts to use. It Is the habit
of mind which is responsible for whatever success has
been gained by those in scientific pursuits. Most
people nowadays like the spirit of science and approve
its tactics. The method of appeal to facts and ex-
periences rings true; its authority may not be abso-
lute, but it Is sufficient. Certainly, with great accord
the citizens of the modern scientific world are accept-
ing as their final court of appeal, not the assertions
of prophets or scholars, but the very facts and expe-
riences themselves. No scientific argument Is settled
to-day by an appeal to Aristotle, Darwin or Einstein;
no theological discussion is terminated by a citation
from the Bible, the Koran or the Book of Mormon.
Words are symbols; facts and experiences alone are
real. An authority based upon them Is of course not
Infallible, but it Is the best we have. Human falli-
bility, necessarily Inherent in every Intellectual process,
is involved In each appeal to them. The conclusion
of the scientist is inevitably based upon descriptions
of facts; the fact may be real, but its description may
be either true or false. The revelation of the theo-
logian Is merely the Interpretation of experiences; the
experience may be real, but its interpretation may be
either right or wrong. Knowledge and wisdom are
filtered through human brains before they can Issue in
action. In sentiments or In Ideas. It Is an unescapable
limitation upon us all.
With the widespread recognition of that limitation.
6 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the thoughtful man of to-day turns to those who have
been practicing the method of science for suggestions
concerning a satisfactory basis for rehgious aspira-
tions. The faith by which a man Hves must be in
accord with the facts which men know. Only that
religion, which is in harmony with the current scientific
description of man and the universe, can maintain
itself effectively in any age. No man ever committed
himself to beliefs which he did not think were rational.
It is therefore not only desirable but actually neces-
sary for religion to take stock of contemporary in-
sights into the nature of the world and of man, which
science has gained.
The analysis of the atom and the study of the stars
reveal the presence of cosmic forces which are coldly
mathematical in their operations. The cosmic energy
revealed to the physicist and astronomer has the at-
tributes and characteristics of mind rather than of
mechanics, of pure mathematics rather than of applied
mathematics. It Is gratifying, from certain points of
view, to discover that the material universe is an ex-
pression of mentality, that mind is much more nearly
omnipotent than matter, but the study of inanimate
nature discloses no hint of goodness or loveliness, no
clue concerning the relative value or merit of rival
forms or patterns. No more sentiment is found in
the structure of an atom than in the arrangements of
a solar system or a stellar galaxy. The motive power
of the universe is revealed as orderly and law-abiding;
it produces form from formlessness, develops a cosmos
from a chaos; but these patterns of expression contain
nothing to Inspire man to strive toward the realiza-
tion of high Ideals,
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 7
On the other hand, the geologist and the biologist
have gained insight concerning additional character-
istics of creative energy by their investigations of the
evolution of living creatures during past and present
time. When the motive power of the universe ex-
presses itself in the form of cells, organized into ani-
mals and plants, it displays attributes not suspected
from the study of crystals and stars. Living creatures
are characterized by certain qualities and attributes
which distinguish them unmistakably from all other
expressions of cosmic energy.
The differences are not nearly so distinct and con-
spicuous as at first glance they appear to most of us
to be. Certain expressions of inanimate nature very
nearly duplicate certain qualities of animate nature.
Nevertheless, there are real distinctions; the living is
different from the non-living. The behavior of ani-
mals and plants involves processes and forces not ap-
parent in the behavior of minerals and stones. Prob-
ably the most significant difference is Indicated by
what we call consciousness. Prod a live ameba with
a needle, and it will indicate by its behavior that it is
aware of this untoward circumstance in its physical
environment. Treat a crystal of quartz in a similar
manner, and there is absolutely no response indicative
of awareness of the external stimulus.
Consciousness is an expression of cosmic energy,
revealed in a certain organization of matter. I pre-
sume this characteristic explains the fact that cells
have changed during geologic time, whereas crystals
have remained the same throughout the entire history
of the earth.
8 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
At some definite date in the earlier history of the
earth there emerged from the non-hving chemical com-
pounds of which the earth's outer shell was composed,
the first living cell. An attribute of cosmic energy,
consciousness, was then displayed for the first time In
this particular corner of the universe. Something new
had appeared under the sun. The process of organic
evolution was inaugurated. Characteristics of the ad-
ministration of the universe which had hitherto been
completely concealed were now to be revealed.
As that process continued to unfold, consciousness
expanded and developed. Animals, ere long, were so
organized that individuals became aware of environ-
mental factors at ever Increasing distances from them-
selves, and of elements in their surroundings to which
they had previously made no response. The senses of
sight, hearing and smell were added to those of touch
and taste, and the capacity of awareness was tremen-
dously Increased. The behavior of most of the so-
called lower animals indicates an awareness of physical
factors only, but somewhere In the process of life de-
velopment there emerged a new type of awareness, the
type which Is uniquely developed In mankind. Non-
physical stimuli began to be appreciated.
Late In the history of the earth, a creature appeared
which occasionally responds to the beauty of the sunset
and the glory of the dawn. Man is to-day not simply
aware of the physical events transpiring at remote dis-
tances from himself on other continents and In other
stellar galaxies, he also responds to forces which we
do well to call spiritual. He is moved by the call to
duty; he Is stirred by high Ideals and noble aspira-
tions. He has a keen desire to discover goodness,
KIRTLEY F. MATHER
moral law, righteousness. On occasion he has been
known even to commit biologic suicide for a cause or
purpose which he holds dearer than life itself. He
has become aware of the qualities as well as the quan-
tities of cosmic energy. He is conscious of a world
of values as well as a world of matter. Again, a
new attribute of administrative energy had become
apparent in the behavior of that which it had pro-
duced.
The emergence of personality in the evolutionary
process is an event of transcendent importance, the
full meaning of which is still unappreciated. It must
have occurred, however, in response to personality-
producing forces in the universe. It is to these par-
ticular portions of cosmic energy that I would apply
the term God. For me, God is the motive power
which tends to produce a fine personality in a human
being. Does God, as thus defined, deserve to be called
loving or good? It all depends upon whether the per-
sonalities which are produced are kindly and good. If
one believes that there are kindly personalities and
good human beings, then one must attribute to cosmic
energy the qualities which the theologian has In mind
when he announces that God is love.
Regardless of the theological implication, it is now
apparent that, as Professor H. S. Jennings expresses
it, "thoughts, ideals, purposes, are among the deter-
mining factors for the happenings in nature. Aspira-
tions do influence the course of events."
The history of evolution leads to the inference that
Its motive forces behave not like a well-designed ma-
chine but like a consistent personality. There is uni-
10 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
formity of purpose, rather than uniformity of action.
New conditions permit the exemplification of new laws
or principles of nature, the expression of hitherto un-
expressed characteristics or phases of cosmic energy.
In this sense, the laws of nature are not immutable.
"What is to come in the future is not predictable from
what has occurred in the past." It is to-day entirely
rational to hope and strive for the appearance in the
future of things never yet accomplished. In other
words, by way of specific illustration, the fact that
wars have punctuated the history of international re-
lations throughout the entire life of mankind is no
indication that nations must always arm themselves
for war.
There is that in the structure of the universe which
in the last few million years of geologic time, in at
least one small corner of astronomic space, has been
promoting the display of good-will, the aspiration
toward brotherliness, the appreciation of beauty, the
yearning toward loveliness of character and action.
Man is not simply at home in the universe revealed
by modern science; his nature has been highly ap-
proved and beneficently fostered by the sum total of
the cosmic forces which play In upon him from with-
out and well up within him like fountains of sweet
water in the sea. If it be good for man to have
come into existence upon the earth, then are the mo-
tive powers of the universe good.
The record of geologic life development leads di-
rectly to the inference that the desires and ambitions
of living organisms are determining factors in the
operations of the universe. Things are done in order
that certain objectives may be reached in the future.
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 11
Life, the product of creative energy, is itself creative.
And an essential element in its creative activities is
provided by the freedom for self-expression possessed
by individual organisms. Volition enters into the
process of organic evolution all along the way, but
becomes increasingly important as animals become
more capable.
There seems to be nothing inherent in the known
mechanisms of the evolutionary process which makes
that process necessarily one of improvement and
progress. But we cannot deny that it has been pro-
gressive. The earth is better now than it was two
billion years ago when no living creature was upon its
surface. More expressions of the nature of cosmic
energy have been apparent in each succeeding geologic
period. Finer qualities of the motive power of the
universe are to-day manifest in the world of sense per-
ception than were previously displayed, if we have any
basis whatever for passing judgment upon such things.
It is sometimes suggested that our belief In the suc-
cess of the evolutionary processes Is just one more
indication of the supreme egotism of mankind. We
designate animals as "higher" or "better" simply be-
cause they approximate more closely the structures or
attainments of man himself. If all our standards of
judgment are human standards, they are not a valid
basis for the conclusion that there has been any real
progress In life development. What right have we to
assume that the universe as a whole is any better be-
cause man lives and fights and loves upon the earth?
There Is, however, one basis for evaluating attain-
ments and estimating progress, which has more than a
12 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
suggestion of being impersonal and universal. In how
many ways may the vital energy which actuates an in-
dividual display itself to other individuals? Without
raising any question concerning which expression of
creative personality is better and which is poorer, a
purely quantitative and coldly mathematical estimate
may be made. In how many ways can an Individual
express its personality; the earthworm and the ele-
phant, the bird and the fish, the dinosaur and the
man? Obviously, the evolutionary processes have suc-
ceeded in producing individuals which in successive
periods of time must be rated higher on this quanti-
tative scale.
This and every other form of progress in evolution
seems to have been attained because the individuals
involved in the process were concerned with their own
future and occasionally improved their opportunities
to consummate their purposes. Purpose has been an
attribute of nature at least as long as squirrels have
gathered acorns for the coming winter or men have
assembled in councils of war or peace. Viewed in the
long perspective of geologic history, the purposes of
nature seem to be experimental rather than pre-deter-
mined. The goals which life has set are not final;
instead each seems to be immediate and temporary.
The attainment of an aim, which for a time was set
for a particular group of creatures, has in the past
provided simply a new starting point for renewed ex-
periments in ways and means of reaching some new
and more progressive ideal. It may be that through
the ages one increasing purpose runs, but what its final
end may be is not at present apparent to the mind of
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 13
man. The scientist must be skeptical that there is any
final goal; rather he would anticipate that always new
purposes will arise just as soon as an old purpose has
been consummated. Life is characterized by a cease-
less urge; should it stop developing it would no longer
be life. The process continues from goal to goal,
with never a final limit. Eye hath not seen, ear hath
not heard, neither hath it entered into the mind of
man, the things that are possible for cosmic energy to
do in the sort of universe which man is gradually
learning to appreciate.
Certainly, it is only during recent geologic time that
nature has definitely set itself to the task of produc-
ing a man. Nothing in the evolution of Paleozoic
animals, for example, offers the least suggestion that
there was then the purpose of creating a biped mam-
mal which would specialize in mentality. On the con-
trary, the particular modifications in the anatomy of
fishes, which made possible the rise of air-breathing
amphibians, among whom must have been the remote
ancestors of man, were actually inimical to the devel-
opment of brains. It required the long dark ages of
the Mesozoic era, with its conquering horde of cold-
blooded, small-brained reptiles, before that handicap
was overcome and the palm of victory could be
awarded to wits rather than weight, to mind rather
than muscle. Many of the anatomical details of the
human body are even yet a handicap to a creature who
habitually stands in an erect attitude upon his hind
limbs. They were obviously designed for a quadruped
rather than a biped. So far as his body structure is
concerned, man is at best an afterthought of nature.
14 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Nevertheless, short-sighted though the evolutionary
forces seem to be, the fact is that in regular sequence
increasingly efficient types of animals and plants have
made their appearance upon the earth. Especially
significant is the improvement in mental ability, which
has characterized each step along the pathway that
leads from the primitive mammals to man. Because
the sum total of his environment has favored brains
and mentality, man is to-day in his present position of
obvious power. Furthermore, the record in the rocks
Indicates the gradual emergence of the spirit of co-
operation. The geologist can tell approximately when
mother-love was born upon the earth. Especially in
the strain that led to man has the emphasis been
placed upon the widening spread and deepening hold
of habits and ideals of co-operation and brotherllness.
Social comity has lately emerged as a powerful direct-
ing force in that part of the universe about which we
know the most. And social comity is a highly valuable
ideal, regardless of whether we call it simply the
"higher selfishness" or label It more grandly as "un-
selfishness." The experimental purposes of nature
are justified by the results already attained and there-
fore provide a firm basis for an optimistic outlook into
the future.
In the past, successful advances along the path of
life were made by a small minority of individuals,
here and there, who capitalized to the full the innate
ability with which they were endowed and grasped
every opportunity offered by their environment. In
each case, they strove to accomplish that which never
before had been achieved. If man sets as his goal
merely long-continued existence on the present level.
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 15
then he should try to be true to himself, to express
more completely his own personality, to be as efficient
a man as possible. But if he wishes to hand on the
torch of evolutionary progress to a posterity better
than he, if he desires to participate In the upward as
well as the onward march of living beings, then he
must aim higher than that. What his aim should be,
it is the task of enlightened religion to discover.
Evolution, as we understand it to-day, does not
guarantee success, progress or improvement to man
or any other creature. The fact that man has
ascended from a lowly origin does not indicate that
he must necessarily climb still higher. Instead, the
evolutionary processes guarantee to man an opportu-
nity which is in all likelihood the greatest opportunity
vouchsafed to any creature that has thus far lived
upon the earth. Co-equal to that opportunity is the
responsibility which to-day rests upon the shoulders of
mankind. That responsibility is no greater, in pro-
portion to the abilities of human beings, than was the
responsibility which rested upon the three-toed horse
or the agile trilobite, each in its own day, but because
of man's superior mental ability and broader con-
sciousness it is the greatest responsibility which has
ever been placed upon an offspring of Mother Earth.
The experiment in which man is involved appears
to be that of developing a social order in which the
values of individual personalities and divergent crea-
tive abilities shall be conserved to the full. The at-
tempt to evolve a fine social order has been made sev-
eral times in the past by several different species of
animal, running the gamut from corals to insects, and
16 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
some of these earlier experiments have proved highly
satisfactory. But in each instance, as among the social
insects, the perfecting of the society has been accom-
plished by sacrificing the individual. The value of
creative personality has been overlooked; the aim has
been epitomized by the motto "one for all." But man
is trying the more difficult experiment: his motto Is
"one for all and all for one." Whether or not he will
succeed is at the present moment an open question; it
is truly an experiment, the outcome of which is not
now known. The record of the past gives rich basis
for high hope that human nature will be able to stand
the strain and win through to the goal. Our venture
of faith is adequately justified by all that we know; but
our actions must be based just as much on faith as on
knowledge. Therefore, religion and science are both
necessary, if man is to seize his opportunity and do his
utmost to make successful the contemporary experi-
ment into which cosmic energy has launched him.
Many of our social and spiritual ideals are imposed
upon us by the environmental factors with which we
are surrounded or are determined for us by the re-
sources available for our hands and hearts and brains.
Man Is unquestionably the child of geologic circum-
stances, but he need not always remain the slave of
circumstance. A creature of habit, he is not neces-
sarily a victim of habit. He bears witness to the
emergence In time and space of a new sort of creative
ability. He may select from several possible goals the
particular one toward which he will strive to go. If
he pleases to do so, he may co-operate with those
forces of nature which are creating the new and finer
patterns of life. If he wills otherwise, he may refuse
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 17
to live in harmony with them, and thus he may long
delay the achievement of those purposes which char-
acterize the local scene.
The laws of nature are not chains which shackle
man, nor goads which drive him down any pre-
determined alley. They are tools which strengthen
his hands and Increase his efficiency; implements which
have waited long for his master mind to make them
useful. As science discovers the modes of operation
of the manifold processes of nature, It provides the
ways and means by which the world may be shaped
nearer to the desire of human hearts. But it is the
dual prerogative of religion to paint the picture of
the world that ought to be, and to Inspire men with
zeal adequate for its realization.
Most unscientific of all the popular slogans which
unwittingly sap the very foundations of religion is the
statement that "human nature cannot be changed."
Not only Is It true that every product of natural proc-
esses is undergoing change, it Is also true that man Is
one of the most plastic of all animals. His ways are
not yet fixed; his nature not yet determined. One of
the newest of the newcomers In the drama of life, his
future Is practically certain to be many times as long
as his past. Still In the vigor of youth, this species
of featherless biped possesses potentialities for modi-
fication far greater than most people think. Whether
the changes In human nature, bound to occur in the
next few thousand years, will be for better or for
worse will largely be determined by the Individuals
who compose each successive generation.
Modern science does not sanction a religion which
18 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
is based solely upon traditions of the past, or which
looks to magic formulas and miracle-working ordi-
nances as the means of accomplishing its purposes.
Instead it approves a religion which constantly seeks
for new and better light upon the pathway of life,
which strives to make more effective the law-abiding
operation of spiritual forces in the natural world, and
which finds in the experiences of thoughtful men a
sufficient guide to truth.
For such a religion, science provides not only the
ways and means by which its goals may be attained,
but also an insight into the nature of the world and
of man which may well serve as an adequate founda-
tion of facts upon which to erect the superstructure of
faith, hope and love. This foundation stands four-
square. It supports a confidence in the kindly thought-
fulness inherent in the administration of the universe,
a sense of security for mankind in the midst of the
uncertainties of life, a belief in the creative powers of
human beings, and a hope for the future of humanity,
individually and collectively. In building upon it the
splendid edifice which any adequate religion ought to
construct, there must be some standard of judgment
or evaluation by means of which the architectural de-
sign may be appraised.
For the Christian religion, the scale of values is
provided by our beliefs about Jesus of Nazareth.
The Christian assumes that the teachings and life of
Jesus, as he believes them to have been, represent
truly the finest qualities of universal energy thus far
displayed to man, and thus set the standard by which
each individual may gauge his own ideals of conduct
and philosophy of life. This assumption concerning
KIRTLEY F. MATHER 19
Jesus cannot be proved by any process of logic, but
even as we may justify or validate a scientific assump-
tion by trying it out to see how it works, so we may
justify or validate this religious assumption by putting
it to the practical test and observing how it works.
We are all in the midst of that experimental opera-
tion. If the attempt to put Christlike motives and
ideals into practical operation among human beings
succeeds in making life better, then we are justified in
the assumption that we have made. Is the truly Chris-
tian way of life the finest and the best? There Is only
one method of answering the question, the scientific
method,—try it and see.
CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE
Robert A. Millikan
Robert Andrews Millikan was born in 1868 in Mor-
rison, Illinois. He has received degrees from several univer-
sities in the United States and Europe for illustrious work
in the field of scientific research. At present he is director of
the Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics at the California
Institute of Technology. In 1923 he was awarded the Nobel
Prize in physics for isolating and measuring the ultimate unit,
the electron, and for photo-electric researches. He has received
medals from various societies organized to encourage the arts
and sciences. He is author of volumes treating of physics and
related subjects. Of late years he has displayed particular in-
terest in the relations between science and religion, lecturing
and writing extensively on that subject. He is also keenly in-
terested in athletics ; and is said to have followed his son Clark's
representation of America in the high hurdles at Wimbledon
in 1923 almost as eagerly as his own experiments which led to
the measurement of the electron. Dr. Millikan holds fellow-
ship vdth the Unitarian Church; and is an active layman in
that body.
II
CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE^
By Robert A. Millikan
WHEN the life and teachings of Jesus be-
came the basis of the religion of the whole
western world, an event of stupendous im-
portance for the destinies of mankind had certainly
taken place, for a new set of ideals had been definitely
and officially adopted by a very considerable fraction
of the human race, a fraction which will be universally
recognized to have held within It no small portion of
the world's human energies and progressive capacities,
and which has actually been to no small degree deter-
minative of the direction of human progress.
The significance of this event Is completely Inde-
pendent even of the historicity of Jesus. The service
of the Christian religion, my own faith In essential
Christianity, would not be diminished one Iota If It
should In some way be discovered that no such Indi-
vidual as Jesus ever existed. If the Ideas and Ideals
for which he stood sprang up spontaneously In the
minds of men without the stimulus of a single great
character, the result would be even more wonderful
and more Inspiring than It Is now, for It would mean
that the spirit of Jesus actually Is more widely spread
throughout the world than we realize. In making
1 From Science and the Nenv Civilization. Copyright, 1930, by
Charles Scribner's Sons. By permission of the publishers.
23
24 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
this statement, I am endeavoring to say just as posi-
tively and emphatically as I can, that the credentials
of Jesus are found wholly in his teachings and in his
character as recorded by his teachings, and not at all
in any real or alleged historical events. And in mak-
ing that affirmation, let me also emphasize the fact
that I am only paraphrasing Jesus' own words when
he refused to let his disciples rest his credentials on a
sign.
My conception, then, of the essentials of religion,
at least of the Christian religion, and no other need
here be considered, is that those essentials consist in
just two things : first, in inspiring mankind with the
Christlike, that is, altruistic ideal, and that means spe-
cifically, concern for the common good as contrasted
with one's own Individual impulses and Interests,
wherever In one's own judgment the two come Into
conflict; and second. Inspiring mankind to do, rather
than merely to think about his duty, the definition of
duty for each individual being what he himself con-
ceives to be for the common good. In three words,
I conceived the essential task of religion to be "to
develop the consciences, the Ideals and the aspirations
of mankind."
It is very Important to notice that In the definitions
T have given, duty has nothing to do with what some-
body else conceives to be the common good, for in-
stance, with morality in the derivative sense of the
mores of a people. Endless confusion and an appal-
ling amount of futility gets Into popular discussion
merely because of a failure to differentiate between
these two conceptions. As I shall use the words then,
moral and immoral, or moral right and wrong, are
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 25
purely subjective terms. The question of what actually
Is for the common good is the whole stupendous prob-
lem of science in the broad sense of that term, that is,
of knowledge, and has nothing to do with religion or
with morals as I am using these words.
There are only two kinds of moral conduct. The
first is due to indifference, thoughtlessness, failure to
reflect upon what is for the common good, in other
words, careless, impulsive, unreflective living on the
part of people who know that they ought at least to
try to think things through. I suspect that ninety-nine
per cent of all immorality is of this type and that this
furnishes the chief reason for religious effort and the
chief field for religious activity. For both example
and precept unquestionably have the power to increase
the relatively small fraction of the population that at-
tempts to be reflectively moral. The second type of
Immorality is represented by "the unpardonable sin"
of which Jesus spoke : deliberate refusal, after reflec-
tion, to follow the light when seen.
Thus far, I have been dealing only with what seem
to me to be obvious facts, mere platitudes, if you will,
for the sake of not being misunderstood when I speak
about the essentials of religion. I am not at this
moment concerned with how far the practice of re-
ligion has at times fallen short of the Ideals stated in
the foregoing essentials. I am now merely reaffirm-
ing the belief with which I began, and which I sus-
pect that, after the foregoing explanations, not many
will question, though I know there are some who will,
that the discovery of the foregoing ideals, and their
official adoption as the basis of the religion of the
26 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
western world has within the past two thousand
years exercised a far-reaching influence upon the des-
tinies of the race.
But I am going to go farther and express some con-
victions about the relation of those ideals not only to
the past but also to the present and to the future. I
am going to affirm that those ideals are the most
potent and significant element in the religion of the
western world to-day. It Is true that many indi-
vidual western religions contain some elements in ad-
dition to these, some of them good, some harmless,
some bad, and that the good and the bad are so mixed
in some of them that it is not always easy, even from
my own point of view, to determine whether a given
branch of religion is worth while or not. Neverthe-
less, looking at western religion as a whole, the fol-
lowing facts seem to me obvious and very significant.
First, that if the basis of western religion is to be
found in the element that is common to all its branches,
then the one indispensable element in it now is just
that element that formed the center of Jesus' teaching;
and that I have called above the essence of religion.
Second, that no man who believes in the fundamental
value for the modern world of the essentials of re-
ligion as defined above, and in the necessity for the
definite organization of religion for the sake of
making it socially effective, needs to withdraw himself
from the religious groups, and thereby to exert his
personal influence against the spread of the essential
religious ideals, since in America, at least, he will have
no difficulty in finding religious groups who demand
nothing of their adherents more than the belief in the
foregoing ideals, added to an honest effort to live in
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 27
conformity with them. Third, that a very large frac-
tion of the altruistic and humanitarian and forward-
looking work of the world, in all its forms, has to-day
its mainspring in the Christian churches. My own
judgment is that about ninety-five per cent of it has
come, and is coming, directly or indirectly, from the
influence of organized religion in the United States.
My own judgment is that, if the influence of American
churches in the furtherance of socially wholesome and
forward-looking movements, in the spread of con-
scientious and unselfish living of all sorts, were to be
eliminated, our democracy would in a few years be-
come so corrupt that it could not endure. These last
two are, however, merely individual judgments, the
correctness of which I cannot prove.
Now looking to the influence of religion in the fu-
ture, I have in the preceding found the essence of the
gospel of Jesus in the Golden Rule, which, broadly
interpreted, means the development in the individual
of a sense of social responsibility. Civilization itself
is dependent in the last analysis primarily upon just
this thing. The change from the individual life of the
animal to the group life of civilized man, especially
in the world of science, a life of ever-expanding com-
plexity as our scientific civilization advances, is obvi-
ously impossible unless, in general, the individual learns
in ever-increasing measure, to subordinate his impulses
and interests to the furtherance of the group life.
The reason that the western world, which has led, as
we westerners think, in the development of civiliza-
tion, adopted Christianity as its religion is to be found
in the last analysis, in the fact that western civiliza-
28 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
tion with its highly organized group life found that it
could not possibly develop without it. And if this is
so, the future is certainly going to need the essentials
of Christianity even more than the past has needed
them.
In other words, the job that the churches in the past
have been in the maiu trying to do, and the job that, I
think, in spite of their weakness and follies, they have
in the main succeeded in doing fairly well ; namely, the
job of developing the consciences, the ideals and the
aspirations of mankind, must be done by some agency
in the future even more effectively than it has been
done in the past.
There are two ways in which this can be done:
First, by destroying organized religion as Russia re-
cently has been attempting to do, and building upon
its ruins some other organization which will carry on
the work that the church has in the main done in the
past, some other organization which will embody the
essentials of religion, but be free from its faults. The
second way is to assist organized religion as it now
exists to eliminate its faults and to be more effective
in emphasizing and in spreading, with ever-increasing
vigor, its essentials.
The Idea that God, or Nature, or the Universe,
whatever term you prefer, is not a being of caprice
and whim as had been the case in all the main body
of thinking of the ancient world; but is, instead, a God
who rules through law, or a nature capable of being
depended upon, or a universe of consistency, or order-
liness and of the beauty that goes with the order
—
that idea has made modern science, and it is unques-
tionably the foundation of modern civilizations.
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 29
Yes, dnd much more than this, for it is not merely
the material side of life that this idea has changed.
It has also revolutionized the whole mode of thought
of the race. It has changed the philosophic and reli-
gious conceptions of mankind. It has laid the foun-
dations of a new and a stupendous advance in man's
conception of God, for a sublimer view of the world
and of man's place and destiny in it. The anthropo-
morphic God of the ancient world, the God of human
passions, frailties, caprices, and whims is gone, and
obviously with it the old duty, namely, merely or
chiefly the duty to propitiate him, so that he may be
induced to treat you, either in this world or the next,
or in both, better than he treats your neighbor.
Can any one question the advance that has been
made in the diminishing prevalence of these mediaeval,
essentially childish, and essentially selfish ideas? The
new God is the God of law and order; the new duty,
to know that order and to get into harmony with it;
to learn how to make the world a better place to live
in, not merely how to save your individual soul. How-
ever, once destroy our confidence in the principle of
uniformity, our belief in the rule of law, and our effec-
tiveness immediately disappears, our method ceases to
be dependable, and our laboratories become deserted.
Matter is no longer a mere game of marbles played
by blind men. An atom is now an amazingly compli-
cated organism, possessing many interrelated parts,
and exhibiting many functions and properties—energy
properties, radiating properties, wave properties, and
other properties quite as mysterious as any that used
to masquerade under the name of "mind," so that the
phrases, "all is matter," and "all is mind," have now
30 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
become merely shibboleths completely devoid of mean-
ing.
Personally I believe that essential religion is one of
the world's supremest needs. And I believe that one
of the greatest contributions the United States ever
can, or ever will, make to world progress—greater by
far than any contribution which we ever can make to
the science of government—will consist in furnishing
an example to the world of how the religious life of a
nation can evolve intelligently, wholesomely, inspir-
ingly, reverently, completely divorced from all un-
reason, all superstition, and all unwholesome emotion-
alism."
We can still look with a sense of wonder and mys-
tery and reverence upon the fundamental elements of
the physical world as they have been partially revealed
to us in this century. The childish mechanical concep-
tions of the nineteenth century are now grotesquely
inadequate.
We have at present no one consistent scheme of in-
terpretation of physical phenomena, and we have be-
come wise enough to see, and to admit, that we have
none. We use the wave theory, for example, where it
works; we use the quantum theory where it works;
and we try to bridge the gap between the two appar-
ently contradictory theories, in purely formal fashion,
by what we call the correspondence principle. It is
true we are still slowly learning more of the rules of
nature's game, so that our progress is not made by hit
or miss experimenting, nor by random theorizing, but
2 The following pages are reprinted from Evolution of Science and
Religion. By permission of The Yale University Press, publishers.
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 31
by following a more or less systematic, if not always
a strictly logical, procedure. But the day has gone
by when any physicist thinks he understands the foun-
dations of the physical universe, as we thought we
understood them in the nineteenth century. The dis-
coveries of our generation have taught us a whole-
some lesson of humility, wonder and joy in the face
of an as yet incomprehensible physical universe.
We have learned not to take ourselves as seriously
as the nineteenth century physicists took themselves.
We have learned to work with new satisfaction, new
hope and new enthusiasm because there is still so much
that we do not understand, and because, instead of
having it all pigeon-holed as they thought they had,
we have found in our lifetimes more new relations in
physics than had come to light in all preceding ages
put together, and because the stream of discovery as
yet shows no abatement.
Why Is It that we have never surpassed the sepul-
chral decorative art of the Egyptians, nor their sepul-
chral architecture, either? Is it not because they, too,
at least, in some of the fields In which they worked,
discovered eternal truth? Why Is It that In the plastic
arts, in aesthetics, in certain forms of the drama, In
the exercise of pure reason, we can only imitate the
triumphs of the Greeks? Is it not because the Greeks
discovered In these fields eternal truth? Why is it that
all the world Is still willing to say of Jesus, "Never
man spake like this man"? Is it not because he lit-
erally spake two thousand years ago the words of
everlasting life—the words of rich, full, abundant,
satisfying, unselfish living for all times and all places?
32 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
There is a truth in the past which cannot be ignored
or brushed thoughtlessly aside by men of insight and
understanding. Much of the knowledge of the past is
still eternal truth. As Einstein embraces the whole of
Newton, so presumably the truth of the present is
merely a supplement to, an extension of, the truth of
the past. It takes on a new aspect, a richer, com-
pleter significance with every advance in knowledge;
but only the undiscerning and the thoughtless fail to
see the truth that was clothed in the old dress—fail to
see, in a word, that this whole process of which we
are a part is a slow continuing growth. If it fails to
appear as such at times it is only because we have not
a wide enough perspective, because our candidate, for
example, has been defeated at the polls, and we ac-
cordingly think for the moment that the whole march
of progress has been reversed. At such times we need
to reflect upon such a bit of doggerel as appeared
some years ago in the Outlook just after its candidate
and its policies had suffered disastrous overthrow:
My grandad notes the world's worn cogs
And says we're going to the dogs.
His grandad in his house of logs
Thought things were going to the dogs.
His dad among the Flemish bogs,
Swore things were going to the dogs.
The cave man in his queer skin togs
Knew things were going to the dogs.
Yet this is what I'd like to state,
Those dogs have had an awful wait.
The undiscerning and the thoughtless are divided
into two great groups, the one the conventional crowd
which simply passes on the past without change; the
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 33
other, the red mob, the devotees of the next easiest
and cheapest philosophy, "the philosophy of knock."
The unthinking join each of these two groups in
crowds. But the man of education and Intelligence in
general joins neither. Indeed, is not the main pur-
pose of education to enable one to know the truth of
the present, and to understand the truth of the past.
In a word, is It not to enable one to estimate correctly
his own place and that of his contemporaries in the
ever-expanding ocean of knowledge; for only with
such understanding can he shake off the inhibitions of
the conventional, free himself from the emotional
futility of the radical, and put forth constructive effort
for the real betterment of the world.
One or two Illustrations of effort that is not con-
structive will be illuminating. After the discovery of
the law of gravitation all attempts to make new phys-
ical or engineering developments, save such as are con-
sistent with and limited by this law, became, of course,
ridiculous, since they Ignore fundamental and estab-
lished truth. The same is true with respect to pro-
posed violations of the principle of conservation of
energy and the laws of electrodynamics as applied to
large-scale phenomena. But this ridiculousness does
not prevent inventors without background from con-
tinually putting forward perpetual motion machines,
nor does it prevent ignorant or unscrupulous persons
from advertising Abrams electronic reactions, mag-
netic belts, and the like.
Also such persons undoubtedly have their exact
counterparts In the fields of art, finance, education,
and all other departments of human activity, persons
who are ignorant of fundamental laws that have been
34 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
discovered; who are hypnotized by anything which is
new because it is new; and who are not interested in
first finding what has been found to be true. There
are presumably fundamental laws in art as well as in
physics, in accordance with which all real progress
must be made. One of the foremost painters in the
United States recently told me that he considered a
very large fraction of what is called modern art to be
in the precise category of perpetual motion machines
and Abrams electronic reactions—a violation of the
fundamental laws of real art, and hence doomed to
disappear like all other untrue things. And how many
cubists we have in economics, in education, in govern-
ment, in religion, everybody knows,—persons who are
unwilling to take the time and to make the effort re-
quired to find what the known facts are, before they
become champions of unsupported opinions—people
who take sides first and look up facts afterward when
the tendency to distort the facts to conform to the
opinions has become well-nigh irresistible.
The assumption that our feeble, finite minds un-
derstand completely the basis of the physical uni-
verse is the sort of blunder that has been made over
and over and over again throughout all periods of
the world's history, and in all domains of thought. It
is the essence of dogmatism—assertiveness without
knowledge. This is supposed to have been the espe-
cial prerogative of religion; and there have been
many religious dogmatists; but not a few of them,
alas, among scientists. Every one will recognize Mr.
Bryan, for example, as a pure dogmatist; but not
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 35
every scientist will recognize that Ernst Haeckel was
an even purer one.
If there is anything that is calculated to impart an
attitude of humility and of reverence in the face of
nature, to keep one receptive of new truth and con-
scious of the limitations of our finite understanding,
it is a bit of familiarity with the growth of modern
physics. It is quite as effective as the "tropic forests"
which put Charles Darwin Into such an attitude of
reverence when he wrote, "No man can stand in the
tropic forests without feeling that they are temples
filled with the various productions of the God of na-
ture, and that there is more in man than the breath
of his body."
No conception of God which has ever come into
human thinking has been half so productive of effort
on the part of man to change bad conditions as has
this new modern conception that man himself plays a
part in the scheme of evolution; this conception that
has arisen because of work like that of Galileo, like
that of Pasteur, and especially like that of Franklin
and Faraday, that it is possible in increasing measure
for us to know and to control, nature. This concep-
tion has Inevitably been introduced into human think-
ing by the stupendous strides which have been made
in the past century. And there are perhaps limitless
possibilities ahead through the use of the scientific
method for the enrichment of life and the develop-
ment of the race.
In this sense the idea that nature is at bottom
benevolent has now become well-nigh universal. It is
36 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
a contribution of science to religion, and a powerful
extension or modification of the idea that Jesus saw
so clearly and preached so persistently. He had felt
that benevolence, and then preached it among men.
Modern science has brought forward evidence for its
belief. True, it has changed somewhat the conception
and the emphasis, as was to have been expected, for
it is this constant change In conception with the ad-
vance of thought and of knowledge that we are here
attempting to follow. But the practical preaching of
modern science—and it it is the most Insistent and
effective preacher in the world to-day—is extraordi-
narily like the preaching of Jesus.
Its keynote is service, the subordination of the indi-
vidual to the good of the whole. Jesus preached it as
a duty—for the sake of world salvation. Science
preaches it as a duty—for the sake of world progress.
Jesus also preached the joy and satisfaction of service:
"He that findeth his life shall lose It; and he that
loseth his life . . . shall find It." When the modern
scientist says he does it "for the fun of it," or "for
the satisfaction he gets out of It," he is only translat-
ing the words of Jesus into the modern vernacular.
It would be hard to find a closer parallel.
Concerning what ultimately becomes of the indi-
vidual in the process, science has added nothing and it
has subtracted nothing. So far as science is concerned
religion can treat that problem precisely as It has In the
past; or it can treat it in some entirely new way If it
wishes. For that problem is entirely outside the field
of science now, though it need not always remain so.
Science has undoubtedly been responsible for a certain
change in religious thinking as to the relative values
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 37
of Individual and race salvation. For obviously by
definitely Introducing the most stimulating and Inspir-
ing motive for altruistic effort which has ever been
introduced, namely, the motive arising from the con-
viction that we ourselves may be vital agents in the
march of things, science has provided a reason for
altruistic effort which Is quite independent of the ulti-
mate destination of the individual, and Is also much
more alluring to some sorts of minds than that of
singing hosannas forever around the throne. To that
extent science is undoubtedly Influencing and changing
religion quite profoundly now.
The emphasis of making this world better is cer-
tainly the dominant and characteristic element in the
religion of to-day. Nor is It confined to the formal
religious organizations, though It probably gains Its
chief impulse from them. For this new Idea of prog-
ress, and of our part in it, and our responsibility for
it, is now practically universal. Call it an Illusion if
you wish; you at least cannot deny the existence of
the idea; and it is Ideas that count in this world, for
in them is, of course, the motivation of all conduct.
For my own part I am going to call this introduction
of an idea as divine an event as has ever taken place.
It is due directly to science, and it marks the latest
stage in the evolution of religion, that Is, the latest
stage in the evolution of man's conceptions about the
ultimate nature of his world and his relations to that
world—his conceptions about God and about duty.
It is not a question of whether one is religious or
irreligious, so much as whether one Is scientific or un-
scientific, rational or irrational. The world is of
38 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
course "incurably religious." Why? Because every
one who reflects at all must have conceptions about
the world which go beyond the field of science, that
is, beyond the present range of intellectual knowledge.
As soon as we get beyond that range we are in the
field that belongs to religion, and no one knows better
than the man who works in science how soon we get
beyond the boundaries of the known. These bound-
aries are continually changing, and so the conceptions
that must start from them and have their footings in
them are likewise of necessity changing. That is, re-
ligion is changing now, because of the interplay of
science upon it, precisely as it has been changing in
the past, and especially during the past century.
There is a religion—one which keeps its mind con-
tinually open to new truth, which realizes that religion
itself has continually undergone an evolution, that as
our religious conceptions have changed in the past so
they may be expected to change in the future; that
eternal truth has been discovered in the past, that it
is being discovered now, and will continue to be dis-
covered. That kind of religion adapts itself to a
growing, developing world.
Physics has recently learned its lesson; and it has
something to teach both philosophy and religion,
namely, the lesson of not taking itself too seriously,
not imagining that the human mind yet understands,
or has made more than the barest beginning toward
understanding the universe. To-day physics is much
more open-minded, much less dogmatic, much less dis-
posed to make all-inclusive generalizations, and to
imagine that it is dealing with ultimate realities, than
ROBERT A. MILLIKAN 39
it was twenty-five years ago. This generalizing fur-
ther than the observed facts warrant; this tendency to
assume that our finite minds have at any time attained
to a complete understanding even of the basis of the
physical universe, this sort of blunder has been made
over and over again in all periods of the world's his-
tory, and in all domains of thought. It has been the
chief sin of philosophy, the gravest error of religion,
and the worst stupidity of science—this assumption
of unpossessed knowledge, this dogmatic assertiveness,
sometimes positive, sometimes negative, about matters
concerning which we have no knowledge.
If, as we pass from the seven-year-old to the thirty-
year-old stage of our racial development, our concep-
tions of God become less childishly simple, more vague
and indefinite, it is because we begin to realize that
our finite minds have only just begun to touch the
borders of the ocean of knowledge and understand-
ing. "Canst thou by searching find out God?"
The prophet Micah said, twenty-five hundred years
ago, "What doth the Lord require of thee but to do
justice, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy
God?" Modern science of the real sort is learning
to walk humbly with its God. And in learning that
lesson it is contributing something to religion.
SCIENCE REVERENT BEFORE COSMIC
WONDER
Arthur S. Eddington
Arthur Stanley Eddington, Plumlan Professor of As-
tronomy, Cambridge, England, since 19 13, and director of
the observatory there since 1914, was born in Kendal in 1882,
and is unmarried. Manchester, Oxford, Dublin, Bristol and
Edinburgh have conferred distinguished degrees upon him. He
was president of the Royal Astronomical Society, 1921-1923;
Chief Assistant at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, 1906-
1913. In 1928 he was awarded the Royal Medal of the
Royal Society. He has written widely on subjects dealing
with physics, mathematics and astronomy. But before the
appearance of his epoch-making volume. The Nature of the
Physical World, in 1928, Professor Eddington was not known
outside the circle of his fellow scientists. With publication of
that book, however, he acquired world-wide reputation as an
exponent of Einstein's theory of relativity ; and also as a scientist
who did not fear to approach research in the spirit of the ideal-
ist and the mystic. Publication of The Nature of the Physical
World was the signal for the appearance of many books by
scientists, conceding abandonment of the mechanistic theory of
the universe in favor of a theory involving infinite purpose and
direction back of cosmic phenomena. In this sense Eddington's
work marked the beginning of an epoch in scientific thinking.
Others had commenced to think in similar terms; but it re-
mained for him to focus public attention. Professor Edding-
ton is an earnest Quaker; and into his work intrudes consider-
able of the quiet faith and mysticism of that noble belief.
Ill
SCIENCE REVERENT BEFORE COSMIC
WONDERS
By Arthur S. Eddington
SOME would put the question in this form: "Is
the unseen world revealed by the mystical out-
look a reality?" Reality is one of those inde-
terminate words which might lead to infinite philo-
sophical discussions and irrelevancies. There is less
danger of misunderstandings if we put the question in
this form: "Are we, in pursuing the mystical outlook,
facing the hard facts of experience?"
Surely we are. I think that those who would wish
to take cognisance of nothing but the measurements
of the scientific world made by our sense-organs are
shirking one of the most immediate facts of experi-
ence, namely, that consciousness is not wholly, nor
even primarily a device for receiving sense-impressions.
We may the more boldly insist that there is another
outlook than the scientific one, because in practice a
more transcendental outlook is almost universally ad-
mitted. I cannot do better than quote a memorable
description by J. S. Holland:
"There is an hour of the Indian night, a little be-
fore the first glimmer of dawn, when the stars are
unbelievably clear and close above, shining with a
radiance beyond our belief in this foggy land. The
1 From Science and the Unseen World, by Arthur S. Eddington. By
permission of the Macmillan Company, publishers.
43
44 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
trees stand silent around one with a friendly presence.
As yet there is no sound from awakening birds; but
the whole world seems to be intent, alive, listening,
eager. At such a moment the veil between the things
that are seen and the things that are unseen becomes
so thin as to interpose scarcely any barrier at all be-
tween the eternal beauty and truth and the soul which
would comprehend them."
Here is an experience which the "observer," as tech-
nically defined in scientific theory, knows nothing of.
The measuring appliances which he reads declare that
the stars are just as remote as they always have been;
nor can he find any excuse in his measures for the
mystic thought which has taken possession of the mind
and dominated the sense impressions.
Yet who does not prize these moments that reveal
to us the poetry of existence? We do not ask whether
philosophy can justify such an outlook on nature.
Rather our system of philosophy is itself on trial. It
must stand or fall according as it is broad enough to
find room for this experience as an element of life.
The sense of values within us recognises that this is
a test to be passed. It is as essential that our phi-
losophy should survive this test as that it should sur-
vive the experimental tests supplied by science.
In the passage I have quoted there is no direct ref-
erence to religious mysticism. It describes an orien-
tation towards nature, accepted by religious and irre-
ligious alike, as proper to the human spirit—though
not to the ideal "observer" whose judgments form the
canon of scientific experience. The scientist who from
time to time falls into such a mood does not feel
guilty twinges as though he had lapsed in his devo-
ARTHUR S. EDDINGTON 45
tion. He would, on the contrary, feel deep con-
cern if he found himself losing the power of entering
into this kind of feeling. In short our environment
may and should mean something towards us which is
not to be measured with the tools of the physicist or
described by the metrical symbols of the mathemati-
cian.
Let science pause before rushing in to apply a sup-
posed scientific test; for such a test would go much too
far, stripping away from our lives not only our re-
ligion but all our feelings which do not belong to the
function of a measuring machine."
We are anxious for perfect truth; but it is hard to
say in what form perfect truth Is to be found. I cannot
quite believe that it has the form typified by an inven-
tory. Somehow, as part of its perfection, there should
be incorporated in it that which we esteem as a "sense
of proportion." The physicist is not conscious of any
disloyalty to truth on occasions when his sense of pro-
portion tells him to regard a plank as continuous ma-
terial, well knowing that it is "really" empty space
containing sparsely scattered electric charges. And
the deepest philosophic researches as to the nature of
the Deity may give a conception equally out of pro-
portion for daily life; so that we should rather em-
ploy a conception that was unfolded nearly two thou-
sand years ago.
I am standing on the threshold about to enter a
room. It is a complicated business. In the first place
I must shove against an atmosphere pressing with a
- The following pages are from The Nature of the Physical fVorld,
by Arthur S. Eddington. By permission of the Macmillan Company,
publishers.
46 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
force of fourteen pounds on every square Inch of my
body. I must make sure of landing on a plank travel-
ling at twenty miles a second round the sun—a frac-
tion of a second too early or too late, the plank would
be miles away. I must do this while hanging from a
round planet head outward Into space, and with a
wind of ether blowing at no one knows how many
miles a second through every Interstice of my body.
The plank has no solidity of substance. To step on It
Is like stepping on a swarm of flies. Shall I not slip
through? No, If I make the venture one of the flies
hits me and gives me a boost up again. I fall once
more and am knocked upwards by another fly; and
so on.
I may hope that the net result will be that I remain
about steady; but If unfortunately I should slip
through the door or be boosted too violently up to the
celling, the occurrence would be, not a violation of the
laws of nature, but a rare coincidence. These are
some of the minor difficulties. I ought really to look
at the problem four-dlmenslonally as concerning the
intersection of my world-line with that of the plank.
Then again. It is necessary to determine in which di-
rection the entropy of the world is increasing in order
to make sure that my passage over the threshold is
an entrance, not an exit.
Verily, It Is easier for a camel to pass through the
eye of a needle than for a scientific man to pass
through a door. And whether the door be barn door
or church door it might be wiser that he should con-
sent to be an ordinary man and walk In, rather than
wait till all the difficulties involved in a really scien-
tific ingress are resolved.
ARTHUR S. EDDINGTON 47
Starting from aether, electrons and other physical
machinery we cannot reach conscious man and render
count of what is apprehended in his consciousness.
Conceivably we might reach a human machine inter-
acting by reflexes with its environment; but we can-
not reach rational man morally responsible to pursue
the truth as to sether and electrons or to religion.
A belief, not by any means confined to the more
dogmatic adherents of religion is that there is a fu-
ture non-material existence in store for us. Heaven
is nowhere in space, but it is in time. (All the mean-
ing of the belief Is bound up with the word future;
there is no comfort in an assurance of bliss in some
former state of existence.) On the other hand the
scientist declares that time and space are a single con-
tinuum; and the modern idea of a Heaven in time but
not in space is in this respect more at variance with
science than the pre-Copernican Idea of a Heaven
above our heads. The question I am now putting is
not whether the theologian or the scientist is right;
but which Is trespassing on the domain of the other.
Cannot theology dispose of the destinies of the human
soul In a non-material way without trespassing on the
realm of science? Cannot science assert Its conclu-
sions as to the geometry of the space-time continuum
without trespassing on the realm of theology? Ac-
cording to the above assertion science and theology
can make what mistakes they please provided that
they make them in their own territory. They cannot
quarrel If they keep to their own realms. But It will
require a skilful drawing of the boundary line to frus-
trate the development of a conflict here.
48 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
The philosophic trend of modern scientific thought
differs markedly from the views of thirty years ago.
Can we guarantee that the next thirty years will not
see another revolution, perhaps even a complete reac-
tion? We may certainly expect great changes, and by
that time many things will appear in a new aspect.
That Is one of the difficulties in the relations of science
and philosophy: that Is why the scientist as a rule
pays so little heed to the philosophical implication of
his own discoveries. By dogged endeavor he Is slowly
and torturously advancing to purer and purer truth;
but his Ideas seem to zigzag In a manner most discon-
certing to the onlooker. Scientific discovery is like the
fitting together of the pieces of a great jig-saw puzzle;
a revolution of science does not mean that the pieces
already arranged and Interlocked have to be dispersed.
It means that In fitting on fresh pieces we have had
to revise our Impression of what the puzzle-picture is
going to be like.
One day you ask the scientist how he Is getting on.
He replies, "Finely. I have very nearly finished this
piece of blue sky." Another day you ask how the sky
is progressing and are told, "I have added a lot more,
but It was sea, not sky; there Is a boat floating on the
top of It." Perhaps next time it will have turned out
to be a parasol upside down; but our friend Is still
enthusiastically delighted with the progress he is mak-
ing. The scientist has his guesses as to how the fin-
ished picture will work out; he depends largely on
these in his search for other pieces to fit; but his
guesses are modified from time to time by unexpected
developments as the fitting proceeds.
These Involutions of thought as to the final picture
ARTHUR S. EDDINGTON 49
do not cause the scientist to lose faith in his handi-
work, for he is aware that the completed portion is
growing steadily. Those who look over his shoulder
and use the present partially developed picture for
purposes outside science, do so at their own risk.
The lack of finality of scientific theories would be a
very serious limitation of our argument, if we had
staked much on their permanence. The religious
reader may well be content that I have not offered
him a God revealed by the quantum theory, and there-
fore liable to be swept away in the next scientific revo-
lution. It is not so much the particular form that
scientific theories have now taken—the conclusions
which we believe we have proved—as the movement
of thought behind them that concerns the philosopher.
Our eyes once opened, we may pass on to a yet newer
outlook on the world, but we can never go back to the
old outlook.
If the scheme of philosophy which we now rear on
the scientific advances of Einstein, Bohr, Rutherford
and others, is doomed to fall in the next thirty years,
it is not to be laid to their charge that we have gone
astray. Like the systems of Euclid, of Ptolemy, of
Newton, which have served their turn, so the systems
of Einstein and Heisenberg may give way to some
fuller realisation of the world. But in each revolu-
tion of scientific thought new words are set to the old
music, and that which has gone before is not destroyed
but refocussed. Amid all our faulty attempts at ex-
pression, the kernel of scientific truth steadily grows.
And of this truth it may be said—The more it changes,
the more it remains the same thing.
MODERN PHYSICAL SCIENCE: ITS RELA-
TION TO RELIGION
Heber D. Curtis
Heber Doust Curtis, astronomer, was born in Muskegon,
Michigan, in 1872. In 1902 he received his Ph.D. from
the University of Virginia, and in 1893 his A.M. from the
University of Michigan. He began to teach astronomy in
1897, and ever since has devoted himself to that science. He
has observed astronomical phenomena at various places in the
United States, South America, Labrador, Russia and Sumatra.
In this connection he has the unusual distinction of having ob-
sei-ved nine total solar eclipses. He is member of the National
Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.
He has made numerous contributions to scientific publications.
Recently, he w^as appointed Director of the Detroit Observatory
of the University of Michigan. The article he presents in this
s} mposium is an expansion of an address delivered in the series
of Faculty Religious Forums of the University of Pittsburgh,
where for ten years he was director of the Alleghany observa-
tory.
IV
MODERN PHYSICAL SCIENCE: ITS RELA-
TION TO RELIGION
By Heber D. Curtis
IN
any symposium or forum such as this, it is no
easy matter to follow exactly and precisely a
title as printed. Considerable thought has been
given to various possibilities in the way of changes or
alterations in this title, in the hope that it might thus
be brought to indicate with greater precision the trend
of the treatment to be followed. Some aspects of our
'.nalysis, as will be developed later, might well moti-
vate a change to a title reading,
—"The Analogies
Between Religious and Modern Physical Beliefs."
But, as every librarian knows, any complete precision
in a title will require so long a statement, such quali-
fications by way of definitions, exceptions noted, and
explanations given, that a perfect title must finally
become identical with the work itself.
Science is to-day taking stock of the beliefs it has
permitted Itself to make; in a closer alliance with that
field formerly pre-empted by philosophy it has sub-
jected its basal principles to close analysis. Some-
what to his surprise, the modern scientist finds that
he has gradually and without prevision reached a
point where he is permitting himself, even demand-
ing, beliefs and theories which involve the transcen-
dental and the infinite. It is with something of a shock
53
54 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
that science has suddenly found close analogy between
its most cherished and latest beliefs and those of re-
ligion, in so far as both assume the transcendental
and the unknowable. The survey of this common
ground, a liaison obtained through a similarity of be-
liefs permissible, will form a large part of this treat-
ment, even though not explicitly included in the title.
Shall I then, in attempting to amplify and elaborate
this theme as assigned me, make a preliminary attempt
to clarify the treatment by starting with definitions
of the concepts involved? Perhaps this is not really
necessary, yet it will serve to set certain limitations
which I regard as vital. There are hundreds of ex-
cellent definitions of religion, and doubtless a different
definition of the term would be given by each reader,
—definitions which would in each case show radical
variations from that given by one's neighbor. Yet in
all such definitions there are certain elements in com-
mon, so generally accepted, so axiomatic, if I may be
permitted to use that term, that the individual differ-
ences may be passed over as unimportant.
My brother kneeleth,—saith Kabir,
To brass and stone in heathen wise.
But in my brother's voice I hear
My own unanswered agonies.
His God is as his fates assign;
His prayer is all the world's,—and mine.
Kipling.
Pantheist, theist, deist. Christian, Buddhist, or Mo-
hammedan,—all have at least two common factors,
namely,—the assumption of, or belief in, some con-
cept of a Higher Power or Mind over and above the
HEBER D. CURTIS 55
material universe, combined with a personal effort to
put one's self in tune with the subjective picture of
what is conceived to be the plan, wish, or will of this
super-cosmic entity.
It would be possible (and easy) to state at this
point that science needs no definition, yet, strangely
enough, our definition of science is by no means so
ready and instant as it was half a century ago. We
recall the older and somewhat limited view-point of
the orthodox scientist;—his was the lore of things
heard, seen, and felt. He refused to admit into his
data anything which could not be tested by his meas-
uring rods. These measuring rods were, and still are,
of many kinds;—the scales, thermometers, and elec-
trical conductors of the physicist, the reagents and
combinations of the chemist, the astronomer's tele-
scope, the biologist's classifications and laws of in-
heritance, his microscopes and stains, the reaction ma-
chines and mouse-mazes of the psychologist, the statis-
tical laws used by the investigator in political science
or anthropology, and many others.
It is my contention that such a definition of science
is faulty; that modern science must have a more
prominent place for relationships. It may be that
relations between things are the only real and certain
facts of the universe. The ultimate analysis of what
we term number, say the number 2, is full of philo-
sophical difficulties; we may, however, define a cer-
tain process called multiplication, and multiply this
thing called 2 by another thing of the same sort. We
have made some laws of our own to do this, yet these
laws, if we observe them, are very real things.
Science has always permitted itself, nay, demanded,
56 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the right to make deductions and formulate laws, yet
the older science placed very definite limits on the
process. It cheerfully admitted two entities of the
sort that could be treated with its measuring rods,
and deduced a law connecting the one with the other.
An entity of any other sort was denied. Before a
fact or entity which seemed to stand by itself, with no
other similar fact or entity in some sort of relation
before it, science threw up its hands. We may put
this more clearly by a familiar illustration. There
seems no doubt that there is a something which we
call the universe. It is filled with matter which in its
microscopic aspects: nebulae, suns, galaxies, is of re-
markable simplicity and uniformity. One little sec-
tion of it is filled with matter and facts of the utmost
intricacy and complexity;—the mystery of life;—what
Conklin has termed the "diabolical ingenuity" of that
same life to provide that a male and a female element
may meet and keep life going; the mystery of thought
and what we term originality, that creative element in
man which makes new combinations and new sub-
stances.
These greater facts are vastly more important, as
well as vastly more difficult than the number of
chromosomes in a cell or the temperature relations
of a cooling alloy. Must science, as in the past, re-
fuse absolutely to have anything to do with the con-
sideration of these greater facts, and simply lump
them as unknowable? In other words, must science
refuse to apply reason and analysis to data which
seem self-sufficient and without antecedent explana-
tory data? We call such a process speculation, yet it
would seem that a moderate amount of speculation
HEBER D. CURTIS 57
should be a good thing for a scientist; to paraphrase
Mark Twain, it will keep him interested and prevent
him from brooding over being a scientist.
I personally prefer another definition for science.
Science is the body of things known, with the attempt
to arrange all things in orderly fashion. The impor-
tant words are italicized with intent. The first one
indicates that science need place no limit whatever on
Its attempts to explain things. Under this ruling, the
speculations of religionists and philosophers regarding
a First Cause are a form of science. Many of these
may be wrong, as have been many scientific theories
relating to more mundane data. Secondly, my cosmos
must be orderly; I must have connections uniting the
totality of data In what we term order. I care little
how we shall define "order"; whether we call it cause
and effect, sequential harmony, or the concept of pur-
pose and end. Neither do I worry lest this "order"
I am attempting to postulate for the universe Is sim-
ply a projection outward Into the universe of my own
laws of thought, and a conceivably fallacious analogy
with entirely unallied developmental gamuts. I have
no other process, and this must serve. As will be
illustrated later, modern science, In spite of itself, is
beginning to admit here and there, the formerly dis-
trusted and hated element of hypothesis. In order
to avoid that doubtful word, "hypothesis," or Its
brother, "speculation," it is quite usual to substitute
the more innocuous and apparently more scientific
phrase,
—"scientific inference." Scientific inference, a
deductive method, Is of wide and valid use, yet when
we use it to the limit, the boundaries between It and
pure hypothesis are vague and ill-defined.
58 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Newton, that keen reasoner and careful investi-
gator, whom most of us still regard as the most pow-
erful intellect which has yet appeared on this earth,
seems never to have been moved by the plebeian faults
of pride or vain-glory in his scientific work, even
though occasionally human in his religious controver-
sies. Yet we can almost imagine that this Titan felt
a touch of human pride and self-appreciation as he
penned the words,
—
"Hypotheses non jingo,"—"As
for hypotheses, I don't make them." And later, in his
Opticks: "The main business of Natural Philosophy
is to argue from Phasnomena without feigning Hy-
potheses, and to deduce Causes from Effects, till we
come to the very first Cause, which certainly is not
mechanical." Basically, and with due regard for the
results from more modern theories of knowledge, it
seems certain that Newton told less than the truth in
his complacent rejection of hypothesis. He thought
that he was not making them, while as a matter of
fact his deductions, his mathematical equations, his
very laws of thought, go back to hypotheses of one
sort or another, either just beneath the surface, or
deeply hidden in the sub-structure of mind. He
founded a wonderful mechanism on a few assumed
axioms, but an axiom is merely an hypothesis which
ought to be true. Quite a proportion of present-day
scientists are now seriously considering a radically
different hypothesis of the structure of the universe
from that of Newton,—the theory of relativity. It
is perhaps too soon to try to make a prophecy as to
whether Newton's gravitational universe, or a rela-
tivity universe with time and space united In a single
unit and with gravitation thrown out entirely as a dis-
HEBER D. CURTIS 59
tinct force, or some other as yet undreamed-of ex-
planation, will be what the scientists of a century
hence will teach as the law and the gospel.
As we look back over the discarded scientific theo-
ries of the past, once regarded as inspired and now
only of historical interest, we are more and more
forced to the conclusion that in the final analysis any
scientific theory is simply a belief. We believe the
present atomic theory instead of the theory of the in-
divisible and unchanging atom of forty years ago be-
cause it seems to our intellects that it explains more
things than did the old hypothesis. As we analyze
our acceptance of the last, or the next to the last, of
the three successive atomic theories of the past decade
or so, there are few scientists, not even the respective
authors of the theories themselves, who would be so
opinionated as to presume an infinite life for these
theories. We feel quite sure, from the experience of
the past, that these in their turn will be displaced by
other hypotheses, and make their way to the limbo of
discarded beliefs. Most of us are inclined to believe
that it is a good thing that the absolute authority once
assigned to clerical interpreters of theological systems
has in a large measure passed. It is a distinct advan-
tage to science that it now realizes that it can have no
hierarchy to issue infallible and inerrant pronounce-
ments.
Libraries are filled with the pleasant or unpleasant
certainties of this or that man-made creed. We re-
call those forefathers of ours of that strong northern
clan whose joy has always been hard, stern, and com-
plicated thinking, we remember their limitations of
60 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
correctness to but a few, their rigid rejection of all
outside their small flocks. It is almost two hundred
years ago that Jonathan Edwards, at Northampton,
Massachusetts, preached his famous sermon,
—"Sin-
ners in the Hands of an Angry God," painting hell-
lire with such eloquence and power that his hearers
gripped the pew backs in agonies of religious ecstasy,
as they consigned nearly all people on earth to perdi-
tion. He gave this sermon nearly one hundred times,
it is said, and always read it from manuscript, perhaps
to be sure that he would not improvise on so vital a
theme. It was Edwards, too, later president of
Princeton, who gave from his pulpit the kindly pro-
nouncement :
As innocent as young children seem to be to us, yet if they
are out of Christ they are in God's sight young vipers, and in-
finitely more hateful than vipers.
And, one hundred fifty years later than Edwards, the
laws of the science of that date seemed so sure, so
divinely ordained, so to speak, that all authority rested
in them, and it was felt that we were here and there
coming quite close to the real boundaries in all aspects
of nature. It was a scientist who proved the impos-
sibility of a steamship crossing the Atlantic under its
own power; scientists assigned a few paltry million
years for the past and future duration of the sun;
scientists gave us what Chesterton feelingly refers to
as "the dear old atom," and the immutability of
matter. It is not so much the subject matter of the
scientific gifts of that now almost prehistoric age
which causes a slight scientific blush for the tribe in
general, as was the mental attitude accompanying the
HEBER D. CURTIS 61
gifts. That older and more intolerant science has
suffered many a hard knock and disillusionment dur-
ing the past two decades, and this forced abandon-
ment of tenets formerly taught as inerrant and in-
spired has had a most salutary effect. We recall the
famous words of the Virginian, when a well-knowr
biological impossibility was attributed to his pedigree,
—"Stranger, when you call me that, smile." It is not
a bad thing that present-day scientists, or at least the
older members of the group, have learned to smile a
little.
For we are not quite so cocksure now; we older
men in the physical sciences have had to change our
creeds several times in the relatively short span cov-
ered by our scientific activity, and we now realize that
our present theories, while they are the best that we
can now derive from existing observational data, may
conceivably be changed over night by new experi-
mental evidence, or by the analysis of some desk-
worker who knows no apparatus, but works in that
world of the spirit which we call mathematics.
Thus it is that we find to-day that both religion and
science are relatively chastened and humbled schemes
of thought as compared with the autocracy, the self-
sufficiency, the self-esteem, and the arrogance which
they both have displayed in the centuries past. The
pot can not call the kettle black.
Philosophy, having already made a helpful alliance
with mathematical science, is now more and more de-
manding notice from the physicist. We are coming to
realize that some of the age-old laws of thought are
more applicable to physical theory than had formerly
been dreamed. Our modern atom apparently does
62 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
not inflexibly obey some definite law of motion; all we
can say of it is that there is a probability, amounting
almost to a certainty, that it will occupy a certain
realm at a certain time under certain given conditions.
Perhaps, in the final analysis, our electrons within the
atom, our molecules in a gas, our populations covered
by life insurance, all obey as their only fixed law the
law of probability. These, which have sometimes
been called the laws of uncertainty, may possibly be
the only certain things in physical theory.
I stated at the beginning that my subject would be
restricted to religion In its general or absolute sense.
In certain oriental pantheons there are literally mil-
lions of gods; gods in such profusion and richness that
a separate god could be assigned to every conceivable
function of life or thought. It would seem inevitable
that in such rich pantheons there must be at least one
minor deity under whose special protection are placed
those who write, and that just as certain deities have
been made tutelary for sailors, farmers, women, and
soldiers, there must be one to look after writers, leg-
islators and the like. It would seem that In the eyes
of such a tutelary deity the one unpardonable sin
would be not sticking to one's subject. I would, there-
fore, at this point pour a libation to this unknown
forensic deity, this Beog ayvaatog of those who use the
pen, that I may avoid the sin of wandering from the
issue.
For the past and present peculiarities of creeds or
scientific theories alike have nothing to do with the
subject. If our subject is enlarged so as to include
the influence of modern physical science on this or that
HEBER D. CURTIS 63
minor credal belief, or the changes which have been
brought about in this or that body of religionists, the
theme would at once become so vast that a good-sized
library would be necessary for the enumeration of the
details. It is a grave error to lay any emphasis what-
ever on such unimportant credal changes; there is dan-
ger that we do not see the forest for the trees. As
illustrations of changes in such minor points we have
only to compare with modern concepts the older ideas
of creation, inerrancy and inspiration of records of
faith and the universal applicability of minute and
particular credal pronouncements.
It is an error, also, to attribute the sum total of
such changes to the influence of science; some of it Is
due to this cause, but by no means all. Simply be-
cause science has had Its development in a parallel
course during the past five hundred years does not
mean that this has been the only active agent. We
must give a high weight, perhaps equal weight, to
thousands of other tendencies and influences, some of
which have arisen within the various churches and
beliefs themselves, while others have been motivated
by parallel evolutionary developments in philosophy,
ethics, government, education, or in the vast field of
general human relationships.
In the belief that changes or errors in creeds, reli-
gious tenets, or even the theories of science, do not
come under my subject at all and are in no way ger-
mane to the discussion, I will summarize by laying
down the following proposition, even though it may
seem an over-statement of the problem to some : Re-
ligion, in its absolute sense, has not changed an iota
because of the results of modern physical science, ex-
64 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
cept in so far as it has been rendered a no less prob-
able belief.
The various components of this assertion will need
some elaboration. I have already sufficiently outlined
my concept or definition of what I consider the basic
axiom of a religious belief or religious code of life.
This infinite concept has not changed essentially dur-
ing the past few millenniums any more than have any
other of the infinite concepts against whose barriers
the finite mind of man must admit defeat;—such con-
cepts as eternity or limitless space. The idea of God
in Akhenaton's psalm of 1400 B.C., in Micah's rule
of religion, in the Sermon on the Mount, is essentially
identical with the religious attitude of men of to-day.
The concept of God has become nobler as man him-
self has developed nobleness. But as a concept, as a
norm of belief and conduct, and however wide the dif-
ference in the minutiae of the belief, there is an essen-
tial identity between the strange gods of the savage
and the monotheism of those peoples which have at-
tained the highest development.
The thesis that modern physical science has had no
effect on religious belief except in so far as it has ren-
dered it a no less probable belief is doubtless not
capable of rigorous treatment. The reasons adduced
for a belief in a higher power are to-day just what
they were five thousand years ago. A great deal has
been subtracted by science from two of these argu-
ments; a vastly greater amount has been added by the
same progress of science to the third.
For two of the arguments advanced by the theolo-
gians or philosophers of old are arguments whose
validity has been seriously shaken, partly by science,
HEBER D. CURTIS 65
partly by other forces. The first of these is the argu-
ment adduced from the universaHty of religious belief
among practically all people and all races. It is not
a scientific argument. For it is quite possible to im-
agine a world in which all intelligent people hold
unanimously to an incorrect faith. Majorities are
always only probably right. Convictions, otherwise
called faiths, have led, it is true, to astonishing and
inexplicable results among all peoples. The Tibetan
monk who joyfully allows himself to be walled up in
a small cell to spend the rest of his life in darkness in
a cruel climate, the tortured Hindoo fakir, the Aus-
tralian aborigine with his terrible and race-destroying
self-mutilation, the Christian martyr, the Moham-
medan saint, all are remarkable and to some degree
inexplicable phenomena. They are, however, not con-
vincing as scientific arguments.
With all our admiration for the beauty and the in-
spiration—I use that term designedly—of the various
scriptures of the world, and assigning to them all pos-
sible weight as manifestations of the universality of
religious belief, these can not be classed as evidence in
the scientific sense. The Puranas, the precepts of
Confucius, the Bible, the Avesta, the Koran, are re-
markable and wonderful documents, but not scientific
proofs.
After all is said and done, the only scientific argu-
ment that has any weight to-day is one which has ap-
peared in various forms for at least three thousand
years, and Is based upon the universe itself. At best,
it Is an argument from analogy or probability, yet not
unlike certain physical assumptions or theories in its
66 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
basal elements, and possessing at least the same log-
ical value. It is not necessarily the old argument from
design, for the assumption of elements of design or
plan in a universe may conceivably be the projection
outward of the design elements of our brains and laws
of thought, just as a prism of glass from the method
of its construction, forces an orderly sequence of wave-
lengths to be assumed in the incident beam of con-
fused and tangled vibrations. This argument, based
on analogy, from the majesty of the universe itself,
and requiring a supreme mind as a necessity in a uni-
verse which contains both mind and matter, and In
which we already have an apparently infinite element
of matter, is to-day stronger than it ever was, simply
because we know more.
All of which leads naturally to the essential point
of this paper: what limit does modern science place
upon the formulation of beliefs, either in its own field
or in the field of the spirit. There is manifestly a tre-
mendous gradation in the beliefs which science now
holds. The distance traversed by a body falling to-
ward the earth increases with the square of the time
of fall. We can test this out; if we think that the re-
sistance of the air changes our derived law, we can
either imagine the air removed, or actually try the
experiment in a vacuum. But even in so simple a
physical experiment, the hypotheses or beliefs which
we must call in, stretch out to infinity. One of at least
two beliefs must be assumed, either of which is as
arbitrary in certain respects as is the postulation of
Infinite time, space, or power. The older and usual
assumption is that there is a mysterious and all-per-
vading force called gravitation. We derive certain
HEBER D. CURTIS 67
rules which we call laws for this force, which is all-
pervading. It is so minute a force that we cannot
experiment with it, for it is smaller than electrical
attraction by the factor one followed by forty-one
ciphers. It obeys the inverse square law, and when
we have said that we have finished; our main reason
for believing in it is that we have to have something.
At the risk of insulting the reader's acumen, I must
call to his attention here the essential peculiarity of
this assumption. We had certain facts; it was neces-
sary to explain them; so gravitation was assumed;
quite easy ! Is the assumption of a First Cause by
the religionist any less logical?
The second and modern alternative hypothesis is
that there is no such force as gravitation. The uni-
verse is supposed to be built on a strange four-dimen-
sional basis which is so transcendental—in the mathe-
matical use of the word—that it is impossible for our
three-dimensional minds to make any picture of it.
In this strange and transcendental universe, space is
curved wherever there is matter; hence things roll
down to the earth in this curved space because they
can not help doing so any more than a ball at the
outer edge of a wash basin can help rolling to the bot-
tom of the basin.
Let me at this point, as promised earlier, consider
two illustrations of the liberty of speculation which
modern science is forced to assume. This new atti-
tude, observed with sanity, is highly commendatory,
and Indicates some measure of rapprochement with
philosophy and religion, at least in method.
Our first illustration may be derived from modern
atomic theories. This was preceded by a stage, rep-
68 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
resented In part by Bohr's theory, in which the attempt
was made to construct an actual mechanical model of
electrons moving with tremendous speeds about a cen-
tral nucleus; such a model was for a time satisfactory
in explaining the various vibrations emitted in the
spectrum. This has now been largely abandoned; the
former mechanical models have been replaced by
transcendental mathematical abstractions, where prob-
ability relations rule supreme. We no longer say that
an atom will do a certain definite thing at a specified
time and under specified conditions, but that there Is
a certain probability that it will do this thing. We
give up attempts to picture the atom; we assume
forces of unknown action; in effect, we postulate some
detis ex machina; in short, we consider ourselves per-
mitted to indulge in some measure of speculation.
The suggestion has even been made that the laws
governing the atom are of such a super-material char-
acter that they are unknowable by man's present Intel-
lect. Exactly the same type of argument has been
used with regard to man's concept of a Deity
!
I happen just now to be writing an astronomical
treatise, and in that process I find that I must discuss
two different theories of an infinite universe, around
which subject there has already grown up a very ex-
tensive literature. These two alternative theories are
based to some extent upon what our telescopes show,
but for the most part upon mathematical reasoning.
Now a scientist is certainly allowing himself a great
deal of liberty when he seriously considers hypotheses
of so tremendously speculative a nature. We shall
have to admit that infinity Is a large word! My tele-
HEBER D. CURTIS 69
scopes do not reach to infinity; I cannot go out to the
distance of the farthest thing I see, which, in miles, is
roughly the figure one followed by twenty-two ciphers,
and then prove that the universe goes on at least as
far again from there.
I am accepting in my mind one of these two alter-
native theories of an Infinite universe, just because it
seems to me more probable than the other, and I be-
lieve In It because it seems more reasonable to me,
whatever that term "reasonable" may mean In a final
analysis. Am I reasoning from analogy or proba-
bility in considering either one of these infinite theo-
ries? Most certainly. As a matter of fact, nearly
every argument which has been advanced against the
theological acceptance of God from the majesty of
the universe or from its elements of design and pur-
pose might equally well be urged against either of
these two scientific theories.
Now have I any right as a scientist to speculate on
such tremendous questions? I feel that I have, and
that similar speculations by philosophers or theolo-
gians are likewise quite worth while and just exactly
as scientific. With a pure agnostic who tells me that
I can never prove either hypothesis of an infinite uni-
verse, I must instantly agree; I must admit at once
that my mind cannot conceive anything that is infinite,
and that the language of mathematics becomes inde-
terminate there. It is self-evident that I cannot prove
which theory of an infinite universe Is the better one
or the more true; there are admittedly a large number
of assumptions In the thought that it is infinite at all,
even though it is just as difficult to think of a finite
universe as an Infinite.
70 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
But I demand the right, as a scientist, to make such
theories. In the absolute sense, science can be limited
only by the universe itself. Pure agnosticism is a dead
and stagnant thing. I am perfectly willing to admit
that no knowledge of things either finite or infinite
can be absolutely complete and final. No such consid-
erations, however, can prevent me, as scientist, from
employing such methods of observation and reasoning
powers, even if the latter must border on speculation,
in attempts to formulate a theory of things as a whole.
The truth is that science, although it will not always
make a free admission of the fact, is in every field
making speculations, or holding to beliefs as working
hypotheses. From the behavior of a falling body to
the theory of an infinite universe Is a far cry. That
In either case we eventually come up against some sort
of an Immovable obstacle is perhaps just a natural
consequence of the infinite character and Infinite com-
plexity of the physical world. I refuse to permit any
Irrelevant lack of finality to prevent me from thinking.
Can science grant a similar freedom of thought to
the philosopher or the religionist working in the world
of the spirit? Science certainly has no right to refuse
to others the privileges which It is constantly Implicitly
assuming for Itself. In the final analysis, my accept-
ance of one or another theory relating to the Infinite
concept of a universe without limit Is not at all dif-
ferent from the reasoning of a philosopher as to a
First Cause or that of a religionist with regard to God.
To the religionist, however, who announces his theory
as definite, final. Inevitable, Inspired, the scientist
promptly sounds a warning. He demands from him
the same humility and modesty which the hard expe-
HEBER D. CURTIS 71
rience of past decades has forced upon science. Your
theory of a divine Higher Power, says the reverent
scientist to the rehgionist, is highly probable. It
forms the easiest, best and most probable way of ex-
plaining all the facts which I observe in this strange
universe in which my mind finds itself placed for a
few years. It is a belief, like my present belief In the
latest atomic theory. I very much doubt, says the
scientist, whether we are ever going to know every
last thing about what goes on Inside of an atom.
Man's Idea of the atom has been changing for cen-
turies; there has been a similar change and evolution
through the ages In man's idea of God. If you say
that your belief in God Is final and fixed, that your
religious creed Is Inspired of him, and that no other
belief Is true, then I shall be offended and refuse to
follow you because you are unscientific.
I often think that the old theological philosophers
who divided man's nature into body, mind, and spirit
were not so far wrong, whatever may be the road
into which modern psychology is trying to lead us.
That strange thing, the spirit of man, which creates
things unknown before, which controls ordinary mat-
ter, which does so many things that seem Inexplicable
on any mechanical theory of behaviorism, is another
field than that of science, except in the fact that It In-
spires science. No theory of the universe can be com-
plete until this element is included.
A recognition of this non-physical world of the
spirit seems to be becoming more usual In modern
science. That Interesting and able Quaker, Eddlng-
ton, has written a scientific best-seller called The Na-
ture of the Physical World. Some of the chapters
72 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
coming first in this book are difficult reading. Even
if they are true, they are not particularly interesting,
and I am one who finds difficulty in believing that all
of the pronouncements in this early portion of the
book are true. By and large, however, it is an epoch-
making book. One should read it in the manner
popularly supposed to be distinctly and peculiarly
feminine, by reading the last few chapters first. May
I quote from the beginning of the last chapter?
One day I happened to be occupied with the subject of "Gen-
eration of Waves by Wind." I took down the standard treatise
on hydrodynamics, and under that heading I read,
"The equations (12) and (13) of the preceding article enable
us to examine a related question of some interest, viz. the main-
tenance of waves against viscosity, by suitable forces applied to
the surface."
[Here there follow some complicated and intricate mathe-
matical equations.]
And so on for two pages. At the end it is made clear that
a wind of less than half a mile an hour will leave the surface
unruffled. ... At two miles an hour the gravity waves appear.
As the author modestly concludes, "Our theoretical investiga-
tions give considerable insight into the incipient stages of wave-
formation."
On another occasion the same subject of "Generation of
Waves by Wind" was in my mind ; but this time another book
was more appropriate, and I read,
—
"There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter
And lit by the rich skies, all day. And after.
Frost, with a gesture, stays the waves that dance
And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white
Unbroken glory, a gathered radiance,
A width, a shining peace, under the night."
The magic words bring back the scene. Again we feel Na-
ture drawing close to us, uniting with us, till we are filled with
HEBER D. CURTIS 73
the gladness of the waves dancing in the sunshine, with the
awe of the moonlight on the frozen lake. These were not
moments when we fell below ourselves. We do not look back
on them and say, "It was disgraceful for a man with six sober
senses and a scientific understanding to let himself be deluded in
this way. I will take Lamb's Hydrodynamics with me next
time. It is good that there should be such moments for us.
Life would be stunted and narrow if we could feel no signifi-
cance in the world around us beyond that which can be weighed
and measured with tools of the physicist or described by the
metrical symbols of the mathematician." [Italics added by the
present writer.]
And again, In the next to the last chapter in the book
:
The cleavage between the scientific and the extra-scientific
domain of experience is, I believe, not a cleavage between the
concrete and the transcendental but between the metrical and
the non-metrical. , . . The recent tendencies of science do, I
believe, take us to an eminence from which we can look down
into the deep waters of philosophy; and if I rashly plunge into
them, it is not because I had confidence in my powers of swim-
ming, but to try to show that the water is really deep.
In conclusion, what then are the relations of the
modern physical sciences to religion? There seems
but one answer. Let us forget for the moment the
changes which have taken place in churches and creeds
as distinguished from our basic concepts of religion
and of a religious life. These have nothing to do with
the subject. Many of these changed points of view as
to the literal Inerrancy of sacred records have been
due to scientific knowledge gradually acquired. Yet
many or all of these changes would have come any-
way, more slowly perhaps, but eventually.
There was a time when scientists looked confidently
to a theory of pure mechanism, with mind, body and
74 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
soul the result of chemical and physical actions, and
for a time this tendency promised to destroy religion,
root and branch. This now seems far less probable
than It did forty years ago. The most wonderful
phenomenon of one's experience in this supremely
wonderful universe is mind and personality, directing,
controlling, creating. Even the evidences of purpose
or end and gradual development In this universe are
not more astonishing. No theory of this cosmos' can
be adequate which does not give some theory or hy-
pothesis for the occurrence of these two remarkable
factors. I personally can conceive no hypothesis for
all this which seems so simple and satisfactory, so ade-
quate, so In accord with existing methods of scientific
inference, as those conclusions which we commonly
term religion.
Now in such a religion of a scientist, a religion
which reasons merely from analogy or probability, it
Is true, but a religion whose strongest argument comes
from the Infinite complexity of the whole and Its ap-
parently infinite size and grandeur, the more one
knows, the more accurate will be one's appreciation
and acceptance, whatever may be the ultimate decision
as to the validity either of the known facts, the de-
duced laws, or the reasoning processes involved. Just
as my cosmos Is Infinitely more complex and more
wonderful than that of the ancient Hebrew, so much
the more true and convincing is my appreciation be-
cause It Is based upon a knowledge which is more com-
plete. In this light, the Increased knowledge of the
physical universe which has been given by modern
science must be regarded as the main Inspiration and
support of a sane and reasoned religious belief.
A BIOLOGIST'S RELIGION
Edwin G. Conklin
Edwin Grant Conklin was born in Waldo, Ohio, in
1863. He holds degrees from Ohio Wesleyan University,
Johns Hopkins University, the University of Pennsylvania and
Western Reserve University. From 1891 to 1894 ^^ was Pro-
fessor of Biology at Ohio Wesleyan, Then he taught succes-
sively at Northwestern and the University of Pennsylvania,
Since 1908 he has been at Princeton; and is now Professor of
Biology at that university. He is a member of many societies
organized to promote the natural sciences in this country and
in Europe. He has written widely, with such subjects as,
Heredity and Environment, Mechanism of Evolution, Science
and the Faith of the Modern, The Future of Evolution, The
Revolt Against Darwin, Biology and Democracy, and so on.
Dr. Conklin is one of the best known biologists of our time.
A BIOLOGIST'S RELIGION
By Edwin G. Conklin
THEage-old conflict between conservatism and
radicalism, or, as the biologists express it,
between heredity and variation, has become
quite prominent in this post-war period of rapid
change, or of biological mutation. In the main, re-
ligion represents the conservative element in human
society, science the radical element, and it is not sur-
prising that these two mental attitudes are often in
conflict.
Strictly speaking, there Is and can be, no conflict be-
tween science and religion for they deal with different
universes. Science is classified knowledge based on
sense impressions and rational processes; its methods
are observation, experiment, generalization; and its
aim is to understand, that is to classify, and to con-
trol natural phenomena.
Religion, according to the Century Dictionary, is
faith in, and allegiance to, a superhuman power or
powers. Whether such powers be regarded as natural
or supernatural, personal or impersonal, varies with
different religions. It is based largely on subjective
feelings, instincts, needs, and on objective revelations.
Its aims are faith, hope, love and more perfect ideals,
aspirations and harmony of life.
77
78 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Conflict Between Fundamentalism and Modernism
Between science and religion as so defined and un-
derstood there is and can be no more conflict than be-
tween Intellect and emotion, or science and art. But
between the conservative and the radical type of mind,
between the theologian and the scientist there often is
conflict. The conflict between fundamentalism and
modernism centers largely in the nature, origin and
purpose of the Bible. The conflicts between theology
and the natural sciences have been caused in large part
by the doctrine that the Bible Is a divine revelation
regarding nature as well as religion.
These conflicts in the past have involved the science
of astronomy with Its teachings as to the position and
movements of the earth and planets in the solar sys-
tem; with meteorology as to the causes of seasons,
winds, rain, lightning, the rainbow, etc.; with geology
concerning the age of the earth, the meaning of fos-
sils, catastrophism versus uniformitarianism. But the
most serious of all these conflicts have been over the
teachings of biology regarding the germinal origin of
the Individual, the natural origin of species, the nature
of life and the nature and origin of man. Many Chris-
tians believe that biology Is the Judas among the
sciences; all the sciences may have forsaken their Lord,
but biology has betrayed him.
The Old Cosmogony and Theology
Let us in a sympathetic and constructive spirit try
to understand both sides of the age-old controversy
between conservatism and radicalism; between funda-
mentalism and modernism. The old cosmogony, phi-
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 79
losophy and theology placed man at the center of the
universe; for him all other things existed. The earth
was the center of the celestial sphere; the sun, moon
and stars were created to give light to man, and all
living things were created to minister to him.
Man himself was created in the image of God, per-
fect and immortal, and although by his first disobedi-
ence he
Brought death into the world and all our woe
still his soul remained immortal and he waited in
hope
'Til one Greater Man restore us and regain that blissful seat.
Thus the whole history of the human race ran from
Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained, from perfection
to perfection. There was enormous satisfaction in
this view of the universe and of man, and there was
also in it great stimulus to efforts for betterment.
The New Cosmogony of Science
It is now generally recognized that these beliefs re-
garding the central position of the earth and of man
in all the universe belong to the childhood age of the
race and of the individual, and it is becoming Increas-
ingly evident that these traditional views as to the
nature and origin of man and the anthropomorphic
conception of God and of his governance of the uni-
verse, also belong to the philosophy and theology of
childhood. No longer is it possible to think that man
was created perfect in body, mind or morals, or that
in physical form he is the image of God. No longer
Is it possible to think of God as "the Good Man" or
80 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the Devil as "the Bad Man." No longer is it possible
to regard miracles—in the sense of suspension or vio-
lation of natural law—as of daily occurrence, nor
magic as the universal means of controlling nature or
supernatural powers. To persons of mature mind this
faith of childhood is gone and gone forever.
Loss OF Religious Faith
The first effect of loss of childhood faith is universal
disbelief in everything that is incapable of scientific
proof. One of the most dramatic moments of my
college days was when a Senior, who was generally
regarded as the best student in college, was reluctantly
persuaded by classmates to rise in a great religious
meeting in the Chapel and confess his loss of religious
faith. He told of the faith his mother had taught
him and then said, "I studied astronomy and geology
and biology; and the Bible story was gone. I studied
psychology, philosophy and religion; and free-will,
immortality, and God were gone."
This experience has been duplicated by many ear-
nest, serious students. The reaction against the un-
tenable faith of childhood has carried them to the
other extreme of no religious faith at all. I recall a
conversation I once had with a great biologist, who,
in a sort of frenzy, recited his creed of unbelief:
"There is no God, no Devil, no heaven, no hell, no
plan or purpose in the universe, no soul, no immor-
tality, no free will, no responsibility." And at another
time he added this inevitable conclusion to such a
creed: "The evolution of consciousness was the great-
est blunder in the universe," meaning that if only we
had remained unconscious it would not have mattered
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 81
that there is no plan In nature and that death ends all
for the Individual and the race.
Such a philosophy of despair Is not confined to
scientists but is found among all those who see In
human life only aimless suffering and evil with no
faith in progress and no hope for the future. Even
genial and lovable Mark Twain could write:
A myriad of men are born ; they labor and sweat and strug-
gle for bread ; they squabble and scold and fight ; they scramble
for little mean advantages over each other. Age creeps upon
them; infirmities follow; shames and humiliations bring down
their prides and their vanities. Those they love are taken from
them, and the joy of life is turned to aching grief. The burden
of pain, care, misery, grows heavier year by year. At length
ambition is dead; pride is dead; vanity is dead; longing for re-
lease is in their place. It comes at last—the only unpoisoned
gift earth ever had for them—and they vanish from a world
where they were of no consequence; where they achieved noth-
ing ; where they were a mistake and a failure and a foolishness
;
where they have left no sign that they have existed—a world
which will lament them for a day and forget them forever.
Then another myriad takes their place, and copies all they did,
and goes along the same profitless road, and vanishes as they
vanished—to make room for another and another and a million
more myriads to follow the same arid path through the same
desert and accomplish what the first myriad, and all the myriads
that came after it, accomplished—nothing.
And yet, neither Mark Twain nor any other phi-
losopher of despair could avoid the instinct to work
for human betterment. The deeper currents of their
lives run counter to these eddies on the surface. La-
borious days and thoughtful nights reveal their faith
in human work and worth and progress, and their
despair Indicates only their discontent that progress is
so slow.
82 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
If there is no plan or purpose in the universe or in
human life, if extinction is the goal toward which we
as individuals and a race are inevitably driven, one
may well say, "What is the use of efforts for improve-
ment of the individual or the race? What is the use
of education, eugenics, ethics, religion? What is the
use of science, of discovery, of invention? What is
the use of anything? Nothing." Utter pessimism is
the outcome of such beliefs, and Nirvana is the only
boon.
It is impossible to live such a philosophy of nega-
tion, a philosophy of despair and suicide, rather than
of hope and life. Surely there must be something
wrong with any philosophy that cannot be lived. It
may be logical but it is not inevitable. After all, logic
is not an infallible guide to truth; and carrying a
process of thought to its "logical conclusion" has often
ended in evident absurdities. The logic of events is a
better guide to truth than the logic of syllogisms.
There is at least some truth in the contrast between
physics and metaphysics made by the late Professor
Rowland. "In metaphysics," he said, "when a man
has constructed in thought a logical and unified system,
he publishes it as his system of philosophy, but in
physics after one has formulated his logical system he
tries it out in the laboratory and nine times out of
ten finds that it Is not true." In science the test of
truth Is not logic but appeal to fact, and similarly In
philosophy and religion the practical test of truth Is
not logic but livablllty. Surely there must be some-
thing wrong with a philosophy that ends only In a
slough of despond. Surely Inevitable and universal
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 83
extinction cannot be the goal of a thousand million
years of evolution.
Contemplate all this work of time,
This giant laboring in his youth,
Nor dream that human love and truth
Are dying nature's earth and lime.
Rationalism Not at Fault
Let us go back and see where we took the trail that
led to this slough of despond. Certainly not in fol-
lowing the light of reason in dealing with these great
problems, for although we may, with Darwin, doubt
whether the mind of man can be trusted when it draws
such grand conclusions, it is not reasoning itself that
is at fault but poor reasoning. This is the faculty
which, more than any other, distinguishes man from
all other creatures, it is, in the words of a modern
heretic, Robert Ingersoll, "but a feeble flame by stum-
blers carried in a starless night, and yet it is our only
light." Even revelation must be interpreted by reason,
and those who advise us in the interests of preserving
our childhood's faith to "take our reason captive" are
counselling what is not only impossible but positively
irreligious for we are commanded to "worship the
Lord our God with all our mind." Charles Kingsley
once said: "The God who satisfies our conscience ought
more or less to satisfy our reason also. . . . For the
demands of reason, as none knew better than good
Bishop Butler, must be and ought to be satisfied."
Will any fundamentalist maintain that we alone of all
living creatures were given reason to deceive us and
to lure us to destruction? The old warcry against
rationalism will no longer avail ; we will not be fright-
84 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
ened by names. No, we have not strayed from the
highway of truth into this morass by following sound
reason, but evidently by faulty mental processes that
will not bear the test of actual experience. The only
remedy and substitute for poor reasoning is better
reasoning and not its total elimination.
Science Not Responsible
We have not departed from the highway of truth
by accepting the teachings of natural science regarding
the immensity of nature and the smallness of man.
The sciences of astronomy, geology and biology have
so enormously enlarged our views of the universe that
space and time have become practically infinite and the
days of creation have become billions of years. This
enlargement of nature has led to a corresponding
shrinkage of man when measured by standards of
space and time, but when measured by reason, con-
science, aspirations, it is a different story. For the first
time in the long history of life on this planet there has
appeared in man a being capable, to a certain extent,
of understanding and measuring this wonderful uni-
verse and of controlling some of its processes. By this
measure man is not an insignificant creature. Isaac
Watts expressed this well when he wrote:
Were I so tall to reach the pole,
Or grasp the ocean with my span,
I must be measured by my soul
;
The mind's the standard of the man.
And the Psalmist expressed it still better when he
said:
When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the
moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; what is man
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 85
that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man that thou
visitest him?
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madest him to have
dominion over the work of thy hands ; thou hast put all things
under his feet.
The magnitude of the universe has not dwarfed the
soul and mind of man.
Evolution Not to Blame
The teachings of biology as to the animal ancestry
of man, or as to his development from germ cells,
has not degraded man and produced this utter pes-
simism. Lowly origin Is not Incompatible with ulti-
mate greatness, as none know better than the country-
men of Washington, Franklin, Lincoln and Grant. All
the greatest leaders of men were once babies and germ
cells and yet this humble origin does not preclude a
glorious destiny. It was odd to read William Jen-
nings Bryan's strenuous objection to this democratic
doctrine. The real dignity of man consists not In his
origin but In what he Is and In what he may become.
The degradation of man consists not In evolution and
development but in the reversal of this process. We
could sympathize with Mr. Bryan's outcry: "No one
shall make a monkey of me !" ; and we would equally
sympathize with the phrase, "No one shall make a
baby of me!"; because this would be a reversal of
progress and development. Evolution and develop-
ment have not degraded man. Nature and human his-
tory proclaim the fact with delight that supreme great-
ness may have humble origins.
Evolution deals only with process and does not
86 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
touch the question of ultimate causation. What lies
back of evolution no one knows. The atheist sees
only mechanism and accident without other design or
purpose than is found in this mechanism, which is
really his deus in machina. The theist sees back of
the whole process divine power and plan. The Chris-
tian sees a Heavenly Father. Science cannot deal with
this mystery; it is a matter of faith alone; but it is
plain that Christian faith gives the largest value to
human life and the greatest stimulus and comfort.
Natural Law Not Responsible
It was objected to Newton's law of gravity that it
drove God out of his universe and put a law in his
place. This same objection has been made by many
opponents of the laws of development and evolution;
and yet a natural law is only a stated, fixed, settled
method or process, and surely there is no more evi-
dence of divine power in a chaotic and capricious uni-
verse than in an orderly and lawful one. On the other
hand if the universe were a chaos instead of a cosmos
it might be taken to mean that there is no God and
that everything is the result of chance. The very
existence of order seems to imply some other gov-
ernance than chance.
These same considerations apply to human life and
activity as well as to the outside world. There is no
good reason for supposing that lawlessness and caprice
and chance are any better evidences of wisdom or
power or freedom in man and society than in the uni-
verse at large. The determinism of science is not pre-
determinism or fatalism, and when applied to man it
is clear that it does not destroy all freedom and re-
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 87
sponsibility. As a matter of fact, we know that our
wills are not perfectly free. Heredity and early en-
vironment have set bounds about us that we may not
pass; but within those bounds we have a certain
amount of freedom. We are partly free and partly
bound. Within certain limits we may choose between
alternatives that are open to us and may be held re-
sponsible for making right choices, but we cannot di-
rectly make the alternatives or always choose between
them when they are offered. In short, human free-
dom and responsibility are relative and not absolute,
and the truth of this is recognized by all civilized so-
cieties. The concept of universal law as applied to
the world, to the individual or to society, does not,
when properly understood, destroy faith in God, nor
human freedom and responsibility.
Causes of Unbelief
The real causes of loss of religious faith on the
part of many scientists and scholars are to be found
primarily in a revolt against ecclesiasticism, literalism,
formalism; and against an insistence upon the faith of
childhood as contrasted with the results of science. If
representatives of religion insist upon these as the
essentials of religious faith then scientists and scholars
generally will be unbelievers.
Other causes are found in the error that anything
is "explained" when it Is reduced to a principle or
law, and that a law or principle Is Itself a cause; that
law and mechanism require no explanation; that a
scientific analysis is ever complete, and that there are
no unknown factors in such analyses; that there are
no phenomena in the universe which cannot be sub-
88 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
jected to present methods of scientific inquiry; tiiat
scientific determinism is fatalism.
Perhaps more than anything else unbelief and pes-
simism are caused by the thought that there is no plan
or purpose in the universe and that everything is the
result of chance and accident. Undoubtedly chance
has played a large part in the evolution of worlds and
of organisms, but I cannot believe that It has played
the only part. Chance has determined many things
in our individual lives, but nevertheless our lives are
not purposeless. There are ends and aims in the life of
an amoeba or in one of our blood corpuscles, and much
more in our conscious lives. I cannot understand how
any one can take the long view of nature that science
reveals, can follow the course of evolution from the
formation of atoms to the development of man and
consciousness, and still believe that it is all without
plan or purpose. It seems to me much more probable
that matter, energy, life and mind,—that the princi-
ples, laws and, in general, the order of nature are evi-
dences of the immanence of some plan in this uni-
versal mechanism which we call "nature."
Here Is after all the point from which one takes the
path that leads to hope or to despair. If there Is no
purpose In the universe, then indeed there Is no God
and no good. But if there is a plan, if there is pur-
pose in nature and in human life, then we may feel
confident that it is the Imperfection of our own men-
tal vision that leads us sometimes to cry "Vanity of
vanities, all Is vanity." No one can furnish scientific
proof of the existence or nature of God, but atheism
leads to fatalism and despair, while theism leads to
faith and hope and love. "By their fruits ye shall
EDWIN G. CONKLIN 89
know them." Science cannot solve the great mys-
teries of our existence,—why we are, whither we are
bound, what it all means. Faith alone assures us that
there is definite purpose in all experience. This knowl-
edge makes life worth living and service a privilege.
THE MEETING PLACE OF SCIENCE AND
RELIGION
Albert Einstein
Albert Einstein lives in Berlin, Germany, where he is
director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institut fiir Physik. He was
born in 1879. In 192 1 he was awarded the Nobel prize for
physics; and in 1925, the Copley medal of the Royal Society.
His publications include Relativity (English Translation),
and Zur Einheitlichen Feldtheorie. Leading men of research
place him among the world's great scientists. Professor Ein-
stein is a good amateur violinist. He thinks so much of his
violin that he would not bring it with him on a trip to Cali-
fornia fearing lest the climate of the Panama Canal would
affect it unfavorably. He admits that he goes to his violin for
its quieting effects when weary with protracted investigations
into cosmic phenomena. He holds to the Christian philosophy
that men are here for the sake of other men; and he says that
system of ethics which declares that comfort and happiness are
the ends is fit only for a "herd of cattle." He abhors war,
calling it "low and despicable." The mysterious, to him, is
the most beautiful thing in the world, and the source of all true
art and science. Einstein says of his theory of relativity, "I
believe it to be true but it will only be proved in 1981, when I
am dead." When, during a visit to this country, he said, "The
only deeply religious men of our largely materialistic age are
the earnest men of research," he aroused a storm of disapproval.
Yet Professor Einstein's religion, including as it does intense
interest in social justice, a devout belief that "what is impene-
trable to us really exists," and dedicated to "goodness, truth
and beauty," is what multitudes are seeking.
VI
THE MEETING PLACE OF SCIENCE AND
RELIGION^
By Albert Einstein
STRANGE is our situation here upon earth. Each
of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why,
yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose.
From the standpoint of daily Hfe, however, there is
one thing we do know : that man is here for the sake
of other men—above all for those upon whose smiles
and well-being our own happiness depends, and also
for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we
are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a
day I realize how much my own outer and inner life
is built upon the labors of my fellow-men, both living
and dead, and how earnestly I must exert myself in
order to give in return as much as I have received.
My peace of mind is often troubled by the depressing
sense that I have borrowed too heavily from the work
of other men.
I do not believe we can have any freedom at all in
the philosophical sense, for we act not only under ex-
ternal compulsion but also by inner necessity. Scho-
penhauer's saying
—"A man can surely do what he
wills to do, but he cannot determine what he wills"
—
impressed itself upon me in my youth, and has always
consoled me when I have witnessed or suffered life's
^Reprinted from The Forum by permission. P
93
94 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
hardships. This conviction is a perpetual breeder of
tolerance, for it does not allow us to take ourselves or
others too seriously. It makes rather for a sense of
humor.
To ponder interminably over the reason for one's
own existence, or the meaning of life in general, seems
to me, from an objective point of view, to be sheer
folly. And yet every one holds certain ideals by which
he guides his aspiration and his judgment. The ideals
which have always shone before me and filled me with
the joy of living are goodness, beauty and truth. To
make a goal of comfort or happiness has never ap-
pealed to me: a system of ethics built on this basis
would be sufficient only for a herd of cattle.
Without the sense of collaborating with like-minded
beings in the pursuit of the ever unattainable in art
and scientific research, my life would have been empty.
Ever since childhood I have scorned the commonplace
limits so often set upon human ambition. Possessions,
outward success, publicity, luxury—to me these have
always been contemptible. I believe that a simple and
unassuming manner of life is best for every one, best
both for the body and for the mind.
My passionate interest in social justice and social
responsibility has always stood in curious contrast to
a marked lack of desire for direct association with
men and women. I am a horse for single harness, not
cut out for tandem or team work. I have never be-
longed wholeheartedly to country or state, to my
circle of friends, or even to my own family. These
ties have always been accompanied by a vague aloof-
ALBERT EINSTEIN 95
ness. And the wish to withdraw into myself increases
with the years.
Such isolation is sometimes bitter; but I do not
regret being cut off from the understanding and sym-
pathy of other men. I lose something by it, to be
sure, but I am compensated for it in being rendered
independent of the customs, opinions, and prejudices
of others; and am not tempted to rest my peace of
mind upon such shifting foundations.
My political ideal is democracy. Every one should
be respected as an individual, but no one idolized. It
is an irony of fate that I should have been showered
with so much uncalled-for and unmerited admiration
and esteem. Perhaps this adulation springs from the
unfulfilled wish of the multitude to comprehend the
few ideas which I, with my weak powers, have ad-
vanced.
Full well do I know that In order to attain any
definite goal it is imperative that one person should
do the thinking and commanding and carry most of
the responsibility. But those who are led should not
be driven, and they should be allowed to choose their
leader. It seems to me that the distinctions separat-
ing the social classes are false; in the last analysis they
rest on force. I am convinced that degeneracy follows
every autocratic system of violence, for violence in-
evitably attracts moral Inferiors. Time has proved
that illustrious tyrants are succeeded by scoundrels.
For this reason I have always been passionately op-
posed to such regimes as exist In Russia and Italy
to-day. The thing which has discredited the Euro-
pean forms of democracy Is not the basic theory of
democracy itself, which some say Is at fault, but the
96 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
instability of our political leadership, as well as the
impersonal character of party alignments.
I believe that those in the United States have hit
upon the right idea. They choose a President for a
reasonable length of time and give him enough power
to acquit himself properly of his responsibilities. In
the German Government, on the other hand, I like the
state's more extensive care of the individual when he
is ill or unemployed. What is truly valuable in our
bustle of life is not the nation, I should say, but the
creative and Impressionable individuality, the person-
ality—he who produces the noble and sublime while
the common herd remains dull in thought and insen-
sible in feeling.
This subject brings me to that vilest offspring of the
herd mind—the odious militia. The man who enjoys
marching in line and file to the strains of music falls
below my contempt: he received his great brain by
mistake—the spinal cord would have been sufficient.
This heroism is commanded; this senseless violence,
this accursed bombast of patriotism—how intensely I
despise them! War is low and despicable, and I had
rather be smitten to shreds than participate in such
doings.
Such a stain on humanity should be erased without
delay. I think well enough of human nature to be-
lieve that it would have been wiped out long ago had
not the common sense of nations been systematically
corrupted through school and press for business and
political reasons.
The most beautiful thing we can express is the mys-
terious. It is the source of all true art and science.
ALBERT EINSTEIN 97
He to whom this emotion is a stranger, who can no
longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as
good as dead: his eyes are closed. This insight into
the mystery of Hfe, coupled though it be with fear,
has also given rise to religion. To know that what
is impenetrable to us really exists, manifesting itself
as the highest wisdom and the most radiant beauty
which our dull faculties can comprehend only in their
most primitive forms—this knowledge, this feeling, is
at the center of true religiousness. In this sense, and
in this sense only, I belong in the ranks of the devoutly
religious men.
I cannot imagine a God who rewards and punishes
the objects of his creation, whose purposes are mod-
elled after our own—a God, in short, who is but a
reflection of human frailty. Neither can I believe that
the individual survives the death of his body, although
feeble souls harbor such thoughts through fear or
religious egotism. It is enough for me to contem-
plate the mystery of conscious life perpetuating itself
through all eternity, to reflect upon the marvellous
structure of the universe which we can dimly perceive,
and to try humbly to comprehend even an infinitesimal
part of the intelligence manifested in nature.^
Everything that men do or think concerns the sat-
isfaction of the needs they feel or the escape from
pain. This must be kept in mind when we seek to un-
derstand spiritual or intellectual movements and the
way in which they develop. For feeling and longing
are the motive forces of all human striving and pro-
2 The pages which follow are reprinted by the courteous permission
of the New York Times.
98 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
ductivity—however nobly these latter may display
themselves to us.
What, then, are the feelings and the needs which
have brought mankind to religious thought, and to
faith in the widest sense? A moment's consideration
shows that the most varied emotions stand at the
cradle of religious thought and experience.
In primitive peoples it is, first of all, fear that
awakens religious ideas—fear of hunger, of wild ani-
mals, of illness and of death. Since the understanding
of causal connections is usually limited on this level
of existence, the human soul forges a being, more or
less like itself, on whose will and activities depend the
experiences which it fears. One hopes to win the
favor of this being by deeds and sacrifices, which, ac-
cording to the tradition of the race, are supposed to
appease the being, or to make him well disposed to
man.
I call this the religion of fear.
This religion is considerably stabilized—though not
caused—by the formation of a priestly caste which
claims to mediate between the people and the being
they fear, and so attains a position of power. Often
a leader or a despot or a privileged class whose power
is maintained in other ways, will combine the function
of the priesthood with its own temporal rule for the
sake of greater security; or an alliance may exist be-
tween the interests of the political power and the
priestly caste.
A second source of religious development is found
in the social feelings.
Fathers and mothers, as well as leaders of great
ALBERT EINSTEIN 99
human communities, are fallible and mortal. The
longing for guidance, for love and succor, provides the
stimulus for growth of a social or moral conception
of God. This is the God of Providence, who pro-
tects, decides, rewards and punishes. This is the God
who, according to man's widening horizon, loves and
provides for the life of the race, or of mankind, or
who even loves life Itself. He Is the comforter in
happiness and in unsatisfied longing, the protector of
the souls of the dead. This is the social or moral Idea
of God.
It is easy to follow in the sacred writings of the
Jewish people the development of the religion of fear
into the moral religion, which is carried further In the
New Testament. The religions of all the civilized
peoples, especially those of the Orient, are principally
moral religions. An important advance In the life of
a people Is the transformation of the religion of fear
Into the moral religion. But one must avoid the preju-
dice, that regards the religions of primitive peoples as
pure fear religions and those of the civilized races as
pure moral religions. All are mixed forms, though
the moral element predominates in the higher levels of
social life. Common to all these types is the anthro-
pomorphic character of the Idea of God.
Only exceptionally gifted Individuals or especially
noble communities rise essentially above this level. In
these there Is found a third level of religious experi-
ence, even If It Is seldom found In a pure form. I
will call It the cosmic religious sense. This is hard to
make clear to those who do not experience It, since It
does not Involve an anthropomorphic idea of God.
The Individual feels the vanity of human desires and
100 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
aims, and the nobility and marvellous order which are
revealed in nature and in the world of thought. He
feels the individual destiny as an imprisonment and
seeks to experience the totality of existence as a unity
full of significance. Indications of this cosmic religious
sense can be found even on earlier levels of develop-
ment—for example, in the Psalms and the Prophets
of the Old Testament. The cosmic element is much
stronger in Buddhism, as, in particular, Schopenhauer's
magnificent essays have shown us.
The religious geniuses of all times have been distin-
guished by this cosmic religious sense, which recognizes
neither dogmas nor God made in man's image. Con-
sequently there cannot be a church whose chief doc-
trines are based on the cosmic religious experience. It
comes about, therefore, that we find precisely among
the heretics of all ages men who were inspired by this
highest religious experience. Often they appeared to
their contemporaries as atheists, but sometimes also
as saints. Viewed from this angle, men like Democ-
ritus, Francis of Assisi and Spinoza are near to one
another.
How can this cosmic religious experience be com-
municated from man to man, if it cannot lead to a
definite conception of God, or to a theology? It seems
to me that the most important function of art and of
science is to arouse and keep alive this feeling in those
who are receptive.
Thus we reach an interpretation of the relation of
science to religion which is very different from the
customary view. From the study of history one is
inclined to regard religion and science as irreconcilable
antagonists; and this for a reason that is very easily
ALBERT EINSTEIN 101
seen. For any one who is pervaded with the sense of
causal law in all that happens, who accepts in real
earnest the assumption of causality, the idea of a Being
who interferes with the sequence of events in the world
is absolutely impossible. Neither the religion of fear,
nor the social-moral religion, can have any hold on
him. A god who rewards and punishes is for him
unthinkable, because man acts in accordance with an
inner and outer necessity, and would, in the eyes of
God, be as little responsible as an inanimate object is
for the movements which it makes.
Science, in consequence, has been accused of under-
mining morals—but wrongly. The ethical behavior
of man is better based on sympathy, education and
social relationships, and requires no support from re-
ligion. Man's plight would, indeed, be sad if he had
to be kept in order through fear of punishment and
hope of rewards after death.
It isf therefore, quite natural that the churches have
always fought against science and have persecuted its
supporters. But, on the other hand, I assert that the
cosmic religious experience is the strongest and the
noblest driving force behind scientific research. No
one who does not appreciate the terrific exertions, and
above all, the devotion without which pioneer crea-
tions in scientific thought cannot come into being, can
judge the strength of the feeling out of which alone
such work, turned away as it is from immediate prac-
tical life, can grow. What a deep faith in the ration-
ality of the structure of the world, and what a longing
to understand even a small glimpse of the reason re-
vealed in the world there must have been in Kepler
102 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
and Newton to enable them to unravel the mechanism
of the heavens in long years of lonely work!
Any one who only knows scientific research in its
practical applications may easily come to a wrong in-
terpretation of the state of mind of the men who, sur-
rounded by skeptical contemporaries, have shown the
way to kindred spirits scattered over all countries in
all centuries. Only those who have dedicated their
lives to similar ends can have a living conception of
the inspiration which gave these men the power to re-
main loyal to their purposes in spite of countless fail-
ures. It is the cosmic religious sense which grants this
power.
A contemporary has rightly said that the only deeply
religious people of our largely materialistic age are the
earnest men of research.
RELIGION: ITS PERSISTENCE AND
HUMAN CHARACTER
Julian S. Huxley
Julian S. Huxley, biologist, author and lecturer, was born
in 1887. He is a descendant of Thomas H. Huxley the famous
supporter and expounder of evolution, and of Dr. Arnold of
Rugby. For four years he has been president of the National
Union of Scientific Workers. He helped organize and took part
in the Oxford University Expedition to Spitzbergen in 1921.
Recently he has been pursuing biological studies on the conti-
nent of Africa. At the universities of Oxford and of London
he has taught a succession of youthful scientists. He has pub-
lished among other works : Essays of a Biologist ; Religion With-
out Revelation; The Science of Life (with H. G. and G. P.
Wells). His approach to religion and the idea of God is that
of the humanist ; and as such he probably heads the list of think-
ers and writers to-day in the scientific field.
VII
RELIGION: ITS PERSISTENCE AND
HUMAN CHARACTERS
By Julian S. Huxley
TOthose religious philosophers who conclude
that the universe is God, and to those others
who identify God with the philosophical Ab-
solute, the Unknowable behind phenomena, the unify-
ing principle in reality, and so forth, we may legiti-
mately reply that their conclusions may be of great
interest for philosophy, but have ceased to have any
but the remotest bearing on religion. Such a God
could not be worshipped or prayed to, and could not
arouse the intense emotion or ecstasy of mystical ex-
perience, and, In fact, has really no kinship with the
actual gods of actual religions.
Where, then, does the solution lie? It would seem
to lie in dismantling the theistic edifice, which will no
longer bear the weight of the universe as enlarged by
recent science; and attempting to find new outlets for
the religious spirit. God, in any but a purely philo-
sophical, and one is almost tempted to say, a Pick-
wickian, sense, turns out to be a product of the human
mind. As an independent or unitary being, active in
the affairs of the universe, he does not exist.
The religious emotions of mankind, these many cen-
1 Reprinted from Science, Religion and Human Nature, by courteous
permission of the author.
105
106 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
turies, have flowed into channels of deity. The forms
which they have taken have been in large measure de-
termined by this idea of God or gods. To imagine,
as many people do, that religion will cease to exist is
to be lamentably illogical. The religious emotions
are a natural product of man's nature. Robbed of
the outlet of deity, they will find other outlets. No
longer moulded by the idea of God, they will be
moulded by other concepts, and will manifest a fresh
evolution into new forms. And chief among the con-
cepts which will mould this new evolution will be the
concepts of science. For knowledge is inevitably the
most important raw material of theology.
Can we venture on any prophecy as to the lines
which the reconstruction will take? I think we can,
although with the proviso that all we can hope to see
is the beginning of a development whose end may,
and doubtless will be, as different from its beginning
as is modernist Christian theology from ancient Egyp-
tian polytheism. Science is yet young. In the coming
centuries there are bound to be radical alterations in
our ideas about mind, and its place in the scientific
scheme.
The first, and in a way, most important ingredient
of any religion congruous with science must be a rev-
erent agnosticism concerning ultimates, and, indeed,
concerning many things that are not ultimates. Man
is a limited and partial creature, a product of material
evolution. He is a relative being, moulded by the
struggle to survive in particular conditions on a par-
ticular planet. We have no grounds for supposing
that his construction is adapted to understand the
ultimate nature or cause or purpose of the universe,
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 107
and indeed, every reason for supposing the contrary.
Quite apart from that we can be sure that there are
whole realms of knowledge which he has not yet dis-
covered. The truly rehgious man must be content not
to know many things, of which those that most vitally
concern our present quest are the ultimate nature and
purpose of the universe, and the truth as to the sur-
vival of personality after death.
The obverse of this state of mind is the refusal to
mistake wish for fact, the strength of one's desire for
a thing, for proof that the thing exists. Most men
desire immortality; and this is often adduced as evi-
dence that man is immortal. But it is of the very
essence of the scientific spirit to refuse admittance to
desire and emotion in the quest for knowledge—save
only the one thing of discovering more truth.
The most important characteristic of the scientific
method is its constant reference back to experience in
the search for knowledge. This also rules out a con-
ception which played an important part in medieval
theology—the idea that pure deductive reason and
abstract principles such as that of perfection could tell
one anything about the nature of things. For Aris-
totle and the Schoolmen, the heavenly bodies had to
be arranged on spheres and to move in circles because
these are perfect forms, while ellipsoids and parabolas
are not. And from purely abstract principles, such as
the goodness of God and the consequent perfection of
the universe, all sorts of elaborate deductions were
made.
There is, however, no reason why the universe
should be perfect; there is, indeed, no reason why it
108 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
should be rational. What exists, exists; and accept-
ance is man's first task. "I am that I am" is a far
truer piece of theology than all the deductive phi-
losophy of the scholastics.
A further consequence of the adoption of the scien-
tific outlook must be the break with any rigid or fixed
authority In religion, and a willingness to accept
change. It has been a matter of frequent comment
in recent years that, whereas change In scientific ideas
Is generally regarded as a mark of scientific progress,
change In religious Ideas Is generally thought of as a
mark of religious degeneration. The new conceptions
of evolution and relativity are victories for science.
But when the belief in miracles Is abandoned In favor
of natural law, or the theory of the verbal Inspiration
and absolute rightness of the Bible dropped for one
of progressive religious development, the majority of
men, whether religious or no, still seem to look upon
it as a defeat for religion.
This comes solely from the part which dogmatism
and false theories of revelation and authority have
played In the past history of religion. It is perfectly
possible to be religious and yet to welcome change
without forfeiting stability. Science Is always chang-
ing; but It is not unstable, only progressive. If prog-
ress itself be looked upon as a sacred duty, progress
becomes an element In religion, and religious change
will no longer alarm and shock religious minds.
Hence it is obvious that with the abandonment of
the idea of God as a single independent power, with
a nature akin to personality, many current religious
practices will become meaningless. There will be no
room for services of intercession, for prayer in the
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 109
ordinary sense, for fear of incomprehensible punish-
ment, for propitiatory sacrifice, or for the worship
that is regarded as agreeable to its recipient. Provi-
dence turns out to be wrongly named, and the Will of
God resolves itself into a combination of the driving
forces of nature with the spiritual pressure of abstract
ideas and certain of the conscious and subconscious
desires of man.
What, then, remains for future religion? In the
first place, a recognition of the fact that the religious
spirit is a permanent element in human nature, and a
potent driving force; that, If it is harnessed In ways
which are Intellectually wrong its results will even-
tually prove to be practically wrong; and that, at
present, for want of intellectually satisfactory outlets,
the religious driving-force of a great many intelligent
people is going to waste.
Next, a frank recognition that many of the func-
tions of earlier types of religion are now as well or
better carried out by other agencies. There was a
time when the Church provided the art, music and
poetry of the community whose needs in this respect
are now in large measure satisfied by books, pictures,
concerts, radio activity, and the rest; a time when it
provided the glamour, the rich illusion, and the escape
from routine now gained in the theater or the cinema;
and the Intellectual leadership, now given by philoso-
phers, novelists, men of science and other secular
writers.
We can no longer promise salvation in the conven-
tional sense. But it Is a simple fact that men and
women can come to achieve a sense of harmony and
peace, a conviction of the value of existence, a feeling
110 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
that their relation with the world at large is no longer
confused and meaningless, but right and significant.
And any religion worthy the name will help them to-
wards this end.^
What, then, is the picture which science draws of
the universe to-day, the picture which religion must
take account of (with due regard, of course, for the
fact that the picture is incomplete) in its theology and
general outlook? It is, I think, somewhat as follows.
It is the picture of a universe in which matter and
energy, time and space, are not what they seem to
common sense, but interlock and overlap in the most
puzzling way. A universe of appalling vastness, ap-
palling age, and appalling meaninglessness. The only
trend we can perceive in the universe as a whole is a
trend toward a final uniformity when no energy will
be available, a state of cosmic death.
Within this universe, however, on one of the smaller
satellites of one of its millions of millions of suns, a
different trend is in progress. It is the trend we call
evolution, and it has consisted first in the genesis of
living out of non-living matter, and then in the steady
but slow progress of this living matter toward greater
efficiency, greater harmony of construction, greater
control over, and greater independence of, its envi-
ronment. And this slow progress has culminated, in
times which, geologically speaking, are very recent, in
the person of man and his societies. This is the ob-
jective side of the trend of life; but it has another
side. It has also been a trend toward greater activity
2 The following pages are reprinted by the courteous permission of
the Atlantic Monthly.
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 111
and intensity of mind, toward greater capacities for
knowing, feeling, and purposing; and here, too, man
is pre-eminent.
The curious thing is that both these trends, of the
world of lifeless matter as a whole, and of the world
of life on this planet, operate with the same materials.
The matter of which living things are composed is the
same as that in the lifeless earth and the most distant
stars; the energy by which they work is part of the
same general reservoir which sets the stars shining,
drives a motor car, and moves the planets or the tides.
There is, in fact, only one world-stuff. And since man
and life are part of this world-stuff, the properties of
consciousness, or something of the same nature as con-
sciousness, must be attributes of the world-stuff, too,
unless we are to drop any belief in continuity and uni-
formity in nature. The physicists and the chemists
and the physiologists do not deal with these mind-like
properties, for the simple reason that they have not
so far discovered any method of detecting or meas-
uring them directly. But the logic of evolution forces
us to believe that they are there, even if in lowly form,
throughout the universe.
Finally, this universe which science depicts works
uniformly and regularly. A particular kind of matter
in a particular set of circumstances will always behave
in the same way; things work as they do, not because
of inherent principles of perfection, not because they
happen to be so made that they cannot work in any
other way. When we have found out something about
the way things are made so that we can prophesy how
they will work, we say we have discovered a natural
law; such laws, however, are not like human laws, im-
112 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
posed from without on objects, but are laws of the
objects' own being. And the laws governing the evo-
lution of life seem to be as regular and automatic as
those governing the movements of the planets.
In this universe lives man. He is a curious phe-
nomenon : a piece of the universal world-stuff which,
as result of long processes of change and strife, has
become intensely conscious—conscious of itself, of its
relations with the rest of the world-stuff, capable of
consciously feeling, reasoning, desiring and planning.
These capacities are the result of an astonishingly
complicated piece of physical machinery—the cerebral
hemispheres of his brain. The limitations to our ca-
pacities come from the construction of our brains and
bodies which we receive through heredity;—with some
one else's body and brain, our development even in
the same environment could have been different.
And these conditions in human capacity due to dif-
ferences In inheritance must be enormous. The
method of inheritance in men is identical in principle
with the method of inheritance in poultry or flies or
fish. And by means of further detailed knowledge we
could control it, and therefore control human capacity,
which is only another way of saying that man has the
power of controlling his own future. Or, if you like
to put it still more generally, that not only is he the
highest product of evolution, but, through his power of
conscious reason, he has become the trustee of the evo-
lutionary process. His own future and that of the
earth are in large measure in his hands. And that
future extends for thousands of millions of years.
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 113
Lastly, we must not forget to remind ourselves that
we are relative beings. As products of evolution, our
bodies and minds are what they are because they have
been moulded in relation to the world in which we
live. The very senses we possess are relative—for in-
stance, we have no electric sense and no X-ray sense,
because electrical and X-ray stimuli of any magnitude
are very rare in nature. The working of our minds,
too, is very far from absolute. Our reason often
serves only as a means of finding reasons to justify
our desires. Our mental being, as modern psychology
has shown, is a compromise—here antagonistic forces
in conflict, there an undesirable element forcibly ex-
pressed, there again a disreputable motive emerging
disguised. Our minds, in fact, like our bodies, are
devices for helping us to get along somehow in the
struggle for existence. We are entrapped in our own
natures. Only by deliberate effort, and not always
then, shall we be able to use our minds as instru-
ments for attaining unvarnished truth, for practising
disinterested virtue, for achieving true sincerity and
purity of heart.
I do not know how religion will assimilate these
facts and these ideas; but I am sure that In the long
run It will assimilate them as it has assimilated Kepler
and Galileo and Newton, and Is beginning to assimilate
Darwin. And I am sure that the sooner the assimila-
tion is effected, the better It will be for everybody con-
cerned.
So far I have spoken almost entirely of the effect
of science upon the religious outlook—of the effect of
scientific method upon the study of religion Itself, lead-
114 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
ing us to the idea of development in religion; and of
the effect of scientific discoveries in general upon man's
picture of the universe, which it is the business of re-
ligion to assimilate in its theology. Now I must say
something about the limitations of science. Science,
like art, or morality, or religion, is simply one way of
handling the chaos of experience which is the only
immediate reality we know. Art, for instance, han-
dles experience in relation to the desire for beauty,
or, if we want to put it more generally and more
philosophically, in relation to the desire for expressing
feelings and ideas in aesthetically satisfying forms.
Accuracy of mere fact is and should be a secondary
consideration to art. The annual strictures of Taylor
and Cutter on the men's costumes in the Academy
portraits are more or less irrelevant to the question of
whether the portraits are good pictures or bad pic-
tures.
Science, on the other hand, deals with the chaos of
experience from the point of view of efficient intellec-
tual and practical handling. Science is out to find laws
and general rules, because the discovery of a single
law or rule at once enables us to understand an indefi-
nite number of individual happenings—as the single
law of gravitation enables us to understand the fall
of an apple, the movements of the planets, the tides,
the return of comets and innumerable other phe-
nomena. Science insists on continual verification by
testing against facts, because the bitter experience of
history is that, without such constant testing, man's
imagination and logical faculty run away with him,
and in the long run make a fool of him. And science
has every confidence in these methods because experi-
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 115
ence has amply demonstrated that they are the only
ones by which man can hope to extend his control
over nature and his own destiny. Science is, in the
first instance, merely disinterested curiosity, the desire
to know for knowledge's sake. Yet in the long run
the new knowledge always brings new practical power.
But science has two inherent limitations. First, it
is incomplete, or perhaps I had better say partial, just
because it only concerns Itself with intellectual han-
dling and objective control. And secondly, it is mor-
ally and emotionally neutral. It sets out to describe
and to understand, not to appraise or to assign values.
Indeed, science is without a scale of values. The only
value which it recognizes is that of truth and knowl-
edge.
This neutrality of science in regard to emotions and
moral and aesthetic values means that, while in its own
sphere of knowledge It is supreme, in other spheres it
Is only a method or tool. What man shall do with
the new facts, the new ideas, the new opportunities of
control which science is showering upon him does not
depend upon science, but upon what man wants to do
with them; and this, in turn, depends upon his scale of
values. It Is here that religion can become the domi-
nant factor. For what religion can do Is to set up a
scale of values for conduct, and to provide emotional
or spiritual driving force to help In getting them real-
ized in practice. On the other hand, it Is an undoubted
fact that the scale of values set up by a religion will
be different according to Its Intellectual background:
you can never wholly separate practice from theory,
idea from action. Thus, to put the matter in a nut-
116 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
shell, while the practical task of science Is to provide
man with new knowledge and Increased powers of con-
trol, the practical task of religion Is to help man to
live and to decide how he shall use that knowledge
and these powers.
The conflict between science and religion has come
chiefly from the fact that religion often has been
afraid of the new knowledge provided by science, be-
cause It had unfortunately committed Itself to a the-
ology of fixity instead of one of change, and claimed
to be already in possession of all the knowledge that
mattered. It therefore seemed that to admit the truth
and the value of the new knowledge provided by
science would be to destroy religion. Most men of
science and many thinkers within the churches do not
believe this any longer. Science may destroy par-
ticular theologies; It may even cause the downfall of
particular brands of religion If they persist In refus-
ing to admit the validity of scientific knowledge. But
it cannot destroy religion, because that Is the outcome
of the religious spirit; and the religious spirit Is just
as much a property of human nature as Is the scien-
tific spirit.
What science can and should do Is to modify the
forms in which the religious spirit expresses Itself.
And once religion recognizes that fact, there will no
longer remain any fundamental conflict between science
and religion, but merely a number of friendly adjust-
ments to be made.
In regard to this last point, let me make myself
clear. I do not mean that science should dictate to
religion how It should change or what form it should
JULIAN S. HUXLEY 117
take. I mean that it Is the business and the duty of
the various religions to accept the new knowledge we
owe to science, to assimilate it into their systems, and
to adjust their general ideas and outlook accordingly.
The only business or duty of science is to discover new
facts, to frame the best possible generalizations to
account for the facts, and to turn knowledge to prac-
tical account when asked to do so. The problem of
what man will do with the enormous possibilities of
power which science has put into his hands is probably
the most vital and the most alarming problem of
modern times. At the moment, humanity is rather
like an irresponsible and mischievous child who has
been presented with a set of machine tools, a box of
matches, and a supply of dynamite. How can religion
expect to help in solving the problem before the child
cuts itself or blows itself up if it does not permeate
itself, and make them its own in order to control
them?
That is why I say—as a human being and not as a
scientist—that it is the duty of religion to accept and
assimilate scientific knowledge. I also believe it to
be the business of religion to do so, because if religion
does not do so, religion will in the long run lose in-
fluence and adherents thereby.
I see the human race engaged in the tremendous
experiment of living on the planet called earth. From
the point of view of humanity as a whole, the great
aim of this experiment must be to make life more
truly and more fully worth living; the religious man
might prefer to say that the aim was to realize the
kingdom of God upon earth, but that is only another
way of saying the same thing.
118 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
The scientific spirit and the religious spirit both
have their parts to play in this experiment. If re-
ligion will but abandon its claims to fixity and certi-
tude (as many liberal churchmen are already doing),
then it can see in the pursuit of truth something essen-
tially sacred, and science itself will come to have its
religious aspect. If science will remember that it, as
science, can lay no claim to set up values, it will allow
due weight to the religious spirit.
At the moment, however, a radical difference of
outlook obtains as between change in science and
change in religion. An alteration in scientific outlook
—for instance the supersession of pure Newtonian
mechanics by relativity—is generally looked on as a
victory for science. But an alteration in religious out-
look—for instance, the abandonment of belief in the
literal truth of the account of Creation in Genesis
—
is usually looked on as in some way a defeat for re-
ligion. Yet, either both are defeats or both are vic-
tories—not for particular activities such as religion
or science, but for the spirit of man. In the past, re-
ligion has usually been slowly or grudgingly forced to
admit new scientific Ideas.
If it will but accept the most vivifying of all the
scientific Ideas of the past century,—that of the ca-
pacity of life. Including human life and institutions,
including religion itself, for progressive development,
—the conflict between science and religion will be
over, and both can join hands In advancing the great
experiment of man, of ensuring that men shall have
life, and have it more abundantly.
IDEALISTIC CONFESSIONS OF A
BEHAVIORIST
George Thomas White Patrick
George Thomas White Patrick was born in Boscawen,
New Hampshire, in 1857. After studying at the State Univer-
sit}^ of Iowa and at Yale, he received the degree of Ph.D. from
Johns Hopkins in 1888. In 1894 he studied philosophy at Leip-
zig University. Beginning 1887, he had a long and honored
term of service as professor of philosophy at the State Uni-
versity of Iowa. He also founded the psychological labora-
tory at that institution. He is author of The Psychology
of Social Reconstruction; The Psychology of Relaxation; An
Introduction to Philosophy; The World and Its Meaning;
What Is Mind; and other works. Dr. Patrick's book, Jn Intro-
duction to Philosophy, published in 1924, is one of the best
treatises on that subject available for readers who wish a popu-
lar presentation, but at the same time one conveying complete
and sound knowledge. He is a philosopher rather than a scien-
tist. But his approach is scientific, and readers will concede that
his paper has so direct a bearing on the paradox of life as af-
fected by religion that it could not well have been omitted from
a study of this nature.
VIII
IDEALISTIC CONFESSIONS OF A
BEHAVIORIST
By George Thomas White Patrick
THAT the mathematical and physical sciences
are now lending less encouragement to a
mechanistic or materialistic world view is
becoming known even to newspaper readers. But
there seems to be still much doubt about the biological
and psychological sciences. Mechanistic interpreta-
tions of Darwinism still prevail and psychology has
become infected with behaviorism.
Perhaps nothing in these days has caused so much
concern in religious circles as this new theory of be-
haviorism. It has produced a kind of shock like Dar-
win's Origin of Species in his day, or the Copernican
astronomy long ago. It seems to attack the very
citadel of religion—the religious nature of man. It
denies, as Is supposed, the spiritual character of the
soul, its intimations of immortality, its native intui-
tions of good and evil, its divine character. It denies.
It is feared, the very existence of the soul, and teaches
that there is nothing in human personality except the
material body. Behaviorism, it is said, goes even fur-
ther than this. It Is associated with, if It does not
Indeed actually teach, a materialistic and mechanistic
world theory, where mechanism alone rules, and where
God has no place. Surely, behaviorism and religion
121
122 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
have nothing in common. Surely, the assumptions of
behaviorism are fatal to any religious view of the
world. However, it is added, we do not need to
worry about behaviorism, for it is already a passing
theory, no longer sanctioned by representative psy-
chologists.
But this indictment of behaviorism is full of errors
and misconceptions. I think it would be profitable in
the pages which follow to inquire more carefully con-
cerning the meaning of the behavlorist psychology,
whether it necessarily implies a mechanistic view of
life and mind, and whether it really is inconsistent
with our religious beliefs. Religion cannot afford to
make any more mistakes in opposing the advance of
science, and In our attitude toward this new move-
ment, caution and candor are necessary—and, most of
all, understanding.
For Instance, when It is said that behavlorists deny
the existence of the soul, the latter word is evidently
used in some metaphysical sense, unknown to psy-
chologists of to-day. We all agree that such things as
thinking, perceiving, remembering, feeling, reflecting,
and deciding, exist. No one doubts the existence of
these and many other mental processes, and if we did
doubt them, the doubt itself would remain as a men-
tal process; and it is just these processes that we mean
when we speak of the mind, or of the soul, if you
prefer this word. All psychologists study these things,
and behavlorists are psychologists. They too study
thought and emotion, memory and judgment, joy and
satisfaction, reasoning and decision. As for Intima-
tions of immortality and intuitions of good and evil
—
if there be any such, I suppose behavlorists quite as
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 123
much as other psychologists, would be eager to study
them.
Another Initial error, which we may notice here, is
the notion that behaviorism Is a passing theory, even
now neglected by psychologists of repute. The situa-
tion Is somewhat as follows: Behaviorism was popu-
larized in America by a small school of so-called rad-
ical behaviorlsts. Psychology owes these men a great
debt for their contribution to a new and scientific ap-
proach to the subject. They Insisted that psychology
is a natural science and that it deals like other sciences
with natural phenomena. The old notion that mind
and body belong to two mutually exclusive domains,
sometimes called the psychical and the material, still
persisted In popular belief, though psychologists had
long repudiated it. Many still thought that the soul
is some sort of psychic stuff, some kind of spiritual
entity, and that Ideas are things existing in the mind.
The early behaviorlsts were eminently successful in
further dispelling these beliefs, and in freeing psy-
chology from its metaphysical complications. They
spread abroad the view that all those processes which
we call mental, such as thinking, feeling, loving, hat-
ing, remembering, forgetting, are not "states" of some-
thing called "mind," but are different kinds of re-
sponses of a living organism, although these responses
may be overt or implicit, manual, vocal or visceral,
conditioned or unconditioned; and more important
still, they proclaimed a new method of studying all
mental processes through the objective study of be-
havior, thus putting psychology on a level with all the
other sciences of nature.
124 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
All this seemed very strange and radical to the
wide circle of readers to whom the early behaviorists
appealed, though much of it had been taken for
granted by biologists and psychologists, and much of
it has now become a part of psychological science.
But the radical behaviorists went further than this,
and adopted other views by no means readily accepted
by later psychologists, such for instance as their in-
sistence that the human body is solely and exclusively
a response mechanism; their refusal to find in intro-
spection, even as experiential observation, an auxiliary
method of study; and their curious neglect of the mo-
tives of behavior, such as our deep instinctive striv-
ings, desires, appetites, wishes and impulses.
Of peculiar difficulty to other psychologists was the
deliberate rejection of the word "consciousness" by
the radical group, only partly excused by the unhappy
history of the word in modern psychology, where it
has often been used merely as a substitute for the dis-
carded metaphysical "mind." Consciousness in the
sense of awareness is something which could not well
be omitted from discussion. The awareness of the
deer in the forest in the presence of danger might
have served as a point of departure for a naturalistic
explanation of the highly developed form which con-
sciousness takes in human beings and would have pre-
sented no inherent difficulty.
Still more serious than these omissions was the
strong mechanistic interpretation which the radical
behaviorists gave to their theory of mind, extending
to a purely mechanistic world view. Some of them
even became propagandists for such a view, interpret-
ing the whole universe as "the totality of the electron-
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 125
proton aggregates and the changes which occur in
their special relationships." They believed that the
laws of physics and chemistry are sufficient to explain
everything in nature, including man and his social re-
lationships.
Of course religion could find little place in such a
world view, for the very foundations of religion rest
in the belief in God and in the reality and sanctity of
ideal values. But it was not behaviorism itself which
was antagonistic to religion but the world view of cer-
tain radical behaviorists, with the implication that
such a view was a necessary outgrowth of their psy-
chology. And it is this radical kind of behaviorism
which in some circles has brought the word into dis-
repute, and not the basal theory itself.
In the present chapter It is not my purpose to in-
quire into the truth of behaviorism nor to discuss at
all the points of difference between the schools. I
have in mind only to ask whether the general theory
of behaviorism, if it should turn out to be true, would
imply a mechanistic or materialistic theory of life and
mind, or threaten in any way the reality of mind, or
question Its dignity and worth. And It Is Important to
try to answer these questions, for the behavlorlst point
of view, though not that of the extremists. Is coming
more and more to prevail. As Professor Jastrow says
In a recent article, "Evidently we are all behaviorists
but how we Interpret our behavioristic obligations may
determine largely the trend of our psychological In-
terests."^
1 Joseph Jastrow, "The Conflict of the Psychologies," The Scientific
Monthly, November, 1929.
126 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Behaviorism is primarily a method of study. Psy-
chologists had become discouraged In trying to estab-
lish a science of the mind by the Introspective method,
where no observer could check the observations of any
other observer, and turned to the objective method
pursued by all the advancing sciences. They began
studying mental processes through the behavior of
living beings, where the results of that study could
be checked and verified. When this method was
adopted, the new science began to make an advance
comparable with that of all the objective sciences.
It soon became evident to psychologists that in
studying mental processes In this way they were not
studying the expression of some inner being called
the mind or soul, but that they were studying the mind
Itself directly. This means nothing more than that
we are doing something when we think, reason, plan,
remember, and make decisions. It Is the man himself
who thinks and feels and wills—not some magical,
mysterious, metaphysical soul. The soul. Indeed, Is
born In activity—in behavior. The soul or mind is
the name we give to the totality of psychical or men-
tal processes, and by mental processes we mean those
activities of living beings by which they adjust them-
selves to their surroundings In such a way as to main-
tain their Integrity and satisfy their desires. Behavior
and its motives and their organization Into a definite
personality thus become the object of the study of
psychology.
Mental processes are therefore wholly distinct from
biological and physiological processes. Physiological
processes have to do with the maintenance of the inner
economy of the organism, while psychological proc-
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 127
esses are concerned with the interactions between the
organism and its environment. So we see that it is
adaptive behavior which is the subject-matter of psy-
chology. Reflex, instinctive, and habitual responses
are all of this adaptive kind. Eventually, living be-
ings acquired more complex forms of response. They
learned, for instance, to be resourceful—to devise new
and different ways of dealing with situations to the
end of furthering their needs. Then intelligence was
born—and mind.
Thus mind is not a function of the brain, or of any
of the bodily organs. The function of the brain is
primarily that of an integrative organ mediating be-
tween receptors and effectors. What we have to do
with in psychology is the behavior of the whole indi-
vidual in his intercourse with his surroundings, to-
gether with his motives governing this behavior, and
the organization of the whole into a personality. In
this respect the German Gestalt psychologists have
corrected the one-sidedness of the extreme behavior-
ists, putting the emphasis upon organization and the
behavior patterns which follow upon the total situa-
tion.
So we see that when we think, remember, plan, de-
vise, reflect, decide, we are always in action. The ac-
tivity may be outward or inward, explicit or implicit;
but it is activity. Perceiving, thinking, remembering,
are what we human beings are doing in certain cir-
cumstances. It is not the mind which thinks and re-
members; we think and remember—and It is because
we can think and remember that we have minds. We
do not solve problems because we have intelligence;
128 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
we have intelligence because we can solve problems.
Man has developed the capacity to think and reason,
to love and hate, and in so doing he has become a
living soul.
The relation of soul and body has, from the earliest
times, constituted a problem for psychology, perplex-
ing both psychologists and philosophers. The keenest
minds have labored with it and big books have been
written about it. The theory of behaviorism offers a
solution so easy and simple that it seems scarcely to
need defense. One has only to compare it with other
classical attempts at the age-old problem. Sometimes
it has been supposed that the soul is of a wholly dif-
ferent essence from the body—a separate kind of
entity, something wholly spiritual, as we say. This is
the theory known as psychological dualism. But
dualism of this kind is scarcely in vogue at the present
time, not being acceptable either to philosophers or
psychologists.
The second method has been to make the supposi-
tion that matter itself, and of course the body of
which it is composed, is in its ultimate character of a
mental or spiritual nature. But recent science finds
little support for this view. We are coming to know
a great deal about matter and its elements, and it does
not seem to be of a spiritual or mental nature. We
may analyze it into molecules, atoms, protons, and
electrons, but we do not find anything like mind-stuff.
Just now we are coming to believe that the ultimate
units of our physical world are of the nature of "wave
packets." Though these wave packets cannot be con-
ceived as material things, neither are they mental or
spiritual things. Though they are no longer believed
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 129
to be subject to mechanical laws, neither are they gov-
erned by psychological laws. Though they may be
grasped only by mathematical thought, there is no
evidence that they are themselves of the nature of
thought. To import into them anything of a psychical
character would be wholly gratuitous, having no sup-
port from present-day science. It would be only a
theory put forward on the ground that we need some-
thing psychical in the original substance of nature in
order to explain how the psychical arises in nature.
But we know now that it is not necessary, if we
would confirm the reality of the mind and the spirit-
uality of the world, to import these qualities into the
elements out of which the world is made. The farther
back we go into the elemental nature of things the
more rigidly mathematical it all becomes. If we seek
for vital things, for life and mind, for love and beauty,
for justice and intelligence, we must look forward, not
backward. We have come to believe that evolution is
a creative process, that the real things of the world,
the significant things, are not the elements out of
which the structures are made but the structures them-
selves—the wholes rather than the parts. The ele-
mentalism of the nineteenth century is giving place to
the organic view of the twentieth century, and to re-
newed studies into the meaning of evolution.
Recent theories of evolution have departed so far
from Darwin's views that the supposed mechanistic
implications of Darwinism have lost much of their
force. In fact, the new theories of emergent and
creative evolution have virtually made obsolescent the
ancient and unlnstructlve controversy between the ma-
130 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
terialists and Idealists. A new meaning has been given
to the whole world movement, since we have discov-
ered that evolution is creative. It is now believed that
it is not at all an unwrapping process. Its meaning
is not expressed by the word development, nor indeed
by the word evolution itself. Evolution is rather a
creative up-building process. It is epigenetic, to use
a more technical term.
We are not obliged therefore to choose between a
materialistic or mechanistic universe on the one hand
and a dualistic or a spiritualistic world on the other
hand. There is quite another way to look at the whole
subject. We are to take the theory of evolution very
seriously, but we find that it does not lead in the di-
rection of a mechanistic universe. Nor, on the other
hand, are we compelled to suppose that there is some-
thing called mind which runs parallel with the body,
or resides in the body. Nor, again, are we forced to
accept any of the older forms of idealism, which
taught that the whole universe is composed of mind-
stuff, or that it is merely the externalization of some-
thing wholly spiritual.
The world is not a rearrangement of a throng of
lifeless atoms, but the awakening of them into a world
of living, feeling, and thinking forms. It is not
necessary to read back the ideal values into the phys-
ical units out of which our world is made. The ideal
values are new creations, "special creations," to use
a religious phrase. They are values which are
"realized" through a process of evolution.
Aristotle was the first to teach that the world is a
process of realization. Formless matter is ever tak-
ing on form—that is, becoming real; for to Aristotle
form Is a term covering the qualities or powers which
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 131
make anything what It Is. We can easily understand
this wonderful conception of the wise old Greek
philosopher. The Parthenon, the sublime example of
Greek architectural art which graces the Acropolis at
Athens, and which In Aristotle's time shone in all Its
splendor, finds Its significance. Its meaning, its reality,
not In the marble of which It Is composed, but In its
form. Its Idea, its beauty. It was the expression of
Greek ideals, the fruition of Greek art. Any one can
dig marble out of a quarry, but only a supreme artist
can make it Into a Parthenon. So It is not what the
world Is made out of that Is significant, but what it is
made into.
It seems strange therefore in appraising the world
around us, in trying to form a judgment as to Its ulti-
mate materiality or ideality, that we should take the
atoms so seriously, or the protons and electrons, or
whatever the final units shall prove to be, torturing
the facts sometimes to prove that these final units must
in their inner being resemble minds or souls or centres
of consciousness.
We do not need to take the atoms so seriously, be-
cause the things which are made out of them do not
have the same qualities as they themselves have. Salt
does not have the properties of the sodium and chlo-
rine which compose It—but new and strange ones.
Judging from its two elements, we should suppose it
to be a corrosive poison, but it turns out to be a useful
and agreeable condiment. Vital organisms do not
have the properties of the inorganic elements compos-
ing them, but new and almost miraculous properties,
such as growth and reproduction. Further on in the
history of evolution appear very complex and highly
integrated organisms, which again display new and
132 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
still more marvelous properties and powers, such as
Invention, imagination, reflective thought, volition,
and emotion. These were not potential in the simple
organisms, nor in the primeval slime, nor again in the
world of protons and electrons. There Is another
factor In the situation not taken into account by the
elementarlsts of the nineteenth century. And this
factor Is organization.
Tyndall said that In matter he saw the promise
and potency of all life. This was a high-sounding
pronouncement and Impressed his nineteenth-century
hearers. But his saying was not based on any ob-
servation of facts. He reasoned simply on a priori
grounds that since once there was nothing but matter
and now there Is life and action, the former must
have contained potentially the latter. But present in
the world there was something else than "matter";
there was the fact of organization, and with the or-
ganism there emerged new properties and new capaci-
ties.
Thus evolution Is creative.^ Something new Is ever
appearing. Living beings are not aggregates of dead
2 Creative Evolution is a better term than emergent evolution.
The reader may be interested in reading or reviewing some recent
articles and books by distinguished scientists and philosophers on this
subject. Compare:
William Morton Wheeler. Emergent Evolution and the Develop-
ment of Societies. New York. 1928.
C. Lloyd Morgan. Emergent Evolution.
H. S. Jennings. "Diverse Doctrines of Evolution," Science, January
14, 1927.
William McDougall, Modern Materialism and Emergent Evolution.
Robert K. Nabours. "A Third Alternative: Emergent Evolution."
The Scientific Monthly. November, 1930.
Roy Wood Sellars. The Principles and Problems of Philosophy.
Chap. XXIV.
S. Alexander. Space Time and Deity.
C. D. Broad. Mind and Its Place in Nature. Chaps. II and XIV.
Compare also the writings of R. S. Lillie, G. H. Parker, C. J. Her-
rick, W. E. Ritter, and H. F. Osborn.
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 133
atoms; they are organisms, and have the character-
istic properties of organisms. Evolution is not a
process of drawing out what is potential in certain
lower forms of being, but a process of building up
something new upon these lower forms. The nine-
teenth century had its gaze fixed upon the lower forms,
upon the elements of things, hoping to find Nature's
secret there. The twentieth century is turning rather
to the whole process of evolution itself, and hopes to
find its real meaning not in what it works with, but in
what it works out, believing that the final result is a
better expression of reality than the original material.
The critics of Darwinism were wrong in supposing
that evolution is the gospel of despair. It appears to
be the gospel of hope, since it means the successive
upspringing of more and more complex and highly in-
tegrated organisms with their accompaniment of new
powers and capacities, such as the capacity for growth
and reproduction, the capacity for feeling and emotion,
for thought, memory and imagination, for aesthetic
enjoyment, for creative and inventive genius, for moral
progress, for religious worship. Spencer has been
censured for his identification of progress and evolu-
tion, but nevertheless evolution is progressive, since
science, art, religion, and philosophy are all its out-
come, as well as the human mind itself. Spencer's
error was in applying evolution to the future of so-
ciety. Even here there is, no doubt, progress, though
perhaps not in the narrow time limits of the Spencerian
sociology.
The history of evolution has been a history of new
forms and new functions. It bears none of the marks
of a wholly mechanistic process, since it transcends
134 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
mechanism at every new step. Mechanism Is just one
aspect of the process, representing force, compulsion
and Identity, repeating Itself forever. Evolution rep-
resents growth, progress, achievement. Differences,
not identities, characterize It, and the differences are
cumulative, and seem to Imply some end or purpose.
Whether it really is a purposive movement need not
be contended here, but it is certainly expansive. Even
the stellar universe, as present astronomy seems to be
teaching, is an expanding universe. In other words,
it is not really a universe, but something growing,
enlarging, constantly outgrowing Itself—perhaps an
organism.
To us this growth and expanslveness Is best seen in
organic evolution of plants and animals. Organic
evolution is a series of Increments and pluses. Even
a Darwinian variation, upon which the whole system
of natural selection depends. Is a veritable plus, a nov-
elty. It Is something wholly new, therefore a creation
—perhaps an achievement.
In evolution, nature Is constantly outgrowing itself,
outdoing itself, as if it were propelled by some inner
motive of expansion, or some primeval uplifting force,
or else perhaps drawn on by some timeless power of
attraction. Whether the upward striving of the world
toward life and mind, toward science and art, toward
greater moral values, finds its spring and motive in
some primeval creative power or in some Immanent
divine life, or In some absolute Platonic Good, the
conception in any case is essentially religious.
The mechanistic interpretations of Darwinism
prevalent in the early days of this century were quite
gratuitous. Darwin himself did not enter upon the
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 135
philosophy of evolution. He did not profess to un-
derstand the causes of variation or to explain the fact
of geometrical increase. And yet this expansive and
exuberant feature of nature is the one most signifi-
cant thing in the whole movement. Darwin's chief
interest was in displaying the fact of evolution and
proposing a theory of its method. Our interest is
more and more turning to evolutionary philosophy.
To some recent authors it looks very much like a
"grand strategy." Many now speak of "creative
evolution." A world-famous biologist has said, "If
we personify 'animate nature,' it must at least be as
an artist with inexhaustible imaginative resources, with
extraordinary mastery of materials."
Darwin was quite right in saying that the mind as
well as the body is the product of evolution, but it
does not follow from this that mind has grown out
of lower forms of life. It is not implicit in animal
behavior. The mind of man Is not something hidden
in the simple responses of the lower animals, any
more than the modern ocean liner is implicit in the
old side-wheel steamboat, or the art of the Renais-
sance hidden in the pictographs of the cave dwellers.
In both illustrations we know that something has been
added; namely, almost Infinite labor, thought, and
creative genius. The future of organic evolution is
therefore unpredictable, as are also human conduct
and social institutions. Only this is sure, there will
be progress.
It would seem, then, that the mind, though defined
as the characteristic behavior of a highly complex and
highly integrated living organism, has escaped far
136 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
from the world of mechanism, if indeed there is any
world of pure mechanism. The terms descriptive of
mind have no mechanistic coloring. The mind, itself
created, is creative. It grows, expands, contrives, in-
vents, aspires. It has visions of beauty and goodness.
It envisages a better art and literature, a more equi-
table distribution of wealth, a better social order,
higher moral standards. It is never satisfied with
what it has attained. It aspires to more complete
control and a larger freedom. It is just because of
the marvelous powers of the mind that there has al-
ways been a tendency to refer these to some meta-
physical psyche or soul, an animistic survival of the
custom of primitive man to explain the wonderful and
strange by attributing them to "spirits." But there
are other ways by which spiritual values may be
gained. They may be won, realized, through a half
billion years of evolutionary growth.
So we see that the mind loses nothing of its reality
from the standpoint of behaviorism, nor does it suffer
any loss of worth or dignity. On the contrary, as the
characteristic activity of the most highly complex and
perfectly integrated organism which organic evolution
has produced, it would appear to occupy the highest
position in the world of living things, unless indeed we
except the creations of the mind itself, such as science,
literature and art.
Personally I like to think of the world movement
as a process of realization—and there is surely noth-
ing in a behaviorist psychology to discourage such a
conception—in which life and mind are values which
have been realized in evolution. The process through
which they have been realized seems to be a process
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 137
of organization, more and more complex organisms
giving rise to higher and higher forms of activity, till
the human mind itself appears as the highest value.
And yet, I suppose, we have no right to think that it
is the highest value, for social organization, love,
sympathy, and justice are values whose meaning the
mind itself is beginning rightly to understand. It can
even envisage for the future a form of social organi-
zation in which love and sympathy may be ideally com-
bined with justice. Plato, to be sure, would have us
believe that love and justice are ideal, eternal values,
whose kinship the soul recognizes and whose form it
hopes to imitate. Is there any reason why the ideal
values may not be eternally real and yet in a time
series such as ours gradually realized? Such a con-
ception of the world would certainly be both religious
and idealistic.
The organismic philosophy and the organismic psy-
chology of the present day rest upon the superlative
importance of organization in the world movement.
This raises the question of the causes of organization,
the organizing power in the universe. A purely
physico-chemical theory, assuming chance collisions and
fortuitous configurations of atoms, has often been
proposed. But the role of chance is steadily declin-
ing in modern science, and purely physico-chemical
theories of the world are losing much of their pres-
tige as the sphere of mathematics is widened. Other
sciences are challenging the right of physics and
chemistry to the prerogative position which they have
held during the later decades of the last century and
the earlier ones of this century.
Science does not yet understand the causes of pro-
138 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
gresslve organization, but it certainly presents no
aspect of a chance affair. Some creative agency seems
to be at work. Lloyd Morgan, biologist, psycholo-
gist, and philosopher, following the religious teachers
of all ages, calls it God. John Burroughs spoke of an
organizing principle. Other scientists speak of "a
universal compulsion to constructive action," a "drift,"
or "tendency," or "organizatory factor," an "evolu-
tionary urge," or "a struggle for freedom." Some of
these terms, like Bergson's elan vital, imply the pres-
ence in nature of some resistant stuff, against which
the "vital Impulse" or struggle for freedom is working.
Recently, however, there seems to be a tendency in
both science and philosophy to speak less of the strug-
gle for existence or for freedom, and more of an initial
or eternal principle of growth and expansion. Evo-
lution is understood to be not a mechanical elimina-
tion of the unfit among random variations, but some-
thing more like an achievement. Nature is continually
outgrowing itself, and trying to do so. Life and the
world are not, as one writer says, struggling against
an alien force, but struggling to overcome simply the
past.^
Thus we see that a behavlorlst psychology does not
ally Itself with any mechanistic or materialistic world
view. Whether it Implies an Idealistic philosophy de-
pends upon our use and understanding of the latter
term. It surely encourages no kind of "mind-stuff"
theory, nor does It lead In the direction of any of the
older forms of subjective, objective, or absolute ideal-
Ism. It does seem to harmonize with the general view
3 Compare Dr. John Wild, "The Grand Strategy of Evolution."
Essays in Philosophy. Chicago; Open Court Pub. Co.
GEORGE THOMAS WHITE PATRICK 139
of evolution as the gradual realization of ideal values,
and to this extent suggests an idealistic philosophy.
We may think, of mind as an ideal value which some
creative power has realized through a long period of
evolution. We may regard evolution as a kind of
blossoming-out process, in which life and mind, the
love of justice, and the appreciation of beauty, have
been achieved through long ages of development.
What lies still beyond, we do not know.
But the future of humanity on this earth will be
long—millions of years, we are told. There will be
men and women a plenty, and behavior a plenty, and
eventually good behavior. In the meantime whole
civilizations may collapse in the presence of luxury,
moral laxness, and social indifference. Organized in-
telligence, such as even now is taking many forms,
may avert such disaster—assisted, let us hope, by the
emergence of some great devotion, essentially reli-
gious in its character.
PSYCHOLOGY AND THE THOUGHT
OF GOD
William McDougall
William McDougall, psychologist, was born in Lan-
cashire, England, 1871. He was associated with the English
universities until 1 920, when he came to the United States to be
Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. He remained
at Harvard until 1927 when he resigned to become Professor in
Duke University. From 1914 to 1919 he was Major of the
Royal Army Medical Corps. He is Fellow of the Royal Society
of London. His religious preference is Unitarian. Professor
McDougall has written continuously since 1905 when his book,
Physiological Psychology, appeared. In succession have been
published. Social Psychology ; Pagan Tribes of Borneo; Psy-
chology; Body and Mind; Group Mind; Is A??ierica Safe for
Democracy?; Outline of Psychology; Ethics and Some Modern-
World Problems; Outline of Abnormal Psychology; Janus;
Character and the Conduct of Life. In the article which he
contributes to this symposium he presents the mature conclu-
sions of a reverent psychologist.
IX
PSYCHOLOGY AND THE THOUGHT
OF GOD
By William McDougall
THIS article is my response to an invitation to
say what evidence in support of the theistic
hypothesis or the thought of God seems to
me to be yielded by psychology. Since psychology is
not yet a consistent body of generally accepted facts
and theories, since we have, rather, many psychologies
of widely different types, using widely different funda-
mental assumptions and pointing to general conclu-
sions as widely different as pure materialism and pure
idealism, I cannot pretend to expound the bearing of
psychology in general on the problem of theism. I
can only attempt to indicate concisely how my own
lifelong labours in psychology affect my own attitude
toward this problem.
Let me say first that I have now and have always
had an open mind towards this great question. I am
and have always been agnostic; not In the negative
sense in which that word is often used, not In the sense
that I assert the impossibility of knowledge of God
or of well-founded belief In Him. I am agnostic In
the true sense; that Is to say I confess that I myself
have not found such evidence as convinces me of the
truth of the theistic hypothesis. I should add also
that I am not strictly neutral In this matter. I would
143
144 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
prefer to accept Theism, or, if you like, I am biassed
in favour of the hypothesis. I recognize the moral
and emotional advantages of theistic belief, so abun-
dantly set forth by thousands of eloquent exponents.
But, as a man of science, I hold it to be my business
to put aside this preference, this bias, to discount it
as completely as possible and to endeavour to exercise
strictly impartial judgment and reasoning in seeking
to reach a tentative conclusion. In other words I hold
that I have to treat the existence of God as a question
of fact, and that, like all other questions of fact, it
must be treated by me as a problem of science rather
than a problem of philosophy. Here, since the prov-
inces of science and of philosophy and the demarcation
of them are so variously conceived, it is proper that I
should say how I conceive those provinces and that
demarcation.
I hold that the true and sole province of philosophy
is the realm of values, that philosophy is properly
concerned with the consideration of values, with valua-
tion, with problems of right and wrong, of better and
worse, in every field of activity, in logic, in aesthetic,
in morals, in politics, in economics, in jurisprudence,
and in religion. All questions of fact, all attempts to
describe the actual nature of the universe or of any
part of it, to state the relations between its parts, to
state the influences exerted by one part on another,
to explain the course of events, all this is the work of
science.
Hitherto the tasks of science and of philosophy, as
thus defined, have been confused in a manner that
seems to me highly detrimental to both. Men of
science have presumed to pronounce upon values, to
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 145
deduce conclusions as to values from their findings,
and philosophers have presumed to determine ques-
tions of fact by introducing considerations of value;
indeed what has commonly been called philosophical
treatment of questions of fact and existence is distin-
guished from scientific treatment by the introduction,
explicitly or surreptitiously, of considerations of value.
In other words, the philosopher, in attempting to de-
termine questions of existence and reality has been
swayed by considerations of value; in trying to say
what is, he has allowed his judgment and reasoning
to be swayed by considerations of what, as he judges,
ought to be. And this confusion of the realms of fact
and value, of science and philosophy, has been espe-
cially pervasive in the sphere with which this volume
is concerned.
Let me put the matter in another way. Just as
there is a science of conduct (which is part of psy-
chology) and also a philosophy of conduct, as there
is (or may be) a science of aesthetic (the psychology
of the beautiful) and also a philosophy of sesthetic,
so there is (or may be) a science of religion and also
a philosophy of religion. It is for philosophy to show
us the values of religious beliefs for mankind; it is
for science to weigh the evidence on which those be-
liefs are founded and to attempt to reach a conclusion
as to the degree of probability attaching to them. To
the theologian or to the religiously minded man of
science, this strict division of functions may seem a
cold-blooded counsel of perfection. Yet in this, as in
all other fields, the man of science must strive to be
as cold-blooded as possible.
146 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Acknowledging, then, the great value of thelstic
belief, admitting even that it may be and may long
have been an essential condition of the welfare and
progress of mankind, admitting that its decay might
well result in the moral decadence and destruction of
the human race, I put all such considerations aside
and ask myself cold-bloodedly what evidence in sup-
port of Theism do I find in my studies of the mind?
Let me make clear also that I am leaving on one
side all other evidences, such, for example, as evi-
dences of design in the physical realm or in the adap-
tation of the organic realm.
I accept organic evolution as established fact; but
I hold that we have no adequate theory or explana-
tion of the way in which it has been effected. On the
other hand, the view, commonly accepted by men of
science, that living things have been evolved from a
realm of inorganic matter and energy that preceded
them in time, does not seem to me to be established;
indeed it seems to me very improbable and to be re-
garded with much suspicion.
So much by way of clearing the ground and defin-
ing my initial position. I can best proceed by reject-
ing as unproven and improbable certain views or theo-
ries that are widely accepted by psychologists and by
indicating the alternative view to which I incline.
I do not believe that what we call mental activity
or experience or consciousness is a by-product of the
chemistry and physics of the brain, an epiphenomenon,
as T. H. Huxley called it. Nor do I believe that the
relation between bodily and mental processes can be
stated in terms of parallelism without interaction.^ I
^Cf. my Body and Mind. Macmillan Company. 1912.
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 147
believe, on the contrary, that mental, that is to say in-
telligent and purposive, activity is of very real causal
efficacy, not only in the human species, but all through
the animal world and probably In the whole realm of
living things. I believe that such activity implies a
type of organization that cannot be adequately de-
scribed in terms of physics and chemistry as they now
exist, Implies, in fact, organization that cannot be
expressed In terms of the spatial distribution of mat-
ter or of energy or electrons or any other physical
entities or substances. I strongly Incline to believe
that such organization may. In the case of human
beings, be such, or may attain such a degree of sta-
bility, that It may survive the dissolution of the body.
I do not claim that this Is yet a strongly founded view,
but I think there Is much evidence that points this way
and I can see nothing In the teachings of science that
makes It Impossible or even very Improbable.^
I hold that the balance of all the evidence points
very strongly to the view that mental activity (in the
sense defined above) has been a principal factor In
organic evolution, one of increasing influence and effi-
cacy as the higher forms of life have been evolved;
until In mankind It has become of overwhelming Im-
portance, playing the chief part In determining the
welfare and the survival of Individuals and of the
race.
I hold also that we have conclusive reasons for hold-
ing that the mental activity expressed In all behaviour
conforms to laws quite other than those formulated by
2 Cf. my Modern Materialism and Emergent Evolution. Van
Nostrand Co. 1928.
148 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
physical science in the light of its study of the inor-
ganic realm, especially in that the laws of physical
science make no reference to the future course of
events and are, in that sense, mechanistic; whereas
the activities of mind can be expressed only in teleo-
logical laws, laws which necessarily and inevitably,
refer to the future; in other words and objectively,
all mentally controlled processes are teleological, in-
volve a form of causation in which some mental ref-
erence to the future plays an essential part, whereas
physical causation seems to imply no such factor.
Psychology, then, in my view, affords convincing
evidence of the reality and efficacy of Mind in Nature:
and it affords strong, though not conclusive, evidence
that mental organization is not wholly dependent upon
the physical structure of the human organism. Sup-
pose these indications to be confirmed, leaving no
room for doubt:—^What, if any, would be their bear-
ing on the problem of theism? So far as I can see,
the bearing would be what I would call permissive
only. Demonstration of the reality and of the causal
efficacy in Nature of Mind or Spirit (as we know it in
ourselves) and of its relative (at least) independence
of the physical realm, would give countenance to the
assumption of Mind or Spirit existing and operating
on a vaster scale of influence and of efficacy of direc-
tive and creative power; and that, I take it, is the fun-
damental assumption of all Theism. But It would not
in itself amount to proof or even to evidence of the
truth of this assumption.
Another preliminary question must be briefly dealt
with. It is widely held that psychology shows that,
man being what he is, the development of theistic be-
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 149
Ilefs by many, perhaps all, races of mankind was inevi-
table. Many psychologists seem to hold that this, if
true, negatives all theistic belief, proves it to be illu-
sory, and some of them assert as much. This seems
to me a non-sequitur. I accept the premise, but can-
not see that the conclusion follows. If man's nature
were not such as to engender theistic belief, no such
beliefs would be held by men, the truth of Theism, if
it be true, would have remained undiscovered by man,
or would not have become widely held. In exactly
the same way, man's nature is such that he readily be-
lieves in ghosts; but this fact neither proves nor dis-
proves the reality of ghosts. The fact merely renders
it the more necessary to be very cautious and critical
in examining the evidence.
Turning now directly to the question—Does psy-
chology yield any positive evidence in support of
Theism?—I consider two possible kinds of evidence.
First, is there any form or type of experience or of
mental activity that is in itself evidence in support of
Theism? Secondly, does man possess any one or more
capacities that cannot be regarded as having been
evolved in the race in essentially the same way as
other capacities (such as are shared in some degree
by the animals), and which, therefore, point to some
"supernatural" origin and constitute a special endow-
ment, giving him a position in the world of life of an
order quite other than that of the animals.
The religious emotion par excellence is reverence.
But neither reverence nor mankind's capacity for rev-
erence seems to stand in any exceptional or peculiar
relation to the rest of his nature. They seem to be
150 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
merely higher developments of experiences and capaci-
ties present in rudiment in the animals. And to wor-
ship is to express actively the tendencies intrinsic to
the sentiment of reverence. Much has been made by
Dr. Rudolf Otto, in his Idea of the Holy,^ of what he
calls the feeling of the numinous. But I cannot see
that this implies any other emotional or perceptive
capacities than those sketched in my Social Psychology
as specially involved in religious experience.* The
same remark applies to that "sense of the beyond," of
the limitless, of the powers transcending our compre-
hension, in which others see the essential kernel of all
religion. And the alleged fact that all men need re-
ligion or a God does not (if it be a fact) seem to me
to imply any guarantee that the universe is such as to
provide satisfaction for that need. It might equally
well be argued that, since all children delight in fairy
3 English Translation. Oxford Press. 1926.
^ Otto claims to describe a mode of emotional experience that is
first, specifically and peculiarly religious, and secondly, carries with
it a guarantee of the objective reality of the object to which it refers.
I cannot see that he is successful in either part of this double project.
In describing this "element" in experience he writes: "The feeling of
it may at times come sweeping like a gentle tide, pervading the mind
with a tranquil mood of deepest worship." Also: "It has its wild and
demonic forms and can sink to an almost grisly horror and shudder-
ing." And he says many other things about it; all of which go to show
clearly that he is really dealing with a large range of complex emo-
tional experiences, the common factor in which is aiue or the "feeling
of the uncanny." He writes: "It first begins to stir in the feeling of
'something uncanny,' 'eerie' or 'weird.' It is this feeling which, emerg-
ing in the mind of primeval man, forms the starting point for the
entire religious development in history." This seems to me true
enough. But Otto goes on to say (and this is the pith of his argument)
that this "is only possible to a being in whom has been awakened a
mental pre-disposition, unique in kind and different in a definite way
from any 'natural' faculty. And this newly-revealed capacity, even
in the crude and violent manifestations which are all it at first evinces,
bears witness to a completely new function of experience and stand-
ard of valuation, only belonging to the spirit of man." In this I
cannot follow him. In my Social Psychology I have shown that awe
can properly be regarded as a synthesis of fear, curiosity and sub-
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 151
stories, readily believe them and crave for fairies,
therefore fairies exist.
Kant seems to have felt that man's capacity for
moral development was of peculiar significance. But
in the light of evolutionary theory, it seems no more
difficult to understand as a product of natural evolu-
tion than his capacity for fighting, or for playing.
All have their obvious biological functions. The
higher animals show the germs of all our moral quali-
ties, especially that most central of them, the tender
care for other creatures. Apart from the influence of
a moral tradition, product of a long process of ac-
cumulation and refinement, the best man among us
would hardly rise in the moral scale above the level
of a fine or, as we almost inevitably say, a noble dog.
Reason is a chain of judgment involving consider-
able power of abstraction; but the germs of these
powers are exhibited by animals. And here again man
owes his superiority in the main to his sharing in a
missive feelings; and that reverence is a still more complex synthesis
into which tender feeling enters. Unless it can be shown that this
analysis is wholly wrong or inadequate (and Otto makes no attempt
to examine the question), Otto's contention (that experiences of these
kinds imply a "mental pre-disposition, unique in kind and different
in a definite way from any 'natural' faculty,") has no claim upon
serious consideration.
I may add that Otto's distinction between the rational and the non-
rational in experience, on which much of his argument turns, is very
unsatisfactory, resting as it does on the old-fashioned and very mis-
leading psychology of concepts as entities that play some essential
role in all rational processes; rational experience, he says, is such
as can be "formulated by means of a concept"; irrational experience
cannot be so formulated. For an exposition of the fallacy here in-
volved I must refer the reader to my article "The Confusion of the
Concept" in the Journal of Philosophical Studies, 1928. Otto writes:
"We should see the facts more clearly if psychology in general would
make a more decisive endeavor to examine and classify the feelings
and emotions according to their qualitative differences." Here I
agree entirely; but I must maintain that Otto himself has signally
failed in his particular endeavor along this line.
152 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
slowly accumulated tradition, especially the tradition
of language; and the biological and social utility of
these powers are very high. The exercise and devel-
opment of them was, no doubt, both the ground and
the essential condition of the rise of man's ancestry
above the animal plane.
Four forms of experience and human capacity alone
seem to me to afford some direct support to the the-
istic hypothesis.
First, the experiences of some mystics. I need not
cite again examples of what I refer to. Since William
James published his Varieties of Religious Experience
the polite world has been well acquainted, in third-
hand fashion, with the facts. It does not seem to me
that the mystic experience of union or communion
with God or with the All, as reported by any one per-
son, no matter how utterly convincing to him, can be
accepted as evidence of appreciable weight in support
of Theism or of Pantheism. It is the comparative
study of such reports that seems to me to yield evi-
dence that cannot be lightly brushed aside. Edmund
Buck, in his Cosmic Consciousness (recently repub-
lished) made such a comparative study. The most
striking fact which he brought out was the close simi-
larity in detail of the mystic experiences reported by
a number of persons widely separated in time and
place and having no knowledge of one another. For
example, a number of these persons report that they
suddenly and unexpectedly fell into, or were thrust or
drawn into, a state of being entirely novel and strange,
of which a leading feature was an impression of vivid
illumination, illumination not metaphorical or intellec-
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 153
tual, but physical, as though by a sudden burst of sun-
light In a dark place.
This and other recurrent features of the mystic ex-
perience seem to run true to a definite type; and, so
far as I can see, there is nothing In the natural history
of man or In the special natural circumstances and
history of these persons that will explain or account
for the seizure and its complex of peculiar features.
The typical sporadic recurrence of experience of this
kind does seem to me to suggest strongly that some
non-physical or spiritual agency Is at work, an agency
extrinsic to the person concerned and not human,
whether individual or collective.
Secondly (and here I part company with the great
majority of my scientific colleagues) I hold that what
is known as telepathic communication Is reasonably
well established as an occasional occurrence; that Is to
say, that under conditions not yet definable, one human
mind does sometimes influence or communicate with
another in some way which science utterly fails to
make intelligible. It may be that there is involved
some subtle physical medium of communication; but In
view of the fact that many instances of seeming
telepathy have occurred between persons widely sepa-
rated In space, it is very difficult to accept any such
hypothesis (however plausible it may seem for in-
stances occurring between persons at close quarters).
We seem driven to postulate a mode of communica-
tion that is independent of spatial conditions and de-
pends only upon mental conditions. If this conclusion
were fully and indisputably established, it would at
once give strong support to that view of prayer which
regards it, not merely as a process of personal expres-
154 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
sion and refreshment, as self-suggestion or soothing
contemplation and encouraging reflection, but as a
process of communication between one Spirit and an-
other in some super-physical fashion. And a supple-
mentary deduction would be the human mind's rela-
tive independence of the bodily organization, and
hence support for the view that Mind in general is
not closely tied to, or strictly limited in Its operations
by, any physical conditions.
Thirdly, I go still further In this highly disputed
and disputable, not to say disreputable, direction. I
hold that the labours of the English Society for Psy-
chical Research, sustained for fifty years In heroic
fashion, have brought together a mass of evidence
which, when Impartially considered (as it so seldom
Is), confronts us with the following dilemma: either
"telepathy" operates In a most far-ranging manner,
emanating from or exploring and tapping the most
secret recesses of what we call the memory of this and
that man, regardless of space and time, or something
of human personality may, and in some cases does,
survive the death of the body. Either alternative, but
more especially the latter, would imply that superiority
of Mind or Spirit to all physical conditions, which is
a fundamental assumption of Theism.
Fourthly and fifthly, returning to less controversial
ground, I find two peculiar capacities of the human
being that seem to defy all attempt to regard them as
naturally engendered, as having been produced by
those evolutionary processes that do seem (more or
less) capable of having engendered all other human
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 155
powers from such rudiments as we find in the animal
world.
One of these is the mathematical capacity. If we
see a dull boy labouring with the principles of elemen-
tary arithmetic or geometry or algebra, his mathe-
matical capacity inspires in us no respect and no won-
der. But sometimes we find a boy, in all other respects
dull and commonplace enough, who displays a most
astonishing and wholly inexplicable capacity to solve
(to return true answers to) almost instantaneously,
most difficult arithmetical problems, such as extracting
the cube roots of high numbers or raising numbers to
the nth powers. In some such cases a quite unusually
vivid visual memory seems to be involved. But in
some cases even the assumption of such memory raised
to an unknown degree of vividness and accuracy leaves
the achievement utterly inexplicable. And, mysteri-
ously enough, this strange capacity in some cases fades
away, as mysteriously as it came, leaving its erstwhile
possessor a very ordinarily endowed human being.
Put alongside these facts the facts of mathematical
genius of a high order, such as that of Pascal, of
Newton or of Kelvin, and the problem assumes deeper
mystery and deeper significance.
That the human race should have evolved from its
ancestral foundations of animal capacity the power of
simple counting, measuring and calculating seems of
no exceptional significance. Such powers are of ob-
vious biological utility; and, if the Lamarckian prin-
ciple be valid, may well have improved greatly through
use in the civilized races of mankind. But neither
natural selection nor the Lamarckian principle can in
the least account for the genesis of either the talents
156 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
of the calculating boy-prodigies or mathematical
genius. Can we be content to regard them as chance
by-products of the evolutionary process? Power of
this kind, sporadically manifested by a few human
beings, suggests strongly that Mind or Intellect existed
full-blown before the evolution of the human brain,
and that brains are but instruments which permit in
various degrees some partial manifestations of the
full range of Intellectual power.
An allied indication Is afforded by the fact that most
men seem to be furnished by "Nature" with a larger
amount of brain-tissue than they ever succeed In bring-
ing into effective action during their lives. There
would seem to be no possibility of finding a purely
"natural" explanation of this state of affairs. It
would seem that the evolution of the brain has been
pushed beyond the point that would serve for all
present uses, in anticipation of, or In preparation for,
some higher development of Intellectual power that
lies still In the future, the realization of that poten-
tiality being perhaps rendered Impossible at present
through lack of development of other organic func-
tions.
Lastly, I find In man's response to beauty some-
thing that seems beyond the scope of "natural" ex-
planation. Grant that some animals respond to bright
colour patterns and to some simple sequences of tone,
In a manner that Implies that they find them pleasant;
grant that such appreciation may have proved useful
and may have been developed through "sexual selec-
tion"; grant also the validity of the Lamarcklan prin-
ciple, the working of which might be supposed to have
WILLIAM McDOUGALL 157
rendered the race of man Increasingly disposed to re-
spond positively to such things as smiling landscapes,
gentle voices, well-formed bodies and faces expressive
of health and vigour; I still cannot see how we can
"naturally" account for the profound and overwhelm-
ing effect of beauty upon many men, whether in the
form of landscapes, of the human face, of music, of
words, or of representative art. The most widely
accepted psychological theory Is that In all cases we
have to do with a sublimation of the energy of the
sex-impulse. There is no doubt some truth In this
theory; but it seems very inadequate In face of the
profound effects on some men of the beauty of nature,
the effect for example of a grand tropical sunset. And
even In respect of that form of beauty to which It Is
most obviously applicable, the beauty of the human
form and face, the theory seems wholly Inadequate.
It seems to be true that, the more beautiful the human
form, the more strongly does It evoke the sex-impulse
In the observer; and it might even be said that this
is the essential condition of his finding It beautiful.
So far the "natural" explanation seems valid. But
beautiful form goes far beyond the mere evocation of
the sex-Impulse. It evokes also very different tend-
encies which hold the sex-impulse In check, and. In so
doing, lead to Its sublimation. And this is not, as the
Freudian theory assumes, merely a consequence of
social discipline. It is rather a perfectly spontaneous
mode of response. Sublimation is, no doubt. Involved
In the process; and probably all esthetic appreciation
implies some such balanced opposition of mutually re-
straining tendencies. But what remains Inexplicable
by the theory Is the powerful evocation of these re-
158 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
straining tendencies and the transmuting of the whole
system of energies to a new plane, a plane on which
the man is, and feels himself to be, living among im-
mortal and ineffable realities.
Not where the wheeling systems darken
And our benumbed conceiving soars
!
The drift of pinions, would we hearken,
Beats at our own clay-shuttered doors.
HOW SCIENCE CHANGES OUR VISION
OF GOD
Sir J. Arthur Thomson
Sir J. Arthur Thomson received his education at the uni-
versities of Edinburgh, Jena and Berlin. He has been lecturer
at the School of Medicine, Edinburgh ; v^^as Gifford Lecturer at
St. Andrews; Terry Lecturer at Yale University; and Morse
Lecturer at Union Theological Seminary, New York City. He
has issued many publications. Among the best known may be
mentioned : The Bible of Nature; Darwinism and Human Life;
Secrets of Animal Life; The Gospel of Evolution; Modern
Science; and The Outline of Science. Both Edinburgh and
McGill Universities have conferred on him the degree of LL.D.
Dr. Thomson has been interested in the implications of religion
in the field of science for more than twenty years. He has writ-
ten and lectured widely on the subject. At seventy years of age
he contributes this discussion out of a life filled with continuous
study, observation and reverence for the marvellous beneficence
and sequence he has discovered in the cosmic order.
X
HOW SCIENCE CHANGES OUR VISION
OF GOD
By Sir J. Arthur Thomson
FROM time to time the progress of science has
made the world new to man. Thus, to take a
familiar case, the scientific world became new
when the Copernican doctrine prevailed and it was
recognised that the earth revolves around the sun, and
not vice versa; that our solar system, in other words,
is heliocentric not geocentric. Or, again, the world
became new when Newton linked the falling apple to
the passing moon, and stated his universal Law of
Gravitation, which not only unified the cosmos, but
freed vast stretches of it from all thought of caprice.
It was a breath of this new world with Its "reign of
law" that led the caustic poet to ask: "Shall gravita-
tion cease when you go by?" Another new world
emerged when It was realised that In ordinary terres-
trial operations, no matter Is ever lost, though it may
entirely change Its guise. To Lavoisier's measured
demonstration of the Conservation of Matter, Joule
and others added the great generalisation of the Con-
servation of Energy; and the scientific world became
new afresh. From this there has been no relapse,
though the two ideas of conservation are nowadays
subsumed In one, and though certain modifications
have necessarily followed recent discoveries like radlo-
161
162 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
activity. For it is characteristic of sound science that
the new does not usually disown the old, but rather
develops out of it, sometimes with a gradual progress,
comparable to the building-up of the chick out of the
egg, sometimes with a sudden metamorphosis, com-
parable to the transformation of the caterpillar into a
butterfly. For ordinary operations it remains true
that neither matter nor energy can disappear; and the
original doctrines of conservation have not been in
essence changed. Rutherford has succeeded in knock-
ing hydrogen nuclei out of nitrogen, using alpha par-
ticles of radium as his projectiles, but this does not
mean that anything has been magically created out of
nothing; and even if it be true that a mutually fatal
collision of an electron and a proton gives rise to a
radiation, this does not mean that any energy has
magically disappeared.
Our point is simple enough, that the world became
scientifically new when it became certain that in all
ordinary operations, however drastic the changes may
be, the amount of matter remains constant, though its
form may entirely change; and this idea became a
very vivid one when Liebig demonstrated the Circu-
lation of Matter,—that particular elements are ever
changing their partners in a ceaseless cosmic dance, so
that we picture a nitrogen cycle, a carbon cycle, a
sulphur cycle, an iron cycle, and so on, all the world
over, forever and ever, until changes cease. Similarly,
the idea of the Conservation of Energy became more
graphic, when Faraday and others demonstrated the
transformabillty of the different forms of energy.
Thus the waterfall turns the wheels which generate
electricity; and this is used to warm and illumine and
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 163
do work, including in work the capture of the free
nitrogen of the air, which serves as a basis for arti-
ficial "fertilisers," these being utilised in turn to in-
crease the yield of the wheat fields and thus the bread
of life
!
Many of us have enjoyed on a holiday the experi-
ence of seeing a familiar countryside in a new light,
—
say at earliest dawn, or in moonlight, or under a veil
of snow. We notice features that we never noticed
before, new beauties, subtleties, values. In the new
light there is often something approaching a trans-
figuration. And so it is with the world in the light
of a new scientific generalisation of the first magni-
tude, the best example being the change of outlook
implied in evolutionism. In a deep sense it is true
that Darwin's voyage on the Beagle, when the idea
of Organic Evolution began to possess his mind, was
a Columbus voyage, discovering a new world—
a
world not only evolved, but evolving. Men began to
see everything as part of a world-wide process of Be-
coming. Everything, as Bagehot put it, became an
antiquity—the long result of time; yet in another
aspect the cosmic process stood revealed as an aeonic
succession of novelties, as a long-drawn-out sequence
of new creations. The evolutionist outlook is essen-
tially kinetic, the old order changing and giving place
to the new; and many of the novelties, such as domes-
ticated animals, cultivated plants, and man himself,
are obviously teeming with possibilities of newnesses
In store. Every one knows how the naturalist's new
view of the world of organisms was associated with
the geologist's picture of the gradual differentiation of
164 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the earth and with the cosmologist's nebular hypothesis
of the making of worlds, and how every order of
facts—even the story of the Mind itself—became new
in a new light.
So far then our first proposition : which amounts to
this, that from time to time the advance of science has
given mankind a new world, as may be illustrated by
thinking of what we owe to Copernicus, Newton,
Lavoisier, Joule, and Darwin. The newness may be
a fresh orientation, as in the change from geocentric
to heliocentric, and from fixity to flux of species; or a
new orderliness, such as was formulated in the Law
of Gravitation; or a new unity, such as that revealed
in the modern theory of the chemical elements, which
differ from one another in the numbers, arrangements,
and movements of their component electrons and
protons; or in the discovery of new chains of causes,
such as the establishment of stellar systems from
nebulae, the origin of planets from a sun, the emerg-
ence of new kinds of living creatures from simpler
ancestors, and the correlation of "the secret motions
of things," as Bacon phrased it, to yield a resultant
visible activity.
One of the most impressive of all scientific diagrams
is that which shows in measured proportion all the
known electromagnetic vibrations, or "ether-waves,"
from those of huge wave-lengths, used in broadcast-
ing, to those of very short wave-lengths, used in radio-
therapy. If we count the various rays included in
humanly-visible light as one octave, there are sixty-one
other octaves in the long gamut,—from gamma rays
to ultra-violet light, and from heat rays to Hertzian,
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 165
not forgetting, towards the lower end of the scale, the
mysterious cosmic rays discovered by Mlllikan. Now
all these are of the same nature; they are electro-
magnetic vibrations, all travelling In space with the
same velocity of 186,300 miles per second. This
means not only a remarkable unification of the radiant
energies; It means that the powers of the world have
become more Intelligible by being ranked In a series;
and It means, as we all know, a great Increase In man's
practical mastery or control.
Science and Beyond Science
Science alms at an analytic and genetic description
of the world and of all that goes on there. In so far
as scientific methods can be applied. It Is not the only
kind of knowledge; It Is partial and abstract, for It
deliberately restricts Itself to verifiable factors that
can be measured or registered, observed again and
again, and even experimented with. We all know our
friends more or less well, and our parents, in most
cases, very well, but real as this knowledge is, it is not
In the main scientific. It is reached by personal ex-
perience and mainly along the pathway of feeling. It
Is reliable knowledge, but it has not that impersonality
that is characteristic of science. Thus there are very
different appreciations of the same person, while there
is only one scientific account of the composition of a
chemical substance, and only one scientific account of
the structure of the human heart. The more marked
unanimity or Impersonality of well-established exact
science is mainly due to the fact that chemistry and
physics have not to deal with individualities, which
166 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
cannot be ignored In the fields of biology, psychology,
and sociology; or, to say the same thing in a dif-
ferent way, the methods and concepts of chemistry
and physics, mechanics and dynamics, go much fur-
ther towards exhausting the situation in the domain
of things, than they do in the realm of organisms, or
in the kingdom of man. But even when the scientific
description goes far towards exhausting the situation,
It may remain In obvious ways partial and abstract
—
simply because it Is reached by using certain methods
and these only. Thus part of the reality of a country-
side, to those of us who enjoy it. Is the beauty of the
scenery, but while this beauty Is to us as real a fact
as the mineral character of the mountains, It Is not
realised by us in the same way. The aesthetic emotion,
in short, contributes to our total appreciation of the
countryside just as legitimately as does our scientific
analysis. Science is the only road to accurate descrip-
tion, but the pathways of feeling and of obedience are
also rights of way towards reality—towards truth.
We have often used the homely metaphor, that
scientific inquiry Is like fishing In the sea with certain
kinds of net, varying in their size of mesh. But there
may be much In the sea of reality which can never be
caught with gear and tackle of the scientific type
—
measuring, weighing, enumerating, analysing, and so
forth. Yet we may come to know these treasures of
the deep in other ways! It was a wise man who said:
Nur was du fiihlst, das ist dein Eigenthum (Only
what you feel is your very own) . And there are other
riches of wisdom. In regard to which we can only say:
Vivendo discimus. Obedience is a pathway, to "know-
ing the doctrine."
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 167
Science may be defined as a criticised and system-
atised body of verifiable knowledge, based on observa-
tion and experiment, and summed up in the lowest
common denominators available at the time. Thus at
present the scientific formulations, whether descriptive
of states of Being or of processes of Becoming, are in
terms of Matter and Energy, Life and Mind. More
definitely expressed, the present-day Lowest Common
Denominators are Electrons, Protons, Radiations,
Protoplasm, and Sentience or "Mind." Science, truly
so-called, is always impersonal, that is to say it is
verifiable by all normally constituted minds who can
use the methods. It is indispensable and irreplaceable,
and it includes all orders of facts to which scientific
methods can be applied—but the degree of its exact-
ness varies with the degree of exhaustiveness attained
for the time being by these methods. Thus the
present-day science of dreams is very inexact com-
pared with the science of astronomy, and the science
of psychology is less exact than that of physiology.
It may seem strange to speak of the unanimity and
impersonality of science, when even the man in the
street is familiar with the echoes of scientific contro-
versy. But most of these controversies have to do
with what is still very young science, or with domains
where the rigorous application of scientific method is
difficult, or with cases where the scientific summing-up
has not reached scientific precision, as may be illus-
trated by hasty presentations of the Darwinian doc-
trine of the Descent of Man. Often, of course, the
controversy is not a scientific controversy at all, but a
thrust and parry between a hasty scientific generalisa-
tion and an unplastic theological conviction.
168 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
To be guarded against is a too ready acquiescence
with the widespread view which regards science as a
bedrock kind of knowledge, deeper and surer than all
other attempts to understand and appreciate. When
a conclusion has once passed the tribunals of science,
both in idea and in formulation, it is reliable down to
the ground until some new discovery demands a change
of statement, and even then it is usually a subsumming,
not a recantation, that is required. There are no
alternatives in concrete scientific description at any
given time. But this is not to say that the only way
of trying to appreciate a given set of phenomena is
by scientific methods. As we have already said,
science Is admittedly and deliberately partial and ab-
stract; there are other lines of approach. Therefore
when the matter-of-fact man Inquires: "What has
Science to say about it?", he Is asking a necessary
question—would that it were oftener put, but he is
deceiving himself if he thinks that the scientific answer
is the last word on the subject.
This brings us to the Important position, that Science
asks: What is this? How does it keep a-goingf
Whence came it and by what factors did it come to
he as it is? What is it leading on to?, but never asks
Why is this? What is its meaning or purpose? This
last question—the deeper Why?—is quite beyond
the metier of Science. Science cannot answer It; In-
deed it never asks. Yet the question is for most
minds irrepressible, and answers come from the re-
flections of the philosophers or from the more naive
interpretations of the religious mind.
Science aims at a description of things and processes
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 169
in terms of the Lowest Common Denominators avail-
able, while Theology and the intellectual activities of
Religion aim at some transcendental interpretation, in
which the highest concept is that of a Supreme Spir-
itual Reality—God. Between the scientific description
and the religious interpretation there should be no an-
tithesis, for they belong to different universes of dis-
course, yet they must be consistent, for we cannot tol-
erate idea-tight compartments in our minds. Thus
there arise such questions as this article raises: how
our theological or religious ideas must undergo some
modification as science advances. This is surely as it
should be if the world is in any sense God's handi-
work.
Religious and Scientific Ideas
Along various paths, some of pain and others of
joy, some of strenuous effort and others of open-
heartedness, men have had glimpses of God, as who
should say. Sometimes from the heights and depths
of his ethical life, sometimes from the book of his-
tory, at one time from the lives of prophets, priests,
and kings, or again in the example of noble women,
there has come to man some vision of a spiritual
reality behind all mundane happenings. Even if he
cannot pretend to understand the Divine Purpose,
there is steadying in the belief that some Purpose
there is.
From the history of religions it is plain that reli-
gious activity may be intellectual, as in a thought-out
theodicy, or emotional, as in sacred music, or prac-
tical, as in offering propitiation or doing penance; and
that all forms have this in common that they make an
170 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
appeal to mystical realities beyond the horizon of
everyday experience. Tendrils of some sort are sent
out into an Unseen World, very crudely pictured to
begin with, but becoming in the course of ages, less
magical and more mystical, less anthropomorphic and
more spiritual. On man's side the common feature
has always been straining at a limit—of intelligence,
emotion, or practical endeavour; and these limits re-
main to-day as the springs of religion. Most men still
feel that they cannot "make sense" of the world and
their place in it without some religious belief, such as
faith in a Divine Purpose, while others cannot hold the
cups of feeling, whether of joy or of sorrow, without
trembling with religious emotion. Man's mastery of
natural forces has increased so greatly in civilised
countries that the practical pathway to religion is not
much frequented to-day, except by those who take
seriously the problem of living a good life. On the
whole, however, it remains true that religious activity
consists of tendrils—intellectual, emotional, and prac-
tical—which man sends out towards the Absolute; and
the fact that some people find no need of these may
not mean much more than that some people are colour-
blind, and others tone-deaf, and others immune to
poetry. At a higher level, no doubt, are those brave
spirits who occupy a determined Positivist position
—
the clear-headed lovable Sadducees of to-day.
The idea of God is or should be the highest expres-
sion of man's mind, and it is a fact of history that it
has been from time to time refined and enlarged with
man's increasing understanding and appreciation of
the world, though often it has relapsed again from a
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 171
higher to a lower expression. A revelation, to use the
old and wise phraseology, has often been appreciated
for a time and then become blurred, as when the idea
of Creative Purpose led to a very anthropomorphic
picture of a Divine Artificer. Theoretically, man's
idea of God as Creator should be grander to-day than
ever before, for man's outlook on the world is
grander; yet in many ways the Nature-Psalmists were
a long way ahead of us.
In thinking of man's religious activities as prompted
by the strains involved in reaching the limits of ordi-
nary intellectual, emotional, and practical endeavour,
we must not fall into the error of supposing that re-
ligion is simply a human edifice. For were this the
case we should simply be sending tendrils around ten-
drils. The centre of religion is a belief in a spiritual
reality beyond the everyday world, and the largest fact
in religious experience is the reward that comes to
man when he opens his heart to the Supreme Reality.
Beauty is a reality and music is a reality, and their in-
fluence is well known; so, all through the ages, man
has been rewarded by the beauty, the music, the sun-
shine of the Supreme Reality to which he opens his
heart. The view that this is all an illusion does not
seem to fit the facts of history.
An analogy may be useful. Science Is a human
achievement; the investigator sees Nature In the mir-
ror of his mind; his concepts are of his own making
and he uses many devices which are frankly symbols.
Thus while an atom has reality, just like a visible par-
ticle, since there are devices for demonstrating Its path
through a particular experimental field, the constitu-
tion of an atom, sometimes with an intricate constella-
172 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
tlon of electrons and protons, is not directly verifiable.
Yet even this symbolical picture is not an illusion, since
it more or less fits the facts. And it cannot be said
to be discredited when it has to be modified to corre-
spond to fresh discovery. It is a mistaken "para-
idealism" which depreciates the scientific Laws of Na-
ture because they are obviously man-made, for while
they may not be exactly summations of what actually
takes place, they bear a more or less close approxima-
tion to reality, since they can be trusted to In practice
and used as a basis for prediction.
All these prolegomena have seemed necessary in
order to show in proper perspective the changes in our
thoughts of God that seem to be called for by the ad-
vances of science, and are indeed more or less rapidly
coming about. It will be understood, of course, that
other changes are in progress under the influence of a
deeper understanding of history, and of a modernised
critical philosophy, and through a fresh appreciation
of the Gospel of Christ, to which so many transfigura-
tions have been due.
Negative Changes
(a) The advance of science discloses chains of effi-
cient causes, and the First Cause Is pushed further and
further back. Thus our thoughts of God become less
anthropomorphic. Nature is a system greater than
our greatest thoughts of it, and this must be even more
true of our thoughts of God. We know that purpose
for one man is a lofty and abstract idea, while for
another it may be little more than a commonplace and
concrete picture coloured with emotion. To a higher
animal purpose may be often no more than a revived
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 173
mental image, backed by appetite. Thus we realise
how stammering we are bound to be in speaking of
the Divine purpose. And so with all our words.
(b) One of the great facts of life is its adaptive-
ness. Every complicated living creature is a bundle
of fitnesses. Take away all the adaptations from a
whale, and what is there left? An enthusiastic recog-
nition of this characteristic adaptiveness of organisms
by the naturalists of Paley's day led to the famous
argument from design. The world of life declares
the skilful hand of a Divine Artificer. A watch proves
a watch-maker, and the eagle in the air is God's
handiwork.
But when Darwin made the evolution-idea current
intellectual coin, and when he disclosed the verifiable
factors by which adaptations have been in the course
of time wrought out and perfected, then Paley's proof
of the direct action of a Divine Artificer became un-
convincing, and a somewhat uncouthly materialistic
picture had to disappear. In our judgment, this was
great gain,—especially when the Paleyan idea was re-
placed by a larger teleology, the idea of a Creative
Purpose which so endowed the primary irreducibles
that the first organisms included for all their descend-
ants the capacity of evolving fitnesses by means of such
verifiably operative factors as variability, heredity, and
selection. There is a deep truth expressed in the title
of the best of all recent introductions to the study of
Organic Evolution—Mrs. Frances Mason's co-opera-
tive book: "Creation by Evolution."
(c) Very characteristic of the progress of science
are its unifications. All the known chemical elements
are built up of electrons and protons ; all the different
174 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
radiant energies are on one gamut; matter itself seems
to have been swallowed by electricity. Einstein is
bringing gravitation into line with the radiant ener-
gies. In any case there is general agreement that the
physical Lowest Common Denominators of the Uni-
verse may be conveniently stated as matter and radia-
tion, alike passing through space, or as matter and
ether-waves. It is a big thought that the wondrous
fabric of the Universe is fashioned out of three or
four kinds of thread: matter, radiations, life and mind.
Perhaps there is a tendency to over-emphasise the
unification, for there is much to be said for recognis-
ing not one Order of Nature, but three orders of
facts—the domain of things and forces (the cosmo-
sphere), the realm of organisms (the biosphere), and
the kingdom of man (the sociosphere) , for each of
these orders of facts has categories of its own, and
each of the three great sciences, Chemo-Physics, Bio-
Psychology, and Sociology, has its own autonomy.
Yet the scientific unification that has been achieved is
worthy of being called epoch-making.
Now along this line of thought we come upon the
suggestion that God is to be thought of as the sum-
mation of all the powers of the Universe. Sometimes
the suggestion goes the length of saying that God is
the sum of all the energies. In our judgment this is
a line of thought that does not lead to progressive
change. For while there can be nothing in the world
that can exist apart from God, and no power that is
not ultimately His, the generalisation is an attempt to
speak two languages at once. "Energy" is a physical
concept and measurable; God is a transcendental con-
cept, of the Supreme Reality, and infinite. A summa-
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 175
tion of all the physical energies would still be physical,
whereas, in the words of the catechism, "God is a
Spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in His Being,
Wisdom, Power, Holiness, Justice, Goodness, and
Truth." The search for a finite God has not justified
itself in the past: un Dieu defini, c'est un Dieu fini.
(d) Science reveals the orderliness of Nature, show-
ing that everything is under "the reign of law." Thus
the world has become more and more intelligible, and
the extent to which this has been achieved is a fact that
must be appreciated in a synoptic or philosophical
view of the world. Science has a long way to go, but
the fact of science, impressive even in its imperfection,
must be taken account of and included in the philo-
sophical or religious outlook. . . . To many minds it
seems in itself indicative of a Divine Purpose.
The scientific formulation of Laws makes the world
more intelligible, but it must be understood that the
old view of Natural Laws as having some compelling
power of enforcing obedience was a confusion of
thought. It persists in such phrases as "obeying the
Law of Gravity," but it has been replaced by the un-
derstanding that a scientific "law" is the investigator's
terse formulation of uniformities of sequence, and that
it describes without "explaining" in any deep sense.
The only scientific "explanations" are those that we
give when we say: This or that phenomenon is an
illustration of, say. Laws III and VII. We clear up
an obscure occurrence by showing that it is due to
powers or processes that we are familiar with in other
connections. A natural law enables us to say: "If
this, then that"; but in the long run it merely formu-
lates events in terms of uniformities established in re-
176 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
gard to what are, for the time being at least, unex-
plained irreducibles, such as electricity or protoplasm.
Thus it seems to us very doubtful if we gain anything
by continuing to quote the old astronomer's saying that
the Laws of Nature which he studied seemed to him
to be the Thoughts of God. Moreover, most of the
scientific laws are only tentative and provisional for-
mulations, trustworthy approximations to reality, but
still only approximations. It may seem a strange
thing to say, but there is reason to doubt whether we
know as yet more than a very few of the Laws of
Nature. In other words, most of our Laws, useful,
reliable, and illuminating as they are, will require re-
statement as analysis becomes more penetrating.
Positive Changes
The greatest change in the modern vision of God,
a change for the better, though with a tax to pay, is
due to Darwin, who, more than any one else enabled
man to realise the Creator as the Author of Evolu-
tion. Nature and Man are long results of time, not
the finished outcome of a creative fiat. Both are still
to be regarded as expressions of the Divine power, or
will, or purpose; but they have been wrought out in
the course of long-drawn-out processes of evolution,
whose operative factors can be in some measure dis-
cerned and understood. Modern science starts with
an Institution of a primary Order of Nature, neces-
sarily unaccounted for scientifically, though well de-
serving the old name Creation; but from that rela-
tively simple beginning, say a Nebula, there has gradu-
ally arisen all the glory of the heavens and all the
wonder of life. Whatever be the first picture that we
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 177
can scientifically imagine of the Universe a-making, we
have no reason to think for a moment of Chaos, if
that implies disorder. It is time that the phrase "a
fortuitous concourse of atoms" was forgotten, for it
never had any reality. Moreover, when we make our
first picture we must include m it the promise and
potency of "Mind" or "sentience," for there is no
possibility of juggling "mind" out of "matter," were
it only for the reason that "matter" is only known to
us in the mirror of our minds. Mind and Body, psy-
chical and physical, psychosis and neurosis, the sub-
jective and the objective life are incommensurable
aspects of reality.
There Is something very grand in the conception of
a Creator who originated Nature in such a way that
it worked out His purpose: an orderly, beautiful, pro-
gressive world of life with its climax, so far. In Man,
who echoes the creative joy in finding the world
"good." The philosophical astronomers have been
telling us that the cosmos looks like the expression of
a supremely mathematical Mind, but the biologists
have also their contribution to make to the vision—
a
glimpse of a Creator who loves life for Its own sake,
and is not unwilling to let a million years go to the fash-
ioning of an eagle's pinion. It is not merely that the
world of life has evolved, for so have the large classes
of sponges and of fungi; the big fact is that the evo-
lution has been on the whole integrative and progres-
sive, showing from age to age an emergence of finer
organisms, with greater fulness and freedom. The
largest fact In Organic Evolution Is the growing eman-
cipation of the mental aspect of life, for so long sleep-
ing and dreaming, but gradually passing from sen-
178 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
tience to intelligence, and finally to reason in Man.
As Lotze said, there is in Organic Evolution "an on-
ward advancing melody."
Descriptive Naturalism
It seems very unlikely that scientific method will
ever go back from the descriptive naturalism which
has become one of its characteristics in modern times.
That is to say, science seeks to describe the nature,
continuance, and history of what it studies in terms of
factors which are experimentally verifiable in the sys-
tems observed. It cannot dogmatically say, of course,
that it has an exhaustive knowledge of these resident
factors, but it must do its best with what it knows; and
when that affords a basis for prediction, it is safe to
say that there has been some approximation to reality.
But an adherence to the aims and methods of descrip-
tive naturalism does not mean any dogmatism as to
interpretative naturalism. To answer the scientific
question "How?" in terms of empirical naturalistic
factors—the Lowest Common Denominators available
—does not preclude trying to answer the religious
question "Why?" in terms of mystical or transcen-
dental factors—the Greatest Common Measures we
can think of. Of which the greatest is the idea of
God. Thus at one time we may seek to analyse the
biological and psycho-biological factors that have op-
erated in the Ascent of Man, while at another time
we may seek to interpret Man as an instalment of the
Creator's purpose. The tax on scientific evolutionism
is that it leads some minds to banish God from His
universe. For the apparent satisfactoriness of the in-
quiry into immediate efficient causes leads many to
SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON 179
Ignore the implications these involve, as well as the
question of purpose which they necessarily ignore.
Darwin's magnanimous colleague, Alfred Russel
Wallace, went beyond Biology and beyond science
when he postulated special "spiritual influxes" to ac-
count for various "big lifts" in evolution, such as the
emergence of man. He thought that without some
such postulate the outcome could not be accounted for
In terms of the pre-conditions, but his postulate was a
departure from the method of descriptive naturalism
which keeps to empirical formulae. Thus the biologist
in trying to account for the facts of life keeps to the
verifiable factors that are known to be resident in or-
ganisms and their surroundings. These factors in-
clude :
(a) Chemical and physical processes, operative in
and around organisms;
(b) Qualities of protoplasm that remain in greater
part (at present) irreducible, such as irritability, vital
persistence or inertia, growth, development, and varia-
bility;
(c) Resident mental or psychical activities, when
these are convincingly recognisable as operative.
Only when the biologist has exhausted the potency
of these verifiable resident factors, is he at liberty to
say that this or that fact of life cannot be scientifically
accounted for. He must therefore remain radically
opposed to every attempt to eke out empirical factors
with subsidies from transcendental treasuries.
Thus the evolutionist vision sees a Creative Purpose
that so endowed the primitive irreducibles that the first
organisms included for all their descendants freedom
180 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
to evolve in a progressive way, expressing, without
subsequently interpolated direction, more and more of
the riches of reality—a process of evolution that is
still going on. This wider concept of Creative Design
is expressed in the words that Charles Kingsley, in his
"Water Babies," put into Dame Nature's mouth, as
she sat with folded hands, so puzzlingly at leisure:
"You see, I make things make themselves." Thus did
the genius of the Creator save the evolving world from
the shackles of determinism—leaving room for the
freedom of individuality, and yet secured the climax
in the first act of the drama. But this view has to be
philosophically and religiously combined with the be-
lief that created Nature, though superficially sufficient
unto itself, is never out of the thoughts of Him in
whom, in some inconceivable way, it lives and moves
and has its being.
THIS CREATIVE HUMAN SOUL
Michael Pupin
Michael Idvorsky Pupin was born in Idvor, Banat, Hun-
gary, in 1858. He holds an A.B, degree and a Sc.D. degree
from Columbia University, a Ph.D., from the University of
Berlin, and an LL.D. from Johns Hopkins University. He has
been Professor of Electro-Mechanics at Columbia since igoi.
He holds membership in several engineering and physical socie-
ties. Among his best known books are The New Reformation,
and From Immigrant to Inventor. It is not generally known
that Professor Pupin, to a considerable degree, started Robert
A. Millikan on a scientific career. While at Columbia Millikan
studied physics with Professor Pupin, whom he describes as the
most inspiring man he ever met. Michael Pupin commenced his
career in America as a Serbian immigrant. He is closing it as
one of the most distinguished scientists and thinkers in the coun-
try. It is estimated that his discoveries in the way of more eco-
nomical mechanical handling have saved telephone companies
$100,000,000.
XI
THIS CREATIVE HUMAN SOUL^
By Michael Pupin
IN
the Inorganic universe we know the structure
of the co-ordlnators and many details of their
co-ordinating functions; In the organic, how-
ever, we do not know them. We know the results of
their operations, but we do not know the various co-
ordinating steps which lead to this result, not even In
so simple a process as fermentation. We cannot say,
to-day, that these steps are of a purely mechanical
nature, as in the case of the Inorganic universe, nor
can science deny It.
Suppose, however, that some day we do succeed In
demonstrating that the co-ordinators in the molecules
of life and in their cellular microcosms are physical
structures similar to, and operating In ways similar
to, those In the organic universe, that will not mean a
victory for the mechanistic view of life. There will
still remain the mystery of the living soul and of Its
Internal world, particularly that of the living soul of
man. Can the language of science describe the crea-
tive process which brings this Internal world Into exist-
ence without employing the vocabulary of speculative
philosophy?
1 From The NeuJ Reformation. Copyright, 1924, 1926, 1927, by
Charles Scribner's sons. By permission of the publishers.
183
184 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Our mother earth is a tiny dust speck in the ma-
terial universe, but as the home of the creative soul
of man it becomes the crown of creation. The life of
man is, as far as we know, the highest product of crea-
tion, and it is the most precious gift of heaven. Its
broadest aspect is co-ordination, which eliminates the
chaos from the activities of its countless molecules of
life, and constructs the cosmos, the presence of which
we feel in the internal world of our creative soul, our
consciousness. In the language of science it might be
described as the climax of creative co-ordination. Its
cosmos is probably the ideal cosmos which the poets of
ancient Greece had in mind when they represented it
as the creation of the Olympian gods.
No scientist can contemplate the mighty theme, the
life of man, without pausing reverently and recalling
Tennyson's well-known lines, dedicated to a tiny flower
plucked from the crannied wall
:
I hold thee here, root and all, in my hand,
Little flower—but if I could understand
What you are, root and all, and all in all,
I should know what God and man is.
No words of mortal man can describe more beauti-
fully the mystery of organic life. Can the knowledge
for which Tennyson was yearning be advanced even a
tiny bit If the life of man Is viewed in the light of the
cosmic processes of creative co-ordination? Such an
attempt is not without some promise.
Paderewski's vibrating fingers speeding along the
keyboard like electric waves through quiescent space
arouse my emotions, and I wonder at the harmonious
response of the billions and billions of organic cells to
MICHAEL PUPIN 185
the co-ordinating physical processes which animate
Paderewski's ethereal touch. But my wonder Is ampli-
fied a thousandfold when I listen to the tuneful mes-
sage which this performance of perfect physical co-
ordination conveys to me from the internal world of
Paderewski's consciousness, where It was recorded by
the creative soul of some heaven-born genius.
I cannot resist, then, crossing the boundary-line
which separates the external material world from the
internal world of my consciousness. Here I find a
power which Is at work creating this internal world.
This power Is a manifestation of a new entity in the
existence of which mankind always believed and called
it the soul of man. This belief is the essence extracted
from all human experience. No physical reality rests
upon a broader and deeper foundation of experience
than this belief. The soul Is the creative co-ordinator
residing In the body of man and guiding its functions
so as to make the life of man a cosmos, a creation of
simple law and beautiful order. Our belief In the
existence of the creative soul Is the origin of our be-
lief in the existence of a Creator.
Our present knowledge, derived from man's experi-
ence ever since he began to live a human life, rejects
the hypothesis that the creative power of man's con-
sciousness Is the highest form of creative co-ordina-
tion; It demands a still higher form of creative co-
ordination. The creative power residing In us Is,
therefore, the origin of the belief that our creative
soul Is a part of Him who endowed the electrons and
protons, the atoms and molecules, and the tiniest units
of living matter with those primordial attributes which
186 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
manifest themselves in the cosmic processes named
creative co-ordination.
Never did man exhibit more clearly the divine
origin of his soul than when he began to recognize
that his life is a part, only, of a much more complex
and significant life, the life of humanity, the life of
an enormous number of autonomous individuals each
facing daily the struggle for existence. To guide this
complex life from a threatening chaos of a non-co-
ordinated humanity to a social cosmos became then the
highest problem of man's creative soul. The gradual
solution of this problem is the evolution of social co-
ordinators, which promised to lead humanity to a
social cosmos.
Church and State are the most important among
the social co-ordinators; they are, like the physical
structure of the human body, physical structures only,
employed in co-ordinating operations. But just as the
human body becomes a living soul when it is animated
by the divine breath of its creator, so the same divine
breath must give to Church and State a living soul
which will guide their operations and put into them
the power of that creative co-ordination which will
lead the life of humanity to a cosmos. That soul is
the co-ordinated effort of our individual souls, guided
by the highest ideals of spiritual achievement. With-
out such efforts the life of humanity will never rise
to the full glory of a social cosmos, and the individual
life of man will lose many blessings to which it is
entitled by its close relationship to the divinity of the
Creator, the fountain head of all spiritual realities.
Just as the cosmic processes of creative co-ordina-
MICHAEL PUPIN 187
tion guide the evolution of the external material world,
so creative co-ordination also guides the evolution of
the internal world of the human soul, the destiny of
human life.
This is my message from science.
In my boyhood days I often put two questions to
myself. One question was: What is sound? The
other: What is light? A search for an answer to
these two questions directed my scientific career.
What is sound? This will prepare us for my an-
swer to the second question.
When the clapper strikes the church bell the bell
vibrates and transmits its vibration to the air. The
sound waves in the air, spreading out in every direc-
tion, reach the listening ear, and convey to the enquir-
ing mind of man the following simple story:
The collision between the clapper and the bell puts
energy into the bell, and, feeding upon this energy, the
bell becomes a living thing. Its life manifests itself
through its vibrations, which are in harmony with its
structure. Neither the clapper nor the power which
moves it can change the character of these vibrations.
They are the result of the elasticity and the destiny of
the material of which the bell Is made, and of Its form
which the designing Intelligence of the bell-maker
gave it.
But does this story give us a complete description
of this familiar Illustration of sound generation, trans-
mission, and perception? No, it does not. It says
nothing about the message which the bell is conveying
to our souls. To get this part of the story we must
follow the vibrations In their passage through that
188 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
marvellous receiving Instrument, the ear, which, with
its sixty thousand parts, is busy speeding the message
along millions of tiny nerves to the central station, the
brain. There the soul of man interprets the language
of the bell.
This second part of the story of the bell tells me
that the vibrating bell is a small link only In the end-
less chain of phenomena which connect the external
physical world to the internal world of our soul,
where the message of the bell is deciphered. The
more I study this second part of the story of the bell
the more I recognize to-day that my boyhood fancy
was right when on the pasturelands of my native vil-
lage it led me to imagine that the faint sound of the
distant village clock was a message from God.
I never listen to the melodies of Krelsler's violin
without recalling to mind this message of nearly sixty
years ago. To me Krelsler's violin is a bell. The
smooth and silent movement of his bow communicates
to the strings a rapid succession of tiny pulses iden-
tical in action to the strokes of the clapper upon the
church bell. They are tiny but numerous clappers
which impart to the strings the energy of their life.
This life manifests itself In their melodious vibrations,
carrying a wonderful tale to our listening soul. The
tale Is identical with that which I mentioned in my
description of the language of the church bell. But
one essential difference must be mentioned. The
violin-maker, just like the maker of the church bell,
imparts to the bell, called the violin, its fundamental
character. The virtues of a Stradlvarlus are among
the glories of human ingenuity. But the temperament
and skill of a Kreisler superpose upon this funda-
MICHAEL PUPIN
mental character of the vioHn an almost infinite va-
riety of modulations.
Kreisler makes the vibrating strings speak a lan-
guage which is indeed a message from heaven. When
Kreisler plays a Beethoven sonata he is the apostle of
the great composer and delivers his master's message.
The message is the embodiment of an inspiration, the
cradle of which is the soul of the heaven-born genius.
Such a message is a message from divinity, and it
recalls to my memory the vesper-bell of my native vil-
lage and my mother's words, "Michael, do you not
hear God's message which calls you to his altar to
praise his everlasting glory?"
This is the answer which science gives me to the
question: What is sound?
What is light?
This is indeed a momentous question. The sun-
worship among the ancients testifies that even without
a trace of the scientific knowledge which we possess
to-day, the ancients knew intuitively the function of
sunlight in all organic life. They knew that without
this source of life-giving radiation our terrestrial
globe would be a cold and dreary desert.
The greatest glory of science of the nineteenth cen-
tury is the discovery that light is an electromagnetic
phenomenon. To Faraday and to Maxwell and to
their native land, the British Isles, belongs that glory.
What is the meaning of this wonderful discovery? It
is very simple; indeed, it is simplicity itself. A ray of
light from our sun or from any hot and luminous body
is a swarm of an enormous, practically infinite, num-
ber of tiny electrical dots and dashes speeding along
190 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
through space like the electrical dots and dashes which
the wireless telegraph stations send through space.
Each atom and molecule in the blazing sun Is a busy
radio station sending messages in all directions. These
countless dots and dashes tell us that countless tiny
electrical clappers are set in motion by the atoms and
molecules of the radiating source.
Now what do I mean by that? Consider what you
are doing when you are ringing a telephone bell. You
transmit a rapid succession of electrical pulses along
the telephone wire, that is to say, a rapid succession
of Impulsive electronic motions. The moving elec-
trons are the electrical clappers. Each moving elec-
tronic swarm gives a jerk at the clapper of the tele-
phone bell and makes it strike, the bell responding
with a ring. The action of the electrical clappers Is
thus transformed Into the action of a material clapper.
The dots and dashes coming from busy atoms and
molecules of the sun are a rapid succession of electrical
pulses. They, like the electrical pulses which ring the
telephone bell, strike the material bodies on earth and
communicate to their atoms and molecules the energy
of their life. Like the bell on the church spire of my
native village, or like the melodious strings of Krels-
ler's violin, these terrestrial aggregations of atoms and
molecules respond and radiate vibrations which are In
harmony with their structure. They are the receiving
Instruments for the messages transmitted by the lumi-
nous bodies.
In telegraphy we have a code, that Is a certain num-
ber of combinations of dots and dashes, each combi-
nation standing for a definite word or letter, and the
receiving instrument responds equally well to each
MICHAEL PUPIN 191
combination. In a ray of sunlight there are an infi-
nite number of combinations of dots and dashes, and
it cannot be expected that each terrestrial body will
respond equally well to every one of them. We can
say that the terrestrial bodies are bells, responding
best to electrical pulses of some definite form. For
instance, this rose responds to electronic pulses which
make it sing out, "I am red," and that rose sings out,
"I am yellow," when struck by another type of radiant
clapper. The lily responds equally well to all of them,
and sings out, "I am white." Christ, as quoted by St.
Matthew, felt the thrill of a true scientist when, be-
holding the lily, he exclaimed:
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow
;
They toil not, neither do they spin:
And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory
Was not arrayed like one of these.
Each tiny flower of the field is a little bell respon-
sive to some solar clappers. And so is the brilliant
cloud figure which bids good-by to the setting sun or
announces the approach of early dawn. The whole
terrestrial globe is a cosmic bell which, responding to
the strokes of the solar clappers, glorifies the beauties
of our mother earth.
But that is one part only of the message which the
sun and the luminous stars are sending to us. Each
signalling atom in the sun and in the luminous stars
sends us the history of its life and of the life of the
star to which it belongs. Listen to a message which
the spectroscope reports from a young star some-
where near the very boundary of our stellar system.
The message says: "I am a million light years away
192 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
from you. I am an astral baby now, and will be a
baby still when a million years hence you receive this
message. Many billions of years will pass before the
ardor of my youth has cooled down to the moderation
of your central star, the sun. Heaven only knows
when I shall be as old as your old mother earth. But
when I reach that age I shall be a beautiful cosmic
bell just like your earth and responding to the clappers
of the luminous stars, I shall add my voice to the celes-
tial choir which Is declaring the glory of God."
This is my answer to the question, What Is light?
The answer was prepared In the world of the human
soul where a divine power resides, and It recalls to
memory the faint strokes of the vesper-bell of my
native village of sixty years ago, and my mother's
voice saying, "Michael, do you not hear the divine
message which calls you to the altar of the Almighty
God?"
Creative co-ordination Is not a metaphysical abstrac-
tion; It Is a familiar physical process which meets us
everywhere. The steam-engine and the snow-flake;
the cycles of the moving water masses which carry
their blessings to the thirsty terrestrial continents; the
growth of plants and animals—all tell the same simple
story of creative co-ordination. It Is a physical opera-
tion defined In terms of physical laws, and It exhibits
a progressive advance from lower to higher forms of
orderly structures and functions In the organic as
well as the inorganic world; a continuous rise from
lower to higher levels.
The beauty of the sunset, a living picture of joy
in the world of our consciousness, Is the ultimate prod-
MICHAEL PUPIN 193
uct of a creative co-ordination. The radiation of the
setting sun, reflected, refracted, and scattered by mat-
ter floating in the atmosphere, is the external source
of this beauty. It is an energy chaos, a practically in-
finite number and variety of electrical pulses sent out
at random by the busy solar electrons. These chaotic
signals are recorded by our sensations and appear in
our consciousness as the beauty of the sunset, a cosmos
of consciousness, a creation called into existence by
the chaotic energy supply of the external world. This
is creative co-ordination which connects the external
physical world to the world of our consciousness.
The perfume of the rose, the comforting glow of
the log in our fireplace, the ambrosial sweetness of
the honey—are all orderly realities of pleasure and
joy in the world of our consciousness. But all of them
can be traced to the chaotic stimuli of the external
world. These few examples suffice to show that
chaotic signals convey messages to the living body
from its environment, but that each deciphered mes-
sage appears as an intelligible cosmos in the world
of consciousness. There is somewhere in the path of
these messages a creative co-ordination which trans-
forms their chaos into an intelligible cosmos of our
consciousness.
A part of the co-ordinating transformation Is ob-
viously in the physical structure of our body which,
like the piston of a steam-engine, averages up the
chaotic pulses conveyed through a most complex net-
work of nerves from the external world to the central
station, the brain. But the resulting cosmos in the
world of consciousness is not that of orderly physical
functions like those in the external inorganic and or-
194 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
ganic world. It is the cosmos of a state of conscious-
ness. We cannot describe it in terms of any known
physical realities; neither can we express it in terms
of actions and reactions of any known physical entity.
Hence we infer that it is a manifestation of a new
entity which we call the soul, just as from the mani-
festations of electrical and magnetic forces Faraday
inferred the existence of new entitles which these nar-
ratives call the electrical and the magnetic flux.
The cosmos of consciousness is a psychic reality.
It is subjective, of course; but it is as real to us as,
for instance, the objective physical reality of electrical
radiation. Just as electrical radiation reveals the
existence of an ultra-material entity, the electrical
flux, so the psychic realities of our consciousness reveal
the existence of an ultra-material entity, the soul. The
ultimate natures of these two entities are hidden be-
hind a cosmic veil which so far has remained impene-
trable. Their manifestations, however, are perfectly
clear. They are like a living embroidery of supremely
subtle texture adorning the visible face of the cosmic
veil. But just as Maxwell made many efforts to pene-
trate deeper into the meaning of Faraday's fluxes, so
the many efforts to penetrate deeper into the meaning
of the ultra-material entity called soul are perfectly
natural. Its meaning interests human enquiry to-day
just as much as it ever did since man began to observe
and to reason.
But at the very outset of these endeavors the scien-
tist meets a serious difficulty. He immediately de-
tects a fundamental difference between the two ultra-
material substances; one of them, the electrical flux,
became a dynamically definite and hence perfectly in-
MICHAEL PUPIN 195
telligible physical entity when the laws of its actions
and reactions were formulated in accordance with
Newtonian dynamics and verified by electrical radia
tion experiments. The scientist looks for a similar
intelligibility of the other ultra-material substance, and
asks: Can a similar statement be made concerning the
soul? Is the soul a dynamically definite entity? If it
is not, what hope is there for the methods of scien-
tific enquiry to make it so? In answer to these legit-
imate questions, we certainly can say that the soul
acts and reacts; but we cannot say that its actions and
reactions, like those of the electrical flux, can be ex-
pressed in terms of the Newtonian concepts of actions
and reactions.
The following consideration, however. Is certainly
reasonable: If the soul does not act and react, how
does the beauty of the sunset appear In the world of
our consciousness; or how do the objective physical
realities revealed by science during the last four hun-
dred years, become subjective realities in our sensi-
tive selves? It would indeed be a very great achieve-
ment If we could reduce these psychic actions and re-
actions, the operators of the creative power of the
soul, to the simple laws of Newton's dynamics. But
why despair If we cannot. The actions and reactions
of an individual radiating atom have not yet been
reduced to that simplicity; but that fact does not shake
any one's faith In the radiating power of the atom.
Our faith in the creative power of the soul should be
at least as strong, for surely the world of conscious-
ness, the product of that creative power, Is at least as
real as atomic radiation. The existence of this crea-
tive power is the most fundamental human experience
196 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
In the course of centuries of centuries, so that to-day
It Is just as axiomatic as Newton's laws of motion;
and It Is a sufficient proof of the existence of the soul,
although the actions and reactions of the soul are for
the present, and probably will remain forever, entirely
outside of Newtonian dynamics.
The creative power of the soul Is the only guide in
our attempts to decipher the meaning of this ultra-
material substance. It furnishes the most reliable
standard of comparing the soul of one man with the
soul of another man, and with that of lower animals.
This comparison, resembling, to some extent, the
scientific methods of quantitative measurement, has
been going on ever since civilization began. The
procedure of this enquiry Is in many ways equivalent
to the scientific method of enquiry by observation,
experiment, and calculation : what it lacks in precision
It makes up by Its vast number of trials and errors
extending over many centuries of qualitative measure-
ments by careful comparison. It resulted in the uni-
versal verdict, that not only Is the soul of man far
superior to the animal soul, but that this difference is
immeasurably greater than the difference in their
bodily structures.
The comparison revealed also an element in this
difference which towers high above all the other differ-
entiating elements—it Is the spiritual element. The
creative power of the human soul has created a new
world in human consciousness : It is the spiritual world.
Perhaps something resembling this spiritual world
exists also in the consciousness of lower animals; but
if It does there is no unmistakable sign of it in their
MICHAEL PUPIN 197
conduct. There is, however, one most convincing
evidence which speaks against the probability of this
existence. Man worships; animals do not. Spiritual-
ity and worship are inseparably associated according
to all human experience. Hence, when man begins
to worship, the embryo of the spiritual world began
to form in his consciousness. This raised man by leaps
and bounds above the level of lower animals. But
man's worship Is unthinkable without recognition on
his part that a creative power exists which is far su-
perior to the creative power of his own soul. This
recognition, the offspring of man's experience and
reasoning, is the origin of our belief in God, the
Creator. The influence of this belief upon the evo-
lution of man's consciousness is beautifully described
by St. Paul:
But we all, with open face beholding . . . the glory of the Lord,
Are changed into the same image from glory to glory.
Observation, experiment, and calculation led science
to the revelation of new physical realities. This
method of enquiry constructed the firm foundation of
these realities, a foundation laid deeply in the solid
ground of human experience. In a similar way, human
experience, derived from contemplation and analysis
of the creative power of the human soul, led human
reason to a belief in God, the fountalnhead of all
spiritual realities.
The value of these realities fortified his belief.
Their values In every action of human life are felt
daily even more deeply than the values of physical
realities. All human experience testifies that they are
not mere shadows which mislead the untrained Imag-
198 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
inatlon. Newton, Faraday, Maxwell, Ampere, and
many other great scientists believed strongly In spir-
itual realities. Have they been led astray on account
of untrained Imagination? The highest value of the
spiritual realities is revealed in the longing of the
human soul to rescue the life of humanity from a
threatening chaos and transform it Into a cosmos, a
humanity of simple law and beautiful order, the
nearest approach to what we Christians call the King-
dom of God. This longing for the cosmos of simple
law and beautiful order in the life of humanity was
undoubtedly planted In the human soul by its contem-
plation of the beautiful cosmos revealed by the reali-
ties of the physical world. The mighty oak, for in-
stance, with Its millions of leaves Inhaling the life-
giving energy of the golden sunshine, and with Its mil-
lions of tiny roots exploring the nourishing wealth of
the soil, all co-operating for one common end, Is a
radiant physical Illustration of the cosmos In the life
of humanity. Such are the points of contact between
physical and spiritual realities which lead us to the
recognition of striking resemblances between these
realities.
The Individual man Is a granule In the world of
humanity. His relationship to the other granules of
humanity and to the physical universe gives his life
a definite meaning. This relationship is completely
determined by his conduct. If the social cosmos, the
Kingdom of God, Is to appear on earth, then the con-
duct of human granules must be guided toward that
goal, just as the chaotic vapor molecules are guided
by intrinsic forces when they coalese Into the cosmos
MICHAEL PUPIN 199
of rare snowflake crystals. Creative co-ordination is,
therefore, the only process which will lift the life of
humanity from lower to higher levels of creation. It
is the bridge which connects the world of physical to
that of spiritual realities. It is the guide from lower
to higher levels in the physical as well as in the spir-
itual world.
But creative co-ordination is unthinkable unless
there are intrinsic forces acting upon the chaotic gran-
ules which are to be co-ordinated. History records
innumerable evidences which testify that among the
co-ordinating forces in the life of man and of human-
ity the spiritual forces are the most powerful co-ordl-
nators. The similarity between the operations of
physical forces and spiritual forces Is the second re-
semblance between physical and spiritual realities.
The testimony of Christ Is, according to our Chris-
tian belief, by far the most convincing of all the tes-
timonies relating to the co-ordinating action of the
spiritual forces. The arguments supporting this belief
appeal to our reason with the same force as the argu-
ments supporting a well-established physical theory.
Our Christian knowledge of the spiritual forces re-
vealed by Christ Is deeply rooted In the solid ground
of human experience of nearly two thousand years.
It is a house built upon the hard rock of experience,
and not upon the shifting sands of arbitrary hy-
potheses. This knowledge, like scientific knowledge,
is the extract of innumerable observations and experi-
ments recorded in the history of human lives. It Is,
therefore, as carefully tested and as trustworthy as
200 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
our knowledge of physical forces. Dealing as It does
with the laws of actions and reactions of spiritual
forces, It may be called spiritual dynamics.
Christ created It long before Newton had announced
his dynamics of matter In motion, Maxwell his electro-
dynamics, Carnot his thermodynamics or Einstein his
relativity theory. These dynamical sciences deal with
the physical world; Christ's dynamics deal with the
spiritual world. The dynamical sciences of the phys-
ical world are naturally incomparably simpler than
the dynamics of the spiritual world, but their mutual
resemblance both In form and in evolutionary growth
is obvious. This resemblance finds the simplest and
most striking illustration In the efforts of the spiritual
forces to transform the life of humanity into a living
structure of simple law and beautiful order. It is
here that the mode of operation of the co-ordinating
spiritual forces reminds us most vividly of the mode
of operation of the co-ordinating physical forces, and
this exhibits the most obvious resemblance between
physical and spiritual realities.
Our Christian faith sees in the life and teaching of
Jesus the highest spiritual reality which our belief in
God, source of all spiritual realities, planted In the
soul of man. This reality, we believe, endowed our
souls with the spiritual forces which guide us In the
spiritual co-ordination of each Individual life and of
the life of humanity. Love, according to Christ, is
the most powerful of all these co-ordinating forces.
Its action In the spiritual world is very similar to the
action of gravitational force In the physical world.
Christ discovered It and revealed it to us in His two
commandments
:
MICHAEL PUPIN 201
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
These two commandments are the fundamental law
in Christ's spiritual dynamics. It is obvious that
under the guidance of this law we can liberate our-
selves from the dominating love of purely material
things and thus rescue our own individual lives and
the life of humanity from the threatening chaos, and
transform it into that life of simple law and beautiful
order.
Creative co-ordination leads, therefore, to a higher
level of creation by the action of spiritual forces, just
as it does in the physical world by the action of phys-
ical forces. It is the concept of this universal co-
ordinating process which unites the two worlds to
each other, so that our understanding of one will aid
our understanding of the other. The cultivation of
this view is encouraged by St. Paul:
For the invisible things of Him
From the creation of the world
Are clearly seen,
Being understood by the things that are made,
Even His eternal power and Godhead.
Yes, God's spiritual realities are invisible; but they
are illustrated and made intelligible by the physical
realities revealed in the physical things which are
made. According to this interpretation of the Apos-
tle's words the physical and the spiritual realities sup-
plement each other. They are the two terminals of
the same realities; one terminal residing in the human
soul, and the other In the things of the external world.
202 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Here Is one of the fundamental reasons why Science
and Religion supplement each other. They are the
two pillars of the portal through which the human
soul enters the world where the divinity resides. If
the signs of the time do not deceive then there is a
universal drift toward this mental attitude.
This drift I call The New Reformation.
THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE A SEARCH
FOR GOD
John Langdon-Davies
John Langdon-Davies was born in 1897 in Zululand, South
Africa. His father was an English clergyman. His grandfa-
ther was an electrical inventor. This ancestry helps explain Dr.
Davies' interest in science and religion. He was educated at
Tonbridge School and at St. John's College, Oxford ; and while
there held the Sir Thomas White scholarship in modern his-
tory, as well as three other scholarships and exhibitions. For
two years he was feature writer in the London office of the
Christian Science Monitor; and contributed to the New States-
man and the JVestminster Gazette. In 1923 he was sent to
Spain by the Daily News as special correspondent. He has lec-
tured extensively in England and the United States. His books
include, Man and His Universe, A Short History of Women,
The New Age of Faith and Dancing Catalans. Dr. Davies, in
Man and His Universe, a selection of the Scientific Book Club,
takes as a thesis, Science in Search of God, presenting there
a balanced and skilful argument for religious truth and the God
Reality as the chief objectives of mankind. The book, of course,
presents other aspects of scientific enquiry.
XII
THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE A SEARCH
FOR GOD^
By John Langdon-Davies
THAT science is poetry is carefully concealed
from the knowledge of most people by the
text-books out of which science is taught in
schools and colleges.
Moreover, the picture of the scientific research
worker, which has been insinuated into the public
mind, is largely responsible for the idea that science
is poles removed from art and literature. Whereas
art, literature and music are the elements of culture,
science and the scientist are thought of as things apart.
The people who are ashamed of being found not to
have read the latest poem, seen the latest play and
heard the latest violinist are not in the least ashamed
of knowing no scientist since Darwin. These same
people usually suppose the scientist to be devoid of
human feelings; even if he does not actually leave his
wife, he scarcely notices her existence; he never has
a love affair; he never listens to music, nor notices
that trees in autumn are beautiful; at least not if
he is a really good scientist; then he is cold, mechanical
and altogether inhuman.
And yet the truth is that the urge which makes a
1 Taken from Man and His Universe, John Langdon-Davies. By
permission of the author and the publishers, Harper and Brothers.
205
206 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
man give himself to science is precisely the same as
that which produces the poet or the composer—a pas-
sion for beauty and a desire to enjoy aesthetic pleasure.
"The intense pleasure I have received from this
discovery can never be told in words. I regretted no
more the time wasted; I tired of no labor; I shunned
no toil of reckoning, days and nights spent in calcula-
tion, until I could see whether my hypothesis would
agree with the orbits of Copernicus or whether my
joy was to vanish into thin air." It is Kepler the
astronomer writing, and his discovery was of certain
harmonies and proportions obeyed by the planets, a
poetical and musical behaviour on the part of certain
stars, the next best thing to the "music of the spheres."
It so happens that Kepler was wrong, childishly
wrong, we would think now, in the particular matter
about which he speaks with such enthusiasm. But
the episode is an example of how the chief incentive
to all the earlier astronomers was to show that the
stars obeyed aesthetic laws, how their motions were
beautiful. Indeed beauty, nice conduct, harmonious
movement, are what every scientist looks for in nature,
and only when he finds them does he believe that he
has found something which is true.
Since the urge to discover a scientific fact or to per-
fect a scientific theory is precisely the same as the
urge to write a poem; and since the pleasure to be
derived from understanding some one else's theory is
precisely the same as the pleasure to be derived from
reading some one else's poem, it is wrong to distin-
guish so vitally between science on the one hand and
art on the other: both are children of the imagination,
both of them ways of discovering and enjoying beauty.
JOHN LANGDON-DAVIES 207
both a search for the poetry lurking round the corner
throughout the universe.
The fact that so many of us never discover this is
due to the bad way in which science is taught in schools,
and also to the general opinion among ignorant people
that the object of science is utilitarian,—motor cars,
gas pipes or a new patent medicine perhaps,—^but if
the modern man rightly understands science he will
discover that it arouses in him the same exalted state
of mind experienced as we listen to a beautiful piece
of music, or read a sublime piece of prose. It leads
him to the land beyond good and evil, where happiness
and sorrow dissolve and become tranformed into a
mixture of reverence, awe and wistful peace.
One of the things which comes out of reading this
vast epic is a realization that precisely the same forces
which make you or me exalted with hope or debased
with fears are working to produce curious results in
the ant or the wasp; and that we, reader and writer,
together with Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, Mr. Hoover,
Gene Tunney and Mary Pickford, are really so many
attempts to solve an unknown problem set by an un-
known something; and that the ant, the tiger and the
palm tree are other attempts. Human beings are
not the solutions and the rest the failures; the palm
tree may be as good a solution as Mr. Hoover; we
do not know: all we can know is that a very exciting
game is being played with ourselves as pieces, and
not the least exciting thing about it is that apparently
we know as much about it when we are asleep as we do
when we are awake.
Let us think for a moment of our part in this enor-
208 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
mous game : this large complicated piece of machinery,
our body, was not so many years ago squeezed down
to the dimensions of a single cell, itself the much con-
tracted sum total of the two machines our parents.
And if we could probe backwards into times long past
we should see a succession of these contractions and
expansions stretching back for ever, an unbroken chain
of the same individual living and reliving its life as
its parents, its grandparents, its animal ancestors;
after each separate cell contracting into one little cell
until a time is reached when the expansions are so
small that they cannot be distinguished from the con-
tractions; until the single cell, instead of swelling into
a larger being, remained a single cell always.
Reverse the process back to its true sequence in time
and you have your history and mine. When we and
the world of living things were young together we
just broke in two and so had twins, both of our off-
spring being half ourselves. From that day to this
the whole of our past history has consisted of an un-
broken chain of individuals getting tired of life and
dying; but first of all distilling into one cell all that
seemed worth while of ourselves so that we might live
again In our children. In this way we are our own
ancestors, having passed from them through the bottle
neck of the germ plasm millions and millions of times
until we become ourselves, and, were it not in the
process of this distilling ourselves into one cell we
have always thrown out conscious memory as being of
little value, we would remember what we did when we
were our ancestors.
Some particularly bold scientists assert that although
conscious memory was thrown out, unconscious mem-
JOHN LANGDON-DAVIES 209
ory persisted; and that is why a new-born baby knows
how to breathe, to drink milk from its mother's breast,
to digest it—because it remembers doing it before.
Clearly, then, once we have a glimmering of the truth
about these things, the difficulty of seeing that science
is autobiography vanishes. And if science is auto-
biography, how much more interesting it is than we
were led to expect in schools.
But we must warn the reader that it is of course only
a really modern scientist who will admit this outlook
even to-day, for, scientists have for a long time been
terrified by the misunderstandings of the fundamen-
talists, mythologists, mumbo-jumbo worshippers and
other half-baked thinkers into denying anything which
might be construed by them into being useful for their
own low purposes. These people had created out of
their dogged superstitions, for all that they phrased
them in words of sweetness and light, such a fright-
ful, painful, brutal outlook on life and the universe
that the nineteenth century biologists, reacting in dis-
gust, could not admit anything into their new outlook
which could be made to look as if they thought life
anything but mechanical and materialistic in the old-
fashioned sense of these words.
And even to this day fundamentalists force scien-
tists in self-protection to be more old fashioned and
"materialistic" than they desire to be at heart.
The whole history of science has been a direct
search for God; deliberate and conscious, until well
into the eighteenth century, and since then unconscious,
for the most part, because so much had been discov-
ered about God by then that scientists began to think
210 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
fit to change the name of the subject of their search.
Copernicus, Kepler, Galileo, Newton, Leibnitz and the
rest did not merely believe in God in an orthodox sort
of way, they beheved that their work told humanity
more about God than had ever been known before.
Their incentive in working at all was a desire to know
God, and they regarded their discoveries as not only
proving his existence, but as revealing more and more
of his nature. If men had not wanted to know more
about God, it is highly doubtful if they would have
worried to know about nature. The key to the lives
and labors of these men was their invariable thirst
for religious truth. This was the first and greatest
of the human thirsts; there were others such as the
thirst for eternal life, the thirst for perfect health,
the thirst for knowledge of the future and the thirst
for unlimited wealth. Whatever further incentive
science required beyond the thirst after God, was
found in the existence of these other thirsts.
The philosopher's stone, the elixir of life, the proph-
etic virtues of astrology gave birth to the sciences.
Although not one single human thirst has been as-
suaged, the gallant attempt to do so has, quite with-
out forethought, produced a power which is able to
say to men, "Whosoever drinketh of my cup shall
never thirst again."
We die at seventy after much disease and long after
youth has faded. We are poor and lonely and know
not what Is to come. But, if we can learn to under-
stand the value of science pursued for itself alone, we
can be perfectly content. Few people have been so
happy as the scientists.
JOHN LANGDON-DAVIES 211
The history of science is the history of the most in-
telligent search for God, the best attempt at construct-
ing a noble religion, which civilized men have yet
known. Were that history well and fully written
down we should have the modern man's Bible. Just
as Joshua, Judges, Kings and Chronicles, the historical
books of the Old Testament, trace the evolution of
the Hebrews and of the Hebrew idea of a tribal god;
so the lives and works of Copernicus, Galileo and
Newton are episodes in the evolution of the modern
man's God and the modern man's outlook on life.
Without a clear idea of what such men have done no
religious outlook to-day is really of much value.
What then, the reader may say, of the so-called
conflict between science and religion? There is no
such thing: there is only a conflict between two reli-
gious outlooks and two ideas of God. Copernicus,
searching after God, discovered a more satisfactory
Idea of God than the orthodox one. And from Co-
pernicus to the present day the whole of this conflict
has been due to the irritation of orthodox religions
with the new and better conceptions of the eternal
truths revealed by science.
Do we mean that nature Is God's created word,
and the Bible God's written word, and that there is
no conflict between them? Far from It: a very dif-
ferent God comes out of the scientific search for him
from the one whom the fundamentalists have pressed
flat, dry and lifeless between Genesis and Revelation.
The conflict between science and fundamentalism Is
very real: only It began earlier than most fundamen-
talists realise; It began long before Darwin; before
212 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Copernicus even. Perhaps the first fundamentalist
was the early church father, Lactantius, who proved
from the bible that the earth was not round. The
fundamentalist idea of God was not withered by evo-
lution, for Copernicus had killed it long before.
Indeed, to those who have read the historical books
of this great Bible of science, there is very little in-
terest to be got out of the fundamentalist God: for
science, almost from its start, was able to give man-
kind a loftier concept to put in its place, the concept
of a great artificer, a first-rate mathematician, an artist
to the finger tips, instead of an irritable old gentle-
man believing in corporal punishment.
This bible, like the Christian one, has an old and
a new testament; the old ending in gloom and the mut-
terings of the minor prophets like Herbert Spencer;
the new at once destroying and fulfilling the old.
The history of science is, then, a poetic search for
God, carried out by rummaging among man's old
family records, and as such it will be sketched here.
Why has so much human energy and imagination gone
to the making of this search? Partly because of an
honest love of adventure inherent in all energetic
human beings to be satisfied by such a search to a far
greater degree than by any other means. Money
making, making love, sport, politics, all of them bore
the truly energetic man; for even when he has
squeezed them dry of interest, he will find himself
with energy still unused. But all his energy Is needed
for the most exciting of all quests, the most exacting
and exhausting of all hobbles, the search for truth.
But there Is another reason besides honest love
JOHN LANGDON-DAVIES 213
of adventure: it is that, whether rationahsts like it
or not, man is a beheving animal, and the really en-
lightened man is not the one who believes nothing,
but the man who founds his belief on the firmest rock
of reality. Such a man sees in the scientific picture
of the universe which happens to be painted in his age
the most perfect foundations for his beliefs; and to
what is known he adds an overbelief, something which
cannot be proved, but which, on the other hand, can-
not be disproved by the body of natural knowledge on
which it is built. This overbelief is a man's religion;
any overbelief which can be disproved by what science
can show to be true is his superstition.
A man's overbelief then depends upon his knowl-
edge of the universe; in so far as he is ignorant about
the universe, that far is his religion likely to be
valueless to himself and to every one else. For the
modern man to hold overbeliefs without a knowledge
of the historic books of his Bible, of Copernicus,
Galileo, Newton is as ridiculous as for a fundamen-
talist to doubt Darwin without having read Genesis.
We have got so used to the idea that our beliefs
or faith consist in holding for true those things that
we have neither time nor training nor courage to ex-
amine logically, that this idea of founding our over-
belief, our religion, on a knowledge of the universe
derived from science may seem fantastic and impos-
sible. We haven't the time to study the universe, we
may complain; and yet we want to believe. The truly
great Victorian, W. K. Clifford, imagines just such
a man as this: "'But,' says one, 'I am a busy man;
I have no time for the long course of study which
would be necessary to make fne in any degree a com-
214 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
petent judge of certain questions, or even able to
understand the nature of the arguments.' Then he
should have time to believe." The modern man re-
fuses to take this lazy attitude: he has his religion,
his total reaction to life, his myth, but he takes every
pains to see that it squares with all that science can
tell him.
And why does the modern man have a religion?
Because the material facts of life are not sufficient for
his happiness. Nothing is more certain than that for
the majority of human beings alive to-day the future
holds more that is unpleasant than that is pleasant.
There are disappointments, disease, loss of friends,
poverty, misunderstanding, thwartings in front of all
of us, and then the last enemy, death. When men
were children they invented a loving father to whom
they could fly as chickens to a hen, and they invented
another life with all the unsatisfactory features of this
one left out. Science set out to find proofs of the
existence of this loving father and of the perpetual
holiday after death; and it must be confessed that it
has failed completely in Its quest.
Now science was made for man and not man for
science; and if science failed to do what was required
of it, we might expect man to abandon it as good for
nothing. Let it remain for mundane things, man
might say; although it has not quenched our thirst with
the elixir of life it has healed our diseases and made
bodily life more tolerable. It has multiplied our
powers and our activities and made many things
easier and more comfortable. But of its chief func-
tion, that of discoverer of God, the kind father, and
JOHN LANGDON-DAVIES 215
of the Elysium which could alone justify him in creat-
ing us, it has proved ineffectual. Let us forget it.
Curiously enough no man who has once learned to
understand science as poetry and as religion ever feels
like this. For in the search he discovers unexpected
prizes, undreamed-of emotional satisfactions, which
compensate him for any childish dreams he has to
give up.
RELIGION IN A WORLD REMADE BY
SCIENCE
Harlan T. Stetson
Harlan True Stetson took his Ph.B from Brown Uni-
versity in 1908, his Sc.M. from Dartmouth in 19 10, and his
Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 191 5. He began his
teaching experience at Dartmouth in 1908, and continued to
teach at a number of colleges including a period at Harvard
where he was instructor in astronomy from 1916 to 1920, and
assistant professor from 1920 to 1929, In 1929 he became head
of the department of astronomy at Ohio Wesleyan University,
and director of the Perkins Observatory. He has accompanied
eclipse expeditions to various parts of the world ; and was head
of the eclipse expedition to Sumatra in 1926 and to Malaya in
1929. Among his writings may be mentioned in particular a
Manual of Laboratory Astronomy. He holds membership in
several astronomical societies, and social organizations. He has
specialized in a number of subjects associated with astronomical
research; and in these subjects is recognized as an authority.
XIII
RELIGION IN A WORLD REMADE BY
SCIENCE
By Harlan T. Stetson
NOTlong ago I was scheduled to address a
gathering of business men on some recent
contributions of astronomy to the modern
world. Sitting at the luncheon which preceded this
astronomical indulgence, I studied the various mem-
bers of the group, as any speaker is wont to do In
establishing a proper rapport.
The group represented all sorts of occupations,
manufacturers, salesmen, doctors, lawyers, bankers,
and scattered here and there as one often finds in a
club group of this sort were a few distinguished min-
isters of the gospel.
Just opposite me sat a man in his early forties, of
round face, gray hair, and black eyes, whom I took
for a typical Babbitt. There was something, however,
of an uncertainty in his features which made a fair
estimate of his intellectual outlook somewhat prob-
lematical.
Shortly a conversation was started by the gentle-
man on my left making inquiry as to the relative
merits of the recent theory of cosmogony just ad-
vanced by the English scientist Jeffreys, and the widely
advertised cosmogony of Sir James Jeans. During the
early sentences of the conversation which followed,
219
220 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the gentleman opposite me exposed the fact that he
too had recently read this account of Jeffreys in the
press. He admitted that even this popular article
was too technical for his understanding. If there
was a lingering doubt that there was modesty in such
a statement it was quickly dispelled when he remarked,
"Anyway, I believe that the world was created in six
days. Yes, six real days, such as we know them now."
I confess my surprise that in a supposedly intelligent
group of this sort one should find an individual on
the under side of forty with so stereotyped an in-
tellect. I wonder if, like the poor, the fundamentalists
are always with us, and I have grave doubts whether
or not we can do them any good.
The recent advances of modern science have gone
far to make untenable the crude materialistic doctrines
of a generation ago, but provide fertile soil for an
intelligent religion that can give, I think, some mean-
ing to existence in an all but infinite cosmic scheme.
When one reflects on the damages wrought by fun-
damentalism on the creative religious outlook, one
often wonders if the problem propounded by a great
religious teacher, that a man's foes shall be they of his
own household, is not applicable in the religious realm.
Quite on the opposite side of the picture we meet
also now as always, the self-styled free thinker, who
appears to guide his intellectual process by avoid-
ance of all recognised doctrine as though the path to
creative thinking was to be obtained merely by the
avoidance of all recognised intellectual hazards.
Such a type of mind eagerly grasps for the latest dis-
coveries of the scientist to capitalize a pet doctrine in
mechanism, whose premise is the doctrine of chance,
HARLAN T. STETSON 221
and whose predetermined conclusion is that man is
the unfortunate accident of a purposeless mass of
cosmic machinery, momentarily caught in the mael-
strom of fate.
Between these forbidding promontories of Scylla
and Charybdis must the prophet of a modern religion
steer his course towards an uncharted sea.
To attempt to dispel all religion from the category
of human experience is to deny the element of human
nature which not only makes existence tolerable, but
which has stood for all which has made worthwhile
some of the greatest achievements in the records of
civilization. Such a statement, I think, scarcely can
be challenged, provided a man allows himself a liberal
interpretation of the word religion. As long as a
man maintains any standards of living, holds to ideals,
and indulges in Utopian dreams, he will probably be
incurably religious. What sort of rehgion, however,
suits his indulgence will depend very much I fancy,
on his interpretation of the universe around us, a
universe made more staggering to his imagination and
increasingly intricate in its machinery by every sub-
sequent discovery of science. In this respect, whether
we will or not, a man's science becomes intimately
associated with his religion.
To be sure, modern astronomy tells us that all the
stars are suns and our sun but a rather insignificant
star lost in a galactic system we call the Milky Way.
Mankind dwells upon a tiny earth we call our world,
and is being whirled about the sun with the swiftness
of a projectile. The sun and all its planets rush
through space 400,000,000 miles a year, across a
222 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
universe so vast that light traveling 186,000 miles a
second consumes 100,000 years in making one trip.
Even more remote are other universes at distances so
vast that their light takes a million years to come to
earth.
Mankind did not always reason thus. Once man
took the sky at its face value, for what it was to him
as it met his upward gaze. The azure blue of day
was but a canopy of heaven supported just beyond
the horizon on some mysterious pillars of the gods.
The sun itself ran its daily journey from east to west,
moved by the spirit of the Creator. The stars came
out like street lamps lighted by the angels, to guide
and guard man's ways by night.
To the ancient mind the earth was the stage on
which the drama of mankind was being enacted.
Thus man, occupying the center of interest, was the
chief concern of creation. All else was incidental
save for the mystic powers above the veil of heaven
we call the sky. Hence, in the story of creation in
Genesis how casual is the reference, "the stars also."
If an astronomer were rewriting the account, it might
read somewhat as follows : From the beginning there
have been great stellar universes each so vast that
light traveling at the incredible speed of 186,000
miles per second takes hundreds of thousands of years
to cross it. These universes stream through space at
distances so remote from one another that light takes
not thousands but even millions of years to pass from
one to the other, so that no matter where in such a
cosmic scheme one may regard himself he can never
learn the true nature of things at any one time. Even
were all alike and changing together, the appearance
HARLAN T. STETSON 223
of them would differ vastly as light from the various
sources arrives sometimes early, sometimes late.
These stellar universes are composed of hundreds of
millions, yes billions, of gigantic, hot, gaseous bodies
—the stars. One among these systems is the galactic
system, composed of a billion or more of such bodies
all In rapid motion. These stars differ enormously in
dimension; some are so huge we call them giant stars,
others so tiny we call them dwarf stars. Among these
dwarf stars Is the sun. About the sun whirl little
planets, the largest of which Is a planet called Jupiter.
There are other planets—Neptune, Uranus, Saturn,
Mars, Venus, and Mercury. Then there Is the earth
also. On the earth, as presumably on many other
bodies, arise all sorts of forms of life and among the
various forms of life at length comes man, who looks
Into star-strewn space and wonders, as we wonder.
Apart from the direction of gravity which draws all
things towards the centers of stars and planets, there
is no such thing as up or down. Man looks, there-
fore, out into space and comes to find that he dwells
among the stars—stars about him on every hand. He
dwells upon a moving earth, spinning on Its axis like
a top, giving him a view into nearly every niche of
space In the course of twenty-four hours. Again, he
travels on a moving earth which whirls about the sun
a turn a year, and earth and sun together pursue a
flight through space of 40,000 miles an hour, 400,-
000,000 miles a year, while the passing stars are so
far distant, they stream by so slowly, that centuries
elapsed before man perceived their slightest drift.
Thus has man's view of the cosmos changed from
224 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
his little homocentric picture of creation to a scheme
so vast that were it not for his own self-consciousness
he might well regard himself as out of the picture.
Astronomically considered, life is but an incident
in the history of a planet. Yet associated with that
life in its more conscious forms is an inquiring intel-
ligence that suggests its origin. Are we ourselves
perhaps a limited expression of an all-pervading con-
sciousness? May some spark of such consciousness
exist potentially with the smallest units of matter?
Electrons, identical so far as we can tell, assemble into
different aggregations and produce atoms of widely
differing characteristics. Atoms of various elements,
in turn, combine to make molecules of substances
having properties vastly different from the qualities
of the elements themselves. Is it that these same units
of which worlds are made are the building blocks of
mind? Is the unification of all the lesser units into
some super-universe the supreme order of intelligence?
If this be so we are ourselves a part of such intelli-
gence.
It is inevitable that a man's reflection on such a
universe as we have pictured should react upon his
life philosophy. Considering the millions of years
in which man has been adapting himself biologically,
the transition of his thinking in the last few centuries
has been extraordinarily rapid. The demand for re-
adjustment of ideas to keep pace with the progress of
science was perhaps never more acute than now. We
have seen the flat earth and its overarching sky of
yesterday metamorphosed into a stellar system of such
dimensions in time and space that even the astronomer
HARLAN T. STETSON 225
is helpless in his attempt to conceive adequately of its
proportions.
One hears much these days of the lack of conflict
between science and religion, that these feats of in-
tellectual effort represent entirely distinct categories
and that a conflict between true science and true re-
ligion is, therefore, quite impossible. While there may
be metaphysical grounds for such conclusions, to the
man of the street such sophistry may prove more
confusing than helpful, supposing he is trying to build
for himself some sort of a philosophy of religion which
will at least be consistent with the physical universe
of which he himself is a part. To be sure, there are
those who have no desire or perhaps capacity to exert
themselves mentally, whose religion must forever be
no more than an adherence to an ecclesiastical regime,
and whose science is represented by its inventions
rather than by its method of thought. But to such
this volume is not addressed.
One cannot survey the vast body of knowledge
which is the heritage of the twentieth century with-
out realizing the indelible imprints left by the think-
ing of yesterday, whether one reflects upon the field
of science or upon religion. In examining the prog-
ress of scientific thought, however, one becomes aware
of the characteristics of its method which marks the
scientific mind per se more astutely alert to a changing
prospective than has been wont in the category of
religion. Since the principal religions of the world
have grown up about certain traditions and certain
personalities, holiness may have been mistaken for
226 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
reverence. Reverence for tradition Is what makes fun-
damentalism possible In a modern epoch. Yet it is this
same reverence for tradition which has bred that con-
servatism that recoils from the strange and the new,
and has retarded to the danger point the progress of
religion.
The principal religious systems to-day have come
down from the age of primitive cosmology. The re-
sulting clash of the system of thought fostered in
assthetlcism with the modern scientific age was inevit-
able, and is not inconsequential.
It is, therefore, not surprising that millions of people
to-day, by nature truly religious, feel themselves near
the brink of spiritual disaster in endeavoring to adapt
certain religious traditions to a universe of several
billion suns in which man appears to play less than a
puppet's part. It Is little wonder, therefore, that
many intelligent minds have abandoned all attempts
to reconcile any scheme of religion with the world of
science. Many a creative mind would prefer to share
in the fatalism of Theodore Dreiser, or the philosophy
of Harry Elmer Barnes, than to indulge himself in
what he regards as puerile platitudes of religion.
For the scientist who regards the universe as an
expression of law and order, which in turn has alone
been discoverable by virtue of mind, such an extreme
position appears neither to be Inevitable nor a satis-
factory solution to one's intellectual dilemma. That
a new religion shall be evolved, based on a reverence
for the universe as is, rather than upon tradition
which was, appears not only possible but probable.
In attempting to follow the gleam which may lead
towards such a religious experience let us examine the
HARLAN T. STETSON 227
assets and liabilities of the tenets of an inherited faith
on the one hand, and the molding Influences of science
on the other.
The pragmatic value of almost every system of re-
ligion lies at least in part in the ability of the religious
outlook to focus a man's attention upon forces out-
side of himself, and presumably beyond his control,
to mold his future. Whether such influences have been
for good or evil has largely been responsible for cour-
age or fear, or for resignation in meeting the kalei-
doscopic events of existence. We find, therefore, tra-
ditional religions developing certain ecclesiastical
regimes designed to win the approval of a benevolent
Being, on the one hand, or to appease malevolent
spirits on the other. So far as religion has tended to
make the most of itself through Its appeal to idealism,
it has been and always will be an asset in developing a
satisfactory philosophy of living. So far as certain
religious practices have made one introspective and
superstitious the value of Its psychology may be de-
bated. It is in this respect that science has done much
to orient the individual In the cosmic scheme and to
dispel foreboding superstitions. Science and super-
stition can never dwell under the same roof, as the
one is the embodiment of knowledge and the other the
personification of ignorance.
It is perhaps inevitable that nearly every form of
religion should center about a deified personality. It
is the kind of conception of this deified personality
whith has characterised and distinguished the various
religions of the world from the totem worship of
primitive man to the great religions of the east repre-
228 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
sented by the Hebraic Yaweh, the Indie Buddah, the
Moslem Allah, and the Christian God.
It is in reviewing the books of religion covering
the development of a race consciousness that one finds
the evolution of Deity reflecting each change of social
organization in the history of civilization. In the
book of the Christian religion one finds, for example,
a continuous change in the tradition of God, from the
anthropomorphic Elohim of Genesis through the
tribal King Yaweh, to the God of spirit and paternal
care as taught by Jesus. All of these conceptions,
however, tended to create a self-consciousness and
magnified the importance of the individual quite con-
sistent with the primitive conception of the cosmic
scheme where the universe of stars was but an inciden-
tal background for the divine drama.
It is almost pitiable that many of the doctrines of
theology which made the conflict of science particu-
larly acute were being crystallized in a mediaeval epoch
upon which the dawn of an era of scientific discoveries
had its beginning. The uninformed fundamentalist of
to-day might indeed suffer some disillusionment were
he to realize that Augustine and Thomas Aquinas
placed no literal interpretation upon the creation story
of Genesis. The sad story of the warfare of science
and religions is the more tragic when one reflects that
many of the astronomical discoveries which have dis-
pelled the anthropocentric traditions of religion were
made by scholars skilled In the school of eccleslasti-
cism. The new era of science marking the renaissance,
and which turned the world of thought topsy-turvy
through the discoveries of Copernicus, Galileo, New-
ton and Darwin, could no more be stopped by the
HARLAN T. STETSON 229
denial of theologians than could the incoming tide by
the gesticulations of King Canute. One's religious
ideas, however, had become so entwined with a cos-
mology, made more sacred by Milton and Dante than
by the Scriptures themselves, that for science to alter
the one seemed the ruin of the other.
Inevitable changes of religious Ideas, however, must
ultimately come about through changes in the concep-
tion of Deity, made necessary through the scientific
development of the cosmic scheme. Man, once In the
center of a flat earth at the focus of divine favor,
gradually gave way to man as a miscroscopic organism
Inhabiting a dust grain attached by gravitational
forces to a second or a third rate sun caught in a
cosmic whirl having a galactic system of such dimen-
sions as to surpass the intellect of the profoundest
thinker. No longer could Deity be conceived as the
immediate progenitor of mankind, the king of a fav-
ored tribe, the worker of magic, or a sort of divine
Santa Claus bestowing good gifts upon those most
solicitous of his favors. Thus as science changes the
conception of God, science has changed religion.
As soon as the story of creation began to be read
In stars and rocks, the supposed historic accounts of
creation In the sacred books came to be relegated to
myths and folk-lore, calling for a revaluation In the
books of religion on bases other than that of revela-
tions. The greatest minds however, soon mastered
the art of historic criticism and have done much to re-
store confidence in the scriptural books as records of
religious experience rather than as stenographic ac-
counts of doings of the Almighty sprung full grown
230 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
like Minerva from the head of Zeus. With such a
basis for interpretation of the books of rehgion how
much better fitted is the scholar of to-day for pro-
jecting the religion of the future than could be the
religious zealot of yesterday, whose faith was limited
by a blind tradition harassed by the continuous fear
that doubt could damn his soul.
Freed from the religious dogma of yesterday, and
yet eager for some guiding faith, one may feel for a
time that science is a false Messiah offering nothing
but the material for the spiritual, and hesitant lest
adherence to the world of science may lead only to a
new bondage. It was the Bishop of Ripon, who, not
long ago in a public address, stated that he thought
scientists should take a ten year holiday to allow civi-
lization to catch up with the radical changes which
they have wrought. Such a statement can result only
from a complete misunderstanding of the ideals of
science, and a lack of trust that an acquisition of new
truths can be of increasing benefit to mankind. The
last few years of scientific progress have done more
to free man from the dreaded monster of a fatalistic
philosophy than could have been brought about by any
incantations of an ignorant religious seer. Never be-
fore has the conception of matter appeared so vapor-
ous as now.
When we come to regard the ultimate building
blocks of all material things as the electron, we have
gone a long way from the materialistic conception of
the nineteenth century towards a spiritual view of
the universe not possible in the days of the atomic
theory. Now that the conception of the electron as
corpuscles composing an Infinitesmal planetary system
HARLAN T. STETSON 231
is giving way to a series of vibrations in a hypothetical
ether, we have a less satisfactory picture from the
point of view of thinking in the concrete, but perhaps
a more satisfactory one from the point of view of
appreciation of spiritual realities. The new principle
of indeterminism, first advanced by Heisenberg in
1927, has struck a note of uncertainty in our methods
of divining the ultimate nature of matter, and we are
beginning to realize as never before that science has
its limitations. The very tools of the physicist are
beginning to appear entirely too cumbersome to lay
bare the innermost secrets of the electron. At best,
our most exact measurements are but approximations
of the more fundamental laws of science, but tentative
assertions of a partial truth. We may well be proud
of the achievements of science in adding to our knowl-
edge of the universe, and yet we must bear in mind
that after all science can give but a one-sided look Into
the sum total of human experiences which make up the
events In our cosmic scheme. Accurate so far as it goes,
science after all can give but a very restricted por-
trayal of the thing behind the representation. When
the ultimate building blocks of atom are fast becom-
ing reduced to an Idea expressed only by a mathe-
matical equation, we realize the vehicles of scientific
representation are bringing us to the borderland be-
tween physics and metaphysics, and just beyond this
horizon rise the provinces of philosophy and religion.
The Inherent difficulties of the conception of time
and space will bring any man to the borderland of his
thinking ability. We may trace the life history of
stars from dull-red giants to white-hot dwarfs, we may
232 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
trace the beginnings of planetary systems to conden-
sations in the wisps of spiral whirls, but we cannot
think of a time before which nothing happened nor
can we think of a time beyond which something may
not happen. Such are the limitations of the human
mind. As to what was before matter, scientists can-
not answer for the laws of science are based on weight
and measurement of things. We grow continually
aware of the existence of realms where our conscious-
ness cannot follow. We can form a scientific picture
of the universe only as it touches our three dimen-
sional concept. But to be able to reason to a point
where a consciousness becomes indefinite suggests that
the mind of man leaps a little way from the world that
is to another world not restricted by matter and the
familiar dimensions. We all share in experiences not
expressible in terms of the metric system. We have
a sense of the world of Beauty, of motives, and of
values, based on other standards than those of weight
and measure. As long as man continues to have an
appreciation for such qualities as make for Ideals and
the nobler emotional experiences he will have need
of religion, and to say that science inherently conflicts
with religion Is to admit a complete misunderstanding
of the provinces of either. It is Inevitable that the
facts of science will be a marked determining factor
in the kind of religion which will satisfy the man of
to-day, and the sooner one appreciates the methods,
the motives, and the results of science, the sooner will
one's religious thinking evolve a satisfactory spiritual
experience not at variance with the universe around
us. To abandon all cognizance of religion because
of maladjustments of one's theology with science is as
HARLAN T. STETSON 233
foolish as to no longer recognise gravity because the
gravitational concepts of Newton have been shown
by Einstein to be but a specialized picture in a mathe-
matical concept of more comprehensive proportions.
If any one is disheartened because of man's seem-
ingly insignificant place in the universe, he may well
take heart from the concepts of relativity which have
shown that all dimensions are but comparative and that
space and time are but convenient devices on which
may be spread for our understanding a sequence of
world events. If one were to seek a cheerful picture
of man dimensionally that would appear to enhance
his significance in the cosmic scheme one may reflect
that as to size man physically occupies a place about
mid-way between the electron and the solar system.
I see, however, little reason for seeking such question-
able consolation. The contribution of science which
appears to me far more significant in encouraging a
religious outlook is the fact that structurally man is
made of just such stuff as stars are made from. Such
a unity in his material make-up suggests a kinship
that may well be paralleled in the spiritual world.
Associated with the protoplasm of our bodily make-up
is the ability to look into a starlit sky and to conceive
an all but unending universe, a universe into which
for a little while man comes to play his part, he knows
not why, but how he plays, I fancy, will depend quite
as much upon his religion as upon his science.
A God to-day, adequate to the needs of the scien-
tific intelligence, will as far surpass the God of the
world of primitive man as does the universe of Edd-
ington surpass the old Babylonian cosmos. The sense
234 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
of an enlarged God to keep pace with the expanding
universe of astronomy has undoubtedly proved some-
what disconcerting to the individuahzed conception
of Deity made popular through the evangelical tradi-
tions of the church which for generations has empha-
sized the Individualized relationship with a Heavenly
Father whose solicitation for the human soul was con-
summated in the doctrine of the atonement. One may
well ask, however, if the conception of an individual
relationship of Deity is at all inconsistent with the
conception of man as a unit of a greater intelligence
as above depicted. Does not the newer conception
of man as an element of the universe in both mind and
body still make for the basis of an individualized re-
lationship with the Deity, although one must admit on
a more cosmopolitan scale than the dogmatic exclu-
siveness of yesterday's faith would allow?
Entertaining the question of the existence of life on
other planets and in other systems of the universe than
our own makes any adherence to a restricted philos-
ophy of atonement quite untenable. Whatever one's
view may be upon such items in the creed of the church
as have been regarded as more or less fundamental,
one must make room for a new chapter on the evolu-
tion of a religion which will be universe-wide in its
scope.
As science has changed the concept of Deity, com-
mon In the sacred books and the more primitive con-
ceptions of atonement, science has unquestionably
altered one's outlook on the doctrine of immortality.
The age old desire for a future existence probably
has biological foundations in the defense mechanism
HARLAN T. STETSON 235
of the species for maintaining its being. The per-
sistent determinism of mind, however, to think beyond
the boundaries of space constitutes in itself some ar-
gument for the existence of intelligence not limited
by metabolistic processes. However uncertain and
Illusionary may be the evidence of spiritual existence
apart from conventional forms of life as we know it,
there appears to be sufficient grounds for a doctrine
of immortality which the scientist would prefer to
conceive of as a non-temporal persistence of person-
ality rather than a re-existence in a future time scale.
Confronted with such problems in reconstruction
in theology as here suggested, one may well inquire
how well or how ill the church of to-day, as the exist-
ent embodiment of organized religion, fits the picture.
The leaders of religious faith may deplore the de-
pleted numbers of church adherents, but may well in-
quire into the causes and remedies of thinning con-
gregations in church attendance. To lay the blame
for such a questionable tragedy on the distracting
tendencies of our complex civilization is but to dodge
the issue. If individuals seeks recreation In other
Sunday activities than divine worship one may feel
assured that religious practices of to-day fail to meet
the demand for re-creation and inspiration called for
in a world remade by science.
Considering the rapid strides in scientific progress
and the readaptatlon resulting In consequence, what
serious attempt has been made by the organized church
to adapt itself to the new demands placed upon it?
One may well ask Is there not herein a new opportunity
for the leaders of our future faith to reinterpret reli-
236 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
gion in terms of the day that will satisfy the seeker for
spiritual realities consistent with the achievements of
science ?
If one examines the conventional schedule of church
worship, how far has it departed from the mediaeval
trappings of ecclesiasticism? One finds little grounds
for criticism in the fundamental appeal to the emo-
tions in a religious service so far as it combines the
elements of music and educational discourse. The
psychological basis for a spiritual appeal in the music
of the masters is unquestionably sound, but is not the
intellectual appeal of the words for which such music
is an accompaniment of historic interest only? An
hymnology based on the cosmology of Dante and the
theology of the Middle Ages is not in keeping with
progressive thought and can bring little intellectual
satisfaction to the reader of scientific literature.
Again it may be asked why must one have continually
inflicted upon his intelligence the recital of the creed
to which he himself can make no intellectual assent?
One can find many intelligent preachers in the pulpits
to-day who are seriously coping with the problems of
revitalizing religion, but how at variance with the
most brilliant modern discourses on religion is the
mediaeval setting of the conventional church service.
Why this persistence of the practice of the puritans
in the program of worship which would not be toler-
ated in other activities of modern civilization? I
cannot believe that man is less interested to-day in
religion than in other emotional appeals. Perhaps a
scientist may be as justly criticised for tampering with
the performances of ecclesiasticism as have religious
HARLAN T. STETSON 237
leaders for denouncing the present-day tendencies of
science. I have ventured upon this indulgence on the
grounds of many questions which a scientist is asked
that are distinctly in the category of religion, yet for
which apparently the inquirer finds no satisfactory
answers in the religious practices of the day. Only by
the interchange of view-points and the intelligent com-
parison of its methods and problems can science and
religion hope to join hands in evolving some philo-
sophical concept big enough to embrace both God and
his universe, and simple enough in its approach to
truth to make a religion workable and satisfying in
its expression to the modern man in an age of science.
THE UNIVERSE A GREAT THOUGHT
Sir James Jeans
Sir James Jeans may be numbered among adherents to the
later scientific school which teaches that the universe around us
is more than a mechanical structure. He refers to it as a Great
Thought, the work of the Supreme Architect, the Master
Mathematician. Yet he is not prepared to make definite state-
ments as to the attributes and methods of this creative reality.
He was born in London, in 1877, son of W. T. Jeans, and re-
ceived his academic training at Trinity College, Cambridge,
where he has been a fellow and university lecturer in mathemat-
ics. He was professor of applied mathematics in Princeton Uni-
versity, 1905 to 1909; and Stokes lecturer in applied mathemat-
ics in the University of Cambridge, 1910 to 1912. His publi-
cations include articles and books on mechanics, magnetism,
electricity, mathematics and cosmogony. With publication of
The Universe Around Us, in 1929; and more particularly, with
The Mysterious Universe, in 1 930, Dr. Jeans took a place in the
front rank of those scientists who are applying to scientific fact
metaphysical reasoning.
XIV
THE UNIVERSE A GREAT THOUGHT^
By Sir James Jeans
OUR remote ancestors tried to interpret na-
ture in terms of anthropomorpliic concepts
of their own creation, and failed. The
efforts of our nearer ancestors to interpret nature on
engineering lines proved equally inadequate. Nature
has refused to accommodate herself to either of these
man-made moulds. On the other hand, our efforts
to interpret nature in the concepts of pure mathe-
matics have, so far, proved brilliantly successful. It
would now seem to be beyond dispute that in some
way nature is more closely allied to the concepts of
pure mathematics than to those of biology or of en-
gineering, and even if the mathematical interpretation
is only a third man-made mould, it at least fits nature
incomparably better than the two previously tried.
Fifty years ago, when there was much discussion
on the problem of communicating with Mars, it was
desired to notify the supposed Martians that thinking
beings existed on the planet earth, but the difficulty
was to find a language understood by both parties.
The suggestion was made that the most suitable lan-
guage was that of pure mathematics; so it was pro-
posed to light chains of bonfires in the Sahara, to
1 From The Mysterious Universe, by James Jeans. By permission
of the Macmillan Company, publishers.
241
242 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
form a diagram illustrating the famous theorem of
Pythagoras, that the squares on the two smaller sides
of a right-angled triangle are together equal to the
square on the greatest side.
To most of the inhabitants of Mars such signals
would convey no meaning; but it was argued that
mathematicians on Mars, if such existed, would
surely recognize them as the handiwork of mathe-
maticians on earth. In so doing they would not be
open to the reproach that they saw mathematics in
everything. And so it is mutatis mutandis with the
signals from the outer world of reality, which are the
shadows on the walls of the cave in which we are im-
prisoned. We have already considered with disfavor
the possibility of the universe having been planned by
a biologist or an engineer. From the intrinsic evi-
dence of his creation, the Great Architect of the Uni-
verse now begins to appear as a pure mathematician.
In the second place, our statement may be chal-
lenged on the ground that there is no absolutely sharp
line of demarcation between pure and applied mathe-
matics. It would of course have proved nothing, if
nature had merely been found to act in accordance
with the concepts of applied mathematics; these con-
cepts were specially and deliberately designed by man
to fit the workings of nature. And it may be ob-
jected that even pure mathematics does not in actual
fact represent a creation of our own minds so much
as an effort, based on forgotten or subconscious
memories, to understand the workings of nature. If
so. It is not surprising that nature should be found to
work according to the laws of pure mathematics. It
cannot, of course, be denied that some of the concepts
SIR JAMES JEANS 243
with which the pure mathematician works are taken
directly from his experience of nature. An obvious
instance is the concept of quantity; but this is so fun-
damental that it is hard to imagine any scheme of
nature from which it was entirely excluded. Other
concepts borrow at least something from experience;
for instance multi-dimensional geometry, which clearly
originated out of experience of the three dimensions
of space. If, however, the more intricate concepts
of pure mathematics have been transplanted from the
workings of nature, they must have been buried very
deep indeed in our sub-conscious minds.
This very controversial possibility is one which
cannot be entirely dismissed, but in any event it can
hardly be disputed that nature and our conscious
mathematical minds work according to the same laws.
She does not model her behaviour, so to speak, on
that forced on us by our whims and passions, or on
that of our muscles and joints, but on that of our
thinking minds. This remains true whether our
minds impress their laws on nature, or she impresses
her laws on us, and provides a sufficient justification
for thinking of the designer of the universe as a
mathematician.
Personally I feel that this train of thought may, very
tentatively, be carried a stage further, although it is
difficult to express it in exact words, again because
our mundane vocabulary is circumscribed by our mun-
dane experience. The terrestrial pure mathematician
does not concern himself with material substance,
but with pure thought. His creations are not only
created by thought but consist of thought, just as the
244 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
creations of the engineer consist of engines. And
the concepts which now prove to be fundamental to
our understanding of nature—a space which is finite;
a space which is empty, so that one point differs from
another solely in the properties of the space itself;
four dimensional, and more, even seven dimensional
spaces; a space which forever expands; a sequence of
events which follows the laws of probability instead
of the law of causation—or, alternately, a sequence
of events which can only be fully and consistently de-
scribed by going outside space and time. All these
concepts seem to my mind to be structures of pure
thought, incapable of realisation in any sense which
would properly be described as material.
To these I would add other more technical con-
cepts, typified by the "exclusion principle," which
seems to imply a sort of "action at a distance" in both
space and time—as though every bit of the universe
knew what other distant bits were doing, and acted
accordingly. To my mind, the laws wljich nature
obeys are less suggestive of those which a machine
obeys in its motions than of those which a musician
obeys in writing a fugue, or a poet in composing a
sonnet. The motions of electrons and atoms do not
resemble those of the parts of a locomotive so much
as those of the dancers in a cotillion. And if the "true
essence of substances" is for ever unknowable, It does
not matter whether the cotillion Is danced at a ball
in real life, or on a cinematograph screen, or In a story
of Boccaccio. If all this Is so, then the universe can
be best pictured, although still very Imperfectly and
Inadequately, as consisting of pure thought, the
SIR JAMES JEANS 245
thought of what, for want of a wider word, we must
describe as a mathematical thinker.
In the stately and sonorous diction of a bygone age,
Bishop Berkeley summed up his philosophy in the
words
:
"All the choir of heaven and furniture of earth, in
a word all those bodies which compose the mighty
frame of the world, have not any substance without
the mind. ... So long as they are not actually per-
ceived by me, or do not exist in my mind, or that of
any other created spirit, they must either have no
existence at all, or else subsist in the mind of some
Eternal Spirit."
Modern science seems to me to lead, by a very
different road, to a not altogether dissimilar conclu-
sion. Because of our different line of approach we
have reached the last of the above three alternatives
first; and the others appear unimportant by compari-
son. It does not matter whether objects "exist in my
mind, or that of any other created spirit," or not;
their objectivity arises from their subsisting "in the
mind of some Eternal Spirit."
This may suggest that we are proposing to discard
realism entirely, and enthrone a thoroughgoing ideal-
ism in its place. Yet this, I think, would be too crude
a statement of the situation. If it is true that the
"real essence of substances" is beyond our knowledge,
then the line of demarcation between realism and
idealism becomes very blurred indeed. It is little more
than a relic of a past age in which reality was believed
to be identical with mechanism. Objective realities
246 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
exist because certain things affect your consciousness
and mine in the same way, but we are assuming some-
thing we have no right to assume if we label them
as either "real" or "ideal." The true label is, I
think, "mathematical" if we can agree that this is to
connote the whole of pure thought, and not merely
the studies of the professional mathematician. Such
a label does not imply anything as to what things are
in their ultimate essence, but merely something as to
how they behave.
The label we have selected does not, of course,
relegate matter into the category of hallucination or
dreams. The material universe remains as substan-
tial as ever it was; and this statement must, I think,
remain true through all changes of scientific or philo-
sophical thought.
For substantiality is a purely mental concept mea-
suring the direct effect of objects on our sense of
touch. We say that a stone or a motor-car is sub-
stantial, while an echo or a rainbow is not. This is
the ordinary definition of the word, and it is a mere
absurdity, a contradiction in terms, to say that stones
and motor-cars can in any way become unsubstantial,
or even less substantial, because we now associate
them with mathematical formulae and thoughts, or
kinks in empty space, rather than with crowds or hard
particles.
Dr. Johnson Is reported to have expressed his
opinion on Berkeley's philosophy by dashing his foot
against a stone and saying: "No, Sir, I disprove It,
thus!"
This little experiment had, of course, not the slight-
est bearing on the philosophical problem it claimed to
SIR JAMES JEANS 247
solve; it merely verified the substantiality of matter.
And however science may progress, stones must always
remain substantial bodies, just because they and their
class form the standard by which we define the quality
of substantiality.
It has been suggested that the lexicographer might
really have disproved the Berkeleian philosophy if he
had chanced to kick, not a stone but a hat in which
some small boy had surreptitiously concealed a brick.
As Sir Peter Chalmers Michell puts it, "the element
of surprise is sufficient warrant for external reality,"
and "a second warrant is permanence with change
—
permanence In your own memory, change in exter-
nality." This, of course, merely disproves the sophist
error of "all this is a creation of my own mind, and
exists in no other mind." But it is hard to do any-
thing in life which does not disprove this. The argu-
ment from surprise, and from new knowledge in gen-
eral, is powerless against the concept of a universal
mind of which your mind and mine, the mind which
surprises and that which is surprised, are units or even
excrescences. Each individual brain cell cannot be
acquainted with all the thoughts which are passing
through the brain as a whole.
Yet the fact that we possess no absolute extraneous
standard against which to measure substantiality, does
not preclude our saying that two things have the same
degree, or different degrees of substantiality. If I
dash my foot against a stone in my dreams, I shall
probably wake up with a pain in my foot, to discover
that the stone of my dreams was literally a creation
of my mind and of mine alone, prompted by a nerve-
impulse originating in my foot. This stone may t)^ify
248 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
the category of hallucinations or dreams; it is clearly-
less substantial than that which Johnson kicked. Crea-
tions of an individual mind may reasonably be called
less substantial than creations of a universal mind.
The uniformity of nature proclaims the self-consistency
of a universal mind. The uniformity of nature pro-
claims the self-consistency of this mind.
This concept of the universe as a world of pure
thought throws a new light on many of the situations
we have encountered in our survey of modern physics.
We can now see how the ether, in which all the events
of the universe take place, could reduce to a mathe-
matical abstraction, and become as abstract and as
mathematical as parallels of latitude and meridians of
longitude. We can also see why energy, the funda-
mental entity of the universe, had again to be treated
as a mathematical abstraction—the constant of in-
tegration of a differential equation.
If the universe is a universe of thought, then Its
creation must have been an act of thought. Indeed,
the finiteness of time and space almost compel us, of
themselves, to paint the creation as an act of thought;
the determination of the constants such as the radius
of the universe and the number of electrons it con-
tained imply thought, whose richness is measured by
the immensity of these quantities. Time and space,
which form the setting for the thought, must have
come into being as part of this act. Primitive cos-
mologies pictured a creator working In space and time,
forging sun, moon and stars out of already existent
raw material. Modern scientific theory compels us
to think of the creator as working outside time and
SIR JAMES JEANS 249
space, which are parts of his creation, just as the artist
is outside his canvas.
And yet, so Httle do we understand time that per-
haps we ought to compare the whole of time to the
act of creation, the materiahsation of the thought.
The two papers which follow, by Sir Oliver Lodge
and J. Malcolm Bird, discuss psychical research. The
element they seek was called by that great English
scientist Sir William Crookes, "A psychic force con-
trolled by an intelligence unknown to science." We
also remember what William E. Gladstone said of it
:
"Psychic Research is the most important work being
done in the world to-day, by far the most important."
Nor must we forget the sagacious, somewhat sardonic
epigram of George Bernard Shaw: "The man who was
scientific enough to see that the Holy Ghost was the
most interesting of all the hard facts of life, got easily
In front of the blockheads who could only sin against
it."
THE SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT FOR PER-
SONAL SURVIVAL
Sir Oliver Lodge
Sir Oliver Lodge, who contributes one of the most valuable
papers in this symposium, was born at PenkhuU, Staffordshire,
England, in 185 1. For fifty years he has been a student and in-
vestigator of cosmic phenomena, beginning his active teaching
career as Professor of Physics at University College, Liverpool,
England, in 1881, and remaining there nine years. He has
served as president of the Mathematical and Phj'sical section of
the British Association, president of the Physical Society of Lon-
don, president of the Society for Psychical Research, and presi-
dent of the British Association. In 1919 he was awarded the
Albert Medal of the Royal Society of Arts as the pioneer in
wireless telegraphy. His publications number upwards of
thirty, and include treatises on mechanics, school reform, elec-
trons, man and his universe, the World War, evolution and
human progress. Perhaps he is more widely and popularly
known, however, as one of the world's leading advocates of per-
sonal survival of death. His books on this theme: Raymond, or
Life and Death; Science and Immortality ; and Why I Believe
in Personal Immortality, have established his reputation as a
careful, able and thoroughly scientific investigator into psychic
phenomena. His paper entitled The Scientific Argument for
Personal Survival, which follows, is a cautious yet candid ex-
position of the attitude of modern research toward personal sur-
vival of death.
r
XV
THE SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT FOR PER-
SONAL SURVIVAL
By Sir Oliver Lodge
THE hesitating attraction which some people
feel for the subject of what is sometimes
called spirit communication, and the instinc-
tive dislike or repulsion which others feel for the same
subject, is partly due to the influence of surroundings,
and partly to the general attitude of the community
in which they live. If ever the facts became generally
accepted by scientific men, the attitude of the public
would be gradually changed, and religious people
would without insuperable difficulty adjust their views
to acceptance of phenomena generally agreed upon, as
they have already done in connexion with the at first
heterodox discoveries of astronomers, geologists, and
biologists. But as long as scientific acceptance is lim-
ited to a comparatively few individuals here and there,
the general public, if uninstructed, do well to be cau-
tious, and to wait for a wider consensus of opinion
among those presumably best qualified to judge of
reality. For science is a study of reality wherever it
is to be found, independent of any conclusions or con-
sequences that may be drawn from it, and irrespective
of any influence that the spread of knowledge may
exert upon human life and conduct.
Assertions about supernormal or unusual phenomena
253
254 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
are plentiful enough; but at present there is an ele-
ment of uncertainty about them which militates against
their general acceptance as fact. Trustworthy and
crucial evidence is difficult to obtain, and there is a
natural disinclination to enter upon a course of re-
search without some a priori probability that the quest
would lead to something real, and not into a quagmire
of popular superstition and folk-lore. Testimony
about obscure mental phenomena and psycho-physical
happenings has been prevalent throughout human his-
tory, and among all races of men, but the phenomena
testified to are at first sight so contrary to the general
trend of human experience that they are naturally
looked at askance, and are not examined with the same
keenness and perspicacity as have been devoted during
the last century or two to what seemed to be more
natural phenomena,—that is to say phenomena which
can be repeated in the laboratory at will, about which
some guiding theory can be formulated, and which are
more harmonious with the general trend of scientific
progress. It is not merely because the asserted facts
are extraordinary, or because they do not appeal to
the senses in the ordinary way, that they are disre-
garded and suspected: for many of the facts in or-
thodox science are of this character. The constitution
of the atom, and the orbits of an electron, make no
direct appeal to the senses; they have to be explored
by recondite methods; yet the difficulty of a complete
comprehension of them does not deter competent ex-
plorers from giving them minute and sustained atten-
tion, or from elaborating theories, which, however Im-
perfect, are susceptible of gradual improvement, and
seem to open the way to a wider truth. The super-
SIR OLIVER LODGE 255
sensual phenomena dealt with by mathematicians are
just as difficult of direct apprehension, and involve just
as much speculation and hypothesis, as any of the
barely credible mental phenomena which are under
discussion.
The aloofness of science is not really because the
phenomena are elusive and difficult of observation;
rather it is because they appear to run counter to pre-
conceptions or prejudgments, or what may be called
rational prejudices, based upon a long course of study
of natural phenomena, with which these asserted oc-
currences appear to be inconsistent; so that the testi-
mony has to be criticised, continually suspected, and
frequently discarded, because it appears to be testi-
mony in favour of what is a priori impossible or ab-
surd. The aim of science has been for the most part
a study of materialistic phenomena, a study of mech-
anism, the mechanism whereby results are achieved,
an investigation into the physical processes which go
on, and which appear to be coextensive with nature.
Any theory which seems to involve the action of
Higher Beings, or of any unknown entity controlling
and working the mechanism, is apt to be extruded or
discountenanced as a relic of primitive superstition,
coming down from times when such infantile explana-
tions were prevalent; from a time when there was no
adequate idea of the coherent scheme of physical proc-
esses which underlie all the at first baffling and inscru-
table operations of nature.
There was a time, for Instance, when the movements
of the planets were attributed to psychic guidance, the
action of angels or some other beings; when thunder
256 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
and lightning were the direct manifestations of the
wrath of Zeus; when plague, pestilence and famine
were a commentary on human sinfulness, and were
stemmed, not by medical and sanitary effort, but by
the erection of altars and the humble submission of
sacrificial atonements. The triumph of Newton and
Laplace consisted in showing that the obscure and
puzzling phenomena occurring in the heavens were to
be accounted for mechanically by the force of gravi-
tation. Thus it was that modern science was born;
and on those lines it has continued its successful career.
Lightning became one of the inanimate manifestations
of electricity: volcanoes were due to the spontaneous
radioactivity of complex atoms: disease was due to
the secretions of microbes and bacteria, which were
visible under the microscope. And the ambition of
science was to find a physical cause, on the same sort
of lines, for every occurrence of whatever nature it
might be. This ambition, which was formulated by
Newton himself as a hope and aspiration, has been
justified by long-continued experience. A physical
process underlies every class of phenomenon. The
evolution of living things, the evolution of the stars
and planets, the birth and death of worlds, are going
on before our eyes. Even the evolution of matter
itself is under consideration. The stars have yielded
up their secrets, the atoms also. The laws of physics
and chemistry reign supreme throughout the cosmos.
What wonder then, in face of this magnificent
achievement, if spiritualistic views and hypotheses are
looked at askance as a backward step, a reversion to
barbarism, a giving up of the clue which human genius
SIR OLIVER LODGE 257
has found so successful; or even as treachery to the
pioneers and architects who have erected the splendid
structure of modern science. What wonder if the at-
tempt is made to explain every mental process as a
chemical action in the cells of the brain, to explain
every action of live things as the activity of physio-
logical mechanism, and to hold that when the physio-
logical process is interrupted, or the machinery de-
stroyed, all vitality necessarily ceases; in other words,
that life and mind are the working of an organism,
and that when the organism ceases to function, they
completely perish.
And yet many biologists have themselves, when they
began to philosophise, encountered a real difficulty.
The mechanism was complete as far as it went: the
physical processes of every action could be traced,
either in fact or In imagination: but there was an out-
standing difficulty about consciousness, which could not
be explained by mechanism. Their own awareness of
the processes going on was Itself something more
than the mere processes. There were things In human
nature which escaped their ken, which seemed to be
of a different order, something which made use of
mechanism, but which transcended it, something to-
wards which mechanical science gives no clue. The
sense of beauty, for Instance. What piece of mech-
anism could contemplate Its own beauty? What me-
chanical device could understand Its own working?
How could human beings plan and contrive and de-
sign, and form theories, and seek to apprehend the
universe, If they were nothing more than mechanical
structures? The only way consistent with philosophic
materialism was to suppose that consciousness was a
258 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
kind of illusion, and that these mysterious functions
could probably be reduced to mechanism if only we
had sufficient knowledge. But the formation of such
a hypothesis as that is conspicuously irrational. It is
leaving the safe ground of science, the exploration of
reality, and denying some parts of reality itself. Such
denials are illegitimate, and are themselves supersti-
tious.
It has become pretty obvious that human nature is
more than mechanism. The mechanism is at work
and demands study. Physical energy and the physical
and chemical processes are utilised in the working of
the organism, but in every important aspect the indi-
vidual transcends those processes. Even the mere sen-
sations of colour and tone are more than belong to
the physical world: physically there is nothing except
vibrations of different frequency. Emotion, again,
the emotion raised by poetry, drama, music, far tran-
scends the admittedly physical basis of these things.
Man plans and contrives and directs the forces of na-
ture to higher ends : he uses and dominates the mate-
rial universe : he has some understanding of it : he feels
sympathy and affection: he has faith and hope and
love. These elements in his nature are far more than
chemical processes going on in the brain. These
higher attributes are displayed and manifested by
chemical processes, but in themselves they transcend
and outlast them; they belong to another order of
existence, interpenetrating and utilising the material,
but not limited by or coextensive with it.
Well, that is the view to which some of us have
been led: that is the view which most philosophers
SIR OLIVER LODGE 259
take. Hence the a priori prejudgments and prejudices
are now altered. If there is testimony bearing upon
the perennial existence and survival of these higher
things, we need no longer look at it askance, or con-
sider it as foreign to our perception of reality. Reality
Is a much bigger thing than the mechanicians had
thought. They are true as far as they go, but we can
go much further. Testimony to survival is no longer
unacceptable. Indeed we should expect something of
the kind. What survival means, and what its impli-
cations are, may still remain to be ascertained. But
there is a prima facie case for investigation. We are
not traitors to science when we explore mental proc-
esses, however unusual and surprising they may be.
There is a large amount of evidence that personality
persists, that individuals continue after the destruction
of their bodily organism. They may find it difficult to
manifest their continued existence; but, according to
the evidence, they have managed to do so. The evi-
dence must be scrutinised with great care; but there is
no reason to disbelieve it on a priori grounds. The
body of evidence has grown of late years, and is grow-
ing. So that many now have no doubt that their loved
ones continue, that they are still watching and helping
and guiding, as of old; that realities do net go out of
existence, that these higher attributes of man are just
as real as any others, more real because more per-
sistent; that there will be a time of reunion, that in-
telligence and character and tastes and aptitudes per-
sist, and that love Is the dominating force In the uni-
verse,—a universe far greater and higher than Its
merely material manifestations. It is true, as Sir Ber-
keley Moynihan has recently declared, that the God
260 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
of Science Is a greater and more glorious Being than
the God of the Theologians.
Suppose we let it be granted that accumulated evi-
dence shows that human beings survive, a number of
problems clamor for solution. What does survival
mean in general? Why should it be limited to human
beings? What line can be drawn differentiating one
part of existence from another? It seems likely that
all existence is perpetual. We certainly find that
energy, for Instance, continues without loss, changing
form, but always constant in amount; that death is
not the characteristic and fundamental thing in the
universe, but continued life. Energy need not always
be associated with matter; It may pass into the ether,
and. Indeed, Is constantly so doing. Not only from
every star and every fire, but from all objects without
exception, there Is a constant interchange of energy
between ether and matter. Sometimes matter gains
more than It loses, sometimes it loses more than it
gains. This Interchange constitutes the whole activity
of what we observe; and the energy Is never destroyed.
Is it the same with life? Not human life alone, but
all life, animal and vegetable together? We do not
know for certain, but it Is a natural working hypothesis
that the Interaction between life and matter is tempo-
rary, while the interaction of life with the greater
physical universe Is permanent. In that sense survival
is the law to which there need be no exception. But
when we talk of human survival we mean more than
that. We mean Individual survival, the survival of
personality and character. Now survival only applies
to things which really exist. If there is no Individu-
SIR OLIVER LODGE 261
ality, then there is nothing to persist. Whether all
human beings have sufficient personality to make their
individual persistence likely, is a question that may be
argued. Whether some of the higher animals have
acquired a kind of individuality, a character and affec-
tion, which seems worthy of continued existence, may
also be argued. There may be many grades of exist-
ence, many grades of personality, and accordingly
there may be many grades of survival.
To illustrate this, and to get into closer touch with
the subject, we may take some examples. The human
body is composed of cells, and some of those cells have
a life or vitality of their own. Some indeed, such as
the white corpuscles in the blood, have an independent
motivity, analogous to that of the amceba. They move
with apparent spontaneity, they assimilate and digest
and excrete; they subdivide and thereby increase in
number: in other words, they have many of the at-
tributes of independent existence. Yet they are essen-
tially parts of a community: the communal life is the
important thing, but by their activity they serve that
communal life. They help to keep the whole body in
health, and their individual life is sometimes sacrificed
to that end. In so far as they are individuals, their
individuality seems unimportant.
Many examples of this communal life may be ad-
duced. For instance, in a hive of bees it would seem
to be the communal life that is the important thing.
The individuals go about their business in an instinc-
tive manner, but willingly sacrifice themselves for the
good of the community. Their individual existence is
short and strenuous: they speedily succumb to over-
work or to the dangers encountered, but the commu-
262 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
nity goes on. Moreover, it is instructive to realise
that their specific activities depend not only on them-
selves but on their surroundings. They carry on
whatever work is necessary in the particular place they
find themselves. If wax is needed, they proceed to
make it: if wax is provided, they proceed to shape it:
if they find it already shaped, they fill it with honey.
Any one bee does what is wanted at that particular
place, adding to the labours of his predecessors the
quota demanded. The guiding influence seems repre-
sented by a communal instinct which does not belong
to the individual but to the whole community.
It appears to be much the same with the cells of
the body. Where a hair is required, there it is built
up by the cells which find themselves in that position
:
where a nerve needs renewal it is renewed. And so
the parts of the body are constructed and maintained;
and the waste products are cleared away automatically
and instinctively, without any attention from conscious-
ness, so long as the body is in a state of health. The
cells can be diverted from their proper work by ab-
normal secretions and poisons, and then abnormal
structures are produced, with resulting pain and per-
haps death to the organism as a whole. The organism
may have an individual identity, but the cells compos-
ing it apparently have not. The ingredients in food
are sorted out and planted automatically in the place
required by the whole organism, the identity of which
does not depend on the identity of the particles, for
they are in a constant state of flux.
At a lower grade we find something of the same
SIR OLIVER LODGE 263
sort even in inorganic nature. What constitutes for
instance the identity of a river, the Tiber, or the
Ganges, or the Nile? We recognise that the river has
a sort of identity, but it cannot depend on the par-
ticles of water which constitute it. It may be said that
the identity of a river is determined by the shape and
locality of the channel along which the particles move;
but even that is liable to change from time to time;
yet we recognise it as the same river. The river there-
fore has a certain individuality, displayed by the
stream of particles; and occasionally it has been per-
sonified as Father Tiber, Mother Ganges, and the
like. But this is obviously a poetic personification.
There is no real soul or personality, or anything which
calls for persistence beyond its terrestrial and tempo-
rary manifestation.
An identity of this general kind seems to belong to
all vegetables and to the lower animals. There is no
need to postulate permanent personal existence in their
case. The question only arises when the life of an
organism has reached a stage at which the elements
of mind and consciousness appear, when the action
becomes more than mechanical, when it shows signs,
not only of accumulated memory, but of incipient rea-
soning power, leading to purposive action, based on
accumulated or inherited experience; based not so
much upon the laws of heredity alone, but upon expe-
rience acquired by the individual, so that In some sense
it knows what it is doing, and spontaneously and indi-
vidually tries for some end, or acts with some appre-
hension of the future; when it is guided, not merely by
the present, but by anticipation and hope.
264 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
It is not easy to say where this element of conscious-
ness, conscious striving for an as yet unrealised end,
has begun to enter into the animal kingdom; but we
see signs of it in the higher animals, at any rate in
those that have become domesticated; and we are well
aware of these faculties in ourselves. At some stage
or other, conscious planning, or what Aristotle called
"entelechy," enters into the scheme; and this element
we may well call the germ of the soul. As a working
hypothesis we may conjecture that where a soul exists
it means the emergent evolution of something higher
than ordinary life, of something which has a personal
aspect, and of something which, if real, is likely to
persist. If it is a very minute fragment of personality,
then its survival will also be minute and fragmentary.
Only when it becomes considerable and dominant will
it have a considerable and dominant survival. In so
far as a thing is real, it will not go out of existence;
it will survive for whatever it may be worth.
Clearly there are grades of existence or grades of
value; so in a sense there may be grades of survival.
Surely not, it may be objected, there is either survival
or there is not; there cannot be partial survival. No,
but a small and trivial thing may survive in a small
and trivial way. A great love endures; but a little bit
of affection may still survive. The problem is one of
reality. Only reality persists. But, on the other hand,
all reality persists. A cloud or a crowd is dispersed
and scattered and ceases to be. But that was not a
reality, it was a mere aggregate of atoms or of peo-
ple : when it was dispersed the individual components
continue. The reality belonged, not to the assemblage,
but to that which gathered them together. The emo-
SIR OLIVER LODGE 265
tion, or the guiding principle, which assembled a con-
clave of Parliament or an army, may continue and may
alter the course of history. A written document may
have an effect long after the document has been de-
stroyed. The soul of a poem is not in the black marks
on a piece of paper; nor is its reality dependent on the
physical vehicle by which it was conveyed to others.
It is the soul of such things that is real, and it is that
which persists.
So it may be with our bodily organism. Each or-
ganism is an assemblage of particles in a state of flux
and change. The cells have a communal existence,
but the permanent thing which put them together, and
which by their aid has accumulated experience and de-
veloped a personal character, is not dependent on them
for its Identity; and It can endure long after they have
been dispersed and scattered.
These being the possibilities, the remaining question
is one of fact. The evidence for human survival does
not depend on argument but on experience. There Is
a growing amount of evidence that human personality
does really persist, that individual survivors have not
gone out of existence. That evidence must be critically
examined and subjected to scientific enquiry, and If It
stands the test. It must be admitted: it must be ac-
cepted as one of the facts ascertained In the process
of scientific discovery, whether we understand it or
not. All that the argument has done Is to show that
there Is nothing Irrational in the idea, that we need
not turn our backs on the evidence because It appears
to be demonstrating something Impossible. The thing
is possible enough: no one has a right to say that it
266 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
is Impossible. Our business is to find out what is true.
If there is trustworthy evidence tending to show that
humanity has attained a grade at which a real and per-
manent personality has developed, then that evidence
can be accepted. If the evidence goes further, and
shows that some of the higher animals have reached
such a grade, then that evidence can be accepted too.
We have no right to draw an artificial line and say.
Thus far and no further. Nor have we any right to
turn down actual evidence because of our irrational
and perhaps superstitious preconceptions. We have
no more right to do that than we have to accept or
invent faulty evidence and imaginary facts, on the
ground of our preconceptions or superstitions or
human longings. The emotions must be kept in their
place. Things are not true because we want them to
be true; but neither are they false because we feel they
ought to be false. Human instincts and intuitions are
not to be despised. The intuitions of genius are part
of the facts, and have a weight and value of their own.
But fortunately in this vital matter we are not left
to inspirations and intuitions. Cold-blooded direct
evidence Is vouched for, and this it is which must be
examined without prejudice either way. And this it
is which will ultimately convince all humanity of the
truth of survival, and incidentally will in the long run
enable us to realise more clearly what survival means,
what physical mechanism is associated with it, what is
its scope and how far it extends, and what bearing it
has on the ultimate problems of reality.
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH, SCIENCE AND
RELIGION
J. Malcolm Bird
J. Malcolm Bird, psychic research expert, is probably as
careful and experienced an observer of psychic phenomena as we
have in the United States to-day. He is qualified from long
study, experience and ability to contribute the important paper
M^hich concludes this discussion. Graduating from Columbia
University in 191 3 he did graduate work there in mathematics
for three years, and in 19 14 accepted a position there as assist-
ant in mathematics. He went to the editorial staff of the Scien-
tific American in 1916, remaining as associate editor and man-
aging editor until 1924. He became research officer for the
American Society for Psychical Research in 1925, and retained
that office until 1931. From 1922 to 1924 he was secretary to
the committee of Judges in the Scientific American investiga-
tion of psychic phenomena. His books include, Einstein's The-
ories of Relativity and Gravitation; My Psychic Adventures;
Margery the Medium; Proceedings of the A.S.P.C. for 1926,
27; and 28. He calls the mature study he contributes to this
symposium. The Phenomena upon which Spiritualism bases its
conviction of a future life, and their place in the twentieth
century scientific structure.
XVI
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH, SCIENCE AND
RELIGION^
By J. Malcolm Bird
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH is a term coined
for application to the study of a group of
phenomena that open the door to many con-
troversies. These phenomena are of anthropological
rather than cosmical content, in that their occurrence
as well as their observation requires human Instrumen-
tality; and they are anthropocosmic In that they are
not manifestations of the human brain and organism
alone, but represent rather a reaction or relation be-
tween the human ego and the universe In which this
resides.
Beyond these fearfully vague generalizations, It is
not entirely clear how the field of psychical research
should be defined, or where its frontiers should be
drawn. The widest divergence appears on the ques-
tion of bare occurrence; and when we answer this ab-
stractly In the affirmative, as all competent and un-
biased authority now does, it continues to arise over
whole categories of the phenomena and over the entire
phenomena of individual subjects. The phenomena by
their nature In some degree require the substitution of
spontaneous observation for free experiment; and the
1 This title is used with apologies to Mr. Stanley De Brath, who
employed it for a fuller discussion which he published several years
ago in book form.
269
270 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
extent to which this is proper, the modification It should
effect In scientific method and conclusion, even the
question whether It does not wholly bar serious proof,
remain in open controversy. Decision whether and
when we should pass from mere accumulation of data
to attempts at judging the significance of the data
already accumulated is differently rendered according
to the attitude taken on matters of occurrence and of
proof. And when we do try to interpret the phe-
nomena, we find rival hypotheses In whose behalf there
exists the extreme of emotional partisanship.
Yet these phenomena have always occurred and pre-
sumably always will. It Is by no means an unduly
anthropocentric viewpoint to say that no picture of
the universe which ignores them can be complete. De-
spite their present difficulties, we must do our best to
deal with them.
This paper makes no attempt to deal with them in
any large or general way. I seek merely to clarify a
single important issue, out of the many to which the
field gives rise. In doing this, I confine myself to cer-
tain of the phenomena which possess a particular com-
mon denominator, and in large measure I confine my-
self to that denominator. I shall start by asking the
reader to accompany me into a typical seance-room;
and If what I say about the proceedings here overlaps
your previous knowledge, you will bear with me and
appreciate that precise formulation of known funda-
mentals Is often profitable.
This is not a commercial seance that we are to at-
tend, though probably the medium Is a professional;
even a medium must eat! Every effort is made to
J. MALCOLM BIRD 271
eliminate emotion, maintain proper procedure, and
preserve the attitude of serious inquiry. The only
specific move in this direction which I need mention
here Is the presence of a stenographer, assuring an
accurate and permanent record of all that is said and
done.
There will of course be more or less of darkness,
of soft music, of the atmosphere of relaxation and
ease. These conditions are not necessarily in conflict
with the purpose of serious inquiry, and they are those
best calculated to produce the fixation of sensory at-
tention and the passivity of conscious cerebration on
which hypnosis depends. The sitters ignore these con-
ditions and are practised in ignoring them; the medium
submits to them and is practised in this submission.
Under their Influence, he goes through a process known
to him as that of entering trance. Whatever Its ulti-
mate facts, this process necessarily has its physiological
and psychological sides, and on both these grounds we
readily recognize it as a mere matter of auto-hypnosis.
With the entranced medium this reaches a degree
where the subject's normal consciousness quite evapo-
rates, and he undergoes a definite alteration or disso-
ciation of personality.
Thus, when the medium is "fully in trance"—when
the alteration of personality is complete—there begin
to function. In one way or another, personalities of
quite definite character, and other than his normal
self. These claim to be deceased friends of the sitters,
who purport to be able thus to enter, for a time, Into
the medium's physical and mental organism and to
use it for their own purposes. One after another
these come into full apparent possession of the me-
272 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
dium's vacated shell, conversing freely with their sit-
ters, gesturing, rising and moving about at will, play-
ing or singing or versifying or doing anything else
that is in order—behaving in all respects like substan-
tially independent and fully developed entitles.
So far as this description goes, of course, it might
all be a matter of play-acting and masquerade, con-
scious or subconscious. But the fact that anybody
takes it at all seriously suggests that there may be
more to it than that. The bald facts are that in case
after case, the communicators give evidence of per-
sonal Identity that would be taken seriously in any
court of law. Inasmuch as by the circumstances they
are debarred from offering the physical evidences upon
which identification ordinarily rests, it Is plain that
they must fall back upon the evidence afforded by their
mental content. Even in strictly mundane matters,
this is what a claimant does when the lapse of years
has made physical identification impossible.
Now it is a fact that my mental content Is unique
to me. Nobody else in the world has a totality of
knowledge that coincides with mine. Any other indi-
vidual will know more in some directions than I do,
and less in others. The personal equation will reach
furthest in matters of personal past but it will be
present to some degree at every point. Presumably
if there were any way of controlling the data, I could
Identify myself absolutely by displaying my mental
content. Practically it would take me too long to do
this and it would be well-nigh impossible to handle the
situation. For who but myself is to say just what I
do and do not know? Who is to judge me if I seek
to use this means of establishing my Identity?
J. MALCOLM BIRD 273
In the seance-room, of course, the situation is met
by a series of compromises and approximations.
When the communicator talks on a certain subject,
most of what he says is known to the sitter or at least
subject to check. No attempt Is or can be made to
exhaust his mental content, to get him to tell every-
thing he knows. The skillful communicator seeks
only to recall to the sitter isolated trivialities, a com-
paratively small number of which would be sufficient
to Indicate that only the person he claims to be could
within any reasonable probability know them all.
Practically, of course, there is extreme difficulty In
establishing a really compelling presumption that the
particular items which he adduces are not just those
particular ones which the medium, by extensive dig-
ging and delving, has been able to learn. Practically
the controlling element here Is usually the approxi-
mate proof that the sitter was a complete stranger
who could not have been anticipated. Practically,
too, these details are for the researcher to worry
about and deal with.
I may construct two fictitious but thoroughly typical
examples to show how It all works. Suppose I receive
a long communication In the name of Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle. He reminds me of small details In our joint
seances of 1923, our passage on the Olympic, our con-
tacts In New York and Chicago and Toledo and Loon
Lake. He speaks of a certain snapshot taken at Crow-
borough, showing him and his sons and myself engaged
in the highly un-English pastime of one-old-cat. He
mentions details of letters exchanged between himself
and me, and both of us and Dr. Crandon (who like
Sir Arthur enjoys the vice of exhibiting, to third
274 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
parties, his letters sent and received). All this would
be exceedingly futile, and for obvious reasons.
The medium knows Sir Arthur by name and he prob-
ably knows me by sight as well as by name. Even
when sitting anonymously I must always assign heavy
weight to the possibility that I am recognised. Know-
ing us both, the facts common to us are largely public
property through Sir Arthur's and my writings and
through newspaper reports. In so far as they are not
thus published they are at least publicly ascertainable
by due inquiry. And I suppose every fake medium
in the world would know my face, know whether he
would exclude It if it ever appeared or whether he
would admit it, and would admit It only if prepared
to deal with It.
But suppose I arrange a sitting for you, Incognito,
and your grandfather purports to communicate. Both
he and you are unknown to general fame; and there
Is every presumption that you yourself are quite un-
known to the medium and your presence in his seance
therefore quite unanticipatable. The facts common to
you and your grandfather, if ascertainable at all by
the medium, would be available only as the result of a
long research.
Suppose, in the face of all this, your sol-disant
grandfather, speaking through the medium's mouth,
reminds you that he used to call you Nibs, and that
your name for him was Gee-Pops. He names half a
dozen of the family pets and gives details about them
and Indicates the order of their acquisition and loss.
He reminisces about your summers together at the
lodge and he gets nothing wrong. He mentions the
Green Chicken and all the other sitters think he is at
J. MALCOLM BIRD 275
a loss; but you know that he means that silly parrot
which looked so much like an old hen as to have ac-
quired this name. He refers to the lantern that got
broken when you and he were lost In the fog and re-
minds you that It still lies in the attic behind that vil-
lainous oil likeness of his own grandfather. He
laughs about the time the WIdder Madden's bees
swarmed on the frame of your bicycle so that you
had to walk to the post office. All these details, I
may say, are bona fide extracts from my own experi-
ence; I indulge in fiction only In bringing them all to-
gether for the single sitter and sitting. Under these
circumstances. If we can be reasonably sure of your
anonymity and of the medium's lack of any line on
you, here Is something which must be taken seriously.
And whether you like it or not, it happens to be a fact
that performance of this caliber Is a frequent occur-
rence. The files of any of the Psychical Research So-
cieties will reveal the material, and will support my
statement that in seeking to display an Ideal example,
I manufacture one only because the actual ones are
invariably too long and complicated for use In a paper
of the present type.
But you must not jump at the conclusion that It was
really your grandfather speaking. All you really know
is that statements of fact have been made through the
medium, which he could have acquired through no
normal means of cognition or guessing. You may feel
like asking, "If It wasn't Gee-Pops, who or what was
it?" And If you do, I shall Indicate what answer
might be given. But we have not got to that point.
For the moment, I must insist that all emphasis be
given, not to the alleged Identity of the communicator,
276 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
not to the fact of delivery or communication: rather
merely to the presence, in the medium's mouth, of
knowledge not normally his.
Before we indulge in any speculation as to how it
got there, let us have a further showing of data. The
seance which we have described was one of trance
message, and it represents a distinct type. Another
category is the clairvoyant reading. The setting is
about as for the full trance performance; if there is
any difference. It will lie in a less rigid enforcement
of the visibly auto-hypnoldal conditions. The clair-
voyant passes Into auto-hypnosis, but usually not of
such depth or obviousness as to constitute "trance."
His normal personality does not vacate; there Is
merely a subsidence of his conscious attention to the
real physical world and to the waking mental life.
This permits a hallucinatory condition In which the
subject has sense impressions that are real to him but
that do not correspond to any external physical stimu-
lus. They are hallucinatory by definition, and by the
same definition the condition permitting them Is auto-
hypnotic.
The content of these extraneous sense-impressions Is
exactly as though the subject were in sensory exposure
to a spirit world. His state of approximation to nor-
mal consciousness enables him to report In full on
what he "sees" and "hears" and "feels" and "smells"
—usually while the hallucination Is current, though
sometimes only after it Is passed. When he renders
this report, the evidence that he has been In touch
with your deceased friends Is of precisely the same
sort and power as that obtained through the trance
J. MALCOLM BIRD 277
medium. Which is to say, his descriptions of them are
correct and his accounts of what they said are factual
and in character. Through him, in another way and
by another operating technique than with the trance
medium but none the less adequately, there has been
delivered knowledge not normally his.
Now I have purposely selected extreme types of
pure trance and pure clairvoyance for the preceding
descriptions. Absolute purity of type however seldom
occurs. Thus, in trance, there often functions a single
dominating "spirit" personality who runs the seance,
permitting individual communicators to speak now and
again when he vacates in their behalf his position of
control of the medium's organism. Often, when this
Is the picture, this control personality works with some
of the communicators just as does the clairvoyant
—
describing and quoting Instead of giving them access
to the Instrument. Equally, the clairvoyant will suffer
lapses Into a deeper trance. In which some "communi-
cator" speaks directly; or he may habitually employ
such full trance, reporting his visions and auditions In
his own person (to report through another person-
ality would make him a trance medium, under control)
while they occur or after he awakes. Again, the trance
medium will have lapses into a condition approximat-
ing consciousness and in these intervals may operate
after the clairvoyant model.
It Is necessary to recognize the two types, of trance
message and clairvoyance. It is not necessary to re-
gard the difference as more than a minor one of oper-
ating detail; in view of the shading between the types
and the impossibility of drawing a hard-and-fast line,
it is hardly even possible to do so. Both operators
278 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
give the prima fades of contact with a spirit world.
With both, if we are to question this prima facies, we
must give (a) a reason for so doing; (b) an alterna-
tive explanation; and {c) a thoroughly adequate ex-
planation of the spirit masquerade.
We approach these matters through a type of phe-
nomenon upon which the name psychometry has been
fastened by vicious usage plus the failure of anybody
to suggest another name that really "clicks." Super-
ficially It does not look much like the mediumistic
seances which we have described. The performance
centers not around a sitter at all but around a physical
object. Inasmuch as success means so much more
when got under conditions where there is nobody to
help the medium by saying "No" or being unrecep-
tlvely silent, we shall set up our hypothetical sitting
after that technique. We shall suppose that you have
wrapped, in such a way as completely to conceal its
character, a watch that belonged to your grandfather.
This you handed to me without telling me what it was
or anything about it. I have taken or sent it to the
psychometrist without knowing anything about it save
that it comes from you. He holds it in his hands.
Perhaps he stares fixedly at the package, evidently
using it as an artificial aid to auto-hypnosis; perhaps
he just holds it and lapses spontaneously into that
slight detachment of consciousness that permits hal-
lucination. Like the clairvoyant, he reports what he
"sees" and "hears." The stenographer sets it all
down, and when it is transcribed and submitted to you
it comj^Ises as good a prima facie case of contact with
facts from the past of your grandfather (and of the
J. MALCOLM BIRD 279
watch) as you would hope to get through direct mes-
sage medlumship.
But where the message and the clairvoyant reading
were got under striking prima facies of spirit action,
there is no such prima facies here. Instead the prima
facies is quite opposed to a spiritistic interpretation,
which would put your grandfather in metaphorical
chains to the watch, like Aladdin to the lamp. The
complications that would ensue if we took several of
his former possessions simultaneously to several psy-
chometrists are only the more obvious and amusing
barriers to believing this; the idea outlaws itself. The
process of psychometry carries with it no spiritoid
prima facies whatever and any attempt to inflict a
spiritistic philosophy upon it is absurd.
Nevertheless, there is a large common denomi-
nator between psychometry and spirit mediumship.
In both, an operator whose mental state is plainly one
of auto-hypnosis and submergence of the conscious
effects cognitions for which no explanation in terms of
ordinary scientific dogma is available. Shall we re-
gard this parallelism as essential; or shall we dismiss
it as an incident, and fix our attention on the prima
facie difference as the vital factor?
Scientific method has but one possible answer here.
Economy of hypothesis Is a scientific fetish. It is not
true that two different agencies may never produce
substantially identical results. It is however true that
when substantially Identical effects are produced, we
usually find the agencies to be Identical, or at worst,
different aspects of a larger common cause. It is true,
moreover, that no scientific mind can submit to the
280 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
parallel existence of two different causative factors
leading to similar results, until every means of com-
bining the two into a single hypothesis has been ex-
hausted. So the requirement (a) above is met with
the simple statement that scientific duty forces us to
question the spiritoid prima facies of trance medium-
ship and clairvoyance, by making an earnest attempt
to bring these under a single generalization with the
psychometry that is so like them in so many other
ways.
Further fortification for this viewpoint is got from
a type of psychical performance which I have not yet
cited. The crystal gazer, or scrier, has to have a sit-
ter; he has also to have an object. The object bears
no relation to the sitter; It is a mere crystal ball or
comparable something into which the scrier stares
fixedly as a means of getting sufficiently out of himself
to enter the hallucinatory stage of auto-hypnosis. The
things he sees in these hallucinations take usually the
form of pictures in the ball; they are indifferently of
spiritoid prima facies like the clairvoyant's visions, or
of non-spiritoid aspect as when he sees the sitter alone
re-enacting incidents out of his own past. Their per-
sistent common characteristic is that they pertain to
the sitter, and are true. That is, they constitute our
familiar common denominator of a cognition to which
the operator has no right by any normal process.
Especially when allowance is made for variation in
individual techniques and for the fact that numerous
spiritoid mediums can actually do psychometry, it must
appear that in scrying we have a true mean between
psychometry and the spiritoid types, and that a divid-
ing line will be drawn with difficulty or not at all. So
J. MALCOLM BIRD 281
the tendency to regard their parallelisms as funda-
mental and their diversions as not is strengthened.
We may then fairly say that we have good reason
to question the spiritoid prima facies. Have we any-
thing to offer in its place? Most certainly we have.
If we reason from the psychometrical prima facies,
we can readily formulate an alternative hypothesis.
We must remember that we speak in terms of broad
general philosophy, disclaiming all responsibility for
mechanistic details. In this sense, it is clear that what
psychometry needs for its rationalization is the fol-
lowing picture
:
We postulate a non-sensory cognition of some sort,
which works as a faculty of the operator himself, in
his own right. In its workings it transcends the ordi-
nary limitations of time and space, and equally it tran-
scends the limitations imposed upon hypothesis by
the present state of scientific knowledge. The com-
plete absence of conscious knowledge of how it works
or even of conscious knowledge that it is working
stamps it as a faculty of the subconscious mind-levels;
which checks up prettily with the observed fact that
the operator has to get more or less away from his
conscious self before the faculty will work at all. Evi-
dently the object which we present to the psychom-
etrist serves as a sort of catalyzer or psychic link:
a means whereby the psychical cognitive faculty is
first put into action, and then enabled to make contact
with facts pertaining to the object instead of ranging
idly over the entire universe of facts external to the
operator.
All this is of course pure hypothesis but it meets the
demands of the situation. When phenomena occur for
282 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
which no hypothesis exists we are at liberty to coin one.
Any one we coin is better than none at all; and of all
those we can coin, we retain the one that seems best
to serve. The present hypothesis evidently serves;
and if we now carry it back to the spiritoid medium-
ships, it suggests another extremely pertinent analogy.
Why may not the sitter for the spiritoid medium be
regarded as the direct equivalent of the psychometric
object: as the thing that galvanizes into action and
directs the course of the operator's cognitions? Under
the spiritistic interpretation he is just this; under a
non-spiritistic view he remains just this.
We shall have more to say about the non-spiritistic
scheme of interpretation for psychical cognitions in
general which we have just advanced, and we shall
have a little to add to it. For the present, even if we
remain Inclined to favor the spiritistic view, we must
grant that we have found reasons for questioning it,
and a substitute to take its place. We do not know
just how effective the substitute will be when we seek
to apply it to the more intensely spiritoid phenomena;
we do not know how successful we shall be in meeting
the third requirement, that of explaining the spiritoid
prima facies away on a non-spiritistic basis. We turn
to this question, the direct means of attack being an-
other typical phenomenon. This time, because of the
crucial character of the situation and because I have
a single pertinent and brief and self-contained experi-
ence of my own that illustrates the point, I use this
illustration, taking it intact just as it occurred.
The sitter was one even more demonstrably free
from all possible contact with the medium than is
usually the case. She did not now that the seance
J. MALCOLM BIRD 283
was to be held, until she was invited—barely in time
to get there; she did not know the time or place until
brought there; she was introduced to nobody; nobody
present save myself had ever seen her before.
By giving his own and her initials, a communicator
(it was a routine spiritoid seance) established that he
was seeking her. She asked, "Is it my father?" and
he corrected her; it was her father-in-law. The sitter
made no other remark to which objection could con-
ceivably be urged. The communicator gave details of
his personal appearance, including a little goatee that
his friends laughed at. He told the sitter that on the
preceding evening she had been at home, in her apart-
ment, alone. Here are three independent statements;
all are correct; for the first and last, as regards this
sitter, a high improbability would exist. She had been
washing some clothes in the bathroom basin (natural
enough, once she Is located at home and by herself;
but why not the kitchenette?) ; also some funny little
white things that he hadn't been able to identify (ac-
tually powder-puffs, lending extreme improbability).
And as he withdrew, he said unmistakably, "Give my
love to Lois," correcting a sitter who thought he had
said Louis. In fact his only grandchild was of this
name, Lois.
A very clean-cut, straightforward, simple, thor-
oughly satisfactory example of supernormal cognition,
this. It is particularly good in that assuredly not all
the data could have been got accidentally or obliquely
from a single source; the sitter's actions of last night
and the facts about the communicator are in distinct
categories here. But whatever evidence the incident
284 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
affords of a valid psychical faculty, it affords none for
spirit return or spirit identity; for the communicator
was alive at the time. The sitter, not much interested,
did not know this, and honestly overlooked the possi-
bility until later; hence she was able without deceit to
meet him during the seance in a natural way. Inci-
dentally, as "spirit" communicators invariably do
under any encouragement, he gave a detailed account
of his "last illness."
If an isolated case, this would be interesting—and
of debatable importance. One would wish to know on
what basis so much could be got right, and such a vital
element so completely and persistently wrong. When
we learn that of all our better-grade seance-room ma-
terial, a small but fairly constant percentage takes pre-
cisely this form of "communication" from a dead man
who turns out not to be dead, it is evident that we
have unearthed a fact of the gravest general import.
What becomes of the spirit hypothesis in the presence
of these "communicators" who are alive and do not
know it? For this fraction of the phenomena it must
be rejected. I think the well-balanced mind will re-
ject, with it, the conventional spiritistic plea that these
living communicators represent impersonation by mis-
chievous and evil spirits. Surely this is disingenuous
and silly! Impersonation is there, evidently; but,
bearing in mind the non-spiritistic explanation which
we have already formulated, not by spirits of any
sort.
For we have seen that the supernormal cognitive
faculty exercised by the psychical operator in his own
right and his own person must reside in the subcon-
scious. Now it is established that many of our dreams
J. MALCOLM BIRD 285
represent the fabric of fiction built up by the subcon-
scious, in Its insistence upon having an explanation for
some sense impression, received during sleep, and the
actual source of which It Is unable to observe. This
gives us a picture of the subconscious as unwilling to
tolerate a mystery; ingenious but not logical In its
search for explanations; and possessing a high instinct
for dramatization and play-acting. Picture such a
fraction of the ego at a moment of psychical cogni-
tion. Here is the sitter; here are data about him
which the mind must recognize as extraneous to nor-
mal modes of cognition and to anything which it is
entitled to know. An explanation must be had at all
costs; if none Is inherent one must be Improvised.
Perhaps the most natural and the easiest assumption
Is that the person from whom the data might most
readily have been got Is present and gave them. In a
sufficient number of cases to establish this explanation
as a habit, such person will be a deceased friend of
the sitter. In a sense this is preferable, since It is
easier for a spiritistically Inclined mind to conceive of
a spirit's presence than that of a living person whose
presence the senses deny. Once having invented this
explanation, the subconscious will Inevitably display a
strong trend toward actual dramatization; and the
degree to which the normal personality is submerged
and the subconscious is in control will dictate whether
a full speaking impersonation by the entranced me-
dium will be staged for the benefit of the sitters, or
merely a subjective Impersonation In hallucinatory
form to the medium himself. In the psychometrical
case, the object Itself suggests a vehicle for cognition
other than a spirit; the data are about It and are not
286 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
usually so readily put into the mouth of a single spirit;
and the subconscious is not so greatly in command so
that there is less necessity felt for an explanation at
all costs and less possibility of the spiritoid mas-
querade.
It will be noted that all this hypothesis is equally
valid whether the impersonated "communicator" be
actually alive or actually dead. The error of Imper-
sonating a living man as dead would occur only In
those cases where the facts not cognized include the
present status of this communicator. Inasmuch as the
cognitive faculty does not ever make anything ap-
proaching a complete canvass of the facts pertaining
to the sitter, this error would occur systematically.
The theory to which Its occurrence directs us Is gen-
eral and applies with full force to the entire body of
spiritoid cognitions.
In one important sense for which I must spare a
word, this theory Is preferable to its spiritistic alterna-
tive. It departs less violently from existing scientific
doctrine. True, it pictures a human faculty for which
existing orthodox doctrine leaves no place. But the
spirit hypothesis pictures a survived human person-
ality for which existing scientific orthodoxy can find no
place, for whose real existence It can find no locus and
no excuse. This Is much worse.
We have, then. In adequate outline, a self-consistent
non-spiritistic theory under which all the cognitive
phenomena of all types of mediums and psychics can
be rationalized, whatever their prima fades. It Is
clear that they cannot all be rationalized under a spirit-
istic hypothesis; the balanced spiritist admits this to-
J. MALCOLM BIRD 287
day, and clings to a duality of interpretation. Under
this, the fraction of the phenomena which cannot con-
veniently be attributed to spirits at all or cannot with
dignity be ascribed to spirits for whom you would
wish to hold any esteem, is charged off to a non-
spiritistic species of supernormal psychical cognition
by the medium himself—^just the thing we have been
driving toward here. This is combined, by the apolo-
getic spiritist himself, with the same notion of sub-
conscious masquerade by the operator as a spirit that
we have here set forth. Then the remaining fraction
of the phenomena is reserved for the spirits, in actual
truth.
This double scheme is contrary to the principle of
economy of hypothesis and we cannot accept it with-
out a lot of argument. Nevertheless it is not contrary
to the whole nature of things and we must not reject
it offhand. There are numerous arguments, some ex-
tremely cogent, which make it difficult to escape the
conclusion that in some of our mediumistic phenomena
the spirits of the dead are involved just as they claim
to be. I omit these arguments here only because they
are not a part of my central theme.
In common, I believe, with all other experienced
psychical researchers, I am persuaded to the point of
complete certainty that if we must have a single ex-
planation for all the cognitive phenomena in our field,
this will of necessity be a non-spiritistic one. But I
am far from persuaded that we must have a single
scheme. My thesis to this point is not directed against
the spirit hypothesis per se, but merely against its uni-
versal applicability; and against the propagandist no-
tion that it is the only theory that makes any sense or
288 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
is intrinsically worth talking about. For there can no
longer be any doubt that a large percentage of the
cognitive phenomena with which psychical research
deals are due to a strictly personal, non-spiritistic cog-
nitive faculty residing in the operator. Certainly we
find mediums who give us the strongest grounds for
suspecting that some of their communications are
genuine in the spiritistic sense, and who at other times
display also the non-spiritistic type of cognition. I
incline to believe that we even find the two types side
by side in the same seance, rather inextricably inter-
woven. Whatever we come to believe of the one type,
the other is a phenomenon of the operator alone—and
of the universe in which he lives.
This last clause is of the utmost importance, and in
fact brings me to the raison d'etre for my whole
paper, and particularly for its inclusion within the
present volume. Science—existing orthodox science,
still of the nineteenth-century breed because the modi-
fications which the twentieth century is effecting had
not yet been assigned their definite place in the struc-
ture of orthodox science, so that it was still possible
to attack these new theories under the pose of cham-
pionship of orthodoxy—existing orthodox science, I
say, has always turned thumbs down upon the whole
field of psychical research. This was for a very good
reason. The phenomena were regarded as explain-
able only in terms of a spiritistic hypothesis. Science
had a picture of the universe, and in that picture there
was no place for human survival or for a survived
human. It was not merely a canonistic negation to
deny these possibilities; it was an actual fact that under
J. MALCOLM BIRD 289
the system which was supposed to rule, and for which
no alternative could be conceived, these things really
could not occur. That was all there was to it.
Since this pronouncement was good science, how-
ever, a lot of things have happened. Most significant
of all, science has suffered a pretty fundamental over-
turn. Even If I had the space and the familiarity with
the details to write In full about this, no convincing
account could be given; for science itself does not yet
know clearly just what has happened. Science does
know that the old viewpoints and the old system are
grossly inadequate to give a picture of the universe as
it Is now revealed to us, especially at the two ends of
the scale. In the macrocosmic and the microcosmic
aspects. Science does know approximately In what
direction overhaul of the old notions must be sought.
But science itself is at a loss for a system of cosmic
philosophy which shall neither contradict itself nor fall
to find a place for all the things that science now
knows as a matter of empirical observation.
What can be stated with complete certainty Is this:
No longer does science maintain that all aspects of the
universe must be reducible to the classical categories
of matter and energy; no longer does It restrict the
concept of objective reality to these categories; no
longer does it draw a hard and fast dividing line be-
tween different types of reality and Insist that passage
from one to another Is not to be contemplated. All
departments of science are In accord in these ameliora-
tions of the harsh materialistic creed of the nineteenth
century. Physics and chemistry find evidence of the
non-material and non-energetic categories; mathemat-
ical physics and celestial mechanics release the concept
290 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
of objective reality from its old shackles; even biology
joins in by finding evidence that there is something
involved in the phenomenon of life beyond matter and
energy. And by way of indicating the extent to which
the newer thought varies from the old, no scientist
who has grasped the new principles would to-day as-
sert, as any nineteenth-century exponent of orthodoxy
would have, that action at a distance is unthinkable
through any other means than energy transmission
across space.
Some of my readers will recognize in these remarks
the reflections of the relativistic philosophy sponsored
by Einstein and those on whose work his is based; but
it will also be realized that the statements of the pre-
ceding paragraph require a wider base than that fur-
nished them by the relativistic doctrine. In point of
fact, the particular service of relativity is that It pro-
vides a conceptual framework In terms of which it be-
comes possible to think of the new universe which the
new science demands. The demand Itself, however,
and many of the details of the philosophy that will
finally meet it, arise out of pure physical experiment,
out of concrete discoveries that the real phenomena
of the universe will not be contained within the clas-
sical philosophy as it had been supposed they would.
In the absence of the relativity theories we should still
need a new universe, but we should be vastly more
baffled where to look for it.
Experimental science cries out for a new cosmic phi-
losophy, complaining that the old one Is bankrupt.
Relativity offers to meet the demand. It Is more than
mere coincidence that psychical research steps in here,
presenting a wide phenomenology, a complete hy-
J. MALCOLM BIRD 291
pothesis covering this so far as broad philosophical
outlines are concerned, and the strong suggestion that
if science will but examine the matter, both the phe-
nomena and the philosophy covering them will be
found precisely in line with the new ideas toward which
science is verging. The more closely we scrutinize this
correspondence the more must we become convinced
that it is a significant one; that the phenomena of
psychical research, when rationalized as a matter of
non-mediumistic cognition by the operator, are truly
phenomena of the new universe that science is discov-
ering; that when this universe has been more fully
drawn in, we shall have at least a beginning of the
mechanistic explanation for our supernormal cogni-
tions which has been so conspicuously lacking in what
I have said to this point.
One or two important angles have not been touched.
The relativistic philosophy presents time in a new
light, and pictures the future as having a real exist-
ence in some part co-extensive with the present. If
we are to take this seriously as corresponding to
reality, we must anticipate that any cognitive process
which operates in the relativistic milieu will to some
degree project itself into the future and bring back
observations thereof. Psychical research responds at
once, meeting this demand. Every branch of psychical
cognition includes brilliant examples of reading of the
future, inexplicable on any other basis than a rela-
tivistic one, and on precisely the scale which relativity
would lead us to expect.
Again : psychology recognizes subnormal and hyper-
normal subjects. These it does not characterize as
292 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
abnormal. Abnormality will be severely defined in
accordance with the following argument: Paderewski,
brilliant example of musical genius, is hypernormal but
not abnormal. The abnormal person, in the musical
sense, is the one who has music left out of his make-up;
who, if you strike the note C, then G, cannot recog-
nize that there is a difference in pitch. On this basis,
we cannot regard the possessor of psychical cognitive
faculties as abnormal; he can only be looked upon as
hypernormal, as possessing something which in some
degree we all possess. In him the faculty is exagger-
ated and in most of us it is so minimized as to rise to
the surface—we may not say never, we must content
ourselves with saying seldom. If this viewpoint is not
valid, psychology is reduced to confusion; if it is valid,
the cognitions which are made by psychically gifted
persons more or less as a matter of routine, should
occur spontaneously, every once in a great while,
through normal persons. Psychical research presents
a variety of evidence indicating that they do just this;
that even when awake many of us are occasionally
susceptible to psychic cognition, and that when we are
asleep, with consciousness suspended and the subcon-
scious holding the gate, in the closest approach to
auto-hypnosis and submergence of personality that a
normal person normally attains, we are particularly
liable to a considerable concentration of psychical cog-
nitions, particularly of the future.
I think it rather probable that ultimately we shall
decide that some of the phenomena of psychical re-
search are best covered by a spiritistic hypothesis,
which must then subsist side-by-side with the psycho-
logical one to which I have given most of my space.
J. MALCOLM BIRD 293
If so, then we shall have to have a philosophy of bio-
logical life which gives the human animal something
to survive with, a universe which gives us a place to
survive into, and a covering of cosmic philosophy that
recognizes all this as an aspect of reality. If the neces-
sity arises it will be met, and in that event we shall be
able in obvious truth to say that science and religion
have come together.
But failing this extreme, it remains true that science
and religion are coming together and that their meet-
ing ground to a large degree is that supplied by psy-
chical research. Such a rapprochement calls for a
contribution by both sides. Religion must contribute
by losing some of its extremes of doctrlnarianlsm.
Science's contribution must consist mainly in a reces-
sion from the hard-boiled materialistic shell into which
nineteenth-century science crept and in which it im-
prisoned itself. I know nothing which gives a stronger
impetus toward such recession than the phenomena of
psychical research, the non-spiritistic explanation for
these which I have outlined, and the degree to which
this falls in step with the trend of thought in other
fields of science. The relativistic philosophy arose in
the first instance as a pure mathematical exercise; the
break-down of hard-boiled materialism began in the
attempt to explain certain anomalous experiments in
physics and chemistry and biology. Psychical research
and Its phenomena however at the moment represent
the largest and most fruitful field for the exploitation
of the newer philosophies. Through the circumstance
that it has up to this moment gone its way largely
without official scientific recognition, psychical research
has as yet made hardly any of what a historian would
294 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
recognize as actual contribution toward breaking down
the materialistic shell or toward the actual reconcila-
tion between science and religion. But its phenomena
and their philosophy stand exactly at the crossroads
where science and religion must meet, and they are
completely symptomatic of the relativistic and non-
materialistic universe in which that crossroads must lie.
CONCLUSION
WHATEVER ideas readers of the foregoing
opinions may have formed, they will con-
clude that the quests of the writers for
truth, if not for the Absolute, were worthwhile ones;
and that, though they may have differed on incidentals
they agreed with striking consistency on the essentials.
Science does not make conclusive statements, though
in view of its methods, apparatus and mental equip-
ment it is as well or better qualified to speak with au-
thority than religion. That it does not do so is the re-
sult of habits of caution long since formed. The mills
of research grind slowly, but perhaps in the end they
turn out better grist. In other words, while many
people accept the statements of religion with mental
reservations, they place no such restrictions on the con-
clusions of science. When science says, if it ever does,
that it has found Ultimate Reality, people will believe
it, just as they believe the scientific interpretation of
planetary motion, and of the composition of the sun.
In brief, orthodox religion does not and cannot speak
with authority, though it continues, despite a failing
influence, to make ex-cathedra claims. It cannot pre-
sent that sort of proof which thoughtful persons to-day
require.
We can only repeat what we said in the Introduc-
tion, and which following statements sustained, namely,
that religion's chief business is development of charac-
ter, a human duty than which there is no greater.
295
296 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Discovery and estimate of Cosmic Purpose—call it
God if you wish—is peculiarly the task of science.
Every one of us, of course, should seek after God if
"haply we might find Him." That Is a necessary
spiritual exercise for every man every day. But no re-
ligious creed has the shadow of a right to impose on us
a formula for that search. We think men of science
from Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, Faraday and on
down the list of great minds and souls, have realized
this truth more or less clearly. But, true to their call-
ing, perhaps their prejudices, they have not felt quali-
fied to undertake the quest of the First Cause, leaving
the quest, too often with tongue in cheek, to religion.
Contemporary science, as the foregoing has revealed,
is not sure that that attitude was either fair or justified.
And surely the attitude of research is rapidly chang-
ing In that particular. The day Is coming when re-
search will learn that it Is not only responsible for dis-
covery of a fact, but for explanation of the origin and
reason for that fact. Scientific opinion has travailed
until now; and Is bringing forth one of the finest,
noblest forms of life ever conceived. Not In the his-
tory of human thinking have we been so near sight and
touch of Eternal Realities : They seem all but breaking
on us in aspects of grandeur and beneficence.
The conclusion of some of the best scientific
minds civilization has produced, as stated In this dis-
cussion, proving that we are not living In a mechanistic
dispensation, but In a universe of order and design re-
sponding perfectly to the nicety of mathematical law,
and of beneficent purpose also, Is not only one of the
most Important facts that confronts us—It Is the most
Important. It may be the human appeal of Huxley,
CONCLUSION 297
the mysticism of Eddington, the reverence of Mather,
the convictions of Millikan, or the simple faith
of Einstein. Whatever Its form it is sending men's
minds rapidly forward to behef in the "vision splen-
did," to reverence before the splendor of Eternal Real-
ity. And all this may be a prelude to one of the most
productive, noblest ages humanity has yet known. Nor
are we to forget that religion laid the groundwork in
faith and inspiration.
Men need to be convinced of the reality of God.
They need conclusive proof that when the pulse stops
and respiration ceases that does not mean a stopping
of personality. Men who do not believe these things
are In distress, of course; because all the ills flesh is
heir to are without explanation. The result is rebel-
lion and desperation; and justifiably so, unless one can
look with confidence beyond this three-dimensional ex-
perience, where reactionary theological dogmas, and
dogmas of the cynics too, would confine us.
Scientific discovery and application is reconstructing
the world. Research always has had a determining
effect on religion; but In no time as at the present time.
It is true, as many men of science declare, that physical
science cannot prove the distinctive beliefs of religion.
In no part of this book has the position been taken that
they could, assuming that these distinctive beliefs are
the principles announced by the Beatitudes and the Ser-
mon on the Mount, and the wisdom of Buddha also.
But science may, and probably Is, proving a cosmic con-
sciousness, and demonstrating survival of personality.
The only thing you need to understand is our distinc-
tion between the function of science and the function
of religion.
298 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Scientific theory is giving us a plausible idea of a
universal mind, something religion has not given us.
Research, in the last few years, has conferred on reli-
gion a dignity, a richness, an expanse it never had be-
fore. For those religionists who have ears to hear and
minds to comprehend, these new discoveries will touch
their faith with an unexampled sublimity. Together;
science with its knowledge, philosophy with its Inter-
pretation, and religion with its faith, may prove that,
after all, eternal purpose is eternal goodness.
We are closer to the First Cause, and the purpose
back of creation, than we ever have been. The door is
ajar. It will swing back when all of us, philosophers,
scientists and religionists, submerge our prejudices in
a universal desire to know the truth.
INDEX
INDEX
Abnormality, 292
Absolute, the, 4
Abstract principles, 107
Action-at-a-distance, 244, 290
Adaptive behavior, 127
Adaptiveness, 173
Agnosticism, 70
Akhenaton's psalm, 64
Ampere, Andre Marie, 198
Animals, moral qualities, 151
;
soul, 196; immortality, 261,
266; consciousness, 264
Anthropomorphism, 99
Aquinas, Thomas, Saint, 228
Aristotle, 107, 130, 264
Arnold, Doctor, 104
Art and science, 205
Aspirations influence the course
of events, 9
Astronomy, universe of, 191, 221,
234
Atheism, trend, 88
Atomic Theories, modern, 67
Atonement, philosophy of, 234
Augustine, Saint, 228
Auto-hypnosis, 271, 276, 280
Awareness, 124. See also Con-
sciousness
Bacon, Francis, 164
Bagehot, Walter, 163
Barnes, Harry Elmer, 226
Beauty, man's response to, 156;
an urge to scientists, 206
Behavior, 4; of animals and
plants, 7; ethical, loi
Behaviorism, misconceptions of,
121 ; a method of study, 125
Behaviorist psychology, 121-39
Behaviorists, radical,- 123
Bell, message of the, 187
Bergson, Henri, 138
Berkeley, George, 246 ;
quoted,
245
Bible, 108, 211; a divine revela-
tion, 78; creation story, n8,
222, 228
301
Biologists, insight concerning
creative energy, 7 ; religion, 77-
89; inability to explain con-
sciousness, 257
Biology, conflicts over teachings
of, 78 ; verifiable resident
factors, 179
Bird, J. Malcolm, 250, 268-94
Body, relation of soul and, 128;
evolution of, 208; cells, 261,
262
Bohr, 49
Bohr's atomic theory, 68
Brain, evolution of, greater than
present need, 156
Bryan, William J., 34
Buck, Edmund, 152
Buddhism, cosmic element in, 100
Burroughs, John, 138
Capacities, human, 112; support-
ing theistic hypothesis, 149, 152,
154
Carnot, Nicolas L. S., 200
Cells of the body, 261, 262
Chance, 88, 137
Change in ideas, 108
Chaotic signals, 193
Chesterton, Gilbert K., quoted, 60
Christ. See Jesus
Christian philosophy of Einstein,
92
Christianity, scale of values, 18;
and science, 21-39; essentials,
23 ; knowledge of spiritual
forces, 199. See also Religion
Church, early functions of, 109;
a social co-ordinator, 186;
modern, 235 ;
program of wor-
ship, 236
Churches, influence of American,
2.^
Circulation of matter, 162
Civilization, western, influence of
Christianity upon, 27
Clairvoyance, 276, 280
Clifford, W. K., quoted, 213
302 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Cognitive phenomena, 284, 287,
291, 292
Communal life, 261
Communication, telepathic, 153
Conklin, Edwin G., 56, 76-89
Consciousness, 7, 146, 263 ;
prop-
erties of, attributes of world-
stuff, III ; behaviorists' rejec-
tion of the word, 124; cosmos
of, 194; man an expression of,
224; inability to explain, 257.
See also Mind
Conservation of energy, i6i, 162
Conservation of matter, 161
Conservatism, 77
Co-ordination, creative, 183-87,
192, 199
Co-ordinators, social, 186
Copernicus, 161, 164, 210, 211,
212, 228, 296
Cosmic energy. See Energy, cos-
mic
Cosmic religious sense, 99
Cosmogony, 219; and theology,
78 ; of science, 79. See also
Creation
Cosmos, 184, 198; social, 186,
198; of consciousness, 194
Crandon, Doctor, 273
Creation an act of thought, 248
"Creation by Evolution," 173
Creation story, 118, 222, 228, 229
Creative co-ordination, 183-87,
192, 199
Creative human soul, 183-202
Creative purpose. See Divine
purpose
Creator, 248 ; scientists' terms for,
138; a mathematician, 242, 243.
See also God
Credal changes, 63
Creed, 236
Crookes, Sir William, quoted, 250
Crystal gazing, 280
Crystals, 7
Curtis, Heber D., 51-74
Darwin, Charles, 113, 121, 134,
163, 164, 173, 176, 228; quoted,
35
Darwinism. See Evolution
De Brath, Stanley, 269 n.
Deductive reason, 107
Degeneracy follows violence, 95
Deity. See God
Democritus, 100
Description the aim of science,
168, 175
Descriptive naturalism, 178
Desire, repudiation of, 107
Despair, philosophy of, 81
Divine Artificer, 173
Divine purpose, 169, 173, 175, 177,
.179.
Divinity. See God
Dogmatists, religious, 34
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 273
Dreiser, Theodore, 226
Dualism, psychological, 128
Duty, 24
Dynamical sciences, 200
Eddington, Arthur S., 41-49, 71,
297; quoted, 72
Edwards, Jonathan, 60
Einstein, Albert, 49, 92-102, 174,
200, 233, 290, 297
Electrical flux, 194
Electrical pulses, 188, 190, 193
Electromagnetic phenomenon,
light on, 189
Electromagnetic vibrations, 164
Emotion, repudiation of, 107
Emotions, religious, 105, 149
;
neutrality of science in regard
to, 115
Energy, 6, 7, iii, 174, 248; trans-
formation of, 4; consciousness
an expression of, 7 ; conserva-
tion, 161, 162; indestructibility,
260
Euclid, 49
Evolution, 8, no, 129, 133, 134,
163, 177; history of, 9; proc-
esses of, II, 15; man's part in
scheme of, 35, 112; not to
blame for pessimism, 85; recent
theories, 129-33 ; represents
progress and growth, 133, 139;
mental activity a factor in, 147;
evolution-idea, 173; God as
author of, 176; "big lifts" in,
179
Experience, reference back to,
107; handling of, 114; rational
and non-rational in, 151 n.
INDEX 303
Experiences, and facts the only
reality, 5; mystic, 152
Fact, treatment of questions of,
Facts and experiences the only
reality, 5
Faith, loss of, 80; causes of loss,
87
Faraday, Michael, 35, 162, 194,
198, 296
Fear, religion of, 98 ; transforma-
tion into moral religion, 99
Feeling, and longing, as motive
force, 97 ; a pathway towards
reality, 165
First Cause, 57, 67, 70; nearness
to, 298. See also God
Form, 130
Francis of Assisi, 100
Franklin, Benjamin, 35
Free thinkers, 220
Free will, heredity, and environ-
ment, 87
Freedom, of thought, 70; and re-
sponsibility, 87
Fundamentalism, 211, 220, 226;
conflict between modernism
and, 78
Future, of humanity on earth,
139; laws that refer to, 148;
co-extensive with present, 291
Future existence, 234; non-ma-
terial, 47. See also Survival
Galileo, 35, 113, 210, 211, 228, 296
Generalizations, error of, 39
Genesis, creation story, 118, 222,
228
Geologic life, development, 10
Geologists, insight concerning
creative energy, 7
Gesialt psychologists, 127
Gladstone, William E., quoted,
250
God, 28, 97; defined, 9; belief in
a higher power, 54; concept of,
becoming nobler, 64; supreme
mind, 66; and the universe, 69;
change in man's idea of, 71,
108 ; no scientific proof of, 88
;
social or moral conception of:
God of Providence, 99 ; a prod-
uct of human mind, 105 ;
psy-
chology and the thought of,
I43"58 ; how science changes
vision of, 161-80; man's idea
of, 170, 172; the summation of
powers, 174; as author of evo-
lution, 176; sound and light as
messages of, 188, 189, 192;
origin of belief in, 197; King-
dom of, on earth, 198; Chris-
tian belief, 200; history of
science a search for, 205-15; of
the fundamentalist, 212; evo-
lution of, 228, 229, 233; search
for, the task of science, 296;
need of belief in, 297. See also
Creator: First Cause: Nature:
Religion
Gravitation, 66, 161
Haeckel, Ernst, 35
Hallucinatory condition of me-
dium, 271, 276, 280
Heaven, 47
Heisenberg, 49, 231
Heredity, 77
Higher Power, belief in a, 54;
theory of a divine, probable, 71
Holland, J. S., quoted, 43
Holy, idea of the, 150
Human body, anatomical handi-
caps, 13
"Human nature cannot be
changed," 17
Human nature, more than me-
chanism, 258. See also Man
Huxley, Julian S., 104-18
Huxley, Thomas H., 104, 146
Hymnology, 236
Hypernormaiity, 291
Hypnosis. See Auto-hypnosis
Hypothesis, 57
Idealism and realism, 245
Ideals, effect of environment
upon, 16; altruistic, 24; Ein-
stein's, 94
Immorality, 25
Immortality, 47, 234. See also
Survival
Indeterminism, 231
Individual identity, 262; sur-
vival, 265
304 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Ingersoll, Robert, quoted, 83
Inheritance, control of, 112
Inorganic universe, 183
Intelligence, 128; in the universe,
224
Interpretation the aim of reli-
gion, 168
Intuitions, 266
James, William, 152
Jastrow, Joseph, quoted, 125
Jeans, Sir James, 219, 240-49
Jeffreys, 219
Jennings, H. S., 9
Jesus, 18, 23, 31; credentials, 24;
quoted, 191 ; spiritual dynamics,
199; life and teaching, 200
Johnson, Samuel, 246
Joule, James P., 161, 164
Kant, Immanuel, 151
Kepler, Johannes, 113, 210;
quoted, 206
Kingsley, Charles, 83 ;
quoted,
180
Kipling, Rudyard, quoted, 54
Knowledge, not complete and
final, 70; the raw material of
theology, 106; search for, 107
Known, the, changing boundaries
of, 38
Lactantius, 212
Lamarckian principle, 155, 156
Langdon-Davies, John, 204-15
Laplace, Pierre S. de., 256
Lavoisier, Antoine L., 161, 164
Laws, fundamental, ignorance of,
33
Laws of Nature, 10, 175
Leibnitz, Gottfried W. F. von,
210
Liebig, Justus von, 162
Life, 10, 56; ceaseless urge of,
13; possibilities for the enrich-
ment of, 35; trend of, on our
planet, no; capacity of pro-
gressive development, 118; per-
petual. See Survival
Light, what it is, 189
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 250, 252-66
Logic not an infallible guide to
truth, 82
Longing, as motive force, 97
Lotze, Rudolf H., 178
Love, as spiritual force, 200; the
dominating force, 259
McDougall, William, 142-58
Man, response to spiritual forces,
8 ; the child of geologic circum-
stances, 16; part in scheme of
evolution, 35; old theological
idea of, 71 ; here for the sake of
other men, 93 ; ethical behavior,
101; capacities: inheritance:
control of future, 112; a rela-
tive being: mind of, 113; theis-
tic beliefs natural to, 149;
moral development: reason,
151; response to beauty, 156;
mastery of natural forces, 165,
170; the crown of creation,
184; spirituality, 196; relation-
ships: progress, 198; overbelief,
213 ; an expression of con-
sciousness, 224; place in the
universe, 233; higher attributes,
258. See also Mind: Soul
Mark Twain, 57; quoted, 81
Mars, communicating with, 241
Mason, Frances, 173
Materialistic concept of universe,
289, 293, 296. See also Uni-
verse
Materialistic phenomena, 255, 256
Mathematical capacity, 155
Mathematical interpretation of
nature, 241
Mathematics, pure and applied,
242
Mather, A. E., 2
Mather, Kirtley F., 1-19, 297
Matter, transformation of, 4;
trend of the world of, no; not
like mind-stuff, 128 ; conserva-
tion of, 161; circulation of, 162;
present conception of, 230;
reality of, 246
Maxwell, James Clerk, 194, 198,
200
Mechanism, theory of pure, 73
;
transcended by evolution, 133;
physiological, 256, 258
Mechanistic theory of the uni-
verse. See Universe
INDEX 305
Mediums, spiritoid, 271, 276, 280,
286; psychometric, 278, 280,
286
Memory, 208
Mental ability, improvement in,
14
Mental activity, 146
Mental phenomena, 253, 269
Mental processes, 126
Mesozoic era, 13
Micah, quoted, 39; rule of reli-
gion, 64
Michell, Sir Peter Chalmers,
quoted, 247
Millikan, Robert A., 21-39, 165,
182, 297
Mind, more nearly omnipotent
than matter, 6 ; and personal-
ity) 74! alterations in ideas
about, 106; is relative, 113; be-
haviorist view of, 123, 136,
139; a totality of psychical
processes, 126, 135; not a func-
tion of brain, 127; is creative,
136; existence before evolution
of brain, 156; an aspect of
reality, 177; self-consistency,
248 ; transcends the organism,
257, 258. See also Conscious-
ness ; Soul
Modernism and fundamentalism,
conflict between, 78
Moral conduct, 24
Moral development, 151
Moral religion, 99
Moral values, neutrality of
science in regard to, 115
Morgan, Lloyd, 138
Moynihan, Sir Berkeley, 259
Mysterious, the, source of all true
art and science, 96
Mystic experiences, 152
Natural law, not responsible for
pessimism, 86
Natural laws, 175
Naturalism, descriptive, 178
Nature, laws of, not immutable,
10; purposes of, experimental,
12; possible to know and con-
trol: benevolence of, 35; mind
in, 146 ; mathematical interpre-
tation of, 241. See also God
Nature of the Physical World,
The, 41, 71 ; excerpt, 72
Newton, Sir Isaac, 49, 58, 113,
161, 164, 198, 210, 211, 228,
233, 256, 296
Newtonian dynamics, 195, 200
Numinous, feeling of the, 150
Organic evolution. See Evolution
Organic life, 183
Organism, mind transcends the,
257, 258
Organismic philosophy, 137
Organismic psychology, 137
Organization in the world move-
ment, 132, 137
Otto, Rudolf, Idea of the Holy,
150
Outlook, excerpt, 32
Paley, William, 173
Pasteur, Louis, 35
Patrick, George Thomas White,
120-39
Perfection, 107
Personal survival. 5"^^ Survival
Personality, 263 ; emergence of,
9; and mind, 74; survival, 265;
alteration of, 271, 276
Pessimism, 81
Phenomena, supernormal, 253,
269; materialistic, 255, 256
Philosophy, and science, 48 ; of
despair, 81; province of: con-
fusion of the realms of science
and, 144; cosmic, need of
science for, 290
Physical and spiritual realities,
198, 199
Physical phenomena, 30
Physical science, modern, relation
to religion, 51-74
Physical world, complexity of, 70
Physics, new relations in, 31 ; has
learned its lesson, 38
Physiological processes, 126, 256,
258
Plato, 137
Prayer, 153
Probability, law of, 62
Providence, God of, 99
Psychic reality. See Reality
Psychical research, 154, 250-94
306 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
Psychological dualism, 128
Psychological processes, 126
Psychology, behaviorist, 121-39;
and the thought of God, 143-58
Psychometry, 278, 280
Ptolemy, 49
Pupin, Michael, 182-202
Purpose. See Divine purpose
Race, development of the, 35
Radiant energies, 165
Radicalism, 77
Rationalism, not responsible for
pessimism, 83
Realism and idealism, 245
Reality, 4; pathways towards,
165; vision of, 169; belief in
spiritual, 171, 198, 200; mind
an aspect of, 177; conscious-
ness a, 194; contact between
physical and spiritual, 198,
199; human experiences, 232;
persistence of, 264; man's
nearer approach to, 296. See
also Truth
Realization, the world a process
of, 130
Reason, 151; and religion, 83
Relativistic philosophy, 290, 291,
293
Relativity, 58, 233, 290
Religion, must be rational, 6;
prerogative of, 17, 24; western,
26; in the United States: in-
fluence of, 27; contribution of
science to, 36; science chang-
ing; 37; relation of modern
physical science to, 51-74; defi-
nitions of, 54; not effected by
modern physical science, 63
;
universality of beliefs, 65; the
conservative element in society,
77 ; cosmogony and theology,
78; loss of faith, 80, 87; meet-
ing place of science and, 93-
102; of fear, 98, 99; Oriental,
principally moral religions, 99;
its persistence and human char-
acter, 104-18; religious emo-
tions, 105, 149; medieval
theology, 107 ; change in reli-
gious ideas: in current prac-
tices, 108 ; future of, 109
;
values set up by, 115; distinc-
tion between functions of
science and, 116, 295, 297;
acceptance of scientific knowl-
edge, 117; attitude of behavior-
ists towards, 125 ; functions of
science and philosophy in study
of, 145; aims: types of religious
activity, 169; the centre of,
171; science a thirst for, 210;
the overbelief of man, 213;
in a world remade by science,
219-37; traditional, 226; chang-
ing concept of Deity, 228, 229,
233; and psychical research,
269, 288, 294; distinctive be-
liefs, 297. See also Christian-
ity: Church: God: Reality:
Science and religion
Religious development, source of,
98
Research, new attitude of, 296
Responsibility and human free-
dom, 87
Revelation the intepretation of ex-
periences, 5
Reverence, 149
Ripon, Bishop of, 230
Rowland, Henry A., 82
Rutherford, 49, 162
St. Paul, quoted, 197, 201
Schopenhauer, Arthur, quoted,
Science, effective preaching of,
36; influencing and changing
religion, 37; learning to walk
humbly with God, 39; reverent
before cosmic wonder, 41-49;
and philosophy, 48; modern
physical, relation to religion,
51-74; and the formulation of
beliefs, 66; limited only by the
universe: always making specu-
lations, 70; the radical element
in society, 77 ; not responsible
for pessimism, 84 ; determinism
of, 86; meeting place of reli-
gion and, 93-102; accused of
undermining morals, loi ; effect
upon religious outlook, 107-13;
characteristic of scientific
method, 107, 114; change in
INDEX 307
scientific ideas, io8 ;
picture of
the universe, no; limitations
of: out to find laws and rules,
114; distinction between func-
tions of religion and, 116, 295,
297; of nineteenth century, 133,
288, 293 ; newer viewpoints,
i33> 289; confusion between
tasks of philosophy and, 144;
world made new by discoveries
of, 161 ; how it changes our
vision of God, 161-80; aims,
165, 168; defined, 167; unifi-
cations, 173; reveals orderli-
ness of nature, 175; a search
for God, 205-15; as poetry,
205 ; as autobiography, 208 ; re-
ligion in a world remade by,
219-37; and psychical research,
250, 269-94; argument for per-
sonal survival, 253-66; attitude
towards mental phenomena,
255; need of new cosmic
philosophy, 290; proving order
and design of universe, 296;
spiritual quests, 296, 297
Science and religion, conflict be-
tween, 78, 116, 118, 211,
225, 226, 232; adjustments,
116; difference of outlook,
118
Science in Search of God, 2
Scientific inference, 57
Scientific theory, a belief, 59
Scriptural books. See Bible
Scrying, 280
Seances, spiritoid, 270-78, 282;
psychometric, 278
Sermon on the Mount, 64
Sermons from stones, 1-19
Sex-impulse and beauty, 157
Shaw, George Bernard, quoted,
250
Social comity a directing force,
Social co-ordinators, i86
Social order, 15; concern for the
common good, 24, 27
Society for Psychical Research,
154
Soul, 123 ; a totality of psychical
processes, 122, 126; relation of
body and, 128; creative human,
183-202; does it act and react,
195; of man and animals, 196.
See also Mind
Sound, what it is, 187
Space. See Time and space
Speculation, 56, 57, 70; liberty
of, 67
Spencer, Herbert, 133, 212
Spinoza, Baruch, ico
Spirit, control over matter, 71
Spirit communication, 253, 271.
See also Psychical research
Spiritual forces, man's response
to, 8 ; in man and animals,
196; Christian testimony, 199
"Spiritual influxes," 179
Spiritual reality. See Reality
Spiritualism, 154, 250-94
Stars, light messages, 191
Stellar universe, 191, 221, 234
Stetson, Harlan T., 218-37
Stimuli, non-physical, 8
Subconscious, the, 284
Substantiality, 246
Sun, light from, 189
Sunset, 192
Supernormal phenomena, 253,
269, 284, 287, 291, 292
Supreme mind, 66
Survival, after death, 47, 97, 154,
234, 286, 288, 293, 297; of
mental activity, 147; scientific
argument for, 253-66; problems
to be solved, 260; grades of,
264
Teleological laws, 148
Telepathic communication, 153
Theistic belief, trend, 88; evi-
dences in support of, 143-58.
See also God
Theology, cosmogony and, 78.
See also Religion
Thomson, Sir J. Arthur, 160-80
Thought, laws of, 61 ; freedom of,
70; universe the result of,
241-49
Time, 291; and space, 47, 231,
233, 2+4, 248
Tradition, religion based on,
226
Trance mediumship, 271, 280
Truth, 5, 31, 38; logic not an in-
308 HAS SCIENCE DISCOVERED GOD?
fallible guide to, 82. See also
Reality
Tyndall, John, 132
Unbelief, causes of, 87
Uncertainty, laws of, 62
Universe, material, an expression
of mentality, 6 ; mechanistic
theory of the, 41, 121, 138;
structure of the, 56; four-di-
mensional basis, 67; theories of
an infinite, 69, 70; purpose and
development in, 74; plan, i
picture which science draws
110; stellar, 191, 221, 234
present spiritual view of, 230
289, 296; beyond matter, 232
man's place in, 233; a great
thought, 241-49. See also God
Unpardonable sin, the, 25
Unseen world, 43
Values, of science, 114; of reli-
gion, 115; consideration of, the
concern of philosophy, 144
Variation, 77
Violence and degeneracy, 95
Wallace, Alfred Russel, 179
War, Einstein's abhorrence of,
92, 96
Watts, Isaac, quoted, 84
Wave packets, 128
Will. See Free will
World, complexity of physical,
70; a process of realization,
130
World-stuflF, III
Worship, 150, 197; church forms
of, 236
