{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__ashdown___the_ashkir-jobson_trianion.pdf","mytitle":"The Ashkir-jobson Trianion","mylang":"de"}
A Review of the work and aspirations of
THE
ASHKIR-JOBSON
TRIANION
- - and some reflections by - -
Mr. A. J. ASHDOWN
(Technical Adviser to the Trianion ; Wmner of Premier A w;ud at the
first International Exhibition of Inventions)
TEL : OHISWICK 6 119.
''BIRDS NEST",
10 BLENHEIM ROAD.
All communications should be addressed to the. Hon. Secretary :
MIS . F . ERM E N
BEDFORD PARK,
LONDON, W.4,
1 will proceed to do a marvellous work
among this people, even a marvellous work
and a wonder : for th~ wisdom of their
wise men shall per1:sh, and the understanding
.of their prudent men shall be hid.
I SAIAH xxrx; v. 14.
l ~-
FOREWORD.
(by MISS ESTELLE w. STEAD)
S
OME years ago I read an article in a provincial paper des-
cribing results obtained through a mechanical means of
communication called the Reflectograph, for which wonderful
things were claimed. I was interested, but, I confess, rather
sceptical. At a sitting a few days later, my father told me that he
had been with me as I read the article and it was he who had
impres ed me to read it. He and many others, he said, in the
Spirit World had been helping to bring this invention through to
our side and they hoped it might be the foundation for great progress
along this particular line of research. He asked me to get in touch
with Mr. Kirkby and find out more about it.
I wrote Mr. Kirkby and he replied saying father had manifested
in their circle, that he had expres ed his keen interest, and had
promised his support and help in the work that Mr. Jobson and his
band of workers on both sides were doing to perfect a mechanical
means of communication. \Vhat they have achieved and are doing
told in this little booklet.
Since Mr. Kirkby and Mrs. Singleton moved to London I have
had the great privilege of being present at several of the test and
experimental sittings carried on in connection with the work. I
am now quite conversant with the Reflectograph; have seen it
worked many times, and have received convincing messages
through it.
I have seen the filmy cloud of ectoplasm issuing from Mrs.
Singleton, sitting in deep trance. Have watched it develop into
a rod and gradually form into a beautiful hand and arm. I have
watched the fingers of this hand pressing the keys of the Reflecto-
graph and seen the corresponding letters flashed up on the screen.
I have held the hand in mine, and at the same time have seen both
Mrs. Singleton's hands tightly bound to the arms of her chair.
3
As to this latest wonderful development- The Communigraph,
as it is called-I have watched this built up step by step from the
crude little model of some months ago into the beautiful instrument
perfected to-day. I have listened to Mr. J obson's voice giving
instructions and directions through Mrs. Singleton in trance; at
times admonishing, but generally encouraging the workers on this
side to carry on, and assuring them what they are attempting will
be accomplished.
Although the Communigraph is only in its infancy, and the
bands on both sides are still working steadily for further improve-
ment, definite proof has already been given that it can be worked
in the manner claimed- that is through the power given off by an
ordinary " family" circle. For those who understand, it is un-
necessary to tate that thi is not likely to be achieved at the first
sitting-nor, perhaps, at the eighth or twentieth-but it has
definitely been proved that, with time and patience, a group of
sympathetic, sincere sitters, meeting in harmony and love, will see
the letters fl.ashing on the table-screen, and in this way can receive
messages from their loved ones in the Beyond, and convincing proof
of communication.
It is imp?ssible to say if there is a great future for these inst~·u­
ments, but if love, self-sacrifice, faith, courage m overcommg
difficulties, the close co-operation of workers on both sides of the
yeil, mean anfthing-and we know these things mean a great deal,
1f not everything-then the power and Jove united to create these
instruments should show wonderful result in bringing comfort to
sorrowing humanity and giving to the earnest seeker very definite
proof of the wonders of the great Laws of Nature.
I will conclude with words spoken by Sir Arthur Cunan Doyle,
who before his passing had very definite proof of the value ~~ ~he
Reflectograph and expected great things to result from it. \~ ntmg
of the progress being made in Psychic Research he said :-
"A tremendous new vista of knowledge will open shortly t.o
the human race which will finally break down its apathy, and it
will be accompanied with such striking mechanical proof that
the "last ditchers" will be unable any longer to deny the truths
which we Spiritualists have been preaching for all these years."
Well-Tin1e will prove !
4
E. W.STEAD.
lst June, 1931.
PART I
A
BEAM of curious silvery light stabbing into the gloom of a
sanctuary illumined by the ruby glow of its solitary lan1p.
A bundle of rays,-sometinles firm and well defined, then
subdued and evasive to the sight- like the oblique hafts of
the evening sun striking from behind the clouds in a distant land-
scape. Thus appeared the fir t visible psychic rod- feeling its way
slowly forward, from side to side, tentatively reaching out for the
keys of that strange machine- the outcome of the compact. A ray
of what appeared to be light-yet was not light. Shimmering.-
delicate; a simple sight, yet more wonderful than all the wonders of
the world. A ight pregnant with meaning and revelation! The
:first obstacle had been successfully negotiated by hard work,
self-sacrificing endeavour, and constant training of human
workers, linked up with the great self-inlposed mission of their
spiritual colleague; all striving together with spirit guides drawn
from many races of the earth,-impelled and supported by the
Christ pirit of the Great Master who shall reign until he hath
"put all enemies under hi feet; even unto that last enemy, which
is death." It had taken long to find the right units who were of the
requisite calibre to augment the original little band of explorers
under George J obson. Those having scientific quality are generally
found to be profoundly ignorant of the delicate conditions entailed,
and of sympathetic understanding. Psychic investigation which is
to make headway requires modern knowledge and appliances; but
it needs most of all disciplined workers, taught to examine, meditate,
absorb, a inlilate, and pray: Then shall "all the e things be adde?,"
-even (who knows?). in some new era of research, the scientific
phy ico-chemical interpretation which, like the mystery .of life,
is one of the trees around which man cannot yet stretch ht arms.
No.effort of scientist or explorer could produce the strange .power
which work the Reflectograph to-day. Faith, and properly. directed
knowledge pre sing forward in quiet and expectant 111tens1ty: that
is all we human workers can contribute in the production of the
necessary power. The re t must be left to guides inspired by the
unseen brotherhood who have more complete knowledge and insight
than earthly man: made lower than the angels that, in Go.d's goo.d
time, he might be crowned with glory and might. How difficult is it
to tongue adequately the story of the wonderful development of
The J obson-B.K.K. Reflectograph; of bow the ectoplasD'.ic rod slow-
ly took form and evolved into the materialised hand which can now
be seen and examined by all itters. On many occasions both hands
have formed, and the face materiali ed- from which have come
messages spoken to the sitters. Here, indeed, is proof most perfect
6
of the greatest tidings ever made known to mankind; evidence more
trenchant and vital to re-belief in religion and God, in a modern
world, than all the beautiful sem1ons that ever rang within a cathe-
dral's walls. Here is the clarion caU to all men- believers or un-
believers! \.Vithin the narrow compas· of the acorn lie ecreted all
the rudiments of the mighty oak. Here in the Reflectograph and
Communigraph might be that which presages a great new \<\Torld-
wisdom. Spiritualistic phenomena is not new, but the tru th to
which it is the threshold have always been fiercely opposed. Human
ignorance has ever decried hardly won truths, and, to a large
section of mankind in all ages, lack of knowledge has never acted as
any deterrent in the matter of criticising and condemning that
which it has neither the ability nor the appetite for studiously
investigating. upon such obstinate minds the waves of truth will
ever beat in vain; nor can they fathom the simple word of the
Master:- "Except ye become as little children." More tolerant and
comprehensible are those honest, mistaken critic who turn the cold
light of "rationalism"(as it is miscalled) on all Spiritualistic evidence,
endeavouring to explain away its forms of mediumship and phe-
nomena as products of some my terious strata of the human mind
explainable only in a technical jargon with which ordinary people
are not famil.iar; but these explanations (only partly admi ible
since U1e advent of The Reftectograph) have completely disinteg-
rated, and become untenable, in the face of the powerful evidence
given with the Communigraph . This wonderful instrument of
George Jobson's mind seems almost to form the missing link between
the subliminal products of the medium's own mental provinces and
the mind manifestation of the po t-carnate spiritual entity.-for
what part or action of that "lingering memory-factor" of Doctor
Broad' and imilar theorie could be respon ible for moving an
inanimate wooden ball to the rre t letter contacts on the Commu-
nigraph dias without any visible age11t and, by pressing the b1ll d 1wn-
ward. against appreciable tatic resistance, so pellmg out an
intelligent message probably foreign to the exp ctancy of any of the
sitter . Those who think deeply are not easily convinced, and the
large and rapidly growing number of prominent thinking men and
women of all las es and occupation who have been able to secure
definite proof in the matter of the life hereafter as the re ult of evi-
dence re eived through thes in truments i te timony of the highe t
importance. Not to all men does thi new revelati n appeal. Among
mankind are still those simple .ouL who are content to leave their
depart cl in the arm of a Loving Father; and if they in tinctivcly
7
can embrace so deep a conviction that their beloved who have
pas ed on are far away in some realm of blessedness (or oblivion)
surely this will dry their tears and bring a deep consolation under-
stood and shared by tho e who have passed to that Higher Life.
God knows, we workers in an extended field are not antagonistic to
truths they hold dear. \Ve, too, believe that death is merely a state
of sleep- a soft sweet repose in which our nature rests after the toils,
the pains, and the miseries of this life. For the space of a moment
we are deprived of sensibility and motion. and this old body-feeble,
'Sen ual, and gross- refined from its earthly nature, put on a glorious
immortality: and this mind-so limited in its faculties, and con-
tracted and weak that it could not perceive many things which were
true, is now pure as light and boundless as infinity; communes with
angels, and expands to the Infinite Source of all power, wisdom and
glory. Followers of the risen Lord in olden times were men and
women like ourselves; yet judging from those stalwarts and martyrs
(who strove and suffered terribly for the faith), they seem to have
been in that remote past more God-conscious than we; to have
possessed more mystic faith, sincerity, love and strength of character
than is common in our present day when education, and a high
standard of scientific knowledge and worldly acumen, render that
<lemand for "tangible proof" so very insistent. The ever-rolling
stream rolls on! Everything evolves and changes, and religion is no
exception. God unfolds his mighty plan, and gives to mankind new
revelation in the measure of an increasing capacity to understand.
In this new age we seem to hear the sweet music of an invisible
sea beating ceaselessly on an unknown shore. Pioneers on both
sides of the veil press on, ever eager to dip deeply and more deeply
still into the cosmic re ervoir of knowledge bringing to mankind a
spiritual strength which refines the mind, and purifies the body,
ta tes and pa sions. By combining wider spiritual knowledge and
wider insight into truth with that ever-willing co-operation of the
workers in the Beyond whci possess wider knowledge and understand-
ing than we do, what may be the future religion of the World indeed?
Peradvent ure the divine knowledge will not be given to " the wise and
prudent man" teeped in earthly lore and science. . H istory .ha
taught that humble, simple minds of meek and lowly disciples might
well be the chlorophyll de tined to change the non-living soil of our
materialistic learning, energised by the divine radiance, into the
rich verdure of truth- and man' initiation into the higher planes of
spiritual knowledge. And the close bond of understanding between
the two worlds working together in brotherhood will assuredly in
due time herald a grand new Eastertide; and Christ risen indeed in
the heart of all his people; and thus shall "the last enemy" be
destroyed.
8
vfnd when 'twas said-in ignora~ce: "he died,".
'!'hen this greaI work shall testifji- tlzey lied_
GEORGE JOBSON
Spirit Leader of The Ashkir-Jobson Trianion_
PART II
THE MAN.
T
O the County of Lincolnshire falls the honour of being the
birthplace of a genius and inventor whose name will one clay
be a houseliolcl word; whose pioneer work shall ring through
the a2,'es: George J ob:on,--ll'ho , w;th a thorough groundwork
of English engineering training and scientific experience, left his
home town of Horncastle to travel in many climes, and to work in
America on what was then one of the greatest marvels the world
had ever scen,-the telephone inventrd by Grah3m Bell.
Mr. J obson was one of the first to introduce the telephone into
this country, an early model of which, constructed by him, is now
lodged in Lincoln museum.
This man was right in the forefront, too, in the introduction to
his own countrymen of many other, what were considered at that
time, wonders connected with wireless telegraphy, X-ray photo-
graphy, and early automobiles.
Gifted man that he was in matters appertaining to this Life and
progress, that knowledge paused there for the Great Exploration he
was yet to make,- besicle which every other form of wisdom pales
into obscurity. Till then he had only loved and set his heart (like
many another) upon temporal things more uncertain and peri hable
than his I hysical frame.
An ambitious rhan,-a man determined to know, and to beat
new tracks! it wa · only deserving that his labours on the earth
plane should have had such fitting culmination as that which origin-
ated the marvellous work some details of wh ich are di.closed briefly
in the following pages.
Nature is a close and stubborn holder of secrets to the bigoted
materialist, but she can be wooed successfully by those who have
the rare combination of great knowledge and meekness of soul
po se·sed hy George Jobson. Such a these are the men who, after
a few years' impri"onment in the flesh, become spirit missioner to
mankind, sent by the great Creative Spirit whose thoughts they were.
This assuredly is their goal; the sure reward and heaven which meets
human virtue and a well-spent life.
IO
THE COMPACT.
THE great man was stricken; completely paralysed and
helpless in body, but with all the old vigour and physical
enerEy concentrated, as he lay on hi la t bed, in active
mental reflections;-his great swan song, bringing to him sweet and
wonderful di tant music at the la t!
This "life hereafter" business! Could it be true? His scientific
mind rebelled, as so many before him. But his longing and dire
need broke down resistance, and set aflame the determination to
wrest facts and definite evidence from the experience of other men
if that should be possible.
So he advertised, and in response to hi "S.O.S." call came
answer from a man who was of just the right calibre to combine most
effectively with the other's nature. This was Mr. B. K. Kirkby; a
man of simple force of character, mildness of manner, and entirely
non-provocati\·e, though pos ·es ing powerful convictions (amounting
to defo1ite knowledge and proof of the life hereafter) which other men
might have misused in flamboyant assertion and argument.
A compact wa · formed-one of many hundred of imilar
successful pact - to communicate. if at all pos ible, from the other
side as soon as opportunity should present itself.
The call ·ign was to be "B.K.K."
These letter were given within three month · of the pa- i.ng of
George J ob on to Mr. Kirkby through a trange medium! al o other
information of a ta..rtLing character, and an injunction remini cent
of the Great Master to his would-be di. ciples:-"Give up all thou
ha t, and follow me!"
One of less faith would have hesitated, and lost time in cautious-
ness, but the spirit guides knew their man. Fortunately for the
world, Mr. Kirkby took thi command literally and completely,
thus launching the great project and memorial.
[[
THE FULFILMENT.
D
ETAIL by detail, step by step, was the great work given
Each piece de~ised and put in with l?ve and prayer-at
last the machme was made; mecharncally perfect. The
compact was bearing fruit,-the promises of the spirit world
running true to form.
Would it work? ow followed the great trial period.
The story of enormous obstacles which had to be overcome; a
thousand and one difficulties-domestic, social and mechanical;
the fight against bitter prejudice; the open hostility; then, at last,
the final triumph! all will fill a large volume in the telling when the
right time comes. Present space permits only the bare facts to be
related: how after nearly three years of waiting and praying and
selfless effort, the first key was struck,- the first letter appeared.
Shortly afterwards followed the signal letters,-"B. K. K!"
The worst was over; the period requiring superhuman patience and
faith and zeal was well-nigh passed. What complete vindication
of the great leader's promise:-
"/ will not Jail yo·1
.t nor f orsake yoit !"
And what of the others? Of the medium, Mrs. L. E. Singleton
whose purity, self-sacrifice of health and comfort, and high spiritual
temper has made her so eminently fitted to act as the trance medium
for the production of the necessary psychic force for moulding the
materialised hand? of Ethel,-the spirit of love unfolding into a
beautiful flower in this work she so loves? of Karahnuta the noble
African Zulu chief,-set as a guardian to protect the medium and
counsel the workers? of that great army of noble guides drawn from
so many races of the earth to form a great band to bring the project
to success, and thus prove to all men that previous great happenings,
which in darkness and error had been called "miracles," were all
natural processes brought about by greater knowledge and con-
sciousness of God?
Those who have had no education in these matters will be
unable to follow this tribute, and theirs is the grievous loss.
12
THE ASHKIR-JOBSON TRIANION.
I
N the early spring of 1930 came about a joining of hands of
three people brought together by spirit guides to form a band
of experimenters and workers for carrying out an organised
syllabus of test work. This band is composed of George
J obson- the inspiring genius of the Reflectograph, Mr. B. K.
Kirkby- his steward and partner in the flesh, and Mr. A. J. Ashdown
-one of the foremost workers in scientific psychic research in Great
Britain, and whose work in scientific instruments is known in
practically every Government research laboratory and University
in the world, in the nature of testing instruments of his particular
invention and design furnished to the British Admiralty, War
Office, Air Ministry, General Post Office, H.M. Office of Works;
H. M. Stationery Office; National Institute of Medical Research;
National Physical Laboratory, and privately to members of the
British Astronomical Society; also to the Government and Research
Departments of practically every civilised State.
This research body is called THE ASHKIR - JOBSON
TRIANION.
Certain aspects connected with the J obson-B. K. K. Reflecto-
graph were studied, and the "force matter" which manifests in the
various mechanical phenomena by which the Reflectograph is
operated is now being closely investigated with various rays and
instruments, photography, anemometer and vibratory tests, etc.
The hour is yet early in the work of the Trianion. Far-reaching
and intensive research work is promised when other urgent work has
been sufficiently developed.
So great had been the success of the Reflectograph as the
outcome of preparatory work extending over three years that the
call for some allied apparatus for world distribution became insistent.
It would, to the successful collaborators in the development
work on the Reflectograph, George Jobson and B. K. Kirkby, have
been the simplest expedient to make copies of the original Reflecto-
graph-even though of a more portable kind than the original,
which is rather bulky.
But this was not to be, and details of the present Communigraph
were giv n in trust to Mr. A. J. Ashdown through the control of
Mr. J obson, resulting in an apparatus which has already had a
very succe_sful advent, and for which is foretold distribution which
will be world-wide, for, instead of being operated by a psychic rod
forming the materialised hand (which entails a powerful physical
medium in trance condition) the Communigraph is worked by an
invisible force drawn from the members of any circle of ordinary
sitters gathered round in reverence and earnest seeking, none of
whom need have outstanding psychic power of mediumship.
The Ashkir-Jobson Trianion invites application for associate
membership in any part of the world, and associates who are
appointed will be kept in close touch with activities in a bi-monthly
(or more frequent, if special information comes to light) circular
from headquarters.
Each is supplied with one of the special emblems, and is entitled
to purchase from the Trianion or its licensee the Ashkir-Jobson
Commumgraph, and such oth r special instruments developed in
the Trianion laboratoriE a are not available to out ide persons or
centres. ·
These instruments are furni hed with little profit to the Trianion,
which is not a trading concern, though it po sesses and controls
valuable fundamental patent placed in its trust, and bas extended
a sole licence to a large London firm of engineers to manufacture and
sell its product·. The sub cription made by the associate branches
on enrolment i for the support of the necessary work of the Guild
required on the instruments after they leave the workshops and
before they are consecrated to the service of higher communication.
As an example of this-each A hkir-Jobson Communigraph a it
comes raw from the manufacturer i taken into the Beacon sanctmn
where it i consecrated, and special sittings are commenced by the
Wardens and their assistants to a certain the identity of the spirit
operator (frequently chosen by spirit guides from relatives or special
friends of members of the branch who will use it), and to help in the
training of the operator, so that the Ccmmw1igraph reaches its
destination ready for the sittings, the chosen operator having already
some lrnovvledge of its working. This preparatory work frequently
takes several weeks of earnest application and trial.
14
THE JOBSON B.K.K. REFLECTOGRAPH
"
cOMMU1 ICATIOi with the so-called dead": how glibly
the words roll from the tongue-yet what an expansion of
human knowledge is implied. It i a branch of human
exploration against which the boon of wirele s telegraphy
and the much-vaunted claims of televi ion (which arc merely the
logical evolution of natural laws of phy ics) sink into non-import-
ance.
There is no" sub-conscious element " with the Refiectograph; no
validity in the feeble time-worn excuse of the pseudo-scientific or
dogmatic blind sceptic. The Refiectograpb is an instrwnent which
is operated from the Beyond, and spells the spirit messages letter by
letter when they are transmitted from the keyboard to the large
alphabetical quares which light up clearly in view of all the sitters.
. No earthly finger touches the keys, and yet fmgers do touch
tbem!-fmgers of a fonn of "force-matter" which at present can only
be conceived by the metaphysician; vibrant with life-of clear form
-vi ible-and yet of structure and possessing ei1ergy of a character
so far completely beyond the ken of our scientists and physicists.
The keyboard, or manual, of The Refiectograph is placed
immediately in front of the cabinet in which, securely bound bands
and feet, is seated the medium (Mr . Singleton) in deep trance.
After the opening hymn on the gramophone and invocation
by Mr. Kirkby, there is a pause during which the spirit guides are
building up the power, and the materialised band of Ethel, the spirit
operator of The Reflectograph, is forming. This hand plays over
the keys and, after a few trial letters, the bell controlled by one of
the k s rings out to signify that a start is being made.
Then, under the dictation of the spirit communicating, the keys
are pressed letter by letter at a rapid rate, and the e clo e the
electrical contact and light up the letters on a large screen, placed
against the wall away from the cabinet and in clear view of all the
sitters.
The bell ring between each complete word, and at the end of
each mes age the blue star on the creen lights up to indicate that
that particular message is fini heel, and that interlocution and
conversation with the sender can be carried on.
I -
.)
In the Reflectograph is proof complete and irrevocable of the
reality of psychic phenomena. With it comes the proof of human
survival; nay, more; proof of a great inspiring knowledge:- that
when those who have lived active useful lives "pass over," they are
able to continue the work and ministry they love in the limitless
breadth and length of learning and opportunity revealed in the
Beyond.
To those who wish tu prove the reality of the Life Beyond, with
all its great consolation, and lofty ethical value on human conduct
and life, a visit to the laboratories where the Reflectograph is demon-
strated is nothing less than a duty.
As for the "honest , ceptic," he is on dangerous ground when he
criticises, in future, without having seen this work.
To sympathetic earnest investigators is presented three forms
of psychic phenomena:-
(a) Spirit messages on the Reflectograph from friends or
relatives-in the discretion of the guides.
(b) An actual view of the materialised hand of Ethel; the
spirit operator, and gallant little worker.
(c) A spoken message by one of the guides (in many instances
from George J obson himself) to the sitters, through Mrs.
Singleton in trance.
In ordinary sittings the truth and inspiration which the Reflecto-
graph gives has a value against which the contribution charged
appears ridiculous and paltry. What price in money can adequately
set again. t Convi tion in this most important lmowledge in the
world?
It may, howe_
ver, be mentioned for those investigators who like
to carry out pec1al tests m theu own way, that these are not de-
barred as long as ii 1:s e.,plained clewrly beforehand what the tests are
to be, and the sanction of the spirit guides is obtained. In the event
of these special test conditions being carried through with success,
the investigators must sign a statement indicating what the con-
ditions were-and their satisfactory fulfilment.
Furthermore, it is within the right of the wardens to charge such
a contribution to the carrying on of the work for these special tests
as will test also the bona tides of these hypercritical enquirers.
16
THE ASHKIR-JOBSON COMMUNIGRAPH.
T
HE Ashkir-J obson Communigraph is a circular table with a
large chamber lying under its surface containing the important
mechanical units.
The chief parts of the Communigraph are the glass screen with
normally invisible letters, which shine out successively in a deep red
glow when contact is made by means of a pendulum ball pressing
against stud embedded in a circular table called the dias. This ball
is suspended from a rotating counterbalanced arm. Its pivoted
stem has an extremely free working but limited movement, so that
when the ball is rotated round the dias until it is directly over the
d esired letter-contact (or stud) it is moved downwards, and completes
the electrical circuit for illuminating the letter, thus spelling out the
message word by word. A panel in the centre of the screen can be
lighted from a S\Yitch under the surface of the table, for purposes
explained later.
There are thirty-one contacts round the dias consisting of the
full letters of the alphabet with the additional signs; "yes," "no,"
interrogation, star (for indicating that a word is finished) and the
bell which rings to signal the commencement and finishing of a
.complete communication.
The most vital and intrinsic part of the Ashk.ir-Jobson Commu-
nigraph is the Vibrator or "Soul" which is dealt with fully later on.
This vibrator also acts as the time measurer, giving signals every 45
.seconds when the central panel light is on, and every 37! minutes
during the sitting. In order that the sudden buzzer note shall not
startle the itters the central panel can be arranged to light up just
before the signal sound- and extinguished immediately afterwards.
The Ashkir-Jobson Communigraph is quite unlike any other
instrument assembly or machine, for whereas they work on ordinary
mechanical principles, such are only of minor importance in this-
as in all spirit communicators. The apparatus can no more give
out helpful communications than could a typewriter if it had no
hun1an operating part or master mind inditing it mess1ges. .
Training and service of the spirit operator entails uch lovrng
selfless effort and co-operation on the part of helpers in the Beyond,
that succe:: ful message-work must have a sympathetic attitude
from those who sit. This is imperatiYe to the ultimate working of
the organi ed whole-i.e., itters, guides, controls and instrument.
The Ashkir-Jobson Communigraph is supplied only to Certified
Branches of the Ashkir-Jobson Trianion.
17
THE ASHKIR-JOBSON VIBRATOR.
V
IBRATION;-the breath of life in the sacred link which
binds the two worlds. To music is commonly attributed a
great p ychological influence on human emotion. In those
even of coarsened natme, the pealing of the church bell- the
strains of a long forgotten hymn-a patriotic ong will be sufficient
to stir up slumbering power of noble thinking and lofty inspirations.
But what i it value in psychic work? I it purely a matter of
psychological influence? Singing and the playing of gramophone
records have been con idered a valuable factor in all circles sitting
for phenomena; rnmetimes giving benefit,-sometimes causing det-
riment to the work, for harn1ony must dwell with the sitters too, and
this cannot be pre ent if anyone i jarred by umvelcomed airs, or
what they consider uncongenial music.
The Ashkir-Jobson Trianion has been endowed with unique
opportunities for research in this regard. Tests were made in many
ways, and then came discoveries which bid fair to have the greatest
influence on psychic development. The result of these researches
by the Trianion, taken in order, were:-
!. That musical sound set up oscillation which could
ecmingly be transformed in some peculiar way bene-
ficial to the production of the psychic "force matter,"
as we might call it.
2. That only certain parts of the musical context are
potent. In ordinary singing for instance, the stimulus
is intermittent in psychic value, gaps occurring which
have to be bridged over.
3. That gramophone and wireless music gives anything
but the aesthetic delights to "spirit entities" that it
gives to us, to them being only a vibratory disturbance.
4. That harmony so sweet to us, sometimes causes
disagreeable reaction to them.
5. That a long sustained note is much more potent,-a
discovery which probably accounts for the deep
droning monotonous chanting of the priests in Eastern
temples.
6. That the sound given off by a tuning fork in constant
resonance, is the most powerful musical influence that
can be brought to bear, with the single exception of
the double-diapason note of a large church organ pipe.
18
THE COMMUNIGRAPH.
The value of the tuning fork vibration lies apparently in its
large air displacement in relation to the small amnunt of sound
emanated. One of frequency of lower "A" gave the note most
appreciated.
The furnishing of an "A" tuning fork does not present any
great difficulty ; but to keep it ringing?-that is a different story!
One of the three members of the Trianion is a trained physicist and
inventor whose special work in scientific instrwnents is used in
every part of the world, and he was able to state authoritatively
that the only way to keep a tuning fork o. cillating was electrically,
and it had been shown even this could not be done for much greater
frequencies than 50 periods per second.
The "A" tuning fork gives 214 complete beats per second !
Now ca.me proof of that tremendous re-discovered influence
which will certainly be an every-day incident in the civilised world
of the near future: the power of co-operation between expert
workers and scientists on both _
sides. George Job on, the leader of
The Ashkir-J obson Tria.nion, was in earth life an acknowledged
genius and great inventor of his time; and was able to bring not
only his own extended knowledge to bear, but the great knowledge
of those masters iJ1 this branch of phy ics with whom he could link
up on his ide.
Under hi control, Mr. Ashdown was guided to an amazing
solution of the tuning fork difficulty, the outcome of which is the
Ashkir-J obson Vibrator. This vibrator forms the crucial factor in
The New Communigra.ph, but permission has been given to distribute
it, as a separate unit, to those centres which a.re sitting for ordinary
development, materia.li ation , trumpet circles, etc.
The fork is set into oscillation by winding up a clockwork
mechanism, and tuning in by the controlling handle. The vibrator
then sends out sonorous sustained vibration of great power but with
little sound, thus causing strong waves to be generated into the
surrounding atmosphere for about 2 or 3 hours.
An extremely interesting point is the extraordinary accuracy
with which the mechanism keeps the fork oscillating. It makes
some three millions of beats in one winding, and if it misses but one,
what is called the "detent" foul the dividing bars, bringing the
whole mechanism to a dead stop. It follows that the clockwork
which give to the fork its impulse receive from it. in tum,
absolute control and perfect time registration.
19
This extreme accuracy in timing is taken advantage of in a
very special way. It is well-known that one difficulty in sitting in
circles is to measure the time. This the vibrator does for the sitters.
At definite intervals it gives out a clear sound signal to the circle,
by which the leader is able to judge how long the sitting has contin-
ued. A deep red light first appears so that the members of the
circle hall not be alarmed by the suddenness of the sound. Hence
complete equanimity is preserved.
Th technical value of the vibrator is best explained by quoting
George Jobson' word. at a recent te t sitting:-
"Imagine a mist," he says, " rising over a lake, or even a cloud
of steam; the mist of the various mental temperaments of the
sitters. The vibrator i like a nozzle forcing a blast of compressed
air into the mi t. It makes a hole, and it is through that hole that
we approach. This vibrator gives just the vibration we want, and
there i another advantage: that there are many sitters who could
not endure the inging and gramophone music common in most
circles, and yet are temperamentally unsuited to sitting in complete
silence for an hour or more. The vibrator will be very valuable,
also, for direct-voice and every kind of seance which is held."
The vibration set up by the Ashkir-Jobson Vibrator have been
described as "carrier waves," and can be somewhat li kened to a warp
of coarse threads on which the weft of delicate psychic vibrations
can be woven.
The directions for using the Vibrator are quite simple, as
detailed below:-
1.
2.
3.
\\"incl up the machine fully with key provided.
Turn back knob at side until instrument starts to run· then
in forward direction carefully, little by little until a whirring
sound is heard showing that the detent is entering.
ow most gently continue to turn this control in extremely
small fractions ~t a time until suddenly the w~g gives
place to a hummmg sound when the correct Vibration is set up.
4. Giving this a little time to settle down,-turn the knob back a
small fraction. If too far, the sound ceases, and the "bringing
in" process has to be repeated as detailed in notes 2 and 3.
20
DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE COMMUNIGRAPH.
H
OW shall it be possible to give Directio
.ns. for sitting round
the ASHKIR-JOBSO CO 1MU !GRAPH ? They would
first have to be a homily on behaviour and conduct such as
would apply to all circles sitting for psychic development
and manifestations.
So much depends on the sitters themselves ! It is not merely
a question of "conditions," but of the right kind of conditions in
their everyday lives.
The Communigraph has been produced with exquisite skill;
all that craftsmanship and mechanical ingenuity can do towards
perfection. But it is not a typewriter, a telegraph machine, or a
gramophone; it is simply a single factor in one great and holy
organisation for bridging the gulf between ourselves incarnate
and friends discamate.
In general- the Communigraph should stand firm and level.
Set the beam and its ball by means of the screw to the centre piece
under the table screwing up firmly. See that the ball rotates freely
with the slightest touch, and, at the same time, that the contact
point runs round concentrically over the tops of the metal letters
set in the dias, at about one to two millimetres distance.
The leader of the circle should take his place at the head of the
table (the opposite side to the Trianion nameplate). He will then
have under his hand, in easy reach, the switch placed on the under-
side of the table for putting on the centre light. This is used at the
commencement and end of the sitting, and for any unusual interrup-
tion requiring witching on of a dull light. The controller head of
the mechanical vibrator (which requires delicate setting and
occasionally slight adjustment during the circle) will al o be con-
venient. This vibrator should be started as explained in the
special notes given under that heading.
Other mechanical parts are the electric chimes which give
indication that a word is finished, and the "dimmer" (as it is called)
which will increa e or dim the brightness of the letter according to
desire.
Do not allow unauthorised persons to interfere with the
Communigraph in any way-nor stand any object (unless it be a
light flower vase) on its surface. It should be regarded in the same
way as a dedicated vessel, and treated reverently.
21
The table has adjustable screw castors for setting it exactly
level, and care should be taken that it does not rock.
For the purpose of judging the duration of each circle, the
vibrator when working gives out a short note or " warning" at inter-
vals of 37t minutes; thi give two in a period of one hour and a
·quarter, which is considered a suitable time for each sitting, although
thi time can be extended to three "warnings" at the discretion of
the leader, particularly at the commencement. During the time
the panel light is on, how ver, these warnings will be sounded each
40 seconds, as referred to earlier, acting also a a reminder if the
panel has inadvertently been left switched on.
The interior of the vibrator and the electric chimes should not
be interfered with by any unqualified person. Both are made
removable, and can be returned for adjustment if operating un-
satisfactorily. The maker work under our secret directions, and
will not assume responsibility if any part bas been tampered with.
The sitters should place themselves-in the discretion of the
guides-po itive and negative as usual with table phenomena.
'one but well-balanced sincere person should be invited into
the circles; those only who will maintain sympathy, restraint, and
implicit obedience to the circle leader. Any high;y sc~ptical,
supercilious, xacting per. ons-or tho e under the infl uence of
-exce ive emotion - should not be invited to take part in these
sittings.
Do not attach importance to any " tappings" or knocks
during the itting unless they are manife tly of psychic origin, as
stray ·ow1ds can originate within the Communigraph itself which
have no bearing on the legitimate operations in establishing com-
municati ns.
It is recommended that the special invocation which has to be
repeated be written on a piece of thin paper of such size that it can
be placed over the red panel ; thus the central light can hine
through and illuminate the words, making them readable.
Messages should be carefully recorded, as well as all progress
and phenomena occurring during each sitting.
All sittings should be made in complete darkness at the com-
mencement, until the power, by repeated sittings, and the estab-
lishment of good condi tions, is strengthened. Later it will be
possible to conduct the sittings in deep-red light, as is done with
the Jobson-B. K. K. Reflectograpb.
22
AJl should sit with hands on knees, palms turned upward .
It greatly assists in the building up of suitable conditions and
environment to have one special room set apart for the work; also
to start always in the same way, with the same opening hymn
(or gramophone record) and procedure. Mu ic can be indulged in
if desired, though the vibrat r makes this non-imperative, and manv
sitters prefer to sit quietly. Light conversation can also be carried
on during the period of waiting, but all should carefully refrain
from anything in the way of argument or controversy.
Development is very greatly impeded by unpunctuality, and
the circle leader should ee that his band are ready to tart 011 the
insta.11/. Also if any member of the circle is consistently unpunctual,
irregular in attendance, or shows the least igns of declining interest
and zeal (appearing to begrudge time spent in circle), he or he
hould be ordered by the circle leader to cease attendance altogether,
for not only is the effort and time of the other sitters completely
wasted by having uch memb rs in their midst, but attitude of this
kind is both discouraging and insulting to the spirit guides and
helpers who set so magnificent an xample to us by their great love
and willing service.
All standing, the light should be put out, and the central panel
f the Communigraph switched on. The vibrator then gives
warning time ignal every 40 econd during the special invocation
referred to later. After the invocation, and all are eu.ted again,
guides and friends can be greeted, and the panel light switched off.
In terruptions by any member of the circle are severely to he
deprecated, in their own interests and tho e of th 0perator and com-
municators. Questions hould only be put after the tar ha been
shown to indicate that the particular message is fini ·h cl.
I
T is the u ual procedure for the spirit "operator" to pa the
ball round the ontact table first, making one or two practice
letters. When ready for sending the first communication, the
chime is rung, and the tar ·hown. All this should be e1·plained
aloud to the sitters, guides and helpers on both side , after the special
invocation referred to below.
The f llowing note3 on the Communigraph were dictated by a
guide from a high plane to the members of The A hkir-Jobson
Trianion (at their headquarters in Lond n) on the occasion f the
dedication of the in trument, and the latter part explains the
23
procedure which should be carried out faithfully at each circle
as directed :-
" You have in your new in trument an exact phn of
the great . cheme of ail life. All is perpetual m tion.
"The sound "iv n by the vibrator is the pulsating
breath of life working iii perfect harm ny in the divine
.cheme of all being. That is why those wh') are tuned up
to these high vibrations will have perfect succes", while
to the others it will be worthless.
" You have somewhat of a replica in this Communi-
graph of the way in which the higher scale of beings sends
dovm its wave lengths to the lower cale of beings; the
wave length of Love, Duty and Service.
"Each lettered spot indicated on your instrument
represents variou planets, all working and revolving the
same yesterday, to-day. and forever; the phere r ball
then working round the Grand Centre of all. The power
descends to a cend , to reflect and connect all minds from
the highest lo the lowest, and the !owe t to the highest.
" Rest assure I all this has been planned by a great
architect and master mind . to work in perfect harmony
with the power alled Life Force.
" Before using the instrument, the sitter · mu t land
round holdmg their hands with pomts of fingers of all in
contact for three minute , at a distance of five inches
above the table. Then repeat these word- all t<Jgether:-
"I Al\D MY FATHER ARE ONE. MA\' THE
BREATH OF GOD BREATHE 0)1 THIS \\'ORK , D
SO SET UP THE ECESSAR\' VIBRATION FORMING
THE LINK BET\\'EE.. THOSE \\'E \\'JSH TO LOVE
Al\D SERVE; TO THE GLORY OF GOD, AND THE
ADVANCEMENT OF SPIRIT AL TR TH.
FOR LOVE' SAKE. AMEN."
At the conclusion of the itting the guides and helpers hould
be thanked for their co-operation. The centre panel ligb.t can then
be switched on again, and a closing prayer given by the leader.
After an interval of about one minute the leader can witch
on the normal lighting of the room (giving warning to all members
to shade their eyes momentarily), and extinguish the centre panel
24
THE MECHANICAL VIBRATOR.
THE ASHKIR-JOBSON ILLUMINATED WRITING PAD.
A
MO T
G the minor productions of the Trianion is this useful
expedient for taking notes in a darkened room. It is a
square of opaque glass set within a hollow frame. Behind
the glass and totally enclosed is a tiny red lamp which can
be switched on. This is placed on a swivelling arm, and its light
is deflected to pass through the opaque glass which form a writing
-surface. Paper from a small reel passes over the glass. and on this
the message can be written with pen or pencil.
Advantages are that only sufficient light is passed to permit
seeing the writing, and the very disturbing influence to the seance
a rising from using a pocket lamp in a darkened room is avoided;
not to mention the difficulty of holding such lamp in position.
Further, no shadow is thrown by the pencil or hand, the light
-coming from underneath.
Another use is that of illuminating hymn sheets, or scrolls con-
taining words which have to be read, the sheets being held over the
:glass so that the light strikes through.
The block could also be employed in certain instances for the
-satisfactory illumination of materialisations instead of the luminous
slate, and in all cases where other sources of light would prove too
harsh.
THE ASHKIR-JOBSON SCRYING GLOBE.
S
CRYING (or crystal gazing), though somewhat despised by
the erudite, has an unquestionable value in certain aspects
of psychic development. Crystals of suitable size which
are hewn and finished from the rock require great expert-
ness in craft manship and election of materials, and are very costly,
while the cast-glass variety obtainable in novelty shop are useless
()n account of surface marks and ripple·. The Trianion has there-
fore developed a useful alternative taking the form of a strong
dear glass spherical globe of 4" diameter filled with pure distilled
water, providing a large crystal at the cost of a small one.
Actually this globe was developed within the Wimbledon
laboratory for quite a different purpo e. It was revealed th'1t when
an enclosed ray of red light i applied at the base of the globe,
diffraction over a large area of the spherical surface takes place, and
the re. ulting soft coloured ray i peculiarly uitable for illuminating
ectoplasm. The special tand with the red light and battery can
a lso be furnished with the globes if re:iuired.
GENERAL NOTES.
T
HE author of this little booklet has accompli hed this part of
the task- inadequately. it is true- of explaining the various
production of the Ashkir-J obson Trianion Guild and a few of
its activities.
Regarding its deeper work, the first step to fulfilment has
scarcely been taken, and the time has been all too hart to lay even
the foundation stone of its mighty work, the complete fruition of
which has been confidently prophesied by the beloved leader,
George J obson. \l\le cannot progress in this exploration with giant
strides, and in this respect we learn humility, and how limited are
the powers of human understanding; worthless our erudition.
Each step is pregnant with great possibilities. The value of
the work is universal, and, as time goes on, so will new workers be
enrolled, and other groups will be able to turn their tributaries into
that great flowing river which belongs not alone to the Trianion, nor
any other body of workers however great the value of their pioneer-
ing efforts; not to the nation, nor to any nation; not to the physical
world even,- but to God alone who graduates understanding and
knowledge according to man's evolution, and according to the
sincerity and meekness of his approach.
Not only has every promise given by our leader been honoured
to the full, but the spiritual gifts have been of a magnitude and
value impossible to tell, and understood only by those similarly
favoured.
After working in secret for some years, the time has come to
give to the world the great benefits of this new form of inter-
communication: to entrust it to those who will use it in fortitude,
sincerity and love; and who in turn will extend its benefits un-
selfi hly to others in the true spirit of service; in fine, those who will
faith fully follow out the ideal of that great pioneer, W. T. Stead, in
h s m 1tto:-
"C1rbe union of all mba lolJe in tbe srrlJice of aII mbo suffrr."
PART III
.
THE foundations of the old science are shifting, and the
structure begins to crack. Man's space and time are proved
tobe relative notions; the indivisible atom becomesa system;
matter a quality of electricity; and-most striking of all-
thought becomes tangible and constructive. "Thoughts are things";
that is what the philosopher has said for years,-and a mocking
science-chastened by steady erosion of its dogma- is destined to
prove it! If the potent thoughts and desires of Man, in his evolution
from lowly origin, can build a complete structure and makP. it so
beautiful and fitted to his world, may they not be equally real and
effective, after all, in that thing which man has through all ages
desired most: Survival after death? If thought can evolve from its
early crudities God, who is All Living, All Love, All Beneficence. All
Power and Wisdom, may it not have created also the beautiful
philosophical heaven for the Chi;-i tian, the happy hunting ground
for the Redskin, Valhalla for the Viking rover even, or whatever
eternal bliss is yearned for?
But it is usual to think these things the reverse way round: to
contemplate a Mind possessing Supreme Power ; magnificent ;
exalted beyond man's contemplation and praise: one who keeps
the wheels grinding slowly, but grinding exceedingly small.
As I write these words-a storm rages; a spectacle so grand and
awesome as to claim the most earnest consideration. Peal after
peal of thunder causes man-constructed walls to quiver and re-
verberate. Yet we who are no longer dominated by tho e con-
dition Lmder which ignorance thrived and superstition triumphed
know that the tempest which has terrorised ancient and barbaric
peoples is actually petty and local; is a proces in Nature, n t ent
to punish the sin of man, but to act beneficently, and clear vapoms
in the air we are in the nece sity of breathing; a process whose
scientific explanation forms a platitude for our school children.
But it is the law of God; and His law too, that we His children
should have understanding to make us grow up. To develop, even,
our immature notions of Him; and while we may never completely
fathom His my teries, we can rest more satisfied in admiration of
their harmonious catenation, and thus beget our deeper knowledge
of His Infinite Power and Immanence in whatever way we have been
taught to interpret it. We learn slowly that He belongs to no set
creed. all we His creatures being one with Him and He with us.
28
Nathless, in becoming wiser, let us not be too ignorant to·
perceive our own insignificance, but at all times acknowledge our
incapacity, and acquire a confidence in Him who will send us.
happiness and knowledge and good sufficient for our present con-
dition, and all creation, until the spheres shall cease to roll, and the
defined periods of time be lost in eternity. Let us ever lay to heart
the lesson given us by truly great scientists, and able leaders, who·
have not been ashamed to confess how little they know of His Laws.
No doubt it is for the wisest reasons that God has concealed from
our penetration as yet many great mysteries such as the immediate
connexion between matter and mind.
How incongruous are some attempts of self-styled investi-
gators: imposing their special tests! How little they understand
this great truism: that if we would find, we must seek diligently,
and h1mibly. The spirit must come down to our level; we cannot
go up to his. Could we have gauged the artistic ability of Rembrandt
by asking him to tar a gatepost, or judge the incomparable Shake-
speare on the standard of doggerel advertising a pill? Critics of
this type, rather than misuse their great talents, might well pray
that there should be taken from them their intellectual w1certainty,
and to them be given again for a season that simple faith of a child;
the willing receptive mind even, and pure heart that seek to glorify·
the Father of mercy and loving kindness; for an upright man who,
however unlettered and deficient in learning, finds cause to bless the
Creator in his works, is wiser than the eminent scientist or phil-
osopher who is so intent on explaining and in vestigating those facts
of nature which lie just below the surface that he loses sight of real
knowledge which is humanity's most rare and precious birthright.
The period of our time here is short. Contracted is the scientific
mind which cannot rise above the outward and visible signs, and
take a higher flight beyond its confines. For in the great access of
power this brings, combined with that learning for which some of
these investigators have become deservedly renowned, they might
grow to know what the united intellect of centuries has never yet
discovered. As it is, those who try to unravel the mystery of psychic
phenomena with the attitude of a detective exposii.
-ig a misdemean-
our are brought to a sudden reali ation of their own ignorance of
spirit forces. Should, for instance, a net be placed around a mater-
ialising medium; such barrier is one in our scale of relationships and
understanding only, and not necessarily an obstacle to phenomena.
Let it, peradventure, be placed there to "show up" the medium,.
29
then assuredly has a terrible barrier been er ~cted, by the mental
state of narrow hostility and ignorance, more potent than a foot of
armour plate.
~or are many prominent Spiritualists, who have long been
looked up to in the Movement, themselves without blame. On the
one hand, we see the leaders ever touting for scientific recognition;
on the other,-vain researchers are to be found ignoring the lessons
of history; perpetrating the same mistakes that have been made
before, and as erting for truth discoveries which are only within
the probability of conjecture.
The true researcher in any branch of learning can remain meek
and humble and still cultivate the power of the intellect. By
maintaining a standard of re traint and sweet reasonableness, we
render our gifts more acceptable to Him, and our elves more amiable
to our fellow creatures; and a our present knowledge is both transi-
tory and imperfect, let u not make it our chief object, but seek for
the living wisdom that shall instruct u in His path .
Like the great leader of the Trianion, Mr. George J ob on-we
may arrive unexpectedly at the end of this earthly journey; right in
the mid t of a thou and schemes and projects-perhaps on the eve
of some in1portant transaction- the cold hand of death might press
on our earthly eyelids. \\'hat hope have we then in modern thought
unless it be that glorious hope of continuity oflife given by religious
dispensation? Then are we able courageou ly to contemplate this
image of death from which we gain essential advantages, and are
able to receive the me enger without dread, while finding those
doctrines in our earthly pilgrimage which are a consolation to us in
mi fortune,-a friend and faithful councillor in prosperity, and a
shield against every temptation.
Let us not beuncaring and indifferent,but often in our busy lives
find time to reflect on our wise and merciful creator, and while
rejoicing in the blessings of life-ever bear in mind the source from
which they flow. From time to time also, we derive strength in
contemplating the soul, whose desires cannot rest short of Eternity,
when it shall know more of the Everlasting God. Let us, too, live
that our names shall be revered when living, and, when our earthly
toil is ended, our pre ence hall again be welcomed and blessed in the
higher ministry ensured to us.
The midnight darknes yields to the silvery light of the moon,
which in turn will be lost in the glory of the morning sun.
30
And if now we can admire the greatness of God when we know
so small a part of His Works, thus seeing the superintending
providence which loves us in the degree in which we love one another,
how greatly shall we be able to adore Him by more fully penetrating
into his secrets.
Nor Jet us cease to heed the great truth that, by again dis-
p ensing to less fortunate beings those benefits which the goodness
-0f God has enabled us to obtain, we render our highest symbol of
g ratitude for what superior perfection we posses , and if we are
neither able nor fortunate enough to discover s:ime new truth, let us
.at least attempt to make all tho e brethren w;thin our circle of
influence more happ) and contented by exerting ourselve in their
welfare.
The day of narrow creeds and bigotry is passing away; with it,
.also, that terrible storm cloud of empty "materiali m." As surely as
we know that the galaxy was not made in six day , o has man's
.deeper understanding taught him that nothing i effected by blind
.chance; nor in fortuitou events can there be the order, constancy
.and control shown in the works of nature.
All things progress! Is not this continual change the ign by
which we know that the pre ent world i not the abode for which
we are destined?
Man was made to stand erect, with head held high above the
arth, and nothing can subdue him. With the knowledge yet to be
-given to our children a a heritage in the new dawn, thought of
.death can never destroy his refined pleasure , nor impede hi useful
-efficiency; for he will know that when the last Jeep come , it is
merely the quitting of a world where everything is peri hable for one
where all leads up to eternal glory. Naturally will man always ex-
perience moments of doubt and sorrow in thi veil of tears; but there,
.grief will be no more, and, on the te. timony of those who have com-
municated from the other side, will peace, order, beauty and justice
render the future abode more happy than we can now conceive
to be possible, in this world of boundless progress.
No weakness \\UI detain, no earthly ob tacle will impede u on
our flight upward - ever upward . Meanwhile we can contemplate
that One, Eternal and Omni cient, who e tablished the fow1dations
.of the universe w;th wi dom,-yet i ever nigh unto u .
31
PRAYER.
Thou art everywhere present, 0 eternal God; yes, Thou art here
and T ho1J art afar of
f. Thy Presence fills all the mighty imiverse.
How insignificant are we thy children!
To Thee, Eternal Sp·irit, a million sun> are as the spume of a
wave in the great sea of creation; a million years but an evening gone,-
and the starry heavens in Thy sight as a falling dew-drop.
We, Thy children, made in Thine image, are permitted to see Thy
boundless wisdom and immeasurable goodness, and by the special
knowledge it has pleased Thee to give us-to dwell with rapti,tre upon
the certainty of a futwre life.
Inspire in us the des·ire to apply ourselves diligently as hwnble
instruments in the fulfilment of Thy great designs. Strengthen us
that we may each be ready, as the men of old, to suffer for the faith that
is in us.
And in the little part to which Thoit hast seen fit to appoint its,
let not our pride demand a blessing, b?'t help us to render Thee glad
service without question of result.
Teach us to understand how great is our privilege to strive with
Thee; even to strive and to appear to fail,-for in oii,r greater con-
sciousness we know that the seed, pressing up in darkness, shall find
the light, and bear fritit in diie season.
As did themartyrs of old, dear Father, teach us to pray :-
"Jn darkness or light, in joy or pain:
God give us strength to sitffer-and attain."
And in our day by striving, the more enlightened we become: the
more gifted to penetrate further into the mysteries of Thy Wisdom, and
exalt our knowledge of Thy Majesty and Power.
Grant that all mankind may, in Thy good time, be alive to manifest
the ecstasy of Thy Love which is the inheritance of us all, and thits in
the Living Fountain of j oy and Excellence our peace may be perfect.
AMEN.
