{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__bradley___and_after.pdf","mytitle":"And After","mylang":"de"}
... AND AFTER_
BY
H. DENNIS BRADLEY
AUTHOR. OF
"THB WISDOM OF THE GODS,11
cc TOWAI.DS THB STAI.S," ETC.
LONDON
T. WERNER LAURIE LTD.
COBHAM HOUSE '4 & :;~6 WATER LANE, E.C.4
Fit>sl Puhlislwi in 19J1
A II rights reserved
PJt:INTI:D IN GJt:BAT BRITAIN BY
NOJt:TMVMIIUtl.AND ntU.S J,IMITilll1 NBWCASTLil UfON TYNil
Photo by Leon. Levson].
FronJispiec~.
BOOKS BY H. DENNIS BRADLEY
NOT FOR FOOLS ·~
THE·mRNAL~£1!)22
ADAM AND EVE ~2J
TO'WARDS nfE STARS -f9N
nfEWISDQ\\C711iECODS ~
1HE NATURAL STATE ·T92T
SYBARITES (A PLAY) ·1929
• • • AND AFTER 1931
CONTENTS
BOOK I
SOME CLAIRVOYANT EXPERIMENTS
CHAPTER
A. RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW
Embar~tion--A retroapect-Sacce..-Failare-HoneefiJ-Fraad-
Proo/ of nroit>al-The greateat .aenti/ic diaooVe'JI in
hi.to,-Hor.o Cldn it be proved}--The " direct ooice "-
George Valiantin~H;, record-The pinnacle o/ hi•
mediam•hip-Phyaical phenomena--The ooice from •pace-
Peraonal experiment..-Dangerou• obaeuion..-" Boom"
danger..-The charlatan..-H. G. Wella' comment.-ln.tinc·
rACI
tioe antipath,_clairvoyant and clairaadient medium..-The
golden rule.-The 1enaine medium..-A te•t-A atomafic
u>riting-Conan Doule-Rabbi•h /rom Au.tralia-Prejudice
and credalitJI 15
CHAPTER II
A smiNC WITH MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD
The control " Feda "-An ol/icial aifting of the S.P.R.-Poor
phenomena--The peraonality of "Feda "-A verbatim
dialogue-Baainea re/erence..-/amea White'a offer--S. G.
Soal'• P'Jiclaic experience.-The telepathic theo,...,-MJI
father-Evidential efafement.-A good lifting-A •frange
peraonal experienc~A baaine., commanicalion-1 Nfa•e
/amea W hite•• offer 29
CHAPTER Ill
THE MEDIUMSHJP OF MRS. BARKELL
M,.. Barlt,ell-1 am obvioaal11 Jtnor.on to he,....._fVamea oolanfeered
-Some correct in/ormafion-Re/erencea to maftera oafaide
the medium'• Jtnowledg~A aecond lifting-A curioua
inddent-Levifation?-A third .Citing-An evidential qaeation
-Genuine clairooJiant powera • . . . . 37
CHAPTER IV
AN EXPERIMENT WITH MRS. GAR.RETT
An unwiae procedure--Sir Edward Marahall Hall-A long con·
oeraafion-Lord Dewar-Lord BirJeenhead -4-4
5
6 ... AND AFTER
CHAPTER V
A PSYCHOMETRIC SmlNG
fAC&
Frau Lotte Plaab--lmpreuion /rom a cigarette ca.e--.A correct
Jeacription-GooJ indication• of chGracter--PhJI•ical charGCter-
iatic.-.A IHIJ flounder-A real point of eoiJence--.A
~~ ~
CHAPTER VI
THE CENTL£ ART OF FISHING
Mra. Cantlon-.A Clairvo11ant trance meJium-PlJgin-Eneliah-
Gue..-worJt that went wron,__More fiahing--.A bGJ ahot-
.An after /iaco-More nonaenae--.A thoroughI" unaafia/actory
affine 54
CHAPTER Vll
MRS. SCALES, C.AIRVOYAHI' MEDIUM
MethoJa of mal(ing appoinfment~itfer• unJtnown to medium
-A Scandinavian • experience-A murder in South .A/rica
-A warning--The motor accident-Mi.. Fa" Compton'•
aifti,.g--EviJential communication--Mi.. Ba"lia'• aittine._
Voluminoua note..-5ome extracta 63
CHAPTER Vlil
..
MRS. HESTER DOWDEN'S AUTOMATIC WRITING
Mra. DowJen--Communicafiona from /ohan~.A n exlraorJinarilJI
.ucceeaful aitfing--Evidential name• at once-Correct initiala
-Eoidence confirmed-Name volunteered 69
CHAPTER IX
AN ANONYMOUS EXPERIMEHI'
Sittl~f booJteJ anon"moa•lu--The mediumahip of Mra. Garrett--
Name• oolunfeered-GooJ peraonal eoidence-Namea gioen
anJtnown to aifter-Correct reference to a Jog . 74
CONTENTS 7
BOOK II
VALIANTINE IN ENGLAND, 1927
CHAPTER I
THE VALIANTJNE SITTINGS IN t927
f.t.Ga
A /tmailg lritting-Ecnclential conueraation-'A clnmudic cle.:ription
o/ death on the battle-field-My father •P.alt~Lorcl Charla
Hope·• attings with Valiantine--Valiantine unwell-Poor
renl~A nother poor •itfing-Eiahteen " ooice• " mani/e.t
--&d condition~/ do not •lt-Eoerett c:t~ll• to me /rom the
Nance room--MNJ. Gaoin's reporl-Mr. C. V. L. Hooman's
report-Chine•e, Italian and Spani•h •poJten-A mixed
•ilfinw--l..ittle eoidence-A carious incident-Lord DftOar • 79
CHAPTER JJ
CRAMOPHONE RECORDS OF VOICES
A fir.t experiment-A gramophone record di•po•e• of hgpnoti.m
theorJ~-The arrangement~Eight indioidual " ooice• " .peaJt
-No control-Deduction• . . . . • 98
CHAPTER JJI
THE VOICE OF CONFUCJ\JS
Dr. Neoille Whymani-A di.tingui•hecl .cholar--A .lance with
Valianfine--The Claine•e flute--" The Philo.opher-Ma.ter-
K'ung "-Diction and intonation-A remarltable fe.t-T'#ul
doubtful P<J•.age--The Confucius gramophone record . tOt
BOOK III
GERMANY AND ITALY, 1929
CHAPTER
IN B£RUN
:An inoitation to Berlin-The que•tion o/ remuneration-Frau oon
Dirltaen-Arrioal in &rlin-Negafioe sitting~/nter/erence
b11 sifters-/ leaoe Berlin-Four weelt• later--Acca•ation• of
fraad--Corre•ponclence--No proo/-Dr. Kroner appear.-.A
rambli'!.8 letter-Falae statament.-.5upposition oern• proof
-Dr. Kroner'• report-A tissue of GNumptio,.._c;ontradic-
8 ... AND AFTER rAe;I
tiona tmd antrutla.--Frau Kraner'• report-She ia frightened
and ahrielc• oat-The OGlae o/ evidence-A nGIJI.i.-Fnra von
Dirlc~en'a report-Allegation• without corroboration-The
qaeation of " real " proof-Frau von Dirlcaen'a letter of
thanlctt-Falae atatementtt-Telegrama opened-A worthle..
report--A nother waate of time and apace--Pro/euor Hana
Drieach-Dr. Schwab-Dr. Qaade-A /air critidam-Baron
oon L.-Dr. Kroner aira hia opinion..-MiutGtementa tmd
/alH impreuiontt-Valiantine return• the moneJI-frau von
Dirlc~en in teartt-Dr. Kroner'a mentalit,-Tlae .a-called
" direct proof• "-The diacoverJI o/ nothin1 . • • 107
CHAPTER II
IN ITALY
The Marqaia Centarione-Hia viait to England-Pro/euor Emeato
Bozzano--Evidential in/ormation-Valiantine viaita GenOG--
The fir.t aitting-A controlled lifting-Another controlled
aitting-An apport-The Marquia collapae..-.Mr. Roui leavea
the aifting-Mr. Roni'a accu~ation-A acene-Mr. Roai'a
inconaiatenCJI-The queation o/ payment--ExtraordinG'JI force•
-Direct contradiction..-Mr. Caatellini and Count Bon-
Allegation• withdrawn-A phJiaical impoaaibilitg--An admia-
aion o/ wealcneaa--A Gilbertian aituation-Pro/eaaor Bozzano'•
report-The nccea-/ul croll-communication uperimenta
between Boaton and Venice 175
CHAPTER Ill
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R.
MJI reaaona /or reaignGfion-The attitude of the Society-Sir
.Arthur ConGn DoJile'a reaignation-Hia reaaon.....-Mr. Theodore
Be.terman-Mr. W. H. Salter--The General Meeting-
Curioaa procedure--A aignificant omiuion-'' A trivial
matter ''-Numeroua reaignation.-A mau of criticiam-Mr.
Buterman'• trip-Hia peraonal unpopalarifg--" DrearJI
rubbiah "-A deliberate miaconatruction-Mr. Beaterman tmd
Dr. Kroner--A glaring example-Mr. Salter'• amaaing
aaggeafion-Sir Oliver LoJ1e'a obaervotion..-The o'bjeda
of the S.P.R.-Their fulfilment-Degeneration-Infantile
activitiett-The 'bamaclea of the SocietJI-Some qae.tiona
to the Societg--A Pagchical Benevolent A..aciation-The
atulti/U:ation o/ ita object..-Dbatruc:tion to reaean:h • 198
BOOK IV
FRAUD. THE AMERICAN INVASION, 1931
CHAPTER I
THE BAYUS EXPOSURE
Innumerable complainta-1 arrange for a aitting-MJI report-
Obvioaa frGud-Ridiculoaa proceeding..-Expoaare-A ecme
-Publication of mJI report--correapondence-The Bqliaea
diaappear 217
CONTENTS 9
CHAPTER II
•• MAlEJUAlJZATIONS '' AT THE NATIONAL LABORATORY
UGI
The mediamahip of Mr. L'Eatran6e-Mr. Harry Price prepare• the
..fanc:e room-The medium MGrched-A light trance--A
deeptrr trance-Mu•ic-hall Scotch-Unutterable drivel-The
curtflin mooea-Throwing old c:lothea about-The chair
mooea-A ludicroua and aomewhat co•tl11 affair . • 232
CHAPTER 111
TH£ FUGHT OF TH£ HAMILTON.S
Some ,.flectio,.._"A,Wic;e to bandit..-Mr. Sproull introducea the
Hamilton--Financial arrangement..-Ne6ofiationa-'' Warmeat
greetins• "-A miarepreaentation-Terma a6reed-An attempt
to '' raiae" me-A diain_genuoua appeGI-The Hamilton•
arrloe-M11 impre,.iona-The one and onlJI aitting-A
nerooua medium-" Nothins doin6 "-An attempt to alter
the order of aeating--Complainta aa to the aearch-A baolute
drioel-Refuaed to ait-An abaurd letter-The amazin6
recooerJI of Mr1. Hamilton-" Teat IJOinfl "-The Hamilton.
bolt-Getting the moneJI badt-The 1ponaor repudiate•
liabilitv-" Camp Che.ter/ield "-A GallerJI of Beaut.,-
What the Hamiltona sot aUJay with-What the11 miued • 236
CHAPTER IV
THE FRAUDlJLEHI" PERFORMANCE OF MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY
Mia Phpllia Neilaon-Terry'• inoifafion-Suggeated precautiona-
A friend of the Hamiltoru--The "Camp Cheater/ield "
certificate of character-/ am not recopizecl-A auapicioaa
trumpet--A curioua coalume-Meet " Dr. Green "-1 ahi/f
m11 poaition-And detect the medium •pea~ing-A aam_p_le
•• c:onoeraafion "-" Hu/-huf-Hen-hen-Mah-mah "-The
methoda of fraudulent medium,_A bad ahot-Not one aolita'll
point of evidence--A di•gu•ting farce-" Don't JIOU touch
mJI trumpet/ "-The moiature on the mouthpiece--How the
creduloua are duped-A Queen'• Hall meeting-Curioaa
aeatin6 arran6ementa-An abaolute fiaac~A profeaioMl
conjurer more competent and more amuain1 . 260
CHAPTER V
THE JMPOSmONS OF MISS HAZEL RIDLEY
Met~nin_glea •quea~a-The medium'• curioua antic..-Pure rubbiah'
-The u.ual /iahinr-The method• emplo.,ed-" Mumble-
mumble--mumble -A farciC4l performance--ProfiU,ble
banalitie• 2n
A..
10 . . . AND AFTER
BOOK V
VALIAN'riNE*S FINAL VISIT, 1931
CHAPTER I
VAUAN'TlNE•s ARRIVAL
Y alionfine oiaifa Mr. X-The previou arran6ement...-Yaliontine'a
mentalitu-Hia origin-Hie character--&ginning...-unu•d to
luxurJ~-t'reoioue financial arrangement.-Earlier oiait.-Grow-
ing fame-Big oflera-A gerusroua patron-Growing conceit-
" A million pound• "-Mra. Yaliantine-Huge /ee.--T1*1fed
en prince-Effect. of /latferJI and luxurJ~-A rrangemente with
Dr. Vioian-Yaliantine'a illiterate lettere-CatHJlier behar1ioar
-Experimenfa /or fin1er-printe-Boolta hia pa.aG6e earlier-
Curtail• aittin6e-Caehee Dr. Yioian'• cheque-The 1925
aiftinga for finger-prin1...-/mprinfa obtainecl-Voliantine at the
pinnacle of hie mediumiafic power• 287
CHAPTER 11
THE FIRST stANcE
Dietinctioe fgpea of phenomena-A etrong combination of force•
-A new type of trumpet-Thirteen " voicea " manife.t-
The characteriefic voice of my father-MJI aiater'a wamin6
-"Be careful "-Richard Bethell . • 303
CHAPTER Ill
A FINCER-PRINT EXPERJMI.NT
An ottempt to obtain aupemormal imprint...-The prf!parationa
-Precaution.-A qaeation of evidence--Did Valionfine
know}--" Dogie " -P,eai(..-Qther " ooicea "-/mpre..ion on
the emolted paper-' Doyle'a" /inger-printe . • 310
CHAPTER IV
MORE IMPRESSIONS MADE
Tlae .econd attempf--Mr. Jaquin'a oEJinion--More precaationa-
The tin of modelling war-Few " ooicea ''-St. John
Adcoc~" Doylea voice "-The charm on the tDatch-chain
--Lad11 Do,le-The apade pinea-Valian1ine ~(.new of it-
More impre..iona made on the emolted paper . • 319
a-IAPTER V
AN INTDU.UDE
Valiantine unwell-A fluent aifting-Communication outaide the
ltnowledge of the medium or the aitter.-The " Dewar
voice " rejera to hia index finger-Three " ooicea " hurd
apeal(.in6 t"gether and ooerlappin1 • 32S
CONTENTS 11
CHAPTER VI
PRECAUTIONS AND A SIMJLARJTY
PAGI
The third Gffempt for imprint.-" Lord DeWGr• " curiou• ooic:e
-Tu>o di.tincf impre11ion..-Tite .agge•tion that impreNion•
be t~n o/ Valiantine'• and the •ittera' big toe..-Precaution•
-The ValiGntine impra.ion compared with the " •pirit "
impreuion..-A llfriltin• ,;milarit,_Valiantine qitat.d . 331
CHAPTER VII
THE NERVOUSNESS OF VALL\NTINE.
EnlG,..ement• tnGde of the print.-An embarra•ainR_ lituation
-Valiantine• depreuion-A mixed •ifting--Valiantine'•
" Guide• " are •ilent-Dr. Vil)ian'• fi,t experience with
Ycrlicrntine--A po..ible point of euiclen«--A " ooice "
alternate• in conueraafion with Dr. Viuian and the DuclteN
of Hamilton • 337
CHAPTER VIII
THE SfANCE Wrm THE DOYLES
LAd, Do11le and Adrian Conan Dogle-Valiantine change• lti•
•hoe..-Arthur Do,le'• ooic:e-Que•tion• of euidenc:e-Three
dimnd imprint.-Genuine phenomena . • 34S
CHAPTER IX
THE COLLAPSE OF VALIANTIN£
Tit. lftf lifting--Tit~ expo.are-An elbow joint imprint-
Additional #llrecaufion..-The d11e-The pla.ticine ,prinltled
with Meth11lene Gn~en-The ac:ulptor'• modelling wax--The
plan o/ campaign-A Jaort llitting in a ~atiric atmo.pltere--
Seoeral imprint.-An impre•lion fal(en of Valiantine'• foot
-Yalhmtine confronted with the " apirif " enlargement in
compariaon with hi• own big toe-Mr. /aquin'• precipitate
etion-lmpre11ion• talten o/ Yallantine'• little /i~re,...._The
medium ..arched-The lfain found on hi• elbou>-He cannot
uplain-Croa~ination-Yaliantine collapae• 3S3
CHAPTER X
Ft1TIL£ DENIALS
The next dq-Tite eoldenc:e of the photograph..-1 dilc:UII lti•
/ature t.Dith YaliGtlline-He again collap-. . 36S
12 ... AND AFTER
CHAPTER Xl
PROOFS OF FRAUD
PACI
Yaliantine, Mn. Bradl8JI and I interview Mr. X-No mrpriae-
/nclinetl to tle/end Yaliantine-Yalianfine becomea truculent
-He lie.-Another expert opinion tlecided on-The Stineon
imprint-Yaliantine liea about tlae " D011le " I)Oice-Dr.
Yivian--Mr. /aqain-1 conaalt Scotlantl Yartl-Mr. Bell, ex-
Chief lnapector of the Finger-Print BareGa-flia report con-
cluaive-The Stin10n imprint /oantl to be /raadulent-Sittinga
with Dr. Vivian • 371
OiAPTER XII
MR. NOEL JAQUIN'S REPORT ON THE IMPRINTS • • 378
CHAPTER XIII
EX-cHIEF INSPECTOR W. T. BELL's REPORT ON THE IMPRINTS • 38S
CHAPTER XIV
THE LAST CHAPTER
Tlae riae antl /all of Valiantine-Materialimt antl tleCGJt-
Flattery and money-Heighta and depth.-5pirifaali.m and
if• problema-The .tady o/ p..,chi~The herd-The .o-
calletl,. Sociefiea "-Tiae "half and hal/era "-Propagandiat•
and demagogae.-5piritaaliam a " religion-A farce-
Evidence• of .arvival-The /utility of the Societiea-The
Spiritaaliat Charchea-&nalitiea arid platitudea-A deep
problem-My advice-The danger• o/ the afadg-Spirit com-
munication ia not a religion-The e.tabli•hed Charchea-
Their attitude--The evil• CY/ mediamahip-The mental atrwrin
-The Catholic Church and ita attitude-The Charcla of
England-The /ewi.h faith--Sporadic phenomena are not the
worahip of Gocl-P.ychical reaearch a acience /or the /eu>-
Shadea of good and evil-Conclaaion.-Tiae moat di/1icult
word for man fo umte 389
INDEX • 399
---- ---
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
H. Dennis Bradley Frontispiece
FACING PAC&
George Valiantine
Mrs. Bertha Holtz Hamilton}
Mrs. Mary Murphey-Lydy
Rev. Anna Throndsen
Mrs. Sarah E. Pierce
Mrs. Emma Carpenter }
Rev. Nellie Curry
Rev. Mabel Ripple
Rev. Nina Challen Richards
EXHIBIT
8o
1 .-S~ance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 20, 1931 3I6
2.-Seance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 20, 1931 318
3.-S~ance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 21, 1931 324
4.-S~ance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 21, 1931 326
5.-Seance Imprint. Dorincourt, l<' ebruary 23, 1931 332
6.-Seance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 23, 1931 334
7.-S~ance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 23, 1031 . 342
(0614i~t~tl"c Motle/li,r WA.Xjli~utl6y Mr. Cl.•rks Syku.)
8.-Normal imprints of George Valiantine and Noel Jaquin 336
9--Enlargements of alleged "Lord Dewar imprints"}
33
8
10.-Enlargement ofla normal imprint '
1I.-Enlargement of alleged "Conan Doyle imprint" compared
with an enlargement of a normal impression 340
12.-Enlargement of the "curious impression" obtained on
February 20, 1931 344
13.-Enlargement of alleged supernormal print obtained on
February 21, 1931, compared with a normal impression 346
14--S~ance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 25, 1931 350
15.-Seance Imprint. Dorincourt, February 27, 1931 358
16.-S~ance Imprint on specially prepared plasticine, February 27,
1931 36o
17.-Normal finger-prints of George Valiantine 362
18.-Enlargement of s~ance impression February 27, 1931 366
19.-Enlargement of s~ance impression February 25, 1931 368
20.-comparative markings by Mr. W. T. Bell, Ex-Chief Inspector
in Charge Finger-Print Bureau, New Scotland Yard , 386
21.-Point• of similarity in regard to the alleged "Sir Henry
Segrave imprint," marked by Ex-Chief Inspector
W. T. Bell 388
)
BOOK I
SOME CLAffiVOYANT EXPERIMENTS
CHAPTER I
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW
Embcrr~on-A reiro•pect--5acce»-failare-1-lone•ty--Fraud--Proof
of •annoal-The _rNUife•t .cientific cliR:oc>e'll in hi.torsr-How can
it be prooecl?--The " elireef voice "--Georre Valiantine--Hi•
recorcl-The pinnacle of hi• mecliam•hit>-Phy.ical phenomena--
The ooice from .pac:e---Per.anal experiment..-Danreroal obNIIion•
-"Boom •• danrer.-The c:harlatGn.-H. G. Well• comment•
-lrutinctioe antit:>Gthu-Clairooyant ancl clairaaclient mecliam..,_
The rolclen rule..-the renaine mecliam..-A te.t-A utomatic
writing-Conan Doyle--Rabbi•h from A a•tralia-Prejaclice ancl
creclalit11.
NECESSITY may be the mother of Invention, but, in her
loose moments, she may also beget an unruly child called
Circumstance. Her alliance with Destiny is, at times,
promiscuous in the shaping of rough-hewn ends.
It was Circumstance that first led me to embark upon
my studies on psychics. It is Circumstance that now
com~els me to renew in retrospect the result of those
stud1es, and to disclose my deductions and inferences.
In the course of the last eight years I have made an
exhaustive study of all forms of mediumship, and the
earlier stages of that study were recorded by me in two
lengthy volumes: " Towards the Stars," published in
1924, and " The Wisdom of the Gods," published in 1925.
Since then, however, with the exception of a book written
by me and translated into German, dealing with experi-
ences in that country, I have not published any further
work on psychics in England.
In this book I propose to record the salient features of
my studies since 1925.
Although my perspective has, during this time,
become infinitely clearer, when reviewing the experiences
recorded in those two books I find that there is nothing
which I desire to retract. These records narrated faith-
fully the facts that had occurred, without embellishment,
and with a scrupulous regard for truth. It is interesting
15
16 ... AND AFTER
to observe that in my second psychic book I remarked:
" To arrive at wisdom the heights and depths of experi-
ence must be explored, and truth must be established,
not upon myth, nor upon belief, but upon the solid
foundation of knowledge."
In the present book there will be found some of the
" depths of experience."
In this material existence human thought cannot
sustain itself alone upon the heights, and so, as at various
stages in his upward path the climber pauses and turns
to survey from above the :paths from which he has
attained his !?resent point, 1n this book I propose to
survey those e1ght years' intensive toil, and estimate the
value of the results and rate the consequences.
There has been success, there has been failure; belief
and disillusion; I have found honesty and fraud, avarice
and self-denial, illusion and delusion, compensation and
disappointment; and I propose to set down plainly my
.deliberate opinion of the value of the subject of psychics.
Humanity can never remain static; human thought and
actions tend either to run to seed and decay, or to progress
and develop more acutely. ·
The general object of my studies has been to gain
incontestable proofs of the survival of man's spirit after
bodily death. For centuries man has considered this
vast problem, which forms the basis of all religions, but
his faith has, of necessity, been built upon belief, and
not upon any foundation of scientific knowledge. That
this stud7 is wort~ 'Yhile m.ust be agree~, even .by the
most cyn1cal mater1ahst, for If man's surv1val after death
were scientifically proved, and this fact universally
accepted, then such proof would represent the greatest
scientific discovery in history.
The question that has tormented man's mind through-
out the ages, and torments the multitudes to-day, is the
uncertainty of any existence after the brief spell of this
life on earth. Hence, to scientists, philosophers, clerics,
and ordinary men of the world, this leading question
may be put: " How can survival be 'Proved P "
It can only be proved by the establishment of com-
munication with those who have lived on earth and have
passed on to the next stage of their existence, and, if
communication be once established, then the communicat-
ing spirits must give irrefutable evidence of their
identities, of the retention of their memories as to events
which happened in conneetion with their personal lives
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 17
on earth, and their knowledge of the facts which are
happening to those connected with them, who have
remained on earth since they passed over. Even one
such case, if definitely proved, would be of paramount
importance to the world, but I would not venture to
expect the majority of men to accept the fact of survival,
unless, as a reault of my own experiences in resear<'h
work, I could assert without fear of contradiction that
survival has been proved in hundreds of cases, and that
I can personally call upon the testimony of hundreds of
witnesses of international repute.
This twentieth century in which we are living has
made enormous strides in material and scientific progress.
It is the century in which man has essayed his first
flight above the earth, has conquered space by the dis-
covery of the ether waves, and has thrown his voice across
continents; but the discovery of wireless pales into
insignificance before the discovery of the greatest pheno-
menon of all time-the establishment of direct com-
munication in the actual per&onal voice with those who
are existing upon another plane than ours.
It is in no spirit of conceit that I lay claim to having
given the rare form of the phenomenon of the '' dirert
voice'' greater study, and to have had more experiencl"s
and acquired a greater knowledge of the sensitive
vibrations and intricacies than most men.
But for the fact that I and Mrs. Bradley succeeded in
developing- "voice " mediumship personally and individu-
ally, entirely apart from any outside or professional
medium, I should not feel qualified to criticize analytic-
ally the extraordinary phases of the development and
the eventual decline of the mediumship of George
Valiantine.
Valiantine, at the height of his mediumistic powers,
was, to my mind, the greatest "voice" medium the
world has ever known. In view of the subsequent
chapters in this book, a brief resume of the records of
his mediumship under my personal supervision, in my
own house, rnay be given.
On the first occasion that Valiantine visited England,
in 1924, he stayed with me at Dorincourt for five weeks.
During this time I held twenty-eight " direct voice .,
seances. Of these, one was entirely unsuccessful, four
might be regarded as negative in evidential results; the
remaining twenty-three were remarkably successful.
In 1925 Valiantine stayed with me again at Dorin-
18 ... AND AFTER
court, from February 13 until April 25, and during
these ten weeks I conducted sixty-one seances. Only two
of these were complete failures; five were what I should
describe as negative in results, although phenomena
occurred, and fifty-four were successful.
Valiantine visited me again in 1927, staying with me
at Dorincourt, a few records of which are published in
this book.
Up to, and including, 1927, I had conducted consider-
ably over one hundred experiments with Valiantine,
95 per cent. of which were successful. Between two and
three hundred people witnessed the phenomena which
took place, the maJority of whom were men and women
of established reputation in various paths of life.
Valiantine has stayed with me for periods of months
on end, and I have had ample opportunities of studying
his character. He is a man of instinctive good manners,
but it is essential to state that he is semi-illiterate. He
possesses no scholastic education whatever, beyond ihe
ordinary simplicities; he is ill-versed in general conversa-
tion and ideas. I mention these facts because many of
the communications which have been made in the
"direct voice" under his mediumship have been
brilliant in their expressions and culture.
Fluent conversations have been carried on by various
"voices " in nearly every language, and in many
dialects. French, Basque, German, Spanish, Italian,
Sicilian, Russian, Dutch, Danish, Portu~uese, Arabic,
Ancient and Modern Chinese, and idiomatic Welsh have
all been spoken. Of the many hundreds of "voices "
(feminine and masculine) which have spoken, the great
majority possessed distinct character and individuality.
The timbre, accent, and manner of delivery, and, beyond
all, distinctive pe~onality, were recognizable in innumer-
able instances. There was also a considerable number
of cases recorded by me in which communicating
" voices " gave valuable cross evidence of communica-
tions made by them at other sittinp:s at which Valiantine
was not present. There were also several cases of
information given by " voices " of facts which were
proved to be not only out8ide the knowledge of the
medium, but oufs1"tle the knowledge of any of the sitters
present in the circle.
In 1925, I recorded a series of sittinlls held in full
davliR"ht, during which the closest observation of
Valiantine's face was made, and many evidential com-
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 19
munications were given by the various " voices " which
manifested under these conditions.
A number of official sittin~s were held by representa-
tives of the Society for Psychical Research, during which
supernormal evidences were recorded in the Proceedings
of the Society. It was established by corroborated
evidence that Valiantine and a spirit voice were speak-
ing simultaneously.1
Una, Lady Troubridge, and Miss
Radcliffe Hall were two of the representatives of the
S.P.R. present, and referring to the daylight experi-
ment, Una, Lady Troubridge, wrote, in the "Proceed-
ings " : " I consider that this has established Valiantine
in an exceptional way.''
During the year 1925, in my opinion, Valiantine'a
mediumship was at its pinnacle, and the complete records
which were published by me at this time are unique in
the history of psychic science.
During my early studies I deduced bv common logic
that " voice" mediumship is not an abnormalitY.> but
that it is a latent faculty which it should be possible to
develop in a certain percentage of men and women. I
determined to experiment for myself, and within a com-
paratively short time, after the first experiment in 1924,
my wife and I succeeded in establishing communication
in the " direct voice " with various spirits whom we
had known on earth, and who had passed over.
In the course of the many personal experiments I have
conducted, in addition to the various conversations which
have taken place with spirit entities, the most remarkable
physical phenomena have also occurred. These physical
phenomena are of an extraordinary nature and they
have been witnessed by a number of people of repute.
I have had the instruments of an orchestra placed in the
centre of my own study, with luminous paint covering
them .so that every movement could be seen instantly,
and these instruments have been played by unseen forces
in perfect harmony. Whilst operatic selections were
being played upon the gramophone, they have been
supernormally conducted with a luminous baton in a
majestic manner.
Remarkable as these supernormal manifestations are,
I would not advance them, or indeed an[ conceivable
form of physical phenomena, as any proo whatever of
the survival of the spirit. One cannot prove survival by
any physical manifestations; it can be proved only by
1 This hu happened on innumerable occasions.
20 ... AND AFTER
mental evidence, conveyed by the personality, memory,
and personally-volunteered knowledge of the com-
municating spirits.
At the " direct voice " seances held in my own house,
without any outlide medium being pt'elent, dozens of
spirits, unknown to me, but known to various of the
sttters, have spoken in their own recognizable voices,
and have given evidence of their survivtng personality.
Many of these records have been published, together with
the testimony of the witnesses, who have written and
published corroborative accounts of the proofs which were
given, and the incidents which took .Place.
There can be no question of hallucmation or hypnotic
suggestion with regard to these voices. I have URed
every means to refute such a contention. I have held
seances in my study, when several people have been
present, and outside the door other people have been
sitting listening to the communicating spirits, and, on
several occa~ion1, the spirits, in loud tones, have
addre11ed those outside the room, who recognized the
identities of the voice1 of the sfirits speaking.
I have recorded important Information given by a
personally known " spirit voice" of matters and events
completely outside the knowledge of anyone present in
the room. Science cannot yet explain the phenomenon
of a distinct and intelligent voice sreaking from space,
independently of the medium, or o any of the sitters.
Can any telepathic theory explain the fact that such
"voices " are able, upon certain occasions, to give
information of value upon matters and events which are
not contained, or previously registered, in the minds of
those to whom these facts are given?
These personal voice experiments, under the medium-
ship of my wife and myself, have been conducted at odd
intervals from 1924 until the present date. During the
last few years I have conducted these experiments with
the utmost privacy, because upon the last occasion these
experiments became publicly known I was inundated
with thousands of letters from all parts of the country,
and, indeed, from all parts of the world, from persons
pleading for the opportunity of sitting with me. Not
only that, but each one of the many who sat with me
would afterwards relate their experiences, with the con-
sequence that dozens of other personal friends would also
pursue me with requests. At one yeriod I was put to the
expense of engaging an additiona assistant secretary to
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 21
deal with this correspondence and attend to the incessant
telephone messages.
There are penalties attached to psychic studies. It is
a subject which creates an enormous and peculiar interest.
It is six years since I have written a book on the
subject, but for a long period I received several hundreds
of letters a week; letters from all parts of the globe,
from University professors, scientists, doctors and
students. These lengthy letters compelled explicit
answers.
Even to-day, if I take a week or so's journey on the
Continent, I return to a mass of accumulated correspon-
dence which appals me. It disturbs one's life and one's
work; and that is why I have determined to play no
public part in future. I have resigned from all the
various Psychic Societies to which I belon~ed, and any
further studies I may make will be made 1n sanctuary,
and for myself alone.
Of the personal survival of the spirit after man's
bodily death I am convinced, but while we are living
the preliminary stage in our existence on earth, it is
necessary for our sustenance and our development to
devote our energies more to our own individual mental
pro~ress than to our dreams, imaginations, and anxious
anticipations in regard to the form of existence we shall
lead in the next sphere to this. If, as a first principle,
we study and help our fellow-creatures on earth, we
shall have ample time in the hereafter to develop our-
selves to our ultimate fruition.
If an obsession exists in the mind oi' any person with
regard to his subsequent existence, to the exclusion and
detriment of the life he is living on earth, then such a
tendency may prove destructive to individual progress.
That such an obsession exists among vast numbers of
spiritualists I have had ample proof. There has been
during the last few years a " boom " in the cult of
spiritualism. With the vague carelessness of gossipet's
I have been labelled a spiritualist. I detest labels. I
am no more a spiritualist than I am a telephonist, or a
wirelessist. I am no " ist " and I belong to no " ism."
I have taken psychics as an interesting study, and
particularly in regard to its bearing upon an after life.
All that I desire is to be accepted as a student; not
as a " cultist " nor as an "occultist." Only the
extremist and the fool should be pigeon-holed.
Dming the last few years Psychical Research and
22 ... AND AFTER
Spiritualism have become internationally popular subjects.
It is inevitable that when the herd-like mind is attracted
to a new sphere vulgar usages are made, and charlatans
and demagogic figures thrust themselves forward to lead
the mob in the rush towards a new Klondike. 'l'he
avaricious surge in the van, and then one observes t.he
signs of abuse and consequent decay.
. . . . . . .
The study of psychics has at present no place in exact
science. I am an admirer of H . G. Wells, whom I know
personally, and, apart from my psychic studies, he is an
admirer of me. At least he has said so, passin~ on to
me the bouquet of " brilliance." Wells is a gen1us ; be
is, in my opinion, the greatest living writer. I judge
him not upon his ima~inative fiction, but upon his fine
political and psycholo~1cal penetration. His vast capacity
of imagination bas Inspired him to undertake super-
human tasks; tasks beyond the human limitations. His
"Outline of History" is a magnificent attempt. His
" Science of Life " is a finely evolved superficial scamper.
One admires the endeavour to circle the Universe within
a nine months pregnancy of idea.
Wells, in his writings, toys with the subject of psychical
research. He says that he was a member of the Society
for Psychical Research for a year or so. I have been
a member for many years, and if Wells imagined that
he could gain any knowledge from being a member of
this Society it would be as well to inform him that it
would be as logical to take a cottage in the Isle of Mnn
for the purpose of the study of Asiatics.
wells quotes a certain fraction or my work in his
" Science of Life," and refers to one Valiantine seance
at Dorincourt, at which a personal friend of his, Rebecca
'West, was present. He cites an error which was made
by a communicating " voice " which spoke to her.
Wells is, I know, according to his philosophy, instinc-
t.ively prejudiced against the idea of survival. The
scientist must have no prejudices one way or the other.
His attitude should be cold and impartial.
Wells refers in particular to one chapter in my book,
but he omits to state that, after this incident had
occurred, another " voice " spoke to Rebecca West.
This " voice " purported to be that of her mother, who
'discussed certain matters which the daughter had to
attend to in regard to her mother's affairs after the latter
had passed over. In the course of this conversation
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 28
Rebecca West became very emotional. Why was she
emotional if she was talking to an obvious fake or fraud P
She should have been all the more severe and critical.
The full details of the one sitting at which Rebecca West
was present, to which he refers, Wells may not have
read. He makes no reference whatever to the distinctly
evidential communications made by supernormal '' voices''
to Mrs. Gordon Craig; neither is there any reference to
the communications made in the " direct voice , to
Sus~n, Countess ~f Mal.mesbury, .who was also present at
Dormcourt at this particular sitting.
, Scientific criticism should be free from bias. The
valuation of authenticated facts must be made irrespective
of their cause and effect for good or evil, and irrespective
of one's own individual philosophy or ideas.
Wells has merelr, flirted with psychical research in his
" Science of Life, ' but it is a subject which cannot be
dismissed with a. butterfly kiss or a hasty curse. It
would have been wiser for him to have left the subject
entirely alone, unless he was prepared to deal with it
more thoroughly than by the brusque 9uotation of one
doubtful point, which I had provided him with, and by
omitting to advance any logical explanation of other
phenomena, recorded by me, which took place on this
particular evening.
. . . . . . . .
In the first part of this book I shall deal with some
experiences with clairvoyant and clairaudient mediums.
There are comparatively few fully developed, genuine
mediums in the world. Of the various forms of medium-
ship, the charlatan is naturally inclined to take the form
which is easiest, and the simplest method for the fake
medium to adopt is clairvoyance. It is not necessary in
this form to make any attempt at physical or objective
phenomena. The medium merely talks through his or
her own lips, and, when possessed of a certain astuteness,
by fishing about for names and information-which are
more often than not volunteered by the sitter-·the
medium is enabled, by vague and general references, to
im{>ose upon a considerable number of credulous inquirers.
Th1s type of spiritualistic charlatan is really more vicious
than the silly professional fortune-teller and yalmist.
There are also a very considerable number of clauvoyant
mediums possessing a modicum of genuine power, who,
while they are not actually fraudulent, are so undeveloped
that the results obtained through them are valueless. I
24. •.. AND AFTER
have had experiences with many of these types, and the
majority of the alleged communications received are an
insult to the intelligence.
There are certain golden rules which should be applied
to all subjective psychic experiments, by which one can
at once test the senuineness of the communications.
Unless the commun1cations given through the medium are
freely and spontaneously volunteered, and can be proved
to be O'Utside the knowledge of the medium, they a1'e of no
value. This rule applies equally to communications given
in the " direct voice " at sittings where objective pheno-
mena also take place. When the medium starts to fish
for information by asking questions of the sitter, in order
to get a line to work upon, one may be safe in assuming
that the medium is not genuine. The few good clair-
voyant mediums practising in England are probably the
best that are to be found. I would state unhesitatingly
that Mrs. Osborne Leonard is the best clairvoyant medium
in the world. In the whole of the series of sittings I
have had with her, which have been published in detail
in my previous books, the evidences given by the com-
municating entities were exceptional, and never once in
the information given was her " control " confused. In
the accounts of my sittings with Mrs. Leonard I have
recorded innumerable instances of information given in
regard to occasions and events entirely outside the know-
ledge of the medium or myself, which have afterwards
been proved to be correct.
It has been said bv critics that the one supreme
and conclusive test of the value of spirit communication
would be, if the spirit could give information and
describe events not only not known to the medium or to
the sitter, but unknown to any living person. I have
personally experienced two or three such cases. One of
these I will quote. At a sitting with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, the communicant (Warren Clarke, my brother-
in-law) displayed a complete knowledge of incidents
connected with the lives of his two daughters, Phyllis
and Betty, after he had passed over, .and gave a point
of considerable importance when he said: " There is
somethin~ wrong with one of Phyllis's toe nails. It is
not ~rowmg in the right way." After the sitting we
inquued from her governess as to whether anything was
wrong with any of the toe nails, and she replied that
they were quite all right. About three weeks afterwards,
however, one of the nails developed a split and eventually
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 25
came off. This incident is certainly of scientific interest,
because, trifling as it may appear, the point given was
proved to be outside the knowledge of any living person.
Sittings with Mrs. Osborne Leonard are held in clear
light-and all the communications are made through her
own lips while she is in a condition of deep trance. At
many of my sittings with her, however, I have heard
for a considerable period of the time the communications
made in an entirely independent voice, speaking about
two or three feet away from her head. After the voice
has spoken, "Feda," the control, has then repeated what
has been said. Taking verbatim notes I have recorded
in writing many of these "independent voice " com-
munications before the control " Feda," speaking
through the lips of Mrs. Leonard, has had time to repeat
them. Such experiences are unique, as Mrs. Leonard
is not a " direct voice " medium. It may perhaps be
explained as a combination of my form of mediumship
with hers.
At one of my sittings with Mrs. Leonard twenty-one
specific statements were made by the communicating
spirit upon matters completely beyond the medium's
knowledge or mine. Many of these statements applied
to the movements and actions of a certain person at the
actual moment when the sitting took place. Not only
were the movements described at synchronized time, but
the thoughts of the person, who was at that time travel-
ling, were correctly described. Other statements with
regard to this person referred to events which had
happened in the past.
This sitting took place in the morning, and I was
fortunately aole to check up these statements on the same
evening. I had no knowledge whatever as to where this
particular lady was, but on telephoning to her Hat in
London I was informed that she was travelling back
from Paris that day, and was expected home in the late
afternoon. Upon her arrival I invited her to dine with
me at Dorincourt. Meanwhile, taking the twenty-one
statements in order, I framed twenty-one carefully
guarded questions in relation to these statements, so
worded that they could be put to her in such a way that
they would not obtain from her correct and intelligent
replies, unless they indicated matters within her know-
ledge. I explained to her that I had reasons for putting
a series of questions to her in what must appear to be a
somewhat abrupt manner. The result was that eleven of
26 •.. AND AFTER
the atatements made at the sitting were found to be an
absolute confirmation of exceptional evidential value. Site
of the statements were correct, but had no evidential
value, and the remaining four were statements upon
incidents which had escaped her memory. No telepathic
theory could logically apply to any of the volunteered
statements made by the communicating entity.
On this same evening, after dinner, a '' direct voice ''
seance was held at Dorincourt, under the dual medium-
ship of my wife and myself, at which several persons
were .Present. This seance was remarkable both for
objective and subjective phenomena. Several "voices "
manifested, and the communicating entity which had
volunteered the twenty-one statements at tlie sitting with
Mrs. Osborne Leonard in the morning, carried on further
confirmatory conversations in the " direct voice" with
the lady in question.
. . . . . .
In addition to Mrs. Osborne Leonard, I have obtained
good supernormal evidence in my sittings with Mrs.
Barkell and Mrs. Scales. Mrs. Barkell maintains a
fairly good level standard of evidence, which is usually
clear-cut and genuine. With Mrs. Scales, who seldom
sits professionally, I have, at times,· obtained some
brilliant results of a standard equal to that of Mrs.
Leonard. At other times, according to the condition of
her health, the results have varied in their value ; but
always have I found her absolutely genuine.
With Mrs. Garrett I have only had two sittin~s. At
the first I obtained nothing whatever of an evidential
nature, the communications being impersonal. The
second sitting, held in company with several persons, was
interesting to a certain extent, and a few ol the com-
munications purporting to come from the late Sir EdwaTd
Marshall Hall were intelligent, certain parts or which
displayed a knowledge of his personal association with
me, and of events which had occurred in the past.
Beyond these four clairvoyant mediums·, the others wit.h
whom I have sat have been vague, incoherent and
rubbishy. Several were absolute frauds; but one cannot
convict these so-called clairvoyant mediums on a mere
charge of incoherence. One meets so many incoherent
persons in the ordinary course of life; the only method
to adopt in self-protection is to ignore them.
Another form of mediumship is Automatic Writing.
In rare cases some very remarkable evidences of survival
A RETROSPECT AND A REVIEW 27
have been obtained, and occasionally some brilliant
philosophical essays have been volunteered. The seriP.s
of sittings which I held with Mrs. Hester Dowden, some
of which are recorded at length in my previous books,
were, to my mind, supet·normal and remarkable. The
literary expression, and the extreme rapidity with which
the thoughts and ideas on intricate and psychological
problems were evolved, may be judged as beyond the pace
of the ordinary mind. Mrs. Hester Dowden has also,
through her automatic writing, obtained many very
remarkable communications of an evidential natul'e
volunteered by v·arious entities.
In this book I have published one instance of this,
obtained at a sitting booked anonymously.
Mrs. Dowden, the daughter of Professor Edward
Dowden, is an extremely clever and cultured woman.
Her development has proved extraordinary, and as an
automatic writing medium her powers are probably
superior to any yet discovered.
Automatic writing is a form of mediumship immensely
favoured by amateur mediums all over the world. It is
a favourite and easy form of subconscious expression. I
would estimate that 99 per cent. of these alleged super-
normal writings are either nonsense, or merely represent
a coloured impression of the mind of the writer. Person-
ally, as a psychical researcher, I accept nothing as
supernormal without confirmatory evidence. Unless this
is forthcoming I refuse to accept any statement from
such sources as emanating from a discarnate entity.
In a few private circles it is possible that genuine
.messages of a consolatory nature are obtained, which
bring comfort and pleasure to the recipient, but the value
of the majority of the alleged communications which
have been published is utterly negligible.
Shortly after Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's death an
Australian paper published communications purporting to
come from him through a medium in automatic writing.
In this script there was not one solitary point of evidence
of identity. The subject matter was not only entirely
uncharacteristic, but was expressed in extremely poor
English. Pages of this rubbish were published, and the
automatic writer then proceeded to state that Doyle had
arranged to aictate a new detective story through the
hands of this medium.
Doyle was a friend of mine, and when I received the
paper in which these alleged communications were
28 .•. AND AFTER
published I cabled the editor saying that if this detective
story was published as a JlOsthumous Conan Doyle con-
tribution to literature, 1n my opinion it would be
regarded in England as an insult to his memory. It was
not published, and I received a very courteous lett~r
from the editor thanking me for my cable, and for the
opinion which I had expressed.
. . . . . . .
After recording a section of my clairvoyant experi-
ences, I shall, in subsequent chapters of th1s book, deal
with the records and the study of the development of
Valiantine's mediumship in 1927, in 1929 and in 1931.
Character, energy, mentality and power in human life
either progress to fuller fruition or sink into decay.
I shall relate my psychic experiences in Germany and
Italy, and deal with the fanatical prejudices of certain
types of pseudo-researchers and also with the obsessed
credulity of ecstatic spiritualists; neither of which types
possesses the neceSfiary cold and unbiased intelligence
with which one should approach all psychical studies.
I shall analyse many cases of fraud, and illustrate the
menace of the flagrant manner in which multitudes of
credulous-minded persons are being imposed upon by
certain degraded types of exhibitors at the present
moment.
In my final chapter I shall weigh Psychical Research
and Spiritualism in the balance, and express my
individual judgment upon the effects for good or for evil.
CHAPTER II
A SITTING WITH MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD
Th. control •• Feda ''-An of!icial aitting of the S.P.R.-Poor
phenomena-1'he $urraonalifJI of •• Feda "-A verbatim dialogue
-BuineN reference.-}ame• White'• of/er--5. G. Soal'a p8J1chic
experienca-The telepathic theorJt-MJI father-Evidential atate-
menl.-A good aitting-A .tran1• peraonal experienect--A
bcuineaa communication-/ re/uae jamea White'a of/er.
}anuarJI 25. 1926.
Tms was the first sitting I held with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, since those recorded in my book "The Wisdom
of the Gods," published in December, 1925.
Mrs. Osborne Leonard's chief control is "Feda." As
recorded in my books, "Feda" has manifested in the
" direct voice " on innumerable occasions at Dorincourt,
both under the mediumship of George Valiantine and
under my own and my wife's mediumship. During a
very long series of seances Feda has given many remark-
able evidential communications; not only through the
mediumship of Mrs. Osborne Leonard, but also through
the mediumship of others.
At an official sitting of the Society for Psychical
Research held at Dorincourt on March 20, 1925, under
the mediumship of George Valiantine, at which were
present Una, Lady Troubridge, Miss Radcliffe Hall, Dr.
V. J. Woolley and myself, representing the Society, the
phenomena were comparatively poor, and, among the few
voices which manifested, Feda was one. At this sitting
it appeared to us that a certain mistake in manifestation
had been made by Feda. (This particular sitting is
recorded on pages 307-311 in "The Wisdom of the
Gods.") After the sitting, Lady Troubridge had a
sitting with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, and on questioning
Feda in regard to the Dorincourt sitting, she (Feda) said
that she had not made a mistake on the evening in
question. Lady Troubridge then said to Feda that,
rather than there should be any possibility of a mistake
being made, it would be better if Feda did not endeavour
to get through at these "voice" seances again. Lady
Troubridge, in discussin~r the matter with me, oftered
the opinion that it was quite possible that it was not Feda
29
80 ... AND AFTER
at all, but an entity representing Feda. This contention
I could not accept, in view of the fact that Feda had
been through on dozens of occasions, speaking in her own
characteristic manner at the private " voice , sittings
held under my own and my wife's mediumship. The
personality of this voice was unmistakable, and had
never var1ed. In addition to this, there is recorded an
accumulation of cross-evidence obtained through Feda
in the " direct voice," at sittings held quite apart from
Mrs. Osborne Leonard, and of which Mrs. Leonard had
no knowledge. These evidences were later confirmed by
the Feda communications at sittings held under the
mediumship of Mrs. Osborne Leonard, in her trance
. condition.
Lady Troubridge said that she thought Feda's voice,
under Valiantine's mediumship, had a slightly American
accent. With this I entirely disagreed, because Feda's
voice, under Valiantine's mediumship, was exactly the
same as the voice manifesting under my own and my
wife's mediumship.
At the sitting I am now recording, which commenced
at 10.45 a.m. at Mrs. Leonard's house in Kenley, Surrey,
the medium went into trance after a few minutes, and
Feda gave the usual greeting. The communications
which came through were nearly all in the first person.
They are therefore published from my verbatim notes
in dialogue form.
H.D.B. (to Feda): Were you present, speaking in your
own voice, at the last Valiantine sittingP
FEDA: Yes. Yes, I was.
H.D.B.: Lady Troubridge told me that she thought
your voice had an American accent.
FEDA: I don't know how it sounded, but it was my
voice speaking there.
H.D.B.: You know that on one evening-the S.P.R.
sitting--a mistake appeared to have been made?
FEDA: I remember that the conditions appeared to be
mixed.
H.D.B.: Why is it that you have so seldom manifested
in the direct voice since then P
FEDA : The Guides said it was better not to come.
You know there were awful arguments.
(Here Feda 8aid that Warren (Warren Clarke) wa1
pre1ent.)
WARREN (after greeting u&): When you are sitting,
Herbert, you are apt to get cross with people. You get
WITH MRS.. OSBORNE LEONARD 81
boiling. I know it is necessary to have calm vibrations,
but phlegmatic people do not get much power, and it is
because of the wrong vibration with these people that
other things go wrong.
H.D.B.: Would you advise Mabel and I to sit again
for the '' voices '' ?
WARREN: I don't want you to sit until later on. You
are too much occupied with business, getting things ship-
shape, and while your mind is occupied with these
affairs, your aura is charged with them.
H.D.B. : Do you know that I have recently had a very
big oiler made to me P What is your opinion of it?
WARREN: In some ways I am favourable to it. It will
take a good deal off your shoulders; it will mean a lot of
work for you to do, but it would leave you free from all
financial responsibility.
H.D.B.: But I should not feel personally free, since
I should have no independence of action.
WARREN: But vou know it is essential to concentrate
on business.1 ..
H.D.B.: You know Dennis (Dennis Anthony Bradley)
is now helping me in business?
.WARREN: Yes. But it will take a little time for him
to get used to things. You don't want to mix up busi-
ness with psychics. At present you have too much to
do. A little later on you may take up psychic work
again. A few months may make a difterence, but you
are not to sit just yet. I am not saying this just merely
to buck Mabel up.11
When you are developing voice
mediumship it means that you are building up mentally,
bit by bit, painfully. You are using certain forces and
at times it does play " Old Harry." With " voice "
1 The above refers to a very big business offer made to me by
the late Mr. James White, on behalf of an important syndicate. I
waa offered £100,000 in caah for certain interests and my services
aa Manaaing Director at a aalary of £10,000 per annum, and sharing
pro6ta calculated to amount to £20,000 a year. Big as this offer
waa, and infinitely beyond my own estimation of my value, eventually
I turned it down. It would of course have meant that I should
have been left with not one minute free in life, had I accepted it.
James White was in the habit of dealing with huge figures. A little
later on, as is well known, after dealing in millions he became
bankrupt and committed suicide. Had I accepted hia offer I should
not have been in any way involved, becauee his offer to me was
backed by firm 1ecurities, and was made in conjunction with a
famous multi-millionaire, who died some five yeafl later.
1 Mrs. Bradley is not particularly keen on sitting for personal
•• voice " mediumship as ahe always feels extremely exhausted for
a few days afterwards.
82 ..• AND AFTER
sittings the phenomena are very difficult and sensitive.
You can never feel sure enough, and sometimes one can
get disturbances even with the most sympathetic people.
It is a great work a.
nd a splendid work to do, as it haa
given hope to thousands.
H.D.B.: Do you know that S. G. Soal has written a
report on his psychic experiences, in which he records
that at a " direct voice " sitting, he spoke with an
entity who gave certain so-called evidential manifesta-
tions of his identity under the mediumship of Mrs.
Blanche Cooper, and it was afterwards discovered that
the purported entity was alive? Soal accounted for this
on the telepathic theory. It seems quite an impoi·tant
point. What do you think of it P
WARREN : Of course the majority of communications
have their origin from our side. That is what seances
are held for, but certain people on earth have faculties
which they should be careful not to use, consciously or
unconsciously. This faculty draws the power for com-
munication from earth instead of from our side.
Communicating on your ground and conditions is a very
subtle, delicate operation. Telepathy can operate on
earth. Sometimes easier than from our side. Probably
Soal had the information subconsciously within him.
Warren then went on to say that the Society for
Psychical Research had given too much prominence to
this particular paper, especially as there was no cor-
roborative evidence whatever of the statements made.
A little later on he said that man was a spirit on the
earth, and that I (H.D.B.) could, under certain con-
ditions, go to Valiantine and communicate with him.
There was such a thing, he said, as projection of the
apirit.
H.D.B.: You know, Warren, we have heard a lot
about a great upheaval. What is your opinion P
WARREN : There is going to be one. Doyle has written
a lot about it, but it is not as bad as /eople think. It
will be much more of a spiritual an mental nature;
connected with the elements. When our Lord was going
to :pass over, history records that there was a darkening
period.
There will be great manifestations from our side.
You will be able to see and hear us. There will be a
great effort to show the world once and for all that we
do exist. The ordinary people will get glimpses. You
will perhaps have been sitting in the morning and find
WITH MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD 88
people talking to us. It will be a great blessing. If I
stood in front of you, you would be delighted; there will
be one great force of power. It will be a happy and
glorious time for those who understand. You will have
to go out and explain to the multitude, and take fear
away from them. You will be among the teachers. It
will be a wonderful time. It will come before you get
old. Dennis (my son Dennis Anthony Bradley) will be
in it strongly. He (Dennis) gets worried about his own
Church. He should stick to his Church and the best of
our teaching.
H.D.B.: What about Pat? (My younger son.)
WARRBN: Pat is highly strung. He should be tau~ht
very carefully as a protective thing. Annie is looking
after him. Don't discuss psychics too much in front of
him. Keep him normal.
M.E.B. : Pat has not been very well lately.
W .ARREN: He will grow out of it. He has a delicate
stomach. At present it would be much better for him
to have a governess. Let him get stronger first. The
membrane of the stomach is very sensitive. He might
have a condition bordering on colitis. You must be
careful of congestion by using anything too drastic.
Paraffin oil would be the safest thing at present. Let
Pat have J!lenty of orange juice. He will grow out of
this condihon.1
After this there was a long discussion with Warren
regarding various personal matters; all questions were
answered intelligently although they were o£ no particular
evidential value. During this conversation Warren
Clarke gave an exceptionally ~ood description of a
certain friend of George Valianbne's, who was visiting
England. His analysis of this cha.
racter was absolutely
correct. He went on to say that if, at a later date, we
continued our own personal " voice " sittings they would
develop even better than Valiantine's. There was more
actual force of a variegated kind, and more ground to
work upon. The mediumship was a mutual thing. Both
M.E.B. and H.D.B. could develop individually, and if
one died the other could go on lmking up. He stated
that Cecil Husk and John King would be helping with
the " voice " mediumship.
H.D.B.: Warren, have you had any news of Grandpa?
1 There did e:dat in Pat. who waa nine yean of aae at thia sitting,
a certain weakneu. A year or two later the cauw: waa diac:overed
and he wu operated on for appendiciti•.
B
84 ... AND AFTER
(I asked thil queltion in the1e ezact word1 purpo1ely to
di1guise the actual name, in order to see if I could obtain
a really evidential &tatement.)
WARREN : I have been looking after him. When he
came over to this side he did not want to rest very much.
He is alwa;rs " up with the lark., He is very inquisitive,
and noses Into everything. He is very proud of himself,
and both active and lazy. He is tremendously interested
in meetin~ people he used to know and like when he was
on your s1de. He likes to talk to them and conjure up
wonderful pictures of what he used to do when he waR
on earth.1
M.E.B.: Are you still studying light and sound,
1WarrenP
WARREN : Ye&--I am learning how the wave lengtha
of light and sound alter when they come on to your
plane. Yours shorten-ours lengthen. It is very
difficult to measure distance, for distance is not always
the same. .When you understand our lower floor you
will have drawn nearer to our plane. The place between
will shrink. Thoughts correct. It is nearer now than
ten years ago. Ours is solid planet; but more spiritual
than yours. We walk on material ground ; we do not live
on mental condition only, but our matter is more refined
than yours.
Here the sitting was closed.
. . . . . . . .
The sitting, on the whole, may be taken as a good one.
I have only given an abbreviated account of this sitting,
but the fluency of the answers to the various questions was
marked.
Warren's references to the personal " voice , sitting
held by Mrs. Bradley and myself were interesting,
especially the statement, " You are using certain forces,
and at times it does play ' old Harry.' , There is no
question that these sittings do have an exhaustin~ effect,
and that is the reason I have not been particularly
desirous of continuing them.
Warren's reference to an "upheaval," however, was
somewhat vague. For a year or so before, and after, the
period of this sitting, various alleged spirit communica-
tions were coming through all over the world, prophesy-
ing that there would be an upheaval within the next few
1 When I used the term " Grandpa " I was referrlna to my father,
who had paned away the previous year. The reference. made by
WB.ITen Clarke were certainly indicative of hie character.
WITH MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD 85
years. In some cases the date was given as 1928. I
k:now that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle received many such
messages from various channels, and he appeared to be
impressed by them. No upheaval of the character
forecasted has taken place.
The reference to Dennis and the Church were quite
correct, and the references made to my young son, Pat,
were also entirely correct.
When I asked a question regarding the big offer that
had been made, I gave no indication of what this offer
was, and the reply given at once indicated a knowledge
of what was referred to, and it was discussed in further
detail.
One of the strangest incidents I have ever experienced
in my life occurred in connection with this business
offer. During the time negotiations were proceeding, I
had one morning attended a meeting at Mr. James
White's offices, which lasted two hours. I was accom-
panied by my solicitor, who was advising me, and watch-
Ing my interests. There were present about a dozen men
in all; financiers, accountants, etc. The whole of the
time was occupied in financial questions, and various
important figures were submitted, checked and re-
checked. All these figures would have affected me very
considerably personally. When the meeting had ended,
my solicitor and I had tentatively agreed to pass these
figures. Afterwards we lunched together at the Savoy
Hotel, and discussed them again at length.
Strangely enough, tliat evening when I was alone in my
room, changing for dinner, and thinking about entirely
different matters, a " voice " coming from space in the
middle of the room, suddenly called out, in distinct
tones : " Take down these figures." The " voice " was
objective, by which I mean, it was not clairaudiently
heard. It could have been heard by anyone within radius,
or recorded on a gramophone record. I did not even
know, or think, at the moment, what the " voice " could
mean by tliis remark. However, hurriedly takins- a sheet
of_ paper, I took down three sets of figures whiCh were
called out loudly and distinctly. The " voice " ended
by saying: "Compare these very carefully," and then
disappeared. I knew at once that the :figures referred to
that morning's meetinE!", and, on comparing them with
the sheets of notes I had taken, I found that my solicitor
and I had both omitted a certain important point in the
agreement of terms which had been overlooked at the
86 ... AND AFTER
meeting, and which would have meant a difference to me
of .£30,000. I at once telephoned to my solicitor, but
he was out. I was able, however, to speak to his partner,
who is his brother, and I read out the figures to him
exactly as I had taken them down, and asked him to be
sure and place them in front of his brother the first
thing in the morning. When he received the message
he rang me up and said that it was quite extraordinary
how we had overlooked the point. I may mention that
the .£30,000 was afterwards agreed to by Mr. James
White.
Eventually, entirely on my own initiative, and apart
from the advice of my consultants, I refused the Manag-
ing Directorship. I wrote to Mr. White, acquainting
him or my decision, and when I saw him he seemed to
be enormously surprised, and asked me to reconsider my
decision. He said: "Don't you realize, Bradley, we are
offering you the equivalent of half a million of moneyP''
I told him that, if I accepted, it meant I should be
compelled to devote my whole life to the undertaking,
and that there were certain things I wished to do, which
I valued more than money. I believe he thought I was
mad.
I do not wish to imply that I disregard the value of
money; I am not a wealthy man, and usually only earn
sufficient for my needs and mode of life. I have never
been ambitious to accumulate riches, and I should not
have recorded this incident but for the phenomenal
occurrence of the " voice " speaking to me, and dictating
to me some intricate figures which both I and my advisers
had overlooked.
CHAPTER III
THE KEDIUliSHIP OF MRS. BARRELL
Mra. &rltell-1 am oboioaalg ~noum to her--Name• oolantured-
Some correct information--Reference• to matter• outaide the
medium'• ~nowledge-A aecond aitting--A curioa• incident-
Leoitalion?-.4 third aitting--An eoidentud qaedion-Genaine
elGiroof1Gnt powe,...
I
October 28, 1926.
MRs. BARKELL is a professional clairvoyant medium,
and for a considerable period held sittings at the British
College of Psychic Science. ·I had heard various good
accounts of her mediumship, and it was on the recom-
mendation of Mrs. Gavin (who, at a certain sitting, had
received communications purporting to emanate from my
sister, Annie) that an appointment was made for me at
Mrs. Barkell's private house at Beckenham.
The sitting took place at 11.30 a.m. in daylight, with
the curtains of the room partly drawn.
It had been arranged previously between Mrs. Gavin
and myself that she should accompany me, and sit with
me during the first part of the seance; retiring later to
allow me to continue alone. ·
I was introduced to the medium by name ; therefore
it is fair to assume that I was known to her, and that she
had read my books on psychical research.
Within two or three minutes Mrs. Barkell went into
trance, and her control, " White Hawk," spoke in
deepish tones.
The control always refers to the medium as " my
coat." He greeted me bl shaking hands, and saying:
" My coat does not beheve-she does not believe in
spirits." (Mrs. Barkell, in chatting to me after the
sitting, told me that she herself could not ieel assured
as to whether they were spirit entities which manifested
or n~t
" ite Hawk " told me there were two ladies present
who wanted to talk to me. One was "Lady Annie" (in
previous sittings with Mrs. Gavin, "White Hawk"
had always referred to my sister as " Lady Annie") and
37
88 ... AND AFTER
the other a lady she had brought with her-one she
loved, and who had not left the body long. (This might
be taken as a reference to my mother, who had died a
few weeks before this particular sitting took place.)
" White Hawk, also referred to " Georgie," volunteer-
ing the name (my sister's son), whom, he said, was " part
of Lady Annie's self."
The conversation continued as follows:
WHITE HAWK: Annie says she does not alto~ether like
the book you are wr~ting now. She is disappointed-she
wanted JOU to write a work on the pliilosophy of
spirituahsm. She is · bothered about someone who is
sick; she had hoped that at the beginning of the summer
she might have become stronger. She is talking of
Gertrude (the name was volunteered) who has not been
very well for a long time.
The sitting had by now proceeded for ten minutes, and
"White Hawk" then spoke to Mrs. Gavin, saying :
" Go away, Lady Peggy." Mrs. Gavin then left the
room.
.WHITE HAWK (continuing): I get a feeling of intense
emotion from Annie. She has helped you: she is bring-
ing an old friend of hers to England soon. This friend
was the first " doorway."
('l'his may pouibl11 refer to Valiantine, through whom
1 received the forst communication from Annie.
Valiantine visited England again three months after
this sitting took place.)
WHITE HAWK: Mabel has been very, tired lately.
There is a feeling of lassitude. (Name volunteered and
information correct.) Tirra Wella is one of your Guides.
(1 have never heard of Tirra Wella either before or
since.) Annie says that mother is with her. She was so
surprised and astonished when she passed over; just like
a child. She was conscious at the end. She was only
ill for a few days. She looks much younger-as the
picture which was taken of her when she was forty to
forty-five. She is very happ~. At firs·t it was over-
whelming to her. She says: ' Poor Gertie." It is too
late. (My sister died two years afterwards in 1928.)
H.D.B.: Will you ask Annie the nature of the work
I am engaged upon at present P
WHITE HAWK : Annte says you are writing on sex.
She says sex is not ugliness. It is the forerunner of life.
Sex can be perfectly beautiful; yet it can become sordid.
Over here one is free from that sordid sensuality. There
MEDIUMSHIP OF MRS. BARKELL 89
is the sudden awakening or the soul, and we. arrive at
our higher selves. There is regeneration, which purges
away all the lower type of mentality. It is the finding
of the jewel-God's divine gift.
A little later in the sitting White Hawk told me that
Warren was there. Among other thin~s, I asked if
.Warren knew of the new book I was writing, and White
Hawk continued.
WHITE HAWK: Warren says "it will make them sit
up. It will show people in their true colours. So many
things are hidden, but the portrayal of people as they
really are will make for punty. This book will surpass
anything you have done. It seems to me that you are
showing the skeleton in fine clothes. First of all you
are dressing them up, and then later you are showing
them up. You are treating it with the method of the
light jest-in the manner of Congreve. Tell Dorothy
' I don't mind-good luck to her.' ,
. . . . . . . .
The sitting lasted for an hour and a half, and I have
given only a few brief extracts or what transpired.
The communications were not particularly evidential,
but, at the same time, they were quite fluent throughout.
The communicants appeared to have a certain knowledge
of my personal thoughts and work, which were unknown
to anyone but myself. The names which were
volunteered could, of course, quite J>Ossibly be known by
the medium on account of my pubhshed works.
At the time of this sitting I was engaged in writing
" The Natural State," and the references made in regard
to this book were most certainly outside the knowledge
of the medium.
D
January 17, 1927.
On this date I had my second sitting with Mrs.
Barkell:
After the medium had gone into trance, the control
"White Hawk, greeted me, and then referred to
Valiantine's comin~ visit to England. The references he
made were quite circumstantial, but I am bound to say
that they might certainly have been within the medium's
knowledge.
Communications purporting to come from Warren
Clarke, in reply to questions put regarding certain
40 ... AND AFTER
personal matters (which could not have been within the
knowledge of the medium) were given through in a
reasonable and correct manner.
Warren seemed to know the particular section of the
book upon which I was working at that moment. He
also volunteered the statement that he had been with
me at Dorincourt, and had seen " the marionettes in the
theatre." This may be regarded as an evidential point,
as, just at that time, I had received irom Mr. Charles
Sykes a tiny model theatre, with the stage all set, and
several little carved figures, representing the various
characters in the play which I prol>osed to write.
Just prior to this particular sittmg I had gone to my
study one evenin~ immediately after dinner, with the
intention of devotmg the evening to drafting out points
for an essay on certain phases of the Chinese philosophy.
It is my usual custom before writing to make short notes
of the construction, containing salient features of the
subject I am at work upon. In the ordinary course, on
a rather unusual study, this construction would entail,
at the very minimum, an hour's work. Strangely
enough, directly I sat down I was able to construct the
entire points and incidents of this essay in two minutes.
These notes, which were of considerable value to me, I
placed on a stool, on the top of a few other sheets of
notes, on the right of the armchair in which I usually
do my writing. I then left the room for less than one
minute, to fetch some other papers from my dressing-
room, and on my return the notes had disappeared. I
searched everywhere, but could not find them. No one
had entered this room during my few seconds' absence.
I interrogated the servants, but not one had been near
my room; neither were they, having received explicit
instructions, likely in any circumstances to touch any of
my papers. I spent over an hour in fruitless search, and
was then compelled to re-draft my notes from memory,
which entailed nearly two hours' work. The disappear-
ance was inexplicable.
I therefore asked " White Hawk " if he could tell me
anythin~ regarding the disappearance of some Chinese
notes. White Hawk replied, saying : " You had
att.racted a man·of China, who is well up in all the laws
appertaining to the levitation of objects and voice pheno-
mena. Because your mind was running in a g-roove it
was easy for him to manifest. The notes which were
taken will be given back." All these points were
MEDIUMSHIP OF MRS. BARKELL 41
volunteered. The " book test," however, failed: " They
were drawn from the right-hand side of where you were
sitting at home--near the bookcase. He came and took
them when you were not looking. You remember you
had them practically under your hand. You will find
those notes again. Look in your bookcase--near the
textile book-you will find one there with dark red
bindings and gold lettering on the cover. It is in a most
unusual place. You will find the paper there. You
need not make a systematic search. You will find it
when you are looking at books not connected. When
you find the paper there is placed on it some Chinese
hieroglyphics-Lao-Tze--Tien." A little later on
White Hawk repeated: "Lao-Tze--Tien-Wisdom of
the East-Fount of Wisdom."
. . . . . . . .
The references made by White Hawk in regard to the
position in which I sat at home, with the bookcase on
my ri~ht, is quite correct, and this fact was certainly
not within the knowledge of the medium. The descrip-
tion of the exact position from which the "notes " had
disappeared-" from the right-hand side . . . at home
. . . near the bookcase. . . . You remember, you had
them practically under your hand. There are one or
two textile books in one particular portion of this book-
case," is also correct, but although I made a thorough
search afterwards in all the sections I could not discover
the missing paper; neither have I discovered it to this
day.
m
.Aagu.t 23, 1928.
The sitting was held at Mrs. Barkell's house in
Beckenham.
A minute or so after she had gone into trance, the
control, " White Hawk," came through and spoke,
giving the usual greeting.
He then referred to a recent birth in Warren's (Warren
Clarke) family.
Thu i8 quite coN"ect, but could, of cour&e, be within the
knowledge of the medium.
Alter a short time, the communications purporting to
emanate from Warren Clarke came through in the first
person. We conversed for some few minutes and then,
suddenly, the following was volunteered:
••• AND AFTER
.WARREN : How do you like the turret room?
Thu queltion WtU distinctly evi<Untial. A week or so
prio~ to t~is sitting Warr~n Clarke's wife, Dorothy, was
1tay,ng w"'th her three ch,ldren and their nurse with 'TTII!J
family at Dorincourt. While they were there I changed
from my wual bedroom and occupied a room in a 1mall
tower annezed to the house. The roo'Tn8 in this tower are
alway• referred to a1 the turret rooms.
Warren Clarke referred to his two children, Phyllis
and Betty, volunteering their names, and speaking of
various little trifling domestic incidents which had ju~t
previously occurred. He then went on as follows:
WARREN: You were a bit irritable at having to change
your room. Your language was not parliamentary or
polite. You have all my sympathy. (All of this waa
said jokingly and in the best of good humour.) I wonder
they don't put you outside. Tell Mabel the next time
she should erect a tent for my family and the step
.family.
All the above may be regarded a1 distinctly evidential.
His references to his wife and his two children, and their
ltep-brother, were all entirel~ correct.
After this, " White Hawk ' said that " Lady Annie "
(my sister) was present. The communications which
lollowed came through in the first person.
ANNIE: We have been prepar1ng a reception for
Gertie. You know, before she passed over, right down
in her soul she was not quite sure. Over here it is quite
different to what one expects. After ahe had passed
over, and we met her, it was difficult to make her under-
stand the reality of it all. The passing was not so
terrifying as she had anticipated.
Here " White Hawk " intervened, saying that Gertie
(my sister) was present. He told me that she was hold-
ing in her hands roses and carnations. And then
continued:
WHITE HAWK: Gertie says: "Did you send roses,
lilies and carnations to her funeral? '' (This was an
evidential communication.) She says she saw Annie wait-
ing for her. Annie can fulfil her promises. Gertie
sends her love to Edward.1
She says she will soon
communicate with him. There is an understanding.
Here White Hawk said that Gertie looked older than
Annie. (My sister Gertrude passed over at a much later
age in lHe than my sister Annie.)
1 The name Edward (her huaband) wu volunteered.
MEDIUMSHIP OF MRS. BARKELL 48
Gertie says she was so delighted to meet her mother
again. (Her mother passed over two years .Previously, and
she had for many years lived with Gerbe.) When she
came over first she was so afraid of waking. She says:
" Will you ask Edward if he has a brother in spirit,
because she has met him." (I did not know whether this
Wa3 correct, but later a3Certained that it was so, and that
he had died many years before. A volunteered fact
outside the knowledge of the medium or the sitter.)
Here several communications came through from
Warren Clarke regarding the literary work upon which
I was then engaged. I do not regard it as necessary to
quote these communications verbatim, but they certainly
displayed a very distinct and personal knowledge of
matters of which I alone knew. During the conversation
replies to questions were given quite naturally and
intelligently. The conversation was carried on in the
first person.
Towards the end of the sitting White Hawk said :
11
Lady Annie is full of Lady Gertie. She was so
astonished and nervous of waking up. When she woke
up over here she thought it was a dream, and she was
so afraid of waking up and finding herself again in
pain."' (My sister Gertie died of tuberculosis after a
Ion~ and terribly painful illness.)
WHITE HAWK (continuing): Gertie says she can
hardly understand it all-being able to talk. She says:
" Is it really HerbertP"
WARREN CLARKE : Well, you could hardly call him a
dream. (Humorously delivered.)
After this there were a few more communications from
Warren Clarke in regard to business and literary
matters, concerning myself, and also a few messages
sent to my son Pat, and various members of the family.
The sitting then closed.
. . . . . . . .
In summarizing my experiences with Mrs. Barkell I
must express the opinion that she has genuine clairvoyant
and clairaudient powers, and that it is possible to obtain
from her mediumship considerable personal information
of an evidential nature, which one can prove to be
entirely outside her knowledge.
CHAPTER IV
A.N EXPERIMENT WITH HRS. GARRETT
.An unwiae procedure-Sir Edward Marahall Hall-A lon1 conoeraa-
tion-I.orcl Dewar--Lord BirJcenheacl.
December 8, 1930.
ON this date I was invited by Mrs. C. A. Dawson Scott
(founder of the International P.E.N. Club) to attend a
sitting with Mrs. Eileen Garrett, a clairvoyant and clair-
audient trance medium.
The sitting took place at Mrs. Dawson Scott's house in
Maida Vale, where she had been holding a short series
of sittings under the mediumship of Mrs. Garrett.
These sittings were usually held in the presence of
about a dozen or so people, and Mrs. Dawson Scott
informed me that on certain occasions very good results
had been obtained, with evidence of the surviving
personalities of certain well-known characters.
Prior to this, she told me that at the last sitting
held they had asked the " Control " il, at the next meet-
ing, they could bring through communications from the
late Sir Edward Marshall Hall, and as I had known him
in life, they asked me to be present.
Frankly I thought it rather an unwise procedure to
request the " Control" of a medium to bring through
a certain entity at a subsequent meeting, because this
obviously affords the medium the opportunity of
acquiring information beforehand.
The sitting I attended was held in full artificial light,
and there were about a dozen sitters, including three or
lour well-known writers. Shorthand notes were taken by
a friend of Mrs. Dawson Scott's, and the following is a
verbatim account:
CoNTROL: It is I ... Uvani. I give you greeting,
friends. Peace be with you, and in your life, and in
your heart. Madame, I give you greeting (to Mr1. D.S.).
You asked me to bring a certain legal gentleman. I
think you flatter me, Madame, if you think I can give
you the thQughts of this gentleman who has a very
44
EXPERIMENT WITH MRS. GARRETT 45
brilliant knowledge of English. Is it not soP He is
~ill~g to come ~ere, and a~ything I cannot understand
m h1s speech w1th you, w11l you please forgive me if
I have to get Mr. McKenzie's help?
MRs. D.S.: The legal gentleman will see there are men
here who are old friends of his.
CoNTROL: He says he cannot take control of this
machine. He hasn't had enough experience as he has
only experimented on one or two occasions. Although I
have offered him the control I cannot get him to take
it. Does anyone wish to ask him questions P
H.D.B.: I like the spirit to communicate with me
instead of my askinf questions.
CoNTROL : Then address myself to this gentleman
who has spoken to me. The legal gentleman has come.
He is in the fifties, fifty-seven or fifty-eight, and a man
above the average. He looks like and has the tempera-
ment of an actor. He speaks with great precision. He
has spent hours and hours in the culture of the voice.
He has an attractive, strong ~ersonality. He does not
look as old as he seems, but g1ves me the impression of
having suffered very much. It appears his illness was
of a cancerous nature ... but he says " that is enough.''
MARSHALL HALL : '!'hough I am dealing at first with
a subject of which I know nothing, yet I am dealing
with one of which no man was so sure in all his life.
In my early days, when I was a very young man without
a brief, I had the impression that if I sent out a thought
to unseen friends, I would get an answer; also in
practically every case that I have defended during my
picturesque and difficult career, I have never worked
without sitting for some time alone. Invariably I was
told how I should conduct my case. Those who know
me will not be sur.Prised to hear that, when I went out,
I was calmly convinced that I was sailing to a very fine
country, and I cannot say I was sorry to go.
CoNTROL: Is there anyone who would like to ask him
how he became convinced?
MRs. D.S.: We should all like to know.
H.D.B. : But that is all to be found in print.
CoNTROL : We will try to keep away from anything
that has appeared in the Press. (Pause.) He does not
know what you want him to say.
H.D.B.: Does he remember a certain seance with a
clairvoyante P Information came through regarding his
health. It was verified later, and two years after, he
46 .•• AND AFTER
died. He disputed the information and discussed it with
me. Several names were given, but he said they could
~e found in Who's Who, though an obvious slip had
lieen made. I tried to get from him during his lifetime
exactly what that was, but he wouldn't tell me.
CoNTROL : He says a reference was made to the name
of his father, and that his name was associated with
another family. That was erroneous. What upset him
was that it was supposed that he was related to another
medico. (Uncertain--it might have been '' medical
family '' or '' medical fraternity ''.)
H.D.B.: I can verify that after.
CoNTROL: He said, " Stress was laid on that point, and,
as it was incorrect, I knew the personality was not con-
nected with my father." He says he remembers meet-
ings with you.
H.D.B.: He was never explicit on this point, and 1
cannot make out why he didn't clear it up.
CoNTROL : (Note& not clear.)
H.D.B.: That was printed in Who's Who. It was
an important point, and an exceptionally good evidential
sitting. The health condition that he didn't know was
given, and the forecast of his death in a year or two. He
dismissed this as an error.
CoNTROL: He says the message that came from his
father, that was in the name of his father, was an
erroneous impression that he could not accept.
H.D.B. : He has met his father, I take it, on the other
sideP
CoNTROL: He says, yes, he has.
H.D.B. : Has he found out whether his father ever
communicated or notP
CoNTROL: (Notes not clear.) Do you understand who
he would refer to as an alleged godfather?
H.D.B. : Yes!
CoNTROL: He was instrumental in putting a great deal
in front of him, but he didn't believe so much while
alive.
H.D.B. : Ask him whether he remembers when lie last
spoke to me on earth.
CoNTROL: He gives me the impression of s~eing you
a year or a lear and a half before he passed over. He
says it woul be about eighteen months before he passed
over. It does not seem that he saw you previous to that.
There was an earlier spasm and then lapses, but it was
a short connection. " Perhaps," he says, " it would
EXPERIMENT WITH MRS. GARRETT 47
have been better for both of us if we had had longer
connections.''
H.D.B. : Has he ever tried to communicate with me P
CoNTROL: He has made efforts to communicate with
you quite recently. Evidently in the fastness of your
own home.
H.D.B.: Does he remember the method?
CONTROL: He says he does not like your method. He
would rather project his voice. He neither likes to speak
through control nor automatic writing. (This reply 1DtU
entirely incorrect.)
H.D.B.: He liked the automatic writing in life.
CoNTROL: But he doesn't like it now. He is glad to
have a word with you on this. He says the reference
to automatic writing re brother and ·
relatives by hand of
" W " will give you enough lead, but he is no longer
interested in automatic writing. He says he is much
more interested in a form of projection of his voice with
an accumulator.
H.D.B. : Has he succeededP
CoNTROL: He says, faintly.
H.D.B. : Ask him if his finger-prints were taken.
CoNTROL: He says, definitely, yes. He says, "I knew
such a lot about crime that I was interested enough to
leave that record."
H.D.B. : Could he say where that imprint is P
CoNTROL: It was done in his own .room.
H.D.B.: Then it was done by a private studentP
CoNTROL: He says he and "A" were joking about it
one day, and they made up their minds to do it.
H.D:B.: It is rather an interesting point.
CoNTROL : He refers you to " A."
H.D.B.: Who has itP
CoNTROL: His daughter. They were put up with the
rest of his collections. She has many letters and papers,
and many things connected with their earlier association.
Unfortunately the later one was not of such great interest.
H.D.B.: What does he think of Capital Punishment?
M.H.: I am glad to have you ask me, as it is a
question which I have often considered. Life being what
it is, no one should take that life away.
CoNTROL : He says he does not come and say " Do as
I tell you," but only that from the deductions be has
drawn that it does not seem wise or right to take life.
C.H: : May we ask what sort of work he is doing now P
CoNTROL: He says, " I fear I am going to disappoint
48 ... AND AFTER
you, but this is not Heaven, neither is it Hell, though
it savours of both. My friends are still tied up with
knots and problems, but I played at most things and was
terribly sincere when I played. I am still playing. This
is not a state of spirit any more than the one I have left,
and I am young here, a mere baby. I have only been
over a year or two. I am doing what other infants do,
opening my eyes, looking round and asking questions.
There is still a lot of the earth man left in me, thank
God. I am still in a state of matter, with a more beauti-
ful and much less troublesome body. I take a hand in
anything that is going on. I am interested in the
scientific developments which are taking place. This is
a place where free-will predominates."
H.D.B.: Does he remember giving me his personal
opinions with regard to a certain sitting P
CoNTROL: He says he remembers speaking about it to
you.
H.D.B.: He spoke once or twice about it.
CoNTROL : He says he was deeply and vitally interested,
much more so than he led you to believe. He says that
first sitting made him feel like a schoolboy. He wondered
if the heavens were not going to open.
H.D.B.: He made a personal confession to me with
reference to his feelings about a certain direct Voice
Seance.
CoNTROL: He said he was always looking on both sides
of the question, and although willing to receive and
believe, there was always the element of if and but.
H.D.B.: Yes, quite, but he hasn't given me the
answer.
CoNTROL: He speaks of the mental effect 'it had. His
trained mind said one thing, and his psychological mind
another.
H.D.B. : I know it is impossible to ·remember every·
thing. Has he met Dewar?
CoNTROL: Now that pleases him immensely, and he
says " also our friend and litigant F .E."
CHORUS: "F.E.-Birkenhead."
CoNTROL: Yes, he is the g-entleman, Madame. Of the
first gentleman he says, "With hands in pockets he has
looked over it all, and says to me, 'This isn't a bad place
to find oneself in at all. Pity if the ( P) Churches should
come in and ask for building sites.' "
MEMBER : Is he sure he is not in Hell P
CoNTROL: He says, "I believe this much firmly, that
EXPERIMENT WITH MRS. GARRETT 49
all experience is growth, and that we partake of good
and evil through every experience, and that it can be
Hell or Heaven according to our potential sight. From
my own point of view I am not in Hell. In life I did
most of the things I desired to do. I wanted to achieve
a certain amount of success, a.
nd I did this with childish
~lee and vanity. As far as I am concerned, I am now
m a comfortable part of the globe. I don't call it
Heaven. It is an expression of this personality that
always will be me. Here is freedom from pain, freedom
from sorrow, the vision which has led me all my life and
which I would not change. I came to you because I
was curious to know what you would have to say to me.
This mind of the child you see is still at play. It has
given me great pleasure to come to-night.
OKNEs: Thank you very much.
MEllBER: Can you tell me just this: Why does Sir
Edward Marshall Hall use the first person when he' is
speakingP
CoNTROL: I have to do that for him. Would it interest
you to learn my method P
ALL : Yes, please.
CoNTROL: I am not with you. I stand, as it were, on
a platform, and if a man refuses to speak into the
instrument I seek to be his interpreter. You send the
thought, he catches it, and as you are speaking he is
giving me the answer to your thought. There are two
channels, the mind of the Medium and that of the
Control. Remember that we are two personalities, there-
fore you are bound to lose a very great deal of the
per80nality of whoever is communicating. Think of it-
the communication has to come through two minds, the
mind of the Control and that of the Medium. Can you
hope to get accurate answers to your questions P But we
do the best we can.
Here the sitting closed.
CHAPTER V
A PSYCHOMETRIC SITI'ING
Frcra Lotte Plaafz-lmf;)reNion /rom a cigarette Cdle-.4 correct
deacription--Good indiCDfiona of character--PhgaictJl character-
iatic..-.4 bad flounder-A real point of eoidence--A failure.
MGJI, 19.30.
IN May of 1930, Frau Lotte Plaatz, a German
psychometrist, was engaged by the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research to pay a visit.
For the benefit of the uninitiated, I may explain that
psychometry is a form of mediumship under which, on
handling an object possessed by a deceased person,
memories and traits of that person can sometimes be
recalled by the medium.
Frau Plaatz had been the subject of scientific. experi-
mentation on the Continent for some months, and her
powers had been under the observation of several well-
known doctors and scientists in Germany, and it was
claimed that brilliant results had been recorded. I was
duly notified of her visit, and attended two sittings,
records of which I append.
The first sitting took place at about 3.30 p.m. I
handed Frau Plaatz a th1n gold cigarette case, which
had not been used for over seven years.
Frau Plaatz was somewhat slow in starting to psycho-
metrize, and she got varying impressions.
FRAU PLAATZ: I get the impression of you. Is it your
cigarette case?
H.D.B.: It is mine now, but it did not always belong
to me.
FRAu PLAATZ: I get the impression of three people.
There is a lady connected with it. Was there a quarrel P
I told Frau Plaatz that I could not connect a quarrel
with it. After the sitting was over, however, I remem-
bered there had been a slight quarrel between myself and
the original owner of the cigarette case, and the lady in
question, resulting in a break in the friendship for a few
months. After the original owner died, the cigarette
60
A PSYCHOMETRIC SITTING 51
case became the property of his wife, and afterwards
came into my possess1on.
F:uu PLAATZ (describing original owner): He was
precise and quiet. Connected with books and study.
Good brains. Not a business man.
(Correct description. He WtU a profeuional man. He
8tudied co-ntinuously throughout his life.}
F:uu PLAATZ: Interested in psychics when alive.
H.D.B.: No. He was not.
F:uu PLAATZ : I get writing through him. I don't
like his mouth. Good head for calculations.
(Quite correct.)
FRAu PLAATZ: Had a fain on chest. Gasping for
breath. Cannot get air. cannot go up-I feel as if I
were falling. Died unexpectedly-suddenly.
(All this description is e:eact. The owner suffered from
heart trO'Uble for several years before he died. He passed
away quite suddenly.)
FRAU PLAATZ: He would say things sharply. Dominat-
ing in manner. I want things in my own hands. To
rule. There was a quarrel. At the time he thought:
" Well, let him think what he likes." There were men
all around him. He was always talking to them. Did
not travel so much as you.
(Correct. Good indication of character. His tUsocia-
tions were almost entirely with men: in his profeaaion
and also socially.)
FRAU PLAATZ: I feel an objective personality. Quiet,
but could be awfully quick. At times the whole man
changed and came out of his reserve. He could be full
of arrogance, which you could see in his chin. He was
outwardly cold-used his elbows. (Here Frau Plaatz
used her elbows to indicate.) He was cold, but did n.ot
mean it-almost like going over a dead body.
(Quite correct. This was a phy1ical characteristic.)
FRAU PLAATZ : Money-money-must have lost money.
(Incorrect-so far as I know.)
FRAu PLAATZ: 13, or 1913. He passed over on a 13.
(1913 had no connection whatever with him at far as I
know.)
H.D.B.: No.
FRAu PLAATZ: Hard voice-nothing warm. Cold-
hard. Did he have a bad fall? I feel as if he were
falling.
(QUite correct. He fell down with a heart attack and
fo1' some year1 had the /eeling of falling .)
52 ... AND AFTER
FRAU PLAATZ: W. He was not W.
H.D.B.: Yes. He was.
FRAU PLAATZ: Was it William?
H.D.B.: No.
(Although W waa cof'rect, there waa a bad flO'Under over
the correct name, which W41 not given.)
FRAu PLAATZ : I see a hand. I don't like the hand. It
is cold-without heart-not a nice thumb. But a positive
hand-nothing weak in this man.
(The&e are merely the medium's impre11i01u.)
FRAU PLAATZ : Was he married P
H.D.B. : Yes.
FRAU PLAATZ: Not an adventurous life. Life using
elbows. A straight line which he would never leave.
Awfully obstinate. Character changed later through
shocks. He would never tell. Inside he changed and
became much softer.
(All thi& wa& fairly accurate.)
FRAU PLAATZ: Walter. I get the name Walter.
H.D.B.: I do not know him.
After this the medium said that the entity had left
and we chatted for two or three minutes on psychic
matters, and I thought the sitting had concluded.
Suddenly, however, the medium said: "Here he is--he
is laughing aloud."
H.D.B. : Perhaps he is laughing because the descrip·
tion of him was not particularly complimentary.
FRAU PLA.o\TZ: He is here still. He is laughing. He
is not the sort of man who would ever attract me, but
I like his forehead. He is intellectual. His face looks
as if he wore a mask. He was not easy to get on with,
but he did not bother. His manner was aloof.
(Correct.)
FRAU PLAATZ (quite &uddenly and sr.ontaneoudy):
He is here walking across the room. I like the way he
walks. It is not weak-positive. There is some music
in the man. It is a peculiarly characteristic walk. It
is amusing. (Here the medium laughed.) He has a
sense of humour with a face like nothing. I would
recognize his typical walk anywhere.
The description of the characteristic walk is the one
real point of evidence. The character in question had
an extraordinarily individual walk. A slow, quiet,
arrogant sort of walk, with head erect and usually
immovable, and yet this peculiar walk of his always
conveyed a sense of jaunty humour to the observer.
A PSYCHOMETRIC SITTING 58
On the whole I consider the sitting an interesting one.
. . . . . . . .
I had a second sitting with Frau Lotte Plaatz a week
later. This was, however, a complete failure. She had
been invited to Ascot, and I am afraid the scene occupied
her mind entirely to the exclusion of the unseen.
CHAPTER VI
THE GENTLE ART OF FISHING
Mr•. Cantlon-A ClairoOJiant trance medium-Pidgin,Engluh--
Gue..wor~ that went wrong-More fiahing-A bad ahot-.A n
utter fiaaco--More non.enae-A thoroughl11 uruatufactory aitting.
October 24, 1930.
MRs. CANTLON is a professional Clairvoyant and clair-
audient medium, and the following is a verbatim account
of my only experience with her.
Mrs. Cantlon's mediumship differs very considerably
from that of Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Mrs. Scales, Mrs.
Barkell, and Mrs. Garrett. With these mediums, as a
rule, the majority of communications are volunteered.
With Mrs. Cantlon, however, my experience was
throughout that the sitter was asked leading questions
by the medium, which he, or she, was expected to answer,
thus opening out a lead. It is a method which may be
called "fishing," and the questions put by the medium
to the sitter would, to my mind, destroy the value of
any evidential point given, even if' such were acquired.
Sitting held with Mrs. Cantlon at "Dorincourt"
at 5.15 p.m. on October 24, 1930
The sitting was held in my usual seance room, the
"medium," Mrs. Cantlon and myself being the only
ones present.
Mrs. Cantlon said she desired a subdued light. A
candle was therefore used, by which I took my notes.
Mrs. Cantlon sits as a " clairvoyant-trance" medium.
She stated, before going into trance, that she would
give me a little clairvoyance.
Mas. CANTLON: There is a woman. I get the name
'' Mary.'' Do you know her?
H.D.B.: No.
MRs. CANTLON: I see beside you a prehistoric man.
A negro-short and squat. There is a " George " in
the spirit world. I see an old man with a long beard and
skull cap. Learned. I get the letter " A." (Slight
pause.) Do you know a" Douglas" P
H.D.B.: No.
64
THE GENTLE ART OF FlSHING 5&
.M:as. CANTLON : I get '' Eva.''
H.D.B. : I cannot place her.
M:as. CANTLON: You will go through it for the next
three months. You might go to America early in the
next year-unexpectedly. :Five is your number. Do
you know '' Harry '' or ' ' Larry'' P
H.D.B.: No.
MRs. CANTLON : I see a short, stout, round lady. She
is dark and has a short nose. Do you know " Lily " P
H.D.B.: No.
M:as. CANTLON: I may tell you that when I go into
trance my control is called " White Chief."
At 6.22 p.m. the "medium" took one or two deep
but quite norw.al breaths, and then assumed a condition
of trance. She kept her eyes closed throughout until the
end of the sitting. Her condition, voice, and manner
appeared to me quite normal and bore no resemblance to
the varying condition of trance I have observed in other
mediums.
M:as. CANTLON: Good evening. I am "White Chief."
I see a stormy sea. You have anxiety about business.
;you must go slow for six moons. In March there is a
bright patch.
All this was told in a very loud " voice," exactly the
same as Mrs. Cantlon's, but using the full extent of her
lung power. It was told in oroken English. In a
minute or so the pidgin-En~lish of the " control,"
" White Chief," developed 1nto the broken English
which might be used by an amateur actress, attempting
to play a French part. Mrs. Cantlon then proceeded to
give a few further attempts at forecasting of a similar
nature to that which one would receive from a fortune-
teller at a bazaar.
M:as. CANTLON : I get the name " Annie "-" Mary."
H.D.B.: I can place " Annie," but I do not know a
" Mary."
Mrs. Cantlon then proceeded to give a very ordinary
description of "Ann1e." As I have written two long
books containing communications from "Annie," this
had, of course, no value whatever.
M:as. CANTLON : " Annie " says you are writing a
book. She has her mother with her. A little lady,
white hair, short. She refers to young Dennis. There
is a heavy vibration in the room. She says you (H.D.B.)
have high blood pressure. There is trouble with the
kidneys and also bladder trouble.
56 ... AND AFTER
(I felt perfectly fit, and my doctors have discovered no
such symptoms.)
MRs. CANTLON : De careful of young Dennis. There
is trouble in his lungs and chest. He is below weight.
Build him up. His nerves are in a bad condition.1
" A " says she wants to talk to you about the literary
side. What about the book? She says, did you take a
book out of the bookcase?
H.D.B. : Well, I take hundreds of books from the cnse
at various times.
A gap.
MRs. CANTLON: She says there is a pile of papers and
manuscript, which you have left behind. Have you
started to write something and then put it on one side
and left it? She ·says you must go on.
H.D.B.: No, I have not done that.2
MRs. CANTLON : I see a great success to the book which
is in the publisher's hands. I would not have it
published before Christmas, because the condition in the
whole world is bad. Have it published in the New Year.
" Annie " is swaying her body to and fro. She says
you are undecided about it and it will be a big success.'
There is a little lady here-! get the name-Fell-Fell
-Fell-Fell-Scratch-Scratch-Scratch--'
H.D.B. : That is very interesting. I knew Felicia
Scatchard. Would you please ask her when and where
she last talked to me?
MRs. CANTLON : She talked to you through a tube.5
H.D.B.: I am afraid Felicia Scatchard has made a
1 Aa my eon, Dennis Anthony Bradley, had been at home with a
alight illness for a few daya and had just previously met Mrs. Cantlon
in my houae, and talten tea with her, ahe was of couree aware that
he was temporarily unfit. A. for the remarks regardint~ his lunas
and cheat-the.: are pedectly eound--eounder by far than her
remarlta.
1 A. a matter of fact, I never leave any of my writing work once
it ia etarted. I have no manuscript in my poaaeaaion which haa been
unueed or unpublished.
1 All this waa very safe gu~work on the part of Mra. Cantlon,
conaiderint~ the number of books I have written durin({ the last
few yeara. Strant~ely enout~h. however, at the time of thia aittina
I had no new literary work whatever in my publisher'a hands: nor
had I written one line ao far of any new manuscript.
6
Felida Scatchard waa a well-known spiritualist and psychical
reaearcher, and the name ia known to all mediuma. She paued
over a year or ao back.
• This wu a very safe guess, aa it is well known that I have
experimented considerably in •• direct voice .. seances, where luminous
megaphones are used. through which aome of the inexperienced
spirit• manife•t their •• voice•.••
THE GENTLE ART OF FISHING 57
mistake there, because she has never spoken to me
through a tube, either at a "direct voice " seance, or on
the telephone while she was on the earth plane.
MRs. CANTLON : Wait a minute. I will ask her again.
Did you speak to her through "White Hawk" P
H.D.B. : No. I have never spoken to her through
" White Hawk."1
Mas. CANTLON (again fi8hing, and trying a third time):
She says she met you with a lot of people at a party-
to meet someone.
H.D.B.: That is correct.2
MRs. CANTLON: Felicia has a message for you. A
band is being organized in the spirit world early In
the next year. You (H.D.B.) will work through her
when you write. "W " will carry the link. I get
,. W.A." 3
Felicia says she was always friendly with you.4
I see a man about medium height. Forty or more.
Stout. Big shoulders. Fine blue eyes. Straight nose.
Well shaped. Square chin. I get the name "Warren."
Rather JOlly- rubbing his hands.5
Warren says you
have been depressed. Things will be better earlier in
the New Year. He says you have just finished a book.
It may be coming out just before Christmas.
H.D.B. : That is very interesting.11
1 •• White Hawk •• is the control of Mrs. Barkell. Mrs. Barltell is
a clairvoyant trance medium of intejr!ity through whom I have had
a few evidential sittings. •• White Hawk " is very well known in
~ychic circles.
1 There is no evidence whatever in this, as in .,_ychic cirdea there
are many meetings and parties, etc., to which one is often asked
to meet certain people.
1 This is, of course, an attempt to connect Warren Clarke--a very
well-known character in my books. I referred to him throughout u
•• W.A. •• in •• Towards the Stars."
• This is absolutely incorrect. I only met Miaa Felida Scatchard
about twice in my life.
1 One part of this description applies to Warren Clarke-which
appee.n in my book.e. The other is a very bad, dumay and incorrect
adaptation.
1
My replie• to messages and inquiries were perfectly polite through-
out the entire sitting. It should be noted that on the one or two
oc.casions when I had previously met Mrs. Cantlon she had aaked
me what worlt I was doing. I make a point, however, of never
cliscuNing the character of any literary work upon which I happen
to be engaged. She was therefore absolutely safe in uauming that
this was a book and that naturally it would shortly be published,
hut, as a matter of fact, she was entirely wrong becaua&-which ahe
did not know-it was a plai.__written in collahcwation. Mrs. Cantlon"•
auumption.s were logical. The fact•, however, wero unfortunate for
her gue..worlt.
58 •.. AND AFTER
M:as. CANTLON : I get Germany. What have you been
doing in Germany?1
H.D.B.: I am interested in Germany. Can you give
me any information of the sittings in SaxonyP
MRs. CANTLON: The sittings have been considerably
better and they will come out much better later on.2
MRs. CANTLON : I get an atmosphere of stodge among
the sitters. What have they been doini with a
slate?
H.D.B. : I have not received the latest accounts.
Perhaps you will tell me what they have been doing
with the slate.
MRs. CANTLOY: I see a slate. They have been using a
slate.
H.D.B. : I don't know.3
H.D.B. (giving Mrs. Cantlon a lead, as a test): Can
you tell me how John is getting on ?
MRs. CANTLON (obviously fishing): Where is he? In
this country?
H.D.B.: No. He is not in this country.
M:as. CANTLON: There is nothing of any outstanding
importance to be communicated. It was a first triaL
Afterwards it will be much better. John is out of his
element because it was a very mixed crowd. The sittings
hung fire at the start. Then they became better and
they were good at the last. The mixture of nationalities
is not good for the vibrations.'
I get George. He has not been at all well. There is
throat trouble with perpetual strain. You will probably
hear from him about Christmas. He has been nervy
lately.5
H.D.B. : Can you tell me anything more about John P
1 A. a aeries of articles in regard to certain of my experienc:ea in
Germany had appeared in the English papen, the indication can
easily be understood. Knowing that theee recorda had been
rubliahed, and being in close contact with cet'tain people in Germany,
immediately switched the inquiry into a channel of happenin~ of
the lut months, the particulars of which Mra. Cantlon had no
knowledge.
1 This is absolutely wrong, because a series of very aucceafu1
aittings had been privately conducted there. This was known only
to me, and just recently they had not been ao auccesaful as hitherto.
1 Aa a matteT of fact the alate form of mediumahip is used in
America and other countries, but no alate has ever been used in
the eeancea to which 1 referred.
4 All this is absolute nonsense, and had no application.
1
1 know no George with the exception of George V aliantin~the
American medium--and a day or two previous to this sitting I had
heard from him saying that he was in the beat of health.
THE GENTLE ART OF FISHING 59
It is quite an important matter as I shall be able to tell
him what has transpired to-day.
MRs. CANTLON : Is he dark?
H.D.B.: No.1
MRs. CANTLON: Eva-who is she? Is she connected
with you?
H.D.B.: I don't think so. I know nothing whatever
of any Eva.
MRs. CANTLON: Is Warren's sister with him?
H .D.B.: I don't know.
MRs. CANTLON : I get the name Hilda. Do you know
Hilda?
H.D.B.: No.
MRs. CANTLON : Do you know Maud?
H.D.B.: No.
MRs. CANTLON: I get an old lady. She has a big
nose, but is short and thin. Connected with John.
H.D.B.: I cannot say whether this is correct or not.
MRs. CANTLON : Do you know Emily? Or Emma?
H .D.B.: No.
MRs. CANTLON: The old lady may be John's grand-
mother. She has with her a tall fair man.2 I get David.
Do you know David P
H.D.B. : No-I know of no David.
MRs. CANTLON: Is John coming to this country?
H .D.B.: Quite possibly.
Here, tired of the terrible fiasco of this sitting, and
the fishing for odd names, I tried to lead the conversation
into another channel by asking a direct question.
H.D.B. : Will you please ask Warren how his brother
is?
MRs. CANTLON : Has he had a bad stomach ? Has
there been an operation?
H.D.B. : Not to my knowledge.
MRs. CANTLON: There is danger of appendix trouble
-indigestion-bad circulation. He does not like doctors
and never goes near them.3
MRs. CANTLON : I get the name Dicks or Dixon.
H .D.B. : I know a Dixon. As a matter of fact I know
two charming young people of that name.
:Mlls. CANTLON: To do with business P
1 Mr.. Cantlon then proceeded to give an extremely nondeKript
de.c:ription of John. saying from time to time. " Ia that correct? ••
Eventually she gave it up.
2 Then followed more nondescript deacriptiona of odd persona.
• All thia wu absolute nonaenae. The facta of the cue make it
appear aimply ludicroua 8'\le:u.work.
60 ... AND AFTER
H.D.B.: No, I don't think so. At any rate, not at
present.
Mlls. CANTLON: You will do. I want to put you on
your guard.1
Warren says, will you tell his brother that
he should have some advice. It is gastric.2 Warren
was so pleased about the baby.
H.D.B.: I am glad of that.3
Mlls. CANTLON : His mother was very pleasea about it.
His mother is not too well.•
Mlls. CANTLON : I get the name Joan. Do you know
JoanP
H.D.B.: Yes, I know Joan.
MRs. CANTLON : Is she young?
H.D.B.: Yes, she is young.
MRs. CANTLON : Is she on the earth planeP
H.D.B.: Yes. Have you any message for herP
No answer was volunteered to my inquiry.
MRs. CANTLON: I get Lily. Do you know Lily?
H.D.B. : No, I am afraid I do not.
Mlls. CANTLON: She is one of your Guides. She is
connected with you. She belongs to your family. She
was a stillborn child.
H.D.B.: Was it a stillborn child of my mother?
MRs. CANTLON: Yes. You did not know of it.5
Mlls. CANTLON: I get Norman. Do you know Norman P
H.D.B.: Yes, I know Norman.
MRs. CANTLON: Is he in the spirit world?
H.D.B.: No. The Norman I know is quite alive and
fit.
H.D.B. (t~ng to relieve the deadly monotony): If
Warren is there, will you ask him if he can tell you
anything whatever of the sittings in Saxony P
Mlls. CANTLON: Lieders. (I thought I might place
this name as that of some friends of my sister-in-law in
Saxony.)
1 This wu ridiculous.
a Thi. remark waa utterly wrona and absurd.
1 There are quite a number of babies born amona the relatives of
a family, but strangely enough this remark could not pouibly apply
to Warren.
• To my knowledge Warren'• mother has no raaaon to be intere.ted
in any particular baby whatever. Although the meuage m~ht be
assumed to be a safe one as grandmothers often have several babies
in whom they are interested. In this case, however, it was utterly
WrO!''•
1 Mrs. Cantlon might feel it quite safe to usert this, but my mother.
for whom 1 had a very great affection, always talked to me quite
openly, and she would most certainly have told me of any incident
such as this, if such a thing had occurred.
THE GENTLE ART OF FISHING 61
H.D.B.: That is interesting. Can you tell me some-
thin~ more about them?
Shght pause.
Mas. CANTLON: What have they been doing there?
The forces are scattered.
H.D.B.: I would like to know something more about
Lieder. It may be of value. Can you tell me anything
more?
Mas. CANTLON : Lieder-on the earth planeP
H.D.B.: Yes.
MRs. CANTLON: They change their sitters a good deal.1
H.D.B.: Can you give me any evidential points in a
message which I could send to them?
No answer.
H.D.B.: Can you tell me if Warren has heard any
news from AmericaP
. Mas. CANTLON: Warren says he referred to George's
throat.
This reply was sheer nonsense.
Mas. CANTLON : Has there been any electrical experi-
ment in here?2
MRs. CANTLON : Lieder. I get the name definitely.
H.D.B. : Will you spell it P
MRS. CANTLON : L I E D E R.
H.D.B.: I do not know whether that is correct or not.
I will find out.
MRs. C.\NTLON: Is Lieder the medium?
H.D.B.: No.
M:&.s. CANTLON: Is he connected with the medium P
H.D.B.: I'm not sure whether he has sat with them.
MRs. CANTLON: They sat in a medium sized room with
panels. There are people sitting round a table and there
18 a slate. Yes, there IS a slate. It is more mental than
physical. One sits at the end in a high back chair in a
darkened room. There is a Chinese spirit in yellow
robes-Lang Che. There are cross-currents. They have
had four sittings-not too successful.3
There is a very
big man here. He has dark eyes and hair. I get the
name Jack. Do you know JackP
H.D.B.: No.
1 Totally ineorred.
2 Presumably Mn. Cantlon referred to my seance room ; but there
had been no experiments there.
1 The whole of the detaUa given as deaeription are absolutely
non.en.Seal from beginning to end. And •• Leider '' spelled wroniJlY
had nothin; whatever to do with aittin;e.
62 ... AND AFTER
M.as. CANTLON: I get the name Robinson or Robertson.
Do you know himP
H.D.B. : I knew a Robinson.1
M.as. CANTLON: He had an accident with a car. You
met at dinner.
H.D.B.: We might have.
M.as. CANTLON: Do you know a HughP
H.D.B. : I know one or two Hughs.
Subject not pursued.
MRs. CANTLON: Annie is here. She says she is dis-
appointed about something. It was not worth all the
trouble you took.2
M.as. CANTLON: Take care of the boy's chest. Don't
listen to what they say about nothing being the matter
with him.
Here there was a pause, and a sort of groping silence.
M.as. CANTLON : Have you had a pipe burstP
H.D.B. : No. I occasionally have trouble with pipes
in various parts of the house, as often happens. This
is a usual occurrence with a house which has been built
for fifty years.
The subject was dropped.
M.as. CANTLON : Annie says you will be asked to speak
at a big dinner.3
The sitting then merged into a further silence after
which Mrs. Cantlon said that the power was going and
we finished.
This report is taken from my verbatim notes with
complete fairness. It has been necessary to cut many of
the varying inquiries which were made, because if they
were published they would only still further bore the
reader. I regard it as one of the most unsatisfactory and
doubtful sittings with a clairvoyant medium I have ever
held.
. . . . . . . .
Some time after this experience my secretary, Miss
Baylis, booked a sitting with Mrs. Cantlon under an
assumed name. Exactly similar methods were employed.
The usual fishing and leading up to questions took place.
Strings of names were given, none of which were correctly
placed.
1 As a matter of fact I have not seen the Robineon I referred to
for fifteen yean. Although Robinson is quite a common name I
do not seem to have met many of them.
I Non.ense again. .
a I get several invitations to big dinners, mollt of which I refuse,
eo a .tatement of thia de.ecription hae no value whatever.
CHAPTER VII
HRS. SCALES, CLAIRVOYANT HEDIUll
Method. of trUJiting appointment.-5ittera unl(nown to medium-A
SC4ndin~~vian'• experiene»--A murder in South A/rico--A wam-
i,.,.--The motor accident-Mi.. Fa11 Compton'• atting-Evidential
communication.-Miaa Ba11li..• aittinga-Voluminou• note...-5ome
extract•.
I
IN my book " The Wisdom of the Gods" I have recorded
two sittings which I had with Mrs. Scales, the clairvoyant
and clairaudient medium, which were exceptionally
good and of evidential value.
In consequence of my experience with her I have sent
to Mrs. Scales many sitters who have also obtained good
results. The method I have invariably adopted is that
the first appointment for any sitter is made anonymously;
therefore, since it is impossible £or her to know the
names of the sitters, or anything about them, any com-
munications which may come through are of authentic
value. The results, of course, vary very considerably,
but some have been remarkable.
For example, a Scandinavian gentleman, who had
been resident for some years in South Africa, called upon
me and asked my assistance in recommendin~ him a good
medium, because, although he was not a spiritualist, he
had read my books, and wished to experiment, as certain
wrortant events had recently happened in his life.
at these events were he did not mention. He was an
extremely intelligent man, and, so far as the subject was
concerned, he told me frankly that he could not help
feeling sceptical.
He had a sitting with Mrs. Scales, and visited me after-
wards. He then informed me that the reason he had
particularly wanted to be put in touch with a medium
was that his wife had recently been mysteriously
murdered in South Africa and the murderer had not
been discovered.
He told me that he had received astonishing com-
munications purporting to come from his wife. Through
63
64 ... AND AFTER
Mrs. Scales, his house and farm in South Africa, and
the exact position and outlook of the room in which his
wife was murdered, were minutely: described to him.
The exact position in which his wife's body was found
was also described and the statement was made that she
had been shot by a black man, who was employed on an
adjacent farm. All the details were verified by him as
be1ng correct, with the exception, of course, of the black
man who was alleged to have committed the crime, which,
he said, was quite logical, although there was no evidence
to prove this.
Another instance was the case of a young man-a
resident of Australia-who called upon me in London,
saying that he had recently lost his mother. He was an
only child and passionately fond of her. I sent him
anonymously to Mrs. Scales, and a week or so afterwards
he came to me to tell me that he had had a remarkable
sitting, in which he had received what he regarded as
many evidential communications, and that at the end of
the sitting his mother warned him that on no account
was he to leave his flat on the followin~ Sunday evening,
but that he was to remain there and g1ve his thoughts to
her. He told me that he was a little surprised that she
should specify this particular evening, and that she had
insisted that this was necessary for his own sake. On
this particular Sunday he had been motoring with two
men friends, and they desired him to stay and dine with
them at an hotel some few miles out in the country. In
the ordinary course he would have welcomed the sugges-
tion, but remembering the emphatic message which had
been given to him, he made an excuse and returned to
his flat. His two friends dined together, and whilst
motoring back to London an accident occurred in which
one of them was killed and the other gravely injured.
Personally I do not believe in forecasting, and I
entirely disagree with the theory of predestination. I
merely relate this incident because the circumstances
were peculiar.
On another occasion I arranged a sitting with Mrs.
Scales, and took with me Miss Fay Compton. Mrs.
Scales did not know beforehand that I should be accom-
panied by Miss Compton. It is, of course, quite possible
that she may have recognized her, but I did not introduce
her by name.
I had arranged with Miss Compton that if the sitting
appeared likely to be a successful one and personal com-
MRS. SCALES 65
munications were volunteered, after the opening I would
leave her to continue alone.
I had with me a writing-pad, and when Mrs. Scales
had gone into trance I took verbatim notes.
After a few opening sentences by the control " Chloe"
the communications were afterwards addressed to Miss
Compton, and came through in the first person from
Harry Pelissier (her former husband).
For the first three quarters of an hour I took down a
dozen pages or so of notes. All the communications
were personal and intimate to Miss Compton, and, in my
opinion, of a distinctly evidential nature. Certain
arrangements of hers, in regard to personal afiairs, were
discussed; arrangements in regard to the future, of
which I certainly had no knowledge and o£ which I am
quite certain that the medium had no knowledge.
Half-way through the sitting I suggested to Miss
Compton that, as all the communications were of an
intimate nature, she should continue the sitting alone,
and that I should wait for her in another room.
The sitting lasted about one and three quarter hours,
and afterwards Miss Compton and I discussed the points.
I handed to her a dozen sheets of foolscap notes which
I had recorded. In my opinion this was an evidential
sitting, because certain very distinct knowledge was dis-
played by the communicant of the odd events which were
discussed, and a few prognostications were made which
afterwards took place.
A few months later my wife had a sitting with Mrs.
Scales, when a considerable number of personal and
domestic matters were discussed. At the end of the
sitting the control said that Pelissier was present, and
he desired " Mabel to tell Herbert that Fay was writing
to him that day." This was a volunteered piece of news
outside the knowledge of the medium or of Mrs. Bradley.
A week or so prior to this sitting I had written an
unimportant note to Miss Compton on various theatrical
matters, which called for no reply. Mrs. Bradley had
no knowledge of this letter, and on the morning follow-
ing the sitting I received a letter from Miss Compton,
addressed to me from Leeds, where she had been acting.
0
66 ... AND AFTER
II
With regard to my personal ex~erience of clairvoyance,
it has become increasingly dlfficult to obtain fresh
evidential points, because most of the well-known
mediums have naturally read my psychic books, and
therefore it may be argued that they possess a consider-
able knowledge of my own personal communicants. It
was because of this, with a view to obtaining fresh
evidential points, that I thought it would be interesting
to arrange for a few anonymous sittings for my secretary,
Miss Q. Baylis, who would be able to take in shorthand,
verbatim notes of everything that transpired. Every
precaution was taken by me that the mediums should
not know who she was, and since I had sent various other
sitters, unconnected with me, anonymously, none of the
mediums would know that Miss Baylis was in any way
connected with my personal business and affairs.
The first experiment was made with Mrs. Scales on
November 11, 1927. The verbatim notes of these sittings
amount to tens of thousands of words. It is therefore
ne.ce.ssary to summarize, and to condense them to a
minimum.
I can only give a slight indication of the first
anonymous sitting with Mrs. Scales.
In the voluminous verbatim notes over 99 per cent.
represented names and communications volunteered
through the medium, and less than one per cent.
questions, carefully put and considered, by the sitter.
The medium went into trance within less than three
minutes, and her control " Chloe" spoke.
"Chloe " opened with a correct description of the
sitter's character, and then :
CHLOE : Do you go up lots or stairs and then a step p
And is there another door inside a door P
Thu u an ezact description of the flat in which Miss
Baylis lives.
CHLOE: Are you called secretaire P Oh, I know, you
have a big white massa.
It should be mentioned that '' Chloe '' is an Indian
girl, and occasionally uses the vocabulary of her tribe.
Men she always refers to a& "massa&."
CHLOE : That is the massa with the pretty lady Annie
MRS. SCALES 67
... the other people on your plane don1
t understand
him....
Here followed a correct description of points in my
own character, and since this sitting was an anonymous
one, due consideration must be given to the fact that
almost immediately the control stated : '' Are you
secretaire 1 " There was direct placing at once, which
was followed by decidedly intelligent references to
H.D.B.
CHLOE: When is your birthday? Oh, I know-you
are just about half-way.
Thu volunteered statement is quite correct. The
sitting took place in November and the aitter's birthday
is in June. There is no reason whatever to believe that
the medium could have known of this fact.
There followed an exceptionally good description of
Miss Baylis's secretarial work in connection with my
writings, and a more or less logical :forecast of future
work, which might be considered evidential.
m
From 1927 to 1931 Miss Baylis had seven or eight
sittings with Mrs. Scales. Without exception those
sittings were good. In refreshing contrast to certain
other sittings, the replies to questions were consistently
intelligent, there was much evidential material, and a
considerable amount of personal information was given
regarding myself and my literary work, all of which was
perfectly correct.
As I have said, verbatim notes were taken throughout,
but it is obviously impossible for me to reproduce them
here-a few of the more striking and evidential points
must suffice. In this connection I wish to emphasize the
fact that all the statements were volunteered-there was
no preliminary fencing and fishing in any case.
A reference was made to a trip abroad I had in con-
templation. As a matter of fact I went to Oslo; this
was entirely outside the medium's knowledge.
All names mentioned were volunteered; dates of birth-
days were given, and the items of purely personal interest
were all correct.
Some curious particulars-which afterwards proved
correct--were given of dishonesty and pilfering at my
business establishment. At one sitting considerable
-
68 ... AND AFTER
information was volunteered with reference to my son,
who was at that time far from well. The diagnosis was
correct, and was entirely outside the knowledge of
medium or sitter.
At the last sitting which Miss Baylis had, on March 5,
1931, there were references to her personal affairs given
through her father, and, in particular, her arrangements
in regard to a contemplated visit to Italy to visit a
personal friend-a visit which took place a few weeks
later-were discussed at length. I had asked Miss
Baylis to put some guarded questions as to Valiantine.
The answers were not particularly illuminating, and were
somewhat vague, but reference was made to the un-
pleasant incidents referred to on another page, and a
statement was made that the personal spirits connected
with me were keeping the door closed.
While Mrs. Scales was under trance she spoke Italian
-this, in reference to Miss Baylis's prospective visit.
There were also some good evidential points given by
Miss Baylis's father. In this sitting he referred to a
scarf-which he had given to her mother. On taking the
matter up with her mother, Miss Baylis found that this
was the last gift he gave her before he died-a fact
outside the knowledge of the medium or the sitter.
CHAPTER VIII
KRS. HESTER DOWDEN'S AUTOllATIC WRITING
Mr•. Vowden--Communication• from /ohanne,._A n extraordinarilg
.ucceufu.l •itting-l::vidential name• at once-Correct initial.-
Eoidence confirmed-Name volunteered.
IN my book " Towards the Stars " I recorded at length
the various philosophical discussions I had with
" Johannes," the control of Mrs. Hester Dowden.
Mrs. Dowden is the daughter of the late Edward
Dowden, Professor of English literature, ·the author of
a standard life of Shelley, a psychical research student,
and a Shakespearian scholar.
Later I had communications from " Johannes " in
the " direct voice " which are recorded in my second book
on psychics, "The Wisdom of the Gods,'' together with
records of the communications received through this
control from the automatic writing of Mrs. Dowden.
I am of opinion that Mrs. Dowden is one of the best
mediums in the world, but my studies with her have
been entirely on the philosophical plane. She has, how-
ever, at various times, rece1ved remarkable communica..
tiona, and latterly she has developed the evidential side
of personal communications very considerably.
An anonymous appointment with her was made on
the telephone, and on Friday, February 21, 1929, my
secretary, Miss Baylis, held a sitting with her.
The whole of the communications were made through
automatic writing by Mrs. Dowden, and these pafers are
in my possession. With regard to the essentia points
of volunteered names and evidential communications, it
was exceptionally successful.
I append Miss Baylis's verbatim notes.
69
70 • • • AND AFTER
SITTING
(Automatic Writing)
with
MRs. HESTER DowDEN at 15 Cheyne Gardens, Chelsea
on
Thur1day, February 21, 1929, at 5.30 p.m.
(Preliminary note.-It is remarkable to observe that
immediately the sitting commenced the first thing that
Mrs. Dowden wrote was "H.R.B. "-the correct initials
of Miss Baylis's father.)
H.R.B.: Harry, your father, Queenie. Did you expect
me here or not? You are not going to write yourself,
are you?
MRs. D.: Give your surname.
H.R.B. : No, that would spoil all the fun. Ask me at
the end. I thought you'd rather I did not, Queenie,
wouldn't you? I was greatly amused at your being sent
here.
Q.B.: Why?
H.R.B.: It is quite a surprise to me. Because it
is not your sort of thing now, is it?
Q.B.: Do you mean because I am aiming for the
" direct voice "? Perhaps you can tell me something
about it.
H.R.B. : There is not enou&'h power yet. It is work-
ing up, but not in that direction yet. The fact is, that
you have so much and so many different powers that
they rather scatter each other when you can gather
together into one channel. There won't be any further
trouble. I'll tell you what would help. If you could
~et another, and someone who is what might be called
'heavy," it might get things going.
Q.B.: Have you anyone to suggest?
H.R.B.: That is not easy, you'll have to search for
someone.
Q.B. : What do you mean by " heav,r. "?
H.R.B.: Someone who could give 1t out plentifully.
Someone who could really help you.
MRs. D. : Who is the med1um?
H.R.B.: Queenie. But the trouble so far is that she
has no one there who can hel~ her materially. That is
badly wanting. Queenie, don t let things mix. Be very
definite about that. All your work so far has been a
AUTOMATIC WRITING 71
mixture. But it will come, child; let nothing discourage
you. A good voice medium is wanting, and you're the
one to get it.
Q.B. : Is the circle all wrong? How many should
there beP
H.R.B.: Five is better than three. Try to find five.
At present the situation is this. The voice will come in
time, but very slow in this way. Try to quicken the
pace if you can. Her-that is D.-her fault is that she
lets her power concentrate within herself instead of draw-
ing it out for your benefit.1
Q.B.: You are always mentioning Elizabeth. Who is
Elizabeth?
MRs. D. : Was she related to you or your wife?
H.R.B. : Elizabeth-me.
Q.B. : Was it far back?
H.R.B. : Yes, a bit back; not my generation, the one
before that on the mother's side.
MRs. D.: I have an impression it was your mother's
sister. Am I right?
H.R.B.: Yes, look back, always with me here.
MRs. D. : Has she another name?
H.R.B.: Yes, her names are Elizabeth Anne.
MRs. D. : Is Elizabeth here?
H.R.B.: Yes, but she does not want to talk herself.
MRs. D. : What is her nationality?
H.R.B. : Irish.
MRs. D. : What part does she come from ?
H.R.B.: It's County Kerry.
MRs. D.: Are you sure it is County Kerry?
H.R.B. : South County Kerry, she says-she says-
yes, between Cork and Kerry. Look it up, that's all
right. Remember, sister of your grandmother not
mother. She and I are a bit alike. That is why she
drifted to me, I think.
MRs. D.: Is that why she comes to Queenie?
H.R.B.: Yes, all in a straight line-or maybe you'd
call it a crooked one. You see it is a sister of my mother,
then her son, then his daughter-all the same make.
H.R.B.: There is no one else here to-day, child. Do
you want anyone else, or shall we talk business for a
bit? By business, I mean the work you have done, and
the work you are going to do, so shall we get on with
that? Now, child, this time there are to be no checks
1 All these communications correctly deacribed the experimental
.;ttings I had recently held with some friends of mine.
72 ... AND AFTER
or set-backs. I say that to encourage you. It is ~oing to
be quite different. All clear now, and the " vo1ce," no
matter how slow, will surely come.. But make the change
now. So far there has been nothing to speak of-a little
movement-a little whisper or so now and again-nothing
more. Once the voice begins in earnest you can't
interrupt, so have a look round for the others now, there's
a good girl.
Q.B. : Are you helping with anyone elseP
H.R.B.: Elizabeth would insist on coming, and a man
who I thought would help, but I believe I could do the
job best alone. The man was connected with D. So
far I do all the spade work and that was done myself.
Q.B. : Why did you say you wanted to write P
H.R.B. : Because I wanted to get things clearly down
on paper for reference, and not have any guides pushing
me out.
Q.B. : Is Johannes there?
MRs. D. : Yes, he is there, but he is standing aside as
there is somebody else waiting to speak to you. Do you
know this ladyP
JoHANNES: Yes, quite well. I have often been with
her.
Q.B. : Have you helped me P
JOHANNES : I have done what I could under very
trying circumstances. I believe I was a little help, but
ever since that time I have been interested in her and
her work. May I offer to help nowP
Q.B.: Will you help the voice?
JoHANNES: Certainly you have a \~'ather weak circle.
The psychic power there doesn't concentrate, it scatters
a great deal and the number is not sufficient for a begin-
ning. It would be better to have five or six if possible ;
after that, when the work is fully in training, three would
do. You have not begun in the full sense of the word
yet. You know you are not yet able to send out' the
ectoplasm in a sufficient quantity.
Mas. D.: Is she the mediumP
JoHANNES: Certainly, and the ectoplasm is loosened,
but not yet flowing freely.
Q.B. : Is it necessary to sit in complete darkness P
JOHANNES : After a while, no. But it is better at
present. Voice can be produced by any developed
medium, in a low red light. No, not materially, but
with a developed circle it would reduce the phenomena
just a little. Your circle has not begun, as I said, so I
AUTOMATIC WRITING 78
should not think the fire made any difference. First
there will be whistlings and touches. Both of these
before the voice. I will say this. Go on, change the
circle, and I will help you. I can't do more than that
-and don't let anyone persuade you that you have not
got the power, for you certainly have.1
FATHER HARRY: Now shall we draw the curtain up P
I told you I would give the surname at the end.
MRs. D.: Is it your surname P
H.R.B.: The same. I want to give her name.
Queenie Baylis. Queenie Baylis.
MRs. D. : Who is she connected with P
H.R.B.: Dennis Bradley. She is his secretary.
(Signature) Harry Baylis.
NoTE BY H.D.B.-As scrupulous care was used in making
this appointment for an anonymous sitting, I regard
the evidence of names and identity as remarkable.
1
The volunteered reference• to the fire, whistlinll and touchea
were all correct.
CHAPTER IX
AN ANONYMOUS EXPEJUM:EliT
Sitting ~eel anonJimoa.Ig-Tiae mecliarrulaip of Mra. Garrett-Nama
oolan1eerwul-Goocl peraonal euicle~Namea gioen anJcnown to
afle,.......Correcf referenc;c fo G clo••
IN the early part of 1929 an anonymous sitting was
arranged for Miss Q. Baylis with Mrs. Garrett, the
clairvoyant medium, at the British College of Psychic
Science. The following is a verbatim account taken down
in shorthand. Considerable passages have, however, been
cut on account of the length. All these passages were
of an intelligible character.
Within less than a minute the medium was completely
under trance.
CONTROL: Madam, I am Uvani (?). I greet you.
Peace be upon your work, your life, etc., etc. There
are two ladies here--a little child and two gentlemen.
One of the gentlemen is young-1 think he met his pass-
ing over very quickly; the other is older-he went out
after the war. The younger man went over, not on
account of the war, but during the activities. There
is a strong Celtic strain in you-is it the north of
Scotland?
Q.B.: No-! am in no way connected with Scotland.
Uv.~NI: Then it is the north of Ireland. Yes-it is
Irish-it is strongll shown in you.
Q.B.: Yes-poss1bly.
UvANI: It is through a lady here--on earth s.he would
have had nothing whatever to do with this subject. She
was a very decided type of her own-strong--determined
-deeply religious. She had had a bad time before she
passed over. Trouble in the intestines. Her hair is
grey-earlier she would have been very dark-her hair
was black, but she went grey. H~gh cheek-bones--
tlistinguished looking-aristocratic. She is very close
indeed to you-she gives the name of Elizabeth.
Q.B. : I have had the name " Elizabeth " given to me
at several sittin~s.
UvANI: She g1ves me the name of Elizabeth Alice, or
Alice Elizabeth. Is there a Mary connected with her P
74
AN ANONYMOUS EXPERIMENT 75
This is where the strong Celtic strain comes from. (Placed
later as my father's mother's sister.) Mary and Eliza-
beth are closely connected on the paternal side. A
generation further back. Your mother remembers-she
had a picture taken (of Elizabeth) when she was about
fifty-in a coat. She is sitting with her hands folded.
Elizabeth in a way was very domineering, but very
courageous.1
UVANI: That most difficult gentleman. I want to talk
to you about him. There is a lady closely connected with
him here-she comes to you because you know him. She
gives a peculiar name-Aleroa--she is here in spirit.
She wants t.o help you because you could help the man,
she says.
I then remembered at a sitting some months ago I
received a message for " C.R.A. " from his father, and it
was also mentioned that his mother accompanied him-
giving a peculiar name similar to Alerca, which I could
not get. I discovered afterwards that the mother's name
was Alberta, which, however, had completely gone from
my memory. This was a confirmation of a Mrs. Scales'
sitting, when the name given to me was entirely
unknown.
UvA.NI: He has been so unhappy sometimes-really
unhappy. You know, in a queer way; he could talk to
you. There has been a very difficult barrier-wanting
this, wanting that. Dragging, pulling, making-
influencing.
Q.B. : You mean a bad influence P
UvANI: Yes-bad, bad. But I think that influence is
leaving him. He wants to start afresh, if you can under-
stand what I mean.2
(Followin.Q straight on) William is here. Man about
sixty-five. Tall, carried himsell well. Soldierly type.
Last two years broke up very much. Broad shouldered.
Moustache. Full face. Connected with your father.
Strong bond of friendship.'
(Cont1:nuing) Your father meant a ~reat deal to you.
A complete understanding. You could be with him for
1 Mary and Elizabeth I found out, after the sitting, were t.he
names of my father's mother and her sister: i.e., my great-aunt and
my grandmother. Both theee Christian names were outside my know-
ledge or the knowledge of the medium.
2 Theee references, though personal, were evidential in character.
a This name and description of a character unknown to me waa
verified afterward• by a relative. It aleo tallies with a description
given by Mrs. Scales at a previous sitting.
76 •.. AND AFTER
a long time in silence, but you understood. He was a
very tine type of character. Who is the clergyman con-
nt~cted with your father? He is showing the white
garments worn round the neck-and black garments too.
~.B. : There are several-! am afraid I could not
place him easily.
UvANl: He was a very great friend of your father's
in earlier life. He was a very strong-minded man. He
has a very kindly face. Side whiskers-and a small
beard. A wonderful wide smile. A straight aquiline
nose--good hands. In the seventies. Grandfather-
broad-shouldered and aristocratic bearing. William is
not connected with him, but has a John connected with
him. Uncle John. He may have been an uncle by
marriage. He i~ with your father.1
(Another de1cription.
Qiven of father.) Who is Jack? In physical body. He
1s greatly interested in Jack.2
His health is not too good
-you will be hearing news of him soon. A ntention of
May-birthday-will be very close to you then.3
He is
taking n very great interest in your paintings. There
is some connection with Italy in regard to these paint-
ings. Are they in oils?
Q.B.: No.
UvANI: There is certainly n half Italian condition
there.
Q.B.: I was told some time ago that I had been
helped by an artist. Do you know who he is?
UvANI : Vela~cer.
Q.B. : Can you spell it?
UvANI: No-but that is the phonetic sound. Your
father is very anxious that you should go on with the
work." You know, your father spoke to you first at a
" voice " sitting. He says he was not able to speak
with you for long, and his voice was husky-he spoke
to you through the trumpet-he did his best.5
Do you
know you have a. " Harry " always with you?
Q.B.: I don't know a Harry.
UvANI: Yes, you do-isn't it your father's nameP
Q.B. : Oh, yes.•
1 Correct penonal evidence.
• The name of my father'a brother.
1 My father's birthday waa in May.
4 ~ a divenion I have from time to time essayed a few attempb
in water-coloun.
1 Correct evidence. The 6rat time my father communicated with
me waa in the •• direct voice '' at a Valiantine eeance in February, 1924.
• For the moment I did not recall that Ill)' fother'a ~e waa Hany.
AN ANONYMOUS EXPERIMENT 77
UvANI: That was a joke-he is pointing to himself.
He says he is always with you. Annie has attached
herself to you-she is giving very definite help. She has
already done some very good work with someone else
known to you. She is a great lady. She is sister to
someone connected with you. You know this gentleman.
Annie is coming through to give you all the help and
encouragement she can. (A pause.) .Who is Kitty?
Q.B. : I know a Kitty.
UvA..NI: Another very difficult person. You have had
some very difficult times with her. She has had some
troubles. There is someone here connected with her.
A lady who is very devoted to her. She says she has
been doing things which are entirely wrong and making
her worried and unhappy. She has recentl.v been making
some changes-this lady is happier now. Will you give
the message-this lady particularly wants the message to
go through you-you have been instrumental in helping
her at some time.1
UvANI : Are you connected with Herbert?
Q.B.: Yes.
UvANI: There is his mother, sister and father in spirit
here.2
They are taking a very great interest in you.
And who is Mabel ?-they are interested in her. She
seems to have had a difficult time. Does she come in
contact with Herbert? You know he has been causing a
certain amount of disorder around him. You know he
will go into the fight too quickly and then he gets dis-
liked. He has power, and that power passes to you.
He has done very great work. His best work is in the
books on your shelf. He has done a great deal of ~ood
work-of universal value. The best efforts are contamed
in the first four books. Annie says she thinks you wlll
~ree with her here. Harry says have more faith in the
p1ctures-have faith that you are being helped. You
have a brotherP
Q.B.: No.
UvANI: Yes, you have-by law-your sister's husband.
Q.B. : Oh yes, by law.
UvANI : He is making a move-another one. This will
mean he is going to be better. Thank goodness for that.
The sister has not been in too good health. She tried
to wear a brave face, but her health is not particularly
good at the moment. Who is George? Tell your mother
1 Of a peraonal evidential nature.
2
This i.a evidently a correct reference to H.D.B. and hla relation..
78 ... AND AFTER
George still remembers. Wilson and Seymour-to do
with Bradshaw. Friends P
UvANI: Has she (mother) had trouble with hearing?
They have been looking after her in this respect. (Hear-
ing bad recently, but has since improved.) I have
been asked by your father to talk to you about
your little dog. The little dog that went out quickly.
He is quite all right, and he would like you to know.
He is with him now. He says it had to be-he was
destroyed, wasn't he P And he was so glad to be able to
meet something which had belonged to him on earth.2
NoTE BY H.D.B.-In my opinion this sitting was an
extremely successful and evidential one, and the
manner in which the various personal names were
freely and spontaneously volunteered by the medium
was remarkable. It will be observed that the sitter,
Miss Baylis, spoke chiefly in short interjections, and
no lead was given by her to the communications
which were given. A sitting such as this stands in
distinct contrast to the 'fishing inquiries usually
made by undeveloped and fraudulent mediums.
1 Confinned through my mother. Evidence quite correct. All theee
name• were unknown to me at the time of the •itting.
3
Evidence correct.
BOOK II
VALIANTINE IN ENGLAND, 1927
CHAPTER I
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927
A family aifting-Evidential converaation-A dranuztic de~ription of
death on the battle-field-Mil father .peaJr.~Lord Charlea Hope'•
aittinga with Valiantine-Valiantine unwell-Poor reault~A nother
poor aitting-Eighteen " voicea " manifeat-Bad condition~
I do not •it-Everett calla to me from the aeance room-Mra.
Gaoin'• reporl-Mr. C. Y. L. Hooman'a report--Chineae, Italian
and Spaniah apoJten-A mixed aitting-Little evidence-A curioua
incident-Lord Deuuar.
I
FebruarJI 4, 1927.
AFTER the exceptionally long series of exlleriments con-
ducted in 1925, under the mediumsh1p of George
Valiantine, which extended from February · 13 for ten
weeks, until April 24, the details of which are recorded
in my book " The Wisdom of the Gods," there was an
interval of two years before Valiantine again visited
England in 1927. On this occasion Valiantine staved
with me at Dorincourt for about a fortnight, after which
he went to stay with Lord Charles Hope at his flat in
St. James's for about a month.
The first sitting held at Dorincourt was on February 4,
1927.
At this period the bulk of .my time was occupied in
writing "The Natural State," the manuscript of which
I had agreed to deliver to my publishers at a certain
date in the spring of that year. This book was a work
of fiction, and had no reference whatever to psychics.
I had, at this time, no intention whatever of writing
any further books on psychic .matters, because I had
found the subject was occupying an undue proportion
of .my time, to the detriment of other work which I
wished to dQ,
79
80 ••• AND AFTER
The short notes which I took of the sittings which
were held in my house were therefore abbreviated to
the utmost extent, and contain merely a record of the
various " voices " which manifested.
The first sitting held with Valiantine when he arrived
was just a family one, and there were present: George
Valiantine and myself, Mrs. Bradley and my young son,
Pat, then aged ten, who, incidentally, I should mention,
has had very considerable experience of psychic pheno-
mena, both under Valiantine's mediumship and also wit.h
the experiments conducted in my own family circle,
under the mediumship of my wife and myself'.
At this sitting no music was played on the gramo-
phone. The four of us went into my study, and within
two minutes the first " voice" spoke. Dr. Barnett
greeted us, and his " voice" was particularly strong.
The sitting lasted just over an hour, and, in all,
thirteen different and distinct " voices" manifested.
Of the Valiantine Guides, in addition to Dr. Barnett,
Bert Everett (V'aliantine's brother-in-law), Kokum,
Honey (speaking in the childish tones which I haTe
described in my books), Black Foot (a new Valiantine
Guide, speaking in deep tones from the centre of the
floor), whom I had never heard before: Cristo D'Angelo
(speaking in Italian, and referring to the Italian transla-
tion of my book " Towards the Stars " (" VerRo Le
Stelle ") ) and Pat O'Brien manifested. Pat O'Brien
told me that he had often seen my father, who had died
in 1925. The conversation with this Guide might be
described as evidential, because among other things I
asked him whether my father knew that I had been ovE-r
to Ireland a few months previously. Pat replied that
he did know this; that my father had seen me over there,
and had been with me when I was at Galway (name
volnnteered). Pat then added: " Your father says:
'Why didn't you go over with me beforeP' " This is
quite correct, because my father had suggested once or
twice before he died that I should go over to Ireland
'with him.
After this conversation a shrill whistle was heard two
or three times in the circle, and then a " voice,"
announcin~ itself to be Harold Howard, spoke. He said
be wa~ kilJed in the war: in an advance " over the top."
He told me that it was at least twentv minutes before be
reali1.ed that he bad passed over. He~ stated that for this
twenty minutes, although his body was lying on the field,
GEORGE VALJANTINE
[to f a.ce page So.
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 81
he went on with the attacking party thinkin~ he was still
alive. He then found that thm~e around h1m could not
see him, and he went back and viewed his body lying
dead. He then discovered round him many other spirit~,
and later he was taken to a place of rest.
I could not claim recognition of this particular spirit
named Harold Howard, and I mention the incident only
because the description of his experience was so very
graphically delivered.
After this a " voice" announcing itself to my wife
u " Aunt Carrie" manifested. The conversation was
extremely fluent, and there were many references to her
sister (my wife's mother), Mrs. Hunt, and the varioua
family matters which were discussed were all of an
evidential nature.
Warren Clarke (my brother-in-law) spoke for some
considerable time, referring to many matters concerning
his daughters, Betty and Phyllis, whose names, and
many others, were correctly volunteered by him. He
referred to his wife, who had recently married again.
He spoke of the marriage in an extremely nice way, and
said that he was entirely satisfied, and that he regarded
it as the best thing for her.
My sister, Annie, then spoke to us for some consider-
able time. The conversation was long and fluent
throughout, and contained innumerable family references.
She told us that Aunt Agnes was very ill indeed (this
was correct), and this particular relative died shortly
afterwards. She referred also to my sister, Gertie. add-
ing, decisively, "she will not live." My sister, Gertie,
died the following year. Before she left the circle she
(Annie) described how she had met my father (who was
particularly fond of her) when he had passed over. She
told me that he was there and would speak to me.
Shortly after the " voice " of my father spoke to me.
It was certainly his voice in eve;r:y characteristic. His
opening words were indicative of h1s peculiar directness.
They were: " Herbert, your father, Daniel Bradley."
The conversation which ensued with me, and also with
my wife, with Pat, his grandson, and with Valiantine,
was natural, and not only was it fluent, but it teemed
with evidence of personality and intimate knowledge of
family affairs. His voice gained in strength after the
first minute. The intonation and manner of speech were
identical with those he possessed on earth. Not only did
he give many evidential points regarding his life on
82 ... AND AFTER
earth, but he also gave many evidential points in regard
to my visit to Ireland, mentioning Loch Rae, Connemara
and other parts, which I had recently visited. These
matters I think he referred to particularly because they
related to events which had taken place since his passing
over. When he was on earth he had met Valiantine on
one, or perhaps two, occasions. I would regard as a
significant point the fact that during the time he was
talking to myself and my wife, and also to Pat, on two
or three occasions he went over to Valiantine, and chatted
with him fluently and quickly, the last word of each
sentence in the conversation joining in with the replies
of Valiantine.
This was a remarkable sitting for phenomena, but it
must be remembered particularly that there were three
mediums present: Valiantine, my wife and myself; also
the fourth sitter, Pat, has, in my opinion, very consider-
able psychic powers-possibly greater even than the other
three sitters.
u
Satardag, February 5, 1927.
On this date, Lord Charles Hope, with whom it had
been arranged that VaJiantine should spend a month of
his stay in England, had his first sitting under the
mediumship of Valiantine. The sitting took place after
dinner, and there were in all only four present:
Valiantine, Mrs. Bradley, myself, and Lord Charles
Hope.
After two minutes the "voice " of Dr. Ba1·nett greeted
us.
Lord Charles Hope had recently r.eceived from
Australia an instrument called a Shastaphone. ThiA
instrument was alleged to have been designed through a
psychic communication, and was stated to be an improve-
ment on the ordinary trumpets and megaphones which
were being used at the moment at " direct voice "
seances.
Dr. Barnett was asked a question regarding the
Sbastaphone, and he replied that he had examined it
and that it might be tried. Incidentally I mif?ht
mention that the subsequent few experiments with the
Shastapbone were not very successful.
Various of the Guides manifested : Bert Everett, Hawk
Chief, Black Foot, Kokum, and Pat O'Brien, who had
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 88
many conversations with those sitting in the circle. My
father, Daniel Bradley, spoke to us all, and told Lord
Charles Hope that he had endeavoured to get through
at a private circle held by him. He volunteered a certain
reference to Glasgow.
Warren Clarke spoke to us all. To Lord Charles
Hope a reference was made to " Aunt Mary," and also
a spirit, purporting to be his father, spoke to him.
During the intervals between the "voices " manifest-
ing I had :put several records on the gramophone. At
certain pertods various of the records were suddenly
stopped and then played in a peculiar manner at odd
times.
m
SandaJI, FebraarJI 6, 1927.
On this day Valiantine, who had only arrived from
America a few days previously, was not at all well. He
could not eat and was apparently liverish. Despite his
condition a sitting was held in the evening, at which
were present, in addition to himself, Mrs. Bradley, Mr.
P. G. Wodehouse, Mr. Dennis .Mackail, and the Baroness
de Kakucs.
After a few records on the gramophone had been
played, the " voice" of Dr. Barnett was heard, giving
the usual short greeting.
During the evening the following Guides manifested :
Black Foot, speaking on four or five occasions; Hawk
Chief, speaking in a loud voice and giving a war whoop;
Kokum, who spoke and afterwards whirled the luminous
trum:pets in the air; Pat O'Brien, chatting to each of
the sttters-his " voice " floating round the circle, and
Bert Everett, who said a very few words.
The luminous trumpet was lifted, and a very faint
" voice" attempted to speak to .Mr. P. G. Wodehouse,
saying that it was his grandfather. This " voice,"
however, was so faint that identitv could not be
established. "
A "voice," announcing itself to be James Burnett,
mentioned the name of Spragg, who wished to com-
municate. James Burnett was unknown to Mr. Wode-
house, but Spragg was recognized as the name of a friend.
Later a " voice" announcing itself to be Spra~g came
through, but was not at all clear in answermg any
questions which were put, and could only hold the con-
versation for a very short period.
84 ••. AND AFTER
A "voice" spoke to Dennis Mackall, but was so
indistinct that in this case again no identity could be
established.
Another "voice" spoke to Mr. Dennis Mackail,
purporting to be his Uncle Phil, but although the name
was given the conversation contained no evidential points.
Two attempts were made by "voices" to speak to
the Baroness de Kakucs, neither of which, however,
succeeded in establishing identity.
The " voice" of George Hunt addressed Mrs. Bradley
(his daughter) and spoke with her for a short time. He
referred to his paintings (several of which hang in
Dorincourt), and, in answer to questions which were put
to him, said that he was still painting landscapes.
(His work was chiefly landscape painting.) Mrs. Bradley
asked him whether he remembered all the various paint-
ings he had done on earth, and he replied: " Yes--and
I remember a few of the interiors which I painted."
This conversation was good and evidential, certain
information being given which was known only to Mn.
Bradley and to myself.
A "voice," using the luminous trumpet, announced
itself to be my mother. The " voice " was faint, and
after a few short sentences or so became quite indistinct.
She addressed me affectionately, and said that the condi-
tions appeared to her to be difficult, and not what she
had expected. She told me that she was quite happy,
and that my sister, Gertrude, could not survive her
illness. My mother added that Dan (her husband) was
with her.
The " voice " of my sister, Annie, spoke with ua.
She was quite distinct, although her tones were fainter
than usual.
A " voice," announcing itself as William Archer,
came through and spoke for a few seconds with Mr.
Wodehouse, and also with me. He discussed his present
sphere, and said : " On the other side literature still
goes on." He told us that he continued to write.
Allusion was made by him to " The Green Goddess "-
his play-and to the way in which writers on this plane
are helped by those on the other side.
On the whole, this evening was a somewhat poor one.
Considering the physical condition of the medium, how-
ever, perhaps the results were better than might have
been anticipated.
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 85
IV
Tuetday, February 8, 1927.
At this sitting there were present: George Valiantine,
myself, Mrs. Bradley, Lord Charles Hope, and Mr. E.
Clepham Palmer, of The Daily New8.
The sitting was a particularly poor one.
After three gramophone recorda had been played, the
" voice " of Dr. Harnett was heard, anrl later on thE\
"voices " of Valiantine's Guides, " Black Foot " and
" Hawk Chief," who spoke in loud tones and gave a
war whoop. Also "Pat O'Brien," speaking a few short
sentences to various of the sitters, and later " Honey,"
speaking from the floor. Cristo d'Angelo spoke a few
words in Italian.
Warren Clarke (my brother-in-law) spoke a few words
to me and to my wife, and then a "voice," announcing
it8elf as Leila Marvin, addressed Lord Charles Hope,
saying that she was also helping " MacDonell."
Shortly afterwards another " voice " endeavoured to
manifest, but this "voice " was so incoherent that it
was impossible to recognize what was said.
In regard to the " voice " Leila Marvin, it might be
mentioned that Lord Charles Hope had, prior to this
occasion, per~onally experimented with a few personal
friends in the endeavour to obtain the " direct voice,"
without the assistance of any outside medium. On one
occasion during these personal experiments a faint
whispering "voice " was heard, giving the name Leila
Marvin, and saying that she was his (Lord Charles Hope)
Guide.
It must be mentioned that Mr. Noel Jaquin had
also been experimenting personally with a few friends
for this particular form of phenomenon, and had
obtained certain results. At Mr. Jaquin's own private
sittings a " voice " announcing itself as MacDonnell had
spoken, telling him (Noel Jaquin) that he was his Guide.
Thar•dDy, February 10, 1927.
This sittin~ was held at Lord Charles Hope's flat in
St. James's Place. There were present, in addition to
George Valiantine, Mrs. Bradley, myself. Lord Charles
Hope, the Count.ss Ahlefeldt-Laurvig (the wife of the
86 ... AND AFTER
Danish Minister, referred to in "The Wisdom of the
Gods"), and Mr. and Mrs. Noel Jaquin.
Three luminous trumpets were placed in the centre of
the circle.
Before any "voice" was heard two of the trumpets
were lifted and wafted about the circle.
Of the spirit guides, five distinct " voices " were
heard speaking at various times : Dr. Barnett, Black
Foot, Hawk Chief, Pat O'Brien, and Cristo D'Angelo,
speaking in Italian.
A " voice," announcing itself as " K'ung-fu-T'zu"
(the correct name for Con!ucius), spoke in Chinese to the
Countess Ahlefeldt-Laurvig. The " voice " was speak-
ing in what may have been ancient Chinese, but the
Countess (who at one time had spent a considerable
period in China) had difficulty in translating anything
but a few odd phrases.
It should here be mentioned that the Confucius
"voice" had previously, in New York, held long con-
versations with Dr. Neville Whymant, a distinguished
linguist and student of Chinese.
Of the personal spirit " voices " wliich manifested,
two spoke to the Countess, the first announcing itself
as Oscar (her brother) who carried on a conversation
(using the luminous trumpet) with her in Russian, and
later on changin~ to French. A " voice " purporting to
be her mother also had a short conversation with her.
While this "voice " was manifesting, the luminous
trumpet was used in a peculiarly delicate manner. It
moved in a gentle and caressing manner.
Four different spirit " voices " spoke a few short
sentences to Lord Charles Hope-one purporting to be
his father, although I do not think anything of an
evidential nature was volunteered. The second was
"Leila Marvin," the voice which had manifested to him
two days prior to this sitting. Another announced itself
to be " May," and spoke to him in childish tones. It
may be mentioned here that "May" had endeavoured
to speak a few words at Lord Charles Hope's personal
sittings. The fourth "voice " announced itself as
" Fleet Foot," and stated that he was one of those who
had attached himself t.o Lord Charles Hope's circle.
Three " voices " addressed Noel J aquin, one announc-
ing itself to be " Macdonell "-the Guide referred to in
the sittin~ of February 8. Another introduced himself
as the "Mandarin." He was, I understand, another
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 87
" Guide" who had manifested on certain occasions at
.Mr. J aquin's personal sittin~s. The third gave the name
of "Basil." He was, I beheve, a child of Mr. Jaquin's
who had died.
The '' voice '' of Warren Clarke came through and
spoke with me and also with my wife for a short time.
During the sitting eighteen distinct "voices " mani-
fested, and Chinese, Russian and Italian were spoken.
VI
Friday, February 11, 1927.
This sitting was held at Dorincourt. There were
present: George Valiantine, Mrs. Bradley and myself,
Mr. E. Clepham Palmer, Mrs. Gavin, Mrs. Barkell
(the well-known clairvoyant and clairaudience trance
medium), and Mr. C. V. L. Hooman.
The weather on this evening was particularly foggy,
and the atmospheric conditie>ns generally bad.
Several records were played upon the gramophone,
and it was twenty minutes before any manifestation
occurred. At the end of this time the luminous trumpet
was taken up and whirled at a considerable speed over
the heads of the sitters. It then fell to the ~round.
After a considerable pause, during whiCh nothing
happened, I suggested that I should retire from the circle,
and that if, after a further quarter of an hour, no results
were obtained, Mr. Clepham Palmer should follow me.
This he did.
The remainder of the circle continued to sit for a short
time and then the " voice " of Dr. Barnett was heard
speaking a few short sentences. A '' voice " afterwards
announced itself as " White Hawk," saying two or three
words only to Mrs. Barkell. " White Hawk," it should
be mentioned, is Mrs. Barkell's control.
" Dr. Barnett " then said the sitting must close.
vn
Satardoy, February 12, 1927.
The sitting on the previous evening having proved a
failure, I had invited Mrs. Gavin (the well-known lady
golfer, at one time runner-up for the American
Championship), Mrs. Barkell, and Mr. C. V. L. Hooman
(the golfer and Kent cricketer).
88 ... AND AFTER
In addition to tlie above, there were preaent George
Valiantine, Mrs. Bradley, and my young son, Pat.
As I had a considerable amount of writing to attend
to on that evening, I did not sit, and spent the evening
workin~ in the drawing-room, which adjoins my study,
in wh1ch the sittings are always held. From the
drawing-room I could hear several of the " voices "
speaking with the sitters. At one period during the
sitting I left the room in which I sat for a few minutes,
and as I passed the study the " voice " of Bert Everett
called out, in loud tones: " Why don't you come in
here, Mr. Bradley?" This, certainly, was an extremely
valuable point of evidence of supernormal vision. None
of the sitters in the circle could have known that I was
passing the door exactly at that moment. I replied to
Bert Everett from outside the door that I had too much
work to do, and then I laughingly carried on a short
conversation with this "voice." This incident was
quite a remarkable one.
I had asked Mrs. Gavin and also Mr. Hooman if they
would take notes of what transpired during the sitting,
and let me have their reporta.
MRs. GAVIN's REPORT
After one gramophone record was played we said
the Lord's Prayer, and immediately afterwards "Dr.
Barnett '' spoke. We asked him why the sitting had
been abortive the previous evening, and he somewhat
reluctantly told us that the controversy at dinner had
made it almost impossible for them to get through. He
also said that the atmospheric conditions-fog-were bad.
Dr. Barnett then told us that he would try and help the
other spirits to get through.
From then, almost without a pause, for an hour and
a hall spirit after spirit came through.
First of all numbers of Valiantine's "Guides" and
friends: Bert Everett, Kokum, Black Foot, Hawk Chief,
and Bobby Worrall. None of these spirits stayed long.
Whenever Kokum manifested, the trumpets were whirled
and floated round the room.
After this "Honey" talked for quite a long time with
Pat, and at the end of the conversation could be heard
splashing about the water in a bowl, which, at Pat's
request, had been placed in the middle of the circle.
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 89
When the lights were tu.
rned on at the close of the
sitting the water marks were to be seen on the carpet.
Soon afterwards a rather indistinct " voice "
announced itself as "White Hawk" (Mrs. Barkell's
control). He spoke to Mrs. Barkell, but nothing
evidential was given.
" Annie " (Mr. Bradley's sister) came through and
spoke to us all in turn.
Then came, in quick succession, "Aunt Carrie" (an
aunt of Mrs. Bradley) and Dan Bradley (Mr. Dennis
Bradley's father), Mrs. Bradley remarking that his
"voice " was ea:actly '' as it used to be."
Two spirit "voices" spoke to Mr. Hooman, but were
too faint to be recognizable.
A " voice " then addressed me, saying it was my sister.
As both my sisters are alive I thought there must be
some mistake, until I remembered that I had had a sister
who died just before I was born. I asked if she were
Dorothy, and she replied "Yes," and asked me to give
her love to Mother, adding that she was now grown up
on the spirit side, and that it was a most beautiful time.
A " voice " then addressed itself to Mrs. Barkell,
announcing itself as " Allen McKittrick." This was an
evidential point, as Mrs. McKittrick had written to Mr.
Bradley asking for the opportunity of a sitting. This,
however, could not be arranged; therefore the son sent
his mother messages and love.
"Dr. Barnett" then told us that we all had "voice"
power, especially Mr. Hooman, and that if we continued
to sit we should get the "voices." He (Dr. Barnett)
laughed heartily when Pat was anxious to know if he
included him.
"Bert Everett" here gave a tremendous shout for Mr.
Bradley, who carried on a conversation with him from
outside the door. Mr. Bradley told " Bert Everett "
that he could be heard in the Portsmouth Road.
One of the Indian " Guides" afterwards sang loudly.
" Warren Clarke " spoke to us and told us that he
was helping Mr. Bradley with his work; he also gave
messages to Mrs. Bradley.
A "voice" announcing itself as her grandfather then
talked with Mrs. Barkell, in .regard to some contracts
concerning her husband's business. He asked for Mrs.
Barkell's husband by name, and the conversation was a
particularly evidential one.
Then the marvellous phenomena took place of two
90 ... AND AFTER
trumpets in the air at the same time and two '' voices ''
speaking simultaneously. Mr. V~liantine was also
speaking to a sitter at the same time.
Soon after these incidents " Dr. Barnett " told us that
the power was going.
"Bert Everett" closed the sitting with a long and
beautiful prayer.
As for myself, I must note two curious incidents.
One, that of my sister speaking. My husband remem-
bered that a year previously we had agreed how evidential
it would be if my sister would speak, as practically no
one outside the family would know of her existence. The
matter, however, had completely vanished from my mind
for a year. The second, I had remarked to Mr. Hooman
that I thought perhaps an aunt of mine, named Dorothy
(on the other side), would probably come and speak, us
I was continually impressed with the name "Dorothy."
Then, quite unexpectedly, my sister Dorothy manifested.
(Signed) MARGARET GAVIN.
MR. C. V. L. HooMAN's REPORT
Notes and observations in relation to a sitting held at
Dorincourt, Kingston Vale, on Saturday, February 12,
1927. Medium : George Valiantine. In addition to the
medium there were five sitters present, and their name!i
are mentioned in order reading from the medium's left:
Mrs. Bradley (who attended to the gramophone), Pat
Bradley, Mrs. W. A. Gavin, Mr. C. V. L. Hooman, Mrs.
Barkell.
Two trumpets were used, each of which was furnished
with luminous bands. One of these trumpets had, in
addition, two rows of luminous spots, while the other
was provided with a luminous crescent-shaped mark.
At about 8.45 p.m. all lights were turned out, as soon
as the sitters had taken their places. The gramophone
was started by Mrs. Bradley, and almost immediately I
observed a very bright spirit light which passed before
me from right to left. Shortly afterwards there waR
another occurrence of a similar nature.
Almost immediately after the first record had come
to an end, "Dr. Barnett" spoke, the "voice " coming
from the centre of the circle, on a level with the floor.
Mrs. Bradley asked " Dr. Barnett " to explain the nature
of the influence which had rendered the sitting on the
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 91
previous evening abortive. " Dr. Barnett" stated that
the conditions were what he described as very " dis-
agreeable.'' He said that the conversation before the
sitting was a most unfortunate one, coming, as it did,
immediately before communication was sought, and that
the atmospheric conditions were very bad in addition.
These two facts rendered communication impossible.
Mrs. Barkell approached " Dr. Barnett " with
reference to the case of a woman suffering from uterine
trouble. " Dr. Barnett" expressed his sympathy, and
advised the use of " blood-root." On the question being
raised as to the advisability of " operation," " D1·.
Barnett " said that when practising on the earth plane
he was always adverse to this course of action. " Dr.
Barnett " then said that he would endeavour to help
through those spirits who were waiting to communicate.
He also said that the conditions were quite satisfactory.
When opening, "Dr. Barnett" had ~reeted us all very
warmly, and he struck the writer as bemg a very wonder-
ful and genial spirit.
Shortly after this, one of our trumpets was raised a.ncl
whirled at a tremendous rate just above the heads of the
sitters, sometimes descending and touching some of them.
Then the spirits of " Black Foot," " Hawk Chief," and
" Dodo " manifested and spoke in turn for a short time.
Very shortly afterwards the spirits of " Bobbie " and
"Honey " manifested and spoke to Pat Bradley. Pat
had brought into the seance room a bowl of water, which
had been placed in the fireplace. Pat invited " Bobbie "
to play with the water, but this he appeared disinclined
to do. The bowl was then removed from the fireplace
and placed in the centre of the circle by Mrs. Barkell.
Little " Honey " laughed and played with the water
for some time. The splashing could be distinctly h~ard,
and after the sitting had terminated I observed many
splashes on the carpet. The bowl was close to my feet
and a considerable distance away from the medium.
Then the tremendous '' voice '' of ' ' Kokum '' was
heard high· above the heads of the sitters, but I was
unable to catch much of what he said.
The spirit of " Dorothy " {a sister who had passed
over prior to Mrs. Gavin's buth) then spoke to Mrs.
Gavin, through the trumpet. '' Dorothy " said she was
working hard to help Mrs. Gavin and that she would
never forsake her.
A spirit, thought to be that of " White Hawk," spoke
... AND AFTER
~? Mrs. ,Barkell .through the trumpet, calling her
Squaw, ' but agam I was unable to catch much of what
was said.
To Mrs. Barkell also came the spirit of " Will " (her
father-in-law), speaking through the trumpet. 'l'his
spirit also spoke to me, saying that " Addie " (mr,
beloved wife) was with him. Shortly after this, " Addie '
made her presence known to me through the trumpet,
and very audible kisses were heard through the trumpet.
'l'he trumpet was rubbed softly up and down the side of
my face, and my arms and knees were :firmly touched by
it. Kisses were also heard when spirits were speaking
to Mrs. Bradley, Mrs. Barkell, Mrs. Gavin and Pat.
The spirit of " Bert Everett " came and literally
screamed from the neighbourhood of the ceiling. This
was heard by Mr. Bradley, who was sitting in the next
room, and who came and talked with this spirit through
the door.
'' Bert Everett '' spoke for some time by '' direct
voice" to Mrs. Bradley, Mr. Bradley and to Pat. On
request he also spoke a few words to Pat in his natural
voice. Bert Everett's " voice " is, on most occasions,
particularly shrill. He says that he uses these falsetto
tones because it is easier for him to pick up the necessary
vibrations to manifest.
"Warren Clarke," "Mr. Dan Bradley," "Aunt
Carrie '' and '' Grandmamma '' (.Mrs. Bradley's mother-
in-law) also spoke to Mrs. Bradley and to Pat.
The spirit of one " Alan McKittrick " came and spoke
to .Mrs. Barkell (this spirit is, I gather, a relation of a
friend of hers).
" Addie " came a second time, and made her presence
known through the trumpet.
.My mother also manifested in the same way.
" Addie" also manifested to .Mrs. Gavin and to Mrs.
Barkell. About this time " Annie " (Mr. Bradley's
sister) came and spoke for a short time to Mrs. Bradley.
Towards the end of the sitting both trumpets were
lifted and two spirits spoke simultaneously, but I was
unable to identify them.
Just before the end of the sitting " Bert Everett "
came a second time and said quite a Ion~ prayer for us,
from the beauty of which his squeaky ' voice" in no
way detracted.
In closing the sitting, "Dr. Barnett " asked us if we
had any questions, and, in discussing the possibilities of
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 98
mediumship with Pat, showed kindly amusement at the
boy's enthusiasm for his personal development.
" Dr. Barnett " stated that both Mrs. Gavin and
myself possess considerable "power" and advised us to
sit for development.
I have omitted to mention that at the beginning of
the sitting " Pat O'Brien" came through and spoke
for a short time.
With a few most kindly words of encouragement and
with his blessing " Dr. Barnett " closed the sitting. On
our part we expressed as well as we were able our thank-
fulness to him for his great assistance, and our deep
gratitude to all those spirits who had worked so hard to
manifest themselves to us.
I did not notice the time at which the sitting
terminated, but my impression is that it lasted about one
and a half hours.
The power of the mediumship is tremendous, and the
strength of the " voices " is truly wonderful. I feel I
cannot adequately express my thankfulness to Almighty
God that I have been allowed such an amazing experi-
ence. My gratitude to those through whose kindness I
have been enabled to enjoy this marvellous demonstration
iR very real.
The behaviour of Pat Bradley during the 111ittin~
amazed me. The natural, matter-of-fact manner in which
he carried on his conversations with his spirit friends
was, for a boy of his age, to me quite wonderful.
A point which struck me as of importance, so far as
the " sceptic" is concerned, is the following: The
trumpets were within easv reach of me at the side of the
circle farthest from Mr. Valiantine, and quite out of his
reach. Several times during the sitting the spirits, when
replacing the trumpets, seemed to lose control, with the
result that the trumpets fell over, the upper movable
ends becoming detached. On each occasion I myself
replaced the trumpets in an upright position, adjusting
the upper ends as necessary.
(Signed) C. V. L. HooMAN.
. . . . . . . .
A day or so afterwards I received a letter from Mrs.
Barkell, as follows:·
11
I should like you to know that when my father-in..
94 ... AND AFTER
law came to me, he gave me a message for my husband,
saying: 'Tell Will I am helpin~ him and the contracts
will be all right.' I thought thu~ meant some work my
husband was already on. But since then two other
contracts have arrived, and which at the time seemed
most unlikely. Also, Mrs. Vlasto's daughter sent a
message to her mother, calling her by a name unknown
to me, all of which Mrs. Vlasto tells me is quite correct.
Mr. McKittrick was also very impressed by the message
sent from his brother."
vm
Sunday, February 13, 1927.
At this sitting there were present: George Valiantine,
Mrs. Bradley, Miss Winifred Graham (the novelist), Mrs.
Graham, her mother, and Miss Faith Bevan.
I did not attend the sitting but continued my work in
the drawing-room adjoining the study, during which
time I heard many of the "voices" conversing with
the sitters.
The sitting was an evidential and successful one.
:Miss Winifred Graham took notes of the various
"voices" which manifested. She told me that of the
Guides, Dr. Barnett, Kokum, Bert Everett and Bobbie
Worrall all spoke. The "voices " of Mrs. Graham's
husband, her mother and her brother talked to her.
Miss Bevan's mother and brother both manifested to
her, and discussed family matters with her.
My sister Annie and Warren Clarke spoke for some
time to Mrs. Brad1ey.
During the sitting Miss Graham recorded that a
Chinese spirit had sung two quaint Chinese songs; also
that the two " voices" were heard speaking in Italian
and Spanish.
IX
Monday, February 1... 1927.
This sitting was the last one I recorded during
Valiantine's short stay at Dorincourt in 1927. There
were present on this occasion: George Valiantine, Mrs.
Bradley and myself, Mr. Dennis Neilson-Terry, Miss
Marjorie Gordon, Mr. P. G. Wodehouse and Lord
Cha~les Hope. .
Four records were played on the gramophone before
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 95
any manifestation occurred. A very faint "voice" was
then heard speaking independently. This "voice" was
so faint that it was impossible to identify it. The
conditions did not appear to be good. " Bert Everett "
gave a short greeting. When asked what the conditions
were like he made no reply.
Of the other Guides, a few short sentences were spoken
by Dr. Barnett, Hawk Chief, Kokum, Black Foot, and
Cristo D'Angelo.
A somewhat faint " voice," with a peculiar intonation,
announced itself as " K'ung-fu-T'zu," and spoke a few
words in wliat might be presumed to be Chinese.
After this another and entirely different "voice,"
speaking in staccato pidgin-English, manifested.
A little later this same " voice " sang a peculiar little
Chinese song.
A " voice " then announced itself as " Pedro," and
spoke a word or two. He afterwards sang a song in
Portuguese.
Of the personal spirits manifesting, my father, Dan
Bradley, spoke to me, and also to my wife. His "voice"
was particularly distinct and characteristic.
A " voice " purporting to be his grandfather, spoke
to .Mr. Neilson-Terry. This "voice," however, was not
distinct and I do not think anything of any evidential
value was given.
To Miss Marjorie Gordon a "voice" announced itself
to be " Aunt Clara "-the name was volunteered. She
said that she had passed away fourteen years ago.
A " voice " attempted to converse with Mr. P. G.
Wodehouse, but was quite unintelligible.
Four separate '' voices '' addressed themselves to Lord
Charles Hope, one purporting to be his father, another
saying it was " Howard," a third announcin? itself as
"Fleet Foot "-a Guide--and the iourth as ' Naisha,"
another Guide, who had attached itself to Lord Charles
Hope's personal circle.
Another '' voice '' which manifested was Harry
Pelissier. This " voice " was quite distinct and
characteristic, and spoke with several of the sitters.
Whilst he was conversing he laughed considerably, and
just as he had done on previous occasions when he had
manifested, while the gramophone was playin~> it was
stopped suddenly-, little tricks being played w1th it. I
was personally 1n charge of the gramophone, and after
a record had been adjusted I closed the lid, and rested
96 .•. AND AFTER
my arm on top. Therefore I can vouch for the super-
normality of this particular incident.
The sitting, however, on the whole appeared to me to
be rather mixed, and very little personal evidence was
obtained.
1927.
During the time Valiantine was staying with Lord
Charles Hope I attended two or three sittings, but I
took no notes of the phenomena.
One particular incident, however, is worth recording.
Mrs. Bradley and myself were having tea one after-
noon with the Countess Ahlefeldt-Laurvig, at the Danish
Embassy. While we were there she showed us an ancient
Chinese shell--circular in shape and weighing not lesH
than three or four pounds. At the top of this shell
circular folds ended in a small hollow mouthpiece. The
Countess told us that it was used in China as a horn,
and was blown on occasions as a '' call.'' She asked me
to try and blow it, but I could produce no sound whatever
from it. Later two or three other guests made the
endeavour, but also failed. It appears that this horn can
be blown only by a Chinese after he has acquired the
art of blowing it.
The Countess suggested that as Chinese had been spoken
at the Valiantine sittings on certain occasions, this shell
might be placed in the centre of the circle at the next
sitting held.
On one afternoon at his flat there were present, in
addition to Lord Charles Hope and George Valiantine,
the Countess Ahlefeldt-Laurvig, Mrs. Bradley, myself
and one or two other guests.
Various " voices " manifested, and at one period
during the sitting, from high up in the room, this shell
horn was blown, and the peculiar notes were rendered in
the correct Chinese fashion.
I remember that when this horn was blown the sitters
were slightly nervous, as, in view of the weight of the
shell, in the event of its falling on anyone present
undoubtedly serious injury would have been caused.
When the sitting was over, we found that this shell
had been dropped O'Utside the circle, behind two of the
sitters.
While Valiantine wa~ stay~g with me, ~y frie~d,
THE VALIANTINE SITTINGS IN 1927 97
Lord Dewar, who had sat with him on two or three
occasions at Dorincourt, invited us to spend a day with
him at The Homestall, East Grinstead. The late Lord
Dewar was, of course, one of the most famous breeders
of live stock in England. His beautiful house is
unique. It is a twelfth century building, which has been
added to in parts, and it is believed that John o' Gaunt
lived there at some time. The walls are, naturally, the
immensely thick ones of the period.
During the afternoon we held a sitting in one of the
oldest rooms of The Homestall.
No gramophone or music of any kind was played.
Tli:ere were five sitters in all: Valiantine, Lord Dewar,
Mrs. Bradley, myself and my son Pat.
It was found that the light could not properly be
excluded on account of the curtains not quite meeting
across the deep silled windows. Small streaks of light
were therefore ~enetrating into the room. Despite this,
however, this s1tting was a .remarkably good one.
In all, eight "voices " manifested. Four of these
"voices " were personal friends and relatives of Lord
Dewar-three speaking in most distinct and resonant
Scotch accents.
Lord Dewa;r was always a fiuent and witty con-
versationalist, and two of the " voices " speaking to
him had long conversations lasting from ten to fifteen
minutes each, during which time Lord Dewar told me
that he had obtained many evidences oi the personalities
of those with whom he had spoken.
Lord Dewar was enormously impressed and pleased
with .the results, especially as the sitting was really a
prom1scuous one.
In my opinion the atmosphere of the house and the
room in which we sat were particularly good for .Psychic
experiments, and, of course, the circle was a particularly
strong combination. I have noticed repeatedly that
whenever my son Pat is sitting the phenomena are
exceptional.
. . .
Towards the end of Valiantine's stay, at the request
of Professor Emesto Bozzano, I invited the Marquis
Centurioni Scotto and Mr. and Mrs. P. E. Rossi to Dorin-
court. Three very remarkable sittings were held, at
which some exceptional communications were made in
Italian. I will refer to these in a later section of this
book when recounting the experiences in Italy in 1929.
D
CHAPTER II
GRAlriOPBONB RECORDS OF VOICES
A fir.t experiment-A gramophone record diapoNa of h11pnoti.m
theory-The amJngement.-Eight individual ooica ~No
control-Veductiona.
IN .the spring of 1927 Lord Charles Hope and I made
our first experiment to see if we could obtain gramophone
records of some of the spirit "voices." The suggestion,
as a matter of fact, was originally made to me by the
Countess Ahlefeldt-Laurvig. It was an experiment of
scientific value, because if we succeeded it would yrove
indisputably the actual physical reality of the "vo1ces ''
and dispose finally of the theory of hypnotism. You
cannot hypnotize a gramophone.
We made arrangements with the Columbia Gramo-
phone Company to do the recording. The exp~riment
was made in Lord Charles Ho~e's flat in St. James's.
A special telephone line was la1d on by the Post Office
from Lord Charles's flat to the Columbia Gramophone
Com:pany's recording house in Petty Frances Street.
Outs1de the seance room there were stationed two of the
Columbia Company's assistants, giving the signals for
the various times to .record. It will be realized that it
was a first experiment, carried through under considerable
difficulties.
In the seance room there were /resent Lord Charles
Hope, Mrs. Bradley, myself, an George Valiantine.
These records were taken through a megaphone, and then
through the telephone wires on to the recording machines.
None of us had the faintest idea what we should obtain,
which voices would speak, or indeed, if any would
succeed in speaking at all. Eight individual '' voices,''
however, did speak-three in English, one in what
sounded like an Indian dialect, one in Hindustani, one
in Italian and two in Chinese. These Columbia records
were made, and they remain in my possession.
The " voices," altho~gh quite loud, are not par-
98
RECORDS OF VOICES 99
ticularly distinct, but all the English can be understood,
and-a very important point-the other languages, parts
of which have been translated, were unknown to any of
the sitters present when they manifested. Now, if one
such experrment has achieved success, the significance
should be realized ; it has proved that each of the
hundreds of spirit " voices " which have hitherto spoken
can be permanently recorded.
It should be mentioned that this experiment was made
when Valiantine was not controlled in any way. Control
was not suggested either by Lord Charles Hope or myself.
Our :purpose was to attempt the somewhat ambitious
expenment of seeing if supernormal sound could be
registered by mechanical means. It was rather an
expensive experiment, because the cost of the special
wiring to the Telephone Company, and the recording by
the Columbia Company, amounted to a very considerable
sum, which Lord Charles and I shared.
As to the records, it must be clearly stated that we
have no evidence whatever of the personality of the
" voices " recorded. Six of these were Valiantine's
various " guides," which have attached themselves to hiR
seances. The attempt to record Hindustani-which was
incomprehensible-was made by a " guide " alleged to
have attached himself to Lord Charles Hope's private
sittings.
The Ancient Chinese " voice " was that of the alleged
"Confucius voice" which has conversed at length with
Dr. Neville Whymant at various sittings.
Lord Charles Hope quite rightly and logically considers
that this interesting experiment, except as a proof that
the "voices " were objective and not hallucinatory,
brought forward no proof of survival. This is quite
true. What it did prove, however, is this: The registra-
tion of the sound of the various Valiantine "guides' "
voices is either supernormal or all these "g-uide voices "
during the last eight years have been produced by him
fraudulently, and were, ipso facto, also produced
fraudulently by him on this occasion. For the sake of
argument, assuming fraud, how then was it possible for
him to produce the Confucius "voice," which was after-
wards recognized on the gramophone record by Dr.
Neville Whymant as the same in accent as that of the
"Confucius voice" which had previously spoken with
him and carried on illuminating and cultured conversa-
tions P I can personally attest to the Confucius voice,
100 ... AND AFTER
because I have heard it speak on several occasions before
these gramophone records were taken.
So far as the " guide voices " were concerned, they
were identical in tone and characteristics with the various
communications I have received from them during the
hundreds of seances recorded in my books.
CHAPTER III
THE VOICE QF CONFUCIUS
Vr. Nf!oille W hymant-A di•tingui•hed acholar--A Hance with
Valiantine-The Chine.e flrste-" The Plailo.opher-Ma.ter-K'ang ••
-Viction and intonation-A remarJcable teat-The doubtful
~XJUQge-The Confuciu• gramophone record.
I
SoKE of the most remarkable evidence in my experience
is that proviaed by Dr. Neville Whymant in the amazing
story of his conversations at direct voice seances with a
communicator purporting to be the great Chinese
philosopher, Confucius, who died in the year 479 B.c.
Dr. Whymant is one of the outstanding authorities on
Chinese history, philosophy and ancient literature. Not
only does he speak the language fluently, but he is also
a master of several other Oriental and European tongues.
He was for many years lecturer in Chinese at Oxford
University, and speaks thirty languages and a consider-
able number of dialects. While staying in New York,
where he was engaged in takin·g charge of the Oriental
Department of a new Encyclopmdia, he was invited by
Judge W. M. Cannon, a famous lawyer, to attend a
seance held at the latter?s residence, the medium being
Valiantine. Subsequently the doctor attended some half
a dozen seances, the details of which he recorded. In
my opinion these conversations, carried on in Archaic
Chinese, represent perhaps one of the most extraordinary
tests ever made in psychical research.
He was told by his hosts that voices had manifested
in English, including dialect English, as well as in
Italian, French, and other European tongues. He was
not invited with a view to passing judgment on the
evidence. They had received, at the sittings, testimony
which they regarded as conclusive: for example, a
Portuguese voice had spoken, giving certain information,
as well as a name and address; a letter was sent to the
address, and the reply which was received confirmed the
statement of the alleged spirit voice.
101
102 .•. AND AFTER
Subsequently, however, Oriental voices had come
through, which none of the sitters could interpret. They
had therefore invited Dr. Whymant to attend in his
capacity as Oriental linguist.
" I was slightly amused at the invitation," states Dr.
W.hyma~t, " because, though by 11:o means an enemy of
spu1tuahsm, I had never found bme to study it; so I
looked forward to an evening of enjoyable relaxation. I
anticipated that, after various voices had spoken in the
dark, somebody would disclose details of some highly .
skilful and elaborate hoax."
He duly attended the seance; several voices spoke in
English on very fersonal matters to members of the
assembly. Some o the communications were so intimate
that, said the lecturer, " I felt like an eavesdropper, but
luckily the darkness covered all blushes."
Next came the name " Christo di Angelo," pronounced
in the Italian manner "Chreesto di A.hnje1o "; then
followed a communication in perfect Italian. " I trans-
lated the message to one of the sitters; it was as follows:
' Tell the honoured lady she has broken her promise to
me-to learn sufficient Italian to speak to me 1n my own
tongue; she still speaks to me in Spanish, and it dis-
pleases me.' " The lady acknowledged the broken
promise, and later the voice dropped into an obscure
dialect which Dr. Whymant afterwards proved to have
been Sicilian.
Then came more and more English voices. Suddenly
out of the darkness was heard a "weird, crackling,
broken little sound, which at once carried my mind
straight back to China. It was the sound of a flute,
rather poorly played, such as can be heard in the streets
of the Celestial Land but nowhere else. Then followed
in a low, but very audible voice, the words ' K'ung-fu-
T'zu.' "
There were certain points about this utterance on which
Dr. Whymant dwells. " K'ung-fu-T'zu," the Eastern
form of Confucius, is a title .rather than a name; it means
" the Philosopher-Master-K'ung." The K'ung family
are still extant in China, and descendants of the great
philosopher have been drawing Government pensions for
over two thousand years. Now the mere fact, says Dr.
Whymant, of a communicator at a dark seance purporting
to be Confucius was not in itself remarkable, as it is, of
course, the most famous name in Chinese history, though
few persons except Chinese could pronounce the name
THE VOICE OF CONFUCIUS 108
correctly, as was done at the Valiantine seance. For
instance, the syllable " T'zu " or " T'ze " is extremely
difficult to utter. It is not pronounced " Tzoo " or
" Tzee " but " Ts' "-a sound quite impossible to
represent by English letters.
Dr. Whymant realized that whoever was speaking was
a Chinese scholar, not only the diction but also the
Chinese intonation being correctly re~roduced.
" I said, ' Who are you? ' Agam came the voice,
somewhat impatiently, ' K'ung-fu-T'zu.' The idea that
it might be Confucius himself never occurred to me.
I had imagined that it might be somebody desirous of
discussing the life and philosophy of the great Chinese
teacher." Determined to test the matter to the full,
Dr. Whymant said in Chinese, with the customary
ceremonial phrases, " What was your personal name P"
The reply came: "K'iu." The fact of Confucius having
the personal name of " K'iu " is fairly well known, at
least to scholars, so that this piece of evidence, though
interesting, was not by any means conclusive. He then
asked, "What was your popular name when fourteen
years of age? " Again came the correct reply, with the
correct intonation-a piece of information which is very
little known, and the voice then discussed a certain
difficult passage of the Chinese classics which had been
written, or at least edited, by Confucius.
A l"emarkable test was applied by Dr. Whymant, who
explained that among the most famous writings of the
illustrious philosopher was a certain passage which
appears to be incorrectly written, as its meaning is
obscure. He decided to seek information as to the correct
interpretation of this piece of writing, believing that
it did not represent the true words of Confucius, but that
in the course of editing by subsequent writers its mean-
ing had become distorted. Dr. Whymant therefore
asked Confucius the following leading question: "'There
is among your writings a passage wrongly written;
should it not read thus P ' At this point I began to quote
as far as I knew, that is to say, to about the end of the
first line. At once the words were taken out of my
mouth, and the whole passage was recited in Chinese,
exactly as it is recorded in the standard words of
reference. After a pause of about fifteen seconds, the
passage was again ·repeated, this time with certain
alterations which gave it a new meaning. 'Thus read,'
said the voice, ' does not its meaning become plain?' "
104 ... AND AFTER
Towards the end of this sentence, the voice became
rapid and finally faded away.
At subsequent sittings Dr. Whymant carried on further
conversations with the voice. On one occasion the com-
municator referred to certain work "which thou hast
done for the Mongolians."
This appeared to relate to a small Mongolian Grammar
which Dr. Whymant had put out, but which, however,
had remained in obscurity. He states, "I was not known
as the author of that particular work." On another
occasion, after being absent through illness from one
of the seances, it was reported that K'ung-fu-T'zu had
manifested, and had attempted to speak in English; it
was a halting, pedantic and stilted English, but it
conveyed the idea that the communicator was annoyed at
Dr. Whymant's absence. At the next seance at which
Dr. Whymant was present, K'ung-fu-T'zu appeared
again, and, omitting all ceremonious expressions, referred
to his· previous absence, saying, "the weed of sickness
was growing beside thy door." The point about this
phrase was that, although it occurs in ancient literature,
the meta:{lhor is no longer current in the Chinese speech.
The voice purporting to be Confucius spoke in a dialect
no longer used in the Chinese Empire. Dr. Whymant
states that he cannot say definitely that this was actually
the language as spoken by Confucius two thousand four
hundred years ago. There is no man living who knows
precisely how Chinese was spoken in those far-oft days.
It is known how three thousand words were spoken
a thousand years after Confucius. That is to say,
we know their phonetic value. So far, however, after
twenty-five years of research, there are only about
twelve Chinese sounds of which it can be said we know
definitely how the Chinese of the era of Confucius would
have pronounced them. The voice heard by Dr. Why-
mant used these archaic sounds.
With regard to the test passage, the amended render-
ing of which was given by the voice, Dr. Whymant states
there are very few Oriental scholars who had appreciated
that a possible error had crept in, and there was only
one who had made an attempt at the probable meaning.
This particular scholar had put out a su~ested correction
in the form of a pamphlet, which was distributed to some
half-dozen authorities. It was j1ut conceivable that this
rare and curious piece of knowledge might have reached
New York, but if we assume fraud and postulate the
THE VOICE OF CONFUCIUS 105
concealed presence of some Chinese scholar, pass~ him-
self off to the sitters as Confucius, it muLSt have been
somebody almost superhumanly expert. Th.ere were only
six Chinese scholars whose knowledge and command of
the language would have been sufficient to impress him
with any idea of genuineness; none of these six, however,
was in America at the time. It was overwhelmingly
difficult to support the theory of fraud, although he (llr.
Whymant) was not prepared to regard th.e evidence of
the actual presence of Confucius as beinf~ established.
His mind was open on the subject of spirit 1return; never..
theless, he felt it his duty to bring the~ facts before
those who might have a far greater knowledge of psychic
matters than himself.
n
As I have related, in conjunction with Lord Charles
Hope, I conducted a series of experiments with a view
to obtaining gramophone records of dire<~t voices, and
amongst those records is one of the Confudus " voice."
This particular record is an extraordinary one. The
voice has curious flute-like tones, which risE~ and fall, and
sometimes break into a peculiar sing-sonlg tone. It is
unlike any voice I have ever heard, and I have played
these records on innumerable occasions.
Dr. Whymant could only interpret a JEew sentences,
because, u.J1.fortunately, the somewhat faint voice has
become blurred in the recording. Dr. Whymant states,
however, that he does recognize a number of the peculiar
intonations, and explains that in the Chinese language
the tonal values are of great importance. He states that
if one could not hear what a Chmaman wa1
s actually say-
ing, one could make a very good guess at tl~e meaning by
the rise and the fall of the voice. For instance, three
peculiar notes rising up the scale mean only one thing in
Chinese, namely " Come in." He states, ·with regard to
the gramophone record, that he can gather the meaning
of the recorded speech by the tonal valu~es, but in the
absence of perfectly recorded diction, he considers it
would be better not to attempt to interprE!t it by means
of the intonation, as passages not definitely translatable
would then come within the region of gues1~-work.
Except for the few sentences he could not translate of
the "K'ung-fu-T'zu " voice, he states that were he to
n•
106 ... AND AFTER
interpret the messa~e as he believed it to be by the tonal
values, the result might be astonishing.
It is unquestionable that from the records meticulously
kept by Dr. Whymant of the series of sittings he held
under the mediumshi:p of George Valiantine, that the
" K'ung-fu-T'zu " voice spoke with him, and that all
the communications made by this voice were those of a
great poet and scholar, and were delivered in Archaic
Chinese. That this voice was not fraudulently produced
is, to my mind, certain. I have known Valiantine
intimately for eight years; he has lived in my house ior
months at a time. He is not an educated man. In
point of fact he is semi-illiterate, and possesses no
academic knowledge or culture. If Valiantine is so
clever that for all these years he has posed as an illiterate
man, while all the time he is really one of the most
cultured scholars in the world, speaking German,
French, Russian, Italian, Spanish, Japanese, idiomatic
Welsh, Arabic and Archaic Chinese, then he is one of
the most baffling psychological enigmas ever presented
to students of psychical research.
I have heard the "K'ung-fu-T'zu " voice speaking
on two or three occasions in Archaic Chinese. I have also
heard the same " voice," with its peculiar intonation,
speaking to me personally in Enghsh. The "voice "
has spoken slowly, but with quite beautiful cadences.
It possessed an extraordinary dignity. The few con-
versations I had with the " K'ung-fu-T'zu " voice in
English were upon philosophy. The " voice " was
impressive in its beauty of accent.... Valiantine could
never have spoken in such tones. Nor could he have
discussed such subjects.
The registration of this voice on a gramo~hone record,
whether translatable or not, is, in my opinion, evidence
of the 8upernormal. It is evidential because the com-
munications were made in the same " voice " and tones
as those recorded at length by Dr. Whymant, who after-
wards recognized these tones as the same.
It must be remembered that Dr. Whymant was not
present at the experimental seances at which this
" voice " was recorded. It is evidential because I
have heard the " voice" speak on several occasions, and
have also recognized the tones. Therefore, I regard the
gramophone records obtained at the one experiment
which was made as of interesting scientific value.
BOOK III
GERMANY AND ITALY, 1929
CHAPTER I
IN BERLIN
An lnoitation to Berlin-The que.tion of remuneration-Frau von
Virlr,Nn-ArriiXJl in 8erlin-Negatif)e aitting.-Jnter/erence b11
aitter...-1 leaf)e Berlin-Four weelt• later--Accu.afioru of fraud-
Corrupondence--No proof-Dr. Kroner appear.-A rambling
letter-Fal•e .tatement.-.suppo•ition oerm• proof-Dr. Kroner'•
report-A tiaue of a..umption.--contradictioru and untruth.-
Frau Kroner'• report-She i• frightened and •hrieJt, out-The
t>alue of eQidence-A naly•i..-Frau Qon DirJc•en·• report-A llega-
tion• without corroboration-The que.tion o/ " real •• proof-Frau
von Dirlteen·•letter of thanlt.-Fal•e •latement.-Telegram• opened
-A worthle.. report-Another wa•te o/ time and •pace-Pro/e•aor
Han• DrieKh--Dr. Schwab-Dr. Quade-A /air critici~-Baron
von L.-Dr. Kroner air• hi• opinion.-..Mi..tatement• and /alee
impre..ion.-Valianfine return• the money-Frau Qon Dir'lt•en in
tear.-Dr. Kroner'• mentality-The ao-called .. direct proof• ··-
1'he diKOf)erJI of nothing.
ON August 28, 1928, Mr. Florizel von Reuter, the well-
known violinist, wrote to me saying that Dr. F . Quade, the
President of the Berlin Society for Scientific Occultism,
had asked him to apP.roach me to find out whether there
would be any possib1lity of inducing Valiantine to visit
Berlin. He said that the Society would like to know under
what conditions his visit might be arranged, that all
expenses would be paid, and that it was merely a question
of deciding upon the fees. Mr. von Reuter stated that
Valiantine would find harmonious conditions to work
under, as the Berlin Society was well advanced in
psychic matters.
So far as I was concerned personally, my only reason
for considering the proposal to hold a series of sittings
in Germany was that so far in the history of Psychical
107
108 ... AND AFTER
Research Germany possesses no records whatever of the
phenomena of the " direct voice," and the researchers
there have had no experience of this form of phenomena.
I replied to Mr. von Reuter, in a letter dated
September 3, 1928, saying that it might be possible to
induce Valiantine to come to Europe some time during
the spring of the following year.
Quoting verbatim, I wrote, " With regard to the
question of fees, it is, of course, a very expensive matter
for Valiantine to come from America to Europe, and I
do not think he would care to agree to go to Berlin
unless I accompanied him. His first-class return fare
from London to Berlin and hotel expenses would have to
be paid, but I, of course, would pay my own expenses.
I think Valiantine should be paid a fee of £100, which
would go towards his general expenses in travelling from
America to Europe. Perhaps you would write to Dr.
Quade to this effect.''
It is necessary to mention these preliminary com-
munications because of what subsequently transpired.
A little later on I received a letter from Dr. F. Quade,
in which he said: "A patroness, in the person of Frau
von Dirksen, of Margarettenstrasse II, Berlin, would
bear all the costs for Valiantine, and accommodate him
in her own home, in which the sittings could be held.
Frau von Dirksen also begs that you and your wife will
be her guests during Mr. Valiantine's visit."
Mr. von Reuter called upon me in London and told me
that it was quite possible the Germans might suggest
that Valiantine should be controlled in some manner.
I told him that although Valiantine had, on many
occasions, sat under conditions of complete control, I
personally disagreed with control, as I did not base my
research work upon any physical phenomena which might
take place, but only upon the mental evidences of
survival which had been acquired. I also stated that if
Valiantine went to Berlin he must sit there under the
same conditions as he had sat with me for the past six
years.
It was not until the end of April that Valiantine was
free to make the journey to Europe, and he wrote to me
saying that he would only be desirous of doing so if he
were accompanied by his wife.
I wrote to Frau von Dirksen, whom I had not
previously met, saying that it would be preferable for
us to star at an hotel, and only hold the sittings at her
IN BERLIN 109
house. Frau von Dirksen, however, insisted that we
should stay with her in Berlin.
In reply to a letter irom Dr. Quade, inquiring how
many sittmgs could be held, and the number of sitters
to be invited, I wrote on March 28, 1929, as follows:
" Among members o£ your Society who mar be
invited, I would like to point out that it is not adv1sable
to ask two or three sceptics together, as this would
create poor conditions. Of course you understand that
actual antagonists do affect the vibrations, but open
scepticism, while it does not assist the harmony, does
not, as a rule, inhibit phenomena. Further, I must
make it quite clear that it is impossible to say that any
phenomena at all will take place. It is utterly impossible
to guarantee to turn on the psychic tap. At the same
time, the records of Valiantine do show that with him
phenomena are frequent."
I also informed him, and wrote to Frau von Dirksen
to the same effect, that as a new play of mine was being
produced at the Arts Theatre in London it would not be
possible for me to stay for more than one week in Berlin,
but that my wife and Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine would
remain on for the period which had been arranged-a
fortnight.
Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine arrived in England from
America on Friday, April 26. On their arrival they
spent one day with me at Dorincourt, and then travelled
straight to Berlin with me and my wife, arriving there
on April 29. We were received by Frau von Dirksen
with the utmost hospitality, and every courtesy was
shown to us during the whole time of our stay there.
While I appreciate the warmth of the hospitality, it
was, perhaps, a trifle too generous for serious psychical
research work. The sittin~s were held as usual in the
evening, and on each occas10n there was a large dinner-
party, at which wines and liqueurs were served to a
company of between sixteen a.nd twenty guests. Only
a very small minority of the guests-and none of Frau
von Dirksen's family-had any knowledge whatever of
ps-ychicS', and the atmosphere generally was that of a
series of social functions. There was no semblance of
the quiet passivity so essential in holding seances to
o~tain the " direct voice," which is the most sensitive
of all forms of phenomena.
110 ... AND AFTER
The first sitting was held after dinner, on the night
of our arrival, at about 9.15 p.m., Valiantine and I
sitting with six Germans. Various of Valiantine's
Guides-Dr. Barnett, Bert Everett, and others-epoke
independently, and also a spirit voice, somewhat in-
distinct, speaking with difficulty, addressed Frau von
Dirksen on two or three occasions in German. What
the " voice " said, or was endeavouring to say, neither
Valiantine nor I knew, since neither of us can speak
German. During the sitting Frau von Dirksen, who
was somewhat emotional and excited, repeatedly
said to me, with the utmost sincerity: "I can never
thank you enough, Mr. Bradley, for bringing Mr.
Valiantine to Germany! " Despite Frau von Dirksen's
thanks, however, I regarded this sitting as an extremely
poor one. The " voices'' were weak, and it was ayparent
to me that the power could only be sustained w1th con-
siderable difficulty. I told the sitters afterwards that,
viewed in comparison with the sustained fluency which
is usual at the Valiantine sittings, under good conditions,
I regarded this sitting as comparatively negative. Frau
von Dirksen, however, appeared to be enthusiastic about
the results.
I was somewhat amused when Frau von Dirksen
nai:vely told me that before I came to Berlin she made
inquiries about me through the German diplomatic
ci!cles, and that she was informed by the British Embassy
that I was regarded as a man of supreme honesty.
At the second sitting, the phenomena which took place
were or a similar nature.1
After the second sitting, Dr. Kroner made the sugges-
tion to Valiantine that he should submit to control
during a sitting. Valiantine replied that he would
agree, but must stipulate that in this case everyone
present should also be controlled, as a justifiable pre-
caution against any unfair tricks whtch might be
attempted by sceptics. Valiantine's suggestion, strangely
enough, was vetoed by several or those present, who
apparently considered the su~gestion insulhn~. Valian-
tine was therefore entirely JUstified in refusmg such a
one-sided control.
On the first occasion on which Dr. Quade sat, just
prior to the sitting, he produced a tin of luminous paint
1
Later in my report I wUI give my verbatim description of th~
conditions and aitten.
IN BERLIN Ill
and a brush. Valiantine's trumpet had already been
painted with luminous paint towards the bottom and
wider part. Dr. Quade suggested to Valiantine that he
should be allowed to paint the narrow end. Valiantine
raised no objection to this, and it was done. The
procedure, however, of altering conditions at the last
moment certainly irritated me, the more especially as
Dr. Quade had been very distinctly informed that the
seances should take place in the same manner as they
had hitherto been held, and that I did not base my
research work on anythin~ but the possible value of any
communication' which mtght be obtained.
The third sitting was held on Thursday. On this
occasion I did not sit, but Mrs. Bradley sat with
Valiantine in my place. It was some time before any
phenomena took place, and the entire results were even
poorer than on the two previous evenings.
After this third comparatively negative sitting I
became convinced that there was something wrong with
the general conditions, and I determined to find out the
cause.
My wife's sister is married to a German, Mr. Hans
Gunther, and they live in Saxony. On the Friday-
May 3--they were travelling through Berlin and spend-
ing the night there at the Excelsior Hotel. Frau von
Dirksen, on being told of this, very kindly invited them
to her house to dinner. I was obliged to refuse this
invitation on their behalf, as they had previously invited
my wife, Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine, and myself to dine
with them. I refused Frau von Dirksen's invitation
very deliberately because of the purpose I had in view,
and I informed her very explicitly of this purpose
afterwards.
After dinner, in the rooms of Mr. and Mrs. Gunther
at the Excelsior Hotel, the six of us sat : Mr. and Mrs.
Valiantine, Mr. and Mrs. Gunther, my wife and myself.
We had no music, no gramophone, nor trumpet. Within
less than one minute spirit voices came throu~h and
continued conversing with us, practically without a
pause, for one hour and twenty-five minutes. It was
one of the most brilliantlv fluent " voice " seances I
have ever experienced. All the voices spoke clearly and
distinctl:v-both in German and Eng-lish. In addition
to the Guides, my father, my sister Annie, Warren
Clarke, Mr. Austin Harrison (the famous writer and
founder of The Englilh Review), and other personal
112 ... AND AFTER
spirits spoke with us at length. My wife's father and
relatives spoke with her ana also with her sister, Mrs.
Gunther. Mr. Gunther's father spoke with him in
German, and several other personal spirits spoke with
us during the evening. I had a long conversation with
Dr. Barnett and asked him the reason that we were
getting such negative results at Frau von Dirksen's.
He told me that there was such a lack of harmony in
the conditions there that it was only with the utmost
difficulty that any manifestations could be given. He
told me that not only was there an impenetrable barrier
of suspicion and doubt shown by the various sitters, but
that during the seances they were disobeying the instruc-
tions given, and that some of them were groping about
for the trumpet when it was lifted in the air, and that
they waved their arms in trying to feel behind it. This
destroyed the ectoplasmic forces, and made it practically
impossible for the spirits to materialize their voices. Dr.
Barnett added that unless this attitude was chan~ed, and
the proper conditions were rigidly maintained, It would
be useless to continue holding sittings there.
Realizing the futility of continuing a series of seances
under such deplorable conditions, on the following
morning, Saturday, May 4, I wrote Frau von Dirksen
a very firm and explicit letter. I told her what had
taken place at the sitting at the Hotel Excelsior, and in
my letter I said that even though she had expressed her
satis.faction at the sittings held at her house I considered
them three of the worst, in poverty of phenomena, that
I had ever experienced under Valiantine's mediumship,
and that the cause was the entire lack of discipline on
the part of the sitters.
I reminded Frau von Dirksen of the brilliant records
and irrefutable evidence which had been obtained under
Valiantine's mediumship, not only in America, but in
England and many other countries-attested to and
recorded by some hundreds of witnesses. I informed her
t1iat I considered it waste of time to continue, and that
we should prefer the sittings to end at once, and that
we should leave Berlin on the following day. I stated
that the sitting she had arranged for the Saturday
evening, to which certain members of her family had
been invited, could take place as a final one, providing
the sitters observed the necessary conditions.
It should be clearly understood that neither Frau von
Dirksen nor any of the sitters had expressed dissatisfao-
IN BERLIN 118
tion with, or adverse' criticism of the previous sittings.
Since none of them had ever before experienced " direct
voice" phenomena, they were, of course, incapable of
judging relatively. It must be emphasized that it was
1 and Mr11. Bradley who stated that, in accordance with
our lengthy experience and wide knowledge, these sittings
were comparatively negative and poverty-stricken in
phenomena.
On Friday, the day prior to my addressing this letter
to Frau von Dirksen, she had approached me in regard
to the financial arrangements with Valiantine. I to]d
her that the arrangement made by Dr. Quade was that
Valiantine's return fare (from London to Berlin), which
amounted to .£20, should be paid, and a sum of .£100
contributed towards the expenses of his travelling from
New York. Frau von Dirksen then saw Valiantine and
handed him three thousand marks (nearly £150)'. I
consider it imperative to mention these figures because
the implication has since been made that the money side
has always represented a chief motive. It was certainly
not so in this case. Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine's return
fares from Williamsport (Pennsylvania) to London
amount to £250, and, with the ensuing expenses of their
stay in Europe, would bring the minimum cost
(without recompense for Valiantine's time) to at least
£450. It will, therefore, at once be seen that the con-
tribution made by Frau von Dirksen was only equitable.
In addition to this, I should like to say that I personally
defrayed all the costs for the special trip to Berlin. The
return fares for four people, and the travelling expenses,
amount to £90, and the additional expenditure during
our stav there amounted to about £80.
On Saturday, Mav 4, Valiantine returned Frau von
Dirksen her contribution, and I will refer to this
particular point when dealing with Dr. Kroner's report.
A sitting- was held after dinner on that night, and the
sitters on this occasion were chiefly members of the von
Dirksen family. It was perhaps a trifle better than the
previous sittingos-there was slightlv less chatter amongost
tlie sitters and less movement, but it could not be
described as anything but comparativelv poor.1
On the Monday mornin~ I left Berlin for London,
leaving Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine with Mrs. Bradley.
1 On the day following-Sunday, May S-a aittinll wu held to
which I refer later in tbia. report.
11-i ... AND AFTER
Frau von Dirksen, it is only fair to say, had been quite
charming to me during my entire stay. She accompanied
me to the station to see me off on the train, saying how
much she was looking forward to a visit to England and
to seeing me again.
In all, after I had left Berlin, four more sittings were
held: on the Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday-
May 7, 9, 11 and 12. According to Mrs. Bradley's notes,
they were all comparatively negative, and the fourth one
was a complete blank.
My wife and Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine left Berlin on
the early morning of May 13, and my wife informs me
that Frau von Dirksen was most charming and affection-
ate in her manner towards them when they were makin&-
their departure, and Frau von Dirksen, her family and
her friends were certainly extremely courteous to me
during the whole of the time I was staying with
them.
Throughout the whole of the time I must emphasize
that, with the exception of Frau von Dirksen's remark
to me on Sunday, May 5, when she asked me whether I
was sure it was not Valiantine who touched the sitters,
not one word was said either to me, to my wife, or to
Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine, conveying any suggestion
whatever that Valiantine was not genuine, and not one
word of implication was made that any action whatever
on his part could be interpreted as being fraudulent.
Had such a suggestion been made it would have been
handled immediately, and the proofs would have been
demanded.
I have said that this series of sittings was compara-
tively negative in evidential results. Imagine my
amazement, however, when I received a letter, written
by Dr. Gerde Walther, of Munich (who was private
secretary to the late Baron Schrenck-Notzing)-eleven
days after Mrs. Bradley and Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine
had left Berlin, saying that Frau von Dirksen had
written her. I quote from Dr. Walther's letter verbatim:
u She suddenly .wrote to me a strange letter in what
seemed to be a rather agitated manner. Valiantine had
been exposed in Berlin, and therefore, nobody would care
to read about a fraudulent medium."
Dr. Walther was apparently not inclined to accept
Frau vpp. Dirks~:!n's statement, and, wrote to her to fhat
IN BERLIN 115
effect. Dr. Walther, in her letter to me, added that she
had asked Dr. Su.nner (editor of the Zeitlchrijt fur
Parap11Jchologie) for particulars of the exposure, but
that he replied, saying he "did not think it was an
exposure at all, at least not an. exposure in flagrante,
which was the only one that really counted in his
opinion." He added that it was Dr. Kroner and his
wife who thO'Ught it was fraud.
Dr. Walther added in her letter to me, " I am sorry
I was not present, perhaps I could have said something
against the ' exposure ' then . . . I know how people
' expose ' mediums; I am quite sick of all the rubbish
they say against Rudi Schneider.''
I replied to Dr. Walther as follows :
''DEAR Da. WALTHER,
" If Excellenz von Dirksen wrote to you and said :
' Valiantine has been exposed in Berlin,' she has
written an absolute falsehood. Durin~ the whole
of the time that Valiantine was .in Berhn, and until
after he had left, there was no allegation of fraud made
against him. Mr. Valiantine, his wife and Mrs. Bradley
left Berlin on May 13. The first intimation of any
allegations against Valiantine was when I .
received your
letter of May 24. My opinion is that Frau von Dirksen
is an emotional woman. I am informed that the
daughters and all the family are very much against
psychical research, and, unquestionably, there has been
very considerable animosity brought to bear in this
matter.
" I should be indebted if you would let me have Dr.
Kroner's address, as I shall write to him immediately."
It was not until June 9, four weeks after leaving
Berlin, that any direct statement came from Frau von
Dirksen to us. It came in the form of a letter, as
follows:
" DEAR MRs. BRADLEY,
"BERLIN,
MARGARETTENSTR. II.
June 9, 1929.
"I am so sorry that I must tell you that we are all
here in Berlin convinced that Mr. Valiantine was not
quite open in his sittinfs. I should not have mentioned
it, if the gentlemen o the Okkult Society would have
116 ... AND AFTER
been contented with my silence. Dr. Kroner will write
to your husband and so I am obliged to tell you, that
there is no possibility of my believing in Mr. Valiantine's
honesty. The rrivate sitting he gave me was so
absolutely unrea. I saw all his actions and his move-
ments, h1s sound instrument, and only in the belief that
1omething really would happen, I kept quiet. In this
private sitting Valiantine made his false actions so clearly
that he must have believed me to be very dense. I am
awfully sorry not to be able to say different, but of the
article from Dr. Kroner you will see what has happened.
"Yours sincerely,
" (Signed) VIcTORIA v. Dmxso."
Mrs. Bradley then replied to her as follows :
'I DEAR FRAU VON DIRKSEN,
" June 12, 1929.
"The statements contained in your letter of June 9
are not only untrue, they are in contradiction to the
statements which you made to me when I was your guest
in Berlin. Your letter is vague and inexplicit. I
entirely fail to understand exactly what you mean when
you say : ' Mr. Valiantine was not quite open in his sit-
tings.' This term is quite meaningless. The fact that you
may have failed to receive evidential communications is
no reflection upon the genuineness of Mr. Valiantine's
mediumship. If you possessed any experience whatever
of psychic phenomena you would understand that it is
impossible for any medium to guarantee satisfactory
results.
"You will remember that after the first three sittings,
my husband, when he was in Berlin, wrote to you and
told you that he considered the conditions so unsatis-
factory and the behaviour of the sitters so disturbing,
that it was a waste of time to continue the series. You
will remember also that Mr. Valiantine returned the
sum which you contributed towards his very expensive
passage from America. It was only because you pleaded
so hard with him that he permitted them to continue....
" In regard to the private sitting Mr. Valiantine gave
you, of course you could see all his actions and his move-
ments1-that is the object of such a sitting, but to suggest
that he would be so stupid as to behave fraudulently
1 Mrs. Bradley was here refening to the •• daylight " sittinp
which Valiantine had given Frau von Dirkten.
IN BERLIN 117
in your full sight is not only absurd, but utterly
illogical.
"There is one question which you and any others
who may have sat with Mr. Valiantine in your houses
in Berlin must answer : Wliy did you not accuse
Valiantine of fraud at the time?
" That is the first and immediate principle of all
psychic researchers. To make an accusation some weeks
afterwards entirely disqualifies your allegations.
" My husband desires me to inform you that he will
bejlad to receive Dr. Kroner's letter as soon as possible,
an also any communications which may be directed to
him from any other members of the Okkult Society. He
will then deal with the whole matter.
"You must remember that six years of intensive
psycllic research work can in no way be affected by these
few negative sittings, under deplorable conditions. A
vast accumulation of irrefutable evidence has been
collected not only in England, but in America, Italy,
Brazil, and many other countries, under Mr. Valiantine's
mediumehip.
"The sittings held at 1.our house in Berlin were
negative. You and your ettters are at liberty to form
any individual opinion you may wish, but under no
circumstances must you make any accusation of fraud
against Mr. Valiantine unless you are prepared to
prove, with witnesses, that he was deliberately caught
in the act of cheating. This you cannot now do, since
you omitted to make such an accusation at the time,
either to me or to my husband, and any allegations that
you may subsequently make will be very adequately dealt
with.
" Yours sincerely,
" (Signed) MABEL E. BRADLEY."
Frau von Dirksen evidently found the logic of this
letter beyond her capacity for reply. So, apparently,
she sought the assistance of Dr. Kroner.
Mr. Florizel von Reuter, who originally approached
me on behalf of the Berlin Okkult Society to arrange
lor Valiantine's visit to Berlin, happened to be in London
during the early part of June, when he was giving
recitals there. During his short stay, Mr. von Reuter
and his mother dined with me at Dorincourt, and I told
him everything that had take~ place in Berlin. Mr. von
Reuter and hie mother both possess a knowledge of
118 ... AND AFTER
psychical research. I asked him if it would be possible
for him to see Dr. Quade and Dr. Kroner, and ascertain
any particulars he could of the basis upon which the
allegations against Valiantine were founded. Mr. von
Reuter got into touch with Dr. Quade in Berlin ancl
received the following letter from him:
Tramlation of a letter of Dr. F. Quade received by
Florizel von Reuter
DEAR MR. VON REUTER,
Touching the Bradley-Valiantine affair you have only
heard one side, and are consequently a little too harsh in
your judgment of us. Mr. and Mrs. Bradley and the
Valiantines were treated most hospitably and amiably.
At the first sitting only the nearest relatives of Frau v.
Dirk~en were present, she having a right to stipulate this,
a" !he wa! giving th.e 3,000 marks. I had only slight
influence upon the sittings, as I could only choose three
sitters. At the second sitting Dr. and Mrs. Kroner, as
well as Dr. and Mrs. Schwab, were present, all decidedly
pro; the third sitting my wife and I, the clairvoyante
Countess Beck; another time Dr. Siinner; at one of the
last ones, Colonel Schuppe and wife and myself. None
of these people were sceptics or novices, so they could not
have had a bad effect. The fact that none of these got
anything convincing cannot be attributed to their
personal attitude. Frau von Dirksen, in spite of her
growing suspicions, preserved her amiable attitude and
prevented any lack of discipline on the part of the
sitters.
Mr. Bradley himself admits that the first three sittings
were the worst he ever experienced with Valiantine, but
it is not right to hold Frau v. D., or those persons invited
by me, responsible. When one considers that there was
never a single movement of the trumpet which Valiantine
could not have made himself in the complete darkness,
that we never heard him speaking simultaneously with
another voice, that nothing was said that Valiantine
could not just as well have said himself, that the German
spoken sounded exactly like the stammering, halting
speech of a forei~ner, and that the voices themselves
seemed disguised, Mr. Bradley must admit that he him-
self would never have been convinced by such "pheno-
mena," nor can he expect Frau v. Dirksen to be
impressed. We, who are experts in psychic phenomena
and have gained conviction elsewhere, have l>een forced
IN BERLIN 119
to the conclusion that everything which took place could
easily have been produced fraudulently.
Certain observations of Frau v. Dirksen, her daughter
and the Kroners would seem to indicate that there was,
indeed, occasional trickery, and Dr. Kroner's account of
the sittings will deal with these, although I have used
my influence to induce Dr. Kroner not to draw the
co-ncltuion that, because the Berlin result was unfavour-
able, Valiantine is not a genuine medium or that Mr.
Bradley's impressions, as told in his books, were the
result of insufficient attention and care.
I hope you will do your best to persuade Mr. Bradley
that there is no ill-feeling or deliberate intention to be
unjust in our conclusions.
I feel sure that if you had been present you would
have been of the same oyinion.
I hope you will do a 1 in your power to decrease the
tension and avoid anything in the way of a scandal,
etc., etc.
(Signed) DR. F. QuADE.
Mr. von Reuter added in a postscript:
" I see that I omitted to translate a paragraph where
Dr. Quade regrets that scientific control conditions, such
as those in Genoa, were not permitted in Berlin. He
also says: ' I think that those spirits who, several years
ago, prophesied a revenge-war-on the part of Germany
-did not feel at home in this atmosphere and that they
consequently left Valiantine in the lurch.' "
Translation of F. v. Reuter'1 reply to Dr. F. Quade
DEAR DR. QuADE,
Thank you for your detailed letter. Of course, I
never thought that those sitters introduced into the
circle by you would have a bad effect. You yourself
admit, however, through your remarks, that the pro1
were greatly in the minority, being confined to four,
whereas in our original discussions it was emphasized
that, owinB" to the extreme sensitiveness of the Valiantine
mediumshtp, the pro• should be in the majority and
novices limited to a couple. I consider the chances were
consequently very poor from the beginning. As regards
the control, I also made it q_uite clear that one must take
things as one found them 1n order to prevent any dis-
harmony in the circle at fir&t.
120 ... AND AFTER
You mention the Genoa control. Of course, that was
very fine, but the condition there was that every sitter
should be controlled. Valiantine told me, personally,
that he was ready to be controlled, only stipulating that
eve11one present should control each other, a very
justifiable precaution against unfair tricks of sceptics.
This suggestion was, I am told, vetoed by several who
considered it insulting, so there was no question of
scientific control-conditions and Valiantine was quite
justified in refusing such a one-sided control. Dr.
Barnett is said to have complained bitterly at a private
sitting with Bradley in a Berlin hotel about the lack
of discipline. Mr. Bradley himself corroborates this
complaint through his statement that upon one occasion
a sitter who was getting tired simply got up and walked
out of the room, thereby paralysing the phenomena.
I do not attach much importance to the statements of
Frau v. Dirksen. Mr. Bradley told me that she was
even delighted with the very poor result of the first
sitting, but she has allowed her opposing relatives to
persuade her, and once you are suspicious every move-
ment may be misconstrued. More grave are the observa-
tions of Dr. Kroner, as well as the broken German, which
must have produced a bad impression, although one
should take into consideration that the voice production
is so intimately related to the or~anization of the medium
that unfavourable conditions mtght affect the character
of the speech. It is to be hoped that Dr. Kroner will
consider all these .Points in his record. I also am of the
opinion that occasional faking on the part of the medium
cannot influence the question of the genuineness of the
medium, certainly not in the case of Valiantine, whose
remarkable achievements are too well known. I will tell
you personally something about the wonderful results in
Venice when I see you. You want me to use my
influence with Mr. Bradley to prevent an open scandal,
but you can hardly expect Bradley to keep silence if
Kroner is going to make a public statement. Please tell
Kroner to be sure and acquaint Bradley with the contents
of his report and to let him know when and where it is
to appear, as none can deny Bradley the right of reply.
He intends to publish his version in England, wh1ch,
while it may increase the tension, is certainly justified.
Naturally, I cannot judge the case and am quite
impartial in my attitude, though I will not disguise Diy
opinion that conditions at the v. Dirksens' were anything
IN BERLIN 121
else but ideal and that they were principally to blame for
the miserable results, etc., etc.
(Signed) FLORIZEL VON REUTER.
Mr. von Reuter's reply is a very lucid and able one,
but it should also be noted that Dr. Quade has no
justification for any accusation against Valiantine. He
says: "There was never a single movement of the trumpet
which Valiantine could not have made himself," and also
that " nothing was said that Valiantine could not just
as well have said himself." And also asserts: "Every-
thing that took place could have been produced
fraudulently."
This, of course, is a positively ridiculous basis for
an allegation-all it amounts to is mere assumption. I
am also amused by Dr. Quade's naive reference to the
sitters as "we who are ezpert& in p1ychic phenomena."
This, of course, is absurd, since not one of the sitters had
ever belore sat at a " direct voice " seance.
An assertion of what "could have been" can never
be accepted as evidence in proof of fraud.
It was not until June 19-five weeks after leaving
Berlin-that the following letter, which I publish
verbatim, was received:
Tran1lation oj lette-r from Dr. W. Krliner to
H. Denni1 Bradley
CHARLOTTENBURG,
June 19, 1929.
DEAR MR. BRADLEY,
Mrs. von Dirksen has handed on to me your wife's
letter for further attention. In this she writes that you
are waiting for my report and that of the other members
in order to publish the complete material in England.
I am already in touch' with the British Society for
Psychical Research and several other peoyle regarding
the publication of the whole of the materia , which com-
prises ninety pages, and which contains all separat'e
reforts, and I must naturally reserve all rights of author-
ship. From the very beginning it was not my intention
to supply this matter to the Daily Press, hoping that you
also would leave them out of the matter. But, of course,
I am prepared to follow you into this camp.
Unfortunately, from the somewhat temperamental
remarks made by your wife, I realize that it will be very
122 ••• AND AFTER
difficult to conduct the coming controversy as regards
the genuineness of the mediumship of Mr. Valiantine
with that scientific seriousness, the reality of putting
aside all personal and worldly actuality which is naturally
desired in the interests o£ the universally-followed object
of discovery despite all contradictory methods. Please
remember that here it is not a question of a fight, that
I am not an opponent of the occult territory, but that I
am one of the keenest explorers thereof, and that I am
an unprejudiced friend o£ spiritualism.
ShoUld I come along with so serious an accusation
against one of the best mediums, then this is done with
a heavy heart and fully realizing the responsibility
towards the {>roof and justification and the belief of a
hundred milhon confirmed spiritualists. It is also done
with the knowledge of the duty of having to put a finger
in an open wound, especially because the damage comes to
light in one's own camp. If one attempted to shade
anything it would give opponents the chance of scoring
a point.
Were I not so ab1olutely certain of my facts, had I
based my opinion on suppositions, then I would remain
silent. I can, however, prove with the attested state-
ments of five witnesses and seventeen separate, partly
direct, fraudulent observations, partly actual fraudulent
proofs: further with a large number of indirect proofs
that in the case of Mr. Valiantine's Berlin productions,
it was not a question of an occasional accidental fraudu-
lent trance, but it was a question of a systematic, and in
all probability a quite exceptional swindle.
Whether formerly Mr. Valiantine was a genuine
medium-this question I, purposely, leave open, although
I consider him highly disqualified on account of his own
behaviour, and on account of your disclaimer to any
physical control, and I am of the opinion that he must
bring new proofs of his competence as a medium under
other conditions. Why I consider the Genoese seances
nothing less than strong in demonstration you will be
able to see from my remarks relating thereto. This
question of " al1o genuine , is the point which the
discussion between us will have to settle, and I leave the
first step to you. Unfortunately, the remarks passed here
are not to be shaken, and the best would be if you satisfied
yourself regarding them.
If we did not come forward earlier with our claim,
especially if we did not inform you or your wife
IN BERLIN 128
immediately regarding this, then this occurred because we
wished to be absolutely certain of our facts, and we did
not wish to give any grounds for comment; further,
because the material-which consists of many separate
remarks or observations-had first to be collected and
sorted scientifically, whereby great care had to be taken
that no word too much or too little was mentioned.
This very extensive work has taken me nearly a month
to do, added to which I am very fully occupied in
business. Had it been at all possible to give you
immediate news of any suspected observations, then an
immediate cessation of the seances would have been the
result of your discontinuance. That is also the reason
why, contrary to your own intentions, we wished the
seances to continue. We wanted certainty, not doubt.
Furthermore, there existed always the hope of the
development of actual phenomena.
If there exists here in Berlin an atmosphere of mistrust
then that is not to be traced back to ignorance or
opposition. It must also be remembered that this
atmosphere did not exist from the commencement. We,
all of us, had the greatest trust. First your and then
Mr. Valiantine's un-understandable and brusque refusal
of all, even the slightest claims to control, have disturbed
this original harmony; not, however, the phenomena,
which is weak in itself, because we know as well as you
that the spiritual principle cannot be governed. But we
cannot quietly allow that, in the absence of a genuine
phenomenon, anything of a fraudulent nature is put
before us. And if you require that from the beginning
we dispense with our senses of sight, hearing and tasting
for the control, then you must not be surprised if we
turn to self-help in order to avoid contact, which, after
all, has not hurt the medium from a health point of view,
which you have always suggested. From that you can
see how carefully and ·tactfully we have behaved ; you
may perhaps be able to demand blind faith in your
authority from evident spiritualists, but not from psychical
explorers. As long as the voices themselves showed no
proof whatever of identity it would have been fair, at
least, to have made the control of the ~enuineness of
the voice phenomena as physical apparitions possible,
but not to state the undisputed choice of a person under
test.
The original of my material is with Mr. Th. Beater-
man, Ebrarian of the Society of Psychical Research,
124 ... AND AFTER
Tavistock Squ-are, London, W.O., where for the moment
it is being translated into English. I have given
instructions to them to let you see the original or to place
at your disposal a copy of the translation.
1'rusting that in spite of all we are on sound ground
and that we can cross swords in a most knightly manner.
I am, with kind regards, etc.,
(Signed) W. Kwna.
In my reply to Dr. Kroner I embodied the views I
have set forth in these pages, emphasizins- the fact that
no criticisms were made durins- my stay m Berlin, and
no charges brought, which might have been instantly
sifted, analysed and proved or refuted.
What does Dr. Kroner's letter amount toP It will be
observed that he failed entirely to specify in any detail
whatsoever the allegations of fraud on the part of
Valiantine, and again I must eml>hasize the fact that he
omitted to offer one word of criticism either to me, to my
wife, or to Valiantine, during the whole of the time we
stayed in Berlin. I£ he had charges to make it was
obviously his duty to have made them at the time, and
certainly obviously his duty to have stated what those
char~es were when he wrote to me. There is a weak and
evasive note throughout his letter. He merely states
that he has sent ninety pages of material to the Society
for Psychical Research, and that he must reserve all
rights of authorship. I fail to understand the somewhat
involved third paragraph of his letter, in which he refers
to the "somewhat temperamental remarks" made by my
wife. Mrs. Bradley's letter to Frau von Dirksen was
clear and logical. It refuted the absolutely vague and
meaningless letter she had received from Frau von
Dirksen, and it demanded an explicit reply as to what
actually the allegations against Valiantine consisted of.
Frau von Dirksen was unable to reply, and so,
apparently, was Dr. Kroner.
It is quite impossible for me to decipher what Dr.
Kroner mean& when he refers to "that scientific
seriousness, and the reality of putting aside all personal
and worldly actuality." On the fart of the s1tters in
Berlin, there was no semblance o scientific seriousneSB
whatever. All that was exhibited was the antithesis of
seriousness. The sittings were held after large dinner-
parties, with loose chatter and no note of harmony, and
an entire lack of discipline in the seance room. They
IN BERLIN 125
were also held in an atmosphere not only of suspicion,
but in many instances of direct antagonism.
One paragraph of his letter Dr. Kroner failed to justify
or explain. He stated he was absolutely certain of his
facts, and could "prove with the attested statements
of five witnesses and seventeen separate, partly direct
fraudulent observatione, partly actual fraudulent proofs :
further with a large number of indirect proofs that in the
case of Mr. Valiantine's Berlin productions, it was not a
question of an occasional accidental fraudulent trance,
but it was a question of a systematic, and in all
probability, a quite exceptional swindle."
After making such a statement, which I deliberately
and unequivocally assert to be false, Dr. Kroner omitted
to quote even one specific instance. Why did he not do
soP Was he so anxious to reserve his rights of author-
ship in those ninety pages P Was there some obscure or
material reason for this coyness? Was he frightened of
me, or was he so timid of the basis of his allegations that
he dared not do soP His excuse for not making any
allegation of fraud while we were in Berlin, and waiting
for many weeks afterwards before he wrote a nondescript
letter, was mere evasion. This was not ap. exposure at
all, and it entirely disqualified him, and any of the other
sitters who may have been present, from any scientific
credence being played on any assumptions they may have
afterwards evolved in secret conclave.
To make vague innuendoes, classified by such terms as
" partly direct observations," " partly actual proofs,"
and "indirect proofs," is not merely unscientific, but
utterly feeble in argument.
If phenomena occur which appear inexplicable and
beyond the comprehension of sceptical sitters, such sitters
are invariably inclined to imagine they must have been
produced by the medium, and to invent ruppo1itioru as
to how they could have been produced by fraud. Such
theories, however, can never be accepted as proof of
facts, and are certainly the direct antithesis of the term
11
exposure."
Dr. Kroner's contention of Valiantine's refusal of
control having disturbed the harmony is absurd. He
quite understood that Valiantine would sit at Berlin
under the same conditions as he had previously sat with
me, and, in addition to this, Valiantine wa1 a~reeable to
control if all the other 1itter1 were controlled, but they
refused.
126 ... AND AF1~ER
What Dr. Kroner meant when he said " you must no•
be surprised if we turn to self-help in order to avoid
contact," I fail entirely to fathom, unless by this he
meant to imply that some of th13 1itter1 resorted to
trickery. It was extremely fortum~.te that either I or
.Mrs. Bradley sat with Valiantine 4Dn every occasion in
Berlin. She and I have known every phase of Valiantine
mediumship for the last six years. We have sat with
him literally on hundreds of occasioms, and we can both
vouch that hitherto there had be,en no semblance of
attempt at fraud upon his part durin~ the whole of the
time. We both know the "voim~s ' of Valiantine's
Guides, as well as we know the voic:es of any member of
our own family. These spirit voice1~ spoke at the .Berlin
sittings upon many occasions. NonE~ of the Berlin sitters
knew them because they had not he:ard them before. If
they thought these voices were fraudulently produced by
Valiantine they are entitled to thilttk so, but under no
conditions must they be allowed to a!l.ssert that they were
unless they can actually prove this fa.ct.
In regard to Dr. Kroner's ninety page report, which
he states he sent to the Society for Psychical Research
(London) for publication, it is significant that, in answer
to my request to the Society for a copy of the translation,
I received a letter from the secretary, Miss I. Newton,
dated July 20, 1929, in which she sta:Ltes: " It is the case
that Dr. Kroner sent a report to one of the officers of the
Society, who has now returned it to Dr. Kroner. I may
add that the Society is not printing Dr. Kroner's report."
It is evident from this that Dr. Kroner's report was of
such a nature as to be deemed valueless.
. . . . . . . ,
I will now deal with and analyse: Dr. Kroner's state-
ments and allegations as they appeared in the " Zeit-
schrift fur Parapsychologie " five m~ontha afterward,, in
the winter or 1929.
Dr. Kroner's Report and ~~ffirmationa
Dr. Kroner's reports of the Va~liantine sittings in
Berlin occupv fifty-one closely printed pages. The title
heading, " Valiantine's Exposure " by Dr. Walter
Kroner, is not only unjustifiable, it is a deliberately
false statement. There had been no exposure of
Valiantine by Dr. Kroner, or by amy of the sitters in
Berlin.
IN BERLIN 127
Dr. KrOner's report, from a scientific point ol view,
is valueless. His report could, with great advantage,
have been reduced to one tenth of its size. It largely
consists of a series of wearisome repetitions, and, as I
shall show, it contains many glaring and obvious con-
tradictions, displaying a lack of intelligence and care
unparalleled in any writer with pretensions to a know-
ledge of psychical research.
In my analysis of Dr. Kroner's allegations against
V aliantine, the only method possible for me is to take
his criticisms page by page.
On the first page Dr. Kroner advertises his knowledge
of various (genuine or so-called) physical mediums, and
the tricks and swindles alleged to have been practised
by them. Dr. Kroner does not, however, state his
personal experiences with any of these mediums. He
merely exhibits a knowledge common to all who have
perused psychic literature. It must be noted, however,
that none of the mediums quoted by Dr. Kroner is
a " direct voice" medium. The phenomena produced
under their mediumship are of an entirely difierent
character to those produced under the mediumship of
Valiantine.
In so far as the " direct voice" phenomena are con-
cerned, neither Dr. Kroner nor any of the sitters in Berlin
possess any experience whatever of this form of phenomena.
Neither he nor they are qualified to judge what does, or
should, take place. With my long experience of Valian-
tine's " direct voice " mediumship, and also with the
experience of my own "direct voice" mediumship and
that of Mrs. Bradley and two or three otherwell-developed
voice mediums in Britain, I am entitled to ~,>roclaim a
knowledge of the conditions necessa11, for this form of
phenomena. I know its extreme sensitiveness, and from
many years of experience I am completely aware that
the slightest disturbance, either mental or physical, on
the part of any of the sitters, will either destroy or
mutilate the delicate vibrations and so render com-
munications in the " direct voice " either impossible or
negative.
On page 2 Dr. Kroner states that: " In the house of
Frau von Dirksen there reigned the spirit of cultivated
hospitality which connected all visitors harmoniously
from the first. No negativist or real scepticism was
allowed.''
I assert that scepticism was rampant in the Berlin
128 ..• AND AFTER
circles .from the very first sitting, which I will sub-
sequently prove by the sitters' own statements.
On page 3 Dr.. Kroner states : '' There was not the
slightest doubt about the falseness of the productions,
and with wonderful tact and unparalleled self-restraint
the medium was allowed to leave unmolested." What
an amazingly stupid attitude for an expert investigator!
On page 3 Dr. Kroner refers to " the .faultless, proved,
well-arranged and worked swindles in a great number of
single cases." Not one swindle was proved.
In the same paragraph on the same page Dr. Kroner
advances only the theory that "every one of the pheno-
mena which happened in Berlin coUld be ~roduced by
swindle under the conditions." "Could be" is not
proof. It is mere assumption.
On the same page he goes on to say that the swindle
of Valiantine is " so primitive and so clumsy that it is
astonishing and almost amazing that he has not been
discovered before.''
The only amazing thing about this statement is that
on the very next page (page 4) Dr. Kroner states: "At
the pre1ent moment 10e are not in a po1ition to pt'O'VB
thi1 accwation."
The Berlin sitters were distinctly informed by me
before I undertook the long and expensive journey to that
country that none of my work had been based upon the
physical phenomena which had taken place, but only
upon the mental evidence of survival which had been
acquired.
Dr. Kroner is evidently obsessed by the primitive bug
of physical control. No control can have any possible
bearing whatever upon mental evidence. Neither I nor
Valiantine agreed to visit Berlin for the exhibition
of physical phenomena. I, personally, disregard the
physical, for however remarkable the phenomena may
appear, they are certainly valueless as proof of survival.
Years of research work have been wasted by scientists
in an endeavour to prove physical phenomena under
conditions of control, and nothing of any value has ever
been achieved, neither has there been any scientiD.c
agreement arrived at. It is only the mental evidence
that is indisputable.
The classification of mental evidence is that the com-
municating spirits must give irrefutable evidence of their
identities and personalities. I am well aware that but
little mental evidence was acquired during the series of
IN BERLIN 129
aittings in Berlin. Before Dr. Kroner's report appeared,
I stated publicly that the sittings held there were
negative, but negative sittings do not prove jtraud.
My entire work ha.s been devoted to the accumulation
of mental evidence, not to physical phenomeiJLa.
I have written lengthy books which have been
entirely devoted to volunteered mental proofs. Physical
control of any description can have no bearin.g whatever
upon these evidences. Dr. Kroner's ideas are atavistic,
and he is unable, even theoretically, to offer any argu-
ment whatever against the innumerable psychic proofs
which have been published by me.
On page 4 Dr. Kroner states: " Our proof of the
swindling character of Valiantine cannot be denied. . . .
It is an extraordinary cynical swindle."
Dr. Kroner fails to bring this proof. Not 1
only is this
assertion denied by me, it is denied by a la1rge number
of eminent men in Germany, whose knowledge of these
sittings has been obtained only by reading Dr. Kroner's
own reports, which they have dismissed as cm!ltradictory,
unscientific, and completely lacking in the jproof he so
arrogantly assumes.
Dr. Kroner makes another terrible contradiction in
terms on J>age 5, when, immediately after s1tating that
"Valiantme has swindled from A to Z," he says in
the very next paragraph: "At the prese:nt moment
we are fairly positive that Valiantine still owes us
proof."
Which of these statements is one to ac1
ceptP Can
anyone accept any statement whatever by such an appall-
ingly inconsistent and unscientinc investiga1borP
. . . . . . . .
Dr. Kroner was personally present at only three of the
series of sittings held in Berlin. The dates were April
30, May 7 and May 12. Two months before Dr. Kroner's
report was published in Germany, I publicly recorded
the sittings on April 30 and May 7 as oo1
mparaflively
negative, and the sitting held on May 12 as a com-
plete blank. It is extremely strange that Dr. Kroner
elaborates his observations on these three sittings to the
extent of thirteen pages. Quoting verbatim from my
report, I wrote: " At the second sitting (April 30), ~lso
held after a large dinner-party, the phenomena which
took place were comparatively negative. Th•~ conditions
appeared to me to be bad. There was a looSlf.mess in the
circle and an entire lack of harmony or passivity.
B
180 ... AND AFTER
Individual sitters were continuously talking to each other
in separate duologues."
On page 6 Dr. Kroner criticizes the method of placing
the sitters in the circle. He states that " Valiantine
placed the chairs of the eight sitters one metre apart."
'11
his would represent a circle of twelve metres, with a
diameter of just under four metres. Thus, a trumpet
placed in the centre would be two metres away from the
medium or any of the sitters. I will refer to these
measurements later.
Dr~ Kroner criticizes Valiantine for placing the men
and women sitters alternatively, and implies that this
was arranged in order that Valiantine might sit between
two women. In this Dr. Kroner at once displays his
ignorance of the regular procedure at a "direct voice"
seance of alternating the sexes. This is the customary
method all over the world.
He criticizes the instructions which I (H.D.B.)
personally gave. I instructed the sitters to sit up
straight, and not to cross their legs. These conditions
are necessary, and are invariably practised at all
" voice " sittings. Dr. Kroner states that instructions
were given to the sitters not to &tick their feet out. This
is a false statement. I said nothing of the kind. He
also states that they were " asked not to concentrate too
much or to diltnut, as it interfered with the vibrations."
I made no mention whatever of distrust. I requested
them not to concentrate too much because one of the first
principles in sitting is passivity, and not concentration.
On page 6 Dr. Kroner states: " To touch the medium
was strictly forbidden on account of the danger to his
life."
This is a deliberate falsehood. No such statement was
ever made. I emphasized only the necessary warning
in regard to the turning on of a light.
Dr. Kroner says that the sitters were instructed to
avoid conversation in regard to other mediums than
Valiantine, and that the conversations should be in
regard to the Valiantine/roductions. This is absolutely
untrue. No such stupi and meaningless request was
made.
He also states : " The louder the gramophone played
the better apparently for phenomena." What does
Dr. Kroner mean by this cryptic remark? When a
" spirit voice " is heard the gramophone is at once
stopped.
IN BERLIN 181
During the sitting on April 30, the phenomena of
flashing sparks appeared. Dr. Kroner states that the
" light was similar to a pocket lighter." These sparks
did not appear to me at all like a pocket lighter, and
they appeared at some very considerable distance away
from where Valiantine was sitting-and over the heads
of some of the other sitters.
On page 8 Dr. Kroner stated that the " voice " of Dr.
Barnett asked for " patience," promised good pheno-
mena, complained about the atmosphere and interrup-
tions, and objected to the manner of sitting. I am not
aware whether Dr. Kroner understands English or not,
but this is another false statement. Dr. Barnett said
nothing whatever of promising good phenomena; neither
does he ever, at any sitting, make such statements.
Dr. Kroner describes how the luminous trumpet touched
Frau von Dirksen on the head, and how both sides of her
face were softly stroked by it, and how a quiet, hoarse,
whispering voice was heard speaking through it. This
happened on many occasions during the series of sittings
held. This, and all other phenomena which took place,
were genuine. Dr. Kroner apparently does not realize
that as Valiantine's luminous trumpet is only twenty-
seven inches long, this would mean that when it was
touching Frau von Dirksen's face, if Valiantine were pro-
ducing phenomena fraudulently he would be in very close
proximity to Frau von Dirksen, and would have to be
standing actually within about fourteen inches of her
knees. Therefore, she could easily discover him standing
there by stretching out her feet. As it is proved by their
own statements that various of the sitters throughout the
whole of the series of sittings were not only stretching out
their feet, but were feeling about with their hands, it is of
great importance to note that the sitters absolutely failed
to '11take this very simple discovery.
At this sitting the " spirit voice " of " Cristo
d'Angelo " spoke in Italian. I can assert that Valiantine
does not speak Italian. Dr. Kroner states that he had
asked the person sitting next to Valiantine to speak to
him during the time the " voice " was speaking, and
that afterwards a controversy occurred among the
German sitters as to whether VaHantine had spoken at
the same time, or just after the "voice " was heard.
I can personally testify that at innumerable other sittinJr~
Valiantine has spoken at the same time as a " voice "
has been speaking, and this fact is also attested to by
182 .•. AND AFTER
the appointed representatives at an official sitting of the
English Society for Psychical Research.
The Berlin sitters own that they are not sure whether
Val_iantin~ spoke simultaneously with the "s~irit voice"
or 1mmed1ately after. Does Dr. Kroner realize that for
Valiantine to speak immediately after a fraudulently
produced "votce" would mean that in many cases he
would have to leap sometimes eight to ten feet back to
his chair in the flash of a second-an impossible feat for
a trained acrobat to perform without being instantly
detected P
On page 9 Dr. KrOner states that "after the sitting
was closed we had to wait a few minutes until the
medium allowed us to switch on a light, because, as he
said, harm might be caused otherwise. I was very
astonished at this because Valiantine was not for one
second under any trance whatever. Valiantine conversed
calmly with us the whole of the time."
If Dr. Kroner possesses the slightest experience what-
ever of the "direct voice " sittings, he would know that
it is always customary at the end of a sitting, after the
last "yoice" has manifested, to wait a minute before
turning on a light, to allow the ectoplasmic forces used
to subside. Dr. Kroner's astonishment again displays
his complete ignorance. Had he read previously the
records of Valiantine's mediumship he would have under-
stood that Valiantine does not go into trance at any of
these " voice " sittings. Also, at the direct voice sittings
held under my own or Mrs. Bradley's mediumship,
neither she nor I have ever been in trance. Nor have
several other " voice" mediums, whose experiences are
recorded in various journals. Dr. Kroner should under-
stand that it is of extreme value that Valiantine can con-
verse with the sitters during the whole of the time. This
afforded Dr. Kroner an opportunity of speaking to him
at any time when phenomena were occurring. It must
be pointed out very emphatically that the sitters in
Berlin had the opportunity of checking and proving at
any moment during the sitting that Valiantine was
re~aining stationary in his chair throughout the entire
series.
Dr. Kroner states on page 9 that "Frau von Dirksen
could not believe Valiantine had left his chair. Sb~
'Personally had watched him and had 'PUrposely given
him a chair which squeaked easily. She would have
heard therefore il he had moved from his chair." This
IN BERLIN 188
is a peculiarly illuminating statement. On page 2 Dr.
Kroner states that " in the house of Frau von Dirksen
... no negativist or real scepticism was allowed," and
on page 9 he published the fact that at the very
commencement of these sittings Frau von Dirksen
"purposely gave Valiantine a squeaking chair" in
order, obviously, to endeavour to catch him in the act
of cheating. If this is not scepticism (either justifiable
or not) I shall be glad to know what is. Do Dr.
Kroner and Frau von Dirksen consider this action justifies
the statement on page 2 that " there reigned the spirit
of cultivated hospitality ... which connected all
visitors harmoniously from the first'' P Dr. Kroner's
ideas of " cultivated hospitality " would seem as quaint
as his views on evidence.
Referring to this particular sitting (April 30), Dr.
Kroner states: '' I could not come to any definite
conclusion, and can only say that there were many
extraordinary happenings, but that I could explain
away most of the phenomena-if not ali-in a most
natural way." Such a statement is absolutely valueless.
Dr. Kroner has the fairness to say that after this sitting
I declared it to be negative. I declared it as negative
because there was no mental evidence of value volunteered
by the "voices." At the same time, genuine physical
phenomena did take place at this sitting, and various
" spirit voices " spoke at the time. Dr. Kroner entirely
fails to explain these phenomena except by reckless
a11umption of fraud, without offering one iota of evidence
in support of this assumption.
He states that after this sitting he warned Frau von
Dirksen of his doubts, and made the suggestion regard-
ing control, and he also exposes the fact that several
of the sitters there, ROme of whose names he mentions,
were unquestionably sceptics, the least sceptical of all
perhaps being Dr. Schwab, who " could not make up his
mind." Therefore, it can easily be seen that so far
from conducting a series of experiments with earnest
researchers, anxious to obtain direct mental evidence,
the composition of the circles in Berlin was chiefly made
up of antagonists and negativists.
It was after this sitting that Dr. Kroner spoke to
Valiantine upon the question of his being controlled.
He says that " Valiantine refused any control what-
ever. . . . He seemed very insulted, and said that if
he were to be controlled every sitter must be controlled
184 ... AND AFTER
m a similar way. If he were bound, then every
sitter must be bouna too-also the mouth must be
sealed." Dr. Kroner omits to report that Valiantine's
after to accept control if all the other sitters were
controlled was refmed, because several of those present
apparently considered this suggestion insulting to them.
Valiantine was justified in refusing to accept such a
one-sided control, and his justification is proved by the
fact that the majority of the sitters throughout this
series of sittings were breaking conditions by kicking
their legs out and feeling about with their arms. I make
this statement very deliberately. There was no semblance
of cheating on the part of Valiantine, but Dr. Kraner's
own report shows the ezistence oj deplorable indication•
throughout of cheating on the part of the sitters.
After presenting all these assumptions of fraud on
the part of Valiantine, Dr. Kroner naively states: " I
endeavoured to make it clear to him that we did not have
the slightest doubt as to his genuineness. . . . After this
we parted, and I very kindly patted Mr. Valiantine on
the shoulder." On the same page, in the next few lines,
Dr. Kroner says: " The fact is that I had made myself
very unpleasant to the English guests." I entirely fail
to reconcile these two contradictory statements.
Dr. Kroner then states: "I know that Schrenck-
Notzing instinctively felt sceptical of ' voice pheno-
mena.' " What on earth has this to do with the present
report P Schrenck-Notzing knew nothing whatever of
" voice phenomena " and has had no experience what-
ever of this form of mediumship. Therefore, his personal
feelings upon the subject have no possible bearing. I
may mention that I (H.D.B.) personally knew Schrenck-
Notzing, and have sat with him in Munich. His
particular line of psychical research was always entirely
di.tterent in form to mine. We each represented an
entirely difterent branch of study.
Dr. Kroner records that, after the sitting on April 30
ended, and " the English sitters had gone to bed," he
went back into the seance room with some of the other
sitters, including members of Frau von Dirksen's family,
and his (Dr. Kroner's) wife. He darkened the room,
and endeavoured to give an imitation of how Valiantine's
phenomena could be produced by fraudulent means. His
description of this rehearsal is :(>eculiarly stupid. Any
schoolboy could give a bad imitation of the comparatively
negative sitting which had taken place, but neither a
IN BERLIN 185
schoolboy nor Dr. Kroner could possibly sit for one and
a half hours in a circle of prejudiced sceptics, each wait-
ing to catch him, without being discovered in the first
few minutes. Referring to his childish rehearsals, while
posing as a swindling medium, Dr. Kroner states that
"those sitting next to me could hear the movement by
the rustling of my clothes, possibly also by the creaking
of the floor-but those sitting farther away were unable
to notice any movement." Why then during the whole
of the fortnight that ensued did none of them observe
the rustling of Valiantine's clothes if he were fraud-
ulent, and the creaking of the floor? Why did
those who sat next to him, during the whole of the
ensuing fortnight, omit to make the simple action of
placin,q their han[l1 upon hi1 empty chair, thu1 definitely
utabluhing fraud, and ending a ridiculous farce? That
they attempted to do this upon many occasions I know,
but never did they succeed in finding Valiantine any-
where but in his correct and proper place. Sceptical as
they were, they must have received many amazing im-
pressions which they are still finding it difficult to
explain, even to themselves. Dr. Kroner states that the
imitation of " voices " through the trumpet could be
done very easily. He then adds, regarding the Valiantine
phenomena, " nevertheless I have never heard such
' voices ' in a human being.'' Another absurd
contradiction.
Dr. Kroner refers to my books. He says: "I fQught
against the idea of swindle because again and again
before my eyes appeared the wonderful records of Mr.
Bradley, in which the medium converses with absolutely
remarkable intelligence for hours, and also with new
sitters and in foreign languages on the most intimate
subjects. They tell me that this happened and I have
been told that at Dorincourt seven intelligences have
been speaking at the same time." Dr. Kroner does not
read English and has, I understand, only read one of
my books : " Den Stemen Entgegen." He has not read
the second volume, " The Wisdom of the Gods," which
represents a considerable advance in the study of
psychical research. If he has any pretension to be a
student he sli.ould make the endeavour to quote me
correctly. Let me tell him that the medium doe1 not
converse with remarkable intelligence for hours. It is
the "1pirit voice1," absolutely apart from and indepen-
dent of the medium_
, which converse. As I have etl\ted
186 • • • AND AFTER
in my published records, during the Valiantine sittings
"voices" have been heard speaking in French, Italian,
Russian, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, idiomatic Welsh,
Portuguese, Basque, Arabic, Sanskrit and Hindustani.
I have also heard during the course of conversation the
language suddenly change from Danish to Russian, or
from Italian to French, the replies from the "spirit
voices " coming through with unhesitating fluency.
Even in quoting me Dr. Kroner makes a careless
exaggeration when he says that at " Dorincourt seven
intelligences have been speaking at the same time."
This is not so. But on several occasions I and several
other witnesses have·heard three distinct " spirit voices "
speaking simultaneously.
Although Dr. Kroner discovered no semblance what-
ever of frau~ulent behaviour on the part of Valiantine,
yet he states that he warned Dr. Quade and Grafin B.
of his mistrust. By this he shows that from the very
first he endeavoured to prejudice other sitters. He states
that Grafin B. attended a sitting held on May 2 and that
"she considered the sitting she witnessed with Dr. Quade
to be an arranged swindle. She felt almo&t 1ure that
Valiantine understood German, and he appeared always
t9 listen to anything said concerning him. He had been
very pessimistic about her after he had heard she was
mediumistic herself. She 1ensed he had a bad con-
science, but she remained absolutely loyal." What sort
of nonsense is this to advance as evidence of fraud?
Grafin B... . considered ... she felt almost lure
. .. she .ensed ... and Dr. Kroner has the pre-
sumption to tabulate this as proof.
Dr. Kroner states that Dr. Quade " could not realize
that such a clumsy swindle had occurred. Also, several
of the phenomena appeared to him to be inexplicable, so
he felt inclined to believe that the phenomena were
genuine--or at least, some of them." Dr. Quade's
attitude was reserved and correct. Naturally he could
not realize a swindle which had not taken place.
Dr. Kroner refers to the letter which I wrote to Frau
von Dirksen after the third sitting. This letter is
printed in full in Dr. Kroner's report. He states " that
this letter is so astonishing because until then all sitters
remained loyal to the conditions, except the unexpected
action of the Baroness P. against the unofficial second
trumpet. This phenomenon was the reason for the letter
and the supposed spirit protest." This is the first
IN BERLIN 187
reference Dr. Kroner makes to an " unofficial trumpet."
No mch trumpet ezilted. This is pure invention on the
part of Dr. Kroner, and the absurd as1umption is based
upon no evidence whatever. I will deal fully with this
point later, when analysing the reports of th~ sitters in
question.
He refers to Frau von Dirksen, saying that she
accidentally caught hold of the medium's hand. He is
evidently timid of the authenticity of this allegation,
aa he only refers to it in two lines. I will deal with
this when I am dealing with Frau von Dirksen's own
report.
Dr. Kroner records his own personal observations
during the sitting which he attended on May 7.
Although this was only his second sitting, so far from
making any attempt whatever to observe the conditions
specifically given in order to obtain successful com-
munication with the " spirit voices," Dr. Kroner
deliberately ignored all conditions and sat there with
the avowed intention of discovering fraud. To quote
verbatim, from his own report, he says: "1 had ezpected
to be placed rather awkwardly and therefore had
arranged with my wife that 1he 1hould try occa~iofl4lly
to INVBSTIGA.TE BY PEELING ABOUT."
This confession on his part is of significant importance.
Dr. Kroner instructed hts wife (who was sittin~ next to
Valiantine) to investigate by " feeling about,' and he
himself, seated in another part of the circle, without a
ahadow of doubt also occupied himself throughout this
sitting by " feeling about" in his efforts to discover
the medium.
What did Dr. Kraner dilco'IJer 1
With all his opportunities for feeling about anywhere
he failed to discover anything. By his own records Dr.
KrOner proves either that he is a peculiarly stupid
and inefficient investigator or-which is true-that the
Valiantine phenomena were then absolutely genuine.
He records at this sitting that he was touched five
times. He says that he himself noticed the first touch,
which seemed to be done with warm living fingers, touch-
ing the back of his hand, the last four occurring with
some instrument against his left knee, or the calf of his
leg. Why did he not discover from whom these touches
came P If they were not supernormal it would have
been a perfectly simple matter, since the whole of the
time he was "feeling about." He states that all the
x•
188 ... AND AFTER
other sitters were touched fairly frequently, on the face,
knee, etc. If these touches were fraudulent and were
made by Valiantine standing up and walking round the
room, nothing could have been easier than for the sitters
who, on their own confessions, were also " feeling
about," to have discovered him. Dr. Kroner records
that during the sitting " voices were heard of ' Dr.
Barnett,' ' Kokum,' and ' Bert Everett.' ' Kokum's'
voice was heard above the head of Student Doring,
frightening several of the 1itters considerably." He also
records what he calls the "alleged voice of Frau von
Dirksen's husband" and a "whispering voice to Student
Doring." He states that "All voices spoke in very short
sentences," and " it was surprising that none of the
' voices' came out of the trumpet, while at the sittings
I (Dr. Kroner) had been present at previously they had
talked through the trumpet for a fairly long time." The
records of the Valiantine sittings show that while Dr.
Barnett uses the trumpet stationary in the centre of the
circle, the Guides, Kokum and Bert Everett, both speak
independently, without the use of the trumpet.
Dr. Kroner states: "I was certain that there must be
a second trumpet in the room, because the daughter of
the house had knocked against it in the previous sitting."
If there was a second trumpet in the room why was it
not discovered P It is utterly useless and unscientific
for Dr. Kroner to invent an excuse when he cannot
explain certain phenomena. He says that he was
" certain a second instrument was used," and yet fails
to bring forward the slightest proof, which could have
been so easily acquired. How was he certain P Where
is the proof? Kroner mentions the phenomenon of the
trumpet being whirled round the room quickly and
carried upwards " as if thrown up to the ceiling, from
where it crashed suddenly." This is a peculiarly stupid
description of phenomena which have occurred not only
at the Valianbne sittings, but also at sittings under my
own and my wife's mediumship. During my own
personal sittings I have had the trumpet carried to the
ceiling, sometimes falling with a crash, and at times
wafting gently down. It depends entirely upon the
extent of the power available. Dr. Kroner has had no
experience whatever of such phenomena and he is
entirely unqualified to judge its value. And it is typical
of his methods of investigation that when at a loss for an
explanation, he solemnly invents a "second trumpet."
IN BERLIN 189
Dr. Kroner makes the following statement: " Mr.
Bradley, in connection with his letter to Frau von
Dirksen, had dared to notify the American Embassy that
an American citizen was in danger because grave
damage could be done to the health of the medium if
anyone turned on a light suddenly, which we were
expected to do." Even in making this statement either
Dr. Kroner or Frau von Dirksen is carelessly incorrect
in facts. I made no mention of the American Embassy
to Frau von Dirksen. I stated that the English
Embassy in Berlin would be informed, and I most
certainly regarded the warning given to Frau von
Dirksen as an imperative one. From what subsequently
transpired, and the manner in which the sitters were
behaving throughout the series, this danger was a very
real one. It is a scientifically established fact that
in " physical " and " direct voice " seances ectoplasm
comes from the medium's body, and is used by the
spirit entities as an instrument for manifestations.
Tht> effect of a light suddenly being switched on has the
effect of cramming this ectoplasm back into the body
with a terrific shock. In one of my books ("Den
Stemen Entgegen ") I have described an occurrence
which took place in the presence of several witnesses.
Because of its importance I will briefly quote the
incident, which took place at Dorincourt, on February 23,
1924, at a sitting at which were present my wife and
myself, Mr. and Mrs. de Wyckoff, Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer
Bryans, and Mr. and Mrs. Caradoc Evans. The servants
had previously received instructions to turn off all lights
in corridors, but by some mishap a rather powerful
electric light appears to have been switched on in the
yard of the garage, the building of which is close to
and partly facing one of the windows of the room in
which the seance was held. The garage light came
through the window over the top of the curtains, and
in a sufficient quantity for one to see dimly the faces
of the sitters. Valiantine was observed in a limp condi-
tion, and we saw the trumpet suspended without visible
support close to Mrs. Bryans in mid-air. At the moment
the light appeared, :however, it fell to the ground.
Valiantine was observed to be breathing very heavily.
We sat on in the dark for about ten minutes, when we
heard him murmuring: " Oh, my stomach." As he
seemed to be in such distress we decided to turn on the
light. De Wyckoff got up from his chair and took two
140 ••• AND AFTER
steps forward to the switch, when the spirit voice of Bert
Everett cried from the ceiling: "Don't turn on the
light." The "voice " was unmistakably urgent and
frantic.
De Wyckoff went to Valiantine's assistance, and said
that " Valiantine was enveloped in a whitish so1't of
film." Mr. Caradoc Evans then crossed over and later
described " the substance as a slimy, frothy bladder
into which you could dip a finger, but through which you
could not pierce." I felt Valiantine's face and hands
and they were clammy and cold. De Wyckoff, Bryans,
Evans and myself-the ladies had left the room-
remained with him in the dark for about half an hour,
until he revived sufficiently to be half carried to a couch
in my study.
After a time he was put in bed, and the morning
following, on account of his continued illness, Dr. H.
Cooper of Surbiton was called in. That day he remained
in bed. On Tuesday, with the exception of a black
bruise on the stomach, measuring about two inches hy
three-evidently caused by the shock of the returning
ectoplasm-he was quite well.
It will be realized that after such an experience the
warning given of the possibility of an exposed light
being flashed on inside the seance room in Berlin was an
imperative one.
Dr. Kroner records the cold draughts passing through
the sittings-the " so-called magnetic wind. Shortly
after that it was blown against my (Dr. Kroner's) fore-
head, exactly as if someone had blown at me through
a pipe. Immediately after this my wife noticed the
same occurrence." Again Dr. Kroner displays the
ordinary common ignorance of the novice. The psychic
draught has often been registered scientifically as a
usual occurrence when the ectoplasmic forces are being
used. Dr. Kroner has no knowledge upon such matters,
and it is typical of his mentality that he at once invents
" a pipe." He would have been well advised not to have
attempted to write such an amateurish criticism.
Dr. Kroner reports that " the Guide (Dr. Barnett)
stated during the sittin~ that there had been a disturb-
ance and that somebody had stretched out a leg."
Immediately after this Dr. Kroner reports that " every-
body present dP-nied having done 10." Here is a
deliberate and ~laring self-confessed falsehood, for, on
the same page of his report, Dr. Kroner states : " On the
IN BERLIN 141
way home my wife told me that it was she who was
fishing about with her feet." Therefore, according to
her husband, who presumably knows, Frau Kroner
deliberately lied at this sitting. Dr. Kroner in connec-
tion with this sitting, states: " I noticed that all the
sitters were very much impressed and were likely to
accept the phenomena as genuine."
It should here be noted that this represents the sum
total of Dr. Kroner's own personal observations of the
Valiantine mediumship, since the one other sitting which
he attended on May 12 was completely blank. It must
therefore be stated emphatically that in Dr. Kroner's
own record of his observations he has failed to establish
one solitary point of proof of any fraud whatever on the
part of Valiantine. All that he succeeded in establish-
ing was his own incapacity for scientific and exact
observation, to say nothing of consistency of statement.
Dr. Kroner refers to the statement made by his wife
on the way home, and to what she alleges to have dis-
covered by actin~ upon his instructions to her and
" feeling about wtth her feet." She made no mention
whatever of this alleged incident to Frau von Dirksen,
to the medium, to Mrs. Bradley, or to any of the other
sitters present. She was so timid and uncertain of
herself that she could only evolve such an allegation in
consultation with her husband alone-an attitude of
mind which is illuminating. I will deal with Frau
Kroner's statement later.
It is amusing that after failing to establish any proof
whatever of fraudulent action Dr. Kroner should
dare to make the following assertion : '' Summing every-
thing up there is no doubt that it is all a swindle. One
can quite understand that all Valiantine's phenomena
which are not accidentally controlled are produced
artificially by the medium. It even was not necessary
to expect that part of the phenomena was produced by
a travelling companion of the medium, although it was
naturally conspicuous that most of the phenomena and
seeminglv inexplicable touchings - particularly those
coming lrom the back-always occurred next to one of
Valiantine's friends." This is surely one of the most
involved, contradictory and ill-written sentences ever
penned by anyone with pretensions to analytical research.
He asserts swindle without advancing proof. He refers
to phenomena and seemingly inexplicable touchings, and
shelves what he cannot explain by attributing this to a
142 ..• AND AFTER
· travelling companion, i.e. Mrs. Bradley, with the vague
implication that she may be genuine, or that she also
may be swindling. He again contradicts himself entirely
when he states that the " inexplicable happenings always
occurred next to one of Valiantine's friends." In other
parts of his report he has stated that alleged phenomena
had occurred in all parts of the circle. As an excuse for
himself he states : •' It must be that Mrs. Bradley is a
physical medium. This makes things more complicated."
'£his was one of the few intelligent comments made by
Dr. Kroner.
He states that on the following day he notified his
" impressions" to Frau von Dirksen, and says: " Frau
von Dirksen was of similar opinion." "lmpre11iom "
and '' opinions '' are not proofs. He has unconscious
humour when he asserts that "that which can be proved
is only of value," and immediateli follows with " We
decided to refrain from any oflicia exposure and allow
our guests to leave for home quietly." If he had any
proofs whatever, why on earth should Dr. Kroner refrain
from what he calls an " official exposure " P Further,
it is his absolute duty as a psychical researcher to expose
fraud-as has been done by me on several occasions, and
by all expert researchers in this subject. Why should
he or Frau von Dirksen refrain from exposure and allow
the medium to leave for home quietly? The reason they
refrained is that they knew they had no solid basis what-
ever for the assumptions evolved from their own minds.
Being without proof, they were frightened to make any
assertion whatever in the presence of Valiantine, or
Mrs. Bradley or myself. They waited until we had left
their country, and then, after a considerable lapse of time,
launched a weak and cowardly attack.
Dr. Kroner makes a statement which is again a lament-
able contradiction. He says: " There has never been
a link missing in the chain of direct or indirect proof.
A fo1'tunate unveiling would pe1'haps have been a ve1'y
good theatncal coup. In case ojfailu1'e 01' ~a1'tialjailure
the situation would have become worse.' How is it
possible to reconcile such a ludicrous assertion. If there
were not a link missing then the unveiling would surely
have been an easy matter. Nothing could have been
simpler than for Dr. Kroner to arrange that when the
alleged phenomena took place in one part of the room,
for the other sitters next to Valiantine in the·other part
of the room to have discovered him out of his chair.
IN BERLIN 148
Dr. Kroner's report of the last sitting which he
atte~ded-the sitting which was completely blank, and
devoid of any phenomena whatever-would be amusing
were it not so entirely foolish. In the first place he is
so careless in his records that he states that this sitting
took place on May 13, whereas the actual date was
Sunday, May 12. He states that " by the special
request of the medium, an English diplomat was invited
to the last sitting." This is another incorrect statement.
The English diplomat in question is a personal friend
of mine, of many years standing, and had been invited
to dinner that evening by Frau von Dirksen. Dr.
Kroner stated that " the diplomat-an English officer of
high rank-was not ' in the know,' " thus implying that
he had no knowledge of psychic phenomena. As a matter
of fact, I may inform Dr. Kroner that this gentleman
possesses infinitely more knowledge of the subject than
Dr. Kroner, and if he were asked to express his opinion
upon the Berlin sittings, Dr. Kroner would find them to
be strangely and decisively opposed to all the assump-
tions contained in his report.
Dr. Kroner goes on to say: "I came expecting that
at this sitting nothing would occur. Valiantine certainly
expected on the last nig-ht an unveiling attack-especially
when he saw me (Dr. Kroner) coming in. . . . He must
have known that he had had several mishaps and that we
had come more or less behind his tricks . . . he felt
himself sitting on gunpowder."
Such assertions are absolutely infantile. To suggest
that Valiantine, against whom no allegations of fraud
had been made by Dr. Kroner, or any of the other sitters,
should imagine there wou~d be.an unveiling attac~ whe_n
he saw Dr. Kroner coming In on that last night IS
utterly ludicrous. For a whole fortnight, during a series
of sittings in a hostile atmosphere, sittings which must
have occupied in actual time between twelve and fourteen
hours, with all the opportunities afforded them of
discovering fraud, and despite all the many and varied
attempts to " unveil " him as such, they had succeeded
in discovering nothin.q. Why, then, should Valiantine,
for one moment, anticipate or fear anything upon this
particular occasion P . . ,, .
In Dr. Kroner's report he publishes his Affirmation
in Lieu of Oath." This is a valueless and absurd
document. He carefully avoids making any direct
~oouaations whatever, and timidly makes such statements
144 ... AND AFTER
as: " I have made the following ob~erva.tions of ueming
swindle. . . . '!'here was a. restlessness and a. creaking of
the floor, jult a1 if someone were moving and wa.lkin~
about. . . . 'rhe ' spirit voices ' nearly always sounded
as if they were being spoken through a trumpet." Does
Dr. Kroner, while posing as a scientific researcher,
presume to offer terms such as " seeming," " just as if,''
and " nearly always " as either proof or evidence P And
does he presume to call this an '' exposure '' P
Then follow the reports of eight of the other sitters.
While the whole of Dr. Kroner's personal records
consists only of unfounded assumptions and assertions
which are valueless from a scientific or evidential point
of view, he throws the entire onus of dif"ect allegations on
to two women who were present--Frau Kroner and Frau
von Dirksen. It is ;peculiar that of the very large
number of sitters durmg the series in Berlin, the only
direct allegations ma.d&-a.llegations which can be proved
as false-emanated not from any experienced researcher,
but from two women, neither of whom possesses any
knowledge whatever of psychics, and both of whom have
shown themselves to be of the emotional and occasionally
hysterical type of character.
Frau K,.anet"'1 RezJot"t and Af!iffniJtionl
Frau Kroner's report of the one and only sitting which
she attended on May "', 1929, is printed in Dr. Kroner's
pa.per. In her opening pa.ra.gra.phs she states : " At the
wish of the medium the hostess told us to sit up
straight, not to fold hands, or cross feet, or put the
feet forward." Neither Va.lia.ntine nor I ever refer to
sitters "putting their feet forward." They are merely
req_uested to sit up straight and not to cross their knees.
ThiS is the regularly established condition in all " voice "
sittings. It is significant, however, that while Frau
Kroner states she was requested (in German by Frau von
Dirksen) not to put her feet forward, she entirely ignored
this request, and, as she herself confesses later, occupied
the entire time, in compliance with her husband's
instructions, in " fishing about with her feet."
Frau Kroner was seated on Va.lia.ntine's left. She
states that a. number of touches were recorded by the
sitters, and goes on to say: " I also was touched
especially on the right aide of my head. Later on my
right knee was touched, and I bec,.me very frightened and
IN BERLIN 145
shrieked out." What sort of person is this who poses
as a psychic investigator, and whose mental condition is
such that at the first sign of phenomena she becomes
frightened and shrieks outP
Immediately after this she states: " I observed that
the luminous ring on the trumpet was not to be seen for
some time. Shortly after, touches occurred to the sitters
on the other side of the room. At the time the luminous
ring was darkened. I had the di1tinct feeling cu if
1omebody wa1 .Zowly Meeping pad me and I made my
ob1ervatiom known."
It is imperative for me (H.D.B.) to analyse in detail
every statement made by Frau Kr6ner, because in all
her suppositions, assumptions and allegations, she con-
tradicts herself in a most damnatory manner. It is
essential to reconstruct the scene very carefully.
Frau Kroner is seated next to Valiantine. The
luminous trumpet, according to Dr. Kroner's report, is
stationary in the centre of the room. From sitter to
opposite sitter the diameter would therefore be, accord-
ing to Dr. Kroner, about four metres. It would, of
course, be utterly ludicrous to accept such a statement
as " I had the distinct feeling as if " as any evidence
of fact, but, apart from this, Frau Kroner utterly fails to
realize that if Valiantine was fraudulently touchine- the
sitters on the other side of the room then the luminous
ring on the stationary trumpet would not have been
darkened or obscured to her on her &ide. It would only
have been obAcured to the Ritters on the opposite side.
And why, when she had the distinct feeling of somebody
slowly creeping past her and touching sitters on the other
1ide of the room, did she not immediately feel for
Valiantine'' empty chair, since she was sitting next to
himP
Immediately after this Frau Kroner makes the follow-
in~ statement, which I quote verbatim :
1
During the first half of the sitting-as the first
1
voices ' were heard (the 1
voice ' of the so-called Dr.
Barnett, who seemed to come out of the floor, but not out
of the visible trumpet) I tried to feel around in the &pace
between Valiantine and the trumpet. I slowly lifted my
leg to a height of about one metre. I knocked against
some metal object, which hit elastically out at the top-
just as if Valiantine was holding it in his hand. After
this all phenomena stopped until a 1
voice ' out of the air
was heard to aay: 1
Somebody has interrupted.' Here-
146 ... AND AFTER
upon the medium called for a pause, although we all
assured him that we had kept our legs quiet." Here,
unfortunately, the lady lied, doubtless under instruction.
Let us examine this extraordinarily contradictory
statement. Frau Kroner says that she " heard the
'voice' of the so-called Dr. Barnett which seemed to
come out of the floor, and then tried to feel around in
the space between Valiantine and the trumpet." What
did she discover when she was feeling around in this
space P She found nothing. Had Valiantine got up
from his chair to speak into the trumpet when she heard
the " voice " of Dr. Barnett she would inevitably have
caught him bending down during the time she was feel-
ing around. By !!laking this statement Frau Kroner
confirms the fact that the phenomena were genuine. She
states that she not only felt about with her hands but
with her feet, since she says she lifted her leg to the
height of one metre and knocked against some metal
object. It is a difficult and awkward matter for anyone
to lift a leg to the height of one metre in a sitting
position, and why did Frau Kroner adopt this strange
acrobatic course instead of stretching out her hand, which
would not only- have been infinitely easier, but which
would have gtven her far greater radius of reach, in
addition to making a certain discovery of fraud-if fraud
existed.
She records that a '' voice '' from the air was heard
to say: " Somebody has interrupted," and immediately
afterwards confesses that she deliberately lied when say-
ing : " We all assured him that we had kept our legs
quiet." After this she states that : " Suddenly a terrible
thundering voice of an Indian above my head was heard.
Naturally I was fairly shocked." Why should she be
shocked if, as she alleges, all these " voices " were
fraudulently produced by Valiantine?
I will now analyse her final statements, which I quote
verbatim. " Shortly afterwards the sitter on my left-
Student Doring-was called upon by a whispering voice,
which sounded very near to his face. I bent forward
very near to Valiantine and heard with absolute certainty
how he seemingly whispered into an empty object. l
could be absoluteiy certain that the ori~in of the voice
was out of his (Valiantine's) mouth, about one metre
away from where the voice could be hea'l'd by the sitters.,
Let me reconstruct the position of the sitters. Frau
1\rijuer W4'1S o~ Villi~ntine's left, ~nd Stqdent DQring W~ll
IN BERLIN 147
aeated on Frau Kroner's left. Therefore, according to
Dr. Kroner's own approximate measurement of a metre
between each chair, allowing that the seat measure-
ment of the chairs would be about half a metre,
the distance between Valiantine's face and Student
Doring's face would be three metres (or ten feet). Frau
Kroner definitely states that the whispering "voice"
speaking to Student Doring sounded very near hil face.
She then bent forward very near to Valiantine and
alleges she heard him " seemmgly " whispering into the
empty object. For such a statement to be true, this
would necessitate Valiantine possessing a trumpet nearly
three metres long, but Frau Kroner deliberately dis-
credits herself and exposes her own false statement by
saying herself that the " voice " was heard by the sitters
only one metre away. Therefore, by her own statement
the "voice " would be heard, not, as she says, by the
other sitters very near to Student Doring's face, but
immediately to the right hand side (by measurement) of
her own chair. For the " voice " to be heard very near
Student Doring's face it would be necessary for Valiantine
to be speaking immediately in front of Frau Kroner's
own chair, where she would have discovered him immedi-
ately. There is no corroboration whatever for Frau
Kroner's allegation, and had such ~ stupid attemJ>t on
the part of Valiantine been made, he would inev1tably
have been discovered by several others during the fort-
night's series in Berlin.
There is one point of paramount importance. Frau
Kroner states in her report that the sitters were
touched on t.he other side of the room, and says : '' I
had the distinct feeling as if somebody was slowly creep·
ing past me and I made my observations known." Dr.
Kroner states that "she (Frau Kroner) also noticed the
creaking of the floor as if somebody might be walking
about." These points should be noted very carefully.
If Frau Kroner heard the floor creaking and had the
distinct feeling as if somebody was slowly creeping past
her, since she had received explicit instructions from Dr.
Kroner to "investigate by feeling about," why did she
not immediately feel and discover ValiO!Tttine'1 empty
chair 1 This is palpably the first thing that even the
most stupid or inexperienced investigator would do. Not
only could she have done this, but she could easily, by
takmg only one step, have sat herself in Valiantine's
empty chair, and exposed him in flagrante. Why, after
148 ... AND AFTER
all these concocted allegations, was this not done P The
answer is that never for one moment, during the whole
of these sittings, did Valiantine move from his chair.
That there were innumerable and continuous attempts
made by the sitters to discover this empty chair is certain.
Not only Frau Kroner but Frau von Dirksen and many
other sitters, who at di.ilerent times sat on either side
of Valiantine during these seances, had the most obvious
means of discovering him at any time or moment during
any one of the series of seances held in Berlin.
Students who are charitably inclined may seek to
excuse Frau Kroner as a woman suffermg from
emotional stress, and whose imagination of fraud ran
riot. Those less charitably inclined can only, upon her
own statements, conclude that her report is a concoction
of falsities, composed carelessly by her under the
influence of the fixed theories of her husband, Dr.
Kroner.
Frau von Dirk1en's Report and Affirm.ationl
I will now deal with Frau von Dirksen's ?,rinted
report. This appears to have been written w1th the
assistance of Dr. Kroner, and parts of it correspond so
closely in form and style with Dr. Kroner's work as to
suggest dictation. Evidence of this is shown by the fact
that she repeats Dr. Kroner's own remarks and theories
regarding control and conditions, and also records
practically word for word the observations made by Dr.
Kroner and the assumptions he had evolved.
An abbreviation is also printed of Frau Kroner's report
in the form of an " Affirmation under Oath." This
affirmation contains, in a condensed form, the allegations
made in her report with a more frequent use of the
qualifications " 1eemingly " and " apparently."
Frau von Dirksen tabulates her report in fifteen
numbered statements.
In Point 1 she states : " The medium asked for
absolute darkness. The keyholes and cracks in the doors
must be covered."1
Point 2 refers to Valiantine refusing control unless all
the sitters were also controlled by hand and mouth. She
1 Thia i• the uaual and the correct procedure at tJ •• direct ooice ••
.~ance. Aa I •hall ahow later, howeoer, in dealing with Iter report,
Frau oon Dirlc.aon contradict• her own aftJfement.
IN BERLIN 149
states:· " Nobody could be found to risk any sitting under
the conditions made by the medium."1
Point 3. Frau von Dirksen states that when holding
sittings " the medium always arranged for one of his
foreign friends to sit with him." Does Frau von Dirksen
insinuate that I (H.D.B.) or Mrs. Bradley were accom-
plices in fraud? If so, then her attitude to me in her
letter of May 12 proves either that she did not think so,
or that she was acting in a peculiarly deceptive and
treacherous manner towards us. It was absolutely right
to insist that either Mrs. Bradley or myself should sit
with Valiantine. Had we not done so it would have been
a far more difficult task to contend with the allegations
which were evolved.
Frau von Dirksen states in Point 4 that " it was
strictlv forbidden to bend forward and stretch out either
loot o.r arm." I (H.D.B.) personally ~ave instructions
to the sitters. It was not strictly forbidden to bend
forward or to stretch out either foot or arm. I instructed
them to sit up strai~ht and not to cross their legs. It
mi~ht be observed, however, that although Frau von
Dirksen states that it was strictly forbidden not to bend
forward and stretch out feet or arms, the sitters, on their
own confession, did all these things.
Points 5 and 6 refer to the gramophone music, and
states: " In the int-
ervals loud conversations were askPd
for, evidently to arrest the attention and to distract the
auspicious noises." This is a false statement. Loud
conversations were not asked for. I only instructed the
sitters to talk ~enerally in order to keep up the vibrations.
As for distracting attention from suspicious noises, why,
if the su~Jrestion iR that this was to cover the movements
of the medium, did thev not immediately discover him?
Point 7. Frau von Dirksen states that the "so-ca1led
independent voices of the Guides always sounded a8 if
they were bein~ spoken through a trumpet, and I very
soon recoe-nized the altered voice of the medium,
particularly his own laugh, and especially the 'voice ' of
Honey sounded like an altered man's voice." ThiR is
false· ob~ervation, for the "voices " of Valiantine'R
GuideR have be~n heard by many hnndreds of experienced
researchers. Their voices do not sound as if they are
J Why •hould the~ re/ute, and what reason had they for doing .a>
V aliantine·s demand was ab.alutelg justifiable, because it i• now
proved that several of the sifters acted in a fraudulent manner thenh
aelve•, and admit haoing done .a.
150 ... AND AFTER
coming out of the trumpet, and it is a strange assertion
on the :part of those who have had no previous experience
of '' voice '' seances whatever, to say that they very soon
recognized the " voice " of the medium, whereas the
greatest researchers in Europe have entirely failed to do
so, and have agreed that the various " voices " are
entirely different in character, tone and personality. I
personally have spoken to these various Guides on
innumerable occasions for over six years. I know their
" voices," their characteristics, and their personalities
as well as I know those of my most intimate friends.
They have spoken to me at Valiantine's sittings and, on
many occasions, at sittings at which Valiantine ha~ not
been present. I know their " voices " and so do at least
five hundred other people. Therefore I assert with
emphasis that Frau von Dirksen is handicapped by her
suspicions, and distorted in her imagination, when she
makes the utterly false and absurd statement that she
"very soon recognized the altered voice of the medium."
Point 8. Frau von Dirksen refers to the independent
voices failin~ to bring the slightest proof of identity.
She says: ' They gave a ' misty ' sort of breath, or
rather, ' snoring tones,' which either came through the
trumpet or seemingly through a second trumpet, which
was, as :far as we were concerned, invisible, and the
existence of which was held secret from us. The few
German words which could be understood were spoken
with an English accent." There was no " second
trumpet," and the levity with which the suggestion is
made, with the qualification " seemingly," is again
typical of the Kroner methods of scientific investigation.
Point 9. Frau von Dirksen states: " Once, accident-
ally, I dropped my left arm from the arm of the chair
(at the fourth sitting) and clasped a warm living hand,
which was very near to my left knee, seemingly ready to
touch me. This hand drew back at once. But all the
same I felt the jacket sleeve belonging to this hand.
At that time Valiantine sat at my left side." I (H.D.B.)
was personally present at this sitting. It was after this
particular sitting that Frau von Dirksen, in talking to
me alone, said : " We believe in you implicitly, but
are you sure that it is not Valiantine who touches the
sitters P" I asked her what prompted her to ask this
question, and she then said: " Because I thought I felt
a hand quite close to me." She said nothing .whatever
about a coat sleeve. She added this afterwards. I told
IN BERLIN 151
her that such an action on the part of Valiantine would
be absolutely illogical, and that I regarded any psychic
touches as of no value whatever in proof o£ phenomena,
and a fraudulent touch would merely represent an act
of lunacy on Valiantine's part. Frau von Dirksen then
expressed her regret that she had mentioned the thought
which had crossed her mind. It should here be noted
that these are the only points that Frau von Dirksen can
evolve in regard to the whole of the series of the
sittings held in her house, at all of which either I
or Mrs. Bradley was present. She attended every one of
these nine sittings, and sat next to Valiantine practically
the whole time. She was suspicious thou~hout and
purposely gave Valiantine a creaking chair to sit on at the
very first sitting. With such exceptional opportunities
as she had for observation and for the discovery of fraud
on the part of Valiantine, if such fraud existed, the only
semblance of evidence she can bring forward is her state-
ment that once she clasped a warm hand, seemingly
ready to touch her, and is unable to offer a shadow of
proof that this hand was Valiantine's. If she thought
she touched Valiantine's hand at the fourth sitting, then,
as it is recorded that sitters in all parts of the room
were touched, surely both she and the other sitters would
have been able to have caught hold of Valiantine's hands
and thus have exposed him.
It is only when Frau von Dirksen reports upon the
three private sittings she had alone with Valianbne that
she makes any direct accusations against him. It should
be noted that the allegations which she makes have no
corroboration whatever; no witnesses were present.
These are the only occasions upon which Mrs. Bradley or
myself were not present, therefore Frau von Dirksen feels
herself free to make any allegations she may choose
against Valiantine, knowing that such statements cannot
be checked or refuted by an expert witness. It therefore
becomes in these three instances a question of her word
against Valiantine's. Valiantine at this time had to his
credit the remarkable records of phenomena produced
under his mediumship in various parts of the world
durin~ the last ten years, published in several books in
practically every European language, by authors of the
very highest repute. The reports and records contained
therein are attested to by eminent men of science,
medicine, politics, literature and law. It is against these
records that we have to consider the statements made by
152 ... AND AFTER
Frau von Dirksen, whose reputation is quite unknown
internationally, who possesses :no experience whatever of
psychic phenomena, who is entirely ignorant of its laws,
and who displays, as I shall show, not only inefficiency,
ignorance, and gross contradiction in her reports oi these
three private sittings, but, as I shall prove, gives a
deliberate falsification of the actual happenings.
I must analyse meticulously each sentence of Frau von
Dirksen's reJ>ort concerning the allegations she has made
against Vahantine. In her sittings with him alone she
opens point 10 by stating : '' The real proof of swindle I
had during an afternoon private sitting, while Valiantine
sat with me alone." It is significant that Frau von
Dirksen refers to this as a real proof, since she herself
apparently realizes that none of her previous points can
be judged as real, or possessing any semblance of credible
evidence. Frau von Dirksen then goes on to state: "The
room was absolutely darkened, but Valiantine overlooked
a small crack of the door through which the light fell on
him, especially when he bent forward to speak into the
trumpet, which stood before him on the floor. Although
I drew his attention to this light he said: 'It does not
matter.' Either he believed one could not see him, or
he thought me a particularly stupid fool. In this way
I also saw the second trumpet through which Bert Everett
spoke from a height. I also saw how this trumpet rose
and sank-all depending if Valiantine wanted the voice
to come from a height or from the floor." The whole of
this statement is a concoction, and it can definitely be
proved as such by any student who cares to rehearse the
seance described by Frau von Dirksen. In an absolutely
darkened room it would be utterly impossible to see
various movements she describes. All it would be possible
to see from the interior of an absolutely darkened room
would be the obscuration of the light of the small crack
in the door. Nothing whatever of any description could
possibly be recognized under such circumstances. Even
to observe obscuration it would be necessary for both
sitters to be seated in a direct straight line with the small
crack in the door. This would involve both Valiantine
and Frau von Dirksen holding this sitting in the most
awkward and unnatural positions in the room. Is it
likely that Valiantine, with his vast experience of
" direct voice " seances, would deliberately choose such
an absurdly unusual position for sitting? (I will latt\r
give Valiantine's description of this sitting, and the
IN BERLIN 158
positions occupied by him and Frau von Dirksen, but
first I will deal with the allegation upon her own state-
ment.) Frau von Dirksen states that the light fell on
him. This is an obviously false statement. The light
seen through the small crack of closed door casts no ray
into the interior. To make a short, plain statement of
truth is a simple matter, but to invent allegations of
incidents which could not occur is much more intricate.
This particular afternoon sitting took place, she states,
on Saturday, May 11. That is, only two days before
Valiantine left Berlin, and after he had been staying in
Frau von Dirksen's house for twelve days, durin~ the
whole of which time she was seeking to discover h1m in
fraud. She then makes the amazing statement: " I drew
his attention to this light and he said: ' It does not
matter.' " Is it logical to imagine for one moment if
Valiantine were sitting with the deliberate intent of
cheatin~, that when Frau von Dirksen, as she alleges,
drew h1a attention to this purported light, he would be
so utterly foolish as to invite his trickery to be exposed
by saying: " It does not matter "P If a faint crack of
light was showing through the door, then a remark from
Valiantine that "it does not matter" is evidence of his
.
genuineness.
Frau von Dirksen goes on to say that she " also saw
a second trumpet," and states how this trumpet " rose
and sank." There was no second trumpet, and even if
there were it would have been utterly impossible for her
to see it. All that anyone could observe under such
conditions would be a partial obscuration if any object
passed in a direct straight line with the crack of the door.
Why did she not discover this " second trumpet " after
the sitting? Valiantine could not conceal a large metal
instrument aliout his person.
Frau von Dirksen, inexpert and careless in lier allega-
tions, omits to indicate whether she or Valiantine faced
the crack of the door. The only possible way for her to
observe even obscuration would be for her to be facing the
door, in a direct straight line, and for Valiantine to have
his back to it. If she had her back to the door then she
could see nothing at all. If Valiantine was seated with
his back to the door, then his body would obscure the
light to the top of his head, and it would be utterly
impossible for Frau von Dirksen to observe the trumpet
sinking to the floor. Beyond this, even to obtain a partial
obscuration of the alleged light above the top of his head,
154 •.. AND AFTER
it would be necessary for Valiantine to raise the trumpet
straight in front of his face in a direct line with his nose.
But if, with fraudulent intent, he raised it, in an
obviously natural manner either with the left or the ri~ht
hand, it would be automatically at an angle from whiCh
there would be no obscuration whatsoever. It must be
emphasized that even had it been possible for Frau von
Dirksen merely to observe obscuration this would be no
proof of fraud, but to assert that she actually saw the
various incidents which she enumerates is a false
statement.
Frau von Dirksen states that the " so-called voice of
her dead husband spoke here for the first time-distinct
and unconnected and especially in English . . . he was
not able to give any proof of identity on any account.. . .
The voice was still speaking weakly and whispering-." I
am not in any way surprised that this "voice " was
unable to maintain any fluency of conversation. I will,
however, deal later with the entirely contradictory state-
ments made by Frau von Dirksen to Mrs. Bradley and
Valiantine.
Point 11. Frau von Dirksen states : " The most.
dis~usting thing was the so-called materialized hand,
whtch Valiantine held before my face about one metre
away, on which, through light coming through the crack
of the door, I distinctly could see the sleeve belonging
to Valiantine; seemingly he had his hand or glove painted
with luminous paint, which Dr. Quade had left behind.
I had already seen this hand about two metres away,
so he called my attention to it. Now I begged that the
hand might come nearer-! could not see it distinctly.
It came nearer to me, about one metre away, whereu'{>on,
as I have already said, I could see the sleeve, the hght
falling through the crack of the door." In addition to
this statement, in her" Affirmation in lieu of Oath " she
states: " I saw his hand so distinctly that I could
recognize it as the SllALL, DELICATE, PLUlriP HAND OP
VALIANTINE, which had not the slightest resemblance to
the large, strong hand of my husband. I also remarked
at once that it was not the hand of my husband. After
the sitting Valiantine begged me to give him a testimony
that I had seen the materialized hand of my husband.
This, however, I declined to do."
The whole of this statement is an invention on the
part of Frau von Dirksen, who states clearly and
distinctly that she recognized the SKALL, DELICATE, PLUKP
IN BERLIN 155
HAND OF VALIANTINE. Valiantine is an exceptionally
1hOTt man, his actual height is five feet four inches, and
Frau von Dirksen carelessly assumed, when fabricating
her report, after Valiantine had left Berlin, that he would
naturally possess small a.nd delicate hands. Unfortunately
for Frau von Dirksen, the physical facts of the case con-
found her allegations. So far from his hands being
small, Valiantine's hands are long, broad and heavy.
They are actually so big that they are the same size as
those of the average man of over six feet in height.
Mr. Noel Jaquin, a well-known expert on hands, has
written two scientific books on the subJect. He has taken
the imprints of the hands of most of the famous men
in England, and has in his possession the imprint of
Valiantine. Immediately I read Frau von Dirksen's
statement in Dr. Kroner's report, I got into communica-
tion with Mr. Noel J aquin, and procured from him a
report upon the size of Valiantine's hands, and also a
photograph of the imprint. (This photograph was
published in Germany.) The following is Mr. Noel
Jaquin's verbatim report:
I have in my possession the actual imprints of George
Valiantine's hands, left and right; these were taken by
myself, and I would describe Valiantine's hands as long,
broad and heavy.
Valiantine'1 hand
Length of hand (finger-tips to base of palm) 7-frr inches.
Wic:fth across base of fingers 31\r inches.
Length of middle finger 3y\ inches.
Length of little finger 2l inches.
Valiantine is a short, .
rather heavily built man.
Compare the measurements of his hands with those of
Sir Oliver Lodge, who is over 6 feet in height.
Sir Oliver Lodge'1 hand
Length of hand (finger-tips to base of palm) 7-frr inches.
Width across base of fingers 3! inches.
Length of little finger 2i inches.
Bernard Shaw'1 hand
Length of hand (finger-tips to base of palm) 7-frr inches.
I have purposely chosen two hands of big and tall
men. My own hand is not abnormally small, and I am
about the same height and build as Valiantine, making
allowance for age.
156 ... AND AFTER
My own hand
Length of hand (finger-tips to base of palm) 61 inches.
(Signed) NOEL JAQUIN.
Here is irrefutable proof that Frau von Dirksen's
allegations are valueless concoctions.
It may also be added that never has such an illogical
statement been made as that contained in her affirma-
tion when she says: " I remarked at once that it was
not the hand of my husband. After the sitting
Valiantine begged me to give him a testimony that I
had seen the materialized hand of my husband." Had
this concocted incident occurred how could Valiantine
possibly know what the hand of her husband was like,
and after her ·remarking, "it was not the hand of my
husband," is it conceivable that anyone but an idiot
would ask for a testimony from her that she had seen
her husband's hand P Not one word did Frau von
Dirksen ever mention in regard to her invention of the
materialized hand, either to Valiantine, or to Mrs.
Bradley, while they were in Berlin. The first news of
such an allegation was conveyed in Dr. Kroner's report,
which was published in October-over four months after
the sitting and long after Valiantine had returned to
America.
I wrote to Valiantine, and forwarded him an extract
of Frau von Dirksen's allegations. Valiantine replied
to me at once, as follows:
" I recollect that I sat one afternoon with Frau von
Dirksen in the dark. You are well aware of the fact
that what she says is a deliberate lie. In the first place,
I sat in the corner of the room, and there was no light
coming in at all. We sat nowhere near the door, and
we had what I call a good sitting, which Frau von
Dirksen admitted afterwards before Mrs. Bradley and
my wife."
The latter statement is confirmed br. Mrs. Bradley.
Valiantine's statement that this sttting took {>lace in
the corner of the room is absolutely natural. Thts is the
way a sittin~ with two sitters would take place, because
with a " votce medium " with only one other sitter no
circle can be formed. I can state positively from my
own experiences in such cases that this is the usual
position to adopt, in order to conserve the forces necessary
IN BERLIN 157
for physical phenomena. Frau von Dirksen's allegation
that they both sat in the awkward position of a direct
strai~ht line in front of the crack in the door is unnatural
and illogical.
On the same evening of the day on which this after-
noon sitting took place, a seance with a circle of some
ei~ht persons was held. If, as she alleges, Frau von
Duksen had discovered him in the afternoon, when she
sat with him alone, she had obvious and unlimited
opportunities of discovering him again that evening. She
discovered nothing, and would not even dare to allege
that she discovered anything. Why P Because Mrs.
Bradley was present on this occasion, and she knew that
had she presumed to evolve any allegations whatever
they could be immediately dealt with.
It was at this particular sitting that the unmarried
daughter of Frau von Dirksen, who was very decidedly
antagonistic towards psychic research, asked if she mi~ht
join the circle. She was allowed to do so. Accordmg
to Mrs. Bradley's report, the Guides, " Bert Everett"
and "Dr. Barnett," came through at intervals, saying
" Sit up straight," and again, " Do not touch each
other," and making other remarks of a similar nature.
A spirit voice came through and spoke to one of the
sitters, saying it was his brother. The sitter asked
" Which brother? " and there was no answer. The
voice then spoke again, and the sitter asked "Why are
you talking with an English accent? " There was no
answer, and after a little while Dr. Barnett announced
that the sitting- must close. The circle was broken up,
but Mrs. Bradley suggested that she and Frau von
Dirksen might try and sit again with Valiantine, and
find out what was wrong. At this sitting Dr. Barnett
came through, and in reply to a question as to why the
sitting was closed he remarked to Frau von Dirksen:
" Your daughter was ·reaching out her hand to the
trumpet." On leaving the seance room her daughter
was accused of this action, but she denied it. However,
upon pressure being brought upon her, she admitted that
ehe had stretched out her arms when the trurupet was
lifted. Mrs. Bradley asked her what she meant by
committing such an action when she had been distinctly
instructed not to do so, and she replied that she felt a~
if something was in front of her. Mrs. Bradley told
her that all she had 11ucceeded in doing was to upset
the seance. Mrs. Bradley then asked two of the sitten,
158 ... AND AFTER
who had sat during the first part of the evening,
whether they thought the voice speaking to the man
sitter, saying it was his brother, had an English accent,
and they said, in front of Frau von Dirksen, that it " was
speaking very good German.'' After this Frau von
Dirksen said to Mrs. Bradley that she was extremely
annoyed with her daughter, and that she would punish
her.
Is it not utterly inexplicable that after claiming to
have discovered Valiantine in a swindle during the
afternoon Frau von Dirksen should say, " I will punish
my daughter for interfering with the phenomena "?
Point 12 deals with my letter to Frau von Dirksen,
and incidents unconnected with the sittings. I will
refer to this later.
Point 13. Frau von Dirksen describes the two daylight
sittings which she had with Valiantine alone. At a day-
light sitting it is, of course, possible to watch him closely
and to observe even the faintest movement of his lips or
throat. That is the chief purpose. Valiantine has held
daylight sittin~s with ~ very large number of well-
known people, Including several members of the English
Society for Psychical Research. It would occupy too
much space to give the full testimonies, many of which
are included in "The Wisdom of the Gods."
Frau von Dirksen does not presume to make any
allegations against Valiantine in re~ard to these two day-
light sittings which she held with him. In fact, she is
even compelled to state: " Certainly no movement of
Valiantine's mouth could be observed." She, however,
describes the manner in which he sat incorrectly, and
endeavours in a peculiarly inexpert and confused manner
to convey that the phenomena could be imitated. She
says: " My brother and I were able to imitate the mani-
festations which occurred at once, without any difficulty,
by whispering with closed lips and by holding the
trumpet in the same manner as the medium." This is
an impossibility. To endeavour to imitate Valiantine's
daylight phenomena by such childish methods is an
insult to the intelligence of the many and famous
researcliers who have sat with him. Frau von Dirksen
omits to state the actual facts of these two sittings. The
details, however, are as follow:
The first daylight sitting with Frau von Dirksen was
apparently not successful, but she informed me (H.D.B.),
in the presence of Valiantine, tliat raps were heard inside
IN BERLIN 159
the trumpet and that she had heard a "voice," although
she could not understand what was said. She stated,
however, that she could not see Valiantine's face, because
while he held the trumpet his hand obscured his face.
At the second sitting she received some sort of com-
munication, and she told Mrs. Bradley, as at the previous
sitting, she could not see Valiantine's face, but that
he had told her to hold a mirror in front of her so that
she could observe any movement. Mrs. Bradley asked
F.rau von Dirksen, after this sitting, whether she had
received any communication, and Frau von Dirksen
replied: " Yes, it was very good. I heard my husband's
voice." Frau von Dirksen appeared to be extremely
pleased, and Mrs. Bradley then asked her whether she
would write her comments, and she replied that she would.
She, however, omitted to do so, and Mrs. Bradley again,
at a later date, asked her if she would put her state-
ment in writing, and again Frau von Dirksen said she
would. She still did not do so, and on being asked for
the third time she said that she felt she had not received
sufficient evidence. She also added that there was one
particular question she had put to the " voice " to which
she did not succeed in gettins a reply. These are the
plain facts of the case. Not a smgle question or reference
of any sorl was once made by Frau von Dirksen to any
such thing as a " materialized hand."
Point 14. Frau von Dirksen states: " ... the
trumpet, when tapping the ceiling, seemed to be thrown
up, whereupon it fell twice very clumsily."
This is not evidence. '' Seemed to be '' is not proof.
Point 15. Frau von Dirksen states that " on one
occasion we were all compelled to close in into half a
circle - Valiantine sitting in an absolutely isolated
position opposite to the other sitters-leaving a distance
between the sitters on the right and left of him at least
one and a half metres." This statement is entirely
incorrect. The Valiantine circles were all formed in the
usual manner. Frau von Dirksen endeavours to raise a
point with apparent intention to incite prejudice, and
omits to mention that any phenomena took place, or
even to allege that any fraudulent action was observed.
Point 12 does not refer in any way to any incident
which took place at the various sittings, but to my
correspondence and my conversations with her during my
stay in Berlin. Even in this reference Frau von Dirksen
makes several false statements. Referring to my letter
160 ... AND AFTER
written to her in Berlin on May 4 she sa;ys : " The reason
for this letter was the shock my daughter received by
knocking against the illegitimate trumpet.'' This is
untrue. I knew nothing whatever of her daughter
receiving a knock from the trumpet. The first intima-
tion of this allegation that I received was when I had
read Dr. Kroner's report. There is no proof whatever
of the existence of such a thing as an '' illegitimate
trumpet." My letter to Frau von Dirksen was clear and
concise. In it I said distinctly that I had held a private
sitting at the Hotel Excelsior-which was brilliantly
successful-and quoting verbatim from my letter I
stated: "I had a long conversation with ' Dr. Barnett '
and asked him for the cause of our comparative failures
at your house. He said that from many of the sitters
there had produced an atmosphere of distrust which
created unfavourable conditions and rendered communica-
tions extremely difficult." I went on to say that I was
averse from permitting any further seance unless every
sitter undertook to observe the proper conditions and not
to interfere with the phenomena. Frau von Dirksen's
suggestion in her report implies that I (H.D.B.) was an
accomplice in fraud, which again is an entire contradic-
tion to her letter to me dated May 11 (two days before
Valiantine left Berlin), in which, addressing me
familiarly by my Christian name, she wrote:
" DEAR HERBERT,
" Many thanks for all your kindness. I assure you
in the next war you shall not be killed by me.
" (Signed) VICTORIA V. DIRKSEN."
Frau von Dirksen states in her report: '' Mr. Bradley
asserted that in the full daylight Bert Everett had told
him that Valiantine was in danger in my house, and that
he must take Valiantine back with him on the following
day, or give notice to the American Embassy that an
American subject was in danger of his life, and that I
(Frau von Dirksen) as the hostess, was responsible.
Seemingly one of the sitters intended to turn on a light,
which would endanger the medium's life." All these
statements are false. I did not assert that in full day-
light Bert Everett had said this : nor did I make any
reference to the American Embassy. To illustrate the
deplorable manner in which Frau von Dirksen evolves
her allegations, the- following are the facts : On :this
IN BERLIN 161
particular evening when I retired for the night, I asked
Valiantine to come with me to my private sitting-room.
I told him that I did not feel at all satisfied w1th the
situation~ and together we held a private sitting. We were
told that there was grave danger that one of the sitters
might suddenly turn on a light, and that if the sittings
were continued, it was imperative that the danger of
such an action should be impressed upon Frau von
Dirksen. Strangely enough, although it was midnight,
Frau von Dirksen came to my room, accompanied by my
wife. I told her at once that Valiantine and I had held
a private sitting and what had taken place. I warned
her that if, after I had left Berlin, such a trick were
played upon Valiantine by any of the sitters, it might
prove disastrous and that I should hold her personally
responsible, and that the Briti1h Embassy would be
notified in case of such an action.
Frau von Dirksen's report is appallingly careless.
How would it be possible to hold a full daylight sitting
at midnight?
The rest of Frau von Dirksen's statement in Point 12,
although unimportant in text, is also entirely incorrect.
There are, I assert emphatically, deliberate inventions
upon her part. She winds up by saying that "she
:promised me she would give her guests the various
mstructions, although she felt it was too much to expect."
What does she mean by thia involved remarkP Evidently
she means that she could not trust her German guests.
At the finish of this point she says: " I hoped for either
positive results, or to a.fford the interested sitters an
opportunity of discovering the real swindle." Here
again she displays her mentality, and here again she
illustrates the incomprehensible failure of all the sitters
at the many seances held after this date to discover any
swindle whatever.
In her "Affirmation , with her signature appended,
dated June 12, she states: " I have made the following
observation of 1eeming swindle, which I give without
commentary." Of what value to a scientific investigator
is a casual observation upon a " 1eeming " thing? In
this Affirmation under Oath she states: " At a sitting
held on Friday, May 3, I got hold of a warm living hand,
which was very near to my left knee. This hand was
immediately withdrawn, but I was still able to feel the
coat sleeve belonging to this hand. Valiantine, at this
F
162 ... AND AFTER
sitting, was seated on my left." This was untrue. No
sitting whatever was held at the house of Frau von
Dirksen on Friday, May 3. This was the date on which,
with Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine, my wife and I dined wit.h
our personal friends, and held a seance afterwards at the
Hotel Excelsior.
The report of Frau von Dirksen was made after
Valiantine had left the country, and her "Affirmation
under Oath " was signed by her on June 12-one month
after Valiantine had left Berlin. Both her report and
her affirmation contain statements which I have proved
to be false. In the whole of the contentions she has
brought forward there is not one iota of evidence of fraud.
During my stay at Frau von Dirksen's peculiar
incidents occurred, which had never happened to me
whilst I have been a guest in any house in any country.
Telegrams addressed to me were opened and read and
handed to me afterwards. Excuses were made by her
butler that Frau von Dirksen had opened them in error.
Since these telegrams-which incidentally contained
nothing of a private nature--were correctly addressed to
" Dennis Bradley-12 Margarettenstrasse--Berlin," it is
inexplicable that they should have been opened accident-
ally. One such accident is possible, but a mistake of this
kind often repeated becomes tiresomely obvious. I am
not accustomed to having my correspondence tampered
with.
Baroness E. von P.'s Report and Affirmation
Baroness von P. is the daughter of Frau von Dirksen,
and whilst I was in Berlin, during conversation she quite
frankly told me that she was opposed to the holding of
seances and to attempts to get 1nto communication with
" spirits." As a matter of fact, the whole of Frau von
Dirksen's family were sceptical or antagonistic.
Baroness E. von P.'s report is utterly worthless. It
contains no points which could possibly be accepted as
evidence of fraud. She states: " I felt very nervou1,
holding my hands on my knees and on one occasion
shaking intensely as a hard object touched my left knee.
Quick as lightning I struck out, and felt a hollow, tin-
like instrument, which rang with a metallic sound and
withdrew immediately.'' Here again is a nervous and
emotional type of woman, who should never .be invited
to attend a seance.
IN BERLIN 168
At the second sitting she states: " I stretched out my
leg, whereupon I was again carefully touched b1 a hard
instrument which came from Valiantine's s1de....
After about half an hour I had a strong feeling that
someone was standing before me. I stretched my arm
straight out and touched a gentleman's suit, whose owner
quickly withdrew." If she touched-as she says-a
gentleman's suit, and thought this was Valiantine's, why
did she not immediately expose him?
The statements made by: the Baroness von P. prove
nothing at all, and the evidence of any sitter confessing
to " feeling very nervous and shaking intensely with
fright " must always be suspect. All the Baroness von
P. succeeds in proving is that she, like the majority of
the other sitters in Berlin, was occupying her time in
feeling and stretching about.
Report of Griifin Bianca Beck-Rzikowsti
The publication of the Grafin's report is an absolute
waste of space. She makes no allegations whatever
against Vahantine, but merely states her scepticism and
mistrust. She says that Dr. Kroner had warned her on
the telephone beforehand of his scepticism. The Grafin
makes one false statement. She says that phenomena
occurred only when a gramophone was playing as loudly
as possible, or when conversation was in full swing.
Invariably at the Valiantine sittings, and certainly
always during the Berlin series, when phenomena took
place the gramophone was immediately stopped and the
sitters were always requested to keep silent.
The Grnfin's report consists of such statements as: " I
immediately received the impression that nothing was
genuine"- " He (Valiantine) appeared to be particularly
mistrustful of me " - " The voice which spoke seemed to
me to be that of someone imitating a woman's voice. It
sounded abRolutely in no way mvsterious " - " It appeared
to me rather suspicious ''-" The touchin~s through the
trumpet did not create the slightest mediumistic impres-
sion upon me " - " The ball of light also made no
impre~sion upon me." This sort of nonsense, these banal
statements, are set forth by Dr. Kroner as evidence of
fraud.
164 ... AND AFTER
Report of Professor Hans Driesch
The one and only sitting attended by Professor Hans
Driesch was that held on Sunday, May 5, at which I
(H.D.B.) was present.
Before the sitting there was the usual large dinner-
party. Frau von Dirksen had invited, among other
guests, a clergyman of one of the principal Berlin
churches, Professor DrieRch, Chairman and past
President o~ the English Society for Psychical Research,
and a certain Baron-whose name I for~et-a. charming
man, to whom I shall refer later. Conditions again
seemed to be disturbed. There was certainly no
semblance of harmonv among the circle. The German
clergyman-~ood fellow as he may be-was chiefly
occupied in voluble duologues with various of the sitters.
Certain of the Valiantine " Guides " came throu~h and
spoke in their individual and characteristic manner in
short sentences. To this I can firmly testify. One of
the German spirits endeavoured to sneak, but I have no
knowled~e of what the voice was attemptin~ to say. It
was certainly indistinct, and only managed to articulate
a few short sentences. Tlie sitting did not last lonrr
because it was broken up by Baron --, who asked if
he rni~ht leave the sitting as he felt ill, and added that
he felt as if a tremendous lot of power was being drawn
from him.
We stayed on afterwards for a short time, but nothing
more transpired, and the sitting was then closed.
Professor Driesch chatted to me for a while when the
sittin~ was over, asking me to visit him whenever I was
in Germany, and told me that he thought the " sittinJl
was very interestin~," but I informed him that I
rel?arded it as entirely ne~ative.
In Professor Driesch's report he makes no allel?ations
a~ainst Valiantine whatever, and he most certainlv failed
to discover any direct evidence of fraud. He has had
no e:eperience whatever of " d1:rect voice " phenomena;
be knows nothing of the conditions necessary to obtain
the phenomenon of "voices," and in ~is report ·he
contents himself with mildly criticizinl? tlie conditions,
and offerinJ,! alternative assumptions. It is interesting
to observe, however, that in Point 1 he remarks, "the
cracks in the door, through which the light could
IN BERLIN 165
penetrate, were covered." This, of course, is the correct
and necesaary procedure. I am glad that Professor
Driesch records this fact, as again it refutes Frau von
Dirksen's statement that Valiantine said, " The light
through the crack of the door did not matter," when
she wanted to invent an excuse for saying she 1ato
incidents which never took place.
Professor Driesch states that " the trumpet moved
several times in the air," and, later, "A few English
words were spoken. After this, apparently my father
spoke to me in German, but he only uttered a few words
which were of no value-and these were spoken in a
gruff, quiet voice-possibly to cover the American accent.
After this a shepherd spoke to me from Palermo (Christo
d'Angelo) with whom I conversed for some time in
Italian, but this was nothing of any account."
Now Professor Driesch states that the trumpet was
lifted several times in the air, and that he conversed for
some time with Christo d'Angelo in Italian. Surely if
these phenomena were being fraudulently produced it
would have been a simple matter for an expert researcher
to have caught the medium. I would personally
guarantee that I would catch a fraudulent medium
within the first few minutes. Incidentally, I may inform
Professor Driesch that to my absolute knowledge Valian-
tine does not speak Italian.
As I stated in my report, I l'egarded this sitting as a
negative one, and unquestionably Professor Driesch is
entitled to make any assumptions he wishes, but the
expression of his doubts, imaginations, and suspicions
cannot be accepted scientifically as evidence in refutation
of phenomena.
Professor Driesch is a careless determinist if he
ventures an opinion upon one solitary experience, which
was recorded as comparatively negative, and which was
curtailed after a few phenomena by the illness of a sitter.
In the Transactions of the fourth International
Congress, published by the S.P.R., Professor Driesch
uttered an immortal dictum which epitomizes a certain
type of mentality. It should be recorded in history.
He said: " It is better to reject a hundred genuine cases
than to accept a single false one."
I will leave any scientific researcher, psychical or
otherwise, to judge Professor Driesch by such a remark.
Is there, in this progressive age, any conceivable branch
of scientific research in which a student would reject a
166 ... AND AFTER
hundred genuine cases because of his fear lest a hundred
and first might eventually be discovered to be false P
After the expression of such a dictum one may dismiss
the opinions of Professor Driesch as possessing no value.
According to his own statement they are likely to prove
at least 99 per cent. wrong.
Report oI Dr. Schwab
Having dealt with a conglomeration of assumptions,
suppositions and false statements, it is a relief to read the
clear and concise published report o£ Dr. Schwab. It
is a calm and reserved account of the seance at which
he was present. He describes the phenomena correctly,
and the various sounds of the " voices." He states that
the luminous trumpet, when speaking to Baroness Y. on
his left, was so near to him that it would have been
quite possible £or him to have .reached it with his hand.
He goes on to say that the " voice " speaking in Italian
spoke quite fluently with the Princess X, and that he
noticed from the metal sound of the trumpet that there
was no possibility of ventriloquism.
This is a perfectly fair account o£ what I (H.D.B.)
personally judged to be a negative sitting. Dr. Schwab
states that at the conclusion Dr. Barnett said there had
been " interruptions." These interruptions, of course,
occurred at every seance held in Berlin.
I observe with amusement that Dr. Kr<Sner did not
request a further affirmation in lieu of oath from Dr.
Schwab upon the statements which he made.
Report oI Dr. Quade
In Dr. Quade's report he refrains from making an.,
allegations of fraud whatever against Valiantine, and h1s
description of the incidents and the phenomena which
took place are quite fairly stated. He says : " I had
brought with me some luminous paint, and placed some
on the upper part (the small end) o£ the trumpet-the
wider end of the trumpet had already been luminouslv
painted. By my placing a luminous ring on the smafl
end of the trumpet one should have been able to observe
a hand touching that portion of the instrument. The
darkening of this luminous band by the touching of a
hand was not observed during the sitting, although the
trumpet was wafted round in a very'wide circle."
IN BERLIN 167
It will be observed that although Dr. Kroner in his
report endeavours to make a big point of my objecting
to Dr. Quade's condition of a luminous band, yet here
it is distinctly stated by Dr. Quade that no darkenin~ of
this luminous band was observed during this sitbng,
and that the trumpet was wafted round in a wide circle,
in the usual manner that it does at the Valiantine sittings.
Dr. Quade states : " I was touched once on my knee
and once on my head. The last touch I cannot explain
because Valiantine, to perform this fraudulently, would
be compelled to walk through the circle, past the
luminous trumpet in the centre, step up to me and put
his hand on my head, which would have been most
difficult, but it appears to me not impossible." This is
quite a fair and logical criticism.
In reference to the " spirit lights," which Dr. Kroner
somewhat crudely assumes to have been made by a pocket
light, Dr. Quade states : " I should say that the
reproduction from a patent pocket lighter seems im-
possible, but there might be other means of producing
this artificial light."
Dr. Quade attended only two sittings, and both of
these were poor and, as I reported, c_omparatively
negative in results. He merely states that the pheno-
mena might be artificially produced, but it must be
recorded that he does not make any direct accusations.
Ba1'on von L.'a Repo1't and Afli1'mation
Baron von L. was present at several of the Valiantine
sittings, and he makes two lengthy reports, which are
published.
Baron von L. throughout cheerfully assumes that fraud
existed, but is unable to bring forward any proof. In
fact, in his Affirmation, he can only mention two
insignificant points of observation, and neither of these
can be ascribed to Valiantine. Baron von L. has, of
course, no experience of " voice " sittings. He
endeavours to state as fairly as possible the phenomena
which took place and his opinions regarding them.
9pinions and assumptions, however, are not evidence.
The student will observe that many of Baron von L.'s
statements are at variance with those of the other sitters.
His description of the supernormal movements of the
168 ... AND AFTER
trumpet are distinct and clear. He said: "It made rapid
circles in the air, passing very near our heads and then
returning to the centre." Again, " a deep voice came
from out of the middle of the carpet. To me it appeared
to come through the trumpet. The music ceased. The
' voice' of the guide was plainly understood." This is
an absolutely correct description of Dr. Barnett's
"voice." He also states that "the trumpet was again
lifted and remained stationary in the air, in front of
Frau von Dirksen, at about the height of her knee."
I mention these points because it should be understood
how difficult it would be for Valiantine fraudulently to
manipulate this trumpet, which at times touched Frau
von Dirksen softly on the face and head, while a "spirit
voice " was s{>eaking through it to her. To perform
this action Vahantine would have to be within the closest
proximity to her and by stretching out a hand or foot
she could have immediately discovered him.
Baron von L. states "the various and mostly loud
and sudden voices of the Guides ' worked ' at the
commencement were frightening. Whisperings from
out of the trumpet uncanny, and the direct touchings
rather uncomfortable." He then proceeds to state : " To
me it seemed as i£ the trumpet was always held by its
smaller end by someone when whizzing round the circle,
but I may be mistaken."1
Referring to the spirit lights, Baron von L. states
that ii " seemed absolutely to be produced from the wheel
of a pocket lighter." This, however, he very fairly
qualifies by saying: " It was a surprise to me that I
could not see the band with which It would have been
necessary to hold this lighter." Baron von L. goes on
to say: " I also imagine to have seen about twenty-five
centimetres away from the light, sideways, the outline
of a human head." Here follows immediately a very
significant statement, which should be carefully studied.
It is as follows: " Although I endeavoured in every
way possible to catch Valiantine I found nothing
tangible by which I could accuse him of fraud."
He continues : " At the daylight sittings for two,
when Valiantine holds the trumpet with both hands, one
l 0/ coarae the trumpet had to be held by aomeone ; if waa held
by aapemormal force• with a materialized hand. I (H.D.B.) have, on
dozena of occarion•, felt and talten hold of the apirif hand• and have
had hand• and arm• placed round me, ptffting me on the ahoalder
and tallci"-6 at the aame time aa Valiantine himaelf i• addreaaing
remarlt• to me.
IN BERLIN 169
can very easily imitate the whispering voice, with nearly
cloaed lips and without moving them.'"'
In regard to this, I must state emphatically that at
daylight sittings Valiantine's lips are quite clo1ed and
not nearly clo1ed, and the faintest movement can be
observed by those who sit with him.
Baron von L. makes the following statement: ''Direct
fWOOjl oj1windle accOf'ding to my ob1ervatiom have NOT
been e1tablilhed.''
Baron von L. attended in all five different sittings, and
he states: '' After some time I felt rather dull on
account of the everlasting repetition of negative pheno-
mena, and, lastly, I felt highly disgusted at the apparent
swindle." With reference to this statement I must point
out that feeling dull at negative phenomena does not
indicate apparent swindle.
Referring to the sitting which took place on Saturday,
May 4, Baron von L. states: "We had all promised
on this occasion to take part without any restraint, and
with the best of faith. I told Valiantlne of this and
expressed the hope that some really interesting pheno-
mena would occur at last, which, to a certain eztent,
happened.''
As apparently the phenomena on this occasion were
of interest to Baron von L., it is a pity that he doea not
state the details.
He states : " I am convinced that Valiantine could not
speak German, but evidently he spoke very good Italian,
because one voice which spoke on two occasions was
particularly clear and absolutely understandable." Baron
von L. has no grounds whatever for making the assertion
that "Valiantine speaks very good Italian." I repeat
that I know Valiantine does not speak Italian.
Baron von L. brings not one iota of proof of fraud
against Valiantine.
. . . .
At the conclusion of these various reports Dr. Kr6ner
proceeds again to air his opinions at length. He com-
mences with misstatements regarding the fee which was
paid to Valiantine by Frau von Dirksen towards his
expenses in travelling to Europe. He states : " Valian-
tine desired to return his fee of three thousand marks
because he was not trusted, and he wanted to end the
sittings. He was, however, talked over by Frau von
Dirksen to retain the money, and to continue the further
experiments.'~
170 ..• AND AFTER
This gives an entirely false impression of the facts of
the case. It was not a question of Valiantine merely
''desiring'' to return the money-he actually did
return this money. Quoting from my own records the
following are the facts :
" On Saturday, .May 4, Valiantine wrote to Frau von
Dirksen, saying that the conditions were so disturbing
that he did not wish to continue and, in the circum-
stances, would not agree to accept any contribution from
her; he therefore returned to her the three thousand
marks which she had ~iven him towards his expenses in
travelling from Amer1ca. As I was lunching on this
day with a member of the British Embassy I did not
return to the house until late afternoon. Frau von
Dirksen immediately came to my rooms almost in tears,
and profuse in protestations and apologies. She was
emotional and effusive, and assured me that she would
insist upon the correct attitude of the sitters in future,
that the conditions which had been originally specified
should be maintained, and that the action of the sitters
should be rigidly disci~lined. She begged me to rescind
my decision, and also 1mplored my wife to intercede for
her. Eventually I agreed to defer any decision. It
should be mentioned that she went to Valiantine, and,
throwing down the letter which he had written to her
returning the three thousand marks, said she wished to
' forget she had ever received the letter.' "
Since these facts are quite important, why does Dr.
Kroner omit to mention them?
Referring to my letter to Frau von Dirksen, Dr.
Kroner states: " The accusations made by the control-
ling spirit of Dr. Barnett are not true. The accusation
was made on account of the bad conscience of .Mr.
Valiantine." Dr. Kroner has no justification whatever
in advancing such an assumption as a direct assertion.
I accept sole responsibility for my letter. Valiantine
had made no complaint whatever, even to me, before the
sitting held at the Excelsior Hotel, beyond regretting that
the sittings had proved negative.
Dr. Kroner again displays his colossal ignorance and
utter lack of experience, by saying, " What naivete to
expect the alert medium ... to be killed by an un-
expected ray of light ! " I have already proved that
Valiantine was seriously injured on one occasion by a
direct ray of light, and if Dr. Kroner had studied psychic
literature properly he would know that there are dozens
IN BERLIN 171
of cases recorded in which the medium has been
seriously injured in this manner.
Dr. Kroner states: " Mr. Bradlev has no right to
complain about the atmo~phere of mistrust, which does
not affect phenomena." Here again, as expert psychical
researchers know, Dr. Kroner exhibits his ignorance.
" Direct voice " phenomena are the most sensitive of
all forms, and an atmosphere of mistrust, accompanied
by physical interference, is fatal to obtaining good
results.
Dr. Kr~ner puhli~hes Professor Ernesto Boz,;ano's
l~tter to Frau von Dirksen. This letter contains Professor
Bo,;,;ano's record of the successful sittine'S which were
held in Italv after Valiantine had left Berlin. Professor
Bo1:zano's experiences in psvchic research and his many
illuminatinJ? writings on all forms of phtmomena, includ-
ing the "direct voice," have made his name famous.
He bas achieved a great international reputation, and
his records and observations are accepted tbrou~hout the
world aA being scrupulous in their inteJ?rity. I am not
aware of Dr. Kroner's reputation in Germany, but at
preAent he is certainlv quite unknown outside that
country. Until I met him in Berlin I had never heard
of him.
Dr. Kr<Sner presumes to criticize the statements of
ProfeMor Boz,;ano. I am quite sure that Professor
Bo?.zano i~ wp)] able to defend himself in any controversy
with Dr. Kroner.
Dr. Kroner attempts to criticize a sittinJ? at which he
was not pre!'!Pnt. and I consider it would be a waste of
time to deal with the stupid theories he has evolved in
his endeavour to explain phenomena he did not witness.
In the expres~ion of these theories be exhibits a poor
and commonplace imagination bv talking stupidly of
children's toys-the " Buzzing Devil" and such-like
nonsense.
He qtates "that Valiantine bas filled quite a number
of ~ittinl?S hv Pocket Conjuring- one has seen in Berlin."
What has Dr. Kroner seen in Berlin P Nothing-. With
all hi~ observation~ in his own report he avoids brin,qing
one iNrecf acc'luaf1'nn with re.qn.rrl to anyth1'ng he had
ar.f'unll"l .!ee.n. Dr. Kron~r. being- obsessed by the
ouestion of control. feels impP.lled to critir.ize all forms
t'Jtp.,.eof. TnddP.ntallv it should he stated here that Dr.
Kroner throu~hout deals onlv with the phvsical pheno-
mena, and has no knowledge whatever of the greatest
172 ... AND AFTER
branch of research-mental phenomena-which involves
the one point of paramount importance-evidence of
human survival.
One of the most impudent statements made by Dr.
Kroner in reference to the very efficient methods of
control used at the sitting which Professor Bozzano
reports is as follows: " The controls used bv you, Herr
Bozzano, do not suffice in the least to rehabilitate a dis-
covered swindler. You are certainly not the first and
only psychic explorer who has been duped." How dare
he make an attempt to characterize Professor Bozzano
as a " duped explorer " P
I am perfectlv content to refer any experienced student
of psychical research to Dr. Kroner's report, as an
illustration of lamentable and unscientific arrogance,
expressed by a man pretentious in his attempts to
exhibit erudite knowled~e, but failing utterly in his
claims to acute observations.
Dr. Kroner presumes to criticize me. He also presumes
to criticize Professor Bozzano. He endeavours to pose
as a scientist so acute in observation that not the slightest
point is likely to escape his lynx eyes. He sits with
Valiantine in Berlin and watches his attitude, his
manner, his mentality, and, as he assumes, his suspicious
character. All these things Dr. Kroner observes. Then
in endeavouring to explain how Valiantine could wriggle
out of control, he states: "ESPECIALLY IF ONE HAS SUCH
DELICATE SMALL HANDS AS MR. VALIANTINE."
What sort of scientific observer is Dr. Kroner P
I refer him to Mr. Noel Jaquin's imprint of Valian-
tine's hand, which proves that his hands are "abnormally
long, broad and heavy."
In a fatuously pompous manner he presumes to
criticize Professor Bozzano's carefullv thouJlht-out
methods of control. Yet, at the three Valiantine sittings
which he (Dr. Kroner) attended, havinJl stated that when
touchinJls were made in other parts of the circle he beard
the creaking- of the floor a~ if Valiantine were walking
around; and having instructed his wife to investiQ"ate by
" feeling- about "-and havinJl also most certainlv used
every endeavour himself to " feel about "-both be and
his wife, who was acting under his specific instructions.
failed to establish the one simple and direct proof of
feelinq the empty chair of Valiant1:ne. There was one
infallible proof of the medium "walking around "-his
empty chair, and Dr. Kroner insults our intelligence
IN :BERLIN 178
when he asks us to believe that in his anxiety to prove
fraud he overlooked this obvious point.
The only indictment that can justifiably be made upon
the whole of Dr. Kroner's report is an indictment aga1nst
himself as an amazingly inefficient investigator.
Dr. Kroner endeavours to qualify his points by sayini:
" One naturally can object that they can be explained
quite harmlessly and that they do not give any direct
proof." Not only do his points give no direct proof,
but if analysed carefully by experienced psychical
researchers they give very palJ>able evidence of the
stupidity of Dr. Kroner's mental1ty.
. . . . . .
Dr. Kroner's pathetic and evasive attempts in explana-
tion of his own, his wife's and other sitters' failure are
disclosed by his futile excuses, and his endeavours to
collect a conglomeration of indirect observations are
equally obvious. His arrogant comments upon my
(H.D.B.) qualifications as a witness I am content to leave
to international students who have studied my works, and
who know that the whole basis of my psychical research
is established upon the mental evidence acquired, and
not upon physical phenomena. With the assertive-
ness of the amateur striving to establish himself and his
methods in a scientific field, Dr. Kroner winds ur. his
report with the following humorous pontification : ' We
advise, in future cases, as methods of choice, our modu1
procedente." If such methods achieve as a result the
discovery of nothing, it is difficult to see how and in
what way they merit recommendation.
When I first read the translation of Dr. Kroner'a
verbose report, I remarked that I hoped all students of
psychical research would read and study it, for they
could not fail to discover its futility and entire lack of
critical ability. Since its publication I have received
letters from many eminent German professors expressing
vigorous denunciations of Dr. Kroner's methods and
arrogant assumptions. I am content to leave Dr. Kroner
the task of defending himself against the inevitable
attacks made upon his views by his own countrymen.
. . . . . . .
When my analysis of Dr. Kroner's report was published
in Germany, it was strongly supported by articles by
Dr. Gustav Zeller, Professor Johannes Kasnacich, Florizel
von Reuter, Konrad Schuppe and Dr. Paul Sunner.
Just prior to the German publication a statement was
174 ... AND AFTER
made by Fraulein Maria Baader, who was, for a while,
secretary to Dr. Kroner, and who had been formerly
secretary to the late Baron von Schrenck-Notzing. This
statement exposes that, from the outset, Dr. Kroner had
but one mohve, and this motive is proved incontestably
by her statement. Fraulein Baader, whom I have never
met, authorized the publication or her statement, which
appeared in " Die Sitzungen mit Valiantine." The
translation is as follows :
'' SANATORIUK FRANZ-JORDAN-STIFT,
WAIDMANNSLUST BEl BERLIN-TEGEL,
Marz 4, 1930.
" I saw Dr. Kroner on the day of the firlt Valiantine
sitting. He said to me, as we parted, after talking a lot
about swindle, ' Through one ruedium-exposure one can
become more celebrated than through publishing twelve
books on Schrenck-Notzing.' " (This remark is explained
by the fact that Dr. Kroner endeavoured to get permis-
sion to publish Schrenck-Notzin~'s unedited works, after
the latter's death, but this permission he did not obtain.)
" Frau Kroner then said to me, ' Yes, my husband mu&t
do something like that in order to gain the respect of
his opponents.' I am in no way hostile to the Kroner
couple, but I have made no secrecy of the fact that I do
not take their point of view, and I have withdrawn
myself from them from that time.
" (Signed) MARIA BAADER."
Here is the most ~laring examyle of the practices of
certain types of so-called psychica researchers.
CHAPTER II
IN ITALY
The Marqai• Centarione-Hi• oi•if to En,land-Pro/euor Erne•fo
Bouano-Eoidenfial information--Valiantine ViMt• Genoa--The
fir•t •itling-A controlled Mffing-A nother controlled •itfing-An
apport-The Marqai• collap•e.-Mr. Ro..i leave• the •itting-Mr.
RoNi'• accu.ation-A .cene-Mr. Ro..i'• incon•i•tency-The
qae.tion of payment-Extraordinary /orce.-Direct contradiction•
-Mr. Ca1fellini and Count Bon--A llegafion• withdrawn-A
phy•ical impo.Mbilitu-An admimon of wea~neu-A Gilberlian
•ituation-Profe•.ar Bazzano'• report-The •ucceNful croN
communication experiment• between Bo•ton and Venice.
IN May of 1929 George Valiantine gave a series of
seances held under his own mediumship at the house of
the 1t{arquis Centurione Scotto in Genoa. Valiantine
travelled to Genoa from Berlin accompanied by his wife
and Mrs. Dennis Bradley. The party arrived there, after
having broken their journey at Lucerne, on the night of
Wednesday, May 15. In view of the ostensibly inexplic-
able happenings which took place at the end of this short
series of seances, which extended for only one week, it
is necessary very briefly to refer here to the origin of
the Marquis Centurione's interest in psychical research.
In the sprin~ of 1927, knowing that Valiantine was
in Europe and staying with me at Dorincourt, the
Marquis wrote to me saying that he had been advised to
do so by Professor Ernesto Bozzano, and asking me if I
would visit him with Valiantine in Genoa. It was
impossible for me to do so, and I told the Marquis that
as he was introduced by Professor Bozzano, if he came
to England I would receive him as my ~est. He
accepted my invitation. While he was here I was able
to ~ive him three seances at my house, under the
mediumship of Valiantine.
The Marquis Centurione does not speak En~lish, and
I, unfortunately, do not speak Itahan. Neither dof's
Valiantine nor my wife. The Marquis therefore brought
with him Mr. P. E. Rossi, an Italian gentleman, and
his wife, a very beautiful and peculiarly attractive
175
176 ... AND AFTER
Frenchwoman, in order that they might interpret for
him. The three seances held at Dorincourt were excep-
tionally successful. Practically the whole of the com-
municating " voices " came through and spoke in
Italian, and the Marquis and Mr. and Mrs. Rossi were
enormously impressed. On his return to Italy the
Marquis Centurione gave his accounts of these sittings to
Professor Ernesto Bozzano, who published a report on
them in Italy. From these len~thy reports it is only
necessary to quote one salient p01nt:
"The Marquis Carlo dei Centurione Scotto, having
,uJfered the tragic loss of his eldest son, and being
naturally in a very sad and depressed state of mind,
begged me (Bozzano) to approach Bradley in the hope
that Bradley could arrange for him.to have sittings with
the medium Valiantine. After about a month had
elapsed, the Marquis went to London, where he was
received as Bradley's guest, and was enabled to take part
in three sittings, at which his dead son manifested
repeatedly, speaking to him in Italian."
In addition to the Marquis Centurione's son SJ?eaking
to him in his own voice, other evidential information was
given to the sitters in Italian, includin~ one point con-
cerning an unknown name given to a s1tter, which was
confirmed on the following day by telegraphing to Italy,
when the name was found to be correct.
When the Marquis returned to Italy, amazed at what
had taken place at Dorincourt, he commenced to experi-
ment for himself in order to see if he could obtain the
" direct voice." He sat with Mr. and Mrs. Rossi, in
addition to other sitters, and in a comparatively short
time, from the published records, the Marquis and Mrs.
Rossi developed a dual mediumship, and obtained the
" direct voice."
The records of the somewhat remarkable phenomena
and the various communications received in the " direct
voice" have since been published in Italy by Professor
Ernesto Bozzano. In addition, a very long and compre-
hensive book has been published by Mrs. S. Kelly Hack
containing the full details of these sittings, which have
extended over a period from April 1927 to 1929.
It is peculiar to note, however, that while many Ita!ian
spirit voices manifested themselves, and one of Vahan-
bne's Guides, " Christo D'Angelo," attached himsell
IN ITALY 177
to the Centurione-Rossi group, and manifested there
throughout these " voice" sittings with regularity,
yet the Marquis's son never (according to the English
translated reports) came through and spoke. It may
be interesting to conjecture whether there was some
psychological reason for the son being unable, or refus-
mg, to manifest under the Centurione-Rossi dual
mediumship.
Some months after the Marquis Centurione's original
development, he travelled over to England to hold one
or two seances under his own mediumship, chiefly in
order for me to observe any phenomena which might take
place. Two sittings were held, both of which took place
1n London at the flat of Mr. and Mrs. Rossi. The
Marquis Centurione appeared to me to be suffering badly
from nerve-strain. At the first sitting only the " voice "
of " Christo D'Angelo " manifested and a " voice "
which purported to be that of "Rabelais " spoke. At
the second sitting these two " voices " again manifested,
but after a comparatively short time " Christo D'Angelo "
stated that the sitting must close, and that the Marquis's
nerves were in such a condition that he must take a rest
from holding any seances for at least another three
months.
. . . . . .
In re~ard to the arrangements made for Mr. Valian-
tine's visit to Genoa, I received the following letter from
the Marquis Centurione, dated April 9, 1929:
'' DEAR MR. BRADLEY,
" Needless to say that it is with the ~reatest pleasure
that myself and my friends are receiving the visit of
Mr. Valiantine in the third week in May. It is under-
stood that I will defray Mr. Valiantine of his travelling
expenses to Genoa and back to London. Of course Mr.
Valiantine will receive from me a cheque as a remunera-
tion for his services on top of the said expenses. Perhaps
you would be good enough to give me an idea of what is
the right thing to do in this connection? "
In a letter to the Marquis Centurione, dated April 12,
I replied that I considered if he paid Valiantine's (and
only his) fare to Genoa and back to London, and con-
tributed the sum of £50 towards his expenses in travelling
from America to Europe, that that would be sufficient.
I should here like to emphasize that there w:as no :possibl~
178 ... AND AFTER
question of making any money or profit out of this visit
to Genoa. It is hardly necessary to say that Mrs. Bradley
defrayed her own travelling and hotel expenses, which
amounted to £37, while the bare net cost of travelling
and hotel expenses of Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine amounted
to £74. It will be seen therefore that the contribution
I sug-gested from the Marquis Centurione to Valiantine
was less than the actual expenses of the visit. With
incidentals, of course, they amounted to very consider-
ably more than the sum I had euggested he should
contribute.
Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine and Mrs. Bradley arrived
in Genoa on Wednesday, May 15, 1929, and stayed at
the IIutel Isotta.
The first sitting was held on the following evenin~,
Thursday, May 16, at the residence of the Marquts
Centurione in Genoa, 12 Via Caffaro. It had been
arranged that five sittings in all should be given, at three
of which Professor Ernesto Bazzano would be present,
as he was only able to stay in Genoa for a few days.
The Marquis Centurione suggested, as he does not speak
En~lish, that Mr. P. E. Rossi should act as interpreter,
and also that thirteen people should sit each time. Mrs.
Bradley and Mr. Valiantine informed them that this
was too man;r, and that the number should be cut down.
At this particular sitting there were twelve sitters : Mr.
Valiantine, Mrs. Valiantine, Mrs. Bradley, the Marquis
Centurione, his wife, Mrs. G. Kelly Hack, Professor
Dozzano, Mr. Castellini, and four others. There were
certainly too many sitters, but it was stated that if any
were left out there would be a certain amount of fuss
and animosity.
Mrs. Bradley, in her report of this sitting, states that
the conditions there appeared to be fairly ~ood. Various
of Valiantine's Guides spoke with the sttters, and the
son of the Marquis Centurione came through and spoke
to his mother. To quote verbatim from Mrs. Bradley's
report, she says:
" It was a most thrilling moment when the Marquise,
who is a very charming, gracious, animated woman, full
of personality, spoke in the most heart-rending tones I
have ever heard, and the spirit 'voice ' answered her and
then went over to the Marquis. He (the spirit voice of
the son) was speaking through Vahantine's luminous
trompet ap.d. kept soing from on~ to the othl!r. During
IN ITALY 179
the sitting this spirit ' voice ' came back twice. I was
informed afterwards that. he gave some good evidence
about a watch, after they had asked him where it was.
Then a ' voice ' which, I am told, purported to be his
father, spoke to Profes~or Hozzano, but the · voice ' to
me was not very plain. Professor Bozzano, who appears
to take a calm, judicial, yet still s;rmpathetic sort of
attitude, remarked at once, when Chnsto D'Angelo came
through, that he had exactly the same accent (which is
a rather uncommon one) as when he came through at
the Centurione-Uossi sittings."
The sitting closed after one and a half hours. I am
only giving very brief extracts from Mrs. Bradley's
reports.
II
On Saturday afternoon Valiantine gave a dayli~ht
sitting to the Marquis Centurione and also to his wife,
taking each separately. They both informed Mrs.
Bradley that they had received very good evidence. The
wife of the Marquis, however, appeared to be somewhat
agitated after the sitting.
On Saturday, May 18, it was suggested that as
Valiantiue had often sat under control in America it
would be interesting to hold an entirely controlled sitting,
in order that Professor Bozzano and other sitters might
observe any phenomena which mi~ht be obtained.
Valiantiue was therefore fastened to hu~ chair. Each of
his legs was tied to the leg of a chair with thick cord,
the knots of which were fixed with adhesive plaster.
His wrists were lashed in a similar manner to each arm
of the chair, and pieces of adhesive bandage were placed
over his mouth.
The door of the seance room was locked and sealed,
and all the sitters present were firmly tied together by
a thick cord, which bound their wrists one to the other.
At this sitting the phenomena were eminently successful,
and the sitters expressed themselves delighted with the
results obtained. The luminous trumpet moved round
the circle in the air and was seen by all, and amon~
others, the voices of "Dr. Barnett," "Bert Everett,'
" Blackfoot,, " Kokum " and various of the Guides
spoke during the sitting in very loud " voices."
Just prior to this sitting my young son Pat, who was
180 ... AND AFTER
in England with me, had developed an attack of German
measles, and was confined to his room at Dorincourt. I
had, a few days previously, written to my wife, inform-
ing her to this effect. During this " controlled " sitting
my wife asked one of the Guides-" Pat O'Brien "-if he
could tell her how young Pat was progressing. "Pat
O'Brien '' replied to her: " All right I He goes out
now." As this remark seemed somewhat strange Mrs.
Bradley asked me in her letter, dated May 19, whether
this information was correct. It was absolutely correct,
because although Pat was confined to his room and
isolated (except from one maid, who was attending him)
the doctor had given him permission to walk out that
day for a while in the garden, so Ion~ as he kept apart
from other people. Here is another mstance of a fact,
volunteered by a " spirit entity," which was outside the
knowledge of the medium or any of the sitters present.
m
On Sunday, May 19, a sitting was held at which the
editor of Luce e Ombra and various distinguished men
were present. Mr. Rossi had asked, at a previous sitting,
whether Valiantine could again be controlled, and
"Dr. Barnett" had given his consent. The editor of
Luce e Ombra and several others stated that they
objected to control as they knew, from the innumerable
and attested records of Valiantine's mediumship, that he
was genuine. However, as "Dr. Barnett" had given
permission, Mrs. Bradley suggested that it would be
interesting to hold the experiment under complete
control. This sitting was again successful. A number
of Valiantine's Guides manifested and spoke; the spirit
"voice" of the mother of one of the sitters spoke in
Italian, and Mrs. Bradley was told afterwards that this
spirit had always spoken in a very peculiar way, and
that her "voice" was recognized at once.
" Dr. Barnett" answered several questions put to him
by various of the sitters, who afterwards said they were
tremendously impressed and delighted.
It had been mentioned previously that upon certain
occasions the " spirits " could liberate the medium, and
at the end of the sitting it was found that the cords,
with the exception of those round Valiantine's left leg,
had been rent. It was stated by one of the Guides that
IN ITALY 181
this had been done by one of the " spirit '' entities.
Valiantine was still bound to the chair, and the adhesive
plaster still remained fi:eed to his mouth.
The third sitting was held on Monday, May 20, at
which were present, in addition to Valiantine and Mrs.
Bradley, the Marquis Centurione, Mr. and Mrs. P. E.
RoRsi and several others. On this occasion the wife of
the Marquis was not sitting. Several of Valiantine's
Guides came through and manifested in the usual
manner. The spirit " voice " of the son of the Marquis
Centurione manifested and spoke in Italian. The
" voice " appeared io be agitated, saying : " Mama,
mama, where is mama? " He later added that he would
bring an apport through. Shortly after this (quoting
from Mrs. Bradley's records): " Mrs. Rossi fell into a
trance. . . . The sitting was closed and Mrs. Rossi was
taken from the room. On the floor, in the centre of the
circle, two apports, in the form of two small stones, each
slightly less than one inch in diameter, were discovered.
After leaving the seance room, when Mrs. Rossi W88
regaining consciousness, she kept saying that she had
been crushed between two enormous stones, and had
sulfered agony. She was quite white and cold and
evidently in great pain. This incident is all the more
extraordinary because Mrs. Rossi did not know that these
t10o stone1 were brought into the circle until afterwards."
On Tuesday, May 21, it was arranged that a sitting
should be held under the mediumship of the Marquis
Centurione before dinner, and a sitting under Valiantine's
mediumship after dinner.
At the first sitting there were present the Marquis
Centurione, his wife, a son of theirs, Mr. and Mrs. Rossi,
Mrs. Valiantine, and Mrs. Bradley and George Valiantine
who sat outside the circle. At this sitting, according to
Mrs. Bradley's records, " the luminous trumpets whirled
round the room, one whirling outside the circle, where
Valiantine was sitting. The Marquis Centurione then
fell into the conilition of trance.''
Durin~ the sitting held under Valiantine's medium-
ship, after dinner, the sitters were: The MarQuis
Centurione, his wife, Mr. Rossi, Mr. Castellini, Mrs.
Kelly Hack, and two or three other sitters. Nothing
occurred for a time, with the exception of a few short
sentences from the Guides, " Bert Everett " saying :
" Have patience ! " Two trumpets had been placed in
the centre of the circle, and these were thrown violently
182 ... AND AFTER
out of the circle. Each time they were replaced they
were thrown out again. " Christo D'An~elo " only
emitted one short sentence and then the spirit " voice "
of '' Dr. Barnett '' said that there was a mixture of the
two forces. The Marquis then said that he felt ill and
had to be led or rather half carried away from the
room. Hi1 leg1 had ab1olutely given way beneath him
--almo1t a1 if he 10ere paralysed. Mr. Castellini and
some of the other sitters got up and left the room with
him. Mrs. Kelly Hack states that during the early part
of the sitting it appeared to her that there were two
separate forces operatinR".
Chiefly for the reason of ascertaining the cause of these
stran~e happenings, Valiantine and Mrs. Bradlev agreed
to sit on and end~avour to continue the sittinE?. Those who
remainecl with them were: the wife of the Marquis, Mrs.
Kellv Hnck, Mr~. Fancelli and Mr. P. E. Ro~si. The
sHtinE? was a short one. Quotin~ a~ain from Mrs.
Bradlev's notes: 11
The spirit ' voice ' of ' Vittorio '
came throu~h and spoke to his mother, the Marquise,
but the forces were weak and she could not seem to under-
stand him. After this, a ' voice ' spoke to Mr. Ro~~i,
who also said that he could not recognize what was said.
A feminine ' voice ' then spoke to one of the sitters, who
a~ked the ' voice ' to speak to her in German. This
sitter afterwards said that the ' voice ' spoke a few
sentence~ in very bad German indeed. The 'voice ' of
'Dr. Barnett,' 'the Guide, then came through, speak-
ing in his usual tone and manner, and in accordance with
his usual methods at a Valiantine sitting. He spoke
from the centre of the circle throu,:rh the luminou~
trumpet, which was stationary on the floor, saying that
the ~ittin~ must be closed. Directly the seance was
fini~hed Mr. Rossi hurriedly left the room and after a
while we all went out."
IV
On the morning of Wednesday, Mav 22, Mr. P. E.
Rossi and the Marquis Centurione called on Mrs. Bradley
at the Grand Hotel Isotta, an hour or so before their
clepnrt.ure from GE>noa to Venice. Quoting from her
letter to me, she said: " They wished to speak to me
alone and were shown into a sitting-room. To my
astonishment Mr. Rossi then made the statement that at
the very end of the last sitting he had distinctly felt
IN ITALY 188
Valiantine lean forward and speak into the trumpet.
Mr. Rossi also said that during the early part of the
sitting Mr. Castellini had caught hold of my (Mrs.
Bradley's) hand and I was touching the back of hie
(Mr. Castellini's) head."
Mr. Rossi also said that Mr. Castellini had stated
that he reached out his hand and caught hold of Mrs.
Bradley's hand or wrist. Mrs. Bradley unequivocally
affi.rms this to be an absolute lie. Con.tinuing from Mrs.
Bradley's letter: " Of course I was simply furious with
them, and demanded that they should at once fetch
Mr. Castellini, so that he might repeat this outrageous
statement in my presence. The Marquis Centurione then
said that Mr. Rossi should not have told me that. Then
I asked them how they dared to make a charge against
Valiantine, with the remarkable evidences of his genuine-
ness which had been given during the controlled seances.
Mr. Rossi replied that he thought Valiantine was a
wonderful medium, but that at one of their own personal
sittings they had been told that Valiantine would fake
on the last day. I told them that if this were the case,
Rossi had built up upon his own imagination the charge
that Valiantine was cheating. I sent for Valiantine to
come to my room and he was told of the charge that
had been made against him. He was amazed and
furiously indignant. There was a violent scene between
him and Mr. Rossi, during which the Marquis kept very
quiet. Mr. Rossi then referred to the money side of the
question, and said that they would pay Valiantine's rail-
way fare and his hotel expenses, but they would not pay
the £50 towards his general expenses which had been
arranged.
" Valiantine, outraged at Rossi's allegation of fraud
at the last sitting, told them that he would refuse to
touch one penny of their money."
It should be emphasized again that actually it cost
Valiantine over £70 out of his own pocket to make this
visit to Genoa.
Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine, with Mrs. Bradley, left
Genoa that morning, disgousted with the treatment which
had been accorded to them.
The following day, after their arrival in Venice, Mrs.
Bradley wrote a strong letter to the Marquis Centurione,
expressing her intense resentment at his behaviour and
that of Mr. Rossi. She also demanded that Mr.
Castellini (whose address she did not know) should
184 ... AND AFTER
furnish her with an explanation and an apology for his
false allegations against her. Some daya later, the
Marquis (.;enturione replied to her in a letter which I
shall deal with later, since certain paragraphs are
contained therein which, by a curious slip, confound
:Mr. Rossi's statements.
It is essential to analyse the illogical allegations which
Mr. Rossi made against Valiantine. If fraud had been
discovered by Mr. Rossi it was his duty immediately to
announce the fact at the time, in front of Valiantine and
in front of the other sitters who were present, in order
that an instant investigation might be made. The
charge, however, was not made against him at the time,
but the next morning, on the eve of his departure. The
:Marquis Centurione and Mr. Rossi acknowledged to Mrs.
Bradley the genuineness and the powerful mediumship
of Valiantine, which had been exhibited in previous
sittings. A series of successful sittings had been held in
Genoa, at which acknowledged "voice" phenomena had
occurred, both under control and without control.
Mrs. Bradley can attest, with six years' experience of
Valiantine's mediumship, that at the end o£ this
particular sitting it was the " voice " of "Dr. Barnett "
-and hi1 only-which was speakin~ through the trumpet.
Mrs. Bradley has conversed w1th " Dr. Barnett "
literally on hundreds of occasions. Mrs. Kelly Hack, in
her report, records the " voice " as that of " Dr.
Barnett." What then was Mr. Rossi's motive in mak-
ing this incomprehensible allegation? This question
involves intricate psychological problems.
It may be noted that the accusation was made
simultaneously with the question of payment of money.
That question may be dismissed, since Valiantine refused
to receive one penny from them. One must then consider
very carefully the mixed conditions and the somewhat
alarming forces which were exerted during the last two
seances. There existed in these circles the elements of
extraordinary mediumistic powers. There were the
Valiantine forces, intermixed with the Centurione, Mrs.
Rossi forces. Whatever may have been spoken in Italian
by the spirit " voices " was unknown to Valiantine or
Mrs. Bradley, but the physical forces were unquestionably
obvious. When the spirit " voice " of the son of the
Marquis said that he would bring apports through, Mrs.
Rossi fell into trance and crashed her head against the
floor, and was carried unconscious from the room. llrs.
IN ITALY 185
Rossi is not a fragile personality. She possesses an excep-
tionally well-developed, clever and vivid mentality. Slie
would not be affected by trivialities. After her experience
at this sitting, I regret to say that I was informed that she
sufiered from the ill-effects for some time afterwards.
The Marquis Centurione, a man of considerable physical
strength and distinctive character, at the next sitting,
lost all power of his legs, and was also carried, in a semi-
unconscious condition, from the seance room. These are
interesting psychological points which may occupy the
mind of the student of psychical research.
Both of these incidents were of an intensely alarming
and dramatic nature. On each of these two occasions
there existed a dan~erous mixture of psychic forces ;
dangerous both physically and mentally. It is impor-
tant that the effects should be noted.
. . . . .
In a letter dated May 28, 1929, the Marquis Centurione
replied t{) Mrs. Bradley's letter to him, saying that he
could not question Mr. Rossi's word, but elaborated the
following two important points, and I quote from his
letter verbatim:
"(1) Mr. Valiantine absolutely could not notice the
slightest touch of the fingers of Mr. Rossi's right hand,
because as soon as he observed the body of Mr. Valiantine
resume its position in the chair, after having spoken the
first time into the trumpet, Mr. Rossi withdrew his hand.
" (2) Mr. Rossi at once informed his companions in
the circle in Italian in a loud voice of what he had
discovered and made known to them his intention to
catch Valiantine in the act, but it was precisely at this
moment that the medium, perceivin~, by intuition
probably, in Mr. Rossi's voice a warning to his com-
panions, at once suspended the seance a few minutes after
1t had opened.''
These two statements are in direct contradiction to
what actually took place. They are in contradiction to
Mrs. Kelly Hack's report of the sitting. Mrs. Kelly
Hack speaks Italian and, therefore, would most certainly
have heard Mr. Rossi sa[ that he was going to " catch
Valiantine in the act," i he had made such a statement.
Beyond this, both of the points stated by the Marquis
Centurione in his letter are in direct contradiction of the
verbal statement1 made to me by Mr. Ros1i him~elf,
186 ... AND AFTER
when I saw him in London on June 18, 1929. In his
letter the Marquis Centurione made only a brief reference
to the allegations against Mrs. Bradley. All he said was
(quoting verbatim) : " I also have to state that the
word o£ Mr. Castellini (in whom we all believe) is quite
beyond suspicion and he will write you direct.''
v
Mr. Castellini did not write to Mr1. Bradley. He was
evidently timorous of doing so. Mr. Castellini had
received very sharp letters from Count Bon (a Viennese
gentleman with considerable reputation £or his know-
ledge of psychical research) demanding that the char~es
he had made should be proven, but Mr. Castelhni
declined to reply to these letters. All that he could be
induced to do was to suggest a telephone conversation
with Count Bon, which he (Count Bon) declined, saying
that Mr. Castellini must state in writing the allegations
which he had made verbally.
We were led to understand, however, that Mr.
Castellini had withdrawn his allegations against Mrs.
Bradley, and this was confirmed to me by Mr. Rossi on
June 18, 1929.
Mr. Rossi, in a letter dated May 23, said that he
would be in London some time in June, and that he
would see me (to quote) " in order to supply you with
all the information which you will require 1n connection
with the said occurrence, and on behalf of the Marquis
Centurione, who requests me to tell you that the money
offered to Valiantine covering his travelling expenses is
with me at his disposal."
I received no further communication from Mr. Rossi,
and it was only because of a letter which I received from
Mrs. KellJ Hack in Italy that I heard he was in London
I immediately telephoned Mr. Rossi and he informed
me he was leaving England on the following day. I
told him that it was imperative I should see him that
night, which I did. Although Mr. Rossi had been in
London for over a fortnight he had made no attempt
whatever to see me, although he had written that he
would do so.
I received Mr. Ro!si quietly and politely, because I
wished to hear from his own lips his description of the
incident upon which he based his allegation. All that
ha had to retail was that at the very end of the last
IN ITALY 187
sitting he heard Valiantine's chair creaking on three
occasions when a " voice " was speaking. (M.rs. Bradley
and Mrs. Kelly Hack affirm the '' voice .'' to have been
that of " Dr. Barnett.") On the second occasion Mr.
Rossi stated that he heard Valiantine's body bend
forward, and on the third occasion he (Rossi) placed his
hand on the back of Valiantine's right arm and shoulder,
and jO'Und that Valiantine toas leaning fo1"Ward.
I made Mr. Rossi illustrate to me, by sitting in a chair,
exactly the action which he alleges to have taken place.
Naturally, at the slightest movement the chair on which
we experimented creaked, and I at once pointed out to
Mr. Rossi that it is absurd to imagine that anyone could
sit throughout a seance without innumerable slight
movements caused by the natural changes in position.
I then made Mr. Rossi illustrate to me how he placed
his hand on the back of the chair, and how far forward
·it was before he touched Valiantine's shoulder. Accord-
ing to Mr. Rossi's demonstration of this, in a carefully-
conducted rehearsal, it would appear that Valiantine's
shoulder toa& some eighteen inches from the back of the
chair.
It must here be emphasized that at a " direct voice "
Heance when a " voice " is manifesting, the first essential
of the medium and of the sitters is that they shall not
loll against the back of a chair, and, as I personally
proved by act of demonstration to Mr. Rossi, the natural
attitude of the shoulders, under such conditions, would
be at least eighteen or even more inches away from the
chair back. Mr. Rossi, however, in his accusations
against Mr. Valiantine, distinctly alleges that Valiantine
himself spoke through the trumpet. Here is a point of
paramount importance, which alone utterly refutes Mr.
Rossi's allegations. Mr. Rossi omitted to consider
measurements. The trumpet through which he alleges
Valiantine had spoken is luminous and can be seen by
all present. It was stationary in the centre of the circle.
The position of the trumpet is agreed by Mr. Rossi and
by Mrs. Kelly Hack and Mrs. Bradley. The height of
Valiantine's trumpet when placed on the floor is just
under thirty inches. In a close circle of six people the
trumpet in the centre would be, at the barest minimum,
at least thirty inches away from the front legs of
Valiantine's chair. Even at this short distance, for
Valiantine to speak into the top of the trumpet would
necessitate, not merely bending forward from his chair,
188 ... AND AFTER
but rising from his chair and leaning his head right down
to within thirty inches of the floor, and the di&tance of his
shoulders would then be at least from forty-eight to fifty
inche1 from the back of hi& chair. This is an absolute--
and on Mr. Rossi's part, an entirely unthought of
-refutation of his own statement. The fraud alleged
again1t Valiantine toa.t a physical impouibility.
When interviewing him, I asked Mr. Rossi whether he
made anr mention of his alleged discovery to Valiantine
at the trme. He replied distinctly that he did not do
so, but that he informed the Marquis Centurione after-
wards. This entirely refutes the Marquis Centurione's
letter, in which he says that Mr. Rossi warned the sitters
in Italian in a loud voice that it was his intention to
catch Valiantine in the act.
I asked Mr. Rossi what the " voice " (which he
alleges to have been Valiantine speaking through the
trumpet) said, and he replied: " I don't know, I wasn't
listening." A strange and illogical answer !
I asked him whether the " voice " bore any
resemblance to the tones of Valiantine. Again he
replied: "I don't know." I reminded him that he had
heard the "voice" of " Dr. Barnett" speaking upon
many occasions, and asked him whether this " voice"
speaking through the trumpet sounded like that of " Dr.
Barnett" or not. Again he replied: "I don't know,
I was not listenin~ to the tones of the ' voice.' " Such
vague and inexphcable replies when an allegation of
fraud has been made are inconceivable. It will be seen
from this that the only basis for Mr. Rossi's alle~ationa
rests, according to his own evidence, upon h1s one
statement that he touched Valiantine's shoulder some
eighteen inches away from the back of the chair. A
correct position in which a medium should sit.
Mr. Rossi owned to me that the statements he had
made sounded " somewhat weak," and he also said that
it was only his word against Valiantine's, and that
probably the majority of people would acceJ.>t Valiantine's
word. It is, however, not merely a question of Valian-
tine's word against Mr. Rossi's, but, in addition, Mrs.
Kelly Hack's records, added to the affirmation of Mrs.
Bradley.
He offered the money for Valiantine's travelling
expenses--mentioned in his letter of May 23, but after-
wards forgotten. It was, of course, refused. Before he
left he told me that they did not desire to have any-
IN ITALY 189
thing published in Italy in regard to this affair, and
hoped that nothing would be published in England. I
informed him that I should publish the whole of the
facts of the case; I believe in absolute truth in fsychical
research, and in the clear and open statement o fact8.
I understand that Professor Bozzano was also requested
by the Marquis Centurione not to publish his accounts
of the successful seances held under control.
It may charitably be conceived that Mr. Rossi, excited,
temperamental, and disturbed at what had taken place
both with the Marquis Centurione and Mrs. Rossi, when
they were controlled in dramatic and somewhat alarming
conditions of trance, may have been in such an abnormal
condition himself that he was not responsible for the
tricks of his own mentality, and imagined something to
have occurred which had no reality, and which most
certainly has no corroboration from any of the other
sitters who were present at the time.
There is one aspect of the situation, which, when
considered, is truly Gilbertian. The Marquis Centurione,
Mr. Rossi and Madame Rossi, unknown before to me
or to Valiantine, visit me in England in 1927. The
Marquis, to his astonishment, speaks to his son in Italian.
The Marquis and Mrs. Rossi then develop "voice "
mediumshi:p entirely from, and because of, their meet-
ing and initiation with Valiantine. Valiantine then in
1929 visits them in Italy, and is accused of being a
fraud. The poet is right when he declares " It's a mad
world."
It is refreshing to state that after leaving Genoa
Mr. and Mrs. Valiantine and Mrs. Bradley travelled
to Venice, to meet Count Bon, who resides there,
and who had sat several times with Valiantine in
America. They stayed in Venice a week, and the
series of sittings beld was eminently successful, many
remarkable evidences of survival being obtained from
the communicating Italian spirits. Count Bon was
scrupulously careful as to the character of the sitters in
each circle. Two experiments were made at a given time
to endeavour to establish cross-communication with
" Margery " (Mrs. Crandon of Boston) simultaneously.
One of the experiments was distinctly successful and
the other one partially so. The details of these
experiments were carefully ·recorded by Count Bon and
published in the uuce e Ombra.
190 ... AND AFTER
VI
Subsequently I wrote to Professor Ernesto Bozzano,
and asked him if he would be kind enoug-h to let me
have a report from his records of th~ Valiant1ne controlled
sitting. I append it herewith
S~ance of May 18, 1929
In consequence of a permission asked for and at once
granted by the " spirit guide,'' Dr. Barnett, on this
occasion a system of control of the medium and of those
present was adopted, which deserves to be described.
In the first place, the two doors were locked and the
keys were handed over to me. After that, I affixed seals
to the two leaves of the doors, using for this purpose
strips of " leucoplaster " (a kind of adhesive plaJter used
in surgery).
The limbs and the body of the medium were then
bound with a stout cotton cord, beginning with the feet,
which were held fast by binding them tightly to the arm-
chair, at the ankles. At each ligature the cord was cut
off, the two ends of which were bound round with a
plentiful quantity of "leucoplaster," which formed a
single body with the ends of the cut cord. This method
of cuttin~ off the cords at each ligature was adopted
with a view to avoiding the inconvenience found by
some in similar circumstances, in which the medium was
bound with a continuous cord, in which case, if the
medium succeeded in freeing one hand, he caused a
slackening of all the ligatures and so managed to deceive,
without liberating himself from the bonds restraining
him.
The next thing was that the wrists of the medium
were bound to the arms of the armchair in precisely the
same manner. He was then bound to the back with a
cord which was passed round his chest, and he was further
bound at the legs with another cord half-way up the
tibia. After this, the mouth of the medium was
hermetically closed by applying a large piece of " leuco-
plaster," which reached almost up to the e&r8.
IN ITALY 191
This having been done, measures of control were
proceeded with regarding the experimenters, whose both
hands were tied at the wrists w1th a continuous cord-
this in order that each should be in a position to control
the movements of his immediate neighbours. As Mr.
Rossi was entrusted with the changing of the gramophone
records and it was necessary to allow him a certain
freedom of movement, he was seated last in the circle
and was bound like the others, allowing, however, a
length of cord to reach forward and which was handed
to me, with instructions to hold it taut, but to slacken
it when the person attending to the gramophone had to
change the gramophone record.
Such were the means of control adopted. As soon as
the light was extinguished, when the first gramophone
record was still being played, the strident voice of " Bert
Everett " was heard, who greeted those present, from
above: " Good evening, Souls! " Immediately after-
wards one of the trumpets rose to the height of about
one and a half metres from the floor, and described
ample turns around in a vertical direction. A most
lengthy dialogue was then commenced with Dr. Barnett,
who prescribed a cure for the Marchioness Centurione,
to Mrs. Bradley and others. Immediately afterwards,
" Bert Everett" again manifested himself, and then
" Christo D'An~elo," who held a lengthy conversation
in Italian and 1n the Sicilian dialect. After him, the
voice of a little girl who was accustomed to manifest
with Valiantine, and after her came the turn of a
deceased son of the Marquis Centurione, who reproduced
in a very impressive manner the scene of his own death.
There was heard, that is, in the air the noise of a
hydroplane, which, after having performed several turns
around the room, seemed to dash into the water. Lastly,
there came " Kokum," who sang one of his wild songs
in so loud a voice that he could be heard from the street.
After the close of the seance, I myself carefully
examined the ligatures of the medium, which proved to
be intact, and I very carefully and slowly removed the
"leucoplaster" from his mouth, which adhered to his
skin in such a manner as to leave it rather flayed.
(Signed) EaNESTO BazzANo.
192 • • • AND AFTER
I have on a former page alluded briefly to success-
ful attempts at cross-communication between the
" Margery" circle in Boston and the Valiantine seance
in Venice. In view of their interest, these experiments
deserve a fuller description.
Certain scientists and meticulous sceptics have often
said that if an entity could carry information of a pt·oven
fact unknown to the medium and unknown to any of the
sitters present, and also unknown to any living person,
such an instance would unquestionably prove the
intelligence of a spirit entity, and rule out all possibility
of a normal explanation.
It should be noted that in this cross-communication
test the entity " Walter " manifested and spoke both
in Boston and Venice, during the time these two sittings
were simultaneously held. In Venice the sitters were
all entirely unaware as to what form the cross-communica-
tion test would take. The mathematical test of numbers
was arranged in Boston, and extreme care was used to
exclude all possibility of any telepathic explanation.
Even if Valiantine had known (which he certainly did
not) that the cross-communication would take the form
of a number test of three numbers, selected promiscuously
from the thirty-one days of a calendar, the odds against
him guessing correctly would be 25,172 to one against.
But, in addition to this, since the medium "Margery"
was also later informed by the spirit entity of the three
numbers, which were still entirely unknown to any of
the sitters in Boston, then the odds against both
Valiantine and Margery guessing correctly would be over
633,000,000 to one. I append a report of the experiments.
VENICE AND BosTON
Cross-Communication at Synchronical Time•
Dr. Bon cabled to Dr. Crandon in Boston, informing
him that a sitting would be held with Valiantine on
May 27. Dr. Crandon cabled in re£1Y that he wou~d
hold a sitting with "Margery" (Mrs. Crando:r:t) ~
Boston at 5 p.m. It should be noted that there 1s sa
IN ITALY 198
hours' difference in Boston time and that 6 p.m. there
would correspond with 11 p.m. in Venice.
The Sitting in Venice
This opened at 9.30 in Dr. Bon's house. The follow·
ing were present: Mrs. Bianca Nunes Vais·Arbib, of
Venice; Commander S. Bellavita, of Rome; Mrs.
Gwendolyn . Kelly Hack, of New York; Mr. Oscar
Cosma, of Venice ; Mrs. Dennis Bradley, of London ;
Captain Giovanni Rodano, of Venice; Admiral Z-;
Mrs. Bess Valiantine, of Williamsport, U.S.A.; Mrs.
Pierina Valle, of Venice; Dr. P. Bon, of Venice; all
sitting in. circle.
Outside the circle were Mrs. Hilda Tagliapietra, of
Venice (at the gramophone), and Mr. Antonio Gibin, of
Venice.
In an adjacent ·room, curtained of from the one in
which the sitting was held, were Professor Carlo Del
Lunog, of Florence; Mrs. Maria Augustoni, of Venice;
Commander A. Lancerotto, of Venice.
As will be seen, this meeting was a large one and the
personnel varied. " Bert Everett " manifested immedi·
ately, stating that the conditions were ideal. George
Vahantine sat in the middle of the circle in a large
wooden chair with arms and a high back. The sitting
proceeded with much phenomena being manifested,
particularly direct voice, fully twenty entities speaking
in direct voice up till 11 o'clock, at which time Mrs.
Hilda Tagliapietra informed the sitters that the clock
(which had a luminous dial and which had been placed
beside her) marked the hour of eleven, the time stated
by Dr. Crandon for the beginning of the cross-conversa-
tions experiments.
The sitting continued, as at first, full of interest.
Following the powerful voice of " Kokum," " Christo
D'Angelo" asked the time and Dr. Bon replied that it
was 11.30 p.m. He then asked that the clock should be
placed in the centre of the circle on the floor, facing Dr.
Bon. A moment after there was a shrill whistle in tho
centre of the -
room. Dr. Bon immediately recognized
the characteristic entry of "Walter," the Guide ·of the
medium "Margery." (It should be mentioned in pass·
ing that " Walter " does not usually manifest outside
th.e circle of Dr. Crandon.) Mrs. G. Hack, who had had
Q
194 ... AND AFTER
previous experience with the Boston circle, recognized
this characteristic whistle. " Walter " recogwed the
lady and also Dr. Bon, whom he greeted.
Meanwhile Valiantine had fallen into a temporary
trance. (NoTE.-lt is only upon rare occasions that
Valiantine falls into trance.) As instructed, all present
maintained absolute silence. The two aluminium
trumpets with luminous bands, which had been previously
placed in the centre of the circle, rose in the air, one
remaining in front of and the other behind the chair
occupied by Valiantine. The luminous clock rose
(supernormally) a foot from the ground and was
carried round the room. It was deliberately stopped
in front of various members of the circle, obviously for
the purpose of impressing upon their minds the hour-
11.45. The noise of the touching of the small device
that controls the hands was heard and the luminous hands
were seen to be slowly turning back. The clock was
again taken round the circle. As previously, it stopped
when in front of several of the sitters and it was noticed
that the time had been changed to 11.15.
Valiantine, coming out of trance and sitting upright,
said: " I feel stiff all over," and after a while added:
" I think we should turn on the red light," which was
done. After a brief interval Valiantine rose from his
chair, walked to a small table, which had been placed
near him, and on which paper and pencil had been
placed. No one spoke. Valiantine held his head between
his hands and then asked for the blue light to be put
on in place of the red one. He then wrote on the paper
and handed it to Dr. Bon. There were three numbers
repeated two or three times-3.5.10-with a full stop
after each number. The sitting was then closed. The
clock of St. Marco struck the hour of midnight.
The company then partook of refreshments consisting
of fruit and wine. Th1s seems contrary to usual practice;
in fact " Walter" was a little shocked, aa we will aee
later.
The Sitting at Boston
The results obtained at Boston in a sitting held on
May 21, with Dr. Crandon's circle, at 10 Lime Street,
through the mediumship of Margery, were recorded on
the same evening. The minutes of this sitting, signed
by everyone present, were actually posted at 10.10· p.m.,
IN ITALY 195
as stated by Dr. Mark Richardson, and this iq sufficiently
confirmed by the postma.rk, which reads: " Boston-
Mass-May 28-1 a.m." The letter was delivered in
Venice on June 9, following. Afterwards a detailed
account of the sitting was received in Venice on July 1.
The sitting started at 5.9 p.m. (American time).
There were present (from left to right): Dr. Mark
Richardson (on the left of the medium), Mr. Grandi,
Mrs. Grandi, Mrs. Gra:y, Mr. Fred Adler, Mrs. Richard-
son, Mr. Bligh Bond, Dr. Crandon (on the right of the
medium). Outside the circle: Mrs. Gray, Mr. Begouchi.
Dr. Crandon and Dr. Richardson controlled the hands
of the medium, which control was maintained throughout
the sitting. The right hand of Dr. Crandon rested
throughout the sitting on Mr. Bond's knee. Mr. Bond
was entrusted with the materials that had been selected
for the purpose of the experiments, which consisted of
nine leaves torn from a day-block calendar, each of
which bore on the back, in ink, Mr. Bond's signature,
and which that gentleman had personally placed in an
envelope, afterwards sealing the envelope and placing it
in the inside pocket of his coat. Mr. Bond testifies that
he had seen only the backs of these leaves and had no
knowledge of the numbers printed on t.he face.
Margery fell into trance at 5.11 and the voice of
" Walter" was immediately heard. He stated that Mr.
Bond should make certain that the contents of the
envelope could not be seen by anyone present until after
9 p.m. (approximately 3 a.m. Ita~ian time of May 28),
after which hour there could be no question of thought-
transmission from the group in Boston to the group in
Venice.
" Walter," as is his custom, joked for a while with
a few of those present, and after a short interval, during
which it would appear that he had been over to Venice,
he said : " I cannot understand a word of what is ~oing
on over there, and furthermore, the heat is terrl1ic."
(The evening, in fact, was very oppressive in Venice,
and the atmosphere of the room was stuffy, owing to the
number present.)
At approximately 5.15 "Walter" instructed Mr.
Bond to withdraw from the envelope in his pocket one
of the calendar leaves and to place it on tlie table, which
was in the centre of the circle. Mr. Bond thereupon in:
the absolute darkness-which was maintained throu~h­
out the sitting-complied with the requeRt. At 5.19 Mr.
196 ... AND AFTER
Bond, at the request of "Walter," replaced the first
piece of paper by a second; and, in answer to Mr. Bond,
" Walter, stated that the time was 5.20 and then left
the circle for about a minute. At 5.22 " Walter "
instructed Mr. Bond to take up the second piece of paper,
and to be careful to keep the first and second slips
separate from the rest. " Walter " then stated that one
of the slips had been dropped, but Mr. Bond searched
for it in vain.
Presently "Walter" asked Mr. Bond to pick up the
third sheet and to place it with the other two in his
inside pocket.
After a few joking remarks Walter said : " Now I
am off; please stay together for half an hour; do not
worry; leave everything to me. Good evening! " Four
raps were heard (a regulation signal) and the sitting was
over. It was 5.45 p.m. This is the identical time at
which, during the Valiantine sitting, the luminous clock
was lifted and shown to each sitter that the time was
11.45. The time exactly synchronized with the closing
of the Boston sitting, and the departure of " Walter,"
with the information of the numbers known only to him
(the spirit entity) and to no one else in the world.
In the detailed report of the above sitting it is stated
that when lights were put on·Mrs. Richardson discovered
two of the calendar leaves on the floor, which had
inadvertently been dropped by Mr. Bond. This gentle-
man was somewhat upset, owing to the fact that he had
been previously warned by "Walter" that he had let
one fall. The lady picked them up and remained beside
Mr. Bond until all those present had retired to the
library, this precaution being taken to ensure that no
one present should be able to see the numbers on the
leaves and be in a position to communicate them to the
medium or to any of the others present. The three actual
leaves, however, seen by " Walter," were safely in Mr.
Bond's inside pocket.
The circle sat again at 9 p.m. Margery, with pencil
in hand, sat on a small sofa, beside which was a little
table with paper on it. She was blind-folded by Mr.
Bond and immediately started to write the following
message:
" Venice sittin~. Valiantine under control. Much
whispering-no, silence; I seem to hearthe Lord's Prayer.
No one seems excited except Count Bon, who is fumbling
IN ITALY 197
with his moustache. More whispering-good thoughts-
! don't understand-still more chatter-at least Valian-
tine throws Italian fit-falls into trance in Italy-remains
in trance as determined br me. Write 3.5.10. It is all
over-there is much eabng and drinking--Valiantine
comes to and goes home-! have said enough-later some
more-next sitting Thursday evening. W.S.S." (Initials
of "Walter.")
The sitting ended at 9.5 p.m. Mr. Bond then showed
to all present the envelope marked " A " together with
the three leaves of the calendar which had been shown to
Walter during the sitting. These proved to be" Sunday,
May 5; Friday, May 3 and Friday, May 10," each of
which bore on the back the signature of Mr. Bond,
written by himself prior to the experiment.
CHAPTER III
AN INDICTKENT OP' THE S.P.R.
M11 reGton• /or re.ignation-1'he attitude of the Societ,--Sir Arthur
Conan VoJ1le'• re•ignation-Hi• reGto~r. Theodore Buter-
man-Mr. W. H. Salter-The General Meeting-Curiou• procedure
-A •ignificant omi..ion-'' A trirJial matter ' '-Numerou• reaigno-
tiona-A ma•• of critici•m-Mr. Buterman'• trip-Hi• per•onal
unpopularit11-·· Dreary rubbi•h "-A deliberate miaconatruction-
Mr. Be.terman and Dr. Kroner-A glarin1 example--Mr. Salter'•
amu.ing •ugge•tion-Sir OlirJer Lodge'• ob•eroation.-The object.
of the S.P.R.-Their fulfilment-Degeneration-Infantile acfirJitie•
-The bam4cle• of the Societ,-Some que.tion• to the Society--
A P.ychical Beneoolent Aa.ociation-The ttultification of it•
object.--Db.truction to reaearch.
FoR eight years I had been a member of the Society for
Psychical Research, but in February, 1931, I resigned
my membership.
The reasons which drove me to this step were simple.
Not only was my membership entirely valueless to me,
but I had come to the deliberate conclusion that, far
from fostering and encouraging research, the Society
was not only useless, but deliberately obstructive. In
my opinion, under its present direction, the Society for
Psychical Research is in itself one of the obstacles in
the way of genuine, scientific research and study.
It possesses a seance room which is never used. Never
does it hold sittings; never does it conduct investigations.
All published accounts of phenomena it treats with con-·
tempt, and never does it attempt analysis or constructive
criticism. In its bovine incredulity this pseudo-scientific
Society appears to me to be equally as stupid as are the
great bulk of spiritualists in their credulity.
For myself, in my experiments and investigations I
have always endeavoured to maintain a balance between
blind scepticism and unreasoning faith.
Facts are facts; froofs are proofs. Neither assumption
nor derision are o the slightest value.
Genuine phenomena, when they take place, I accept;
fraud, whenever I discover it, I denounce with all the
vi~our I can assume.
The sole interest for the scientific researcher is his
198
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 199
research; emotion, prejudice, preconceived ideas should
alfect him neither one way nor the other; his object is
to sift the good from the bad, the genuine from the
fraudulent, coldly, dispassionately, logically.
In January, 1930, some few months prior to his death,
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle resigned his membership of the
Society for Psychical Research.
Doyle's letter, giving the reasons for his resignation,
was sent to every member of the Society. In it he stated
that he l!ltrongly resented the tone of the reviews
published in the Journal of the S.P.R. by Mr. Theodore
Besterman, the editor and librarian of the Society; that
he regarded Mr. Besterman as a " slovenly critic," with
" very little experience of p!!ychical research," and that
he strongly objected to his ' insolence " and " gratuitous
offensiveness.''
He criticized the administration of the Society, which,
" originally intended to be a sympathetic and fair
centre for inquirers, seems to have become simply an
anti-spiritualist organization. Everything which tends to
prove the truth, no matter how honourable or sane the
source may be, is assailed by suppression, misrepresenta-
tion, and every sort of unreasonable and vicious
opposition."
He referred to the Society as being in the hands of a
small central body of reactionaries, and said that he had
waited long in the hope of some reform, but had con-
cluded that it was not to be expected, and that the
influence of the Society was entirely for evil.
Now, this final gesture of Doyle was not made
suddenly, on the spur of the moment, or on account of
any callow expression by Mr. Besterman; Doyle's reasons
were far more deep-seated. His determination was
arrived at for definite reasons, reasons which he set down
in the plainest terms in the concluding lines of his letter.
He said:
" I have resigned as a public protest against the
essentially unscientific and biassed work of a Society
which has for a whole generation produced no construc-
tive work of any kind, but has confined its energies to
the misrepresentation and hindrance of those who have
really worked at the most important problem ever
presented to mankind."
The charge is a definite one. Before this letter was
sent to the members of the S.P.R. Doyle wrote to me, and
200 •.. AND AFTER
we discussed the whole question. Doyle and I were in
entire agreement; we felt it was imperative that some
action should be taken, and the first suggestion was that
he and I should resign together, and both sign the
printed letter which was sent to every member. Eventu-
ally, however, we decided that Doyle should resign, and
that I should remain within the Society for another year
in order that I might observe their future attitude.
.At the Annual General Meeting of the S.P.R., which
was held at Tavistock Square, February 27, 1930, the
number of members present was twenty-six. At this
meeting the subject of Doyle's resi~nation was discussed.
I put an important leading question to Mr. Besterman
regarding his published expressions of opinion. In order
to thwart an awkward discussion, however, the chairman,
incorrectly, ruled the question out of order.
A little later in the meeting I had the opportunity of
speaking again, and I then severely criticized the revtews
of Mr. Besterman, and also the prejudiced attitude of
Mr. W. H. Salter, which I regarded as an abuse of his
official position as Honorary Secretary of the S.P.R.
At the conclusion of my speech, the chairman, Sir
Lawrence Jones, omitted to follow the usual procedure
at all General Meetings, and without asking, as he
should have done, for any further questions from
members, became flustered and said: " I must close the
meeting." And that is precisely how the meeting
ended.
The report of this meeting was published in the
Journal of the S.P.R. for April. It is significant to
observe that no mention whatever was made of the
indictments contained in my address. The sole reference
to any criticism of the servants of the Society was a
short paragraph following a discussion on the Society's
seance room, which was worded as follows:
"Mr. Besterman, Mr. Dingwall, Mr. Dennis Bradley,
Mr. Salter, Mr. Gatliff and others took part in the
discussion which followed."
The published report of this General Meeting was
incorrect and incomplete. If the minutes were correctly
taken in the first instance, deliberate deletions were
made.
Since only twenty-six members attended this Annual
General Meeting, and the report was printed and issued
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 201
to the thousand odd members and associates, it will be
seen that there was a reprehensible suppression of facts,
amounting to distortion. ·
In the March (1930) issue of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's letter of resignation and the
replies by the President, the Honorary Secretaries and
Mr. Besterman, were printed, with the official comment:
'' The Council regard this particular controversy as
a very trivial matter."
However the Council may have regarded it, it is quite
certain that innumerable members of the S.P.R. did not
regard Doyle's resignation as a trivial matter.
The Journal for Ma1·ch (1930) states that the total
number of resignations since Doyle's resignation was six.
Since the majority of the members would naturally defer
their resignation until the end of the year, it was
interesting to obser'Ve that the e:eact number of resigna-
tions at the end of the year was eighty-four. That the
matter was not regarded as trivial is evidenced by the
fact that a large mass of the letters which Doyle
received expressing agreement, was handed to me to read.
A few brief extracts from these letters will convey the
opinions expressed by the members of the S.P.R. who
wrote to Doyle.
1. "I have resigned my membership. I received no
help from it."
2. " I became a member of the S.P.R. some years ago,
but it seemed to me that they were doing nothing
constructive."
3. " If there is no improvement I shall cease to belong
to it."
4. " I am very glad I have nothing more to do with
them."
5. " I have many times resented the attitude of that
organization and shall not renew my membership."
6. " I have been so disgusted with the hostile attitude
of the Society that I have already resigned my
membership."
7. " I may say that I read Mr. Besterman's article in
the January number of the Journal. . . . I have immedi-
ately sent 1n my resignation to the Society, feeling that
it was no help to me in my psychic studies."
8. " Only the hope that there was some chance of
altering the methods of the Society would induce me to
renew my membership. This year I have come to the
same conclusion as yourself that this is hopeless. It
o•
202 •.. AND AFTER
seems a pity that the oldest body of all should be left to
people who are ruining it."
9. " I have since lett the Society, after having belonged
to it since its inception. It seems to me that the S.P.R.
officials are running pretty· close to the wind, for they
are taking money in the form of subscriptions from
members for the purpose of psychical research, when by
their actions they prevent it."
10. "I entirely agree with all you say regarding the
discourtesy and the tone of article written by .Mr. Beater-
man, and the general state of the Society. . . . It is very
sad to see a Society which has held the position of the
S.P.R. in a condition of inactivity and dry dullness,
such as is its state to-day."
11. " I wrote to them in the same indignant fashion
some months ago in re~ard to some criticisms that
appeared in the Journal.'
12. " I received your letter, every word of which I
agree with, and my resignation will follow. I have been
a member of the S.P.R. ever since it started, but it seems
almost condoning dishonesty to continue to subscribe."
13. " I have written to the Society to resign. I paid
my subscription for 1930 so I suppose my name will
remain until the end of the year."
14. " Unfortunately I paid up as a life member some
twenty years ago, never thinking they would funk their
own cause as they have. However, I have written to
the secretary and asked him to remove my name from
their list of members, as I wish to resign."
15. " I received your public protest against the
S.P.R.'s unscientific work ... they only hinder the real
and serious workers. I will, of course, follow your
example, and retire at the end of this year."
16. " Three weeks ago I sent in my resignation, after
over twenty years as an associate member, though not
knowing that others had sensed and were ready to protest
against the offensive character change which has come
over the honourable Society."
17. '' Thanks for your bill of indictment against the
S.P.R.... I read Mr. Besterman's sayings in the
Journal for January and before. . . . I think it better
to resign my associateship in the course of the year,
mentioning the Society's unscientific way of criticizing
men of the stamp of Bozzano and Bradley. Since the
days of Myers, Hodgson, and Hyslop the Society has
sunk deeply."
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 208
18. " Many in Italy will join in thanking 7ou for your
stand. If you know Professor Bazzano, h1s wonderful
nature and indomitable courage, you will understand how
troubled his friends were at such abuse from such an
unexpected direction as the S.P.R."
19. " I have written to the President of the S.P.R. in
reply to his circular letter.. . . I laid stress on the fact
that the reviewing recently in the S.P.R. Journal has
been bad reviewing, quite apart from its animus and
ignorance."
20. " I thoroughly sympathize with your feelings
about the very serious misrepresentations.... I fear
they have been unfair in the cases you mention, which
is distinctly bad."
21. " That the S.P.R. is at present not ' pulling its
weight ' in any way, except as a brake on real effort, I
fear nobody can deny."
22. " How such a review could have been accepted hy
a Society noted the world over for absence of prejudice
either way is difficult to understand. A loss of confidence
in the Society by its members would rapidly result in the
closing of the Society."
23. " ... Lately all criticisms in the Journal of any
psychic happenings, or of books with specialist evidence
have been destructive, and destructive in a triumphant
way."
24. " In the autun1n of 1928 Mr. Besterman was here
in Munich, and Baron Schrenck-Notzing and other
renowned men agreed that the S.P.R. has made a great
mistake in sending such a young and inexperienced
gentleman abroad, who, instead of increasing the high
repute of the Society, only injured it."
25. " I join with you entirely in your indignation.
I experienced the same sensation when I read Beater-
man's libellous article. It is impossible to excuse his
offence, no matter how obliquitous his mentality. By
that article he has disgraced the S.P.R."
26. " In my opinion the Society has not advanced a
single step smce the publication of :Myer's ' Human
Personality.' "
27. " It is with great pleasure that I have learned of
your action, and I trust it will be the means of enabling
psvchic research, as such, to proceed untrammelled by
the outworn fallacies of physiCists."
28. " I have had myself such illuminating direct
experiences that the kind of discussions printed in the
204 ... AND AFTER
S.P.R.'s Proceeding-s merely bores me. And it bores
others, for I am certain that it is rarely that the beat
cases of psychical experience are now submitted to the
censors in office.''
29. " I have written to Mr. Besterman to express my
deep regret at the method and tone of some more recent
communications in the Journal. They do not conduce
to friendly feelin~, nor to the progress of the research
for which the S.P.R. was founded."
These brief excerpts from the letters received by Doyle
are only a sli~ht indication of the opinions of the various
members. Doyle handed me the whole of his correspon-
dence on this matter; the perusal occupied me for
several hours. There was not a single one among his
correspondents who was not in entire agreement with
him.
It is entirely incorrect for the Council of the S.P.R.
to assert that Doyle's resiJl'nation was a trivial matter.
Dovle was a man of considerable distinction. He was
one of the foremost fiJl'Ures in modern English literature.
His reputation is both European and American. His
practical experience of psychical research and super-
normal phenomena, which extended over the major
portion of his life, was infinitely greater than that of
any of the present official administrators of the S.P.R.
. . . . . . . .
In 1929, Mr. Theodore Besterman travelled abroad,
on a tour of four months, as the Society's representative,
and on his return described his experiences with the
various mediums. The manner in which he wrote his
report showed, in my opinion, that he was not only
inexperienced, but utterly incompetent. His report
excited comdderable indi~?nation against him in Budapest.
M. Karl Rothy, the president of the Society for Psychical
Research in 'Budapest, described Mr. Besterman's
behaviour durinJr the seances which were held, as rude
and ill-mannered. M. Rothy wrote several letters of
protest to members of the Council, none of which have I
seen publi~hed in the Journal.
A private meeting was called by certain En~lish
members of the S.P.R. in October, 1929, protesting
again~t Mr. BeRterman's attitude, and a deputation of
members interviewed Mr. W. H. Salter, who, as an
honorarv official of tlie Society, received them in a
peculiarly discourteous manner. Mr. Bestermali, they
were given to understand, was Mr. Salter's protege, and
AN INpiCTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 205
any criticism was resented. The implication would seem
to be that no member or body of members has any right
t.o o~ject to or criticize the actions or capacity of any
offiCial.
The reports published by Mr. Besterman were deliber-
ately negative and antagonistic. Apparently he regarded
his mission as that of the representative of an amateur
deteotive agency. At the few sittings he attended hg
was obviously predisposed to regard all forms of pheno,
mena as doubtful or fraudulent, and in reviewing any
phenomena which may have occurred he immediately
proceeded to evolve some futile assumptions in his
endeavour to explain.
Subseq.uent writings of Mr. Besterman met with the
strong disapproval of certain members of the S.P.R.
Commander Quentin Crauford, R.N., made a public
protest. He wrote : " We who are members of the
Society, are chiefly regaled with such dreary rubbish as
Mr. Besterman has made up in the Journal. Of course
:M:r. Besterman has not got an easy task before him,
because he has disgusted the kind of contributor who
would be interesting.... The Journal was sufficiently
uninteresting before he took it over, and the type of
Research Official which the Society manages to procure
never gets beyond the fraud hypothesis.... He (Mr.
Besterman) has a large library at hand, and to have dug
up some of these would have been research; but no, he
must give us an empty opinion-and not only empty,
but offensive. The Society tries to disclaim all respon-
sibility, but surely it is the business of the Council to
select as their representative somebody who possesses the
manners of a gentleman, even if it is not possible to
procure a man of intelligence."
. . . . . . . .
During 1930 a book called " Some Modern Mediums,"
by Mr. Besterman, was published. It is a small book
of 176 pages, and in the preface Mr. Besterman states
that "some of the mediums are surveyed from personal
knowledge and investigation, others from a careful study
of the available evidence."
In his book he comments categorically upon only five
mediums. Of these five there are three w1th whom he
has never even sat, and he therefore has no " personal
knowledge" of them. One of these three, Mrs. Piper, an
American trance-medium, was not a physical medium,
and since the sittings she held date back to 1884, she can
206 • • • AND AFTER
hardly be described as a "modern medium." Of the
second, " Eva C.," a well-known French physical
medium, Mr. Besterman, after referring to the records
from 1902 to 1920, says: "I do not attempt to disguise
my belief that the evidence shows the mediumshig of
' Eva C. ' to be fraudulent from beginning to end. '
Of the third, "Margery" (Mrs. Crandon), he is
uncertain of any aspect of phenomena attributed to her,
and he states that "her mediumship is still far from
reaching an adequate standard of evidence."
Mr. Besterman's book contains his personal experience
with only two mediums, one of whom is practically
unknown.
Of Frau Maria Silbert, with whom during his sittings
he failed entirely to discover an;r evidence whatever of
fraud, he states: " I found it Impossible to resist the
conclusion that the phenomena I had witnessed were
fraudulently produced.... I felt bound to adopt the
hypothesis of fraud."
The one remaining medium with whom he. had
personal experience was Mme. Kahl-Toukholka. This
'' medium '' is unknown to students of psychical research
and the records of her mediumistic powers are,
apparently, non-existent. She is a lady of Russian
origin, living in Paris. Mr. Besterman described a few
puny experiments with cards, etc., and although he
appeared to be pleased with the results he obtained, they
were peculiarly futile so far as scientific psychical
research is concerned.
Mr. Stanley de Brath, a member of the S.P.R.,
severely examines Mr. Besterman's attitude. Referring
to him he says: " Such criticism derives its whole
importance from the position of the writer, who is editor
and librarian of the S.P.R. It stands on a difierent foot-
ing from the allegations of any private individual. It
is therefore from that standvoint that we shall deal with
it, and face the distasteful task of opposition. It will
not enhance the reputation of the writer as a careful and
unbiassed critic, as the editor of the S.P.R. should be."
He regards Mr. Besterman's writings as the "hasty
impressions of a young man who presents his suspicions
as universal fact." He goes on to say that " we should
have been glad not to have mentioned Mr. Besterman at
all, but simply to have disproved his statements; but that
would have b.
een to take up the contemptible position
of being 'willing to wound, but yet afraid to strike.'
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 207
We can assure Mr. Besterman that these pages are not
written with any hope of inducing him to modify his
views. They are wr1tten because the utterances of the
editor of the S.P.R. inevitably react on the Society which
has appointed him, and whose matured opinion he is
naturally held to represent."
Mr. Stanley de Brath is generous in his reference to
the importance of the position of editor of the S.P .R.
It may be asked does such importance exist? The
editorship of a small intermittently published journal
is not usually considered important. Mr. Besterman
was, I know, recently a member of the young P.E.N.,
an association for budding writers. That, so far as is
known, is the extent of his claim to fame.
It is palpable to any student of psychical research that
Mr. Besterman, either because of explicit official orders,
or personal antipathy, has shown himself to be definitely
opposed to the acceptance of any form of supernormal
phenomena. Despite his abysmal lack of experience he
advances the hypothetical theory of fraud as an explana-
tion for every recorded manifestation. A paper was
delivered by him at Athens, which was later published
by the S.P.R. (December, 1930) in "Transactions of
the Fourth International Congress at Athens." This
paper is pretentiously headed: "A Critical Estimate of
the Present Status of Psychical Research," and in it
Mr. Besterman derides practically every physical medium,
past and present. D. D. Home, Usapia Paladina, the
Schneider Bros.-all of these, according to Mr. Hester-
man, are frauds, but he fails to advance the proofs. There
is, according to Mr. Besterman, " not one conclusive
instance of supernormal phenomena," and having dis-
carded all physical phenomena he pronounces that
11
survival seems to him to remain a philmmphical prol,]em
not susceptible to scientific proof." He acknowledges
this quite bluntly, for in a printed lecture he sayA:
" Practically all physical phenomena are faked by the
medium," and with a carelessness which, considering- the
position he at present occupies, is almost inconceivnhle,
he criticizes the works of the foremost researchers of the
day in his reviews.
In reg-ard to one particular review, which Doyle
referred to in his letter of resignation, Mr. Be~terman
had the temerity to write: " I opened the book at
random," and then, in one of the moRt damnin~ state-
ments ever published by a responsible officer of the S.P.R.
208 ..• AND AFTER
he wrote : " To put forward with such dogmatic claims
of infallibility as Signor Bazzano's, is to bring our
subject into contempt and disrepute." No sound literary
reviewer, and no careful student, ever " opens a book at
random," and after such a statement it is necessary to ask
Mr. Besterman what exactly he means by "our subject."
Mr. Besterman has the impudence to deride the
valuable work of Professor Ernesto Bozzano, a t•esearcher
of International repute, and to say of him: " Bazzano's
reJ?orts do not in themselves merit serious attention on
evidential grounds. They show an almost complete lack
of understandin~ of what constitutes good evidence and
adequate recordrng of mediumistic sittings," and with
an arrogance, which would be merely lau~hable but for
the fact of his official position, he dismisses Professor
Charles Richet, Dr. Geley, Baron von Schrenck-Notzing,
Mme. Bisson and Dr. Crandon as inefficient investigators.
He does not believe in physical supernormal phenomena.
and he does not believe that " survival is acceptable to
scientific proof." Why then does he desire to continue to
occupy his recent appointment to the position of editor of
the S.P.R. P If he has determined that such phenomena
do not exist, then it is obvious that he can only consider
it a sheer waste of his time to continue further research.
But far more serious than the waste of Mr. Beater-
man's time, is the hampering and obstruction of research.
He and his associates would seem to have " cornered "
the S.P.R. and to have resolved to mould it according
to their personal whims.
. . . . . . . .
One of the regular contributors to the Journal of the
S.P.R. is Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. He reviews
many of the foreign publications on psychical research,
under the signature " P.P.S. "
The views and opinions of Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
Solovovo are in accordance with the present controlling
administration of the Society. They are invariably
antagonistic and destructive. " P.P.S. " ignores valu-
able and incontrovertible evidence and confines himself
to a search for the vaguest and smallest points as a
pretext to cast aspersions.
In the January issue (1930) of the Journal, he took
the opportunitv to make derogatory insinuations regard-
in~ myself (H.D.B.). The quotation.s he made from tl1e
" Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie " were absolutely false,
which I was able to prove. In the October (1930) issue
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 209
ol the Journal there appeared a letter of Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo, which contained a reference to Mrs.
Bradley, which, had it appeared in the public Press,
would have resulted in an immediate action for libel.
His letter was so worded that it contained a veiled
imputation that Mrs. Bradley had acted fraudulently at
a sitting by having simulated a certain phenomenon. I
immediately wrote to the editor of the Journal, regarding
this libel, and also a further letter, giving the facta.
This letter was published in the December (1930) issue
of the Journal. The actual incident was trivial, and had
no bearing whatever on any phenomenon. It is only
necessary, therefore, to repeat the last paragraph of my
letter: " What is of far greater moment is the veiled
manner in which such a triviality is seized upon by Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, and published in the Journal
of the S.P.R. without reference to details and facts, in
a manner calculated to mislead the members of the
Society."
In the editorial comments of the Journal it was
stated : " The Journal is P.rinted for private circulation
only, and the responsibility for all communications
printed by the Society rests entirely with their authors."
This is their usual excuse. It is a shelter under which
the Journal feels itself at liberty to print dangerous
assertions without fear oi a public action. But I am
informed that in law it is no excuse whatever. The
Society " published " the libel, and they and their
printers were equally liable.
In regard to this incident it is only fair to Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo to state that he subsequently
apologized, and his apology was published in the Journal,
December (1930) issue, a fact which makes the reckless
publication of the original libel the more reprehensible.
. . . . . . . .
Towards the end of 1930, " The Transactions oi the
Fourth International Congress for Psychical Research,
Athens, 1930," was published in England by the London
S.P.R. It is a 7s. 6d. book, containing the various
papers delivered at the Congress held at Athens; some
of the papers are printed in English, some in French,
and some in German. The volume is edited by Mr.
Theodore Besterman, the paid servant of the Society,
and, as such, responsible to the members of the Society,
and on page 3 there appears the usual S.P.R. futile
sheltering statement, saying: " The responsibility for
210 ... AND AFTER
both the facts and the reasonings in the papers published
in these Transactions rests entirely with their authors."
I am informed that comparatively few copies have as
yet been sold in England.
In this book, printed in German, there is a paper
delivered by Dr. Walther Kroner, under the heading:
"Der Kampf um Valiantine."
It is probable that only a small section of the members
of the S.P.R. purchased this book, and only those who
can read German will have been able to study this article.
The number of English readers may therefore be
negligible.
The officials of the S.P.R. are-and were-well
acquainted with all the facts, as, prior to the Athens
Congress, they had received a copy of " Die Sitzungen
mit Valiantine," published by Oswald Mutze, Leipzig,
1930. They mu8t therefore have known of the damning
indictment of Dr. Walther Kroner, in which hi8 motive8
are clearly e:epo8ed in the 8tatement made by hu
8ecretary, Maria Baader. Her &tatement i8 definite and
unan1werable.
Dr. Kroner is of the same type of pseudo-psychical
researcher in Germany as Mr. Theodore Besterman is in
England, and Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo is in
Brussels. It should also be noted that none of these is
experienced in psychic research nor has any one of them
succeeded in acquiring any knowledge whatever of
psychics that may be accounted of any value.
Of the series of sittings held in Berlin, Dr. Kroner
was present at only three. It was, and is, evident that
from the outset he had but one motive, and this is proved
incontestably by the statement of Fraulein Maria
Baader. The facts were, therefore, known to the
officials of the S.P.R., since they were published in " Die
Sitzungen mit Valiantine."
Dr. Kroner's paper, delivered at Athens, was manu-
factured by him entirely upon prejudiced theory and
a desire for self-advertisement. It is all assumption,
without one iota of evidence, and based upon only three
actual personal experiences, all of which were compara-
tively negative.
His paper at Athens has been discredited by practically
all the German students as an illogical and incompetent
attempt to alleg-e fraud by evolving theories.
I refer to thts paper here only because the S.P.R. bas
seen fit to publish it in England.
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 211
A suggestion was put forward by Mr. W. H. Salter at
Athena. It was as follows:
"An International Committee (of five) of the
Societies for Psychical Research should report as regards
all mediums producing 'controllable phenomena,'
whether in fact they give reasonable facilities for
investigation to all serious students..... The Committee
would formulate standard control conditions, and also
draw up a list of mediums to whom free access was
possible.''
In regard to Mr. Salter's suggestion, the observations
made by Sir Oliver Lodge at Athens may be quoted:
~~ My view is that no record of any experiment can be
made watertight and free from suspicion, if lurking
grounds for suspicion exist in a critic's mind....
Elaborate precautions are desirable, but they are no real
safeguard, nor any guarantee of good observation. Too
much faith may be jut in mechanical control; indeed,
the more complicate it is, the more does it occupy the
attention of the observer, which ought to be concentrated
in other directions. If the mechanism is controlled by
assistants, doubts about confederacy inevitably arise....
" Indeed, if I were a conjurer or fraudulent :P,erformer,
anxious to deceive a man of science, I should hke him to
have as much apparatus to attend to as possible, for
then there would be no need for me to take trouble to
distract his attention. Sufficient distraction would be
automatically supplied.... Hence apparatus may favour
fraud instead of preventing it, and at the same trme may
have a deleterious effect on genuine phenomena.
"The contention, now frequently and plausibly made,
that no observation is worth anything except under the
most stringent conditions, is neither practicable nor wise
in all cases. Conditions effective in one direction may
be defeated by deficiency in another; we cannot always
tell beforehand what precise phenomenon is going to be
produced. Precautions taken against telekinesis are
meffective against an apport, and vice versa. Moreover,
it is always possible for an outsider, reading the record
in which something incredible has seemed to happen, to
assume that some precaution was after all neglected, and
that if he had been there, things would have been
different.
"Nothing is likely to carry real conviction except the
cumulative effect of first-hand experience, of various
kinds, under a great variety of circumstances. I would
212 ••• AND AFTER
rather myself concentrate on ascertaining the laws of a
given kind of phenomenon, feeling sure that among all
the repetitions necessary to that end, any fraudulent
procedure must sooner or later leap to the light. It does
not follow that in any specific case fraud has actually
been used, merely because some loophole for its occur-
rence is afterwards thought of. There should be evidence
that it actually occurred, and not merely a suspicion of
its pouible occurrence, before anyone is denounced....
Neither complete control nor complete observation is
easy-perhaps not even possible, hence it may be said
that in general no single experiment can be treated as
conclusive. The fact that, 1n spite of abundant testi-
mony, the world is not yet convmced is sufficient proof
of that.''
I advise Dr. Kroner, and others of his type, to study
the sane and experienced views expressed by Sir Oliver
Lodge.
. . . . . . . .
It is interesting to view the present position of the
S.P.R. The "permanent officials" appear to dictate the
policy of the Society. So far as any actual or progressive
work in psychical research is concerned, the present
administration is farcical. Its policy is entirely destruc~
tive, and the door of its seance room is definitely closed
against experimentation. At the moment the Society is
moribund.
It is illuminating to observe the objects of the Society
as set forth in the printed rules of the S.P.R. I quote
the chief of those objects:
"1. (b) To investigate the phenomenon, commonly
known as psychical or spiritualistic.
"2. (c) To employ persons to make investigations and
to fay for their service.
' 3. (d) and (g) To purchase books-form and main-
tain a hbrary, etc.... to add thereto.
"4. (e) To aid students and inquirers in their researches.
"5. The income and property of the Society shall be
applied solely towards promotion of the objects of the
Society."
The objects or the Society and their fulfilment should
be analysed in regard to their relation to the present
administration.
1. So far as the investigation of phenomena is con-
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 218
cerned, Mr. Besterman has publicly stated that "Survival
as such is not studied by the S.P.R."
2. This object has been faithfully and financially
adhered to by the en~aJrement of Mr. Besterman, but
whether the object is fulfilled by this solitary engage-
ment is another matter. ,
3. This object has most certainly not been adhered to.
A valuable and unique collection of psychic books was
offered as a gift to the Society by Mr. Harry Price and
refused on the plea of" lac.k of accommodation."
4. It may satirir.ally be asked precisely how and in
what way the S.P.R. is aiding students and inquirers in
their researches P
5. In what manner has the income and property of
the Society been applied to the objects of the Society P
Accordin~ to their Annual Report for the year 1930
the S.P.R. have " during the year visited four houses
in London and one in Leicester for the purpose of
investigating alleged apparitions and noises." It is
pleasant to read that no reason was found to suppose that
any supernormal C'auses were at work, and one can only
admire the energy expended on such intensive and highly
valuable investigation. One hopes that the outings were
pleasant-and inexpensive. The mention of such absurd-
ities as the result of a whole year's research work in
psychical phenomena appears ludicrous.
A year ago at the Annual General Meeting the report
showed that no practical research work had been under-
taken during the preceding year. To the credit of Mr.
Salter may -be placed the statement he then made :
" Some of our members probably do not realize the
amount of work we have done in recent years in
investigatin~ Polterg-eists and the like. The results are
not often printed in full, partlv because on investigation
most of the cases are explieable by normal causes."
The truth is that during the last few years the Society,
under the control of the present officials, has degenerated
to such an extent that it is merely atavistic. It continues,
like an elderly Victorian lady, to discuss apparitions,
eerie noiseR, and PoltergeiAts; all of which represent the
most insignificant and primitive forms of phenomena.
To represent such infantile activities as modern psychical
research is pathetic.
It is more than time that out-of-date and hide-bound
ob~tructionists such as the present administrators of the
S.P.R. should be ewept aside, as doing positive harm to
214 •.. AND AFTER
the cause they are supposed to promote. Who are these
men, who, having achieved nothing, venture to assert
themselves as authorities upon the subject P Who is Dr.
KronerP Who is Mr. Theodore Beaterman P One doea
not find their names in any of the established books of
reference, comprising people of achievement and note in
their various walks. Yet it is such types, the barnacles
of the Society, who remain clinging to it, in a vain
endeavour to swim to some haven of vicarious notoriety.
Doyle, the last time I saw him before he died, said to
me : " The Society is evil."
He was dying, quite cheerfully, at the time, but he
meant this seriously. I laughed when he said it, and
replied, " It does not deserve to be called evil, it should
be called medimval.''
. . . . . . . .
What constructive pro~ramme has the present
administration of the S.P.R. to offer its members in
consideration for their annual subscriptionsP
Their seance room has not been used for a year. Why
notP
Have they any psychical mediums who will offer their
services for experimentation P
These are questions of importance, because otherwise
their research work ceases, and the objects of the Society
remain unfulfilled.
In this connection it is necesRary to regard the financial
condition of the Society. The seance room was a ~ift.
It is seldom used. The Fourth Carnegie Trust Grant has
now ended in its fourth year.
Tbe financial position of the S.P.R. is a matter which
merits explanation. Its revenue amounts to nearly
.£3,000 a year. (The actual figures for 1930 were
.£2,957 3s. lOd.) At the last Annual General Meeting
the treasurer, Mr. W. H. Salter, said: " The Society's
ordinary income, mainly derived from investments and
subscriptions, is not now, and never has been, much
more than enough to pay for such expenses as rent,
salaries, printing, postaJ!e, etc. The surplus available
for research has always been small, and the Society has
had to depend mainlv only on members carrying on
research at their own expense or on donations made
specially for research."
Why is thisP
Members of the Society pay their subscriptions for
research ~ork, which is one of the primary objects of
AN INDICTMENT OF THE S.P.R. 215
this Society. There is no object printed in the rules of
the ~ociety claiming that the bulk of the income is
intended to pay for salaries, printing and postage.
Is the revenue derived from members to be subscribed
lor the printing of Mr. Theodore Besterman's banalities?
Are they consulted befo1·e expenses of this nature are
incurred?
Are the Society's funds to be exhausted on the payment
of officials-leaving no surplus available for the expenses
of investigating mediums? If so, the sooner it changes
its name to the Psychical Benevolent Association the
better.
The latest Annual Report contains a badly camoufiaged
statement. It is averred that only six members and one
associate resigned on account of agreement with Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle. This statement in no way coincides
with the large number of letters from members which
Doyle received, and which I have personally read. The
majority stated that, having paid their subscriptions,
they were resi~ning at the end of the year. The Society
actually rece1ved eighty-jour resignation• between
January 1, 1930, and January 1, 1931.
This represents a serious loss in membership.
Actually it means that over 11 per cent. of the
members have resigned during the last year, and I know
personally of many more resignations which are pending,
and will take place if the present state of affairs con-
tinues. Hence it is inevitable that the revenue of the
Society for 1931 will be very considerably decreased.
This persistent decrease in the membership of the S.P.R.
is a significant and ominous sign.
I am a member of several Societies in England, and
those with nominal subscriptions, despite the " general
economic depression" (a reason which the S.P.R. weakly
offers as an excuse), so far from decreasing, are regularly
increasing in membership. The reason is simply and
solely that their organizations are progressively and
amicably run. I know of no intellectual Society in
England which has exp~rienced such a state of chaos,
dissension, and bitterness as that which now exists among
the members of the S.P.R. It has been brought to this
condition during the last one or two years, because of
the persistent stultification by a small coterie of the
objects for which the Society was originally founded-
a stultification amounting at times to a complete
obstruction.
216 ... AND AFTER
If the attitude of the present administrators of the
S.P.R. is simply that genuine supernormal physical
phenomena do not exist, and if that view is supported by
the Council, then the tim& has arrived for the Society
to close down, for in such a case its objects are exhausted;
any expenditure on it is a waste of money; its publica-
tions are valueless, and its authority gone.
In my work I have found of recent years that my
membership of the S.P.R., so far from being of any
value to me, has been detrimental and obstructive, and
has wasted a considerable amount of my time upon
retrogressive and unpleasant controversy. As a body for
practical psychical research the S.P.R. has ceased to
function, and its existence now belies the purpose for
which it was formed.
BOOK IV
FRAUD. THE AMERICAN INVASION, 1931
CHAPTER I
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE
Innumerable complaint.--/ arrange /or a aitl.ing-M11 report-Oboioua
fraud-l<idicalou• proceeding.--.Expoaure--A ~~Cene--Publioation
of mJI report--Corre•pondence--The &,liaea diaappear.
FoR several months J>rior to the date upon which I held
my first and only sttting with Mrs. Baylis, an alleged
materializing medium of English origin, I had received
many complaints as to her methods and results, and also
personal calls from researchers anxious for me to
mvestigate this medium's procedure.
At that time I was not particularly desirous of doing
so, but eventually, in response to these requests, I
arranged for a sitting.
The Baylises, husband and wife, were under engage·
ment to the London Spiritualist Alliance Ltd., and also
to the Marylebone Spiritualist Association Ltd. The
result of my investi~ation was that I regarded their
methods as so unsatisfactory that I was strongly of
opinion that the public should be warned against them.
For this purpose the best organ to reach the members of
the Marylebone Association and the London Spiritual
Alliance was the psychic weekly paper Light. I there-
fore addressed a short formal letter to the editor of this
paper, in which I stated that, in my opinion, and in
the opinion of the sitters, whose signatures were appended
to my letter, the conditions under which the medium
and her husband sat were of an entirely unsatisfactor.Y
character, and open to very grave suspicion. In thts
letter I enclosed a full and detailed report of my
investigations, and a iurther copy was sent to the
secretary of the London Spiritualist Alliance. In addi·
tion to this formal letter for publication, I wrote the
following personal letter to the editor of Light :
217
218 • • . AND AFTER
" DEAR MR. Gow,
"November 11, 1927.
" I am enclosing herewith the detailed report of the
Baylis sitting. I am also enclosing a formal letter to
you, as editor, for publication. Now, you must either
publish one or the other. If you publish the report you
do not publish the letter, and if you publish the letter,
do not publish the report. I am leaving the decision to
you, and perhaps you would give me a ring on either
Monday or Tuesday next.
" In my opinion, and in the opinion of the other
sitters, the whole of the proceedings were fraudulent.
The position, however, is this. Mrs. Gavin is a very
kind-hearted woman and she has pleaded with me for
the Baylises. She says that she thinks, upon some
occasions, they do not get mental evidence. This would
not influence me, but her plea that they have four young
children dependent upon them does appeal to my
humanitarian side. Mrs. Gavin assures me that th~
Baylises have had such a lesson that she does not think
they wil~ attempt to commit fraud again. But I am by
no means sure of this. I have found in life that men
who have robbed me on~e and have been fors-iven, have
taken the first opportun1ty to .
rob me of a b1t more the
second time.
" I detest such incidents as these and I can assure you
it is no pleasure for me to be bothered to the extent I
have been in this matter. I know you agree with me
that the whole of this movement should be clean from
fraudulent behaviour.
" You have a sound and critical mind, so I am leaving
the decision entirely in your hands.
" Yours sincerelr,
. " (Signed) H. DENNIS BRADLEY.,
I considered it imperative that a warning should be
published in the psychic papers. Mr. Gow agreed with
me, 9:nd decided to publish the following report of my
experience.
Report on Sitting held with Mr. and Mr1. Batten Baylil,
at Maida Vale, on Thur1day evening, October 21,
1927, at about 8 p.m.
I had received several complaints from various and
independent sources of the auspicious character of the
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 219
" materializing " seances held in complete darkness by
Mx. and Mrs. Batten Baylis, at their flat in Maida Vale.
Detailed verbal accounts were given to me by intelligent
sitters of standing, who had kept careful observation
of what took place, and they informed me that they
were of the opinion that the proceedings were often
fraudulent.
It was in response to these private requests that I
agreed to investigate the mediumship personally.
I regarded it as essential for me and for the
investigators who accompanied me that I and they should
remain anonymous. I therefore requested Mrs. Gavin,
a friend of mine, upon whom I could rely, to book a
sitting with Mrs. Baylis, in her name.
The Baylises seance engagements were booked up for
some considerable time ahead, and it was necessary to
book this appointment over jour weeks in advance. The
seance was held at their fiat, where we arrived at about
7.50 p.m. In addition to Mrs. Gavin I had brought with
me my wife, Mr. Noel Jaquin, and Mr. J. W. Miller.
Mrs. Gavin knew the "medium," but none of the
others were introduced by name. I am under the impres-
sion that it is quite possible that Mr. Baylis did not
recognize me, but Mrs. Baylis, on meeting me, remarked
that she thought she had seen me before.
Before we went into the seance room, Mr. Baylis
addressed us at some length upon the subject of
" materializations," and " the direct voice " phenomena.
His references to '' voice '' phenomena struck me aa
being peculiarly stereotyped, and, t9 a considerable
extent, ignorant and unintelligent.
His remarks were repeated in plausible, parrot-like
fashion, but they conveyed to me no personal knowledge
whatever of the subject. He said that we might, or
might not, get " voices," but he implied that we should
most probably get " materialized hands."
He particularly impressed upon us that it was essential
that we should sit quietly with our hands upon our
knees, and in no circumstances should we make any
movement while "phenomena " were taking place, '
because if we failed strictly to observe this rule it would
affect the medium. He emphasized this point unduly,
and stressed it on more than one occasion.
We were then conducted to the seance room, the size
of which might be estimated roughly at about 20 feet
by 14 feet. Although the room was a small one, some-
220 ... AND AFTER
what to our surprise the seven ~hairs for the sitters were
placed together in the left-hand corner of the room from
entering the door. The room was practically devoid of
furniture, with the exception of a large wardrobe at the
further end, which covered a considerable part of the
exterior window. Mrs. Baylis took her seat in a chair
backing on to the door-side wall. Immediately above her
head, and some 6 feet or so from the ground, there was
an aperture in the wall, roughly about 3 feet by 2 feet,
which was covered with some carpet-like material. The
information was volunteered that this opening had been
a window, and that it had been found necessary to cover
it up in order to exclude all light from the room. It
should be mentioned that during the sitting on the night
in question the aperture was not used in any way. At
the same time it certainly struck all the sitters that it
was the most unusual place for a window which must,
of necessity, be an interior window, and also that it was
extremely unwise for an alleged "voice'' medium to
choose to sit immediately beneath it.
On assembling in the room, Mr. Baylis informed us
that the medium would indicate where each of us was
to sit. He then left the room for about two minutes or
so, and reappeared with two small white screens, roughly
6 inches square, upon which he said there might appear
later " materialized faces."
In placin~ us, Mrs. Baylis reserved the chair next to
her-Immediately on her left-for Mr. Baylis. The
circle was then placed from left to right in the following
order: Mrs. Batten Baylis, Mr. Batten Baylis, Mr. J. W.
Miller, Mrs. Bradley, H. Dennis Bradle7., Mrs. Gavin,
Mr. Noel Jaquin. The last named sitting on Mrs.
Baylis's right.
Slightly behind Mrs. Baylis and immooiately on her
right, there was a small table upon which were placed
the two small screens. There was also placed upon this
table an aluminium or tin trumpet. This was handed
round, and as the seance was about to commence, I, quite
naturally and instinctively, placed the trumpet in the
centre of the circle. To my astonishment the trumpet
was at once picked up by Mrs. Baylis and placed upon
the table, immediately beside her. Mr. Baylis informed
us that their " spirits" only occasionally used the
trumpet as they generally preferred to speak inde-
pendently. It must be clearly understood, however, that
the two screens and the trumpet were kept outlid~ the
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 221
circle, and within a few inches of Mrs. Baylis. She was
in no way controlled, but, strangely enough, Mr. Baylis
asked Mr. Miller to place his right hand upon his
(Mr. Baylis's) hands. As the lights were turned off
all the sitters sat with their hands upon their knees as
instructed.
The sitting was held in complete darkness, with no
luminosity whatever on the trumpet.
The chairs were placed so close together that the
dimensions of the cucle were reduced to an absolute
minimum; so close indeed that anyone present could, by
leaning forward, easily touch any of the other sitters.
The sitters were all experienced researchers, and between
Mr. Noel Jaquin, Mr. Miller and myself we had
previously arranged a verbal code by which we could
notify to each other in the dark if anything fraudulent
had been detected. This was arranged in such a manner
that it could convey nothing to the medium nor to her
husband, and would not in any way interfere with the
continuance of the sitting. Neither Mrs. Bradley nor
Mrs. Gavin were informed of the verbal code arranged.
No gramophone or other music was played, but after
Mr. Baylis had recited an ill-expressed prayer he kept
up a continual parrot-like, illiterate chatter during the
next ten minutes or so.
Then Mr. Miller announced that he was bein~
touched on the hand. In accordance with the usual
method, Mr. Miller asked whether he was being touched
by a friend or a relative, and then made the request:
11
If it is a relative, would you -please touch me on the
left hand." This was quite a stmple request to make.
Mr. Miller, however, had taken the precaution of remov-
ing his left hand from his knee and placing it just
6 inches away from his knee. Mr. Miller was then
touched on his knee, although his hand was not 6 inches
away.
Mrs. Bradley, who was seated next to Mr. Miller, then
announced that she had been touched on the hand. As
I was sitting next to her I anticipated that I should
be the next person to be touched, and I also anticipated
exactly where I should be touched, so I turned my right
hand palm upwards from my knee. There came slowly
into it the warm flesh-and-bone fingers of the hand of
Mrs. Baylis. I clasped them, and then allowed them to
be pulled away from me back into the direction in which
she was sitting.
222 ... AND AFTER
I must emphasize at this point that, although I
knew that fraud was being perpetrated, I did not
wish to disturb the " seance," because I desired to
observe the full extent of the so-called phenomena. It
must here be mentioned that Mr. Noel Jaquin, who was
sitting on the right of Mrs. Baylis, detected, at the
moment Mr. Miller was first touched, a slight rustle,
such as would be made by the movement of the body
against female garments. It was the faint rustle of
loose clothing. After this, Mr. J aquin carefully placed
his left hand fingers very lightly on, and to the right
of the u medium's,. knee-her right knee. During the
timM that the sitters were being touched Mr. Jaquin
detected the slight tensing of the muscles, made as the
body was moving forward without leaving the chair.
After I had grasped the hand of Mrs. Baylis she
evidently gave the signal to Mr. Baylis, because his
manner and chatter immediately changed its character.
He commenced to talk of the bad conditions of the
weather, and to say that it appeared very difficult to
get phenomena through. Then he (Mr. Baylis) said in
rather troubled tones: " George says that the ectoplasmic
hands must not be touched." Why did Mr. Baylis, who
is not the medium, make this remarkP I had made no
mention whatever by my conversation of my discovery.
At the same time, I passed the signal to my friends of
what I had detected. It is just possible that Mr. and
Mrs. Baylis may have imagined that the grasp of the
hand was inadvertent, because after a wait of five or six
minutes others of the sitters were again touched, but I
was left severely alone.
Just after this, Mrs. Gavin announced that she had
been touched on her hand. Mr. J aquin states that he
was touched first on his right hand, and then, quickly
removing his left hand from the close proximity of the
medium's knee, he was tapped on that hand. A little
later, on feeling a touch' on his right hand, he quickly
and carefully moved his left hand round in the dark, and
there felt the human wrist of the " spirit hand " which
was {ouching him. Directly he touched the wrist the
hand was drawn back towards Mrs. Baylis. A minute
or so after this Mr. Baylis announced that the sitting
must be closed.
Mr. Miller told us that directly after the code signals
had been given that fraud had been detected. and from
then until the end of the sitting, Mr. Baylis's hands
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 228
(which he was controlling) were trembling in an agitated
manner. 'l'he reason for this may certainly be assumed
that .Mr. Baylis had received privately a signal from
Mrs. Baylis that she feared that detection had been
made.
Mrs. Baylis, who was supposed to be in a trance, did
not speak throughout the whole of the time. Why then
should .Mr. Baylis, who was not the medium, announce
that the sitting was to be closed?
After we had waited for some few seconds, Mrs.
Baylis, speaking in a loud tone (obviously and unmistak-
ably in her own voice, but announcing herself as
" George ") said: " The sitting must close; someone has
touched a materialized hand." Upon this statement
being made I immediately disclosed my identity, and
said that the hand which had touched me, and which I
had clasped, was not a materialized hand, but that it was
hers and that she knew it. I then requested that this
foolery must cease at once, and that the lights should
be turned on.
Mr. Baylis then appeared to be very frightened, and
protested that if a light was struck his wife's life would
be in danger. But immediately after thi1 he him~elf
ltruck a light.
Mrs. Baylis was then seen to be seated in a lim.P
attitude on her chair. She was alleged by Mr. Bayhs
to be in a trance. Directly the lights were turned on
I expressed very forcibly my opinion of the whole affair.
Mr. Baylis could make no reply. I told him that Mrs.
Baylis was not in a trance, and all he could say was
that she must not be touched. In reply to my denounce-
ment, all that Mr. Baylis could say was that it would
be a great shock to his wife.
Within a minute or so Mrs. Gavin suggested that we
should adjourn to another room and discuss the matter,
which we all did. Mr. Baylis agreed to this, and left
hie wife alone in her supposed trance condition-an
ab1olutely ridiculou1 action if he thought the trance to
be genuine. Mrs. Baylis kept up her pose, and was
apparently too frightened to say a solitary word.
On adjourning to another room, Mr. Baylis stood talk-
ing with us for quite a quarter of an hour, without
making an attempt to see .Mrs. Baylis. He was quite
callous in deserting her in order to try and rescue
himself.
Three of the sitters present at this aitting are well-
224. ... AND AFTER
known sensitives, with a highly developed knowledge of
the atmospher.e in a seance. room when ge~uine pheno-
mena are takmg place; ne1ther Mr. J aqum, my wife,
nor myself experienced the faintest semblance of a
psychic atmosphere during the proceedings.
All the sitters, except Mrs. Gavin, who, as introducer,
naturally did not express an opinion, agreed that none
of the manifestations were of a supernormal character.
Mr. J. W. Miller wrote a long detailed report in
which he recorded the whole of the sitting as quite
negative and open to the utmost suspicion. Mr. Noel
J aquin, in his report, said " the seance was fraudulent
from beginning to end,; that also is my firm opinion.
It is possible that Mrs. Baylis may have obtained
phenomena upon some occasions, but I am only concerned
wit.h the sitting in which I took part. It is essential to
say that the entire conditions imposed by Mr. and Mrs.
Baylis upon the sitters were ridiculous. The sitting was
held in pitch darkness, no luminous paint was used, and
the chairs were placed as close as possible together, with
the table, on which were placed the screens and the
trumpet, immediately beside the medium and outlide the
circle. This is contrary to all regular procedure at
seances for physical phenomena. If ectoplasmic forces
are used ther emanate towards the centre of the circle,
and not beh~nd it.
When mental communications are likely to be received
no control is necessary, but for purely physical seances
held in complete darkness, without any luminosity of
instruments, some control of the medium is imperative,
otherwise any phenomenon is open to suspicion.
The method of controlling the hands of Mr. Baylis was
quite absurd. It amounted to this: it was not that the
sitter was controlling Mr. Baylis, but that Mr. Baylis was
controllinp the right side of the 1itter; consequently, as
Mr. Bayhs sat at Mrs. Baylis's left hand, over one-third
of the circle was left completely open for her. Thus,
according to the manner in which the Baylis's sittings
were conducted, all the sitters were controlled by the
injunctions imposed upon them of keeping their hands
upon their knees and the medium was permitted absolute
freedom.
It is necessary also to record that the fee charged by
the Baylises was five guineas for a sittin~. This was paid
by Mrs. Gavin on my behalf before the s1tting took place.
It was, of course, ret~ed afterwards upon my demand.
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 225
It is also necessary to. record that Mrs. Baylis received
five guineas for each of her sittings. As a rule, her
circles comprised five persons at one guinea each. They
were booked up enormously, and to obtain an appoint-
ment it was necessary for mQ to book up four weeks
ahead.
I was informed that they were only able to hold three
sittings a week. I have since learned, however, that they
were regularly booked for Mondays, Wednesdays and
Friday evenings. My sitting, however, was booked for
a Thursday evening, and, when I arrived home at
" Dorincourt" on this particular night, Mr. Denis
Grinling (who had been dining with my son, and
was spending the night there) told me that he had a
sitting booked with Mrs. Baylis for the following day
at 11 a.m. (This sitting was cancelled by M.r. Baylis
on Mr. Grinling's arrival on the following morning.)
Upon questioning Mr. Grinling, he told me that to get
an appointment he had to book up five weeks before.
~~- After the publication of this report in the psychic
paper, Light, on November 26, 1927, for two months
the columns of this paper were inundated with cor-
respondence. Several of the correspondents endeavoured
to support the Baylises, but the majority welcomed the
public exposure. I received innumerable letters from
people who had similar unsatisfactory experiences, and
they thanked me for my action.
In consequence of this influx of correspondence, it
became necessary for me to reply, and to analyse the
statements of the various writers, which I did, and my
rejoinder was published in Light on January 7, 1928,
and was as follows :
" Presuming that the correspondence with reference
to the Baylis case is now approaching its conclusion, I
re~ard it as essential to deal briefly with a few of the
pomts which have been raised. It is necessary to
emphasize that the reason I agreed to investigate the
character of the mediumship of Mr. and Mrs. Batten
Baylis was that for several months I had received serious
complaints of the suspicious nature of the proceedings on
certain occasions, and deliberate assertions from careful
observers that at times the proceedings were fraudulent.
It is not my desire to seek unpleasant exreriences, nor
to have my name connected with aftairs o this descrip-
B
226 •.. AND AFTER
tion, but in this case, on account of the repeated requests,
I had no option. In these circumstances it was
imperative for me to use certain tests, and had any
genuine phenomena taken place I should have been only
too happy to record them. Unfortunately, no genuine
phenomena happened, and my report, published in the
1ssue of November 26, is an accurate and scnJpulously
fair record of what took place.
" I have read very carefully the letters which have
appeared in subsequent issues o£ Light, and whilst I am
quite prepared to accept the testimony of those who have
received what they consider to be genuine evidence, it
must be clearly understood that such testimony cannot
refute or affect the incidents which occurred on the
occasion of my sitting.
" It is an indisputable fact that a medium may be
genuine upon some occasions and fraudulent upon others,
when the psychic powers are not functioning.
" Mr. George Craze, the president of the :Marylebone
Spiritualist Association, states in his letter: ' The
attack reflects much more discredit on its author than
on the maligned sensitive or her husband.'
'' If my action in publishing a faithful account of an
unsatisfactory sitting is re8arded as discreditable, then
I certainly wish to disassociate myself entirely from any
Spiritualist or Spiritualistic Society following such a
narrow and secretive policy.
"With the exception of the letter of' H.S.L.P.,' which
appeared on December 17, I am in no way impressed by
the majority of the letters which have been published.
There Is, throughout, an unfortunate repetition of the
'touching of rings' and other articles prominently wom
by the various sitters. I would point out to Mr. Alex. L.
Dribbel that in psychical research if a 'voice ' purport-
ing to be that of a spirit describes its present happy state
and said, ' If you only knew, old boy,' such a remark
ie not regarded as evidence. And also, that if an appari-
tion appears, saying, ' Father' (which the sitter
confesses he did not recognize, as his father was a much
younger man), and 'George,' the control, says, ' Yes,
sir, it was your father, only you did not recognize him,'
such an absurd admission only rouses ridicule. It would
have been more humorous had ' George' added: 'It's
a wise child that knows its own father.'
" With regard to the points raised by Admiral Wilfred
Henderson, I would inform him that it is not the usual
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 227
procedure in physical seances for the sitters to be
requested to keep their hands upon their knees and not
to move them. My statement that when the ectoplasmic
forces are used they emanate towards the centre of the
circle is not a misleading nor incorrect one. It is a
correct assertion, derived from personal experiences
extending over many years. The sittings with Valian-
tine are not held in total darkness; any number of them
have been held in full daylight.
" Admiral Henderson asks how Mrs. Baylis was able,
in pitch blackness, to see where the knees of the various
sitters were. There was no necessitv for her to see ; in a
confined circle it is perfectly simple for anyone to work
from left to right and touch the knees of all the sitters.
I would personally guarantee to do it time after time
and never make a mistake.
" When Mr. Miller, who was sitting on the left of Mr.
and Mrs. Baylis, asked that his left hand should be
touched, and then moved his left hand six inches away
from his knee he was touched on the knee-an obviously
simple procedure, but a very obvious error. Admiral
Henderson asks why, when I grasped the fingers of Mrs.
Baylis, did I let them go? The reason for not holding
on to them was that by doing so the sitting would have
been closed, and the subsequent discoveries, which were
important, would not have been revealed.
"I do not understand Admiral Henderson's reference
to the language used at the conclusion of the sitting.
The language I use is, as a rule, good and fluent English,
and is as expressive as the occasion demands.
" I have now dealt with the favourable letters in reg-ard
to the Baylises. Of those which have been unfavourable,
it is necessary to refer to Mr. Royan Middleton's com-
munication, in which he claims to have discovered Mrs.
Baylis in deliberate fraud, discerning the features of
Mrs. Baylis between the plaques and also feeling a solid
warm and lifelike arm behind one of the plaques.
" lfr. James Oakes also records that at his third sittinfl
the seance held was of such a mixed character that one
of the sitters was disgusted, and he states that he 'was
left with a strong impression that a fraud had been
perpetrated.'
" It is useless for me to criticize Mr. Batten Baylis's
letter. Mr. Baylis utterly fails to answer any of the
accusations I made, and, in a foolish attempt at defence,
diverts the issue by making untrue statements with
228 ... AND AFTER
regard to Mrs. Gavin, which she has completely refuted
in her letter which appeared on December 24.
"This represents a brief survey of what appeared in the
columns of Light after the publication of my report. In
addition, however, there is another very important aide.
I have already stated that, before I held my sitting with
the Baylises, I had received many complaints. Since
the publication of my report I have received many more.
When fraud is aiscovered the average person is not
anxious to have his name published in connection with
such unpleasant disclosures. I consider it only right and
just, however, to publish the contents of at least one
of these letters.
" The following is a verbatim quotation :
" ' I sat next to the medium, and there was not six
inches between our chairs. I saw quite clearly one face
purporting to be three different people. The full face I
could not see distinctly, but as it passed I got it in profile
against the slate. (It was Mrs. Baylis's face.) The third
time I was so certain that I felt out with my hand and
pasHed it over the empty chair where !firs. ·Bayli8 had
been.1
When I found out what had happened I became
twice as observant. I noticed that Mr. Baylis's chatter
was always loudest when I heard extra rustles and move-
ments in the circle. He covered her getting up and
sitting down very neatly, with lenl!'thv explanations
ahout the phenomena. In spite of all this, at the end
I di~tinctlv heard her sit down. She had on a silk dress,
which rustled slightly with each movement of the
trumpet....
" ' All the " voices " came throu~h from the ~arne
nlace, just in front of me where Mrs. Baylis was standing.
I moved a hand slightly forward, and touched dress
material just in front of me.'
" The above is an example of many of the letters which
I have received.
" After mv sitting with the Baylises, Mr. Noel Jaquin
made to them what I consider to be one of the fairest
offers possible. lie sug~ested that, if they wished to
prove that they could obtain genuine phenomena, they
t This was the most direct method of provinlt Fraud. It may he
Y'ecommended to the notice of Dr. Kronet" of Berlin, who was
•• apparently •• so inconceivably simple as not to thil'\" Q{ thi_~ (!b".i,qut
test. Aa a r~rc:her he muat reproach himself.
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 229
should sit under their own conditions, with their own
litter& in their own room; he himself would not be
present, but he would apply a chemical test which would
prove whether the touches were supernormal. The
Baylises refused to accept this offer. I understand that
they also refused to sit at the British College of
Psychic Science under controlled conditions, or to allow
the Honorary Director of the National Laboratory of
Psychical Research to be present at one of their seances.
" In conclusion, may I point out that the Baylis case
gave rise to far more important issues than the trivial-
ities and petty deceptions which have appeared upon the
surface.
" The curse of ps.rchical research has been fraudulent
mediums, and it 1s because of such inevitable and
cancerous growths that the progress has hitherto been
retarded. Until now the attitude of the world for and
against spiritualism has tended towards extremes. On
one side there exists the attitude of a great number of
spiritualists, whose credulity is so pitiful as to bring
rtdicule upon a fundamental and progressive discovery,
and, on the other side, there is a section of material
scientists whose incredulity in face of the established
facts is equally absurd. What it is necessary to attain
between these two fanatical extremes is a logical balance.
So far as I am concerned, in my studies and my research,
I am as unlikely ever to agree with the extreme
spiritualist as I am unlikely to agree with the extreme
materialist. When I discover fraud, wherever it -may lie,
I 1hall ezpo1e it just cu fearleuly a1 I publuhed the
truth of 1-upemormal phenomena when it wcu revealtJd
to mB.''
It is interesting to observe the aftermath of this
exposure of the Baylises.
A few days after my investigation they disappeared.
Had they been genuine mediums they would certainly
not have done so. They had a lucrative engagement
with the London Spiritualist Alliance, and a further
lucrative engagement with the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association.
The Marylebone Association appeared to be incensed
at my exposure. The Association had booked these
" mediums " for a long- series of sittings, and possibly
my exposure disturbed 1ts future arrangements in regard
to the seances which were being advertised.
280 .•• AND AFTER
It ~s, I think, essential to emphasize the fact that the
Bayhses ran atoO!!J, and despite the backing of their
supporters, they never gave another ~~ance. They were
frightened out of their lives. For a few da:rs they
blWfed, saying that they were prepared to give test
seances, but they never gave one. They disappeared
from their flat, and I was told later that they went back
to domestic service, from which they had risen.
It is possible that the Baylises, or Mrs. Baylis, who
posed as the medium, may at some time or other have
had claims to mediumistic powers. If she had, they
were of a very low order. From all the accounts I
received of the seances held by Mrs. Baylis, even those
of their most credulous supporters, the results were of
such a low ty-pe that they could only be regarded as
degrading to the intellE:>ct of the average man, and the
observation of such results represented only a deplorable
waste of time. On the occasion I wa~ present everything
wa4 fraudulent.
It is necessary to consider what these people were
earning by their fraudulent practices.
For one wretched seance of an hour or so I paid five
guineas, which I demanded to be returned to me. I
knew beforehand, and it was confirmed to me later, that
the Baylises were workins- three and sometimes four
seances a day. At a minimum charge of five guineas
they would earn from £80 to £90 a week.
The London Spiritualist Alliance were guaranteeing
certain sums for their services, and the Marylebone
Spiritualist Association had also engaged them. After
my exposure the London Spiritualist Alliance immedi-
ately cancelled their engagement, but the Marylebone
Association was apparently incensed against me because
I put an end to what I regarded as scandalous abuse of
credulous people.
I am not aware how much money the Baylises saved
during their fraudulent performances, which, it must be
understood, were illegal, since they could have been
prosecuted for obtaining money by false pretences, but
I learned afterwards that Mr. Baylis was a horse fancier.
Therefore, it is quite possible that the bookmakers
benefited to as great an extent as the Baylises.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who was a good friend of
mine, had, I think, two sittings with them. He was
inclined to accept, from one of these, a point which he
regarded as evidence. This referred to the touching of
THE BAYLIS EXPOSURE 281
a spade guinea on his watch chain. I mention this
particularly because four years afterwards, in February,
1931, some months after his death, an indirect reference
was made to this particular spade guinea.
Doyle was one of the kindest-hearted men I have ever
met. He would never injure a fellow-creature, and if he
found a spark of ~enuineness in a medium I think he
was always inclined to overlook the lapses. With all his
kindness and his fine human sympathy, Doyle was a very
astute man. He knew more of psychical research than
the bulk of the Psychical Research Societies put together.
The majority of these have no knowledge.
Doyle and I often disagreed over technical points, but
were always in agreement on essentials. Doyle, in his
attitude, would excuse and sympathize, whilst I, in my
studies, have always felt impelled to analyse and justify.
Neverthele~s, Doyle once said that" professional mediums
are the curse of this study." In this I entirely agree
with him.
Since the investigation I made of the alle~ed
materializing mediumship of Mrs. Baylis, she and her
husband have never been heard of again. Had they
possessed genuine mediumistic powers they would inevit-
ably have rehabilitated themselves, as every opportunity
was offered them. They just faded away; perhaps they
have since de-materialized.
CHAPTER II
" KATERIALIZATIONS " AT THE NATIONAL LABORATORY
The mediurruhip o/ Mr. L'E.trt1n1e--Mr. Ha,., Price prepare• the
.eanc• room-The medium uarched-A light trance-A deeper
trance--Mulic-luJil Scotch-Unutterable drioel-The curtain mooa
-·J'hrowing old clothea about-The chair moce~A luclicrou• and
~amewhat co.tl11 affair.
Sitting held at the National Laboratory of P1ychio
Science (13b Roland Gardens, W.) on Wedne1day,
March 11, 1931
THE sitting was held under the mediumship of Mr.
L'Estrange, who is alleged to be a ·materialization
medium.
In addition to the medium, there were ten sitters
of mixed sexes present, four of whom were personal
supporters of the medium, and the remaining six sitters
were Mr. Harry Price (Honorary Director of the National
Laboratory) and five friends whom he had invited, who
included Mr. Charles Sykes and myself.
Mr. Harry Price prepared the seance room in his
laboratory. A chair was placed in the corner of the
room for the medium, and curtains were drawn across
this corner. On the edge of these curtains were luminous
stripes, running from the top to the bottom; one on the
right and one on the left.
Before the sittin~ took place the medium was searched,
and partially str1pped in the presence of the men
sitters.
Mr. Price bound both the wrists of the medium to the
chair with adhesive tape. Both ankles were tied tightly
to the legs of the chatr. Blue marks in the shape of a
cross were placed from the wrists to the top_ part of the
flesh on the hand.
I was asked to examine the binding of the medium,
which was certainly quite satisfactory.
Outside the circle was Mr. Price's lady secretary. All
the incidents which took place were recorded and
dictated by her into a dictaphone.
232
"MATERIALIZATIONS" 288
The medium's sponsor-whose name I do not remem-
ber-was sitting on the medium's right, close to the
curtains. Mr. Price was on the left of the medium, next
to the curtain. The medium's sponsor's left hand waa
therefore free; also Mr. Price's right hand was free.
All the sitters held hands throughout the sitting.
The lights were turned out. '!'here was complete dark-
ness, with the exception of a very small red electric spark,
which flashed each second. It functioned extremely
well, and flashed for over ten thousand seconds, when,
personally, I got very tired of it.
After some minutes the medium made a few strange
noises, such as might be emitted by a person with weak
lungs, or one suftering from an attack of colic. It was
then announced by the medium's sponsor that the
medium was passing into a light trance. Later, a iew
somewhat incoherent and unintelligible words, which
conveyed nothing, were uttered. After this, the medium
gave a heavy sigh, and then the medium's s~onsor
announced that the medium was "now passing mto a
deeper trance.'' After a while the medium spoke again;
he spoke in his own tones, but with a faint suggestion
of music-hall Scotch. His friends at once acclaimed the
arrival of "James something or other," who was his
Scotch control.
All the remarks made by this so-called Scotch control
were the most unutterable drivel that I have ever listened
to. After a considerable period the luminous paint on
the curtain was recorded to be moving ; first on the left
side, and later on the right side. This continued at odd
intervals ior an hour and a half, each movement being
recorded, and dictated into the dictaphone. After the
first one or two movements it moved slightly more firmly,
as i£ pushed or shaken. It was then recorded by Mr.
Price, and the medium's sponsor, that the " curtain
moved toell." "James " announced that they were try-
ing hard. No materialization of any kind, however,
appeared.
I had observed very carefully the preliminary arrange-
ments, and after one and a half hours of stu~id, and,
to my mind, degrading nonsense, I asked the ctrcle how
long the medium's seances usually lasted. The medium's
sponsor said, " Sometimes they last iour hours." I then
said that I had no intention of spending four hours there.
The lady on my left-one oi the medium's friends--said:
" Oh, no, they don't last so long as that," but the
a•
284 •.. AND AFTER
medium's sponsor said: " Oh, yes, they do. Sometimes
we have CQDlmenced sitting at 8.30 and it has been
nearly 1 o'clock before we have got away." I then
asked whether I should break the circle, as I certainly
had no intention of sitting for such a period. Some of
the circle appeared to welcome this suggestion. I
announced, however, that as I had devoted an entire
evening to the appointment I should like the opportunity
of observing the conditions after the seance was finished,
and that I would sit on for another half-hour.
After a while a movement was heard inside from
behind the curtains, and one of the medium's friends
said: " I think they are taking off his coat." I inquired
whether this was a part of the medium's " phenomena,"
and the lady replied : " Yes, they. take off his coat and
it is thrown out from behind the curtains straight in
front of him. It usually hits a sitter who is opposite
h
. ,,
rm.
As I was seated exactly facing the "medium " in the
circle, I did not entirely relish the idea of part of his
worn clothing being thrown at me, even though his
friends were apparently in the habit of accepting such
an illustration as an example of high spirituality.
However, nothing of the kind happened-happily.
When the control " James " again started to murmur
I asked him whether the seance was likely to last half
an hour, one hour, or two hours. He said that he did
not know, but after waiting for another quarter of an
hour, with movements of the curtain at certain intervals,
the " Scotch control " said that the conditions were all
right, and the sitters quite good, but the medium was
not very fit. A little later the medium made further
strange noises, and his sponsor said that he was coming
out of his trance.
The seance finished, and the lights were turned on.
I then examined the curtains and the position of the
medium. His chair had been shifted to the right, quite
close to the curtain, which was a simple matter. The
devised control by Mr. Price was utterly inadequate.
It was perfectly simple for the medium to move the
chair, and also to move the curtains-this could easily
be done by bending the head, or, indeed, by a foot or
a hand, without the slightest difficulty. The movements
of the curtain which I observed were ludicrous.
I was told afterwards by the medium's sponsor that
full-length forms materialized--some taller than me.
"MATERIALIZATIONS" 285
I asked him how they appeared, and he said that the
luminous disc, which had been previously placed beside
the medium, often moved round the circle, down and up,
so that the materialized forms could be -seen from the
feet upwards.
In answer to a question asked by a lady, the medium's
sponsor said that only one part of the anatomy was
reflected at a time.
In my opinion, nothing of any supernormal character
occurred whatever. But apart from this I consider that
it is degrading for :people of intelligence to be asked to
sit for hours at a time to observe such rubbish. Even
if one accepted the supernormal in such cases, then the
entities as illustrated by the conversation which came
through the medium's mout.h were of such a low type
of intelligence and character that they could only be
accepted as representing the lowest possible class of mind,
which it would be a waste of time to interrogate.
For the miserable entertainment offered to us, the
"medium " received the sum of £7 7s., of which
I was asked to contribute £2 6s. 8d. for myself and Mr.
Sykes, that being my proportion of the payment. The
medium's chorus were, of course, admitted free.
CHAPTER III
THE FLIGHT OF THE HAKILTONS
Some re/feclion.-A dvice to bandit.-Mr. S/)roull introduce. the
Hamilton•- Financial arrangement•- Negotiation•- '' W armut
greeting• "-A miarepreaentation-Terma ~reed-An Gtfempt
to " raiae " me-A diaingenuoua appeal-The Hamilton. arrioe
-M11 impreNion.-The one and only aitting-A nervoua medium
-" Nothing doing "-An attempt to alter the order of aeating-
Complainta aa to the aearch-A b.olate drioei-Re/aaecl to ait-
.An abaurd letter--The amazing recot)e'll of Mra. Ht~milton­
" Teat Pointa "-The Hamilton• bolt-Getting the money bac~
-The .p<>nM>r repudiate. liabilitv-" Camp Cheeterfield "-A
galler11 of beaut11-What the Hamilton• got aWtly with-What
the11 mi...d.
I ·
SoME Chinese bandits, laudably anxious for innocent
pleasures, having captured an American missionary,
recently announced their desire to exchange him for
more amusing articles, in particular specifying gramo-
phone records, tennis rackets, fountain-pens and footballs.
Had I been consulted, I should have suggested that
far more amusement could be got by exchan~ing the
missionary for a certain type of American medtum.
A very necessary part of the ordinary man's mental
equipment is a sense of humour; it is frequently the
salvation of the psychic researcher. If he does not
possess it, he will at times yearn to commit assault and
battery-if not actual murder-as he reflects on wasted
time, wasted money and cheap impertinences. To say
nothing of the fact that it is flattering to no man's self-
esteem to be taken for what, in race-course parlance, is
styled a "mug."
We are all taken for 1
' mugs '' at times-even Cabinet
Ministers-and the position has its comp,ensation when
one is enabled to prove that the real 1
mug " is the
person who makes the assumption.
In this chapter I propose to give a short account of
such a case, and here let me say that in my experience
these instances, in psychic as in other paths of life, are
frequently associated with devious finance.
In October, 1930, an announcement that Mrs.
Hamilt<JP.! ~p~ ~pl~rjc~p ~Materiali~ing medium, waa
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 287
visiting England, appeared in The Two World1, a
weekly journal devoted to spiritualism. The announce-
ment took the form of a letter, which described the
powers of the medium in highly laudatory terms, and
was written by a Mr. R. SproUll, Chartered Accountant,
of 26 Budge Row, London, E.C.4.
If the actual powers of the }Iledium bore any relation
to those claimed for her by Mr. Sproull, they seemed to
me to be well worth examining, so I wrote to that gentle-
man, stating that I should be glad if arrangements
could be made for me to have one or two private sittings
at Dorincourt.
In December, 1930, Mr. Sproull wrote me that he was
in a position to carry the matter a stage further, and
would be glad of an opportunity of discussing it with
me. In this letter, dated December 9, he added that
he thou8'ht Mr. Arthur Ford (an American clairaudient
medium) had mentioned to him that I had an office in
the West End, and asked whether he could see me there
at 5 o'clock on the following Wednesday.
I arranged to see him at Bond Street, and he assured
me that, from his personal experiences with her, Mrs.
Hamilton was a wonderful "medium."
As Mrs. Hamilton was, of course, quite unknown in
this country, Mr. Sproull had assumed the position of
sponsor, and had also undertaken to " make all the
financial arrangements for her visit to this country."
Amongst other things, he told me that Mrs. Hamilton
would come to England accompanied by her husband,
who was, he said, a " direct voice " medium.
Mr. Sproull's visit to me was chiefly concerned with
the financial side. He informed me that th'e British
Colles:e of Psychic Science had offered to guarantee a
contribution of £100 for her services, and that he was
in negotiation with the Marylebone Society, who also
required her. He asked me how much I would be
prepared to pay, and I told him that for a series of eight
seances I would be willing to :pay £80.
I do not wish the unsophisticated to imagine for one
moment that it is my usual habit to throw away £80
upon futilities. The eight so-called " materializing
seances " with Mrs. Hamilton were, in my opinion, likely
to prove worth that amount in my research work, whether
they happened to achieve successful results or whether
they were proved to be fraudulent.
Mr. Sproull considered the figure of £80 a fair one,
288 ... AND AFTER
and at· once accepted the offer. A fortnight after thia
interview he wrote me, in a letter dated December 23,
as follows:
,. DEn SIR,
Mr. and Mr1. Hamiltoft
"The arrangements respecting the above are going
forward smoothly. The British College of Psychic
Science is at present in touch with the Marylebone
Association as to whether the latter will co-operate with
them, but I have the College's guarantee for £100, so
that I anticipate Mrs. Hamilton will be here for the
test seance at the College on March 30. I find the work
for these Societies in arranging seances for nine weeks is
considerable.
" The number of materialization seances for the
Societies is restricted to four weekly, .but I would hope
for five for you : indeed I would use my best endeavours
to give you as many materialization seances as possible
in the week. In addition, Mr. Hamilton has expressed
his desire to give you his direct voice seances. I take
it that will be agreeable to you that this service will
liquidate the non-returnable guarantee which you kindly
offered, and which I have accepted on behalf of Mrs.
Hamilton.
H I should be glad or your confirmation of the fore-
going, and tentatively I would propose that Mr. and
Mrs. Hamilton reserve either the week commencing
April 27 or May 4 for Jou.
" Meantime, I sen you the Season's Warmest
Greetings.
'' Cordially yours,
" (Signed) R. SPROULL."
It was only after Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton had hurriedly
left the country that I was informed by Mrs. R. de
Crespigny (the President) and Mrs. Hankey (the
Secretary) of the British College tliat Mr. Sproull had
visited them and stated that I was supporting and had
engaged the services of Mrs. Hamilton. My name was
used by Mr. Sproull as a recommendation of the
Hamiltons, whereas in point of fact I knew nothing
whatever of their powers. As Mrs. de Crespigny said
to me when I saw her, after the Hamiltons had departed,
the view the College had taken, when approached by
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 289
Mr. Sproull, was: " If they are good enough for Mr.
Bradley then they are good enough for us."
When Mr. Sproull saw me, however, before I had
entered into any arrangements with him, he told me that
the British College of Psychic Science knew of Mrs.
Hamilton's mediumistic powers, and had en,qaged her.
Whereas the facts were that neither I nor the British
College knew anything whatever about the Hamiltons.
Mr. Sproull was the only one who knew of Mr. and Mrs.
Hamilton, and he acted as their psychic-financial sponsor
throughout.
Mr. Sproull had informed me that he had obtained a
guarantee from the British College of Psychic Science,
and expected to obtain a further guarantee from the
Marylebone Society, and that beyond these guarantees the
fees which Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton would receive for
nine weeks' services would probably amount to over
£400.
I regarded Mr. Sproull's letter to me of December 23
as not entirely satisfactory, so I wrote to him on
December 30, 1930:
"December 30, 1930.
u DEAR MR. SPROULL,
Mr. and Mr1. HamiltOft
"I shall be only too pleased to offer my support to Mr.
and Mrs. Hamilton, but I certainly think that £80 for
one week is too much. I think, as you are arranging a
series for nine weeks, that if I paid £50 for one week,
that would be the correct proportion. If Mr. Hamilton
is a good ' direct voice ' medtum himself I should then
be quite willing to contribute a further £25 or £30 for
a series of ' voice ' sittings with him.
" Yours sincerely,
" H. D. B."
On January 2, 1931, I received the following reply:
"DEAR MR. BRADLEY,
Mr. and Mr1. Hamilton
" I thank you for your letter of 30th ult. Since writing
you on 23rd, I would mention that the College guarantee
has been varied slilo!htly as it was felt that £100 was too
much for the College per 1e, but the College and
240 ••• AND AFTER
individuals associated with the College are guaranteeing
£75, although I am just awaiting a new formal letter to
confirm this.
" In view of your guarantee I am agreeable that the
charge to you for the week be £50 as you suggest, and I
leave open the amount of any payment you may make
to Mr. Hamilton for the direct voice seances.
" I propose opening a special bank account early in
February for the guarantee monies, and about that time
sending the one way tickets to America.
" Yours truly,
" (Signed) R. SP:aOULL."
I replied to Mr. Sproull as follows :
"DEAR M:a. SPB.OULL,
" Jaftuary 6, 1931.
Mr. and Mra. Hamilton
" In reply to your letter o£ the 2nd inst. I shall be
prepared to guarantee the sum of £50 for one week's
seances to be held at Dorincourt. If you will remind me
about the date when you are opening the account I will
let you have a cheque.
" Yours sincerely,
"H. D. B."
After a lap111e of four weeks I received the following
letter from Mr. Sproull :
H DEA:a M:a. B:aADLEY,
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
" If convenient to you I shall be glad if you will
kindly send me this week your cheque for £80 referred
to in our previous correspondence, as I would like to send
the steamship tickets next week.
11
Yours truly,
" (Signed) R. SPROULL, D.C."
In view of my very definite letter of January 5 in
which I distinctly stated that the sum agreed upon was
·£50-to say nothing of Mr. Sproull's own letter of the
2nd in which he wrote: " I am agreeable that the charge
to you for the week be £50, as you suggest ''-this letter
struck me as singularly disingenuous, and I therefore
replied as follows :
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 241
'' DEAR MR. SPROULL,
" February 4, 1931.
" If you refer to your letter to me of January 2 and
my reply of January 6 you will find that the sum agreed
was £50.
" Yours sincerely,
" H. D. B."
I then sent a cheque for the agreed amount of £60, and
obtained the followmg formal receipt:
" 26 BuDGE Row, E.C.4.
Mr. and Mr1. Hamilton
"Received from H. Dennis Bradley, Esq., by cheque
the sum of Fifty Pounds (£60) as guarantee monies for the
expenses of the above to and from England.
" (Signed) R. SPROULL.
P'ebruary 6, 1931."
With this receipt was the following covering letter:
H DEAR MR. BRADLEY,
Mr. and Mr&. Hamilton
" I thank you for your letter and I enclose receipt for
your cheque.
" I had read our correspondence as leaving the amount
of your guarantee still at £80 although the actual charge
for the week was to be £50, leaving a difference of £30
to be settled between Mr. Hamilton and you when the
time arose, otherwise the £30 was to be repaid to you out
of Mrs. Hamilton's earnings here. In view of this, and
the moderated charge for the week, if you can advance
the further £30 I shall be much obliged.
" Yours truly,
" (Signed) R. SPROULL."
This I regarded as the most extraordinary letter of the
series. No mention whatever had been made in any of
my correspondence (carbon copies of which are, of course,
in my possession) as to my being repaid £30 out of Mrs.
Hamilton's earnings. A species of partnership with a
person utterly unknown to me was entirely outside
my philosophy-psychic o:r mundane. lt w~s utterly
242 ••• AND AFTER
ridiculous to imagine that I should ever consider or
consent to such an arrangement.
It was also difficult to understand Mr. Sproull's
reference to a " moderate '' charge. Fifty pounds a week
seems to me a high figure for a genuine medium, and I
will later express my considered opinion, based on my
perso.nal experiences, of this particular medium's
genumeness.
Mr. Sproull said he would be obliged if I would advance
a further £30. I am sure he was perfectly sincere in
saying so, but of course I had not the slightest intention
of being so foolish. I therefore wrote to him as follows:
H DEAR MR. SPROULL,
" February 9, 1931.
"Our correspondence regarding the amount I agreed
to pay to Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton is quite clear.
" I am not prepared to pay more than £50 for a week's
sittings, which I consider a very adequate price. If
Mr. Hamilton gives any voice sittings, apart from the
materializing s1t.tings, I will arrange with him when he
arrives an equitable fee, after having the first experience
with him.
" I wish, however, to make it quite definite that I
am not prepared to pay anl more money at present.
' Yours faithfully,
"H. D. B."
II
Towards the end of March Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
arrived in England. It was only after the fiasco which
took place and their hurried departure back to America,
that I discovered that among his various activities
Mr. Hamilton was known in Chesterfield, Indiana, as the
Rev. A. A. Hamilton, " a medium, ordained spiritualistic
minister, and a speaker at the Camf Chesterfield."
~I mi~ht mention that a number o these alleged
'med1ums " in America are known as " the Reverend,"
or if a woman, as the "Reverend Mrs. So-and-so." This
is done to inspire confidence and compel the respect of
the unsophisticated.)
Mr. Hamilton, when he reached London, did not pose
as a Reverend; nor did he appear to me in any way
reverend or reverent.
On his arrival Mr. Sproull brought him to see me
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 248
at my office. Mr. Hamilton is a thick-set man, probably
in the middle forties. I have met all types of people
in my time, and am a fair student of character. I
am forced to admit that I was unfavourably impressed
by Mr. Hamilton. He was extremely loquacious, but
to my mind there was a distinct shiftiness in his manner.
I made a point, however, of appearing very affable. He
liked ~y cocktails, and I was liberal with them-! always
:find they help in certain cases. I invited him and his
sponsor, Mr. Sproull, to lunch with me, in order that I
might have a fuller opportunit;r. of observing him.
I could not induce Mr. Ham1lton to speak much about
his own mediumship. He knew, of course, that I had
very considerable experience, and, despite my affability,
he was unquestionably very nervous of me from the start,
and showed it.
It had been arranged by the British College that Mrs.
Hamilton should hold her first materialization seance on
Monday, March 30, 1931. Althou~h I am a Life Member
of the College I had not been 1nvited to attend this
seance, but I wrote to the Secretary requesting to be
allowed to attend.
I told Mr. Hamilton that I should be present at the
College on the following Monday, and I suggested that
he and Mr. Sproull shou]d lunch with me a_gain on the
following Tuesday, and that Mrs. Hamilton should
accompany them. This was agreed to.
The follow-ing is a brief account of the one and only
seance Mrs. Hamilton attempted to give:
Sitting at the British College fo'r Psychic Science,
Monday, Ma.,.ch 30, 1031. Medium: M"'· Hamilton-
Materialization.
There were twenty-five sitters. The chairs were
arranged close up round the walls of the room, Mr.
Hamilton (husband of the medium) sitting next to the
cabinet on the right-about four feet from it. The
cabinet was formed by curtains drawn about eight feet
high across one corner of the room. Next to the curtain,
close up to it on the left side, sat Mr. Frank Hawken, the
Secretary of the Marylebone Spiritualistic Society; next
to him sat Mr. Sproull, who was sponsoring Mr. and
Mrs. Hamilton, and next to Mr. Sproull, an American
"trumpet medium " named Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, who
244 .•. AND AFTER
had travelled over with the Hamilton& on the same boat.
My subsequent experiences with Mrs. Murphey-Lydy are
related in another chapter.
'rhe medium was searched by two of the lady sitters-
Mrs. Hankey and :Mrs. Hawken.
I did not see the medium until the seance was about
to commence. She was dressed in white pyjamas and a
dressing-gown, and was ushered in by Mrs. Hankey and
Mrs. Hawken and led to the curtains. Before sitting
down she stated that she always sat in dark pyjamas,
but that they had provided her with white. She
appeared to me to be terribly nervous.
The lights were turned off, with the exception of one
centre red light, which gave a considerable amount of
luminosity. It was possible to see distinctly all the
sitters present in the room.
...Mr. Hamilton gave an address regarding conditions,
stating that when a materialized form appeared nobody
must touch it unless permission was given to do so. He
also stated that when a 'fll,Q,terialized jO'I"Tn appeared he
tt1ually walked up to the cabinet and addressed it firlt.
Mr. Hamilton then suggested that we should sing
hymns and songs. Hymn after hymn had been sung for
half an hour, but nothing happened. The medium then
gave a loud shriek as if in patn. Later on, after another
pause of ten minutes or so, she groaned and started to
vomit. This continued for a short period. She appeared
to me to be terrified. In my opinion something had
gone wrong with the fake, and she was anxious to make
her escape.
Just before the sitting terminated the medium called
out, as if re~uiring him: " Mr. Hamilton," which
seemed a pecuhar way of addressing her husband, as she
was not in a. trance condition.
During the sitting the American trumpet medium,
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, remarked that they were sitting
too close to the curtain, and suggested that some moved
to the other side. Mr. Hawken, who was seated next to
the curtain, firmly refused to move, saying that he did
not intend to change his position, because he was keeping
observation on Mr. Hamilton and on any movement of
his towards the curtain. If he had moved this would
have left Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Sproull and Mr1. Murphey-
Lydy all surrounding the medium.
I was told afterwards that the medium, before entering
the seance room, was stripped and carefully examined,
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 245
including the ears, combing the hair, etc., and that the
garments in which she sat were provided by the College.
These were proper test conditions, but Mr. Hamilton
afterwards complained very bitterly that the medium had
been searched so thoroughly.
There was a distinct feeling of " slump," and Mr.
Hamilton's contribution to the general gaiety was a
suggestion of a further singing of hymns. No attempt
whatever was made to give any demonstration, and the
:fiasco terminated, after lasting for about an hour.
I left the College immediately afterwards, as I did
not wish to discuss the matter with anyone there. I had
formed my own opinions, and I was determined that
during the series of sittings the Hamiltons bad arran~ed
to give me I would allow them plenty of rope, in order
to produce their alleged " materializations," which I
felt certain I should be able to expose.
. . . . . . . .
On the following day, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Sproull
came to lunch with me as arranged. Mr. Hamilton
stated that his wife was unable to accept my invitation,
as she had been ill and hysterical all night. He told
me that after the "materialization seance " he had held
a sitting in his rooms with the " trumpet medium,"
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy and one or two of his friends, and
that his " Guide " had said that the circle at the CoJlege
was a bad one; that Mr. Hawken was responsible, and
that they would not hold the sittings as arranged with
the Marylebone Society.
I knew that his statement that the circle was a bad
one was absolute nonsense, and his intense resentment
against Mr. Hawken was easily explained. The simple
and obvious reason that he was so annoved with }fr.
Hawken was that at the last moment he (Mr. Hawken)
had insisted on taking the chair next to the curtain,
and had, quite rightly, refused to budge from it. It is
evident that this chair is always reserved for one of
the " medium's " associates, or for unobservant and
credulous friends.
Mr. Hamilton's complaint in regard to the searching
of his wife was infantile. She was searched in the u~ua]
and correct way, by Mrs. Hankev (Secretary of the
British College) and by Mrs. Hawken, the wife of the
Secretary of the Marvlebone Association.
Mr. Hamilton state'd that they did not expect her 1o
be tre-ted in this lD~Puer~ ~nd th4't h~ ltad explained to
246 ... AND AFTER
Mr. Hawken the nature of the searching and testing
which was given in U.S.A. It became apparent to me
that the sort of searching which Mr. Hamilton demanded
was probably one affording innumerable loopholes, and
was one which permitted the " medium " to wear her
own garments.
The search made having been a thorough one, and the
fact that other garments than her own were supplied,
resulted in the " seance " being a failure. The illusions
could not be produced.
The excuses made were futile.
The detennination, immediately arrived at-obviously
because a proper search had been made, and because
Mr. Hawken insisted on sitting next to the curtain-to
refuse to hold sittings with the Marylebone Society, was
in itself so suspicious, that in my eyes the fraudulency
of the Hamiltons' proceedings was at once assured.
Despite this conviction, however, I refrained from
expressing any opinions to Mr. Hamilton. What I
desired was to observe the actual methods used in their
attempts to produce the alleged phenomena in my own
house.
I took Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Sproull to lunch, and
ado:pted a very careless attitude regarding the whole
affair. Mr. Hamilton had no opportunity of escaping
the luncheon appointment, since it had been previously
arranged, but m spite of my apparent friendliness
towards him I could easily appreciate by his manner
that underneath his somewhat exuberant affability he
was- desperately frightened of me.
My attitude, however, succeeded in impressing Mr.
Sproull, who was probably duped throughout by the
Hamiltons; so much so, that at lunch he suggested that
as Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton refused to fulfil their engage-
ment with the Marylebone Society, perhaps I would like
to take over, in addition to my own series, the sittings
which they had arranged to hold with the Society. Mr.
Sproull was, by this time, evidently very worried over
the financial side. Of course, I had not the slightest
intention oi having any more sittings than the six
arran~ed for, which I knew would be amply sufficient
for all my purposes, so I diplomatically waived the
quest ion. I said that if any alteration happened to be
made in the arrangements, I would endeavour to fit in
my series at an earlier date to suit the convenience of
Yr. and Mrs. Hamilton. Frankly, I had been looking
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 247
forward to them very much. I have had many interest-
ing experiences in life, and I knew by this time that
Mr. Hamilton, or the Rev. A. A. Hamilton, was an
American (spiritualistic) crook. This fact in no way
affected me. I have met any number of crooks, some
of whom are infinitely more interesting and amusing
than the ordinary respectably dull person.
The following day I received from Mr. Sproull a copy
of a very lengthy and somewhat confused letter, which
he had written, possibly under the stress of emotion, to
the British College of Psychic Science. I will excuse
Mr. Sproull for the absurdities it contained, because the
feeble excuses made were in all probability inspired and
dictated by Mr. Hamilton. In this letter, dated April 1,
1931, and signed by Mr. Sproull, he said (I quote
verbatim):
" 26 BuDGE Row,
LONDON, E.C.4.
April 1, 1931.
" The British College of Psychic Science,
15 Queens Gate, S.W.7.
II DEAR SIRS,
" I write with reference to the seance held on
Monday, March 30, when there was present a lars-e repre-
sentation of the Councils of the :Marylebone Spuitualist
Association and the British College of Psychic Science.
" There was no failure on the part of the medium,
as is shown by the sufferings she has borne as a result
of the seance, but there was a very positive omission on
the part of the controllers of the two Societies to provide
the correct atmosphere, and one to which I cannot allow
t.he merlium any risk of a repetition. Our arrangements
must therefore be considered as cancelled. Nevertheless
the Hamiltons and I are anxious you should get the
results you had hoped to get, and therefore that fresh
arrangements can be quickly come to with you. In an1
case, working with the Marylebone Association 18
definitely ruled out and is not to be a question for discus-
sion, although no doubt many :Marylebone sitters who
can provide good conditions will be enabled to see the
phenomena at your place.
1
' On :Mondaf last there was a general absence of dis-
play of carefu forethought and planning in regard to
some factors essential for a physical phenomena seance.
The slightest acquaintance with mental and other con-
248 ... AND AFTER
ditions, which humble researchers who have got results
in this field have recorded in their writings, could easily
have avoided the fiasco the seance proved to be. If
seances of this nature are carried out in the spirit
ehown on March 30 no wonder we have no physical
mediumship worthy of the title in this country.
" Specifically I am disgusted with the treatment of
my guest, the medium, Mrs. Hamilton, and the violation
of the ' A~reed Test Conditions.' These ' Agreed
Test Conditions ' in relation to the treatment of the
medium read:
'' ' (a) Search of the medium before and after seance by
the same two lady members, one of whom is to
be the College representative and the other that
of the Association.
" ' (b) Control of medium to and from her room to
chair in her cabinet.'
" Now the object of these conditions was that you
would be assured by an ordinary search that the medium
had nothing concealed about her person that could permit
of misrepresentation, and it was intended they should
not distress the medium or affect her Guides. On
March 24 Jrfr. Hamilton ezplained to Mr. Hawken the
nature of the &earching and te&ting which u given in
U.S.A., and to which Mrs. Hamilton was accustomed,
but Mr. Hawken did not reveal that Monday's procedure
was to be so different and pernicious.
"On the other hand, what actually happened on
Monday was a fundamental disturbance which set up a
wrong atmosphere, e.g.
" (a) Burning a lighted match at the medium's back
(in regard to applying molten sealing-wax near
the medium's neck to the back of the fancy test
garment you provided for her).
" (b) Combed her hair (but competent searchers could
easily have assured themselves there was nothing
in her short hair by means more agreeable to
the medium).
" (c) Washed her hands and face (her face had
obviously very little or no make-up on it, and
to afterwards say that this is the way to be
satisfied there· was no luminous paint smeared
on the medium's face shows how limited in
understanding was the mind which conceived
this idea).
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 249
" (d) Having the medium rinse her mouth with a
coloured warm water, the first flavour of which
she rightly considered distasteful (one's first
impression of the taste I have since found to be
of a doubtfully agreeable disinfectant one gets
at the dentist's, and surely ordinary water would
have served all purposes).
" (e) There was a lack of sympathy radiating to the
medium from the sitters as a body (however
estimable sitters were as individuals there were
failures to contribute to the mental homogenity
of the meeting. Because of this the medium's
Guides could not get close enou~h to keep out
the strangulation influence wh1ch eventually
supervened).
" Any seeming momentary consent on the part of the
medium as each of (a) to (d) were put to her by the
searchers at the last minute was no adequate reason for
their infliction on her when they had not been mentioned
to me or Mr. Hamilton, and it is therefore no exaggera·
tion to assert that the springing of the above surprises
on the medium must be held as contributing to the
failure of the spirit friends to manifest.
" It should not be overlooked that the medium was on
the premises fully half an hour before a start was made
by the searchers; during this time less obtrusive observa-
tion by the searchers could have done all that was
!lecessary in regard to some of.the above and other steps
1n the search I need not mention.
"As you were to get as many as three test seances in
all, had you an elementary familiarity with the highly
sensitive nature of mediums generally, and materializing
mediums in a strange country in particular, you surely
never would have authorized such a departure from the
Agreed Test Conditions in this first seance. I hesitate
to contemplate the lengths to which you would have
gone in the third test.
"An item which cannot be allowed to pass without
comment is in regard to the colour of the garments
provided. Mr. Hawken suggested Mrs. Hamilton should
wear your garments, and after consultation by Mr.
Hamilton and myself with the medium it was agreed she
would do so, although Mr. Hamilton and I said she
preferred her own. When de~cribing the U.S.A. tejt
condition~ to Mr. Hawken Mr. Hamilton drew attention
that Mrs. Hamilton's garments were always black, and
250 ... AND AFTER
were merely a black silk dress, black sateen knickers,
black woollen stockings and black shoes. Nevertheless,
you provided a one-piece woollen garment which was
white, a ridiculous colour for a test garment, in that it
is common knowledge iull-form materialization mani-
festations are robed principally in white.
"Another factor which made for failure was Mr.
Hawken's usurpation of my place next the cabinet.
Your officials knew and saw that Mr. Hamilton and I
were solicitous for the care of the medium and were
located, Mr. Hamilton one side, and I on the other side
of the cabinet. Mr. Hawken refused my invitation to
exchange seats with him on the excuse that he was to
observe Mr. Hamilton did not go near the cabinet, a dut.Y
he could have fulfilled in my seat, the next one to h1s
own. Indeed, had Mr. Hawken wished, he could have
observed Mr. Hamilton and the cabinet from many other
positions than the one he fitted himself into at the last
moment in the well-lighted room. Before Mr. Hawken
placed himself in his J>Osition there was a space between
the cabinet and myself; Mr. Hawken's position filled
this space so that it was not easy for him to avoid touch-
ing the curtain.
" No doubt also you would like to know that immedi-
ately after the failure on Monday, Mr. and Mrs.·
Hamilton and myself and Mrs. Murphey-Lydy and
Count Hamilton were assembled at Mr. Hamilton's flat,
when without the slightest effort on our parts the spirit
Guides who have been co-operating in this venture spoke
long and loud, in no uncertain tones, through the
trumpet, and in the direct voice, as to our future policy in
view of your breach in the searching-room of the ' Agreed
Test Conditions.' And be it noted it was real startling
news for us to be told from the other side of these
breaches, for neither Mr. Hamilton nor I nor our two
friends had up to that time any realization of even the
possibility of these breaches. Moreover, it was beyond
the scope of Mrs. Hamilton to have appreciated this facet
of the happenings, however much she may have felt
things had gone wrong.
" At the aforementioned voice meeting I was also
instructed to point out to you that the conditions on
Monday night were such that the medium's spirit
friends found the utmost difficulty in saving her from
transition (death)· Had conditions been better the
circumstances wh1ch caused the medium to shriek and
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 251
vomit violently would never have atJected her. How
soon she will recover we do not know.
" The spirit friends instructed us that all the dominat-
ing adverse influences must be avoided at future seances,
and you know we cannot demand of the spirit people.
" In conclusion I have no doubt that loving,
symp~thetic and harmonious conditions can be provided
by you in future demonstrations, so as to relieve
Monday's tendency to give umbrage to the spirit friends
of the sitters.
" Yours faithfully,
" (Signed) RoDERT SPROULL."
I publish this at length because it is to my mind
one of the most ridiculous letters I have ever read;
yet it appears that Mr. Sproull at the time genuinely
believed in what he wrote. The date-April l-is also
significant.
The tone of the letter suggests that, not being an acute
and experienced observer, Mr. Sproull was duped by the
Hamiltons and Mrs. Murphey-Lydy throughout.
Strangely enough, the very next day I received from
Mr. Sproull a copy of another letter, which he had sent
to the British College :
'' 26 BuDGE Row,
LoNDON, E.C.4.
April 2, 1931.
" The British College of Psychio Science,
15 Queens Gate, S.W.7.
"DEAR Sms,
" Further to my letter of yesterday I would like to
add that as a go-between the Hamiltons and the two
Societies I personally feel very keenly the distinction
between the Marylebone Spiritualist Association and
yourselves, and I shall use every endeavour to get things
to ~o as originally intended.
' Moreover, although yesterday Mrs. de Crespigny1
was good enough to suggest that the next seance
(Tuesday, April 7) should be held as originally intended
for the public, I think it woul~ be well to al~o look upon
it as part of the tests, and to Include a suffiCient number
of active observers from your Council or officers to serve
this purpose. This may mean reducing the number of
1 President of the Britiah Colleae.
252 ... AND AFTER
outsiders, but the cause of spiritualism is virtually at
stake. Moreover, you or the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association (and I have heard of others) have made
publications of the fact of tests to be given, and I do
not think a mere verbal statement at the seances can be
good for ' truth ' in the circumstances.
"Now as to the actual procedure and precautions at
tests. I do not think it unreasonable that there should
be full and frank discussion as to these, and the severity
of tests can certainly be increased as their number is
increased. Moreover, I would like it to be clearly under-
stood that in my opinion there was no step taken as
isolated items in Monday's test that was unreasonable--it
was only apparently the unexpected nature of the steps
which seemed to upset the medium, especially as she is
stated to be suffering from blood pressure. I have spoken
on this to Mrs. Hamilton and she is agreeable to go
through again all that was done on Monday by way of
test, but whether or not on Tuesday I cannot yet
say.
"Yours faithfully,
" (Signed) R. SPROULL."
It will be observed from this letter that Mrs. Hamilton,
who was so grievously ill as a result of the seance at
which nothing happened, was still in a fit enough
condition to attend a sitting later in the same evening
with Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, the "trumpet medium"; such
a quick recovery is certainly phenomenal-if only from
a materialistic :point of view-the more especially as Mr.
Sproull stated 1n his letter that an hour or so prior to
this it was only with the utmost difficulty that the
medium's spirit friends had " saved her from transition
(death)." I must remember this in future when I am in
danger of being transitioned.
To this letter was attached the following memorandum :
" Te1t Points, per R. Sproull
"Every observer to see the medium and Mr. Hamilton
before and after the seance.
" MrS'. Hamilton to be searched and controlled, etc.,
before and after seance. (Later tests, strip.)
" Mr. Hamilton to be searched and controlled, etc.,
before and after seance. (Later tests, strip.)
" Curtains to be searched before and after seance.
(Subsequent tests, use your curtains.)
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 258
"Cabinet (including chair and blanket) to be searched
before and after seance.
" Room to be searched before and after seance.
'' Each observer :
" (a) To be placed so as to note clearly one feature of
each materialization, e.g., head and face, body,
arms, legs, feet, posture, voice intonation, grunts
and yawns.
., (b) To use a notebook during the seance to record
times and observations.
"Other observers to note:
" b) Curtain and cabinet movements.
" c) Sitters' movements.
"!a) Mr. Hamilton's movements.
" d) Relationship of movements.
"Right placing of observers is important having
regard to their duties.
" A stenographer with her prompter to be present, also
a chairman to control meeting should need arise.
" List of hymns to be sung and a leader for singing
provided.
"Above not submitted yet to Mr. Hamilton.''
This letter amused me intensely, being, in fact, an
absolute contradiction in essentials of his letter written to
the British College on the previous day. Evidently Mr.
Sproull was, at this time, in a highly nervous condition.
This is particularly illustrated in his preposterous remark
that " the cause of spiritualism is virtually at stake."
How the cause of spiritualism could be at stake in regard
to an experiment in which nothing whatever had
happened 1s difficult to understand. Also his statement:
" I do not think a mere verbal statement at the seances
can be good for ' truth ' in the circumstances,'' seems to
me to display either a condition of incoherence or
neuroticism.
Mr. Sproull then, within twen~-four hours, proceeded
to relinquish and entirely contradict the ar~ments of his
first letter, when he wrote : " I would like 1t to be clearly
understood that in my opinion there was no step taken
as isolated items in Monday's test that was unreasonable."
Mr. Sproull therefore explicitly states that everything
that was done by the British College and the Maryle-
bone Society was in his opinion reasonable.
And then, under his acute mental stress, Mr. Sproull
proceeded to evolve his own test points, in connection with
254 ... AND AFTER
which it is somewhat comic to note his na1ve and rather
hopeful remark at the bottom of this document: "Above
not submitted yet to Mr. Hamilton."
This letter, written on April 2, when Mr. Sproull
evolved his own test points, had not been shown to Mr.
Hamilton, but on the next day, Good Friday, April 3,
Mr. Sproull telephoned me at Dorincourt, and in a
somewhat agitated manner told me that Mrs. Hamilton,
being still very ill with blood pressure or something, Mr.
Hamilton had decided to sail for America on the follow-
ing morning. Personally, if I were very ill I should
prefer a quiet bedroom to a tempestuous sea.
Mr. Sproull telephoned me from the flat he had engaged
for the Hamiltons, and I knew at once, when he informed
me of this decision, that the Hamiltons had "got the
wind up" and had determined to clear out of the country
and take the fastest liner back to their beloved and
reverend friends in U.S.A.
I was certainly annoyed at being deprived of my series
of interesting investigations with Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton,
and I at once told Mr. Sproull over the 'phone that I
should, of course, expect him to return the £50 I had
advanced. He seemed very worried at my sordidly
material outlook, and said that he could not agree to do
this. I told him that a considerable amount of money
had been advanced to these people by myself and others,
and that a return must certainly be made. I told him
that the Hamiltons, since they had failed to·fulfil their
undertakings, should return the money to him, but
whether they did so or not I should hold him responsible.
He said that they had no money, and I then asked : " Is
Mr. Hamilton destitute P" He very kindly went on to
say that the Hamiltons had promised him that they would
come back to pay another visit to this country in October,
and that I could then have my week's sittings. Which
was very nice of him-and them. He then suggested
that as he was 'phoning from the Hamiltons' flat that I
should talk to Mr. Hamilton. I was extremely strong
over the 'phone to Mr. Hamilton. He whined and
carneyed and said he b.ad no money, but knowing that he
was a crook, I told him that I reg-arded the matter as
one which might be better dealt with by Scotland Yard.
I reminded him that I h.ad paid him a considerable sum
of money through Mr. Sproull, that I regarded hi~ wh~le
behaviour as fraudulent, and that as he and h1s Wife
were not fulfilling their engagement I regarded it as a
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 255
case of obtaining money by false pretences. That was
the last I heard of Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton, who
scampered out of the country on the following day.
III
After the hurried depa.rture of the Hamiltons I wrote
to Mr. Sproull as follows:
" April 1, 1931.
''DEAR Sm,
"With reference to our conversation on the telephone
on Friday last, when you informed me that Mr. and
Mrs. Hamilton were hurriedly leaving the country, I
must ask you to refund the amount of £50 which I paid
you on February 6. This sum of money was paid to you
for their services under an agreement between us, which
was confirmed in your letter of January 2 last, in which
you stated: ' I am agreeable that the charge to you for
the week be £50.'
" I must ask you to let me have a cheque for this
amount.
" Yours faithfullv,
''H. D. B."
Mr. Sproull refused !o return me the £50 which I had
paid him for the Hamiltons' services for a week. From
an account which I received later it was shown that the
Hamiltons were paid in all £125, which was made up as
follows :
British College of Psychic Science £25
Marylebone Association . . 25
Mr. A. H. (whom I do not know) 25
H.D.B. 50
£125
-
From this it is shown that the British College con·
tributed £25. This does not tally with the state-
ment made to me by Mr. Sproull in his letter of
January 2, 1931, in which he stated that the British
College was contributing £75.
Mr. Sproull told me that I must apply to the Hamiltons
to refund me the £50. As Mr. Hamilton had told me
256 . ••. AND AFTER
on the 'phone that he had not got any mone1., and since
he had cleared out of the country and I d1d not know
his address, I seemed to stand an excellent chance of
recovery.
I therefore again wrote to Mr. Sproull, telline- him
that as the money had been paid by me to hun as
spo~sor, I regarded him as responsible. He replied,
saymg:
"I did not give any undertaking, and you will
recollect that fulfilment of seances at your place were
dependent on authentication at certain test seances
elsewhere."
~his, of course, was entirely untrue, and I replied,
saymg:
" The fulfilment of the undertaking to give a series of
seances under my supervision was not ' dependent upon
authentication of certain test seances elsewhere.' The
series of sittings arranged with me were entirely
independent. No arrangements had been made that I
should even attend other test seances."
Mr. Sproull, however, continued to maintain that he
was "merely an agent in the matter," that the
Hamiltons were the principals, and that any right of
action I might have must be against the Hamiltons as
principals, and not against him as agent. I asked him
what grounds he had for his original statement to me
that the Hamiltons were genuine mediums, and whether
he had any records to show. In reply to this, in a letter
dated April 11, he said :
" I enclose a Chesterfield booklet which will give you
the Hamiltons' address, and help you to appreClate that
I made bona fide statements."
The booklet I received from Mr. Sproull was entitled
''Camp Chesterfield. 1929." In this the following
information is given concerning Mrs. Bertha Holtz-
Hamilton:
" She was directed to the Madison Avenue Spiritual
Temple, where she began her development of medium-
ship, with Mrs. Sallie Blake as her instructor. After a
long and sincere period of concentration and eflort, her
MEDIUMS AT CA:\-1P CHEST E R FIELD.
MRs. B E RT HA HoLTZ HA MILTON .
Not a Hcv., but the wife of a
R ev. A thoroughly CXJWrienccd
practitioner, of a retidng- even
retreating--disposition .
H E V. AN:-<A THRO:-I DSE N.
H er motto is : "The ones worth
while are the ones with a smile.
when everything goes dead wrong."
H er smile is described as "be-
speaking t he great beauty of her
ind welling soul."
Y
!RS. ~1ARY l\I URPHEY· LY DY .
According to the official pam phlet,
"started her career wit h a vision."
Since t hen, becoming keen-sighted ,
she developed a n eye for the main
cha nce.
~I Rs. SARAH E. PIE RCE, lV
I.D .
DC'scri bed in the official pam phlet
as " The field of ripened grain."
[to face page 256.
•
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 257
development was attained, and for twenty-five years
she has brought joy and consolation to thousands of
people.
" Mrs. Hamilton's mediumship consists of phases of
Trumpet, Materialization, Clairvoyance, and Clairaudi-
ence, and trumpet-in-the-light. Six years ago she
became the wife of the Rev. A. A. Hamilton."
Mrs. Hamilton certainly brought me no joy, but the
" Camp Chesterfield " booklet did. It is one of the most
illuminating documents I have ever read. It contains
also a priceless " picture gallery." In this book
(published by the Indiana Association of Spiritualists)
sixteen photographs in all of the " mediums " of the
"Camp" are published. (A photograph of Mrs. Hamil-
ton appears on page 256.) I have reproduced several
of the~e photographs, among which is included her
sympathetic friend, Mrs. Murphey-Lydy (see page 258),
to whom my next chapter is devoted. in my opinion
these pictures provide an exceedingly interesting study,
though they are likely to appeal more to the psychologist
than to the lover of human beauty. I have added them
to my own art collection, and I am not sure that they
are not worth £50.
. . . . .
Immediately after the departure of the Hamiltons I
called to see Mrs. Rose de Crespigny, the President of
the British College, and gave her my opinion that the
Hamiltons were frauds. It was then that I asked her
what credentials had been given to the College before
she engaged them, and she told me that Mr. Sproull had
informed her distinctly that " Mr. Dennis Bradley had
engaged them.''
The Hamiltons had agreed to give the College a series
of sixteen seances, from April 7 until May 2. It was
arranged that the sitters were to number fifteen to twenty
persons at each seance. The charge for each sitter was
fixed as follows :
Members of the British College
Associates . .
Non-members (introduced)
£1 7s. 6d.
1 lOs. Od.
1 15s. Od.
At the one sitting I attended, there were twenty-five
persons present.
I
258 ... AND AFTER
It will be seen from these arrangements that the lees
lor each seance would amount to approximately .£80,
which would average £120 ~er week.
The Marylebone Spirituahst Association made similo.r
arrangements, their dates being, for sixteen sittings,
from May 11 to June 6.
In between the British College and the Marylebone
Association my private series of one week was to have
been held, at a charge of £60 for Mrs. Hamilton's
" materializations," and a few demonstrations by Mr.
Hamilton, which might, with luck, have produced a
further £30.
I wrote to Mr. Frank Hawken, Secretary of the
Marylebone Spiritualist Association, askin~ for his views
regarding the one seance held, and in h1s reply to me
he stated:
" All the arrangements, as you know, were in the
hands of the British College, and I only intervened to
the extent of suggesting to Mrs. de Crespigny that Mr.
Sproull, as manager of the Hamiltons, should be asked
to take another seat, or that someone should be asked to
sit between him and the cabinet, and it was not until
Mrs. de Crespigny came in and locked the door, and
asked me to occupy the vacant seat in front of Mr.
Sproull which she had placed there, that I was aware
that she had selected me to guard the cabinet.
"During the seance Mr. Sproull and Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy, another professional medium, and, I understand,
a friend of the Hamiltons, three times endeavoured to
get me to change seats with them so that they should be
closer to the cabinet. Naturally I refused to do this,
having been,laced there by Mrs. de Crespigny, who was
in charge o the test seance. In spite of my refusal,
as you know' towards the end of the seance he (Mr.
Hamilton) suggested that someone should cross over to
the door, and when this was agreed upon he once again
endeavoured to get me to leave my seat, with the result
that I had to speak out and give my reasons for remain-
in~ there.
' It is, of course, entirely illogical that they should
have refused to sit at the Marylebone Society, consider-
ing that the conditions of the seance objected to were
those made by the British College. Obviously if they
decided against sitting with one or the other Society it
should have been the British College."
1\f.EDIU:MS AT CA~1P CHESTERFIELD.
MRS. EMMA CARPE!'ITER.
Who has "completed her unfold-
ment."
REV. MAHLE RIPPLE.
Secretary of Camp Chest erfield,
which she m ade "aggressive. up-
to-date . . . having two large
hotels and an ice-cream parlour "
- a notable service to t he cause of
psychics.
REV. ::\'ELLIE CURRY.
An excellent example of the health-
giving properties of the Camp.
R EV. ~1 :-IA (HALLEN } { JC HARDS.
A pastor, whose work is d escribed as
"unusual." The pamphlet states:
"From early childhood she was
thought peculiar, when she grew to
·wom a nhood it became evident she
was psychic,"-not peculiar.
[to face page 258.
FLIGHT OF THE HAMILTONS 259
This very interesting and straightforward letter was,
of course, a complete and full confirmation of what I
had observed.
. . . . . . . .
During the Hamiltons' 1lying visit to this country T
was in contact with Mr. Hamilton before and after their
one seance. I am quite certain that he had been warned
about me by someone, as from the very commencement
he appeared to be frightened of me.
In my preliminary observation of him, from his con-
versation with me he showed himRelf as a cleverish but
crafty individual. He took noticeably ~ood care that I
should not have the opportunity of meetmg Mrs. Hamil-
ton. Their attitude later was that of a terror-stricken
couple. Had they been able to " get away with it," with
some hundreds of credulous spiritualists, in two months
they would have been able to pick up (as shown by the
figures quoted) the best part of a thousand founds in
the course of their pleasant little trip across the 'Herring
Pond.''
I shall await with enormous interest their promised
second visit to this country in October, 1931. If they
should make this adventure it will be my pleasure to
introduce them to a new sitter'""---n the Bench.
CHAPTER IV
THE FRAUDULENT PERFORMANCE OF MRS. HURPHEY-LYDY
MiN Phyllia Neil.,n-TerrJI•• inoilation-Suggeated prec:Gation.-.A
friend of the Hamilton.....The " Camp Cheater/ield •• cerli/iarte
of character-! am not recognized-A •u.picioua trumpet-A
curioua cc*ume-Meet " Dr. Green .._1 ahift my poaition--And
detect the medium apea~ing-A aample " conoeraation .._ .. Huf-
hu/--Hen-hen-Mah-mah "-The method• offraudulenl medium.
-A bad ahot~Not one aolitary point of evidence--A diagaating
far~" Don•t you touch my trumpet/ .,-The moi.ture on the
mouthpiece--How t·he creduloua are duped-A Queen"• HJI
meefing-Curioua ~eating arrangement--An ab.,lute /ituco-A
profe..ional conjurer more competent and more amu•ing.
I
FridaJI, /une S, 1931.
ON this date I attended a sitting under the "voice"
mediumship of Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, at the British
College of Psychic Science, 15 Queen's Gate, London,
s.w.
The sitting was arranged by Miss Phyllis Neilson-
Terry, who took her own private party of sitters. When
she invited me, Miss Neilson-Terry told me that she had
arranged for the sitting to take place in her flat in
Welbeck Street, but on the Friday morning she 'phoned
me to say that the medium had stated that she would
rather hold the sitting in the seance room of the British
College, as she felt more at home there.
A few days previously, Miss Neilson-Terry had told
me over the 'phone that she had sat on two occasions
under Mrs. Murphey-Lydy's mediumship, and that she
would like me to attend in order that I might observe
the proceedings very carefully. I then asked her not to
let the medium know beforehand that I was going to
attend, and she told me that she certainly would not do
so, neither was she informing the medium as to the
identities of other sitters.
It was not until after the sitting that Miss Neilson-
Terry told me that when she had sat at the British
College previously with this medium, the circles of sitters
260
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY 261
were somewhat large, comprising many persons whom
she did not know-members of the College, etc., and that
in her opinion the first sittins- was not impressive, and
that the second sitting was d1stinctly bad.
It must again be emphasized, however, that I was not
told of this before the sitting, therefore I was in no way
prejudiced. I knew, however, that Mrs. Murphey-Lydy
had travelled over from America in company with .Mr.
Hamilton and Mrs. Hamilton, the alleged materializa-
tion medium, whose behaviour I have described in the
preceding chapter.
In the advertising pamphlet entitled "Camp Chester-
field. 1929 " issued by the Indiana Association of
Spiritualists, to which I have already alluded, there is a
page devoted to laudatory notes on Mrs. Murphey-Lydy's
career. I reproduce a photograph of her (see page 258),
taken from this pamphlet, together with photographs of
other mediums functioning in this Camp, and append
herewith a few relevant extracts from the same
publication :
" Thousands of people from coast to coast are familiar
with the beautiful manifestations of Mrs. Murphey-Lydy,
the materialization and trumpet medium. In her early
development of mediumship she was associated with
Maggie Vestol and W. C. Jessup, two of the most
prominent and strongest trumpet mediums of that day,
who have since passed to spiritlife. Mrs. Lydy has been
a practising medium in Chesterfield Camp for many years,
and served the Indiana Psychic Research Society at
Indianapolis for a period of a year.
'' Mrs. Lydy has made several tours throu~hout the
United States, spreading the gospel of spll'itualism
through the .remarkable teachings and instructions given
b7. Dr. Green, her leading Guide, and 'Sunflower,' the
httle message bearer.
"For the past six years she has usually made Detroit
her home. Almost every Sunday eventng she serves
some Church in that city with her marvellous demonstra-
tion of the trumpet-in-the-light. The spirit 1
voices '
are so distinct that they can be heard throughout the
Church. This is convincing the multitudes.
" Mrs. Lydy has three children : a son living in
California, and two daughters. The elder daughter,
Gertrude, is the wife of Count Richard Hamilton, of
Stockholm, Sweden, who is now lecturing and healing
262 ... AND AFTER
in England, a.nd is associated with the leading spiritual-
ists of Europe.
" Mrs. Lydy is doing good and important work for
spiritualism, and always extends a welcome to persons of
every faith.
"The world needs more mediums with the same fair
view of life who will develop the forces more fully and
beautiful [1ic]. She is a very likeable woman and an
ardent exponent of the manifestations and teachings of
spiritualism.''
That is how Mrs. Murphey-Lydy is described at
Chesterfield Camp. It may be added that she is a woman
of fifty-nine years of age.
. . . . . . . .
The sitting on this evening took place shortly after
8 o'clock.
We were received in the seance room at the British
College by the medium and her son-in-law, the Swedish
Count Hamilton.
It was in this room that the fiasco of the Hamilton
" materializing " seance took place. On that occasion
there were some forty people present, and Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy and Count Hamilton were among the sitters. I
was not introduced to Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, but I was
introduced to Count Hamilton. The introduction was a
casual and quick one, and in the spasmodic movementlt
of a crowd it is just possible that Count Hamilton could
not have caught my name or known who I was. We sat
next to each other in the circle that evening, in a some-
what dim red electric light, and exchangea, from time
to time, a few casual remarks. I am fairly sure that
:Mrs. Murphey-Lydy did not know me, and I am under
the impression that Count Hamilton did not remember
my name, because after I had made one or two remarks
during the sitting, he asked Miss Neilson-Terry whether
I was a doctor. I was glad that I was not recognized,
because it must be remembered that Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy and Mrs. Hamilton, the alleged materializing
medium, are professional friends, and therefore Mrs.
Murphey-Lydy could have learnt from Mr. and Mrs.
Hamilton the opinion I had expressed upon their
behaviour, and with this knowledge would naturally have
been extremely suspicious of me: . .
None of the sitters on this Friday evenmg were
introduced to the medium or to Count Hamilton. Miss
MRS. MURPHE~LYDY 2~
Phyllis Neilson-Terry fixed the position of each of the
sitters. She told me afterwards that she had deliberately
placed me next to the medium.
The positions in the circle, right to left, were as
follow: The medium, myself, Mrs. Hay, Mr. Edward
Huskinson (editor of The Tatler) , Mrs. Mortimer Bryans,
Count Hamilton, Miss Phyllis Neilson-Terry and Lord
Howard de Walden, next to and on the left of the
medium. In the centre of the circle was placed a table
of about three feet square, over which a cloth had been
placed. On this an aluminium trumpet rested. This
trumpet was made in four collapsible sections, which
stretched to a len~h of nearly four feet. It was the
longest trumpet I 'have ever seen used at any "voice "
seance. Nor have I ever sat with a genuinely developed
"voice " medium who has ever had a table placed in
the centre covered witli a cloth for the .trumpet to lie on.
The trumpet, as placed on this table, was of course
within the easiest possible access of the medium.
The atmosphere of the room, from which all air was
excluded, was extremely warm, but, despite the heat, the
medium was wearing what appeared to be a rather
voluminous cape made of silkish material, which reached
several inches below her waist. This cape was kept on
throughout the entire proceedings, until just before the
sitting closed, when she threw it off, and dropped it juRt
behind lier chair in the circle. Seated next to her, I
heard it drop on the floor.
Count Hamilton switched off the white electric light,
leaving a red electric light for about one minute. He
then turned this off and we were left in pitch-black,
impenetrable darkness.
There was no lumino8ity on the trumpet, therefore no
movement of any description could be seen.
The medium suggested that we should open by sing-
ing hymns, which we attempted. Personally I loathe
the sort of stereotyped hymns that are usually sung at
seances. Phyllis Neilson-Terry sang them very sweetly,
but most of us sang them very badly.
Then the medium requested us to recite the Lord's
Prayer. This was done, and in view of wliat occurred
later I regarded the recitation of this prayer as a nauseous
blasphemy.
Count 'Hamilton remarked that when the " voices "
came through the sitters must not be surprised if they
seemed to have an American accent, because this was
264 ... AND AFTER
accounted for by the fact that the ectoplasmic forces
through which they were enabled to manifest had to be
drawn from the medium. Such a statement warrants
strong criticism, for at genuine " direct voice " seances
the accents of the " communicating entities " are
individual, and entirely different to the voice and accents
of the medium.
The first " manifestation " was a childish " voice "
speaking through the non-luminous trumpet. After this
there was a pause for a minute or so, and then Miss
Phyllis Neilson-Terry sang a little trilling solo in that
unique voice of hers.
After this, using the non-luminous trumpet, the
childish American " voice '' said, " I like that." After-
wards the "voice" said it was " Sunflower." A few
sentences were spoken by the sitters to the " voice," and
these were answered In the affected manner of an
undeveloped intelligence. The childish tones remarked
that Miss Phyllis Neilson-Terry's voice was " lovely "-
which it obviously was. So Miss Neilson-Terry again
trilled a few notes and then asked the '' voice '' to try
and sing with her, which it did-excruciatingly.
Then we were introduced to the "voice" of " Dr.
Green," evidently using the non-luminous trumpet. A
fairly lengthy conversation was carried on by " Dr.
Green " with various of the sitters. It was an interesting
experience to carry on a conversation with this "voice,"
in view of the statements made in the " Camp Chester-
field " pamphlet that the " Gospel of spiritualism had
been spread through the remarkable teachings and
instructions given by ' Dr. Green.' " On this occasion,
however, "Dr. Green," in answer to questions, confined
himself pointedly to obvious banalities, and I noticed
that his deepish " voice " betrayed occasional distinct
traces of feminini~.
The "voice" of " Dr. Green" appeared to come from
some three or four feet from where the medium was
sitting. On the second occasion that the eminent medical
gentleman spoke, listening very acutely, I caught a sound
from the medium while the "voice " was speaking.
Very quietly I shifted my position to the extreme left-
hand edge of my chair, and, resting there on one leg,
and leaning sideways, holding my breath, I kept my ear
within six inches of the medium's mouth. She wa1 talk-
ing into the trumpet the whole time. It was the most
flagrant and deliberate fraud I have ever experienced.
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY 265
Throughout the whole of the evening every one of the
alleged " spirit voices" was produced by Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy in this way. For me it was an exhausting evening,
because of my strained position. It was, of course,
absolutely necessary £or me to lean well away from
the medium when taking my breath, and then hold
it, as long as possible, while listening within a few
inches of her £ace. An onion in my salad would have
betrayed me.
Until the end of the evening not one of these alleged
" spirit voices " addressed me; I was therefore able to
remain silent most of the time. On some half a dozen
occasions " Dr. Green " carried on conversations with
various of the sitters, and, now and again, I took the
opportunity of speaking to this "Dr. Green voice."
Whenever I asked a question I leaned away four feet
from the medium, and then, my question finished,
immediately leaned back close to her face, and heard
her speaking the reply into the mouthpiece. I spoke
agreeably, as if I were quite impressed by the u voice,"
and was careful to do nothing likely to interrupt the
performance, because I particularly desired to see to what
lengths the Lydy would go.
In the course of the evening about seven alleged
" spirit voices," claiming to be O.ifferent friends of the
various sitters, spoke through the trumpet. Each one of
these was produced by Mrs. Murphey-Lydy in precisely
the same way, whilst I was listening intently to her voice
speaking through the mouthpiece. When producing
these personal "voices" she spoke in a husky ana
indistinct whisper. The method was as follows :
The trumpet was lifted in the direction of one or other
of the sitters, and then in muffled, whispering gasps:
MRs. MuRPHEY-LYDY (through the trtlmpet): Huf-huf.
SrrTER: Hello. Yes. Are you talking to me P
MRs. MURPHEY-LYDY (faintly whi1pering): Yes.
SrrrER: Who is itP Tell me who you are.
TRUKPET: Hen-hen.
SITTER : What is that P
TRUKPET: Mah-hah.
SITTER: I can't quite catch it.
TRuMPET: Fah-hah.
SITTER: Speak louder. I can't quite hear.
TRUMPET: Jan-jar.
And so the whispering " voice " goes on, until the
sitter happens to volunteer the name, asking " Is it So-
. I•
266 ..• AND AFTER
and-soP" The trumpet immediately says "Yee," and
greetings are exchanged. The sitters on this evening
were all intelligent people, and gave little away. They
all knew that evidence is only of value when volunteered
by the " voice."
With an ordinary credulous circle of ecstatic spiritual-
ists the method employed-which has undoubtedly been
studied and perfected by a school of professional
fraudulent mediums, and which I have only roughly
indicated-affords the so-called " medium " the oppor-
tunity of continuing banal conversations, during which
the sitter supplies all the facts and names, and
"Trumpet" has only to answer in the one affirmative:
" Yes."
The slight indication I have ~ven of the comparatively
incoherent whisperings of the 'voice" are used so that
" Hen-hen " is often accepted as Henry, Annie, and
other names; " .Mah-hah" as mother, Marjorie, a.nd
numerous others; " Fah-hah " as father, if he is dead,
or someone else if he is not. " Jan-jar" is obviously
Grandma, Grandpa, or any attempt at a Christian or
surname likely to be accepted by one or other of the
enthusiastic, if ignorant sitters.
On the evening I am recording, the trumpet, when
lifted in the direction of .Mrs. Hay, after trying "Hen-
hen," eventually arrived at Eileen, but, despite the
medium's fishing, the sitter did not give away any points
of information, so the "spirit " soon disappeared.
The trumpet, when speaking to .Mr. Huskinson,
persiatently emitted all sorts of sounds until arriving
at "Fah-hah "; it eventually got to "father." Mr.
Huskinson encouraged the "voice" very admirably, but
unfortunately "Fah-hah " did not know how many sons
he had, or how many had passed over. Mr. Huskinson
volunteered the statement that there were many sons
(Mr. Huskinson is one of a family of nine), and then
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, speaking through the trumpet, with
my ear close to her face, in answer to the direct question,
chanced the reply : " Two of them are on this side."
Unfortunatell, her guess was wrong. Shortly after this
the " voice ' vanished.
A thin " voice " then spoke through the trumpet to
Hiss Phyllis Neilson-Terry, and after trying "Jan-jar"
managed to arrive at " Grandma." Miss Neilson-Terry
encouraged the " voice" to talk, and, naturally desiring
evidence of personality, asked her repeatedly to give her
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY 267
name. Unfortunately, " Grandma" could not remember
her name.
The trumpet was then levelled at Lord Howard de
Walden, and Mrs. Murphey-Lydy's muffled whispers in
time established " father." She fished about consider-
ably for "John's father," and "William" having
been mentioned in the conversation she proceeded to fish
about for " William."
I must a~ain repeat that during the whole of the
time these 'voices " were supposed to be manifesting
I was listening to the medium speaking through the
trumpet.
The trumpet was levelled next at M
. rs. Mortimer
Bryans, and a "voice " said " Mah-hah." Mrs.
Bryans, who is quite a sophisticated sitter, asked the
" voice " to repeat it, and again came " Mah-hah."
Mrs. Bryans could not accept this, and then said:
"Did you say 'mother' P My mother is alive." Then
the " voice " said " Mother's mother." " Mothers'
mothers " and " grandmothers" are usually safe. Mrs.
Bryans asked for a little more information, and again
the " voice " discreetly disappeared.
Later, the trumpet lifted, and another " voice"
spoke to Mrs. Bryans in muffled tones, but failed again
to obtain leading responses, so promptly gave up the
attempt to enlighten us.
Needless to say, not one solitary point of evidence was
volunteered; nor could any of' the sitters claim any
recognition of the alleged " voices."
The conversations only lasted for a short time, and
immediately a direct question was asked, demanding a
direct re:ply, no answer was given by the trumpet, and
the " voice " maintained a discreet silence.
These alleged personal " spirit voices " did not occupy
very much time, and all the gaps were filled in by the
elusive " Dr. Green " and by the babyish "voiee " of
11
Sunflower.''
Several times during the evening the childish "voice "
of "Sunflower" was produced by Mrs. Murphey-Lydy.
Such a " voice " was, of course, very easy to imperson-
ate, as any music-hall " child impersonator " of the old
school knows. At odd times Mrs. Murphey-Lydy would
talk to " Sunflower." She would ask one or two
questions, and then proceed to answer them herself
throu~h the mouthpiece. She would now and again
remark to the sitters: ''Well now, did you hear that--
268 ... AND AFT:ER
just listen to what she says! " At times I was
irresistibly reminded of the ventriloqtuist and his doll.
Towards the close she produced another alleged "spirit
voice," announcing it as her uncle. She then proceeded
to carry on quite a long conversation with herself. This
she did by puttin~ the trumpet straight up in the air,
leaning her head right back, and spea~king up towards the
ceiling. She would move her mouth away from the
mouthpiece, ask a question, and quickly reply to it
through the mouthpiece. I was so close to her that I
heard every intake of her breath while she was speaking
as the alleged " spirit." The conversation was supposed
to be on personal matters relating to herself. To the
sitters the talk was extremely borinlg. When the con-
versation had finished, she said to Count Hamilton:
" Well now, what do you think of that ?-he hasn't
spoken to me ior y-ears ! ''
Among other things, she advised hE~rself (via her uncle)
to go to Ireland, and added to Count :Hamilton: " Fancy
him saying that now-! don't know whether I shall be
able to go to Ireland on this trip! " If Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy does go to Ireland I am perfec:tly certain that she
will take her uncle with her, and it will be interesting
to hear his next arrangements for her tour.
Just before the close of the sitting, after a pause, a
"voice " was heard to say: " Herbert's mother." The
sound of this "voice" certainly came from a different
position to the other " voices "-slightly higher, above
my head in the circle, and I had ito reply to it from
an erect position in my chair; it spoke in a feminine
American accent. The " medium "' then said to me,
" Is your name Herbert? " I replied that it was one
of my names. Then in a rather challenging tone she
asked: "Can't you speak up to herP"
I said that I could not recognize the tones, at which
Count Hamilton interposed, saying, "You can never
recognize the tones of a 'spirit voice..' " Such an asser-
tion is absolutely untrue. At genuillle " voice " sittings
it is often ;possible to recognize all the inflections and
characteristics of an individual " voice."
I then asked the " voice " to tell me when we had
last met, and when she had last spoken to me. It could
not reply, and certainly I could not accept or encourage
this " voice" speaking in an American accent, possess-
ing no knowled~e whatever of ob,~ious things which
would naturally be retained in the memory.
MRS. MURPHE~LYDY 200
The "voice " disappeared, and " Dr. Green," alias
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy, spoke a few words with my ear
adjacent to her mouth, and the sitting ended.
u
This absurd sitting lasted for two hours, and before
it finished I was tired out with the perpetual strain of
acute observation, and was frankly anxious for the
disgusting farce to terminate.
Towards the end I think that Mrs. Murphey-Lydy had
become suspicious of me, especially by the manner in
which I answered the " voice " purporting to be
" Herbert's mother."
At the close of the sitting the trumpet was heard to
fall on the other side, opposite Mrs. Murphey-Lydy.
This was the first sound heard of the trumpet, as through-
out the evening, after it had been used it was gently
placed on the top of the table, which was covered with
the soft cloth in order to eliminate the sound.
When the lights were switched on, I went to examine
the trumpet, an entirely usual procedure in all investiga-
tion of " voice" phenomena. Directly I did so, Mrs.
Murphey-Lydy said, in a peculiarly objectionable and
angry tone: "Don't you touch my trumpet 1 I
don't allow anybody to do that r " There was moisture
at the mouthpiece end. Count Hamilton intervened,
and in a very aggressive manner asked me what I was
doing. I replied that I was examining it for moisture.
Count Hamilton at once said: "Let me tell you that
we always put water in the trumpet first "-a peculiarly
fatuous remark, for if water had been poured through
the trumpet beforehand it would most certainly have
dried in two hours in a heated atmosphere.
The " medium " thereupon quickly folded the
collapsible trumpet, and placed it In a leather case.
After we had left the British College I informed the
other sitters of my discoveries. Although they were not
so fortunately situated as myself, and therefore had not
the same facilities for observing, several of them said
that they felt at the time quite certain that " Dr.
Green" was Mrs. Murphey-Lydy speaking, and, of
course, with regard to the other "voices," not one
solit~ry point of evidence was given throughout the
evening.
270 •.. AND AFTER
To me the whole of the performance was crude and
amateurish. It afforded a vivid contrast to the " voice "
phenomena which occur at genuine seances, which it is
unpossible to imitate.
A fee of five guineas was charged for Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy's services, which throughout were a most scandal-
ous and degrading series of deceptions. I can affirm that
on this evening she was fraudulent from beginning to
end, and it is amazing to me that serious complaints
regarding her have not hitherto been made to the British
College of Psychic Science.
m
As an illustration of the methods employed by
fraudulent trumpet mediums, and the manner in which
they can and do manipulate the conversation with
credulous and undiscerning spiritualists, take the follow-
ing example :
TRUMPET (ind·i8tinctly whispering): Hen-he.
SITTER (ezcited at being addreued): What did you
aayP I think I know who it is. Try again.
TRUllPET (fishing): Hen-he.
SITTER: It sounded like Henry.
TRUKPET (feeling a bite): Ssss.
SITTER (puzzled): HenryP That's funny. Henry's
alive. Do you want to give a message to HenryP
TRUlriPET : Ssss.
SITTER: Tell me who it is speaking.
TRUllPET (very indistinctly): Harn-he.
SrrrER : Who?
TRUHPET: Harn-he Hoo-je.
SITTER (intensely pletued at having found out) :
Auntie JuheP
TRUHPET : Ssss.
SITTER: Oh, Auntie Julie, I'm so glad you got
through ! How are you P
TRUMPET (getting more distinct): Quite well, dear.
SITTER: Are you happy?
TRUMPET: Verl happy. We're all happy here.
SITTER: Oh, I m so glad !
TRUMPET: Can you hear me, dear?
SITTER : Yes, auntie. I can hear you quite well now!
MEDIUM (intervening and speaking in her own voice):
She's getting stronger. It's difficult for them at first.
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY 271
SrrrEB. : Have you any message P
TRUKPET : My love, dear.
MEDIUM (own voice): Speak up to her. Keep the
vibrations going.
SrrrEB. : Is Unole Leo with you P
TllUllPET: Yes, dear. He's here.
SITTER : Will he speakP
TllUllPET: He says he'll try, dear.
SITTER: Is Grandpa with you P
TRUllPET: Yes, dear.
SITTER: And Aunt Elizabeth?
TRUKPET: Yes, dear. They're all here.
SITI'Ell : How are they P
TRUKPET: They're all happy.
SITTER: Give them my love.
TllUllPET: I will, dear.
SITTER: Do you remember that terrible motor accident
Frank Tid.marsh had P
TRUKPET (1ympathetically): Yes, dear. It was
terrible.
SITTER: He died a month afterwards, didn't he?
TRUMPET: Yes, dear. But he's not dead. Passed
over.
SITTER: Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Is he all right now?
TRUMPET: Yes, dear, quite all right now.
SITTER : Does he like it on the other sideP
TRUKPET: Yes, dear. He's very happy.
SITTER: You passed over about a year before his
accident, didn't you?
TRUMPET: Yes, dear. I was waiting for him.
SITTER: Do you remember when Uncle Leo died-!
mean, passed over?
TRUKPET : Yes, dear.
SITI'ER: That was two years before you, wasn't it P
TRUMPET: Yes, dear. I was so glad when I found
him waiting to meet me.
SITI'ER : Can you tell me the date you passed over,
auntie?
TnuKPET (suddenly getting ve""Y faint): Can't speak
any more now, dear. Good-bye. Give my love to them
all.
SITTER: Good-bye, auntie dear. Thank you so much
for coming through. Good-bye.
MEniUll (own voice) : She managed to speak for quite
a long time, didn't she P
SrrrER: I think she was absolutely wonderful t
272 ... AND AFTER
And so a pleasant evening is spent. All the spirits
are very happy; all the sitters are very happy, and, when
she receives her five guinea fee, the medium is also very
happy.
After a seance such as this the sitter later describes
to her friends and relatives the marvellous phenomena.
Forgetting the numerous points which she herself has
supplied, she proceeds to tell them that her "Aunt
Juhe" came through, giving her own name and some
wonderful evidence. She tells them how "Aunt Julie "
had told her all about her husband, Uncle Leo, Grandpa,
Aunt Elizabeth, and Frank Tidmarsh, and how she
remembered about the terrible motor accident, and had
said that she had passed over a year before it took place.
Often a few other embellishments are added.
The illustration I have ~iven is not in the least an
exaggeration. It is an ordmary occurrence.
It must always be insisted that nothing can be
regarded as evidential unless freely volunteered by tha
" communicating entity," and proved beyond all doubt
to be outside the knowledge of the medium.
IV
On the following Tuesday, June 9, a meetins- was held
at the-Queen's Hall, London, under the ausptces of the
Spiritualists' Community and the British College of
Psychic Science. It was advertised that Mr. Arthur
Ford would lecture on the "Mar~ery" mediumship with
lantern slides, and afterwards gtve public clairvoyance.
Also that Mrs. Murphey-Lydy would give a demonstra-
tion of " spirits " speaking through the trumpet in full
light.
A well-known journalist and spiritualist was in the
chair.
The prices charged for admission were 5s., 3s., 2s. and
Is., and several hundred pounds must have been taken
on this evening. My secretary called at the Queen's Hall
a fortnight before the meeting was to be held, and was
then informed that every stall had gone, and that she
was fortunate in securing four 5s. seats in the circle, as
they also were practically sold out. Several people I
know tried to obtain seats, but were unable to do so.
With such a demand, I was surprised to find, on arriving
at the Queen's Hall, that although there are several
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY ~78
hundred platform or orchestra seats, which are always
disposed of at large meetings, none of these was occupied;
neither was a large block of the Grand Circle on either
side of the platform, and these are, of course, most
certainly the best seats for hearing--especially for a
demonstration of this kind.
The members of the audience, on entering, were handed
numbered tickets, which would entitle them to listen
through the trumpet if their particular number happened
to be drawn. About half a dozen were so privileged.
The performance given by Mrs. Murphey-Lydy on
this evening was, to my mind, an absolute fiasco. The
trumpet on this occasion was a very long aluminium one,
measuring from three feet nine inches to four feet.
The medium was not searched beforehand, as
unquestionably she should have been, to discover any
concealment which might have been on her person. The
mannel' in which she was attired was peculiar, and worthy
of description.
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy wore a dress of a flimsy material-
possibly of a georgette nature. It consisted of a succes-
sion of draperies, folds, pleats and hangings, reaching
to within-approximately-three inches of the ground.
Attached to the sleeve, from the wrist to the elbow, was
a "wing" of about twelve inches in depth, which
produced a kimono-like effect. The design of the dress
was manufactured in such a way that the whole of the
figure was disguised ; almost to a point of suggesting
hidden deformities.
Over the frock was placed a long coatee, and this was
cut in such a manner as to indicate an almost hunchback
appearance.
The description of Mrs. Murphey-Lydy given in tlie
Chesterfield Camp pamphlet states :
"With her marvellous demonstration of trumpet-in-the
light, the ' spirit voices ' are so distinct that they can
be heard throughout the Church."
In view of this glowing press-agent material, it was
somewhat ludicrous to find· that those who went on to the
platform to listen to the trumpet were unable to catch
what was supposed to be said.
Before giving her demonstration, Mrs. Murphey-Lydy
addressed a few words to the audience, and asked those
who had drawn numbers to place their ears to the end
274 ... AND AFTER
of the trumpet, when they would immediately hear a
u voice " re1pond. I have h~td many years of intensive
experience with all forms of mediumship, but I have
never before heard the assertion made : u You will immedi-
ately hear a ' voice ' respond." All my experience has
shown that it is impossible to turn on the psychic tap at
will; especially is this impossible in all the cases of
genuine phenomena. If Mrs. Murphey-Lydy were a
genuine medium she would unquestionably know this.
How can she .reconcile'this assertion with the considerable
pause1 which take place during her performances in the
pitch-black darkness such as the one at which I was
present on the previous FridayP
When Mrs. Murphey-Lydy made this ridiculous
assertion at the Queen's Hall I anticipated at once the
type of performance which followed.
None of the few trumpet listeners appeared to liear
anything but a few odd sounds. The ' medium " held
the broad end of the trumpet while the listener kept his or
her ear to the narrow end. During her performance, Mrs.
Murphey-Lydy was continually changing her position,
sometimes bending down slightly, and, on occasions,
switching entirely from right to left. Throughout she
talked very much more than any of the listeners, in fact
most of the time she was speaking either to the audience
or to the listener. At times, when sounds were supposed
to be heard in the trumpet, she was usually facing the
wide end, to within nine inches of it. Now and again
the listener would ask: "What's thatP AuntieP Yes.
That's quite right," or " Did you say mummie P"
Once or twice the " medium " made an open remark
to the listener, who, with ears ~lued to the other end of
the trumpet, would actually think it was the "spirit
voice " talking. The "medium " would then say: " Is
that your motherP''
After one or two of these pathetic incidents the chair-
man retired from the platform, but returned a little later,
accompanied by a member of the audience. I ascertained
later that he was Mr. Denis Dunn, a representative of the
Daily E:epreu, who desired to hear the "voices," if
possible, in close proximity. Certainly none of the audi-
ence could hear anything. A listener was on the platform
at the time. The chairman leant forward towards the broad
end of the trumpet, but heard nothing. Apparently it was
not functioning, so he retired behind the u medium."
When a listener appeared to hear a sound, Mr. Dunn
MRS. MURPHEY-LYDY 275
moved towards the trumpet on the medium's left to see if
he also could hear anything. He heard nothing. The
sounds were awitched off. .
When the "medium" saw
Mr. Dunn approachin~ the trumpet she gently pushed
him on one side, ind1cating that he should sit down.
She then held out her hand to the chairman who was
sitting behind her, asking him to hold it, and indicating
that he should hold Mr. Dunn's hand, which was done.
This was a quicklr thought out piece of " business," as
it placed the chauman and Mr. Dunn well away from
her and the trumpet.
The chairman after a time got tired of this hand-
holding business, and moved his position, thus breaking
the chain.
Another listener came forward, and directly he heard
a few sounds, he endeavoured to evolve some sort of
conve:rsation, which was, of course, unintelligible to the
audience. The chairman afterwards asked him whether
he had heard anything, and the listener replied in a quiet
voice that " it was bad." The chairman at once
announced to the audience that the listener said '' it
was bad.''
During the time another listener was on the platform,
when apparently some sort of sound was heard, Mrs.
Murphey-Lydy asked: "Do you know a 'Mary'?.,
The listener replied that he knew several. When this
same listener apparently heard another sound he
remarked: "Couldn't you cough and clear your voice? "
The audience laughed, and the listener's " seance " was
promptly ended by the " medium." The chairman
announced that he regretted the " voices " were not
successful, and the meeting closed.
During Mrs. Murphey-Lydy's performance, which
lasted for over half an hour, several of the audience
walked out.
Despite this poor entertainment, a certain number of
~he unsophisticated among the audience seemed to be
1mpressed.
The intelligence of the majority of a massed audience
is seldom, however, in evidence; that is why it is always
simple for the clown to evoke laughter.
There was no semblance whatever of spirituality
apparent during the medium's proceedings. The effect
produced was merely the boredom of a material and
dreary exhibition.
Mrs. Murphey-Lydy was deliberately fraudulent for
276 ... AND AFTER
two hours in everything she did at the private sitting on
June 5. Both the fatuous exhibition on the Friday at
the British College of Psychic Science, and the infantile
performance given at the Queen's Hall on Tuesday,
June 9, could be infinitely improved upon by any
amateur ventrilo9uist or conjurer.
I have stated 1n my works on psychical research that
no professional conjurer could produce the extraordinary
mental phenomena which occur at genuine seances, but
with regard to Mrs. Murphey-Lydy's attempts on this
evening, I assert that the most indifferent conjurer at
a second-class provincial music-hall, dressed and draped
in such obvious clothing, could produce a performance
a thousand times better and ten thousand times more
amusing. In mechanical toys, the sounds of "Mama,"
"Papa," etc., can be produced, and dozens of other such
sounds as" Jan-jar," "Mah-hah," "Auntie," "Uncle,"
"Janie " and " Johnnie." But what such manipulators
can never produce are intelligent answers to intelligent
questions with a spontaneous volunteering of names,
outside the knowledge of the manipulator.
Throughout the whole of the time, when the listener
apparently heard sounds in the trumJ?et, Mrs. Murphey-
Lydy, who carried a handkerchief in her hand,
periodically 1?assed it from one hand to the other when
she was alter1ng her position. When these faint sounds
were apparently heard, one could observe the medium
squeezing her hand, just as a conjurer does when he is
producing his various illusions.
CHAPTER V
THE IMPOSITIONS OF MISS HAZEL RIDLEY
MeaningleN •qaealc..-The medium'• carioua antiu-Pare rabbi•h-
The a•aal fi•hing-The method• emplo~ed-" Mumble-mumble·
mumble "-A Jarcical performance--Profitable banalitie•.
Monday, June 15, 1931.
ON this date I had booked a sitting with Miss Hazel
Ridley, an American trance medium, at 5 Smith Square,
London. Miss Ridley holds her sittings in clear, but
subdued, light.
It is alle~ed that in her form of mediumship she
obtains the ' independent voices" of the communicants,
and that during her sittings a "voice " is heard speak-
ing as apart from her.
The sitters were: Miss Phyllis Neilson-Terry, Mrs.
Austin Harrison, Mrs. Mortimer Bryans, Mrs. Hay, a
French lady and myself.
I was seated next to the medium, so I had ample
opportunity of observing her.
The " medium " announced that her " Guide " was
an Indian called " Grev Wolf." She went into trance
very suddenly. Personally, she did not appear to me
to be in any trance condition at all.
" Grey Wolf" said "Good afternoon," and then
spoke a few words to us in Miss Ridley's own voice. It
must be noted that all the communications were spoken
through the mouth or the H medium." There was, how-
ever, at frequent intervals, a strange whispering sound
which came from the region of the "medium's" mouth,
or within close proximity to it.
During the whole of the seance the " medium " was
holding her hands together and twisting them about.
In her hands she held a handkerchief, which she would
always squeeze when strange sounds were emitted. At
other times, when the peculiar whistling sounds were
made, she would place her right hand fingers under the
cuff of her left sleeve and pinch something. Then she
would later take her left hand and firmly press her right
arm.
The various sounds emitted were supposed to be
277
278 ... AND AFTER
" independent voices." These " squeaks " were ludicrous
and meaningless, but I wish to make it quite clear that
the alleged spirit " voices " which carried on conversa-
tions with the sitters were openly produced from the
" medium's , mouth.
The communications were supposed to be made by the
actual spirit communicant, whispering in his, or her,
own tones; that is, the spirit communicant was alleged
to have taken control of the medium. All the " voices,"
however, spoke in exactly the same tones and accents.
The tones used by the medium for " Grey Woll " were
loud and deep.
The sitting, which lasted for an hour and three
quarters, was rubbish from beginning to end. The usual
flagrant trick of the professional medium in fishing for
names was used.
I took fifteen pages of notes, and it is only worth
while to give a brief indication in illustration of the
methods employed.
Although after the first i'ew minutes it was obvious to
me what was likely to take place throughout the sitting,
I took care to be agreeable and encouraging in my
attitude to the medium.
Here is a rough description taken from my own notes :
MEDIUM: Gert-Gertie-Gertrude-wants Mary.
Mxs. AUSTIN HARRISON (whose name is Marie, a8ked) :
Do you want me P
MEDIUM: Yes. (Fl01J,nderin.q about) Mother's here.
MR!. HARRISON (querying-her mother being ali11e).
MEDIUM: Mary's mother.
Mrs. Harrison C01J,ld not place 11
Mary'1 mother," so
the " medium " tried 1omething else.
MEDIUM : Gertie.
We then asked who Gertie wanted to 1peak to.
MEDIUM : Quite young-when she went over.
None of u1 could claim a young Gertie who went o11et>.
MEDIUM : I will open a way for the others.
MEDIUM (a minute or two later) (whispering): Eliza-
beth.
We tried to find ()1J,t who Elizabeth wa~, but could not
succeed.
MEDIUM (a,qain): Elizabeth. Is Huf-liuf hereP
Various of the sitters asked : " Who is it you wantP"
But we could not catcli it.
MEDIUM (again tr1Jtng): Hen-huf.
A SIT'l'Elt : Is it HenryP
MISS HAZEL RIDLEY 279
We all tried.
H.D.B. : Is it HettyP
MKDIUK (whilpering): You are getting nearer now.
The " medium " then continued to &peak in a loud
voice, a1 " Grey Wolf ":
MEDIUM : Talk u~go on-speak up to them. .
Several more endeavours were made to get this name.
Then the name " Edie " 10a1 tried. None of u1 knew
an " Edie."
MEDIUM (a& Grey Wolf): I am doing my best to help
her go ahead. Elizabeth-had cancer and is helping
her.
MEDIUM (later): Father is here.
SITTER : Which father P
MEDIUM: Mary's father.
SITTER (French lady): What is his name?
Nothing came of this. Various sounds were emitted
and eventually the French lady gave the name.
FRENCH LADY : Is it Maurice?
MEDIUM (accepting at once): Yes.
FRENCH LADY : Talk to me in French.
A few attempts were made by the "medium" to
speak some very bad French. The attempt failed
utterly.
MEDIUM (in her own " Grey Wolf" tone&): Do you
know who this spirit is P
FRENCH LADY : No.
MEDIUM: : Do you know a " Maurice " ?
FRENCH LADY : Yes-but he is alive.
The medium gave it up. .
MEDIUM (later) (whi&pering): Anne-Annie.
I gave the other sitters an opportunity of claiming
" Annie." This, however, nobody did, so I continued
(the sitting had been booked in my name):
MEDIUM:: Annie.
H.D.B. : Yes.
MEDIUM: Herbert.
Knowing the medium must know of me and my rela-
tions I continued the conversation in a very agreeable
manner.
H.D.B.: Will you tell me, Annie, when I last spoke
to youP
MEDIUM: : In your own room.
H.D.B. : Who was there P
l!EDIUM : George. You will soon be talking to Bert
agam.
280 ... AND AFTER
All thu, of cou.rae, il obvious, on account of the George
Valiantine sittings and " Bert Everett."
H.D.B.: Have you anything to tell me about George?
MEDIUM : He is all turned about.
H.D.B.: Now, you must know of this. I particularly
want to ask you what .JOU can tell me about the imprints.
MEDIUM: Go on w1th the imprints.
Thi1 waa particularly funny, aa will be seen by later
chapter6 in this book, containing incidents whiclt
occurred before this aitting.
H.D.B.: Now, please try and give me a little more
information. It is quite important.
Medium made no answer.
H.D.B.: Will you tell me what you meant when you
said : " Be careful."
MEDIUM : I was referring to your own sittings.
An obvious guess and absolutely nonsenae.
H.D.B.: No. That is not quite right. I do not think
you could have meant that.
MEDIUM : I was referring to the letter.
H.D.B.: No. I am sorry, but I don't think so.
MEDIUM : You mean the scroll ?
H.D.B.: I am awfully sorry, but I don't know any-
thing about a scroll.
MEDIUM: Put it down-you will know later on.
That ended all that.
MEDIUM (still whispering as " Annie "): I must go
now. I will get someone else through.
The medium then floundered about with a few sounds
and evidently got something which sounded like EUen.
Miss NEILSON-TERRY: Is it for me?
MEDIUM (chancing her arm or mouth): No.
No one else claimed " Ellen " and the medium then
tried various other names. It mus-t be remembered all
the time that these were supposed to be spirits controll-
ing the medium, and speaking through her orga.ns.
As this sitting was arranged in my name, the
" medium," of course, knew none of the other sitters
present. In fact, I had not invited anybody to come
with me until the last moment.
The sitting painfully continued its course.
MEDIUM: I want to know if Humph-humph is here.
Everyone asked " Who? " on five or six occasions,
but we could not get the name. Then:
VARIOUS SITTERS : Who is it you want?
MEDIUM: Can't you hear me.?
MISS HAZEL RIDLEY 281
H.D.B. (in beatific tone&): Yes. I can hear you quite
distinctly. We can hear you say ' I want to know is
Humph-humph here? ' But we can't quite make out
who ' Humph-hum:ph ' is. If you can say ' I want
to know' so plamly, why can't you manage to
pronounce the name?
However, we eventually arrived at " Hunk-ble."
This obtained a response from one of the sitters.
SITTER: Is it Uncle Bill?
MEDIUH: Yes. (Then she quite plainly pronounced)
Uncle Bill.
It was marvellous how plainly " Uncle Bill " spoke
upon receiving recognition.
MEDIUM: Uncle Bill. How are you?
The sitter who claimed Uncle Bill did not happen to be
on intimate terms with him and the conversation flagged.
MEDIUM (tU '' Uncle Bill '') : There are others here.
The sitter asked if " Uncle Bill" had any particular
message he would like to give, and " Uncle Bill "
replied: " Why don't you work out your own ideas? "
" Uncle Bill " was asked when he passed over.
Unfortunately, he did not trouble about such trifles.
The fishing continued.
To Mrs. Hay, some reference to " Peter " was made.
These references to " Peter " were not apt. The
message for him was that he was always going on and
going on with his work.
MEDIUM (speaking as an alleged spirit) : How is Hen-
hap going on?
We all asked " Who? " And some suggested names.
The " medium/' then having several names given to
her, said quite brilliantly: " Don't give me names."
One of the sitters, however, gave the name " Denny."
At each name volunteered by a sitter the "medium "
gave a "Ha-ha-ha" laugh.
She told us that the " spirit " could not talk until
the name was given.
MEDIUM (speaking, of course, tU " Denny "): Now I
feel better.
SITTER : When did you pass over?
" Denny" didn't know. Unfortunately death is so
insignificant that the " passing over " is forgotten by
" spirits " as quickly as the swallowing of a cocktail.
MEDIUM: It is so difficult to remember dates. I passed
over with complications. Was it a long time ago P
SITI'ER : No.
282 ... AND AFTER
MEDIUM : It seems like it.
(Personally I (H.D.B.) trust that I shall pass over
with complications. It seems such an easy, indefinable
passage.)
Another alleged spirit speaking through the mouth of
the medium talked about a rin~. Nobody knew anything
about a ring. Then the "spuit " talked about an ear-
ring. None of us knew anything about ear-rings.
The medium then tried to talk to Mrs. :Mortimer
Bryans. Eventually we arrived at the name of
" George." Unfortunately Mrs. Bryans could not place
George.
MEDIUM : Uncle George.
MRs. BRYANS (1oho i1 a very ezperienced 1itter): Is
it on my mother's or father's side P
:MEDIUK: Huf-huf.
MRs. BRYANS: Can you give the full nameP
MEDIUM: George Huf-huf.
MRs. BRYANS : I can't quite catch it. Perhaps it is
my great-uncle.
MEDIUM (taking it up quickly): He lives somewhere
in the south-west.
MRs. BRYANS: I don't know him very well.
Thi1 jailed.
MEDIUM (in her own deep and loud tones): Dr. Gay-
lord-! am one of the medtum's "Guides."
H.D.B. (very pleasantly): Are you of the eighteenth
centuryP
MEDIUM : I passed over sixty-seven 7cears ago.
This was beautifully safe. This ' spirit " possessed
a magnificent memory for dates. Unfortunately, how-
ever, although I was by far the eldest of the party, even
I had no recollection of the Gaylords of mid-Victorian
era.
All the time these " entities," or perhaps one should
say "non-entities," were whispering, the "medium"
was alwa7s tapping her arms and squeezing her hands,
and messtng about with her body.
The " medium " then brought through a " John."
Nothing happened. Then "Uncle John." "Perhaps
on the mother's side.''
Mrs. Harrison said that she could accept an "Uncle
John." The "medium" fished about and eventually
Mrs. Harrison Jl'ave the name " Medore."
MEDIUM: Tell Medore I want her. Papa is here.
Aunt Mary's here.
MISS HAZEL RIDLEY 28_8
Nothing happened over this. Mrs. Bryans was then
again addressed.
We all asked who the " voice " wanted to speak to.
Eventually it arrived at something like " Sarah."
:MRs. BRYANS : Is it a man or a woman P
MEDIUM : A lady.
MRs. BRYANS : Is the name Clara P
MEDIUM : Is that your name P
MRs. BRYANS : No.
M.EDIUK : Is it Grannie?
MRs. BRYANS: It might be my grannie, but if so can
she give her name?
Medium didn't know.
Another attempt wcu made.
MEDIUK: Nebby. wants to speak.
ALL SITTERS : Who?
MEDIUM: Nobby wants to speak to you.
H.D.B.: Is it Nifty_wants to speak to us?
MEDIUM (a& Grey Wolf) : We want to find out. We
are trying to get the name through.
Eventually we arrived at " Emmy."
Mrs. Bryans happened to have known an Emmie
casually.
MRs. BRY.!NS : What does Emmie want to say P
MEDIUM : What did you do with the picture P
Thi& conveyed nothing.
After this the '' medium '' commenced to put her
fingers up her sleeve, and each time she did so comic
little sounds were made, but the brake was e-ventually
put on when she affectionately patted her right arm.
Mrs. Austin Harrison had given the name of Medore,
so later a voice came through whispering " Madore."
I think perhaps it is necessary here to interpolate that
the late Austin Harrison was one of mr very best friends.
A fine writer and founder of the Englt&h Review. Marie
Harrison is now genuinely interested in psychics. She
is a very intelligent woman and has studied the subject
sincerely and carefully. She is in no way sceptical,
since she has already received certain definite and
evidential points. Naturally, she desires the evidence to
be volunteered. Quite rightly she always evades the
fatal habit of giving leads.
One of the whisperin~ " voices," afterseveral attempts,
eventually arrived at ' Ren." Mrs. Harrison, who was
seated next to me, remarked in audible tones, " Ren was
Austin's brother." The " medium" went on talking
284 ... AND AFTER
and said, when the name "Medora" was g1ven, that
" Medore " was there. This did not produce any
response, so then:
MEDIUM : Osten is here--Osten.
Mrs. Harrison would, of course, know how to obtain
good evidence from Austin. So also should I. But
unfortunately, after the " medium " had announced that
" Osten is here," she made no further statement.
The name "Austin" was picked up from Mrs.
Harrison's remark that "Ren was Austin's brother."
" Osten" disappeared. This was very inconsiderate of
" Osten," because the one person that " Aultin " would
be most an:eious to communicate with was Marie.
MEDIUM (whispering): Onnie.
FRENCH LADY : Yes.
MEDIUM (trying French) : Annie-Onri, Ondrey.
FRENCH LADY : Andre?
This, in the French lady's quick delivery, might have
sounded to the "medium " like any of the three nam,es
she volunteered.
MEDIUM : Leon-Leon.
FRENCH LADY (with a French accent): You mean
Lyons?
MEDIUM: Yes-the water.
Nothing was arrived at from the water.
MEDIUM : She says--
FRENCH LADY : She says?
MEDIUM : Mumble-mumble-mumble.
FRENCH LADY : What does she say?
MEDIUM: She says, " Mumble, mumble, mumble."
Can't you hear what she says P
FRENCH LADY: No, I can't hear. Andre is a " he."
H .D.B. (to medium): I thought I heard you say
" she."
MEDIUM : No-no.
" Grey Wolf" then, very determinedly, said "he."
I passed the trifling point of sez and the conversation.
continued.
MEnruu: There is a chateau.
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY (helping) : Do they sit there?
MEDIUM: Andre says, " All right, go on."
FRENCH LADY : What do they do in Lyons P
'MEDIUM: They dance.
FRENCH LADY : That is right. Can you tell me any
moreP
'MEDIUM: Yes. Tell "Odeon."
MISS HAZEL RIDLEY 285
FRENCH LADY : I think I know. Do you mean
Grodian?
MEDIUM : Yes-Grodian-the " spirit " says " So
happy."
The French lady &aid it got near the name when
·" Odeon " wtu volunteered, but &he did not know whether
it wtu " Claudian " or not &peaking.
MEDIUM : Phyllis.
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY: Yes.
Medium, after a few sounds which suggested " Ellen."
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY: Is it Ellen?
This sounded slightly promising on account of her
relationship to Ellen Terry. With the exception of
myself, the sitters were anonymous, and the "medium ''
may not have known Miss Neilson-Terry.
MEDIUM : Yes.
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY: Is it a relative?
MEDIUM: No, not a relative. Ellen-Helen-Helen.
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY: Helen?
.MEDIUK : Yes. Not related.
PHYLLIS NEILSON-TERRY: Can she give me her further
name?
MEDIUM: Helen (fi&hing) Bradding-Brudding-
Brooding.
H.D.B. (in a kindly endeavour to help): Is it Helen
Breeding?
MEDIUM : That is nearer to it.
After this the " spirit " said " Good-bye " and
" Grey Wolf " stated that the power was going and the
sitting was ended.
. . . ' . . . .
Tlie "medium" came out of her trance with very
efficient rapidity. I asked her how many sittings she
was able to hold in a day, and she told me na!vely
that before this particular sitting had taken place at
3 o'clock, she had held three others with single sitters
which occupied three quarters of an hour each.
I had paid four guineas for my afternoon's entertain-
ment. The so-called "communications " were farcical.
These American " mediums," with the rapidity of
their race, do not waste time. On this occasion I had
paid four guineas, nnd the fees charged for Miss Ridley
for the previous sittings during the day would, at a
minimum, amount to another three guineas. Therefore,
the amount earned during a week by her fishing
banalities would mean a very considerable sum.
286 ... AND AFTER
Miss Hazel Ridley has been described in certain psrchic
journals, and by certain ignorant sitters, aa a "direct-
voice medium." Sh.e is nothing of the kind. In
"Direct-voice," and for "Independent-voice," medium-
ship the voice emanates entirely apart from and away
from the medium, and never through the medium's vocal
organs. By falsely calling herself a " direct-voice "
medium, since this form of mediumship is somewhat rare,
Miss Ridley is able to charge the credulous higher fees
than she could if she posed as a clairvoyant medium.
As for the silly "squeaks, and futile "noises" which
were emitted now and again from the region of her throat
and chest, a child could reproduce these. What they
were intended to convey God and Miss Ridley alone know.
A spontaneous stomach rumbling would be just as
intelligent, and yerhaps more amusing.
The few published accounts that I have read of her
seances are so vague and lacking in evidence that they
entirely fail to impress any scientific mind. Whether
Miss Ridley possesses any vestige of mediumistic power
I do not know, but I can definitely assert that during the
afternoon on which I sat with her no genuine powers of
any description were exhibited. The only cleverness she
displayed was an alertness to pick up points, but when
evidential questions were put by any of the sitters of the
party which I had invited, the "medium" or "the
control" or the so-called "spirits," whichever you like,
definitely lied when answers were given.
. . . . . .
We may be living in a world of fools, but it would be
appalling to contemplate a perpetual existence in aBSOcia-
tton with discarnate fools.
BOOKY
VALIANTINE'S FINAL VISIT, 1931
CHAPTER I
VAL~TLNE'S ARRIVAL
Valiantine oiat• Mr. X-The preoioae arra,..emenf.-ValiGntine'•
mentalit.,-Hie ori6irt-Hi• charader-Bcginning.-{)nUHd to
laxarJI-Preoioue /itWJncial arrangement.-Earlier oiat.-Growi"6
fam~Big oDere-A gcnerou• potron--Growing conceit-" A
million pound• "-Mr•. Valianfine-Huge feee-Treated en prince
-Elect. of /latlerJI and laxu~Arrangement• with Dr. Vioian-
Valiantine'• illiterate letfer.-caoalier behaoiour-Experimenfe for
finger-printe-Boolt.• hi• pauage earlier-Curtail• •itfing.-c••lae•
Dr. Vioian'• cheque-The 1925 atting• for finger-printe-lmprint•
obtaineJ.-Valiantinc at the pintWJcle of hi• mediumi.tic power•.
I
GEORGE VALIANTINE made his last, and probably final,
visit to England in 1931.
He arrived at Southampton on January 19, and was
there met by a gentleman whom I consider it desirable
to refer to throughout as Mr. X.
The arrangements which had been made were that
Valiantine was to spend a month at the country house
of Mr. X and that he would then come to me at Dorin-
court for a short period, during which a series of sittings,
held with a specific purpose, would take place, after
which he would hold a further series of s1ttings with
Dr. Vivian.
Before I discuss the arrangements which had been made,
it is essential that I should remark on certain phases
in the development of Valiantine's mentality.
In my records I have, as a rule, understated the
remarkable phenomena that have occurred under
Valiantine's mediumship.
With the intensive experience of eight years' study,
the various phenomena recorded tend to :prove that he
is, or was, one of the greatest mediums tn the world.
When I first met him he was a simple, kindly type of
287
288 ... AND AFTER
man. He was extremely modest and quiet in his manner,
and was conducting a small business as a razor-hone
manufacturer in a small American town.
Later, his mediumistic powers brought him considerable
fame, and although he did not make any definite charges
for his services, he usually received considerable gifts of
money, so that he eventually gave up his business and
relied upon such gifts to provide his livelihood. Hence
he became in time a professional medium.
Knowing Valiantine so well during the last eight
years, I have observed his character and mentality
gradually change. He had never been used to the
handling of much money, nor the luxuries which money
can command, and the simple and unaffected man
gradually developed traces of conceit and arrogance.
Money is so often apt to spoil, and it spoils those who
have not been used to it much more than it does those
who happen to have been born with it.
On those of his visits to England for which I was
personally responsible, I always looked after the financial
side for him.
He would never ask for any specific sum. He was
always content to leave that side to me, knowing that I
had always treated him fairly.
His first visit to London was arranged by me, in con-
junction with Mr. Joseph De Wyckoff. This was in
1924, when Valiantine was a comparatively poor man.
He was amazed with his first trip on an Atlantic liner and
delighted by his entertainment in this country.
Mr. De Wyckoff and I halved his travelling expenses,
which amounted to about £150, and he was entertained
as a guest in my house during the whole .of his stay. of
five weeks, from February 1 until March 5, 1924. Durmg
this time an exceptionally successful series of sittings
was held and, sharing again with Mr. De Wyckoff, we
made him a present of £75 for his services, which, at
that time, he considered more than ample.
On subsequent visits I defrayed his expenses when
visiting this country, and would send him a cheque for
his return fare and other expenses. He travelled always
on one of the best and most luxurious Atlantic liners,
and in addition to expenses, as he was then living a
more extravagant life, a present was made to him of
about £200.
As he became more and more famous, when he visited
this country he usually stayed with me at Dorincourt,
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 289
although he often received many big offers for his services
elsewhere. One man, whom I knew: personally, offered
him £300 for six sittings. I did not allow Vahantine to
accept this offer because I detested the idea of medium-
ship being placed upon a definite commercial basis.
On the last occasion he came to this country, prior to
the 1931 visit, Valiantine brought with him h1s wife,
and seemed decidedly changed in his o:utlook on life. He
had meanwhile received large sums of money from
wealthy patrons.
On this occasion I did not send Valiantine a cheque
for his passage as he was only staying with me for a
few days. I was not conducting a series of sittings at
Dorincourt, and I knew that he would be treated in an
exceptionally generous manner by Mr. X, with whom he
had arranged to spend a month or so. My expenses had
been so heavy in connection with his previous visits that
I had no intention whatever of making a contribution on
this occasion. Valiantine, however, appeared to take
it for granted that I should do so. His manner seemed
to me to have become hardened and materialistic. He
spoke in a somewhat conceited manner, and certainly
had very decided views as to the monetary value of his
services. He remarked to me casually that some people
would pay a million pounds for such privileges. He
apparehtly disregarded the fact that the translated
publications of my psychic books in most of the European
countries were largely responsible for his having become
internationally famous.
He was most passionately devoted to his wife-a
woman a few years his junior-and when they visited
England together he lavished every attention on her.
She brought with her far more clothes than the majority
of women travel with, many of which she had never
worn, and she took back w1th her considerably more.
She possessed, I should imagine, a wardrobe equal in
size to that of a society beauty's. Valiantine's devotion
to his wife is to his credit, and at this time he certainly
had the means to gratify her wishes.
He told me that for four weeks' mediumistic services
at Mr. X's house he received the sum of £1,500, in
addition to his double travelling expenses- which
amounted to a few more hundreds.
The receipt of such fees, amounting to over £400 a
week, gave him, I think, an exaggerated idea of his own
importance.
K
290 ... AND AFTER
During the time of his visits to Mr. X he was fussed
over and treated as a Royal Prince. If he sat in a chair
a servant was always in attendance to place a foot-stool
before him and cushions at the back of his head.
There can be but little doubt that the rapid accumula·
tion. of. m?ney did not have a beneficia~ eftect upon
Vahantlne s character. As a man, I th1nk it ruined
him.
For the last few years, wherever he has gone he has,
on most occasions, been treated with the attention and
flatte~y which is usually bestowed on a great artist or
a gen1us.
n
In September of 1930, Dr. Vivian, a lady doctor with
considerable experience in :psychical research, wrote to
me askin8. me whether Vahantine could be induced to
pay a vis1t to England. Dr. Vivian stated that she was
anxious to hold a short series of about twelve sittings,
and that her sitters would consist of a small, confined
circle; chiefly doctors who were anxious to study psychical
phenomena. She assured me that her circle would be
an agreeable and harmonious one, and that Valiantine
would be made very comfortable during his fortnight or
so's stay. She offered to pay Valiantine the sum of £200
for his services.
As I wished to hold a short series of sittings with
Valiantine myself, I wrote to him to his home in
Williamsport, U.S.A., and told him of Dr. Vivian's ofter.
I made no mention of any amount that I myself should
pay him for his services, as I had never mentioned any
specific sum in connection with myself on any previous
occasion. He was, however, sufficiently acquainted with
the way in which I had treated him in the past to know
that he would be fairly well looked after.
Valiantine replied to me in a letter dated September
21, saying:
"If I can arrange with 'Mr. X' I shall be glad to
come. Kindly let me know the amount of time you
want, and also Dr. Vivian, so I can let ' Mr. X ' have
the amount of time he wants. If I can make no arrange-
ments with ' Mr. X ' it would not pay me to come over
for £200 if I must pay my expenses. Jan. or Feb. is
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 291
quite alri~ht. I will come alone, as Bess must stay home
as father 1s not well.
'' Kind regards to you and the family.
" Very sincerely,
" (Signed) GEORGE.,
I quote this letter exactly as it is written, because I
have received innumerable letters from Valiantine during
the past eight years, all of which have been illiterately
expressed. They contain many wrongly spelled words
and ungrammatical sentences. I am not quoting this
fact against Valiantine. He is poorly educated, and a
comparatively illiterate man. This, of course, I know,
not merely by his letters, but by personal and close
association with him extending over a very Ion~ period.
I underline this statement very carefully-and 1t is con-
firmed by all who have met him-because during the
innumerable sittings held under Valiantine's mediumship
communications of knowledge and culture have been
given in perfect expression and language.
When I received Valiantine's letter, stating that it
would not pay him to come over for £200, knowing, as
he did, that in addition I should jrobably pay his
expenses, I was somewhat surprise . I deliberately
refrained from making a definite offer of money from
myself and, among other things, in a further letter I
said:
"Fares on the big liners are very expensive, but many
of my personal friends are travelling on very good boats
with very good living for £30. Therefore, your fare
and expenses (as you will be living with me at Dorin-
court, and at Dr. Vivian's in Hampshire) would not
amount to more than £80. This would leave you a net
profit to yourself of £120."
I added in my letter :
" I think you should not consider whether it would
pay you to come over for £200, but whether, in view of
everything that has been done for you in the past, you
should not make this sacrifice of your time."
Now Valiantine knew that, had he come to EnfS'land
on these terms, I should certainly have helped h1m as
I have done on previous occasions, and that he would
292 ... AND AFTER
be certain to return to America with a net profit of at
least £200 for his few weeks' visit.
He had, however, by this time acquired extravagant
ideas and tastes, and to him £200 probably represented an
insignificant figure. In actual figures it represented at
least £60 per week for his services, but this method of
reckoning he regarded as negligible.
Valiantine wrote to me on October 14, 1930, as follows
(I quote again verbatim from his letter):
"I have heard from Mr. X and he wants me over in
Jan. for one month, so I will give him the first month
on arrival of which will start on Jan. 18th. I could
not leave here until Jan. 11th. I will run over to
London and see you in a few days after my arrival. . . .
After I leave ' Mr. X ' I will come to you and we will
talk things over when I arrive. I can go to ' Dr.
Vivian ' when you get through with me. Hoping this
is satisfactory with you."
It should be noted that Valiantine, having arranged
to visit " Mr. X," for the first month felt perfectly
secure regarding the financial side, knowing that he
would probably receive from Mr. X a large sum of
money. Unless he had succeeded in making this arrange-
ment with Mr. X he would certainly not have considered
it worth his while to come to Dorincourt or to Dr. Vivian.
After the letter which Valiantine wrote to me in
October I heard not another word from him until he had
arrived in England, although I wrote to him on December
18, naturally expecting him to confirm the dates. The
note I then received from him was short and curt,
.
saytng:
"January 20, 1931.
" Just a line to let you know that I have arrived.
Mr. X and myself are motoring into London a week
from Saturday, and are staying in London until Monday.
I shall see you then."
Despite the abruptness of this curt note, I wrote him
an extremely nice letter in reply, saying :
" If it fits in with Mr. X's arrangements will you
and he come to luncli or dinner at Dorincourt-which-
ever day suits you best."
I received another very short note from him as follows :
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 298
" I will be in London Sat. and lunch with you.
I do not think Mr. X will as he has some important
business to attend to."
On the Saturday morning he ran~ me up from London
saying that he expected to -lunch w1th me in London. I
told him that I had work to do at Dorincourt which I
could not leave, and I had to send my car to London to
fetch him.
.When he arrived I asked him how long he would be
able to stay with me after he had leit Mr. X, and we
arranged that he should stay with me at least a
fortnight.
Some six months previously, I had written him a letter
sayin~ that on his next visit to Dorincourt I desired to
exper1ment to see if it were possible to obtain some
finger-prints, especially as under his mediumship we had
previously obtained some supernormal imprints at two
of the sittings.
I also told him that during the last year or so four
famous men whom I knew had died, three of whom were
close personal friends of mine. I mentioned that we were
arranging six evenings especially for these experiments,
and that I thought it advisable to make the circle of
sitters exactly the same; also that the original right and
left hand imprints of all these four men were fortunately
in the possession of Mr. Noel Jaquin. I added that if
we obtained these imprints, and they compared favour-
ably with the originals, it would be of the utmost value
scientifically.
In view of these experiments, and the one or two other
personal sittings which I wished to hold, I told him that
the minimum period in which we could get through
would be a fortnight. To this he agreed.
Although Valiantine was very agreeable in his manner
to me, he somehow conveyed the impression that he was
so comfortable and content staying with Mr. X, that he
had no particular desire to visit elsewhere. I observed
that if he spent a fortnight with me, the series with Dr.
Vivian would occupy a little over three weeks more.
He then made a remark which did not entirely please
me; he .said that he wished he had not consented to give
a series to Dr. Vivian, and implied that the amount he
was to receive irom her of £200 made it hardly worth
while.
When he left me, however, we had definitely arranged
294 .•. AND AFTER
that he should come to Dorincourt on February 19, and
spend a fortnight or so, and that he would then go on
to stay with Dr. Vivian. He told me that after this he
would go back to stay with Mr. X for a day or so before
he sailed from Southampton.
It was clearly defined that the minimum period of
time required by Dr. Vivian and myself would be some-
thing over five weeks.
A fortnight or so after Valiantine had lunched with
me, he motored over from Mr. X to see Dr. Vivian in
Hampshire. This was the first occasion on which he had
met her. He told her that he was coming to me on
February 19 to stay for two weeks, and that he had
booked his passage back to America on March 18.
Dr. Vivian wrote to me at once, saying how surprised
she was at Valiantine's decision. She said that he
appeared to be very off-hand in his manner, and that he
was apparently determined to sail on this particular date,
because, as he said, he desired to get back to his wiie.
She told me that it was extremely awkward for her, as
she had made all her arrangements for a series of twelve
sittings with her fellow-doctors, which could not now
take place, as it was evident that he would not have the
time to give them. Her letter to me continued:
" Re the financial aspect. I asked Mr. Valiantine
what I was to pay him, thinking that perhaps as he
seems to intend g1vmg me only six or seven sittings
instead of twelve he would say that under the circum-
stances he would be satisfied if I paid him £150. But
he said that he must leave that to me, so I felt I must
at any rate keep my promise, though I admit I am
disappointed. It is a large sum to me, and I have been
lookmg forward so much to these sittings, and to have
them suddenly curtailed is disappointing, especially as
the only reason Valiantine gives is that he does not wish
to disappoint his wife. However, I still hope that you
may be successful in inducing him to disappoint her for
another week or two."
Dr. Vivian then told me that she had given Valiantine
a cheque for £200. This cheque was cashed a ~ittle
later by Valiantine, and I thought at the time that it
was rather unwise of Dr. Vivian to give this sum beiore-
hand, especially as he appeared to be determined to
curtail her sittings.
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 295
On receiving Dr. Vivian's letter I wrote at once to
Valiantine, saying :
"I was very surprised to receive a letter from Dr.
Vivian this morning saying that you had motored over
to see her and told her that you wished to sail back on
March 18. It was definitely arranged with Dr. Vivian
that she should have twelve sittings, £or which she would
pay you £200."
I pointed out to him that it would be impossible to
fulfil his engagement with Dr. Vivian and, at the same
time, to give me the necessary fortnight for my own
series of experiments. In my letter I added :
" You knew long before you came over exactly the
arrangements I had made, and, therefore, it was £or you
to estimate how long you would be over here with Dr.
Vivian and myself.
"When you told me the date upon which you were
free to come to me I made my arrangements accordingly,
and it is utterly impossible for me to alter them. You
must see that the very earliest possible date in which
we can get through with the arrangements would be
March 25."
I told Valiantine that Dr. Vivian must have her
twelve sittings, as she had reckoned on this, ior a very
Ion~ time and had paid him £200. He replied to me,
saytng:
"You shall have your fortnight. Also Dr. Vivian
will get her share of sittings. She knows how many she
expects to have, so don't worry about her end of the
matter."
Despite this, however, as I discovered afterwards,
Valiantine booked his passage for March 18 before he
came to me at Dorincourt. He was evidently determined
to go back to America on this date, and nothing would
alter his decision.
I have dealt with all these preliminary arrangements
because, commonplace as they may appear, they have
considerable psychological interest in view of what
happened later.
296 ... AND AFTER
III
Valiantine arrived at Dorincourt on Friday afternoon,
February 19. It is necessary to refer specifically to the
purpose I had in view for the series of experiments I
wished to make under his mediumship.
When Valiantine was in England in 1925, when dis-
cussing with Yr. Noel Jaquin the phenomena of
materialized hands, which occasionalll. touch sitters
during seances, he suggested that if spint hands touched
various of the sitters, then these hands could be placed
upon smoked paper and an imprint could be obtained.
Mr. J aquin prepared two sheets of smoked paper,
nailed them in a box, and asked me whether I would
experiment by placing it in the circle one evening.
The first experiment was made on April18, 1925, with
only Mrs. Bradley, Valiantine and myself present. At
the end of the seance, when the lights were turned on, it
was discovered that on one sheet there was the imprint
of a hand with four fingers and also part of the thumb.
On the other sheet there was the imprint of the two feet
of a bird. Now, these two imprints (illustrations of
which appear in my book "The Wisdom of the Gods")
have never been scientifically explained. They have
been studied by many experts, who have not to this day
been able to determine how they could have been
produced by normal means.
In Mr. Noel Jaquin's report, he stated:
" On Tuesday, April 21, 1925, I went down to Dorm-
court to examine the imprints. I then took imprints of
the hands of Mr. and Mrs. Bradley and Valiantine, but
there was no resemblance between theirs and the spirit
hand. In the two imprints obtained there was one baffiing
point of difference. The imprint of the man's hand was
quite clear and devoid of lines, not even the skin ridges
were marked, yet in the imprint of the bird's feet there
were clearly the cell-like markings of skin. These cell-
like formations, both in size and in shape, are those of
a small bird. In addition the claw markings are clearly
defined.''
A short sitting was held later in the evening that
Mr. Jaquin made his examinations, at which he,
Mrs. Bradley, myself, and Valiantine were present.
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 2~7
This was the first time that :Mr. J aquin had ever aat
with Valiantine.
The " voice " of " Dr. Barnett " spoke and discussed
these imprints fully with Mr. J aquin. :Mr. J aquin
statea:
" I then proceeded to ask one or two questions as to
the imprints, and in a very deliberate manner Dr.
Barnett concisely answered. Some of these questions
and answers were very involved and scientific, and I do
not think that anyone without a deal of scientific know-
ledge could have answered them, certainly not as the
doctor replied. He explained that the first imprint, that
of the human hand, was an ectoplasmic hand; that is a
hand covered or built up of ectoplasm, whereas the
imprints of the bird's feet were made by an actual
materialized bird held loosely together with ectoplasmic
forces. In answer to a question as to the lines in the
hand imprint, he explained that at the base of the thumb
these were not nerve lines, but were made by the joint
of the thumb causing a natural creasing of the ectoplasm.
This was a point that I had observed when first examin-
ing the imprints, and in this I knew that the answer was
correct."
We then arranged that on the following Thursday,
April 23, 1925, we would make a further experiment.
At this sitting there were present, in addition to Mr.
Jaquin, Mrs. Bradley, myself and Valiantine, Mr. and
:Mrs. Charles Sykes.
At this sitting, in addition to some very remarkable
" voice " manifestations, in which evidential com-
municationa were volunteered by the "voices," two
further imprints were obtained. One, the signature of
0. B. Everett, which was of no value, and the other, the
delicate imprint of a butterfly.
Regarding the butterfly imprint, no scientific explana-
tion as to how it could have been obtained normally has
yet been made.
Mr. Charles Sykes is one of the finest sculJ!tors in
England, and is also a fine painter. :Many of h1s works
have been exhibited in the Paris Salon and also in the
Royal Academy. Mr. Sykes, as a sculptor and painter,
would, of course, be the best judge to criticize the
production of this butterfly. (Reproductions of these
imprints appear in " The Wisdom of the Gods.")
:z:•
298 •.• AND A.
FTER
The following is an extract from Mr. Sykes' report :
''When the room was again in full light there were
surprises for us on the three sheets of paper in the centre
of our circle. On one was inscribed a large signature,
another showed a cloudy form, and the third the diltinct
imprint of a butterfly which had evidently been im-
pressed back downwards, and measuring nearly two
mches across from tip to tip of its opened wings.
" The imprint of this butterfly bears all the appearance
of some roguishness (not roguery; it is much too well
defined for that). It is an accomplishment in two
extremes, which is shown in the first case by the delicacy
in which the smoked surface of the paper has been
disturbed by the very soft texture of the wings, and in
the second case by the .relatively great force expressed
by several distinctly embossed impressions of the corners
of the wings, the two eyes and the antennm, which
becomes clearly visible while holding the reverse side of
this firmly made paper edgeways to the light.
" Someone asked if it would be possible to draw it so
well by hand. In full daylight it might be possible to
copy it, laboriously, after the lithographic fashion, but
to invent it-well, it is too exact.
"It has been suggested that a rubber stamp might
render a like effect. A rubber stamp would not be fine
enough. It has also been suggested that it might be
done by the model of a butterfly made in metal-but
where would be the velvety impression of the wing
surfaceP
" It should be mentioned also that there is an obvious
drag action, mostly left at the serrated edges of the lower
portions of the wings, and a very slight drag at the
shoulders and top edges of the upper wings, yet all
aprcea.rs steady at the body, the eyes and the antennae.
' It is difficult to determine whether this drag was
caused on being impressed or released, or by a flutter of
the wings only.
"The piece of paper on which the butterfly appeared
had been laid upon the soft carpet underneath a leather
seated stool which had cross-bars to its four legs. These
cross-bars were less than a hand's width from the floor,
and close to the cross-bar nearest to my feet was the
imprint of the butterfly with its abdomen pointing in my
direction. This descr1?.tion of its position is made to
explain how difficult 1t would have been to make the
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 299
impression with a stamping device, when the cross-bar
would have halted the natural action of the hand return-
ing towards the body, which is the direction of the
dragged effect. Even if this could have been done, the
solid body of the person would have had to pass between
me and the illuminated trumpets, and I should have seen
the luminant crossed sharply by the passing of the solid
form, for during the sittmg I had easily been able to
notice the shape of one trumpet cutting sharply in front
of the glow from its companion on rising from the floor
whenever some voice wished to use it."
Mr. Noel Jaquin, in his report, which was afterwards
published, states:
" The imprint of the butterfly is most fragile, and
it must have lain upside down upon the paper. Had
this been done with an actual fly I should have detected
the scales from the wings, which come off at the slightest
touch. A rubber stamp would have rendered the outline
hard, and taken away most of the carbon particles. I
asked Mr. Sykes if an artist with the most delicate brush
could reproduce a like impression of a fly on smoked
paper. His reply was decidedly in the negative. Then,
apart from the imprints, there are the voices; no one man
could have given such a dramatic display.
" I am convinced that these are supernormal imprints.
How they were made we cannot be quite certain. In
the matter of the butterfly the opinion of an artist like
Mr. Sykes must count before mine!'
Naturally, as a hand and finger expert, Mr. J aquin
had to leave the criticism of the delicate impression of
the butterfly to Mr. Sykes.
Regardin~ the ectoplasmic hand imprint, obtained on
April 18, 1925, Mr. Jaquin again refers to this in his
report, saying:
" I am convinced that b·ad there been trickery I should
have detected it in these impressions. The imprint of
the hand is not complete, and the thumb was not fully
materialized. This Bert Everett knew, as he told me on
the Tuesday eveninf!. Since then I have tried to
reproduce, by means of kid gloves and rub'ber, an imprint
like the one given on Saturday, but without success.
This incomplete thumb is important. The second joint
800 ... AND AFTER
of the human thumb is generally hollow, and it is very
difficult to get it impressed, certainly without the top
phalange.''
At the time these imprints were obtained, George
Valiantine was, in my opinion, at the pinnacle of his
mediumistic powers. The various phenomena of all
kinds, evidential, mental and physical, which wer&
obtained through his mediumahip, were extraordinary.
The remarkable daylight sittings which took place at
this period were brilliant both in their supernormality
and in the quality of the personal evidence SUJ>plied by
the communicating " voices," whilst Valiantme's face
was under acute observation.
After these " imprint sittings," recorded and scientific·-
ally tested by Mr. Sykes and Mr. Jaquin, they both had
full daylight sittings with Valiantine, in order to
experiment to see if supernormal "voices" could discuas
these imprints further. On the day following the
seance at which the butterfly imprint was obtained Mr.
Sykes was so impressed by the experiment of the previous
evening that he was extremely anxious to have the
opportunity of hearing the " voices " in daylight. He
therefore motored down from London the next morning.
I append his account of what took place.
"On Friday, the following morning (April 24, 1925),
I had my first experience of a daylight sitting.
" It was twelve forty-five midday, summer time, with
sunlight in the room. Mr. Valiantine took for himseU
a comfortable upholstered chair, resting his elbow upon
its soft arm, and, holding the wide end of the trumpet
in his left hand, he invited me to put my ear to the
narrow end, and to sit in front of him on a leather~ated
stool.
"However, I could swivel about on this and see hi•
complete figure.
" In a few seconds there were tappin~s within the
trumpet in ones and twos, and some hilarious rattlings.
I made several attempts to ·find out who was tapping,
and then asked if they could speak. I was answered by
two taps. I expressed my patience, and very shortly
aftenvards was addressed by a familiar name. Asking
who spoke, I wae answered that it was my father.
Remembering that his voice had spoken to me on the
~v~P.inB b~fore, saying: 'We are working on the imprint
VALIANTINE'S ARRIVAL 801
now, Charley,' I discussed the production of the butterfly
impression. My father was an artist, and he explained
that the embossed eftect was caused by the force from
below drawing the butterfly downwards on to the paper,
and not by the wet fixative blown on to the paper by
Mr. Jaquin. It had been a difficult work. He had been
employed, with others, in this production, and they were
very pleased with their success. He was very jocular
and gay in his manner, and even gave me some teneer
and fatherly advice, which was just what I deser7ed,
though I am not quite so young as when we last met
together at his home.
"He also brought my mother'a voice to speak to me.
I changed ears on the trumpet, swivelling on the stool,
and taking a fresh view of Mr. Valiantine, who was by
this time beginning to look tired and pale.
"My mother's voice and manner were characteristic,
undemonstrative, but deeply aftectionate. Hoped I would
come again to speak with her. Wished me to speak to
her at my own home. Rejected my suggestion that I
might be heavy and loutish in such a case, and begged
me to try. Told me what had passed between her most
intimate sister and me within the few days just elapsed.
" Mr. Valiantine afterwards showed me the phosphor-
escent parts of the trumpet-how they had gained in
luminosity during the sittln~, in contrast with the other
trumpet which had not been 1n use since the night before.
I must have been a little tiresome-! had kept the con-
venation up so long."
(It is interesting to interpolate here the comparilon
between the f'emarkable daylight 1itting1 given by
Valiantine with the ludicf'ous performance' which I have
witne11ed by the alleged medium, Mr1. Murphey-Lydy.)
Mr. Noel Jaquin spent the night at Dorincourt after
the seance at which the imprint of the butterfly was
obtained, and on the morning of April 24, 1926, at about
9 o'clock, just before breakfast was served, he also had,
quite by chance, a very short daylight experience with
Valiantine.
In reference to this, I append a short extract from his
report:
" I stayed the night at Dorincourt, and early next
morning went into the study with Pat Bradley,
aged nine. I asked him to let me have a look at the
802 •.. AND AFTER
trumpet used the night before. I then held it in my
right hand, and asked Pat to put his ear to the smaller
end. It must be understood that the morning was bright
and clear. The sun was streaming into the room, and
within two seconds there were distinct raps from the
inside of the cone. Just after this Valiantine entered
the room and I requested him to hold the trumpet while
I listened. This he did, holding it at arm's length while
I placed my ear to the smaller end. Within three or
four seconds there came the whispered greeting from
the voice of my brother-in-law, George Gre~ory. I then
asked him why they had not given the 1mprint of a
hand; the reply was indistinct. After a pause he
remarked: 'There is the impression of my thumb upon
the paper at the lower edge.' Here I should mention
tha~ the thumb mark referred to is, like the imprint of
the hand, an ectoplasmic impression.
'' I then asked George Gregory some personal
questions, which were satisfactorily answered.
" It was certainly impossible for Valiantine to have
answered these questions had he the knowledge with
which to reply, as I could see his face the whole of the
time, and furthermore, the sound came from inside the
trumpet.''
. . . . . . .
It has been necessary for me to dwell at length upon
the incidents surrounding the obtaining of these first
supernormal imprints. By the relation of these fact.s,
carefully collated, it will be understood that the series
of sittings which I had arranged to hold during 1931
might prove of considerable scientific value, either in the
proving or the disproving oi the supernormality of
any imprints which might be obtained durin.g these
experiments.
In all my previous psychic works and studies I had
hitherto concentrated only upon the value of an accumula-
tion of mental evidence. The mental branch of pheno-
mena has always appealed to me as of infinitely more
importance than the physical side.
The series of imprint sittings were devoted to m-aterial-
utic attempts to obtain physical phenomena.
Before recording in coldly scientific exactness the
details of what transpired, again I must point out that
it is necessary to take into consideration the psychological
effects of material prosperity and Valiantine's apparent
change of mentality.
CHAPTER II
THE FIRST SEANCE
Di•tinctive tgpe• of phenomena-A •frong combination of /orce.-A
new type of trumpet-Thirteen " ooice• " manife•t-The charac-
teri•tic voice of mg father-My •i.ter'• warning--" Be careful ''
-Richard Bethell.
Thur•dtzg, Februa'll 19, 1931.
VALIANTINE arrived at D01·incourt durin~ the afternoon
of Thursday, February 19. The first sittmg of the series
was held after dinner at about 9 o'clock. There were
present: Valiantine, my wiie and myself, and it should
be noted that each of the sitters is a "voice " medium.
On the many occasions when this particular trio has sat,
without any other person being present, the results have
been invariably successful, and the fiuency of the
" voices " manifesting has been remarkable.
On certain occasions physical phenomena and also
" voice " phenomena of a distinctive nature have
occurred at the private sittings held under the medium-
ship of my wife and myself, when Valiantine has not
been present, or even in this country. These distinctive
phenomena have, later on, taken place similarly while
Mrs. Bradley and myself have been sitti;ng under the
mediumship of Valiantine.
On one occasion, when Valiantine was visiting
England, a family sitting was held, especially in order
that Valiantine might observe certain phenomena which
had not occurred under his own mediumship.
The combination of the three oi us, sitting alone,
appears to be particularly strong, and I am of opinion
that the psychic forces used are provided more or less
equally from each of the sitters. At times when this trio
has been sitting, and there have been two or three other
sitters present, the forces do not appear to be used in
the same way, and the bulk of the mediumistic
power seems to be provided by Valiantine. This may be
accounted for on the assumption that my wife's and my
own mediumistic powers are more delicate and sensitive,
and less stronglv developed than Valiantine's, and there-
fore are more likely to be affected by the vibrations of
303
804 ... AND AFTER
the various sitters and may also at times be rendered
impotent.
On this evening a new type of trumpet,. or megaphone,
was used. It is the best instrument or its kind that I
have ever seen, and is the invention of a wealthy English
s-entleman, who is a student of psychics. The trumpet
IS made in one piece of red celluloid, measuring about
twenty-six inches in height. The top and mouth-piece
end measures five-eighths of an inch in diameter; from
which it widens to a diameter of seven inches at the
circular base, upon which it stands on the floor. It is
very light in weight. From the bottom end run seven
strips of luminous wire, placed dias-onally and rising to
a height of sixteen inches. Luminous spots are also
placed round the bell end. With any movement what-
ever the exact direction and angle can therefore be
observed instantly and accurately. Another great
advantage of this trumpet is that the " voice " speaking
from it is much more clear and distinct than when an
aluminium trumpet is used. When the " voice " is
faint an aluminium trumpet is always liable to give a
"tinny " sound to the " voice."
In the course or this first sitting thirteen different and
distinct spirit " voices " manifested in all; five of
Valiantine's " Guides," and eight individual personal
"voices."
No music was played on the gramophone, and within
less than one minut-e the first " voice" greeted us.
Thenceforward all the various conversations continued
fluently throughout.
Valiantine's " Guides," with the exception of "Pat
O'Brien," said very little to us, and most of the time
was occupied by the communications from the personal
" entities."
The first " voice " to manifest was that of " Bert
Everett." After greeting us, he spoke a few short
sentences.
I recorded the various "voices " in the exact order
in which they manifested. " Bert Everett " spoke
independently-without using the trumpet-in his usual
shrill tones, coming from high up near the ceiling.
The next " voice " to address us was that of " Dr.
Barnett," whose tones, as usual, appeared to come from
the floor in the centre of the circle, where the trumpet
was placed. I had a short discussion wit.h "Dr.
Barnett'' regarding the experiments we intended to make
THE FIRST S~ANCE 805
in the endeavour to obtain supernormal imprints, and he
remarked : " We will do our best."
Immediately after this the trumpet was lifted and a
distinct feminine "voice," coming close to me, said:
" Herbert, it's Gert." The name was volunteered in the
abbreviation by which she was usually addressed by the
family. My sister, Gertrude, died in 1928. Although
somewhat faint in tone, the " voice" was quite dis-
tinguishable. The conversation which followed was on
purely family matters, and answers to questions which
were put were made without hesitation. During the
time my sister was talking to me, the trumpet several
times wafted rapidly from me to my wife, to whom
many remarks were also addressed.
Usin~ the luminous trumpet, a strong "voice,"
addressmg me, announced itself as " Dan-Dan Bradle.Y
-your father.'' These are the exact words of h1s
opening sentence. They were delivered in his direct,
spontaneous and characteristic manner. A long con-
versation followed, rapid and fluent, each reply inter-
lapping question, giving abundant evidence of his
knowledge of the various events in his life, and his
knowledge of the events which have transpired since
he passed over. He talked at length wit.h me, with
Mrs. Bradley, and with Valiantine ; in the same quick
manner that he answered my questions he answered
theirs. During the time he was talking to the three
of us, the trumpet wafted with lightning rapidity from
one to the other, and to each he spoke in that spontaneous,
vital manner, which was so characteristic of his person-
ality. When he waa speaking to Valiantine, the last
word of each sentence overlapped those of Valiantine's
reply. I was seated on Valiantine's left-my wife on
his right. While the " voice " of my father was talk-
ing to me the moutlipiece-end of the luminous trumpet
could be observed directly opposite and away from
Valiantine. Beyond this, and even more important, is
the fact that throughout the whole of the conversation
every sentence was delivered in the exact tones of his
attractive Irish accent. Every intonation was identical
with his intonation when alive, as was that peculiar,
unmistakable " voice " of his, which could be recognized
among a million.
Mv father's voice was always a very powerful one.
He died in 1925, at the age of eighty-seven, and to the
end he was a strong and virile man, with an iron con-
806 •.. AND AFTER
stitution. The only ailments he ever suilered from were
asthma and hay fever, of which he had occasional attacks
for his last fifty years. My father's voice was only
affected for a very short period durin~ these attacks.
Immediately he recovered from them hts voice became
as powerful as ever again, and I recollect, when he was
considerably over eighty years of age, at a public
banquet, hearing him make a speech, when his voice
was by far the strongest of all the speakers. At the age
of eighty-seven-right until the day of his death-he
was a vigorous man, who could walk with ease his ten
miles a day. When he was staying with me at Dorin-
court, he would dine, play cards, and then endeavour to
keep me up talking until 2 or 3 a.m. I was usually the
first to become tired, and he would appear at breakfast
the following morning in a fresher condition than
myself.
In the summer of 1925 my father had an attack of
bronchitis. It was not particularly severe, and his heart
was still very strong. Two days before he died he said
to me, quite cheerfully: " I think I have had enough.
I have had a very good innings, and it's time I went.
When I die, I don't want any fuss; no flowers, no black
clothes, nor nn;r nonsense of that sort." He passed out
peacefully in hts sleep.
All his life he was a Roman Catholic, but he was the
broadest-minded man I have ever met. Despite the very
big difference in our ages-! was born late in his life-
he and I always talked together as two friends with a
mutual understanding rather than as father and son.
During the last two years of his life he had an under-
standing of spirit communication from reading my books,
and he would often discuss the subject with me.
While he was talking to me at this Valiantine sitting,
among other things he mentioned the names of several
of his friends whom he had met on the other side. He
told me that he was still enjoying life in his present
state, and adding, laughingly: "You know, there is no
Purgatory here." Here, I think, he was referring to the
ordinary accepted idea of Purgatory. In my opinion the
theory of purgatory is logical, in the sense that it denotes
a certain mental condition, from which one eventually
develops.
Immediately our conversation ended, "Pat O'Brien "
spoke, using the luminous trumpet. He said that he ·
had
come along with my father and that they were often
THE FIRST S~ANCE 807
together. He spoke with us for a considerable time in
his rich Irish brogue, and it was interesting to observe
that this Irish accent was totally different and distinctive
from the Irish accent-the Galway tinge-of my father.
'!'here was a short pause after Pat O'Brien had gone,
and then the trumpet was lifted again. It was at this
moment that a most peculiar, and possibly significant,
incident occurred. It is necessary here to emphasize the
fact that my sister, Annie, has spoken to my wife and
mr.self in the " voice " and has held long conversations
w1th us on innumerable occasions, both under Valiantine's
mediumship and also under our own private medium-
ship. The conversation which ensued on this particular
evening was the briefest I have ever held with her. She
addressed me in tones which were recognizable immedi-
ately. She was extremely agitated, as if endeavouring
to give me some urgent warning as quickly as possible.
The short conversation was as follows:
ANNIE: Herbert-it's Annie. Be careful! Be
careful! "
I could not understand what was meant by this at the
time, and thought perhaps she was referring to my
health, as, on account of Valiantine's visit I had
previously postponed a very necessary operation on my
teeth. So I replied :
H.D.B.: What's the matter, Annie? What do you
mean by that?
ANNIE: I can't say any more. Only that you must be
careful.
The trumpet was then dropped, and she said no more.
In view of what transpired at the subsequent sittings
during the following week with Valiantine, it is essential
here to note that never once again did Annie attempt to
manifest or speak. It was only later that I discovered
that a far more significant interpretation could be placed
upon her warning, and that it had no relation whatever
to my health. The warning was, in my opinion, given
in regard to what might-and did-happen during the
ensuing weekl
Alter this incident a few words were spoken to us by
two of Valiantine's "Guides,'' "Hawk Chief," speak-
ing in the independent "voice " from high up in the
room, and " Black Foot," in his usual manner from the
floor.
'rhen came the " voice " of Warren Clarke, speaking
to us from the luminous trumpet in his distinctly
808 ... AND AFTER
recognizable tones. He stayed for a short time only,
and sent messages to his daughters, Phyllis and Betty.
After he had gone the trumpet was lifted as if with
some slight difficulty, and then the gentle " voice " of
my mother spoke to me. She spoke with my wife and
myself for quite a little time upon family matters, and
during the conversation many names were volunteered
by her. Her manner of speech was absolutely
characteristic.
Then followed the "voice " of my wife's father,
George Hunt. He spoke with us for two or three
minutes, referring to his wife, who was at that time
staying with her daughter in Germany. He volunteered
his knowledge of certain events which had taken place
in Chemnitz. He spoke of his paintin~s, and displayed
an evidential knowledge of the condition of his wife'a
health.
My wife's brother-Stanley Hunt-who died a few
years ago of meningitis, spoke with her, and, during
the conversation, gave evidence of his identity.
Then a "voice" using the luminous trumpet and
announcing itself as " Richard Bethell" spoke to me.
He said that he wanted to speak to his wife and that he
wished me to tell her that he did not commit suicide.
He told me that he had suddenly felt ill and needed air,
so he stood on a chair near the window, became giddy,
and fell out.
Immediately after this " voice " had spoken the
trumpet was dropped, and there was a pause. I then
remarked to my wife that I did not understand what
be meant by saying he fell ou~ of the window, as
although I had seen accounts of his sudden death in the
newspapers, I had not seen it stated that he had faiien
out of a window. Immediately after I had remarked thia
the trumpet was lifted and the "Bethell voice " said to
me : " It was in the papers."
I knew the Hon. Richard Bethell well. We very often
lunched and dined together in town, and he and Mrs.
Bethell often visited us at Dorincourt. As is well known,
Richard Bethell was one of the excavating party which
explored the Tut-ankh-amen tomb. His death was
sudden and mysterious. He was staying at the Bath
Club when the tragedy happened, and I was under the
impression that he had been found dead in bed, but
on the morning after the sitting I am describing I
ascertained that his death had occurred through falling
THE FIRST S~ANCE 809
from the window, and that this had been disclosed in
the papers.
In endeavouring to find out where Mrs. Bethell was
staying at the moment, I was put on to a wrong number
-1 was connected with Lord Bethell of Chelmsford, who
is, I believe, no relation whatever of Richard Bethell's
family. The butler answered the telephone, and I asked
him: " Could you give me Mrs. Richard Bethell's
address ? '' He replied that he was a£raid he did not
know it, and, strangely enough, added: "You mean the
wife of Richard Bethell, who fell out or the window at
the Bath Club, don't you? " I asked him how he knew
of this, and he told me that he had read it in the papers.
I did not communicate with Mrs. Richard Bethell
regarding the message I had received from her husband,
because I suddenly became too much occupied with the
dramatic events of the sittings which followed.
After the " Bethell voice " the childish feminine
tones of " Honey" (another of Valiantine's " Guides ")
came through and talked with us, and also sang a song
in a babyish "voice."
Shortly after this " Dr. Barnett" closed the sitting.
The sitting was a remarkable one ; more especially in
regard to the various entities which spoke to me and to
my wife. They gave an abundance of evidence of their
surviving personalities, which it would be impossible
for anyone in the world to manufacture, but despite the
value of these evidential communications the most
dramatic and outstanding communication of all, which
remained stamped upon my mind, was the warning of
my sister Annie, in staccato tones: " De careful! Be
careful! "
CHAPTER III
A Jo'lNGER-PRINT EXPERIMENT
An attempt to obtain npemormal imprint.-The preparation.-P~
C4ation•-A que.tion of evidence-Did ValU.ntine l(now~
" Doyle " •peai(....-Dther " voice• "-lmpre..ion on the •mol(ed
paper--" Doyle'• '' finger-print•.
Friday, February 20, 1931.
ON this evenin~ the first of the series intended specifically
for experimentmg in the endeavour to obtain supernormal
imprints was held.
The following were the sitters, whose position in the
circle from right to left was as follows : George Valian-
tine, Mrs. Sykes, Mr. Noel Jaquin, Mrs. Bradley, Mr.
Charles Sykes and H. Dennis Bradley. Between myself
and Valiantine stood the gramophone, to which I
attended throughout. It was placed on a small table.
All the sitters in the circle had sat at the sitting held
on April 23, 1925, when, upon smoked paper, an extra-
ordinary impression of a butterfly had been obtained.
The circle was a carefully chosen one, because each
of the sitters was experienced, and one could rely on
meticulous observation, and also on expert knowledge of
imprints.
We all dined together, and immediately prior to the
sitting, which began at 8.50 p.m., Mr. Jaquin carefully
smoked two sheets of blank foolscap paper. One of these
sheets was placed on top of a small, but heavy, old oak
coffin stool, and the other on the carpet beneath the
stool. The sheet on top of the stool was ylaced on a
blotting pad, measuring 14l inches by 9l tnches. The
coffin stool has four bars, 2 inches thtck, at the bottom
between each of the four legs, and standing 1l inches
from the floor. The four legs are 2! inches square in
thickness. The sheet of smoked paper on the floor was
placed underneath two of the legs of the stool.
In order to take every possible precaution I had
evolved a method of procedure which would definitely
prove that the sheets had no markings whatever upon
them before the sitting commenced, and would also
render impossible any attempted substitution.
310
A FINGER-PRINT EXPERIMENT 811
I re9uested every sitter in the room to sign his or her
name m pencil on the edges of each smoked :{laJ.>er, and
this method I adopted at all the subsequent s1ttmgs. I
also asked Mr. Jaquin-as a check-to take notes of all
that transpired.
The sitting was, of course, held in darkness, with the
exception of the distinct luminosity from the spots on
the diagonal wires on the celluloid trum,Pet.
After this, as is customary at all Vahantine sittings,
the medium repeated the Lord's Prater.
Shortly afterwards the voice of ' Dr. Barnett. " was
heard coming from the centre of the circle on the floor.
He gave us the usual greeting, and we then told him that
we desired, if ~ossible, to obtain supernormal imprints.
" Dr. Barnett ' replied : " We shall do our best."
" Dr. Barnett " only spoke a few short sentences, and
his " voice " and manner appeared to be a trifle brusque.
There was then quite a considerable pause, after which
in high shrill tones the " Bert Everett " voice suddenly
called out " Exquisite ! "
Shortly after this the luminous trumpet was lifted, and
a child-like and girlish " voice " addressed itself to me
in agitated and tremulous tones. She said: " Mr.
Bradley, it's Hilda." She then went on to say, " I am
so worried about my medium; I've just come over to tell
you-she is terribly ill." I asked what was the matter
with her, and she replied : '' Her body is in a terrible
condition."
I should mention here that " Hilda " is one of Mrs.
Barkell's " Guides." Mrs. Barkell, in addition to her
clairvoyant and clairaudient trance sittin~s, has, during
the last year or so, held sittings for the ' direct voice."
A month or two previouslr I had attended one of these
sittings at Mrs. Barkell s house, and, among other
"voices" which spoke, was "Hilda," with whom on
two or three occasions I held short conversations. It
is interesting to note that the manner of delivery,
accent, and intonation of the " Hilda " voice which
spoke to me on this evening was identical with that of
the " Hilda " voice which spoke to me at Mrs. Barkell's
house when Valiantine was not present. He was not at
that time in this country.
I then asked " Hilda " : " Is Mrs. Barkell in bed? "
And " Hilda " replied : " Yes." I told her I would
telephone in the morning and ask af~er her. . .
After the sitting was over, and JUSt before retumg
812 ••. AND AFTER
for the night, I telephoned through to :Mn. Barkell'a
house. 1'he telephone was ans·wered by Mr. Barkell. I
made the excuse of a very ordinary mquiry regarding
another matter in reference to Mrs. Barkell, and immedi-
ately he said : " I am sorry to say that my wife is very
ill indeed, and will not be able to leave her bed for six
weeks." He told me that she was sufiering from angina.
I asked when she had been taken ill, and was informed
that she had been suddenly attacked on the previouE
Wednesday night. It should be mentioned that none of
the &itters had any knowledge whatever that Mrs. Barkell
was ill. I asked Valiantine whether he had heard of
:Mrs. Barkell's illness before the sitting and he told me
that he had not. Now if it had been established that the
communications of "Hilda" regarding Mrs. Barkell's
serious illness were entirely outside the knowledge of
Valiantine, or any of the sitters, this would have proved
an extremely valuable point of evidence. It must be
recorded, however, that Valiantine knows Mr. and Mrs.
Barkell, and had, a few weeks prior to this sitting,
attended a seance at :Mrs. Barkell's house under her
" direct voice " mediumship.
Later on I took the precaution of telephoning to the
Barkells, and inquiring whether by any chance they
had telephoned or written to Valiantine, telling him of
the illneas, between the Wednesday night, February 18,
and Friday night, February 20. They assured me that
they had only met Valiantine on a few occasions, and
they were not on such intimate terms that they would
consider there was any necessity to do this. Further,
that as Mrs. Barkell was dangerously ill at this time,
it would be most unlikely for them even to think of
such a thing. Mrs. Barkell, however, at once volunteered
the statement that it had been arranged for a "voice "
sitting to be held at her house under her mediumship on
the Thursd&y, February 19, and that one of the sitters
who was to have been present that night was the private
secretary of Mr. X. During the afternoon this lady,
whom we will call Miss W, had telephoned through and
was informed that the sitting could not take place on
account of Mrs. Barkell's illness. Mrs. Barkell also told
me that either on the Thursday or on the Friday a letter
was written to Mr. X informing him of her illness.
Mrs. Barkell, realizing the importance of making
certain that the information given was not within the
knowledge of Valiantine, was most frank in helping me
- - _._....
A FINGER-PRINT EXPERIMENT 818
to discover any channel through which the information
might have been acquired.
Now, since Valiantine had been staying with Mr. X
for the entire month prior to his coming to Dorincourt,
and since he was in the habit of telephoning through to
Mr. X almost daily, I am of the opinion that it is
distinctly probable that Valiantine did know of Mrs.
Barkell's illness before this sitting took place on the
Friday evening, in which case this would rule out the
extreme value of the evidence. At the same time, one
must in fairness repeat that the "Hilda" voice was
the same characteristic " voice " which had manifested
at Mrs. Barkell's house under her own mediumship.
. . . . . . . .
So far during the sitting which I am recording, the
11
voices " and communications had been very short.
The impression given was that the time was being
devoted chiefly to the obtaining of the imprints.
After the voice of '' Honey '' had spoken there was a
considerable pause, during which gramophone records
were played, and the sitters talked among themselves.
Valiantine then said that he felt terribly hot, and that
the perspiration was rolling off him. He asked me to
feel his forehead, which I did. It was certainly soaked
in perspiration.
A little' later on the luminous trumpet was lifted and,
coming across to me, a " voice " speaking in a light and
somewhat husky whisper, said, "Bradley-Doyle ...
Arthur Doyle...." After the first sentence or two the
distinctness of the "voice" improved, and whilst I am
not prepared to say that I could recognize it as Doyle's
voice, it nevertheless bore a certain similarity. A short
conversation ensued, during which I addressed a few
ordinary and non-evidential sentences to this "voice,"
to which it replied. I asked, among other things,
whether he knew of the specific purpose for which we
were sitting, and he replied: " I know. I am trying to
give an imprint."
The lummous trumpet then went round the circle and
greeted my wife, then to Mr. Jaquin, greeting him.
One or two other "voices" spoke to Mr. and Mrs.
Sykes, and then a " voice," using the luminous trumpet,
addressed Valiantine. The trumpet was at right angles
to the medium, the bell-end being roughly about eighteen
inches from his face and directed towards him. A few
short sentences were spoken. The Doyle "voice " spoke
814 ... AND AFTER
to Valiantine, saying, " Good evening, Valiantine," to
which Valiantine replied immediately, "Good evening,
Sir Arthur." Observing acutely, the Doyle " voice"
appeared to me to speak from at least three feet away
from Valiantine's face and voice, and certainly came
from the mouthpiece-end of the luminous trumpet, which
was facing Valiantine. As if makin~ a special point of
the remark, and to emphasize the po1nt, after the short
conversation with Valiantine the Doyle " voice " stated:
" This is the first time I have spoken in this way."
These words, given in their exactness, are of considerable
importance, in view of what transpired later, and also
of what was later alleged to have occurred previously.
I then carried on the conversation:
H.D.B.: Doyle, you know the value of evidence; will
you try and give me, if possible, some evidence of your
identity which is unknown to any of the sitters in this
circle?
DoYLE " VorcE " : I would prefer to give this evidence
to my familv.
H.D.B.: Very well. I will invite them here so that
you may give the evidence to them.
DoYLE "VoiCE": Thank you, Bradley. I want to
speak to Jean and Dennis and Mary. I would like to
speak to Mary about the book shop.
H.D.B.: I will invite them to come here.
After this the trumpet fell to the ground. Another
record was played on the iramophone, after which one
word was heard from the ' Bert Everett " voice, high
up in the ceiling, calling: " Exquisite t "
A further record was played and then the luminous
trumpet was lifted again and, addressing me, said:
" Bradley ... Arthur Doyle ... I shall be able to
speak stronger later on." I continued with the
conversation :
H.D.B.: I think your " voice " is quite distinct. It
is guite easy to hear every word you say.
DoYLE " VoiCE " : I want to speak to Jean.
H.D.B.: I will bring her here next week.
Shortly after this the luminous trumpet was lifted and
a "voice," announcing itself as "his father," addressed
Mr. Sykes. This " voice " also ~reeted Mrs. Sykes, and
a short, non-evidential conversation was carried on.
After a further pause, using the luminous trumpet, a
distinctly feminine " voice " addressing Mr. Sykes
.. If " A H h " Th. '' . ''
announced 1tse as unt anna . 1s vmce
A FINGER-PRINT EXPERIMENT 815
also greeted Mrs. Sykes, and while talking to Mr. Sykes
volunteered the statement that it was " his mother."
There is a small r.oint of evidential interest which might
be noted. The ' voice " when first announcing itself
did ao as " Aunt Hannah." Mr. Sykes's mother, when
she was alive, was always known to the family as " Aunt
Hannah." During the time this " voice " was speaking
to Mr. Sykes, the deep " voice " of one of Valiantine's
" Guides," named " Black Foot," was heard speaking
from the floor, sayin~: " Sit up straight, then you'll
be able to hear better. '
After a pause, the luminous trumpet was lifted and a
" voice " announcing itself as ' George Gregory "
addressed Mr. J aquin. A very short conversation ensued,
during which " George Gregory " told Mr. J aquin that
he would endeavour to help in obtaining a supernormal
imprint.
It may here be mentioned that George Gregory was
an old school friend and brother-in-law of Mr. J aquin.
On the occasion of Mr. Noel Jaquin's very first experi-
ence of the " direct voice " at a seance held at Dorin-
court on September 30, 1925, at which were present, in
addition to Mr. J aquin, Mr. and Mrs. Caradoc Evans,
Mrs. Bradley, my son, Dennis Anthony, and myself, a
"voice" spoke to Mr. Jaquin, volunteering the name of
t: George Gregory." Mr. J~quin, in his report of this
sitting, which is published on page 40 of " The Wisdom
of the Gods," said that he was convinced that it was
the " voice " of his brother-in-law talking to him, that
no one present in the room knew he had a brother-in-
law of that name, and that no one could possibly have
imitated the personal traits of precision and general
sympathy. It must be emphasized that this sitting was
held under the mediumship of my wife and myself, and
that Valiantine was not present. It was in the following
year that Mr. Jaquin first met Valiantine.
In the intervals of the short conversations with the
various "voices," gramophone records were played, and
at the expiration of one of these the shrill " voice " of
" Bert Everett " was again heard to shout " Ex~uisite t "
After this, using the luminous trumpet, the 'voice "
of m:y father, Dan Bradley, spoke to me and to each of
the sitters in turn, including Valiantine. His "voice"
was characteristic and recognizable. He had known all
the sitters while he was alive, with the exception of Mr.
J aquin. My wife and I discussed matters relating to my
Exhibit No. I
.A photograph of the .molted pt~per aa found and fixed
after the eeance held at Dorincoarf on Frida,, FebruarJI
20, 1931. During thia eeance a " uoice " alleged tluJf
.Sir Arthur Conan Do11le wcu " lf'Jiing to get an imprint
through."
f/1
...:
I
II
,I
0
.I
z
!:::
co
.....
I
I
X
~
A FINGER-PRINT EXPERIMENT 817
son, Dennis Anthony, who, that day, had sailed for
Buenos Aires.
Then followed the " voice " of "Pat O'Brien," who
spoke to us in loud clear tones, and, when talking
to Mr. Sykes, referred to his father's pictures. (Mr.
Sykes's father was all!lo an artist.) When speaking to me
he said: "You know, Mr. Bradley, Doyle has been
trying to get his imprint through."
Shortly after this " Dr. Barnett " closed the sitting.
. . . . . . . .
When the lights were switched on it was found that
an impression had been made on each of the two sheets
of smoked paper. (Exhibits No. I, page 316, and No. 2,
page 318.) I was particular in requesting the sitters
not to touch these sheets until they had been fixed by Mr.
J aquin. When the fixing solution had dried, we all
examined them, but, beyond the fact that they appeared
to be skin im:P,rints, their exact nature could not be
ascertained until they had been subjected to analysis. I
handed both sheets to Mr. Jaquin, requesting him to take
them home with him that night and compare them with
the original imprint of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's hand,
which he had in hie possession.
Exhibit No. 2
A photograph of the unolced paper placed under-
neath the •tool at the .eance on Februarg 20, 1931.
The curiou• indentation mag have been cau.ed by uneoen
preuure.
CHAPTER IV
MORE IKPRESSIONS HADE
The •econd attempt--Mr. faqain'• opinion-More prectJution.-"l'he
tin of modelling WtJJr-Few " voice• "-St. john Adcoc~
" Doyle'• voice "-The charm on the Wtdch-chain-LGd11 Do11l•
-The •pode guinee~-Valiantine ltnew of it-More impre.,ion.
made on the •molted paper.
Satur®g, February 21, 1921.
AT about 9 a.m. on the morning of February 21, Mr.
J aquin telephoned me. He told me that he had studied
the imprints, and, so far as he could see, they
corresponded with Doyle's.
Before I met Valiantine at breakfast, my wife had told
him of Mr. J aquin's messas-e. I noticed that when 1
discussea the matter with hun he did not appear to be
particularly elated or impressed.
At 8.45 that evening a second sitting for imprints was
held. The circle was the same as on the previous
evening, and the sitters were placed in exactly the same
position as before, the two signed sheets of smoked paper
being plac'ed on top ol and underneath the stool. In
addition, on this occasion, Mr. Sykes brought with him
a small tin box filled with modelling wax, which was
placed on the top of the stool, next to the sheet of smoked
paper.
During the sitting the " Guide voices,., only spoke a
very few short sentences. The " Dr. Barnett " voice
gave the usual greeting, and, in answer to questions
regarding the imprints, said that a lot of force had been
used on the previous night, but that they would do their
best.
At one p,eriod the " Bert Everett " voice interjected
the word ' Exquisite ! " but said little else.
"Pat O'Brien" spoke longer than any of the other
" Guides." In answer to a question as to whether they
were succeeding in gettin~ further imprints through, he
·replied that Doyle was try1n~ to do so.
The " Pat O'Brien voice ' spoke to each of the sitters,
the " voice '' coming through from various parts of the
circle, moving rapidly across from one sitter to the other
319
820 ... AND AFTER
when addressing them. It was for this reason that I
asked the question as to how far he was materialized when
he was speaking, and he replied that he was "about
three-quarters materialized.''
The luminous trumpet was then lifted, and a very faint
" voice " addressed me. At first I could only: catch
u John." The " voice " then said " Adcock," and after-
wards" St. John Adcock," gradually becoming stronger,
and we carried on a short conversation. He then
remarked: "Give my regards to Mrs. Dawson Scott and
Hermon Ould.'' These two names were volunteered, and
it is only logical to record this incident as evidential.
We discussed in a few short sentences our meetings ou
the P.E.N. Committee. St. John Adcock, who died a
year or so back, was a fine writer and essayist; he was
editor of The Book'T114n. I did not know him very
intimately, but met him several times during the last
few years, chiefly at the Committee Meetings of the
P.E.N.-the International Association of Writers. The
English Committee consists of twelve-six men and six
women, under the Presidency of John Galsworthy, and
in the short conversation I had with St. John Adcock
regarding these meetings his answers were intelligent
and unhesitating. A writer well known in England is not
necessarily known in America, and it is very improbable
that Valiantine had ever heard of him or of his death;
he certainly knew nothing whatever of the Committee
Meetings of the English P .E.N. Although the St. John
Adcock " voice " was somewhat faint, it could be
distinctly heard by all the sitters, and the volume of
sound was about the same as that of the various "voices"
unknown to us which had spoken at various sittings under
my own and my wife's mediumship, when Valiantine
was not present.
When the St. John Adcock " voice " had finished
speaking, a gramophone record was played, and then the
luminous trumpet was lifted again and, addressing itself
to me, a " voice" said: "Bradley, Arthur Doyle." The
" voice " was slightly huskier than it had been on the
preceding night. I addressed a few ordinary natural
remarks to " Doyle," and the luminous trumpet was
then taken round the circle, and other sitters were greeted.
Mr. Jaquin asked: "Sir Arthur, would you try and give
an imprint of your index finger instead of a thumb P"
" Doyle " replied : " I will try and do so."
I then continued the conversation.
MORE IMPRESSIONS MADE 821
H.D.B.: You know this subject so well, Doyle, that
you realize how imfortant it would be if you could give
me some evidentia information on P.oints unknown to
any of the sitters in this circle. :Will you try and do
soP
DoYLE " VoicE " : Telephone Jean (his wife) to-
morrow, and ask her about the charm on my watch chain.
Initials-Malcolm.
The luminous trumpet was then dropped and I
remarked to the sitters: "What does he mean by
' Initials-Malcolm ' P Malcolm is not an initial.''
A little later the luminous trumpet was again lifted,
and the " Doyle voice " addressed me saying : " Bradley,
Jean will know the initials."
After a short interval the trumpet was lifted yet asain,
and a childish feminine " voice " spoke. Recogmzing
certain characteristic tones as those which had manifested
on other occasions during the Valiantine sittings, I
asked: " Is that Honey P" The Honey "voice "
replied: "Yes, it's Honey. I have been over to see
Mrs. Barkell." I asked: " Can you tell me how Mrs.
Barkell is now P " And the " voice " replied : " Just
the same; she is very ill.'' Then the '' voice ''
volunteered the statement: " I have put my hand on
the paper." This was an interesting .Point, as later we
should have the opportunity of seemg what sort of
impression had been made.
A·little later there came the '' voice '' of the '' Guide,''
" Black Foot." He spoke a sentence or two, and then,
using the 1uminous trumpet, a " voice " purporting to
be Mrs. Sykes's father, made a few remarks to her and to
Mr. Sykes.
After a pause the shrill " voice " of " Bert Everett "
called out the one word " Exquisite I " and then, after
a further long pause, the " voice " of " Dr. Barnett "
said we should close the sitting.
. . . . . . . .
The sitting lasted for about an hour and a half. The
various " Guides," with the exception of " Pat
O'Brien," spoke only for a few seconds at a time.
The "St. John Adcock voice," although faint, was
impressive. If the names volunteered tn connection
with himself were outside the knowledge of Valiantine,
the communications made were evidential. Regarding
the message given by the " Doyle voice" I telephoned
to Crowborough on the following morning, and gave Lady
L
822 ... AND AFTER
Doyle the message exactly as spoken. '' Telephone Jean
to-morrow. Ask her about the charm on my watch
chain. Initials-Malcolm." I also told her that I had
raised the question of the " initials" which I could not
understand, and that the " Doyle voice , had said to
me: "Jean will know the initials."
Lady Doyle told me over the 'phone that Sir Arthur
always wore on his watch chain a spade guinea, which
he had received when, as a young man, he commenced
practice as a doctor. This spade guinea he had given
to his brother Malcolm, who died many years ago. Alter
the death of his brother the spade guinea came back into
Sir Arthur's possession, and from then onwards he always
continued to wear it.
Re~arding the word " initials," Lady Doyle said that
she did not know whether there were any initials on it,
but that later she would find the spade guinea and let
me know.
A week or so later Lady Doyle wrote to me, and among
other thin~s said : " I looked at the coin, but there is no
initial on It; I am wondering whether he could possibly
have meant a little locket which he wore on his chain,
and which had initials on the back."
When Lady Doyle mentioned a "spade guinea " to
me I had the impression in my mind that I myself had
known of it in connection with some correspondence
between myself and Doyle a few years back, in regard
to Mrs. Baylis (the alleged " voice " medium, with whom
I had what I considered to be a fraudulent sitting, which
was reported in the Press). I took the trouble to search
my Press cuttings book, but found I had made no
reference to the spade guinea in my articles. The point,
of course, was that if Valiantine had no knowledge what-
ever of this spade guinea the words spoken by the " Doyle
voice " would have evidential value. Strangely enough,
however, a few weeks afterwards when my secretary was
searching through my files for some correspondence which
had taken place between the Rev. Herbert Thurston and
myself, and which was placed under the Index section
T-U-V-Z, a letter fell out from one of the folders, which
by some peculiar chance proved to be a copy of a letter
written to Valiantine by me on December 2, 1927, in
which I told him that I had had a sitting with Mrs.
Baylis, whom I regarded as fraudulent, and that Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle had written to me with reference to
two sittings which he had held with this medium, quoting
MORE IMPRESSIONS MADE 828
certain incidents. In my letter to Valiantine I had
written : " Such trifling things as touching a ring and
a spade guinea hanging on a watch chain appeared to
impress Doyle that she was genuine."
It will therefore be seen that Valiantine knew of this
spade guinea on Doyle's watch chain, which might
certainly be referred to as a "charm." No reference,
however, was made by me in my letter to " initials,"
nor to the name Malcolm.
Obviously, however, the gist of the message given by
the " Doyle voice " was not outside the knowledge of
the medium, and is therefore liable to be discounted.
. . . . . . .
Switching on the lights, we discovered that certain
impressions had been made upon the smoked paper on
the top of the stool (Exhibit No. 3, p. 324) and also on
the smoked paper which had been placed on the carpet
underneath the stool. On this there were only some
meaningless scrolls. (Exhibit No. 4, p. 326.)
Mr. Jaquin fixed these two sheets, and took both home
with him that night for examination.
No discernible impressions were discovered on the
modelling wax.
Exhibit No. 3
A photograph of the •molted pt~per aa /oand 11/ter
the .eance on Saturday, February 21, 1931. Thi. aheet
waa placed on the top of the .tool, and again it wa.
alleged that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wcz• trying to get
an imprint through. The peculiar outline on the right
waa alleged to be the apirit hand of " Honey.''
CHAPTER V
AN INTERLUDE
ValU.ntine unwell-A fluent lifting-Communication oat1ide the ~(now­
ledge o/ the medium or the •itter..-The " Dewar ooice .. re/er~
to hi• index finaer--Three " ooice• .. heard apeal(ing together and
ooerlapping.
Sandal/. February 22, 1931.
WHEN I met Valiantine at breakfast he told me that
before he had retired to bed on the previous evening,
although he had no cold, he had started to cough
violent1y, and had then brought up a small quantity of
blood. He seemed genuinely worried about his condi-
tion. I asked him how he had slept and how he felt that
morning, and he replied that he had slept soundly, and
that he felt perfectly well.
As we had held sittings on the three previous even-
ing-s, it had not been our intention to hold a seance on
th1s Sunday evening. Valiantine, however, said that he
would like to hold a short sitting with Mrs. Bradley and
myself, in order that he might ask Dr. Barnett the
cause of the hmmorrhage.
He seemed perfectly fit all day, but two or three times
he referred to the bringing up of blood, and seemed to
be not only puzzled over the matter, but a trifle alarmed.
I treated the matter quite casually, as I did not think it
advisable to increase his apparent anxiety. I was not
particularly desirous of holding a sitting on this evening.
In view of the very busy week I had in front of me, and
the late hours of the preceding week, I wanted to get to
bed early. After dinner, however, at about 9 o'clock,
Valiantine again referred to the blood, and we agreed
to hold a very short sitting of only a few minutes, in
order tliat he might ask the opinion of "Dr. Barnett."
Valiantine, my wife and I went to my study at about
9 o'clock. The luminous trumpet was placed in the
centre of the room. The gramophone was not used.
Within a few seconds of switching off the light the
first " voice "-that of " Bert Everett "-was heard,
and although we had agreed that we should only sit for
a few minutes, from then onwards, for one hour and
325
Exhibit No. 4
A photograph of the amolc:ed paper placed under-
neath the atool on Saturday, February 21, 1931.
I
j
•
AN INTERLUDE 827
twenty-five minutes, fourteen different "voices " mani-
fested, practically without cessation. There was never
a pause between one "voice" and the other or more
than thirty seconds, and the sitting constituted what
I consider-after the experiences of many hundreds of
sittings, during an intensive study of many years-one
of the most fluent and remarkable " voice" seances I
have ever known.
The first greeting was from " Bert Everett," talking
easily and quickly, and then "Dr. Barnett" came
through. When his "voice" spoke to us we imagined
that a short conversation would ensue during which
Valiantine might ask his questions as to his health, and
that then the sitting would close. The questions were
asked, but the sitting continued for long afterwards.
Among other things, " Dr. Barnett " said that, with
regard to the imprints which they were trying to get
through, the modelling wax prepared by Mr. Sykes
should be made a little softer.
" Dr. Barnett " spoke with each of us. The conversa-
tion with Valiantine was rapid and natural, the questions
and answers overlapping. When Valiantine was address-
ing the " voice " he spoke in distinctly respectful and
somewhat subservient tones, such as: "Doctor, can you
tell me why so and so and so and so--" and the over-
lapping "voice" or " Dr. Barnett" replied to him.
The overlapping of these two voices was noticeable and
dramatic. The only analogy I can give to describe the
effect is that attained in certain productions or the
Theatre Guild of New York, when the producer has, by
careful rehearsing, trained the actors to talk through
each other's voices; that is, to be explicit, to rehearse
them in such a way in quickness of dialogue that the
last three 1.oord1 of a sentence spoken by one character
are anticipatingly replied to by the first three words of
the sentence delivered by the second character; therefore
at least three words of· the two voices overlap and are
delivered simultaneously.
" Dr. Barnett " had a long conversation with Valian-
tine. Valiantine was obviously nervous about the blood
he had brought up after the sitting on the previous
evening, and asked " Dr. Barnett " the cause. " Dr.
Barnett " told him that there was no need to worry, as
in the efforts for materialization they were compelled to
use not only liis ectoplasmic forces, but also hts blood.
" Dr. Barnett" explained that a certain amount of
828 ... AND AFTER
Valiantine's blood had been taken from him during the
endeavour to materialize for the imprints, but that,
before the seance ended, it had been returned to his body.
After using these forces the blood had not jroperly
assimilated before Valiantine had retired to be , which
was the reason for the sudden attack of coughing and
the bleeding. He assured Valiantine that he could
relieve his mind of anxiety; that the process was quite
a harmless one, and that he would sufter no ill effects.
Valiantine then asked "Dr. Barnett" why it was that
on the two previous evenings he had sweated profusely,
and the " doctor " replied that in using his mediumistic
forces in the endeavour to obtain skin imprints it was
necessary for them to use his sweat glands. The con-
versation which ensued between Valiantine and " Dr.
Barnett " on this night was quite voluble, natural,
intelligent, and logical. On one side Valiantine was,
apparently quite genuinely, seeking information, and,
on the other side, "Dr. Barnett " was overlapping the
questions and impartin~ information.
When this conversation had finished we expected the
sitting to close, but one after the other, without pause,
twelve further " voices '' manifested.
There were five members of my own family, talking
easily and fluently; two entities outside my family, and
five more of Valiantine's "Guides."
Of the " Guide voices," " Pat O'Brien " spoke with
us volubly in his usual manner; " Black Foot," in
his deep tones from the centre of the circle, spoke
with us on two or three occasions; "Kokum,'' in his
powerful "voice," spoke independently from a region
somewhere near the ceiling; "Cristo d'Angelo" spoke
to us in Italian, and then, upon request, sang in that
language in vibrant tones, the sound of his " voice "
coming from hi~h up in the room, some twelve feet away
from where Vahantine was sitting. The unusual Chinese
" voice " of another Guide--" Chang Wei "-spoke a
few words to us in pidgin-English, and then sang a
quaint song in his own language.
Of the personal " voices," I noted it as peculiar that
" Warren Clarke," using the luminous trumpet, came
through, but spoke only a very few words. He just
greeted Mrs. Bradley and myself, and instead of carrying
on a long conversation as he has done on so many
occasions, made a few polite and somewhat reserved
remarks, and then disappeared. It is necessary here to
AN INTERLUDE
note that thil wcu the lalt time '' Warren Cla,.ke '' 1poke
at the Valiantine 1itting1. He never appeared again
during the subsequent week, and it may also be noted
that not once did he attempt to slleak on the occasions
before this when we were holding sittings for the express
purpose of obtaining the imprints.
Later, usinJ the luminous trumpet, my nephew,
Georgie (my 1nster Annie's son, who died at the age of
seventeen), spoke to me and to Mrs. Bradley.
Then followed the '' voice '' of '' Uncle Michael '' (an
old uncle of mine), speaking in characteristic Insh
accents. He was followed by the '' voice '' of my sister
Gertrude, who spoke with us for some time, referring to
her husband and various family matters, volunteering
names quite freely and easily.
Afterwards, my father-Dan Bradley-spoke with
each of us for some time, on several occasions talking to
Valiantine. We asked him whether he had seen my son,
Dennis Anthony, who was at that time on his way to
Buenos Aires. He replied that he had seen him on the
boat, and we then asked, "Can you tell us how he is?"
At once the reply came, " He is quite all ri~ht now, but
he was sick yesterday " (Saturday). This might be
regarded as an evidential point, of a fact volunteered
which was outside the knowledge of the medium or of
any of the sitters present. It was a week or so after-
wards before we received a letter from my son, posted at
Lisbon, in which he said t.hat he was perfectly fit and
enjoying himself, but that on the Saturday (February 21)
he had been sick all day and had spent most of it in his
cabin.
Then there followed a " voice " announcing itself as
" Marshall Hall." This " voice " was fairly strong and
characteristic, and bore distinct similarities to Ma.
rshall
Hall's method of delivery. I asked him whether he had
been present at the sitting which I attended with Mrs.
Garrett--the clairvoyant medium-and he replied that
he had, and had endeavoured to communicate with me,
but that he had found the method very difficult. (This
refers to Chapter IV, Book I.) I discussed certain
incidents of the Rouse murder case with him, and his
answers were exceptionally clear and concise on certain
legal points.
Just towards the end of the sitting, after two or three
attempts had been made to lift the luminous trumpet,
as though considerable difficulty was being experienced
L•
880 ... AND AFTER
in doing so, it was raised an inch or two i'rom the floor,
and a whispering, husky "voice" announced itself as
" Dewar." Eventually we succeeded in carrying on a
short conversation, but the " voice " could only speak
in faint whispers, and the tone conveyed none of the
peculiar characteristics of Dewar's voice which I knew so
well. During the short conversation nothing of evidential
value was given. It consisted of references to Dewar'e
horses, and to public speeches on occasions when we had
both been speaking to~ether. He said he found it very
difficult to speak in th1s way. At the end he volunteered
a statement of which very careful note must be taken.
He told me that he had tried to get his indu finger on
the waz. It should be noted that on the previous evening
we had failed to discover any discernible impressions on
the modelling wax.
Shortly after this " Dr. Barnett " closed the sitting.
With one exception-the " Lord Dewar voice," which
was weak and indistinct-the fluency of the " voices,"
which spoke practically without a pause for ninety
minutes, was phenomenal. At one time three " voices"
were heard speaking together, one across the other, two
from high up in the room, and one from the centre of
the floor : ' • Kokum," " Bert Everett " and " Black
Foot '' -all overlapping, "Kokum " shouting his
remarks in a tremendous tone, and the shrill "voice "
of " Bert Everett" making jocular remarks regarding
the other two.
It is unquestionable that on this evening much
genuine phenomena took place.
CHAPTER VI
PRECAUTIONS AND .A SllliLAlUTY
The third attempt for imprint.,_" Lord DeWGra •• curioaa ooice-Two
cliatind impruaion.-The auggeation that impre..iona be toJten of
Valiantine•• and the aitter.. big foe.-Precoution.-The Valiantine
impreNion compared with the " apirit •• impreaaion.-A atriJting
aimilarit11-Valiantine agitotecl.
Moncla11. FebrullrJI 23. 1931.
ON this evening the third sitting for imprints took place,
the sitters and conditions being exactly the same as on
the previous Saturday.
One sheet of smoked paper was placed on a blotting-
pad on top of the stool and one sheet was placed under-
neath the stool. A tin of modelling wax, which on this
occasion Mr. Sykes had made softer, was placed by the
side of the top sheet.
During the sitting, which lasted about an hour and a
quarter, the " voice " manifestations were very few.
Only three of the " Guide voices " s~oke. " Bert
Everett " at one period called out "Exquisite." Early
in the sitting " Dr. Barnett " answered a few questions
which were put to him regarding the imprints, and said
that he would try to get further imprints through.
Towards the end of the sitting a weak and muftled
"voice" speaking from the trumpet-which was only
moved slightly from the ground-announced itself as
" Dewar," but the " voice " sounded in no way like
that of the late Lord Dewar. In fact, in giving the
name, it was wrongly pronounced as " Do-er," and not
"Dew-er." This, to my mind, was a very peculiar
point, and may indicate impersonation. This " voice "
only spoke a sentence or two, and in answer to a question
said, " I have tried to give an imprint."
After this, " Pat O'Brien," using the luminous
trumpet, talked to several of the sitters for a short time,
and this- was the only " voice " which spoke more than
two or three sentences.
The luminous trumpet was lifted, and a husky
" voice " announced " Consrrave." I asked for further
331
Exhibit No. S
A photogrtlph o/ the tmo~ed paper cu found on tlae
top of the .tool 11/ter tlae Htlnce on MoncLzJI, FebruarJI
23, 1931. Thi• top .heet contain. two clear impreuion..
It wcu alleged thtJt the late Lord Dewar htJd tried to
gioe tln imprint.
r_ .
. &
' ---
0
z
PRECAUTIONS 888
particulars, but no reply was made, and the trumpet was
dropp.ed.
Shortly after this " Dr. B-rnett " closed the sitting.
. . . . . . . .
When the lights were turned on it was found that two
distinct impressions had been made-one on the sheet on
top of the stool (Exhibit No.5, p. 332) and another on the
sheet underneath the stool (Exhibit No. 6, p. 334). A
very good impression had also been made on the modelling
wax (Exhibit No. 7, P· 342).
Mr. J aquin immediately fixed the smoked sheets.
When Valiantine and the other sitters had left the
seance room, Mr. Jaquin and I had a talk to~ether, and
we arranged that he skould take the impressions of the
big toes of Valiantine and of all those present in the
circle.
He therefore at once/repared fresh sheets of smoked
paper. We then joine the others and I told them it
was absolutely necessary that every possible precaution
should be taken, and that I would like them to agree
to have their toe prints taken. When I made the
suggestion, althou~h I avoided looking straight towards
Valiantine's direction, I could notice that, in his manner,
he did not seem at all disturbed.
When the impressions had been taken I asked each of
those present to place his or her signature on the smoked
paper underneath the toe prints.
The four men returned to the seance room, and Mr.
J aquin first took an impression of his own toes-right and
left. Valiantine then took oft his shoes and socks quite
quickly, and, taking a sheet of the smoked paper, was
about to take the impression himself, when Mr. Jaquin
intercepted him. Mr. Jaquin took hold of Valiantine's
right and left toes, and took the impression of them in
the manner he desired. These impressions were taken on
the same sheet of smoked paper that Mr. Jaquin had
used himself. I then at once asked Valiantine to sign
his name underneath his impressions. The smoked paper
was immediately fixed. (Exhibit No. 8, p. 336.)
In turn the toe impreBSions of the other sitters, Mr.
Charles Sykes and myself, were taken, and then those of
Mrs. Sykes and Mrs. Bradley.
After these impressions had been completed and the
paper fixed, we compared Valiantine's toe prints with
the alleged spirit imprints which had been obtained
during the evening. Mr. Jaquin at once observed the
Exhibit No. 6
.A photorraph of the aheet found underneath the atool
on Februa'll 23, 1931, when it waa alleged that Lord
Dewar had tried to give an imprint. It will be eeen
by the di.tinct light patch that the emo~ed paper had
been moved during the elance.
•
A SIMILARITY 885
similaritr. I had that day purchased two ~owerful
magnifJin~ glasses for the purpose of examination, and
on comparison I also observed the similarity.
After the taking of the toe prints Valiantine and the
other sitters had returned to the drawing-room. I
rejoined them and asked Valiantine, quite genially, to
come and glance at the imprints. He then joined Mr.
J aquin and myself in the seance room. Mr. J aquin
handed him the two smoked sheets, the one containing
the impression obtained during the seance, and the other
the impression of Valiantine's left toe. Mr. Jaquin, in
a casual manner, remarked, "Have a look at this,
George-they look rather similar to your left toe."
It must be understood that both Mr. Jaquin and
myself, throughout the whole of this incident, were
purposely very easy and friendly in our manner towards
Valiantine. When Mr. J aquin handed the two sheets to
Valiantine for comparison, I watched Valiantine closely.
As he took the sheets his hands trembled slightly. This
was the first sign of agitation he displayed. He had
hardly glanced at the imprints for more than two seconds,
when he said : " I can't see any similarity. They are
not at all the same."
We did not wish, at this period, to disturb Valiantine ·
any further, so we laughingly endeavoured to calm him
by telling him how curious similarities such as these do
sometimes occur with skin imprints.
Mr. Jaquin took away with him that night the seance
imprints and also the toe imprints, and I asked him to
have photographs taken of these as soon as possible the
next day.
When my guests had left that evening I had a minute
or two's conversation with Valiantine, in which I
purposely refrained from making any further allusion to
the imprints. I chatted to him for a while on other
subjects, and took particular care to be as easy as possible
in my manner.
Exhibit No. 8
One of the •heel• upon which the normal toe
impreuion. of the •ilter• were taJcen a/fer the •eance on
Monday, February 23, 1931. Thi• contain• the toe
impre..ion. of George Valiantine in duplic:Gte--right and
left. The impre..ion• at the top of the paper are tho.e
of Mr. Noel /aquin'• toe•.
---
00
0
z
CHAPTER VII
THE NERVOUSNESS OP VALIANTINE
Enlargement• made of the prlnt.--An embarrauing aituation-Y tdian·
tine'• depreNion-A mixed 8ittin8'-Yaliantine'a •• Gaida '' are
lrilent-Dr. Viuian'• fir•t experience with Yaliantine--A poNible
point of euidence--A " uoice •• alternate• in conueraafion with
Dr. Viuian and the DacheN of Hamilton.
Taeadt.y, Febraa'l/ 24. 1931.
ON this morning, at breakfast, Valiantine appeared very
worried and depressed. I took pains to be cheerful with
him, as I did not wish him to think that I regarded the
discovery of the previous evening as a serious matter.
I also Impressed upon Mrs. Bradley the necessity of
adopting a similar manner.
I left Dorincourt for London immediately after break-
fast, and saw Mr. Jaquin at my office. He brought with
him all the impressions that we had obtained at the
previous sittings, and also the toe imprints, which again
were very carefully compared. I then asked Mr. J aquin
to have an enlargement made of the alleged Dewar
prints, which had been obtained on the previous evening,
February 23 (Exhibit No. 9, p. 338. This should be
compared with Exhibit No. 10, p. 338, which is an
enlargement of Valiantine's left big toe). I also required
enlargements of the alleged thumb imprints of Doyle,
which had been obtained at the first sitting held on
February 20 (Exhibit No. 11, p. 340), and the curious
impression obtained on the second sheet of smoked paper
at the same sitting (Exhibit No. 12, p. 344). I also told
Mr. Jaquin that I should need an enlargement of the
alleged supernormal imprint obtained at the sitting held
on Saturday, February 21. (Exhibit No. 13, f· 346.)
Later I obtained from Mr. Sykes the tin o modelling
wax which he had taken home with him, and I also
had an enlargement taken of this. (Exhibit No. 7, p. 342).
It had been previously arranged that a series of at
least six sittings should be held for imprints, and as
all arrangements had to be made well ahead, these dates
had been fixed for Friday, Saturday and Monday,
337
Exhibit Nos. 9 and 10
The two top photograph• are the enlargement. of the
alleged Dewar printa obtained at the aanee held a1
Dorincourt on February 23, 1931.
The lower photograph ia an enlargement of the left
big toe o/ the medium, George Valiantine, and WGI
tal{en by Mr. /aquin immediately a/fer the aeance. All
o/ theae digital impreuiona are the aame. Theae are
actual enlargement• of the original• and haiJe not been
photographicallJI reiJeraed, there/ore the ridge• appear
white and the /urrowa blade. The linea mc:rr~ed poin1
to aimilarit11 in the apex and ridge• 1urroundin1 it.
No. 9· No. g.
Alleged "Lord D ewar imprint." Alleged " Lord D ewar imprint."
A-Apex. B--Base furrow. F-Fork in furrow.
No. ro.
Print of George Valiantine·s left big toe.
ExHIBITs Nos. 9 ANn 10 .
[to f ace page 338.
NERVOUSNESS OF VALIANTINE 889
February 20, 21 and 23, and Friday, Saturday and
Monday, February 27, 28 and March 2. The middle
days of the week I had arranged for other sitters.
'fherefore, the next evening arranged for an imprint
sitting was Friday, Februa~ 27.
I told Mr. Jaquin of Vahantine's depressed condition
at breakfast, and that I thought it necessary for us to
do our utmost to restore his confidence, as 1t would be
very valuable if we could succeed in obtaining further,
and perhaps even more complete evidence of fraud.
We discussed the question of Valiantine having been
told by Mr. Jaquin that the Friday imprint was similar
to the actual and genuine Doyle thumb, and the fact
that he had also been told of the similarity of his toe
to the alleged Dewar imprint. It was obvious to me
that Valiantine would most certainly be cogitating on
these two incidents.
Here is a point of psychological interest, which I
interpolate. Although when the similarity of his toe
impnnt to that of the alleged Dewar print was pointed
out to Valiantine he did not then, or during the remaining
six days he stayed with me at Dorincourt, once advance
the very obvious argument: " What about the Doyle
imprint-Jaquin said it was similar to Doyle's P"
I told Mr. J aquin that though I did not think it
would be an easy matter, I thought that between the
Tuesday and the following Friday I should be able to
restore Valiantine's confidence, and that during the
interval we should make every preparation to obtain
further direct and irrefutable proofs, leaving him no
loophole whatever should he again attempt any
deliberate fraudulent action.
. . . . . . . .
It had been previously arranged that on this day we
were to lunch at the house of a well-known West End
clergyman. Valiantine, accompanied by my wife, called
for me just before 1 o'clock. In his manner he was still
obviously depressed. Although I was light and jocular
with him it had very little effect. He appeared to be
preoccupied.
There were only five of us present at the luncheon,
and although I enjoyed the society of my host-a
charming and clever man-the conversation, which was
chiefly on the philosophical side of psychics, was not, in
the circumstances, a particularly easy one for me to
manipulate.
Exhibit No. II
The le/f hand photograph i• an enlargement of the
impreasion of the alleged Doyle imprint. The right ;.
an enlargement of the normal impreNion of the right
big toe of George Valiantine.
--
L
NERVOUSNESS OF VALIANTINE 841
Valiantine, throughout the luncheon and afterwards,
was quiet and reserved, and palpably awkward and stilted
in his answers when psychic matters were being
discussed.
As I had other appointments durin~ the afternoon my
wife and Valiantine returned to Dor1ncourt, and I did
not see him again until I returned for dinner.
My position on this evening was a peculiarly difficult
one. A week or so before, I had invited the Duchess of
Hamilton, Dr. Margaret Vivian, Mr. David Gow (late
editor of Light) and Miss Delius, whom the Duchess
of Hamilton brought with her, to dine with me and hold
a sitting afterwards.
As my investigations of the suspected frauds were
not completed, it was naturally impossible for me to
give my guests any indication of what had transpired.
In view of the nervous condition of Valiantine there
was the distinct probability that the sitting would prove
a fiasco, and I should not have been surprised had the
results turned out a complete blank.
On arriving at Dorincourt I did not see Valiantine,
but went straight to my room to change.
When I entered the drawing-room, Dr. Vivian, Mr.
Gow and Valiantine were seated next to each other.
Strangely enough, Dr. Vivian, who is an intelligent
psychical researcher, was discussing with Mr. Gow and
Valiantine a case of mediumistic fraud. The coincidence
appealed to my ironic sense. The talk on the subject
continueCl for a short time, and although Valiantine
did not join in, except with slight interjections here and
there, I noticed that, now and again, the muscles of
llis hands twitched nervously, and as soon as I could I
directed the conversation into other channels.
During the long series of experiments conducted in
previous years, and recorded in my books, I have made
a point on the majority of occasions of not introducing
the various sitters to the medium or letting him know
who was likely to be present. He would therefore not
only be ignorant of their names, but he would only see
their faces for the first time as they entered the seance
room, immediately before the lights were switched off.
I have always been particular on this point, because by
this method the value of anv evidential communications
which may be volunteered ·
is obviously enhanced.
This occasion, however, was a dinner party, and
Valiantine kn~w th~ names of the guests who were
842 ... AND AFTER
expected. Dr. Vivian had only once met him before,
and none of the other guests had ever experienced a
sitting with him.
Anticipating the difficulties of his position, I had,
earlier in the day, discussed the situation with Mrs.
Bradley. Since we had on so many occasions in the past
obtained "voice " phenomena while Valiantine was not
present, there was, of course, the possibility that certain
personal '' voices '' might be able to manifest from this
combination of mediumship, as apart from Valiantine.
The sitting took place after di:Q.ner at about 9 o'clock.
The sitters were: The Duchess of Hamilton, Mias
Delius, Dr. Margaret Vivian, Mr. David Gow, Mrs.
Bradley, myself and Valiantine.
After two records had been played on the gramofhone,
" Bert Everett's voice " was heard to say: ' Good
evening, Souls."
Following a pause, the luminous trumpet was lifted,
and, addressing me, a " voice " announced " Hender-
son" and then-" Admiral Henderson." I had met
Admiral Henderson on a few occasions when he was alive,
and he had sat with me once at a seance at Dorincourt,
and also on another occasion, at a "voice " seance held
at Mr. Lionel Corbett's house in Hampshire, under the
mediumship of Evan Powell. A little time before he
died we had a slight disagreement over the Baylis case.
The "voice" discussed this disagreement with me quite
intellig-ently.
A little later on the luminous trumpet was lifted, and
a very muffled and indistinct whispering " voice ''
endeavoured to address Dr. Vivian. It was impossible,
however, to catch what the "voice" said. After two
or three attempts, during- which the trumpet was dropped.
the " voice '' succeeded in giving the name u Claude,"
and then a few short sentences were exchan~ed between
Dr. Vivian and the " voice." Dr. Vivian told us after-
wards that at a sitting, unknown to anyone present in
the room, she had arranged that this particular name
" Claude" should be given through if possible at a
Valiantine sitting. ~
There was a further pause, then the luminous trumpet
was lifted and a " voice " addressed itself to the Duchess
of Hamilton, saying it was "her mother." . After speak-
ing a few words the trumpet went stra1~ht over to
Dr. Vivian and greeted her. The "voice" then carried
o». a. sheri po»versation with the Duchess, and also with
EXH I B IT Xo. 7·
An enlarged photograph of the impres. ion obtained on the mod elling wax.
placed in the circle, on Monday, F ebruary 23rd , 1931, by l\Ir. Charles Sykes.
[to face page 342.
NERVOUSNESS OF VALIANTINE 848
Dr. Vivian. The conversation alternated between the two
sitters.
There is a point here which might be considered
evidential.
Dr. Vivian had not, I believe, before this evening,
met the Duchess of Hamilton, but she knew her mother
very well indeed. The "voice " talked with Dr. Vivian
familiarly, and answered the various questions which she
put with intelligence.
Another pause, and then, using the trumpet, a
" voice " addressed itself to Miss Delius, speaking a few
words and sayin~ something about " Snoozey." Later
another " voice ' spoke to Miss Delius, announcing
itself as '' her father,'' and made references to her work.
More gramophone records were played, and then,
using the luminous trumpet, the " voice " of my £ather
-D~n Bradley-spoke a few hurried words to Mrs.
Bradley and to me, and then added: " Herbert, it is
very difficult to-night." The words spoken were delivered
in the unmistakable accent of my father.
There was a further lengthy pause, and then a
"voice," announcing itself as ' Russell Wallace,"
addressed itself to me and also to Mr. Gow. A short
conversation ensued, in regard to books and works, but
the talk was impersonal and non-evidential.
After this, while a ~ramophone record was being
played, and just before It ended, a " voice," speaking
independently, made some unintelligible sounds, but none
of the sitters could catch the two or three words which
were spoken. Two more records were plaled, and then,
as we had been sitting for one and a hal hours, I told
the sitters that it was quite probable that the words were
instructions to close the sitting.
. . . . . .
We adjourned to the drawing-room, where I immedi-
ately completed my notes.
Although my guests appeared to be impressed br. the
phenomena, I told them that I considered the sitting
comparatively negative, to which Mr. Gow replied:
"That is only because you are so accustomed to
exceptional results.''
It was a very peculiar evening. I had anticipated
that possibly we should obtain nothing at all. Yet there
were eight personal " voices " which attempted to
manifest. They were weak and there was no continued
fluency. Only a few points might be regarded as of an
844 •.. AND AFTER
evidential nature, yet during the conversations the
various " voices , spoke directlr and .intelligently.
It u ngniftcant to note that during the whole of the
1itting, with the ezception. of three word1 from tM
"Bert Everett voice," none of Valiantine'1 "Guidet"
attempted to 1peak.
The sitting actually was very similar to many of the
"voice " seances wh1ch I have held under the medium-
ship of my wife and myself, without Valiantine. By
this I mean that it was similar to a few of the poorer
litting1 which we had held when the "voices" had
considerable difficulty in sustaining the effort to speak.
Valiantine throughout the day, and during the
evenin,, was in a nervous condition.
Hu 'Guide&" did not function, and none of the wtUJl
phenomena of 1itting1 held under hu mediu'lmhip
occurred. It is quite possible that during the sitting I
have recorded Valiantine may have been merely a passive
sitter, and that the forces used for the few manifestations
were in no way connected with him, but were drawn from
the combined mediumship of Mrs. Bradley and myself.
'.
I
I
!
,
i
I
I
EXHIRIT ~0. I 2.
This is an enlargement of the cutious impression seen in Exrubit No. 2.
[to face page 344·
CHAPTER VIII
THE SEANCE WITH THE DOYLES
Ltld11 Voyle and Adrian Conan Doyle-Valiantine cluJnge• hi• •hoe•
-Arthur Doyle'• voice-Quution• of evidence-Three di.tinct
imprint..-Genuine phenomena.
Wedne•daJI, February 25, 1931.
THE next morning Valiantine appeared a little more
chee~iul, and. seemed encouraged by the results of the
prevtous evenmg.
A few days {>rior to this date I had invited Lady
Doyle to dine wtth me at Dorincourt, and to bring with
her any members of her family she wished.
After the previous night's sittin~, I had discussed with
Mrs. Bradley the various manifestations which had
occurred, and which bore similarity to tliose obtained
during our own personal sittings. In view of this we
agreed that there was a distinct possibility of genuine
phenomena taking place while Lady Doyle was present.
The Doyles were expected to arrive at about 7 o'clock.
I had spent the day in London and arrived back at about
6.30, allowing myself just sufficient time to change before
their arrival.
A telephone message was received from Lady Doyle
saying that they were travelling st.raight up from Crow-
borough, and therefore it would be more convenient for
them not to dress for dinner. The reason I mention this
detail is that instead of clianging I spent this half-
hour cliatting to Valiantine. He was. gradually becom-
ing more easy in his manner, and I did not allow
him to have the impression tliat I was in any way
suspicious of him. It was necessary for me to refer to
the imprints, because it was my intention at this
evening's sitting to prepare a sheet of smokedfaper and
place it in the circle to see what happened. told him
that it was a terribly difficult thing to compare imprints
exactly, and that as Mr. Jaquin had said there was a
certain similarity in the imprints obtained on Friday to
those of Doyle's thumb prtnts, since Lady Doyle and
her son were sitting with us, it would be a very interest-
345
846 ... AND AFTER
ing experiment to place a sheet of smoked paper in the
circle, as it might be possible, with her presence, to
obtain an even better imprint.
Valiantine agreed to this without demur, and I then
changed the subject.
Valiantine had spent a restful afternoon at Dorin-
court and had not been out. He was wearing an ordinary
lounge suit, with black laced shoes, which were perfectly
clean. Just before 7 o'clock, after taking a cocktail with
me, he got up and said: "Well, I guess I'll go and
change my shoes." In the circumstances it was a
peculiar remark to make, and, as events proved, some-
what inexplicable. One would have expected him to say,
in his American manner, " Well, I guess I'll take a
wash." He left me for a few minutes and then rejoined
me in the drawing-room, wearing patent leather pumps.
He had worn these pumps occasionally on other evenings.
Lady Doyle arrived shortly- afterwards, accompanied
by her son, Adrian. Lady Doyle had met Valiantine
before, and had sat with him a few years previously at
my house, but this was the first occasion on which Adrian
Doyle had seen him.
After we had dined, I prepared one sheet of smoked
paper and placed it on the blotting-pad on top of the
coffin stool, which stood in the centre of the circle, as
. .
on previous occasions.
The luminous trumpet was placed by the side of the
stool.
It was a small circle of only five sitters, and the
positions, left to right, were: Valiantine, myself, Lady
Doyle, Adrian Doyle, Mrs. Bradley.
I asked each of the sitters to sign the smoked paper,
which was then numbered according to the positions in
which they sat, from left to right.
The lights were switched off, and after two records
had been played the shrill '' voice '' of '' Bert Everett ''
was heard from near tlie ceiling, calling, " Good evening,
Souls.'' I then asked a question as to whether the
conditions were good, and "Bert Everett'' replied:
" Exquisite."
Shortly after this, the '' voice '' of '' Dr. Barnett,''
speaking very clearly and distinctly, was heard,
apparently coming from the floor in the centre of the
mrcle. " Dr. Barnett " spoke easily to each member in
the circle. He said that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was
there, and that he would speak to us. ·
ExHIDIT Ko. 13.
The left-hand photograph is an enlargement of the top joint of the alleged
super-normal print obtained at Dorincourt on Saturday, F eb. 21st, 193 1.
The right-hand photograph is an enla rgement of the normal impression of
George \"aliantine's right toe.
[to face page 346.
Sl.ANCE WITH THE DOYLES 847
A little later the trumpet was lifted and the " voice "
addressed Lady Doyle as "Jean," and Adrian Doyle as
" Adrian." He talked with them at first in a somewhat
excited manner. The greetings and conversation which
followed were emotional. The emotion of the '' voice ''
when speaking to them was impressive. Lady Doyle and
Adrian Doyle both stated after th& first few sentences
had been spoken that they recognized the "voice " as
that of Sir Arthur.
The first conversation was natural and quick, and the
replies were given without the slightest hesitancy. It
did not last very long and at the end the trumpet was
dropped, as if the power of the " voice " was exhausted.
During the sitting nine other individual " voices "
spoke on difJerent occasions. The " Doyle voice " came
through persistently at odd intervals on 1even difterent
occasions throughout the evening. Each time this
" voice " manifested practically the whole of the con-
versation was addressed to Lady Doyle and Adrian Doyle.
The " voice " gave a few words of greeting to Mrs.
Bradley and myself and also to Valiantine. When
speaking to me he added : " Bradley, thank you for
giving me this opportunity."
The sitting lasted for over an hour and a half, and the
" Doyle voice " dominated the evening and occupied
most of the time. The " voice " wou1d continue its
conversation with Lady Doyle and Adrian Doyle with
fluency, and here and there would intercept the conversa-
tion with odd remarks to me. Then, after a while, when
the power appeared to be diminishing, the luminous
trumpet would drop to the floor. A great deal of the
conversation during the time the " Doyle voice" was
speaking was upon personal and domestic matters con-
cerning the Doyle family, and they were conducted in
precisely the same manner as if he were alive and present
m the room. On one occasion when Doyle was speaking
the " voice " volunteered to Adrian Doyle the following
sentence: " I am ready to go in the ' chitty ' any time
with you," and then went on to discuss the son's racing
cars. There was a deepness in the intonation of the
"voice " which was characteristic of the Doyle accent,
and the determined manner of utterance was character-
istic. I will deal with Lady Doyle's impression and the
impressions of Adrian Doyle later. I am here recording
my own impressions, which were gleaned entirely
independently from theirs.
848 ... AND AFTER
I have stated that the " Doyle voice" occupied most
of the evening, but during the intervals of these mani-
festations other " voices " came through of an entirely
different character.
After the " Doyle voice " had spoken, for the first
time, " Pat O'Brien " spoke, genially and loquaciously,
with each of the sitters in the circle.
Cristo D'Angelo gave a greeting in Italian-" Buona
Sera ''-and, in response to a request, sang a song in his
own language, in a very loud and quite melodious
" voice."
"Bert Everett " came through again, and carried on
a short conversation with us all. After this the luminous
trumpet was lifted and a " voice," which was not very
distinct at first, attempted to speak a word or two, which
we could not catch or translate. At the second attempt
this " voice," addressing Adrian Doyle, announced itself
as " Fatty." 1'he name was volunteered and was
recognized by Adrian Do1le as a friend of his named
Duncan, who was killed In a motor accident a year or
so back. A short conversation ensued between them,
dur.ing which Fatty referred to motoring and to motor
rac1ng.
A little later a " voice " came through announcing
itself as " Phineas." The " voice," however, was so
weak tliat no conversation was possible.
Following this, the luminous trumpet was lifted, and
a "voice " announcing itself as " Grandfather Doyle "
spoke with Lady Doyle and Adrian Doyle, and a con-
versation ensued regardin~ paintings.
Then followed another ' voice " announcing itself as
" Lady Doyle's mother," and carried on a conversation
with her and with Adrian Doyle.
After a slight pause, using the luminous trumpet,
another " voice " spoke, announcing itself as " Uncle
Stewart" to Adrian Doyle. A conversation was carried
on between this spirit and Lady Doyle and Adrian Doyle.
In the later part of the evening, just before the end,
during one of the conversations I asked " Doyle" about
the message given to me to pass on to Lady Doyle, in
which he had referred to the " charm on the watch
chain." I asked him what he meant by also giving the
word " initials," and " Doyle " replied: "Jean will
find out about the initials.'' Afterwards I asked Lady
Doyle whether she had found out what was meant by
" initials," and she said that she had not yet had an
S~ANCE WITH THE DOYLES 849
opportunity of looking for the charm to see whether there
were any initials/laced on it, but would do so later.
As I have sai in a previous chapter, Lady Doyle,
when she found the coin, discovered that there were no
initials on it and suggested the possibility that he might
have meant a little locket that he always wore on his
watch chain, on which there were initiais on the back.
She then added that the locket had his own initials on
it-A.C.D., but that would not convey anything.
Just before the sitting ended the luminous trumpet
was lifted and a "voice " spoke to me. This " voice"
was very weak, but it distinctly said: " Bradley, it's
Doyle speaking-. I tried to get my imprint on the
paper." The " voice " then immediately disappeared.
Although the words spoken were clearly heard by all
those present in the cucle, the " voice " was so faint
that it would be impossible to say that it exhibited the
pronounced characteristic tones of the " Doyle voice "
which had spoken at length throughout the evening, on
so many different occasions.
Shortly after this " Dr. Barnett " closed the sitting.
. . . . .
The sitting ended at 10.40.
When the lights were switched on, it was found that
on the smoked paper there were three distinct imprints.
(Exhibit No. 14, p. 350.) These I immediately fixed
with solution.
I had noted that the weak voice towards the end of
the sitting had said, "I tried to get an imprint throu~h."
The voice did not say that it had 8ttcceeded, and it
disappeared before I could question it.
I observed that none of these imprints appeared to
resemble toe-prints, therefore Valiantine's remark to me
before the sitting : " I guess I'll change my shoes," may
have been deliberately said to cover the fact of his wear-
ing pumps on the occasions when his toe-prints had been
discovered.
The next morning I gave the smoked sheets to Mr.
J aquin and asked him to have photographs taken as
quickly as possible.
From the commencement of the sittin(Z', for one hour
and forty minutes, conversations with the "voices " were
carried on practically continuously. Most of the con-
versations were of a personal nature, but they were
carried on in a fluent and unhesitating manner.
All the questions put to u Doyle" were answered
Exhibit No. 14
A photograph of the amolced paper aa found after
the a~ance held at Dorincourt on February 25. 1931.
Two of the marlcinga are impreNiona o/ the papillGTJI
ridgea. It 1uu not been po..ible to trace theae.
The imprint in the right hand comer ia apf:,orently
an impreNion made bg the light preNare of a flexed
elbow joint.
S~ANCE WITH THE DOYLES 851
immediately and intelligently, and the " Doyle voice "
spoke throughout to Lady Doyle and to Adrian Doyle in
a poignantly affectionate manner.
As for my own impression at the time, I am compelled
to state that my observations of the " Doyle voice '' were
that I noticed throughout that it possessed distinct
personality. On the seven occasions on which he spoke
the " voice " gradually gained in volume and the
characteristics became more apparent. It would be
impossible for me to compare it in exactness with the
alleged "Doyle voice" which only spoke a few short
sentences on Friday, February 20, and on Saturday,
·February 21.
When we adjourned from the seance room both Lady
Doyle and Adrian Doyle told me that they were both
impressed and delighted with what had taken place. It
was naturally impossible for me at that moment to tell
them what had been discovered on the previous Monday.
While I was discussing with Lady Doyle the pheno-
mena that had taken place, I was considering in my own
mind the somewhat remarkable sitting we had experi-
enced, considering the peculiar circumstances.
The fluency of the " voices " stood out in very vivid
contrast to the staccato sentences uttered by the various
" Guides '' and others, at the sittings devoted specifically
for imprints, at which Mr. Jaquin and Mr. Sykes were
present.
A few days afterwards Lady Doyle wrote me a charm-
ing letter, 1n which she said, among other things:
" I want to thank you for your great kindness in
giving up the whole of the evening so that we could have
the haJ;>piness of a ve~ wonderful sitting and for your
most k1nd hospitality.'
A little later, when .replying to a letter of mine in
which I asked her to tell me whether she regarded any
of the communications as evidential and characteristic of
her husband, she replied:
" With regard to the evidential side of the seance,
both Adrian and I were impressed by the timbre of the
voice which came through. The rich broadness of it and
that certain something which the individual voice has,
seemed to be in it. With regard to the matter, it was
just what one would have expected in getting in touch
852 ... AND AFTER
with a dear one beyond the Veil of Death, but it would
not, I suppose, be considered evidential from ilie ~int
of view of the ' man in the street.' What he sa1d to
A~rian, 'f am rea~y t~ go in the " chitty" any time
with you was evidential, because he always enjoyed
going in. the boys' new racing cars, and he has used those
very words to Adrian two or three times."
In this letter Lady Doyle expresses sanely and logically
exactly what I feel in regard to this particular seance.
It was for her and for :Mr. Adrian Doyle to say how
much evidence of personality they had obtained from
the '' voice.''
Lady Doyle is a very intelligent woman, and Adrian
Doyle is an extremely healthy and finely intelligent
young man. Neither l>ossesses the very faintest suspicion
of that neuroticism which exists among so many s.Piritual-
ists and psychical researchers. Both are critical and
logical in their attitude and their analysis of values.
I, coldly and critically, observed the personality which
they described. This sitting had been devoted especially
to them. The conversations with the "Doyle voice "
which lasted for a considerable time were easy, familiar
and domestic. There was not much outside evidence
volunteered, but the conversations were conducted by the
"Doyle voice" in that natural manner which would
exist if he were present in the room.
The sitting held on this evening presents a complex
problem. In ordinary circumstances this circle of five
sitters misht be regarded as an ideal one for the
manifestation of supernormal phenomena. It must be
remembered that Lady Doyle has mediumistic faculties;
Adrian Doyle has studied the subject extensively, and it
must again be repeated that Mrs. Bradley and myself
have obtained exceptional and fluent " voice " pheno-
mena when Valiantine has not been present.
I am certain that genuine phenomena took place at
this sitting. Whether the bulk of the mediumistic
powers was supplied by Mrs. Bradley, myself or
Valiantine, it is impossible to say.
Psychologically, in view of the circumstances, it was
one of the most interesting evenings I have ever spent.
It must also be observed that it has not been possible
to pr?v~ that the papillary rid~es shown ?n ~he. tmprint
(Exh1b1t No. 14, p. 350) obta1ned at this Eutttng were
produced by fraudulent means.
CHAPTER IX
THE COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE
The ltut atting-The e.q.,oaure-A n elbow joint imprint-Aclclitionol
precaution.-7"he d11e-The pla.ticine •prinlclecl with Methylene
Green-The xulpfor'• modelling wax-The plan o/ campailftl-A
ahort •itting in a aatiric almo.phere-Several imprint.-An impre...
•ion talten of Valiantine'• joot-Valiantine confronted with the
" •pirit " enlargement in eompt~riaon with hi• own big toe-Mr.
/aquin'• precipitate action-lmpreHion• ta~n of Valiantine'• little
finger-The medium aearched-The atain /ound on hi• elbow-
He cannot e:cplain-Cro..·examination-Valiantine collapae•.
Friday, Februarg 27, 1931.
ON the morning of Thursday, February 26, Mr. Jaquin
called at my office in Bond Street, and together we
scrutinized the imprints which were obtained on the
smoked paper on the Wednesday evening.
One of the three imprints appeared to indicate the
markings of an elbow jo1nt. I asked Mr. J aquin to have
photographs taken, and also to have enlargements made
of the elbow joint marking. The other two skin impres-
sions it was found impossible to place.
Mr. Jaquin and I discussed very carefully the method
of procedure for the imprint sitting which was to be held
on the Friday night. We deemed it necessary to obtain
further irrefutable proof of anr, conscious fraudulent
action on the part of Valiantine 1f such were attempted.
Mr. J aquin suggested that he should prepare his sheets
of smoked paper beforehand, and treat them with aniline
dye, and that he should also make up a tin of modelling
wax prepared with Methylene Green, for Mr. Sykes to
bring with him.
It was arranged that Mr. J aquin and I should meet at
Mr. Sykes's studio at 5 o'clock on the Friday evening, in
order that the three of us might have a consultation, and
test the prepared smoked paper and modelling wax, and
mutually agree beforehand upon the subsequent procedure.
It had been previously arran~ed not to hold a sitting
on the Thursday evening, as, 1n any case, it would be
necessary to ~ive Valiantine a rest from holding seances
night after ntght.
It must be understood that, even after the Doyle
353 K
854 ... AND AFTER
sitting, he still appeared to be puzzled and worried m
his manner.
On the Thursday night I took him and my wife to
dinner at a West End restaurant, and afterwards Mr.
Sykes had invited us to call in at his flat on our way
home. During dinner I told Valiantine that the imprints
obtained on the Wednesday evening were extraordinarily
interesting, and that Mr. Jaquin said they were quite
unlike any others which had been obtained. It is
significant, however, again to note that he did not once
ask the question, "Are they like Doyle'sP" To put
his mind at rest, as he was still likely to be pondermg
over the toe imprints, I casually said, " Of course one
can get any number of different impressions from the
same finger-prints-it all depends upon the angle at
which the finger is placed."
During dinner, and afterwards, when we visited Mr.
Sykes, Valiantine gradually became quite happy and
jolly in his manner, and this mood we all did our best
to encourage.
Prior to seeing Mr. Sykes on the following evening,
Mr. J aquin called on me at my office and told me that
he thought that to use smoked paper prepared with the
aniline dye would be very difficult, as the slightest touch
would leave a mark on any of the sitters. It would need
to be so carefulll: handled when placed before the sitting
that Valiantine s suspicions might easily be aroused.
It would also have a slight difference in appea.
rance to
the ordinary smoked paper.
I did not like to give up the idea, which would furnish
the proof of a temporary indelible stain if touched by
Valiantine. Therefore, on our way to Mr. Sykes's flat
we purchased some aniline dyes, and Mr. Sykes, Mr.
Jaquin and myself experimented with them. Eventually
we decided that it would be too doubtful to use a dye on
the smoked papers, especially as each of the sitters would
have to append their signatures just before the sitting
commenced. Valiantine might also notice that the
papers had been brought down beforehand. So we
decided that we would use the ordinary paper, smoked
as before in the presence of Valiantine, and rely upon
the modelling wax which Mr. Jaquin had prepared in
the cigarette tin. This Mr. Jaqum had prepared with
plasticine, on the top of which he had smeared a thick
c~ating of finger-print ink, .which was. th~ SJ!rinkled
With Methylene Green. This preparation, In 1ts first
COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE 855
condition, had an unusual mottled appearance, but Mr.
Sykes managed to treat it in such a way that we were
satisfied it would not be likely to arouse suspicion.
It was essential that every care should be used.
Valiantine had been acquainted with the fact that there
was a certain similarity to his toe-print in the seance
impressions obtained on the Monday evening, and I had,
therefore, experienced a very difficult time for four days
in building up and restoring his confidence. As this
would probably be the last sitting held with him, I did
not want any hitch or flaw in the proceedings, and the
last thing I wanted was a blank sitting at which nothing
happened and nothing further could be proved, and of
such a result there was a very distinct possibility. I
told Mr. Sykes and Mr. Jaquin that in my opinion it
was most unlikely that Valiantine would again attempt
to use his toe-prints, and that if he again attempted
fraud we must be prepared for him using any part of his
anatomy.
It was arranged between us that if it were discovered,
when the sitting was over, that the prepared wax in the
tin was touched, then we must determine that, by excuse,
or by insistence, Valiantine should be made to strip, in
order to see whether there were any markings of the
Methylene Green on any part of his body.
After our discussion, just as we were leaving to motor
down to Dorincourt, Mr. Sykes, as a quick afterthought,
went back to his studio and brought with him a piece
of his own sculptor's modelling wax. His reasons for
this will be seen later.
We arrived at Dorincourt at about 7 o'clock, and each
of us endeavoured to make the atmosphere a light and
merry one. We did not discuss psychics at all during
the half-hour before dinner, and Valiantine was happy
and laughin~, and thoroughly enjoying his cocktails.
At dinner champagne was served. Valiantine, when
he is staying with me at my home, or when he is dining
elsewhere, on the occasions I have been present, alwavs
takes a little wine. At first, when the butler was about
to serve him, he said: " I don't think I'll take any "-
and then, quite soon afterwards: "I think I will take
a little champagne."
The dinner passed off pleasantly, and Valiantine was
in the best of moods, roarin~ with laughter at some of
his own simple jokes. By this I do not mean to suggest
for on9 moment that Valiantine was in any way
856 ... AND AFTER
intoxicated; nor has he, to my knowledge, ever been so.
He is a moderately abstemious man, and had no more
drink on this evening than he has taken on other
occasions. It is essential to make this clear, because
although certain preparations had been made, no undue
influence was used, and any fraud he might be inclined
to perpetrate would be conscious and deliberate.
The smoked paper was prepared by Mr. J aquin in front
of Valiantine, over a candle in the drawing-room. Mr.
Sykes, in his gentle and pleasant way, casually said to
Valiantine, showin~ him the tin of wa:r: prepared with
Methylene Green, ' George, I have jrepared a slightly
softer modelling wax, feel it "-an handed him, not
the tin, but the piece of sculptor's modelling wax which
he had, at the last moment, put in his pocket before
coming to my house. This clever, and, in the circum-
stances, quite justifiable piece of subtlety, diverted
Valiantine's attention from the prepared tin, and he was,
for a moment, absorbed in his interest in the pliability
of Mr. Sykes's piece of wax.
. . . . . . . .
Valiantine's manner before the sitting commenced was
confidently self-possessed.
The sitting commenced just after 9 o'clock. Mr.
Jaquin placed one sheet of smoked paper on the writing-
pad on top of the coffin stool, and one sheet underneath the
stool. Mr. Sykes placed the tin of prepared plasticine by
the side of the blotting-pad on the top of the stool.
The lights were switched off, and, after a gramophone
record had been played, Valiantine said the Lord's
Prayer. In view of what transpired this seemed a some-
what ironic procedure.
The sitting lasted a little over an hour. The few
" voices " which spoke, said only a few words. What
they enunciated was practically of no account. There
existed throughout a somewhat satiric atmosphere. I
have experienced many hundreds of sittings, during
which one's psychic faculties are developed to a highly
sensitive degree. On this night the room was dead.
There were long pauses. Only five "voices " attempted
to speak. Three of these were " Guides " and two others
were alle~?ed personalities. None spoke more than a
dozen words. During- the hour or so we sat the staccato
sentences from the "voices " could not have occupied
more than three minutes of the entire time. First
" Bert Everett " spoke a word or two, and then there
COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE 857
was a curt greeting from Dr. Barnett. Later, during
the evening, these two '' voices '' alternated occasionally,
speaking a noncommittal sentence or so.
The " voice" of "Pat O'Brien," using the luminous
trumpet, spoke a word or two to each of the circle.
Mr. J aquin intervened with the remark, " Pat, can
spirits see in the dark? " The luminous trumpet
went straight over to Mr. Jaquin, and replied: " To be
sure, or how could they see to give imprints? "
I would like to inter{>olate here that the "Pat O'Brien
voice " which made th1s statement was the characteristic
" voice" of " Pat O'Brien " which had manifested on
so many occasions £or several years, and the words were
delivered in a natural manner, with a note of genuineness.
Just near the end of the sitting the " Bert Everett
voice" spoke in shrill tones, apparently from high up
in the room, and saying: " Segrave is here." There
was a further lengthy/ause, and then the " Bert Everett
voice " shrilly emitte : " Exquisite 1" The intonation
and the syllables of this one word on this particular
evening struck me as being peculiar. The tone in which
this word was spoken sounded, to me, not merely satiric,
but contemptuous. I immediately asked the question :
H.D.B.: What is exquisite? Do you mean that we
have got an imprint through?
" BERT EVERETT " : Yes.
H.D.B. : Whose?
" BERT EVERETT " : Se?rave's.
A little later on the ' Bert Everett voice '' spoke a
few words, addressing Mrs. Sykes as " Blondy."
There was then a further pause, during which a gramo-
phone record was played. Then the luminous trumpet
was lifted, and a huskv " voice " announced itself as
" Segrave." Mr. Jaquin at once interposed, and said,
'' Good evening, Sir Henry; I am pleased you are here.''
The luminous trumpet floated over towards Mr. J aquin
and the " voice " answered the greeting. · Mr. Jaquin
then said, "Do you remember, Sir Henry, giving me an
impression of your hand in S- W--'s fiat? " (The
name was mentioned in full.) The '' voice '' replied
faintly: "Yes."1
Mr. Jaquin then asked: "Do you
1 It should here be mentioned that when Mr. Jaquin invited thia
affirmative reply. he knew that he had not taken Sir Henry Segrave'a
hand imprints at this particular place. It would have been far wiser
had he asked : " Where did you give me your hand imprinta) "
That queation would have called for an effective reply.
Exhibit No. IS
:A photograph of the amoJced paper aa found after
the aeance on Friday, February 27, 1931. There are
•erJeral imprehiona of elbow joint•, a finger impre..ion,
and alao •Jcin ridge marJcinga. Daring thia aeance it
waa alleged that an imprint luu been gioen b11 the
late Sir Henry SegrarJe.
r
COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE 859
remember that you promised that if ever you passed to
the other side you would try and give me an impression
of your thumb? " The " voice " replied " Yes," and
said he "was tryins-." It is peculiar that the " voice "
said it was " try1ng," since previously the " Bert
Everett '' voice had said in reply to a question of
mine that an impression had been obtained which was
Segrave's, earlier in the evening.
The " Segrave voice" only spoke half a dozen words
or so in all, and most of these were mere affirmative
replies, such as " Yes."
There was another pause, and then, using the luminous
trumpet, and announcing itself as " Abraham Wallace,"
a " voice " addressed me. He spoke a word or two to
me regardin9 psychic books. Mr. J aquin then as.ked the
"voice," ' Do you remember Dr. Munro?" He
replied "Yes." Mr. Jaquin asked if there was any
message he would like to give to Dr. Munro, and the
" voice " replied " Yes, tell him to look after my
books." This "Abraham Wallace voice" occupied ~
period of only about thirty seconds. When the luminous
trumpet dropped, Valiantine asked: "What was the
name?" This was a somewhat absurd inquiry, because
the " voice " had announced itself clearly and distinctly
as "Abraham Wallace," and, of course, Valiantine had
met the late Dr. Abraham Wallace and had held two
or three sittings with him a year or so before his death.
There was a pause, during which a gramophone record
was played, and then " Dr. Barnett" closed the sitting.
. . . .
The sitting lasted about an hour and a quarter. When
the lights were switched on, it was discovered that on
the smoked sheet on top of the stool there were several
imprints, one of which was apparently a finger. (See
Exhibit No. 15, p. 358.) I cautioned all the sitters, who
were naturally bending over to examine it, that on no
account must the paper be touched, and I asked Mr.
J aquin to fix it immediately, saying that there would
be plenty of time for examination afterwards.
Mr. Jaquin fixed the smoked paper with a solution in
the seance room, and it was then placed on one side to
dry. On the prepared wax in the tin there were distinct
indentations. (See Exhibit No. 16, p. 360.) What these
impressions were it was impossible to determine with the
naked eye. Mr. Sykes closed the lid and placed the box
on top of a book-case. The smoked paper dried .in a
860 • • • AND AFTER
minute or two, and was then examined by all those
present.
Mrs. Sykes and Mrs. Bradley then left us.
Mr. Sykes, Mr. Ja~uin, Valiantine and myself then
each examined the Imprints closely in turn under
magnifying glasses. I remarked casually, but with a
purpose, that they were certainly quite different from
those obtained at the previous " imprint sittings," and
added, also with design, " If it can be proved that
these im_Prints could not be made by an1,one who was
present 1n this room to-night, then it will be posaible
to assume that they are supernormal." I stated that we
must take every precaution to ensure absolute proof.
This afforded Mr. J aquin the opportunity to suggest
that he should take the impression of the whole foot
of Valiantine. To this Valiantine readily agreed, and
Mr. Jaquin then took the impressions of both of his feet,
including the heels. The object of this was to discover
if there were any signs of a stain of Methylene Green.
I did not anticipate that there would be. Assuming a
very ordinary craftiness on the part of Valiantine, it
did not appear to me logical that he would be likely, in
view of what had happened previously, to repeat the
same type of fraudulent performance. It was useful,
however, for Mr. Jaquin to obtain further imprints of
Valiantine's feet for the purpose of comparison with the
imprints which had been previously obtained.
While his feet imprints were being taken Valiantine
showed a sli8"ht sense of resentment, and said that if
his feet imprints had to be taken, then the feet imprints
of eve:7 other sitter should be taken also. While we
were discussing this, and Valiantine was replacing his
laced shoes and socks, Mr. J aquin left the room for a
moment or so. He then returned with the/hotographic
enlargements of the seance imprints obtaine on Monday,
February 22, and also the photographic enlargement of
Valiantine's big left toe. He confronted Valiantine with
them, saying: " How do you explain this? "
In view of the happenings which had occurred at
the sitting which had just finished on this evening
(Friday, February 27) I consider that Mr. J aquin was
too precipitate in his action. I did not interfere in any
wayJ because, although Mr. Jaquin and Mr. Valiantine
were both getting slightly excited, I maintained through-
out the attitude and mentality of a calm observer. It
was essential for me to record all the facts. Trivialities
ExHIBIT No. 16 .
A photograph of the surface of the specially prepared plasticine as found
after the seance at Dorincourt on F riday, Feb. 27th, 1931. There arc three
clear indentations; these are marked by the white arrows.
[to ja.ce page 3Go.
COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE 861
may occasionally excite me because of their irritation,
but when the moment arrives for essentials to be con-
sidered the effect on me has always been to foster an
aloof perspective in order to obtain a clearer and more
penetrative survey.
Since it was unknown to Valiantine that the identity
of his toe-print with the seance print had been definitely
proved, it was perhaps natural that Mr. J aquin appeared
to concentrate entirely on this one point to the exclusion
of the vitally interesting imprints lying on my desk,
which had been obtained at the seance only just con-
cluded. In addition, the tin of modelling wax was
lying apparently forgotten on my book-case.
I interposed, and stopped the slight argument between
Mr. J aquin and Valiantine. I said that it was necessary for
us to consider the imprints which had just been obtained.
We all examined them again, and in view of the
fact that Mr. J aquin was of the opinion that one of
the seance impressions was that of a little finger, we
suggested that impressions must be taken of Valiantine's
little fingers. Valiantine assented to this quite readily,
and .Mr. Jaquin then took them and fixed the imprints.
(SeP Exhibit No. 17, p. 362.)
The imprints of Valiantine's fingers, as taken, were
certainly shorter than that of the seance imprint. 'Ihis,
however, might have possibly been explamed by the
stretching of the joints. Mr. J aquin then asked Valian-
tine whether he could explain the resemblance.
Valiantine replied confidently and firmly, but with
genuine heat: "That is not my little finger." Jaquin
then remarked that it was "suspiciously like it," to
which Valiantine angrily replied, "I'll bet you two
hundred pounds that it is not my little finger." Mr.
J aquin was slightly nonplussed by this, and did not
pursue the point. Valiantine was peculiarly emphatic
when he made this remark; so much so that he really
appeared confident that it was not his little finger, and
that this could not be proved. I observed that there
was a very considerable difference between the length of
the " Segrave " seance finger imprint (see Exhibit
No. 15, p. 358) and that of George Valiantine's little
finger imprints, taken by Mr. J aquin, and shown in
Exhibit No. 17 (see p. 362).
Mr. Jaquin then added to Valiantine, " If it is not
your finger then probably you have a dummy finger
in your pocket." Valiantine became indignant at this,
}a{.
Exhibit No. 17
Normal imprint• tcr)cen by Mr. /aquin of George
Valiantine'• right hand little finger after the ~anee, on
FebruarJI 27, 1931.
COLLAPSE OF VALIANTINE 868
and said: " You can search me.''. This gave me the
opportunity of suggesting to Valiantine that for his
own sake the best thing for him to do was to strip
and submit to being searched. Valiantine at once
agreed, saying: " You can strip me-l don't mind being
searched if you agree that everyone else is stripped and
searched afterwards." To this we all assented. Valian-
tine then took off his jacket, waistcoat and trousers,
and I asked Mr. J aquin to undertake a search of
Valiantine's pockets. The pockets contained only the
usual objects a man carries. I remembered afterwards,
however, that Mr. Jaquin had omitted to examine
Valiantine's pocket handkerchief, which, of course, might
have shown traces of the wiping away of the marks of
the smoked paper. This omission was unfortunate,
because a search for all possible traces was particularly
essential, having regard to Valiantine's emphatic
challenge that the smoked paper imprint was not his.
Proceedin8' with his search, Mr. J aquin then rolled
back the shirt sleeve of Valiantine's right arm. There
were no concealments and no markings. Rolling back
the shirt sleeve of the left arm, on the elbow was dis-
covered a large stain of the preparation of the finger-
print ink and A/ethylene Green. The stain was pointed
out to Valiantine and he was asked to explain It. He
looked at it, appeared somewhat staggered, and then
said: " I just can't explain it. What it is I don't
know, or how it got there." I then told him that the
tin of modelling wax had been specially prepared with
Methylene Green, and that this stain was a proof that
he had used his elbow to make the seance imprint. I
told him to put on his clothes and we would discuss the
matter. In turn we asked him if he had any explana-
tion to give of the smoked imprint, and of the stain.
In reply to our questions he merely continued to
insist that he had never used his toes, and that the only
way he could account for the stain on his elbow was
that his ectoplasm must have absorbed the Methylene
Green and when it returned to his body had left the
stain on his elbow. To the majority of questions which
were put to him, Valiantine had one stock reply, " I
can't explain."
We questioned him at considerable length, and he
then showed si~ns of breaking down. Rising from
liis chair, he said in a broken voice, " I can't stand
it any longer. I can't stand it--let me go." I told
864 ... AND AFTER
him quite gently, but firmly, that he must not go to
bed until he had given us an explanation. He still
seemed to trust and rely on my help. He sat down
again, but after a few more questions he collapsed
utterly and burst into a violent fit of sobbing. His whole
body shook convulsively, and when the sobbing subsided
he became unconscious. His eyes closed and his body
shook with violent trembling; he gasped for breath.
It was apparently a fit of nervous hysteria. Mr. Sykes
at once suggested that cold water bandages should be
applied to his head. This was done: Mr. Sykes apply-
ing the bandages while Mr. J aquin continued to re-soak
the towels every few minutes. Valiantine remained in
this condition for nearly two hours. During this time
his heart beat was extremely rapid, and, by the signs of
congestion shown in his face, his blood presstll'e was
evidently high. His pulse was extremely rapid and
intermittent. At one time, shortly before he recovered
consciousness, Mr. J aquin said that he thought his con-
dition was such that he was certainly in danger of a
stroke. It was about 2 a.m. when he recovered, and then
I took him up to his room. He was in a distressed
condition, but was just able to walk upstairs with my
help, hanging on to me with his arm round my neck.
He thanked me for helping him, speaking in heart-
broken tones, almost like a child. He sat limply
on his bed, his eyes looking into space, and, not
as if' he were addressing me, he said, in broken
tones: " Why did they do this to me P Why did
they do this to me P'' These woras were said in a
manner difficult to describe. Stran~e as it may seem,
I do not think that he meant by u they" to refer to
Mr. J aquin or to Mr. Sykes, to me, or to any of us.
Valia.ntine was in such a distraught condition , and
evidently so weak and ill, that it was only merciful for
me to g-ive him a few words of comfort. I told him to
try and ease his mind and get some sleep. He threw
his arms round me and embraced me.
After leaving- Valiantine I rejoined the others. Mrs.
Bradley and Mrs. Sykes had remained in the drawinJ:r-
room since the close of the seance at about 10.30 and,
of course. they had no part in any of tne proceedings
which had taken place since then.
Later on Mr. and Mrs. Sykes motored back to town,
ana Mr. Jaquin, as had been arranged, spent the night
at Dorincourt.
CHAPTER X
FUTILE DENIALS
The next day-The ec>idence of the photograph.-/ diacu,. hia future
c.oith Valiantine-He again collapaee.
Saturday, February 28, 1931.
ON the following morning Valiantine was up to
breakfast, and, although he looked jaded and anxious,
he had evidently recovered from his fit of nervous
hysteria. He was quiet and reserved in his manner, and
said very little.
Mr. Jaquin left immediately after breakfast, taking
with him the smoked seance sheet and the tin of
prepared wax, and also Valiantine's finger and foot
prints. These were photographed and enlarged during
the next few days, and I received them after Valiantine
had left me. The enlargements show that the majority
of the imprints on the smoked paper are of elbows.
(See Exhibit No. 18, page 366, and also Exhibit No. 19,
page 368.) For comparison with the alleged supernormal
finger-print obtained on the same sheet, see Exhibit No.
21, page 388, which contains two photographic enlarge-
ments of Valiantine's right hand middle finger and the
alleged supernormal finger. It must here be stated that
it was only after a very careful examination had been
made some time later, at my request, by ex-Chief
Inspector W. T. Bell, that he discovered a similarity
between the seance finger-print and the right side of the
middle finger of Valiantine's right hand.
I had an appointment on th1s Saturday morning at
12 o'clock in London for a major operation on my teeth
under an anresthetic, which I had deferred on account of
Valiantine's visit. I was not feeling particularly fit,
and refused to enter upon the incidents of the previous
evening with Valiantine. It was, however, necessary for
me briefly to discuss his future arrangements. He was
due on the following Tuesday to fulfil his en_gagement
for a series of twelve sittings with Dr. Vivian 1n Hamp-
shire. I told Valiantine that I should not allow him to
go there. Dr. Vivian had previously paid Valiantine
365
866 ... AND AFTER
his fee of £200, and this cheque he had cashed. I told
him that the money must be returned at once, and that
he had better _give it to me and I would send her a
cheque. This Valiantine did, handing me the money in
English and American notes. .
Valiantine had an engagement in town for luncheon,
and I told him that I would discuss everything fully with
him at 5 o'clock that afternoon. The luncheon appoint-
ment was with Mr. X at his club in London.
Since Mr. X was Valiantine's chief, and most wealthy,
patron, with whom he was ag-ain to sit for a few days
before he returned to Amenca, it was of paramount
importance to Valiantine to know what action I should
take with Mr. X in regard to the discoveries which had
been made. I told Valiantine in the morning that until
I had fully considered and re-discussed these incidents
with him alone it would be better for him to make no
reference to what had occurred while lunchin~ with Mr.
X, and that I would decide what was the r1ght course
of action later in the afternoon. :My object in this was,
firstly, that I desired to place the full facts, with the
photographs, in front of Mr. X myself; and, secondly,
that I thought there was still the possibility of extract-
ing a full explanation from Valiantine. Valiantine
agreed to this at once; his attitude was, on this morning,
subdued; he was extremely meek and mild. He said,
" Herbert, I'll leave everything to you. I'll do
anything you say."
At 11.30 :Mrs. Bradley, myself and Vahantine went
to London, and we dropped Valiantine at the hotel o.t
which :Mr. X was staying. I then went on to have my
moutli operated on, and had far pleasanter dreams than
I had experienced for some little time. Incidentally,
it is said that no one can remember their dreams under
ether. I have previously had bets with anmsthetists on
this and have alwayB lost, because when consciousness
returned the dream has always disappeared. On this
occasion, however, I retained a conscious memory of a
considerable part of the latter proportion of the dream,
even to the words spoken, which I retailed to my
dentist and to the doctor, during intervals of spitting
up blood. ·
I slept an hour or so in the afternoon, and, on waking,
found that Valiantine had returned from his luncheon
appointment quite early. After tea I took him to my
study and again tried to obtain an explanation. I
ExmBIT Ko. 18.
An enlargement of one of the elbow impressions found on the smoked paper
in Exhibit Ko. Ij.
[to face page 366.
FUTILE DENIALS 867
understand human nature fairly well, and this was not
the first time I have had to deal with fraudulent actions
on the part of those whom I have befriended. I have a
certain understanding of such frailties, and my experi-
ence in life, entirely apart from psychics, has perhaps
tin~ed my nature with a somewhat bitterly humorous
sabrism. This does not matter, so long as my humour
overtoP.s the bitterness.
Whtlst taking tea with Valiantine and Mrs. Bradley,
Valiantine was solicitous and humble in his manner;
wondering whether my jaw was troubling me-which
it was not. When he was alone with me I said that
it would only be possible for me to help him if he
told me everything. I said that I knew the truth of
genuine phenomena, and that I knew the proofs of fraud.
I told him also that I knew by my long experience that
at seances genuine phenomena was often interspersed with
conscious or unconscious fraud. I alluded to my experi-
ences when genuine phenomena had occurred and 1et at
the same time the " voice" phenomena had obviously
been produced by impersonating entities. I recounted
to him certain experiences when evil influences had
affected the results. All this I did in the endeavour to
obtain from him a frank admission of what had inspired
his fraudulent actions. We talked for an hour, but he
was adamant. I tackled him with the definite proofs
which we held in evidence against him, but his reply
never varied. Time after time he said, " I can't explain
it." I told him that it was unquestionably proved that
he had committed conscious and deliberate fraud, but
he obstinately refused to admit this. I then informed
him that I considered it my duty to inform Mr. X of
what had transpired and to supply him with the full
details, which, I added, I should d«> on the Monday
morning, as Mr. X was spending that week-end in
London.
Realizing my determination, Valiantine ended the dis-
cussion by saying, " When do you want me to goP "
This remark, quite suddenly put, as if considered before-
hand, somewhat surprised me. and I asked, " Where
can you goP" He replied. "I can go to Southampton,
and stay in an bote] there."
Incidentally, Southampton is within an hour or so's
motorin~ distance of Mr. X's country estate. When
Valiantine asked me when I expected him to go, he
apparently seemed to think that he would be asked to
868 • • • AND AFTER
leave my house at once. I had no intention of
demanding this.
The arrangements previously made were that he
should leave Dorincourt on the Monday, spend the night
at Mr. X's country house, and then motor over to fulfil
his engagements with Doctor Vivian, and afterwards
return to Mr. X's house for two days before sailing for
Southampton on March 18. I told him that he could
stay with me at Dorincourt, as had been originally
arranged, until Monday, when he could meet Mr. X and
travel back with him to his house and spend the night
there, and that I would go with him to town to meet
Mr. X.
Valiantine, I think, until now, had been under the
impression that I would not tell Mr. X what had
happened. It must be remembered that on his previous
visit to England, when he gave sittings for a month at
Mr. X's house, he had received a fee of £1,500, in
addition to lavish travelling expenses, etc., which
amounted to several hundred pounds more.
I asked Valiantine whether }{r. X had as yet paid
him any money on account of the five weeks' services
he had recently rendered him. He replied that he had
not, as it was usual for Mr. X to give him a draft on the
day he sailed.
The position for Valiantine was obviously a serious
one, and would affect him very considerably financially.
I allowed Valiantine to have no illusions whatever
regarding my informing Mr. X. I told him frankly
that when I saw Mr. X on the Monday morning I
should show him the photographs and imprints which
I had in my possession,· and tell him exactly what bad
taken place. I also told Valiantine that the best thing
for him to do would be to return to America by the
first available boat. He said he could not do this, as
his Cunard booking was for March 18 and there was
not another boat. I knew that was absurd, and at once
telephoned the Cunard Company, who informed me that
a boat was sailing on the 4th, and that they would be
quite willing to exchange Valiantine's ticket for a cabin
on the boat sailing on that date.
I then telephoned Doctor Vivian and told her that
Valiantine would be unable to fulfil his en~agement, as
he was compelled to return to America on the following
Wednesday. I could not, of course, give her any further
particulars over the telephone. Valiantine was quite
ExHI BIT No. 1 9.
The left-hand photograph is an enlargement of the elbow impression in
Exhibit No. 14. The right-hand photograph is an enlargement o f a norm al
elbow impression, showing the characteristic markings. :Ko digital
impression would show a ny such characteristic m arkings as in the alleged
super-normal imprint on the left.
[to face page 368.
FUTILE DENIALS 869
content to leave all arrangements in my hands. He was
still extremely upset and frightened.
Sunday, March I, 1931.
On the following Sunday morning, while I was out
walking, Valiantine telephoned Mr. X, and I am under
the impression that in some way he prepared Mr. X
for his interview with me, and, in all ~robability,
concocted some sort of version of his own tn order to
forestall the exposure. Possibly in the endeavour to
prejudice Mr. X against me.
Throughout the day Valiantine still maintained that
he was innocent. During the afternoon he asked to be
allowed to see the photographs which had been taken of
the various imprints. I told him that I should prefer,
first of all, to show them to Mr. X, but eventually I
consented and brought them down to him in a heap.
There were two copies of each. I took out the enlarged
seance imprints and also the imprint enlargements of
his own toes. He took up two of these and then for a
short time examined them through a magnifying glass.
Then he said, determinedly, " These are not the same."
Unfortunately, the two photographs he had picked up
were duplicate copies of his own left toe. Thts was the
first humorous incident of the last few days. The copies
were, oi course, marked, and I pointed this out to htm.
After this he discontinued the examination.
At one period during this Sunday, knowing that it
was my intention of informing Mr. X and also, knowing
my character so well, that I should, probably, later
on publish the whole facts, Valiantine said to me, in
rather pathetic tones, " What shall I do? " I replied,
somewhat wearily, " Go out and work, like I and many
other people have to do."
After dinner I again discussed the exposure of fraud
with Valiantine. I gave him the loophole of admitting
partial obsession, or the excuse of unconscious fraud,
but all to no avail. He steadily maintained, " I did
not do anything, and I can't explain it." I said that
if he could not explain it then his " Guides " should
be able to do so, and offered him the opportunity of
holding a sitting. I wanted to see if by any chance
something fresh would happen. He rather apathetically
consented. We sat for a short time, but, of course,
nothing happened. In the circumstances it was hardly
to be expected.
870 o o o AND AFTER
Afterwards, for the last time, I again pressed Valian-
tine for some explanation. I advanced the argumen~
that if, as he maintained, he had not committed
conscious fraud, since no one else in the room was
responsible, then the fraudulent imprints, on his own
statements, mus-t have been r,erpetrated by evil spirits,
since some of his " Guides ' had made what we had
proved to be lying assertions. This argument rather
disturbed Valiantine. He would not accept it, and said,
in a strangely genuine tone, " I will never say a
word agains-t them." I argued with him that on the
proven facts and logical deductions, so far as he was
concerned, it had to be one of two things. Either he
was genuine and his " Guides " were occasionally
fraudulent, or his " Guides" were genuine and he was
occasionally fraudulent. I put it in this way to lead
him on, but it had no effect. I gave him the choice of
confessing his own guilt and defending spirit pheno-
mena, or maintaining his innocence and condemning
such phenomena as malicious and evil. But the logic of
this made no impression. He never wavered in his
denial of personal guilt. Eventually late in the evening
he broke down again into half sobbing tones, so I sent
him to bed.
CHAPTER XI
PROOFS OF FRAUD
Valia'!tine. Mra. Bradley and I interl)iew Mr. X-No .ur~:Jri~ln­
clrned to defend Valiantine-Valiantine becomea truculent-He
liu--Anotl1er expert opinion decided on-The Stiraon imprint-
Valiantine lie• about the " Do11le " voic.-Dr. Vil)ian--Mr.
/aquin-1 conault Scotland Yard-Mr. Bell. ex-Chief lnapector of
the Fin6er-print Bureau--Hi• report conduaii).-The "Stinaon "
imprint found to be fraudulent-Sitting• with Dr. Vil)ian.
I
Monda11. March 2, 1931.
AFTER breakfast Valiantine's luggage was put on my
car, and he, .Mrs. Bradley, and myself motored up to
London to meet Mr. X at his club. On the short ten-
mile journey Valiantine was quiet and reserved, very
evidently considering the effect of my relation o£ the
disturbing facts to Mr. X.
When the four of us met in Mr. X's club I described
in as brief terms as possible all that had happened. I
showed Mr. X the photographs I had brought with me.
I told him that as he had sponsored Valiantine I con-
sidered it my immediate dutr to give him every detail.
He received all I had to sar 1n a somewhat cold manner.
He exhibited not the shghtest surprise, and I am
inclined to think that he was not unprepared for what
I told him. I showed him the various photographs, and
at once he said that they did not necessarily prove fraud
on the part of Valiantine; with re~ard to the stain on his
elbow, he suggested that this mtght have been caused
by the return o£ the ectoplasm to the medium's body.
Mr. X then related to me the case of an experience of
his, where imprints of a similar kind had been obtained
at a seance, and afterwards, on examination, the marks
of the smoked paper were discovered on the medium's
stomach. I did not argue this point with him. I
merely said that it was unquestionable that Valiantine's
toe-prints coincided with some of the seance imprints,
and that leaving t.he stain of Methylene Green-·prepared
for the express purpose of detecting fraud-on a
371
872 o o o AND AFTER
medium's elbow seemed to me a very strange form of
spirit manifestation.
Directly Valiantine found that Mr. X was inclined to
defend and support him, his whole manner changed.
He was evidently relieved, and at once gained confidence.
He said that the conditions under which these "imprint
sittings " were held at Dorincourt were bad. Valiantine
attacked Mr. Jaquin in particular, saying that as a sitter
he had an adverse inftuence. He said that this accounted
for the results being mixed. "Seeing that I was deter-
mined to tell Mr. X everything, Valiantine became
aggressive to me; a vivid contrast to the nervous timidity
he had shown towards me during the week-end. He
denied point blank many of the proved facts. He lied
deliberately and desperately, and at this time I am
almost inclined to th1nk that Mr. X believed Valiantine
more than he believed me. It appeared to me futile to
continue the discussion at further length.
I told Mr. X that I had considered it my duty to
inform him of the facts, and that, having done so, I
must leave Valiantine in his hands, and that he could
act in any way he considered fit. I offered to leave the
copies of the photographs with him, in order that he
mtght take them away and study them at his leisure,
and as Valiantine was returning with him he also would
have an opportunity of studying them together with
Mr. X. At first, such was his confidence in Valiantine,
Mr. X was not inclined to take the photographs. Later,
however, he agreed to do so. Mr. X said that, in any
case, he would not accept the opinion of Mr. Jaquin on
them, but that he would require expert opinion. I told
him that I should be very pleased if he would do so and
that, in any case, it was my intention also to obtain
further expert analysis, as I regarded this necessary for
confirmation. At the same time, I added, I had but
little doubt as to the result.
Mr. X informed me that during the month Valiantine
had been staying with him smoked pa:per had been used
at one or two seances, and that an Imprint had been
obtained, which was alleged to be a finger-print of
Walter Stinson. Walter Stinson, it may be mentioned,
is the chief '' control '' of the famous medium,
'• Margery " (Mrs. Crandon), the wife of Dr. Crandon
of Boston. At the "Margery" sittings held in Boston
several imprints have been obtained alleged to be those
of Walter Stinson (Margery's deceased brother). Some
PROOFS OF FRAUD 878
of these are said to compare favourably with that of the
only imprint in existence o£ Walter Stinson. This, it is
stated, was obtained after his death from a razor blade
used by him before he died. An impression such as
this, obtained after the death of a person, from an instru-
ment which in daily use may have been handled by many
persons, cannot, to my mind, claim any authenticity as
being the skin impressions of Walter Stinson, since no
imprints were ever taken of Walter Stinson's hands or
fingers when he was alive.
Mr. X told me that he had posted photographs of the
alle~ed " Walter Stinson finger " obtained under
Vahantine's mediumshi:p to Dr. Crandon for comparison,
but had not, at this time, received a reply from Dr.
Crandon. I said that I should be very interested indeed
to see this imprint, and he replied that as he was coming
to London on the following Friday week, March 13, he
would bring a copy with him, and would at the same
time return to me my own batch of photographs. I told
him that, if he wished, I would arrange for Mr. Jaquin
to be present, in order that he also might be shown the
finger imprints. I added that Mr. X might then ask
Mr. J aquin any questions he wished regarding the
Dorincourt seance imprints.
Reverting to Vahantine's position, I told Mr. X
that I had felt compelled to cancel Valiantine's visit
to Dr. Vivian, and that I had telephoned her to this
effect. Also, that I had told Valiantine I considered it
would be desirable for him to return to America on the
following Wednesday. Mr. X disagreed, and said that
he did not consider that I had the right to cancel
Dr. Vivian's series of sittings, and that such a decision
should be left to her. I told him that I could not consent
to Valiantine going there and accepting a fee of £200
unless she were previously informed of the complete facts,
and this could only be done personally. Mr. X then
suggested that Mrs. Bradley should travel down that
afternoon to his country house, spend the night there
and motor over the following mornin~ to see Dr. Vivian
and give her the full particulars. This Mrs. Bradley
agreed to do.
Just before my interview with Mr. X ended, ·by chance
he told me that " Do:vle " had been throug-h in the
" voice" durin~ the Valiantine sittings held at his
house, and that Doyle had said he was going to try and
get his thumb-prints through at Dorincourt. At once
874 ... AND AFTER
I remarked that the " Doyle voice " at Dorincourt had
definitely stated: " This is the first time I have ~ot
through in this way." Valiantine immediately denied
this, saying, "He did not say so." When he uttered
this deliberate lie I think the look I gave him may
possibly have scorched his soul.
This was the last I saw of Valiantine, and it is not
likely that I shall ever see him again.
II
Mrs. Bradley saw Dr. Vivian on Tuesday, March 3,
and told her everything that had occurred. Dr. Vivian
is a very charming and extremely intelligent woman.
She has an exceptionally well-balanced mind, and, as I
have stated, a very extensive knowledge of psychics and
the varying forms of mediumship. She took the view
that a great number of genuine mediums had been dis-
covered from time to time in srasmodic phases of fraud.
She said that she had made al arrangements with some
other doctors, and one or two outside sitters, for a series
with Valiantine, and that, despite the discovery already
made, she would still prefer that Valiantine should fulfil
his engagement. She had read the records of Valian-
tine's work, and was of the opinion that it was quite
possible that she would be able to obtain a certain amount
of genuine phenomena. In any case, whatever happened,
t.he observation would be useful to her and to her fellow-
doctors.
Mrs. Bradley telephoned Mr. X telling him of Dr.
Vivian's decision and then returned to London.
So far as I was personally concerned, I felt that I had
done everything that could be expected of me. I did
not, therefore, consider myself l.n any way further
responsible for Valiantine's conduct.
After leaving Mr. X and Valiantine on Monday,
March 2, I met Mr. Jaquin and told him of the inter-
view wliich had just taken place. I said that we should,
of course, obtain further expert opinion on the imprints,
and we arranged that Mr. J aquin should go to Scotland
Yard and submit the seance imprints and Valiantine's
toe imprints for analysis and comparison. This he did,
and the opinion, given personally, was that they were
similar, but Scotland Yard said that they could not give
an official opinion unless a charge of criminal fraud
PROOFS OF FRAUD 875
were brought against Valiantine. This I was naturally
not prepared to do, because, apart from the fact of know-
ing that Valiantine had been genuine in the past, I was
not willing to make him suffer unduly on a criminal
charge. Even if I had made such a harsh decision the
case would have been peculiarly involved, because these
events happened while Valiantine was staying as a guest
in my house, and I had on this occasion paid him no
money whatever for his mediumistic services.
On being informed of this, Scotland Yard recom-
mended as one of the best experts in the country, Mr.
W . T. Bell, ex-Chief Inspector in charge of the Finger-
Print Bureau of New Scotland Yard. Later I got in
touch with Mr. Bell, submitted the imprints to him, and
obtained his report and analysis, whicb are recorded in
Chapter XIII of this book, together with his markings
of the seance imprints and Valiantine's toe-print
(Exhibit No. 20, p. 386). Mr. Bell's report is so able and
thorough that it should leave no shadow of doubt in the
mind of the lay reader. Each of the twenty-one Exhibits
have been submitted by me to Mr. Bell. I have relied
upon him for expert analysis. Mr. Bell does not offer
assumptions, he deals only with scientific facts.
III
On Thursday, March 13, Mr. X called on me at my
office in Bond Street, and . returned my photographs.
He then showed me the imprint of "Walter Stinson's
finger," which had been obtained during a seance held
in his own house.
Mr. X was quite charming in his manner, and had
apparently made a very thorough study of the photo-
graphs which I had submitted tollim. He was certainly
by no means as confident of Valiantine as on the last
occasion when I saw him. His difficulty was that, having
had so many personal mental evidences of the genuine-
ness of Valiantine's mediumship, he could not reconcile
his experiences with the act of deliberate physical fraud
which Valiantine had undoubtedly committed.
Then Mr. J aquin joined us, and Mr. X questioned
him on all the various points of the skin imprints.
He discussed these in such a manner that it was
obvious that he had given them intensive study. He
was, I think, in the end, perfectly satisfied with the
876 ... AND AFTER
knowledgeable, straightforward replies with which Mr.
Jaquin answered each of his queries. He then handed
Mr. Jaquin "Walter Stinson's finger-print" and said
he would leave it with Mr. J aq_uin, m order that he
might examine it and give an op1nion on it.
1'his Mr. Jaquin did later, comparing it with the
impressions of Valiantine's hands which he had taken
seven years ago. He found that the " Walter Stinson
finger imprint " could be identified with that of the
mt"ddle finger of Valiantine's left hand. Mr. J aquin had
it photograph taken of the " Walter Stinson imprint "
and at my request Mr. W. T. Bell examined it and
compared it with Valiantine's middle finger. He con-
firms the identification.
A week or so later, Mr. X and Mr. Jaquin and I again
met in my office by appointment, and Mr. X was
informed of the origin of the Walter Stinson imprint.
Mr. X stipulated that the photograph of this imprint,
which was his property, must not be published or used.
He said that he refused to play any part whatever in
publicly denouncing Valiantine. I understood his feel-
mgs and I naturally agreed. That is the only reason
why an illustration of the alleged " Walter Stinson
imprint " in comparison with Valiantine's middle finger
imprint is not published in this book.
IV
Valiantine went to visit Dr. Vivian on the Tuesday
morning, March 3, and remained there until Monday
morning, March 16, giving in all twelve seances.
Dr. Vivian later sent me on her reports. She wrote
to me on March 9, saying that although the first sitting
with Valiantine was not a very good one, at subsequent
sittings several " voices " had spoken, and she described
the Saturday sitting (March 7) as an excellent one-
sixteen " voices " having spoken. Dr. Vivian stated
that " while two ' voices' were speaking, simultaneously
Valiantine's voice was heard drawing the attention of
the other sitters to the two voices."
Apparently at the lateT sittings the results were not
so successful, and the intelligence of the " voices "
communicating was very confused.
The last sitting of the series was held on March: 13,
and this was a complete blank.
PROOFS OF FRAUD 877
Valiantine then returned to Mr. X for two days and
sailed for America on March 18.
When I saw Mr. X on the Friday, March 13, he told
me that he had himself made several luminous elastic
bands, and that he had instructed Valiantine to wear
these bands on his right and left ankles and right and
left wrists. Valiantine, I may mention, has, on certain
occasions, worn similar luminous bands at sittings at
which I have been present. The object of this, of
course, is that every movement of the medium may be
checked. I asked Dr. Vivian whether Valiantine had
worn luminous bands, and she told me that he had
produced them on one occasion, but that afterwards he
said he did not wish to wear them, as they might affect
the phenomena.
After Valiantine's departure Dr. Vivian invited me
to dine with her in London with Surgeon Admiral
Nimmo and Dr. Reid, who had been present throughout
the series with Valiantine. Both of these extremely
intelligent men took an impersonal and critical view of
the happenings of the series of sittings which they had
attended. Although they regarded the last two seances
as doubtful and negative, Surgeon Admiral Nimmo told
me that during Valiantine's visit he had had two
sittings with him in full daylight. The communicating
"voice," which he heard coming distinctly from within
the trumpet, gave intelligent and evidential communica-
tions. He was very impressed by this and arranged at
the second daylight sitting for a second doctor to be
present. These two doctors and Valiantine sat in a
triangle, and the " voices " were again heard speaking
distinctly and intelligently from the inside of the
trumpet. During the whole time that these " voices "
were manifesting- acute observation was kept by both
doctors upon Valiantine's face, in which they discovered
no movement whatever.
CHAPTER XII
KR. NOEL J'AQUIN' S REPORT ON THE IliPRINTS
Frida,, Febt114'fl 20, 19.31.
PRIOR to this sitting I carefully smoked two of the sheets
of foolscap paper over the candle. These were signed
by all of the people present, who agreed that they were
unmarked except for the signatures. This procedure waa
followed at all of the sittings. One sheet was placed on
the floor under a stool, the other was placed on blotting-
paper on top of the stool. A light celluloid trumpet,
marked with luminous paint, was placed in the middle of
the circle.
. . . . . . . .
When the lights were switched on at the conclusion of
the sitting, two impressions had been made-one on each
sheet of smoked paper. These I immediately fixed. The
im~ression on the sheet of paper on the top of the stool
claimed my attention. If this was a thumb-print, why
was the second joint - which the blurred impression
betra1,ed-more bulky and fleshy than the top jointP
(Exh1bit No. 1, p. 31t't)
The other impression on the second sheet was a thumb
joint with a curious indentation by its apex. (Exhibit
No. 2, p. 318.)
Saturday, FebrUGfJI 21, 1931.
On the following morning I carefully examined the
original imprints of the hands of the late Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle, which were taken by me in 1925. I could
find no roint of resemblance to the seance prints, the
origin o which I felt to be extremely doubtful. That
evening I again dined at Dorincourt, and at approxi-
mately the same time the second seance was held. The
same formalities were observed.
At the conclusion of the sitting, on one of the smoked
papers was found a clear skin imprint and also a sketchy
Impression, which one might presume to be the material-
ized hand of a child. (Exhibit No. 3, p. 324.) This
second "thumb" impression confirmed my suspicion of
the possibility of fraud; no thumb would ever show sueh
378
MR. NOEL JAQUIN'S REPORT 879
a clear impression of its second joint; no child's hand
would ever show its lines white, they would be black.
On the day following I examined these impressions
minutely under a glass, and I came to the conclusion
that they were not thumb imprints at all.
MondaJI, Febr~arJI 23, 1931.
During the morning I smoked some sheets of white
paper, and asked my secretary to make an impression
with her right big toe, tilted at an angle of roughly 45
degrees. The result was a similar reproduction to the
imprin~s obtained at the two Valiantine seances.
Unfortunately, the imprints obtained at these two
seances were not clear enough to afford definite proof of
fraud.
The third sitting held at Dorincourt this evening com-
menced at 8.50. Mr. Charles Sykes had brought with
him a small tin containing "modelling wax," which he
had placed on the top of the stool by the side of one of
the smoked papers.
At the conclusion of the sitting, when the lights were
switched on there appeared, on the top paper, two clear
impressions (Exhibit No. 5, p. 332). A clear imprint had
also been made on the "wax" (Exhibit No.7, p. 342) and
a fourth impression had been made on the paper under-
neath the stool (Exhibit No. 6, p. 334). I immediately
fixed the papers and then examined the impressions
closely; these confirmed my suspicions-they were not
thumb-prints.
I waited until the other sitters and the medium had
returned to the drawing-room, so leaving me alone with
Mr. Bradley. We then arranged that he should tell
t1iem that in order to disarm any possible adverse
criticism, should these prints prove to be supernormal,
it would be as well if all our toe-prints were taken. This
he did, and I then prepared some extra sheets of smoked
paper. I took my own "toe" impressions first.
George Valiantine was quite willing to give the
impression or his toes; in fact he helped himself to a
piece of the smoked paper and was preparing to put his
toe down on it, when I interrupted him- ! noticed that
he was going to give a perfectly flat impression. I
remarked: "Wait a minute, George, let me steady your
toe, I want it like this," and I tilted the toe slightly
to the edge. I noticed that Valiantine's big toes could
880 ... AND AFTER
be moved independently, like a thumb. These imprint.
I then fixed.
After making a cursory examination of the imprints
of Valiantine's left toe, I remarked that there was some
similarity between his and the "spirit, impressions.
This remark evoked from Valiantine symptoms of alarm;
he took the prints from me, and hardly glancing at them,
he said:
" I can't see any similarity. They're not at all the
same.''
Val'iantine now undoubtedly knew that we suspected
him, for he showed signs of nervousness.
. . . . . . . .
Althoufh it was early in the mornin~ when I reached
my flat a~ain very carefully exam1ned the "su~er­
normal , prmts, and compared these with the imprmts
of George Valiantine's toes. The prints alleged to be
supernormal impressions of Lord Dewar proved to be
normal impressions of Valiantine's left toe.
The next morning I saw Mr. Bradley at his office in
London, taking with me all the impressions that we had
obtained. It was essential that Valiantine should not be
allowed to become suspicious.
On Wednesday, February 25; Lady Conan Doyle and
her son, Adrian, sat with Valiantine at Dorincourt. Mr.
Bradley smoked a sheet of paper and placed it in the
centre of the circle. Late that night he telephoned me
to say that more imprints, but seemingly different ones,
had been given. I called at his office the next morning
and collected this fixed sheet (Exhibit No. 14, p. 350). No
"toe " impressions had been given, but there was one
which was discovered later to be the mark of an elbow
joint. Mr. Bradley and I discussed our course of action
at some length, and we agreed that at the next sitting
further proof must be obtained if possible. This sitting
was arranged for Friday, February 27.
To conclude the evidence of fraud, I suggested that I
be permitted to use a chemical. Mr. Bradley gave me a
free hand in the matter. So on the Friday afternoon I
prepared a tin of " modelling wax " in a " Craven A "
cigarette tin. In this I pressed a pound of l>lasticine,
rolled quite flat and smooth; I then spread a thin coating
of finger-print ink on the top; on this I sprinkled some
Methylene Green, which is an aniline dye of great
penetrative potency. Over the whole I sprinkled French
chalk, smoothing it with my fingers to give a smooth,
MR. NOEL JAQUIN'S REPORT 881
dry surface. The slightes~ touch would break t~e "skin "
of French chalk and stain whatever touched Its surface.
This prepared tin of " wax " I gave to Mr. Charles
Sykes.
Friday, February 27, 1931.
The papers having been smoked, one sheet was placed
on the top of the srool and one underneath. Mr. Sykes
produced the tin of '' wax. '' and placed it on the top of
the stool. The lights were switched out and the seance
began.
The sitting lasted a little over an hour. When the
lights were switched on, George Valiantine and the
sitters stooped forward to examine the smoked papers ;
Mr. Bradley gave a caution that they must not be touched
until they had been fixed. I immediately fixed the
impressions obtained, one of which appeared .to be the
outer edge of a little finger. Three indentations were
marked in the " wax."
After we had examined and discussed these imprints
I suggested that I might be permitted to take an impres-
sion of Valiantine's whole foot. Valiantine readily
agreed, and I took two impressions of his feet, including
the heels. There were no signs on his feet of Methylene
Green. I then left the room and brought in the enlarge-
ments of Valiantine's toe-prints and Monday's seance
prints. Valiantine started to argue, and I then asked
him if he would give me an impression of his little finger.
After I had obtained these impressions we examined
them, and I said to Valiantine :
" Can you explain why this ' spirit ' finger so closely
resembles yours P"
VALIANTINE: That's not my little finger.
N.J.: It looks suspiciously like it.
VALIANTINE (in anger): I'll bet you two hundred
pounds that is not my little finger.
N.J. : Then probably you have a dummy finger in
your pocketP
VALIANTINE (in greater anger): Look here, you can
search me.
Mr. Bradley then said he thought it was only right
that Valiantine should agree to be searched.
I ran through Valiantine's pockets and found nothing
of any interest; he then removed his coat and waistcoat.
I then examined the left arm, and, on his elbow, there
was a large " splodge " of finger-print ink and Methylene
Green, staining the skin.
882 ... AND AFTER
We asked Valiantine for an explanation; he refused
to say anything. He attempted to explain the mark on
his elbow by saying that the ecto~lasm had absorbed
the Methylene Green, and in returnmg to his body had
left a deposit of dye on his elbow. I examined his coat
sleeve to see if, on its outer surface, there was the stain
of the dye, which, if his hypothesis had been correct,
there should have been; there were no signs of stain on
the external surface of the coat.
Deductioru and ConclusiOfl.l
The use of the finger-print system in connection with
crime and its detection, and the system of classification,
was perfected by Sir Edward Henry. It has been
established that the chance of two finger-prints being
identical is one in sixty-four thousand million. It can,
therefore, be safely said that the finger-print system is a
perfect means of identification.
To establish survival as a definite, scientific fact, it
is quite reasonable that attempts should be made by those
interested in psychic research to obtain supernormal
imprints.
The method of identification by finger-prints is simple.
The ·
ridges are counted from a definite given point to
a fork or island; .the process is repeated as many times
as possible until a dozen or more points of similarity
are obtained. No two finger-prints are ever exactly
alike; the ·digital members are padded and the angle of
contact varies considerably. Added to this there are
various skin movements, and such secondary conditions
as the dryness or moisture of the skin, the·object touched,
and the media employed.
In this experiment, the media used were ordinary
white papers smoked over an ordinary candle so that a
light deposit of carbon particles was obtained. The
pressure of a finger on this carbon surface would result
in a clear photographic imprint, but owing to the ridges
of the skin, in which are mouths of tlie sweat glands,
being the hi~hest points, the ·ridges would be white and
the furrows black.
To make it easier for readers to establisli for tliem·
selves the similarity of the impressions, some of these
imprints have been photographically reversed so that the
ridges are now black and the furrows show white. It is
MR. NOEL JAQUIN'S REPORT 888
possible even to detect the mouths of the sweat glands
in the black lines, which are the ridges.
Toe-prints were given on the Friday, Saturday and
Monday, and at all these seances it was observed that
George Valiantine wore dancing- pumps and ordinary
black silk socks. After the impnnts of his toes had been
taken on Monday, on the following Friday evenin~,
February 27, he wore ordinary lace-ul? shoes, and he did
not attempt to give any further toe Imprints.
On Friday, the 20th, the first imprint was later dis-
covered to be a right toe. Owing to the normal impres-
sion being blurred it was impossible to obtain sufficient
data to establish fraud. On the second imprint obtained
at the same seance a peculiar indentation appears on the
left side, which destroys what should have been the
edge of the apex, rendering identification a matter of
some difficulty. This indentation, in my opinion, may
have been caused by the pressure of the nail of the index
finger on to the apex of the thumb. It is possible that
this may have been done with the deliberate intention
of obliterating the apex.
On the Saturday evenin~, one print was obtained
(Exhibit No. 3, p. 324), whiCh again appears to be the
impression of the right big toe. Owing to movement
the imprint is blurred. This is reproduced with an
imprint of the normal right toe, taken on the Monday
evening. (Exhibit No. 13, p. 346)
On the same sheet as the ' toe-print " (Exhibit
No. 3, p. 324) there appears an impression alleged to be
the spirit hand of "Honey." Close examination shows
this to be merely the outline of a hand. There are no
indications of any skin ridges, although lines, presumably
the main lines of the hand, are clearly seen. This im-
pression could have been made by a piece of card-
board or some similar substance, cut in the shape of a
hand and with the actual lines scored on the cardboard
with a sharp knife ; this would give the ridged impres-
sions and would account for the blurring at the edge of
the hand. No human hand or ectoplasmic impression
would give such a sharply defined edge.
On Monday, February 23, four impressions were
obtained that convict Valiantine of fraud. Three were on
smoked raper, and the fourth was an impression made on
"model ing wax" placed in the circle by Mr. Charles
Sykes. (Exhibits Nos. 5, 6, 7, :pp. 332, 334, 342.) On
.Wednesday, February 25, the s1tters were Lady Conan
884 •.. AND AFTER
Doyle, Mr. H . Dennis Bradley, Mr. Adrian Conan Doyle,
Mrs. Bradley, and George Valiantine. A photograph of
the entire sheet, as handed to me on the Thursday morning
by Mr. Dennis Bradley, is reproduced. (Exhibit No. 14,
p. 350.) One impression is obviously an elbow joint; this
is reproduced as a microphotograph. (Exhibit No. 19,
p. 368.)
On Friday, February 21, final and definite proof of
fraud was obtained. Numerous impressions were made
on the smoked paper, and further unidentifiable impres-
sions were made on the plasticine impregnated with
Methylene Green. Corresponding stains were found,
after the seance, on the left elbow of George Valiantine.
Elbow impressions were also marked on the smoked paper.
A microphotograph of one of them is reproduced,
together with an impression made normally on the smoked
paper. (Exhibit No. 19, p. 368.)
It is Impossible to identify an elbow impression in
the same way that a digital impression is identified, but
the similarity of the skin's configurations are observable.
A further impression obtained was that of a little finger.
In the "supernormal" impression there are signs of
slight movement. T·he finser had been stretched to its
fullest extent and the top JOint first carefully placed on
the paper; this resulted in slight movement when the
edge of the hand was lowered.1
Immediately after these discoveries, Mr. Bradley took
steps to warn other investigators with whom Valiantine
was to have sat. One of these, Mr. X, came to London,
and we showed him the microphotographs, together with
the original imprints, but he was unconvinced of fraud.
His hypothesis was that our suspicious attitude of mind
had resulted in the unconscious production of fraud.
He then produced an alleged "supernormal" impres-
sion which he had received on smoked paper at a seance
held at his house previously with George Valiantine. He
lent this to me, and I carefully examined the impressions
of George Valiantine's hands taken by me seven years
ago; and I found that this impression could be identified
with that of the middle finger of Valiantine's left hand.
1 NoTE BY H. D. B.-It was later proved that this impression of a
finger was not that of Valiantine's little finger. It was only after a
very careful study had been made, at my request, by ex-Chief hupector
W. T. Bell that he discovered certain points of similariry in com-
parieon with one of Valiantine' s middle fingers. Mr. Bell states,
however, that the data are not sufficient to determine definitely the
identity of the two impreaaions.
CHAPTER XIII
EX-CHIEF INSPECTOll W. T. BELL'S REPO:B.T ON THE IMPRINTS
I RECEIVED from Mr. H. Dennis Bradley photographic
copies of skin impressions (reproduced here, see Exhibit
No. 20, p. 386), with the request that I should pass an
opinion as to their identity.
Taking into account the general character of these
impressions, and the contour shown by the skin ridge
lines, there is little doubt that the imprints are those of
the end joint of a digit impressed down to, and including,
the flexure of the joint.
These impressions do not reveal the whole of the
surface of the digit, but in each case a large portion of
the same area is disclosed, which provides sufficient data
to allow identity, or non-identity, to be determined.
Rid~e characteristics differ in type. They may appear
as a rtdge bifurcation in an ul>ward or downward duec-
tion, a ridge abruptly ending 1n its course, or disclose a
lake formation, etc.
Both the impressions submitted to me are, without
doubt, of th& same type of pattern, and disclose skin
ridge characteristics which agree, not only in type, but
also in the sequence in which they appear. In short,
the peculiarities shown in one impression are to be found
reproduced in the other. Eighteen of these clearly
defined ridge characteristics, which are in agreement,
are marked in each case by means of lines drawn and
numbered.
A brief description of the points enumerated is as
follows:
Commencing with Point marked No. 1, it will be seen
that the ridge indicated bifurcates in a downward
direction at this point.
Point No. 2 shows a ridge ending in an upward direc-
tion, and, counting in a direct line, is the eighth ridge
from Point No. 1.
Point No. 3 will be observed to be a ridge ending in a
downward direction there being but one ridge interven-
ing between this point and Point No. 2.
385 N
Exhibit No. 20
The left photograph ia an enlargement of the aaper-
normal imprel8ion of one of the alleged Lord Dewar
imprinta, obtained on February 23, 1931. at a ahmce
held of Dorincourt, under the mediamahip of George
Valiantine.
The rieht photograph ia an enlargement of one of
the normal impre..iona of Valiantine'• left toe.
T hue photograph• haue been reversed ao thot the
ridge• ahow more dearlJI aa thick. blaclc linea. The
eighteen point• of aimilarity in the two impreaaiona
have been marJc.ed by Mr. W. T. Bell, ex-Chief
lnapector in Charge, the Finger-print Bareaa, New
Scotland Yard, who atatea that theae impreuiona crre
identical, and are there/ore imprint. of the acrme dip
of tlte aame peraon.
0
('I
0
z
W. T. BELL'S REPORT 887
Point No. 4 is a rid~e ending abruptly in an upward
direction, and is the thud ridge from Point No. 3.
Point No.6 is a ridge bifurcating in an upward direc-
tion. It forma a junction with the same ridge again at
Point No. 1. A long lake formation is the result between
these two points.
Point No. 6 is a ridge ending in a downward direction,
and if the next ridge to the right be traced in an
upward direction it will be found to end abruptly at
Point No. 2.
Point No. 7 is a ridge forking in an upward direction,
and is the third rid~e from Point No. 6.
Point No. 8 is a bifurcation upwards, and is the fourth
ridge from Point No. 7.
Point No. 9 is a ridge ending downwards, and is the
second ridge from Point No. 8.
Point No. 10 is a ridge forking upwards, the limbs of
the fork passing to the right and left of ridge No. 9.
Point No. 11 is a ridge ending in an upward direction
and is the second from Point No. 10. Follow the ridge
immediately below Point No. 11 towards the left, and it
will be found to fork towards the centre of the impressions
at the Point marked No. 12.
Point No. 13 is a ridge ending towards the left, and
is the sixth ridge from Point No. 12.
Point No. 14 is a bifurcation to the left, with one
ridge intervening between this Point and Point No. 12.
Point No. 16 is a ridge ending to the right, and is the
second ridge from Point No. 14.
Point No. 16 is a ridge bifurcating to the left, and is
the fourth ridge from Point No. 16.
Point No. 17 shows a ridge ending to the left, and is
the second ridge below Point No. 16.
Point No. 18 is a ridge ending in a downward direction,
and is the third ridge from Point No. 16. A striking
triangular formation at Point No. 16 will be noticed if
traced from this Point towards the left.
The ridge characteristics disclosed by these two
imprints-if checked and cross-checked together-will be
found to be in absolute agreement.
After having been engaged for many years continuously
and solely on finger-print work, I can only say that I
have never found or known such a coincident sequence of
ridge characteristic data to exist in any two digital
impressions, unless the imprints were those of the same
digit. Therefore I do not hesitate to say that these
888 ..• AND AFTER
impressions are identical, and are those of the same digit
of one and the same person.
With regard to this matter, I wish it to be understood
that my attitude is that of a finger-print expert only.
The imprint produced on the left of the exhibit (see
Exhibit No. 21 on opposite page) is partly blurred, and,
judging by the contour of the rtdge lines, is of a finger
Impressed on its right side when looked at from the back.
This reveals a limited area only, and, consequently,
few skin ridge characteristics are available for purposes
o£ comparison, or contrast, with any digital impression.
I have, however, marked the clearly defined ridge
characteristics disclosed in this imprint, together with
an exact seq"Q.ence of similar characteristics shown in the
right hand side of the complete impression reproduced on
the right of the exhibit.
Such scanty data do not, of course, determine
definitely the identity of any two impressions.
Seeing, however, that nothing of a dissimilar character
appears in the area comparable, some suspicion exists in
my mind that these impressions are of tile same finger.
This suspicion becomes much stronger when it is
understood that only a few persons were present when
the imprint was obtained.
(Signed) W. T. BELL.
ez-Chief Inspector in Charge,
Finger-Print Bureau,
New Scotland Yard.
I. 2.
ExHIBIT No. 21 .
1. Enlargement of end joint of the finger print alleged to be that of the late
Sir H enry Scgrave, obtained on the smoked paper at the seance held
at Dorincourt on Friday, February 27th, 1931.
2. Enlargement of end joint of the right middle finger of George Valiantinc.
The points of similarity are marked by ex-Chief InspectorW. T . Bell.
[to face page 388.
CHAPTER XIV
TliB LAST CHAPTB:a
The riN and fall of V alianfine-Maferialmn and dectJJr-Fiaff•'JI and
moneg-Hei6hf• and deptla.--Spiritaaliam and ita proble,.._The
.tud11 of P•Jichic~The herd-The ao-called " Societiea ''-The
" half and halfer• ,.-Propagandi.ta and demagogau-Spiritual-
Um a a reli6ion-.A farce--Evidence• of .aroil)(Jl-The futilifJI
of the Sodfdi~The SpiritualW Church~Banalitiee and
platitude.-.A deep problem-Mil advice-The danger• of the atud11
-S_pirit communication ie not a reli6fon--The e•tabliehed Churchea
-Their attitude--The evil• of medium.hip-The mental .train-
The Catholic Church and ita affitude--The Church of En6land
-The /ewiah faith-Sporadic phenomena are n~ the worahip of
God-P.,chical reaearch a .cience for the feu>-Shadea of good
and evil-Conclaeion.-The moat dit1icult word /or man to write.
THE rise and fall of Valiantine presents an intriguing
psychological study.
The records of h1s phenomenal mediumship prove that
at the time he was at the height of his powers he could
be accounted as the most remarkable physical medium in
history. Later, when his mentality developed a material-
istic outlook, decay set in. His reason for attempting
these imprint frauds will remain incomprehensible. He
was receiving no money from me, and for him to imagine
that in the presence of imprint experts he could commit
f,alpable fraud and escape detection was a sign of sheer
unacr. ,with the actual personal imprints of famous
men 1n our possession, only a madman would offer his
big toe for comparison. Yet Valiantine, despite his
illiteracy, is by no means a stupid man.
Powerful objective mediums, such as Valiantine,
p_
ossess a strain of abnormality. From my observation of
him, from the first moment of his last-and final-visit,
it was certainly apparent that he had developed a form
of megalomania. Flattery, adulation, and the gifts of
large sums of money had led him to imagine himself a
man of super importance. Since adopting professional
mediumship Valiantine became unquestionably the
389
890 ..• AND AFTER
highest paid living medium. In these hard times there
are few men who can command the sum of four or five
hundred pounds a week for their services. Considering
the marvellous accumulation of 1ubjective phenomena-
i.e., incontrovertible mental evidence g~ven in the
" direct voice " on matters completely outside his know-
ledge-it remains an enigma that he should have
attempted such palpable and stupid objective fraud. No
man in his right senses would destroy a brilliant reputa-
tion br. imbecile and meaningless acts, with the distinct
possibility-even probability-of a ruinous discovery.
The fact of Valiantine's fraudulently produced toe-
print cannot negative or explain the fact that, under the
mediumship of this imperfectly educated and semi-
illiterate American provincial, Archaic Chinese was
spoken by the "voice " of " K'ung-fu-T'zu" on several
occasions, during which this " voice " discussed abstruse
problems in Chinese literature. Here again is an example
of the heights and depths.
. . . . . . . .
In my intensive study of psychical research, and my
observations of the cult of spiritualism, I have discovered
that there are deeper problems to be considered than
those which are outwardly apparent.
I have been careful to record meticulously the facts of
my experiences, irrespective of their tendencies towards
good or bad. The deeper problem is one which I have
weighed and considered during the last few years.
Taken scientifically, ~sychical research represents an
absorbing study. In 1ts present state, it 18 a subject
which should be studied only by those who possess a
sound knowledge of its various intricacies. That super-
normal phenomena do occur, and that genuine com-
munication with " spirit entities " is, in certain C88etl,
possible and practicable, has, in my opinion, been
definitely and scientifically proved.
As a result of these proofs, a vast multitude, totalling
millions, in all parts of the world, have branded them-
selves as " spiritualists," and, with the herd instinct,
many sections have sought to found a new religion.
There exist also, in practically every country, certain
sections which label themselves "psychical researchers."
These sections consider themselves superior in intelli~nce
to the spiritualists; and the spiritualists consider them-
selves, often by reason only of some alleged communica~
tion from " Black Eagle," or "Pink Feathers," u
THE LAST CHAPTER 891
infinitely mo1·e ethereal than mere mundane-minded
researchers.
As I'D impartial student, I have had ample oppor-
tunities of observinS' both sections. As for the so-called
Societies for PsychiCal Research, I have found that no
research whatever is made by them, but that their
activities are chiefty devoted to bitter and prejudiced
attacks upon all forms of su.Pernormal phenomena, which
they happen to find inexphcable.
So far as the English S.P.R. is concerned, it would
certainly appear only logical and dignified for it to cease
to pretend to function, since its present officials deny all
existence of supernormal phenomena. From its own
publications it is obvious that its 1'aison d'et1'e is at an
end. The jaundiced attitude exhibited towards the care-
fully compiled work of scientists might be regarded as
vicious, were it not discounted by fanaticism. Strangely
enou~h, many of these antagonistic types are so peculiarly
constituted that they hang on to the subject, just as a
jealous lover will hang on to a mistress for the perverse
pleasure of tormenting her. They han~ on viciously, in
the hope of gaining an opportunity to Injure or destroy.
Any such opportunity !or harm provides them with a
sadistic mental emotion.
There is also a very considerable section of "half and
halfers." This section forms itself into further Societies,
and endeavours to obtain the respe.ct of the populace by
adopting high-sounding titles, such as the " Inter-
national Laboratory of So-and-So "-or the " British
Empire Institution of This and That., Such societies,
whilst posing as scientific, ftirt with the spiritualistic
sections, and are thus enabled to attract more members
to their Associations. And when one studies the faces
of the ordinary members of these so-called Psychical
Research Societies, one observes the unattractive signs
of their obsession. Their worried expressions are, if
anything, more disturbing than the vacuous stupidity
of the simple-minded, enthusiastic, and credulous
spiritualists.
Spiritualistic societies, during the last decade, have
sprung up all over England, and all over the worlJ.
International Unions are being formed by propagandists,
and vulgar demagogues, seizing their opportunities, are
surging forward to lead the mob.
My experience during the last eight years of my studies
of the various forms of mediumship in many hundreds of
892 •.. AND AFTER
seances, in addition to the develo:pment of my own
:personal " direct voice " mediumsh1p, qualifies me to
JUdge and express a considered opinion upon values and
upon tendencies.
Spiritualism is now being foisted on the public as a
new religion. I assert deliberately that, as a religion,
it is a farce. Tinpot little churches are being erectAd
all over the country; irresponsible spiritualistic tub-
thumpers are ap.Pointmg themselves as preachers of a new
gospel; dud clauvoyants are giving banal exhibitions at
theu church services under the blasphemous guise of
spirituality. Boring and ill-written hymns are sung;
hypocritical prayers are intoned by vulgar and crafty
mediums; and the name of God is dragged into abysmal
mud.
Bemused enthusiasts proclaim that because "White
Feathers," speaking through the mouth of some alleged
medium-in Lancashire accents and pid~in-English-·has
announced to the world that reincarnation is a fact, we
must all at once prepare ourselves to be reincarnated.
Obsession becomes so fixed that every word spoken by an
alleged spirit communicant is accepted as fundamental
and omnipotent truth. "White Feathers," having lived
his life as a Red Indian on the prairies, is, of course,
9,ualified to know; even though, being a particularly
' happy" soul, he has not yet decided when to make
his second appearance in the flesh on earth.
Reincarnation, says "White Feathers," is necessary
for man's development. "Every time, in every way,
man gets betterer and betterer.''
It would be dull to reiterate " .White Feathers' " or
"Black Tomahawk's" solemn pronouncements, but
" reincarnation " is accepted as a belief by very consider-
able sections of the credulous. It has no scientific or
logical foundation. There exist certain evidences of
man's survival' as a " spirit entity " in some other
sphere, the proofs of which are the retention ofhis memory.
But no evidence has ever been produced of anyone exist-
ing on earth who has been able to prove that he remem-
berS' his previous existence. The argument that man
arrives at perfection by innumerable reincarnations on
earth is singularly inept to-day. One scans the horizon
in vain for some signs· of these supermen.
I have stat~d earlier in.this book that I hav.e .resiKD~d
my membership or the variOUS Research and Spultuahstlc
Societies to which I belonged. The reason for my
THE LAST CHAPTER 898
resignation was that these Societies suppress the truth.
Personally I see no need for any of them. They exist
only to keep a few officials, or as institutes to which
wealthy spinsters may leave bequests. The majority of
the Spiritualist Churches all over England are perpetu-
ally begging for money. I receive hundreds of letters
asking me for contributions. I have found the same
thing with the London Societies-the eternal begging for
funds. When I say that from no Psychical Research
Society nor from any Spiritualistic Society have I ever
gained one solitary suggestion of value in my studies one
may realize the extent o£ their futility.
As for the Spiritualist Churches, their services may
offer some appeal to the illiterate mind, but as a form of
worship I regard them as deplorable and subversive.
Their ritual is on a low plane, and is uninspired and
ignorant. The platitudinous banalities of their preachers,
so often tinged with the suggestion of pseudo-mysticism,
are repulsive to any develoJ?ed intelligence.
The theory of man's surv1val was accepted long before
the fact was ascertained. Survival is the fundamental
basis of all the finely evolved religions that have existed
for centuries. An intuitive acceptance of faith is more
refined than a tardy recognition of fact. Those who are
attempting to form a new religion of " Spiritualism "
should realize that naked facts-unclothed by sound
philosophy-can be extremely vulgar.
I have stated that in the study of '' spirit communica-
tion" a deep problem is involved. From the thousands
of letters I have received I am fully aware of the
tremendous desire which exists in the minds of most
human beings to communicate again with those whom
they have lost. With considerable patience and persever-
ance such communication, in some cases, can be achieved.
When such proof has been established to the satisfaction
of the ordinary man and woman, I would then advise
them to leave all experiments with professional mediums
severely alone; if they wish to continue their psychic
studies they should do so privately, and in the sanctuary
of their own homes. In my own research I have been
fortunate enough to achieve the purpose upon which I
set out. I have proved, with considerable toil, to my
own satisfaction, that man survives bodily death. So I
believe can this fact be proved by any scie·ntist who is
prepared to sacrifice the time, and endure the pains of
the labour involved.
894. ••• AND AFTER
So far as the promiscuous study of this vast subject is
concerned, and the important question as to whether It ia
advisable for the majority of those who are compelled to
provide for and live their lives on earth to enter upon it,
my answer must be reserved. It depends entirely upon
the individual. In " direct" voice communication, when
one is in contact with intelligent and :personally known
entities, conversations can be held which are beautiful
and inspiring, but it must be realized that when once
the channels of communication are opened, lower and
less intelligent entities are also, at times, afforded oppor-
tunities. It u beoau1e of thi1 dange,. that i.f I tDef'e
tuked: "z, the tendency of ' 1pirit'Uali1m ' in iu fWUent
public form toward8 good Of' evil ? '' I tDould f'epl1J that
it is 10 often mi1used and abu1ed, that the genef'al
tendency il towards evil.
" SP.irit communication " is not a religion; it is a
scientific discovery which ia in the stages of infancy.
The searcher after knowledge must inevitably meet
with set-backs, accidents, and handicaps. The fraudulent
actions of certain professional mediums no more affect
the value of the science itself than the fraudulent action
ot a banker affects the practice of banking. But fraud
and imposture, when practised under the cloak of
religion, become blasphemy.
The established religions have been founded and built
upon a fine and cultured philosophy. So far as this
country is concerned, the Church of England and the
Roman Catholic Church are based upon a solid founda-
tion, and their services are conducted with dignity and
reverence. Throughout the many years of my psychic
studies my attitude towards the Spiritualist Churches
has remained unchanged. The conclusions expressed in
my previous psychic books regarding the religious aspect
remain unaltered. I was educated a Roman Catholic and
I remain a Roman Catholic.
The attitude of the Roman Catholic Church towards
spiritualism is antagonistic. She has been wise enough
not to deny that communication with SJ>irits is possible,
but she has discounted and discouraged it by the con-
tention that only evil spirits communicate with humnn
beings. Although this broad contention is incorrect, as
I have proved by personal communication with many
individual spirits, yet, at the same time, it is unquestion-
able that in the lower grades of mediumship there are
innumerable evil, lying, and impersonating entities seek-
THE LAST CHAPTER 895
ing chan.nels of communication, with the result that
many seances which are held are of a degrading character,
and in such cases the practice is unhealthy and morbid.
It has also to be considered that even when brilliant
phenomena take place, they evolve a great mental strain,
and a dominating aftermath of mental occupation, which
can only be borne by the strongest of minds.
For nearly two thousand years, despite her rigid
autocracy, the Roman Catholic Church has furthered an
artistic culture which survives. Her very sensuality is
creative, and makes a wondrous appeal. Beethovt!n,
Weber, Haydn, Mozart, Gounod, and other gruat
composers have given to the Church the divine inspiration
of their music, just as many of the world's greatest
painters and sculptors have paid tribute with their art.
Gorgeous vestments and jewelled caskets are made 1o
adorn the interior of wonderful cathedrals and stately
chapels. To seek to replace such artistry and beauties
by banal services conducted by ignorant and illiterate
mediums and preachers, with confused ideas and a
smattering of knowledge, is absurd.
I am on intimate terms with several of the leaders of
the Catholic Church and the Church of England. They
have discussed my psychical studies with me at consider-
able length. An international institution, such as the
Roman Catholic Church, moves warily, and considers
very carefully the forms of government by which the
unintelligent mass may be led.
There are at present very few mediums of any value
in England, but there are innumerable undeveloped
mediums of a low order, through whom spirit entities of
a similar low order may endeavour to communicate. Like
attracts like. There are deceptions and vulgarities among
these entities just as there are among the many living
beings whom we meet in life. It 1s only logical 1.o
assume that relative good and evil exist in all the many
spheres of existence beyond the planet upon which we
are now living. Therefore, I am in accord with the
wisdom of the Roman Catholic Church in not encouraging
indiscriminate psychic ex~eriments, until such times as
the means of communication are more fully developed,
and the value and integrity of the communications are
more critically analysed.
I am neither insular nor bigoted. As I respect the
dignity of the Catholic faith, so do I respect the dignity
of the Church of England, and the dignity of the Jewish
896 ... AND AFTER
faith, the solid foundations· of which have withstood the
tests of time. But I have no respect for the spiritualistic
so-called Churches, based on a mushroom foundation of
sporadic phenomena. Such phenomena, whether true or
false, are not the worship of God, and do not supply the
place o£ any serious religion or histo1·ic creed.
Psychical research is a science, the study of which, in
its .Present stages, should be undertaken only by the few.
It 1s a science in which there are many pitfalls, and,_at
times, considerable danger. Dangers exist, both physical
and mental, which are imperfectly understood.
Spiritualism, as a modern belief, has attracted the
imagination of millions of people of all nationalities. It
has become a "cult." That supernormal phenomena do
exist is unquestionable. That the cult of Spiritualism ia
widely contaminated by fraud is also unquestionable.
The scientific researcher must impartially appraise the
value of all that is genuine, and rigidly discard all that
is false. He must be coldly impersonal in the knowledge
that falsity pulsates with truth. He must be a physicist
and a psychologist. He must realize that, whilst falsity
may often lead to the discovery of truth, so also will
truth be the means by which falsity is unmasked.
In psychics, the great unscientifically-minded mass,
who have made a few trifling and indiscriminate experi-
ments, expose themselves to the dangers of obsession.
This engenders a narrow perspective, and is liable to
have a detrimental effect upon the healthy living of life.
The condition of the world to-day, politically,
economically, socially, and morally, does not exh1bit
encouraa-ing signs of man's progress. Our so-called
civilization is still barbaric. Only a glimmer of intelli-
gence is to be observed here and there, and the majority
of those inhabiting this speck of a planet have still to
learn the alphabet of the Universe. Our conceptions
are limited, and the processes of evolution are slow.
The psychologist _
seeks to discover the purpose of life,
and the possibility of an after-life.
My faith in man's survival is now immutable.
That faith has been confirmed by knowledge.
In the course of the acquisition of knowledge I have
become familiar with the contrasting--and sometimes
intermingling-shades of good and evil.
All creation pulsates and alternates in the throes of
good and evil.
All that I have attempted in these pages is to present
THE LAST CHAPTER 897
with Justice, sincerity, and truth, a summary of my
psychic studies.
It remains for those who read to draw their uwn
conclusions.
They may then discover that the most difficult word
for man to write is
PINIS
INDEX
ADcoac, ST. jOHN, 320..321
Adler, Fred, 195
Auau8toni, Mrs. Maria, 193
B.w>E.R, MARIA, 174, 210
Barkell, Mr.• 312
Barkell, Mrs., 26, 37-43, S.f, 57,
87, 89-94, 311-312, 321
Baylis, Batten, 217-231
Baylie, Mn. Batten, 217-231.
322, 342
Baylis, Mi• Q., 62, 66, 69,
74
Beck-Rzikoweti, Gra6n Bianca,
118, 136, 163
Begouchi, Mr., 195
Bell, Ex-Chief Inspector W. T.,
365, 375-376, 384, 385-388
Bellavita, Commander S., 193
Berlin Society for Scientific
Occultism, 107, I 17
Be8tertnaD, Theodore, 123, 199-
210, 213-21S
Bethell, Hon. Richard, 308-309
Bethell, Hon. Mrs. Richard, 308-
309
Bevan, Mi.. Faith, 94
Birkenhead, Lord, 48
Biuon, Mme., 208
Blake, Mrs. Sally, 256
Bon, Count, 186, 189, 192-197
Bond, Mr. Bligh, 195-197
Bazzano, Profeaeor Emeeto, 97
171-172, 175-176, 178-179, 190-
191, 202-203, 208
Bradley, D. Anthony, 31, 33, 35,
55, 315, 317, 329
Bradley, Pat, 33, 35, 43, 80, 82,
88, 90-93, 97, 160, 301-302
Britieh College of Peyc:hic
Science, 74, 229, 237-240, 243-
259, 260, 269-270, 272, 276
Bryans, Mrs. Mortimer, 139-140,
263, 267. 277. 282-283
CANNON, jUDCE w. M., 101
Cantlon, Mrs., S.f-62
Carpenter, Mrs. Emma, 258
Caatellini, Mr., 178, 181-183, 186
Compton, Miu Fay, 64-65
Confucius, 95, 99, 101-106, 390
Cooper, Mrs. Blanche, 32
Cooper, Dr. H., 140
Corbett, Uooel, 342
Cosma, Oscar, 193
Craig, Mra. Gordon, 23
Crandon, Dr., 192-195, 208, 372-
373
Crandon, Mrs. ('' Margery ••
q.v.), 189, 192, 194-196, 206.
272, 372-373
Crauford, Commander Quentin,
R.N., 205
Craze, George, 226
Curry, Rev. Nellie, 258
DE BRATH, STANLEY, 206-207
De Crespigny, Mrs. R., 238,
251, 257-258
De Kakucs, Barone•, 83-84
Deliua, Miae, 341-343
Del Lunog, Profeaeor Carlo, 19.3
De Walden, Lord Howard, 263,
267
899
400 INDEX
Dewar, Lord, -48, 97, 3.30, 331-
332, 334, 337-339, 380, 386
De Wyckoff, Joseph, 139-140,
288
Dingwall, E. J.. 200
Doring, Student, 138, 146-147
Dowden, Profeuor Edward, 27.
69
Dowden, Mrs. Heeter, 27, 69
Doyle, Adrian Conan, 345-352,
380, 384
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 27, 32,
35, 199-204, 207, 214-215, 230-
231, 313-317, 319-323, 324, 339-
340, 345-352, 373-374, 378
Doyle, Lady, 314, 321-322, 345-
352, 380, 384
Dreiech, Professor Hans, 164-166
Dribbel, Ales. L., 226
Dunn, Denia, 274-275
•• EvA c.:· 206
Evana, Caradoc, 139-140, 315
Evana, Mrs. Caradoc, 139-140
FANCEUJ, MRs., 182
Ford, Arthur, 237, 272
GALSWORTHY, jOHN, 320
Garrett, Mrs. Eileen, 26, 44-49,
54, 74-78, 329
Gatliff, Mr., 200
Gavin, Mrs., 37, 87, 88-93, 218-
224, 228
Geley, Dr., 208
Gibin, Antonio, 193
Gordon, Miss Marjorie, ~-95
Gow, David, 218, 341-343
Graham, Mrs. Alice, 94
Graham, Miss Winifred, 94
Grandi, Mr., 195
Grandi, Mrs., 19S
Gray, Mrs., 195
Grinling, Denia, 225
Gunther, Hans, 111-112
Gunther, Mrs., 111-112
HAac, MRs. KEu.v. 176, 178,
181-182, 184-188, 193
Hall, Sir Edward Marshall, 26,
44-49, 329
Hall, Miss Radcliffe, 19, 29
Hamilton, A. A., 236-259, 261-
262
Hamilton, Mrs. Bertha Holtz,
236-259. 261-262
Hamilton, Duchess of, 341-343
Hamilton, Count Richard, 250,
261-263, 268-269
Hankey, Mrs., 238, 244-245
Harrieon, Austin, 111, 283
Harrison, Mrs. Austin, 277-278,
282-284
Hawken, Frank, 243-250, 258
Hawken, Mrs., 244-245
Hay, Mrs., 263, 266, 277, 281
Henderson, Admiral Wilhed,
226-227. 342
Henry, Sir Edward, 382
Home, D. D., 207
Hooman, C. V. L., 87, 90-93
Hope, Lord Charles, 79, 82, 85-
86, 94-96, 98-100, lOS
Husk, Cecil, 33
Huskinson, Edward, 263, 266
jAQUJN, NoEL, 85, 86, 155-156,
172, 219-224, 228, 293. 296-
.302, 310-317, 319-323, 331-335,
336-339, 345, 351, 353-364, 365,
372-377. 378-384
Jessup, W. C., 261
Jones, Sir Lawrence, 200
l<AHL-TOUKHOLKA, MME., 206
Kasnacich, Professor johan.Des,
173
King, john, 33
Kroner, Dr. W., 113, 116-144,
148, 150, 155, 160. 163, 166-
167, 169-174, 210, 212, 214, 228
Kroner, Frau, 141, 144-1-48. 174
K'ung-fu-T'zu 95, 99, 101-106,
390
INDEX 401
l...ANa:Rono, CoMMANDER A., 193
laW'vig, Countoaa Ahlefeldt, 85,
86, 96, 98
Leonard, Mra. Oaborne, 2-f, 29-
36,54
L'Eatrange, Mr., 232-235
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 155, 211-212
London Spiritualiat Alliance,
217, 229-230
MACKAlL, DENNIS, 83-&4
McKittrick, Mr., 9-f
McKittrick, Mre., 89
Malmeabury, Suaan, Counteaa
of, 23
•• Margery."' 189, 192, 19-f-196,
206, 272, 372-373
Marylebone Spirltualiat Auocia,.
tion, Ltd., 217, 226, 229-230,
237-239, 2-+3-250, 253, 258
Middleton, Royan, 227
Miller, J. W., 219-224, 227
Muruo, Dr., 359
Murphy-Lydy, Mra. Mary, 243.
245, 2S0..252, 256, 257-258. 260-
276, 301
Mutze, O.wald, 210
NATIONAL LABoRATORY OF PSYCHI·
CAL REsEARCH, SO, 229, 232-235
Neileon-Terry, Dennia, 9-f.95
Neilaon-Teny, Mi.. Phyllis, 260,
262-264, 266, 277. 280, 284-285
Newton, Mi.. 1., 126
Nimmo, Surgeon Admiral, 377
OAXES, jAMES, 227
Ould, Hermon, 320
PALADINA, USAPJA, 207
Palmer, E. Clepham, 8S, 87
Pelliaeier, Harry, 65, 95
Pierce, Mn. Sarah E., 256
Piper, Mra., 205
Plaatz, Frau Lotta, S0-53
Powell, Evan, 3-+2
Price, Harry, 213, 232-235
Paychical Reae~uch, Society for,
19. 22, 29, 32, 124, 158, 164.
198-216. 391
QuADE, DR., 107-113, 118-121,
136, IS.f, 166-167
REID. DR., 377
Richarda, Rev. Nina Challen,
258
Richardaon, Dr. Mark, 19S
Richardaon, Mra., 195-196
Richet, Profeuor Charlea, 208
Ridley, Miaa Hazel, 277-286
Ripple, Rev. Mabel, 258
Rodano, Captain Giovanni, 193
Roeai, P. E., 97, 175, 191
Roui, Mrs., 97, 175-191
Rothy, Carl, 204
SALTER, W. H., 200, 204, 211,
21-f
Scales, Mrs., 26, S.f, 63-68, 75
Scatchard, Felicia, S6
Schneider Brothers, The, 1JJ7
Schneider, Rudi, liS
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron, ll.f,
13-f, 17-f, 203, B
Schuppe, Col011el and Mra., 118
Schwab, Dr. and Mra., 118, 166
Scott, Mra. C. A. Dawaon, .f.f,
320
Scotto, Marquis Centurione, 97,
175-191
Segrave, Sir Henry, 357-359, 388
Shaw, Bernard, 155
Silbert, Frau Maria, 206
Soal, S. G.. 32
Solovovo, Count Perovaky-
Petrovo-, 208-210
Sproull, Robert, 237-259
Sunner, Dr., 115, 118, 173
Sykes, Charles, .fa, 232-235, 297-
301, 310..317, 319-323, 327, 331-
335, 337, 3-+2, 351, 353-364,
379, 381, 383
402 INDEX
Sykea, Mrs., 191, 310-317, 319·
323, 331.335, 353.36-f
TACUAPIETRA, MRs. Hu.oA, 193
Thrond.en, Rev. Anna, 256
Thur.ton, Rev. Herbert, 322
Troubridge, Una, Lady, 19, 29-
30
VAts-ARm, MRs. BrANCA NuNES,
193
Valle, Mrs. Pierina, 193
Veatol, Maaaio, 261
Vivian, Dr. Margaret, 290.295,
~1-~3. 365, 368, 374, 376.377
Vlaato, Mrs., 94
Von Dirbm, Frau, 112.121, 124,
127, 131·134, 139, 141-144, 148-
162, 169·171
Von L., Baron, 167.169
Von P., Baroneea E., 162-163
Von Reuter, Florizel, 107-108,
117, 173
WAU.Aa, DR. ABRAHAM, 359
Wallace, Russell, 343
Walther, Dr. Gerde, 114-IIS
Welle, H. G.. 22
West, Rebecca, 22
White, Jamee, 31, 3S-36
Wbymant Dr. Nmlle, 86, 99,
101-106
Wodehouae, P. G., 83-84, 94
Woolley, Dr. V. J., 29
X, MR.• 'JIJ7, 289.294, 312-313,
366-369, 371.377
Z£rrSCHRIFT FUR PARAPSYatOL-
OCIE, 126, 208
Zeller, Dr. Gu.tave, 173
By H. DENNIS BRADLEY
••• And A/ter. Crown 8vo. 24 illustrations. 10s. 6d. net.
After yean of inteMive atudy and experience, the author sums
up his conclusioM, and while they are likely to be approved by
purely acientific re.earchen, they are alao likely to prove of a
aomewhat atartling nature to a certain school of apiritualiata. In
hia analysis Dennis Bradley deals fairly with the good and evil
aide, and penetrates deeply into the psychological aapecta. He is
juat but mercileaa in his expoeure of &aud. He criticizea with a
ruthleee candour the attempta .that are being made to spread
epiritualiam aa a religion.
The Wisdom of the Gods. (15th thousand.) A new and
heavily revised popular edition. 3s. 6d. net.
In The Wisdom of the Gods there is recorded the proceu by
which Dennis Bradley discovered the method which haa rendered
it poe.ible for ue to get into direct contact and direct Yoice com-
munication with the beings of another world.
Towards the Stars. (25th thousand.) 3s. 6d. net.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle aaya of Mr. Dennis Bradlet'• two books,
ToWGrda the Stars and The Wiac:lom of the Gods: • It is impo•
sible to exaggerate the service which Mr. Bradler's devoted and
aelf-aacrificing work had rendered to Psychic Science. If our
whole knowledge depended upon the evidence given in these
two booke, it would be ample for any reasonable man."
Not /or Fools and Adam and Eve. (20th thousand.)
2s. 6d. net.
•• The book ia aa alive aa a hurricane of wind."'-Riawm KINC
in The Tafler.
•• Mr. Bradley makes episrama with devutating effect.••-DailJI
EJCPreu.
The Eternal Masquerade. (Revised Edition- 62nd
thousand.) 3s. 6d. net.
•• A pungent criticism on human life and human problema."-
San~lJ!I Times.
''Written with a Latin grace. Every woman ahould read this
ttaY review of modes, materials, and morals.'"-Times LitetG'fl
Supplement.
The Times: " He calla a bustle a bustle, and other thinp by
their names, with embarraaaing &ankneu."
The Daily News: " It ia very impudent; but it Ia very cleYer."
Sybaritea. A Comedy in Three Acts. Crown 6vo. Cloth.
3s. 6d. net.
Thia clever and witty play appeared in ita original literary form
in Mr. Bradley's book, The Natural State. In the stage 'Yet'sion,
aa presented at the Art.a Theatre and again later at the Royalty
Theatre, Mr. Bradley haa lightened the humour and the satire
and added to the dramatic effects.
The Natural State. (10th thousand.) Crown 6vo. 3s. 6d.
net.
The book consists of a physiological study, in which the Uvea
and characters of certain types of the life of to-day are analysed
and developed with a sane and mercile• candour, without bias
and without prejudice, from the point of view of an acute
observer. The author"a method ia coldly analytical. Hia types
are studied and he presents them as he sees them-right or wrong,
In themselves, they represent living tendencies of the day,
tendencies that outht not to be and cannot be lpored.
T. WERNER LAURIE LTD.
#
BARRY PAIN
Three Omnibus Volumes
HUMOROUS STORIES By BARRY PAIN. With
frontispiece portrait and an Introduction by ALFRKD
NOYES.
768 paeea. s.. 6d.
In this fine volume are reprinted ~n of the old humorous
favourites, which have in separate form sold steadily for many
years past.
This omnibus volume contains the following classics:-
" Mrs. Murphy," "Edwards," "~nfessions of Alphonse,''
"lnnecent Amusements," "Tamplin's Tales of His Family,"
" Robinson Orusoe's Return," " The Diary of a Baby," " Me
ana Harris," " Marge A.akinforit."
MORE STORIES By BARRY PAIN.
800 pages. 88. 6d. net.
Eaf11 Pain was a serious artist as well as humorist, and in
hie eenous works he reveals himself as a craftsman with a
fine eenee of situation and an exemplary control of technique.
This volume contains " In a Canadian Oanoe," "The Octave of
Claudius," "The Memoirs ef Constantine Dix," "The Exiles
of Faloo," and "An &change of Souls."
THE ELIZA BOOKS By BARRY PAIN. 7a. 6d.
" Eliu " has made millions laugh. Here are the five
classic Eliza boob in one handsome volume,
ELIZA.
ELIZA GETTING ON.
ELIZA'S HUSBAND
EXIT ELIZA.
ELIZA'S SON.
T. WBBDB LJ.tJBIB Im>., 24 & 26, Wa~r Lane, E.0.4.
TWO OMNIBUS BOOKS
STORIES FROM THE OPERAS
An Omnibus Volume by
GLADYS DAVIDSON.
1,072 pages. Crown 8vo. Sa. 6d. net.
'I'M. Storiu of 106 Opa'Yu ;,. OM t10ZutM.
In this magnificent volume Miss Davidson has re-edited
and combined her th:ree standard work&-" Stories from the
Operas," " Stories from the Russian Operas," and " More
Stories from the Operas "-into one handy volume carefully
collated and indexed, with short biographies of the composers.
Her object has been to prosent all the incidents of each
libretto exactly as they occur in the various acts and scenes,
in the clear, readable form of a short story. The works thus
serve the purpose of a text-book for the opera-lover, while
provicling at the same time a collection of dramatic tales of
faBQinating interest to the general reader.
"Do rn Jut- Ga.l'• Goni, ~~ tAl la-ud ~., ~r ~tt#cinatlr prau.4
c Pitdlw'-f/ tiOI 1"" li•plr Gf'WJI't ali...."-AaMOLO lJ&MJI&TT.
BINSTEAD OMNIBUS VOLUME
Four Novels by
ARTHUR BINSTEAD ("The Pitcher")
in one oolume.
Picture Cover. Cloth. 776 pp. 7e. 6d. net.
This amusing collection contains the four well-known
stories, "Hounsditch Day br Day," ''Gal's Gossip," "More
Gals' Gossip," and "Mop Fau.''
Mr. Hilaire Belloo declared that Pitcher's books were
amongst those from which he was never parted. Andrew
Lang was a whole-hearted admirer of Pitcher's books. Lord
Rosebery termed him a mcxlern Thucydides, and Mr. E. V.
Lucu !»l'Onounced him the most authentic guide to Bohemia
of the 'Eighties and 'Nineties, ascribing to him aomething of
Juvenal, Rabelais and Pierce Egan.
T. WBRNBB L.uram !JrD., 24 & 26, Water I.ane, E.0.4.
BOOKS FOR THE HOME
LA'URIE'S HOUSBHOLD ENOYOLOPAEDIA. A bandy
AH-i.B-One Book of Hoasehold Reference for everybody,
oomprisiBg a complete, up-to-date book of Cookery and
HoueeJaold Management, an exhaustive Medical and Toilet
Directory, a guide to Etiquette and Gardening, and Hints
and Reoi_pee for every day and everything. Alphabetically
&JT&n~; simply and clearly explained. Demy 8vo.
Oleth. 434 pages. ~a. net.
OAT&RING FOR THE YOUNG. :By Do:&OTKY lloBTON.
With simple recipes for children. 28. 6d.
OOOKERY UP-TO-DATE. A Practical Handbook of What
to Eat and How to Oook it. Revised to date. By MAr
LITTLE (First-Class Diplomee, late Staff Teacher at the
National Society's Training School of Cookery, London).
Cloth. Picture Jacket. 2s. 6d. net.
A YEAR'S DINNERS. 365 Seasonable Dinners, with Instruc-
tions for Cooking. A handy guide-book for worried houee-
keepera. By MAY LlTTLB. Tenth Edition. 6s.
THE COMPLETE O.A.KE BOOK. By M.u LITTLB. 2s. 6d.
WHAT OHEERP 1,597 Merry Stories for All Occasions.
Compiled lly RALPH FROST. 28. 6d.
THE MASCOT BOOK. A Popular Encyclopfedia of Bringers
of Luck, with their At~ndant Legends and Beliefs. By
ELIZABETH VILLIEB8. 26 Illustrations. 5s.
ETIQUETTE UP-TO-DATE. By OoNSTANOB BtmLBIO. An
invaluable and completB handbook. 38. 6d.
PRAC".riOAL AUOriON BRIDGE. By "BucOAnn." A
New Edition with the latest Lawa. 6s. net.
"OAN YOU ANSWER TIDS ONE P•• 1,000 questions on
General Knowledge with their answers. Is. net. Cloth, 2s.
WORD GAMES AND WORD PUZZI.ES. By A. AsRKORB.
11. net. Cloth, 21.
T. WBRNBB Lltm1B ltrD., 24 & 26, Water I.ane, E.0.4.
NOTABLE NEW BOOKS
TREASURE TROVE IN BOOKLAND. The Romance of
Modern Firat Editioill. By l!BNRY DB H.u.IU.LLB.
lOs. 6d. net.
MONEY WRITES. :By UPTON SmOL!IB. 7s. 6d. Au explcr
siTe and damnably readable book of Literary criticisms.
THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER. A Startling Book by
President Harding's Mistress. By NAN BRITTON. 18s.
net.
HOW TO PLAY BAOKGA.llMON. By RIOl!WlD HoYU. 6d.
PETER THE CREAT. :By GliOBGBB Oun.um. 1&1. net.
THE LEGENDS OF FLOWERS. ByProfeseor Y.lNrrJ.&A.ZU.
81. 6d. net.
CBI.BBRATED MUSIOIANS: PAST AND PRBSBNT. By
HUBer WHBLBOURN. &. 6d. net.
MENTAL RADIO: DOES IT WORK AND HOW. BJ
UPTON SmOLJ.IB. &. 6d. net.
A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO PRAariOAL ABTROU>GY.
By VIVIAN E. RoBSON, B.So. 7s. 6d. net.
THE CATHEDRALS OF ENGLAND AND WALES. (A
Pocket Edition.) By T. FnANOIS BuMPus. 68. Mt.
T. WERND LAURill lm>., 24: & 26, Water Lane, E.0.4:.
